r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-~------------------------------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 14 FRIDAY. SEPTEMBER 12,2008 

Campus prepares for 2008 Forum 
Discussion ofsustainable energy and the environment to be continued after Sept. 24 event 
ByJOHN TIERNEY News Writer  renewable. At some point they will be depleted," he said. The only way out of the  want to get into a pattern of energy utilization that is sus­tainable for hundreds, if not  absence of sustainable energy. Fossil fuels are also an issue in terms of their environmen­ 
energy crisis is to shift from  thousands, of years."  tal consequences, Incropera  
While sustainable energy  fossil  fuels  to  renewable  Senior Lourdes Long, a pan­ said.  
may only be discussed on the  sources of energy, he said.  elist at the Notre Dame Forum  "There is also this big issue  
floor of the Joyce Center for a  "Fossil fuels provide us with  on Sustainable Energy, is an  of greenhouse gas emissions  
few hours at the Notre Dame  a  bridge to the future, but  Anthropology major whose  and the dominant role of the  
Forum on September 24, the  they aren't part of that future  energy experience includes  use  of fossil fuels play in  
energy crisis the world finds  because they are non-renew­ implementing the Game Day  releasing greenhouse gasses  
itself in won't go away any­ able," he said. "Solar, wind  recycling program and found­ into the atmosphere," he said.  
time  soon,  said  professor  and waves  --those things do  ing GreeND,  "If you accept the fact that cli­ 
Frank  Incropera,  the  H. get replenished."  "The  energy issue  is  so  mate  change is real, then  
Clifford and Evelyn A. Brosey  Incropera said the future is  broad, so crucial," she said.  using fossil fuels in the way  
Chair in Engineering and the  still  a  while away but the  "It is my hope that people  we've been using them will  
Forum's co-chair along with  transition to renewable ener­ walk away from the forum  have consequences  to  the  
University President Fr. John  gy  must  happen,  and  the  really understanding the crisis  environment that don't bode  
Jenkins.  sooner the better.  situation we are in."  well for sustainability."  
"Our  present pattern  of  "This is not going to happen  Incropera, who is Long's fel­ Some of these consequences  
energy use is not sustainable  overnight. It's not going to  low panelist during the second  may  cause  humanitarian  
because it depends heavily on  happen in this century," he  half of the forum, describes  
fossil fuels, which  are non- said. "[But] at some point, we  the  energy  crisis  as  the  see FORUM/page 4  

9/11 service 
prolllotes peace 
Seventh anniversary remembered at SMC 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
Saint Mary's College Campus Ministry hosted a prayer serv­ice to remember the tragedy that occurred on Sept. 11, 2001 Thursday. 
The service was not only to pray for those whose lives were affected on 9/11, but also to encourage students to live in peace. 
"This is a time that we stop everything to come, and in a context of faith from different traditions, to join together in a unity of remembering, but also seeking peace," Director of Campus Ministry Judy Fean said. 
Peace was a· common theme throughout the non-denomina­tional service, which included prayers from Islamic, Buddhist, Jewish and Christian traditions, as students were called to help those who suffer, and live in harmony. 
It included several songs and a small sermon in honor of suf­fering around the world. 
"The singing and all the dif­ferent religious commentary from the different religions gave you a better understand­ing of the diversity of the world but yet how we can all come together as one and pray for 
see SERVICE/page 6 




Students gear up for UM gallle 
By EMMA DRISCOLL News Writer 
Students are excited and anxious about tomorrow's match-up between our own Fighting Irish and the Michigan Wolverines. 
''I'm excited because I love football, but I'm kind of nervous because it's Michigan and I know a lot of people there," fresh­man Ella Lozon said. 
Sophomore David Riehm said that he will be attending tonight's Pep Rally and is looking for­ward to the game, which kicks off at 3:30 Saturday afternoon. 
see MICHIGAN/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Lyons to hostCirque duLac 
Carnival to benefit Hannah & Friends 
By ELLYN MICHALAK 
News Writer 
Lyons Hall will host the first ever Cirque du Lac, a carnival event benefiting Hannah & Friends, this after­noon from 12-4 p.m. 
Hannah & Friends is a non­profit organization that aids special needs children and their families. Notre Dame football coach Charlie Weis and his wife Maura founded Hannah & Friends in 2003 in honor of their daughter Hannah. Born in 1995, Hannah was diagnosed with Landau-Kleffner Syndrome at the age of two. 
The Cirque du Lac carnival will feature 20 different game and activity booths from other dorms and clubs on campus, carnival food, live music and inflatables. Every activity at the carnival will cost a certain number of tickets which will be avail­able for $1, but all proceeds will go to the charity. There will also be a booth dedicat­ed to providing information about Hannah & Friends and asking for donations. 
"The games and food aren't expensive, but it's still not free," Cirque du Lac coordi­nator Maria Petnuch said. "We're hoping students real­ize that this for a great cause and they should come out 
see CIRQUE/page 6 



College increases language offerings 
One year of study in Chinese, Arabic added 
Western Europe and Latin By KELLY DAVIS America, relatively few News Writer Americans are fluent." 
Saint Mary's students are 
In today's progressive world, required to take two semesters of understanding diverse cultures language, which can be fulfilled and languages is becoming with French, Spanish, Italian, increasingly significant. Saint German and now Chinese or Mary's has acknowledged this by Arabic. Only one year of the new offering two new languages -­additions are offered now, but the Mandarin Chinese and Arabic. department hopes to keep build­
"We've added the languages to ing and offer a second year soon. ­remain true to our mission of "The whole world is changing," preparing the next generation of Chinese professor and assistant intercultural leaders," Modern director of Global Education Alice Languages Department Chair Siqin Yang said. "Chinese and Renee Kingcaid said. "These are Arabic are now very important important languages, in which, compared to the languages of see LANGUAGE/page 8 

r-------------------------­page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, September 12, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR PREDICTIONS FOR THE MICHIGAN GAME THIS SATURDAY? 
MTVfinds nevv lovv 
When flipping through channels a 
few days ago, I saw the commercial 
for Paris Hilton's new reality TV 
show and realized that MTV has 
somehow reached a new low. 
While I enjoy 

watching "The Madeline Buckley 
llills" nvcry 

Monday, 1wnn News Writer 
when the only 

thing that happens is Heidi's sister 
dnleting three of Spencer's Tivo 
shows. most MTV reality shows 
make me want to throw my TV out 
the window and mourn the demise 
of quality television on the network. 
I thought that "A Shot at Love 
with Tila Tequila" was as bad as 
MTV eould get, but the network has 
given the green light to a show that 
looks like it could be even worse. 
This is, of course, Paris Hilton's "My 
New BFF." 

In the commercial promoting the show, Paris Hilton sits on a lawn chair and invites girls to come live together in one house and compete to be her new best friend. Each week she will eliminate someone until she !inds her "new BFF." Somehow Paris once again finds a way to get attention and earn money without doing anything worthwhile. Why aren't people sick of her yet? 
The entire premise of this show is pathetic. Women will appear on the show to get their 15 minutes of famn and perhaps access into an exelusive elub for one night, and Paris will get the exposure she craves. What is rna! or appealing about that'? In airing this new series, MTV has reached a new level of bad. 
What happened to the old MTV, the MTV that aired Thriller and made Madonna a star? It used to be a network devoted to promoting music videos in order to showcase emerging artists and create interest in new music among adolescents. The old format with VJs and music videos playing one after another seems to be almost completely dead. Every once and awhile the network will air a video, but for the most part MTV has abandoned music videos in favor of ridiculous and not that real reality shows. 
The format of MTV has changed so much since its TRL days, yet it is still one of the most popular net­works among teenagers. It is note­worthy that the network was able to reinvent itself in the age of the Internet, which made music videos non-exclusive to MTV. 
I just wonder if the network pro­ducers have reached the end of their creative rope in airing a show with such an awful premise as Paris llilton's "My New BFF." 
While reality TV doesn't lend itself to quality in general, each new MTV reality show somehow keeps getting worse. The network that launched so many bands' careers in the 80's and 90's has sadly become a bastion of trash TV and should no longer call itself Music Television. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 





TODAY TONIGHT GAME DAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY a: 
UJ :I: 
~ 
UJ 
3: 
..... 
c( (,) 




0 

HIGH 78 HIGH 
78 HIGH 72 HIGH HIGH 72
....I LOW 70 LOW 63 LOW 47 LOW LOW 53 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mis­takes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Atlanta 87 I 70 Boston 75 I 55 Chicago 76 I 65 Denver 67 I 47 Houston 89 I 78 Los Angeles 80 I 65 Minneapolis 73 I 53 New York 76 I 60 Philadelphia 79 I 57 Phoenix 98 I 77 Seattle 71 I 54 St. Louis 79 I 65 Tampa 91 I 77 Washington 79 I 64 


Amanda Jonovski Doug Carder Katie Ineich Kate Sylvia Megan Savage 
freshman freshman junior senior senior Pasquerilla East Keenan LeMans Howard off-campus 
"Pull from "Notre Dame 20, "/feel disloyal "It will be a "It's not a behind win with Michigan I4 " saying this, but competitive prediction. It's a a post party in I just don't have game. " fact that we're 
Stonehenge. " a good feeling about it." 

going to win. " 
IN BRIEF 

The first campus-wide car­nival "Cirque du Lac" will take place today from noon to 4 p.m. on South Quad. The event will include twen­ty-five dorms and clubs and will raise money for Hannah and Friends. 
The Student Activities Office is hosting a concert at Washington Hall called "Hecycled Percussion" tonight at 9 p.m. Hecycled Percussion infuses junk rock with visual effects. 
The Student Activities Office is hosting "Pop Culture Night" on Saturday at 10 p.m. It will include a pop culture trivia contest, food, and music. 
The Saturday Scholars Series: "Peter Pan as a Cultural Icon" hosted by the College of Arts and Letters will take place Saturday at noon in the Annenburg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. 
There will be a showing of "Intolerance: Love's Struggle Throughout the Ages (1916)" at 3 p.m. on Sunday at Debartolo Performing Arts Center. The film is one of silent film director D.W. Griffith's biggest works. 
Mendoza College of Business will be hosting a Berges Lecture: "Values and Decision Making" from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Monday in Jordan Auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
OFFBEAT 

Postman hoards 20,000 letters in Germany 
FRANKFURT A Scottish postman working in Germany hoarded at least 20,000 letters at home because he felt his work was too taxing, police said on Tuesday. 
The postman in Frankfurt was caught when a neighbor saw him tipping a mail delivery into a rubbish bin and alerted police. 
"It's worth mentioning the 23-year-old didn't deliver mail addressed to himself either," local police said in a statement. 
Investigating officers 
found rubbish bags and boxes full of letters and other post stashed around the man's flat and cellar. He told police he had got behind with deliveries because of his night school studies and felt too "over­taxed" to catch up. 
Police said at a conserva­tive estimate, the hoard, which the man had built up since August 2007, com­prised at least 20,000 let­ters. Two vans were need­ed to remove it. 
Fire brigade adds two Porsche cars to fleet BERLIN -Emergency patients in the German city 
of Stuttgart will be rushed to hospital with extra speed and style after the fire brigade added two custom­made luxury Porsche cars to its fleet. 
Each Cayenne model, a SUV worth about 70,000 euros, is equipped with a siren which Porsche says can be better heard by driv­ers and pedestrians and clears the roads faster. 
"It was a difficult process; the interior had to be com­pletely changed," Porsche spokesman Heiner von der Laden said Wednesday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 



Friday, September 12, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
ND student \\Tins UpDown contest
Contaminated drinking 
Finance major defeats students across nation in investment competition

water effects 46 million 
Associated Press 
Testing prompted by an Associated Press story that revealed trace amounts of phar­maceuticals in drinking water supplies has shown that more Americans are affected by the problem than previously thought-at least 46 million. 
That's up from 41 million peo­ple reported by the AP in March as part of an investigation into the presence of pharmaceuticals in the nation's waterways. 
The AP stories prompted fed­eral and local legislative hear­ings, brought about calls for mandatory testing and disclo­sure, and led officials in at least 27 additional metropolitan areas to analyze their drinking water. Positive tests were reported in 17 cases, including Reno, Nev., Savannah, Ga., Colorado Springs, Colo., and Huntsville, Ala. Results are pending in three others. 
The test results, added to data from communities and water utilities that bowed to pressure to disclose earlier test results, produce the new total of Americans known to be exposed to drug-contaminated drinking water supplies. 
The overwhelming majority of 
U.S. cities have not tested drink­ing water while eight cities ­including Boston, Phoenix and Seattle -were relieved that tests showed no detections. 
"We didn't think we'd find anything because our water 
By LAUREN KNAUF 
comes from a pristine source, 
News Writer 
but after the AP stories we wanted to make sure and reas­sure our customers," said Andy 
Even in today's unstable Ryan, spokesman for Seattle 
economy, there is one young Public Utilities. 
man on campus who mastered The substances detected in 
the ever-fluctuating stock mar­the latest tests mirrored those 
ket -senior finance major, cited in the earlier AP report. 
Yowceph Haddad. Chicago, for example, found a 
Haddad defeated 6,146 stu­cholesterol medication and a 
dents from across the nation nicotine derivative. Many cities 
to win the UpDown.com found the anti-convulsant car­
Summer 2008 $10,000 bamazepine. Officials in one of 
Student Contest. those communities, Colorado 
Not only did Haddad defeat Springs, say they detected five 
the competition, he "blew pharmaceuticals in all, includ­
everyone else away," accord­ing a tranquilizer and a hor­
ing to Notre Dame senior mone. 
Brendan McManus. "This is obviously an emerg­
McManus, an economics ing issue and after the AP sto­
major, participated in a launch ries came out we felt it was the 
team that helped start the Web responsible thing for us to do, 
site, which, he said, is consid­as a utility, to find out where we 
ered "the leading social plat­stand. We believe that at these 
form for virtual investing." levels, based on current science, 
It gives its members $1 mil­that the water is completely safe 
lion in virtual money to invest. for our customers," said 
Members can interact with Colorado Springs spokesman 
each other, collaborating, Steve Berry. "We don't want to 
sharing advice and competing create unnecessary alarm, but 
to manage their virtual portfo­at the same time we have a 
lios more effectively and responsibility as a municipal 
improve their skills. The site is utility to communicate with our 
not just for experts, McManus customers and let them know." 
said. Fargo's water director, Bruce 
"Anyone can join, it's com­Grubb, said the concentrations 
pletely free," he said. "You can of three drugs detected there 
earn real money with zero were so incredibly minute ­
risk, which is one reason why parts per trillion -that he sent 
it's so popular." them to the local health officer 
The contest Haddad won, to figure out how to interpret 
which ran from June 9 to Aug. the information for the commu­
29, entailed managing a virtu­nity. 
al portfolio, investing $1 mil­
"Peter Pan as Cultural Icon" 
Susan C. Ohmer William I Carey and Helen Kuhn Carey Associate Professor ofModern Communication, Film, Television, and Theatre 
12:00 Noon Saturday, September 13, 2008 
Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum ofArt 
Because artists have retold the story ofPeter, Wendy, and the Lost Boys in different media and different time periods, the character ofPeter Pan lives in our imaginations as the boy who wouldn't grow up. Ohmer will discuss various narratives ofPeter Pan, how the tale has changed over time, and what it tells us about changing attitudes toward childhood. 

lion in virtual money. Despite competition from students at over 1,069 colleges and uni­versities including Harvard, Yale and Columbia University, Haddad came out on top, man­aging his portfolio to a 216.67 percent return, beating the second place finisher by over 80 percent. 
"The real question is: 'Can he do it consistently?' When investing in the stock market 
Haddad became involved with UpDown.com at the start of the spring semester and decided to enter the competi­tion over the summer. 
"Given the length of the competition, it rewards those who don't invest as much as they trade," Haddad said. To manage his portfolio success­fully Haddad had to pay close attention to the news and mar­ket trends, especially dur­
over a short­ing the day,
"You can earn real
term period, "and of course, luck is going to money with zero risk, catch a break play a signifi­or two," 'he
which is one reason 
cant role in the said.
why it's so popular."
outcome," While the finance profes­summer con­sor Carl Brendan McManus test Haddad Ackermann won allowed
Notre Dame senior 
said. only students 
Regardless, beating the stock market is no easy feat, especially in our current eco­nomic position, Ackermann said. 
"The stock market has really struggled in recent months," he said. "There are a lot of reasons for that, particularly in the financial sector." 
Ackermann describes Haddad as possessing a capac­ity for deep thinking he con­siders "off the charts." Despite market volatility and the role that luck plays in investing, he gives Haddad a vote of confidence for the future, saying "this young man is an intellectual giant." 
to participate, 
he has recently climbed to second place in a new contest, which is open to all members of the UpDown community. He has also bro­ken away from exclusively vir­tual investment and trading, and started to test his skills in the real market. Looking ahead to the future, Haddad has planned to find a career in Investment banking, however taking into account his recent success, he is now looking into trading or hedge funds as well. 
"It all depends on who's hir­ing," he said. 
Contact Lauren Knaufat lknauf@nd.edu 

Fall2008 Schedule 
Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some ofthe most pressing issues of our times. 
~ 09/06-San Diego State "Faith Taking Shape: Early Christianity and the Arts" Thomas ENoble, Professor and Chairperson, History 
~ 9/13-Michigan 
"Peter Pan as Culrural Icon" Susan C. Ohmer, William T. Carey and Helen Kuhn Carey Associate Professor ofModern Communication, Film, Television, and Theaue 
»':~ 9/27-Purdue
~­
"Election 2008: Race, Gender, and Faith" David E. Campbell, John Cardinal O'Hara, C.S.C., Associate Professor, Political Science 
Darren W. Davis, Professor, Political Science Christina K. Wolbrecht, Associate Professor, Political Science 
»':~ 10/04-Stanford
~­
"The Sub-Prime Mortgage Mess and Federal Reserve Policy'' ChristopherJ. Waller, Gilbert F. Schaefer Professor ofEconomics 
~ 11/01-Pittsburgh "Catholics and Evolution: Old Tensions and New Directions" Phillip R. Sloan, Professor, Program ofLiberal Studies 
~ 11/22-Syracuse 
"Before and Beyond Modernism: Icons as Art" Charles E. Barber, Professor and Chairperson, Art, Art History, and Design 
3-112 hours before kickoff in the Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum ofArt (unless otherwise noted). For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu 
P.""~IIIIIIIIIIJ.... U N I V E R S I T Y 0 F
, 




NOTRE DAME 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friay, September 12, 2008 
In addition to raising the "personally choose to conserve took time to praise the primary energy discussion in an aca­energy." Forum panel of Majora Carter,


ForuDI 
demic setting, the Forum is "In aggregate, these small Jeff Immelt, Ernest Moniz and also designed to impact the things really can make a big Bill Ritter, with moderator
continued from page 1 
way that students view energy difference," Long said. Anne Thompson. 
may cause humanitarian in their day-to-day lives, Both Byrne and Long encour­"We're pleased to get four 
issues, Ineropera said. Forum planning committee aged interested students to get distinguished panelists who "We could significantly member Michelle Byrne said. involved in will meld very 
impact biodiver-"Our primary energy and nicely in terms of 
sity, food sup­hope is to raise environmental bringing different
"Jt,s important to just
plies and cause "We,re pleased to get awareness to initiatives on perspectives," a greater bur­the level that campus. be aware ofthe rela­Incropera said.
four distinguished 
den of dis­causes personal "On campus, Carter founded
tionship energy has 
eases," he said. panelists who will conversions," there are lots Sustainable
to your field.,, 
The energy meld very nicely in she said. "We of options" for South Bronx in crisis is a prob­want it to be students to get 2001 to help
terms ofbringing
lem that will commonplace to involved, Byrne Lourdes Long "addresses land­loom large in different save energy." said. She cited use, energy,
Forum panelist
the future lives perspectives. ,, Byrne also GreeNO, transportation, of students, he stressed the Students for water and waste said. need for stu­Environmental policy, and edu­
Professor Frank 
"Particularly, dents to take Action and ND-8, which will cation to advance the environ­our students lncropera personal respon­focus on environmental issues mental and economic rebirth should have a Forum co-chair sibility on the this year in honor of the of the South Bronx," according better sense of energy issue. forum. to the company's mission state~ the road ahead "We want to "There are also a lot of ment. and what kind of a road map raise a basic level of aware­course options designed to let Immelt, the Chairman and they would like to see," ness of the necessity of making students explore these issues CEO of General Electric since Incropera said. A goal, he said, a difference in your own life more thoroughly," she said. 2001, will bring the perspec­would be to get to the point across your The energy tive of a high-powered corpo­when the grandchildren of cur­entire campus," issue is bound rate leader to the Forum dis­rent Notre Dame students can she said. to affect stu­cussion. Under his leadership, have "economic development She said she "Our primary hope is dents' future GE has launched the project opportunities with a more hopes "to see career plans as "Ecomagination," which "is a
to raise awareness to 
benign environmental impact." that this issue well, according business initiative to help meet
the level that causes
The goal of the Forum is to permeates all the to Byrne. customer demand for more generate discussion on this things that touch personal "You'd be hard­energy-efficient products and energy crisis that isn't going you~ lives every conversations.,, pressed to find to drive reliable growth for GE, away, Incopera said. day. a job where growth that delivers for 
Forum organizers are look­Personal energy doesn't investors long-term," accord­
Michelle Byrne 
ing at "2008-2009 as a year of responsibility for come up at this ing to the Ecomagination web­discernment to get people to energy consump­Forum planning point," she site. think more deeply and to think tion starts with committee member said. "Look at Immelt received an honorary more broadly about the energy taking the small how interdisci-doctorate degree from Notre problem, energy issues, the steps, Byrne and plinary it is. It's Dame in 2007 when he also relationship of energy to the Long said. important to served as the commencement environment, to the economy, She encouraged students to just be aware of the relation­speaker. t? p~blic p~licy, and to geopoli­ride a bike to campus, turn off ship energy has to your field." Moniz is a professor of llcs, he s<ud. the computer at night and to Incropera and Long both physics and the director of the Laboratory for Energy and the Environment at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He previously served as undersecretary of Energy from 1997 until 2001 under President Bill Clinton. His research is primarily in theoretical nuclear physics. 
Ritter, the Governor of Colorado since 2007, began the New Energy Economy program to help diversify the state's energy sources, create new jobs in the energy industry and address climate change. Hitter also implemented a require­ment that 20 percent of Colorado's energy come from renewable sources by 2020. 
The panel will be moderated by Thompson, who is a gradu­ate of Notre Dame and the chief environmental affairs correspondent for NBC News. She is also a member of the alumni advisory committee for the Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy at Notre Dame. 
Long and Incropera will join the panel in the Forum's sec­ond hour, along with Sister Anne Veronica Horner lloe. 
"Sister Anne will give a unique perspective related to faith with energy and environ­mental justice," Long said. 
She stressed that each pan­elist will bring their own per­spective to the forum, and said, "My angle is energy poli­cy." The forum organizers "also wanted to demonstrate what a Notre Dame student can do" in the energy world. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 


Language 
continued from page 1 
"Chinese and Arabic are now very important for intercultural communieation and understanding and for international business," Chinese professor and assistant director of Global Education Alice Siqin Yang said. 
Yang's Chinese class has 10 stu­dents in its first semester. Some chose to take the language to get in touch with Asian backgrounds while others felt knowledge of Chinese language and culture would be beneficial to their major and future careers. 
Nthough lt~arning Chinese i<> dif~ ferent than other languages because it is pictographic, Yang said students are "very interested <md motivated to learn." 
Kingeaid, who sit<> in on the cla<>s, said, "you're learning an Hagopian said. "And the radicals, or symbols, are just an extension of my natural need to doodle." 
Chinese students also focus on the unique culture and customs of China. One method Yang used to showcase China's individuality and intensity was with the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2008 Beijing Olympics which she showed in class. 
Like Chinese, Arabic is also very diflerent from western languages, professor Heather Jones said. She teaches 15 students in her new class. 
Arabic consists of a 28-letter, 18­shape alphabet that is written right to left. It is spoken across the Middle East and North Africa in various dialects and is the lan­guage of the Qur'an. 
"Across the country Chinese and Arabic are the fastest-growing lan­guages in terms of student interest and enrollment," said Kingcaid. "We wanted to be able to 
entirely difli1rent sound system, an entirely dif­ "Chinese and Arabic are now very important  attract students to the College by offe~g them as  
ferent  writing  for intercultural  well.  
system and you need to have a lot of practice in  communication and understanding for  The depart­ment also said they hope to  
them before you  international business. ,,  work  closely  
even  begin  to  with  Notre  
use sentences." Sophomore Julie Hagopian,  Alice Siqin Yang assistant director  Dame, which already offers courses in  
a history major  Global Education  Arabic  and  
and advertising  Mandarin  
and marketing  Chinese, to con­ 

minor, said she feels taking Chinese tinue expanding language pro­will help her with futurn oversea<; grams and opportunities for stu­business endeavors and expand dents. lwr "studies of the pa<>t." 
"As a musieally indined person, Contact Kelly Davis at the accents aren't too diflicult," kdavis 14@nd.edu 

versation last spring and it just kind of grew from

Cirque 
there," Petnuch said. "rt's 
continued from page 1 something that has not been done before. A carnival is 
and support it. We are also hoping that families, fans, staff and faculty come out and support it as well. We don't have a particular financial goal in mind, but we hope to create a new Notre Dame tradition that can, in the coming years, become a dependable source of financial support and awareness for Hannah & Friends." 
Petnuch and her friend, junior Rikki Lynn London, came up with the idea for a campus carnival last year. 
"Rikki and I came up with the idea in a late night con-something that fraternities and sororities seem to put on at a lot of other schools, so we thought, why not our halls? We hope it will attract attention and become a new tradition." 
Lyons Hall selected Hannah & Friends because they wanted to raise aware­ness about the foundation. The proceeds earned will benefit the construction of Hannah and Friends Farm, a residential community for adults with special needs. The program will be funded by Indiana Medicaid. 
"[Hannah & Friends is] 
something that is very close to the heart of Notre Dame. Started by our football coach, it's a charity and even if people don't know a lot about it they've at least heard of it before," Petnuch said. "Because we knew we wanted to have a carnival, supporting an organization that helps kids was an easy choice to make." 
The carnival will take place tomorrow from 12-4 
p.m. on South Quad. 

"We hope that everyone who participates in the car­nival gets a real feel for what it means to be part of the Notre Dame family" Petnuch said. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 




U.S. chief justice visits ND 
Special to the Observer 
John G. Hoberts Jr., chief justice of the United States, will hold a one-day appoint­ment to the James J. Clynes Visiting Chair in the Notre Dame Law 
School today. 
The chief justice will meet and speak dur­ing the day with Law Sehool stu­

dents and Roberts faculty and invited undergraduate students in a series of invita­tional events that are not open to the public. 
Roberts took his seat as chief justice on Sept. 29, 2005. He had served for the previous two years on the 
U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. 
A graduate of Harvard University and Harvard Law School, Roberts served as a law clerk for Judge Henry J. Friendly of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit from 1979 to 1980 and as a law clerk for then­Associate Justice William H. Rehnquist of the Supreme Court during the 1980 term. 
Roberts was special assis­tant to the U.S. attorney gen­eral from 1981 to 1982, asso­ciate counsel for President Reagan in the White House Counsel's office from 1982 to 1986, and principal deputy solicitor general in the U.S. Department of Justice from 1989 to 1993. From 1986 to 1989 and 1993 to 2003, he practiced law in Washington, D.C. 
The Clynes Chair was established with a gift from Judge James J. Clynes Jr., who was graduated from Notre Dame in 1945 with his bachelor's degree in econom­ics and from Cornell University with his law degree in 1948. lie was a partner in the Ithaca, N.Y., firm Harris, Beach & Wilcox, a city attorney and prosecu­tor, and the Ithaca city judge from 1969 to 1989. 
Previous holders of the Clynes Chair include Judge John T. Noonan Jr. from the 
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and Supreme Court Chief Justice Hehnquist and Associate Justice Antonin Scalia (twice). 




ORLD & NATION 
Friday, September 12, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WlRf SERVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Zimbabwe government strikes deal 
HARARE, Zimbabwe -South Africa's president says he has successfully mediated a power-sharing deal between Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe and the opposition. 
South Africa's Thabo Mbeki did not offer details, but said Thursday that the agree­ment would be signed Monday. Opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai told reporters the parties "have got a deal." 
Mbeki has been in Zimbabwe since Monday trying to work out how Tsvangirai and Mugabe would run a unity government. 
The key stumbling block has been how the two rivals would divide responsibilities and who would have the most authority. 
Mugabe had shown little willingness to give up much of the power he has held since independence from Britain in 1980. 
Chinese landslide kills at least 151 
XIANGFEN, China -A landslide that unleashed a three-story wave of mud and iron ore waste at an illegal mining opera­tion in China has killed at least 151 people and authorities fear the death toll could climb by hundreds more, state media said Thursday. 
In a matter of minutes, the sludge inun­dated an entire village of 1,000 people and an outdoor market with hundreds of cus­tomers on Monday in Shanxi province's Xiangfen county, the China Daily newspa­per reported, citing witnesses. 
State media put the official death toll at 151 people. 
One of the worst-hit areas was Yunhe, the village where the market was located. Yunhe sits in a valley at the foot of Tashan, the hill where the iron ore mine was oper­ating. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Kanye West arrested in L.A. 
LOS ANGELES -Kanye West and one of his bodyguards were arrested Thursday at Los Angeles International Airport after an altercation with paparazzi in which the rap­per allegedly smashed a camera on the floor. 
Airport police arrested West and his road manager, Don Crowley, who also serves as a bodyguard, on suspicion of felony vandalism shortly before 8 a.m., LAX spokesman Marshall Lowe said. He said early reports indicated that a camera valued at more than $10,000 was broken. 
The incident happened before West and his bodyguard passed a security checkpoint at an airport terminal that houses American Airlines. The pair were scheduled to board a flight to Honolulu, Hawaii, Lowe said. 
Hurricane Ike heads for Texas 
HOUSTON -Cars and trucks streamed inland and chemical companies buttoned up their plants Thursday as a gigantic Hurricane Ike took aim at the heart of the 
U.S. refining industry and threatened to send a wall of water crashing toward llouston. 
Nearly 1 million people along the Texas coast were ordered to evacuate ahead of the storm. which was expected to strike late Friday or early Saturday. But in a calculated risk aimed at avoiding total gridlock, authorities told most people in the nation's fourth-largest city to just hunker down. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Gubernatorial moderators chosen 
INDIANAPOLIS -Ball State University presi­dent Jo Ann Gora, former Indianapolis television newsman Tom Cochrun and public television host Dan Lowery will moderate the upcoming gubernatorial debates. 
The Indiana Debate Commission says Lowery will moderate Tuesday's debate in Merrillville; Gora, a Sept. 23 debate in Jasper; and Cochrun, an Oct. 14 debate in Bloomington. 
Lowery hosts a public affairs program on Lakeshore Public Television in Merrillville and formerly direeted the Northwest Indiana Quality of Life Council. 
9/11 mourners gather to pay respects 
Acts of remembrance mark seven-year anniversary of terrorist attacks 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Familiar rituals of grief marked the seventh anniversary of Sept. 11 on Thursday as thou­sands paid tribute at the attack sites, the presidential candidates laid flowers at ground zero and children mourned parents they are barely old enough to remember. 
Sens. John McCain and Barack Obama called off their campaigns for the day, and in the late afternoon descended the long ramp into the pit of the World Trade Center site, bowing their heads and leaving the flowers in a reflecting pool. 
At the Pentagon, 15,000 people turned out for the dedication of the first per­manent memorial built at any of the three sites where hijacked planes crashed. It includes 184 benches that will glow at night, one for each victim there. 
"Thanks to the brave men and women, and all those who work to keep us safe, there has not been another attack on our soil in 2.557 days," President Bush said at the outdoor dedication. 
In New York. the crowd fell silent in a park just east of the trade center site at 8:46, 9:03, 9:59 and 10:29 
a.m. -the times when two hijacked jets slammed into the buildings and the twin towers fell. 
Alex, Aiden and Anna Salamone -now 13, 11 and 10 years old-wore old soccer jerseys belonging to their father, broker John Patrick Salamone, who was 37 when he was killed. They recalled playing in the yard with a toy wagon. 
"He was strong. He was funny. He always made me laugh," Alex Salamone said. "I wish I could remember more, but we were so young when he died." 
"We love you, daddy," said Anna. 
Still others chose to forgo the observances altogether and mark the day in quieter, more private ways. Kai Thompson Hernandez toast­ed her late husband, Glenn Thompson, at a beach, with his favorite brand of beer. 


"I try and celebrate his life rather than mark the place of his death," she said. 
Family members of the trade center dead and stu­dents representing the more than 90 countries that lost citizens in the attack ­Azerbaijan to Zambia to Vietnam -read the names of the 2,975 victims. 
Others descended seven stories below street level to pay respects where the tow­ers once stood. A giant crane, an American flag hanging from a hook, over­looked the anniversary cere­mony from ground zero, where office towers, a memorial and transit hub are under construction. 
The New York memorial is years away from comple­tion. Some of the mourners worried the progress on it would prevent them from being allowed to pay respects next Sept. 11 on the ground where their loved ones died. 
"When you walk through the site, you really feel like you're right where they were, and it's very raw," said Dennis Baxter, whose brother, Jasper, died while attending a conference at the trade center. "I think the spot should remain raw." 
Many family members reading names paused to thank the troops fighting the two U.S. war lauHched since Sept. 11, 2001, drawing applause on several occa­sions. 
"They took from us inno­cent lives in the names of their God," said Rosaria Reneo, whose sister Daniela 

R. Notaro was killed on Sept. 11, "and it seems some people have forgotten what happened here seven years ago." 
Edward Bracken said to loud applause that his sister, Lucy A. Fishman, was "mur­dered by coward men using their religion to say they are right and we are wrong." 
In Shanksville, Pa., McCain attended a simple ceremony held in a large field near the point where United Airlines Flight 93 slammed into the ground ­driven down. investigators believe, when passengers who rushed the cockpit to prevent another attack on a building. 
AFGHANISTAN 

Anniversary marks deadliest year 
Associated Press 
KABUL -Insurgents killed two U.S.. troops in AfghanistaJl on the anniver­sary of the 9/11 attacks Thursday, mak­ing 2008 the deadliest year for American forces since U.S. troops invaded the country in 2001 for shel­tering Osama bin Laden. 
The deaths brought the number of troops who have died in Afghanistan this year to 113, according to an Associated Press tally, surpassing last year's record toll of 111. 
Afghanistan was the launching pad for al-Qaida's terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. U.S. forces invaded in October 2001 in response and quickly drove the Taliban out of power. 

Across Afghanistan, U.S. troops paused in silence Thursday to com­memorate the 9/11 attacks. At a U.S. base in Kabul, members of the New York National Guard. many of whom served at the site of the World Trade Center after the towers came down, remembered the attack on their home state. 
"For those of us who were there, served at Ground Zero, 9/11 is deeply personal." said Col. Brian K. Bale, the commander of the 27th Infantry Brigade Combat Team. 
Maj. Stephen Bousquet, 34, of Buffalo, N.Y .. provided security at Ground Zero for three weeks after the attack. He now trains and mentors Afghan police, he said, "so American and coalition forces can leave one day." 
Osama bin Laden, leader of the al­Qaida network, is believed to be in the lawless tribal belt on the Pakistan­Afghanistan border. He had been shel­tered by Taliban leader Mullah Omar before 9/11. 
r
I I I I 
I page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 12, 2008 
' 

Michigan 
continued from page 1 
''I'm excited," Hiehm said. "I think this is really our chance to show that we've cranked it up and can crank it out." 
Senior Tomas Castillo said that he will be painting him­self in Notre Dame colors for the game. 
Although Notre Dame 
dent population will still be supportive of the team despite how we do, especially since we're up against Michigan," he said. 
An Irish victory would be very exciting for Notre Dame fans, many students said. 
"I think if we win, fans are going to go ballistic," Riehm said. 
Michigan lost to Utah 25-23 on Aug. 30 and then beat Miami (Ohio) 16-6 last Saturday. 

Sophomore Cory Winland thinks that Notre Dame will be able to play well against Michigan because of these scores. 
"The San Diego State [game] kind of worried me, but I still think we're better than how we played in that game and Michigan hasn't really looked good this year," Winland said. He said he anticipated tomorrow's game 
to be more exciting, ener­getic and fun than last week­end's. 
Senior Teresa Nesbitt said she does not really know what to expect from the game against Michigan after the team's performance in last week's game. She also didn't see the Irish perform poorly last year because she studied abroad last fall. 
''I'm just going to hope for the best after last week," 
Nesbitt said. 
Other fans are hoping for a better season than the last one, as well. 
''I'm really hoping for a better season than last sea­son," Riehm said. ''I'm going one game at a time. You get pumped up for the Michigan game and you go from there." 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
defeated San Diego state 21­13 last Saturday, the team's performance left fans feeling that the Irish have something to prove tomorrow. 
"[The game against Michigan! will be a big chal­lenge, especially from the performance last weekend," Castillo said. ''I'm apprehen­sive to sec how we do ... I'm afraid it won't be fun to watch again." 
Castillo said he had expect­ed the team to perform bet­ter last weekend. He said while there were "glimpses of glory" throughout the game, he felt things had not changed much since last year. 
"It seemed like the same old team. nothing had changed," Castillo said. 
However, Castillo said that the last quarter of the game against San Diego left him feeling hopeful. 
"The biggest change is sup­posed to take place between the first and second games," he said. 
With Michigan as tomor­row's opponent, Castillo expects Notre Dame students to be united. 
''I'm confident that the stu-


Very ~pectai!Edlrkw '!fdie '.Ira/ian C.t.j/ee ':JI~ur 
'Fnday, ·"9'rcm6~~r 121;;, .2-3 'PM 
:licsbu'l!fi£tlirnry 
,TJft.t 
'.Pr'!fissar '.Pau['.Bosco 
:E1nn'tl71.t. 'Pr*.o:pr'!f-'Jt~zliUu 
Excellence in Italian Studies was established in 2005 through a generous 
benefaction has greatly enhanced the program./1 andactivities in Italian 
consolidate the university's position a... a preeminent center for the 
ofItalian owe Mr. Demerga.'f.'JO their deepe!il KYatitude. 
Italian Studies 4~ an ~;a of ional and growing strength at the University ofNotre Dame. Fir.st taught at the Uniwtr.V.itjt · ·. '·Va~ 7, and re-estabk~hed in /947 by Paul Bosco (Ph.D., Harvard, 1942), who taught at N~ . fi . . ars with his Bolognese wife, Vutoria Bosco (Magislero, Univerg/Jy of Florence. 1954),. Italian has grmt~n to a teaching stqffoftwenty and about 450 Mudents per seme!Jier: il is now the secotkJ...mo/ilt:..,wudie;(Jl~ at Notre Dame. Great resources, outstanding faculty, and ground hreakfng· im;;til'utional inftii:ltives creal~~ra//eled opportunitie.~ for both graduate and undergraduate .'ttudy. 


Welcome Back Students 

Remember: Breakfast is the most important meal ofthe day ••• you can eat it anytime at LePeep! 
Monday-Friday 6:30-2:00pm Saturday-Sunday 7:00-2:00pm 
GO IRISH! 
127 S. Michigan Street Downtown South Bend 288-PEEP 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Friday, September 12, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
. Stocks 

Dow 11,433.71 +164.79

Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,533 76 1,899 2,658,053,600 
NASDAQ 

i'NYSE 
S&P500 lr?.~?l-05 +17.01 NIKKEI (Tokyo) :;i5;~~~1(Q2:.50 +o:N)] FTSE 100 (London) 5:318.40 -47.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE LEHMAN BROS HLD (LEH) -41.79 -3.03 4.220 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY +1.45 +1.79 125.51 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +2.29 +0.48 21.45 WASHINGTON MUTUAL (WM) +21.98 +0.51 2.83 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -0.52 -0.019 3.622 13-WEEK BILL -2.47 -0.040 1.580 30-YEAR BOND -0.26 -0.011 4.214 5-YEAR NOTE -1.10 -0.032 2.885 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE {$/bbl.) -1.71 100.87 GOLD {$/Troy oz.) -17.50 745.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.18 86.90 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 107.1200 EURO 0.7145 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0747 BRITISH POUND 0.5689 

IN BRIEF 
Democrats urge to freeze foreclosures 
WASHINGTON -Four Democratic sena­tors urged the mortgage companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac on Thursday to tem­porarily freeze foreclosures on loans they hold. 
The troubled companies, seized by the government Sunday, should help struggling borrowers swap their mortgages for more affordable loans and stay in their homes, the lawmakers wrote the new chief execu­tives and federal regulator now running Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
It was the latest sign of mounting congres­sional pressure on James Lockhart, the director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, to ensure that the companies use their clout in the mortgage market to help homeowners caught in the housing crisis. 
Super Bowl ad space nearly sold out 
NEW YORK -NBC has sold nearly all of its commercial time during next year's Super Bowl, beating expectations despite a soft advertising market. 
The network said Thursday it has sold 85 per­cent of its available slots. Strong categories include automobiles and movies. 
A dozen 30-second commercials sold for $3 mil­lion apiece. With only about 10 slots left, NBC could command even more money for each. 
Normally, about 60 percent of Super Bowl ad slots get sold by this time of year, when the profes­sional football season's final bout is still more than four months away. 
The Wall Street Journal reported on the devel­opment earlier on il'> Web site. 
Sporting evenlc; have been a rare bright spot for media companies facing declining ad revenue this year in the weak economy. Although television ratings have been dropping for years as audiences turn to video recorders and alternative viewing platforms such as computers and Apple Inc.'s iPods, people tend to want to watch big sporting events live and on high-quality screens. 
Viewership for NBC, a unit of General Electric Co., was bett~1r than expected during the Olympics Games and exceednd the minimums NBC guaran­teed advertisers. allowing the network to free up time slots it had reserved to make up for any shortfalls. 
Oil prices driven up by speculation 
Independent study released on Wednesday cites large oil investors as cause 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON­
Speculation by large 
investors -and not supply 
and demand for oil -were 
a primary reason for the 
surge in oil prices during 
the first half or the year and 
the more recent price 
declines, an independent 
study concluded 
Wednesday. 
The report by Masters 
Capital Management said 
investors poured $60 billion 
into oil futures markets dur­
ing the first five months of 
the year as oil prices soared 
from $95 a barrel in 
January to $145 a barrel by 
July. 
Since then, these 
investors have withdrawn 
$39 billion from those mar­
kets as prices have retreat­
ed dramatically, the report 
said. Oil traded at about 
$102 a barrel Wednesday 
on the New York Mercantile 
Exchange. 
"We have clear evidence 
the fund flow pushed prices 
up and the fund flow 
pushed prices down," s:~id 
Michael Masters of Masters 
Capital Management, call­
ing the amount of money 
moving into oil futures mar­
kets by large institutional 
investors in the early part of 
the year "way ofT the scale." 
Masters said its analysis 
shows investors "began a 
massive stampede for the 
exits" on July 15 and that 

this caused the price Sen. Maria Cantwell, D­able to drive prices up and of the House Energy and 
decline. Wash., a sponsor of an anti­down while the CFTC was Commerce investigations 
"These large financial speculation bill, said the asleep at the switch." subcommittee. 
players have become the Masters report challenges An interagency task force, Stupak said the Masters 
primary source of the dra­CFTC claims to date that led by the CFTC, concluded report shows that that oil 
matic and damaging volatil­supply and demand forces in an interim report last prices soared when specu­
ity seen in oil prices," con­-and not excessive specu­July that "fundamental sup­lators poured money into 
cluded the report. lation -has driven up oil ply and demand factors" future markets even as the 
The report was released prices. influence the oil markets federal Energy Information 
Wednesday by House and "This analysis illustrates and that the data "does not Administration was fore­
Senate sponsors of bills to that when oil speculators support the proposition that casting supply would exceed 
put additional curbs on oil poured large amounts of speculative activity has sys­demand. 
market speculation and speculative money into oil tematically driven changes Congress for months has 
comes in advance of a markets, prices skyrocketed in oil prices." been considering various 
report on oil market specu­just as they were hoping ... Senate critics of the regu­measures aimed at curbing 
lation expected possibly this And when the speculative latory agency charged that oil market speculation, but 
week by the Commodities money got pulled out, prices report was based in flawed those efforts have been 
Futures Trading tumbled," she said. evidence. thwarted amid disputes 
Commission. The commis­Sen. Byron Dorgan, D­"The CFTC has its head in over other energy issues 
sion regulates commodity N.D., said he wants to know the sand," said Rep. Bart from taxing oil companies 
markets. "how oil speculators were Stupak, D-Mich., chairman to new offshore drilling. 



NY judge drops illegal steroid case 
of the grand jury proceedings to months with National Football 
ALBANY, N.Y.-A New York judge such a degree that dismissal is war­League officials. threw out an indictment against five ranted," Herrick wrote. Because the Signature was raided in February operators of a Florida pharmacy tar­case has been delayed 17 months by 2007 and 17 people have pleaded geted almost two years ago in an the prosecutors' repeated grand jury guilty to drug and conspiracy counts investigation of illegal steroid sales appearances to recast the charges, in Soares' probe, including opera­over the Internet and by phone. the judge hatred them from seeking tors and employees of several dis­
Albany County Judge Stephen a new indictment. tributors that did business with Herrick faulted the disjointed, con­District Attorney P. David Soares Signature as well as doctors who fusing way county prosecutors pre­said he will appeal the decision. He wrote prescriptions, Soares said. sented the case against Signature said Thursday another defendant "We have been able to disrupt a Pharmacy of Orlando to a grand from the investigation has pleaded multimillion-dollar criminal enter­jury. He dismissed the indictment guilty to three drug counts for sell­prise trafficking illegal steroids to Thursday against key figures at the ing oxymetholone and testosterone thousands of people across the coun­center of the case: pharmacy owners in 2006 to someone who didn't have try. To date, five clinics have been Robert "Stan" Loomis and Naomi a legitimate medical need. completely shut down," he said. Loomis, pharmacist Michael Loomis, Albany County prosecutors met a Attorney Brian Devane, who rep­and former business managers Kirk year ago with representatives from resents 'Stan and Naomi Loomis, Calvert and Anthony Palladino. the Mitchell Commission who were called the case "a long ordeal" for 
"The amorphous quality of the investigating the use of perform­the couple, who deny any wrongdo­evolving indictments, coupled with ance-enhancing drugs in Major ing. ''I'm not exactly sure of the con­the cursory and inadequate instruc­League Baseball. Soares also said dition of their business right now," tions ... have impaired the integrity prosecutors had been working for he said. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Friday, September 12, 2008 
PAKISTAN 
Bush okays secret raids into U.S. ally Pakistan 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush has secretly approved U.S. military raids inside anti-terror ally Pakistan, according to cur­nmt and former U.S. officials. The high-risk gambit prizes the death or capture of al-Qaida and Taliban extremists over the sen­sitivities of a shaky U.S.-backed civilian government that does not want to seem like Washington's lapdog. 
Bush acted in July to give U.S. forces greater leeway to cross from outposts in Afghanistan into the rugged area along the Pakistan border. Pakistan's cen­tral government has little control in this area, whern nxtrnmists havn found what U.S. officials say is a comfortable safe haven. 
Alrnady frustrated with what the U.S. perceived as a balky and inn11npl«~tn commitment to hunt­ing militants soven years af'tor the Sept. 1I attacks, oflkials said llw last straw came when it appeared Pakistani authoritins won1 passing tips to militants. 
One ollkial familiar with South Asia policy said the new ruins worn adopted in response to increasing problems with U.S.­Pakistani eounterterrorism mop­oration -particularly evidence that Pakistan's intelligence serv­ice, known as the lSI. had been compromised by militants and that some IS! elements were helping extremists. The official said extremists got Pakistani help before an attack July 7 on tho Indian Embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan. 
"Up to that point, the idea was to share intelligence with the Pakistanis and then proeeed but thorn was a lot of frustration with delays and problems, ineluding leaks to militants, in sharing the intelligence," the ollkial said. 
"This (the new order) is a reac­tion to that and it was sped up by the nwnlations about the pene­tration of tlw Pakistani intelli­gence service," the oflieial said. "It was decided that we had no choice but to free up the hands of our <:ommanders." 
Current and former U.S. fll'li­eials described Bush's orders covering spndal operations and <:onventional forces on condition of anonymity because "execute orders" aw classified. The order was first reported in Thursday's New York Times. 
The Associated Press reported in early August that senior U.S. intelligence and military aides were pressing Bush to give American soldiers greater flexi­bility to operate against al-Qaida and Taliban fighters in Pakistan -for example, sending U.S. spe­cial forces teams into the tribal areas to hit high-value targets. 
The "rules of engagement" have been loosened now, allow­ing troops to conduct border attacks without being fired on first if they witness attaeks com­ing from the region, according to a former U.S. official with recent access to administration think­ing. That would include artillery, rockets and mortar fire from the Pakistan side of the border. 
A senior U.S. military oflieial last week confirmed that a U.S. Special Forces attack had taken place about a mile across Pakistan's border with Afghanistan, killing at least 15. That ollieial spoke on condition of anonymity because the inter­nal debate over the U.S. response to rising violence along the Pakistan-Afghanistan border indudes discussion of classified intelligence. 
That Sept. 3 raid was the first use of the new authority, which allows military teams to target suspected terrorists in the dan­gerous area along the Afghanistan border, the officials said. At the same time, the administration secretly has given conventional ground troops greater latitude to pursue mili­tants across the Afghan border into Pakistan, they said. 
The focus is on militant havens that have grown on Pakistan's side of the border at the same time a resurgent Taliban has inereased attaeks inside Afghanistan. The situation led Bush on Wednesday to commit to sending more troops there. 
Washington wants Pakistan to do more to crack down on its side of the border. 
Pakistan's inability or unwill­ingness to mount a counterinsur­gency campaign inside the tribal area was discussed at a National Security Council meeting this week. aeeording to notes of the meeting provided to the AP. The notes-said Pakistan is still focused on lighting India and is "still denying the counterinsur­gency problem." 



Lehmnanlookstocurblosses 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK With 
Lehman Brothers' shares sig­
naling another steep drop on 
Friday. top executives are 
racing to put a sale of the 
beleaguered investment bank 
in place before it loses fur­
ther market value and eonfi­
dence. 

Confidence has waned that Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. will emerge from the financial crisis as an inde­pendent franchise, and the No. 4 U.S. investment bank is scouring Wall Street for a financial lifeline. Executives worked feverishly in the past 24 hours to find someone willing to buy all or part of the company. bankers and industry executives close to the situation said. 
And the scrutiny is expect­ed to grow more intense Friday, with investors placing bets that Lehman's stock will again nosedive. Shares fell 41 cents, or 9. 7 percent, to $3.81 in after-hours trading; the stock skidded 41.8 per­cent to $4.22 during the reg­ular session in New York, and is down more than 94 per­cent for the year. 
That only puts more pres­sure on Lehman Chief Exeeutive Richard Fuld. who joined the company in 1961 as a college student and now serves as Wall Street's longest-serving CEO. He has tenaeiously resisted putting the company up for sale, but finally relented after a free­fall in its stock price and growing doubts about its sur­vival, according to bankers and industry executives. They asked not to be named because they are not author­ized to comment publicly. 
Bank of America Corp., 
Taya, Recruiter 

Japan's Nomura Securities, Franee's BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank AG and Britain's Barclay's Pic have been mentione'd this week as potential buyers. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.. which also was being talked about as a potential buyer, is not inter­ested, according to an indus­try official who ask not to be named. 
Lehman is also in close contact with both the Treasury Department and Federal Reserve about how to proceed. 
Government offieials. who asked for anonymity because of the sensitivity of the ongo­ing discussions, said that a number of options were being explored and that no decisions had been reached on how any deal involving Lehman would be structured. 
The Fed and the Treasury Department have been work­ing to help resolve Lehman's situation. Fed offici a is are having conversations with relevant parties and getting updates. It's premature to say what form any final resolu­tion would take. 
Any resolution of the Lehman troubles is not· expected to involve the use of government money which would set it apart from the billions of dollars that the government put at risk to facilitate the sale of Bear Stearns in March and to res­cue mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac this week. 
Randy Whitestone. a spokesman for Lehman, declined to comment. 
Lehman's losses soared to almost $7 billion in the last two quarters alone, primarily because of wrong-way bets on mortgage securities and other risky investments. 
It's not alone. Global banks have lost more than $300 bil­lion since the subprime mort­gage crisis spread to the credit markets one year ago. And the International Monetary Fund has suggested total losses globally could hit $1 trillion. 
Lehman Brothers hunted for months for a deep-pocket­ed investor to pump fresh eapital into the l'irm, a move that would help restore confi­dence and replenish its bro­ken balance sheet. Some ana­lysts said Lehman was asking too high a price, others guessed that potential investors found too much risk on its books in the current environment. 
Fuld tried to assuage nerv­ous investors on Wednesday by announcing a plan to sell a 55 percent stake in its prized investment manage­ment business and spin off its commercial real estate hold­ings into a publicly traded company. 
He cast a wide net fur potential investors, bankers and executives said, includ­ing stepping up talks with private equity firms such as Kohlberg Kravis Hoberts & Co. and Bain Capital. 
But analysts increased their criticism of Fuld on Thursday for not naming a potential buyer of its investment man­agement unit, which includes Neuberger Berman, and because they said Lehman would need to finance the real estate spinoff itself. 
"We believe some type of capital raise or transaetion must be consummated quick­ly to improve confidence in Lehman," said Standard & Poor's finaneials analyst Matthew Albrecht. 

Taya has aBachelor's degree in Petroleum Engineering. After four years working on clients' plat­forms delivering technology services to Oil and Gas companies, Taya has moved to the personnel function and is now sharing her experience with young graduates. 
NOTRE DAME INTERVIEWS! 
Information Session: September 18, 2008 • 9:00pm-lO:OOpm LaFortune Student Center -Dooley 
Please come to the in/ormation session to sign up for an interview slot! 
BS Degrees: All Engineering disciplines, Geoscience, Chemistry, Physics, Math 
Schlumberger is the leading oilfield services provider, trusted to deliver improved exploration and production petiormance for oil and gas companies around the world. We employ more than 84,000 people of over 140 nationalities working in more than 80 countries. Schlumberger is an Equal Opportunity Employer. 


Schlumberger 
Success without boundaries www.slb.com/careers 
Friday, September 12, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
ELECTION 2008 
Palin defends her qualifications 
Republican vice presidential nominee struggles with foreign policy 
Associated Press 
FORT WAINWRIGHT -John McCain running mate Sarah Palin sought Thursday to defend her qualifications but struggled with foreign policy, unable to describe President Bush's doctrine of pre-emptive strikes against threatening nations and acknowledging she's never met a foreign head of state. 
The Republican vice presiden­tial nominee told Charles Gibson of ABC News in her first televised interview since being named to the GOP ticket that ''I'm ready" to be president if called upon. However, she side­stepped on whether she had the national security credentials needed to be commander in chief. 
Palin, 44, has been Alaska's governor for less than two years and before that was a small­town mayor. She was McCain's surprise selection for the No. 2 slot on the ticket, raising ques­tions about her readiness to serve in the White House, par­ticularly during wartime. 
McCain has defended her qualifications, citing her com­mand of the Alaska National Guard and Alaska's proximity to Russia. 
Asked whether those were sufficient credentials, Palin said: "It is about reform of govern­ment and it's about putting gov­ernment back on the side of the people, and that has much to do with foreign policy and national security issues." She said she brings expertise in making the country energy independent as a former chairman of the 
Alaska  Oil  and  Gas  
Conservation Commission.  
She  acknowledged  that  

national security encompasses more than energy but said: "I want you to not lose sight of the fact that energy is a foundation of national security." 
Palin said other than a trip to visit soldiers in Kuwait and Germany last year -"a trip of a lifetime" that "changed my life" -her only other foreign travel was to Mexico and Canada. She also said she had never met a head of state and added: "If you go back in history and if you ask that question of many vice presidents, they may have the same answer that I just gave you." 

Pressed about what insights 'into recent Russian actions she gained by living in Alaska, Palin answered: "They're our next door neighbors and you can actually see Russia from land here in Alaska, from an island in Alaska." 
Foreign policy questions dom­inated the first of three inter­views Palin .was giving Gibson over two days. · 
In the interview Thursday, Palin: 
-Appeared unsure of the Bush doctrine -essentially that the United States must help spread democracy to stop ter­rorism and that the nation will act pre-emptively to stop poten­tial foes. 
Asked whether she agreed with that, Palin said: "In what respect, Charlie?" Gibson pressed her for an interpreta­tion of it. She said: "His world view." That prompted Gibson to say "no, the Bush doctrine, enunciated September 2002, before the Iraq war" and describe it to her. 
"I believe that what President Bush has attempted to do is rid this world of Islamic extremism, terrorists who are hell bent on destroying our nation," Palin said, though added "there have been mistakes made." 
Pressed repeatedly on whether the United States could attack terrorist hideouts in Pakistan without the country's permission, she said: "If there is legitimate and enough intelli­gence that tells us that a strike is imminent against American people, we have every right to defend our country. In fact, the president has the obligation, the duty to defend." 



Trade deficit raises 6.7 percent 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON America's trade deficit shot up in July to the highest level in 16 months as oil imports hit an all-time high, offsetting strong export growth. The deficit with China climbed to the second highest level on record. 
The Commerce Department reported Thursday that the deficit rose by 5. 7 percent to $62.2 billion in July, much worse than the $58 billion deficit that Wall Street expected. It pushed the gap between what America imports and what it sells abroad to the highest level since March 2007. 
The trade deterioration reflected the fact that crude oil prices hit a record in July, pushing America's for­eign oil bill to an all-time high of $51.4 billion, up 13.7 percent from June. 
The big rise in oil prices, with the average barrel of imported crude jumping to a record $124.66, pushed overall imports up by 3.9 
percent to a record $230.3 billion. 
That increase offset anoth­er strong showing for U.S. exports which rose by 3.3 percent to a record $168.1 billion, reflecting big gains in overseas sales of commer­cial aircraft, computers and U.S.-made cars. Exports have been the major bright spot for the U.S. economy in a year when the country has been battered by a pro­longed slump in housing, ris­ing unemployment and a severe credit crunch. 
The Bush administration points to the export gains as justification for its support of free trade. However, Democrats contend the administration's pursuit of free-trade agreements left 
U.S. workers exposed to unfair competition from low­wage countries with poor environmental records such as China. 
They blame the loss of more than 3 million manu­facturing jobs since Bush took office in part on the soaring trade deficits, 
employment losses that have hit hard in key presidential battleground states such as Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania. 
Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama has said he will renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement with Canada and Mexico to get greater protec­tion for U.S. workers. Republican John McCain has accused Obama of seeking to erect protectionist barriers that will make America less competitive in the global economy. 
In July, the politically sen­sitive deficit with China increased 16.1 percent to $24.9 billion, the second highest gap on record. 
Critics contend the admin­istration has not done enough to combat unfair Chinese trade practices such as the country's currency system, which U.S. manufac­turers say keeps the Chinese yuan undervalued by as much as 40 percent against the American dollar. That makes Chinese goods cheap-

VENEZUELA 

Chavez orders U.S. out of country 
Associated Press 
CARACAS -President Hugo Chavez ordered the U.S. ambassador to leave Venezuela within 72 hours on Thursday, accusing the diplo­mat of conspiring against his government and saying he would also withdraw his own envoy from Washington·imme­diately. 
Chavez made the move in solidarity with Bolivia after his Andean ally expelled the U.S. diplomat there, accusing him of aiding violent protests. He said a new American ambas­sador will not be welcome in Caracas "until there's a U.S. government that respects the people of Latin America," sug­gesting that diplomatic rela­tions will be scaled back until President Bush leaves the White House. 
"They're trying to do here what they were doing in Bolivia," Chavez said, accusing Washington of trying to oust him. 
"That's enough ... from you, Yankees," Chavez said, using an expletive. Waving his fists in the air, he added: "I hold the government of the United States responsible for being behind all the conspiracies against our nations!" 
Holding up a watch to check the time, Chavez declared: "From this moment, the Yankee ambassador in Caracas has 72 hours to leave Venezuela!" He told his foreign minister to recall Venezuela's ambassador to Washington, Bernardo Alvarez, "before they kick him out of there." 
The U.S. Embassy said it was aware of Chavez's speech but had not received official notification. Embassy spokes­woman Robin Holzhauer said Ambassador Patrick Duddy is traveling in the United States this week. 
The diplomatic spat brings relations between the two countries to a new low and raises questions about whether it could hurt trade. Venezuela is the fourth-largest oil supplier to the United States, and Chavez also threat­ened to cut off crude ship­ments "if there's any aggres­sion against Venezuela." 
Chavez has threatened to stop selling oil to the United States on a number of occa­sions. But the U.S. is Venezuela's No. 1 oil client, and taking such an action would debilitate his govern­ment fmancially. 


Man acquitted of charges filed in 1964 
Associated Press 
JACKSON -A man acquit­ted this week on federal charges of abducting two black teenagers slain in 1964 is sick, has no criminal record and should be released from prison immedi­ately, his attorneys said Thursday. 
State and federal authori­ties, meanwhile, scrambled to review the decades-old case in hopes of keeping reputed Ku Klux Klansman James Ford Seale behind bars. 
Seale, 73, was convicted in June 2007 and spent just over a year in prison on kid­napping and conspiracy charges related to the abduc­tion and slayings of Charles Eddie Moore and Henry Hezekiah Dee. The two 19­year-old friends were allegedly beaten, weighted down and thrown, possibly still alive, into a Mississippi River backwater in May 1964. 
Federal authorities had praised Seale's conviction and three life sentences as proof that civil rights era killings had not been forgot­ten. But now that an appeals court has overturned Seale's conviction, his attorneys want him released immediately. 
"This new exceptional cir­cumstance, combined with the still existing factors of Mr. Seale's advanced age and debilitating health problems, makes continued detention inappropriate in this case," they wrote in a motion filed Thursday with the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. 
Seale is in a prison in Indiana, where he has been treated for cancer, bone spurs and other health prob­lems. His attorneys said in their motion that he is nei­ther a flight risk nor a danger to the community. 
A three-judge panel of the appeals court overturned Seale's conviction Tuesday, ruling that the statute of limi­tations for kidnapping had expired in the more than 40 years between the abductions and Seale's arrest. The case had been cold for years when Moore's brother, who was working on a film about the killings, found Seale in south Mississippi in 2005. Many thought he was dead. 
Federal prosecutors can appeal, but legal experts say it is unlikely the ruling will be reversed. 
Seale could, however, be tried on state murder charges, which have no statute of limitations. Mississippi's attorney general and a district attorney in Franklin County, where Dee and Moore were abducted, are reviewing the case. 
"This has been a collabora­tive effort since the beginning -our office, the U.S. attor­ney's office and law enforce­ment. And I've been in com­munication with them and obviously we're discussing our possibilities and dis­cussing what is our most advantageous way to pro­


Friday, September 12, 2008

page 10 The Observer + NEWS 
Woman pleads guilty to arson 
Associated Press 
DETHOIT -A Detroit woman pleaded guilty Thursday to setting a New Year's Eve 1999 fire at Michigan State University, an act of ceo-terrorism, and also admitted roles in 12 other incidents. 
Marie Mason, 46. and Frank Ambrose, 33, were accused of pouring gasoline and starting a fire to protest research on genetically modified plants. Ambrose already has pleaded guilty and will be sentenced Sept. 22. 
Fumes from the gasoline caused an explosion. The fire caused more than $1 million in damage at MSU's Agriculture Hall. It also destroyed records related to the government's $2 million support for the research. 
"There was no intention to harm any living thing," Mason's defense attorney, John Minock, said in an inter­view. "They didn't intend to 
cause an  explosion. They just  
wanted  to  damage  some  
paper."  

Mason appeared in federal court in Grand Hapids to plead guilty to conspiracy and arson charges, ineluding an incident that destroyed logging equip­ment in northern Michigan a day after the MSU fire. 
SOUTH KOREA 
Kin1 Jong 11 suffers possible paralysis 
Associated Press 
SEOUL -North Korea's Kim .long II had brain sur­gery after a stroke last month and could have par­tial paralysis on one side, media reports said Thursday, after the South Korean government said the communist leader remained in control of his country. 
Fornign doctors, possibly from China and France, per­formed the operation after Kim. 66, collapsed about Aug. 15, the newspapers Dong-a llbo and .loongAng llbo rnportnd, citing uniden­tified govm·nnwnt oiTieials. 
Kim's condition has improved and he is not suf­fering from slurred speech, a disability ol'ten associated with a stroke. the reports said. 
llowever, he has suffered from sporadic spasms, according to South Korea's largest newspaper, Chosun llbo. citing a high-level Chinese official. 
Kim is the object of an intense personality cult in tho totalitarian nation and the sight of him su!Tering spasms before a massive crowd would be an embar­rassment that eould under­mine that status. lie missed a parade Tunsday eommem­
o rating th(~ eo m m u n is t state's founding 60 years ago. 
If Kim wore incapacitated, 
U.S. Attorney Charles Gross has called it "domestic terror­ism, plain and simple." 
The government says Mason and Ambrose were affiliated with the Earth Liberation Front, a radical band of envi­ronmentalists. They were married at the time but divorced earlier this year. 
Minock said prosecutors built their case against Mason with help from Ambrose, who tape-recorded their conversa­tions in 2007. 
Ambrose's attorney, Michael Brady, declined to comment. Assistant U.S. Attorney Hagen Frank could not be reached. 
The explosion at MSU burned Mason's hair and pre­vented her from finishing the message, "No GMO," on a wall, a reference to genetically modified organisms. She and Ambrose fled the building and drove 190 miles north to Empire. 
In her plea agreement, Mason also admits involve­ment in 12 other acts with property damage pegged at more than $2.5 million. 
They include the destruction of four homes under construc­tion in Washtenaw and Macomb counties and an attempted arson at an Ice Mountain bottled water pump­ing station in Mecosta County, all in 2003. 
it could have serious impli­cations for international negotiations on North Korea's nuclear disarma­ment. The talks recently hit a snag because of a dispute between North Korea and the U.S. over how to verify the North's nuclear pro­grams, and a delay by Washington in its promised removal of North Korea from a list or nations that sponsor terrorism. 
"I only hope that any situa­tion happening in DPRK should not affect negatively what has been going on in terms of denuclearization process" U.N. Secretary­General Ban Ki-moon told a news conference on Thursday at the United Nations, using the initials of North Korea's ofncial name. 
''I'm also concerned deeply by DPHK's decision to go back to reassembling the nuclear facilities. They must commit to their agreement among the six-party talks for the early realization of the denuclearization process," said Ban, who was South Korea's foreign minister before ta-king the helm of the 
U.N. in January 2007. 
Lee Cheol-woo, a South Korean ruling party law­maker, said in a radio inter­view Thursday that Kim is "recovering fast," has "no problem speaking and com­municating," and is "able to stand if assisted." 


PAKISTAN 

Prime nUnister supports U.S. rebuke 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD -Pakistan's prime minister on Thursday backed a harsh rebuke of the 
U.S. by the Muslim nation's mili­tary chief, a sign of a strain in relations seven years after the Sept. 11 attacks forged the two countries' anti-terror alliance. 
Pakistan's public show of anger with the U.S. comes amid revela­tions that President Bush secretly approved new U.S. military raids in that country. 
A former intelligence official told The Assoeiated Press that President Bush signed the classi­fied order over the summer. It gives new authority to U.S. spe­cial operations forces to target suspected terrorists in the dan­gerous area along the Afghanistan border. 
U.S. counterterror operations along the border are highly unpopular in Pakistan, whose new leadership is trying hard to show independence from Washington. The official spoke on condition of anonymity to describe the classified order. 
British Prime Minister Gordon Brown said he will press Pakistan to allow U.S. and NATO troops in Afghanistan to take a new approach to hunting Taliban and al-Qaida-linked militants who slip back and forth between the neighboring nations. But Brown offered no specifics on how the border could be better defended. 
Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, the powerful but media-shy army leader, said a week after a deadly American-led ground assault in Pakistani territory that Pakistan wou1d defend its sovereignty and that there was no deal to allow foreign forces to operate inside its borders. 

in a comfortable, casual setting 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka • (574) 271-1692 
CATERING 
1332 Hilltop Road St. Joseph, Ml • (269) 983-9900 for every occasion 
www.PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 
He said unilateral actions risked undermining joint efforts to battle Islamic extremism and warned that "the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country will be defended at all cost." 
"No external force is allowed to 
conduct  operations  inside  
Pakistan,"  he  said  in  the  
Wednesday statement.  

Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani, in comments reported Thursday by state media and confirmed by his office, said Kayani's words reflected govern­ment opinion and policy. 
U.S. officials say clearing mili­tants from such pockets in Pakistan's semiautonomous tribal regions is critical to reducing attacks on NATO and American forces in Afghanistan. 
"Until we work more closely with the Pakistani government to eliminate the safe havens from which they operate, the enemy will only keep coming," Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told the House Armed Services Committee on Wednesday. 
However, NATO insisted it won't launch cross-border raids into Pakistan. 
"It is not NATO that will be sending its forces across the bor­der," said alliance spokesman James Appathurai at a news con­ference. He stressed that the mandate of the 47,000 strong NATO force in Afghanistan stops at the border. 
"There are no ground or air incursions by NATO forces into Pakistani territory," Appathurai insisted. "The solution to the ten­sion across the border, or on these cross-border issues is first and foremost a solution to the growing extremism." 
An informal meeting of NATO defense ministers in London next Thursday and Friday will also discuss operations in Afghanistan. 
The former U.S. intelligence official said the Pakistani govern­ment is not told about the targets of U.S. attacks in advance because of concerns that the Pakistani intelligence service and military are infiltrated by al­Qaida and Taliban supporters. 
Also, the "ru1es of engagement" have been loosened, allowing troops to conduct border attacks without being fired on first if they witness attacks eoming from the region, the official said. 
Many Pakistanis blame their nation's alliance with the U.S. for fueling violence in their country, while U.S. offieials worry that Pakistan's government is secretly aiding militant networks -keep­ing them as a wedge against longtime rival India. 
Kayani's statement was signifi­cant because he so rarely speaks publicly and because he heads Pakistan's most powerful institu­tion. His remarks indicated he was sensitive to anger among Pakistanis, and possibly even within the military, over the assault and suspected missile strikes, analysts said Thursday. 
"It expresses a deep concern in Pakistan and was quite timely because of the feeling in Pakistan as if the army and the govern­ment of Pakistan has surren­dered to whatever Americans want to do in the tribal regions," political analyst Rasul Bakhsh Rais said. 
U.S. officials have acknowl­edged that American troops car­ried out the operation in South Waziristan but have not given details. The mission's goal and resu1ts remain unclear. Local res­idents said at least 15 people died. 

Friday, September 12, 2008 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 

Hurricane depletes Red Cross funds 

Relief organization plunges into debt, requests federal funding 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The wave of storms battering the U.S. has plunged the American Red Cross deep into debt as it rush­es to prepare for Hurricane Ike, prompting a searching look at how to stabilize its finances. 
Gail McGovern, who became the embattled charity's presi­dent in June, said even a request for federal funding is under consideration as the Red Cross seeks to become less dependent on spontaneous donations that arrive only in the wake of huge disasters. 
"We are going to explore every avenue we can to ensure we have a healthy Red Cross," McGovern said in an interview Thursday as her organization deployed 1,000 out-of-state volunteers to Texas to await menacing Ike. 
"We're brainstorming absolutely anything," she said. "We're looking at the possibili­ty of appropriations, whatever -because we want to be able to serve the American public." 
As of last week, when Ike was still a distant threat, the Red Cross said it has raised only $5 million to cover costs from Hurricane Gustav that will total at least $40 million, possibly more than $70 million. It has borrowed money to meet those bills, and now is incur­ring more expenses as it shifts response teams to Texas and readies its shelters. 
"The beautiful thing about the American Red Cross is we are going to be there when people need us," McGovern said. "As the disaster relief fund depletes, we will borrow money if we need to, to be there." 
McGovern said Red Cross officials were calling Gustav a "silent disaster" because it entailed sizable costs for shel­tering displaced people, yet did not trigger the flood of dona­tions that often follows more deadly and destructive storms. 
With Ike, McGovern said, the Red Cross wants to be ready even though it has no idea how damaging or costly the storm will be. It launched a new fundraising appeal Monday, and will get a plug this week­end when the NFL encourages donations with on-air and in­stadium announcements dur­ing its games. 
The Red Cross endured wide­spread criticism -some from within its own ranks -after Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans in 2005. An internal report cited overwhelmed vol­unteers, inflexible attitudes and inadequate anti-fraud measures. 
One major change since then, McGovern said, is a greater focus on getting relief supplies into threatened areas before a hurricane arrives. 
"With Katrina, we had the supplies, but they were in the wrong place," she said. 
More broadly, McGovern said, the Red Cross needs steadier funding sources in addition to what she called "episodic fundraising" -the gifts, often relatively small, that pour in after a large-scale disaster rouses public sympa­thy. 
She said the Red Cross will always welcome these gifts, but wants to encourage corpora­tion donations and large con­tributions from wealthy indi­viduals that are not linked to the latest disaster. 
"The American public is going to be moved when they see a time of need," she said. "It's incumbent on us to be very clear about our mission so they understand there are other times to give, too. It's our responsibility to explain our mission better." 

Despite the depleted relief fund, and Ike's approach, McGovern said she was not anxious. 
"The reason I'm calm and cool and collected is because the American public always comes through for us ­always," she said. "We put out a campaign for our local chap­ters to raise money because of Gustav.... I've gotten e-mail after e-mail saying, 'We are behind you, this is a defining moment, we can do it.' 
"I just believe that this coun­try will not let harm come to the American Red Cross." 

Army sees rise in soldier suicides 
Associated Press 

DENVER -The Army's top medical officer says command­ers are looking to their counter­parts in the Air Force and in civilian agencies for ways to cope with an alarming increase in suicides. 
"We work real closely with the Veterans Administration, who have for many years taken the lead in this," Lt. Gen. Eric B. Schoomaker, the Army's sur­geon general, said Wednesday in a telephone interview. "We've also looked across the services and at other models that have been more successful than our own." 
The Army's suicide rate was 
18.1 per 100,000 last year, the highest since the service started keeping records in 1980. It was 
9.8 just five years earlier. The U.S. civilian rate is 19.5 per 100,000. 
Leading factors behind sol­dier suicides are troubled per­sonal relationships; legal, fman­cial and work problems; and repeated deployments and longer tours in Afghanistan and Iraq, the Army says. 
Schoomaker said the Army has redoubled its prevention efforts and looked outside for new models, especially to the Air Force, which he said suc­cessfully encouraged support systems to reduce suicides. 
The Army's program includes removing the stigma from ask­ing for help, encouraging sol­diers to look after each other and a campaign called ACE, for Ask, Care and Escort. 
"We ask that people extend themselves to a fellow soldier or family member that may be suf­fering," Schoomaker said. "We ask that you make the effort to ask, 'Are you in trouble?"' 
Offering care may be as sim­ple as keeping a weapon out of a troubled soldier's reach, he said. Soldiers and families should then escort the soldier to a medical facility. 
Schoomaker acknowledged that encouraging troubled sol­diers to ask for help requires a cultural change. 
"We are an Army that has historically been associated with strength and being imper­vious to threats to the human psyche and the body, and of course that's a myth," he said. 
He hopes to use the Army's "warrior ethos" to get soldiers to look out for one another's mental health. 
"It's an extension of our war­rior ethos that no soldier is ever left behind," he said. 
Schoomaker said the Army will analyze individual suicides and suicide attempts, police reports and incidents of mis­conduct as well as the overall numbers of suicides and attempts to see if the program is working. 

THURSDAY, SEPT. 11 MIDNIGHT'TIL LATE 
t:>D yovt 1SL66t:> lSLvt6A~f>·.<::::jOLt:>? COM6 OvtTANI;> .St-tOW '(Ovt~:~a>J.....OR...S @ 



"R6S.N 

L6X 
FR.It:sAy S&R~. ~2 
M f'J:> N I<::; f-tT "Tl L LA1· 6 
TH-6 DORM WfTt-t TH-6 MOST'B-LLA..6 ANt::> CfOL:l::> 'PAR.-ru:;;2S.~jN.S A P'RJVAI e 8~1 e~et:> ;A2Nt::> ~ 't::> PAR.lf' 
,:::::::::::.:·:·.·==······· 






LEGENDS 
F NOTRE DAME 
NO COVER I ND/SMC/HC ID REQ'D I LEGENDS.ND.EDU 

IIYf)'r­lllliNC; Yf)IJil f)l\'N 'I,IJNI~S ilNI) t•tJ'I, Yf)lJil SJ»JN ()N 'rill~ IIIJSI(~ 



OJ Breezy


(Q)JJ ~ Sil'f11Jili)JlY, SI~P'I'. I :J 
)IIUNU;II'I, ''I,It l~l'l,l~ 
THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, September 12, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Police security inadequate 
P.O. !lox 779, Notr< Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 

In late August, someone broke into the off-campus house police could stifle these burglaries and assaults from taking EDITOR IN CHIEF of an Observer staff member and stole some valuable items place if they put more resources into investigating past Chris Hine from the home. The staffer called the police. When police crimes and preventing further crimes. 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER arrived, they advised the staffer, who declined to be named Maybe the beefed up patrols will reduce the number of Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West for fear of retribution from the police, to "go to a party, get burglaries and assaults this weekend, but that isn't the drunk and get laid." intent of the heightened security presence. Why is it only 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR.: Katie Kohler 
There was likely nothing the police could do to help the necessary to increase security to combat college drinking AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula staffer and his housemates find the person who broke into instead of increasing security for just that-security? NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink the home or recover their stolen property. The fall doesn't only bring the return of stu­The police officer said he had to patrol a dents, but football, and with that an influx of law 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King large area by himself and said that was why OTHE enforcement in the South Bend area in an effort
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Hine BSERVER
he was unable to stop any crimes like that to curb underage drinking. break-in from happening. Underage drinking is illegal. Public intoxica­
SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 

Editorial

But if the staffer followed the sage advice tion is illegal. But while the police are stepping
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
of the officer this weekend, he probably up their game for football games, they are side­PHOTO EDITOR.: Jessica Lee won't find a party to go to. The South Bend stepping the bigger problem facing students. GRAPIIIC5 EDITOR.: Mary Jesse Police Department (SBPD) said they will be stepping up They may be preventing students from stumbling into patrols this weekend, but not in response to recent burgla­games, but they are ignoring student safety on a larger
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
ries and assaults, rather, to curtail off-campus partying in scale. 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
neighborhoods with a heavy student population. So appar­The state of Indiana Excise Police were specifically creat­CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski ently, the police don't have the resources to investigate bur­ed to deal with the enforcement of laws involving alcohol SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia glaries and assaults that have happened near these neigh­and all that entails. Let the Excise Police deal with under­borhoods, but they do have enough to combat the less-seri­age drinking and public intoxication. They exist so that
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO 

(574) 
631-7471 ous shenanigans of college students. local police departments can patrol their communities and FAX With their increased patrols this weekend, SBPD is hoping the problems at hand, and in the case of the SBPD, that's 

(574) 
631-6927 to stifle any parties before they get started. But maybe the South Bend and an apparent problem of thefts and assaults. 


ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4J24 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.!@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily ntwspapcr publislwd in prim and online by the students ofrhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisemenrs, is nor governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to re!i.tse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhc opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief~ Managing Editor, A<sisrant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the vit'ws of rill· authors and not necessarily those ofThe ()bservcr. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions rq(arding Obsm1er policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

·nt1> t >h'>t·rvrr (llSI'S ~l}t) l-40Un) •~ puhlL.fficd Mnr11lay thn'ut.:h !;ricldy t"XI.'tpt duruag ··~.un ,111£1 V.\\~.ttinu prri,,,j,. II ~uh...cnptinn 10 11te Oll'ottV't'r IJ $1 UO fitr unc .u..adcrnk n·.u;$SSr,,rum:t«:mc.o~tn. 
Th~ ( )h,'l(rvc:t h. puhli.~hc.l .u: POSTMA.ITE!t fll4 So~;th Dittin~ ll;dl Send .iddrt:.~>,~ correction~ Lu: 
Nnttt' P.unc. IN 4M%-OniJ TheOhscrvtr 
Perimlinl pou,agc p11id at Nurre DJme eo. Bm:n9 .Utcl o~Jcliti•on.l! lll.liling ()fficc~. 02:4 South Dining HJII 
Nocn: lJ;&mc,IN 46S%·0779 

The Ohtotrver t• o~mcmba 11f the: A»uo.ucd Pras. All rc:pruducliun ri~m arc 
fCiiCtVCtf. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


-------------~---­
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Friday, September 12, 2008 page 13 
The doctor is in 
A friend recently told me: "Lou Holtz is my old man crush." While I was sur­prised at the phrasing, I was not sur­prised that she loved Lou Holtz. If there is one person that 
Notre Dame (as well as St. Mary's) students unanimously love it is Fr. Hesburgh, but if there is another person that we love, that person is certainly Lou Holtz. Holtz might even be more Bob Kessler beloved on campus now then he was House ofStix when he left, and since he is coming back this weekend to speak at the pep rally, accept his statue and be honored at the game, I wondered why students still love him all these years later. 
"You wanna be happy for a day: Eat a Steak. You wanna be happy for three days: buy a car. You wanna be happy for a week: Go on a cruise. You wanna be happy for a year: Win the lottery. But ifyou want to be happy for the rest ofyour life: Win a championship for Notre Dame." -LH 
Not only does this season mark the 20th anniversary of Holtz's champi­onship (and embarrassingly our last), but it also marks the first year that stu­dents have entered this University hav­ing not been alive for said champi­onship. The oldest students here were eleven years old when Holtz was forced out, I mean resigned, from coaching here, yet we love him just the same. Having been this young when Holtz left Notre Dame, we must love Lou for rea­sons other than our memories of his coaching. I believe that the students today love Lou not only because of his Notre Dame legacy, but also because of his work on ESPN. 
"If what you did yesterday seems big, you haven't done anything today. " -LH 
When Holtz finally retired from coaching in 2004 he took a job working as a college football analyst for ESPN, and for the past several years he has worked on the College GameDay Final show with Rece Davis and Mark May. Working for ESPN, Lou Holtz has rein­vented himself and created new legions of fans at Notre Dame. While we would have respected his legacy regardless, Lou has reached out to thousands of new fans by proclaiming his undying love for Notre Dame every Saturday night on ESPN. His work at ESPN is made even more compelling because of the man who sits next to him in the studio: a Mr. Mark May. 
"There's only one way you get respect, and that's by looking some­body in the eye for sixty minutes." -LH 
If Lou Holtz is one of the men that Notre Dame Students love the most, Mr. May is one we collectively hate the most. For the past three years Mr. May 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Don't forget the president 
At the risk of redundancy, I would like to echo Mr. Heilbrun's ("A thanks to NDSP," Sept 10) thanks in Wednesday's Observer. We all are indebted to NDSP's courageous efforts to combat the growing menance of Natty shotgunning. I know I speak for everyone when I offer my unequivocal support for their commitment to qual­ity police work. 
If I might, though, I would like to further extend his thanks to the president of this fine university. It is only through Fr. John Jenkins care for and extensive understanding of his student body that this quality police work may continue. 
I'd keep going with this but, unfortunately, I lack the ability to mask my disgust with sarcasm. All it would take from the president is a modicum of effort to address off campus violence. A phone call, maybe two, to SBPD from South Bend's largest employer would speak volumes, but in a continuation of his pattern of gross negligence and ineptitude Jenkins refuses to put the issue on the table. 
If I sound angry, I apologize. Maybe it's because two of my roommates were assaulted this week­end. Maybe it's because the self serving, smug pat on the back our incompetent police force managed to sneak on to the front page of this paper struck a nerve. Or maybe it's because when another friend managed to squeeze his way into Jenkin's office hours and dared to raise the issue, the president dismissed him with patronizing lip service. 
What I want to know is what exactly will it take for someone in the University to at least pretend to care? Clearly repeated assaults rank somewhere below developing new dorms, growing the endow­ment and canceling the Vagina Monologues. I would have thought a multiple shooting would force them to act, but even after the tragedy in front of Club 23, no progress has been made. I shudder to think what would actually guilt our administration into action. 
So another year begins and we look forward to more irrelevant football arrests, empty talk and inaction. Sad isn't it? 
Michael Folger 
sentor 
offcampus Sept. 10 
has chastised Charlie Weis and the Notre Dame Football Team at every conceivable opportunity. Maybe this is because Coach Weis began his tenure here by crushing May's alma mater Pittsburgh, or maybe this is because May is jealous that he was never grant­ed the opportunity to attend our great University. Regardless, Mark May seemingly hates Notre Dame, forcing us to hate him. 
The thing is: I actually like Mark May. Let this sink in for a moment. 
At least, I like him insofar as he is the perfect complement for Lou Holtz on Saturday nights. Without May, Holtz probably wouldn't be as popular amongst students as he was when he was coaching. May and Holtz make each other more interesting. Their banter regarding Notre Dame is not only highly entertaining for us to watch, but it also keeps Notre Dame relevant at the national level (as opposed to having relevance equal to Cal Poly). Holtz and May arguing about Notre Dame is one of the primary rea­sons that I watch their show. In fact, it's a big reason why people watch any ESPN show. 
Tony and Wilbon. Lee and Kirk. Jay and Woody. ESPN has become a forum for sportswriters' arguments. The net­work loves to broadcast feuds, and we love to watch them. This adversarial nature brings a level of excitement to sports journalism that just does not appear in print. When we watch these shows, we want to jump into the argu­ment and make our own case for the teams and athletes that we love. 
That's why we love Lou Holtz, because he stands up for Notre Dame against Mark May. No matter how bad things look, Holtz will always believe in Notre Dame as an institution, and he will always be rooting for our football team. What's even better is that he does it in a way that makes us proud. He never yells back at Mr. May, he never gets sucked into the adversarial ESPN ethos; he will just laugh off Mr. May's comments and move on. 
"/ can't believe that God put us on this earth to be ordinary. " -LH 

Even though he has not worked here in years, Holtz is still an admirable representative for the university. We love him not only because he was our last championship coach, but also because no matter how poorly the administration treated him at the end of his tenure, he still loves and defends this university and our football team. We love him because he loves us. Then again, maybe we just love all of those great sound bytes. 
Bob Kessler is a senior majoring in political science and economics. You can contact him at rkessler@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Focus on what's important 
Christina Pesavento's article from Sept. 9, "Selfishness vs. Self-Sacrifice," reads ·like a recita­tion of Republican talking points instead of a rea­soned political argument. 
As is typical in an election year, unfounded char­acter attacks tend to take precedent over a discus­sion of the issues. I am not discrediting John McCain's service to the United States during the Vietnam War, including his time as a tortured pris­oner of war. He demonstrated bravery and courage, and he nearly sacrificed his life in service of his country. I believe that such loyalty to the United States is an important trait for a leader to possess. 
What bothers me is that McCain's military record and his time as a POW is constantly used, as it is in Pesavento's article, as McCain's primary and trumping qualification to be the next president of the United States, while Barack Obama is con­demned for having no such qualifications. While such an experience can provide valuable insights, the past two presidents, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton, have had negligible military service records, and John Kerry, another decorated Vietnam veteran, lost the election in 2004. 
Pesavento is right about one thing-McCain's actions do "speak loudly enough to stand alone." Though Pesavento claims McCain is devoted "to America and to its people rather than to his party or to himself," how does this compare to McCain's voting with George Bush 90 percent of the time or his ownership of seven houses? McCain has also consistently voted against legislation for veterans' rights (despite being an heroic veteran), against a Martin Luther King Day for the state of Arizona, and against healthcare for children (SCHIP). Shouldn't we be focusing on this type of informa­tion in the upcoming election? 
Instead of criticizing Obama for the locations of his speeches, find a policy or plan to criticize. Instead of citing only McCain's heroic past, add to it by talking about his present voting records or his path for foreign policy. According to how Pesavento's article reads, Obama is "selfish" because he graduated from Columbia and Harvard Law, became the first African-American of the Harvard Law Review, and wrote an autobiography. As long as claims such as these are being made, we are being distracted from the real issues at hand in this election that will shape the future of our nation. 
Liz Lefebvre 
senior 
Badin Hall 
Sept. 9 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 14 
Friday, September 12, 2008 

By JIM McGUIRE 

Anna Faris is one of today's best comic actress­es. with her wide-eyed charm and dead-on deliv­ery. The trailer for "The House Bunny" ("I think I ed some money over here by this manhole") y made people want to rush out and see it as as possible. Admittedly, without Faris, "The ouse Bunny" might have become more bogged own than it already is by cliched jokes about umb blondes and how wild and crazy those darn 
liege kids are. 

At the beginning of the lilm, Shelley Darlington 
Faris) is introdueed, a pretty and bubbly (albeit slightly odd) aspiring centerfold who lives with Hugh llefner, "Girls Next Door" style, at the Playboy Mansion. Life is great for Shelley until one day she is unceremoniously tossed from the man­sion for being too old (27 is 59 in bunny years),and is forced to fend for herself. 
Alone with nothing but her bust and blonde hair to help her, Shelley stumbles onto a college cam­pus (USC in disguise) and meets the misfits of the ZETA sorority house. 
Led by the nerdy but energetic Natalie, (the very funny Emma Stone from "Superbad"), the ZETA girls (a rag-tag group of Goths, tomboys, hermits and a pregnant co-ed) are iooking for a new house mother to help them attract pledges and save their house from being sold. Shelley takes the job, and hilarity and a serious makeover ensue. 
The House Bunny 

Starring: Anna Faris, Colin Hanks, Emma Stone Directed by: Fred Wolf 
The plot is c'on , , bUt one at in. Shelley tries to teach the girls how to flirt and be sexy with sporadic results, but it is only after the ZETA girls get total hair and wardrobe makeovers (i.e. they all dress like Shelley in skimpy pink outfits with too much make-up) that they are able to come out of their shells and start being popular with the rest of campus. 
The movie actually gets a little boring for a ; · · stretch of about 15 minutes in the middle, as pret-d ., ty people just don't have problems, but things eome crashing down when the ZETAs realize they have become elitist fakes like the girls in the other· sororities and blame Shelley. Everything works out in the end when the girls realize how much Shelley means to them and get her back on cam-: pus just in time to save the ZETA house with a rousing (if not odd) speech about loving yourself. 
"The House Bunny" as a whole is uneven. Things like the competition with the other sorority, and Shelley's courtship of the bookish Oliver (Colin Hanks) weren't as funny or 11eshed out as they were probably intended to be. None of those things really ruined the enjoyment of the film because one always knows that the next scene will feature Anna Faris getting into some sort o shenanigans. 
What really gets one laughing is the quote-wor­thy oddities that kept coming out of Faris's mouth, from ignorance of social mores ("I think I'll have the mahi-mahi, but can I get it with just one mahi?") to sheer absurdities ("! like that word. Manhole.") 
It's easy to find Faris's wacky, wide-eyed comedy style to be endearing, and it is fun to watch her start on a tangent, not knowing where she will go. Faris's Shelley, despite being perky and gorgeous, is really a lovable loser, craving acceptance and love just like all the ZETAs. Without Faris, though, one shudders to think about whf-t kind of unfunny mess "The House Bunny" might nave turned into. 
The movie may have you very well giggling like a schoolgirl. However, the plot was not compelling enough to keep one in ones seat by itself, and the burden of carrying an entire movie (especially a comedy) on your shoulders is more than a comedi­enne just acquiring her leading lady status should. have to deal with. 
Contact Jim McGuire at jmcguir2@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of about.com 
Photo courtesy 

Faris first caught our attention in Scary Movie. Faris appeared with Scarlett Johansson and Bill Faris recently starred in Smiley Face. She has been fn all four. Murray In Lost In Translation. 
THE BSERVER 
CENE
Friday, September 12, 2008 
page 15 

took prenatal yoga together), spend film's director, competently juggling four 
For or every girl 

their summer apart but keep up with storylines and generally making a very each other by way of a pair of jeans who cried like a pretty movie, especially when the girls they mail back and forth to each other. baby when all go to Greece. The pacing is usually Why jeans? Because the pants magical­brisk and engaging, although there are
watching the first 

ly fit every girl perfectly despite their parts that stumble. different shapes and sizes. Sisterhood, fear Lively's character is almost given too For every girl who cried like a baby not: the film does much to do, what with an international when watching the first Sisterhood excursion and unearthing a family
not disappoint on

film, fear not: the second installment in secret, which makes the film feel a little
the drama. 

the movie series does not disappoint on lopsided at times. 
The Stars of the Sisterhood: Where Are They Today? 

Blake Lively stars as Serena van der Woodsen in the guilty pleasure TV show Gossip Girl. Catch it every Monday night at 8 in a girls dorm near you. 

Photo courtesy of eonline.com America Fererra starts as Betty in Ugly Betty, for which she has won a Golden Globe. The new season premiers on Thursday, September 27. 
By JORDAN GAMBLE Scene Writer 
Four friends, three years later, same pair of pants. 
Taking storylines from the final three books of the bestselling series by Ann Brashares, "The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants 2" follows much the same formula as the first movie. Four girls, friends from birth (literally: their moms 
the drama. 
Lena (Alexis Bledel) is still in love with her Greek ex-boyfriend, Kostas, but he's already gotten mar­ried. Tibby (Amber Tamblyn) has a pregnancy 
Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants 2 Starring: America Ferrera, Alexis Bledel, Blake Lively, Amber Tamblyn, Blythe Danner, Directed by: Sanaa Hamri 

scare. Bridget (Blake Lively) goes to an archaeology camp in Turkey but sneaks away to Alabama to meet her estranged grandmother. Carmen (America Ferrera), depressed because the other three girls are off at various summer schools, decides to follow a college friend to a summer theatre program and ends up landing the lead role in a production of The Winter's Tale. 
Director Sanaa Hamri follows diligently in the sty­
listic footsteps of Ken Kwapis, the first 


The Kleenex moments are often but never cheap, and it's really a testament to the actors that the drama rings true. Tamblyn as the "rebel" Tibby stands out in a performance that is both hilarious and heartbreaking. 
Hamri gets the most out of a talented cast, with help from Oscar nominee Shohreh Aghdashloo as the head archaeologist at Bridget's camp and Blythe Danner as Bridget's grandmother Greta. 
When the first film came out, Bledel and Tamblyn were the big television stars, on "Gilmore Girls" and "Joan of Arcadia", respectively. But both those shows got cancelled. Now Ferrera is the star of "Ugly Betty" and Lively has shot to fame with "Gossip Girl". 
This change in fortune doesn't make any impact on "Sisterhood" -the actors still inhabit the same characters they did in the first film, albeit a little more grown up. 
"Sisterhood" is a well-crafted movie -maybe not for everyone (obstinate boyfriends in particular), but heartfelt and worth seeing. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamb1e@nd.edu 
Lena (Biedel), Carmen (Fererra), Tibby (Tamblyn) and Bridget (lithely) face a new summer of challenges Photo and change as "Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants 2" tells the story of the last three books in the Alexis Bledel is starring in the indie film The Traveling Pants series. currently filming. 
OBSERVER GRAPHIC I Andrea Archer 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, September 12, 2008 
MLB 


Twins fall further behind in AL Central race 
Moyer, Howard power Phillies past the Brewers to pull within three games of the NL East-leading Mets 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOI.IS -In the end, Minnnsota's bullpen blew another cmn-after the latest strong start by Francisco Liriano. 
This was a bad time for the Twins to stop hitting, though­not to mnntion make one big mistake on the bases. 
David DeJesus hit the winning single in the 1Oth inning for the Kansas City Hoyals in a 3-2 vic­tory at Minnesota on Thursday, keeping the Twins in second place for at least another day and wasting eight impressive innings by Liriano. 
"We didn't score enough runs today. That's the bottom line. Our pitching was great," said catcher Mike Hedmond. 
l.iriano's longest start since July 28, 2006, which matched the second-longest outing of his career. wasn't enough. Minnesota woke up one game back in the AI. Central race, with the White Sox hosting Toronto at night. 
Matt Guerrier (6-8) gave up two one-out singles in the 1Oth before DeJesus hit the first pitch from Dennys Reyes into lel't field for the lead, putting relievers on the hook for eight of the team's last 11 losses. The Twins have lost 12 of their last 18 overall. 
The seeds of defeat were sewn long before they lost for the fifth time in their last six extra-inning games, however. Minnesota, by far the best in the majors this year with run­ners in scoring position, squan­dered several opportunities to build a healthy lead against starter Brandon Duckworth and reliever Ron Mahay. 
After Carlos Gomez gave the Twins a 2-1 lead with a one-out HBI single in the second, he took a lead off first base and fell for Duckworth's slide step, froze, and stumbled. He got into a rundown and was eventually tagged out trying to dive back into the bag. 
"Just looked like he was not paying much attention," an upset manager Hon Gardenhire said. "lie just kind of jumped out there." 
Gomez said he wasn't trying to steal. 
"It happens. Nobody wants to be in a situation like this," said Gomez, whose energy and exu­berance has worked against him and his team many times 


CLASSIFIEDS 
this year. 

He wasn't the only offensive culprit. Alexi Casilla grounded into a double play to end the fifth, and Hedmond did the same to squelch a potential rally in the sixth after consecu­tive singles started the frame. With two on and two out in the seventh, Casilla popped out to third. 
"These guys get paid to get you out, and today they did that," Redmond said. 
Indeed, and Mahay, John Bale, Ramon Hamirez (3-2), and Joakim Soria (36th save) com­bined for five scoreless innings with only one hit and one walk allowed after Duckworth left two batters into the sixth. He gave up seven hits and two walks while striking out five. 
"We feel that anytime we get into the bullpen, we can match up with just about anybody," Duckworth said. 
The Twins haven't said that in awhile. Liriano retired 17 of his last 18 batters before turning the ninth over to Joe Nathan, who pitched a perfect inning. But Guerrier and Reyes could­n't get the outs they needed. Guerrier's ERA rose to 4.84. 
"These guys are fine. We're going to be fine," Hedmond said. "It's just a mindset. What's happened has happened." 
Phillies 6, Brewers 3 

Jamie Moyer can rest his arm when he retires. For now, the old man is doing whatever it takes to extend the Philadelphia Phillies' season. 
Moyer pitched five and two­thirds innings on three days' rest, Ryan Howard hit his major league-leading 43rd homer and the Phillies beat the Milwaukee Brewers Thursday night to gain ground in the playoff race. 
"He's been consistent all year," manager Charlie Manuel said of Moyer, the oldest player in the majors. "Goes to show you the old man can still pitch." 
The Phillies pulled within three games of the NL East­leading Mets and the wild card­leading Brewers by roughing up Ben Sheets (13-8). They remain four behind New York in the loss column. 
Moyer (14-7) allowed three runs and four hits, improving to 7-1 in his last 13 starts. The 45­year-old left-bander moved past Hall of Farner Juan Marichal and into a tie with Jack Powell for 49th on the career list with 244 wins. 

Pitching on short rest for the first time since 2004, Moyer kept the Brewers off balance with his usual assortment of batting practice-speed fastballs and even slower stuff. He left after Prince Fielder's two-run drive made it 4-3. 
"As I got deeper, I think I got a little tired a little quicker," Moyer said. ''I'm here, I'm healthy. Sometimes you have to step up." 
Fielder's homer was his first since Aug. 13, but slumping Milwaukee lost for the eighth time in 11 games. 
"This series has no more importance or value than the last series, but every day is important, every game is important," Brewers manager Ned Yost said. "It's must-win, that must be your mind-set in September." 
Ryan Madson pitched two innings, Chad Durbin threw one pitch to retire the only batter he faced with two on in the eighth and Brad Lidge finished for his 36th save in as many chances. 
But it was Moyer who gave the ailing Phillies a big lift by taking the mound and making sure they played with a lead. 
"Jamie did a great job," Howard said. "Anything is pos­sible with him." 
Sheets entered with a 20­inning scoreless streak, but couldn't extend it. The All-Star right-hander allowed five runs and nine hits in six innings. 
"We've got to win some games," Sheets said. "I got a good vibe when the game ended. I know we didn't win, but I feel better today." 
Howard connected in the first to give the Phillies a 2-0 lead. He launched a first-pitch fast­ball into the bushes beyond the center-field wall for his fourth homer in six games. 
"I have to produce runs," Howard said. "Whatever I can do to get the team going and provide a spark, I try to do." 
J.J. Hardy sliced the lead in half with a two-out homer in the third, but the Phillies answered with two runs in the fourth. 
Howard nearly hit another two-run shot, settling for an RBI double when his drive to center bounced off the top of the wall. It was his major league-leading 129th RBI. Pedro Feliz lined a two-out double just over right fielder Corey Hart's head to make it 4­1. 
Fielder had gone 67 at-bats without a homer before going deep in the sixth. 
Carlos Ruiz had an RBI dou­ble in the bottom half to give Philadelphia a two-run cushion. His eighth-inning suicide squeeze, a rarity for the Phillies, provided the final mar­gin. 
"I figured I might as well start trying to be a National League manager," Manuel joked. "I heard Ruiz as he was going up the steps ask somebody what the squeeze sign was. I figured he wants to squeeze, so I let him do it." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

LOST & FOUND 
MISSING-
One musical Leprechaun bear from the South Dining Hall. 
Please return to the South Dining Hall 
and no guestions asked. 


WANTED 
Need sitter as needed for our 5 year old son. Need transportation. $10/hr. 574­271-1216. 

FoR RENT 
GUESTHOUSE RENTAL 25 MILES WEST OF CAMPUS 3 large Bedrooms each with 
Private Bath. Great Common Room with floor to ceiling Windows and outside Deck overlooking rolling prairie. 
Breakfasts. No smoking; no pets. Call 219-778-2585 or email share@ sharefoundation.org 

House for rent. Newly remodeled, beautiful 2 bedroom, 2 bath home on large lot. Walking distance to Notre Dame Campus on Berger Street, just east of the university. Ideal for faculty and/or small family. $1000/month +utilities. 
Call (574) 340-3895. 
Home for rent for ND football week­ends. 3 bdrm, 1.5 baths with eat-in kitchen. Just 2 blocks from NO campus. 
Contact Rocky at Rock0299@ aol.com. 
Football Weekend B&B close to ND(574)243-9279 
House near ND 574-310-3663. 
Homes available now & 2009-10 & 
football wknds. 574-329-0308. 

FoR SALE 
PURDUE WEEKEND VARSITY CLUB SUITE FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHTS WITH 2 GAME TICKETS $800. CALL(914) 967-3023. 


TICKETS 
Wanted: NO football tix for family. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell NO footballtickets. www. victorytickets .co m. 574-232-0964. 
BUYING SAN DIEGO STATE MICHIGAN & PURDUE TIX. 
574-654-0169 (LOCAL CALL). WANTED: Mltix. 
Will trade. 574-276-8507. 
Need MICH tix. 

57 4-329-0308. Need Purdue tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 
PERSONAL. 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit NOs Pregnancy Resources website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap 
I 





OUND THE NATION 
Friday, September 12, 2008 COMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVHt'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
NFL 
NCAA Football 
AP Poll  
team  points  
1  usc  1,577  
2  Georgia  1,525  
3  Oklahoma  1,458  
4  Florida  1,438  
5  Ohio State  1,347  
6  Missouri  1,336  
7  LSU  1,231  
8  Texas  1,100  
9  Auburn  1,067  
10  Wisconsin  910  
11  Alabama  865  
12  Texas Tech  845  
13  Kansas  825  
14  East Carolina  762  
15  Arizona State  744  
16  Oregon  616  
17  Penn State  607  
18  Brigham Young  537  
19  South Florida  493  
20  Wake Forest  404  
21  Fresno State  290  
22  Utah  258  
23  California  195  
24  Illinois  164  
25  West Virginia  163  

NCAA Football USA Today Poll 
team points 
1 usc 1,481 2 Georgia 1,454 3 Oklahoma 1,370 4 Florida 1,306 5 Ohio State 1,289 6 Missouri 1,212 7 LSU 1,198 8 Texas 1,069 9 Auburn 1,917 10 Wisconsin 946 11 Kansas 854 12 Texas Tech 755 13 Arizona State 737 13 Oregon 665 15 Brigham Young 628 16 Alabama 611 17 Penn State 547 18 South Florida 475 19 Wake Forest 419 20 East Carolina 375 21 Fresno State 300 22 Utah 235 23 Clemson 175 24 West Virginia 145 25 California 128 
MIAA Women's 

record 
1·0 2-o 2,0 2-o 2·0 2-o 1·0 2-o 2·0 
H 
2·0 2-o 2·0 2-o 2·0 2·0 2-o 2•0. 2·0 2·0 1-o 2-o. 2-o 1·1 1·1 
record 
1·0 2·0 2·0 
2~0 
2·0 2·0 1·0 2·0 2-0 2-0 2-0 2-0 2-0 2-0 2-0 2•0 2·0 2-0 2-0 2-0 1°0 2-0 1-1 
1-1 
2-0 
Volleyball Standings Team Record 
team league oueiall 


Associated Press 

NASHVILLE, Tenn. ­Titans quarterback Vince Young insists he never wavered in his commit­ment to football. 
All that concern over his mental state? He says he was upset as he dealt with his first serious injury, and he didn't realize he had to tell his mother where he was going any­more. 
Then the media went overboard. 
Young spoke publicly Thursday for the first time since Titans coach Jeff Fisher called police for help in locating the quar­terback Monday night because of concerns over his emotional well-being. His mother, Felicia Young, also told a local newspa­per that the quarterback had indicated he didn't want to play football any­more because of all the negativity he faced. 
"I was never depressed," Young said. 
He took questions from reporters for 16 minutes after watching his team­mates practice. His mes­sage? Don't question his commitment. 
"Football, this is my life. This is my dream. All I did all these years growing up to get to this point and never had an injury like this before in my life," he said. 
"It's a hard time 
because I'm a competitor, 
and I definitely want to be 
out on the football field 
with my teammates." 
Questions about his 
mental state and attitude started Sunday when the third-year quarterback was booed heavily by fans upset at his second inter­ception, and he appeared as if he didn't want to return to the game. Fisher · pulled his headset off and talked to him before the quarterback joined the 
rest of the offense. 
Four plays later, Young 
sprained his left medial 
collateral ligament when 
Jaguars linebacker Daryl Smith crashed into his left knee. 

Young didn't go to the Titans' headquarters Monday, and Fisher went to his quarterback's house. The Titans also sent a psychologist and another team official to talk with Young. He was described as being emo­tionally down. Young said Thursday that lasted half a day and he was upset over his two interceptions. 
Fisher told Young to go take the MRI exam need­ed to determine the extent of the damage to his knee. Young didn't go. But with so many people at his house, Young said, he needed space to think. 
IN BRIEF Saints release Thomas,
include option for return 
METAIRIE, La. -The New Orleans Saints reached a settle­ment with injured defensive tackle Hollis Thomas, allowing the 12­year veteran to come back later this season with the Saints or any other team. "He knows if he gets this thing rehabbed and is able to come back 100 percent, then (returning to the Saints is) certainly an option," coach Sean Payton said after Thursday's practice. Payton initially announced on Wednesday that Thomas, who had surgery to repair a torn right tri­ceps, was going to be placed on injured reserve. That would have ended the defensive tackle's sea­son, but also would have kept him under contract with New Orleans in 2009. However, Thomas agreed to an undisclosed payment in order to get his release. 
Brewers' Kapler tears mus­
cle, could miss rest of season 
MILWAUKEE -Brewers right fielder Gabe Kapler has a torn muscle in his right shoulder and could miss the rest of the season. 
Kapler will stay in Milwaukee and undergo physical therapy with the team in an effort to determine whether he can return this year. 
The team said Thursday that Kapler is hopeful he can return this year, but gave no timetable for his recovery. 
He left Wednesday's game after making a hard throw to the plate in the sixth inning against the Cincinnati Reds. 
With the Reds leading 3-1, Kapler's throw kept Edwin Encarnacion from attempting to score on Jay Bruce's single, but Kapler, in the lineup for struggling All-Star Corey Hart, immediately winced in pain and grabbed for his shoulder. 
OSU's Wells downgraded 
to doubtful for USC game 
COLUMBUS-Ohio State coach Jim Tressel said Thursday it is doubtful that starting tailback Chris "Beanie" Wells will play Saturday night against No. 1 Southern California. 
Tressel said there was lingering soreness for Wells in his right foot after he worked out on Wednesday night. Wells did not practice with the team Thursday morning just before it departed for Los Angeles. 
"We were hoping he'd wake up this morning and feel even better than yesterday," Tressel said short­ly before boarding the team bus to the airport. "But it didn't happen. We'll see from here." 
Wells injured his right foot in the fifth-ranked Buckeyes' opener against Youngstown State, did not play last week against Ohio and has not had contact in partial prac­tices this week. He flew with the team on Thursday afternoon. 
1 Hope 
2 Adrian 3 Alma 4 Calvin 
5 Albion 
6 SAINT MARY'S 
7 Kalamazoo 
8 Trine 
9 Olivet 
3-0 2-0 
z.o 
2-0 
z.2 
1-2 0·2 0·2 0-4 
6-1 4-2 7-3 5·1 5-3 5·3 
a~1 
H 1-7 

around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
No. 13 Kansas at No. 19 South Florida 8:00 p.m., ESPN2 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 12, 2008 
NHL 

Staal signs seven-year extension with Hurricanes 
Carolina reaches new long-term agreement with 23-year-old All Star center worth nearly $58 million 
the Carolina team that won the final year of the three-year
Associated Press 

2006 Stanley Cup had been dis­deal he signed in 2006 that will RALEIGH, N.C. -The cussing the new deal with team pay him $5 million this season. 
Carolina Hurricanes signed  officials  all  summer,  with  Staal, the center of coach  
Eric Staal to a seven-year con­ Rutherford making a long-term  Peter Laviolette's No. 1 line,  
tract extension Thursday.  deal one of his top priorities  had 100 points three seasons  
The deal worth $57.75 mil­ heading into training camp,  ago in leading Carolina to its  
lion will pay the center  an  which starts next week.  first  Cup.  The  Hurricanes  
average of $8.25 million start­ "I wasn't stressing and want­ haven't  made  the  playoffs  
ing  in  ing to make  since, though he bounced back  
2009-10  sure it was  from a subpar 2006-07 season  
and  will  d  o  n  e  with 38 goals and 44 assists  
I a s t through the 2015­ "When you get a player this young that's this good, you  before camp. Staal said.  last season. "Over the last couple sea­sons, it's been a ton of fun.  
16 season.  have to make sure you keep  "But it is a  Obviously, the last two not as  
"When you get a player this  him long term. And ifyou don't, your team, your  nice feeling now to have it out  much fun as the year before that," Staal said. "We've got to get back to the playoffs. back  
y  o u  n  g  franchise will go backwards."  of the way  to where we should be, and I'm  
that's this  and not get  very grateful for this and for  
good, you have to make sure  Jim Rutherford Hurricane General Manager  the ques­tions the whole sea- being here a long time." The lucrative deal likely means Staal -the team's  
you  keep  son  about  highest-paid player  - will  
him  long  an  exten­ remain in the leadership role  
term," gen­ sion  ...  and  in which he blossomed last  
eral manager Jim Hutherford  focus on the hockey."  season, earning a permanent  
said. "And if you don't, your  "Obviously, for me at a young  "A" on his sweater.  
team, your franchise will go  age,  to  be  able  to  lift  the  Rutherford insisted the rich  
backwards."  Stanley Cup over my head was  contract won't hurt the team's  
Hutherford said the parties  something that I dreamed out  bottom  line  in  the  future,  
"fine-tuned" the deal's basic  my whole life," he added. "I  stressing the Hurricanes would  
terms Wednesday, a day before  want to do it again."  be significantly worse off had  
Staal publicly signed the  con­ Staal will get a  $1 million  they allowed Staal to test free  
tract during an elaborate cere­ raise next year and will make  agency.  
mony at the HBC Center that  $6 million during the first year  "We think over time, the way  
ineluded a 2-minute video trib­ of the deal, with his salary  the market has responded to  
ute.  escalating to $9.5 million in  this team and to hockey, that  
The 23-year-old two-time All­ 2015-16, Rutherford said. The  we'll be in a stronger position  AP  
Star, MVP of last year's All-Star  Hurricanes' first-round draft  financially  to  do  this,"  Carolina Hurricanes' center Eric Staal makes a  pass during a  
game and key component of  pick in 2003 is entering the  Rutherford said.  game against the Toronto Maple Leafs January 15.  


Want to improve your Spanish or Portuguese? Come to an Information Meeting with program returnees to hear about. .. 


anish and Portuguese Langua e 


Tuesday, Sept. 16, 2008 s:oo pm 155 DeBartolo Hall 

APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2008 
---------------~---------~----------------------------­
Friday, September 12, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Williams negotiated own contract extension 
Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. -Always one to go against the grain, Ricky Williams negotiated his own contract exten­sion with Bill Parcells and the Miami Dolphins, including a verbal agreement regarding a perform­ance bonus. 
Williams, 31, said he didn't ask the Dolphins to forgive the $8.6 million he has owed them since a 2004 ruling by an arbitrator. He said the extension upset his agent, Leigh Steinberg. 
"He's mad because I didn't talk to him about it," Williams said Thursday. "He was looking for­ward to me becoming a free agent." 
Williams could have tested free agency for the first time after this season. Instead, on Aug. 31 he signed a contract that included a one-year extension through 2009. 
The 1998 Heisman Trophy win­ner and 2002 NFL rushing cham­pion said Parcells offered the extension, and the deal was done in less than a week. 
"I trust my gut feelings about it," Williams said. "I thought about it, I talked to my family, I talked to my financial advisers, and my only concern was if I had a pretty good year, then I might feel like I was undercompensated. I brought that up to Bill, and he agreed, and we came to an agreement." 
The verbal agreement is for a bonus of more than $1 million if Williams rushes for more than 1,100 yards this year, he said. That will be difficult because he's split­ting carries with Ronnie Brown. 
Williams was to earn the veter­an minimum of $730,000 this year. The new contract adds a $93,000 roster bonus per game, which could bring his 2008 salary to $2.2 million. Next year his salary will be $3.3 million. None of the money is guaranteed. 
The Dolphins and Steinberg declined comment. Williams said his independent approach to the negotiations might not be right for most players. 
"It's rare to have a situation where you can trust manage­ment," he said. "The assumption most people make is that a team is going to look out solely for their own best interests." 
Williams has always taken an unusual approach to his career. The rapper Master P's agency negotiated Williams' first NFL con­tract, and most of that seven-year, $68 million deal with the New Orleans Saints was based on incentive bonuses difficult to earn. 
An abrupt one-year retirement and violations of the league's sub­stance abuse policy have limited him to 13 games since 2003. 


An arbitrator ruled Williams breached his contract by retiring, and he was ordered to repay the Dolphins $8.6 million in bonus money. The Dolphins have never tried to collect, and while they could garnish his wages, Williams said he saw no reason to raise the subject in contract talks. 
"It never for one day has ever been an issue," he said. "As long as the Dolphins and I have a good relationship -from Day 1 since I came back, it has never been an issue." 

Williams said the new contract means he's set for life financially, allowing him to support his three children and attend medical school when he retires from the NFL. 
NHL 
Roy to have No. 33 Canadiens jersey retired Nov. 22 
think when you talk about the "It was more difficult than peo­my 10 years in Montreal," said was well-deserved.
Associated Press 
Canadiens, you have to put the ple might think to leave Roy, who starred in goal for the "To have No. 33 hang from the 
MONTREAL -Patrick Roy will word family in front ofit." Montreal," Roy said. "Yes, I would Canadiens from 1985 to 1995. "I rafters in Montreal, a place where have his No. 33 retired by the A fiery competitor, Roy parted have liked to leave on a different learned a lot. This is where I the game's greatest goaltender Montreal Canadiens on Nov. 22 ways with the team on bad terms note but there is nothing you can learnt to be a winner." began his career, is truly special," before the team's game against during the 1995-96 season, forc­do today and the message that I Dealt to Colorado four days after said Lacroix, a Montreal native. the Boston Bruins. ing a trade after he was left in want to send is it's time for me to his famous meltdown, Roy went "For me, it's another reminder of 
Roy, who previously had his goal by head coach and former move on, and I hope it is the same on to claim his third championship the legacy that Patrick has left number retired by Colorado, is the teammate Mario Tremblay during for them." with the Avalanche that spring. He behind. I know fans in the Quebec NHL's only three-time winner of a blowout loss to Detroit on Dec. A four-time Stanley Cup winner, added his third playoff MVP province appreciate his contribu­the Conn Smythe Trophy, awarded 2. Roy led the Canadiens to his first award and fourth Cup in 2001. tions and many will remember to the MVP of the Stanley Cup During Wednesday's press con­title as a 20-year-old rookie in Roy, the winningest goalie in how far he came from his early playoffs. ference at the Bell Centre, Roy 1986. He won his second Cup and league history, retired following days wearing the Canadiens' 
"It's a great day, it's a great welcomed the opportunity to turn second Conn Smythe Trophy in the 2002-03 playoffs. He was sweater. We were able to witness honor to have the chance to come the page on the events that 1993 as Montreal won a record 10 inducted into the Hockey Hall of the creativity and style that he back with the organization and brought about the trade, and straight overtime games in the Fame in 2006. developed and realized that he the family of the Montreal hopes the team's fans will do the playoffs. Colorado Avalanche president was in a league of his own at an Canadiens," Roy said Thursday. "I same. "I always have been proud of Pierre Lacroix said Roy's honor early age." 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, September 12, 2008 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Yates leads UNC to blowout win at Rutgers 
Associated Press 
PISCATAWAY. N.J. -Butc·h Davis has North Carolina back on tiHJ road to respectability. 
T.J. Yat!~s threw throe touch­down passes and the Tar lleels won for the f'irst time outside North Carolina since 2002. lwating error-prone Hutgnrs 44-12 in a nationally televised gamP that pitted Davis against his former pupil. Grog Schiano. 
Yates found a wide-open llakonm Nieks on touchdown passes of 9 and 11 yards and con nnctnd on a 69-yard scor­ing play with speedster Brandon Tate. who also scored on a 12-yard ond around. 
The Tar Heels intercepted four passes, including three by starter Mike Te1~l. Linebacker Bruce Carter return1)d a bob­bled pass 66 yards for a touchdown as the Tar Heels (2-0l handed Hutgers (0-2) its worst loss since a 56-5 loss to Louisville on Nov. 11, 2005. Freshman Jay Wooten added field goals of 43, 29 and 27 yards. 
The victory was the Tar Heels' biggest since a 52-17 win over Duke in 2001. 
The start is the best since 2000 for North Carolina, which is looking for its first winning season since 2001. The Tar Heels were 4-8 a year ago in Davis' first season. 
The start is worst for the Scarlet Knights since 2002, 

when they finished 1-11 in Schiano's second season. It also was the worst horne loss since being thrashed 40-0 by West Virginia that same year. 
In many ways, the Scarlet Knights looked like the Hutgers of old. They blew pass coverages on all three of Yates' TD passes, had a bad punt lnad to a North Carolina score and saw their senior quarterback turn the ball over three times. 
By the time the third quarter was over, North Carolina had a 38-6 lead and only a couple or thousand fans from the sell­out crowd of 42,502 were on hand for a derisive cheer when Teel threw a fourth­quarter touchdown pass to Kevin Brock. 
San San Te kicked field goals of 34 and 32 yards for Hutgers, which came into the season looking for a fourth straight bowl trip. After losing two at home, the Scarlet Knights need to turn things around quickly. 
Davis, who hired Schiano.as his defensive coordinator at Miami, saw his team improve markedly after struggling in the season opener against McNeese State. 
Yates finished 14-of-22 for 221 yards and matched his career high with the three TD passes. Tate caught four pass­es for a career-best 138 yards. His 69-yard touchdown catch was the longest of his career. 


Nicks added six catches for 63 tied it at 3. yards with the two TDs, tying A 25-yard punt by Teddy his single-game high. Delleganne gave North 
North Carolina took control Carolina the ball at its own 49 of the game with 38 points in on the next series. Five plays the second and third quarters. later, Yates found a wide-open 
The Tar Heels scored on Nicks in the corner of the end three straight possessions in zone for a 10-3 lead. the second to take a 17-6 half­A 12-yard run by backup time lead. quarterback Jabu Lovelace 
An interception by corner­and passes of 16, 11 and 10 back Charles Brown, set up yards by Tee) led to Te's 32­Wooton's longer field goal that yard field goal that got Rutgers to 10-6. 
On the ensuing play from scrimmage, Tate ran by cor­nerback Jason McCourty and Yates lofted a pass down the right sideline for the 69-yard catch and run. 
North Carolina blew the game open in the third quar­ter as Tate scored on the end around, Carter tallied on the interception and Nicks had his second TD catch. 

Visit the NEW website for the Office of Vocations 
at vocation.nd.edu to learn more about the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
SOMETIMES 
discernment isn't so easy 
Who knows...you may be called. 
-------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, September 12, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Community mourns death of former coach 
Associated Press 
EL PASO, Texas Thousands of people filled the Don Haskins Center on Thursday night to remember the basketball coach in a memorial service that took on the atmosphere of a college game. 
The arena's television screens showed a 1997 roast of Haskins, known to the basket­ball world as "The Bear" and to fans and players as simply "Coach," while a spotlight shone on the 1966 NCAA 
"Coach Haskins lived to be a winner not just in the Xs and Os," said Nevil Shed, one of Haskins' starters on the 1966 team. "And he instilled in us that on the court you had to do your best, but after all this bas­ketball you have to be a winner in life. Each and every one of his players still has a good por­tion of Coach Haskins in them." 
Shed, the first to get the foul whistle from Brown, recalled fondly that while there were times -mostly in the midst of seemingly endless practice ­he hated Haskins he's a better 


national champi­onship ban­ner. 
The score­board was lit up with the final score of that game­T e x a s Western College, 72, Kentucky 65 -as it was during a public view­
"Coach Haskins lived to be a winner not just in the Xs and Os. And he instilled in us that on the court you had to do your best, but after all this basketball you have to be a winner in life." 
Nevil Shed Former UTEP basketball player 

ing for Haskins on Tuesday. Haskins died Sunday. He was 78. 
The Texas-El Paso marching band was on hand and former referee Irv Brown even stood guard with a whistle to cut off speakers who went over their allotted time in a service that was expected to last three hours. 
Former players, coaches and others praised Haskins for his dedication to his players and offered censored versions of stories of a coach known as much for his skill as his color­ful language. 
man for having played for him. 
"I can always say I thank God for my mother and father and I can say thank God for Don Haskins and all he did for me," 
Shed said. 
Nolan Richardson, who played for Haskins during his first two years in El Paso and was a national champions as a coach at Arkansas, recalled seeing Haskins and his wife, Mary, arrive as a young coach in 1961. He said Haskins told him he couldn't "guard a tele­graph pole" and suggested he stick to football. 
"He was not political and you loved him for it," Richardson said. "What you saw was what you got. And I loved that so much. I tried to emulate that in my career. The championships we won (at Arkansas) with our kids, it all came from The Bear." 

Before taking the podium Thursday, Richardson described Haskins as a "men­tor and a good friend." 
"You are talking about a crown jewel," Richardson said. 
·Richardson said while Haskins never acknowledged knowing what it meant for him 
to start to five black players in the 1966 championship game against an all-white Kentucky squad, he believes Haskins always knew what he was doing. 
"He was a simple man with values," Richardson said. "Had he known the values he had maybe he wouldn't have been so good." 
Countless friends and former 

players, including Tim Hardaway and Antonio Davis, filled the arena's floor Thursday. 
Those who knew Haskins best said this week that he would have hated the spectacle of thousands of people paying tribute to him. But family friend Jim Paul said this was the one time they didn't give Haskins a vote. 




Serving Lunch f.,., Ditmer Come Dine With 
Our Family And Be Our Friend! 
Tues-Sat 11-2; 4-9 Closed Sun & Man 
Our Specialties Include Exquisite 
115 Dixie Way North, South Bend 
(574)'277-7239 



page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 12, 2008 
Donahue 
continued from page 28 
a  touch,  and  beat  
Marquette  keeper  Matt  
Pyzdrowski near post.  

The rest of the first half saw the game settle down into a more back-and-forth eontest between both teams, and the Irish would enter the locker room with a 1-0 half­time lead. Irish coach Bobby Clark said he wasn't satisfied with the halftime lead. 
"We talk about eoming out strong every game, and we certainly drew Ithe players I attention to the fact that their performance dropped of'f' quite drastically in the second hall' of the first hall'," Clark said. 
Clark's words certainly seemed to re-energize his squad as Notre Dame turned a tight game into a blowout within the first 10 minutes of the second half. At the cen­ter of' it was once again was Donahue. 
Four minutes into the sec­ond hall', defender Jack Traynor hit an in-swinging 

free kick flicked on by mid­fielder Michael Thomas into a serum of bodies in front of the Golden Eagles net. Donahue was quickest to react and jammed the loose ball into the back of the net for his second goal of the evening. 
Six minutes later the junior midl'ielder turned provider as his low cross was received at the top of the box by Thomas, whose deft touch created enough space to fire far-post past Pyzdrowski. Donahue would complete his evening in the 64th minute when he poked home a loose ball after reaching it first. 
"You score one goal and you're happy as a wide mid­field player, so to score three goals is special," Clark said of Donahue's hat trick. "[Donahue's] served his time coming ofT the bench. Now he's in a starter's role, and h~'s re~lly taking advantage of that. 
Although Donahue's per­formance will be most remembered for his hat trick, the wide midfielder also looked dangerous in his more traditional role of get­ting wide and serving balls into the box -a point that Donahue emphasized. 
"My main job is to be step­ping on their backs and mid­fielders, just taking a touch and serving balls into the box to our big guys," Donahue said. "Last year, my role was more coming off the bench and raising the tempo. This year I've earned a start­ing spot, and hopefully I can keep the tempo raised from the start." 
About the only negative on the evening for Coach Clark and his squad came near the end of the first half when starting forward Jeb Brovsky left the game because of an injury. Clark said Brovsky felt he could have returned in the second half, but the doctors wanted to him out as a precaution. 
Regardless, Brovsky should have plenty of time to let his injury heal as Notre Dame's next game isn't until Sept. 19, when the Irish welcome St. John's to Alumni Field. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
THE HENRY LUCE FOUNDATION 
When it's the prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yrjob In the far east, strategically chosen to match your careergoals. Apply by Oetober 31! 2008. 
SMC CROSS-COUNTRY 
Field of 400 avvaits Saint Mary's in Peoria 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 

The Irish will test their mettle against more than 400 runners today at the Bradley Invitational in Peoria, Ill. 
Belles coach Jackie Bauters said she want.'> the team to get a good base time for the 5-kilome­ter race. 
"The team is looking great," Bauters said. "We have work to do, but I'm very happy with the start of the season." 
Earlier this season the Belles hosted the Alumnae Exhibition race. It was the first time the team ran together in a competi­tive format since losing its top two runners from last season. 
"I think the team ran great together during the alumnae race," Bauters said. "And while I believe they are all working very hard, without much outside competition I think it isn't as true of a representation of what we're capable of at this time." 
Last weekend the Belles took fourth place at the Ilokem Karem in Crawfordsville, Ind. The race was a relay format with the top three finishing teams contributing to the team score. Many upperclassmen stepped up to help the Belles fm­ish fourth. Junior Megan McClowry and freshman Adrianne Hodriguez, who fin­ished 1Oth overall with a time of 23:45, led the team. NAIA team Indiana Tech claimed the crown. 
One strength for Saint Mary's this year is its good mix of upper and und~m:lassmen. 
"I thought they wem gnmt at the llokem Karem," Bauters said. "Everyone really pushed themselves as hard as they could and I bdieve not knowing the caliber of the other teams was of bonefit to us." 
Bautnrs said she is looking f(Jr her team to go out hard and race well against the vast com­petition. 
"I want to see the team go out on the course and not hold bark." Bauters said. "We will be tirnd but I still want to see them men~.ally go in ready to com­pete. 
So far this season, the team is what Bauters expected it to be. She said there have yet to be many surprises and that no one has really stepped up, but instead runners have filled the voids left by the graduation of Megan Gray. 
The Belles head to the Calvin Invitational on Sept. 20. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintrnarys.edu 
fhLO~C~O 
1733 N. Ironwood Dr. • South Bend 
574.277.6767 
7220 Heritage Sq. Dr. • Mishawaka 
574.272.6767 
www.salonnouveau.com 
AVEDA™
the crrt crnd .cit~ of pure ~r ond plonr--. 
Hair Care • Extensions • Skin Care • Make Up Nail Care • Body Care • Gift Cards "Welcome bock students ond faculty, book ony 2services ond receive $20 off with this od. Not Valid with ony other promotion." 

Friday, September 12, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
Sweep 
continued from page 28 
10. Brown was an All­American at USC and coached Arizona State. 
Up first today at 3 p.m. is No. 16 Cal Poly (4-2), who in coming off a tough loss to No. 2 Nebraska. Senior opposite Kylie Atherstone, who earned her conference-record tenth Big West Player of the Week honors last week, leads the Mustangs. Atherstone aver­aged 3.78 kills and 1.11 aces per set and had a .342 hitting percentage as Cal Poly posted a 2-1 mark at its Sept. 5-6 Paso Robles Marriott Invitational. 
Before this year, junior set­ter Hailey Fithian's had earned just 125 total assists in 34 sets of action. Overcoming her inexperience, Fithian has already compiled 251 assists through six matches this year and fea­tures a 10.46 assists-per-set average that ranks second among Big West players and 47th in Division I. 
Things do not get any easier for the Irish on Saturday, when they face No. 4 California (5-0), Notre Dame's highest ranked opponent of the year thus far. The Irish took the Bears to five sets after losing the first two in a neutral-site match last sea­son. 
Cal leads the all-time series against Notre Dame, 2-1. 
The Bears kept their season flawless last week by winning three matches without drop­ping a set at the 2008 Golden Bear Invitational, defeating James Madison, DePaul and UC Riverside. 
Finishing up the weekend on Sunday is an equally for­midable Minnesota (5-1) squad playing on their home court. 
Last weekend at the Honolulu Advertiser Classic the Golden Gophers defeated Cincinnati (3-0), Wyoming (3­
0) and lost to No. 11 Hawaii (2-3). 
Leading Minnesota is soph­omore outside hitter Brook Dieter, who averages 3.22 kills per set, 1.94 digs per set and 0.83 blocks per set. 
The Golden Gophers are outhitting their opponents .279 to .133, and out-blocking them 2.95 to 0.95 blocks per set. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 


TRACK AND fiELD 
Panel to analyze performance 
CEO Logan forms acommittee to investigate low medal count 
most of any country -but the

Associated Press 
results were still disappoint­

The new leader of USA ing on many levels. Track and Field analyzed the Bernard Lagat (1,500 and team's underwhelming per­5,000), Reese Hoffa (shot put), formance at the Beijing Tyson Gay (100 and 200), Olympics -including dropped Brad Walker (pole vault) and batons and a record-low Jeremy Wariner (400) were· men's gold the 2007 world medal count -champions and judged the who failed to
"We need to

federation's defend their overall perform­determine what has titles at the ance to be "seri­Olympics.
changed in the last 
ously deficient." Lagat and
four years.,,

After watching Gay, who were both U.S. relay fighting teams drop the Doug Logan injuries, joined 
baton in the USA Track and Field CEO 
Walker and 

400-meter pre­liminaries and seeing the U.S. men win only four gold medals, CEO Doug Logan has decided to form a panel of former athletes and coaches to analyze USATF's high-per­formance programs. 
"This will probably be an uncomfortable exercise," Logan wrote Thursday in his blog on the USATF Web site. "But, this is not a 'knee jerk' reaction, or a 'witch hunt,' or an attempt to castigate any­one. Indeed, this panel may determine that the factors leading to less-than-optimal performance were beyond anyone's control." 
The Americans took home 23 medals from Beijing ­
Hoffa in failing to win medals. S a n y a Richards (400), Allyson Felix 
(200) and Lolo Jones (100 hurdles) were other favorites who did not win. Wariner was beaten by another American, LaShawn Merritt, in the 400. 
Logan did his own analysis of the results and the num­bers were no better. 
Not counting relays, he said there were 66 individual per­formances in men's competi­tion and 65 in women's. Only seven of the men (10.6 per­cent) and 11 of the women 
(16.9 percent) performed at their peak level for 2008 in Beijing. 
Meanwhile, the relays that have long been considered 
America's signature event resulted in stunning disap­pointments, at least in the 400-meter races. Gay and Lauryn Williams were both involved in bad exchanges that knocked the U.S. team out in the preliminary round. Gay did not participate at the 
U.S. training camp in Dalian, China, where two intensive relay practices were held. 
"The expectation is that we should dominate" in relays, Logan said. "They are also the activity that we, as an organi­zation, should have the great­est control over. We select the athletes and train and coach them." 
Logan noted that since 2003, in world championship and Olympic competition, there have been eight 400­meter relay medal opportuni­ties. In four of the eight, the 
U.S. teams failed to make the finals. From 1999 through 2003, Americans won medals in seven of eight 400 relays. 
"We need to determine what has changed in the last four years,'' Logan said. 
The Americans did salvage things by winning both 1,600­meter relays, but their seven overall gold medals were one fewer than the previous two Olympics and only one more than their worst showings in 1972 and 1976, when there were fewer events. 

The beacon in multi-million dollar investment decisions 
BainCapital is one of the world's leading private investment firms, managing more than $83 billion of leveraged buyout, public equity and credit funds. Sankaty Advisors, the debt investment group of BainCapital, is one of the nation's leading buy-side private investment management firms. 
With approximately $33 billion in committed capital, Sankaty is a world-class team of over 70 investment professionals with extensive experience analyzing and managing high yield investments. 
Representatives from Sankaty Advisors will be visiting campus throughout the year, speaking with undergraduate students about internships and full-time positions that wiH put your education to work on global, multi-million dollar investment decisions. 
Please look for us on campus in the coming months to learn more about the great opportunities we offer in Boston and London. 
Resume Deadline: Sunday, September 1401 

For more information, visit us at www.sankaty.com. 


page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, September 12, 2008 
Kurz 
continued from page 28 
During his NBA career, Garrity averaged 7.3 points and 2.6 rnbound'i per grurm. Ilis best years cmne in 2001-02 and 2(XJ2-03, when he averaged 11.1 and 10.7 points per game, respnetively, 1md started in 96 gmm1S during tlw two sea'iOns. 
At Notrn Dame, Garrity averaged litH points per game over four sea­sons 1md wa<> mmuKI Big Ea'it player of the year for the 1996-97 cam­paij..,'ll, hi'i junior year. when he aver­aged 21.1 point'i per g<U1le. 
A'i a senior, he W1l'i mU1led a see­ond-team All Ameri<~m. lie is iliird on Notrn Dame's all-time seoring li'it, b«~hind only Au'itin Carr and Adrian D1mtley. 
"Playing with and against the groatest basketball players in the world ha'i been an experience which ha'i !-,riven me some of the londest memori11S of my life," Garrity said. 
Meanwhile, former Irish forward m1d 2CXJR graduate Hob Kurz sif.,'lUKI a contract with the Golden State Warriors 1md will attmd funir train­ingeanlp. 
For Kur.t., fue contract comes nmLr tho end of a hectic summer, ftlh~d witl1 tryout'i 1md workout'i wiili vari­ous teruns. 
"You 're always working, you always have to stay ready. [wasn't sure what wa'i going to happen, if I wa'i going to be taking off for over­seas or going to another team or what was going to happen ... " Kurz said in a phone interview Thursday. "Everyday you really didn't know what wa<> going to happen, but what­ever happens I just tried to make ilie best offue situation." 
Kurz wa<> ilie heart and soul of ilie Irish last season and helped Notre Dame to a tie lor seeond plaee in fue Big East and a seeond-round appearance in the NCAA Tournament. During his junior and senior years, Kurz averaged over 12 points and seven rebounds per game. 
Golden State currently has 18 players under contract and will have to cut iliat down to 15 before fue sea­son starts. Kurz was one of three undrafted rookies the Warriors signed this olfseason -DeMarcus Nel'iOn from Duke and Dion Dowell from I Iouston were ilie ofuers. 
Kurz averaged 7.1 points, 4.5 rebounds and 1.1 blocks in nine games with tl1e W1Lrriors summer leagun team. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 


FOOTBALL HOURS 
FRIDAY Restaurant: 11'00 am · Midnight Pub. 11:00 am-2:00am 
SATURDAY Restaurant 8:00am -Midnight Pub: 8:00am -2:00am 
574.631.2582 www.legendsofnotredame.org 
,_.... •.,..__ 
eetefvtate witA .~~! 
Join us after the pep rally for food, drinks, and plenty of football coverage on our 144" screen and 16 large, flat screen TVs. Return on Saturday for our pregame party and enjoy breakfast, lunch, and our tailgate menu. Spend yo·ur weekend with friends and fans at Legends! 
r.:~ECE N DS \J!IP-E~'1'~U;f~ ~~'~ ,,~ r•D!O~~'l:
• (\, .,. I' {....,""f,;'i , \.'$ ••-!:.f _1,_...., f ~ 0 
219 North Front 
Street 
Niles, Mlchlg11n 
10 MINUTES NORTH OF CAMPUS ON 

' 
' ~ ' 
' 
' 



It's not just about football ... 
It's so much more. 

William Schmitt's book perfectly captures all the traditions that reflect the unique spirit that is the 
"As head football coach 
at Notre Dame for eleven seasons, I was fortunate to witness firsthand the spectacle of young athletes achieving greatness on the field. But football weekends at Notre Dame are about so much more than the game. 
University of Notre Dame." 

-Ara Parseghian 
head football coach, University of Notre Dame, 1964-1974 

A great gift for family, friends, and Fighting Irish fans! 
University of Notre Dame Press Tel: 800 1621-2736 
Available at local bookstores, or order online at: www.undpress.nd.edu 
You Make Plans. We'll Make The Rest. 

~----------------------------~ 
Friday, September 12, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
Recruits 
continued from page 28 
to know some of the play­ers that they'll be lining up against." 
For some of these recruits, it's the first time they will have ever set foot on the Notre Dame campus. Becaus of this, the coaching staff will have to pull out all the stops to make an impres­sion. 
Four-star defensive end Davon Custis out of Columbus, Ohio, is a first­time visitor. The Saint Francis DeSales High School product liked the Irish early in the recruiting process, but later faded after some miscommunication with the Irish coaching staff. After the problem was solved, Custis is now on good terms with Notre Dame, and this visit could be what the Irish need to pick up another commitment. 
"Custis has never been to Notre Dame, so this first impression will be crucial," Frank said. "He's a smart kid, came from a similar environment in a Catholic high school, so he could like the campus. He's a big-time player that a lot of programs are after and could fit in nicely in this class." 
Another player that has yet to see Notre Dame is Nyshier Oliver, a safety from Jersey City, N.J. Oliver origi­nally committed to Tennessee, but later reopened his recruitment and saw an Irish offer come rolling in the following morning. Frank said he thinks this could potentially be a case in which a visit went a long way to swaying the player. 
"Nyshier hasn't been either, but he has a strong interest in the Irish," he said. "This is the first shot the coaching staff really has to impress him, and I think he's seriously considering Notre Dame. He's definitely going to take a serious look when he's on campus." 
Chris Bonds is a defensive end from Richland Northeast High School in Columbia, S.C., who will also be in attendance. Bonds is hearing from most of the schools in the Southeastern Conference and will need to see some impressive features of the Irish program if Notre Dame is to stay in the race. 
Not only will high school seniors considering the Irish be present against Michigan, but also juniors, who are beginning to receive their initial offers, will be there. For these recruits, it's essentially the first time many of them will be taking visits. 

A pair of Illinois blue-chip­pers, defensive end Chance Carter out of Loyola Academy and offensive line­man Christian Lombard from Fremd High School, are both visiting and stand in high regard in the coaching staff's eyes. If Notre Dame can showcase its program well, these visits from jun­iors could give the Irish an advantage in landing both of them. 
During these visits, the coaching staff will give the prospects a tour and field their questions. 
"It's not as intense as an unofficial visit," Frank said. "Because the coaches have to worry about the game, they won't have a lot of time to be around the recruits. They'll probably take them around campus, show them the [Gugliemo Athletics com­plex,] and meet with some professors. For the 2010 kids, these first impressions are real important to put the program on the map." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 


Welcome to 21st century student apartments. 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME 
Texas 
continued from page 28 
will be playing with their new No. 2 ranking. But Waldrum said the team isn't concerned with the number. 
"One thing that we've never really done is worry a whole lot about the rankings.... It's some­thing we haven't spent a lot of time and we don't really talk about it with the team," Waldrum said. 
"At the end of the day I think all of our players have been here long enough and the staff's been here long enough to know that it's how you end and not us, and a lot of teams spend a lot of time defending on us," Waldrum said. 

But that doesn't mean the Irish have altered their style of play. 
"We're not doing a lot of things differently than what we normally do in training because we see those styles an awful lot as we go through the season," Waldrum said. "But I think the key for us is just coming out with the intensity that we need to come out with and that we play with the speed we need to play with." 
And while the Irish have no intention of changing their tac­tics, that doesn't mean they won't look to get some different 
where you are in ':4 lot ofteams players on the terms of the field. Notre
bunker in on us, and
rankings." Dame has start­
But there's a a lot ofteams spend 
ed five different reason the Irish a lot oftime lineups in its enter tonight's defending us.,, past five games, contest as the and Waldrum second-ranked said he plans to team in the Randy Waldrum start yet anoth­nation. Last Irish coach er new lineup 
weekend, when Notre Dame was ranked No. 4, beat then-No. 3 North Carolina and No. 12 Duke. 
SMU enters tonight having last lost to No. 21 Kansas 1-0. 
And Waldrum said he recog­nizes that the Mustangs chal­lenged Kansas and are likely to do the same against Notre Dame. 
Holding the No. 2 ranking comes with a price, in the shape of a bullseye on Notre Dame's back. Waldrum said the Mustangs have likely been preparing to defend the aggres­sive Irish offense. 
"A lot of teams bunker in on 
tonight. 

But the one thing that's remained consistent in the Irish lineup is their defense. Carrie Dew, Schuveiller and Elise Weber have all remained in the backfield. Waldrum said if possible, he'd like to give the trio some time to rest. And since Dew and Schuveiller both played a full 90 minutes against North Carolina and Duke, a little time on the bench might we a warmed wel­come. 
Tonight's game kicks off at 
7:30 at Alumni Field. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
Brand new, contemporary, furnished apartments now leasing for Fall 2009. 
• 
Two bedrooms 


• 
Private, full bath in each bedroom 

• 
Furnished 


• 
Includes 42" flat panel HDTV 

• 
Laundry room with washer &dryer 

• 
FREE Internet & 200 + TV stations 

• 
Walk to campus 



IIIrish 
ROW 

luxury apartments 
page 26 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 12, 2008 
' 
' 
' 
I I I 
' 
I 
' 
' 
' 
' 
-
' 
' ' 
' 
' 
I I 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
I I 
' 
' 
' ' 
I 


Refined for two thousand years, Catholic Social Tradition explores a constellation ofconcepts that give articulation to a coherent vision ofthe good society. The Tradition offers a guide for individuals and groups to put their faith into action and bring us one step closer to this vision ofa better world. 
Come learn about the Tradition. Put your faith into action. 
CST MINOR BREAKFAST SEPTEMBER 21 + 11:30AM CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

THE MINOR IN 
CATHOLIC SOCIAL TRADITION 
236 MALLOY HALL + (574) 631 6407 + wpurcell@nd.ed + nd.eduj-cstprog; 
-

Friday, September 12, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
HENRI ARNOLDMICHAEL MIKUSKA JUMBLE

BLAcK DoG MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
JJUJJOOJEJ1Jl:. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
RUYLS 
j

rJ r I I 
@2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
YEMSS j 
tINCOVE j 
WHAT THE= 5HOPPE:R5 
TURNE'D UP AT THE=

I J r I I 
www.jumble.com 
PERFUME COUNTER 
ITHARRE± 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

rr J 1
1. suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer:(IIIIJ riiiiJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: SOOTY KITTY UNFOLD ORCHID Answer: Both gasoline and electricity can do this ­"SHOCK" YOU 




CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Across 39 One-striper: 2 Joke writer for Abbr. many Kennedy
When 40 Stuck with no 
campaign
9 Slip covers? way out 
speeches 15 She was 
3 Astrological set41 Kitchen pieces
executed in 43 Animal visitor to 
4 Some husk 
1917 Paris in a classic 
contents 16 1 00 centesimos 
children's book 5 Understanding17 "Nonsense!" 
responses 19 Pentax 44 Cornmeal 
concoction 6 Pusher Spotmatic, e.g., 
47 One that takes a 7 Botanical 
in brief 
picture? appendages 20 Boy in the comic 
49 Crosses 8 Fries, say strip "Rose Is 
50 Lead, e.g. 9 A telly may get it Rose" 
10 Old Olympics 52 Engraved 
21 Parents award
message?: Abbr. 22 Parts of many 11 Scarlett O'Hara's 
55 ''I'm not 
jam sessions mother and b-+--+----'1-+-­
volunteering!" 25 Minute others
59 Ring of anatomy 12 W. W. II vessel
27 African 60 Boring people evergreen shrub 13 Cascades 
61 On notice 14 Flip 
29 Vlasic varieties 
62 "Tonka" star, 18 Comment before 
30 Get ready to grill 1958 turning in
33 Like VCRs in the Puzzle by Robert H. Wolle 23 Director of the 
1970s Down 35 Result of regular 45 See 29-Down 54 Capital of Associated 

36 Delicacy 1 Withdrawal figs. use Colombia
Press, 1900-35 46 Parfait part 37 "Sin City"
24 Scale 47 It's a big part of 56 Land of "20,000 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE actress, 2005 

succession life Leagues Under 38 Stagecoach 

48 Do some tune-
puller
title character up work on 57 Dutch traveler's

41 Body band 
loiiiol,.;,r+.:.t-:--iliil~~.:..r=,_r::-t-'-'-1~-':=-1 27 More 

choice42 Flat part 51 Aurora producer 

..:.:..f~=-t-:-=-1-=-~ 28 Tout's opposite 44 17-Across, 53 2002 Literature 58 Figure in the
lllir7+-:+.:+::+=i 29 45-Down quaintly Nobelist Kertesz Sunni/Shia split 
~=::+=~ performers 

31 How some hats are worn For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554 . 
.:::+~+==-! 32 Drawing, e.g. 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 33 Start of some 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. countdowns 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
8~-:++~FB~~++-t-=-R 34 "Piece of My past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Heart" singer Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Franklin solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _________ State ____ Zip______ 
FRIDAYS WITH FRAN
HOROSCOPE 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Jon is bad. John is good. Sorry, Jon. (0 stars) TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Q: What did the camel say to the camel-rider? A:One lump or two? (0 stars) GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Pardon me while I sprayfart. (0 stars) CANCER (June 21-July 22): Imagine the most uncomfortable place in which one could get arthroscopic surgery. Yup, you will have arthroscopic surgery there one day. (0 stars) LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): When the warlock speaks, you must listen. (0 stars) VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Sounds like Vince Young needs to call T.O. and ask him for some pills. (0 stars) LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Stop petting my gerbil ... yeah, you heard me. (0 stars) SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You have no horoscope today. (0 stars) SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Kevin Arnold or Cory Matthews? Winnie or Topanga? Text (847)347-3 820 with your answers. (0 stars) CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Eat a sloppy joe, you sloppy fat man. You make me wanna vom. (0 stars) AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You are the best. (5 stars) PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Stroke the hog. (0 stars) 
r 
' 
THE OBSERVER
' 
PORTS
Friday, September 12, 2008 page 28 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Three's company 
Junior Donahue's hat trick spearheads a 4-1 win over Marquette in first conference game 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 
Last year Notre Dame won a share of the Big East Blue division title. If Thursday night was any indication, the Irish are in no mood to give up their crown. 
No. 5 Notre Dame wel­comed visiting Marquette with a convincing 4-1 defeat at Alumni Field in both team's first game of Big East conference play. 
The Irish started the game with a flurry of offensive chances serving multiple dangerous balls into the box, but it wasn't until the 17th minute t·hat Notre Dame broke through. A couple of one-touch passes found wide midfielder Dave Donahue, who served a cross into the path of a crashing Bright Dike. The forward's volley was blocked, but Donahue collected the clearance, took 
see DONAHUE/page 22 


ND WOMEN'S SoccER 

Battle of Texans vs. Mustangs 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 

Tonight is likely to be a Texas showdown -well, sort off. 
The No. 2 Irish are set to take on Southern Methodist University, but they won't be the only Texans on the field. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum is a native of Irving, Texas, an alum of Midwestern State University in Wichita Falls, and oh, before he came to Notre Dame, he coached at Baylor. Assistant coach Dawn Greathouse played for Waldrum at Baylor and graduated in 2001. But the list goes on. The Irish roster is composed of eight Texas natives, including stand­outs Kerri Hanks and Jessica Schuveiller. 
Aside from a case of good 'ole Texan competition, tonight's game is the first time the Irish 
see TEXAS/page 25 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Convincing win could help sway recruits 
its. Dame," Frank said. "It's a bally committed play for the Notre Dame, they still want toBy LORENZO REYES 
This Saturday could be a rival game, so the atmos­Irish. These include corner­come back one final time to 
Sports Writer 

game that carries heavy phere will be electric, and if back E.J Banks from view the game day atmos­
implications as to the direc­the Irish could beat Michigan Pennsylvania, offensive guard phere and meet some of their 
If the Irish can pull off a tion the program is headed, and go 2-0, they could go on Alex Bullard from Tennessee, future teammates. convineing triumph this based on the quantity and a little roll. This is definitely tight end Jake Golic from "They're just coming to weekend against Michigan. quality of recruits that will be a statement game. If they can Connecticut, tight end Tyler check out Notre Dame one thosP in attendance will see watching closely. Mike Frank, beat Michigan, it will tell Eifert from Indiana, offensive last time," Frank said. "They the program as one that is on who covers Notre Dame for everyone, 'We're back."' tackle Zach Martin from want to see what the atmos­the rise. None of these spec­Scout.com, said he believes That is precisely what the Indiana and running back phere is like during a tators will b11 more important this could be a turning point coaching staff intends on Theo Riddick from New Saturday and get closer to the than the 20 high school tal­for the Irish. doing come Saturday. Of the Jersey. team. They also want to get ents that are visiting campus "I think it's a very, very 20 recruits coming into town, Although all of these play­for unof'fieial and offieial vis-important game for Notre six of them have already ver-ers have decided to play for see RECRUITS/page 25 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish tackle three ranked 
opponents after split 
First slate of tough teams for ND squad 
By JARED JEDICK 
Coming off a tough weekend in Idaho, there is no rest for the weary as the Irish are gearing up to face their stiffest test of year at the Diet Coke Classic in Minneapolis. 
On the docket for the Irish (3-3) are three ranked teams in the CBS College Sports Network/AVCA Division I Coaches Poll: No. 16 Cal Poly, No. 4 California and No. 11 Minnesota. 
Leading the team is junior outside hitter Christina Kaelin's 60 kills and freshman defensive specialistllibero firency Silva's 88 digs. 
Notre Dame's three victories have come against IPFW, Nevada and Washington State this year, but they have yet to face teams with the talent they are going to face this weekend. 
The Irish are coming off a 3­0 loss to Idaho in which they were only able to manage a .074 hitting percentage while committing nine service errors and six serve-receptions errors. Idaho put 15 team blocks on Notre Dame in the sweep. 
Coming into the weekend series, Irish coach Debbie 
see SWEEPIpage 23 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
As one leaves, another enters 
Garrity retires after 11 years; Kurz signs contract with Warriors 
By CHRIS HINE SportS Writer 
As one former Notre Dame hoopster retired from the NBA, another came a step closer to gettingin the league. 
Pat Garrity, who spent 10 sea­sons in the NBA, nine of them with the Orlando Magic, and played at Notre Dame from 1994-98, announced his retire­ment from the league Thursday. 
"As a professional athlete, I have always been aware that the time would come for me to begin another chapter in my life," Garrity said in a statement released by the Magic. "That time has come and I look for­ward to the exciting challenges 
see KURZ/page 24 




