
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 3 THURSDAY, AUGUST 28,2008 

Basilica undergoes restoration work 
External renovation fixes 2007 storm damage 
at the top of the Basilica ­was already scheduled to take place before the storm. 
Strong winds associated with severe thunderstorms swept through campus on the Tuesday of Senior Week 2007, knocking off one of the four minor spires from the bell tower of the Basilica. The front-left spire shattered southeast of the Basilica's main entrance during the storm, which also damaged dozens of trees on campus. 
Shortly after the storm, Marsh said, the roof of the Basilica was inspected and the metal pieces of the three remaining small spires -the "metal hats" -were removed for "preventative" reasons. 
Part of the current renova­tion process entails rebuilding the spires and installing rein­forcing steel, Marsh said. 
University Sacristan John Zack, as well as other staff at the Basilica, has worked closely with the University Architect's office to direct the 
brick and re-gilding the cross see BASILICA/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
4 rectors adjust to nevv roles 
Hall leaders discuss first week on the job 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame welcomed four new rectors this academic year in Pangborn, Pasquerilla West, Keenan and in the new men's residence, Duncan Hall. 
Father Tom Eckert, a former rector of St. Edward's Hall, was selected as the first rector of the West Quad's brand-new Duncan Hall. 
"When we were handing out maps to the freshmen and their parents at check-in we realized Duncan Hall wasn't on the map," Eckert said, so hall staff drew Duncan themselves. 
"We're going to put our place on the map," he said. "There's more excitement because there's a lot of things we get to start." 
see RECTORS/page 4 


By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
One of the most iconic build­ings on Notre Dame's campus has taken on a different look in the last few months, as an intricate scaffolding system has been erected around the front of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart to facilitate scheduled renovations. 
The $1.8 million renovation 
.began shortly after com­mencement last May and is on schedule, said Associate Vice President and University Architect Doug Marsh. The scaffolding, which will take about a month to deconstruct, will begin coming down in the next couple of weeks, he said. 
The restoration process is repairing the damage done to the Basilica by a storm during Senior Week in May 2007, but Marsh said repair work to the exterior of the Basilica ­including fixing aged and weathered wood or metal, applying new paint, repairing mortar joints and any broken 
University n1akes changes to 'too avvkvvard ' Frosh-0 
Freshman class's first weekend stayed awayfrom multi-dorm events; focuses on bonding within the residence hall, free time 
decided there needed to be some first," Braun said. To achieve this out of control, she said, specifically Mrowka said. 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY revisions in the activities planned objective, the Student Activities referencing activities in which res­"This year we emphasized get­
News Writer 
for Frosh-0, student body vice Office (SAO) took over the Frosh-0 idence of female dorms are paired ting to know your roommate, then 
president emeritus Maris Braun planning and increased the with residents of male dorms in section mates, then everyone in 
It's a tradition, even if it is said. mandatory requirements for in­physical events. the dorm and then finally students always a little awkward, and it's "We felt that Freshman dorm activities, she said. "These activities were just too in other dorms," Mrowka said. part of the Notre Dame experi­Orientation was not conducive to The SAO has a branch called awkward and traumatic for fresh­Breen-Phillips Hall rector Rachel ence. But for this year's freshman establishing good gender relations Student Campus Orientation man just getting to school," she Kellogg said she has also heard class, Freshman Orientation from the start," Braun said. The Committee (SCOC), which leads said. complaints about the multi-dorm Weekend, or "Frosh-0," was dif­Campus Life Council decided there the planning for freshman orienta­So in an effort to make the ori­activities. ferent than the program experi­should be a focus on in-dorm tion, freshman orientation co-com­entation process more comfortable "In the past students have com­enced by previous incoming class­activities. she said. missioner Carolyn Rumer said. for new students, the Frosh-0 plained to me that the only person es. The activities planned for Frosh-"The school has received com­leaders decided to hold more they got to know during Frosh-0 
Last year, the Campus Life 0 should help students "build a plaints in the past," she said. activities that involved only the was their roommate," Kellogg Council, a governing body of the solid foundation within their dorm, Students and parents felt that residents of the dorm, freshman Notre Dame Student Government, and be comfortable in their home some of the activities had gotten orientation co-commissioner Ellen see FROSH-0/page 4 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Saint Mary's kicks off government meetings 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) welcomed Patrick Daniel, the College's new director of student involvement, during its first meeting of the semester Wednesday night. 
Student body president Mickey Gruscinski introduced Daniel to the group before members of BOG introduced themselves to each other to start the year off. 
"I started Friday," Daniel told the group. "It's been busy, but I look forward to working with all of you and getting to know your names." 
Gruscinski then thanked com­mittee members for their help with First Year Orientation, activ­ities like selling the second annu­
see BOG/page 6 


Reekers launches fresh new n1enu 
Mediterranean-inspired food items now an option at 24-hour eatery 
ByJENNMETZ News Editor 
Around dinner time Wednesday, as the line to order began forming at Reekers, a student pointing up at the new brightly col­ored menu asked, "What's a piadina?" 
A piadina is a Mediterranean-inspired sandwich featured on 
see RECKERS/page 4 page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 


Drug bust 
A few days ago, I embarrassed 
myself on the phone with a drug 
dealer. 
Though I do not spend much time 
on the street per se, I consider 
myself to be 
fairly wise in Kaitlynn Rlely 
the ways of the 
Assistant
world. I'm at 
News Editor 
ease taking 
cabs. I frequent­
ly avail myself of public transporta­
tion. I have purchased cigarellos 
from a convenience store. 
But there is a drug dealer, some­
where in Maryland, who thinks I 
am a lost cause. 
Less than a day after I left my home state, I got a call from a number I didn't recognize, with a zip code that indicated the person was calling from somewhere near Washington, D.C. 
I answered the phone. "Do you want some green?" said a gruff male voice. 
I asked him to repeat his ques­
tion, because I couldn't quite hear 
him. lin repeated it. 
I still was not sure what he was 
asking. So I told him he had the 
wrong numbM. 
lin assured me he had the right 
number. 
"Do you want some green?" 
llis voice was still less than clear. I tried sounding it out. 
"Grenneeeeeen," I said. 
"Yeah, do you want some green?" hn asked again. I finally admitted it. I didn't know what green was. 
At this point, I think he gradually started to realize that maybe he did have the wrong number. 
"Isn't this I>.J.'s friend who works at Maey's? She said you wanted some green." 
I have no friends named D.J. I don't nor have I ever worked at Macy's. And again, I don't know what green is. 
So he hung up on me. 
Even after the call, I was still not sure what the man had been trying to sell me. I thought "green" could be a niekname for U.S. dollars, but selling money for money seems like a fruitless telemarketing scheme. 
Maybe, I thought, green is slang for marijuana. It seemed a little foolish to me for D.J's friend, who works at Macy's, to arrange her drug buys over the phone with a man she doesn't know. But I Googled it. Aecording to Marijuana Dictionary, the online souree with -how appropriate -420 slang terms for marijuana, green refers to inferior quality marijuana. Macy's must not be paying D.J.'s friend very well. 
So now I know. If he calls me again, I'll be ready. "Do I want some 'green'?" I'll say when I get the call. 
"Are you talking about 'cereal' or 'kali'? Some 'Panama Gold'? You want to know if I want some 'Aunt Mary"? The 'white-haired lady,' 'the (J.J.'?" 
"Yeah," he'll say. "That's what I'm selling." I think you're looking for D.J.'s friend. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obsemer. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please con­tact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, August 28, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU HAVE RATHER DONE WITH THE MONEY SPENT ON YOUR BOOKS? 


Bill Naughton junior Duncan  Lauren Corona junior Walsh  Caroline Maroney freshman Lyons  John Ghazi freshman Zahm  Llam Rhatigan sophomore Morrisey  
"Soda for the weekend."  "/ didn't buy any books."  "/ would have bribed my way through the  '7 would have given it to charity."  "Buy some chill stufffor the , room.  


football ticket 

Ga. town attemps to win scarecrow record 
HOSCHTON, Ga. -This small northeastern Georgia town's population boom is frightening. In a bid to break a world record for scarecrows and scare up some fun for the fall season, thousands of straw-stuffed neweomers are creeping across town. 
There's a scuba diver, the Georgia Bulldogs foot­ball team and -of course -the cast of the Wizard of Oz. Even likenesses of Jesus and Elvis popped up. 
The 1,700 real residents of Hoschton hope to near­ly triple their population 40,000 people took part in the hour of messy fun in the village of Bunol near Valencia. The ritual dates back to the 1940s. 

Some warriors in Wednesday's battle wore swimming goggles to pro­tect themselves from the acid sting of projectiles in the form of pear-shaped tomatoes. Others swatted them away with tennis rackets. 
Afterward, many washed off in a nearby river while crews hosed down a town painted red. 
Information from the Associated Press. 
with 4,000 searecrows and 'break the Guinness World Record for "Most Scareerows in One Location." 
The title belongs to the Cincinnati Horticultural Society's Cincinnati Flower and Farm Fest, which set the record in 
2003 with 3,311  scare­ 
crows.  
Spanish  town  holds  

annual tomato fight 
BUNOL, Spain Spanish revelers have pelted each with 113 tons of ripe tomatoes in an annual food fight. Town hall says an estimated 

line. , 
IN BRIEF 
The annual Saint Mary's Club Fair will be in Angela Athletic Facility today from 6-8 p.m. 
The welcome back picnic for graduate students will be Friday from 5:30-7:30 
p.m. in the Fischer O'Hara­Grace (FOG) Graduate Residenee Parking Lot. There will be free food, music, games and prizes. 
Jordana Mendhelson, associate professor in the Department of Spanish and Portuguese at New York University, will give a lecture Friday on documentary and visual culture in Spain dur­ing and after the Spanish Civil War at 1:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center of International Studies. 
The Show featuring multi­platinum rock band Good Charlotte and Chieago hip­hop duo The Cool Kids at 7 
p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse on Friday. 
The Student Activities Office is hosting illusionist Mike Super, the winner of NBC's Phenomenon, Saturday at 9 p.m. in Washington Hall for an interaetive magic experi­ence. Super will make an audience member levitate four and a half feet off the ground with absolutely no connections of any kind. lie will also make snow from his bare hands: 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
0::: 
1.&.1 
::z:: 
~ 
1.&.1 
==
..... 
<1: 
(.) 0 



HIGH 85 HIGH 85
...I LOW 76 LOW 60 

75 67 

77 58 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, August 28, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Architecture school co-sponsors event 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame School of Architecture, in conjunction with the Office of the University Architect, Disability Services and LCM Architects, will host a daylong program Friday to raise awareness of the challenges 
faced by people 'The best way Doug Marsh, with physical associate vice
to provide an 

disabilities. president and
environment that is 

The program University is designed to accessible architect, said increase archi­the intention of
to all is at the 

tecture stu­the program is
design stage.,, 

dents' aware­to make archi­ness of the tecture students many facets of Scott Howland aware of the accessible barriers that
disability services 

design in the people with dis­

coordinator 

context of daily student life on the Notre Dame campus. 
Senior architecture students will be divided into three groups: one with crutches, one with wheelchairs and one with blindfolds and canes. They will navigate the campus and par­ticipate in various day-to-day activities such as riding a shut­tle bus, attending class and using public restrooms. Students will follow their regu­lar schedules in the morning, navigate Notre Dame Stadium in the afternoon and conclude the day with a lecture on designing for compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). 
The lecture, presented by Jack Catlin and Gigi McCabe­Miele of LCM Architects, a Chicago-based firm that con­sults nationally on ADA com­pliance, will begin at 3:30 p.m. in Room 104 of Bond Hall. It is 
free and open 
to the public. 
abilities can 
face, while dis­tinguishing between Universal Accessible Design and mini­mum building and accessibility code requirements. Marsh said this effort is a component of the University's commitment to accessibility. 
"The best way to provide an environment that is accessible to all is at the design stage," said Scott Howland, coordina­tor of disability services at Notre Dame's Sara Bea Learning Center for Students with Disabilities. 
"This is a great way to make 



Book discusses values in business 
i/Getting It Right"focuses on leadership, judgmentfor problem-solving 
Special to The Observer 
One of the case studies pre­sented in the book "Getting It Right: Notre Dame on Leadership and Judgment in Business" involves turning around a bankrupt blood bank. To get back to fmancial health, the organization's leader could choose to discontinue unprof­itable products and stop serving area hospitals that weren't pay­ing off. 
But what if the blood bank's mission is to serve all hospitals and all patients in need? 
"Well, those values would con­strain the possible solutions," says book co-author Ed Conlon, associate dean and Edward Frederick Sorin Society profes­sor in the Mendoza College of Business at the University of Notre Dame. "Discontinuing products or service would not be possible. We would have to look for another way to turn around the organization." 
Finding "another way" illus­trates the central premise of "Getting It Right" by Conlon and Viva Bartkus, associate profes­sor of management at Notre Dame. Leadership means not only solving tough business problems, but solving them within a framework of well­examined values in order to bring about the best result for the organization and everyone it serves. 
"Without a system of values, a leader cannot even determine whether there is a problem, let alone begin down the path of preparing a solution," Bartkus said. "A leader's values pro­scribe the space where he or she can look for solutions, estab­lish priorities and lay the foun­dation for necessary change." 
"Getting It Right," pub-
consultant for 10 years with McKinsey & Co., as well as Conlon's 30 years as a scholar and professor at the University. 
"From the scores of presenta­tions made by executives in my classes, I have learned that li key litmus test for leaders is how they handle the truly tough problems pro­duced by uncer­
lished this tain and highly
"Without a system of
month by competitive busi­
Jossey-Bass, values, a leader ness environ­departs from cannot even ments," Conlon much of the said. "Our book
determine whether 
recent litera­captures and 
ture on leader­there is a problem, let illustrates many 
ship, which alone begin down the of the tactics that often focuses produced happy
path ofpreparing a 
on a leader's endings to these
solution.,,
personality. stories." The book Each chapter instead pres­introduces and
Viva Bartkus 
ents real-life explores a theme
management professor 
case studies that demon­strate how problem solving is an essential yet often overlooked leadership quality. Further, Bartkus and Conlon provide a framework for solving compli­cated business problems utiliz­ing management principles taught at Notre Dame. The problem-solving framework shows how to find solutions by examining the problem's symp­toms, move from analysis to action, and drive the solution through the organization. 
The authors spent four years working on "Getting It Right." It is based on Bartkus' work as a 
of the problem-

solving frame­work from the real cases. When these themes are practiced dili­gently, Conlon and Bartkus say the framework helps the reader develop habits of mind and the confidence to discover solutions that are both good and good enough, to where more analysis is not likely to yield a greater impact. The chapters conclude with essays by notable people in business and academia ­including Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president emeritus of Notre Dame -who reflect on the thorny problems they weren't able to solve. 



Aaron J. Michka, C.S.C. 
Join ~Ls as our brothers in Holy Cross celebrate tl1eir profession of perpetual vows and consecrate their lives to Christ forever. 
Saturday, August 30, 2008 2:00p.m.vocation. nd. edu Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, August 28, 2008 
The cornerstone of the Basilica was laid in 1871, Marsh 

Basilica 
said. and the first Eucharist was continued from page 1 celebrated there in 1875. 
Zack said some people have projoet, Zaek and Marsh both commented to him about the said. No services at the Basilica appearance of' the Basilica. 
havn  boon  "I think they are  
in to rru pted  intrigued  by  it,  
as a result of' the con­struction. Zack said.  "People obviously know that we need to reinvest in all ofour  because there is so much of it there," he said. "It surrounds the whole steeple."  
T h Basilica underwent a major intnri­or restora­tion about  facilities, especially our most cherished ones, and our most aged ones"  Sophomore John Ahearn said it was "unf'ortunate" that parents of f'reshmen and returning stu­dents had to see the  
20 years ago. Marsh said. and at  Doug Marsh associate vice president  Basilica surrounded in scaffolding on their arrival or  
that  timn.  and University architect  return  to  campus.  
sonw  rPpair  But  he  said.  "if it  
work  was  makes it saf'er, all the  

done on thP outsidl' of' the build­better." ing, but not to tlw extPnt that According to the Basilica's renovations arP taking pla<~e Web site. the distance to the top now. of' the ITOSS on the bell townr is 
Marsh said hP has not lward 230 font, which makes the top much f'eedback about tho tem­tip of the cross the highest point porarily altered appearance or on campus. The Web site the Basilica. reports that the Basilica 
"l'eopln obviously know that receives 50,000 visitors each we need to minvnst in all of' our year. f'adlities. especially our most Scaf'f'olding surrounded the cherislwd ones, and our most Golden Dome of the Main aged mws," he said. Building in 2005, during a re-


gilding process that installed a you am working very high up in according to plan and on sched­new layer or 28.9 karat gold the air," he said. "And workers ule." leaf. Marsh said the Dome reno­are taking tools up by hand. It's vation was a larger project. all very labor intensive work. Contact Kaitlynn Riely at 
"Both are challenging because But both have gone well and kriely@nd.edu 

Rectors 
continued from page 1 
Eckert has a long history at Notre Damn. lin graduatnd in 1995 from thn University with a bachelor's degree in both eco­nomies and Spanish. For three 
years, Eckert was rector of St. Edward ·s II all as well as tlw dirnctor of' Latino Student Ministry in Campus Ministry and thn associate director of the Office of Vocations for thn Congregation of lloly Cross. 
Eckert lef't those positions to con­centrate on his graduate studies, 
"''m one ofthe few who grew up in Las Vegas and became a priest." 
Father Daniel Nolan Keenan Hall 
and last spring earned a mas­ter's degree in Iberian and Latin American Literatures at the University. 
Eckert has traveled to Peru and Chile f'or mission work, and served as a deacon at St. John Vianney Parish in Goodyear, Arizona. 
"I am the youngest (Jf 14 chil­dren," Eckert said, "which was good 
"I remember all the hours hanging out with my snetion matns, playing 1:ards, watching TV, just build­ing our community bond," he said. 
Sister Mary Domwlly began her tenure this year as rector of' Pangborn IIall. 
"I am so nxdted to be here," she said. 
Domwlly, like Eckert, is also from a big family. She is the second oldest of s1wnn childrnn. Don rw II y a tln n de d A q u in as College in Grand Hapids, Mich., but Notre Dame is in her f'amily -she has an older brother who graduated from Notre Dame in 1975. 
''I'm looking forward to inter­acting with and influencing the women of Pangborn," Donnelly said. "And they will influence me as well. It's a mutual learn­ing experience." 
Sophie Henrichs, rector of Pasquerilla West, earned a masters in theological studies f'rom Notre Dame. For her 
brothers held," Henrichs said. 


Frosh-0 
continued from page 1 
said. They cut the number of multi.dorm activities in order to have the freshmen get to know the other students in their dorm. she said. 
"I think the whole process ran ­
undergradu­ate education, llenrichs attended St. Mary's University in San Antonio, Texas. 
"I loved the make-your­own pizza nights and pajama mass­es that the Marianist priests and 

really smoothly," Kellogg said. 
In addition to increasing dorm activities, SCOC made several other changes as well, Rumer said. 
"This year there was time built into the schedule for the students to have free time to be with their family and run to Target," she said. The eommittee decided the students needed more down time, so they didn't plan activities extremely early or extremely late like they have in the past, she said. 
Kellogg said she has heard 

Reekers 
continued from page 1 
Reekers' new menu, which launched Aug. 12. 
Mike Miller, the operations manager for the 24-hour earn­pus restaurant Heckers, said 
the major goal of Notre Dame 
preparation for "/ am the youngest of smoothly for the 

Food Services (NDFS) in adopt­
livin~. in a 14 children. which new rector of 

ing the new menu is to provide
dorm. Keenan II all, 

fresh food for students. 
was good preparation 
Eckert also Father Daniel 

Through surveys conducted
for living in a dorm."
brings to the job Nolan. 

on campus and through
memories of "I love it here," 

employee responses, the menu 
undergraduate Father Tom Eckert Nolan said. "I 

at the popular late-night
lifo at Notre feel like I died 

restaurant now contains a vari­
rector 
Damn. and went to 

ety of' the piadina sandwiches,
Duncan Hall 
"The same things that people enjoy at Notre Dame are what I carried with me from my col­lege experience." 
llenrichs said she's liked her time as a Notre Dame rector so far. 
''I'm really pleased with how things have gone," she said. 
Assuming the 
position of rector 
has gone 
Heaven." 
Nolan is a 
native of Las Vegas and has an older sister and younger brother. 
''I'm one or the few who grew up in Las Vegas and became a priest," Nolan joked. 
Bef'ore coming to Notr<~ Dame, Nolan was a teacher. 
"I taught at the St. Viator's Clerics' school in Las Vegas," Nolan said. "I used to get tick­ets to Notre Dame games against USC and Stanford, so that was my contact with Notre Dame for a long time." 
Contact Tess Civantos at 
tcivanto@nd.edu 

which are made with locally­sourced dough that is folded over and filled with f'resh ingre­dients. 
Miller described the new sandwiches as being similar to a panini sandwich, though a piadina is not pressed. 
Fl"'nshman Lisa Vavricka seemed pleased with her Heckers experience. She waited on line to order a Genovese piadina, a sandwich she has tried before and which she described as "a healthier option." 
"And it's really tasty," she said. Students who fear that favorites like the Buffalo chick­
complaint.•; about students being too tired after Frosh-0. 
· "This year they toned it down a little so that freshman would have time to unpack and see their fam­ilies," she said. 
SCOC also tried to plan activi­ties that involved less athletic skill than in the past, Mrowka said. 
"This was for the students who 
aren't particularly athletic," she 
said. 
Breen-Phillips Hall freshman A'ihley Ulrich said Frosh-0 went really well for her. 
"I met a lot of people and we had a lot of phone number trans­fers going on," she said. Ulrich also said she enjoyed the amount of free time given to the fresh­man. 
"I heard that last year everyone went from thing to thing to thing," she said. "This year we had breaks to set up the room and unpack." 
Freshman Caroline Walsh of 
Howard llall also said she 
enjoyed Frosh-0, but she would 
have liked to socialize more with 
other dorms. 
"It seemed like we did a lot of 
stuff with our dorms which was 
fun, but I wish we could have 
branched out a little and met with 
other donns," she said. 
Brnen-Phillips Hall freshman Victoria lladlock also wished she eould have socialized with other dorms. 
"At times it wa.•; a little boring because we didn't do anything with the guy's dorms until after our parents left," she said. 
SCOC saw this orientation as a test year, co-eommissioners Humor and Mrowka said. 
"[The changes] worked well, but it's a matter of personal pref­erence which style you prefer," Humer said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

en sandwich and pizza -two of the restaurant's biggest sell­ers-won't be featured on the new menu have nothing to worry about, Miller said. Many familiar items still remain, and the smoothie menu is the same. 
"People who have had expe­rience with the menu wanted something new," Miller said. 
He said the chef, Don Miller, who is of no relation, wanted to create a menu with "a taste profile with a lot of unique variations." 
"You have the sweet and salty of prosciutto instead of regular ham. The pancetta is cured and goes beyond the little nuances of regular bacon," Miller said. 
These changes, he said, make· Heckers menu, with its domi­nant Italian and Mediterranean influence, unique on campus. Fresh ingredients include basil, shaved parmesan and fresh mozzarella cheese. 
"We're the only people on campus with those kinds of' ingredients," Miller said. 
The new menu contains a list of ingredients that are avail­able a la carte that can be added to a sandwich or as top­pings on pizza, which allows students to create their own combinations. 
"It's the beginning of thn school year, but I think it's been well-received so far," Miller 
said. "Though, some people 
miss the meatball sub." 
The focus on organic and 
locally-grown and produced 
ingredients is part of NDFS' 
goal in continuing to focus on 
sustainability. Though he 
couldn't say if' the menu con­
tains overall healthier choices 
than the old menu, Miller 
emphasized the f'reshness of 
the ingredients. 
"There's so much fresh pro­
duce and not so much focus on 
the spreads and sauces," he 
said. 
On Tuesday, the first day of 
dasses, Heckers resumed being 
open 24 hours a day for the 
academic year. Not all mlmu 
items arc always ol'fernd, how­
ever, which is something Miller 
hopes will change. 
Breakfast, f'or example, is currently only availabln from 6 -10 a.m. Those hours will be expanded, and breakf'ast foods will be available to order start­ing at 2 a.m., so that late-night visitors to Beckers have more options "than just pizza and shakes," Miller said. 
lie was unsure of exactly when those changes would go into eff'ect, but eited thn first football weekend as a possible date. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 


ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, August 28, 2008 CoMrrtro FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Business booming in Iraqi city 
NAJAF -The city's first airport is weeks away from opening, but already a bigger one is talked about. Land price~ are soaring. Merchants say they don't remember business ever being so good. 
Four years ago, Najaf was an urban battle­field with American troops fighting Shiite militiamen loyal to cleric Muqtada al-Sadr. Today, the Shiite holy city is a hot spot of a different kind thanks to improved security, a free-for-all market eeonomy -and a direct pipeline to the Shiite-led government. 
The boomtown buzz in Najaf is more remarkable for its limited company. It's matched only in the northern cities of Sulaimaniyah and lrbil in the self-ruled Kurdish region in northern Iraq, which has been mostly a bystander in the war. 
Combat flares along tribal belt 
ISlAMABAD -Pakistani troops drove off a Taliban attack on a fort and pounded another band of militanl'i holed up in a health eenter, offi­cials said Wednesday as fighting spread to a third aroa of the tribal belt along the Afghan border. 
A'i many ac:; 49 insurgents wem reported killed. 
The violence came a week after the threat of impeachment forced longtime U.S. ally Pervez Musharraf to resign as president, triggering a scramble for power that resulted in the collapse of Pakistan's governing coalition. 
The party led by f(wmer Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto until her assassination last December is now in a position to dominate the government and it is toughening il'i stance against Islamic extremists at a time when they are becoming increasingly bold. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Storm Gustav may cause evacuation 
NEW ORLEANS -On the eve of Hurricane Katrina's third anniversary, a nervous New Orleans watched Wednesday as another storm threatened to test everything the city has rebuilt, and officials made preliminary plans to evaeuate people, pets and hospitals in an attempt to avoid a Katrina-style chaos. 
Forecasters warned that Gustav could grow into a dangerous Category 3 hurricane in the next several days and hit somewhere along a swath of the Gulf Coast from the Florida Panhandle to Texas -with New Orleans smack in the middle. 
Patrol struggles to keep new officers 
IMPEHIAL BEACH, Calif. -Law enforcement ollicers wanted: must work graveyard shifts alone in remote towns along the Mexican bor­der. put in long hours and perform well in triple­digit temperatures. 
That message is never touted in U.S. Border Patrol recruitment brochures, but the sobering nmlity of working on the border ha'i created an environment in which about 30 percent of agnnl'i leave their jobs in less than 18 months. 
"This has complications up and down the line," said Ilichard Stana, director of homeland security issues at the Government Accountability Oflice. "You're constantly in a recruiting mode ... If this population keeps churning, you're con­stantly training." 
LOCAL NEWS 
Gunshot kills man in police shooting 
OSCEOLA, Ind. -An autopsy found that a gunshot wound to the chest killed an Osceola man who authorities say died while trying to flee an off-duty police officer. 
Eugene Nusbaum. 43. was found dead in his pickup truck late Monday after it struck a tree about a quarter mile from where a Mishawaka police detective confronted him in a used ear lot, said Catherine Wilson, a St. Joseph County prosecutor's offiee spokeswoman. 
Biden accepts VP nomination 
Senator says nation needs 'more than agood soldier;' Obarna joins running nu1te on stage 
Associated Press 

DENVER -Joe Eiden accepted the Democratic vice presidential nomination Wednesday night and declared that the challenges America faees require "more than a good soldier" in the White House, hailing Barack Obama as a wise leader who can deliver the change the nation needs. 
In a single sentence, Obama's new running mate complimented John McCain's years of military service and slapped his claim on the White I louse. 
As Biden concluded his speech accepting the nomi­nation, Obama stepped on stage and embraced his man to a convention roar. 
"I want everybody to now understand why I am so proud to have Joe Biden ... and the whole Eiden fami­ly," Obama told the boister­ous crowd. "I think he's pre­sented himself pretty well so far, what do you think?" More cheers. 
In his speech, Biden also sniped at Vice President Diek Cheney, saying that after he takes over the job, for Americans trying to do the right thing and honor the Constitution, "no longer will the eight most dreaded words in the English lan­guage be 'The vice presi­dent's office is on the Eiden was unanimously in Georgia, Iraq, Pakistan after he managed only 1 phone."' chosen to be his running and Afghanistan, and I can percent of the vote in Iowa's 
Eiden said the bedrock mate. tell you in no uncertain opening caucuses. Ameriean promise of a bet­He called Republican terms: This administration's Eiden said that in debat­ter tomorrow is in jeopardy McCain a Senate friend of policy has been an abject ing Obama, watching him "but John McCain doesn't three decades, but the failure." react under pressure, he get it." wrong man for the White Eiden said McCain wants learned about the strength 
"I know it, you know it ... House. "I profoundly dis­to keep it going on the same of the Democratic presiden­Barack Obama gets it," he agree with the direction course. tial candidate's mind and said. that John wants to take the "America cannot afford his ability to touch and 
"This is the time as country," he said. four more years of this," inspire people. Americans, together, we get At one point, misspeak­Biden said. " ... Again and "And I realized he has back up," he said. " ... ing, he started a sentence again, on the most impor­tapped into the oldest These are extraordinary by referring to George -as tant national security issues American belief of all: We times. This is an extraordi­in President Bush -and of our time, John McCain don't have to accept a situa­nary election. The then corrected himself to was wrong and Barack tion we cannot bear. We American people are ready. say John -as in McCain. A Obama was proven right." have the power to change Barack Obama is ready. Freudian slip, he quipped. It The 65-year-old Delaware it," Eiden said in excerpts of This is his time. This is our is a connection Democrats senator told the convention his prepared remarks. time. This is America's are bent on making at every he'd learned a lot about Biden, ehairman of the time." opportunity. Obama by campaigning Senate Foreign Relations 
Hours after the Biden went hard against against him for the party's Committee, said that "our Democratic National McCain and the presidential nomination. country is less secure and Convention nominated Republicans on foreign poli­Eiden was an early dropout more isolated than at any Obama by acclamation, cy. "I've been on the ground in that campaign, quitting time in recent history." 

GEORGIA 

Leaders call Russia to 'change course' 
ratist enclaves that were the flashpoint said his nation was "not afraid of any­
Associated Press 

for the five-day war between the two thing, including the .prospect of a Cold 
TBILISI -Western leaders warned nations earlier this month. War." For the two superpowers of the Russia on Wednesday to "change The tensions have spread to the Black first Cold War, the United States and course," hoping to keep a conllict that Sea, which Russia shares unhappily Russia, repercussions from this new already threatens a key nuclear pact with three nations that belong to NATO conflict could be widespread. and could even raise U.S. chicken prices and two others that desperately want to, Russia's agriculture minister said from blossoming into a new Cold War. Ukraine and Georgia. Some Ukrainians Moscow could cut poultry and pork 
Moscow said it was NATO expansion fear Moscow might set il<> sights on their import quotas by hundreds of thousands and Western support for Georgia that nation next. of tons, hitting American producers was causing the new East-West divi­In moves evocative of Cold War cat­hard and thereby raising prices for sions, and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin and-mouse games, a U.S. military ship American shoppers. lashed out at the United States for using carrying humanitarian aid docked at a Russians sometimes refer to American military ships to deliver humanitarian southern Georgian port, and Russia sent poultry imports as "Bush's legs," a refer­aid to Georgia. a missile cruiser and two other ships to ence to the frozen chicken shipped to 
Meanwhile, Georgia slashed its a port farther north in a show of force. Russia amid economic troubles follow­embassy staff in Moscow to protest The maneuvering came a day after ing the 1991 Soviet collapse, during Russia's recognition of the two sepa-Russian President Dmitry Medvedev had George H.W. Bush's presidency. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, August 28, 2008 
W. Iraq needs fewer troops 
United States to yield responsibilityfor Sunni stronghold within days 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Conditions in the western Iraqi province of Anbar. where a brutal insurgency once ruled, have improved so dramatically that the United States is handing over responsibility for securi­ty in the Sunni stronghold to Iraq within days. Troops freed up in Iraq could shift to Afghan is tan. 
"There arnn't a whole heck of a lot of bad guys there lel't to fight." Gen. James T. Conway, the top Marine Corps general, said Wednesday. 
A ceremony marking the Anbar turnover is expected to he held Monday, several U.S. and Iraqi officials said. Each spoke 011 condition of anonymity because the Iraqi government has not yet announced it. Anbar would be the I Oth of Iraq's 18 provinces to be returned to Iraqi governnwnt control, a step toward phasing out the American combat role as Iraqi security forces grow morn competent. 
The dnvelopmm1ts in Anbar have additional resonance becausn the province once was synonymous with the worst violenc1~ and lawless­ness unleashed in Iraq follow­ing the U.S.-led invasion in 2003. . 
The turnaround in Anbar is all the more dramatic for what it might mean for Afghanistan, the fight that has in some ways supplanted Iraq as a front-line battleground. The diverging trends make it likely that a U.S. buildup in Afghanistan will follow a drawdown in Iraq. 
Conway said he learned on a visit to Anbar this summer that violence remains low and the 25,000 Marines there are doing more rebuilding than fighting. 
"Quite frankly, young Marines join our Corps to go fight for their country," Conway said. "They are doing a very good job of this nation­building business (in Iraq). But it's our view that if there is a stiffer !'ight going some­place else ... then that's where Wll need to be." 
That place might be Afghanistan, he said. 
Speaking at a Pentagon news conference, Conway said the top Amnriean commander in Anbar, Marine Maj. Gen. John Kelly, believes fewer U.S. fon~es are needed to keep the peace. lie said Kelly has pro-
ELECTION 2008 

Rotnney rainps up his attacks against Obama 
A..sociatcd Press 
I>ENVEH -Mitt Homnny. playing Hnpublican pit hull on the pnriplwry of the Democratic National Conv1~ntion, charged Ttwsday that a Bamek Obama presidency would "make America a weakPr nation." 
The United States under an 
Obama administration would 
sen "less prosperity, and less 
sentrity," said Homney, in what 
could have bnnn an II th-hour 
audition to join Sen. John 
MeCain's tickd. 
The fornwr Massaehusetts governor lnd a Hnpublican dele­gation to the convention city to rain on Obama's parade. Obarna, though, wasn't even there; he'd decided earlier to nwthod ically wend his way here. making campaign appnar­anens along tlw way. 
llolding a news conference on the fringe of thn ~~onvention arena, Homney cited Obama votns on taxes and proposals for government spending. And he took not11 of the Illinois sena­tor's comment earlier this year in debate that he would negoti­ate with leaders of rogue nations. 
Summing up his pitch, Homney questioned the Democrat's judgment, saying: "Barack Obama is a charming and fine person with a lovely family but he's not ready to be presicllmt." 
McCain's campaign dis­patched Homney, who is lwlinved to be a top contender for tho vice presidential spot on the ticket, spedlieally to assail Obama. Another Hnpubliean said to bn in serious contnntion for thn No. 2 slot. Minnesota 

Gov. Tim Pawlenty, was sched­
uled  to  play  attack dog  in  
I>envnr on Thursday.  
Thn  Arizona  senator  is  

nxpneted to name his vice presi­dential pick in the coming days, maybe even while Obama is holding court in Denver. Rallies in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Michigan, perhaps involving the complete GOP ticket, are planrwd for the run-up to the GOP convention that starts Monday in St. Paul, Minn. 
For now at least, McCain's campaign is mum on the delib­erations. Uncharacteristically, so, too, is the candidate himself. 
And, McCain's prospective candidates are dodging ques­tions about the process to avoid violating McCain's demand for secrecy around his search. But the appearances by Homney and Pawlenty in Denver are certain to stoke speculation and invite questions. 
"I don't have anything to tell you about Senator McCain's vice presidential selection process," Homney said repeat­edly when asked about his prospects on Tuesday. 
Likely by design so top McCain aides could gauge their efl'ectiveness, both Homney and Pawlenty have emerged as top surrogates for McCain over the past few months as he has weighed his choice. 
Homney, a former McCain rival. would bring economic credentials and a battle-honed pitch from the rough-and-tum­ble GOP primary to the team, while Pawlenty, a longtime McCain ally, would bring a solid conservative resume and blue­collar roots. 
But both men also present drawbacks for the GOP ticket. 

posed cutbacks to his superi­ors, but Conway declined to give specifics, saying only that the current number of Marines there is excessive. 
The remarks by Conway, who is responsible for Marines' recruiting, training and equipping but not their use in combat, are an addi­tional sign of the likelihood that Gen. David Petraeus, the top U.S. commander in Iraq, will recommend soon that troop withdrawals resume this fall. Petraeus has been assessing the overall seeurity situation in light of the with­drawal of five Army combat brigades earlier this year. 
There now are about 146,000 U.S. troops in Iraq and 33,000 in Afghanistan, according to Pentagon fig­ures. 
The Petraeus recommenda­tion, which is expected to be accepted by President Bush, is important not only for its implications in Iraq and for its potential impact on the presi­dential contenders' debate over Iraq but also for its con­nection to what U.S. com­manders call an urgent need for more troops in Afghanistan -perhaps as many as 10,000 more. 
knock on people's doors to tell them about the Pep Hally.
BOG 
In other BOG News:

continued from page 1 
+ Saint Mary's activities night is a! SMC-tee after it was unveiled tonight from 6-8 p.m. last week. + The student government 
Public Helations commissioner office is still open from 8-10 p.m. Katie Danko during the week to designed the broadcast the
"We're undefeated at 
SMC-tee, Democratic National which is this rally. Notre Dame Convention and next week to show the
being sold in is undefeated so it's 
the Student Hepublican National
really going to be
Government Convention. Office for $5. special." "So far we've only BOG hopes had one non-BOG students will person show up, but
Mickey Gruscinskl 
wear it on who knows if that
Saint Mary's student
Sept. 5 when will change,"
body president 
Saint Mary's Grusdnski said. 
+ The Twilight Tailgate is Thursday, Sept. 4 on Library Green. Dinner will bn served from 4:30-7 p.m. and the movie "Made of llonor" will be shown at 9 p.m. Caramel apples, cotton candy and popcorn will be served during the movie, said Student Activities Board coordi­nator Miehelle Peterson. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


co-hosts the first pep-rally of the year with Knott Hall, Siegfried Hall, and both Pasquerilla East and Pasquerilla West llalls. 
"We're going to spread the news of the pep rally by word of mouth," Gruscinski said. "We're undefeated at this rally. Notre Dame is undefeated so it's rnally going to be special." 
BOG members will be walking around the dorms next week to 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Thursday, August 28, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 11,502.51 +89.64
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,424 92 735 3,503,797,580 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.97 FREDDIE MAC (FRE) +19.65 FANNIE MAE (FNM) +15.30 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.65 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.32 13-WEEK BILL -2.09 30-YEAR BOND -0.27 5-YEAR NOTE -0.72 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) 
PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 
EURO 
CANADIAN DOLLAR 
BRITISH POUND +1.24 +0.78 +0.86 +0.30 
-0.012 -0.035 -0.012 -0.022 
+1.88 +5.90 -2.98 
128.63 4.75 6.48 
46.73 
3.772 1.640 4.383 3.026 
118.15 834.00 91.05 
109.4950 0.6776 1.0460 0.5452 

IN BRIEF 
U.S. thrifts suffer record losses 
WASHINGTON -Federal regulators say 
U.S. thrifts lost $5.4 billion in the second quarter and set aside a record amount to cover losses from bad mortgages and other loans. 
Data from the U.S. Office of Thrift Supervision show federally-insured savings and loan institutions posted their second­largest quarterly loss ever in the April-June period, after the $8.8 billion loss in the fourth quarter of last year. Heavily focused on mortgage lending, thrifts have been stung by mounting home-loan defaults. 
The $5.4 billion quarterly loss compared with net profits of $3.8 billion in the year­ago period, and a loss of $627 million in the first quarter. 
Russia may cut poultry, pork imports 
MOSCOW -Russia could cut poultry and pork import quotas by hundreds of thou­sands of tons, the country's agriculture minister said Wednesday. The move could hit American producers hard and comes amid heightened tensions between Moscow and Washington over the war in ex-Soviet Georgia. 
"It is time to change the quota regime and reduce imports, which have unfortu­nately built up in recent years," Alexei Gordeyev told reporters, according to the ITAR-Tass news agency. 
He said domestic producers could make up the shortfall if imports were reduced. 
Any substantial cuts would likely have a significant impact on U.S. poultry produc­ers, for whom Russia is the biggest mar­ket. Russians sometimes refer to U.S. poul­try imports as "Bush's legs," a reference to the frozen chicken shipped to Russia amid economic troubles following the 1991 Soviet collapse, when the current U.S. president's father was in office. 
Mich. incomes fall, poverty rises 
Data points to auto industry's downward plunge in state's declining economy 
Associated Press 

TRAVERSE CITY Government data painted a bleak economic picture for Michigan, where the auto industry's downward plunge has rippled across the state. 
Michigan was the only state where poverty rose last year, as well as the only one where incomes fell, according to U.S. Census Bureau statistics released Tuesday that illustrate the uniqueness of the state's economic swoon. 
"It's really a depressing picture," said Amy Rynell, director of the Heartland Alliance Mid-America Institute on Poverty, an advocacy group based in Chicago. 
Michigan's poverty rate was 14 percent, up from 
13.5 percent in 2006 and more than a full percentage point above the national rate, which was virtually unchanged during the same period. The state's rate has grown steadily since 2000, when it was just above 10 percent. The number of people in poverty increased by 45,000 during 2006-07. 
The 2007 median income in Michigan was $47,950, down 1.2 percent or $596 from the 2006 median of $48,546. The state's nation­wide ranking slid from 24th this year boosted tax incen­from 6 percent in 2006 to people. Both had rates of to 27th. tives for businesses adding 6.5 percent last year. Eight 35.5 percent. 
Nationwide, the median jobs. years ago, the rate was 4.8 "We know that many peo­household income rose to Last week, Granholm percent. ple are struggling harder $50,233, a modest increase announced 20 new busi­"We know that people and harder just to get by, of $665 from the previous ness expansions or reloca­with incomes that low are and more vulnerable people year, although it was the tions expected to bring living in unsafe conditions," are turning to public servic­third consecutive annual $658 million in new invest­Rynell said. "Children prob­es for help," said Sharon rise. While-the overall ment to the state. ably are not getting enough Parks, president and CEO of poverty rate held steady at Whether such improve­healthy food to eat. People the Michigan League for 
12.5 percent, Latinos, chil­ments will be enough to off­may be living in shelters. Human Services. "This dren and the foreign-born set continued gloomy news Seniors are likely skipping reinforces the need to -demographic categories from the automotive sector dosages of medication to strengthen our strained that overlap considerably remains to be seen. But the make ends meet." safety net, and policymak­-experienced significant 2007 statistics, reported in The child poverty rate ers must pay attention to increases. the Census Bureau's annual increased from 17.8 per­these startling figures." 
Michigan Gov. Jennifer American Community cent to 19 percent between In another report Granholm has emphasized Survey, offer little reason 2006-07, while the national released Tuesday, the diversifying the state's for optimism. rate stood at 17.6 percent. Census Bureau said 11 per­economy, promoting growth They also showed Detroit's poverty rate of cent of Miehigan residents of industries such as Michigan's rate of "extreme 33.8 percent was highest had no health insurance defense contracting, alter­poverty" -a yearly income among cities of 250,000 or coverage in 2007 -up native energy and film pro­of less than half the poverty more, while Kalamazoo and from 10.4 percent in 2006 duction. The Democratic threshold, or $10,325 for a Flint tied for fifth among and 9.1 percent at the governor and lawmakers family of four -jumped cities of 65,000 to 249,999 beginning of the decade. 

Gains reported on durable goods 
The July increase matched a 1.3 to benefit from a boom in exports
Associated Press 

percent rise in June, which was due mainly to the decline in the 
WASHINGTON -U.S. factories revised up from an earlier reading value of the dollar earlier this year. saw a surprisingly hefty increase in of 0.8 percent. The matching gains "These upbeat capital goods num­their orders for big-ticket products were the strongest since orders for bers amid a downtrodden U.S. con­in July, reflecting continued durable goods, items expected to sumer sector indicates how helpful strength in export sales and a boost last at least three years, jumped by a weak dollar is in the current to business investment from the 4.1 percent in December. cycle," said Daniel J. Meckstroth, government's tax stimulus package. Wall Street investors were chief economis1t for the 
Economists, however, remain encouraged by the better-than­Manufacturers Alliance/MAP!, an worried that spreading economic expected gain in durable goods industry trade group. weakness overseas and a rebound orders. The Dow Jones industrial But some eeonomists expressed in the value of the dollar could spell average rose 89.64 points to close concerns over how mueh longer the an end to the export boom later this at 11,502.51. export boom can las1t, given spread­year. A huge rebound in orders for ing economic weakness in Europe, 
The Commerce Department said commercial aircraft, which had fall­Japan and other major overseas Wednesday that orders for durable en sharply in June, led last month's markets. They noted that the dollar, goods rose 1.3 percent last month, strength. But even outside the which had been on a. long slide, has far above the slight 0.1 percent volatile aircraft category, there was come off its recent lows, which increase Wall Street had been widespread growth, indicating that could translate into less of a price expecting. American companies are continuing advantage for U.S. exporters. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, August 28, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

The state of the (viewpoint) union 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT ElliTOR: Kara King 
SroRTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink SeEN!\ EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGI\R: Maddie Boyer 
AD 01\SIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROllER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 63I-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING• 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.I@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either insrirution. The Observer reserves the right 10 refuse advertisements based on mnrent. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. ( :ommentarics, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not nt-ct-ssarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vie-wpoint space is available to all readers. The free t·xpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom 17garding Obsm;er policitsshould bt dirrcttd to t'ditor in ChiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
·n.c otw~rr {tJSI•s 'i')lJ l-40011) II puhhlllw:d Munday rhwugh FriJ;~y Cl«.:qlt clurmg n.un and v.._~111111 ~~rind•. A sul-..np!UIII w'll•c O!Hervcr i1 $100 fur nne: ;ILa&.lcmic yc.u; $~' f1,t nne tcmc:ster 
T11c <lblcrver u. publiJihW. .a•· I'OSTMASTER 1)2" Snuth Dining llall Scud .adJrc.s:s ootrcctiun~ to; Nu~rc O.mt. IN 46'lS6-0niJ Th.cOb~rwr l't!ri,xlkal pll$1~~<: paid .u Not~ D.uuc: r.o Boxn9 ~11d ~ddilionJI ru.1ilinK nffico. Obi Souch Dininj;H.i.ll 
Nunc: Dnrnc, IN 4M56·0n9 
The <>Nr~r ''" mcm~r ol •hr A..oc:wt"d r~. All r~mdt~~..rmn nif)m ;~rc rc:Krvcd, 

All right everybody. As this is the beginning of another fantastic, and hopefully fantastically controversial, new year in Viewpoint, I thought it might be beneficial to talk about the 
state of the Viewpoint section. I do this only to throw fodder into the fire and get an early start on the year. 
Of course, most of these topics have 


been trampled on pretty seriously in  Jason Coleman  
the past, but here  
at Notre Dame they always seem open  Man at Large  

to new and passionate discussion. This 
also serves to warn the freshmen and prep them for the serious debates splayed across these pages. 
Let's start with the obvious elephant in the room: the Vagina Monologues. Since this Eve Ensler production was first put on by Notre Dame students a few years ago, it has managed to play on campus, then get kicked off campus, then get back on campus. And we have heard about it all in hundreds of let­ters. It has drawn criticism from Archbishops, alumni and students on both sides of the issue; last year the convention of bishops was moved from Notre Dame because of it. There has been no lack of controversy. However, from those emphasizing the play's importance in sexual abuse awareness to those writing it off as sexually promiscuous trash, the letters have never ceased to amuse the other 95 percent of the student body who remained fairly uninterested in the whole thing. Not to make light of the subject, it just seemed that no common ground was ever found between writ­ers, and, to be honest, I predict yet another rehash early next spring. 
Let's move on to a similar set of gen­der issues, the ones involving Notre Dame's friendly neighbors to the West, St. Mary's. Generally, this debate is pretty formulaic. It begins when one of The Observer comic strips takes some exaggerated and stereotypical jab at the St. Mary's student body. These claims are usually one of two tasty fla­vors. The first, of course, is that they are some seriously promiscuous girls. The second, that they can't add two and two together (or that a St. Mary's lit final is based on a combination of Dr. Seuss and Beverly Cleary novels). I expect these to be slightly less heated this year, with only one comic strip, rather than three, to spark these let­ters. These debates are generally sort of boring anyways. The first letter lam­bastes the comic strip for the dig; the responses are usually just to "lighten up". Snore. Besides, we all know what the difference between your sister and the St. Mary's shuttle is. 
Continuing, we come across (sur­prise, surprise) another gender issue at Notre Dame. This one involves our beloved Victory March and the fact that it only mentions loyal sons, leaving out our loyal daughters. This one is usually thrown out there by female alums or parents who feel offended that the boys are getting all of the love. Not to sound sexist, but I want to put an end to this one right now. First, the song was writ­ten before girls were even admitted to this school, so its not as if they were deliberately shafted out of the song. Secondly, have you ever tried to add "loyal sons and daughters" into the fight song. The timing is completely off and the entire song suffers for it. If we change it now, "Hail to the Victors" has already won. 
These issues have been the meat of the Viewpoint section over the last cou­ple of years; however, they have never been the most interesting. If you want your letter to make it to the paper, you only have to make it controversial enough to draw fire. At this school, 
that isn't too diflicult. 
Last year, there was the kid who sug­gested parietals were already too late and should be moved down to 10 p.m. You can imagine the backlash. Business majors who never had thought of putting down their Natty to pen a Letter to the Editor were polish­ing off their long forgotten skills to unleash a deluge of criticism on this guy. His complete insensitivity to the rest of the male population's hopes and dreams of making a successful play on a girl was appalling. The suggestion did, however, result in a few days of pretty funny discussion. 
However, while these letters are amusing and some of the debates (still) controversial, I want urge the student body to take the great opportunity this year provides (there is an election, if you haven't heard) and write a couple of thoughtful, evidenced and well con­structed letters on the major issues out there: health care, the federal deficit, off shore drilling, the merits-of experi­ence vs. youth, etc. 
While this trek down memory lane was fun for some, and probably brought up old arguments for others, it should stay at that. These discussions have been had and the arguments have been made. As to the damage done, I'm not sure anybody new is going to be convinced at this point, so it would be better for us, as a student body, to move on to newer, fresher and perhaps more challenging and nuanced issues. I hope to do the same in my future columns. And of course, I will always accept e-mails from readers who dis­agree. 
Jason Coleman is a junior majoring in management. He can be contacted at coleman. 70@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports QUOTE OF THE DAY Kaitlynn Hiely Fran Tolan Becky Hogan Laura Myers Graphics Marie Bugnitz Blair Chemidlin Scene 

"Don't try to solve serious matters in Viewpoint Analise Lipari the middle of the night." Kara King 
Philip K. Dick 
U.S. author 
~---------­
-~-----­

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, August 28, 2008 page 9 
Dis-orientation daze 
As an 8th-grader at St. Pius X Elementary, I possessed all the absurd bravado of a member of the oldest class in the school. Bragging -about parents' occupation, purported 
wealth, girlfriends  
-was the curren- Fr. Lou Delfra  
cy of the 8th-grade  
corner of the  
recess yard.  Faithpoint  
Though, of course,  
being 8th graders,  

we weren't relegated to a corner, we chose to be there. We could go wher­ever we darn well liked -unless Sr. Clare said otherwise, though we also (quietly) bragged that our elder status made even Sr. Clare tentative to call us out. Like I said, it was an absurd bravado. 
Starting around October, the recess­yard smack talk was predictably inter­jected with one-upsmanship about where we would attend high school. It was cool to be going to Cardinal O'Hara, but totally out to go to Monsignor Bonner. But nowhere was cooler than Malvern Prep -you even had to take a test to get in there. (Why this made it cool is no longer apparent to me). Mid-October, my best friend Terry Redican and I made it widely known at recess that we would not be at school tomorrow, as we would be visiting Malvern. 
That morning, I strutted out of my bedroom. I strutted out the front door. I strutted down the driveway to the bus stop. I had the grades, I had the extracurriculars, I had the faith -I was on the high school bus to visit Malvern. I was too darn cool. 
Then the bus dropped us off at Malvern. The football team, ranked No.1 in the city, had a before-school practice and the offensive line almost ran me over as they herded by the bus stop. Their cleats on the driveway sounded like the Orcs marching on Gondor, and I almost puked. My stellar performance in the spelling bee, 8th­grade tennis title and everything else I had accomplished went out the win­dow, as these behemoths trampled by. Suddenly, the only autobiographical information I could remember was that I was 5'4" and 85 pounds, which I suddenly recalled put me squarely in the 17th percentile ... This didn't feel right. 
My freshman escort ushered me to a seat in the freshman biology class. Moments after Mr. Riviello had started a lesson on taxonomy -the first word in a couple years I didn't comprehend (I had won the spelling bee, did I men­tion that?) -I realized that I really needed to go the bathroom. But no way the 8th-grade visitor was raising his hand to stop a science class that was taking on taxes -this was heady, high-level stuff. I held it. For as long as I could. Finally, nearing emergency status, I ran for the door and made it to the hallway. Looking frantically for the men's room, I could only find a door marked "Restroom." Was it guys or girls? I very uncomfortably paced the halls until class let out. I ran to my freshman escort and breathlessly blurted, "Is that a guys' room or girls' room?" He looked at me like I was ... well, a 5'4", 85-pound grade-schooler, as he reminded me, "This is an all-guys' school." 
I made a resolution right then that I would never attend Malvern Prep. This decision had nothing to do with the match between Malvern and my gifts, or whether God was "calling" me there, as Sr. Clare liked to frame it. It had everyth~ng to do with the fact that Malvern, that first day, made me feel the opposite of what I felt at my 8th­grade recess yard. And the fact that I couldn't find the bathrooms. 
Many of our poignant (i.e. -humili­ating) childhood experiences can be quite instructive. I often recall this memory anytime I am preparing to begin something new, and feel the inevitable butterflies in my stomach. It makes me remember that, when God invites us into something new (in the end, Sr. Clare's framework of vocation and discernment was utterly accu­rate), our initial response is often not one of total acceptance and embrace. Rather, it is some confusion at the unfamiliarity, and a resultant hesitan­cy. Days that many like to call "Orientation" are often, internally for those going through them, days of rad­ical "Dis-orientation." Less days of "Vocation" than days of "Equi­Vocation." And one natural reaction to such feelings is: get me back to the 8th-grade recess yard, where I know the terrain, know the people, and know which gender the bathrooms are for. 
I like to pray to St. Peter on days of starting something new. He plunged into new opportlmities with all the unbridled enthusiasm of a cocky ado­lescent. "Lord, if that is you, tell me to get out of the boat and walk on the water!" Followed immediately by a sudden realization that he is now doing something in a way and a place unfamiliar to him. And in this moment of Dis-orientation, he fills with fear, panic, and inevitably, begins to sink. "Lord, save me!" Followed by one of the most consoling lines in all of the Gospels: "Jesus immediately stretched out his hand and took hold of him." Peter would grow, and regain his con­fidence, but it took some time. And Jesus patiently led him through his fears into a life of freedom and joy, so effectively that Peter --prone to fear and equivocation -is ultimately freed to become a great leader in the faith, and even to give his life away. 
Where is Jesus leading us during these days of dis-orientation? If we allow him, as Peter eventually did, surely He is leading w; to greater free­dom and joy, a life of robust magnifi­cation of our gifts4 including ones now unknown to us, and a life of more gen­erous service to others. Do we have Peter's patience and resolve to let Him? 
Oh, I graduated from Malvern in '88, and was off to Notre Dame. I remem­ber I felt so cool ... 
This week's article is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, Director ofCampus Ministry Bible Studies. Campus Ministry's Faithpoint reflections will appear each Thursday in The Observer. 
The views expressed in this Faithpoint are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
INS l~lt'r [Y()tJit Jllt'r] 
Ill~ Ill~ 
Viewpoint is currently looking for illustrators. 

E-mail Kara at kking5@nd.edu for more information. 

.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page I 0 
Thursday, August 28, 2008 



BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 
By ANALISE LIPARI Scene Editor 
Tickets are on sale for The Show, thn opnning on-eampus concert of the 2008-2009 academ­ie year. The Show 2008 Committee has invited hitmakers Good Charlotte 
and upcom-The Show 
ing act Tlw 
Cool Kids to Joyce Center 
play this Auditorium 
Friday. 
Friday at 8August 21Jth 
at 8:00 p.m. Admission: $10 
at thn Joycn Doors open at 7 
Center. 
The Cool 
Kids, composed of Antoine "Mikey 
Hocks" Hnnd and Evan "Chuck 
Inglish" Ingersoll, is a hip-hop duo 
based out of Chieago and Detroit. 
Like a lot of bands in the post­
Napstl~r nra, The Cool Kids' popu­
larity grew thanks to their page on 
Myspace.eom. The duo has played 
at festivals such as Lollapalooza 
and Austin's South by Southwest, 
as well as opening for acts like 
M.I.A. Their latest album. "The Bake Saln EP," was released in May and is available on iTunes, and their debut, "When Fish Hide Bicycles," is due to be re-released later this year. 
llnadlining The Show 2008 is pop-punk outfit Good Charlotte. Originally founded in 1996 and led by twin brothers Joel and Benji Madden, (;ood Charlotte's hits include "Lifestyles of the Hieh & Famous," "I Don't Wanna Be In Love (l)ance Floor Anthem)" and "Girls and Boys." Their 2002 album "The Young and the Hopeless" eventually went triple platinum, selling over 3 million copies. The band's fourth and most recent album, "Good Morning Hevival," debuted in the top ten (m U.S. charts. 
The Madden brothers might be best known in the tabloids for their high-profile romances ­Jon! and aetress Nicole Hichie are currently raising a daughter, llarlow. and Benji and Paris Hilton are still going strong -but the group's appearance at The Show will highlight the bnst of their musical library. 
The Show is ol'ten one of the school year's highest-profile con­cnrts. In pnwious years, the Show has played host to Common, Cak1~. Third l·:ye Blind and .Jason Mraz among othnrs. The Show is nxdu­sivn to studnnts at Notre Damn. Saint Mary's ami lloly Cross, and prornisns to bn a solid night of nntnrtainnwnt. 
Notrn Dame students can pur­chasn ti1~knts onlirw. and Saint Mary's and lloly Cross studnnts can purchasP thPrn at thPir rnsJJP<"livn Student Activities ollicPs. Tkknts arn $10. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

By STEPHANIE DePREZ Assistant Scene Editor 
This summer was an epic one for the average indie rock­er. Besides the monolith releases by Death Cab for Cutie and Coldplay, new artists bounded onto the scene with full foree, including new ehic rocker Katy Perry and uber­indie duo She and llim. Canadian singer-songwriter Alanis Morissette made a respectable comeback, and The Duke Spirit revived the spirit of Stevie Nieks. 
"Narrow Stairs" didn't fail to impress, as Death Cab fulfilled all expectations and even man­aged to follow the same gener­al layout of their last album, 2005's "Plans." The radio mainstay "I Will Possess Your I Ieart" is the dear eenterpiece of the album, coming in at track two but setting the tone for the rest of the songs. The benefit of buying the album is the fact that lis­
to leave any fans in the dust. The album is a bit of a trip, with songs blending into other songs and others ending nowhere near where they started. "Viva La Vida," with its revolutionary aesthetic embodied in the hijacked eover art, is clearly a collection, with the first and last traek acting as bookends. Hadio singles "Violet Hill" and "Viva La Vida" are quite good, alone or within the context of the album. Overall, Coldplay manages to stay atop their game, avoiding repetition or the near­inevitable sell out at this point in their career. 
Alanis Morissette rocked it out again with "Flavors of Entanglement." She airs all her dirty laundry with the same lyrical vivadty of "Jagged Little Pill," but still manages to sound more mature and grounded in her sound, which gets the expected over-produc­tion pick-up of someone who 
topped charts 


teners get all in the 90's. eight glorious Coldplay's "Vzva La She's no minutes of longer just
Vzda" took the British 
"Possess," not interested in
musicians in a new
just the three­the men who minute radio direction, but didn't spurn her but version, which the ~norant
seem to leave any fans 
allows the song world as a
in the dust. 
to build its whole, as "creeper aura" explained in even more. songs like 
The lyrics of the album come "Citizens of the Planet." straight from Death Cab's own Alanis does manage to bring it heart, and songs like "Long down a bit for a few songs that Division," "Your New Twin end up feeling jarringly toueh­Sized Bed" and "Grapevine ing, like "Not As We" and Fire" are all very effective. "Torch." 
Coldplay's "Viva La Vida" New kids on the seene induct­took the British musidans in a ed anti-pop princess Katy Perry, new direction, but didn't seem who you all know kissed a girl, and liked it. Love it or hate it, this song is definition summer of '08. I ler album "One of The Boys" is about more than just kissing girls, though, as the song "Waking Up in Vegas" manages to have all the sing­along chorus potential of Kelly Clarkson's "Since U Been Gone." 

Other introductions of note included She and Him, a duo including Zooey Deschanel, an actress best known as the girl from "Elf' and the older sister from "Almost Famous." Their Starbucks-ready CD included with a bit of a "Juno" kick. London roekers The Duke Spirit channels the likes of Fleetwood Mae with their song "The Step and The Walk," but stayed true to their London roots with a punk-wave tribute in "Send a Little Love Token." 
This summer wa.<> a perfeetly balanced hodgepodge of new releases, eatering to the musical tastes of any indie with an iPod. Love it or hate it, there was a slew of songs that will have direct association with whatev­er it wa.<> you were doing for the last three months. 

the song "Why Do You Let Me--------------------­Stay Here?" and is a clean Contact Stephanie DePrez at throwback to sixties dream pop sdeprez@nd.edu 
courtesy 


.----------------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, August 28, 2008 
page 11 

FACE IN THE CROWD 
Ever wqndered what 1 attend a three-day sum festival? Well. it's hot, sweaty; physically exhausting and depend~ ing on what you listen tQ, quite Potl~ sibly dangerous. But I onljtwentfoi'< 
a day. . ··· 
For the last four years MarkWltte· Chicago bas 
hosted the tbree A$ststan~. day American Scene Editor 
music festival Lollapalooza ... inside the magnificent Grant Park: 
In 2007 the likes ofPeariJam, Modest Mouse, Snow Patrol. Muse and Ben. H;arper graced tQe festh • val's stage. This year the headlin+ ers were Radiohead on Friday, Rage Against tbe Machine and Wilco on Saturdafand Kanye West and Nine Inch Nails rounding off Sunday'slineup. . ........ . . . . 
Thankstomy nupaidiitternship ' ·· at the Michiana News Channel. I had neither the time nor the money to attend< all three days o£ show and resigned to purchasing a d pass to either Saturday or Sunday, 
But this became a proqlfltn as well. First off. none.ofthefour weekend headliners grabbed my attention. I didn't~t the political mold for ~age!E> rl:l'volution, · ·· · never jumped oii the Wile{) wagon, I U]<ed only a few of songs and had aY:P.ided Ntne Nails'· music becatise the band's name alone kind of scared the crap
out ofme( ······ · My top choice was seeing .... ·.··. Explosions in the Sky, a talented tt' · post-rockinstrumental band front Austin, l~·~~a~.~,n~~u·!~' 
upco~tcecli~~wpui~Ch<~Wtg 
for Sunday. And although a hometown friend also attending Lollapalooza Iaten 

chided me for mi and Jtage, $linda ... 't .· 0 all that bad,£ arrived ear yat the PatKand ctt;ught another Austin-b group known as "The 0 
Project." ·. . . . . ...·. . ....·.·.· . .··.·• .• .•. · 
the instrument&.! band puton~i remarkable showin the$b()tt45 minutes they were allotte~~ woo~ 
ingthe (a),}~ by sV¥ftching • ..•••.•. m~nts and demonstrat . ·fijimastery of the Theremin; an elec~ tro:tlic instrumentplayed without being toucl\ed. ··· ··p•• ...·.······ 
Next I heard yet another Austin based band called "What Made Milwaukee Famous .• " wh likemusicwasn't discor· means. butJ'elt a little too soporific formyt1:lsY1s.Leayjl}g. · .... l <·. headed over to rendeziro th all·· my friends and 
w~walkedover 
· tothenorthend oftheparkfor the John Butler 
•'J¥if), lhad neve:i · het~,rd the ·· 
.---------------~-----~---------~------------~-----­


OUND THE NATION 
Page 12 
Pre-Season NSCCAA/ ADIDAS Men's Soccer Ran kings 
team Recur prev 
1 Wake Forest 22-2-2 1 2 Connecticut 20-3-1 5 3 NOTRE DAME 14-5-5 6 4 Boston College 15-5-1 12 5 Santa Clara 16-2-4 7 6 Creighton 12-3-5 9 7 Indiana 13-4-5 14 8 Maryland 10-6-5 15 9 Ohio State 17-4-5 2 10 Virginia Tech 14-4-5 3 11 Brown 25-2-1 16 12 Akron 15-4-2 23 13 Massachusetts 17-8-1 4 14 UCLA 9-9-3 RV 15 West Virginia 14-5-2 13 16 Illinois-Chicago 13-6-5 10 17 SMU 14-5·2 18 18 South Florida 14-6·2 17 19 Saint Louis 12-2·5 22 20 Northwestern 12-5·3 21 21 Bradley 16-6·5 10 22 UC Santa Barbara 13-4·4 8 23 Tulsa 15-3-2 20 24 North Carolina 7-8·5 NR 25 Furman 19-4·0 RV 
NSCAA/ADIDAS Women's Soccer Rankings 
team Record last week 
1 usc 1
1-0-0 
2 North Caro Una 3
1-0-0 
3 UCLA 2
0-0-0 4 NOTRE DAME 
1·0·0 5 
5 Florida State 
0·0-0 4 
6 Portland 
1·0·0 6 
7 Virginia 6
1·0-0 
Texas
8 1·0-0 8 
Penn State
9 1·0-0 9 
10 Stanford 
1-0-0 10 
11 West Virginia 
1·0·0 12 
12 Connecticut 
0·1-0 11 
13 Texas A&M 15
2·0·0 
14 Tennessee 13
1·0-0 
15 Boston College 14
1-0-0 16 Duke 16
1·0-0 
17 California 
1·0·0 17 
18 Illinois 
1·0-0 19 19 Georgia 
1·0-0 18 
20 Wake Forest 21
1·0-0 
NCAA College Football Preseason Polls 
AI' USA Today 
1 Georgia 1 Georgia 2 Ohio State 2 usc 3 usc 3 Ohio State 4 Oklahoma 4 Oklahoma 5 Florida 5 Florida 6 Missouri 6 LSU 7 lSU 7 Missouri 8 West Virginia 8 West Virginia 9 Clemson 9 Clemson 10 Auburn 10 Texas 11 Texas 11 Auburn 12 Texas Tech 12 Wisconsin 13 Wisconsin 13 Kansas 14 Kansas 14 Texas Tech 15 Arizona State 15 Virginia Tech 
around the dial 
MLB 
Phillidelphia at Chicago Cubs 
8:05 p.m., WGN 

CoMPILED FROM THE OssERvnrs WIRE SERVICES Thursday, August 28, 2008 
NFL 


AP 

San Diego Chargers linebacker Shawne Merriman awaits the snap during a 2007 NFL pre-season football game against the San Francisco 49ers In San Diego. 
MerriiDan to play with knee injury 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -The sur­geon's knife can wait. Shawne Merriman is going to play football, two torn knee ligaments and all. 
A day after visiting a fourth doctor, the San Diego Chargers' star out­side linebacker decided Wednesday to play this season rather than have his damaged left knee repairnd now. 
"To be as simple as pos­sible, I just want to play football," Merriman said. "That's what it comes down to. I know what's on the table, I know what's on the line. I put a lot of work in this and I want to play." 
Merriman said late last week that he has tears in both the posterior cruci­ate and lateral collateral ligaments in his left knee, which he hurt in a game at Tennessee in December. He spent sev­eral days seeking outside opinions. He returned Tuesday after seeing a doctor in Miami. 
Merriman said all four doctors he saw said he needed surgery, but there "just wasn't a time frame on that. My knee still looks pretty good. The deeision was left up to me to play. If you give a foot­ball player a decision to 
IN BRIEF Harvey signs contract after 
long holdout with Jaguars 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. Defensive end Derrick Harvey ended a 33-day holdout Wednesday by signing a five-year, $23.8 million contract with the Jacksonville Jaguars. 
Harvey was the last first-round draft piek to sign, a lengthy hold­out that frustrated coach Jack De I Rio and left the former Florida standout behind in prepa­ration for the regular season. 
The eighth overall selection in April, Harvey was expected to bolster a pass rush that struggled to pressure quarterbacks last season. But he missed all of training camp and the first three preseason games. 
It was unclear whether Harvey would play in the preseason finale Thursday ' night at Washington. He did travel with the team to Washington, D.C. 
play, you know, I'm going to play." 
When he does have sur­gery, he'll be looking at a rehab of six to seven months. 
'Til have the surgery at any point," he said. "Nobody knows. I kind of Jell it on the table when to have it. Not even doctors can tell me that." 
While denying reports the situation could be career-threatening, hn pledged to be "the same old Shawne Merriman. That's what I'm hoping." 
With his nonstop energy and spasmod ie sa(~k dance, the player known as "Lights Out" has been the face of the Chargers' defense the past three seasons. He has 39 1/2 sacks in that span, more than any other NFL play­er. lie's played in three straight Pro Bowls. 
Hight or wrong, Merriman's deeision was big for a team that has Super Bowl expectations. 
Star running back Lai>ainian Tomlinson, knocked out of last sea­son's AFC championship game aft!w aggravating a knnn injury, was happy to hear Merriman will play. 
"llow do you tell a war­rior to sit down'! That's what he is, a warrior. lie's trained for this. It's hard to tell a guy to sit down," Tomlinson said. 

Alvarez refuses to sign 
contract with Pirates 
PITTSBURG -No. 2 draft pick Pedro Alvarez refused to sign his contract with the Pittsburgh Pirates, and the players' associa­tion filed a grievance Wednesday claiming the Aug. 15 deadline was unilaterally extended by Major League Baseball without the union's permission. 
The Pirates announced early on Aug. 16 that Alvarez, a power-hit­ting third baseman from Vanderbilt, agreed to a minor league contract with a $6 million signing bonus. The Pirates said his agent, Scott Boras, told the team Alvarez would not report unless the deal was renegotiated. Boras elaimed the agreement was reached after the midnight dead­line for draft picks to sign on Aug. 15. 
Alvarez was placed on baseball's restricted list. 
Kotsay leaves Atlanta for 
Boston 
NEW YORK -The Boston Hed Sox acquired Mark Kotsay from Atlanta for a minor leaguer Wednesday, adding depth to their outfield one day after J.D. Drew went on the disabled list. 
Kotsay hit .289 with six home runs and 37 RBis in 88 games with the Braves. He arrived at Yankee Stadium on Wednesday before Boston's game against New York and was available ofT" the beneh. 
"I figured once I deared waivers and there wasn't really any action that I'd fini'>h out the season in Atlanta," Kot'>ay told a pool reporter. "But this obviously is exciting to eome to a dub that's in the playoiT race, and especially one like Boston that has the history of a gn~at tradition." 
Kotsay's only postseason experience came in 2006 with Oakland. The Bed Sox lead the AL wild-card raee and began the day 31/2 games behind first­place Tampa Bay in the AL East. 
Thursday, August 28, 2008 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Page 13 
MLB 
Cubs svveep Pirates, continue to hold best record in 1\/[ajors 
Tampa Bay squeezes by Toronto for twelfth shutout; Cleveland wins tenth straight with 9-7 mark over Detroit 
the All-Star break. Pittsburgh is 

Associated Press 
7-18 since trading leading run 

PITTSBURGH -Two bunts, producer Jason Bay to Boston one double and nine well­on July 31. pitched innings. The Chicago Asked if the Pirates are glad Cubs proved on a Wrigley Field­they won't see the Cubs until like day they can win when next season, manager John their bats are not booming, and Russell needed only a one-word their by-the-textbook victory answer: "Yeah." came before they begin what may be their toughest stretch Rays 1, Blue Jays 0 all season. Matt Garza and two relievers 
Jason Marquis shut down combined on a six-hitter and Pittsburgh's batters on a cool, Carlos Pena homered to lead AL windy day that must have made East-leading Tampa Bay past the Cubs feel at home, a11d Toronto 1-0 Wednesday night. Chicago turned two well-placed Garza (11-7) allowed six hits bunts into two runs in the sev­and three walks with fivB enth inning to sweep yet anoth­strikeouts over 7 2-3 innings for er three-game series from the the Rays. Grant Balfour got the Pirates with a 2-0 victory final out in the eighth before Wednesday. Dan Wheeler pitched the ninth 
"That's the sign of a good for his ninth save in 11 chances. team, one that can win in dif­Pena provided the scoring ferent ways," Reed Johnson with a solo homer in the fourth, said. "We've been able to win his 27th of the season and sixth the last couple of weeks by sit­over his past 13 games. ting back and swinging the bat. Blue Jays rookie David Purcey Today we weren't swinging the gave up five hits and struck out bats very well, so we were able a career-high 11 in eight to play a little bit different game innings for his first career com­and it ended up working out for plete game. The left-bander us." was coming off a start Aug. 20 
After scoring 26 runs-12 on against the New York Yankees Monday, 14 on Tuesday-in the in which he allowed five earned first two games, the Cubs runs and seven hits in four turned to pitching and defense innings. for their third three-game Purcey struck out 10 and ing. Roberts gave Baltimore the gle off Chicago's Lance and drove in three runs and sweep this season of the NL allowed just three hits-two by lead for good with a two-run Broadway in the fifth, Mora Curtis Granderson also home­Central rival Pirates. The Cubs Pena, including the homer-in single in the second, then drove connected in the sixth and Luke red for Detrolt, which lost its won the season series 14-4, the the first five innings. He previ­in a run with his AL-leading Scott doubled and scored in the fourth straight. _ most victories they've have ous high for strikeouts was 46th double in the fourth. seventh to make it 8-2. Fausto Carmona (7 -5) against Pittsburgh since going eight. Aubrey Huff hit his 29th Dye hit his 32nd homer lead­allowed four runs and seven 15-7 in 1954-and their most The Blue Jays got one hit, homer and drove in three runs, ing off the eighth, Chicago's hits in six innings to beat Justin against any opponent since including a third-inning double and Melvin Mora and Kevin major league-leading 198th of Verlander (10-14), who gave up beating St. Louis 15 times in by Joe Inglett, in each of the Millar also homered for the the season. five runs and seven hits in six 1978. first four innings, but failed to Orioles, who put a positive fin­Huff hit a two-run drive in the innings, walking three and 
Chicago, a major league-best score. ish on a 2-7 homestand that bottom half and Millar added a striking out eight. 83-50, won its fifth in a row and Garza retired nine in a row began with three games apiece solo shot to seal the blowout. The Indians had surrendered 13th in 16 games. The Cubs are after Lyle Overbay's single with against Boston and the New After Baltimore used two sin­a two-run lead and trailed 4-3 33 games over .500 for the first two outs in the fourth. Matt York Yankees. gles and a sacrifice fly by Huff in the fourth when Shoppach time since they were 98-56 at Stairs ended the stretch with a Paul Konerko and Jermaine to take the lead in the first put them ahead for good with the end of the 1945 season. two-out single in the seventh. Dye homered for the White Sox, inning, Liz served up a belt-high his 17th homer, a two-run shot 
The Cubs went 7-2 in a nine­After a single by Rod Barajas whose lead over Minnesota in fastball on a 3-1 count to to left off Verlander. It also game stretch against NL weak­put runners on first and second, the AL Central was sliced to one Konerko, who hit it an estimat­scored Ryan Garko, who was lings Cincinnati, Washington John McDonald popped out. game. Chicago had won its pre­ed 415 feet into the seats in left. hit by a piteh to start the and Pittsburgh. It gets tougher Alex Rios and Vernon Wells vious four road games by a The Orioles regained the lead inning. starting Thursday night against drew two-out walks in the combined 27-8 score. in their half of the second. Lou Shoo made it 7-4 in the sev­the Phillies as they play 27 of eighth to end Garza's night. White Sox starter John Danks Montanez drew a two-out walk enth with a two-run homer, his their final 29 against teams that Balfour entered and struck out (1 0-7) allowed four runs and and Castro doubled before seventh of the year. are .500 or above. Adam Lind on three pitches. seven hits in four innings. He Roberts hit a two-run single. Cleveland took a 1-0 lead on 
"You've got to make sure to The announced attendance was unbeaten in nine road Chicago's Jim Thome had an Jhonny Peralta's two-out RBI take same approach every was just 12,678, the fifth starts since May 3. RBI single in the third, but was single in the first. It scored pitch, every at-bat, every game straight Rays' home game with Radhames Liz (5-3) gave up thrown out at second by right Dave Dellucci, who hit a one­and not let the mental errors a crowd under 20,000. two runs, three hits and five fielder Nick Markakis. out double and moved to third and mental mistakes get to walks in 5 1-3 innings for the on a groundout. you," Marquis said. "That says Orioles 11, White Sox 3 Orioles, who hadn't held an Indians 9, Tigers 7 Granderson tied it by leading a lot for this team, how good we Brian Roberts turned a sched­opponent under four runs in Kelly Shoppach homered and off the game for Detroit with feel we're going and how good uled day off into a three-RBI their previous 10 games. drove in three runs and Shin­his 16th homer. Granderson we can be-and how we're not performance, and the Baltimore Roberts doubled in a run to Sao Choo also went deep to lift lined Carmona's 2-2 pitch to going to let up until the season Orioles ended a five-game los­make it 4-2 in the fourth, but the Cleveland Indians to their the opposite field in left. is over." ing streak by defeating the Baltimore missed a chance to lOth straight win, 9-7 over the Grady Sizemore's two-out, 
As if their schedule would let Chicago White Sox 11-3 on pull away when Huff was Detroit Tigers on Wednesday two-run single gave the Indians them do that. Wednesday night. retired on a fly ball with two night. a 3-1 lead in the second. It 
The Pirates lost their season­Baltimore's original lineup outs and the bases loaded. That Cleveland's team record is 13 scored Garko, who led off with high seventh in a row and 11th had Alex Cintron leading off, ended Danks' night after 93 consecutive wins, accomplished a walk, and Shoppach, who sin­in 13 games despite one of Zach but Roberts was inserted after pitches. twice, the last time in 1951. gled. They moved up on a sac­Duke's few effective starts since Cintron developed food poison-Juan Castro hit a two-run sin-Magglio Ordonez homered rifice. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES Needed for 2008 Fall Season -The Stanley Clark School, a south side elemen­tary/middle school is located north of Erskine Golf Course on Miami Street. Soccer referees are needed for 5-6th grade and 7-8th grade girls and boys soccer matches. Pay is $35 per game to licensed refer­ees. If interested, please contact Caryn MacKenzie, Athletic Director, at Stanley Clark School at 574-291­4200. 
TUTOR for Prob & Slats. Fee nego­liable. Call 574-276-8299. 
FoR SALE 
Computer desk 48 x 60 $70. Girls bike 3 spd w/bsket $50. 299-9747 
FoR RENT 
1-bdrm apt. All utilities except elec­!ric. Close to ND. $550/mo. 
Call Joe 574-514-0900. 

3-4 bdrm, 2 full bath house. New construction. 1 mile to ND. Laundry, C/A, and more. $1 ,000/mo. Call Joe 574-514-0900. 
Roommate wanted. New home. $450/mo. includes utilities. Close to ND. Call Joe 574·514-0900. 
Rooms 4 blocks from campus. $400 per month including utilities. 6 bed­room home also available. 
Call574-532·1408. 

Football Weekend B&B safe close to ND (574)243-9279 
TICKETS 
Wanted: ND football tix for family. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND football tickets. 
www.victorytickets.com. 574-232­0964. 
A BUSINESSMAN NEEDS FOOT­BALL SEASON TICKETS. 
ANY HELP APPRECIATED. 574­277-1659. 
BUYING SAN DIEGO STATE, MICHIGAN & PURDUE TIX. 574­654-0169 (LOCAL CALL). 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NDs Pregnancy Resources website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
If you or som<3one you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.<3du/departments/csap 
Student managers have awesome shoes. 
Advice on how to make friends: 
From the R.A-Smile. 
From the roommate-Ask them que,stions. 
From me-Bake them cookies. 


page 14 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, August 28, 2008 
THESH 2008 
featuring 
<Boo() Q: at(otte 
and The Cool Kids 
Friday, August 29 JACC Fieldhouse 8 P.M.-Doors open at 7 P.M. 
Tickets $10 available @ theshow.nd.edu 
Valid ND/SMC/HC student ID required for admittance 

Thursday, August 28, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
BOXING 
Preparations begin for De La Hoya's final fight 
Negotiations for Dec. 6 match against Manny Pacquiao nearly finished, deal to be announced later today 
October 

SENIOR PORTRAITS! Sign up for your Notre Dame Graduate Portrait @ www.LaurenStudios.com to ensure your place in the 2009 DOME Yearbook (Use the school password· "'DOME 2009" to access the Notre Dame Portrait Schedule) Who: Class of 2009 Students When: I:tictures taken September 1 -12 Where: La Fortune 108 Why: To be in your 2009 Notre Dame Dome Yearbook ~~--------Re1nenzher----------___, ~ ~­7"'7 Sign Up Today! ~~ [ www.LaurenStudios.com ) School Password ­4 -"'--;o-_____________JlQM_!1___?!l!l2------------~~-­ 


NFL 
Manning excells in first practice after surgery 
did it end the speculation

Associated Press 
about whether he would keep 

Now Peyton Manning can his streak of 160 consecutive start fine-tuning the mechan­starts intact Sept. 7 against ics, timing and rhythm. Chicago. 
Just do not expect him to try Things changed Tuesday it in Thursday night's presea­when Manning returned to son game against Cincinnati. practice one day after the six­
Coach Tony Dungy increased week anniversary of surgery. the two-time league MVP's Indy did not practice Monday. workload Wednesday, one day Manning threw passes with after he finally returned to velocity and moved around on practice and showed no linger­his legs Tuesday, but as with ing effects from the knee sur­most injured players, the real gery that kept him out for the test came Wednesday morning past six weeks. when Manning returned to the 
"We didn't have him in team team complex. work (Tuesday), but he did The result: No soreness, fine and hasn't experienced which prompted Dungy to any problems," Dungy said. increase Manning's workload "So far, so good. He'll get a lit­gradually. tle more work today." "We've been telling you guys 
Manning, who has never that he's been doing a lot of missed a start in his 10-season things, and we have a pretty NFL career, had surgery July extensive workout before we 14 to remove an infected let guys get back on the field," bursa sac from his left knee. Dungy said. "They go through 
Team officials initially said a routine on the side and do their franchise quarterback some individual work, and it's would miss four to six weeks, like a decathlon. So when we and all along Dungy, team clear guys to come back, I usu­president Bill PoJiao and oth­ally don't worry about how ers contended Manning was on they're going to be." schedule amid speculation he Manning, like most of the might miss more time. That team's starters, will not play did not end the questions Thursday even though the about Manning being hurt Colts' quarterback situation is worse than first feared, nor precariously thin. 
Olympic gold medalist, repeatedly has said he will not fight again after this yeaJr. After a proposed rematch with Mayweather in September was scuttled by Mayweather's retirement, De La Hoya has struggled to find a suit­able opponent for his final bout before turning his full attention to his burgeoning promotions com­pany and other business inter­ests. 
Associated Press 
Oscar De La Hoya has nearly wrapped up a deal to finish his boxing career Dec. 6 against Filipino star Manny Pacquiao, two people with knowledge of the negotiations told The Associated Press on Wednesday. 
The people, who spoke on con­dition of anonymity because any deal will not be announced until today, said De La Hoya's long­stalled talks with Pacquiao recently revived when the sides found an acceptable way to split the possible $100 million in rev­enue from what's certain to be boxing's most lucrative fight since De La .Hoya's split-decision loss to Floyd Mayweather Jr. last year. 
Barring any last-minute changes of heart in a sometimes contentious negotiation, the fight will bring together boxing's most bankable star and arguably its most talented fighter at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas. The deal was first reported by ESPN.com. 

It has not been an easy match to make. Both boxers must make physical sacrifices for the 147­pound bout, with De La Hoya dropping down to welterweight for the first time in nearly eight years while Pacquiao bulks up to 
the heaviest weight of his career by far. · 
The fighters' camps also argued over the split of the purse, with De La Hoya angling for 70 percent while Pacquiao pursued a 40 percent cut. The resolution to this impasse was not immedi­ately clear, but should be announced Thursday. 
De La Hoya (39-5-0, 30 KOs), the six-division champion and 

The Backyardigans "Tale of the Mighty Knights" 
Forever Tango Broadway Musical Presented by Broadway Theatre Leagu€) 
South Bend Symphony Orchestra Concert "Misbehavin' Tonight" Fats Waller Tribute Byron Stripling, Trumpet 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, August 28, 2008 
Honors 
continued from page 20 
but I would always pick team success over individual sue­cnss. I would love to trade it in f'or an NCAA titln." 
Phillips and Stremick were both second-team all-Big East players last year with impressivn pnrf'ormances for the Irish. Brown attributes thnir success last year to tlwir ability to control the not both on ol'fnnsn and dnfense. 
"Both hit a high percentage as wnll as have high kills, and tlwy arn also very good blockers," Brown said. ".Justine IStremickl is orw of' th11 bnst blockers that we have over had in the pro­gram. Snrinity [l'hillipsl is usually on the outside and shn is one of' tlw best we have nvnr had out thorn as well." 
But Brown has even higher n x p 1H: t a ti on s for them this 
y1~ar. 
"Those are the strengths and nurnbnrs that allowed thorn to bn able to be recog­nizml as all-conference play­Prs. and I lwlinvo thny are capable of' doing much morn this year and I'm nxcited about that," Brown said. 
Phillips and StrPmiek are both taking a tnarn approach to the year, focusing on what the whole team can takn away f'rorn last ynar and irn prove upon. 
"J.ast year definitely wasn't our best season." Strnmick said. "In gmwral. our season could have !wen better. We lost sonw games we should have won." 
The tnarn lwlinves the turn­around has already begun in tho prPseason with hard work during practice f'rorn nveryonn. 
"We had a great preseason and we are looking to improve," sophomore middle blocker Kelli Seiacca said. "Everything is falling into place. We have a go-get-'em philosophy and we have made great strides in the preseason." 
The team was unhappy with last year's results and plans to bounce back. 
"I think I can speak for the entire team when I say we weren't pleased with how last season turned out, but we're ready come back," junior middle blocker Tara Enzweiler said. 
"We look fantastic," Phillips said. "We are gelling great and our entire starting lineup is playing every position very well." 
Adding to the mix are con­tributions from all areas of the team, including a promis­ing freshmen foursome. 
"We nxpeet a lot out of the 
freshmen,"  Brown  said.  
"They bring  us  a  lot  more  
depth."  

Freshman middle blocker Megan Barnielc has been slowed down by an inf'eetion in her foot. but thn other fn1shmon arc ready to eon­tribute right away, including outside hitter Kristen Dealy, libcro/del"1~nsive specialist Fr c n e hy Si Iv a . an d s.e t t c r Beth Wildnrmuth. 
Dealy is making surprising contributions f'or a f'irst-year player and Brown believes she is playing above her years. 
"Kristen is a great all­around player. She's a good seornr, passer, and defensive player." Brown said. "She understands the game very well." 
Adding versatility away from thn net is Silva, who plays both the libero and defensive specialist positions. 
"ISilval is a defensive spe­cialist." Brown said. "She is ineredibly quick and has great overall skills." 
Hounding out the freshmen is Wildermuth. who gives the team the flexibility to alter their formations and improve their match-ups. 
"!}cth is gr_eat setter f'or us, Brown said. 
The combination of experi­ence, depth, and youth is what the Irish intend to uti­lize to reestablish themselves as a Big East power this year. 
Contact Jared Jedick at 
jjedick@nd.edu 


ITA 
continued from page 20 
Matt Hansen of Northern Illinois. 
The strong play continued in the fourth round with Davis earning a victory over Chris Peek of Indiana University and Havens beating Jon Tragardh of LSU. Stahl also earned a spot in the quarterfinals by defeating Malcolm Jonson of Johnson Community College. 
Davis and Havens met in the quarterfinals with Havens coming out on top of a tight three-set match and advancing to the semifinals. Stahl lost to Sanam Sing of Virginia, who went on to beat Havens in the semifinal match. 
Davis and Stahl also compet­ed together in the doubles draw and Havens and Johnson entered as a team as well. 
Ilavens and Johnson over­came a tough Iowa team in three sets in the second round but fell in the third round. 
Davis and Stahl fell to a Memphis team in the second round. 
The Irish are looking to con­tinue their dominance this fall when the team returns without former No. 1 Sheeva Parbhu. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

MLB 
Red Sox demolish Yankees 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Jason Bay 
drove in four runs, Dustin 
Pedroia hit a grand slam and 
the Boston Red Sox routed the 
listless Yankees 11-3 on 
Wednesday night, putting an 
emphatic dent in New York's 
dwindling playoff' chances. 
Paul Byrd beat the Yankees 
in a crucial game for the sec­
ond consecutive year, and 
David Ortiz reached base four 
times for the second straight 
night. 
Pedroia's first career slam 
capped a seven-run eighth 
inning and sent hordes of boo­
ing Yankees fans shuffling 
toward the exits. With co­
chairman Hank Steinbrenner 
in attendance, New York 
dropped seven games behind 
Boston, which leads the AL 
wild-card race by 2 1/2 games 
over Minnesota. 
The Heel Sox remained 3 1/2 games behind first-place Tampa Bay in the AL East. 
In a game they needed badly, the injury-depleted Yankees gave the ball to Sidney Ponson (7-5). IIe lasted 4 2-3 innings and dropped to 3-13 with a 
6.95 ERA in 22 starts against the Heel Sox. 
Boston will try for a three­game sweep Thursday with lefty Jon Lester on the mound against 16-game winner Mike Mussina. 
Byrd (9-11) stymied New York's struggling hitters with floaters and soft stuff, just as he did last October when the right-hander won at Yankee Stadium to clinch a first-round playoff series for Cleveland. 
Still using his old-fashioned windup, Byrd allowed two runs and five hits in six innings. He struck out five and improved to 2-1 in three starts since Boston acquired him from the Indians this month. 
Byrd has won six of his last seven starts following a five­game losing streak. 
Also a Red Sox newcomer, Bay hit a two-run double in the first and an RBI triple in the eighth when Boston battered relievers Jose Veras and David Robertson. 
Bay has six RBis in his first two games playing in the Red Sox-Yankees rivalry. 
Pedroia, last season's AL Rookie of the Year, hit a shot off Hobertson that landed on the netting above New York's retired numbers in left-center. In the Boston bullpen, star closer .Jonathan Papelbon spread his arms with delight. 
The Red Sox jumped ahead in the first. Pedroia singled and went to third on Ortiz's double. Ponson whiffed Kevin Youkilis for the second out, but Bay hit a sinking liner toward the gap that dropped just in front of diving left fielder Xavier Nady for a two-run double. 
Bay tried to score on Jason 
Varitek's single and was eut 
down on a strong throw by 
right lieldcr Bobby Abreu. 
Alex Hodriguez's two-out 
double in the bottom half 
scored Abreu from first, and 
New York tied it in the fourth. 
A-Rod led ofT with another 
double and scored on Robinson 
Cano's two-out HBl single ofT 
the glove of a diving Pndroia at 
second base. 
With runners at the corners, 
Byrd retired No. 9 batter Ivan 
Hodriguez on a !1y ball. 
Ponson settled in until 
Pedroia's perfect hit-and-run 
single put runners at the cor­
ners in the fifth. Consecutive 
walks to Ortiz and Youkilis 
forced in the go-ahead run 
before Bay's sacrifice !1y made 
it 4-2 and chased Ponson. who 
is 0-3 in his past four starts. 
Mets 6, Phillies 3 
PliiLADELPIIIA -This resilient group surfl isn't last year's New York Mcts. 
Daniel Murphy hit a tiebreaking double after Carlos Delgado's second solo homer had tied the game in the eighth and the Mets beat Philadelphia on Wednesday night to reclaim first place in the NL East. 
Ryan Howard hit a two-run homer and Jayson Werth homered for the Phillies, who fell a half-game behind the Mets in the division. 
New York rebounded from Tuesday night's tough loss in which the Phillies overcame a 7-0 deficit and won 8-7 in 13 innings. 
"This was a huge, huge win for us simply because of the way we lost last night," Mcts manager Jerry Manuel said. "We could've afforded to (lose), but the way we lost last night, you never know where that's going to lead you." 
The Mets blew a seven-game lead with 17 remaining last season, losing the division to the Phillies on the final day. They're determined to avoid another collapse, though they don't have quite the same cushion. 
One night after New York's bullpen blew a ninth-inning lead for the 1Oth time this sea­son, the Phillies couldn't pro­teet a one-run lead in the eighth. 
Rudy Seanez (5-4). getting a rare opportunity as a setup man because four other reliev­ers were unavailablfl, retired the first two batters before Delgado hit an opposite-field shot to left to tie it at 3. 
Seanez left after Carlos Beitran reached on an infield single. 
Brad Lidgc, who is 31-for-31 in save chances, came in and intentionally walked Hyan Church after Beltran stole sec­ond. 
Murphy, a rookie who spent most of the season at Double-A 
Binghamton, then ripped a 

double to right to score Beltran 
for a 4-3 lead, snapping an 0­
for-16 slump. Brian Schneider 
followed with a bloop single 
down the left-field line that 
drove in two runs. 
Murphy was in llawaii 

preparing to play winter ball 
last Sept•~mbnr when tho Mets 
crumbled, but ho paid closn 
attention to thn race. 
"It was kind of' helpless," he 

said. "You always want to see 
the big league team do well." 
Brian Stokes (1-0) pitl:hed a 

scoreless inning for his first 
win with tho Mots. Pedro 
Feliciano and .Joe Smith 
worked the eighth and Luis 
Ayala finished for his second 
save in throe trios. Ayala 
couldn't hold a one-run load 
with two outs in tho ninth 
Tuesday. 
Nnw York's Johan Santana 

had nothing to show f'or anoth­
er quality start. lie gave up 
three runs and live hits in six 
innings, striking out six. It was 
the 13th time Santana gave up 
three earned runs or fewer 
and didn't get a win. The two­
time AL Cy Young award win­
ner has a 2. 70 EHA, second­
best in the NL. 
"These guys battled," Santana said. "It was a team effort. It's not about one guy or one pitcher. We did a great job." 
No matter how much the Mets stress this is a different season, people won't let them forget about the historic col­lapse last year. 
A sellout crowd of 45,138 at Citizens Bank Park jumped on the Mets right from the start. One fan held up a sign that read: "Hemember September!" Another sitting behind the visi­tor's dugout yelled at players and continuously flashed a choke sign to anyone who looked his way. 
Onee New York rallied in the eighth, it was the Mets fans making all the noise. 
"We're fighting some demons. the demons of the past, the rascals that have hung around us for a year," Manuel said. "Every time we lose a game likH last night is a reminder of that." 
The teams meet for a three­game series at Shea Stadium next weekend that will eon­elude a 1 0-gamc road trip for the Phillics. Tho Mets lead the series 10-5 this season. 
Phillies startnr Kyle Kendrick allowed two runs and eight hits in five-plus innings. 
The 24-year-old right-hander has rebounded nicely from conseeutivo poor starts in which he allowed 13 runs in seven innings. lin's given up throe runs in 10 2-3 innings in his last two starts. 
"''m disappointed I didn't go deeper in this game," Kendrick said. "It's frustrating. We had a win right there." 
Thursday, August 28, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish golfer falls in first round of U.S. Amateur 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
After one of the finest sum­mer campaigns in Notre Dame golf history, Carlos Santos­Ocampo returned to South Bend on a bittersweet note. The junior from Naples, Fla., became the first Irish golfer in three decades to reach match play at the U.S. Amateur, but fell in the opening round to Jeff Edelman of Southlake, Texas on August 20. 
No. 56 seed Santos-Ocampo lost 5-3 to No. 9 seed Edelman at the par-70, 7,232-yard Pinehurst Hesort No. 2 Course in Pinehurst, N.C. Arter Santos­Ocampo birdied the par-4 first hole to take an early lead, Edelman drew even on the par­4 third with a birdie of his own, and took the lead after Santos­Ocampo bogeyed the fourth. Edelman's double-bogey on the fifth tied the match up, but he responded by winning the next three holes to bring the score to 5-2. Santos-Ocampo added a winning par on the 15th, but was unable to close the gap fur­ther. 
Santos-Ocampo qualified for the U.S. Amateur, considered the most prestigious amateur tournament in the country, with a victory at the Notre Dame Sectional Aug. 1 at the Warren Golf Course in South Bend. Santos-Ocampo shot a four­under par 136 to share medal­ist honors and gain the chance to compete in the U.S. Amateur. He is the seventh Notre Dame golfer in five years to earn that distinction. 
After earning the No. 56 seed, Santos-Ocampo fired a 4-over 144 in 36 holes at Pinehurst on Aug. 19, good for a tie for 47th place and making the cut for the 64-man match play field. Santos-Ocampo birdied the 36th hole to boost him one stroke above the cut line (+5); this proved to be extremely for­tunate as the 26 players who finished +5 over 36 holes were forced to engage in a playoff for the final two match play spots. 
"Making it to match play was a thrill," Santos-Ocampo said. "The last six holes of stroke play was the highlight, when my putter, all of a sudden, just got hot as I one-putted the last six holes." 
Besides becoming the first Irish golfer since 1973 to reach match play at the U.S. Amateur (the year the current format was adopted), Santos-Ocampo made the cut at three other top amateur tournaments during the summer -the Florida State Amateur, the Eastern Amateur, and the Southern Amateur. l-Ie also won the Tournament Players Association at Windstar in Naples, Fla., his hometown. Santos-Ocampo cites a focus on fundamentals for his recent success. 
''I'm happy to see that my game is headed the right direc­tion," Santos-Ocampo said. "The areas that have improved the most in my game are my driving and my putting. On the driver, I have added twenty yards over the past six months, and I have been able to keep it more consistently in the short grass. This has allowed me to score better in the big tourna­ments where courses are con­siderably longer and the rough is higher. Improving the fun­damentals in my putting stroke has made it a lot easier to make putts on a consistent basis, especially when the pressure was on." 
Although he was born in Rhode Island, Santos-Ocampo grew up in the Philippines, where he picked up golf at age six. He was drawn to Notre Dame after an unofficial visit during which coach Jim Kubinski emphasized the unique spirit of Notre Dame. 
Santos-Ocampo is confident that his summer successes will translate to victory this fall. 
"Being able to see the fruits of your labor pay off," Santos­Ocampo said. "Good scores in a tournament atmosphere obvi­ously will boost your confi­dence. I'm going to take that with me heading into our fall season knowing that my hard work all year truly is translat­ing to improved scores. I'm also very optimistic about our team this year. A lot of our under­classmen, including myself, gained valuable experience from last year." 
Santos-Ocampo returns to the links next weekend at the USF Olympic Club Intercollegiate with his fellow Irish golfers on Sept. 8 at the Olympic Club in Daly City, Calif., just outside San Francisco. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu. 



Co fir 
ti 



Monday, Sept:ember 1 -5:30 -6:30 pm Sunday, September 7 -5:30 -6:30 1Pm 

Room 330 Coleman-Morse Cente1r 
Contact: Fr• .John Conley 63:1-7888 
or 

.lohn & Sylvia DiUon 631-7163 
C-M 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, August 28, 2008 



University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) 

Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez atevelazgu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gaynesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 

SoMt)vA.'f 
~ yv'\AStt..rs ir'\ 



Master something a little easier, like your personal finances. 
Wells Fargo knows that college can be a challenging time. That's why we have a wide range of tools to help you along the way, from checking and savings to a College Combo"' specifically designed to help you be financially successful. And best ofall, you'll get someone to answer your questions and help you make sense of it all. Why wait for someday?5M Stop by Wells Fargo, visit wellsfargo.com/student or calll-800-WFB-OPEN (1-800-932-6736) today. 

Fal01outh 
continued from page 20 
lion with all those [scouts and fans[ at those games," Pollock said. "The summer dnl"initnly helped me with that." 
Polloek. who led the Irish with a .:~52 batting average last snason, said he expeets to earry momentum into this spring. 
"I havn a lot of eonfidnnee right now," hn said. ''I've had a good eouple of years [at Notre Damel but after eom­pnting with tlw best players in tlw eountry like that, my eonfidenen is obviously pret­ty high ... 
I>nspite consistently tear-
Crist 
continued from page 20 
baeks have a tight relation­ship of'f the field, he said, something that causes the rest or the team to poke fun at them. 
"They kind of joke that the quarterbacks are always on thnir own thing; we really are," 
ing up opposing pitching during the summer, Pollock did find time for leisure in Falmouth, which borders the Atlantic Ocean. 
"It was incredible. You've got the beaeh right there and the really nice town," Pollock said. 
He said his time in Cape Cod was one of the best experiences he has had. 
"Everything about the sum­mer was incredible. Everyone's telling me I'm going to look baek and say that it was one or the best summers of my life," he said. ''I'm already feeling that way and I've only been back one or two weeks." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
Crist said. "You're going to get a the season. 
Crist and competitive nature !low well it freshman quar­does is any­
from me every day I 
tnrbaek Nate one's guess, but 
Montana, Joe step on the field. " his confidence Montana's son in the squad's who hails from Dayne Crist abilities is Concord, Calif., unshaken.
Irish freshman
have trained "I see no rea­
quarterback
together. They son why we 
forces him to perform well. 
"He tells it like it is," Crist said. "lie has a very challeng­ing mood about him, and he's going to try to bring the best out of you. That's what you need as a quarterbaek, and that's what was most appeal­ing to me." 
Crist was excited about the other students getting back to school and said the team was on the rise heading into 
have the same quarterback coach, and Crist said the extra coaching can help nail down fundamentals in a way praetices with Weis cannot. 
"Obviously when you're here everything is in tune with eoach Weis' system, very ofTnnsive-oriented," he said. "You're given a chance with the quartnrbaek eoaeh to kind of work on some mechanics. Footwork -you can never be too aeeurate." 
Not that Crist shuns Weis' eoaehing; in raet, he feeds off of it. Weis' attitude, he said, 
shouldn't be competing with the best teams in the nation this year," he said. "Everyone's on the same page." 
Regarding his own contribu­tions, he said his drive to suc­ceed will be present no matter what. 
"You're going to get a com­petitive nature from me every day I step on the field. That's not going to ce!ise regardless of what I do this year," he said. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

Thursday, August 28, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

CROSSWORD 
Across 34 Ensembles of 62 Not at home Rocker Ocasek eight 64 How the answer 37 You might crack to each of the 

4 "American Pie" one while nine italicizedbeauty playing clues repeats9 Window area 38 Word before 68 Barely cooked 13 Sufficient, old­
pool or park 
69 Bor-r-ring voice style 
41 Japanese grill 
70 Alternative to15 Walt Whitman's 43 "Get it?" 

truth in a party
"_the Body 
44 "Me, Myself & gameElectric" 
_,"2000Jim 
71 Uno + uno + uno16 Far from harbor 

Carrey film 
72The "S" in 17 1942 film with 46 Peter of WASP

the line "What "Goodbye, Mr. 73 "Help!" 
makes Chips" saloonkeepers 
48 When Alexander 
so snobbish?" 

Hamilton and Down 19 Look inside? Aaron Burr 1 Say, as a pledge dueled
20 Prefix with mural 2 More ludicrous 50 Goof
21 Long-distance 3 Sportscaster letters Bob
51 Letters 55 Actor Milo 

23 Commercials 4 Nothing 56 Underwater 
24 Bench sharer 5 Blind bat 
creature whose 

28 One with fingers 6 Clamor
males give birth crossed 7 Old llama herder 

58 "Finger-lickin'30 Lead-in to while good" restaurant 8 Christie who 
31 "lllmatic" rapper 59 Fort _, N.J. 
created Hercule Poi rot 

32 Like a clock that 61 Had dinner at has hands home 
9 Instrument that wails 1 0 They live on

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
acres of Acre's 11 Rick Blaine in 
17-Across, e.g. 12 Sets (down) 14 Start liking 18 "Kapow!" 22 Throat part 25 "Nay" sayer 
program 27 Many-acred homes 29 Bobby's wife on "Dallas" 33 "Well. that beats 
THE OBSERVER 


WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Natan Last  
35 Bawled (out) 36 It might need to be settled 38 Secretive org. 39 Classic Chinese military treatise, with ''The" 40 Fearful1917-20 period 42 Bar mitzvah  45 Slangy denial 47 Hammed it up 49 River nymphs, in Greek myth 52 Basketball venues 53 San _, Argentina 54 Camera eyes  58 Mario _, Nintendo racing game 60 More, in commercialese 63 Verbal nod 65 Be a pugilist 66 Plastic Ban1  
dance  57 Derisive laugh  67 Evening hour  

For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tios: nvtimes.com/ouzzleforum. Crosswords for vouno 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
JUMBLE 
~!JJW~r! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
MEARA 

rJ rJ
1 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
f~;fl] 
OOTARR 

J [] [ J 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Mnold and Mike Argirion 


-
WHEN THE BUMPEr< CORN CROP LEFT THE F.A.r<MEr< 0r<IN­NIN0, IT WAS--­
Now arran9e the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans: [II I ] [ J I ] TO [ I I J 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  GUISE  FISHY  (Answers tomorrow) A.WEIGH BEHIND  
Answer:  What the excavator enjoyed when his house  
was finished  -HIS NEW "DIGS"  

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Alexa Vega. 20; Sarah Chalke, 32; Chandra Wilson, 39; Willy DeVille, 58 Happy Birthday: Bring on the charm and you will wi.nyour way into what­ever situation you desire. Partnerships of all kinds will flourish. You will be the one to put things back in order and make them work. Know your value and you will be respected and rewarded. Your numbers are 5, 20, 26, 32, 39 
ARIES (March 21-Aprll19): Today you must bide your time, enjoy every moment ~nd savor the simple pleasures _in life. If you get !Ill wr!lpped up in what's gomg on around you, you will miss out on conuectmg With someone who can change your world. 2 stars 
T-t\URUS (April 20-May 20): Something good will come out of hooki!Ig up with someone you used to know. Your openness to share your current situa­tion and challenges will result in some liands-on help and a boost to your ego and your cash flow. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-Jnne 20): Don't let love or an emotional matter stand in the way of_)'our plans. It's getting caught up in the melodrama that others want to inflict on you that will be your downfall. Nothing is more importantthan reaching your goals. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-Jnly 22): Be honest about the W2.Y. you feel, even if it does make you vulnerable. It's that very quality that will help you win favors. Someone will recognize your sensitivity and honesty ;md want to be a part of your world. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A change in your status or a gift or unexpected con­tribution will make your day. Your stren~ will come from your ability to entertain everyone who has anything to offer you. It's a good day to seitl deals, collect debts and challenge tlie competition. 3 stars 
VIRGO (ADJI. 23-SepL 22): Your willingness to help the underdog will put you ahead oranyone who challenges you today. Love is in the stars and the chance of making alterations to your personal life that will change your future for good are looking positive. 4 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't let your emotions get involved in what you have to do oryou will fall short of wllat's expected of you. Take a different approach. Delve into a self-awareness program that will enable you to make personal improvements to your life. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your unique way of explaining the way things 
-
can work will capture an audience and lead to achieving your goals. A change in your ~rsonallife and status is apparent. Open up to suggestions but aon't cheat. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Instant payback may appear to be head­ing your way but someone is likely to intervene if you have 6een too vocal. Keep things to yourself until after the fact when you know everything is signed, sealed and delivered. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Give whatever it takes to get your p«r­sonal life working for you. You will find a way by searching through what you have that will make a difference to someone you want to please. Travel for business and you will prosper. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't Jet anyone push his or her responsi­bilities in your lap. You have to do your share but, onee you have taken care of business, allow yourself a little time to pursue youi interests. An emo­tional connection will be made. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A partnership that you tried to form in the past can now be put together. Revive an old"idea that !las far more leverage and possibilities now than in the past. Socialize for bt.siness purposes. 5 
stars 

Eugenia's Web sites: aJtroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialaJt.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 7~r9 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 0 Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ________________________________________ _ 
•
Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State ____ Zip_____ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, August 28, 2008 
page 20 
BASEBALL 

Centerfielder Pollock nan1ed MVP of Cape Cod League 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Editor 

What do Thurman Munson, Paul O'Neill, Evan Longoria and A . .l. Pollock havn in common? Arter the Notre Dame junior centerfielder's stellar summer season, the corn~ct answer is that all of them have been namf~d Most Valuable Player of the Cape Cod League. 
"It's pretty incredible­I'm not going to lie," Polloek 
FOOTBALL 

Crist says he puts the team's needs first 
By BILL BRINK Spons Editor 

l>ay1w Crist looked comfort­able even though he had to eollapsn his 6-foot-4 frame into a folding sPat. The fresh­man quarterback relaxed, with a charming smile and a buzz cut -a freshmen unity initiative, courtesy of the run­ning backs -while answering questions about everything from learning a pro-style offense to his mothnr to whether, as a California boy, he had bought a winter coat yet. 
lie was unfazed and careful. Thn phrase, "Whatever coach Weis wants me to do ... " came out of his mouth more than once, and he talked rnpeatedly about the healthy competition
-
between the quarterbacks. His relationship with sophomore quarterback Jimmy Clausen, who he went to middle school with and who helped lure Crist 
said. "To be mentioned with those guys is just incredi­ble." 
Every summer, the Cape Cod League draws most of the best eollege players in the country to New England. But the top-tier competition was no match for Pollock, who starred for the Falmouth Commodores. The Hebron, Conn., native fin­ished second in the batting race with a .377 average while leading the league in hits {61), doubles {15) and slugging percentage (.556). 

Pollock, who played third base as a Notre Dame fresh­man before switching to cen­terfield last season, commit­ted just one error in 45 games. 
"Before the summer, every­one from my town told me how great the Cape Cod League was," Pollock said. "I just tried to take the same approach I always do and fortunately it worked out for me." 
Despite the tremendous 
honor, Pollock said he will work hard to keep improving so that he does not end up being defined by just this award. 
"At one point, it's pretty incredible and it's a thrill," Pollock said. "But at the same time, I'm sure there are a lot of guys on that list [of past MVPsl that you've never heard of." 
Pollock said he also under­stands that aceolades like the one he earned this sum­mer come with added pres-
The future 
to Notre Dame, drew a good deal of attention. lie addressed it, as he did every­thing else, calmly, at once seeming innocent and mature. 
"We're both very competitive people. We both learn from eaeh other," Crist said of Clausen during freshmen media day on Aug. 22. "Even the time we've spent here, it seems like il's only been a matter of months, but we've learned from each other greatly." 
Crist was a top recruit from Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, Calif. Hivals.com ranked him as the No. 25 prospect in the nation after he completed 58 percent of his passes for 2,178 yards and 16 touchdowns in his sen­ior season. Early speculation is that he will redshirt, which would give him two years to start after Clausen graduates. 
lie said the toughest aspect of fall practice so far has been learning Notre Dame's offen­sive system. It frustrated him at first, but he said he has a better grasp of it now. 
"What a lot of people don't 

VOLLEYBALL 
Irish prilned to bounce back from subpar year 
By JARED JEDICK 

Sports Writer 
Notre Dame is looking to eome on strong and forget about a disappointing season last year with the help of two of the Big East's strongest playnrs, senior middle block­er Justine Stremiek and jun­ior outsidP hittPr SPrinity Phillips.
• 
"Both of them had great competitive seasons in the Big East last year," Irish coad1 Debbie Brown said. "Their stnmgths are in· the front row where they are tremendous hitters and blockers." 
As a result of their accom­plishments last year, both were voted to the Big East's preseason team. 
"I was surprised and very excited." Phillips said. "It was a great compliment and I am going to just keep work­ing along with the team to do our best." 
Stremick also appreeiated the honor, but said she would have preferred some hard­ware for the entire team. 
"It was a surprise, but it's nice to bf~ honored for the hard work in the last eouple years," Stremick said. "It is always nice to be honored, 
see HONORS/page 16 sure to lead the Irish. 

"Now that I'm a junior, some people might expect me to be a little more vocal," he said. "And I'm sure some of the guys will expect me to 
take  on  a  more  designated  
leadership role."  
But  after  his  season  in  

Cape Cod, Pollock should have no problem with many sets of eyes on him. 
"Another thing is I'm going to be used to r added) atten­
see FALMOUTH/page 18 


remember is that it's not a normal college system, it's an NFL system," he said. "You're making an even larger jump. The terminology, the verbiage, and everything just jumps up." 
His next hurdle after under­standing the playbook, he said, was being comfortable enough to make quick reads. 
He said plays now seem to be slowing down for him. Crist and the other quarter-
see CRIST/page 18 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Sophs play in Bloomington 
Four players close out summer on a high note at ITA Championships 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sporrs Wrirer 
Notre Dame sent four play­ers to the Intercollegiate Tennis Association (ITA) Summer Championships in Bloomington. 
Sophomore Tyler Davis, Stephen Havens, Matthew Johnson, and Dan Stahl all competed in both singles and doubles. 
"The results in the ITA National Summer Championships are encourag­ing," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "Dan Stahl. Stephen Havens, Tyler Davis, and Matt Johnson all represented Notre Dame well down there. The bond in this year's sophomore class is something that can carry us through the tough times." 
Play opened on Aug. 11 and included two rounds of singles play. 
Davis and Havens each earned a spot in the second round with a bye, while Stahl and Johnson both escaped their first round matches easi­ly. 
In the second round of play both Davis and Havens came away with 6-2, 6-2 victories. 
Davis defeated Memphis's Jordan Smith for his win, and Havens defeated Indiana's Stephen Volg. 
Derek Stephens knocked Johnson out of the tournament after Johnson lost the first set 6-2 and was forced to retire in the second set. 
"Each-of our guys had good wins," Bayliss said. "Stephen [Havens] did well to reach the semifinals, not to mention good doubles results." 
In the third round Davis, Havens and Stahl all advanced. 
Davis earned a 6-1, 6-3 vic­tory over Brett Powers of St. Edwards. Havens earned a 6­3, 6-3 victory over Mark Oljaka of South Florida. Stahl nabbed a 6-2, 6-2 win over 
see ITA/page 16 





