
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND responds to calls for sustainability 
New office, clubs promote the University's effort to conserve energy 
By AARON STEINER and 
JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writers 
Editor's Note: This is the first installment of a multi-part series examining sustainabiiity at Notre Dame. 
Sustainability -a word that's here to stay at Notre Dame. 
The University launched an entire office dedicated to the mat­ter in January, a new "green" issues student organization gained approval as an official club this summer, and today's Notre Dame Forum is devoted to sus­tainable energy. 
University President Father John Jenkins told faculty mem­bers in his annual Faculty Address Sept. 16 that he is "eager to give special attention to this problem" through the Forum, academics and other initiatives on campus. 
"We must strive, as a communi­ty, to make a practical response to the energy challenge in our lives and on our campus," Jenkins said. 
Indeed, making a response to calls for sustainability is a grow­ing theme at many universities. A variety of publications, including The Princeton Review, have recently begun to evaluate sus­tainability on college campuses, further evidence of the issue's growing importance not just in the classroom, but also on the campuses themselves. 
"For better or for worse, sus­tainability is a mainstream thing now," said the Director of the University's new Office of Sustainability, Jim Mazurek. 
Formalizing initiatives, centralizing efforts 
With various groups emphasiz­ing sustainability -both within the University community and outside -Notre Dame's recent actions reflect recognition of that recent shift. 
But the creation of the Office of Sustainability last January was also in part a response to a need that has grown over the past decade, Mazurek explained. 
"Frankly, what the University lacked ... was a centralized administrative focus on sustain­ability. Many departments have been doing individual actions and initiatives but the University was missing the structure, focus and coordination," Mazurek said. 
University Vice President for Operations Jim Lyphout added: "A number of the units throughout the University have been involved in conservation and sustainability efforts throughout the years," Lyphout said, citing recycling efforts that began almost 15 years ago. 
But, he also said "the effort lacked coordination and commu­nication." 
see FORUM/page 6 


What is sustainability anyway? 
The need for sustainable energy is an issue that "isn't going to go away," according to GreeNO presi­dent Lourdes Long. But what does the term "sustainable energy" mean? 
According to Forum co-chair­man Frank Incropera, sustainable energy, on a global level, means "to get into a pattern of energy uti­lization this is sustainable for hun­dreds ifnot thousands of years." 
Getting into this pattern of sus­tainability is important for its envi­ronmental consequences. 
"If you accept the fact that cli­mate change is real, then using fossil fuels in the way we've been using them will have conse­quences to the environment that don't bode well for sustainability," Incropera said. 
Achieving sustainability on a universal scale isn't something that's going to happen overnight, he said. 
"The goal is to get to your grand­children to a point that allows for them economic development opportunity with a more benign economic impact," Incropera said. 
Within the Notre Dame commu­nity, sustainability is all about bal­ancing priorities, according to Jim Mazurek, the Director of the Office of Sustainability. 
"We define sustainability as con­sidering the present and future needs of the University, balancing both environmental and economic considerations," Mazurek said. "At Notre Dame, this means weav­ing sustainability principles into all we do -our institutional decision­making, operational practices, and built environment." 
-Aaron Steiner and John Tzemey 

Colorado Gov. talks to College Democrats 
Ritter speaks of 'high-wire act' to reconcile Democratic Party's stance on political issues with Catholic faith 
reflecting on his personal ered in the Hospitality Room and political dilemmas." of clean energy legislationByjENN METZ experience as a Catholic mis­in Reekers, who asked Ritter "It's a high-wire act to navi­and doubled his state's renew­
News Editor 

sionary in questions about the relation­gate," he said, and Catholic able energy standard. 
Africa, a ship between his faith and his politicians have struggled "Our relationship to the 
Key issues in national poli­district politics. with "tortured logic" on some earth and being part of a cre­tics -like abortion, gay attorney in Selling the Democratic plat­issues. ated world," he said, influ­rights and war -pose chal­Denver and form to Catholics, Ritter said, Other issues, however, are enced these policies. "Climate lenges to Catholics in office as gover­is not just about hot-button more straightforward, he change really is a moral who must find a way to recon­nor. issues like abortion. said. dilemma." cile the doctrine of their reli­Spencer "You can't isolate it, you Catholic ideology, Ritter Ritter recently took a trip to gion with their party's stance. Howard, can't focus on one thing," he said, teaches stewardship of the Arctic, where he "saw the 
Colorado Governor Bill president said. the environment. science" and the physical evi­Ritter, a Catholic Democrat, of the However, as a pro-life Ritter is one of the panelists dence of climate change, the spoke to the Notre Dame College Democrat, Ritter said he finds in Wednesday's Notre Dame effects of which will be felt College Democrats Tuesday Democrats, introduced the himself in a difficult position Forum on Sustainability. As night about that challenge, governor to the students gath-regarding his "Catholic faith governor, he passed 20 pieces see RITTER/page 4 




Professors dish on economy 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Three Notre Dame profes­sors discussed the economic crisis currently underway in America during the second session of Pizza, Pop and Politics in Reekers Hospitality room Tuesday. 
David Ruccio and Jennifer Warlick. from the depart­ment of Economics and Policy studies joined Rich Williams. a professor of Sociology to cover a distinct element of the larger prob­lem plaguing the economy. 
Huccio, the first speaker of the evening, lectured about the current economic policy. 
see CRISIS/page 6 


ZHIBIN DAI!The Observer Notre Dame professors Rich Williams, left, Jennifer Warlick, middle, and David Ruccio, right, discuss economics at a discussion Tuesday. 
College educates about body image 
By MAND.I STIRONE Assistant News Editor 
This week Saint Mary's stu­dents are being taught ways to love their bodies and the environment through events centered around the release of communications professor Terri Huss' book "Bi***in' Bodies: Young Women Talk About Body Dissatisfaction." 
The book, whose title uses the actual expletive, will be released nationally on Thursday. 
The week, sponsored by the Women's Resource Center, Feminists United, 

and the Women's Studies Program, is geared towards the main topic of the book ­women finding ways to feel good about their bodies no matter what their shape, senior and "Love Your Body Week" organizer Becki Faunce said. 
An important part of the week is encouraging empow­erment so that women might "make our difference in the world like we're supposed to as Saint Mary's women." 
It encompasses three major events, "Freedom with Friends" on Monday, "Love 
see BODY/page 4 

INSIDE COLUMN 

On pictures and statuses 
Darling Facebookers. 

As I said last week. our problems on Facebook are numerous and varied. I have returned this week to address a difl'erent set of problems. I hope that you have cur­
tailed your wall  Kaltlyn Conway  
malpractices  
since then, and  Scene Writer  
that you are  
ready to learn  

about a nnw set of problems. 
This week, we shall address the issues inherent in status updates and profile pictures. 

Oh, the status update. The epitome of letting your closest friends and the people who don't even know you in on the details of your life. But some­times, people just take it too far. Kids, I don't want to see the details of your messy breakup on my status feed. I don't need to know what you're doing every five seconds. There arc fine lines here between acceptable and unacceptable. 
For example: if you must angst in your status, use song lyrics. It's aeceptable if the song is stuck in your head, especially if it describes how you FEEL. What's even bettnr is if it's obscure song lyrics that make me perhaps wonder what exactly it is you have been doing to make a moment a crime. If you truly feel the need to express your angst, keep it general ­your dose friends ean ask about it, and th1~ rest of us apathetic folks can just keep on going on with our days without wondering why random so­and-so is all upset. 
Now, I know we discussed what to not to do on a wall when orw is ... h mm ... not in one's best state of mind. It is, however. perf'eetly accept­able to update your status in this stallL We all like seeing your random choiee of grammar and your mean­ingless words that can be blended into awesome nicknames. It's amus­ing. We, the pnople, like to be amused. 
That being said, the most accept­able form of status -other than something you're actually doing that isn't updated every hour with the same thing or a slight variation-is something witty. Make me laugh, peo­ple. Say something completely ridicu­lous, or something clever, or some­thing thoughtful. Keep the masses entertairwd. 
That said. there are other f'aetors of your profile that also nm~d to be kept dassy. Like your profile picture. 
Folks, WilY. in the name of all that is good and holy, would you want a picture of you in a bikini or you, well, not in the right state of mind, on your profile? This trend baflles me. It is a bane to Facebook. Keep it to pictures of' you and your friends -maybe your pet, or even your car. But at least keep it dassy-and keep it real. There are all sorts of creepers out there-don't encourage them! What is the appeal of a non-classy picture, anyhow? Do you want every­one to think of you as swimsuit-clad or drunk out of your mind, and that bn the only faent of you they know? I didn't think so. 
So keep your statuses entertaining, and your pictures classy. Use this wis­dom to create a better tomorrow... on 
The 11h~ws expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer 
Contact Kaitlyn Conway at kconway2@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards i tsdfas a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards of journalism a! all times. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a misrake, please comacr us ar (574) 631-4541 so we can correcc our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE THING TO DO WHEN IT'S NICE OUT? 

Kyle Mitchell Nora Collins 
sophomore sophomore Stanford LeMans 
"Oil my body "Oil Kyle and tan on the Mitchell and 
,

quad.,, watch him tan. 
Elderly woman fends off burglar with reacher 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. Police said an elderly woman fended ofT a man who broke into her Annapolis-area home using a reacher device used to grasp objects .. 
Police say two elderly women were in their home on Cedar Lane in the Hillsmere community about 3:20 a.m. Monday when the man kicked in the door. He demanded money, but they said they had none. 
Police said after the man started going through a purse, one of the women 
TODAY 
a:: 


Kennedy Collins 
sophomore Fisher 
"Wear my sunglasses. , 


COLEMAN COLLINSffhe Observer 
Workers take down scaffolding from the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. It underwent repair from damage caused by wind shears in May 2007. 
OFFBEAT 
4 feet deep, is "not exactly small." He said that even if the thieves had a pickup truck, the hood wouldn't be easy to carry otT. 
Tracy, who's worked for Hershey's for 23 years, discovered the theft when he got to work Monday morning. Augusta police said the thieves probably needed a hood identical to the one on the ice cream truck. 
Hershey's Augusta ware­house has six trucks that deliver through Maine and northern New Hampshire. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
grabbed the reacher and used it to repel him. Police said the man !led with the purse. 
Thieves steal hood from ice cream delivery truck 
AUGUSTA, Maine ­Dave Tracy said he can understand thieves snatch­ing iee cream from one of the Hershey's delivery trucks he manages. But stealing a hood off the truck? The branch manag­er at Hershey's Augusta warehouse said "nothing like this has ever hap­pened." 
Tracy said the fiberglass hood, at 7 1/2 by 6 feet and 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
LLI :I: 
!ci: 
LLI 
3: 
...... 
<
(.) 0 


HIGH 82
...I LOW 58 

72 58 

85 58 

83 60 

Juliet Joly 
junior Farley 
"Look at the sky. It's usually 
,
so gray. 
IN BRIEF 

Campus Ministry will sponsor a Ukrainian Byzantine Catholic Divine Liturgy as part of the Evenings of Prayer from Around the World Series today at St. Michael The Archangel Ukrainian Byzantine Catholic Church. Hides will be available at 3:lO Coleman-Morse at 6 p.m. 
The Ford Family Program in Human Development Studies and Solidarity opens Thursday at 4 p.m. with a leeture by Oxford University economist Paul Collier, author of the award-winning book "The Bottom Billion." The lecture, whieh is free and open to the public, will takn plaee in the Hesburgh Center auditorium with a reception to follow. 
Saint Mary's College is host­ing a book release for communi­cations professor Terri Russ' 
, book "Bi***in' Bodies: Young Women Talk About Body dis­satisfaction" this Thursday at 7 
p.m. in the Student Center Lounge. 
The movie "Pygmalion" will be shown Thursday at 7 p.m. in Vander Vennet Theater at Saint Mary's as part of the 2008 "Professor's Choice Film Series." Corum unications pro­fessor Susan Baxter, who chose the film, will introduce it then lead a discussion following the film. · 
Rescheduled due to rain, Cirque du Lac, hosted by Lyons Hall, will take place Friday from 1 -4 p.m. on South Quad. The carnival will benefit Hannah & Friends. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
GAME DAY SUNDAY 

80 60 

HIGH 73 LOW 55 

Wednesday, September 24, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC hosts lecture on voting policies 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 
This week Saint Mary's hosted Indiana University South Bend Political Science professor Elizabeth Bennion in a lecture called "What Difference Does it Make to Vote?" as a part of the College's third Super Tuesday event. 
Bennion is a member of the League of Women Voters 
'The candidates have 
and has to be proud of worked with opposing philosophies and that some­both the Rock times the one
and policy

the Vote and vote a person
recommendations on the
Youth in the doesn't think Vote cam­economy, health care, counts will work paigns intend­and national security.,, to cancel out the 
ed at drawing vote of someone younger voters else. 
Elizabeth Bennion
to the polls. "As ridiculous Beginning I.U.S.B. political as it sounds, if the lecture she science professor your spouse, par­
asked the audience to think about the staunch differences between John McCain and Barack Obama. 
"The candidates have opposing philosophies and policy recommen­dations on the economy, health care, and national security," she said. 
Bennion explained how Obama wants to increase taxes on people that make over $600,000 per year while McCain wants to cut taxes for the same people. 
"As women, the abortion issue obviously effects us but deeper than that there is the Equal Pay Act that gives women the opportunity to receive the same pay as men," Bennion said. "Obama supports it, McCain does not." 
Bennion said she wanted to dis­courage people from thinking their vote wouldn't count because they are just one person. 
"Voting is a right that many citi­zens throw away and take for grant­ed without thinking of all the people who fought for their right to vote," she said. 
She also stated that wearing an "I 
voted!" sticker is 
a badge of honor 
ent, brother or 
sister is voting for the opposite candidate you are, the incentive to vote for your candidate is just to cancel out theirs," she said. 
Bennion said voters need to be better-informed. 
"Not knowing how an absentee ballot works or being too tired from the party last night are not excuses," she said. "Make your voice be heard." 
Every Tuesday through Election Day, Saint Mary's will host events aimed to inform students about the issues of the election. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayer@saintmarys.edu 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Group approves appoint111ent 
Sophomore Kate Clitheroe will serve as Freshman Class Council Liason 
ByJOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) unani­mously approved the appoint­ment of sophomore Kate Clitheroe as Freshman Class Council Liaison at its meeting Tuesday. 
Clitheroe served as the Freshman Class Council President last year and is 
ideas," she said. 

Clitheroe will be in a posi­tion to "inspire leadership in the freshmen," Weber said. 
Clitheroe said that her posi­tion as sophomore class vice president will not distract her from being an available soph­omore advisor. Instead, it will enhance her value to the Freshman Class Council team. 
"We're going to be more col­laborative this year, so we'll 
be good," she 
said. 

currently serv­"Freshman Class As sopho­ing as sopho­more liaison,
Council has been 

more class vice she will be 
president. She assembled, but people required to 
also serves as don't really know what "attend the spirit com­Freshman
they're doing.,, 

missioner of Class Council Lewis Hall and meetings, is a member of Cynthia Weber assist them in 
the Circle K Sophomore class president making feasi­
club. 
Clitheroe's new position is important because freshmen serving on class council are always in need of some guidance, according to Sophomore Class President Cynthia Weber. 
"Freshman Class Council has been assembled, but peo­ple don't really know what they're doing," she said. 
Weber said that in her own experiences as a member of Freshman Class Council last year, the former sophomore advisor, Jeff Lakusta, helped to keep the group focused. 
"In a friendly way, he shot down some of our dumber 

ble goals, 
guide their event planning, and encour­age them to build class unity," Weber said in a letter distrib­uted to COR members. 
Following Clitheroe's confir­mation, the council discussed the new "What's the Deal with... ?" question series that will be conducted by the stu­dent outreach committee. The series is designed to "dispel some myths about the bigger mysteries of the University that really don't need to be bigger mysteries, but it's just that no one has ever explained them," student body president Bob Reish said. 
Reish proposed topics including how the commence­ment speaker is chosen, what the actual rules regarding Breytopia are and how DART times are chosen for the series. 
Reish said that the plan for the series is "to ask whoever's in charge of [a particular issue] and summarize it in layman's terms." 
Junior class president Kim Kyroac said that she liked the question series idea, but that she didn't know how students are going to hear the answers. Reish suggested several options to disseminate the information, including buying an advertisement in The Observer and sending weekly e-mails to students. 
Reish said that he doesn't anticipate problems getting cooperation from the University on this project. "University officials don't mind informing students about this stuff," he said. "Informing students and being transparent is what [Student Body Vice President] Grant [Schmidt] and I are all about." 
In other COR news 
+Reish said that the free student movie "rental" pro­gram will begin within the next three weeks. The pro­gram is just waiting on "logis­tics," he said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtieruel@nd.edu 



II Irish 

luxury apartments
ROW 

said. Hay discussed eating disor­

Body 

ders and disordered eating 

continued from page 1 
Your Body and the Planet" on Tuesday and Thursday's book release. according to fliers posted around the College. 
The fliers also asked for donations of "beauty and body products" for St. Margaret's House. 
As of Tuesday night. the organizers still hadn't received 
with the way that things are coming out now," she said. 
Monday's event was a group discussion led by alumna Justine Hay, founder of the College's Freedom Hevolution. Faunce said. 
"It was important that we brought in someone that stu­dents can relate to ... bring­ing Justine in really helped," she said. 
About 12 students. faculty and staff joined in to discuss body image at Saint tvfary's, she said. 
The part of the talk Ray emphasized was her asser­tion that if women spent the time they typically spend worrying about their appear­ance on something more pro­ductive "we would have so much more power," Faunce and answered questions about what to do in situa­tions where they or friends may have eating disorders, she said. 

"She said it's important to know that most people don't have eating disorders but they can support each other," Faunce said. 
Love Your Body and the 
Planet was held 
in the Saint 
Mary's Student
any "'t was important
donations, but Center Lounge they were still that we brought in last night. hopeful. Nearly 15 peo­
someone that 
Faunce said. ple attended the
students can relate to
"It's still talk led by early in the ... bringing Justine in J o a n n a week." she really helped. " Livierantos. said. "Our big The main dis-event is cuss ion was 
Beckl Faunce
Thursday." concerning ''I'm happy senior "sustainable 
beauty" and 
prizes were given away, according to the fliers posed around campus. 
Before the event, Faunce said she was hoping "we can get as many people that show up," but there are "a lot of benefits to a small group because we can have a really good discussion," she said. 
The week culminates with Russ· book release on Thursday. The release will include a book reading and signing and an interpretive dance called "Because of Barbie's and Other Dumb Broads." 
"It's not just going to be a book release," Faunce said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Ritter 
continued from page 1 
most by the poor, he said, especially those who live in eoastal areas. 
Hitter used his experience in Africa to diseuss how to wrestle with another Catholie teach­

ing in politics -ful difference,"
"We, as a country,
social justice. on the social
have a moral
"We, as a justice front, country, have a imperative to he said, when moral impera­the discussion
help other 
tive to help turned to
people in the world. " 
other pnopln in immigration. the world," he "Catholic said. Bill Ritter social justice 
lie said he teaching
Colorado Governor 
bdieves people nxperinnen call­ings, and some­thing that has always been important to him is "having some quiet in your life to hear the ealling." 

lie and his wife together felt a strong pull to go to Africa as Catholic missionaries with their young son over a dnead~1 ago with the Missionary Oblates of Mary Immaculate for thrnn years. 
While working in a nutrition edueation program, Hitter saw first hand the devastation of thn AIDS epidemic ravaging Sub-Saharan Africa. He and his wife began teaching AIDS prevention, including the use of condoms, "even though it was against Church doctrine," he said. 
"Finding out how to navi­gate those issues. as a Catholic, is hard," Ritter said. 
There is a difference between rheto­ric and "mak­ing a meaning­
should teach 
us to have a 
soft heart for the people," he said. 
The importance of social justice eannot be emphasized on a purely domestic or pure­ly international level, Ritter said. "It's not one versus the other. We must act globally as a country." 
Hitter took time to speak individually with most of the students in attendance after the one-hour discussion. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 





ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 24, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Teenage Finnish gunman kills I 0 
KAUIIAJOKI, Finland -A chilling YouTube video with a young man firing a pistol and warn­ing "You will die next" caught the eye of police, who questioned him but then let him go, saying they didn't have enough evidence to take away his weapon. 
On Tuesday, he walked into a vocational col­lege, the School of Hospitality, and opened fire, killing 10 people and burning their bodies with fimbombs before shooting himself fatally in the head. At least two other people were wounded. 
The rampage bore eerie similarities to another school massacre in Finland last year in which an 18-year-old gunman killed eight people and himself. Both gunmen posted violent clips on YouTube prior to the shootings, both were fasci­nated by the 1999 Columbine school shootings in Colorado. both attacked their own schools and both died after shooting themselves in the head. 
China's milk supply contaminated 
BEIJING -The note posted in July on the Web site of China's food safety inspection agency came from a doctor: There had been a sudden rise in infants turning up at his hospital with kidney stones after drinking the same brand of formula. 
The warning, which urged an investiga­tion, went unheeded. In the two weeks since China began piecemeal reporting about con­tamination of the milk supply, a picture has emerged of official indifference, greed and government dysfunction. 
Among the startling details: the practice of adulterating milk was widely known in the industry, and one dairy knew since late last year that its formula was sickening children. 
The revelations have dismayed a broad segment of the public -parents -who feel the government has breached their trust. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Ga. imnate gets h& minute reprieve 
ATlANTA-The U.S. Supreme Court gave a reprieve to a Georgia inmate less than two hours before he was to be executed Tuesday for the 1989 slaying of an off-duty police officer. 
Supporters of 39-year-old Troy Davis have called for a new trial as seven of the nine wit­nesses who helped put him on death row recanted their testimony. Protesters had arrived by the busload to protest the execution, carrying signs with slogans like "Justice for Troy Davis" and wearing blue T-shirts embla­zoned with "I am Troy Davis." A crowd of about 50 erupted in cheers when the stay, granted around 5:20 p.m., was announced. 
The Hev. AI Sharpton had accompanied members of Davis' family to the protest, includ­ing Davis' mother, Virginia. 
Texasindictsthree more polygamists 
ELDORADO, Texas -A west Texas grand jury investigating allegations that members of a polygamist sect sexually abused girls indicted three more people Tuesday, raising the number of defendants in the case to nine. 
Each of the sect members indicted Tuesday by the Schleicher County grand jury was charged with sexual assault of a child, and two face an additional charge of bigamy, state Attorney General Greg Abbott said in a statement. 
The names of those charged were not immediately released, but none had been charged previously. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Man pleads not guilty to murder 
OlOWN POINT, Ind. -A Gary man accused of a 26-yP..ar-old shootingsays he's innocent of the murder. 
Sixty-five-year-old Fred Gordon pleaded not guilty to murder Tuesday in a Lake County courtroom. 
Gordon was charged last week in the 1982 shooting death of Roger Hilton, the owner of a used car lot in Gary. 
Police say a mend of Gordon's told officers that Gordon confessed to him months after the shoot­ing, saying he shot someone outside a trailer in a dispute over car payments and was questioned by police. 
ELECTION 2008 

Palin 111eets her first foreign leaders 


Vice presidential candidate met with Afghan and Colombian Presidents 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -It was a tightly controlled crash course on foreign policy for the Republican vice presi­dential candidate, the mayor-turned-governor who has been outside North America just once. 
Palin sat down with Afghan President Hamid Karzai and Colombian President Alvaro Uribe. The conversations were private, the pictures public, meant to build her resume for voters concerned about her lack of experience in world affairs. 
"I found her quite a capa­ble woman," Karzai said later. "She asked the right questions on Afghanistan." 
The self-described "hock­ey mom" also asked former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger for insights on Georgia, Russia, China and Iran, and she'll see more leaders Wednesday on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly meetings. 

It was shuttle diplomacy, New York-style. At several points, Palin's motorcade got stuck in traffic and New Yorkers, unimpressed with the flashing lights, sirens and police officers in her group, simply walked between the vehicles to get across the street. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, three hours behind Palin in was supplying TV footage to But Palin, who got a pass­hand during her meetings. seeing Karzai, found herself a variety of networks, decid­port only last year, no longer Another adviser, Stephen overshadowed for a day as ed to pull its TV crew from has to own up to a blank Biegun, also accompanied she made her own rounds. Palin's meeting with Karzai. slate when asked about her at each meeting and 
John McCain's presidential Overheard: small talk. heads of state she has met. briefed reporters later. campaign has shielded the Palin is studying foreign She also got her first intel­Karzai and Palin discussed first-term Alaska governor policy ahead of her one ligence briefing Tuesday, security problems in for weeks from spontaneous debate with Democratic vice over two hours. Afghanistan, including questions from voters and presidential candidate Joe . Karzai generated light cross-border insurgencies. reporters, and went to strik­Biden, a senator with deep laughter when he told an They also talked about the ing lengths Tuesday to main­credentials on that front. audience at the Asia Society need for more U.S. troops tain that distance as Palin· More broadly, the that, in addition to Rice and there, which both McCain made her diplomatic debut. Republican ticket is trying to Norway's prime minister, he and Democrat Barack 
The GOP campaign, apply­counter questions exploited had seen Palin on Tuesday. Obama say is necessary, ing more restrictive rules on by Democrats about her Thomas Preston, a member Biegun said. access than even President qualifications to serve as of the society's board, drew With both Karzai and Bush uses in the White vice president and step into loud applause and laughter Uribe, Palin discussed the House, banned reporters the presidency at a when he responded: "You're importance of energy securi­from the start of the meet­moment's notice if neces­probably the only person in ty. With Uribe, the conversa­ings, so as not to risk a ques­sary. the room who's met Gov. tion also touched on the pro­tion being asked of Palin. There was no chance of Palin." posed U.S.-Colombian Free 
McCain aides relented putting such questions to Randy Scheunemann, a Trade Agreement that after news organizations rest with photo opportuni­longtime McCain aide on McCain and Palin support objected and CNN, which ties Tuesday. foreign policy, was close at but Obama opposes. 



More troops to be sent to Afghanistan 
Gates said they probably could go in for in Afghanistan." 

Associated Press the spring and summer of 2009. Each In response, Gates offered the likely WASHINGTON -Up to three more brigade has about 3,500 troops. troop buildup next spring, but cau­combat brigades could be available Levin objected to a statement in tioned that the next president will to go to Afghanistan beginning next Gates' prepared testimony that said it have to weigh how large a U.S. force spring, in answer to repeated calls now may be "possible" to do militari­should be sent to Afghanistan, given from commanders for more troops, ly what must be done in Afghanistan that the population does not readily Defense Secretary Robert Gates said -which has been a secondary prior­welcome foreign forces there. Tuesday. ity to the Iraq war for years. "I think we need to think about Gates told the Senate Armed "It seems to me that is just simply how heavy a military footprint the Services Committee that more forces not good enough," said Levin. "To say United States ought to have in can't be committed now without it's possible that we'll do what we Afghanistan," said Gates, or "are we extending combat tours or changing must do in Afghanistan does not rep­better off channeling resources into troop deployments. But, in response resent the kind of commitment of building and expanding the size of to prodding from the committee's forces or resources that our com­the Afghan national army as quickly chairman, Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., manders on the ground are asking us as possible." 
Foru01 
continued from page 1 
The nnw ollieo will serve to pro­
vide necessary structure and 
accountability for the University, 
Mazurek said. 
While sustainability reporl<; may 
have played somn role in his 
Off'iee's formation, Mazurek 
downplayed their importanee. 
"I consider those ratings more 
noise than anything," he said, but 
added that lw recognizes the 
importance of these ratings to 
otlwrs, especially when the grade 
is a D-, the grade given to Notre 
Dame by the Sustainable 
Endowment<; Institute in 2007. 
Aller the University announced thn formation of the Office of Sustainability in January, Marzurek. a Notre Dame gradu­ate, was selected as the Office's din~ctor in May and given an ini­tial $2 million green loan lund to help jumpstart improvements on campus. 
Since his appointment in May, Mazurek assembled a team that indudes two additional full-time stall' members and four student interns, hn said. 
Engineering Professor Frank lneropera, who serves as the 200S Notre Dame Forum eo-chair, said the University was delayed in taking substantive administrative action on sustainability, but its current actions have shown progress. 
"!The University! was slow to idnntily this as an important issue one for which an institutional commitment has to be made," lneropnra said. "But it's been very quick to develop signilieant pro­grams to be good dtizens." 
This late response to the sus­tainability issue is what makes the University's actions all the more import<mt, according to GreeND president Lourdes Long. 
"Notn~ Dame is behind on thi<;," she said. "The Office lof Sustainability) knows that we havn a lot of work to do." 
But Long, a senior, said the University will do a good job in addressing sustainability. 
"When Notre Damn decides to do something, it does it right," she said. 
She also eited the high level of involvement of the trustees and the upper leveL'> of administrative off'icers as a sign that the University is genuine about its eommitment to sustainability. 
Students for Environmental Action (SEA) eo-president Tracy .Jennings, a junior, said the involvement of alumni is critical to the new enthusiasm on campus for sustainability. 
"I would like to think that the University would have always liked to be sustainable and that the ID-1 report card drew a lot of support from the alumni," she said. "It put thi<; issue at the fore­front more than it created the impetus to !take action]." 

Student involvement in sustain­ability 
Student involvement in sustain­
ability and environmental issues 
comes mostly through the groups 
GreeND and SEA, which are 
linked to each other. 
"All these groups work togeth­
er," Long said. "We're in constant 
communication and share leader­
ship." 
But while the 1-,rroups are fight­
ing on the same side, they 
approach the battle with a dilfer­
ent perspective. 
"The thing for GreeND is that 
we really pull together all the 
interests," Long said, citing issues 
such as energy policy, energy 
technology, and recycling that the 
group addresses. 
"GreeND is the University's 
response to make::· campus a 
"J ..l> h .

greener p ace, I enmngs, w o IS 
also a GreeND member, said. 
SEA, on the other hand, is a 
social action dub organized out of 
the Center li1r Social Concerns. Its 
focus is more on the environment 
outside the Notre Dame campus' 
bubble. 
"We do community outreach 
like tree planting, river cleanups 
on St. Joseph's River, and dilliwent 
activities outdoors," Jennings 
said. "We need to remember that 
we're part of a bigger communi­
ty." 

"We focus on providing services 
to the greater South Bend com­
munity and on lulfilling the CSC's 
mission for social justice," she 
said. 

SEA also distinguishes itself by focusing on many environmental issues, not just energy, according to Jennings. "SEA has always been more concerned with the holistic view of the environment," she said. 
While SEA has been active at 
Notre Dame for many years, 
GreeNO is a more recent develop­
ment. The group was formed in 
Nov. 2007 and achieved oflicial 
club status in July of this year, 
according to the GreeNO Web site. 
GreeNO is elosely linked with the Office of Sustainability, both by its missions and its work, aecording to Long, who also serves as a student intern at the Ofl'ice. Each group needs the other group to cause any real change. 
"If you think about all these dif­ferent things popping up across (:ampus, a lot of this cqmes from student initiatives," she said. "The administration was right there with us, and that's what made it a success." 
Thursday's installment will examine Notre Dame's overall environmental impact, ranging from energy consumption to waste disposal. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu and John Tierney at jtiemel@nd.edu 
the growth of poverty in the United States.

Crisis 

"The number of people who are continued from page I visiting soup kitchens and food banks are rising dramatically," she 
lie highlighted the problems that said. havn caused the United States' eco-She said the policies both John nomic woos. McCain and 
"The fimr major Barack Obama problems of the "Each candidate's have detailed dur­economy are the proposals stay ing their cam­finaneial melt­paigns to help the
straight along their 
down, leading to a impoverished rm:ns..<;ion, increa<;­party lines." aren't very biparti­ing inequality and san. poverty, less "Each candi­
Jennifer Warlick 
secure middle and date's proposals
Economics and policy 
uppnr da<;ses, mul stay straight along 
studies professor 
outrageous gas their party lines," and horne heating she said. prices," he said. Williams ended 
Warlick said these problems the session by explaining the hous­Huc:do laid out havn contributed to ing situation in the eountry. 

Office of International Studies Program in 




DUBLIN , IRELAND 
A Y 2009-201 0 
Trinity College 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Thursday, Sept. 25, 2008 
7:00 pm 231 Hayes Healy 
Application Deadline: NOVEMBER 15,2008 F 0 R A CAD E M I C YEAR 2009-2010 
APPLICATION AVAILABLE: WWW.ND.EDU/-OIS 




When we can open your eyes to the rest of the world. 


"If people can't get loans for issues. homes, the prices fall even further," "You are giving evidence that you he said. "We have to get people care about these issues, and I am lending money again." very plea'ied by that," he said. 
Ruccio said he was glad the Pizza Pop and Politics is spon­event attracted a lot of students sored by ND Votes '08, a part of the becauS(J those students show that Center f(}r Social Concerns, and the they are trying to understand the Wa<;hington Program. 
There Is a world waiting for you at BP A world of ideas and expertise, thought leadership and career support. Join us in any of our engineering, acience and bus.ness programs and you'll soon :!188 what It means to be part of a global bu~ness like BP. Look beyond the limita. 
BP Engln-lng lnformlltlon Seaalon 
ThuradiiJ, September 2&, 2008 8-Bpm 
318 DeBartolo Hall 
BP is on equal opportunity employer. 
beyond petroleum 
bp.com!uscollegecareers 

The next ND Votes '08 event will be a Debate Watch. The first Presidential Debate will be shown on Friday at 9 p.m. in the Coleman­Morse Lounge. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel @nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS

Wednesday, September 24, 2008 page7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 10,854.17 -161.52
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 966 58 2,488 971,212,779 
AMEX'""'""ntB.J::4111f~~~~t~'lllllllllllll~1lll(ll 
NASDAQ 2,153.33 -25.65 NYSE 7,785.27 S&P 500 1,188.22 -18.87 NIKKEI {Tokyo)· ·12,090.59. ..{Jfii:lf(l FTSE 100 (London) 5.136.12 -100.14 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -2.28  -2.76  118.55  
AMER INTL GROUP INC (AIG)  +5.93  +0.28  5.00  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -0.76  -0.31  40.57  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  -0.29  -0.06  20.49  

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.39 +0.015 3.841 13-WEEK BILL -8.57 -0.070 0.800 30-YEAR BOND +0.61 +0.027 4.434 5-YEAR NOTE -0.46 -0.014 3.023 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.76 106.61 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -17.80 891.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.28 95.00 
Exchange Rates YEN 105.5950 EURO 0.6805 
IN BRIEF 
Medirnre payed billions in su;pect claims 
WASHINGTON -The government paid more than $1 billion in questionable Medicare claims for medical supplies that showed little relation to a patient's condition, including blood glucose strips for sexual impotence and special diabetic shoes for leg amputees, con­gressional investigators say. 
Billions more in taxpayer dollars may have been wasted over the last decade because the government-run health program for the elder­ly and disabled paid out claims with blank or invalid diagnosis codes, such as a "?" or "zzzzz." Medicare officials say even smiley­face icons could have been accepted. 
The report by Republicans on the Senate Homeland Security investigations subcommit­tee, obtained by The Associated Press, is the latest to detail lax oversight in the $400 billion program that has been cited by government auditors as a high-risk for fraud and waste for nearly 20 years. 
The panel's review of millions of claims sub­mitted by sellers of wheelchairs, drugs and other medical supplies on behalf of Medicare patients from 2001 to 2006 found at least $1 billion in which the listed diagnosis code appeared to have little, if any, connection to the reimbursed medical item. 

Dems to let offshore drilling ban expire 
WASHINGTON -Democrats have decided to allow a quarter-century ban on drilling for oil off the Atlantic and Pacific coasts to expire next week, conceding defeat in a months-long battle with the White House and Republicans set off by $4 a gallon gasoline prices this summer. 
House Appropriations Committee Chairman David Obey, D-Wis., told reporters Tuesday that a provision continu­ing the moratorium will be dropped this year from a stopgap spending bill to keep the government running after Congress recesses for the election. 
Republicans have made lifting the ban a key campaign issue after gasoline prices spiked this summer and public opinion turned in favor of more drilling. President Bush lifted an executive ban on offshore drilling in July. 
Dire warnings fail to sway senators 
Threat ofrecession does not convince Congress to pass $700 billion bailout plan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Refusing to be pushed, 
Republicans and 
Democrats alike rebuffed 
dire warnings Tuesday 
from the government's 
top economic officials of 
recession, layoffs and 
foreclosed homes if 
Congress doesn't quickly 
approve the administra­
tion's emergency $700 
billion financial bailout 
plan. 

Congressional leaders 
still predicted passage ­
with significant changes 
-but Wall Street's 
nerves were hardly 
soothed. The Dow Jones 
industrials sank 161 
points and now are off 
more than 500 this week 
after initially surging on 
the bailout announce­
ment last week. 

Deepening market trou­
ble was just one piece of 
the economic havoc that 
Federal Reserve 
Chairman Ben Bernanke 
and Treasury Secretary 
Henry Paulson told sena­
tors would ensue if 
Congress lags in acting on 
the administration's pro­
posal to rescue tottering 
financial institutions. 
"I share the outrage 
that people have," 
Paulson said. "It's embar­
rassing to look at this. I 
think it's embarrassing to 
the United States of 
America. There is a lot of ing would allow the gov­tration on domestic John Boehner of Ohio, the 
blame to go around." ernment to buy bad mort­spending and middle­Republican leader. He 
But without the bailout gages and other rotten class economic aid. And said he was hopeful of a 
plan, Paulson and assets held by troubled they said Republicans quick agreement, despite 
Bernanke sketched out a banks and financial insti­had to share in the politi­withering criticism from 
dire scenario for senators tutions. Getting those cally tricky task of push­conservative GOP law­
at a contentious daylong debts off their books ing through a financial makers who recoiled at 
hearing: Neither busi­should bolster those com­bailout six weeks before the prospect of federal 
nesses nor consumers panies' balance sheets, the elections at a time intervention. 
would be able to borrow making them more when millions of everyday Sen. Jim Bunning, R­
money, and the world's inclined to lend and eas­Americans are economi­Ky., said, "This massive 
largest economy would ing one of the biggest cally strapped. bailout is not a solution. 
grind to a virtual halt. choke points in the credit "It's their problem. It's It is financial socialism 
In public and in private crisis. If the plan works, their bill. And they're and it's un-American." 
meetings, both Democrats it should help lift a major going to have to figure Separately, law 
and Republicans said big weight off the national out if they can support enforcement officials 
changes are needed, pre­economy that is already it," House Speaker Nancy said the FBI had begun 
saging a difficult road sputtering. Pelosi, D-Calif., said of investigating four institu­
ahead for the measure. Democrats were deter­Republicans. tions whose collapse 
The legislation the mined to wrest conces­"Nobody wants to have helped trigger the finan­
administration is promot-sions from the adminis-to du this," agreed Rep. cial crisis. 

Coogle phone to cost $179, debut Oct. 22 
Associated Press work. By launch, that will be 21 cities, more money selling ads that get 
including New York, Los Angeles, shown on mobile devices than on PCs, 
NEW YORK -The first phone that Houston and Miami. a channel that will generate about harnesses Google Inc.'s ambition to In other areas, people will be able to $20 billion in revenue this year. make the Internet easy to use on the buy the phone from T-Mobile's Web Both Yahoo Inc. and Microsoft Corp. go was revealed Tuesday, and it looks site. The phone does work on T­also are investing heavily in the a lot like an iPhone. Mobile's slower data network, but it's mobile market in hopes of preventing 
T-Mobile USA showed off the G1, a optimized for the faster networks. It Google from extending the dominance phone that, like Apple Inc.'s iPhone, can also connect at Wi-Fi hotspots. it enjoys in searches initiated on PCs. has a large touch screen. But it also The data plan for the phone will In an interview, Google co-founder packs a trackball, a slide-out key­cost $25 per month on top of the call­Sergey Brin said Google's aims are board and easy access to Google's e­ing service, at the low end of the broader than mobile advertising. mail and mapping programs. range for data plans at U.S. wireless "Generally, we think if there are 
T-Mobile said it will begin selling the carriers. And at $179, the G1 is $20 great (operating systems) out there G1 for $179 with a two-year contract. less than the least expensive iPhone in that let people have great devices and The device hits U.S. stores Oct. 22 and the U.S. great applications, people use the heads to Britain in November and Android, the free software powering Internet on their phones much more," other European countries early next the G1, is a crucial building block in Brin said at the launch event in New year. Coogle's efforts to make its search York. "And whenever people use the 
The phone will be sold in T-Mobile engine and other services as accessi­Internet more, they end up using our stores only in the U.S. cities where the ble on cell phones as they already are services, and ultimately, that's good company has rolled out its faster, on personal computers. The company for our business. There's no secret third-generation wireless data net-believes it eventually might make plan to have ads pop up or anything." 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, September 24, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
It's me manifesto 
PO. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining I !all. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
A~s1; MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler A~s·r; MANAt;rNG EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: )t·nn Mctz 
VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harrer 
I'HOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
An DF$1GN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarty 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 ohservad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 ohsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 
(574) 631-5323 ohsnews.1 @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.t'du 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. Editorial comt·m, including advertisements, is not governed by policit·s of rhe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to rditse advcrtiscmt'llts based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assi,tant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lettt•rs and columns present the views of tht• authors and not necessarily those ofThe ( )bservcr. 
Viewpoint space is available to all reader,. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is t·ncouragcd. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact inti>rmation. 
Questiow rrgarding Obsl'rver policies should bt' diremd to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

·n~e c.>hw::rYC"r (USI'S ~9') 2-41100) II ruhtl5il<:d Mondny tllHIUglt Friday C1«<pp dunng cum .md v.t~.'11fi11n ~'Ctittdll. A•ublcnflliun 1o'01e Oh!ICTYC'r i1 $100 fur ~•nc o~c:adcmk yc:;u: $55 fur one ~~eme\tc:r 
lbc Ob.erver il publilhcd .u. POSTMASTER 024 South Dimng lla.U Send o1ddrcliS corrccdom m: Not~ Oo1mt,IN 465~0779 TheOb~rvtr I\:riodkal potu~c paid ;u Nmrc OilOlc r.o. Boxn9 and .Jdiliulul m<tiling office;. 024 South Dining H~l 
NQt~ Dame, IN 46'SS6+0779 
1l1c O!wcrwr il1t mcmbct of rhc ~ted ftfl:l.<!. AU reproduaiun riglus 111c raervcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Liz Harter Fran Tolan Madeline Buckley Jared Jedick Kelly Davis Shane Steinburg Graphics Scene Mary Cecilia Michelle Fordice Mitsch Viewpoint Patricia Fernandez 
How do you sign people's yearbooks? 
Some leave a generic message: "I can't bolieve we made it through a whole year! It's been awesome getting to know you bettor. I hope you keep in touch." 
Others detest the imporsonality of such a message. These protesters domand a higher quality from the yearbook message as an entity and only write in the yoarbooks of thoso for whom they can write a poignant and meaningful note. Yot though the recipient may appreciate this type of message in the end there are costs: pri­marily the cost of the author having to turn people away when they ask, "Hey! Joe! Sign my yearbook!" As the "no" leaves the lips of the yearbook-idealist, Joe will immediately become the big jerk face who sucks (the lesson being that those who think they should take the message high ground are actually just big jerk faces who suck). 
Finally, there aro those among us who choose neither the personal nor the impersonal route to the message. The pressure to write in so many books builds and builds to feverish levels. Constant hounding and cajoling wear down the souls of these poor saps, still holding out on putting pen to paper, until finally they have no choice but to take every book they're handed and write the most superfluous and vacuous four-letter acronym in existence: hags. 
So where do we go from here? Let me reformulate my initial statement. Instead of asking you how you sign people's yearbooks, let me tell you how I sign people's yearbooks. And to do so, I'll employ the best kind of evidence ­anecdotal evidence. 

In late May of my freshman year of high school, as the yearbooks were released, I decided I didn't want my friends to remembnr me as the dull guy, the sentimental guy, or the generically complacent guy. I wanted them to remember me as the funny guy -the guy whose message on which they could look back years from now and say, "Gosh darn it! That Andrew Miller sure was one funny son of a gun!" 
But how to be the funny guy? How could I write such messages so that a majority of my friends (the total number of my friends at that time being no more than ten, just as a point of reference) would recognize the power of my rapier wit'? I realized the only way I could bring about such a reaction would be by mak­ing a reference so clever, so hilarious, they would be hard-pressed not to remember me. 
So then the issue became what is the perfect rderence? It had to be something vaguely recognizable yet obscure enough to be unique. Something outlandishly funny yet with a hint of poignancy. Something ironic yet heart-warming. 
I started thinking about end-of-year themed episodes of various programs and I remembered one that I always admired: the two-part Boy Meets World episode that contains the Mr. Feeney retirement flash-forward ("The War/Seven the Hard Way"). In this hour­long episode, the seven principles allow a prank war to escalate to the point where none of them wants to have any­thing to do with any of the others. During the flash-forward it's revealed that since the prank war, the only two who have remained in contact are the married Corey and Topanga (and they're in cou­ples therapy). Eric shows up as his new personality, the reclusive Plays With Squirrels, and shares with everyone his life's work, a compendium of all his knowledge: Lose one friend, Lose all friends, Lose yourself. 
Suddenly it hit me. Thenl it was. Those three lines. That would be my yearbook message. And I wrote those three linP-s in every singJp, yearbook I sigrwd to friP-nd and foe alike. Lose one friend, Lose all friends, Lose yourself. 
Now many people will diseount this reference as unimportant and too obscure. The nay-sayers will come at me with comments like: "Boy Meets World stopped being good after everyone start­ed attending college. Those arnn 't the classic episodes. Nobody earns about those refernnces." I fervently disagreo. The show became infinitely funnier as the writers allowed the characters to be more absurd, exploring the limits of what could reasonably sustain a show once driven by Ben Savage's quickly waning cuteness factor. I had the refer­ence and I had the justification. 
The owners of some of the yearbooks I signed didn't get it; to them I explained myself. Others didn't earn. But they probably wouldn't have carnd even if I tried to write a personalizPd message because they probably had no intention of ever reading the messages they received. But there were a select few who appreciated and admirPd my comedic sensibility. And in the end, what is the point of a yearbook message if not to glorify and accentuate the ego of the composer. 
Since that year I have always tried to employ this method of yearbook signing. Find the reference and all else will fall in place. Avoid the campy, avoid the trite, avoid the real. Go straight for Plays With Squirrels and all problems will be solved. 
And that's how I sign people's year­books. 
Andrew Miller is a senior English major. lie can be contacted at amille 15@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 

Are you going to the Forum? 
Yes No That will be a game time decision. 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Oh ... my ... God!" 
Janice the one on "Friends" with the annoying voice 
..------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 24, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Energy conservation begins vvith us 
One of the events offered as part of ener­gy week is a tour of the Notre Dame Power Plant. 
My roommate and I decided to take the tour, hoping it would be a bit more than a way to avoid studying for our linear alge­bra test. I was expecting mostly under­graduate students on the tour, but was surprised to find a few professors, a priest, and several adults in business casual out­fits. 
The tour was much more than an overview of how energy was produced from fuel and shuttled to campus-not to say that isn't interesting, just maybe not to the average reader-but also a real idea of what effects my energy usage has on my community. 
With the Forum this week, energy sources and usage is getting a lot of atten­tion. But besides the fact that its the new hip thing to be green, it's important to realize that the effects of our energy con­science are everywhere. 
For example, I learned later in the tour that the well-dressed adults were from accounting, and were on the tour to see what sort of accountability there was for energy usage in specific buildings. One of the students was there to learn about why our power plant uses coal rather than cleaner fuels. One of the professors was asking about the power usage of the research facilities he accessed on campus. Some people at the plant were thinking about the environment, others about money and some (me and my roommate) about if our engineering degrees would require us to read such complicated dis­plays. 
But all joking aside, it wasn't exactly an uplifting message. The fact is, a lot of the energy that the plant is forced to produce is wasted. Some TVs use up to 60 percent of the power when they are in standby as when they are on. Our school used enough hot water to supply 20,000 homes. 
So go to the Forum, read the energy poli­cies of the presidential candidates, but whatever you do, don't forget that the biggest difference you can make is the act of moving your arm two feet to turn off a light, or stepping on the power strip that connects all of your appliances. 
Our tour guide has been working at the plant for seven years, and he says his kids have always complained because he turns off the TV at night rather than keep it on standby, which causes the TV to take a minute to turn on in the morning. 
Well he not only pays the bills for his energy use, he puts in the hours for ours. Even though we don't have to send a check for our energy use, someone does. Who knows, maybe that gets added onto fees as well. 
So next time you are about to walk out the door with your laptop on sleep mode, think to yourself, "Well, maybe if I turn off my computer, football tickets will be cheaper next year." It could be true. 
Steve Mattix 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
Sept. 22 

Accepting consequences 
In his Letter to the Editor concerning the University's supposedly inconsistent concern for student well-being ("Mixed messages," Sep. 23), Brian Strickland suggests the University should convert its present policy of coopera­tion and encouragement of law enforcement to one wherein the authorities are asked to divert their attention from university students. 
I propose that if the University does opt for this course of action, it also ought to station nannies in University restrooms to wipe the wayward infant behind it has taken under its protection. 
Strickland's use of scare quotes in describing "criminal" records for underage drinking causes one wonder whether he is as yet unaware that minor consumption is illegal not only virtually but in a very real sense. 
References to institutional pride, top employ­ers, and good academic and disciplinary standing all evoke our assumption that Notre Dame students are some of the best and the brightest, which seems to carry with it the concomitant assumption that they are intelli­gent enough to know precisely what risks they undertake in violating a well-known statute ­especially when given express warning that said statute will be strictly enforced. 
Students caught drinking are fully aware of the illegality and consequences of their actions, and should be allowed to reap what they have sown. Rather than side track the discussion by invoking the common occur­rence of underage drinking (as if we employ a crude moral calculus in which ubiquity covers a multitude of sins), Strickland ought to face up to the fact that it is not the arrests or uni­versity collusion that "tarnish the good reputa­tions that these young adults carry as Notre Dame students" but their own conscious deci­sions to risk a criminal record for the sake of a buzz. 
Could it not be the case that the university is indeed advancing student well-being by allow­ing these irresponsible individuals to learn that, without mommy and daddy there to clean up their messes, they will be held accountable for their choices? 
If. Strickland is not satisfied with this level of involvement, the university could escalate its efforts by requiring a class on why the Catholic tradition does not consider "all my friends are doing it" to be serious moral analysis. 
Aaron Sanders grad srudem off-campus Sept. 23 

Catnpaigns need to refocus 
Christie Pesavento's recent viewpoint column ("Joe Biden: a gaffe a minute," Sept. 23) discussing Senator Biden's 'gaffes' is a perfect example of why the political system in the United States is in poor shape. 
People like Pesavento would rather discuss a candidate's possible linguistic mistakes and the media's role in how much exposure each blunder receives then focus on important issues affecting millions of Americans. 
It is truly a shame that our current culture rewards sensationalist reporting and that issues like "Did Obama call Palin a pig?", "Is Obama a Muslim?", and "What animals has Palin shot?" are the biggest news stories. 
I would hope that the people of the University of Notre Dame would rise above such drivel. I pray that voters look at each candidate's position on the most important issues and make informed decisions that reflect their conscience. 
I urge everyone as American citizens and as intelligent human beings to research and discuss candidates' past and present stances on war, the economy, respect for human life, foreign policy, etc. It is my fear that our country will be lost if we allow petty issues and moronic drivel to decide the fate of this election. 
Andrew Sheehan alum Class of 2006 Sept. 23 

Rearranging priorities 
I hate to hammer home the same point over and over, but I guess the Indiana State Police either 
a) 
don't read The Observer or 

b) 
have no common sense. 


Sure underage drinking is a problem as it is in any college town, but the excessive vandalism and other crime found in South Bend is not. 
Just a thought, but maybe they should spend taxpayers money in ways that decrease serious crimes, such as say felonies, and when that is fixed worry about underage drinking which, in case anyone forgot, is a misdemeanor. 
Last I checked a few kids drinking is not as bad as someone getting robbed, shot, or killed. South Bend is worse than the national average in the following categories: overall crime, murders, rapes, robberies, burglaries, larceny/theft, vehicle theft and arson. 
Lets rearrange our priorities. 
Patrick McHugh junior Fisher Hall Sept. 23 

Read to the end 
In Sarah Mervosh's column, "Sex and Free Will," (Sept. 22) she asks, "After all, wasn't it Jesus who said that he who is without sin may cast 'the first stone?" Indeed, in John 8, with those words, Jesus stopped a crowd that was ready to stone a woman that had been caught in the act of adultery. After the crowd dropped their stones and left, without anyone to come forward to condemn the adulterous woman, Jesus told her to "go and sin no more." (John 8:11; KJV). 
That last part is so often overlooked. 
Benjamin Ellison lawsrudem Keough Hall Sept. 22 


.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, September 24, 2008 
SpurtofBlood: An experienceintheater itself 
. By MICHELLE FORDICE . Assistant Scene Editor 
; 

l When most pt~ople read Antonin Artuad's surrealist lplay "Spurt of Blood" they consider it an academic iexerdse. For all the influenee Artuad has had on mod­iern theater, this play is considered to be unstageable land unproduceable. But not all people work that way.! Two years ago now-senior Jaekie Dineen diseovered "Spurt of Blood" during Dr. Mark Pilkinton's Theater, ·I Iistory and Sudety class. She remarked in an e-mail­:interview that. "he had us read the play out loud in -~ dass as an academic exercise and briefly mentioned 
how it has always been considered unstageable due to many of the surrealist and absurd characteristics of tim show. I immediately became interested in what it would take to faithfully translate Artaud's vision onto ·the stage." This week, under her guidance as dra­maturge, hnr interest has come to full realization as the Film, Television. and Theater department take on one of theater's most diflicult works. The show is part of her honors thesis for the department, which will focus first on the practieal aspects of translating 
l'heatnr of C:nwlty, an ovnrarching tlwme of Artuad's work, to a modern stage and audience and second on Peter Brooks, the first person to bring the play to the stage. 
I 
Taking "Spurt of Blood," whid1 is a very short play , rilled with surrealist imagery, and turning it into a ; physkal performance is not an easy task, both eoneep­:; tually and physkally. The audienee is not given mueh tnxt and no plot to react to and there are events that arn difficult to express within the limits of a stage: , stars eollide. the hand of God reaches down, and ~·}( things turn transparent. Dineen remarked, "once you 
read the play you immediately realize how incredibly challenging it is to translate to a modern audience. It has so many surrealist and absurd characteristics like objects falling with a 'despairing slowness' or charac­ters catching on tire. The brevity of the play also tends to leave the reader a little shocked and feeling like nothing was explained." In his introduction to the play, director Dr. Mark Pilkinton wrote, '"Spurt of Blood' challenges the traditional Aristotelian concept of the­atre." 
The cast and crew worked hard to make "Spurt of Blood" a reality, especially under a short three week produetion schedule. In an e-mail interview, Kathleen Hession, the assistant director and one of the actress­es remarked, "being completed entirely by Theatre Majors, this production highlights the immense talent that exists on this campus. I just wish people could have seen the insane amount of work that was put into the three weeks that preceded this performance." Dineen remarked, "the first few days of rehearsal took a lot of patitmce just in deciding what ideas we could use and what we couldn't. Everyone helped in all areas of the show like acting, designing, and staging which really added to the mentality that this is a Company produetion." Of course, while the eompany did their bnst to remain true to the spirit of the play, not every one of Artuad's directions was able to be fol­lowed. Dineen explained, "it was important that we tried to stay as true to Artaud's eoncept as possible, but some things will always have to be changed based on the resources you have." 
The question on most people's lips is, of course, what is this play about? Before audience members walk in, they need to recognize that there isn't a plot or a theme in the way we have come to expect them. Dineen said the play, " .. .is about the concept and the method of production not necessarily the story," and expanded, "the play doesn't have a traditional plot line or your typical characters that audience members relate to, but it does show exaetly what Artaud thought theater should be." She said, "it's important that everyone try to sec what Artaud believes is bro­ken in our typieal theatre performanees. The surreal­ism that runs throughout the show is there to tell the audience that there are more important things in the-I atre than just the spoken word. Theatre of Cruelty ( isn't about violence; it's about focusing on what makes ! us human, which is more than just talking." ! 
With "Spurt of Blood" Artuad is challenging the { audience to drop their preconceptions and approach f theater anew. Hession remarked, "when you enter the f theatre and the show begins focus more on the style of f the production and less on the text. Allow yourself to 1 
be taken over by the production and just have fun with t it. Not everything has to be explained ... surrender to i the madness!" She explained that the show is in a way i attempting to turn a passive audience into an active one, startling their senses so that they eannot just sit back and absorb. This was not only a challenge for the audience, but the actors as well. llession explained that the actors had to remember that, "the text is not what should be placed at the eenter of this production. Rather it is the style of the play that we try to high­light." She continued, "once you convince yourself that you can let go of that stress the entire process becomes much easier and you focus more on simply i being constantly present." . 
Attendees of fTT's produetion of "Spurt of Blood" are certain to be exposed to a new theater experience. •__ _ 
1 
Contact Michelle Fordice at ­mfordice@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, September 24, 2008 
page 11 

1 Ju longera passive audience 
By STEPHANIE DePREZ 1Assistam Scene Editor 
"Spurt of Blood" is absolutely ridiculous in 
the most fantastic way. It was easily the most 
fun I have had in the theatre in quite a while. 
Upon entrance, one expects to be handed a 
program and seated around the stage for a 
passive, albeit emotional or maybe hysterical 
evening of entertainment. This is what an 
audience member expects -to be enter­
tained. We want to have other people get up 
and act out our greatest tragedies and tri­
umphs, and to feel something in the process. 
We expect them to question our values and 
give us a glimpse of society. But we always 
know that no matter what, they're on the stage and we're in the chairs. This is accepted. This is expected. It's The Theatre after all. 
This is precisely what Artaud was attempting to abolish. And I'm here to tell you, if that's the intent of this production, it succeeds. I can't begin to describe the plot, which, though present, is altogether unimportant. This expe­rience is not about telling a story, but instead about using the idea of theatre to bring emo­tions and thoughts to an audience without one. If theatre is about experience, then this should be its calling card. 
Beyond the set (fluid) costumes (bizarre) and text (nice ... really) stand the actors, who are the pillar of this show. They are so committed that, as the absurdity rises, you somehow trust them to keep it all in control. This is a show that could easily get lost, become a farce or leave the viewer stranded in a sea of confu­sion, but they never falter. As an audience member, I felt safe letting them guide me across the stage (at moments literally) as the show raged on. 
It ran about 38 minutes, start to finish. I laughed, gasped, and I let myself be open to this archetype of "theatre of the cruelty." But I am pretty sure that through the entire show, I · was smiling. Bottom line, you don't have to be a theatre aficionado to understand the show. It's not about being understood. And you should go. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at 
sdeprez@nd.edu 
NFL 

Jets' Favre expected to play this w-eekend 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Don't fret, Jets fans. Brett Favre's play­ing streak appears safe. 
The New York quarterback rolled his left ankle during the third quarter of the Jets' 48-29 loss at San Diego on Monday night, but coach Erie Mangini wasn't overly con­cerned about Favre's injury. 
"Brett usually plays," Mangini said Tuesday, "and I would anticipate the same." 
Favre was limping notice­ably after the injury and in the Joe ke r room after the game, but has started an NFL-record 256 there's going to be some times where when you put the ball up in volume, you're going to have turnovers. Brett's made a lot of great plays, sort of ad­lib type plays and the receivers are getting more and more used to that and I think he's getting more and more used to the receivers. As you go along and get the addi­tional reps, that tends to nat­urally improve." 
Mangini bemoaned a few other turnovers, including a fumble by running back Thomas Jones. that turned the momentum in the 
Chargers' 
favor. 
"I thought 

straight regular­"Brett usually plays, we were mov­season games. ing the ball
and I would 
lie is expected to pretty effec­start Sunday at anticipate the same." tively through-home against out the first Arizona. half, and then
Eric Mangini
"It's just we had the
Jets head coach
understanding him and I think we have a good plan in place whenever guys get injured, so I feel pretty comfortable with the process," Mangini said. "And I know that if there's any way that he can play, he'll definitely play." 
Mangini said Favre received some treatment on the ankle when the team arrived home early Tuesday morning, and the quarterback was sched­uled for more later in the evening. 
The nature of the lllJury wasn't immediately known, but Favre said after the game that X-rays came out OK ­meaning there was no break. The players had the day off from speaking with the media. and Favre is scheduled for his weekly news confer­ence Wednesday morning. 
Favre was lifted for Kellen Clemens before the Jets' final offensive possession, but it was more because the game was out of hand at that point. 
Favre was inconsistent against the Chargers, going 30-of-42 for 271 yards and three touchdowns, but also threw two interceptions, including one returned 52 yards for a score by defensive back Antonio Cromartie. He and some of his receivers appeared out of sync at times, something Favre has warned would take some time to per­feet after playing in Green Bay's offensive system for the past 16 seasons. 
"I think there's been progress each week," Mangini said. "We threw the ball quite a bit (Monday) night and 
turnover for a 
touchdown," 
Mangini said. 

"That was the case in the first half, some positive drives punctuated by the turnovers. Whenever you have that happen, it's not going to have a good result." 
After New York cut the deficit to 17-14 on Laveranues Coles' 3-yard touchdown catch early in the second quarter, the Jets tried to catch the Chargers off guard by trying an on-side kick. After a perfectly placed bounce by kicker Jay Feely, special teams standout Wallace Wright got his hands on the ball but lost it and San Diego recovered. Five plays later, the Chargers made it a 10-point game and Mangini was roundly criticized for the call after the game. 
"In that situation, I would definitely do it again if it was the same situation," Mangini said. "We didn't execute as well as we should've." 
The Jets also clearly missed the presence of run-stopping nose tackle Kris Jenkins, who left in the first quarter with a back injury. San Diego fin­ished with 107 yards on the ground and were able to con­vert on third down numerous times late in the game. 
"There were times (Monday) night where we thought Kris could come back in," Mangini said. "It just didn't get to the point where we were ready to do that. He was close, defi­nitely, throughout the course of the game, so I'm hoping with time and treatment, that 'II move along pretty well." 
MLB 
Twins and Sox ready to go 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS -Neither 

the Chicago White Sox nor the 
Minnesota Twins have been 
playing like contenders over 
the past month. They're 
determined to change that 
during the final week of the 
regular season. 
The White Sox will bring a 2 1/2-game lead in the AL Central over the Twins to a packed-and-loud Metrodome Tuesday for the start of a three-game series that should, finally, define this slow-devel­oping race. 
"We're in first place, so we need to act like a first-place team and go play like one," said Chicago lefty Mark Buehrle, who will take the mound on Wednesday. 
Minnesota is glad to be back, after playing 24 of the previous 30 games on the road and going 9-15 in that stretch. The Twins are 49-26 at the Metrodome this year, with a 3.25 staff ERA under the bubble compared to 5.14 on the road. 
"We're ready for it. We're going to go home and play hard," said Twins left-bander Francisco Liriano, who won't pitch in the series after allow­ing one run in seven innings of a victory Sunday at Tampa Bay. 
These rivals have been no further apart in the standings than the current margin since July 27. Chicago has been in front for 144 days and all but nine since May 17, but hasn't led by any more than 3 1/2 games since June 19. 
"It's like you're fighting for 12 rounds and you know you're winning, but a lucky punch gets you last round and you're done and you lose the title. That's that way I feel right now," White Sox manag­er Ozzie Guillen said. 
Indeed, though his team can clinch with a sweep, three wins the other way would put Minnesota in first place. 
"That's what we're here for. We're close, and we have them at home," first baseman Justin Morneau said. 
The magic number is down to five for the leaders, mean­ing any combination of White Sox wins and Twins losses adding up to that will give Chicago the title. After this series, the White Sox host Cleveland and the Twins host Kansas City. 
The White Sox have an extra game to play next Monday against Detroit if the teams are within a half-game of each other on Sunday, due to a rainout earlier this month. 
If they're tied after that, the Twins must travel to the South Side for a playoff on Tuesday to determine the winner of a division the Twins have won four times in the previous six years. Over 13 postseasons since the AL Central was cre­ated, the White Sox have qualified as the champion twice. Cleveland is the leader with seven. 

In 2005, the White Sox won the World Series, but Guillen said this year's team should be more proud than that one. He also metaphorically pre­dicted a collapse this week would feel like a low-budget movie with a confusing con­clusion. 
"The only thing we have left and the only thing that can complement that is to win," Guillen said. "If not, it will be a tough summer with a bad ending." 
This has been a strange sea­son in the Upper Midwest. The Tigers were supposed to be the favorites after their winter spending spree, but their age showed this summer and they had more holes than most analysts probably real­ized. The Indians were in position to contend, too, with a young core that came within one victory of advancing to the World Series last fall. 
But it was the White Sox with their homer-happy heart of the order and Guillen­inspired spunk who emerged, and the Twins have stayed right on their heels -enjoy­ing 23 days in first place, mostly in May -with a speedy lineup and better­than-expected starting pitch­ing from an untested group of prospects. 
Lately, the rotation has fal­tered. On Thursday, Friday and Saturday against the Rays, the starters gave Minnesota a total of only 6 1-3 innings. 
"They say they're not tired. They don't feel tired. It's about making pitches. We have to get innings out of these young men. It's still about giving us a chance. We can't continue going into the bullpen for six innings," man­ager Ron Gardenhire said. 
Kansas City will have played the Twins and White Sox a total of 18 times in August and September by week's end, so the Royals have as good of a perspective on this series as any. 
Two weeks ago, when Chicago's lead was one game, manager Trey Hillman was asked to rate the race. After praising the power of the White Sox and giving their starting pitching an edge for a greater ability to dominate a given outing, he spoke rever­ently about the Twins, their lack of walks issued, their offensive and defensive funda­mentals, and their speed on the bases and in the outfield. 
"It's a tough call for me.-I really feel like it's tougher for us playing against these guys," Hillman said, referring to Minnesota before the game on Sept. 11. "Maybe it's because we're here right now playing against them in this dome, where they have a good record. I just feel like these guys might have the edge a little bit, even though the White Sox at times can pitch a little bit better." 
At this point, though, analy­sis doesn't matter. The White Sox have the lead, and it's up to them to maintain it. 
"We are where we are for a reason," said John Danks, who will start Thursday. "We know it's a big series, and we know there is a lot at stake. We want to have as much lee­way as we can." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell NO UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Happy Birthday SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS football tickets. not go it alone. If you or some· Katie Rose!!! FoR RENT AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER FoR SALE www.victorytickets.com. 574-232-one you love needs confidential PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR 0964. support or assistance, please I have the perfect solution for the House near NO. 574-310-3663. KRAMERHOUSES.COM CONDO FOR SALE. CLOSE TO call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at skunk problem on campus: 
NO. PLEASE CONTACT TED @ Need Purdue tix & parking pass. (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at Snakes. Lots of snakes. Home Game Rentals. Beautiful. 574-233-6191 MSL#231736 57 4-276-8507. 574-631-2685. For more informa-Private apartments. Sleeps 4. Fully WANTED lion, visit our website at: Will the Mets collapse again? No. furnished, lots of amenities. Only 4 http ://osa. nd. ed u/depa rtments/pr miles from Campus. $500 thurs-STUDENT WORK, $14.25 base-TICKETS PERSONAL egnant.shtml Will the Brewers' decision to get 
sun. Call Joyce @574-339-9241. appt., flexible schedules, no experi· rid of thier best minor league tal­
ence needed, customer sales/serv-·Wanted: If you or someone you care about Brady Quinn ent by trading for 2 bdrms, 1 bath. basement, garage. ice, conditions apply. ages 18+, NO football tix has been sexually assaulted, visit should start for the Browns. CC Sabathia for half of a season Walk to Notre Dame. (574)274· 574-273-3835, www.workforstu-for family. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/cs Derek Anderson is a be wasted by not making the 2829. dents.com 574-251-1570. ap/ bum. playoffs? 

OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, September 24, 2008 COMPILED FROM THE ()BSFRVER'S WlRF. SERVICES page 13 
NFL 
NCAA Football AP Poll 
team points 

1 usc 1,621 2 Oklahoma 1,484 3 Georgia 1,475 4 Florida 1,442 5 LSU 1,363 6 Missouri 1,360 7 Texas 1,174 8 Alabama 1,132 9 Wisconsin 1,091 10 Texas Tech 962 11 BYU 919 12 Penn State 891 13 South Florida 798 14 Ohio State 790 15 Auburn 785 16 Wake Forest 711 17 Utah 574 18 Kansas 555 19 Boise State 363 20 Clemson 300 21 Vanderbilt 242 22 Illinois 224 23 East Carolina 201 24 TCU 117 25 Fresno State 105 
NCAA Football USA Today Poll 

team  points  
1  usc  1,517  
2  Oklahoma  1,424  
3  Georgia  1,388  
4  Florida  1,345  
5  Missouri  1,284  
6  LSU  1,247  
7  Texas  1,143  
8  Wisconsin  1,041  
9  Texas Tech  944  
10  Alabama  939  
11  BYU  931  
12  Penn State  818  
13  Ohio State  744  
13  South Florida  721  
15  Wake Forest  678  
16  Auburn  650  
17  Utah  528  
18  Kansas  506  
19  Clemson  378  
20  Boise State  265  
21  Illinois  233  
22  Oregon  '174  I  
23  TCU  151  
24  Fresno State  117  
25  Vanderbilt  103  

MIAA Women's 

record 
2-() Ml 4·0 3-() 3·0 4·0 3-() 4-() 3·0 4·0 4-() 4-() 4·0 3·1 
3~1 
4·0 4·0 3·1 3-() 3·1 4-() 2·1 3·1 4-() 2·1 
record 
2·0 3"0 4-0 3-D 
4~0 
3-0 ·0 

4·0 3-1 4·0 3·0 
3~1 
4~0 
34 
3~1····· 
3·0 2"1 3"1 4-0 2-1 4-0 
Volleyball Standings Team Record 
team league ()Uf}Tf1ll 
1  Hope  7-0  12·3  
2  Alma  5·1  13·5  
3  Calvin  4·1  10!3/i  
4  SAINT MARY'S  3-2  16"4  
5  Adrian  2·3  H  
6  Albion  2·3  H  
7  Kalamazoo  2-5  5-12  
8  Trine  1·5  HU  
9  Olivet  0·6  3-12  

around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

No. 1 USC at Oregon State 9 p.m., ESPN 

Associated Press 

COLUMBUS, Ohio ­Tailback Chris "Beanie" Wells is likely to return for No. 14 Ohio State against Minnesota on Saturday. 
"It adds to our arse­nal," coach Jim Tressel said Tuesday, shortly after announcing that Wells was probable for Saturday's game. 
Wells has been out of action since injuring his right foot early in the second half of the open­ing victory over Youngstown State. Dan Herron has been the tail­back in victories over Ohio and Troy and a lop­sided defeat at top­ranked Southern California. 
Ohio State could use the boost. Even though freshman Terrelle Pryor threw four touchdown passes last week in his debut as a starter against Troy, the offense has been erratic since Wells left. 
His teammates were happy to see him doing all the drills at Tuesday night's practice. 
Asked how Wells looked, offensive lineman Alex Boone said, "Fast. Very fast. He was run­ning all over the place. He looked physical and fast. He looked like noth­

ing had happened to him." 
Against Troy, the Buckeyes led just 14-10 heading into the fourth quarter before punts downed deep inside the 20 helped Ohio State set up two short touchdown 
drives to  pull away 28­ 
10.  
Pryor  gives  the  

Buckeyes a mobile quar­terback who can avoid a collapsing pocket and transform a potential loss into a gain. He escaped from severe pressure on several occa­sions to frustrate Troy defenders and perpetu­ate drives. 
The Buckeyes also 
experimented up front with several other fresh faces on the offensive line. Jim Cordle, who had started the past 16 games at center, moved to left guard to fill in for the injured Steve Rehring. Another true 
freshman,  Mike  
Brewster,  then  took  
Cordle's spot.  

Brewster wasn't the only youngster in the rotation up front. True freshman J.B. Shugarts and sophomore Andrew Miller also saw action. 
Suddenly, the huddle that Wells returns to doesn't bear much resemblance to the one he left. 

IN BRIEF Paterno hopes to return 
to sideline at Penn State 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. -Joe Paterno didn't list himself on the injury report, but Penn State's coach designated himself "hope­ful" to be back on the sideline for the 12th-ranked Nittany Lions' game Saturday night against Illinois. 
Slowed by a sore right leg, the Hall of Farner moved to the press box after halftime of last week's rout of Temple -not that the 81­year-old Paterno says he couldn't have stayed on the field the whole time. 
"Yeah, I hope to be," Paterno said Tuesday when asked if he intends to pace the Beaver Stadium sideline for the Big Ten opener versus the No. 22 Illini. "I could have been out in the second half Saturday if I wanted to, but ... I figured we got a lot of football ahead of us. Let's maybe take it a little bit easier upstairs. 
Green set to replace Bulger 
at QB for floundering Rams 
ST. LOUIS -Marc Bulger is out as the St. Louis Rams starting quarter­back after throwing only two touch­down passes in three games and will be replaced by 38-year-old Trent Green for Sunday's game against Buffalo. 
The benching of the Rams' highest­paid player, announced by coach Scott Linehan in a terse, two-para­graph release on Tuesday, signals just how desperate times have become for the sagging franchise. Linehan is 11-24 in his third season, including 0-3 this year with none of the games competitive. 
Last week, Linehan was told by new owner Chip Rosenbloom that improvements need to be made or that changes would be forthcoming. This is Linehan's first head coaching job at any level, earned off success as an offensive coordinator with the Dolphins and Vikings. He was a quarterback in college at Idaho. 
Texans pitch in to help 
out struggling community 
HOUSTON -Duane Brown's home still doesn't have electricity more than 10 days after Hurricane Ike plowed into southeast Texas. 
That didn't stop the Houston Texans' first-round draft pick from spending his day off Tuesday at the Houston Food Bank, filling boxes with food to be distributed to families who need help in the wake of the storm. 
"I was very fortunate in the sense that I didn't have any property damage or anything like that," he said. ''I'm around a lot of people who are able to help me out and I know a lot of people don't have that. I just wanted to come out here and show my support and show the city of Houston that I do care a lot about what they're going through." 
Brown was one of dozens of Texans players, staff and cheerleaders who braved nearly 90 degree temperatures with stifling humidity to pack boxes in a lot in front of the food bank. 
r-------------------------­
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 24, 2008 
.­
Uganda In£ rmati n Session 
m  Interested in Africa?  
t~  Interested in challenges and issues of developing nations?  
t~  Interested in Sub-Saharan Post Conflict Transformation?  
Don't miss this study abroad opportunity through the School for International Training (SIT)!  
Information Session:  Semester and Summer Options.  

Wednesday, September 24, 2008 Room 217 DeBartolo 5:30 PM 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR ALL SESSIONS IS NOVEMBER 15,2008 

rig 
t 


n 
ormation ession for Notre Dame graduate students and advisers 


' 
' 
' 
' . 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 


ULBRIGH 
~~ ~~ 
Speaker: Joanne Forster 
Institute of International Education 
September 25 
2:00 -3:00 pm Room 1DO McKenna Hall 
External deadline for submission of Fulbright applications is October 20, 2008 

Wednesday, September 24, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
0 rt it ke s ktl I All those cynics out there say opportunity only knocks once. Of course thot's becouse they never worked here with us, That's why GE was named one of the Best Places to Launch a Career by BusinessWeek in 2001. VVe invite you to explore opportunitie.s at GE in engineering, finance. manu­facturing, soles and marketing, human resources, or information technology. www.gecareers.com imagination at work  '  
Howard P. Behar 


The Societyfi.Jr Himum R.esource !Vkmagement & The A4anagement Club invites eve1yone to attend the ... 

Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory l\!1anagcincnt 
·:It '.s· Not About the C'(~tfee: Leadership Principles·fi·orn a L~fe at Starln.tck~Y" 
Friday, Septe1nber 26 12:30-1:45 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of E3usiness 
<,.....> 

NFL 
QBQuinn could start 
for Browns 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Maybe it was fitting that Derek Anderson spent his day off at an adoption center for cats and dogs. Cleveland's starting quarterback is on a short leash. 
With his team off to a disturb­ing 0-3 start, Browns coach Romeo Crennel is considering personnel changes and may bench Anderson for popular backup Brady Quinn. 
Anderson,' who made the Pro Bowl last season while leading Cleveland to 10 wins, has thrown just two touchdown passes and five interceptions in Cleveland's losses to Dallas, Pittsburgh and Baltimore. He enters this week's game at Cincinnati with a 43.5 quarter­back rating -only Kansas City's Tyler Thigpen's 38.3 is worse. 
Anderson expects to start against the Bengals. However, if he struggles, he won't fmish. 
He has run out of time. 
"I can play better. I know that," Anderson said Tuesday outside the Cleveland Animal Protective League. "It's been frustrating because I've put a lot into it and it's not gone perfect. I'm not making excuses, but it hasn't been what we've all expected it to be. You watch film and it's a few things here and there: a missed throw, a dropped pass. 
"It's never going to be perfect, but we thought we would have won at least one or two games so far. I understand it, and I'm just going to continue to keep working, knowing that we're still in this and we just have to fmd a way to get going." 
Wearing a protective sleeve wrap over a bruised right arm, Anderson didn't appear to be nervous about losing his job. He was typically laid-back and approachable as he toured the facility and mingled with volun­teers and people adopting ani­mals. At one point, he dropped down on the floor to play with a pair of adorable brown Labradors before they were taken home by delighted new owners. 
On Monday, Crennel informed 
the Browns that he was evaluat­
ing every position and that 
changes could be forthcoming. 
Anderson didn't need to be told. 
Pressing to make big plays, he 
has made poor throws and bad 
decisions for an injury-riddled 
offense that has scored a 
league-low 26 points. 
And if Anderson doesn't 
improve quickly, Crennel will 
have no choice but to turn 
things over to Quinn, who will 
get more repetitions in practice 
this week with the first-team 
offense. 
"Regardless of the situation, I 
always put a lot of pressure on 
myself," said Anderson, who 
went 14-of-37 for 125 yards 
with three interceptions on 
Sunday. "I take it as he (Quinn) 
is trying to take my job every 
week. Maybe it's too much pres­
sure I put on myself, but that's 
just kind of the way I've always 
thought about it, even in college 
when I knew I was going to play. 
"Anytime you get comfortable, 
you have to remind yourself that 
that guy's chasing you." 
JOYCE CENTER ARENA SEPT. 24, 3:00 PM 

Moderator  Panelist  Panelist  Panelist  Panelist  
Anne Thompson, '79  Jeff lmmelt  Hon. Bill Ritter Jr.  Majora Carter  Ernest Moniz  
Chief Environmental  Chairman and CEO  Governor  Founder  Cecil and Ida Green  
Affairs Correspondent  General Electric Co.  State of Colorado  Sustainable South Bronx  Distinguished Professor  
NBC News  of Physics  
Director, MIT Energy Initiative  

Join moderator Anne Thompson and panelists as they chart asustainable energy future 
Doors open at 2:30pm 
Wednesday, September 24, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Quack 
continued from page 20 
"We did what we came out here to do," Bishop said. 
Bishop, who played quarterback for the Ducks (1-1), attributed her team's oflfmsive success to a lot of short passes that helped them spread out the Pyros (0-1) defense. 
"We didn't just go for the big plays, we tried to work the entire field," Bishop said. 
Though Bishop threw for three touchdown passes, she was just as efl"ective running the ball, creating multiple opportunities for the offense by throwing on the run or by tucking in the ball and taking it up the field herself. 

Howard's defense was equally impressive, sacking Pyros quarter­back Caitlin Robinson four times and intercepting her once. By gen­erating a consistent pass rush, they did not allow the sophomore signal-caller to get into a good rhythm. 
On the other sideline, Pasquerilla East now has a good idea of how it can improve for next week. 
Though the Pyros got on the board with an early touchdown, they just couldn't keep up with Howard. The Pyros defense stayed on the field for most of the game, as short offensive drives gave them little time to rest. Captain Tara Pillai said the team was dis­appointed, but that it was only their first game and the squad should be better prepared next week. 
"We need more consistency on offense and with our defensive pass coverage," Pailai said. 
Pillai stood out in an otherwise unimpressive Pyros offense. As Robinson's favorite target, Pillai kept multiple Pasquerilla East drives alive on third and fourth downs. 
Cavanaugh 0, Pasquerilla West 0 
Neither the Purple Weasels nor the Chaos could emerge victorious from a defensive showdown as the teams battled to a tie Tuesday night. 
Both offenses struggled as nei­ther team could move the ball down the field effectively or sus­tain a drive. 
Cavanaugh (1-0-1) came the closest to breaking the deadlock. After a punt return deep into Purple Weasels (0-0-1) territory, Chaos captain Katie Dunn con­nected with freshman receiver Brittni Alexander in the corner of the end zone, but Alexander was ruled out of bounds. 
Du1111 disagreed with the call. 
"I don't see how a ref could miss a call that badly," DUI111 said. "She clearly dragged her feet in the end zone." 
see INTERHALLpage 18 



f$1UNlVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
The Law School 
Offense 
continued from page 20 
first three games [and[ we've had more success throwing the ball than running the ball," he said. "But you can't make a liv­ing -you can't make a living just being one-dimensional in football." 
Given tim option of continuing with that balance despite recent struggles of the running game or converting to a more pass-heavy offense, Weis said the rushing offense takes pressure ofT the quarterback and prevents defenses from keying on the passing game. 
"I always believe that it makes things a hoek of a lot easier on the quarterback if you can run the ball. It makes it a lot easier," thfl eoaeh said. "When defensive linemen ean just pin their ears ba1:k and know you were throw­ing on every down, you're usual-
Interhall 
continued from page 17 
That drive aside, the game was dominatnd by both defensns. 
The Chaos Sflcondary was out­standing from start to finish, inter­cepting three passes and swatting down balls all night. 
"We played signature Cavanaugh defense tonight," defensive linemen Jessica Mahon said. 
Anchoflld by Mahon, the Chaos recordHd two sacks and pressured Purple Wea.•·mls quarterback Cara Davies into countless rushed throws. 
The Pasquerilla West defense wao; just as stingy, stilling the usu­ally potent Chaos ollense. 
Defensive linemen Jordan .Johnson put on a clinic, recording two sacks and pressuring Dunn on every play. 
ly putting yourself at risk." 
When askBd whether it would be easier to run the ball with one solid baek rather than three, Weis drew his answer from the NFL game between the Jets and the Chargers Monday night. Chargers running baek LaDanian Tomlinson, he said, was the best, but their change-of-paee baek, Darren Sproles, posed a threat every time he got in the game. 
"When they give him the ball, it's not like giving it to LaDainian," he said. "LaDainian is one of the best but when that little b'UY gets in there you better look out because every time he touches it, he may be taking it to the house." 
Note: 
+Weis said wide receiver David Grimes will play this weekend. Grimes has missed time because of a sore baek. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
"The defense really saved us," Davies said. "They bailed us out of ~vel?,' jam, especially the defensive lme. 
Despite the tie, both teams were still optimistic about their season outlooks. 
"This is hands down the most potential I've seen on any Cavanaugh team," Dunn said. "Onee we develop our red zone oflimse, we'll bejustfine." 
Pasquerilla West coach Adam Brainard is also hopeful that his team will pull it together in time for next week's game. 
"After tonight we have a better idea of how our offensive players fit into positions," Brainard said. "With our outstanding defense, I expect a shutout every game." 
Contact Shane Steinburg at ssteinb2@nd.edu, Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu and Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

~· ··-··-·-..·-··· q ..-~­
~~\®~ TI'® ~®00@®~ Studattt 8-feaeher .l{~ Plscovtttsl 
t1 ,..~ OMIY at ·.. 
~ A 
t~ar.tr.idges.­;nllmlted 
355 South Willowbrook Road • Suite D • Coldwater, Ml 49036 (Next to Wa/mart/Radio Shack) Open: Monday-Friday 10am to 7pm -Saturday 10am to 4pm (517) 278-4655 

(; 
'1; 


Vhf/ 


Just $7.99* 
Your choice of one of these lunch entrees and a Papa's or Caesar individual salad 
Lasagna 
Layers ofPasta, 
Ricotta and Mozzarella Topped with Spicy Marinara or Traditional Meat Sauce 
Pasta Con Polio Grilled Chicken Breast. Sun-Dried Tomatoes, 
Mushrooms, Fresh Basil and a Light Alfredo Sauce '{()ssed with Bow-Tie Pasta 
Wild Mushroom Fettuccine 
Portobella, Shiitake and Domestic Mushrooms Sauteed with Fresh Spinach, 
Roasted Garlic Cream Sauce and Fettuccine 
Spaghetti Diavolo 
Whole Wheat Pasta and Spicy Italian Sausage Tossed in Spicy Marinara Sauce with Pepperocinis and Romano Cheese 

5110 Edison Lakes Parkway 
Mishawaka • (574) 271-1692 
P~e..~ 
-'ITALIAN KITCHEN www.PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 
• University of Notre Dame 
• Office of International Studies Presents 
• Study Abroad Programs in 
Angers, France Information Sessions 
Wednesday, September 24, 2008 5:30 p.m. Or Tuesday, October 7, 2008 5:30p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy Center 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2008 For Academic Year 2009-2010 Fall 2009 or Spring 2010 More information available at www.nd.edu/""ois/ 
Wednesday, September 24, 2008 Th~ Observer+ TODAY page 19 
BLAcK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


THE DOME PIECE 
Modern Day Biblical ND Figures presents: Father Poorman 
Thou shalt not consume alcohol over 12.5%. Thou shalt not have fun of 
DAV1D CAVADINI 

JUMBLE 
~&M®lbJ! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
EBELL 

I [] I I 
@2008 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
~~~r~ 

DICLAP jI I r  I I I I  
www.jumble.com  

VITANY 

(XJ I I 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

E:VE:N A KING TAKE:S A BACK SE:AT TO THIS IN A POKE:R. GAME:. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer here: rn (I I J 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  COACH  FEVER  (Answers tomorrow) CORPSE TRIPLE  
Answer:  What the sheriff always has in a western  
movie  -A "STAR" ROLE  

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 38 "I'd like to buy Formed for a 
specific purpose 39 Straphanger's 6 Good (at) buy, once 11 "Next" network 41 Hosp. procedure 
14 Pipe type 42 Ones in 15 Inlay material 
matching tuxes 

16 Back 45 "Whip It" band 
17 See 55-Down 46 Bulwark 
19 Like Abner 48 Minded 20 Prefix with 50 Some sculptures 
-cardiaI 51_ Gailey of 
"Miracle on 34th Street" 21 Badlands feature 

22 Deprived 52 Talented Zero 
24 Rapper Kanye 54 Great Trek 
25 Stood up to emigrant
26 Astaire wear 55 Diner cupful 
29 Capote wearers 58 Guitar, in slang
32 Munch Museum's home 59 See 55-Down 
33 Starts of some 62 Water around brawls Polynesie 
35 Marshal under 63 Gobi greenery Napoleon · 64 Comedy club 36 Hitcher's digit host 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

65 Pantry raider 66 "It is equally an error to all men or no man": Seneca 67 Canon competitor 
DOWN 
Up to it 2 IV flow 3 Rec room item 
of old 4 Granola morsel 5 Yalta's peninsula 6 Recurring 
Woody Allen theme 7 Flash drive filler 8 Writer Umberto 9 Validation of a will 10 Put on the tube 11 See 55-Down 12 End-of-work­week cry 
13 Pioneering General Motors electric car 
18 Homes of twigs 23 McCarthy quarry 24 Part of 
T.W.I.M.C. 25 Goodie bag 
goodie 26 Clan symbol 27 Milo of 
Hollywood 28 See 55-Down 29 See 55-Down 30 A Chaucer 
pilgrim 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Allan E. Parrish 

31 Church council 47 Granola morsel 55 Word that can define 17-and 
34 Comedy club 

49 Candice of 
59-Across and outbursts 

"Murphy Brown" 11-. 28-and 37 Commuters' 
29-Down51 Palm off terminus 56 Modern ice 

52 Word from the
40 Had need of an cream flavor E.R., maybe 
crib 
57 Scene of a fall 43 Top-notch 53 Teamed beasts 60 Tempe sch. 
44 Philosopher 54 Tournament 61 Early 1Oth­Kierkegaard passes century year 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kip Pardue. 32: Matt Hardy, 34: Jason Alex­an~er. 49: Bruce Springsteen, 59 
Happy Birthday: You may find yourself at odds with what you want to do and what you should do this year. Pick a direction and follow it through to the end. Make a list of your ideas, concen1s and those things that need some alterations and begin complet­ing one at a time. Your numbers are 7. 11, 16, :!0, 2M. 33,48 
ARIES (March 21-April19): If you oppose orcoufront someone, you will create a bigger than life problem that will he difficult to get past. Make home a place of com­fort and peace for when things are hectic and people are causing you grief. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Yon can make gains today if you are willing to alter your plans. A shott trip will result in information you need for something that may have seemed impossible in the past. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Put your heart and soul into whatever you do and you will get recognition for your effott. You will have fabulous ideas that may lead you in a whole new direction. Don't let love stand in the way of your progress. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Emotional matters will take over if you are too sensi­tive. Try to ignore anyone who Ls trying to meddle in your affairs. Verbal abuse. decep­tion and misleading information can all be expected today. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone may spring something on you suddenly tnday. Cast your fate to the wind and enjoy the adventure. Romance is in the stars and looks most inviting. Children will play an important role in your life. Travel plans should be made. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Speak up and control the situation. Take care of matters involving the younger members ofyour household. An opportunity to do something 
worthwhile will turn into an adventure. 4 stars 
LIDRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't give in to emotional blackmail. Walk away from any confrontation that flares up. Someone is likely to exaggerate --don't let that some­one be you. A unique experience can take your mind off your worries.. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Do things you know will broaden your horizons or in­troduce you to people who have similar interests. A change of plans will lead to a jour­ney. Someone from your past is likely to look you up. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Getting involved in activities with friends, rela­tives or neighbors will make you realize how much you have to offer. Love is looking good. Ask someone you are involved with to join you or, if single. approach someone you find appealing. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't make promises you can't keep or let yourself get backed into a corner. Do what feels right, especially with legal. medical or financial matters. A sudden change in one of your old relationships or with a commitment you made will leave yon feeling luck")'. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take a chance. A change to your home, life or sur­roundings will help you please someone you love. Don't overspend when you don't have to. Sticking to a budget will ease your stress rather than adding to it. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be unpredictable and exciting to be "~th but don't let this lead to unnecessary purchases. Just be yourself if you want to get noticed --going overboard may have a reverse effect. Someone you respect will give you some good advice. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are original, a bit of a procrastinator and lovable and fair. You are very good at delegating -a leader and a communicator. 
Eugenia1SWeb sites: astroadvice.com.for fun, eugenialast.comjor coujideutia/ consullalions 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, September 24, 2008 
page 20 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
McGlinn declaws Lions; Hovvard extinguishes Pyros 
enough time to find an open a turnover and the half cut their tions in McGlinn's first game, and coach Keith Creasy said. "We hadBy SHANE STEIN BURG, receiver. DeGroot made the most other series short. the offensive line protected great ball control and our teamBOBBY GRAHAM and of her opportunities, connecting In the second half, it was the deGroot all night. really improved over our first CHRIS MASOUD 
with widn receiver Jen Fedyna for Shamrocks defense that stepped For Lyons, Tuesday's loss was game."
Sports Writers 
two touchdowns. up, sacking Lions quarterback extremely disappointing following The Lyons (1-1) defense Oaire Connell four times. a completely one-sided win in the Howard 20, McGlinn 14, Lyons 6 appeared out of tune and gave up "We forced some errant passes team's opener. Pasquerilla East 6 
The McGlinn Shamrocks put a too many short completions early with our pass rush and that made "It was a team loss that started Coming into her team's game disappointing loss in Week One on. On offense, miscommunication everything else fall in place," with the coaches. We didn't put Tuesday night against Pasquerilla behind them with a 14-6 victory and frequent breakdowns in the McGlinn co-defensive coordinator them in a spot to be successful," East, Howard captain Kayla over the Lyons Lions Tuesday pocket hindered any attempts at Craig Wilborg said coach Matt Gelchion said. Bishop said the Ducks were look­night. scoring until the closing moments The Shamrocks used an effective For McGlinn, however, the reac­ing to prove themselves. On 
The Shamrocks (1-1) ofl'ensive of the game. passing game to maintain control tion couldn't have been more dif­Tuesday night, they did just that line negated the Lyons pass rush McGlinn put together three of the ball for much of the game. ferent. with a 20-6 win over the Pyros. for much of the game, giving quar­impressive drives in the first half, Fedyna caught two touchdown "Our entire team came out today terback Sarah deGroot more than but only managed to score once as passes, despite having no recep-and executed," McGlinn head see QUACK/page 17 
FOOTBALL 
Yeatntan will not suit up 
Junior tight end will sit out until 'matter is resolved' 
By BILL BRINK Sports EJitor 
.Junior tight end Will Yeatman will not play this weekend against Purdue and will not suit up until his "matter is resolved," Irish eoaeh Charlie Weis said in his weekly press conference. 
Yeatman and freshman center Mike (;o!ic Jr. were arrested this weekend at an off-campus party on Colfax Ave. Police charged Yeatman with minor consump­tion of alcohol, false informing and resisting arrest, and charged Golic with minor consumption of alcohol. 
"Any other action as it relates to team rules, including the situ­ation with Mike Colic, will be handled by me," Weis said. 
Weis said both players will par­ticipate in practice. 
The situation's delicacy, Weis said, requires him to act with some degree of compassion. 
"I think I try to treat these kids similar to if I were talking to Charlie fWeis, Jr.]." Weis said. "As you go through growing pains, you know, you just try to educate and teach and let them know that you weren't perfect when you were going through the..~rowing experience your­selL 
Weis said it is not his role to judge the players' actions but rather to provide support. 
"I think the most important thing is to just look out for the interest of the kids and the team and the University," Weis said. 
At the tight end position, Weis said Joseph Fauria's playing time will increase due to the loss of Yeatman. 
"As a matter of fact, today, instead of practicing on the scout team he'll be practicing up with the big boys," Weis said. 
Freshman Kyle Hudolph cur­rently tops the depth chart at tight end. 
The loss of Yeatman, who caught six passes for two yards and played primarily as a run­without him. So you have to blocker, won't hamper the team's have that covered on both ends," blocking schemes. Weis said. 
"We're ready to go with him or Weis also said the passing game, while effective in the first three games, cannot carry the offense. He would much rather have a balanced offense instead, 

•I 
he said. "You look at the tape at the 
see OFFENSE/page 18 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Squad picks up home win over Kalan1azoo 
SMC upperclassmen lead the unit in kills 
Observer Staff Report 
Saint Mary's took down Kalamazoo Tunsday to run its record to 10-4 overall and 3­2 in the MIAA. The Hellos came from lwhind to earn the 14-25. 2(J-24. 26-24, 25-14 victory. 
Snniors Cathy Kurczak, Kania Hellman and junior Lorna Slupczynski led Saint Mary's as each recorded dou­ble-digit kills. 
Kurczak and Slupczynski eombirwd for I 0 of the Belles' 12 kills in the second set to keep the team in the match. 
The Belles also took the third set to take control of tho match for good. At the ond of the set, Kurczak notched a kill to knot tho scorf~ at 24-24. She then added another to end the set in favor of Saint Mary's, 26­24. 
The Belles cruised to the victory in the final set. llellman had five of the team's nino kills. 
It was the Belles' fourth 
straight season  with 10  or  
morn wins.  
Saint  Mary's  returns  to  
action  against  Calvin  on  
Saturday.  

SMC GOLF 
Belles head to Michigan 
Team will try to gain ground in league standings at third jamboree 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will look to close the gap in the MIAA sea­son standings Wednesday when the team heads to Thornapple Pointe in Grand Hapids, Mich., to compete in the third of four fall season jamborees. 
The Belles find themselves onn stroke behind second­place llope and 37 behind lirst-place Olivet. 
Saint Mary's coach Mark Hamilton said he is looking for steady improvement each week from his team. 
"Hight now, we are really struggling to get four good scores. Our top three are usu­ally pretty solid, but we aren't getting consistency from our fourth and firth spots," Hamilton said. "We are a ways behind Olivet and they are the team we are trying to beat. We just need to focus on gaining ground on the teams ahead of' 
us." 
Belles freshman Natalie Matuszak has been on a tear in her rookie season at Saint Mary's and will look to lead the team back into league con­tention. 
"[Matuszak] is developing into a great college player," Hamilton said. "She is the best freshman I've coached in my seven years at Saint Mary's." 
Hamilton has not given up on his team's chances to linish atop the conference. 
"If we can get healthy, we have a shot to make up some ground," Hamilton said. "Our goal is still to win the confer­ence this fall and have momentum heading into the spring." 
The tmun at the top of stand­ings after the fall season is declared the MlAA champion but the automatic NCAA tour­nament berth will not be determined until the spring snason. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 






