
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 66 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11.2008 
Playing drums with their feet 
McKenna's tap class entertains crow.ds with dance numbers in South Dining Hall 

By KAITLYNN RIELY ·Associate News Editor 
The hall where studenl<> normal­ly sit and eat was transf(Jrmed into a song and dance concert stage WednPsday night, as the 72 mem­bers of Professor James· McKenna's tap dance class soft shoed and Shirley TempiPd to sev­eral choreographfld numbers. 
Dressed in white tops, black pants and tap shoes, the tap dancers showed off the moves they l!~arned during the semester, from the "Bob Hope time step," to an Irish jig and the "reach for the moon" move. 
For 40 minutes, they tapped in front of a large crowd that gath­ered in the east wing of South Dining Hall. They opened and closed with Michael Jackson's "The Way You Make Me Feel" and per­formed other numbers in between. 
Prior to the first tap dancing cla...:;s in AugUst, McKenna told the audience, 90 percent of the stu­denL<> had never even seen a pair of tap shoes before, let alone per­formed a dance. 
"It's so funny, every semester at the beginning of the course, I show the students the dances they will learn," he said, sitting in his office a few hours before the recital. "And they all laugh and say, 'Oh right, we're going to learn that."' 
But he reassures them that three months from the start of cla...:;s, they will know the songs. 
"And it's true," he said. "They all learn it." 
see RECITAL/ page 6 
Professor James McKenna leads his tap class in a rendition of Soulja Boy at Wednesday's recital. 


Holiday lights increase energy usage 

A hallway in Alumni Hall is decorated with strands of white Christmas lights for the holiday season. 
Scully .receives tnedal frotn White House 
Observer Staff Report 
Fr. Tim Seully, former executive vice president of the University and current director of the Institute lilf Educational Initiatives rceeivcd the Presidential Citizens Modal at a ceremony in the Oval Ollicn WndnPsday. 
The award. according to a University press rn!f~ase. is the sec­ond-highest award thP president gives to a civilian, behind The Modal of Freedom. Scully was among 24 recipi~o,nl<> of thi<> year's award. 
Scully, who is a political science professor and a fellow and trustee of the University was given the award tor "committing his life to strengthening communities through faith-based education that prepares individual<> for a life­time of achievement, service and compassion," according to a White !louse statement quoted in the University release. Scully is also eo-founder of Notre Dame's Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) program. whieh provides Catholic schoolteachers to under­served school<> arross the country. 
Scully focuses his research on politiral institutions, political par­ties <md dnmocratic government<>. Scully served as executive vice president from 2000 to 2003 and was vice president and senior associate provost from 1994 to 2000. 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
'Tis the season for the sound of Christmas songs and the smell of Christmas cookies. And 'tis the season for Christmas decorations to adorn campus buildings. 
But with strands of lights hanging in dorm hallways, individual dorm rooms and dining halls, it should come as no surprise that the Christmas season is also one of increased energy use. 
While in the grand scheme of things Christmas lights are not s-ignificantly high-energy users, there are a few ways to decrease the amount of ener­gy used during the Christmas season, said senior Lourdes Long, president of GreeNO and an intern in the Office of Sustainability. 
Long suggested two main ways to decrease energy use regarding Christmas lights ­unplugging Christmas lights when they are not in use, and using Light-emitting diode (LED) lights, which are much more energy efficient. 
"Just like the normal light bulb is no longer efficient, the same is true for Christmas lights. LED lights might be a little more expensive but they are sort of the next wave tech­nology wise," Long said. 
see LIGHTS/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


NDftuih awarded $lOOk 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News. Writer 
Freshman Kevin McShane plans to quit his dining hall job, now that he won a $100,000 scholarship­by throwing footballs into a giant Dr Pepper can. 
The scholarship was part of the Dr Pepper half-time footoall chal­lenge. Six grand-prize-winning college students each received a trip for two to either the ACC championship game, the SEC championship game or the Big XII championship game. 
Two of the six Grand Prize win­ners attended each game, where they competed for the scholarship money at half-time. 
McShane chose the Dec. 6 Big XII Championship game, and took his older brother with him. 
"We each had an eight-foot-high Dr Pepper can five yards away, and we each had 10 footballs ­10 shots each," McShane said. 
"It was pretty nerve-wraeking," McShane said. "But it was really cold in Kansas City. so it was hard to get really excited." 
He chose the Big XII game because it sounded like the most exciting game out of his options, he said. 
"My brother was really mad at me for picking Kansas City over Tampa Bay," McShane said, laugh­ing. 
McShane chose to enter the con­test on a whim. 
"I saw a promotion on the Dr Pepper Web site for the halftime throw. I figured I could use the money, so why not give it a try?" 
see MCSHANE/page 6 
STUDENT SENATE 

Committee passes resolution 
Group to evaluate Notre Dame sexual assault policies, resources 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
The student senate unanimous­ly passed a resolution proposing the creation of a committee to work with the Office of Student Affairs to evaluate the University's policies concerning sexual assault, during their final mee~ this semester. 
The resolution was the first­ever proposed by the Senate Gender Issues Committee, student page 2 
body Schmidt said.  vice  president Grant  
see SENATE/page 6 .  Student body president Bob Reish, left, and vice president Grant Schmidt wear 'Stop the Violence' T-shirts at Wednesday's senate.  


INSIDE CoLUMN 


The revised 

X-111as playlist 
On Monday, Analisn Lipari published a 
list of' thn bnst Christmas songs. Now, 
Analise is a rnally nien per.son. She's 
always supnr positivn, and she was the 
only Observer staffer who voted f'or my 
niPcn f'or Clnveland's cutest baby. She's 
also very knowledgeable in all things 
Senne. llownver, 
slw really dropped
the ball-shaped Laura Myers 
ornament on this 
one. 

Not only did she Sports Writer · 
leave out some seri­
ous classics, but 
hnr Bing Crosby and Amy Grant choices 
were positively absurd. 
I just couldn't let her version stand as 
the official list. Plus, I figure a lot more 
people will see this one than saw hers, 
because no one really turns to the 
Scene page. That sounds mean, but it's 
not because Sports is just way better. 
On to the new Top 10 (or however 
many my word eount allows): 
I 0. "IIark the Herald Angels Sing" ­
I'll give her that one. The "Gloria" part 
is really fun to sing. 
<J. 
"We Wish You A Merry Christmas" by .John Denver and the Muppets­"Now bring us some figgy pudding -Piggy pudding'!?-No, figgy pud­ding. It's made with figs.-Oh, sorry. -And baeon." Classic. 

S. 
"(;rown Up Christmas List" by Amy Grant -I agree that Grai1t's Christmas album is a staple. and most of' the songs arc~ absolutPiy beautiful. This onn is by far the best for the idnalist.ic collnge student. 


7. "IIo IloIlo and a Bottle of Hhum" by .Jimmy Bul'f'ntt-I don't know about you. but in my family, it's just not Christmas without .Jimmy BuiTett and alcohol. Actually, it's just not my family without .Jimmy HuiTntt and alcohol. 
6. ''I'll bn llc.lll!P for Christmas" by Bing Crosby -I don't think this one ruwds nxplaining. 
5. "Tho Christmas Song (Chestnuts Hoasting on an Opnn Fire)"-Appeals to kids from one to 92. This song has bonn covernd well over 100 times, and af'tnr somP nxhatistive Hhapsody-ing, I dncidnd that Nat King Cole's original is still tho host. 
5a. I did f'ind a version by our vnry own Hegis Philbin, on "The Hegis Philbin Christmas album." Didn't see that corning. I listened to the wholn thing. It wasn't good. 
5b. On my snareh I also found "The Ann Arbor Chainsaw Massacre Christmas Song" by the l>nad Sehembf\ehlers. It was nxcellent. 
4. "This Christmas Day" by. the Trans­Siberian Orchestra. It's absolutely impossible to piek one TSO song, but I gave it a shot. 
I'm already way over my word eount, so skipping ahead... 
1. "I Want a Hippopotamus f'or Christmas" by Gayla Pnevy-It's my morn's f'avoritn, and I haven't bought her a prnst~nt yet. Mnrry Christmas, Morn. 
Merry Christmas to nveryone else as wnll! 

The views expres'sed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact /,aura Myers at lmyers2@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and strives for the highc.>t standards ofjounalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a misrakc.plcase contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Thursday, December 11, 2008 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS GOING TO BE THE HIGHLIGHT OF YOUR CHRISTMAS BREAK? 







Chris Toups  Keith Hetrick  Laura M~Carty  Paul Hotovy  Soren Palumbo  
freshman Duncan  freshman Keenan  sophomore McGlinn  sophomore Keenan  sophomore Sorin  
·"Going to the beach."  "Not having to worry about anything. "  "Sleeping."  "Roasting chestnuts on my open fire hearth."  "Relieffrom South Bend weather."  


. TOM LA!The Observer 
The Celebration Choir sings Christmas songs in Coleman-Morse Lounge Wednesday night as part of its concert for Haiti. 
OFFBEAT 
was playing the jolly old elf during a Santa Paws photo event at a PetsMart store when he was bitten Sunday on the wrist and hand. The event was to raise money for Penny Angel's Beagle Rescue group. 
The cat and owner dis­appeared after the inci­dent. At least one person thought it was a bobcat, said Joan Kerr, president of Penny Angel's. 
"It had absolutely huge paws, like 3 inches around," Kerr said. 
Information compiled 

Calif. KFC workers bathe in sinks 
ANDEHSON, Calif. ­Three employees of a Kentucky Fried Chicken have been suspended for bathing in a deep sink used to clean dishes. The prank was discov­ered after one of the young women posted photos on a social net­working site of the trio posing and cavorting in the steaming water in their underwear and swim wear. 
The photos were filed in a gallery called "KFC moments." Captions included "haha KFC showers!" and "haha we turned on the jets." 
A manager of the fast­food restaurant said the three were reprimanded and suspended Tuesday. She said no manager was on duty when the photos were taken as the three had closed the restaurant for the night. 
Cat bites Santa during photo shoot at NJ store 
HAMILTON TOWN­SHIP, N.J. -Santa Claus posed with a very large kitty on his lap -and now, unfortunately, he might need rabies shots. Jonathan Bebbington 
from Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY 
a: 
1.&.1 ::J: 
!d: 
1.&.1 
3: 
...... 
e.

<C 
**• *

(.) 
0 
HIGH 28 HIGH 27
...I LOW 22 LOW -22 LOW 18 

the Associated 
SATURDAY 
~ 
HIGH 36 LOW 31 
IN BRIEF 

The special lecture "What and When was the Christmas Star? An astro­physics perspective" will be given by Grant Mathews, professor of physics, in the Jordan Hall of Science Digital Visualization Theater. The nvent, held on Friday from 7 to S:30 p.m. is sponsored by Department of Physics. 
Glee Club will perform its annual Christmas Concert Sat.urday at 6 p.m. at the Leighton Concert llall of Debartolo Performing Arts Center. Tiekets are $:1 for students and proeends will benc~J'it. the South Bend Center for the llomeless. 
The DeBartolo Perfonning Arts Center wil1 host Cathy Mattea's Christmas concert Sunday at 2 p.m. in Leighton Concert Hall. Come celebrate the holidays with the one and only Kathy Mattea. USA Today described Mattea as "one of' Nashville's most spiri­tual singers, and the songs she· sings about love lost and humility are as f'i ne as any she has recorded." Mattea's Christmas performance includes her well-known holi­day songs such as "Mary, Did You Know?" among others. 
Saint Mary's will host the annual Finals Week Late Night Breakfast Monday from 10 to 11 p.m. in the Noble Family Dining Hall. All Saint Mary's College students are invited. No meal plan is needed to attend and guests are welcome. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 



0,,,,,,,

,,,,,,, 
HIGH 43 


LOW 34 L~OW 25 
Atlanta 59 I 53 Boston 45 I 42 Chicago 38 I 20 Denver 32 I 23 Houston 73 I 39 Los Angeles 71 I 46 Minneapolis 19 12 New York 49 I 46 Philadelphia 50 I 47 Phoenix 67 144 Seattle 49 I 43 St. Louis 50 I 26 Tampa 81 I 64 Washington 53 148 
Thursday, December 11, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Jevvish club celebrates Hanukkah 
Event included traditional foods, teaching of feast's historical roots 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
During the holiday season, it's important to remember that Christmas is not the only celebra­tion that is taking place during this time of year. 
For this rea­son, the Jewish 
Club of Notre "Wzth this event we days that the Dame hosted a hope to establish the everlasting light party that cele­remained lit.
story ofHanukkah.,,
brated the Attendees at the Jewish feast of party on Hanukkah at Jenna Zigman Wednesday Welsh Family learned that on
Jewish club president 
lla\1 on Wednesday evening. 
"With this event we hope to establish the story of Hanukkah," Jewish Club president Jenna Zigman said. "Part of our mis­sion is to expose Catholics to Jewish tradition and history." 
The event included traditional Hanukkah food as well as the teaching of the story of llanukkah. 
The feast of Hanukkah com­memorates a rebellion of the Jews in Judea against the Syrian king Antiochus in 175 BC. King Antiochus tried to stifle the .Jewish religious practices to such a degree that the Jews, led by the Maccabee family, created a sueeessful revolt that drove the Syrians out of Judea. 
Aftor·the rebellion, the Jews needed to reconsecrate their Holy Temple, which had been 
defiled by the Syrians. Most importantly, the Jews needed to rekindle their everlasting light in the temple. There was only enough oil to burn the flame for one day. However, the flame stayed lit for eight whole days. 
Today, the Hanukkah celebra­tion lasts for eight days to commem­orate the eight 
each night of Hanukkah, one candle is lit on a special candelabrum called a 
menorah. 
Despite the importance of Hanukkah, party­goers on Wednesday were told that it is a minor holiday on the Jewish calen­dar when com­pared to major feast days such as Passover and Yom Kippur. The holi­day increased in importance main­ly because it gave This gift-giving is also mainly a result of the proximity of Hanukkah to Christmas. 
"One of the reasons this event is important is because it is right around Christmas time," Zigman said. 
The Jewish Club served tradi­tional Hanukkah food such as potato pancakes, known as latkes, and jelly doughnuts. The food for Hanukkah is traditional­ly items that are cooked in grease to commemorate the mir­acle ofthe oil. 
The main purpose of the event was to bring greater awareness to a holiday that many students might not know too much about. 
"I hope that students will gain a greater appreciation of the Jewish faith," Zigman said. "At a 

"One ofthe reasons this event is important is because it is right around Christmas t{me." 
Jenna Zigman Jewish club president 
Catholic vniver­sity, it is impor­tant to know about Jewish traditions because Jewish history has such a large impact on Catholicism. I also think it is nice for Catholics to learn about Judaism because learn­ing about anoth­er religion can 

Jews something to celebrate at help one strengthen his own reli­the same time that Christians gion." were celebrating Christmas. 
Today, Jews exchange gifts Contact Molly Madden at every night of the eight-day feast. mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 



Christmas sale to· 
display local artists 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
Saint Mary's College will be hosting the Christmas Craft Show and Sale, Dec. 12. in the Reignbeaux Lounge from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
The Show will host over 40 local artists including some work from Saint Mary's own students. 
Carrie Call, director for the Office Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE) at Saint Mary's said the Art Department will have five tables to sell ceramics and other art pieces at the event. 
Saint Mary's junior and Art Club President Regan Magee told The Observer she will be selling some pieces from her stu­dio art classes at the sale. 
"It is a little nerve-wracking because as a seller you are afraid to name that price," Magee said. "The potential buy­ers do not always understand why an artist would price what they find to be high, and not nec­essarily see all the work and money for supplies to make that print or ceramic piece." 
The Show will contain a vari­ety of crafts including fiber arts, crochet, woodworking, quilting, gourmet food, jewelry, pottery and photography. 
Magee said she is selling "five lithography prints, but multiple copies of each of the prints. Also. [I have] a handmade book made from a studio last semester." 
All of the art is 100 percent handcrafted and designed by the artists, Call said. 
"All crafters are required to confirm that their work is 100 percent handcrafted/designed by them, no commercial products or representatives," she said. 
Some Saint Mary's students will be selling T-shirts at the sale. 
The show will benefit the OCSE's 12 Days of Christmas project, which began Dec. 1. "The artists each pay $25 to have a table," Call said. "This money goes directly to the 12 Days of Christmas project. The money that the artists make is theirs to keep. We will ask them to make further donation if they wish at the end of the day." 
The event is in its second year, and "this year's show is much, much larger," Call said. 
Magee added: "I am very excited. It is always fun to see who stops by to look and ends up buying certain pieces that a student may have worked on or worked around all semester, and see it leave the studio for good." 
The Christmas Craft Show and Sale i.'l open to everyone. 
"A piece of art is always a great gift to give someone for Christmas," Magee said. "It's dif­ferent than buying something from a general store." 
Contact Alicia Smth at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

RING IN 2009 WITH #1IRISH HOCKEYI 
JAN. 2: MlNNESOTA-DuurrH vs. UMAss-lovVELL (5:05P.M. CT) NoTRE DAME vs. UNION (8:05 P.M. CT) 
JAN. 3: UNtON vs. UMD oR UMASs-LowELL (4:05 P..M. CT) NoTRE DAME vs. UMD oR UMAss-LowELL 
(7:05 P.. M. CT) 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, December 11, 2008 
'LessonsandCarols'tobeheldatChurch 
By MEGAN LONEY News Writer 
Tlw true meaning behind the Christmas Holiday is not for­gotten at Saint Mary's College. Thn annual Lessons and Carols service will take place in the Church of Loretto Dec. 14at7p.m. 
Lessons and Carols is tradi­tionally a Christmas Eve serv­ico that originated in the Anglican Church to commemo­rate thn season. Saint Mary's has been hosting an adapted version of this service since 
19H1. 
The Saint Mary's Campus Ministry Department. the Saint Mary's Musie Department and the Liturgy Ol'fiee of the Sistnrs of the lloly Cross have workml together to co-sponsor tlw event. 
Approximately 500 to 550 people an~ expected to attend 

on Sunday, including students and sisters. 
"The Church is full to over­t1owing with other community members: all of whom partici­pate by their reverent listen­ing and heartfelt singing of the carols of the Advent and Christmas Seasons," said Sister Betty Smoyer, who is working to put the service together. 
During Lessons and Carols, there will be Scripture read­ings, community carol singing, choral pieces and liturgical dancing all by the light of can­dles. 
"The purpose of this service is to gather the Saint Mary's College and Convnnt eommuni­ties in an ncumenieal celebra­tion of the Advent and Christmas seasons," Smoyer said. 
Students and Sisters of the Holy Cross come together to participate in this service as 
readers, singers, dancers and bell ringers. About 125 stu­dents and 35 Sisters and lay Schola members are taking part in Lessons and Carols. The Church of Loretto Schola, the Saint Mary's College Women's Choir, the Collegiate Choir, the Liturgical Choir, the Hand Bell Choir, the Liturgical Dancers and Members of the Scene Shop will all play a role in this annual holiday service. 
Smoyer said that Lessons and Carols is an important tradition for Saint Mary's College. 
"This is a unique annual opportunity for the College and the Sisters to join in prayer and reflection on the Advent and Christmas call to belief in God's transforming presence and action in our lives," she said. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Programwins[)ept. ofDefensea-ward 
Executive education team partners 'With NSWC Corona to design career plan 
Associated Press 
The Naval Surface Warfare Center (NSWC) in Corona, Calif., employs more than 900 seientists, engineers and 
support staff, as well as HOO­p! us con­traetors, in the· eritieal task of gauging the fighting capabilities of thn U.S. Navy's ships and air­craft. 
Yet, three years ago, thn eentnr's lnadership realized that it need­
ed a system in place to iden­tify and train the center's future executive leaders. Promotions had been based primarily on technical, not business, skills. And for the long-term strength of the organization, employees would need a strategic way to aehieve their career goals. 

Entnr the Executive Education Program at the Univnrsity of Notre Dame. A team from the program part­nered with NSWC Corona to design an innovative employ­ee development program that mapped career paths with the requisite skills, knowl­edge and abilities, and pro­vided for a leadership suc­cession plan, among other goals. 
Now, the U.S. Department of Defense has honored the collaborative program with the Silver Workforce Development Award for 2008. The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics Workforce Development 
"We're delighted that the Department ofDefense is recognizing this important work and we commend the NSWCCorona leadership for its vision and commitment to implementing change." 
Sharon E. Keane director of Executive Programs 
to adopt. 
"We're delighted that the 
Department of Defense is rec­ognizing this important work and we com­mend the NSWC Corona leadership for its vision and commitment to implementing change," said Sharon E. Keane, director . of Executive Programs at Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business. "This 
Award was established in 2004 for the purpose of recognizing those organi­zations that are achieving excellence in learning and development for their employees. Additionally, the award program identifies best practices for other organizations 
program was developed "in­house," with Notre Dame's Executive Education team acting as facilitators and offering support to NSWC personnel, who made the pol­icy decisions in the areas of succession planning, per­formance evaluation, training programs and compensation. This approach, Keane said, engenders ownership because changes originate within the organization itself rather than being suggested by an outside party. 
"The Corona competency model provides the organiza­tion insight into the specific competencies required within the career paths at the organization," said Bruce Galloway, manager of the employee development pro­gram at NSWC Corona. "The partnership with Notre Dame was truly a win-win arrange­ment where both parties ben­
efitted from 
the experi­
ence." 

''The Corona N o t r e Dame'·s
competency model 

Corona case
provides organization study was 
insight into specific chosen as one of the
competencies required 

six most
within the career paths 
innovative in 

at the organization. " executive education worldwide
Bruce Galloway 
by the 
manager of employee 

International 
development program University's Consortium for Executive Education in 

collaboration was extraordi­2007. BusinessWeek ranked nary and yielded remarkable Notre Dame's executive cus­results." tom programs as No. 15 in its 
The employee development 2007 ranking. 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Theatregroupseeks funding for trip 
'Thespians Unplugged' plan to go to American College Theater Festival in Mich. 
By LIZ HARTER and 
ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writers 
Thespians Unplugged have been given the chance to display their talents at the American College Theater Festival (ACTF) in Saginaw, Mieh., Annaliese Furman, president of the club, said during 
Wednesday night's Board of Governance 
( B 0 G ) 
meeting. 
T h e group was seeking funding for the trip. 
"This fes­tival is very helpful. In the past two years, we have seen two productions that we brought 
back to campus," Furman said. The festival will have competitions, workshops, and productions for stu­dents to view. 
Nine students will be attending the event, includ­ing three seniors who will be presenting their work and two other underclass­men that will be perform­ing. 
the past has gone on to graduate school because of contacts she made at this festival," Furman said. 
The event will take place over Christmas break. 
Student Body President Mickey Gruscinski also addressed the lack of respect during meetings. 
"There have been side conversations while other people have been talking and this is disrespectful," Gruscinski said. 
She did acknowledge that 

Atria Salon 2 
specializing in color 574. 271. 8804 

during this meeting it was not an issue, however it has been during weeks past. 
In other BOG news: 

+Elections eommissioner Francesea Johnson could not be present at the meet­ing, and secretary Jenny lloffm an presented her pro­posal in her place. Their proposal will move back the elPction dates for campaign­
"This festival is very helpful. In the past two years, we have seen two prodictions that we brought back to campus" 
Annallese Furman Thespias Unplugged president 

hopes to present it to BOG by the end of January and then once it passes there; it will be brought to the stu­dent body to be voted on. 
+Women's issues commis­sioner Becki Faunce announced that the SMC Monologues will be pro­duced for the fifth time on 
The fes­
"One student who. went in
tival is 
also an the past has gone on to 
opportuni­graduate school becasue of ty for the 
contacts she made at the
students 
festival."
to net­work. 
" 0 -n e 
Annaliese Furman 
student 
Thespias Unplugged
who has 
president
gone in 

ing and vot­ing on stu­dent govern­ment posi­tions to the month of' February. The proposal was passed unanimously. 
+ T h e Constitution Board has almost fin­ished drafting the new con­stitution, stu­dent body vice president Sarah Falvey said. She 
campus 
next semes­ter. The S M C Monologues are a collec­tion of anonymous submissions r r 0 m women on campus. The SMC Monologues will be ask­ing for sub­missions a f t e r Christmas Break. 
+ To-go Mugs are still being sold in the Student Center Atrium during the 12 Days of Christmas craft show on Friday, Falvey said. Mugs will be one for $8 or two for $15, and can be used to carry drinks out of the Noble Family Dining Hall. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu and Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

25% off



25% off 

Present this odd on your next hair services and receive 25 %off plus afree eyebrow with any service. EXPIRES 12/19/08 
Atria Solon 2 2027 South Bend Avenue 46637 (inside the Martin's shopping center) 








ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, December 11, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Blue diamond sells for $24.3 million 
LONDON -A rare blue diamond handed down through generations of German royalty sold for a record-breaking 16.4 million pounds ($24.3 million) at auction Wednesday in London, Christie's said. 
The Wittelsbach Diamond, a 35.56 carat cushion-shaped gem, has often had its color and elarity compared to the famed llope Diamond, now on display at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington. 
The rare gem was snapped up by billionaire diamond-dealer Laurence Graff for about 16.4 million pounds ($24.3 million), including buyer's premium. Christie's spokeswoman Alexandra Kindermann said. 
Malaysia frees 9/11 accomplice 
KUALA LUMPUR. Malaysia -Malaysia released a former army captain accused of help­ing the Sept. 11 h~jackers and six other suspects who had been held without trial after deciding they no longer posed a threat. officials said Wedm1sday. 
Three alleged members of the Southeast Asian terrorist group Jemaah Islamiyah, two suspect­ed Thai separatist-; and two Malaysians accused of spying for foreign intelligence agencies were released separately between Nov. 24 and Dec. 4, said human rights activist Nalini Elumalai. 
The most prominent among them is Yazid Sufaat, an ex-army captain who allegedly let several senior al-Qaida operatives, including two eventual Sept. 11 hijaekers, use an apartment he owned for meetings in Malaysia in January 2000. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Ariz. shooters caught on wiretap 
~HOENIX-As they listened to scratchy record­ings and followed along on transcripts, a jury heard two men boasting and laughing about a series of shootings that killed eight people. 
Maricopa County prosecutors said the men on the wiretaps are Dale Hausner and Samuel Dieteman. 
The recordings, played publicly for the first time Tuesday, allegedly have the two talking almost obsessively about media coverage of the spree that terrorized Phoenix in 2005 and 2006. 
"It now brings the total to six," said the man identified as Dieteman, referring to news reports. 
"It's higher than that!" said the man identified as Hausner. "What about the guy I (expletive) shot at twice at 27th Avenue in the yard?" 
Hausner, 35, is charged with eight counts of first-degree murder and dozens of other charges. 
Miss. residents sue over housing funds 
JACK.'lON, Miss.-Housing advocates and low­income residents sued Wednesday to stop Mississippi frum spending a half-billion federal dollars to expand a damaged port rather than replace homes'destroyed by Hurricane Katrina. 
The Mississippi State Conference NAACP, Gulf Coast Fair Housing Center and residents sued the 
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development in federal court in Washington, D.C. 
Congressional leaders and others slammed HUD when it approved the state's plan to steer money to the Hurricane Katrina-damaged port despite a lingering housing crisis caused by the 2005 storm. 
Gov. Haley Barbour maintains expanding the State Port at Gulfport, the thir9-busiest container port in the Gulf of Mexico, is key to the region's economic recovery. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Purdue students invent brace for dogs LAFAYETTE, Ind. -Purdue University stu­denl<; are working on an "exoskeleton" for dogs 
' -a type of brace they hope can help older eanines struggling with hip problems. The students came up with a deviee that fits over part of a dog's back and helps it put more weight on its back legs while using less pain medicine. "If we can make a joint on the crutside of the body to do the same thing, it ean reduce pain. We want to make it marketable for all dogs," said Jim Bergren, a Purdue senior in mechanieal engineering working on the device. Some dogs suffer from hip dysplasia, a condi­tion in which thfl hips deterioratfl, making it diffi­eult for dogs to walk without pain. 
Gov. Blagojevich refuses to resign 
Illinois governor will not heed President-elect Obama's suggestion to step down 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -His career in 
shreds, Illinois Gov. Rod 
Blagojevich clung defiantly 
to power Wednesday, 
ignoring a call to step down 
from President-elect 
Barack Obama and a warn­
ing that Senate Democrats 
will not let him appoint a 
new senator from the state. 
"Everyone is calling for 
his head," said Barbara 
Flynn Currie, a leader in 
the Illinois Senate and, like 
the governor, a Democrat. 
One day after 
Blagojevich 's arrest, fellow 
Illinois politicians sought to 
avoid the tatnt of scandal­
by-association. 

Rep. Jesse Jackson Jr. said at a news conference in Washington that he was Senate Candidate 5 in the government's criminal complaint a man Blagojevich was secretly recorded as saying might be willing to pay money to gain appointment to Obama's vacant Senate seat. Jackson said he had been assured by prosecu­tors he was not a target of the investigation, and he emphatically said he had not engaged "whatsoever in any wrongdoing." 
Other Democrats in 
Washington edged away 
from calls for a special of that, nor will we lose "The president-elect rank and file for signa­
election to fill Obama's sight of that," Quinn said. agrees with Lt. Gov. Quinn tures. 
place in the Senate, hoping One day earlier, federal and many others that Blagojevich 's resignation, 
that Lt. Gov. Pat Quinn prosecutors released a under the current circum­followed by an appoint­
would soon become gover­thick document that includ­stances it is difficult for the ment made by a new gov­
nor and fill the vacancy on ed excerpts of wiretapped governor to effectively do ernor, would "be the most 
his own. That would assure conversations in which the his job and serve the peo­expeditious way for a new 
the party of holding the governor allegedly ple of Illinois," Obama senator to be chosen and 
seat, and on a far faster schemed to enrich himself spokesman Robert Gibbs seated in a manner that 
timetable than any ballot­by offering to sell Obama's said in response to ques­would earn the confidence 
ing would allow. Senate seat for campaign tions from The Associated of the people of Illinois and 
Ensconced in his down­cash or a lucrative-job Press. all Americans," wrote 
town office, Blagojevich inside or outside govern­Asked whether Obama Majority Leader Harry Reid 
gave no sign he was con­ment. supports a special election, of Nevada and the party's 
templating resigning, and Blagojevich, whose 52nd Gibbs said Obama believes second-ranking leader, Sen. 
dispatched his spokes­birthday was Wednesday, is the Illinois General Richard Durbin of Illinois. 
woman, Kelley Quinn, to charged with conspiracy Assembly should consider They added that if 
say it was "business as and solicitation to commit how to fill the Senate seat Blagojevich chose to 
usual" in his 16th-floor bribery, punishable by up and "put in place a process "ignore the request of the 
suite, situated a few blocks to 20 years in prison and to select a new senator that Senate Democratic Caucus 
from Obama's transition 10 years, respectively. will have the trust and con­and make an appointment 
headquarters. More than 24 hours after fidence of the people of we would be forced to 
"At the end of the day, the arrest, Obama joined Illinois." exercise our Constitutional 
the top priority for our other prominent Democrats Top Senate Democrats authority ... to determine 
office is to serve the people, from his state in calling for were more pointed in a let­whether such a person 
and we have not lost sight Blagojevich's resignation. ter circulated among the should be seated." 

GUANTANAMO BAY 
Com_m_ander predicts Gitm_o vvon't close 
tinue any sort of prosecution or resolu­on the base for pretrial hearings for
Associated Press tion of their cases," Thomas told five men charged with carrying out the GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, reporters Tuesday night. "The easy Sept. 11, 2001 attacks. Cuba-Guantanamo's commander part is taking them from JTF­The defendants wrote a letter on believes that the prison on this base Guantanamo and putting them on an Nov. 4 -the day Obama was elected won't close anytime soon after airplane. president -s·aying they wanted to President-elect Barack Obama takes "Those are good, important deci­confess, presumably to plead guilty office. sions that will be made after, I'm cer­and face the death penalty. Rear Adm. David Thomas said he tain, rigorous debate back in the At least two of the men, including expects "rigorous debate" in America United States." the self-described mastermind Khalid before the 250 detainees are flown Thomas, who took command six Sheikh Mohammed, have said they out, pouring cold water on speculation months ago of the Joint Task Force want to be executed by the _United that the military's offshore prison that runs the prison camps, said no States to achieve martyrdom. Many might close within days after Obama is member of Obama's transition team observers at the hearing say the sworn in on Jan. 20. has visited the base or is scheduled to defendants may be rushing toward a "The hard part, the important part do so. death sentence before Obama takes to get ready is where you're going to "When there is an order to close it, office and shuts down the war-crimes put the detainees, and the legal we will close it," Thomas said in a dis­trials, as the president-elect has vowed process that you intend to use to con-cussion with U.S. and foreign reporters to do. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, December 11, 2008 

Lights 
continued from page 1 
llownvnr, junior Will Staruk, who is in charge of decorating Sorin College for Christmas, said that hn wantnd to switch to LI~D lights this year for ellicinn­ey reasons, but thn cost played a factor. 
"I havt1 Lim lights in my per­sonal room but thny are too nxpPnsivn to usP on a dorm­wide ltwPI," said Staruk. 
Although lw could not pur­chasn LED lights for the dorm, Sorin did reuse the deeorations from last year and he said that thn rnsidPnce hall unplugs the Christmas lights during the day. 
Carla McDonald. manager at North Dining llall. PStimatnd that thorn are slightly under 60 strands of lights that decorate thn· dining hall, whieh stay on for about I X hours a day. 
"Wn turn thom on at 5 a.m. and turn thorn off around 11 
p.m. when we leavP," said McDonald. who believes the lights arP unpluggBc:l ovnrnight, 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
Condor Issues Comrnittnn co-chair Laurnn Cummings said she had bonn approar:hnd by multiple stu­dents who had benn sexually assaulted but had nPgative experi­nnees whnn dealing with the 
Ol'f'ice  of Hesidence  Lifn  and  
!lousing.  
"Tho  University's  current  
msources lhr vic­ 
tims and discipli­ 

"The University's 
nary options vast majority of oftnn do not satis­current resources for Senators wore T­fy thn rweds of shirts bearing the
victims and 
the survivors," statistic that
disciplinary options 
according to the approximately rnsolution. often do not satisfy one-in-four col­Cummings said lege women sur­
the needs ofthe 
thnsn studnnts' vive rape or
survivors.
complaints attempted rape. prompted her Cummings said and Committee Senate resolution the statistic was eo-chair Patrick first uncovered by
passed Dec. 10 
Tighe to begin examining the University's policies on sexual assault. 
Tighe said he and Cummings nventually dneided student gov­nrnmnnt should create a commit­ten to evaluate the policies. The eommittnn would bn composed of a wide variety of students from inside and out<>ide of student gov­ernmnnt. 
"We want it to bP really produe­'tivn," Tighe said. 
The resolution also calls for nwmbnrs of Student All'airs, the Ol'f'ien til' Hnsidnnee Lifo and I lousing, the Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention and the (;endnr Hnlations Center to "revinw and evaluate the effee­tivonnss of thn University's sexual assault, rape and sexual miscon­duct policy, resources for vietims but could not say for sure since she does not work at night. 
Director of Utilities Paul Kempf, said he does not nor­mally notice an increase in the electrical bill during the Christmas seasom. 
"I have never noticed any particular increase but the diJTi­culty is: a) I don't think Christmas lights are. a signifi­cant load and b) they occur at night which is not when our load is at its peak," said Kempf. 
"For an operational stand­point, we don't really notice." he said. But he also added, "That doesn't mean there isn't a load." 
Other ways to decrease ener­gy use during the Christmas season is to wrap presents in newspaper or reeyeled paper, Long said. 
She also· suggested "giving people stuff that they can reuse ... gifts like a reusable mug or a reusable water bottle that people can usc all year long." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
of sexual assault and the University's disciplinary options available to victims of sexual assault." 
Cummings said the student response to the issue should per­suade all of the groups to seriously examine the polieins. ' 
"We're saying this is an issue we consider top priority and we're asking them to put it on the same level," she said. 
The resolution was passed on the same day as the Stop the 
Violence 
Campaign. The 
a study done in 
1987 and was recently confirmed by a United States Department of Justice study done in 2006. The University also usns the statistic on its Web site. 
In other Senate news: 
+ The Senate unanimously passed an amendment redefining the composition of the Club Coordination Council (CCC), which enumerated several positions. 
CCC president John Burke said his group had evolved over the past eight years, but the Student Constitution had not been updat­ed. This amendment, Burke said, would simply update the Constitution so that the docwnent would accurately reflect the CCC. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at 
jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

essay might not have been part of the seleetion process. 
"When wn got thern, thr\ pnople from Dr Pepper were talking about how wn wore pieknd," MeShann said. "We wern picked randomly. I don't think they fWen read the essays." 
MeShann was not onn of tlw original winners chosen, but he was chosen bncause the initial winners failed to respond, he said. 
Bnsides allowing him to quit his dining hall job, McShane said, "in the long term I'm hoping this will enable me to eomn out of' mllngn with no debt." 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 


McShane 
continued from page 1 

McShane said. "I entered my application on the Web site, and I got a call in November that I had won the trip." 
McShane worked to win by practicing his throwing accuracy. 
"I practiced a lot over Thanksgiving break, since I had a lot of time," he said. "We al<>o had a chance to practice on the field the night before." 
McShane's favorite part of the game? Spending time with retired Dallas Cowboy Marcellus Wiley, who helped host the challenge. 
"He was really funny, joking the whole time," McShane said of Wiley. "Stuff like, 'Now you know how [Oklahoma quarterback! Sam Bradford feels."' 
As part of the application process, McShane had to submit an essay about.his experiences with Dr Pepper. 
"There is a group of missionar· ies in Indianapolis who fast all day on Fridays until dinner," McShane said. "I decided to start doing that too. So, I don't eat any­thing w1til dinnertime, but I drink liquids like Dr Pepper to stay hydrated." 
McShane wrote his essay on how drinking Dr Pepper helped him keep his energy up as he fasted. 
Surprisingly, McShane said the thrnn other studenl<; did a speeial perli1rmance of' the ABBA song "Manmm Mia" during the rncital. She said she thought everyone did a good job. 
"''m thrilled with the perform­ance," she said. 
Seniors Katie Palmitier and Erin Fitzpatrick worn white shirl<> with nicknames printed on the back Jilr the reeital. They said 30 or so of thnir friends had come to South Dining llall to wakh them pPrliwm. 
"I think we rocknd it," Fitzpatrick said. 
But tho tap rncital would not bP the end of thoir tapping days, Fitzpatrick jokod. 
"We're going to be doing impromptu shows," she said. 
McKenna did his own impromptu show Wednesday night -a solo that he said he decidnd to do at the last minutn. 
"The neat thing about tap dant:­ing is, no matter how stressed you are, the minute you put your tap shoos on. you just can't bo uptight anymore," he told The Observor a few hours before the recital. "There's something very relaxing and emotionally liberating about listening to the music and danc­ing." 
He laughed when asked if he'd evnr been compared to Fred Astaire. 
"I can hold my own," he said. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


Recital 
continued from page 1 

McKenna, conversely, cannot remember a time when he did not know how to tap dance. He said it seemed innate to hin1. 
"My mother swears this is true, and I guess I've heard it long enough that I've come to believe her, that every time she looked over at me, whether I was in the crib or when I was first learning to walk or just standing, more than walking, if there was music on, I was tap dancing," McKenna said ".Just tap dancing, keeping beat with my feet in whatever capacity I could." 
McKenna received his first pair of tap shoes when he was four years old. He said he would watch tap dancing movies, like ones with Fred Astaire, Gene Kelly or Ray Bolger. He'd watch the steps they would do and try to imitate them. 
"It just came out of me," he said. "I think of it as a way of playing the drwns with your feet." 
When he was 10 or 11, his par­ents decided to get hinl formal tap dancing lessons. He took the les­sons for about five years, he said, and learned a lot of great steps, but did not like tapping in the for­malistic way the instructors taught because, for him, tap dancing was an expression of how he was feeling. . _ 
He kept dancing after his les­
www.theteambus .com 

574-256-9956 1-877-EZ-TOUR BUS 


:\1 hlettc ".-\t.·~tdl'llltt' {houp:-. ·Fr;·th•nlily'~ororit y t. i roups ( 1roup· Cornpany ( )ulill~;'~ c:..·l1arlers. ~(( Htrs Tht:<lh.·r c·'mccrts..~ :-;pt•rting f ·:n'n1~ 
= VISA C!Jurdws. St·honl <iroup:-. Convenient. Safe. Reliable. 

sons were over, but said he nevor had any desire to become a pro­fessional tap dancer. 
"It wa<> already part of my life," he said. "It wa<> just integrated in. And here I am. I just turned 60 years old and I'm still tap danc­ing." 
McKenna came to Notn~ Dame in 1997 from Pomona College, where he had spent live years teaching in the dance depart­ment, as well as performing in formal productions and spneial evenl<>. 
Upon arriving at Notn~ Dame, he saw there was no tap daneing dass oflenid. He decided to start one, and added the dass to his regular teaching duties in the anthropology department. Since the fall of 1998, McKenna has taught a dass in tap each snmes­ter he's been on campus. 
The first semester the dass wa<> offered, 80 students si!:,rned up. It's been popular ever since, McKenna said, and hundreds of Notre Dame students have taken it. 
His friends and family in CaWornia are always telling him that they meet Notrn Dame grad­uates who have taken his tap dancing dass, he said. 
Senior Kelly Donley has taken the dass, and this year, for the second time, she is a TA for tap. As the teaching assistant, she demonstrates the steps, works with students individually if they need help and helps choreograph 
· the dances. This year, she and 
.... 
B 
. 
. 

·a··.·.··.s.·······.·.·
· ......... ~ '; ,:~.. ., .·.~ '-~-.·•··. .
. . . ... ' ..... 


Thursday, December 11, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,761.42 +70.09 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,266 76 2,581 2,198,722,679 
AMEX li~~6;05 +16.65 NASDAQ 1,565.48 +1R.l4 NYSE 5,631.07 +108:61 S&P 500 899.24 +10.57 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8,660.24 0.00 FTSE 100 (London) 4,367.28 -13.98 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +0.68 +0.61 90.11 CITIGROUP INC (C) -2.81 -0.24 8.30 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.33 -0.10 29.91 ULTRA FINANCIALS PRO (UYG) -0.80 -0.05 6.21 

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.56 +0.015 2.684 13-WEEK BILL -50.00 -0.005 0.005 30-YEAR BOND +0.65 +0.020 3.095 5-YEAR NOTE +0.62 +0.010 1.629 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.45 43.52 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +34.60 808.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -3.00 84.50 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 92.7200 EURO 0.7682 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2570 BRITISH POUND 0.6767 
IN BRIEF FDA deadlocked over asthma drug risks 
WASHINGTON -Deadlocked over the risks of long-acting asthma drugs, government health officials Wednesday asked outside advisers if four medications used by millions of patients should remain on the market. 
An unusually large panel of some 30 med­ical and scientific advisers will vote Thursday on whether the risks of the drugs -Advair, Foradil, Serevent and Symbicort -outweigh the benefits. The Food and Drug Administration, whose own scientists are at odds, sought the advice in making a final deci­sion. 
Doctors who treat adults and children with asthma strongly urged the FDA not to ban the drugs. It would only trigger a dangerous surge in cases of uncontrolled asthma, they warned. 
Some of the FDA advisers expressed frustra­tion Wednesday ovor a lack of fresh clinical data on medications in use for a decade or longer. "I think this is an impossible task you are asking us to do," said Dr. Judith Kramer, who teaches medicine at Duke University Medical Center in Durham, N.C. 

Bush gives up on easing coal restrictions 
WASHINGTON -Six weeks before leaving office, the Bush administration is giving up on an eight-year effort to ease restrictions on pol­lution from coal-burning power plants, a key plank of its original energy agenda and one that put the president at odds with environ­mentalists his entire tenure in the White House. 
President George W. Bush had hoped to make both changes to air pollution regulations final before leaving office on Jan. 20. In the midst of a coal-fired power plant construction boom, the rules would have made it easier for energy companies to expand existing facilities and to erect new power plants in areas of the country that meet air quality standards. 
But the Environmental Protection Agency on ,Wednesday conceded that it didn't have enough time to complete the rules changes, which were undermined by a federal court decision earlier this year that serq.pped a sig­nature component of Bush's clean air policies. 





THE OBSERVER 



USINESS 
page 7 

Emergency auto bailout in peril 
Republicans fight against plan to spend_ $14 billion to help struggling automakers 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON­Emergency aid for the nation's imperiled auto industry was thrown into jeopardy Wednesday, opposed by Republicans who were revolting against a hard-fought deal between Democrats and the Bush White House to speed $14 billion to ailing carmakers. 
The House was on track to vote on the bailout Wednesday night, and Democrats held out hope that it could be enacted by week's end. But a growing number ol' GOP senators deelared they would not go along. 
The White House, though not formally endorsing an agreement with congres­sional Democrats, dis­patched administration officials to Capitol Hill to make a ease for the reseue package. During a con­tentious, closed-door lunch­eon with Senate Republicans, White House Chief of Staff-Josh Bolten got an earful of criticism from the rank-and-file, some of whom have already announced plans to block the measure. 
"They got a good dose," said opponent Tom Coburn, R-Okla., as he emerged Chrysler LLC, while Ford ing yet another federal res­billion bailout plan that from the session. Motor Co. -which has said cue in a. bailout-weary Bush signed into law for 
Even auto state it has enough liquidity to Congress, with Bush's influ­Wall Street financial firms. Republicans who have stay afloat -would be eli­ence on the wane. Debate on the bailout pushed hard for a bailout gible for federal aid as well. "People realize that this unfolded as a congressional said the measure needed The plan would create a bill is an incredibly weak panel reviewing the finan­work. Sen. Kit Bond, R-Mo., government "car czar," to bill, (and) is the product of cial rescue questioned the said he wanted to see be n'amed by President an administration that Bush administration's changes. And Sen. George George W. Bush to dole out wants to kick the ean down spending of those funds 
V. Voinovieh, R-Ohio, said the loans, with the power the road and let somebody and challenged its reluc­the bill didn't have the nec­to force the carmakers into else deal with it," said Sen. tance to use the. money to essary Republican votes to bankruptcy next spring if Bob Corker, R-Tenn. reduce foreclosures. The pass Congress. they didn't cut quick deals The scene so far has been House was set to add lan­
The Republicans' revoH with labor unions, creditors somewhat reminiscent of guage to the auto aid bill to came as the House began and others to restructure the tense atmosphere of require that banks that are procedural votes on the their businesses and early October on Capitol bailed out ·by the govern­package. become viable. Hill, when lawmakers ment report quarterly on 
It would provide money Opposition from congres­argued, cajoled, threatened how much they have within days to cash-starved sional Republicans reflect­and lobbied one another, increased or decreased General Motors Corp. and ed the tricky task of enact-ultimately passing a $700 lending. 

Deficit on pace to reach record high 
such as unemployment insurance the questions suggest sharp dis­
Associated Press 

and food stamps. agreements with Treasury 
WASHINGTON -The federal Elsewhere, emergency aid for the Secretary Henry Paulson's steward­government ran a record budget nation's imperiled auto industry ship of the program and echo some deficit in November, putting Uncle was thrown into jeopardy of the critiCism raised in a Sam on track to post an all-time Wednesday as some Hepublicans Government Accountability Office high annual shortfall of $1 trillion revoHed against a hard-fought deal audit of the program last week. or more. between Democrats and the Bush Many Democrats in Congress 
In just the first two months of the . White House to speed $14 billion to have criticized Treasury for not budget year that started Oet. 1, the the ailing carmakers. using the funds to help homeown­deficit totaled $401.6 billion, nearly Then there's the $700 billion ers. matching the record gap of $455 bank rescue program. The Treasury The department said Wednesday billion posted for all of last year, report showed that the government that the gap between the govern­according to Treasury Department spent $76.5 billion from the pro­ment's revenue collections and data released Wednesday. If the gram in November and $191.5 bil­what it paid out last month totaled deficit does top $1 trillion for the lion over the past two months. $164.4 billion, the largest deficit current budget year, it also would A congressional oversight panel ever recorded for the month of be a post-World War II high when on Wednesday questioned whether November. The deficit was $98.2 measured as a percentage of the Treasury is following a clear strate­billion in November 2007. economy. gy in its use of those funds. The An annual deficit of $1 trillion 
The increased red ink stems from panel, which includes academic and would equal 6. 7 percent of the both lower tax revenue and labor representatives, also asked in gross domestic product, the econo­increased spending that is a result a report whether the rescue effort my's total output in a single year. of the recessionary economy. The has helped any homeowners avoid That would surpass the previous government is receiving less in foreclosure. postwar record in GDP terms of 6 business and personal income taxes The 3 7 -page oversight report percent sent in 1983 when Ronald while spending more on programs offers no specific conclusions, but Reagan was president. 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, December II, 2008 
UNITED KINGDOM 


Assisted suicide televised in Britain 
Broadcast shows terminally-ill American during his last moments at Swiss clinic 
Associated Press 
LONDON -The scene is dif­

ficult to watch, even for view­
ers inured to the subject of' 
dying by a steady diet of' vio­
lent llollywood and television 
fare. 
Craig Ewert, a former com­

puter scientist from Chicago, 
is shown lying in bed with his 
wife at his side while he takes 
barbiturates. lie asks for a 
glass of' apple juice to mask 
the bad taste and help him 
swallow. Then he uses his 
teeth to turn off his ventilator 
-and dies on camera. 
Britain's obsession with 

reality television reached new 
heights -or depths ­
Wednesday night with the 
broadeast of the assisted sui­
cide of' the 59-year-old tenni­
nally ill American at. a Swiss 
clinic. 
Showing the final moment of 

death had long been a final 
taboo, even for no-holds­
barred British TV, where sex 
and violence are common, and 
the broadcast unleashed 
debate on an issue that 
strongly divides public opin­
ion. 
Photographs of' Ewert's final moments dominated Britain's newspaper front pages Wednesday -"SUICIDE TV" screanwd one tabloid -and prom ptnd a debate in Parliament, whern Prime Ministnr Cordon Brown was quizznd about tho propriety of the decision to air the pro­gram. 
Before hn died, Ewert said taking his own lifp, would mean loss suffering for him­self and hi.s family. 
"If' I go through with it, I die as I must at some point," he says in tlw documentary. which eh ron ielns his 2006 dncision to take his own life after being diagnosed with degenerative motor neuron disease. 
"If I don't go through with it, my choien is essnntially to suf­fer, and to inflict suffering on my family, and thnn die." 
Care Not Killing, an anti­euthanasia group aligned with the Catholie Church and other religious organizations in Britain, denouneed the broad­east as "a eynieal attempt to boost television ratings" and persuade l'arliamnnt to legal­ize assisted suicide. 
"Thorn is a growing ·appetite from the British public for increasingly bizarre reality shows," said the group's director, Peter Sa.unders. "We'd son it as a nnw mii!-J­stonn. It gloririns assisted 
dying when there is a very 
active campaign by the pro­
suicide lobby to get the issue 
back into Parliament." 
Mary Ewert wrote in the 
British press Wednesday that 
her husband had been enthu­
siastic about having his final 
moments televised. 
"He was keen to have it 
shown because when death is 
hidden and private, people 
don't faee their fears about 
it," she said, adding that he 
wanted viewers to understand 
that assisted suicide allowed 
him to die comfortably rather 
than enduring a long, drawn 
out and painful demise. 
The documentary by Osear­winning director John Zaritsky has previously been shown on Canadian and Swiss TV and at numerous film festi­vals, where it provoked little eontroversy. But it struck a raw nerve in Britain, where the divisive debate over assist­ed suicide remains unre­solved. 
Zaritsky said it would have been "less than honest" to make the film without show­ing the actual suicide because it would have left viewers wondering if the,..death was unpleasant, cruel, or carried out against Ewert's will. 
"By putting it out there, and putting it out there in its entirety, people can judg(~ for themselves," he said, adding that the documentary gives viewers an insight into how assisted suicide would work if it is legalized in more places. 
Originally called "The Suieidn Tourist," the film was renamed "Hight to Die?" for its British broadcast on Sky TV's Heal Lives digital ehan­nel, which draws far fewer viewers than the network's myriad news, sports or movie shows. Still, it generated enor­mous publicity, with elips shown throughout the day on Sky News and rival channels. 
The televised suicide in Britain follows a well-publi­eized case in Florida, where a teenager killed himself on cameni. last month and broad­cast the chilling images live on an Internet site. 
Ewert, who was living in Britain when he became ill, went abroad to end his life because assisted suicide is illegal in Britain. 
In the film, he says he want­ed to take action before the disease, which destroys eells that control essential muscle activity such as speaking, walking, breathing and swal­lowing, left him completely ineapaeitated. 


To the Class of 2009  
As you arc undoul:>tedly avvare, the status ot­the economy vvill 1:nean a difficult job market as you approach graduation 1n May. The C::areer C::enter lS v.Te>rking closely '-Vith students and ernployers to identify career opportunities to help you move £o~vard during the upcorning r:nonths_ The vvebsite belovv vvill provide in-depth inFormation regarding a nurnber o£ initiatives that vve are undertaking to assist you 1n finding career opportunities. ()ur multi­Eaceted approach includes individual career advising, career £airs, en"lployer inf-ormation sesstons.. alumni net"\Vorking and t:nore. Please take a rn.oment to revtevv the site and don,t hesitate to contact us at (574) 631­5200 £or further assistance.  
http://careercenter.nd.edu/ movingforward -]__.ee Svete 1-.::>irec:tc>r '"I__,he c::a.reer c::en.t.er  



or $13.95 each 
1 

ARE YOU IR OR TIE SECRET? GET TBEM ILE YOU IDLL CAR. 




IPl~~e ~de The Observer.! 


Thursday, December 11, 2008 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
SenatoiSmge probe 
I 

Variation ingene could cause obesity 
Palmer and his· colleagues find was the fact that they
Associated Press 
wanted to know if the FTO were eating much richer

of fighter jet crash 
NEW YORK -Scientists gene also had to do with eat­foods;" said Palmer. 
may have figured out one ing behavior, or whether it On average, those with the 
reason some people reach for involved how the body burns gene variant ate 100 calories 
borhood about two miles from the french fries instead of an calories. They studied over more than those without it.

Associated Press 
Marine Corps Air Station 

apple. 2,700 Scottish children ages Dr. Rudolph Leibel, an obe­SAN DIEGO -California Miramar. 
It could be a gene that's 4 to 10 and put a group of sity researcher at Columbia Sens. Dianne Feinstein and U.S. Rep. Duncan Hunter, 
been linked to an increased them through extensive tests. University in New York, said Barbara Boxer joined the call the ranking Republican on the 
risk of obesity. Nearly two-thirds of the getting good measurements for the Marine Corps to House Armed Services 
A study of children found children had at least one of how much someone eats is review its entire fleet of Committee, previously called 
those with a common varia­copy of the gene variant, difficult, but the Scottish F/A18-D Hornet jets for possi­on the Marine Corps to 
tion of the gene tend to about the same proportion study did it in a closely con­ble problems after a fiery release the maintenance 
overeat high-calorie foods. found in last year's study of trolled manner. crash killed two young girls, records of its F/ A-18D Hornet 
They ate 100 extra calories mostly white Europeans. He said the overeating may their mother and their grand­fighters. 
per meal, which over the long That study found that those be driven more by the need mother. The crash was probably 
term can put on weight, said with one copy of the gene for calories than a preference In a joint letter Wednesday, unrelated to the previous dis­
Colin Palmer, who led the variant had a 30 percent for fatty foods. Fat is just a the two ~enators asked Gen. covery of cracks in hinges on 
study at the University of increased risk of obesity, and good way to get those extra James Conway, Marines com­the wings of more than a 
Dundee in Scotland. carriers of two copies had calories. mandant, to quickly complete dozen of the $57 million air­
The findings don't mean almost a 70 percent "Bite for bite, there are the investigation of Monday's craft, the San Diego-area con­
that everyone with that ver­increased risk. more calories in a Big Mac crash and make the results gressman said. 
sion of the gene will eat too The gene variation is also than there are in an apple," public. Boxer and Feinstein also 
much and become obese, he found in other populations; said Leibel, who wrote an "We can all agree that in urged the Marines to assist 
said. They just might have a the frequency in Chinese is editorial that accompanies urban areas like San Diego people affected by the crash, 
tendency to eat more fatten­about half that of Europeans. the study in the journal. County, where the military particularly Dong Yun Yoon, a 
ing foods. After confirming the obesity A recent study in the Amish and civilian populations close­Korean immigrant whose fam­
"It's still your choice," he link in the larger Scottish suggested the variant's ly coexist, it is absolutely vital ily perished when the plane 
said. "This gene will not group, the researchers exam­effects could be blunted with that all precautionary steps hit his home near the base. 
make you overweight if you ined 97 of the children. They hours of physical activity. The are taken to ensure the safety Yoon had asked for guidance 
do not overeat." took a number of measure­lead author of that study, of both our civilian and mili­from people who have suf­
Palmer said the results sup­ments, including body fat and Evadnie Rampersaud of the tary residents," the letter fered "more terrible things" at 
port the theory that child­metabolic rate. University of Miami, noted read. a news conference Tuesday. 
hood obesity today could be The children were given that only 76 Scottish children Marine spokesman Maj. His appearance at the news 
connected to the widespread three meals at school to eval­completed all three meal David Nevers had no immedi­conference was interrupted by 
availability and low cost of uate their eating behavior. tests. ate comment on the request. a military jet flying overhead. 
high-calorie foods. The The meal included a mix of "While the results are Initial reports suggest the His church had identified 
research is published in fruits and vegetables, ham, intriguing, larger studies are jet may have suffered engine the victims as Young Mi Yoon, 
Thursday's New England cheese, potato chips, choco­needed to fully explore this failure on a training exercise 36; her daughters Grace, 15 
Journal of Medicine. late candies and bread rolls. hypothesis,"·she said in an e­after takeoff from the carrier months, and Rachel, 2 
Last year, scientists discov­The researchers found that mail. USS Abraham Lincoln about months; and her mother, Suk 
ered the gene, named FTO, children with the gene varia­Palmer, the Scottish 50 miles offshore from San Im Kim, 60. Kim was visiting 
was linked to obesity but they tion showed no difference in researcher, said there's no Diego. The jet was returning from South Korea to help her 
didn't know why. Most of the metabolic rates, levels of practical reason to screen from an offshore training mis­daughter move across town 
other genes thought to affect physical activity or the people for the gene variation; sion when it clipped a tree and adjust to the arrival of 
body weight influence amount of food eaten. there's likely to be many and slammed into the neigh-her second child. 
appetite. "The only thing we could genes that affect obesity. 

•T'S A ..COC:KEY N'.G..T .N' SC»UT.. :&EN'Di! 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, December 11, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

The greatest gift of all 
P.O. !lox n9, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
Ass'!~ MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler ASS'!~ MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
N~ws EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VII:WI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink SCENF. EmTOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: liz Harter 
I'HOTO EDITOR: Jessica lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
An DI~~IGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROlLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS AllMINISTRi\TOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING ('i74) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ('i74) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4 543 sports.! @nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@ncf.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONUN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Ohserver is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and onlim: by the students ofrhe University of Notre Dame du L1c and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not goV<'nlt'd by policit'S of the administration ofeither institution. The Obst·rvcr r~ervcs the right to refuse advertisements hascd on conrent. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials rcpresenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not neces..<arily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infimnation. 
Questions rtgording Obs~TIIn' policies should b~ directed to Editor in G'hiefChris !line. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'l11c I )!~rver {USI•S ~'J'J l~UUU)" puhli~hcd Mnmb.y through f-riday n.U'pt dunn!-\ cum .111•1 V.l~illlnll f~rinc.h. A mllfoj:fijKiuh t 1'11w: O~rvcr" SIIHJ litr unc .K.Jtlcmk yc.~r: S~'.i r,,, tlllt'I!CnlCIICt. 
l"hc 011:'\Crvcr iJ puhl~~hc:d .u POSTMA5TER 024 ~ourh Dining I b.ll Send ;addrc .. ~ rurrcctioru to: Nnrrc ().unc, IN 165~6-0719 The Observer l'ctiudi~;al punJJ(c r-u.l J.t None 0Jmc P.O. Box 779 .md ~ldtuunJinuilinK ulfu:e1. 024 South Dining 1-!aU 
None O;amc, IN 46'5~6-0779 
·n.c or~rvcr ,. ;j mc:llllx:r nf rile A.....KI.ll«i Ptai. All rcpmdmuun ti~t~ arc 
•~rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports .Jenn Metz Dan Murphy Becky I logan Alex Barker Irena Zajickova Mike Gotimer GraJ>hics Viewpoint Blair Chemdlin Kara King Scene Mark Witte 

Twas the night before finals when all thru the JACC, 
Not a creature was stirring, not even K-Mac. 
The netting was strung from the hoops with great care, 
In hopes that the Legion soon would be there. 
The freshmen were studying all quiet in CoMo, While visions of plane flights start­ed to grow. And profs with_their coffee, some with their tea, Were writing the finals we all wished to see. When out at the Gug there arose such a clatter, Coach Weis had just realized that losses do matter. Away to the window he limped very 
slow, 

The swelling on his knee was starting to grow. 
Looking out on the fields where they practiced all year, 
A loss to the Warriors he started to fear. 
lie texted his boss, already in bed, 
These sleepless nights were going to his head. 
At that very moment in the library basement, 
Writing feverishly I was not yet complacent. 
A Christmas Poem I wanted to write, 
To bring joy to all, as well as delight. 
My thoughts were still racing about my exam, 
And those horrible meals when the DH serves ham. 
My focus was gone, my mind had no might, 
I realized I needed was a smooth Keystone Light. 
So out to my car I moved very quick, 
A grin on my face, like the smile of St. Nick. 
As I got in my Buick, the ice turned me blue, 
Back home I did go to drink a quick brew. 
With the car running smooth I arrived in a flash, 
Not lee nor Snow could make this GM crash. 
As I walked up my steps, and turned the bright key, 
I eouldn 't contain my emotional glee. 

Bob Kessler 
House ofStix 
I entered the house while my roommate did say, "We're dogs to the Warriors on the Eve of Christmas Day'?" Embarrassed l was with the madness of that, I symbolically threw down my Notre Dame hat. As I entered the kitchen and found a cookie, I picked up my phone and called my bookie. They'll cover the spread, I said almost laughing, Hhyming is hard, but at least I'm not rapping. I opened the fridge looking for my tasty stone, A problem I saw, our fridge was dry to the bone. I went right outside in the snow to our neighbors, But they only had Bud, not the smooth Keystone flavors. To the stores I thought, to buy me a rack, It's Sunday, I recalled, openness they lack. With no options left, I drank some hot cocoa, A house without Keystone is driving me loco. I retired to my room all ready for bed, Clouds of disappointment danced through my head. Finals were coming, and I couldn't quitn think, I desperately needed that light and smooth drink. In the morning I'd wake and go back to my work, Because tests and papers continued to lurk. And in the darkness, yet another clatter, My roommate entered. What was the matter? He tossed me a stone with a gleam in his eye, Speechless I was, I almost did cry. The blue on the can so bright and magical, It must have been a Christmas Miracle. Santa did come, he told me with joy, With eyes wide open like a nine-year-old boy. The reindeer I heard, upon the rooftop, Not even the gunshots could cause them to stop. As he left the room and walked out of sight, I said Merry Christmas. Have a good night. 
Bob Kessler is a senior majoring in political science and economics. You can contact him at rkessler@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Letter

"Human beings are the only_ 
creatures that allow their chilaren 
to come back home. " 

to the Editor at 
Bill Cosby 
U.S. comedian 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nobody got anywhere in the world 
by s1mply being content. " 
Louis L'Amour 
U.S. novelist 


THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Thursday,' December 11, 2008 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Give us a day off 

More praise for ND soccer 
Rarely do we have the chance to plan ahead to witness history, the good or the bad, the triumphant or the tragic. History doesn't give us a warning in advance, so we arc always paying close attention. It just comes. 
However, in just over a month, we will have a chance to witness history, with time to prepare~ On Jan. 20, 2009. Barack Obama will be inaugu­rated as the first African-American president, in a country not far removed from an age when blacks and whites couldn't even drink at the same water fountain or attend the same schools. 
Regardless of your political leaning, you must admit, this is an historic event. And the beauty is, we kno~ it's coming and have the chance to watch it unfold. However, we will be -or are supposed to be at least -in class. This historic event even falls close to a national holiday, which the University does not honor in any real sense. · 
This is a chance to make things right. 
There is· a movement to rnake MLK Day not a day off but a "day on," a day to work for the justice and peace that Dr. King died fighting for. What better way to honor Dr. King than to provide students with the chance to witness­history, an event that many people our parents' age probably thought they would never see in their life time. 
Let's take Jhe day off to witness his­tory. · 
Andrew Pauwels senior offcampus Dec. 10 

Dropping the bolVl 

To whom it may concern, 
Thank you so much for choosing to accept a bid to the Hawaii Bowl on Dec. 24, 2008. To quote our outstanding sen­ior receiver and captain David Grimes, "Nice weather, beautiful women," ... sounds great to me. 
It is so smart that you chose such a convenient bowl for Notre Dame fans to attend. First of all, airfare to Hawaii is really cheap, the trip takes no time at all, and I know that the hotels there are relatively inexpensive. 
Also, I know that hardly anyone at this University celebrates Christmas. I would never expect members of the Notre Dame family to have already made plans for Christmas Eve. 
Further, the Band of the Fighting Irish will not be in attendance at this bowl game. I know we love tradition here at Notre Dame, so I totally understand why you, for the first time ever, chose not to send any band members to the bowl. We all know that the band has never done any service to this University. After already taking away their grades, taking away the highlight of their marching season is also another great idea. I know that none bf our school's songs or cheers are important to the Notre Dame fans, and I know the football team hates when the band shows up at away games. Even ask Charlie, he hates the band ... 
So, I hope that our football team, their families and our administrators have a great time in Hawaii. Enjoy yourselves, wear lots of suntan lotion, and don't get too discouraged by the lack of blue and gold in the stands at the game. I hope Santa finds you all in Hawaii, 
Go Irish, and have a Merry Christmas. 
Happy Holidays, 

Matt Babcock junior Stanford Hall Dec. 10 
Band m_issing out on bovvl 
I would like to start by saying how hon­ored I am to be a part of the Notre Dame Marching Band Tradition. I have faithfully praeticed, performed and cheered on the Irish for four years. Not everyone makes the band, so I understand I am entitled to nothing. Being part of a tradition larger than myself is enough. 
The most amazing part of this year was our storied trip to USC. It took a lot of donations and a lot of manpower in plan­ning the trip, and I am forever in debt to all those who put effort into it. It was awe­some. The band lived up to expectations and beyond: we out-performed and out­classed the USC band without question. After a long weekend, we were exhaust­ed. And the Irish fans, in a foreign stadi­um, appreciated it. 
What, then, am I upset about? How classless our team was. I was embar­rassed about the fight before the game even started; and even more embarrassed by the laek of eohesiveness our players demonstrated on the field. But yet, the band never quit. We kept on eheering. The worst part is that I didn't even know this was going to be my last time in uni­form; after all, we were bowl eligible, and if the band means so much to Notre Dame Tradition, as I'm constantly told by alum­ni, I imagine we could scrape some money together to send us to cheer the team. 
But we're not going to go. It is the first time in the band's history that it will not follow the team to a bowl game. 
A week ago, people were willing to spend $20 million to fire Weis. We are now sending our team to Hawaii. Sure, we get a payout for the bowl, so the team ean go. But we would get a payout for a game in the continental U.S. too. Father Jenkins wrote in an e-mail to the Notre Dame community on Dee. 1, "I ask our academic and administrative leaders to do more with existing resourees in order to reduce expenditures," in order to, "maintain our unwavering commitment to Notre Dame's core mission." We'd have more money from that payout to keep if we weren't flying overseas. But we chose a bowl game that does not do that. They get to go to Hawaii. 
And in "cutting eosts," we will not spend a large sum to reward the group that never failed on the football field. I don't get the privilege of cheering on the team one last time. I understand. It's a lot of money. It's a failing economy. Fine, I've hung up my uniform. I am a band alumna now. I only ask one last thing: 
That the money not spent to reward our band for their devotion with one last game, will go toward something that makes me proud of my University, not towards recruiting cocky players who don't exhibit Irish spirit and pride, not towards sending our players to extrava­gant bowl game locations and not towards firing coaches because we're about instant gratification, but toward some­thing that might truly reflect "Notre Dame's core mission." 
seniOr 
off campus Dec. 9 

To the women's soccer team: 
"Football" is known as the beauti­fd!l game ... I never understood what that meant until I saw the way you played this year. Having attended all but one of your home games and travelled to NC for the College Cup, I can barely express in words how amazing it was to witness your mag­ical season. 
When I look back, I remember seemingly endless good times and amazing moments. I remember the countless young soccer players who watched in awe and dreamed of suiting up for the Irish one day. I remember the die-hard local fans who made it out to every game and cheered you by name until their voices were gone. I remember a packed house against Minnesota during the coldest night I ean remember, with our students going crazy for all 90-plus minutes of an overtime thriller. 
Most of all, I remetnber how you brought the same fire to every game, how you played with genuine pride and excitement and how you lived every moment. 
I have never seen a team like this before in a~y sport. The way you carried yourselves can not be paral­leled, and the inspiration you gener­ated can not be surpassed. During a time when we all tend to lose sight of what playing for Notre Dame is all 1 about, you showed us that sports can still be pure. 
To the coaching staff, the trainers, and the entire team: Thanks for keeping .the magic alive. Go Irish! 
Daniel C. Collins junior Alumni Hall Dec. 9 


University vvorkers deserve respect 
To the supporters of CLAP and others who seek better pay for University workers: 
In honor of the holiday season, make an effort on an individual level to affect social change. Leave a small Christmas bonus for the housekeepers, dining hall workers and other University person­nel. 
Don't complain to the administration on behalf of others if you are not will­ing to lead by example. People have the power to change the world one goodwill gesture at a time. Brighten someone's Christmas this year (espe­cially this tough year) by cracking your pocket book and being a Christmas angel. 
To the Dining Hall staff, 
I would like to thank you fo~ the won­derful Christmas dinner served yester­day. The special dishes were all deli­cious and deserve proper recognition. The quality prime rib doused in Au Jus and juxtaposed with tangerine-topped salmon and delectable scalloped pota­toes was a plate worthy of royalty. 
I consumed the best mousse of my life last night and I want to thank the workers of the Dining Halls for their consistent performance in food quality especially in the desserts and baked goods department. 
If only we could have these special dinners more often ... 
Mark Easley freshman Keenan Hall Dec. 9 


Religion and football 
I am writing in response to the Viewpoint letter "Comments on Weis" by Peter Hellas. In his letter, Hellas covers such topics as his high school football days, his eable TV show, Weis' obesity, Vinee Lombardi and a "dumb spirit called Titan." 
I wasn't sure what the point was, but at some stage it seemed lik¥,. he was say­ing Weis' failure to become a spiritual role model has something to do with the football team losing. 
As much as you'd like it to, Catholicism has nothing to do with winning football games. 
Kevin Sullivan 
senwr 
Stanford Hall Dec. 9 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE

page 12 Thursday, November 11, 2008 

KANYE SHOWS flEXIBILITY 
; 

DESPITE MAINSTREAM CRITICISM 
By JESS SHAFFER 
A"islalll S~cn<· EJiwr 
Hap may not hP l'or evnryone, though Kanyn Wnst sPnms to lw tlw pnrsistent t~xt:nplion to this ruiP. 
Whill' a lot ol' listeners arn sknptical of rap's "listl'n-ability," Iwvert.lll'less, the gtm­rns' radio hilo.; hi<Lo.;t at parties, danc:es, and I.Pgnnd's llip-llop Night. Undoubtndly, any­onl' with nwdia at·c:nss, nars, or a pulse knows Kanyn WPsl. Af'tnr hits likn "Gold l>iggpr" and "StrongPr," Wnst's cnl11hrity is ubiquitous in thl' Pntnrtainmnnt businnss. llis most rncnnt rnlnasn. "SOSs & llnartbn~ak," is anotlwr nxcl'lll'nt addition to his wildly suct:n!-sl'ul discography that indudes "The College Dropout" and "LatH Hngistration." 

This nnw album rises to the daunting r.hallnng11 ol' satisfYing preexisting fans while also appealing to an !Wen wider selection of music listmmrs. Focusing morn on H&B and hip-hop than his previous rolcases, "g08s & lleartbrnak" continuos to display West's undnniabln musieal talent and genius ability to blond what ean only lw calh~d poetry with an extensivn mix of muskal influences. 
"808s & llnartbn~ak" displays West's voral capabilitins, which is oftnn overlooked bnrausP of his compelling rap. VP!vety and secum, West's vocals haw~ a subtle powP.r, eomplPmtmtnd by hL<> n~petitive usn of sim­pln, clP-an-cut sounds like strings, pong videogame bt~oping. tribal drumming and 
BOBs & Heartbreak 
Kanye West 
Label: Roc-A-Fella Records Recommended Tracks: "Love Lockdown," RoboCop and "See You In My Nightmares" 

airy chorus singing. This combination of reusing similar music and his smooth vocals cnmtes a new sound not typieal of Kanye. This artistic f,'Towth dL<>plays maturity and flexibility that is con­sistent with his past tal­ent and proof of his potential for continued growth. 
West's fourth studio album is aptly titled, fi>cusing mostly on (what elso) heartbreak. While heartbreak may typically be indicative of heinous bmakups, West handles 
By JORDAN GAMBLE Scene Writer 
On Friday, take a break from "study­ing" (or whatever happens 
on study days) to ·check out tho winter concert ol' tho Undertones, Notre Undertones Dame's men's a cappella 
Winter Concert 
group. Scene talked to sophomore Griffin I>assatti Friday, Dec. 1 o about this weekend's con­8p.m. l:ert and ·other upcoming 
Washington Hall 
events for the Undertones. 
Tickets available 
Sct!nf~: What is the Undertones' winter con­at the LaFortune cert like? 
Box Office 
/Jassatti: The winter concert is one of our 
favorite nvents of the year, and we've been preparing for il basically sinco our last concert in late December. We'll be doing a lot of our traditional stuff, along with a few new numbers and, of course, some Christmas music just in time for the soason. So far the response has been pretty good; I guess a lot of people like the idea of taking a break from study­ing Friday night. 

Scene: What is the process like for arranging a cappella performances? 
Dassatti: We arrange all of our own music, and some of the stuff we'll sing on Friday was done by guys currently in the group, while other songs are taken from years past. As for how we arrange, I'd say there are two basic methods we tend to follow. Sometimes we'll get a copy of the sheet music and directly transpose the notes the instruments are playing, meaning we're literally doing the song a cappella. With other songs though, we might use that method as a 
basis and then add our own flare to it. Scene: Who else is in the Undertones? 
Dassatti: There are 12 of us in the group, 11 currently hore. We have two sophomores (myself and Kyle Neiman), the oxpi~rionee of heartbroak with s~msitivity and depth. The album naturally unli>lds the eomplexiti11s of emotions and tl1e experience of heartbreak with awareness to textured emotions and P.Xperiences. The album also allows a welcome 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

string backup sublimPiy. "Paranoid" has a 1980s pop style that is both pass1~ and simultaneously musirally relovant and likP­able. Overall, the subtlo instrumental de­ments and West's distindivP diction and vocals. unitP the vary­
glimpse into West's ing experimtmts in pmsonality and past, sound and mnotions. 
Focusing more on R&B and 
whieh act as a spring­West's talent is
hip-hop than his previous 
board for his lyrics. backed up by many I lis commentary and releases, "8o8s & Heartbreak" mm1tionable artists,· observations. as continues to display West's including Young .lnezy. always, provide Kid Cudi. and l.il
undeniable musical talent and
insightli1l glimpse into Wayne. Mostly, these celebrity and also a genius ability to blend what artists provide rap­sharp understanding can ·only be called poetry with ping canwos, which 
of sufiering. allow some break
an extensive mix ofmusical
It's exceedingly difli­from West's singing. cu It to seJeet album influences. Ul Wayne's and Young highlights. In faet, the Jeezy's gritty twang 
entire work merits appreciation. "Love Lockdown" and "Heartless" have already become regulars on radio. Both tracks are characterized by their staccato, accented blend of tribal raw­ness and processed, mechanical beats. 
There is something both controlled and pa<>sionate in these and other songs on the album. But while the two better-known tracks only show one facet of the album, the other songs highlight other musical ele­ments, such as the drumming and beeping, which persist subtly throughout all the tracks. Additionally, airy chorus chanting and boautiful violin/string instrumental are frequently found in the tracks. "RoboCop" about a "spoiled little LA girl" utilizes the 
five juniors (Dominic Go, Mike Flattery, Tom Ronan, Mike Mahoney, and Chris 
· Meister) and four seniors (Brian Green, Tim Cummings, Ben Willis, and Robert Curry). One other junior, Scott Robinson, is in London this semester but he'll switch places with Meister, who leaves in the spring for Cairo. 
As for leadership, it kind of depends on what you're looking for. Brian is our musical director, I'm the business man­ager -I'm in charge of organizing concerts/events/etc. -and Robert is our tour manager. 
Scene: What kind of practice or meeting schedule do you have leading up to a concert? 
Dassatti: Our practice schedule is usually Monday and Wednesday nights for an hour and a half or so, and we tend to do more practice before a con­cert, but because Glee Club has been so busy these last few weeks with Christmas obligations it's been inter­esting trying to get everything together in time. Still, I think we'll be OK. 
Scene: What other concerts do you put on during the school year? 
provide an intriguing contra<>t to West's usual style. 
While rap may typically seom abrasivn musically, Wost draws listeners in with his smooth vocals that envelope insightful, poignant lyrics. On the whole, "808s & lleartbreak" is nloquent, simple and rich. It might be a nnw fac11t of Kanye West's per­sonality and style, but his compelling style that fans fell in love with is still distinctly present. As usual, West uses his musical gPnius and flexible talent to take his craft to the next level, to the benefit of the entertain­ment and musie industry and listeners alike. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel @nd.edu 
Dassatti: Aside from a lot of small University events, we have four major concerts planned for this year. The first one was back in September, when we released our latest album, "Stranded." We'll have our traditional semester concerts -this Friday's and one in the spring -and we've also planned an Undertones Heunion con­cert for Feb. 28. There will be a lot of 'Tones alums coming back to sing for that one, and it'll be a really great time. 
Scene: What is the Undertones win­ter tour going to be like? 
Dassatti: We'll be touring for the second half of Christmas Break. We'll start in Indianapolis and then spend a little over a week down south with stops in Florida, Alabama, Tennessee and Louisiana. Tours in general are a great time because you get to go around the country, meeting a lot of really cool alums and just singing for people, which we love. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
--~­


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Thursday, November 11, 2008 
page 13 


a lonely Kornan War veteran, he refuses to accept the outcome and pursues jus­tice. Widowed Avery Allan Ludlow. a man whose closest companion is his 14-ynar­old ginger-haired dog named Red, loses his best friend at the hands of three thieving teenage boys. The boys escape but the story doesn't end there. Ludlo will settle for nothing less than justicfl the name of Red, and is scorned by the community as a result. Will his efforts pay oft? Take a study break and head to Browning Cinema to watch this touch f11m. Tickets are $6 for the public, $5 faculty/staff, $4 for seniors and $3 students. 
The fabulous glee club is at it again with its annual Christmas concert, a program that will explore classic car­ols, contemporary music and tradition­
! works that will appeal to all audi­ences. Not only will this concert ease the mind, but it will also ease the financial burdens placed on the South Bend Center for the Homeless because all proceeds go to benefit this organiza­tion. Be entertained and help out the South Bend community by attending the Glee Club's performance Saturday. Tickets are $8 for the public, $6 for faculty/staff, $5 for seniors and $3 for students. • 
you skip the long lines at North's By MICHELLE FORDICE pizza bar, while still letting you Assistant Scene Editor choose some of your own ingre­
dients. 

The race is coming to an end! 1. Toast an English muffin , Classes taper off today and we until it browns. i only have finals week left to sur­2. Ladle some marinara sauce ~· vive. Soon we'II be home with over each half of the English 
•· mom's cooking, or at least a muffin.f well-stocked pantry, welcoming 3. Top with cheese, vegetables · us back. So look forward to the and meats. There are options all1indulgences of the holiday sea-over the dining hall. Look to the 
son and don't forget to take salad bar for bell peppers, 1 some time to mess around in the shredded mozzarella and ched­kitchen. Until then, here are a dar, red onion, banana peppers couple of recipes to get you and mushrooms. Use the through that push to winter Mexican Bar for black olives and break. sliced chicken. Try the pasta !Jar This week's recipes: for meatballs you can cut in half. Want to get more creative? English muffin pizzas Replace the marinara with other 
These are an easy and tasty choices like barbecue sauce, option whether you're at home, which is great when paired with in the dorm or in the dining hall. chicken and cheddar cheese. You Pizza on demand. This will let can even make a white pizza, 
In this sweet performaneP, which will take 
on a trip down ·mp,mory lane, the story Madeline's Chri<>tmas Adventure is brought to life, recaUipg the tale so many of us grew up lov­ing. When Madeline's peers come down with bad bout of the flu just before Christmas, she faced with the tough deci<>ion of sticking to care for hflr lii.ends or heading home for the familial holiday. She i<> overcome \\ith compas­sion and decides to stay in Paris to comfort bed-ridd.en pals. An adventure ensues. when rug merchant with some magical rugs 
at the "old house in Pari<> that was vines." The performance wiU take place the Elco Performing Arts Center. See www.art­tor detail'>. 
topping it with a little olive oil, feta, black olives and mush­rooms. 
4. Heat your entire pizza in the microwave until the cheese melts. 
Feta, tomatQ, and corn bread salad 
Corn bread is delicious, but it rarely serves as more than the bread to go with the rest of your meal. This recipe mixes it with other ingredients to make a savory salad. Sadly, corn bread is not offered every day in the dining hall, but it does pop up pretty regularly, so keep an eye out! 
1. 
Pick up a corn bread, feta cheese and diced tomatoes. 

2. 
Pour some honey into a bowl and a couple splashes of balsam­ic vinegar to thin it out just a bit. Mix. 


3. 
Break up the corn bread into bite-sized pieces and mix together with the tomatoes and crumbled feta cheese. 

4. 
Pour some of the honey mix­ture over the corn bread, toma­toes and feta to give the salad a touch of sweetness and mois­ture. 


Quick Tip 

Make tortellini in brodo! Head to Italy and you will find that they often serve their tortellini in broth. To simulate it in the din­ing hall, take <1 ladle of ~hicken g in the Pot broth (avoidmg the ' other ingredients) and then toss in some tortellini from the pasta bar. Thanks to Charlie Vogelheim for submitting this recipe. 
Have your own dining hall recipe? We would love to feature it! E-mail mfordice@nd.edu. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS · Thursday, December 11, 2008 
NCAA FooTBALL. 
Tebow goes for second straight Reisman 
Oklahoma's Bradford and Texas' McCoy to join Tebow as Heisman Trophy finalists in New York City this weekend 
Associated (>ress 
NEW YOHK-Tim Tcbow will go for two against a pair of tal­ented quartnrbacks from tho Big I 2 wlwn the II eism an Trophy is handPd out Saturday night. 
Sam Bradford from -Oklahoma and Colt McCoy from' Texas joined TPilOw as llnisman thutl­ists annouiH~nd WPchwsday. 
ThP last tinw all· the llnisman tinalists wnrn quartnrbaeks was 200 I, wlwn NI'IHaska's Erie Crouch won thn award and QBs lwld thn tirst six spots. 
Tnbow. thn ruggnd and multi­talnntnd junior from Florida, was tlw lirst sophomorn to win tho lleisman last year and is trying to bneome the second playnr to win it twice. 
Archie (; ritTih won the llnisman as a junior in ·1974 for Ohio Statn and again in l 975. 
Tebow's Gators will play Bradford and the Sooners in the BCS national championship game Jan. Hin Miami. 
"It's a good thing I don't have a vote," Bradford said while attending an event with Tebow and McCoy in Orlando, Fla., whern numnrous college foot­ball awards will be handed out Thursday night. "I couldn't decide. It's just an honor to be one of' the guys going up to New York." 
Tebow became the first col­loge football player with 20 touchdown passf1S and 20 rush­ing touchdowns in 2007, carry­ing a Florida tnam that finished 9-4. 
This ·season, Tebow's slats wPI'n down, but his play has still bonn stellar. lin is fifth in the nation in passnr rating (176.7) with 2H touchdown passes and only two interceptions. lie has­n't bonn asked to run as much this season. hut still has 564 yards rushing and 12 touch­downs. 
Most importantly, the Gators are 12-1 and a victory away from their sncond national title in three snasons. 
"Tim is a winner," Florida coach Urban Meyer said during a news conference in South Florida with Oklahom.a coach Bob Stoops to promote the national title game. "lie wants to win. lie's motivated like all of us are. But he's a team-first guy. That's why statistically he might not have the Star Wars slats like he had a year ago. However, he won 12 games. And if he could have either-or, he's going to take 12 wins and the chance to hold that crystal ball." 
Tebow made a strong final case to win another Heisman, leading Florida's 14-point fourth quarter and comeback 31-20 victory in the Southeastern Conference title game against Alabama last Saturday. 
As a former winner, he also has a vote. 

Tebow said 1996 lleisman winner Danny Wunrtl'el suggest­ed he not tell people what he did with his vote. 
''I'm taking his advice," Tebow said. 
Bradford has directed the highest scoring team in major college football history, leading the nation in passer rating 
(186.3) and TD passes (48) while throwing for 4,464 yards. 
The So(mers have scored 702 points and became the first col­lege team in 89 years to reach 60 points in five consecutive games when they won the Big 12 title game 62-21 over Missouri last Saturday. 
"Players just follow him because of his commitment to them and how tough he is and how important the team is to him," Oklahoma coach Bob Stoops said. 
McCoy, who had the imposing task of following Vince Young as Texas' starting quarterback, has turned out to be a multiple threat much like his predeces­sor. 
McCoy set a major college record with his 77.6 completion percentage, breaking the mark set by Daunte Culpepper for Central Florida, and is the 
, Longhorns' leading rusher with 576 yards and lO touchdowns. Texas finished 11-1, with a vic­tory against Oklahoma. 
"If you're going to play quar­terback in our league, you bet-ter be able to put a lot of points on the board," McCoy said. "There are just so many good offenses in this league." 

That victory wasn't enough to get McCoy and Texas into the Big 12 or national champi­onship game instead of the Sooners. 
Heisman organizers generally invite three to five players, based on vote totals. 
Texas Tech quarterback Graham Harrell was surprising­ly not invited to the ceremony, to be held at the Sports Museum of America in downtown New York for the first time. 
Harrell, the latest in a long line of prolific passers to run coach Mike Leach's Air Haid offense, leads the nation with 4, 7 4 7 yards passing and has thrown 41 touchdown passes. He also led Texas Tech to a school-record 11 victories and a tie for first in the Big 12 South with Texas and Oklahoma. 
NFL 
Neck injury could sideline Pacman for rest of season 
uated by another doctor Thursday. his muffl~d punt, getting caught in be OK, coach, that kind of thing. Titans, who traded him to Dallas
Associated Press 
"The prognosis wasn't good for a scramble for the loose ball. After But he obviously was hurt." during the offseason. Before play­
IHVIN<~. Texas -Dallas him playing· this year, from our several players fell on him, Jones Mter starting the first six games ing last week, Jones had missed Cowboys cornerback Adam people," Phillips said. "They're was pulled from the pile awk­for the Cowboys, Jones was sus­22 of 28 games since the end of' "Paeman" .Jones might miss the going to see if maybe they can re­wardly by a Pittsburgh player. But pended by Goodell on Oct. 14, a the 2006 season because of sus­rost of' the season because of a evaluate in a Few weeks or they'll Jones played the rest of the game. week after the cornerback got into pensions. nm:k injury. say you're not going to play this It was Jones' first game back an alcohol-related seullle with one Jones had 2H tackles and a 
Coach Wade L'hillips said year. That's what we're looking after a six-game suspension, the of his bodyguards during a private tnam-high 13 pass breakups in his Wednesday that .Jones, who was at." second time he has been banned party at an upscale Dallas hotel. seven games with the Cowboys. injun~(! early in thP 20-13 loss at For. the wild-card hopeful by commissioner Hoger Goodell The bodyguard was part of a "He did play some. I think that Pitbburgh, has a "herniated disk, Cowboys (H-5), Jones added to an for off-field issues. security detail employed by the helped some," Phillips said. "We maybe two" and will definitely already lengthy injury list. Jones was not in the locker team to help keep the player out know a lot more about him as far miss Sunday's game against the Bunning hack Marion Barber room Wednesday when it was of trouble. as the player is concerned. It's up New York <~iant<>. (right pinkie toe, calD, tight end open to reporters and not avail­Goodell initially i<>sund an indefi­to him now. I told him he's being 
"Our pfHJple don't think it's Jason Witten (sprained right able for comment. nite suspension that he said would tested. lie js." earner threatening or anything ankle), receiver Hoy Williams Phillips said he knew Jones was last at least four games. Jones was When asked if Jones' attitude else that he would have to be (foot), safety Ken Hamlin (right hurt when the coach was checking allowed to return to practice Nov. had been different since his return operated (on) or anything like foot) and guard Montrae Holland on players during the flight home. 24, but wasn't cleared to play until to the team after being away near­that," Phillips said. "But it is some­(ankln) wern among those who did "I ask them if they're OK, and he the Pittsburgh game. ly six weeks because of the latest thing that might put him out this not practice Wndnesday. said, 'No, l'm not OK.' He said, Jones missed the entire 2007 suspension, Phillips said that had year." Jones was hurt in the first quar­'No, my neck's hurting,"' Phillips season because of multiple inci­never been an issue with the 
.Jones was sdwduled to be eva!-ter Sunday when he fell on top of said. "Most ofthem say I'm OK, I'll dents while with the Tennessee Cowboys. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED .. 
CYO CAMP RANCHO FRAMASA 
SUMMER GAMP POSITIONS • 
HIRING NOWI Secure your summer job! Camp Rancho Framasa is an inclusive, residential camp, located in south central Indiana, operated by the Catholic Youth Organization sine•~ 1946. Serving campers aged 7 to 16 In various programs. We offer a welcoming staff community in a beautiful outdoor setting. General Staff, Counselor Manager, Inclusive Programming, Ropes ... 
Course. Adventure and Health posi­tions available. All positions start at $240/week. Training is provided; start date May 23, 2009. Apply online www.campranchoframasa.org. Questions? Contact Angi at 888­988·2839, x25 or email angi@cam­pranchoframasa.org. 
FoR RENT 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-1 0 SCHOOL YEAR. 2-1 0 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 

Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. 
Furnished 2-bdrm, house. Living room, kitchen, dining room, full bath. 6.5 blks to NO. $795/mo. Avail Jan. 1. Call605-397·8135 or 574­234-3007 or 574-261-4444. 
3 & 4 bedroom 3 full bath homes close to Campus. Safe Neighborhood, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2 car garage, 10x20 decks. Call 574-232-4527 or 269­683-5038. From $1 ,700/mo andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
House of recent alums for Rent: 706 N Jacob St. 4 br, 2 ba 7 blocks from campus $1800/month, most util.inc. househousesllc@gmail.com 
(M)GRAD STUDENT looking to share upscale home during spring semester. Fully furnished, 2 blocks from campus. NS, No Pets. $625/mo inc. utilities. 330-565-5979 (John). 
Historic gem 5 mins. to NO. 2-3 bdrms. Totally furnished. $790/mo. 269-782-9921. 
Enormous 1 -bdrm apt. in historic house. 10 mins. to NO. Niles. 5 large formal rooms, woodburning fireplaces. $490/mo. plus utilities. 269-782-9921. 
TICKETS 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone· you ·lave needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574·631-2685. For more information, visit our website at: http:1/osa. nd: edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap 
I 
Merry Christmas baby girl! 
Love, Mr. Officer 
Philly needs Mo' Iverson not Mo' Cheeks! 
THURSDAY, DEC. 11, IS THE LASt ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER FOR THE SEMESTER. HAVE A SAFE AND HAPPY HOLI­DAY SEASON. 
MERRY CHRISTMAS! 
.. 



OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, December 11, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICEs page 15 
\. 
Men's Basketball AP Top 25 
team points previous 
1 North Carolina 1,800 1 2 Connecticut 1,710 2 3 PIHsburgh 1,633 3 4 Gonzaga 1,574 5 5 Oklahoma 1,529 6 6 Texas 1,381 8 7 Duke 1,256 4 8 Tennessee 1,203 10 9 Louisville 1,080 11 10 Xavier 1,041 14 11 Wake Forest 957 15 12 NOTRE DAME 954 7 13 Syracuse 869 16 14 Purdue 718 9 15 Villanova 713 17 16 UCLA 705 12 17 Memphis 579 18 18 Michigan Slate 536 13 19 Georgetown 475 20 20 Arizona State 462 19 21 Ohio State 435 NR 22 Baylor 351 24 23 Davidson 348 22 24 Marquette 222 25 25 Kaosas 206 NR 
Women's Basketball AP Top 25 
team points previous 
1 Connecticut 1,125 1 2 North Carolina 1,076 2 3 Stanford 1,010 4 4 TexasA&M 940 5 5 Oklahoma 878 6 6 Texas 846 9 7 Tennessee 844 7 8 NOTRE DAME 784 11 9 California 763 3 10 Baylor 721 10 11 Duke 685 12 12 Louisville 645 13 13 Auburn 637 14 14 Rutgers 526 15 15 Maryland 514 8 16 Pittsburgh 419 24 17 Virginia 380 20 18 Ohio State 365 18 19 TCU 317 22 20 Vanderbilt 202 16 21 Purdue 164 17 22 Arizona State 161 25 23 Florida 138 NR 24 Oklahoma State 91 19­25 Kansas State 90 NR 
MIAA Basketball Conference Standings 
team conference record 
1  Hope  2-0  
2  SAINT MARY'S  2-0  
3  Adrian  1-0  
4  Calvin  1-1  
5  Trine  1-1  
6  Olivet  0-0  
7  Alma  0-1  
8  Albion  0-2  
9  Kalamazoo  0-2  


around the dial 
NBA 
Celtics at Wizards 
8:00 p.m., TNT 
Trail Blazers at Jazz 
10:30 p.m., TNT 
MLB 


Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS -There is no recession for the New York Yankees. 
Flexing the economic muscle of their new billion­dollar ballpark and ignor­ing industrywide nervous­ness over big-money deals, the Yankees landed the top free-agent pitcher when they agreed Wednesday to the framework of a $161 million, seven-year con­tract with CC Sabathia. 
The amount is a record for a pitcher and the fourth-highest ever in baseball. It signaled a new willingness by the Yankees to spend in an attempt to regain dominance and win the World Series for the first time since 2000. 
''I'm sure every team in baseball would love to have him. He's a guy who's an intimidating factor on the mound," Yankees cap­tain Derek Jeter said at the winter meetings. 
Sabathia's contract fig­ure seems quite appropri­ate -in February the Yankees move across 161st Street in the Bronx to their monumental $1.3 billion palace, where tick­ets cost up to $2,500, fans can watch games at a mar­tini bar and the clubhouse contains a swimming pool, hot tub and every imagina­ble convenience. The way the schedule lines up, there's a good chance Sabathia would pitch the opener there April 16 against Cleveland -which traded him to Milwaukee last July. 
"It illustrates that base­ball is a very different eco­nomic model than the real world," said Scott Boras, the agent for Manny Ramirez, Mark Teixeira and other free agents also seeking big deals. 
The Yankees and Sabathia's agents still need to work out all the details and the pitcher must pass a physical, a baseball offi­cial familiar with the talks told The Associated Press on Wednesday. The person spoke on condition of anonymity because the deal has not been complet­ed. Sabathia even has the right to opt out after three seasons and become a free agent again. 
"l think it's a great deal for him and a great deal for the Yankees," Cincinnati Reds manager Dusty Baker said. ''I'm sure he's going to help them win." 
The two New York teams have made the biggest splashes in the slow-mov­ing free-agent market. The Mets, moving into $800 million Citi Field, finalized their $37 million, three­year contract with closer Francisco Rodriguez on Wednesday. 

IN BRIEF Cassel leaves Patriots 
after father's death 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -New England Pa1riots quarterback Matt Cassel left the team Wednesday to join hi'> family fol­lowing the death of his father earlier in the week. 
"Our thoughts are with him and his family during this time," Coach Bill Belichick said before practice. "Right now we're just taking it day to day. He's going to take care of what he has to do." 
Belichick said that Greg Cassel died Monday night and Matt has left the team to be with his family in Southern California. Belichick said he didn't know when Cassel would rejoin the team or whether he would be able to start Sunday against the Oakland Raiders. 
The Pa1riots are practicing this week in San Jose. They stayed on the West Coast after last Sunday's 24-21 win in Seattle. 
Matt Cassel is from Northridge in the Los Angeles area and his father and mother Barbara divorced when he was 
14. Greg Cassel was a script writer. 
Suns acquire Richardson 
from Boticats for Diaw, Bell 
PHOENIX -The Phoenix Suns jetti­soned two familiar players to Olarlotte, and got the Bobcats' leading scorer in exchange. 
In the latest move in the their ongoing makeover, the Suns traded Raja Bell and Boris Diaw to the Bobcats on Wednesday as part of a deal for Jason Richardson. 
Rookie point guard Sean· Singletary aL'lo went to Olarlotte, while the Suns got small forward Jared Dudley and a 2010 second-round draft pick. 
The 6-foot-6 Richardson is a two-time NBA slam dunk champion and an accomplished 3-poinJ: shooter who is averaging 18.7 points this season and 
18.8 for his pro career. 
Bell, a first-team all-defensive team selection in 2006-07 and second team last season, had made it clear he was not happy with the SmlS' switch from coach Mike D'Antoni's high-flying style to the more deliberate approach of new coach Terry Porter. He's averaging 9.4 points this season. 
Owner says AFL could 
call off 2009 season 
NEW YORK -The Arena Football League is poised to call off its 2009 season, tlie owner of its Los Angeles franchise told a newspaper. 
Avengers owner Casey Wasserman said in a story posted on the Los Angeles Times' Web site Wednesday that the AFL needs to take the time to become more effi­cient because of the poor economy. Wasserman is a former league chairman and one of the AFL's major power brokers. 
Avengers spokesman John Tamanaha confirmed to The Associated Press that the team exp'ects the 2009 season to be can­celed. Wasserman told the newspa­per the decision was not official, but he expected owners to vote to approve it this week. 
The 16-team league has repeated­ly delayed the start of free agency and the release of its 2009 schedule after an offseason of uncertainty. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, December II, 2008 
NCAA FooTBALL 
Mullen named next MSU coach 
Associated Press 
JACKSON, Miss. -Florida 
offensive coordinator Dan 
Mullen will be the new football 
coach at Mississippi State, mov­
ing from the Southeastern 
Confernnee champions to one of 
the league's pen~nnial cellar 
dwellers. 
Mullen arrived in Starkville 
on Wednesday afternoon and 
will be introduced at a news 
conference Thursday morning. 
He leaves Gainesville as the 
top-ranked Gators are prepar­
ing to play for their second 
national title in three years. 
"A lot of people get in this profession and when you have head coaching opportunities, they're very rare," Urban Meyer said at news conference in Hollywood, Fla. "Head coach­ing opportunities in the Southeastern Conference at a young age is a great honor. So (Tim Tebow) had t.he same exact reaction that I did: Doggone it, but we wish you well." 
Thn 36-year-old has been an assistant coach for 14 years and spent the last eight with Urban Meyer at Bowling Green, Utah and Florida. 
Florida won the SEC with a dominant ofTense and will play No. 2 Oklahoma for the BCS national championship next month. Meyer told reporters he was not sure if Mullen would be staying through the title game. 
"It's all too frnsh," Meyer said. "The most important thing is whatever gives the University of Florida and our players an opportunity to be successful on that night and I have not had a chance to evaluate that yet." 
Mullon replaces coach Sylvestnr Croom. who resigned last month after going 21-38 in five seasons as the SEC's first black football coach. Since 2001. tlw Bulldogs have had only eme winning season. 
Meyer told reporters after the SEC championship game that Mullen was in contact with Mississippi State athletic din~c­tor Greg Byrne~ about the job. 
The hiring was first rcportnd by tlw Clarion-Lc~dgnr of .Jackson and tlw Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal in Tupelo. 
Byrno interviewed other can­didates for the job. Chris Peterson of Boise State and Louisiana Toeh c:oaeh Derek Dooley both denied inte~rnst in the joh and Byrne also appears to haw talked with Oklahoma offensive coordinator Kevin Wilson. 
Croom left tlw program Nov. 2<J arter the~ Bulldogs suffprml a humiliating 45-0 loss to arehri­val Mississippi. lie said in a rec:cml. tnlnvision intnrvinw that lw was prPparnd to make changes to his coaching staff in 
order to please fans, boosters 
and Byrne, but that Byrne 
wanted to head in a new direc­
tion. 
While Croom was credited 
with improving the overall tal­
ent at Mississippi State despite 
NCAA sanctions he inherited, 
the former NFL assistant coach 
and All-American center at 
Alabama could never get his 
complicated and conservative 
run-first version of the West 
Coast otl'ense into gear. 
The Bulldogs never cracked 
the top 100 under Croom and 
finished 113th out of 119 Bowl 
Subdivision teams with 274.9 
yards per game of total offense 
and 115th in scoring with 15.3 
points per game this season. 
Byrne said he was looking for a coach who could jazz up that woeful offense and got him. Mullen led the Gators to a team record for points in a season this year and has Tebow in the running for a second Heisman Trophy. 
I le also helped develop quar­
terback Alex Smith into a No. 1 
overall pick in the NFL draft as 
quarterbacks coach at Utah. 
The Gators led the nation in 
scoring last year and are third 
this season with 45.5 points per 
game. Mullen directs the 
nation's No. 18 offense (442.4 
yards per game) and No. 11 
rushing offense (229. 7 ypgl. 
The Gators run a spread option offense, the kind of attack that would match the skills of incoming quarterback Tyler Hussell of Meridian, the Bulldogs' top recruit who has left his nonbinding oral commit­ment to Mississippi State in place despite Croom's depar­ture. 
Mullen is expected to begin recruiting immediately in an attempt to hold together the promising class Croom put together before resigning. 
Mississippi State's new coach spent two seasons apiece as wide receivers coach at Wagner and Columbia from 1994-97 after graduating from Ursinus College in Collegeville, Pa., whnrn he played tight end. 
lie them spent thren seasons as a graduate assistant at Syracuse and Notre Dame, where he met Meyer and later l'ollownd him to Bowling Green. 
"lin's a great coach," Meyer said. "I made a comment (whnn) someone wrote an arti­ele abou~ us and I said ..•:!~oy, his rnsunw 1s pretty good, Meyer said. "When you work with a guy. you don't realize it. lie's bnnn with me as a graduate assistant at Notre Damn, we wont together to Bowling Grncm, developed Josh llarris, went from there to Alex Smith at Utah, and then came here and Chris Lnak and Tim. So thn rnsunw is prntty strong and I wish him all the b11st." 



Study Break lunch at the CoMo 
lunch Ei Conversation for Gay, lesbian, Bisexual Ei lluestioning Students at Notre Dame 
Friday, December 12 Noon to 1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman Morse 

The Core Council invites gay, lesbian. bisexual Squestioning members of the Notre Dame family, along with their friends and allys. tu an informal luncheon at the 
Co-Mo. 
Everyone is Welcome and Confidentiality is Assured. 
Lunch Wt/1 Be Served 




Please recycle The Observer. 
Thursday, December 11, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

UT's Orakpo wins Lombardi Award
DeBartolo Hall STUDY DATES AND TIMES: Decemb~r 12, 13, 14: 7am to 3:00am Midnight Snacks! Exam Dates: December 15-18: Rooms available except when scheduled by the Registrar's office. December 19: DeBartolo Hall closes at 5:30pm. 

See Building Support Personnel ifyou have specific needs: Room 103 or 104. 



Coleman-Morse: December 12-18: 
Finals Week: Rooms uvuiluble except when scheduled by the Registrar'.~ office. 
December 19 : Coleman -Morse closes at 5:30 pm 1st Floor: 7:00am-4:00am 2"d floor: 7:00am-3:00am 3rd Floor: 7:00am-12am 
See Building Support Person Room 101 ifyou have a specific need. 
O'Shaughnessy: December 12, 13, 14: 7am to 3:00am *Finals Week: December 15-18: 7am to 3:00am 204, 206, 207, 208, 209, 242, 338, and 345: Rooms available except when scheduled by the Registrar's office. 
··~· Good Luck with Finals s!if 

Special tltunks to Auxiliary and Facility Operatiom, Campus M.illivtry and the Student Union Board. 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Texas defensive end Brian Orakpo won the Rotary Lombardi Award on Wednesday night, the first Longhorn to take home the tro­phy in 24 years. 
Orakpo is the first Houston native to win the Lombardi, awarded by the city's Rotary Club to the nation's top college lineman or linebacker. He's the third Texas player to win it, and the first since offensive tackle Tony Degrate in 1984. Texas defensive tackle Kenneth Sims won it in 1981. 
The 6-foot-4, 260-pound Orakpo already won the Bronko Nagurski Trophy, awarded by the Charlotte Touchdown Club to the nation's top defensive player, and was the Big 12's Defensive Player of the Year. Orakpo finished the regular season with 10.5 sacks, 
15.5 tackles for loss and four forced fumbles. 
Orakpo beat out Ohio State linebacker James Laurinaitis, Southern Cal linebacker Rey Maualuga and Alabama offen­sive lineman Andre Smith. At a banquet before the announce­ment, the other finalists practi­cally conceded the award to Orakpo, who played at nearby Lamar High School. 
"They've been saying, 'Give the award to 'Rak' already,"' Orakpo said. "It's just fun to be out here. I started my career here in Houston and for a major collegiate award to be presented in Houston, it's a 1-2 combo. You can't beat that." 
The Longhorns (11-1) face the Buckeyes (10-2) in the Fiesta Bowl on Jan. 5, but Orakpo said he's still upset that Texas won't get to play for the national championship three days later. The Longhorns beat Oklahoma earlier in the season, but the Sooners will face Florida for the title because they finished ahead of Texas in the Bowl Championship Series standings. 
"It was very unfortunate, but we have to move on," Orakpo said. 
Maualuga can relate. An early loss to Oregon State ruined Southern Cal's champi­onship hopes and the Trojans (11-1) will play Penn State (11­
1) in the Rose Bowl on Jan. 1. 
"We can't show how good we are when we can't play teams like Florida or Alabama or Texas," said Maualuga, the Pac-10's Defensive Player of the Year. "Hopefully, down the line, there's a playoff system. As for now, we're just happy we get to play in the Rose Bowl." 
RING IN 2009 WITH #11RISH HOCKEY! 
JAN.. 2: MtNNESOTA-DuLUTH vs.. UMAss-Lo¥1El.L (5:05P.M.. CT) NoTRE DAME vs. UNION (8:05 P.M. CT) 
JAN.. 3: UNION vs. UMD oR UMAss-LovVELL (4:05 P.M.. CT) NoTRE DAME vs. UMD OR UMAss-LowELL 
(7:05 P.M. CT) 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, December 11, 2008 

NCAA BASKETBALL 


Griffin, Sooners overwhelm Maine 
Associated Press 
NOHMAN. Okla. -Blakn (; r i fli n had a no tlw r ct o u b Ie­dou bin and Oklahoma n•mainnd undnfnatt~d. 
Tlw (J-foot-1 0 sophomon~ had 22 points and 10 n•bounds to !Pad tl11~ fifth-rankf'd Soonnrs to a 7X-52 victory ovl'r Mairw on Wmlrwsday night. 
Crif'fin madl' his first six shots and fin ishPel I 1-of-13 from tlw fil'ld in n~cording his S<Wf'nth doubln-doubln of tlw sPason. liP playPd 22 minutPs and 14 of his points ranw on dunks. 
Oklahoma (1)-0) is ofT to its lwst start sincP the 201U-04 LPam opPnPd with 10 straight wins. 
"IIoppfully WI' can knnp it going all Sl'ason." Grirfin said. "It goos back to not taking any­onn ligh tty. Wo ran't stop thoro. Wo <~an 't lw satisfiPd with what wn do in nirw or 10 games." 
Freshman Willin Warrnn addod 19 points and reserve Hay Willis had 1] points for the Soorwrs, who sharnd the spot­light with tlw Oklahoma foot­ball team. 
At halftimn. tho football Soorwrs wnrn given a rousing ovation as tlwy cnlnbrated thnir third straight Big 12 champi­onship. No. 2 Oklahoma faees 
top-ranked Florida on Jan. 8 in the BCS championship game. 
Mark Socoby had l 0 points to lead the Bla<~k Bears (5-5), who shot 29 pnreont from the l'inld and had 20 turnovers. 
"We knew we had our work cut otrt coming in lwrn," Maino coach Tnd Woodward said. "Tiwy hav<~ a tremendous play­<W in Blak<~ Griffin. Wn were a little bit physically ovnr­rnatdwd." 
Griffin, who has had 15 or morn rebounds in a ganw six times this sPason. had throe blor.ks, thrnn assists and two stcwls. lin IPft the game for good with 5:54 to play and the Sooners ahnad 71-40. 
Oklahoma led by as many as 2:~ points in tlw first half and was ahead by as many as :~2 in thn second. Thn Sooners had 28 points ofT turnovers whiln committing only nino thorn­selves. 
Tony Crocker had I 0 points for Oklahoma, whic.h shot 45 pnrcnnt from the field, but was 7 -of-2X from 3-point range. 
''I'm pleased with the win," Oklahoma coach Jeff Capel said. "Our athlnticisrn over­wholmcd them a little bit. Thorn's not a lot of people who ean match up with him (Griflin) physically." 

Pampering and Preparing 

Tuesday, December 11, 2008 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NFL 


Plaxico loses one million from NY 
AP 

Giants wide receiver Plaxico Burress will miss out on $1 million of his signing bonus after shooting himself in the leg. 
Jim Brickman  Michael McDonald  
Holiday Concert  Christmas Concert  
Pianist &Composer  Former Doobie Brothers  
Monday, Dec. 15  Tuesday,Dec.16  


UPC()minl! ~h()W§ 
Saturday-SundayDec. 13-14 · · 
Saturday January 24 

Sesame Street Live! Monty Python's Elmo Makes Music Spamalot Children's Show Tony-Award Winner Thur.-Sun, Jan. 1-4 Tues.-Sun, Jan. 6-11 
Valai§ f2f)Yale fvent 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­The New York Giants have refused to pay suspended receiver Plaxico Burress a $1 million portion of a signing bonus from a contract signed in September. 
NFL Players Association union spokesman Carl Francis confirmed Wednesday evening that the Super Bowl champions decided to not make the pay­ment, which was due Wednesday. 
"We will file a claim in the appropriate forum to enforce his right to receive and keep the moneys· entitled to him under his player contract," Francis said in an e-mail. 
Giants general manager Jerry Reese waved his hands earlier in the day when asked whether the team would make the pay­ment. 
The union on Tuesday filed a grievance challenging the Giants' decision to suspend and fine Burress last week, just days after the Super Bowl hero accidentally shot himself in a Manhattan nightclub on Nov. 29. 
The union said the team vio­lated the collective bargaining agreement placing Burress on the reserve-non football injury list, suspending him for the final four games of the regular season and fining him an addi­tional week's salary for conduct detrimental to the team. 
Placing Burress on the non­football injury list also will keep him out of the playoffs. The Giants (11-2) won the NFC East title last Sunday. 
The grievances will be heard by an arbitrator after the sea­son ends. 
Agent Drew Rosenhaus did not return either an e-mail left by The Associated Press seek­ing comment. 
The union file~other griev­ance on Burress' behalf earlier this year after the Giants sus­pended him for a game and fined him two weeks pay for missing a team meeting in September. The two sides even­tually agreed to cut the fine in half, saving Burress about one game's pay -more than $200,000. 
The shooting was the latest run-in that Burress has had with the Giants since signing as a free agent in 2005. He has admitted to being fined dozens of times for violating team rules. In addition to his suspen­sion in September, he also was fined $45,000 by the league for abusing an official and throw­ing a ball into the stands in a game with San Francisco on Nov. 19. · 
Burress accidentally shot himself at the Latin Quarter nightclub, less than 48 hours before the Giants played the Washington Redskins. The 31­year-old was not going to play in the game because of a ham­string injury. 
Burress faces charges of criminal possession of a weapon relating to the shoot­ing. He pleaded not guilty. He is due back in court on March 31. 
The focus· of the investigation the past week has been on the role of Giants middle linebacker Antonio Pierce. He talked to investigators on Friday about the shooting. Neither Pierce's attorney nor the police would reveal what was said. 
Please recycle The Observer. 
page 20 Th~ Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, December 11, 2008 Tuesday, December 11, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 

was forced to foul. Michigan helped off the court. McGraw rebounded well. I thought score. The score flip-flopped made three of its four foul said she didn't know the extent actually she had the best game until 5:35, when Barlow and
Skrba 
shots to seal the win. of the injury and that Mallory of anyone." Solomon sank shots to give 
continued from page 24 
own basket. 
"I think we're a very poised team at the end of the game, we just weren't tonight," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Michigan's offensive rebounding helped them kill clock on its next possession. The Wolverines (6-4) took three 3-pointers and recovered two of them, running the shot clock down each time. Freshman forward Erica Solomon and senior guard Lindsay Schrader both had chances at layups, but both missed, and Notre Dame and 
The offensive rebounds hurt will see the doctor tomorrow. Forward Becca Bruszewski Notre Dame a 50-46 lead. 
Notre Dame's chances even though they did­n't result in points, McGraw said. 
"It took time away, even though they did­n't score," she said. "It took time we needed at the end." 
Irish guard 

"I think we're a very poised team at the end ofthe game, we just weren't tonight. " 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 
Brittany Mallory landed awk­wardly on her leg when jump­ing to break up a pass and fell to the court in pain. _She was had not played since then. from the foul Melissa 

"She played well, she did a line: Lechlitner's 3-· lot of good things," McGraw Wolverines Muffett McGraw pointer put said. "She defended well, she forward early Irish coach the Irish 
Irish guard finished with Skrba made a Ashley Barlow 10 points on jumper and did not start the 4-for-5 shoot-Minnfield hit game, but ing. Guard two free scored 14 points Melissa "[Ashley Barlow Jplayed throws to tie on 7-of-13 Lechlitner had the score, and
well, she did a lot of
shooting in 3 7 nine, and from there, minutes off the Schrader and good things. She Minnfield bench. She had Solomon each defended well, she made sure been battling a had eight. Michigan got
rebounded well. I 
concussion she Min n fie I d the time it suffered against finished with thought actually she needed to win. Michigan State 16 points and had the best game of In the first on Nov. 29 and went 7-for-7 half, guard
anyone. 
Benson had eight points and eight rebounds. 
Notre Dame had a 56-54 lead until Wolverines guard Jessica Minnfield sliced into the lane and sank a shot to tie the score. Schrader and Barlow each made jump shots to pull ahead 56-52 with 31 seconds left, but Wolverines guard Veronica Hicks made two free throws to pull within two once again. Then Skrba penetrated the Irish zone defense to tie the game and force overtime. 
Barlow and Bruszewski scored to start the second half and Notre Dame went up five, its largest lead of the game, but Minnfield's 3-pointer helped the Wolverines even the 
Half 
continued from page 24 
unbeaten streak that includes 10 conference wins (two in shootouts). With a home-and­
home series with Bowling Green this weekend -in Ohio Friday, at the Joyce Center at 7 p.m. Saturday -the Irish will have a chance to over­take Miami, who they trail by three points with two games ahead by four, 
but they fell 
behind 10-9 

with 15:40 to go. Mallory hit a 3 to regain a two-point lead, but the score yo-yoed back and forth until Wolverine guard Carmen Reynolds hit a 3-pointer to put Michigan up five with 7:16 left in the first half. Bruszewski made two free throws and a jumper to give Notre Dame the lead, which it held going into the half. 
"We had lots of opportuni­ties," McGraw said. "We just didn't take advantage." 
The Irish travel to face Valparaiso Saturday at 2:35 p.m. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

important for us. One of our objectives is to finish in the top four of the standings, so we put a little bit for emphasis on that than the national standings," senior goaltender Jordan Pearce said. 
Pearce has been a big part of 
· the Irish streak 

"We have a tough road schedule and 
even our home games are going to be · challenging. " 
Jeff Jackson Irish coach 
holding oppo­nents to 1.36 goals per game throughout the past month. 
Two of those wins came in impressive fash­ion against this weekend's oppo­nent, the Falcons. Bowling Green(5­8-3, 4-5-1-0 

in hand, in the conference CeliA) fell to the Irish 5-1 and 9­standings. 1 on Nov. 21-22. Bowling Green "The standings are pretty hasn't won since sweeping a 
NOTRE DAME RIGHT TO LIFE 
M~RCH FOR LIFE 2009 
Join us in the nation's capital to proclaim the dignity of every human life, from natural conception to natural death.. 
January 22nd, 2009 
Regist:er online at:: VV\N\N.nd.edu/,.....,proli'fe 
Dec. 19th deadline 
series with struggling Northern Michigan on Nov. 14-15, but that doesn't make the Falcons any less of a formidable opponent, Jackson said. 
After this weekend's games, Notre Dame will have a three­week break before starting the daunting second half of their schedule. The Irish face two­game series with Michigan, Nebraska-Omaha and Alaska, all three of whom are in the Top 25. 
"Our second is half is just like last year. People wonder why we went into a little bit of a slump last year and part of it was our schedule," Jackson said. "We have a tough road schedule and · even our home games are going to be challenging." 
Notre Dame's power play has been dominant at times·-it was against the Falcons, when the Irish went 8-for-18 over the two nights -and has been a major factor in the Irish domi­nance of late. Special teams 
-

Trip cost is subsidized for ND/SMC/HCC students and financial aid is available in case of need. Questions? E-mail prolife@nd.edu 
were a ma}or concern a year ago, and Jackson said they could separate this team from his last. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, December 11, 2008 
before beginning conference "I would be lying if I said play. we're not looking forward to
Terriers 

"We have to take care of our Big East play but you've stili continued from page 24 business. The rest of the Big got to take these games seri­
East is doing their part taking ously," Harangody said. "We've Then the mal fun starts for the care of their business and still got a lot of things to do, to Irish -they begin Big East we've already been knocked clean some things up in these play on New Year's Eve at down twice," McAlarney said. games. That's what's nice DePaul before squaring off "Those games are very impor-about these games. And with against four tant for us to Boston University coming in ­more confer-build that they're a good team and it ence opponents resume. I think should be a good challenge for before classes "School, especially we know that, us." · resume. we're a Harangody said the team did
around this time of 

"Every time mature enough not play well on Saturday and
year, can be a big

this time of group to real­deserved to drop in the rank­ynar comes distraction, so having ize that. Every ings. around, it's finals over with game counts." "We didn't deserve that top­exeiting for me Irish forward 1 0 ranking and we know that," 
leading up to Big East 

and for us as a L u k e he said. "We realize that rank­team because season will be good for Harangody, ings don't really mean any­it's all basket­us. who returned thing right now so we're not b a I I . " after missing really thinking about that." McAiarney two games Still, Harangody said the
Kyle McAiarney 

said. "School. with pneumo­Irish are capable of performing nspecially Irish senior nia to lead the much better than they did around this Irish with 25 against Ohio State. They will time of year, points and 16 get their first chance to prove can be a big rebounds it against Boston University. distraction, so having finals against Ohio State, said it is "Everyone's hungry to get over with leading up to Big natural for the team to look back on the court and prove East season will be good for forward to the Big East season. we're that top team," us." But the reigning Big East play­Harangody said. "I think we'll 
Eight Big East teams cur­er of the year echoed be ready Saturday." rently sit in the top 25, and McAlarney's thoughts about MeAiarney said it's important tho importance of non-confer-Contact Fran Tolan at for the Irish to pile up wins ence wins. ftolan@nd.edu 
-
Welcome to 21st century student living. 
t.\~:·-.. '· 1', l •I' ·~-) I FITNF":-. 


• 
Close to groceries, restaurants &entertainment 

• 
Walk to campus 



What more could you need? But hurry, units are filling fast. 
Irish 
ROW 

lrishRowApartments.com j lrishCrossings.com kariem@irishrowapartments.com I 574.277.6666 

As if living in a brand new, contemporary, furnished apartment or luxury townhome wasn't enough. Or as if living just one block east of 
Notre DamP wasn't enough. Now there's even more reason to live at Irish Row Apartments or Irish Crossings Townhomes. 
Your Irish Row or Irish Cro-ssings lease now gives you free access to the new Irish Row Fitness Center and lounge. Tanning will be availablE' for a fee to residents only. 

Martin"s
•

*i•-.Irish Crossings
'Townhomes For Lease 
Irish 
RQW 
NO AtMotl< 
*
fi~hj~ 

Nkll~!•'s 
ll••ta\lr>tll
• 

You'll find brand new, state-of-the-artcardio equipment and free weights in the fitness . center and comfortable seating, a large widescreen TV and kitchen in the lounge; all just steps outside your front doQr. 
Besides the new fitness area, tanning and lounge, your lease at Irish Row Apartments or Irish Crossing Townhomes gets you: 
• Up to four bedrooms 
• Private, full bath in each bedroom 
• 
Furnished 

• 
42H flat panel HDTV in each family room 

• 
laundry room with washer &dryer · 

• 
FREE Internet & 200+ TV stations 


Frosh 
continued from page 24 
people want to bring me down." 
Fellow Olympian Kelley Hurley and her sister-Courtney lead the women's epee division, while · Ashley Serrette anchors the women's saber. 
After posting very successful individual accomplishments in the fall, the Irish face their first test as a team January 24 and 25 when they compete at St. John's 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
at 30-30 heading into halftime. The Belles would lead most of the second half. However, Manchester shooters got hot down the stretch making over 60 percent of their field goals in the second half. 
Erin Newsom continued her strong on-court performance for the Belles finishing with a team high 14 points and 12 rebounds. Murphy added 13 points coming off the bench, including going 7. for-8 from the charity stripe. 
and New York University. Columbia, Northwestern, and reigning national champion Ohio State will all be at the invitation­al as well. 
"It's very hard for coaches to predict," Bednarski said. "I've been in this business for so long. There are so many factors we can't control, especially on such a young team. But anything can happen if we make it to the Bloody Four." 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
"We focus a lot on free throws and try to get better shooting percentages every day in prac­tice," she said. 
The Belles move back into MlAA conference play this Saturday with a contest at Olivet (4-3). The Belles are tied atop the MIAA with a record of 2-0. 
"I think we need to take our frustration of losing this game and put it towards making our­selves better in our next two practices before our conference game against Olivet," Honan said. 
C9ntact Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 

Thursday, Deember 11, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
WWW.BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 

PATRICK GARTLAND 
fORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 
hy are you typing out a note Couldn't you just have card instead ofwriting it? studied it all night instead? 
JUMBLE 

JJ(JJJWJM1JE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SASEY 
I I I 
b

©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 


r~~~fi ()
tNORBIN t

J I I J 
www.jumble.com 
LEWLOY 

rJ (j
1 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
**%$#1!! You're 30 minutes behind 

WHAT THE SERVERS TURNED INTO WHEN THE KITCHEN WAS BACKED UP. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Print answer here: "(IIIIIIJ" 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  TABOO  FABLE  (Answers tomorrow) SPEEDY HOOKUP  
Answer:  Often follows when a business falls into the  
red -THE BLUES  

CROSSWORD 
Across 35 Physics unit 1 Peak 36 Theory's start 5 Chattered 
37 Scary sound 
incessantly 
from a cornfield? 10 TV horse 
41 Splinter group 
introduced in 1955 ... or a 44 Motel-discount Plymouth model grp. introduced in 
45 Sales slips: 1956 Abbr.
14 Partiality 49 Galley 15 Seeing red implement
16 Prime draft status 50 Scary sound 17 Drug-yielding from a steeple? plant 53 Tedious 18 Opposite of 
55 Boot part serenity 56"Whew!"
19 Cartoonist AI 20 Scary sound 57 Misspells. say, from the ocean? as a ghost might 23 Park.·e.g., in at 20-, 28-, 37­
and 50-Across?
N.Y.C. 
25 "Sting like a bee" 62 Abominate athlete 
63 African antelope26 Having seniority 
64 Hot rod's rod 
28 Scary sound 67 Lackawannafrom a war Railroad
zone? 33 Juillet's season 68 Countryish 34 Kodiak native 69 Boot part 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

70 Card game for three 71 Walk leisyrely 72 Stealth bomber org. 
Down 
Charles Gibson's network 2 A.F.L.­3 Cane cutter 4 Biblical son who sold his birthright 5 Wavelet 
6 Language whose alphabet starts alit. ba. ta. tha ... 
7 Child's caretaker 8 Suffix with hypn­9 Part of a bottle 
or a guitar 10 Kind of point 11 Helpless? 12 Filled to the gills 13 Big fat mouth 21 Country just 
. south of Sicily 22 Moo goo gai pan 
pan 23 Lawyers' org. 24 Kilmer of "The 
Doors" 27 _ Irvin, classic artist for The 
New Yorker 29 Cowlick, e.g. 30 Fit for a king 31 Blunder 
32 "Long ......... and far away 36 Creep (along) 
38 Name that's an anagram of 27­Down 
39 de mer 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nyin-g form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 

WILLSHORTZ 

40 Egyptian dry ~. addresses, 58 Hospital measure equal often shipments to about five­47 A duo 59 Styptic agent and-a-half 48 Crafty 60 Part of a bushels 50 Tournament fishhook 
41 Soak (up) pass 61·1sland with ·Waimea Bay 
51 Like some music
42 Tag for a 62 Gentlemenparticular 52 Musically 

purpose 65 Meadow 
improvise 

66 Shoemaker's 43 Neighbor of helper. in a fairy
54 Sport utilizing a Slovenia clay disk tale 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a .year). Share tips: nytirnes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytirnes.comllearning/xwords. 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST 


HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TffiS DAY: Ravcn-Symone. 23; Nia Peeples. 47; Kenneth Branagh, 48; Michael Clarke Duncan. 51 
Happy Birthday: Do things that will help your state of mind ami build your confidence. This is a great year for restmcturing your game pion to fit your lifestyle and your basic needs. It will be you who make your positive life changes. Be honest about your expec­tations and you "·ill accomplish your goals. Your numbers are:. 4, 17. 21. 24, 32,38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A surprise is heading your way. Contact people you have worked with in the past and you will get an interesting lead on something you want to pursue. Take advantage of everything and anything. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Stress levels are high at this time of the year, with so much to do and so little time to do it. Calm down. make your to-do list and don'tlet any­one's nagging deter you. Less talk and mor~ work will pay off. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Make today a fun-filled day. C'heck out your travel plans for the holiday season or pick up gifts for special people. You should make a point of planning dinn~r with someone you find stimulating. Don't volunteer for something lf you don't really have the time. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't be tempted to purchase something that claims to do the impossible. llse discretion. A change at work may upset you but, in the end. yon will realize it's to your advantage. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Make today a memorable affair. Include the ones you love in something that will enhance the upcoming festive h<>liday season. By coming up with cost-efficient ideas. you will gain popularity. :! stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): There is no tin1e to waste. Finish all the things that need to be done before the year comes to a close. You don't want to he left in a vulnerable fi­nancial position. Harsh talks will lead to isolation not resolution.~ stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't let anyone weasel his or her way into your affairs. Maintain control. This is not the time to overreact. Keep the peace hut be honest. not stubborn, about what you want. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone will try to cause trouble for you.lt is vital that you do what benefits yon most and take a pass on thiugs that don't. You are better off sticking "~th like-minded people who have similar goals. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec_ 21): Travel for business will pay off in terms of what you learn. Anger will be your downfall; diplomacy will lead to your success. Show your talents. not someone else'S shortcomings and you will excel. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Make adjustments at home that will suit your needs during the festive season. Help out someone elderly and you will benefit from your good will through the information and experience tllis person can offer. Make adjust­
ments that may save you money in the future. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't make changes based on someone else's emo­tional whims. Stick to your plans if you want to get things finished on time. Consider your motives and be sure the reasoning behind your action is sound. Act fast but smartly regarding motley. ~ stars 
PISCES (Feb_ 19-March 20): Past acquaintances will be your ticket to future opportu­nities. Set up talks or plan to attend a function that will allow you to nerwork with people who have common goals. You will get help if you share your ideas. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are curious, inventive and have a vivid in1agination. You are sensi­tive and intent on helping others. You are unpredictable and impulsive but also accom­plish a lot throughout life. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugenialast.com for confidential comultations. mvspnce .com!eugenialnst for E11genin's blog, astroadl'icc .com forfrm 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $120 for one· academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------­

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, December 11, 2008 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Down to the wire 
Irish suffer overtime loss to the Wolverines 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
Onen Michigan guard Jnssiea Minnt'inld forced overtime, Wolvnrinns forward Stnphany Skrba Look full advantagn of it. 
Baek:Lo-haek layups from Skrha gavn Miehigan a one­point lt~ad, and tlw Wolverines hung on to bnat No. S Notre Damn 63-59 in overtime in Ann Arbor, Mich. W1~dnr.sday night. 
Thn Irish unbPatPn strnak mtds at SPVPn, while Michigan movPs to 2-2 against ranked tPams. 
Skrba lit up Crislnr Arena, scoring 20 points on 10-11 shooting. With 3:25 remaining in overtime, Irish freshman forward K1dlie Watson hit a 3­pointer to give Notre Dame a 51J-56 lead. Skrba, however, drove for a layup, then drove again at'ter Notre Damn (7-11 turned the ball over under its 
TOM LNThe Observer 

Sophomore guard Brittany Mallory drives to the hoop during Notre Dame's 63-52 win over see SKRBA/page 6 Purdue on Sunday. Mallory had seven points in a loss to Michigan on the road Wednesday. 

page 24 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Terriers are next, Big East looiTIS 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
By the time tho team takns tho court against Boston University Saturday, Notre Dame will have had exaetly a week to think about its 67-62 loss to Ohio State. The Irish, who dropped from No. 7 in the AP and ESPN/USA Today polls to No. 12/B, respPetively, are eager to got back on the court. 
"We had a fpw days o(T which we kind of rweded to get our energy level back up and wn can learn from lthn.lossl a lot of ways," Irish co-captain Kyln McAlarney said. "But I also think it's important for us to put it in the baek of our minds and really move on and bouncf~ baek on Saturday." 
After thn gami~ against the Terriers, Notre Dame will have another week ofT before taking on Delaware State and Savannah State. 
see TERRIERS/page 22 

FENCING 
Bednarski is confident in potential of very young squad 
giate play. Following a season in fewnr than five seasons. that you are a good defender used to pressure situations,"
14 freshmen replace 
that saw the Irish achieve second Although laden with talent, the who can play at the highest level Meinhardt said. "It's the highest place at the NCAA Fencing team features 14 freshmen and of professional feneing. Second, it level of compntition, so I'll bntter
talented senior class 
Championships, the lighters have will miss the support of a very shows that you ean light on the bn able to deal with rwrvns that high hopes for the 2009 s1mson. strong senior cast from 2008. big stage in front of all the cam­come with playing in the NCM." •
By CHRIS MASOUD 
"We hay~~ a vP.ry strong team," Bednarski believes the experi­eras. This will bring calm to a Meinhardt also understands 
Sports Writer 
Bednarski said. "Maybe not the ence of Olympians Gerek young team that can easily get that an Olympic background. strongest in the nation, but we Meinhardt and Kelley Hurley will nervous." comes with a priee tag. 
Led by sixth-year !wad coach 1:an light anybody." play an important role in the Meinhardt, a l'rnshman !'oiler "I have to focus hard against Janusz Bmlnarski, members of Bednarski is the only coach in team's success. and the youngest male U.S. every competitor," Meinhardt tho Irish f'nndng tnam an~ sharp­Notn1 Dame's history to win a "Experience in the Olympic Olympian in Beijing, agrnes with said. "Beeause I'm at the top, ening their blades as tlwy eager­national title in his first season games sbows two things," his coach. ly await tlw start of intereolln-and win multiple national titles Bednarski said. "First, it shows "Beijing will help in gotting see FROSH/page 22 
HocKEY 
ND learns from last year 
By MATT GAMBER A~sodate Sports Editor 
II" ever a top-ranked team worn to know that with 18 games ·n11mtining on its regular s1~ason sdwdule, it is far from rPar.hing tlw proverbial prom­ised land-it's the Irish. 
Art.nr a 15-4 start and a nine­ganw win streak a year ago, Notre I>anw went 6-S-4 after· final exams, plumnwting in tlw polls and bandy reaching the NCAA tournanwnt. 
"Tiwre arn a lot of similarities right now. It's a little concerning to rnn if anything"lrish coach Jon· Jaekson said. 
After losing its first two CCHA games at homn to Miami (Ohiol, Notre Damn ( 12-:~-2. H-2-2-2 CCII/\) has wded on· a 12-ganw 
see HALFIpage 21 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles finish just short in loss to Manchester 
By ALEX WEST Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's came up just short Wednesday afternoon, los­ing to <:ross-state rival Manchester 70-66. The Belles (4­
4) watched an eight-point IPad with 3:50 to play in the game disappnar as they failed to make a field goal for the rest of the game. 
"Any loss is hard to swallow but it was esp~>.cially tough because we know we should have eome out with the win," freshman Maggie Ronan said. "We had a good lead down the stretch of the game and let them come back in the end." 
Kelly Meiklejohn who finished with 16 points for Manchester made the go-ahead jump shot to make the score 67-66 with just 21 seconds ldt on the doek. 
"Crueial possessions· wore lost beeause of turnovers and a lack of' rebounding. We didn't seore in the last three minutes of the game and they did," freshman Kelley Murphy said. 
Manchester got the ball back and hit two ((ml shots to stretch their lead. Honan had a chance to tie thn gamn in the f"inal moments but her shot came up just short. 
Manehestnr's Kristen Laneaster tacked on a free throw to put the game ay 70-66 with 1 second to play. 
The gamn was neek-and-neek throughout with the seore tired 
see BELLES/page 22 









