

Group addresses budget concerns 
Belles say Saint Mary's student government executives receive too large of a stipend 
By LIZ HARTER and SARAH 
MAYER 
News Writers 
A group of about 35 Saint Mary's students met with members of the Student Government Association (SGA) Executive Board. Vice President of Student Affairs Karen Johnson and director of Student Involvement and Board of Governance (BOG) advisor Patrick Daniel to dis­cuss concerns they have about the SGA budget 
approved by the Executive Board last week. 
For the second time in College history, the Executive Board, consisting of student body president Mickey Gruscinski, student body vice president Sarah Falvey, chief of staff Lauren Theiss, execu­tive treasurer Mo Weaver, Residence Hall Association (RHA) coordinator Maura Clougherty, Student Diversity Board (SDB) coordinator Adriana Rodriguez, Student Activities Board coordinator (SAB) Michele Peterson and executive secretary Jenny Hoffman has allotted them­selves a stipend in the SGA budget. The budget contain­ing $243,040, which comes from the student fees includ­ed in the tuition of every full­time student, was first intro­duced last week at the Board of Governance meeting with a $20,000 stipend for the Executive Board. 
Senior Sarah Voss coordi­nated the event after hearing about concerns BOG mem­bers raised when the budget was discussed Wednesday 
and_frustrations voiced by fel­low students. 
"The only thing I want to accomplish is to let students voice their opinions on the budgeting issue. I want stu­dents to know that the BOG and administrators should make decisions that are in the best interest of the entire student body," she told The Observer Sunday. 
Johnson said she was excit­ed about the forum because if is the first time in the three 
see BUDGET/page 4 


Record low arrested against Stanford 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Students to cast ballots in Inock election 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
One month before the real Nov. 4 presidential election, Notre Dame students can cast their ballots today for the next president of the United States in the student govern­ment's mock election. 
The purpose of the mock exercise, student body vice president Grant Schmidt said, is to encourage people to dis­cuss the candidates and the issues. 
"The point of this is to mobilize the students and get people talking," Schmidt said. "We didn't want a simple poll, we wanted this to be an edu­cational process or an event." 
Student Senate University Affairs chair Ashlee Wright, who will be helping to staff the voting centers today, said she is cu:dous to see how the campus aligns itself political­ly. 
"It will be very interesting to get the facts instead of just the stereotypes," she said. 
The results won't be scien­tifically accurate, Schmidt said, but he said he is inter­ested in getting a rough idea of how Notre Dame students 
see ELECTION/page 6 

Only 9 arrests made at Saturday's game 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT News Writer 
Ninn people were taken into custody on Saturday, accord­ing to Phil Johnson, the direc­tor of Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP). Arrests were made by NDSP, the Indiana State Excise Police, St. Joseph County Police and South Bend Police Department. 
This compares to 35 custo­dial arrests last week when Purdue visited and three cus­todial arrests during the October 7, 2006 Notre Dame­Stanford game according to an October 10, 2006 Observer article. 
Outside the stadium, nine citations were issued for minor consuming alcohol, one person was cited for public indecency and one person was taken to jail after being arrested for public intoxica­tion. 
During the game, eight peo­ple were transported to jail for public intoxication, and seven others were ejected from the stadium for alcohol related violations of stadium rules. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 


Sorin announces they will boycott pep rallies 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Notre Dame fans present at last Friday's pep rally in the Joyce Athletic Convocation Center (JACC) may have noticed only five of the six host dorms in attendance. The sixth dorm 
asked  to  host,  the  Sorin  
Otters, decided  to  boycott  
tho pep rally.  

Juniors Aidan McKiernan and Tristan Hunt, the presi­dent and vice president of Sorin llall announced they would boycott the ceremony in a letter to the editor of The Observer Friday. They said their intention is not to publicly refuse to show their support for the foot­ball team. Hather, they wish to bring about a change in 
the current pep rally proto­col. 
"We know this school sup­ports the team," Hunt said. "But we don't think that they should have to put up with an hour of organized entertainment to do it." 
McKiernan and Hunt said pep rallies have stopped being purely for the stu­dents and have taken on a more corporate, formulaic atmosphere in an attempt to appeal to atumni and visi­tors. Previously, the pep ral­lies were held in the Stepan Center and featured more interaction between the stu­dents and the football team. 
"The first hour and fifteen minutes is what we're against," McKiernan said, referring to the time stu­
see SORINIpage 3 

Students cheer on the team .during Saturday's game against Stanford. Only eight people were arrested in the stadium. 
University provides flu vaccines 
Health Services to distribute free medication at Joyce Center 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
The flu season is just around the corner, bring­ing with it inevitable coughs, sore throats, fevers and other respiratory afflictions -but University Health Services is provid­ing free influenza vaccines to help members of the campus community avoid contagious influenza virus­es. 
Assistant Director of University Health Services Pat Brubaker said that Health Services purchased 5,200 vaccines this year ­about 200 more than they provided last year. 
"The number of vaccines 
see FLU/page 6 


INSIDE COLUMN 


She's a lady 
I'm nearly positive that Miss 

Mamwrs would be revoltml by some of 
the unladylike behavior I exhibit. But 
lattdy I've hmm thinking that maybe 
Miss Manners should get over it. 
Maybt~ etiquette and ladylike courtesy 
have ollidally died. And maybe that's 
not so terrible after all. 
A multitude of unladylike behavior is 

exhibited on this campus. The modern 
woman curses, goes stag to dances, 
fails to wear pantyhose and even 
wears white after 
Jess Shaffer 

Labor Day. We can 
eat with our 
hands, sit with our 
Assistant 

legs uncrossed 
Scene Editor 

and even burp 
when the occasion 
calls for it. The modern Notre Dame 
woman even body paints on game day 
and wears pants to church. All shock­
ing behavior. I'm sure. 
Then again let's consider some lady­

like behavior that has joyfully gone the 
way of the dinosaur. For one, we are 
frnn to no longer ride side saddle. Not 
that tlw modern woman has much 
opportunity to ride horses, much less 
ride them properly, but you get the 
gist. Additionally, we no longer are 
expected to sip tea, pinky up or chew 
like we havt~ a seernt. And it's a 
refreshing chang<~ to lm rid of that 
arrangmlmarriage thing. It's also not 
so bad that c:orsets are only found in 
museums. 
Maylw if chivalry is dead than it only naturally follows that female demure­Iwss should share its grave. Perhaps this marks a shift toward androgyny where wonHm are allowed to say what tlwy want and wear what they want and think what they want. Meanwhile, men are allownd to stop asking women on dates, stop holding doors, and stopping being confined by an opprnssive masculine stereotype of sports obsessive, misogynistic, red­meat-eating jocks. Not that Notre Dame women or men embody and or all of these stereotypical characteriza­tions. 
Earlier this semester I explained why we women bake. Now I lind myself delighted and surprised by the very domesticity of that question. It's not that we don't bake or knit or enjoying wearing dresses. But it's also not that we are solely obliged to see ourselves as nothing more than house­wife, baby makers. Maybe Samantha Jones and Serena Vanderwoodsen arc not our ideals. But it's doubtful that Joan Clnaver is our desirnd future either. 
So yt~s I curse and I hate the use of nuphmnistk substitutions like "fudge" or "darn it." And yes, I cannot avoid speaking my mind and tond to speak oxcessivoly. I say ploaso and thank you, but I don't cross my logs at the ankle and don't wait for doors to be opened to me. But, I'm also the first to dawn a dress and enjoy a good knit­ting session. So maybo Miss Manners was wrong. Maybe tho human spirit, main or fmnale, cannot bn confined and rnstrietnd by a set of rules. Maybn we should build S(llf respnet and extend our respect to others. Maybe that's mwugh. Maybe that's what it truly is to be a lady. But moreover, maybe that's what it is to be a person. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jslzaj]'e 1 @nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, howcvt'r, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 S41 so we can 
correct our error. 

QuESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COUW PICK A THEME SONG FOR A PRESIDENTlAL C'ANDIDATE, WHAT WOUW IT BE? 

Eileen Flanagan 
sophomore Walsh 
(For Obama) '"There's Hope' by India Arie" 

OFFBEAT 
Bra bandit strikes again In southwest Aorida 
BONITA SPHINGS, Fla. ­
There's a bra bandit on the 
loose in southwest Florida. 
The Lee County Sheriff's 
Office was searching for an 
individual they say stole 160 
bra..'i valued at nearly $6,000 
on Thursday from a Victoria 
Secret store, the latest in a 
string of bra burglaries in the 
area. 
Since february, authorities 
say 452 bras valued at nearly 
$19,000 have been stolen 
from two of the chain's south­
west Florida locations. Six dif­
ferent bra thefts at the stores 
have been reported during 
that time. 
TODAY 
0::: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 
== ..... 
oct 
e
(,) 






Kevin Archer  Chris Kosinski  
senior off-campus  senior off-campus  
(For McCain) '"Highhway to the Danger Zone'" by Kenny Lossins, because John McCain is a better Maverick than Tom Cruise.''  (For McCain) '"Changes,, by TuPac 'cause that's all he wants... ,  


Animal Rescue Shelter 
received the cats on 
Wednesday. Since then, work­
ers have been scrambling to 
accommodate the animals at 
area shelters and homes. 
Executive director Leslie Rockey said many appear to be healthy but in need of a bath. 
Garfield County sheriff's spokeswoman Tanny McGinnis said the cats were strays taken in by a woman. The woman called for help, saying she couldn't take care of the cats while moving from her Battlement Mesa condo. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


Investigators said a female customer walked into the store Thursday and immedi­ately went to a four-drawer cabinet with new bras of the PINK brand name. The store manager told deputies the woman waited until employ­ees were busy helping cus­tomers and then thrust the bras into a bag and exited the store. 
86 cats rescued from 2­bedroom condo 
GLENWOOD SPRINGS, Colo. -A Glenwood Springs animal shelter was trying to lind homes for 86 cats res­cued from a two-bedroom condominium. The Colorado 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0,,,,,,,
,,,,,,,

,,,,,,, 
.9 HIGH 74 HIGH 67 HIGH 67 HIGH 69 LOW 56 LOW 56 LOW 52 LOW 47 IN BRIEF 
Free Au Shots will be given out at the Joyce Center today !rom 9 am. until 4 p.m. Vru:dnatiom; are avail­able for students, !'acuity, stal'l', retirees, and spouses of rntirnns. lk'<:ipienb must prnsent their ND ID card, wear short sleaves, and sign informed com;nnt to receive tim vru:­cine. 
NDVotcs '08 Pizza, Pop, and Politics: "Foreign Policy and National Security" will be prnsent­ed by professors Mary Ellen O'Connell, Hobert and Marion Short, Law S<:hool; Miehael Desd1, political seicnee; tmd Joseph Bock, Kroc Institute for International Pem-,e Studies. It will be held in tho Hesburgh Center Auditorium tonight. at 5::lO p.m. and is free and open to the public. This event is cosponsornd by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and the Center for S<x:iaJ Conc.ems. 
Students can participate in Mindfulness and Relaxation Training. The 3-session class will be held at Rolfs Sports Recreation Center from 4-5 p.m. on Wed. Come wearing loose, warm, com­fortable clothing. It is oo-sponsornd by the University Counseling Center and Re~Sports. Student<; can sign up via HecHegister on mcsporl'i.nd.edu. Cost i'i $12.00. 
"The Mushroom Picker" a one­man play, performed by Patrick Dewane in the Philbin Studio Theatre, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Wed. at 7:30 p.m. lkkets are $10, $8 fbr faculty /.<;tatr: and $5 for seniors eitizens /veterans/ students. It is presented by The Nanovic Institute for European Studies and Shakespeare at Notre Dame 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@ndedu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 72 HIGH 70 LOW 50 LOW 54 
Atlanta 79 I 55 Boston 61 I 42 Chicago 73 I 59 Denver 65 I 41 Houston 87 I 68 Los Angeles 78 I 60 Minneapolis 68 I 57 New York 59 I 44 Philadelphia 63 I 44 Phoenix 93 I 67 Seattle 60 I 49 St. Louis 72 I 57 Tampa 85 I 62 Washington 71 I 49 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, October 7, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Sorin 
continued from page 1 
dents spend watching videos and campus· group performances while waiting for the team to arrive. 
McKiernan and Hunt's said the pep rally should be ori­ented towards strengthening the bond between the stu­dents and the football team. They said they want more speakers from the football team itself and less down­time spent waiting for the team to actually arrive at the Joyce Center. 
Hall Council, and the men of Sorin decided they would no longer attend the pep rallies as a dorm. 
"Things really came to a head before the Stanford game," Hunt said. "Since we were asked to host, we had to decide if we would go or not." 
Instead of entering the JACC, the Otters gathered outside dressed as lumber­jacks, symbolizing the "cut­ting down" the Stanford's tree mascot, to cheer on the team as they entered the building. 
"If you want to say we 
have no spirit, 
that's absurd," 
"We only McKiernan
"We only have four 

have four said.
years here. They should 

years here," McKiernan Hunt said. be really special and and Hunt have "They should discussed the
unique. Pep rallies that 

be really spe­boycott with
really feel like our own

cial and leaders from unique. Pep are a big part ofthat., other dorms rallies that and the really feel response has
Tristan }lunt

like our own been fairly

Sorin vice president 

are a big part positive. 
of that.·~ 
After the San Diego State pep rally, McKiernan and Hunt said they began talking to under­classmen in their dorm to gauge what they thought about the pep rallies. 
"We wanted to make sure the freshmen supported us," llunt said. "Since they had only been to one or two pep rallies, we didn't want to come across as forcing our opinions on them." 
Their views received strong support both among the frnshmen and at Sorin 
"They like 
the motivation behind it," Hunt said. "But aren't quite ready to pull the trigger." 
McKiernan said Sorin 's students aren't the only stu­dents choosing to miss pep rallies, and many stopped attending long before Sorin's boycott. 
"What we're doing just gives a voice to why people aren't showing up in the first place," he said. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 


Dyer speaks about Iraq pullout 
By MOLLY MADDEN News Writer 
Author of the book "After Iraq" and journalist Gwynne Dyer addressed the much-debated topic of how the eventual with­drawal of American troops from Iraq will affect not only the United States but also the world at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Monday 
night. . 
Dyer said in order to under­stand what might possibly hap­pen in the future, one has to have an understanding of the people and their motives. 
"Terrorists are people who have political goals and use acts of terror to achieve these goals," he said. "Unfortunately for them, they do not have big budgets." 
While many Americans have the idea that terrorists participate in their acts of violence as a means of reaching self-emulation, Dyer tries to discourage this notion. 
"The people in charge are almost all revolutionaries," Dyer said. "These guys are only con­cerned with achieving their goals. The principle strategy of terror is to drive the opposition, whether it be your own government or a for­eign occupier, into becoming so oppressive that the common peo­ple turn against the government and are driven into the revolu­tionaries' arms." 
Dyer said accomplishing this mission and driving common peo­ple to revolt is no easy task. 
"People have to be really des­perate to radicalize and put the revolutionaries in power," Dyer said. 
In the eyes of many Arabs, their governments have no credibility because they failed their people and sold out to foreigners. However, in the 1970s, a radical religious movement was con­ceived that brought a united front to the Arab world. 
"In Arab countries in the 1970s there was this idea that you could fix all the problems with an applied religious ideology because there did not seem to be any other way to fix things," Dyer said. 
This Islamist ideology argued the Arab Muslims are in their dreadful situations because they have been Westernized, Dyer said. Islamists believe revolution and violence are necessary because they will bring people back to Islam, and then God will be on the revolutionaries' side and things will start to change for the better. 
Dyer said these events preced­ed the horrors of Sept. 11, 2001. 
"Bin Laden rose to the top because he had the most plausi­ble strategy -attack the United States with the goal of drawing the U.S. into a military invasion in the Middle East," Dyer said. "This invasion will invoke a long gueril­la war in which the U.S. will be killing Muslims. Bin Laden believed that the common people would see those images and would revolutionize. In that case, 9/11 had the desired effect ­partly." 
The United States invaded Afghanistan but recruited the various ethnic militias to over­throw the Taliban -this tactic prevented revolution. When Kabul fell in November 2001, there were only 500 American troops on the ground of Afghanistan, a country with a population of thirty million. However, Bin Laden received what he wanted with the American invasion of Iraq in March of 2003, he said. · 
"Iraq provided all the images that Bin Laden wanted to get out of Afghan'istan," Dyer stated. "The Middle East has been deeply radicalized by what has hap­pened in Iraq." 
However, Dyer said he believes the pullout from Iraq will not be as bad as many Americans think. 
"Apart from oil, these countries are of no interest to the West," Dyer said. "They have to sell us oil because they need money. You might pay more for oil but they will continue to sell to us out of necessity." 
In addition, Dyer said an "Arab Revolution" is unlikely to happen because many in the region would resist submitting to the strict Islamic laws. 
"Most Arabs don't want to be imposed on like the Taliban did in Afghanistan," Dyer said. "They do not want to put those type of peo­ple in power." 
Dyer said the United States would actually be safer from the fear of attack if the revolutionar­ies gain a position of power. Since the revolutionaries would be in power, there would be no reason to form an attack. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 
l
.. :~ 

Hacking the Vote 
138 DeBartolo 
7 p.m. 

Tuesday, October 7 
The Internet plays a major role in fund raising, 
communication, and grassroots political organiza­
tion for this year's Presidential Election. Individual 
voters trust that electronic voting systems will 
preserve the secrecy of their ballots and protect 
the integrity of the democratic electoral process. 
Is this trust well-founded? In this talk, we will 
examine the risks surrounding the integration of 
technology into all phases of the political process: 
campaigning, fundraising, voting and privacy. 
Sponsored by: 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Office of Information Technologies 
A

securetj~ 

CAPP/TBS 

audited. brought up the fact that Many students said they tant," she said. "If you have a She said that when she Gruscinski and Falvey ran understand that the Executive problem with something,
Budget 

eame to Saint Mary's she was 
shocked that they gave the 
Executive Board close to submits it to Daniel and her­$250,000 with no college self to reeeive the money for oversight and that much trust the allotments in laid out in it, was put into students, howev­as per the SGA Constitution. er, they have done a good job. 
The student body does not Johnson said the SGA need to approve Constitution the budget, she is written in said. "/want to see the a way that 
This is not the allows the 
continued from page 1 
Executive Board 

first year the Executive
officials stand up and
Exeeutive Board Board to allot has received a say we represent the themselves a monetary stipend. · stipend.
student body, they 
Last year's Falvey said 
are our constituents, · t h e
Exeeulive Board allotted them­and we will represent Constitution selves a $40,000 Oversight
them as best as 

monetary stipend, Committee,
possible,"

and Exeeu tives which she serving SGA prior chairs, will to that would often Molly Lamping be trying to take a trip to implement a
senior

Chieago where system of they would "stay checks and at five star hotels, eat at nice balances through an amend­restaurants, see shows and go ment to the Constitution shopping," Johnson said. throughout the year which 
Johnson said siHl did not will address the issue of a control what previous stipend. Executive Boards did with the· In order to put a system of money they were given to checks and balances place, budget. ller only involvement though, 10 percent of the stu­was making sure they taxed dent body would have to vote themselves on the money they in approval of the amend­received and made sure the ment, Daniel said. Executive Board did not get Many students in attendance unopposed in last year's elec­Board does a lot on campus, tions. They stated that more but senior Jackie Rothschild people might have run for the said she feels the Board allot­position if they knew they ting themselves a stipend is an would be getting paid for their ethical concern. service to the College. "I could not handle half of Gruseinski, Falvey and their the things the executive board Board, however, did not know is doing in the community but 
they would be  it is  an ethical  
receiving  a  conflict of inter­ 
stipend they ran.  when  "/ could not handle  est for them to be voting them- 
A  t  halfofthe things the  selves  that  
Wednesday's  executive board is  money,  she  
meeting, Weaver said they were  doing in the community but it is  said. Senior Molly Lamping agreed  
informed about  an ethical conflict of  saying  she  
the stipend by last year's Executive Board  interest for them to be voting themselves  wants to see the Executive Board represent what  
at  the  end  of  that money,"  the  students  
the  year  and  want.  
needed to vote whether or not  Jackie Rothschild  "I want to see the Executive  
they would con­ senior  Board officials  
tinue the prac­ stand  up  and  
tice this year.  say  we  repre­ 

Falvey said she did not think sent the student body, they students knowing about the are our constituents, and we" stipend is a bad thing, rather will represent them as best as she thinks it could make stu­possible," she said. dents pay more attention to Falvey welcomed the com­the things BOG does through­ments students were making out the year. about the budget because she 
"This could empower the wants more students to take student body to hold BOG an interest in SGA and the accountable for their actions," College. she said. "Students voices are impor­come tell me. This is the first time we are hearing from stu­dents all year." · 
Daniel reminded those in attendance that once the budget is approved by the Executive Board it cannot be changed and each category is allotted a certain amount of money. 
"You cannot take money from one category and use it in another," he said. 
Weaver said she wants stu­dents to know that the stipend isn't the only important part of the budget. 
This year's Executive Boara was able to increase funds to different aspects of SGA by $36,000 and while doing that, they decreased the stipend by $30,000, she said. 
Daniel pointed out that while many eomplaints and comments were about the actions of previous boards,' bringing them up was not going to change anything. 
"Looking at things done with the past budget and speeulat­ing is not going to change any­thing happening with your current budget," he said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintrnarys.edu and Sarah Mayer at srnayerO 1 @saintrnarys.edu 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Jerusalem Summer Program 2009 
at Tantur Ecumenical Institute for Theological Studies 


INFORMATION SESSION 
Tuesday, October 7, 2008 202 DeBartolo Hall, 5:00 p.m. 
With Faculty Director Father Patrick Gaffney, CSC Associate Professor of Anthropology 


Deadline to apply for the Jerusalem Summer Program is November 15, 2008. First Year students, Sophomores, and Juniors may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251, www.nd.edu/,_,ois 


ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 7, 2008 CoMPJLED rROI'v1 THE OssER\r'ER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Taliban, Afghan leaders met last week 
KABUL, Afghanistan -A former Taliban ambassador said Monday that the hard-line militants sat with Afghan officials and Saudi King Abdullah over an important religious meal in Saudi Arabia late last month as the insurgency raged back home. 
Abdul Salam Zaeef, the Taliban's former ambassador to Pakistan, denied that the get-together could be construed as peace talks. But President Hamid Karzai has long called for negotiations with the Taliban, and the meeting could spur future initia­tives. 
With U.S. and NATO forces suffering their deadliest year so far in Afghanistan, the top 
U.N. envoy, Kai Eide, said Monday that the war "has to be won through political means." 
"And that means political engagement. Then comes a question -with whom do you engage? My general answer is that if you want to have relevant results you must speak to those who are relevant," Eide told a news conference. "But these are process­es that are very difficult to initiate. Nevertheless, in my view a policy of engagement is the right policy." 
Two earthquakes kill 30 in Tibet 
BEIJING -China's official Xinhua News Agency says 30 people are dead after an earthquake struck Tibet. 
The news agency said Monday a magni­tude 6.6 earthquake hit a county near Tibet's capital Lhasa. 
The U.S. Geological Survey said there were two quakes. The first measured mag­nitude 6.6 and struck at 4:30 p.m. 50 miles west of Lhasa, more than 1,600 miles away from Beijing. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bus driverarrested after fatal accident 
WILLIAMS, Calif. -A bus driver with a string of motor vehicle offenses and a history of substance abuse was arrested on suspicion of driving under the influence of drugs Monday after his-casino-bound charter bus ran into a ditcti, killing eight people. 
Investigators also said the bus had an invalid license plate, and they were looking into whether the driver had proper permits to operate the vehicle. The bus ran ofT the road Sunday while taking passengers to a Sacramento gambling hall. About 30 people were injured. 
Records show 52-year-old Quintin Watts had been cited for speeding and other violations that resulted in loss of his license for nearly two years. IIe regained his driving privileges last January. 
Deputy flees police as a murdersuspect 
SMITHS GROVE, Ky. -A sheriff's deputy accused of killing his ex-girlfriend in Kentucky taunted state police in an e-mail exchange Monday, threatening a county jailer and telling police he was going to "make them earn their money" in their search for him. 
Simpson County Sheriff's Deputy Randall Creek, 41, is wanted on a warrant for murder in the death of his ex-girlfriend, Debbie R. Rediess, 46, authorities said. Rediess was shot to death outside her home Sunday morning in Smiths Grove, which is about 85 miles south of Louisville. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Ex-firefightercharged with theft, fraud 
CIIAHLESTOWN, Ind. -A former Charlestown volunteer firefighter has been charged with theft and fraud after he was accused of misusing two fire department credit cards. 
State police say 35-year-old Bruce A. Pigman was arrested Monday at his par­ents' home in Evansville. In an affidavit, Indiana State Police Detective David Makowsky says Pigman had almost $4,000 in unauthorized charges on the credit cards from last November through early August. 
Dow loses 370, drops below 10,000 
Index under that markforfirst time infour years; lost as much as 800 points, but later rallied 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Wall Street suffered through another extraordinary and traumatic session Monday, with the Dow Jones industrials plunging as much as 800 points -their largest one-day point drop ­before recovering to close with a loss of 370. The cata­lyst for the selling, which also took the Dow below 10,000 for the first time in four years, was investors' growing despair that the spreading credit crisis will take a heavy toll around the world. 
Investors have come to the realization that the Bush administration's $700 billion rescue plan and steps taken by other governments won't work quickly to unfreeze the credit markets. 
That sent stocks spiraling downward in the U.S., Europe and Asia, and drove investors to sink money into the relative safety of U.S. gov­ernment debt. Fears about a global recession also caused oil to drop .below $90 a bar­rel. 
"The fact is, people are scared and the only thing they're doing is selling," said Ryan Detrick, senior technical strategist at Schaeffer's Investment Research. "Investors are cleaning out portfolios and getting rid of everything because nothing seems to be working." 
The selling was so extreme that only 264 stocks rose on country is leading a pro­believes that, regardless of The Dow is down 30 per­the NYSE -and 2,986 longed economic crisis that is the late-day rebound in cent from its peak a year ago dropped. That's a telling sign shifting to other nations. stocks, "the reaction is clearly this week, when it traded as considering the stock market "The market view is shift­giving a downtrend and that high 14,198.09. is considered a leading eco­ing from looking just at the there is a lack of confidence Broader indexes also tum­nomic indicator, with misery of the financial sector of investors into the future bled. The Standard & Poor's investors tending to buy and to the global economy," said growth of the U.S. and the 500 index shed 42.34, or 3.85 sell based on where they Georges Ugeux, chairman world economy." percent, to 1,056.89; and the believe the economy will be in and chief executive of New The Dow fell as much as Nasdaq composite index fell six to nine months. York-based Galileo Global 800.06, then recovered in 84.43, or 4.34 percent, to 
Monday's stock trading Advisors. "There are enough erratic trading to a loss of 1,862.96. The Russell 2000 extended what has been an indication that two things are 369.88, or 3.58 percent, to index of smaller companies exceptional stretch of volatili­happening: The crisis is close at 9,955.50, closing df()pped 23.49,·or 3.79 per­ty, in which triple-digit drops spreading to other sectors, below 10,000 for the first cent, to 595.91. in the Dow are becoming and that it is becoming glob­time since Oct. 26, 2004. The In Asia, the Nikkei 225 almost commonplace; in the al." Dow surpassed its previous closed 4.25 percent lower. past week, the blue chips Ugeux believes Monday's record for a one-day point Europe's stock markets also have fallen more than 1,100 rout had little to do with any decline -778, which the declined, with the FTSE-1 00 points, or nearly 11 percent. short-term problems facing blue chips suffered a week down 5. 77 percent, This latest decline indicates the market, such as para­ago when investors feared Germany's DAX down 7.07 that investors are becoming lyzed credit markets or ailing the bailout package might not percent, and France's CAC-40 more convinced that the financial companies. He pass Congress. down 9.04 percent. 

GAZA STRIP 

Hamas to oust Abbas in January 
the rival camps and is certain to deepen Hamas has been in control of Gaza 
Associated Press 

the split between Hamas and Abbas' since its violent takeover of the territory 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip-Hamas will Fatah movement. in June 2007, leaving Abbas only in cease to recognize Mahmoud Abbas as "I believe Hamas is coming to this point charge of the West Bank. Palestinian president after Jan. 8 and just to undermine the national dialogue The Basic Law, a forerunner to a replace him with one of its own leaders, before it starts in Cairo," said Abbas aide Palestinian constitution, says both presi­according to a resolution approved by the Nimer Hamad referring to the Egyptian­dent and parliament are elected to four­Islamic movement's legislators Monday. brokered talks expected to begin next year terms. Before leaving office, the 
The Hamas resolution demands that month. Fatah parliament passed a law stipulat­Abbas issue a decree by Wednesday to If Hamas does withdraw recognition ing that future presidential and parlia­hold new presidential elections within from Abbas, it would sever another link mentary elections be held simultaneous­three months, to coincide with what between the two sides and also under­ly. Hamas says is the end of his term. mine Abbas' legitimacy in the eyes of However, the llamas-controlled parlia­
Abbas aides said the resolution many Palestinians. ment never amended the Basic Law to appeared aimed at stepping up pressure Abbas, the leader of the Fatah move­include this new clause. As a result. on the president, a political moderate, ment, was elected president in January Hamas argues Abbas' term ends in ahead of a new attempt by Egypt to 2005. A year later, Hamas defeated Fatah January, while Fatah says he can stay in mediate a power-sharing deal between by a landslide in parliamentary elections. office an extra year. 

from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. not type in the name of anoth­results of the mock election cent for Bush and 46.8 per­Schmidt said all Notre Dame er candidate. will be. cent for Kerry.
Election 
undergraduate and graduate  The program asks students  "My only concern is that it is  This year, Schmidt said he's  
continued from page 1  students can vote. Student government is using the  to select which issues are most important to them in this  a good turnout and that the political dialogue on campus is  "personally very interested to see how Notre Dame students  
will be voting in the real elec­ Google Forms application to  election (the  increased  by  stand."  
tion.  administer the election. The  economy, for­ this event," he  Schmidt praised ND Votes  
Studnnts can vote in one of four locations, Schmidt said. They designed the survey so people could not vote from  application will ask students to provide their netiD, class year, residence hall and gen­der. Although the program  eign policy, energy and the environ­ment, health  "It's a big decision. It's one ofthe great opportunities we as  said. Prior to the 2004 presiden­tial election  '08, a campaign of the Center for Soeial Concerns, and pro­fessors at the University for getting students excited about  
their rooms in order to cnmte  asks for students' netiD, the  care, civil lib­ citizens have. "  between  the election. lie said he hopes  
a more rnalistie feeling of vot­ votn is private and the netiD  erties, immi­ President  the mock election today will  
ing, sinee most students will bo sending in absenteo ballots instead of going to polling  will not show up in results. They will then votn for either Sen. John McCain, the  gration, abortion, education,  Grant Schmidt student body vice president  George W. Bush and Sen. John Kerry, several  add to the excitement by "increasing the hype," since, for many students, this year is  
places next month.  Republican candidate, Sen.  Iraq War or  student media  the first year they can vote in  
Voting stations will be set up  Barack  Obama,  the  other)  and  groups,  not  a presidential election.  
today in DeBartolo Hall from 8  Democratic candidate, former  will ask how closely students  including The Observer, held a  "It's a big decision," Schmidt  
to 11 a.m. and again from 2 to  congrnssman Bob Barr, the  have been following the elec­ mock election in LaFortune a  said. "It's one of the great  
5 p.m., in North and South  Libertarian  candidate  or  tion.  week  before  the  election,  opportunities that we  as citi­ 
Dining llalls from  11  a.m.  Ralph Nader,  an  independent  Schmidt said his goal is to  reported Notre Dame maga­ zens have."  
until 2 p.m. and again from 5  candidate. Students may also  have at least 1,500 people  zine. With 570 undergradu­ 
p.m.  until they elose and in  choose to vote to abstain or to  vote. He said he does not have  ates and graduate students  Contact Kaitlynn Riely at  
LaFortune  Student  Center  vote other, although they may  a  prediction  for  what  the  voting, the vote was 47.5 per­ kriely@nd.edu  

Flu 
continued from page 1 
administered goes up a little each year depending on the usage from the following year," Brubaker said. 
Students, staff and faculty ean receive free flu shots today, Wednesday and Thursday in the Joyce Center at gates 1 and 2 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on a first come, first served basis. 
According to Brubaker, this year's vaccine prevents three different strains of the influenza virus-all of which are new strains this flu sea­son. 
While the influenza vaccine remains effective for about six months depending on an individual's immune system, Brubaker said Health Services strategically plans to administer the free flu shots about 10 days before stu­dents leave campus for fall break to allow students to develop immunity. 
"[Students] come back from fall break with a lot of ill­nesses, and we try to prevent this as much as we can by offering the vaccine before fall break," Brubaker said. 
Brubaker also said that Health Services offers the influenza vaccine earlier than other health care centers in the community, and that any­one who wishes to receive the vaccine should do so before December for the vaccine to be effective. 
According to Brubaker, the flu season comes in two waves, usually in December and March. 
Brubaker said "high-risk" individuals should seriously consider receiving the vac­cine, including anyone with asthma, chronic diseases, people taking medication and people with respiratory prob­lems. 
"[The vaccine] also ·helps prevent students from miss­ing two weeks of school or from being miserable for two weeks," she said. 
Sophomore Rachel Koch said she plans to take advan­tage of the free flu shots this week since the vaccines are conveniently offered on cam­pus. 
"It seems like it's something that is easy to do, and will prevent me from getting sick," Koch said. 
Brubaker also explained it is much easier to prevent flu viruses than it is to recover from them. 
"There is no cure for influenza, so it's better to prevent it than to try to cure it. There are some anti-viral medications, but it's up for debate about how good they are," Brubaker said. 
According to Brubaker, University Health Services purchases the vaccines out of their budget in conjunction with money from Human Resources to provide the campus with free vaccines. 
"We feel it's an investment to keep people well, and that preventing illness is as important as caring for sick students," she said. 
Brubaker said University Health Services has been a "sentinel site" for about the past 10 years, providing the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) with data about how influenza affects the campus communi­ty each year. 
"Notre Dame is part of a national watchdog group for viruses," she said. "We col­lect data to help plan for which flu strains the vaccine will be made in the coming year." 
Brubaker said all who wish to receive a flu shot from Health Services this week should bring their Notre Dame J.D. card, wear short sleeves and be prepared to sign a consent form before receiving a vaccination. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 

Fremantle, Australia Information Meeting Wednesday, October 8, 2008 5:30PM 129 DeBartolo IStudents in the Colleges of AL & BA only I Application Deadline: November 15, 2008 for Fall 2009 and Spring 2010 Apply Online: www.nd.edu/-ois  

______________________. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS

Tuesday, October 7, 2008 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 9,955.50 -369.88
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
283 18 3,261 3,771,422,315 

AMEX 


NASDAQ 1,~~?~~6 -X4.43 
NYSE 6ir54.94 


S&P 500 1,056.89 -42.34 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 10,473.09 0;00 FrSE 100 (London) 4.589.19 (281.15? 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -5.09 -5.62 104.72 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -3.65 -1.32 34.86 FIN SEL SPDR (XLF) -5.22 -0.98 17.80 GEN ELECTRIC (GE) -0.88 -0.19 21.38 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -5.98 -0.2180 3.4260 13-WEEK BILL -12.77 -0.06 0.41 30-YEAR BOND -4.39 -0.1810 3.9420 5-YEAR NOTE -10.63 -0.29 2.39 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -6.07 87.81 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +33.00 866.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.70 93.40 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 101.6050 EURO 0.7402 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.1009 BRITISH POUND 0.5732 
IN BRIEF 
Americans lose utilities for nonpayment 
COHOES, N.Y.-The number of Americans whose electricity or gas has been shut off for nonpayment of their bills is up sharply in many parts of the country as people struggle to cope with higher prices and a shaky economy. 
Shut-offs have been running 17 percent higher than last year among customers of New York state's major utilities, and 22 percent higher in economically hard-hit Michigan. They are up in all or part of dozens of other states, including Pennsylvania, Florida and California, according to an Associated Press check of regulators and energy companies. 
Despite stepped-up efforts by state and federal governments, utilities and private groups to help people avoid shut-offs this winter, some worry the problem will only get worse in the coming months, particularly with the downturn on Wall Street. 
"I just didn't have the money to pay," said Marie Williams, a single mother raising four daughters in Cohoes, N.Y., a former mill city on the Hudson River. "Rent had to be paid, and food for the girls." 
Williams' power was cut off this summer for about a week, forcing her girls to do homework by candlelight. She became one of more than 230,000 residential customers of New York's 10 major utilities to have their service shut ofT for nonpayment through August of this year. 
Economists: U.S. on verge of recession 
WASHINGTON -A growing number of economists believe the country is on the brink of -or already in -its first recession since 2001 and that it will be longer lasting. 
That's part of the latest outlook from fore­casters in a survey to be released Monday by the National Association for Business Economics, also know by its acronym NABE. 
Close to 69 percent of the economists think the economy has started or will enter a reces­sion this year. That's up from 56 percent in a survey in May. "The general view is .... that this recession will be longer than the last two -lasting roughly one year, but relatively mild," the survey concluded. The 2001 reces­sion started in March and ended in November. The one before that began in July 1990 and ended in March 1991. 
Hearings open on Lehman collapse 
Lawmakers denounce executive's culture of entitlement at investment bank 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The now­
bankrupt investment bank 
Lehman Brothers arranged 
millions in bonuses for fired 
executives as it pleaded for a 
federal lifeline, lawmakers 
learned Monday, as Congress 
began investigating what 
went so wrong on Wall Street 
to prompt a $700 billion gov­
ernment bailout. 

The first in a series of con­
gressional hearings on the 
roots of the financial melt­
down yielded few major reve­
lations about Lehman's col­
lapse, and none about why 
government officials, as they 
scrambled to avert economic 
catastrophe, declined to res­
cue the flagging company 
while injecting tens of billions 
of dollars into others. 
But it allowed lawmakers 
still smarting trom a political­
ly painful vote Friday for the 
largest federal market rescue 
in history to put a face on 
their outrage at corporate 
chieftains who took home 
hundreds of millions of dol­
lars while betting on risky 
mortgage-backed investments 
that ultimately brought the 
financial system to its knees. 
That face was Richard S. 
Fuld Jr., the Lehman chief 
executive who sat for a two­
hour-plus grilling before the 
House Oversight and 
Government Reform 
Committee as the panel 
combed through his pay his­
tory, management practices 
and financial strategies. And he said a compensation on Sept. 11, Lehman planned Dow Jones industrials sinking 
"You made all this money system that he estimated paid to approve "special pay­below 10,000 for the first time 
by taking risks with other him about $350 million ments" worth $18.2 million in four years. Investors fear 
people's money," Rep. Henry between 2000 and 2007 even for two executives who were the crisis will weigh down the 
Waxman, D-Calif., the panel's as the company headed for terminated involuntarily, and global economy and the 
chairman, said. "The system disaster was appropriate. another $5 mi1lion for one bailout won't work quickly to 
worked for you, but it didn't "We had a compensation who was leaving on his own. loosen credit markets. 
seem to work for the rest of committee that spent a That was just four days The bailout, now law, was 
the country and the taxpay­tremendous amount of time before the government let so rushed that the usual con­
ers, who now have to pay making sure that the interests Lehman go under, touching gressional scrutiny is only 
$700 billion to bail out our of the executives and the off a cascading series of finan­coming now, after the fact. 
economy." employees were aligned with cial shocks and failures that "Although it comes too late 
A subdued Fuld opened his shareholders," Fuld said. put Washington on track for to help Lehman Brothers, the 
testimony declaring, "I take That wasn't good enough the multibillion-dollar rescue so-called bailout program will 
full responsibility for the deci­for some lawmakers who the Bush administration have to make wrenching 
sions that I made and for the decried what they called a urgently requested from choices, picking winners and 
actions that I took," but he culture of entitlement at Congress at the end of that losers from a shattered and 
conceded no errors or mis­Lehman even as the compa­week. fragile economic landscape," 
judgments in the chaotic peri­ny's performance nosedived. On Wall Street, uncertainty said Rep. Tom Davis of 
od that led to the firm's bank­The panel unearthed inter­Monday about the effective­Virginia, the committee's sen­
ruptcy. nal documents showing that ness of the rescue sent the ior Republican. 

Bush: Economy will be fine in long run 
Associated Press enacting its plan to buy up troubled 800 points at one point. 
assets from financial firms so that The catalyst for the selling was the CINCINNATI -As Wall Street reeled credit will start flowing again to con­growing realization that the Bush and global markets plunged, President sumers. administration's $700 billion rescue 
Bush on Monday said the U.S. economy 
Recognizing the scope of the govern­plan and steps taken by other govern­
is going to be "just fine" in the long ment's intervention, Bush to reassure ments won't work quickly to unfreeze run. But he cautioned that the massive his audiences that taxpayer money will the credit markets. Global banks, hob­rescue plan will take time to work. not be wasted. bled by wrong-way bets on mortgageOn another jittery day in the financial The president added that the country securities, remain starved for cash as markets, the president made two has been through rough times before, credit has dried up. rounds of unscheduled comments on and "we're going to come through just The president, after a weekend at his the economy -first after meeting with fme." ranch in Crawford, Texas, met with small-business owners in San Antonio, Earlier, in Texas, Bush emphasized small business owners at an old-fash­and then at the top of a speech in that the program must be effectively ioned soda shop in San Antonio. He Cincinnati about judicial nominees. designed and not rushed into action. said he understands why so many peo­In both cases, he defended the $700 "It's going to take awhile to restore ple are frustrated about why they were billion economic bailout plan as one eonfidence in the financial system," he suddenly "helping Wall Street." that won't just help Wall Street, but said. "But one thing people can be cer­"The answer is because had we not everyday workers and businesses, too. tain of is that the bill I signed is a big done anything, people like the folks "I believe that in the long run, this step toward solving this problem." behind me would be a lot worse ofT," economy is going to be just fine," Bush Bush signed the bill into law after Bush said as the business owners stood said. In the short term, he said the Congress approved it last week. with him. "We'll make sure, as time Treasury Department must go about On Monday, the Dow fell as much as goes on, this doesn't happen again." 
Glass club gains official status 
Organizati~n, now University sponsored, is good stress reliever 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
l.ato at night in the labs of the Jordan Hall of Seinnen, students gather to eombinn their sdnntif­ie and artistic passions by mold­ing hot glass into jewelry or etching a pieturn onto a pane as part of Notre Damn's Glass Club. 
Both co-president Matthew Napinrski and eo-president Kelly Jones joinnd the dub last year when it was first getting started and neither had previ­ous experience working with glass. 
"Them's not expnrienee nec­essary, just willingness to learn," Napierski said. "I came in knowing nothing about this and right now I love nothing more than to make beads." 
Jones said although shn is not artistically talented, she still enjoys working with glass. 
''I'm not particularly artisti­cally talented. You just have to like doing arl'i and crafts," said Jones. 
Napierski added working with glass is a stress reliever, espe­eially considering his busy schedule. 
''I'm on the crew team and 
I'm a chemical engineer and 
neither one of those ·things is 
relaxing. This is kind of my out­
let," he said. 

This is Glass Club's first year as an ollicial club, founder and senior Bryce Chung said. He founded the club because he had worked with glass in high school and "want[ed] glass to be a part of campus." 
I le said members of the club can work with either hot or cold glass. 
"llot working" is anything that you do with glass involving a llame, he said. Most of the hot working that occurs in glass club has to do with bead mak­ing. 
Sophomore and co-president Kelly Jones makes her own jew­elry from the beads that she makes. 
"You can use (the beads] as centerpieces or focal points of jewelry," Jones said. 
Chung said that his favorite part about working with hot glass is that it takes on a life of il<>own. 
"It's dynamic," he said. "It really does start moving on its 
SeiiBu IY 
Sell For FREE, ClassiFied AdsYr.-lir.E!!' 
Homes -Rentals -Cars -Computers -Appliances 
Need ext::ra cash? Searching f'or t:hat: special needed 11::em? Try our local vve:bslt:e vvww.SeliBuylt.corn. lt:•s freel List: an Item vvlt:h phot:o. unllmlt:ed dlscrlpt.lon. until sold. 
own. It's really a matter of working with the glass." 
Chung explains that when the glass becomes hot, it becomes malleable and so he must keep it constantly moving. When working with hot glass, he must be able to control multiple things going different directions at the same time. 
"It's like driving a stick shift," he said. 
Chung also said the malleabil­ity of hot glass is like having a little kid. 
"It picks up everything you do, but you still have control," he said. "So it's like driving a stick shift with a little kid in the car." 
Jones said Glass Club pro­vides alternatives to working with fire, such as stained glass or etching. 
Glass Club also offers services such as hosting section events. 
"It's a bonding thing that a lot of girls dorms like to do," Napierski said. "What most of them end up doing is stuff for their dorm." 
The Glass Club meets every Tuesday and Wednesday from 8 to 10 p.m. in Hoom 106 in Jordan Hall of Science. The cost to join Glass Club is per atten­
dance. It is $5 for the first time, and $10 for every meet­ing attended after that. But $65 is the maximum price per semester. 
Contact Sarah Mecvosh at smecvosh@nd.edu 

Fan use lovvers risk of sudden infant death 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -Using a fan to cir­culate air seemed to lower the risk of sudden infant death syn­drome in a study of nearly 500 babies, researchers reported Monday. 
Placing babies on their backs to sleep is the best advice for pre­venting SIDS, a still mysterious cause of death. Experts also rec­
ommend a firm mattress, removing toys and pillows from cribs, and keeping infants from getting too warm. 
Such practices helped slash U.S. SIDS deaths by more than half over a decade to about 2,100 in 2003. But SIDS remains the leading cause of 

death in infants ages 1 month to 1 year. 
"The baby's sleeping environ­ment really matters," said study senior author Dr. De-Kun U of the Kaiser Permanente Division of Hesearch in Oakland, Calif. "This seems to suggest that by improv­ing room ventilation we can fur­ther reduce risk." 
SIDS is the sudden death of an otherwise healthy infant that can't be attributed to any other cause. These babies may have brain abnormalities that prevent them from gasping and waking when they don't get enough oxy­gen. 
The new study, published in October's Archives of Podiatries & Adolescent Medicine, offers another way to make sure babies get enough air. 
More research is needed, said Dr. Fern !Iauck of the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, but she said that because fan use is in line with theories, it may be worth considering. 
"This is the 
first study that 
we know of 

"The baby's sleeping that has looked environment really at this issue," 
said llauck, a

matters." 
member of the American Dr. De-Kun Li Academy of Pediatrics SIDS
Kaiser Permanente 
task force. 

Division of Research 
Researchers 
interviewed 
mothers of 185 infants who died from SJDS and mothers of 312 infants of similar race and ago. Moms answered dozens of questions about their baby's sleeping environment. 
Hesearchers took into aecoimt other risk factors and fimnd that fan use was associated with a 72 percent lower risk of SIDS. Only 3 percent of the babies who died had a fan on in the room during their last sleep, the mothers reported. That compared to 12 percent of the babies who lived. 
Using a fan reduced risk most for babies in poor sleeping envi­ronment<>. 


Tuesday, October 7, 2008 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ELECTION 2008 
Character attacks rear their heads in campaign 
Obama, McCain ditch economic issues, 'different kind of politics' to trade barbs over decades-old associates 
Obama's incendiary former pas­dates who are losing on policy Dukakis and John Kerry. Those each other at personal levels
Associated Press 
tor, Jeremiah Wright. issues often turn to character, Democrats lost presidential elec­before. But the vitriol increased 
SHEVILLE, N.C. -The two Obama and McCain faced cam­they said. tions after hesitating to counter dramatically Saturday, when men who supposedly exemplified eras Monday with harsh words As McCain's poll standings fell hard-hitting and factually dubi­Palin repeatedly raised Obama's a different kind of politics are for each other. Obama, taking a along with the economy, his cam­ous attacks on their character relationship with former 1960s engaged in an increasingly bitter break from debate prep in paign began the new character _and judgment. The shorthand radical Bill Ayers. campaign as character attacks Asheville, N.C., accused McCain's criticisms and used Palin to terms for those attacks -"Willie Obama, she said, was "palling are emerging to compete with campaign of "smear tactics." spearhead the push. Obama's Horton" and "Swiftboating" -around with terrorists who issues like the troubled economy. In Albuquerque, N.M., McCain campaign didn't wait long to have' become a call-to-arms for would target their ~wn country." 
With the election four weeks delivered an unusually scathing respond. Democratic activists who vow Ayers helped found the violent away, chances dimmed that broadside. He accused Obama of Brookings Institution political always to return fire with fire. Weather Underground group, Republican John McCain and lying about McCain's efforts to scientist Thomas E. Mann said "We don't throw the first whose members were blamed for Democrat Barack Obama could regulate the home loan industry. he had felt for months that punch, but we'll throw the last," several bombings when Obama reclaim the often lofty images And he suggested Obama is a McCain "would eventually have Obama said Monday on Tom was 8. Obama has denounced they cultivated early in their mysterious figure who cannot be to try to undermine Obama as an Joyner's syndicated radio show. Ayers' radical views and activi­presidential bids as their cam­trusted. acceptable choice for president Several Democrats said on ties. paigns focused new attention "Who is the real Barack and commander in chief." Key Sunday talk shows that Obama's The two men live near each Monday on decades-old events Obama?" McCain said to a cheer­issues, he said, including "an campaign would revisit McCain's other in Chicago, and once involving a former radical from ing crowd. "Ask such questions economy in turmoil, an unpopu­long-ago involvement in the thrift worked on the same charity Chicago and a convicted thrift and all you get in response is lar war and a politically discred­scandal ifthe personal attacks on board. Ayers hosted a small, owner from Arizona. another barrage of angry ited president are working pow­him continued. Within hours, the meet-the-candidate event for 
McCain's campaign added insults." erfully against McCain and the Obama campaign released a Obama in 1995, at the start of another figure when his running Some analysts called the Republican Party in general." memo and Web video doing just his political career, but multiple mate, Sarah Palin, said there change in tone dif?appointing but Obama, meanwhile, has that. news accounts have said they are should be more discussion of predictable. Presidential candi-learned the lessons of Michael Obama and McCain have hit not close. The campaign called 

Study Abroad in 
Angers, France 
Information Session Tuesday, October 7, 2008 
5:30 p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy Center 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2008 More Information Available at www.nd.edu/-ois/ 

Palin's remarks outrageous and grossly exaggerated. 
A 13-minute Web video Obama's campaign released Monday revisits McCain's ties to Charles Keating, a former friend, campaign contributor and sav­ings and loan owner who was convicted of securities fraud in 1991. 
As a senator, McCain partici­pated in two meetings with bank­ing regulators on Keating's behalf. He became one of the "Keating Five" senators investi­gated by the Senate ethics com­mittee. The panel cited McCain for a lesser role than others, but criticized his "poor judgment." ' 
McCain has since called his involvement with Keating "the worst mistake of my life." 
McCain and Obama say they are dredging up Ayers and Keating because the episodes shed light on each other's cur­rent judgment -and because the other campaign is on the attack, though a McCain aide said the GOP campaign wanted to change the subject from the failing economy. 
A few months ago, both candi­dates promised something better. 
Obama, extolling a new brand of politics, told an Iowa audience in January: "We can't afford the same old partisan food fight. We can't afford a politics that's all about tearing opponents down instead of lifting the country up." 
McCain, shaken by a vicious whisper campaign in South Carolina that helped George W. Bush beat him there during the 2000 Republican primaries, has often vowed to be a straight­shooting candidate who puts honor ahead of winning. When Republicans attacked fellow retired Navy officer Kerry in the 2004 "Swiftboat" episode, McCain called the ads "dishonest and dishonorable." 
Earlier in this campaign when the North Carolina Republican Party said Obama's relationship with Rev. Wright made him "too extreme," McCain asked it to stop and said: "There's no place for that kind of campaigning, and the American people don't want it." 
The new tone may depress many, but a top independent pollster in the battleground state of Pennsylvania said it's unlikely to change many minds. 
"The economy is so dominant and the change focus so great, I just don't think voters are going to buy into it," said Terry Madonna, a political scientist at Franklin and Marshall College. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, October 7, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Who is to blame? 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIF.I' Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: )cnn Men. 
VmWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DF.~IGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLUR: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO ('>74) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
('174) 6.31-4'142 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 
631-5.323 obsnews.l @nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 
631-)30.:1 viewpoint.! @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 

(574) 
631-4543 spores.! @nd.cdu SCENE DESK 


(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The ( )bserver is the indt·pendcnt, daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhc srudenrs of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverciscmems, is not govmml by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials reprcst•nt the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, A-;sistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commmtarics, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not nec~ssarily thost· ofThe Observt'r. 
Vit~point space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiow rrgarding Obmver policies should be dirr:cted to Editor in ChiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'11u.: OI).Wtvl'l (lJSI'S ~9') 2-4000} i• publtidu;:d Muml11y duuu~h Frid;~y cxc.:cpl' thmng cx;lm ;uul v.k.,ui~m ~'t:riod,, A 1ulwnp1inn to The Oh111!rvrr ill $100 fnr (me ac;adcmk 
yc:;1r; $''j fnr UIICllelllCIIICI 
ntC' 0/11UV<tt iJt pub/ishcJ JC; POSTMASTER 
024 Snuth Dimng I bll Send Jddres.~ correcti(JJ\1, w: 
Nn1rc: O.unt, IN 46556-0779 'fhcObM:rvcr 
l't:!riotlk;~l po!HJ~e p.-id .u Nom: D~mt no Buxn9 
md .uldiunuJI mo1iling offic.'Cl, 024 South Dining H.tll 
Num: Dnme, IN 46556-0779 
Thc Oh,~~~ervn i~ .a rncmh<r of rhc Auocwed PI'C$.\, All u.:prnducd~'n riWus 11rc re~~trved. 

With the fmancial sector in crisis mode, Americans are once again tuning in to everyone's favorite reality TV show, The Blame Game. This season's riveting plot takes place in our nation's capitol, where Congressmen and Senators on both sides of the political aisle have launched an all­out attack on one another, with plenty of name-calling and finger-pointing to go around. People all across the nation, not to mention the world, sit perched at Christie the edge of their Pesavento seats, eagerly await­ing the upcom4Ig 
Guest 

installment and hop­
Columnist

ing to find out the 
answer to a single 
question: who is to blame? 
The whole debacle might be mildly entertaining if it wasn't for a slight prob­lem: this particular reality show, unlike others of the same genre, portrays reali­ty. And it comes with a hefty $700 billion dollar price tag for American taxpayers. Now that the bailout plan has been passed and signed, the finger-pointing can continue without any pesky legisla­tion to negotiate. The question of who is at fault, however, remains unresolved. 
Amidst the political chaos of the past few weeks, it has become difficult for observers to determine which indict­ments are justified and which are merely attempts to win over public support. What seems to have registered among voters is that corporate greed has led to the current predicament, and it is now up to hardworking, middle-class Americans to bail them out. With both John McCain and Barack Obama launch­ing into similar tirades against Wall Street, backed by a chorus of support in Congress, the reasons behind these wide­spread beliefs are understandable. 
If Congressional leaders really wanted to discover the truth of who is to blame, however, all they would have to do is look into a mirror. Unfortunately, finding a politician who is willing to take responsi­bility for his or her failures would be ask­ing for nothing short of a miracle, espe­cially during an election season. Instead of admitting guilt, they will often resort to 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
reciting populist mantras against easy targets. In this ease, they have attempted to avert conviction by projecting their 
· own greed and incompetence onto those voracious villains on Wall Street. 
Greed in Wall Street is nothing new; on the contrary, our capitalist system is driv­en by it, and thriVI;JS because of it. Of course excessive greed can be dangerous if it leads to reckless financial practices and illegal activity, but blaming the pur­suit of wealth for the situation at hand is akin to blaming hunger for obesity, when it is really the poor decisions made in between that lead from one to the other. The poor decisions that led to the current mess, as we will soon discover, were encouraged by governmental encroach­ment on the market. 
In order to determine the source of today's fmancial crisis, we must go back in time a few decades, beginning with the passage of the Community Reinvestment Act in 1977 under President Jimmy Carter. This law was implemented "to encourage depository institutions to help meet the credit needs of the communities in which they operate, including low-and moderate-income neighborhoods, consis­tent with safe and sound banking opera­tions." 
In 1992, when Bill Clinton was President, the law was amended to address problems of oversight and to appease community activist organiza­tions that demanded an increase in the number of low income homeowners. Among other mandates, the amendment 
· required that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mae purchase a certain percentage of loans to areas of low income and poor credit ratings. 
Normally, lending institutions would refuse to make these sub-prime loans because of the risk of not being repaid, and Fannie and Freddie would not pur­chase them because of their stringent guidelines. After 1992, however, the guidelines were loosened in order to encourage sub-prime lending, thereby allowing lending institutions to profit while transferring the risk onto Fannie and Freddie. It is a classic example of good intentions leading to disastrous 
unintended consequences. 
Now let us jump ahead to 2003, when the Bush administration was calling for renewed efl'orts at regulation in light of charges of fraud and mismanagement against Fannie and Freddie. Democratic Representative Barney Frank of the Financial Services Committee was quoted in the New York Times as saying, "These two entities -Fannie Mae and Freddie Mae-are not facing any kind of linan­cial crisis. The more people exaggerate these problems, the more pressure there is on these companies, the less we will see in terms of affordable housing." 
Two years later, SP.n. McCain eo-spon­sored a second attempt to forestall a financial meltdown, stating "If' Congress does not act, American taxpayers will continue to be exposed to the enormous risk that Fannie Mac and Freddie Mae pose to t)le housing market, the overall financial system, and the economy as a whole." His bill never made it to the Senate lloor. The two biggest financial beneficiaries of Fannie Mae in terms of political money, Demoeratic Hepresp,ntativfl Chris Dodd and SAnator Obama, were conspicuously silent. 
And the rest is history. 
ThA moral of the story? GovernmAnt regulation, dP.spitn good intentions, can easily turn a secure situation into an unmitigated disaster. 
Now politicians are demanding more federal regulation to solve the problem. Most Americans would hope that pnople elected to sueh high oiTiee would have the intelligence and wisdom to loarn from past mistakes, but this isn't the casA when politicians aro caught up in the lat­est season of The Blame Game. Healizing that avoiding ealls for more regulation would mean an admittance of guilt, thfly have decided to transfer the blame else­where, in effect risking the nation's eco­nomic stability to save their own skins. 
Christie Pesavento is a junior political science major. She can be contacted at cpesaven@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those o.fThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Joseph MeMahon Lorenzo Reyes Who would you rather spend a nightJohn Tierney Greg Arbogast · on the town with? Graphics Scene Andrea Archer Jess Shaffer "Life can only be understood back­
Sarah Palin 
Viewpoint wards: but it must be lived for­
Cindy McCain wards ... 
Lauren 

Michelle Obama 
Brauweiler 
Soren Kierkegaard

Mrs. Eiden 
Danish philosopher Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 7, 2008 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Irish flag -won't fly 
I agree that making an Irish flag out of our student section is a fantastic idea. However, it's just not going to happen this year. For starters, you can't expect a couple of columns to impact the game day dress of thousands of student fans. Secondly, as I mentally rummage through my dresser drawers, I'm pretty sure I don't have an orange Notre Dame shirt. Anyone in the "orange" section would second guess the idea of wearing a shirt on game day that has nothing to do with Notre Dame football, even if it is for a greater visual cause. So here's my idea: next year, when students buy their tickets, include "The Shirt" with that purchase. And let the section on a student's ticket booklet determine which color shirt (green, white, or orange) he or she receives. I've never understood why Notre Dame hasn't integrated the spirit shirt with the ticket booklets; a lot of other schools do this and achieve great results in participation (forget other schools, just look at the uniformity of the Leprechaun Legion). By the way, the fund-raising muscles of "The Shirt" project wouldn't be hurt in the slightest; the bookstore could still sell the green version to fans. And it might make tickets cost $15 more next year, but let's face it, Notre Dame was already going to do that anyway. 
Pat Moore semor Duncan Ocr. 2 
Fun police 

I have read several of the letters and articles about the Gestapo­like behavior of the ND and other security "forces" on campus for football weekends and generally on campus and in town through­out the year. I wholeheartedly concur in the view that these "squads" are completely out of control. Their tactics and obsessive pursuit of "rule enforcement" regularly taint and, at times, ruin the experience of being on campus for me. My wife, who is not an NDISMC grad, is astonished by their anal behavior and "goon-like" approach to their work. The unfortunate reality, however, is that they are just following orders. If the University Administrators wanted a more relaxed approach that is conducive to the festive camaraderie that football weekends are supposed to be, they could very easily "call off the dogs". But over the last 37 years that I have been coming to ND as a student, alum, and now parenValum, I only see the situation becoming more insulting and obnoxious. 
With respect to the game day experience, I would ask Fr. Jenkins: What is it about the ND faithful that makes the University so afraid of us being on our campus? How is it that the University knows bet­ter than us what our "family atmosphere" is supposed to be like or what we need to do to be "safe?" At what point does the University recognize us as the responsible grown-ups we were supposed to be, in part, due to the benefit of our ND education and experience? I would advise Fr. Jenkins to tell the troops to lighten up or NO's rep­utation as a great place to be from but not such a great place to be at, will continue to grow. 
Paul Cordes alum class of 1975 Ocr. 3 

Of colors and T-shirts 
As mentioned in several letters last week, I too think it would be great to have a green-out or blue-out with all fans wearing the same color. However, there are only two feasible ways to do this. First, is is the responsibility of the Alumni and other fans to wear the color of the students. This year, The Shirt is blue, and most students wear either The Shirt or a knockoff of the same color. The other option (for a green-out ifin a blue The Shirt year) would be to have free T-shirts handed out at the stadium when fans enter. Get a good sponsor and it might not even cost too much. There is one more thing though. There will always be those people (especially students) who think they will be really cool or funny if they wear something else to stick out. If this occurs in your sec­tion, simply notify a nearby usher that you may have smelled some kind of alcohol near that person. They will promptly be removed for most of the game regardless of their sobriety. 
Matt Mooney junior Alumni Hall Ocr.3 


Ver111in co111e out on top 
I write this on behalf of the Vermin of Carroll hall, who so recently had their dignity chal­lenged by Mimi Disipio, a Sophomore in Pangborn Hall. When asked an ambiguous question, posed by a low-level member of the Observer, she voiced the opinion that Carroll Hall is the most irrelevant dorm on campus. Ha! Upon reading this comical statement, my fellow Vermin and I realized that it may not be as obvious to everyone else on campus, why Carroll Hall is near the top of the relevance food chain. 
Ms. Disipio argues that Carroll is irrelevant because "it 's out there by itself. " If this argu­ment held any water, then we could effectively regard Yoda as irrelevant to the original Star Wars trilogy. Faulty, this logic is. To the outsider, the distance from Carroll to South Quad prob­ably seems daunting. "They should get you golf carts! " or "Do you ever get lost on your way to class? " are common and cheeky questions that we must endure and pretend to find funny and original time after time. But if everyone had to walk an extra five minutes to and from the dining hall, they wouldn 't have to pretend to feel guilty about going to the soft-serve machine anymore. Our location on campus is actually far more convenient than it may appear. With adjacent outdoor basketball and volleyball courts, the Carroll Country Club on the Lake encourages an active lifestyle for the residing Vermin. 
A quick trip into the dorm will reveal doubles the size of your super quad, and12-foot ceil­ings. Our location also allows us to be the Notre Dame ambassadors to another area college, the College of Saint Mary 's. With our dorm strategically placed between the middle of campus and Saint Mary 's, Belles don 't fear the distance to campus, and often stop to enjoy the wel­coming company of our fine gentlemen. Finally, let 's talk about signature events. With the arrival of every cold December, comes the warm and festive celebration of Christmas, Carroll style (I think we all remember the embarrassing ink that Pangborn got about their secular dis­play of Christmas spirit last Winter). "A Carroll Christmas, " the hall event with the third high­est budget awarded by the Hall President 's Council, includes performances from choirs on campus, Christmas treats, a visit from Santa Claus, and the lighting of the tallest Christmas tree on campus (as a side note, our hall event is never canceled due to bad weather). 
This fine University was founded on the idea of Mary giving birth to the Messiah, so clearly, any allegations of irrelevance directed towards the dorm deemed worthy enough to host such a celebration are in fact irrelevant themselves. In conclusion, and after much consideration, I not only place Carroll on the "list of relevant dorms, " I posit that Carroll Hall is the greatest of all dorms on Our Lady 's campus, and any arguments against this proven fact are based solely on pangs of jealousy and spite. Go Vermin! 
Patrick Berry sophomore Carroll Hall Ocr. 2 

Straight fro111 the bleeding heart 
When someone gets dumped by their boyfriend or girlfriend, the rule of thumb is one week of mourning for every six months you were together. Well, the 2008 Cubs reported to spring training about eight months ago, so we Cubs fans are going to need at least ten days to get over this. And by this, I mean the choke or sweep from this year. 
We will never get over the cloud that eternally hovers over these players in the blue pinstripes every year. 
I am not going to pick out a single curse or story, but I. am going to affirm the much bandied­about idea that we are cursed. And I use "we" because it is not just the team; it is the fans, too. While these things happen over and over again on the field, the fans continue to be stupid and loyal enough to stick with the team and get their hearts broken repeatedly. We lead a trivial sports life of hardcore rooting and blind prophecies that this will be the year while all other fans smile and nod at our stupidity and see through our words to the sad truth. 
One could say, "They're not cursed, they just have bad luck," or, "They choke or just can't come through in big games." Well, fine. I agree with that and while it's commonly called a curse, you could just as easily throw jinxed or hexed or whatever you want on there. It's a matter of seman­tics, and we are all talking about the devastating reality. Something about the intangible concept of playing for the Cubs causes ground balls to trickle through infielders' legs, hitters to take pitches down the middle while swinging at junk in the dirt, and ace starting pitchers to throw awful games when it means something. 
So contest it being a curse or a hex or bad luck or even deny its existence if you so choose, but if you do that, tell me how a 97-win team-the best since 1945 and the best team in the NL-man­ages to lay an egg and get swept by a team that did not smell .500 for more than three weeks of the year. 
Dan Masterton 
sophomore 
Zahm Hall 
Oct. 6 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, October, 07, 2008 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene Editor 
Today and tomorrow, thn Philbin 
Studio Theatn\ will host "The 
Mushroom Picker" on behalf of the 
Nanovic Institute for European 
Studies at the University of Notre 
Dame. "Thn Mushroom Picker" is a 
one-man show written by playwright 
Patrkk Dewane. 
The play tells the story of 
I>Pwane's CZPch-Ameriean grandfa­
ther. Matt Konop. A mmnbM of the 
"Greatest Gnneration," Konop was a 
World War II veteran whose radio 
handle in the 1970s, "The 
Mushroom Picker," helped inspire 
I>ewane's venture into his family's 
past. Tho play moves from Konop's 
roots in a Midwnstnrn Czech farming 
community -Konop was born near 
Grmm Bay, Wisconsin -to the war 
ynars. 
J>ewane cites his hPritage and 
family background. as members of 
tho Czech immigrant community in 
thn Unitml Stattls, as the larger inspi­
ration and overarching context of 
the show. 
"Those people, my people spoke Czech for lifty years in this country bnforn they learned English," lkwane told Minnesota Public Hadio in May. 
The play is pn\sented in English with various references to that Czech language. According to Dewann's retelling, this lingual duplicity is what lent his f.,>Tandlather to military service. Konop was a linutenant colonel in the Army whose unit led the liberation of Czechoslovakia from Nazi fon~es. Fluent in Cznch and English, Konop was able to play a critical role in the operation. Thosn years of Konop's life am the main focus of "The Mushroom Picker." 
Dewann, in an interview featured on the De Bartolo Performing Arts Ctmtnr Web site. retells how he camn across his grandfather's story. "Twenty years after he dind, my sis­tm Jane is in my aunt's basement, rummaging through old things, and she comes across a box that has a st;u:k of writings. She brought them out and made copies of them, and handed out my grandfather's writing as Christmas presents." 
Dewane was struck by the poignancy of the writing that Konop had left bnhind. 
"1 became obsessed with his story," I>ewane said, "So what I did is I turned it into a one-man show. I've come to believe that he wrote down his stories for me, that I could tell them to you." 
"The Mushroom Picker" is playing tonight and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Tiekets am $10 for general admis­sion. $H for faculty and stall', and $5 for seniors and students. Veterans are invited to the pnrformanee with a spncial ticket prkP of $5. The show will run approximately two hours and 15 minutes. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
By MARKWlTTE Assistant Scene Editor 
The first time we hear his name, his Aunt is screaming it. When we saygoodbye at novel's end, the some­times noble, often mischievous, but always God-fearing 10-year·old Mississippi river boy has walked down the aisle at his own funeral. used reverse-psychology to wiggle out of a day's lahor,wooed and bro­ken and broken twice and wooed 
a young girl's heart, and most 

mnnrt..ntht Missouri 
infatuated than the for 'the great 
eurtains 

"'~··:tJtC]m have Tortes sltanl.e .a1t confw>ing the Old evv 'Tesltam•ents put on display: us draw the c::urtain ofcharity of rest of the $cene," The narrator 
•Tom . uppJ;l ~ pedestal from vm1;u JR.' r~fu$¢5 to have the young fall, placing him sublimely · the rest ot the. town's other­ignoral)t youth. However, as a of his often bigoted age, character is consequently . But before one begins to of reasons to knock the young .. of his perch, we must pause 
..• a moment and ruminate on the sig­;nificance of this dashing young man. Tom Sawyer understands human ·nature. The scene is timeless. Tom, ·.resigned to punishment, stands ·... whitewashing his Aunt's fence. Next we see Ben "Steamboat" Rogers 
·· chewing on an apple, eyeing Tom, and brimming in anticipation of' tile mockery to follow. Then suddenly 
WA<<!hitHI the 

savoring the apple, reclines shade. Befim~ long scores of have happened along and before afternoon is up the whQle fence been paintod ·and our glorious creant hasn't even moved a uwc..,....."·l The narrator doesn't hesitate to Tom's crowning achievomen "[foml had dist',overed a great law human action, without knowing namely, that in order to make a man or a boy covet a thing, it is only essary to make the thing diffieult 
attain." 
Tom Sawyer is also a romantic. 
· enilces Becky Thateb.er. the uuu~;1n ter of the prominent .Judg(l to promi<;e him her hand at age Before the week is up he breaks heart, not once, but twice. despite overwhelming adversity courageous boy never loses and wben the teacher diS<;overs a student has torn of his nr<>Plrntcl textbooks Tom stands up entire class and takes rA~:nnrl«it·liti for a crime he didn't commit, serving the dignity ofthe guilty Becky Thatcher swoons, "Tom. could you be so noble." 
But most importantly, 'Ibm :-.a.\1\lVP!I"l is a social workor. Wwhen he, and Joe Harper show up to own funeral-a consequence of ing run away to play pirates their families mourned after disappearance-and Tom and Harpor boy recoive a smattering kisses and afl'ection from their lies, Tom notices th.at Huck is ing only bitter stares. Taking it himself to right this egr wrong, Tom exclaims, -..,.,.,.."'·"'"'''h'··cl got to be glad to see Huck!" And are. 
The story of Tom Sawyer is reflection of something time! about Twain's hometown Hannibal. Mo.. something unchanging and constant as Mississippi itqclf. It is a subject seems to have written most tionately about. Childhood. And still have much to teach us. 
Th( vim'S expmgd in this cq/oumn art that author and not necessttrily thou ofThe Obsaver. Mark Witte can b( colllilcted at mwitu@nd.tdt< 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 13 Tuesday, October 07, 2008 
By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 
It has been said that the "Golden Days" of cinema have long since passed. Sure, "Citizen Kane" is but a memory that can be bought as a 60th anniversary DVD, and the raw essence of romance has never again been so vividly depicted as it was in "Casablanca," but that doesn't mean that brilliance in film­making is a lost art. 
It seems that the original classics were the first films to combine all the elements of masterful filmmaking. They will always be put on a pedestal that new movies, no matter how masterful, are incapable of reaching. Why? Sadly, because we all (especially many top critics) have a preconceived notion that nothing can top the great films of the past. 
Yes, the caliber of movies as a whole has suffered in recent years, but the 'masterpiece' is still very much alive. It took 20 years for the film industry to realize that "Citizen Kane" was worthy of being called "the greatest film of all-time," so per­haps all is not lost. Maybe one day a modern film will be put on the same pedestal as the classics. The following is a list of the five 21st-century American films most likely to attain leg­endary status down the road. 
5) United 93: Paul Greengrass' heart-wrenching docudrama is undying in its commitment to telling the arresting true story of what happened to the doomed heroes aboard United Airlines flight 93 on Sept. 11, 2001. Both impossible to watch, yet too difficult to turn away from, "United 93" is pitch-per­fect and represents the most inexorably true account of 9/11 to grace the silver screen to this day. 
4) Lord of the Rings: Return of the King: Everything about the last installment of the Lord of the Rings trilogy is epic. Clocking in at a lengthy 3:30, Peter Jackson's send-off to 
J.R.R. Tolkien's beloved classic manages to tie together every element of the journe_y while achieving the type of metaphori­cal brilliance the first two films lacked. 
3)There Will Be Blood: This one is destined to be studied by film students for years to come. Paul Thomas Anderson's unrelenting work details the life of a genius oil man, Daniel Plainview, played by Daniel-Day Lewis in one of the most searing performances in movie history. His greed and moral ... corruption lead him down a path of conflict with religion and humanity alike, is, in its purest form, an aesthetic revelation the likes of which haven't been seen since "Citizen Kane". 
1 (tie) Mulholland Drive: David Lynch's masterpiece is film at its very best. From the bewildering opening scene, when Lynch first immerses his audience in a fever hallucination of a film, until the perfectly measured ending, a spine-chilling air of brilliance engulfs the theater. This incredibly tantaliz­ing dive into the heart of insanity and the subconscious becomes more ingenious as it unravels, and once solved, all that is left is the overwhelming feeling that what Mr. Lynch has created is so beyond perfect, it's downright scary. 
1 (tie) No Country For Old Men: The Coen brothers' jaw­dropping nco-western veiled as a thriller brilliantly blends all of the themes that the Coen's have played around with ever since their directorial debut in "Blood Simple". Both awe· inspiring in a "Popcorn movie" sense and undeniably tri­umphant in an "Oscar season movie" sense, this adaptation of Cormac McCarthy's 2005 novel about life, death, and the loss of innocence, is incredibly measured and flawless from head to toe. Javier Bardem's turn as a psychopathic killer tasked with hunting down Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin), a foolhardy southerner who is simply in the wrong place at the 
-

wrong time when he stumbles across a satchel filled with $2 million is enough to send shivers down even Hannibal Lecter's back. Simply put, with "No Country for Old Men" the Coen brothers have not only managed to top "Fargo", but 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene Editor 
Any listing of "classic" films, particularly if they were released in the last 10 years, is immediately ripe for debate. Subjectivity can take precedence over real criticism, as can the lack, by default, of historical perspective. Can a film qualify for classic sta­tus ifit's still making money at the box office? What will we think in five, 10, even 20 years of "the next big thing?" Who knows who will still be relevant to our cinema sensibilities in a genera­tion? 
That being said, trying to piece together an American fllm canon for the new millennium is an admirable effort, albeit a complicated one. Precluding any film released in 2008 (why judge a year when it isn't even over yet?), as well as any foreign films -which deserve their own countdown -here is an admit­tedly tentative list offlve classic films since 2000. 
Big Fish (2003): Steeped in Southern Gothic sensibilities, yet with a wry sense of humor, wide-eyed wonder and a mythic backbone, "Big Fish" is arguably Tim Burton's strongest film since 2000. A father-son relationship told in memories and tall tales, "Big Fish" is a joy to watch and.experience. The film shines, sometimes literally, as it tracks Edward Bloom (Ewan McGregor, Albert Finney) through his storied life. His son, Will (Billy Crudup) is grappling with his father's legend, hoping to find the truth of the enigmatic man who raised him. The film's sense of the unexpected, delight in small moments, and sweeping emo­tional strength is pitch-perfect. 
Brokeback Mountain (2005): It's been called revolutionary. Groundbreaking. Historic, even. But what "Brokeback Mountain" really is, at its heart, is simply a love story. It is a tough, powerful love story, told by director Ang Lee with skill and sensitivity. It would be easy to see a film like "Brokeback Mountain" falter in the hands of a lesser filmmaker. The story could be sensational­ized, the subject handled with clumsiness or prejudice. But it wasn't; the film's leads, Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal, were both compelling, complex characters in their own right, turning something "sensational" into something tragically ordinary. Truly an instant standard. 
Monsters, Inc. (2001): You might think that "Finding Nemo" is a more likely choice among the Disney/Pixar film canon. Sure, the heartwarming tale of a lost clown flsh with a malformed fin is compelling, and the voice talent (Albert Brooks, Ellen DeGeneres) is top-notch. Still, its 2001 predecessor, "Monsters, Inc," is more deserving of a top spot. The concept is witty and charming, and the film's style is at times angular and artistic, <md furry-soft with blue and purple spots. Heartwarming, but never cheesy -a tricky balance -funny, sweet and just right. 
Donnie Darko (2001): When was the last time you saw a "teen" film that discussed, among other things, philosophy, family, the search for God, psychology, time-traveling, moral ambiguity and demonic rabbits? This 2001 cult classic starring Gyllenhaal is a touchstone for the thinking filmgoer. With a skilled ensemble cast that includes Maggie Gyllenhaal, Jena Malone, Noah Wylie, Drew Barrymore and Patrick Swayze, the film is remarkable in its scope and haunting in its style and tone. It raises questions with­out answers, and almost requires a second, if not a third, viewing to try and grapple with its complexities. 
Sideways (2004): Based on a Rex Pickett novel, "Sideways" is an existential road trip with a top-notch wine palate and an endearing sweetness at the heart of its cynicism. Miles (Paul Giamatti, excellent as always) and Jack (Thomas Haden Church) are touring California wine country before Jack settles down and gets married. The pair meet two women, Stephanie (Sandra Oh, "Grey's Anatomy") and Maya (Vrrginia Madsen), and alternately bicker and bond as they taste wine after wine after wine. Madsen won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for this film, and her performance is a humble anchor for Giamatti's neu­rotic Miles. See "Sideways." Relax, maybe with a glass of wine, and enjoy one of the funniest character studies to come out of American film in years. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

Swamting Lyons defense keeps Pyros winless 
McGlinn completes dramatic comeback to down PW; Welsh Fam wins battle of unbeatens with Farley 
first half," Welsh Fam coach
By MOLLY SAMMON, 

Mike Kaiser said. "We were 
CHRISTINA MCDONNELL, 

able to take what the defense
RYAN O'CONNELL, and 

was giving us though. It was a
BOBBY GRAHAM 

huge win." 
Sports Writers 

Farley left with its first loss of the season, although the Finest Welsh Family 15, Farley 7 were happy with their perform­
Welsh Fam remained unde­

ance fnatnd this Sunday when it "We're excited that we hung eame from behind to defeat in with them," Farley senior 
Farlny in an exdting battle of Courtney Haven said. "We just two previously unbeaten teams. need to work on execution." Thn game began with several Farley captain Jennifer Rolfs 
turnovers. Farley (2-1-1) forced 

also remained positive even 
an interenption on Welsh Fam's after the loss. first drive of the game. "Overall our defense played
However, Welsh Fam (4-0) 

well and held a very strong
regainnd possession quickly, as offensive team to almost noth­its dnfense forced an intercep­ing for a lot of the game," Rolfs 
tion and took the ball right back said. "We hope to see them on a third down play. again in the playoffs." 
After going up 2-0 on a safety on a fumble in the end zone, the Lyons 12, Pasquerllla East 7 Whirlwinds took over on Lyons' defense took care of its offense. most recent victims Sunday, 
A long pass that would have holding Pasquerilla East to one taken Welsh Fam far down the touchdown in its 12-7 win. field was called "The offense back on a ques­did what we 
tionable sack. "In the second half, needed to score, 
Arter this call, but the defense
the Lyons defense 

quarterback really won the 
Jenni Gargula really stepped it up game," Lyons threw another even more. sophomore cen­interception. ter Kelly Pierson 
Farley capital­said.
Scott Rice

iznd on this The Pyros (0-4) 11rror and PE coach struggled on scored, going up offense to start 7-2 at hatrtime. the game. 
llownver, the Welsh Fam Quarterback Caitlyn Lynch offense turned the momentum threw a pair of incomplete around. Its defense consistnntly passes, and was sacked by the kept Welsh Fam in the game, Lyons defense. forcing yet another interception The Lions (3-1) wasted no to start off the Farley drive. time, completing two passes in 
This drive brought Welsh Fam a row, followed by a short pass completely downlield and ended to wide receiver Kelsey with a touchdown when quar­Christoffel for the Lyons touch­terback Gargula ran the ball up down. A failed extra-point the middle for the score. attempt gave the Lions an early 
Its dnfense h1~ld onto the lead, 6-0 lead. putting constant pressun1 on The Pyros took over on Farley quartnrback Emily ofl"ense, and Lynch completed a Murphy. In addition, the Welsh long pass to freshman wide Fam of'fnnsn was anchored by receiver Nneka Ekechukwu. A (;argula, who was skilled at pair of penalties against the 1wading the defensive line in the Lions helped the PE drive, pocket and consistently found which brought them close to the her receivers, even through goal line. A touchdown from trallk. Lynch to center Emily Meyer, 
"Being down is not something with a completed extra-point we've been used to," Gargula conversion to Maggie Waller said. "We did a really good job gave the Pyros a surprising 7-6 of staying foeusnd second half." lead. But those would be the 
(iargula nxtnnded her team's only points the Pyros would get. lead on a final touchdown pass "In the second half, the Lyons that sailed through the hands of defense really stepped it up the dnf'ender to put her team up even more," Pyros coach Scott 15-7 in the final minutes of Hice said. play. The Lions asserted them­
"We faced adversity in the selves in the second half, 
though, intercepting a pass 
from Lynch and running it back 
for the second Lyons touchdown 
of the game, giving the lead and 
the game back to Lyons, 12-7. 
"For next week, we will most­ly concentrate on making sure that we finish the game with as much excitement and momen­tum as we begin each game with," Pyro junior captain and linebacker Liz Ruiz said. "We have all the right stuff for a win, we just need to put it all together now." 
Despite his team's effort in the hard-fought win, Lyons coach Matt Gelchion could only come up with a trite metaphor to compliment his team. 
"Our team is a paragon of unity and community," he said. "I guess you could liken us unto onesie pajamas, with every part flowing into the next and no part superior. In other words, it was a total team victory" 
McGlinn 14, Pasquerilla West 12 
McGlinn has certainly had a flair for the dramatic this sea­son, and Sunday was no differ­ent, as it came back to defeat Pasquerilla West. 
PW (1-1-2) dominated the first half of play. Its defense was strong and forced several three­and-outs against a McGlinn (3­
1) offense that could not con­vert drives into points. 
Even when quarterback Sarah deGroot unleashed a 50­yard bomb that was reeled in for a completion on diving catch, the McGlinn offense could not finish the drive. 
Leading 6-0 at the half, PW continued to dominate as its defense forced another inter­ception. The Purple Weasels took advantage of the opportu­nity. and scored another touch­down on the quick legs and long passes of captain Cara Davies. Their attempt at the extra point failed, putting them up 12-0. 
However, this was the last time PW would score. 
McGlinn took over on offense. On a key third down play, deGroot completed a pass to continue the drive. The re-ener­gized offense finally finished a drive, running in a touchdown almost 30 yards. The two-point conversion was successful. The Shamrocks now trailed by four. 
Minutes later, on another bomb by deGroot that easily f1oated into the hands of her receiver, the Shamrocks scored again, taking the lead for the first time all game with time running out for PW. 
A tight McGlinn defense held the two-point lead for the last minutes, locking up the victory and handing PW its first loss of the season. 
"This is exactly the momen­tum we need right now," said captain Sarah deGroot. "The team has really meshed." 
This is the second game in a row that McGlinn has come from behind to win in the sec­ond half. 
"The girls never doubt them­selves," McGlinn coach Craig Wiborg said. "We know we have good players." 
In addition to 
However, the second half was all Walsh. 
The Wild Women scored a touchdown but missed the extra point to bring the seore to 21­
13. The Walsh defense then held Breen-Phillips offense, allowing the Wild Women to score yet another touchdown and bring the score to 21-19 after a missed 2-point conver­sion. 
With three minutes left in the game, Walsh's defense played aggressively and, thanks to a sack by Alexa Doyle, forced the Babes' offense to punt. Walsh had 21 seconds left to score 
and, after mak­ing a first down, 

the confidence the Shamrocks exude, McGlinn  "Being down is not something we've been  spiked the ball to stop the clock with 7 seconds  
is dynamic on  used to. We did a  left. Needing a  
both sides of the ball and adeptly makes  really goodjob of staying focused  touehdown, Langnecker made a clutch  
adjustments.  second half"  throw  to  
"In the first  Schanzer, who  
half, PW was dictating us," McGlinn coach  Jenni Gargula quarterback  adjusted to the pass and caught it over her  
Keith  Creasy  Welsh Family  shoulder for the  
said. "We put  score.  
ourselves  in  "Amy  was  

control the second half. That is intercepted twice but came what gave us the win." back to win a big game for Walsh," Meyer said. "Also, I'm Walsh 25, Breen-Philllps 21 proud to say that our defense, 
Trailing by two points and which was struggling earlier in with only seven seconds to the season, played hard and did score, Walsh quarterback Amy its best to keep BP from run­Langnecker threw the ball deep ning out the clock". to Lindsay Schanzer, who made "Obviously we are disappoint­the catch and raced past the ed with the loss," Meagher said. goal line to snatch a victory for "But we know that we're a the Wild Women. great team and we're looking 
"It was an amazing end to a forward to winning a lot of cold, rainy day of football," games throughout the rest of Walsh captain Kehau Meyer the season". said. Although this was a huge win 
The Wild Women (2-2) had an for the Walsh Wild Women, they incredible finish to the game are taking this season one game despite a rough start on both at a time. sides of the ball. "We are looking forward to 
"Our offense struggled at first the next game which we hope to hold on to the ball," Meyer has much better weather," said. "Breen-Phillips made an Meyer said. interception in the first few minutes of the game, scored, Pangborn 25, Lewis 12 and unfortunately Walsh's The wet conditions of offense was unable to make Sunday's game against Lewis connections for a while. We didn't bog down Pangborn, as it were mostly upset because the took down the Chicks 25-12. rain really took away from our The Phoxes' (3-2) success, strong passing game". according to captain Andrea 
The Babes (0-1-2) had a 21-7 Hagsdale, was due to their lead as the first half ended. explosive offense. 
"We played a great first half "We really camn alive in the and got off to a big lead," second half," she said. Breen-Phillips captain and sen­Pangborn's strong quarter­ior quarterback Melissa 
Meagher said. see INTERHALLI page 1 9 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 J.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
DC area students · ND.SMC & HCC: ND Club of DC has contract· ed for bus transportation to & from the DC area for all breaks this year. Safe & affordable! Contact Ann Rimkus, arimkus1 @verizon.net 
LosT AND FOUND 
LOST: Gold. and black necklace charm lost Saturday night at Legends. Not expensive but irre· placeable to owner. If found. please call 716·816·5669. 
WANTED 

STUDENT WORK, $14.25 base· appt., flexible schedules, no experi· ence needed. customer sales/serv­ice, conditions apply, ages 18+, 
574-273-3835, 

www.workforstudents.com 
Financial Partner wanted. 7% ROI plus 2.5 Pis. 100%.secured wlreal estate. 35 Yrs. Experience. References. Call 574·360·8707 or Email: 2heavn@comcast.net 
FoR SALE 
CONDO FOR SALE. CLOSE TO ND. PLEASE CONTACT TED @ 574·233-6191 MSL#231736 
FoR RENT 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09·1 0 SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CON· TACT KRAMER PROPERTIES 574­234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
2 bdrms, 1 bath, basement, garage. Walk to Notre Dame. 
(574)274·2829. 
Gorgeous Completely Rehabbed 
House, 4 bedrooms, 3 full baths, 

washer dryer, dishwasher, new stainless steel appliances, 3 car garage, central air, beautiful light fix· lures, deck and front porch. Marble entryway. All new. 2 miles to ND. Available immediately, fourth month free or flat screen TV installed. $1180 per month. 
Call Harold 574·315·7781. 
TICKETS 

Wanted: ND football tix for family. 
574·251-1570. 

VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND football tickets. www.victorytickets.com. 574·232­0964. 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap/ 
Spring Break 2009. Sell Trips, Eam Cash and Go Free. Call for Group Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed! Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida. Information/Reservations 1­800·648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631·7819 or Ann Firth at 574·631·2685. For more information, visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg· nant.shtml 
I hate the Red Sox I hate the Red Sox 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, October 7, 2008 CoMP£LFD FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WJRF SERVICES page 15 
NCAA Men's Hockey 
USCHO Top 20  
team  points  last poll  
1  Boston Coli. (36)  969  7  
2  Michigan (5)  922  1  
3  Colorado Coli. (7)  874  6  
4  NOTRE DAME(1)  829  12  
5  North Dakota (1)  789  3  
6  Denver  707  4  
7  New Hampshire  648  5  
8  Miami (Ohio)  613  2  
9  Boston Univ.  565  15  
10  Minnesota  503  10  
11  Michigan State  440  9  
12  Princeton  427  13  
13  Clarkson  375  11  
14  Wisconsin  358  17  
15  St. Cloud State  299  8  
16  N. Michigan  257  NR  
17  Cornell  186  NR  
18  Minnesota State  170  14  
19  Harvard  134  16  
20  Vermont  90  18  

NCAA Men's Hockey USA Today Poll 
team points 
1 Boston Coli. (26) 500 2 Michigan (4) 452 3 Colorado Coli. (4) 430 4 NOTRE DAME 378 5 North Dakota 361 6 Denver 328 7 New Hampshire 275 8 Miami (Ohio) 259 9 Boston Univ. 222 10 Minnesota 192 11 Michigan State 162 12 Princeton 111 13 Clarkson 109 14 Wisconsin 82 15 St. Could State 66 16 Northern Michigan 38 17 Minnesota State 28 18 Northeastern Uni. 18 19 Uni. of Vermont 18 20 Ferris State 16 
Big East Women's 
Soccer Standings 
record 
25·11·8 33·6·4 28·12·1 27·16·4 28·11·4 26·14-1 25·10·3 33·8·1 19·11·4 19·17·9 25·1H 21-14-0 22·13·4 16·17-7 19·16·5 20·20·4 19·1&.4 16·18·3 11·15-7 18·16-5 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 
team 
NOTRE DAME Rutgers Georgetown Marquette Villanova Louisville west Virginia Cincinnati _ USF Connecticut Syracuse Seton Hall Providence Pttsburgh St. John's DePaul 
record 
5·0·0 4-1·0 3-0·0 3-1-1 3·2·0 
2·1·2 
2·1·2 2-2-1 2·2·1 1·2·2 
1-2·1 
1·3·1 0-2·3 1-4·0 0·2·2 0·5·0 
around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Troy at Florida Atlantic 8:00 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


AP 

Jonny Gomes, center, leads the Tampa Bay celebration after the Rays' first postseason series victory in fran­chise history after the Rays beat the Chicago White Sox in Game 4 of the ALDS 6-2 Monday. 
Rays advancetoALCSoverChiSox 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO-B.J. Upton and these Tampa Bay Rays are headed home -to get ready for the American League championship series. 
Worst in the majors last year, the Rays will play for a spot in the World Series after finishing off the Chicago White Sox 6-2 Monday in Game 4 of the AL playoffs. 
Ray-markable! 
Upton homered twice, Andy Sonnanstine pitched a solid 5 2-3 innings and manager Joe Maddon's surprising Rays won 3-1 in the best-of-five series ­their first trip to the post­season. Next up, the Boston Red Sox or the Los Angeles Angels starting Friday. 
"We feel like we belong and it's showing right now," Upton said. 
After staving off elimina­tion several times and win­ning a tiebreaker for the AL Central title, the White Sox were finally knocked out. 
The loss dashed Chicago's hope for a cham­pionship -days ago, local fans were thinking the Cubs and White Sox might meet in a Windy City Classic. But the Cubs got swept by the Dodgers and now both teams are done. 
Upton, the game's second batter, homered to left-cen­ter to put the Rays ahead. He went deep again in the third, driving a full-count pitch from Gavin floyd to center, and the confident Rays had a two-run cush­ion. 
Tampa Bay, which never won more than 70 games during its 10 previous sea­sons, went from 96 losses last year to 97 wins and passed the big-spending Red Sox and New York Yankees in the AL East. 
"It's a gratifying moment for all of us," Maddon said. 
No longer bedeviled, the Rays won all year with young talent and improved pitching. Sonnanstine, who pitched a three-hit shutout against the White Sox at Tropicana Field in April, reversed a late-season slide that saw him go winless in his fmal seven starts. 
He allowed two runs and three hits before J.P Howell relieved. Grant Balfour completed the four-hitter, striking out midseason addition Ken Griffey Jr. to end it. 
Upton, who hit only nine homers in 531 at-bats dur­ing the regular season, also homered in Sunday's 5-3 loss. Benched by Maddon during the season for not hustling, the talented 24­year-old's power display came against a team that relied on homers all year and led the majors in long balls. 

IN BRIEF Weeks has surgery to 
repair cartilage 10 knee 
MILWAUKEE -Brewers second baseman Rickie Weeks had surgery Monday to repair a cartilage tear in his left knee and is expected to be ready for spring training. 
Weeks had part of the damaged meniscus removed by team physician Dr. William Raasch. Weeks will begin rehabilitation at home this week. 
A first-round draft pick by Milwaukee in 2003, Weeks hit .234 with 14 homers and 46 RBis in 129 games in his fifth season. Weeks slumped and spent most of September in a reserve role to veteran Ray Durham. 
Weeks was injured on Saturday night in Game 3 against Philadelphia when he jammed his knee running out a hard-hit grounder and got tangled up with first baseman Ryan I Ioward. 
Weeks was removed from the post­season roster and finished the series 0­for-4. 
Lowell removed from 
roster with hip strain 
BOSTON -Third baseman Mike Lowell was remove from Boston's first-round postseason roster on Monday because of a right hip strain. 
He would be ineligible to play in the AL championship series if the Red Sox advance past their first-round opponent, the Los Angeles Angels. 
Last year's World Series MVP, who also has a torn labrum in his right hip, was replaced on the active roster by infielder Gil Velazquez, who made his major league debut on Sept. 25. 
Lowell was 0-for-8 in two games during the series against the Angels. 
The Red Sox led the series 2-1 after the Angels won 5-4 win in 12 innings Sunday night. Lowell walked in the 1Oth inning and Alex Cora pinch ran for him. 
Westbrook questionable
with two broken ribs 
PHILADELPHIA -All-Pro running back Brian Westbrook broke two ribs in the Eagles' 23-17 loss to Washington on Sunday, though he stayed in and finished the game. 
Westbrook missed one game with an ankle injury, but it's too early to know if his latest injury will keep him out of Sunday's game at San francisco. 
"We just have to see," coach Andy Reid said Monday. "We have to see how it all works out and exactly the pain level there. Right now, he's very sore, so we'll see how things go over the next few days." 
Westbrook had 84 total yards against the Redskins. He leads the Eagles with 194 yards rushing and has six touch­downs, including two receiving. 


The Saint Mary's College Office of Special Events presents the Aquila Theatre Company 
The Comedy of Errors 
by William Shakespeare 



AI
MIDWEST 

NATIONAl 
ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS 
A~'PCII n;nit)O<k~'.n.<''Wl'·li.HI. 


Study Abroad 
I 
m 

Angers, France 
Information Session Tuesday, October 7, 2008 5:30p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy Center 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2008 More Information Available at www.nd.eduf,_,ois/ 
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish slutnp to bottotn of pack after two rounds 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 

Despite home-field advantage and a budding crop of young tal­ent, Notre Dame's two squads slumped to last and second-to-last place at the end of two rounds at the third annual Fighting Irish Gridiron Classic. 
The 'N team sits in 15th place with a 48-over par 608, while the Irish 'B' team is in dead last with a 49-over 609. a single stroke behind its brethren. 
At the top of the leaderboard, No. 47 Minnesota (579) cummtly holds a one-stroke lead over No. 4 Arkansas (580), while No. 41 Michigan State and No. 3 Lamar arn in shouting distance of the lead aller a solid day of action at Notro Dame's par 70, 7,023-yard Warren Golf Course. 
Heading into play, Irish head coach Jim Kubinski knew that his young team would be facing an uphill battle this week, eonsidnring the competition. 
"llosting so many great teams this weP.k ... we need to play smart golf out there, maybe beyond our experience level at this point," Kubinski said. "We can do it, though. If we play intelligently and allow our talent to come out, there's no rea<>on why we can't bn in the mix on Tuesday afternoon." 
Sophomore Jell' Chen leads the Notre Dame ellort with a 1 0-ovnr 150 through two rounds, good enough for 35th overall. After an error-filled opening round in which he carded an 8-over 78, including three bogies and two double-bogies on the back nine, Chen fired a 2-over 72 in his sec­ond round to bounce back. 
This wonk, Kubinski singled out Chen in parti<:ular as an examph~ of the success of the youth move­ment in the Irish program. 
"lie has played incredibly well this season aflnr not making our starting lineup as a frnshman," Kubinski said. ''I'm as proud of the way he handled himsnlf when he didn't get the call llast year] as I have been with his reeent solid play." 
Junior Doug Fortner, coming oil" a sixth-placf~ finish at last week's Saint Mary's (California) Invitational, trails Chen by a hair, shooting an 11-over 151 to end up 38th overall. Fortner's 75 and 76 were marked by erratic play in which he recorded a team-leading lour birdies against eleven bog<~ys and two double bogeys. 
Sophomore Connor Alan-Lee earded a 12-over 152 (46th over­all), while fellow sophomore Dustin Zhang turned in a disap­pointing 159 to linish Monday in 76th place. Freshman Max Scodro's 21-over Hll (79th overall) rounded out the Notrn Dame 'A' squad. 
For the Irish 'B' tnam, junior Olavo Batista and freshman Tom Usher !wad into thn third row1d in 46th place, each with 12-over 152s. Sophomore Tyh~r Hock's 153 landed him in s:kd placn, while junior Carlos Santos-Ocampo shot a 14-over 154. 
Fn~shman Chris Walker finished alongside fellow underdassman Seodro with a 21-over 161. 
Play resumes this morning, with the lin~tl round beginning at the first and 10th holes at 8:20a.m. at Notre Dame's Warren Golf Course. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 


,~'%: D E B A R T 0 L 0 
Jl~_})i PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 

Tuesday, October 7 at 7:30pm Wednesday, October 8 at 7:30 pm 
Philbin Studio Theatre • DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
General Public $10 • Faculty/Staff $8 •Senior Citizens/Students/Veterans $5 
Tickets are available at the Debartolo Performi;zg Arts Center Ticket Offzce. Call574-631-2800 or purchase online at http://performingarts.nd.edu 
Sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies and Shakespeare at Notre Dame 

Tuesday, October 7, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FooTBALL 
Willingha111's job in jeopardy 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -Matters only continue to get worse for Washington and coach Tyrone Willingham. 
The losing atmosphere has only increased around a team that is: 
-Starting 0-5 for the first time in 39 years. 
-One of only two winless Bowl Subdivision teams in the country. 
-Owner of the longest current losing streak of any team in the FBS: seven straight dating back to last season, thanks to Army's win over Tulane last weekend. 
-Without star quarter­back Jake Locker, after he broke his thumb trying to be the lead blocker on a reverse. 
-The loser of three games this year by 30 or more points, including Saturday's 48-14 drubbing at the hands of Arizona. 
It's not pretty. 
In a rare positive, the II uskies did finally record a sack against the Wildcats, becoming the final team in the country to accomplish the feat. That was about the only bit of good news to come out of the Huskies' loss in the desert on Saturday. 
"They say in life that win­ning is a habit, but also los­ing is a habit, and we have to make sure those things don't slip in there, that our guys can get back off the mat, get their (energy) up, and con­centrate and focus and do the things you have to do to win," Willingham said on Monday. "That's important, we have to do that." 
While the long-term prog­nosis for Willingham's future employment as Washington's head coach continues to get darker with each loss, his short-term future appears secure. Athletic director Scott Woodward told reporters on the sidelines after Saturday's game that despite the lopsided score and 0-5 start he had no intentions of making an in­season move to fire Willingham. While not happy with the losing direction of the program, Woodward said his approach would be giving Willingham the entire season before deciding whether to kee.p Willingham around for the final year of his contract. 
If there was a time to make such a transition, it would be this week with the Huskies having their second weekend off before hosting Oregon State on Oct. 18. 
Woodward wasn't the only one making compelling state­ments after Saturday's loss. Perhaps one of the harshest indictments of the Huskies came from Arizona running 
back  Nic  Grigsby,  who  
"sensed  (the  Huskies  
defense)  were  quitting  

already" late in the first half of Saturday's romp. 
Willingham defended his beleaguered defense on Monday, a unit allowing nearly 500 yards of offense per game, well above the 446 yards Washington allowed last year -the worst mark in school history and one that cost Kent Baer his job as defensive coordi­nator. 
"No, I don't think so. I think that's depending on 
how you take that comment and how you take those words and interpret them," Willingham said of Grigsby's comment. "But I think our kids kept playing, kept try­ing. We just were not suc­cessful, but I do not think our kids quit." 
Washington and North Texas are the only FBS teams without victories, and the Huskies have just two in their last 16 games. 
In Washington's defense, the combined records of its five opponents this season is 22-6, but the lack of compet­itiveness has provided a stark realization of just how far the Huskies are from returning to being the elite program that went without a losing season from 1977­2003. Washington is being outscored 210-93, including 110-35 in the first and third quarters. 
The struggles are also hav­ing an impact on recruiting. The top Washington state recruit last week pulled back his oral commitment to the Huskies, and most recruiting services have Washington with only a handful of com­mitments nearly halfway through the fall. 
There are some still hold­ing onto hope for a respectable turnaround. 
"Losing it tough. It hurts. But I've learned a lot from my head coach. He puts it behind him. He's a fighter and I came here because of him," Washington quarter­back Ronnie Fouch said. "It's hard to lose but we've got to keep fighting and we've got some more games left to put something together." 

For Bay, lesbian, BisexualS Uuestioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, 0ctober 7 
7:00 p.m.-S:OO p.m. 316 Coleman Morse 
The Core Council invites gay. lesbian. bisexual 8questioning members of the Notre Dame family. 
alongl'lith their friends and allys. to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
~v~r-~ooe. is VJe.!e.cm~ M~ C.ci'\\l~e.ilti6..1\t 11 Is Assl.ltt.~ -~ 
' 
nm ew. lf.SBRN. ;;mBm 
&(!Hf\1!1Wmn S!Jonn~ 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Muschamp has Longhorns rolling 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas -The infat­uation began when Will. Muschamp was hired at Texas. 
The love affair began with the blood. 
It's taken five games for Muschamp to go from just the latest Texas defensive coordi­
·nator -the fifth in six years 
to cult hero among Longhorns fans mesmerized by the way he walks, talks, 
. yells ... and bleeds. His. defense looks good too. The No. 5 Longhorns (5-0, 1­0 Big 12) are rated No. 6 nationally in scoring defense going into Saturday's game against No. 1 Oklahoma (5-0, 1-0) in Dallas and vastly improved over last year. "Stats are for losers," Muschamp said after Texas whipped Colorado 38-14. "I like winning games." Bravado like that has pleased has pleased Texas 
butted him. Of course Muschamp wasn't wearing a helmet and got the worst of the contact. 
When he's not bleeding, Muschamp prowls on the side­lines, yelling at bad plays and chest bumping and head slap­ping players after good ones. 
"That's just me," Muschamp said. "I can't change who I am. I enjoy being in the arena." 
Off the field, he can look bookish and boyish behind his eyeglasses and hairstyle that sort of parts on the right side of his head. He sets up camp in the film room to study opponents and Brown joked that Muschamp may sleep there this week. 
"Whatever it takes to win," Muschamp said with an imp­ish grin. 
The defense has delivered what the Longhorns needed the first five games. Texas has surrendered just five touch­
fans who downs, the line
"Stats are for losers. 
watched oppo­has become a
I like winning 
nents pile up dominant unit
,, 
yards and games. and the second­points in bunch­ary has held up es last season. despite starting
Will Muschamp
The 37-year freshmen Blake
Texas defensive 
old Muschamp Gideon and came to Austin Earl Thomas at
coordinator 
in January with a stellar resume including a national champi­onship with LSU in 2003, a season as assistant head coach for the Miami Dolphins and two seasons at Auburn where he had one of the top defenses in the country. 
For all of that, Muschamp was perhaps best known to Texas fans as the coach caught on video swearing and whooping it up with Auburn players after a big play in a clip that became a YouTube sensation. 
Texas coach Mack Brown hired Muschamp to rescue his sagging defense, paying him $425,000 a year, although it's widely expected he'll soon be offered a head coaching job somewhere. 
Muschamp's first decree was that he'd put the best 11 play­ers on the field regardless of seniority and experience. And then came the blood. 
In Texas' first game against Florida Atlantic, Owls coach Howard Schnellenberger had riled things up by suggesting the Longhorns weren't very tough. 
Things were still close in the first quarter when Muschamp, upset by a broken assignment in pass coverage, apparently ripped off his headset with such a violent motion that part of it tore open a cut on his left cheek. A long line of blood dripped to his chin. Muschamp ignored the distraction and kept on coaching. Photographs of the bloody scene quickly hit the Internet. 
"The man is fiery," said defensive end Brian Orakpo, who leads the Longhorns with seven of their 19 sacks. "He acted like it wasn't even there. He kept coaching, even with blood all over his face." 
It wasn't the first time Muschamp drew blood. In practice, he once grabbed a players' facemask and head-
safety. -­

"Watching them play, you can tell that the effort's there, you can tell they're disciplined in what their responsibilities are and they mix things up well," Oklahoma coach Bob Stoops said. "Will has definitely had an impact there. It's obvious." 
But Texas' hasn't played a team like Oklahoma. The Sooners are trouncing oppo­nents with a fast, no-huddle offense that is piling up points in a hurry. 
Texas has played its best in the second half of games while the Sooners have usu­ally put away teams in the first two quarters. Oklahoma has outscored opponents 168-30 in the first half and quarterback Sam Bradford is sure to test the young Texas safeties from the start. 
The secondary remains' Texas soft spot. The Longhorns may not give up many points, but they still give up a lot of yards and rank No. 96 in pass defense with only two interceptions. Muschamp insists he only cares about points. 
Saturday's Texas-OU game will be Muschamp's first and the emotions surrounding the rivalry could spark some real fireworks. Muschamp beat the Sooners for the 2003 BCS championship when he was with LSU, but that Sugar Bowl was played before what most would con­sider a home crowd for the Tigers. 
The Texas-Oklahoma rival­ry tends to turn the Cotton Bowl into a swirling caul­dron of emotions and things can get pretty nasty with 92,000 fans split down the middle at the 50-yard line. 
"At first, we weren't used to him," Orakpo said. "But he's the first person out there chest-bumping, slap­ping helmets. We love it." 

Tuesday, October 7, 2008 The. Observer + SPORTS page 19 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 

4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 
Interhall 
continued from page 16 
back and wide receiver play led to four touchdowns, two of which came within two minutes of each other. Most of its scoring drives were the results of short passes followed by long runs afterwards. 
The Phoxes' defense, however, was equally impressive, forcing three interceptions, one of which came on a Lewis drive that would've tied the game. 
The Chicks (0-4) struck early with an interception return for a touchdown by captain Kristie Shushinsky, but could not gener­ate much offense afterwards. 
Despite the loss, Shushinsky recognized her team's improve­ment throughout the season. 
"We did a really good job of moving the ball downfield," Shushinsky said. 
Coach Perry Schumaker added: "We had some great plays and amazing catches," he said. "We just need to learn how to put everything together". 
Despite its inability to make the playoffs, Lewis is approach­ing these games with the same tenacity as they have all season. 
"We're keeping our heads high and aren't rolling over for anybody," Schumaker said. 
Contact Molly Sammon, Christina McDonnell, Ryan O'Connell, and Bobby Graham at msammon@nd.edu, cmc­donne@nd.edu, roconne3@nd.edu, and rgra­ham@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles prepare for hon1e clash with Hope 
By PAT STYNES Sports Writer 
After dropping a tough loss to Alma on the road last Friday, the Saint Mary's volleyball team will look to bounce back at home tonight at 7 p.m. against Hope college. The Belles are 12­6 overall, 5-4 in conference play and will need a win to stay above .500 in the MIAA. 
Pulling off a win against Hope College, however, will be quite difficult for the Saint Mary's squad. Hope is an impressive 18-3 on the year, is undefeated in conference play and the record is certainly not a fluke. Out of nine conference matches, Hope has dropped a mere three sets -that is an astonishing 90 percent set winning percentage. And while Hope is undefeated at home, they are equally impres­sive on the road, their only loss coming against Wittenberg way back in September. Hope cap­tain senior Nora Slenk has 259 kills, with a solid .292 conver­sion percentage. 
The Belles will have a tough time dealing with both the offensive and the defensive fronts of Hope College. While junior Lorna Slupczynski and senior Kaela Hellmann have been very impressive on the offensive side of the ball, con­tributing 222 and 192 kills respectively, they will have a dif­ficult job of finding kills, as Hope is averaging 17.36 kills a game, limiting their opponents to a paltry 3.85 kills a game, their defensive efforts spear­headed by Senior Meghan Winer's 346 digs. 
Overall it will be a tough game for the St. Mary's, as Hope College is stringing together a truly dominant performance in both conference and out of con­ference play. However do not count out the Belles at home, as aside from their first September 2nd home match, they are undefeated at St. Mary's. 
Contact Pat Stynes at pstynes@nd.edu 

SQUEEZING THROUGH 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Dn<;root acknowledged that her in every game but their lone loss, fire and we're going to keep play­The Chaos enter the game with 
tmtm traditionally struggles at the with their offense and defense ing with that same intensity a confident, yet fun-loving, atti­
McGlinn 
continued from page 24 
reeeivnrs Lourdes Meraz and Stophanie (;randits. as well as defonsivn lineman Casey Hoberl-;on. 
"I think we have more natural athleticism than most teams out there," team captain Sarah dnGroot said. "We have a lot of h'feat fh~shman this year and a lot ofh'1'11at athletes on tho team." 
Sunday, McGlinn fought hard for a 14-12 victory against PW, over­coming a 12-0 dnlidt f(>r the victo­ry. A second half resurgence enablod the Shamrocks to scrape away with the victory, a testament to their lwart and determination. 
Thanks to thnir dnfcnse's ability to keep each game within reach, the Shamrocks know they are never out of contnntion. 
"The last ganw we ddinitely rnlied on the ddense to hold us the second half and get some quick turnovnrs," de(;root said. 
Finish 
continued from page 24 
a lead. Once thoy got ahead by two or three goals, tlwir pressure ofTPnSil would take its foot ofT thP pedal. Sergei Fml1~rov would put on the brakes and dump the puck into a corner. It came back to bite tlwm at times; if thny got too 1:omplacnnt, the opposing tnam would storm back. 
That's what Notre Dame's second half reminded me of Saturday. Al'ter scoring 21 points in the first half. the Irish scored sevnn in the sec­ond half and none at all in the fourth quarter. The ofTense had just 152 yards of ofTnnse in the second half, or 
21.7 yards per drive. 
or the seven drives in the second half". one resulted in points. The others: four punts. a missed field goal and a turnovnr on downs, which we'll return to later. 
But for now. let's start with the lack of offense. It's not 
t.h at it can't move the ball. It provml quite the contrary in the first half. when it rolled up 27S yards of ofTense and three touchdowns. It's that tlw offense got overly compla­cnnt with its load. 

start of games, but she hopes they can reverse the trend and start fast against I loward. 
"We'veTelied on the second half to make adjustments," she said. "IWe want to] work on getting ahead early and not putting so much pressure on ourselves in the second half." 
lyons vs. Pasquerilla West 
Thank..<; to a few big wins includ­ing a victory over last year's champion, Lyons has already dinched a playoff spot heading into Tuesday's game against Pasquerilla West. 
For PW (1-0-2), making the playolls will be a difficult task that will cnrtainly require wins as opposed to more ties. Last week's disappointing tie against Howard didn't slam the door on the Purple Wea.sPb playofl' hopes, but it defi­nitely didn't help their cause. 
Lyons (3-1 ), on the other hand. is sitting comfortably atop the Blue League. They've been impressive 
The Irish had a chance to 
bury Stanford. Their defense 
turned the ball over and got 
in Stanford quarterback 
Tavita Pritchard's face, and it 
was up to the offense to put 
the game out of reach. 
llow much of a conf'idence boost would that be? Off to a hot start. proving Chris Marinelli wrong, intercepting three passes and passing the ball well'? Charlie Weis said he'd novel' seen his team as jacked up before a game as before Stanford. That excite­ment needfld to transfer, not just into the first half but also throughout the whole game. 
But it didn't. Two Irish drives netted negative yards in the second half, and two others gained less than 10. The most telling play, howev­er, happened near the end of the fourth quarter. With fourth down and two chain links to go, the line couldn't dig in enough to get James Aldridge past the sticks. That first down ices the game; a field goal, as we saw previ­ously, was out of the question, so Notre Dame needed to con­vert. 
Never mind that the play pinned Stanford deep in its own zone with eight seconds to play; there will be a time when Notre Dame needs a 
against Hope have become a fn~quent oecurrence this season
Adrian 

for Saint Mary's. Nearly every game has hinged on one or two
continued from page 24 

plays. Belles lwad coach Hyan Crabbe Senior Lauren Hinton has 
said. "The girls gave an incredi­bln nfTort follow­"We played in a more ing the tying goal 
defensive shape in the
and had numer­

second half The tying 
ous chances to win ttw game in goal by !lope was one the final 15 min­
ofthe better goals 
utes." 

scored from a corner
After Saint Mary's took a l-0 kick that I have seen. l111td into the 
The difference in 
half, llope tied 

overtime was simply
tlw ga m n rn id ­way through tlw getting caught in SP1:ond half to 
transition. " 
ultimatnly forn~ tho ov1~rtinw. "We playnd in 
Julie Schroeder-Biek a mon~ dnfPnsivn Belles coach shape in tlw sec­ond half." 

stepped up as the leading scorer this season with four goals to go along with one assist. Saint Mary's has also received con­tributions from its fresh­man class who have already accounted for three goals and three assists on the season. 
A win against Adrian would give the 
Belles some much needed momentum as they approach thn hnart of their conference sdwdule. 
Contact AJex Barker at abarkerI @nd.edu 
combining to form a very well rounded team filled to the brim with talent. 
If PW is to win this game, it'll have to establish more consistency on offense while maintaining what has thus far been a stellar defense. Jordan Johnson will lead a pass rush that has thus far been more than able to put quarter­backs in pressure situations, which have led to turnovers and sacks. 
Today's game pits Lyons, a team pumped and anxious to prove itself amongst the league's best, against PW, a team desperate for another win as they try to find their way into the playoffs. While it may seem as though PW will play with a heightened level of intensity that Lyons, in its current position of having already clinched a playoff' berth, cannot match, Lyons should not be overlooked, for the Lions are just as actively pursuing a win. 
"We've bmm playing with a lot of 
fourth-and-short conversion, and if it eouldn't get it then, against Stanford. when it came into the game pumped up, that doesn't bode well for the rush game. 
Defensively, Notre Dame relented in the second half as well. It intercepted three passes in the first half but none in the second. Two of Stanford's three drives in the fourth quarter, not counting the one-play drive to end the game, resulted in touch­downs. Again, no biggie in this game, but that's not the point. 
because we're out thern to prove that we're no fluke," Lyons coach Matt Gelchion said. 
Pasquerilla East vs. Cavanaugh 
For Pasquerilla East and Cavanaugh so far this season, it has been a tale of two different teams. 
Going into their matchup at 8 
p.m. tonight at Riehle Fields, the Chaos are 2-1-1 while the Pyros are 0-4. Cavanaugh is coming off its first loss of the season, a tough defeat to Lyons, but still can't be counted out as a threat to defend their championship season from last year. 
The Pyros, on the other hand, have lost their last three games all by less than a touchdown. 
"We've been very close but not quite there the last few games," captain Tara Pillai said. "It's all about consistency because we have signs of being a good team but we just haven't put it all together." 
Someday, perhaps if the offensn has an off day, the Irish defense will stand in between an opponent and a victory, and they'll need to play at the level they're capa­ble of for the entire game. 
I have full confidence in the abilities of the team on both sides of the ball. The Irish moved tho ball well on offense and kept Stanford under control on defense, and most importantly, they won the game. But they had the potential to dabber Stanford, to prove to any remaining doubters that they've tude as they attempt to recover from their Lirst lost of the season last week. 
"Cavanaugh's !,Tfeatest strength year in and year out is that our love for flag football make's Palin's and Biden's love for Israel pale in comparison," senior quarterback and captain Katie Dunn said. "And like them, we are just trying to continue the tradition." 
The Pyros are remaining opti­mistic despite a tough start to the season.? 
"We know we are very close to getting that elusive win," Pillai said. "Hopefully it all comes together tomorrow."? 
Cavanaugh is hoping to captum another win before the playofl's with strong senior leadership from middle linebacker Megan Ladrie 
Contact Kyle Smith at ksmith31 @nd.edu Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu and Charlie Spokes at cspokes@nd.edu 
returned, to say to Marinelli with actions what thny said with words after the game. They can't let those opportu­nities pass in thn future, espncially on tho road, where they play four of their next five games. 
Notre Dame must seize the opportunities to control games when they come, and in so doing prove they can do something else I remember the Wings doing -buckling down when needed. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


....... 

Please recycle The Observer. 
September 23, 2008 
5:30sp~m. 
Crabbe said. "Thn tying goal by llope was onP of the better goals scorPd from a corner kirk that I have snPn. The dill'nrnnce in ovPrtinw was simply getting caught in transition." 
But ganws like the orw 

Tuesday, October 7, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
defenses that saw six pick. on the first play of the second momentum and left the Griffins turnovers, two extra-point The Vermin's next drive last­half, breaking several tackles deflated. Under pressure, Salvi
Interhall 
stops and only two touch­ed only two downs as Ruof was on his way to tying the game at threw up a pass that was inter­continued from page 24 downs. intercepted again. Zahm strug­7-7. cepted by Shafer, who returned 
In the first quarter, both gled as well, and four plays On the ensuing drive, the it 25 yards for the touchdown. "We gained yards in short teams had trouble moving the into its drive, Vermin junior Knights drove down inside the Dillon captain Chris Cugliari increments by hitting guys over ball and each team punted at defensive back Tommy Mob 5-yard line. On second was thrilled that his defense the middle," St. Ed's coach the end of its first possession. Mumford would pick Bennett, and goal, while stretching the was able to make the big play. Cameron Hogue said. "We did On the first play of their next" then fumble the ball, only to ball out for the end zone, it ''I'm glad that our defense as best as we could with what drive, Rabid Bat freshman have it scooped up by Russ and appeared that the Knights had was up to the task," he said. their defense showed us." quarterback Greg Bennett was carried to the Carroll 19-yard fumbled and The Mob had Kicker Rick Beuke converted 
A Matt Abeling touchdown intercepted, only to have the line. With just over two min­recovered the ball on the 1-the extra point and Stanford pass provided the only_ scoring defense force and recover a utes left in the game, Ruof yard line. However, the refer­looked stunned as it came on of the first half, and St Ed's fumble on the next play. optioned to Kast, who threw a ees ruled that the player's knee the field for the start of the went into halftime with a 6-0 The Zahm (0-1-1) offense 64-yard pass to a wide-open was down. fourth quarter trailing 7-6. lead. continued to struggle with the Mumford. As the clock ticked Two plays later, Mahoney After going three-and-out, 
Momentum dramatically Vermin defense, as it moved down to one minute, Ruof hit connected with receiver the Griffins lined up to punt, shifted in Fisher's favor, only nine yards on their next Russ in the end zone for the Patrick Kelly in the endzone for but Dillon's special teams came though, when St. Ed's muffed a seven plays, and was forced to tying score. the game winning score. up with a huge play. Jordan punt return that was then punt again. Carroll (1-1-1) "We did the same thing last "The team played great as a Smith broke through the line recovered by Fisher freshman wasn't any better moving the week, giving up a big play at whole." Kelly said. "We need to and with a leaping effort, Chris Charnock. That momen­ball against the Rabid Bat the end," injured Zahm Captain keep sticking to a simple blocked the punt to give Dillon tum carried Fisher to its only defensive line, turning it over Theo Ossei-Anto said. "We can offense and establishing the prime field position and time touchdown of the game, a on downs after getting stopped win if we just play hard consis­running game." on its· side. score that came without start­on a 4th and 5. tently all four quarters." O'Neill running back Dave "Special teams was definitely ing quarterback Mike Taking over on his own 48, The Rabid Bat's blocked the Zimmer left the game in the the key to the game for us," McMahon, who suffered an though, Bennett quickly got his potential twinning PAT, and the second quarter because of an Cugliari said. injury midway through the offense going, and threw for 17 offense was unable to move the injury and did not return. The Big Red kept the ball on drive. and 16 yards on the next two ball for a last second score. "Dave is the heart and soul of the ground and burned pre­
Freshman Pat Hertenstein plays, before handing the ball our team," Zimmer's backup cious minutes off of the clock. took over as quarterback and off to freshman running back Keenan 14, O'Neill 0 Tom Friel said. "He's part of a By the time Stanford took made a few key passes en Colin Casey for a 15-yard scor­After his team's game against mix of fire and passion we over, there was a little over one route to Fisher's touchdown ing run. The 2-point conver­O'Neill, Keenan quarterback have. If he would have played, minute remaining but the before throwing a game-ending sion attempt was broken up, Terry Mahoney declared "This maybe there would have been Griffins couldn't mount a last interception late in the fourth and the Rabid Bats settled for a is the new Keenan football a different result." minute charge. quarter. 6-0 lead. team." O'Neill plays Stanford next On the first play of the drive. 
"lie did well for someone In the final minutes of the He was right. Keenan is now week, while Keenan has a bye it was Smith who again broke who hadn't taken many reps in first half, Vermin sophomores a football team with a win. before playing Stanford on Nov. though the Griffin's line and practice," senior offensive line­quarterback Nick Ruof and After being shut out by Dillon 2. Both teams need wins knocked the ball out of Salvi's man Dan Mahon said. running back Kris Kast lead a last week, Mahoney threw a against the Griffins to improve hand, and Dillon recovered to 
One more win will all but drive down to the Zahm 20-pair of touchdowns to lead the their playoff positioning. seal the victory. assure St Ed's a playoff spot. yard line. With a minute left, Knights (1-1-1) to victory. The After last year's overtime 
For Fisher, its closing game and the Vermin knocking at the Knights scored early, as Dillon 7, Stanford 6 playoff loss, the victory was against Zahm will be a chance door, senior defensive back Mahoney went 3-for-3 passing Dillon got its revenge Sunday especially sweet for the Big to end this season's woes and Jason Hensler intercepted on the opening drive capped off as the Big Red triumphed 7-6 Red. possibly hurt Zahm's chances Ruof, and the Rabid Bats would by a 1-yard quarterback sneak over the defending Interhall "We felt like we should have of making the playoffs. run out the clock to take their for the score. The Mob tried to champion Stanford. had them both times last year," 
"We're definitely looking to 6-0 lead into half time. answer by quickly moving Stanford, who defeated Dillon Smith said. "To finally come be a spoiler," Mahon said. "But "We played well, but we down the field, but was unable in the playoffs last season, got out and get it done feels great." more than anything we're made some key mistakes," to score despite moving deep on the scoreboard first, late in It was a tough loss to swallow going to try get the seniors Ruof said. "We will perform into Keenan territory, turning the second quarter when quar­for Stanford captain John involved because this is going well when we cut down on the ball over on downs. The terback Brian Salvi connected Burke, but he saw no reason to to be their last chance to play those." two teams went to halftime with wide out Tony Rizzo, who complain about his team's per­organized football here at The third quarter continued with the Knights leading 7-0. made a diving effort to get into formance. Notre Dame." to highlight both teams' defen­Motivated by an inspiring the end zone for a 10-yard "We had a couple lapses in 
sive efforts, with each team halftime speech by team cap­touchdown. concentration," he said. "Other Zahm 6, Carroll 6 producing two scoreless drives, tain Matt Bono, O'Neil (1-1-0) The Griffins, who were with­than that I thought we played a Zahm and Carroll faced off while Carroll sophomore cor­running back Tom Friel took a out their injured kicker, very good game." Sunday in a matchup of gritty nerback Sam Russ grabbed a handoff 65 yards up the middle attempted a 2-point conversion 
that was stifled by the Dillon Contact Liza Navarro at 
defensive line, and the half lnavarro@nd.edu, Shane 
would end with the score 6-0 in Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu, 
favor of Stanford. Nathaniel Lee at nlee5@nd.edu, 
A huge play by Dillon corner­Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 
back Brian Shafer late in the and Kyle Smith at 
third quarter shifted the ksmith31 @nd.edu 




Tuesday, October 7, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 


JUMBLE 
JJWJW&IbiR 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KWONN ·t)
rJ 
1 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
HITEL 
j
cJ r I I 
ROQUIL 

rJ 
www.jumble.com 
ITHUGOR 1 t
CJ I IJ 
Answer: 
Yesterday's 

"CII I IJ" rI I I J 
IJumbles:  HUMAN  WEDGE  (Answers tomorrow) DENOTE HEREBY  
Answer:  The farmer's simple philosophy was  - 
DOWN TO "EARTH"  


HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
WHAT TH~ ~L~C. TRIC.IAN 010 WHIL~ H~ R~C.OV~R~O 
FROM HIS INJURY. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD 
Across 32 Bingham of 68 Insignificant Dudley Do-"Baywatch" 69 Logic Right's org. 
35 Letters on 70 Part of CNN 5 Hoof protector Endeavour 
71 Hoo-ha 9 "Lost" airer 39 Exodus 20 14 Airline that flew subject 
Down the humanitarian 
43 Choral voice Chart again Operation 44 Keep on file 2 County north of 

Solomon 45 Big laugh 
Limerick15 Place to park a 

3 Feudal estate
46 Deck cleaner 4 _-screen TV 

car 
16 India's second-49 Half of Mark's largest city sitcom sign-off 5_-fi 17 Newspaper 51 User's guide 6 Attila or one of V.I.P.'s his followers 
59 It might be stuck 20 Sprang up in a log 7 Company newsletter
21 Bone-dry 60 English prince's 8 Chicago-based
22 Many a corner alma mater office holder, for film reviewer
61 Division of an short epic poem 9 Avia alternative 
23 Laundry pen. 62 12th-15th 10"You !" 
e.g. century ("O.K.!") 27 Yankee European 11 What a mouse nickname tongue ran up, in a 
starting in 2004 66 Moves slowly rhyme 28 Lingo: Suffix 67 On the summit 12 Midafternoon 29 Tiny brain size of 13 Sun blocker 
18 Adjust for ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
19 "Thin" coin 

24 What's expected 
-7+-:'-+±=-+-:':-f 25 Wax-coated cheeses 26 Actress Russo 
29 Bake sale holder, maybe: Abbr. 
30 Sushi fish 31 Pantry invader 33 Mouse chaser 34 Hole­36 Whichever 37 Alphabetic trio 38 Invite (out). say 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

52 0ne who's 57 Arcade game persona non 
pioneer grata at home 58 One averse to mingling

53 Got nourishment 
42 Threat 63 Person who's from always feeling 
47 Threat ender down in the

54_ Ryan. aka 
mouth?: Abbr. 

48 Tampa/St. -· the Ryan 64 "Holy moly!" 
50 Deprives of Express 65 Modern weapons 55 Equivalent of 20 dashboardfins
51 Accelerates, with attachment, for "up" 56 Not yet realized short 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunj:lay crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and rnore than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytirnes.corn/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytirnes.corn/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ________________________________________ City _____________ State _______ Zip___________ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Hannah Bridges, 18; Amy Jo Johnson, 38; Elisabeth Shue, 45; Britt Ekland, 66 
Happy Birthday: This can be a year to remember if you focus on what's most im·· portant to you. Career changes may tempt you but be sure you have the required skills. It isn't about how much, it's about what works. Your numbers are 2, 3, 14, 27, 32,34,47 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Don't go overboard because someone else does. It's nice to feel in control but sometimes it's not the best route to take. Don't promise what you can't deliver and you wiU avoid an embarrassing set of circumstances. ** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Use your keen sense of fair play along with past expe­rience to help you achieve. A business trip or educational pursuit will bring high re­turns. Keep things simple, listen and observe. ***** 
GEMINI (Mar 21-Juue 20): Don't overspend to impress. Wasting money on prod­ucts that pronuse to change your life must be avoided. Yon can out-talk anyone who challenges you. A creative project will be lucrative. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll be pulled in several directions today. Choose what suits you best or go where you know you can accomplish the most. Emotional matters will escalate if you try to talk about the situation_ *** 
LEO (July 23-Ang. 22): You'll be looking for a good fight with someone who has been causing yon grief. When it comes to physically doing what you say, it won't be that easy. Keep a low profile and concentrate on your job. *** 
VIRGO (Ang. 23-Sept. 22): Take hold of a situation that is festering and stifle what­ever is going on. You can make some worthwhile alterations to a partnership that has been strained. Love is on the rise. **** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0et. 22): You are likely to end up causing a ruckus if you gossip or exaggerate. Problems at home are apparent, especially if you are trying to change things. Costly ventures will set you back further than you anticipate. ** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Look for new ways to make more cash. You have to diversify in order to make ends meet. Personal problems can be dealt with by making a couple of changes to your schedule that allow you quality time with the one you 
love.**** 
;­

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22·Dec. 21): Don't give up on someone or something because of the effort involved. Travel or communications can lead to life-altering changes that will cause some worry initially. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't give in to anyone putting demands on you today. Love is in the stars and a meeting with someone you've always been attracted 
to will prove to be beneficial both personally and professionally. Change is upon you.*** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Secrets will lead to trouble. Be open and deal with the consequences bead-on so you can put them behind you. It's time to think about your future and bow you can make more money and improve your way of living. 
Don't be fooled by someone who's complimentary. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcll 20): Get out and sell your ideas and concepts to people 
who can foot the bill and help you achieve your goals. A partnership can be formed thai is complementary to all involved. **** 
Birthday Baby: You are original, creative and like to do things in a big way. You are curious, inventive and drawn to the unusual. You support the underdog. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugenia/ast.comfor confidential consultatio11s, myspace.comleugenialastjor Eugenia's blog, astroadvice.comfor fun 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
·I i.1esday, October 7, 2008 
page 24 
========-:: MEN'S INTERHALL 
Morrissey stays perfect vvith victory over vvinless Duncan 
By LIZA NAVARRO, SHANE 
STEINBERG, NATHANIEL 
LEE, ALEX WEST and KYLE 
SMITH 
Sports Wri rers 
Morrissey 16, Duncan 6 
Aftnr the first hall'. with Morrissey leading 13-0, Sunday's game looked like more of' thn same from l>uiH~an, who had yet to score on thn snason. 
llowevm. with just under two minutes lnft in the gamn, llighlander widn rnceiver Mike Kearney had a brnakaway run to scorn Duncan's (0-3) first touchdown of the year. 

Highlander captain Garrett Burke's prediction that Kearney "would just tear it up on the field," dnfinitely held trun on Sunday, as the senior sparked Duncan's of'f'ensive drives with several great catch­es. Overall, though, the llighlander offensive could not gain signilicant yardage, giving up interceptions and a safety to the Morrissey (2-0) defense. 
On the other side of the ball, the Duncan defense showed potential when it held off the Manorite offense at the goal line late in the third quarter, forcing a change of possession. 
The line was hitting hard, ineluding some great tackles by Highlander freshman Brett Leahy. 
Offensively, Morrissey was forced to play without its start­ing right tackle, who is cur­rently recovering from a sprained ankle injury. 
"We definitely saw the effects of losing him for today's game," Manorite captain Joe McBrayer said. "But he will be ready for next week." 
Quarterback McBrayer con­nected consistently with junior Daniel Reimer for a touchdown at the end of the second quar­ter. Heimer emerged as a key player in Sunday's game and will be a continued force on the Manorite offensive. 
Running for Morrissey was Danny Deveny, who set up scoring opportunities in the third quarter, and rushed for the extra point at the end of the second. 
Undefeated Morrissey is already focusing on its next game. 
"If pnople don't get hurt, we have the potential to do well in the regular season and in the playoffs," said McBrayer. 
St Ed's 12, Fisher 6 St Ed's overcame a second-
FOOTBALL COMMENTARY 

Finishing strong 
Squad needs to finish games to reach elite 
I spent a good portion of my childhood growing up outside I>ntroit. 


whnre I got the chancn to watch the Hnd Wings play nvnry night. It was tough. bncausn I was a 

Hangers Bill Brink fan, but at lnast it was good boekny. I was at Game Four of the I 1J97 Stanley Cup Finals and saw tlwm win a cup. and while my New York fanhood wouldn't let me root for them. it was a special nxperi­encn. 
What I noticed about them. however, was their tendency to shut down when they had 
see FINISH/page 20 half miscue that led to a Fisher touchdown and took down the Groen Wave 12-6. 
The Green Wave (0-3) offense struggled for much of the game, failing to sustain a drive long enough to end tlwir streak of three games without scoring more than one touchdown. The Fisher defense meanwhile maintained a bend-but-do-not­break mindset, rarely giving up a long gain. 
But St. Ed's, with its effective short passing game out of a shotgun set, was able to string together long scoring drives. 
see INTERHALL/page 21 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
WPSteam in St. Louis picksCinalli 
Observer Staff Report 
The latest mP.mbcr of the Notm Dame women's soccer program to be drafted to a professiqnal 
league  was  currflnt  
volunteer/assistant  eoach,  
Amanda Cinali.  

With the 2(>th overall piek in the Women's Professional Soccer leagufl, the St. Louis franchise sp,Jeeted the tbrmer f(>rward/mid­fieldnr. 
The general draft allowed squads to snleet players that had completed their eollegiate eligibili­ty. 
Cinalli will join former Irish teammate Melissa Tancredi on the St. Loui<> roster as well. 
Cinalli ranks 16th on the pro­gram scoring list witl1 100 points (34 goals, 32 assists) through 100 games. Cinalli served as the lone captain during her senior year in 
2007. . 
INTERHALL PREVIEWS 

McGlinn faces Hovvard in hopes of claiming 1st 
By KYLE SMITH, SHANE 
STEINBERG, and CHARLIE 
SPOKES 
Sports Writers 
McGlinn vs. Howard 
McGlinn will try to vault to the top of tlw standings in tlw Blue Lnagun wlwn it faces oil' against lloward on Tuesday at 7 p.m. at Hinhle Finlds. 
The sucenss of the Shamrocks (:~-I) luL<;n't bnm realizml so far by tho Ducks () -2-1). but lloward knows it can beat anyone if its oll'm1sn can pnrf(>rm to iL'> poten­tial. 
"We nend our oll'ense to do a bnttnr job of being more consis­tnnt," tnam mptain Kayla Bishop said. "We're going to look to our receivers to make more catches and have fewer droppnd balls." 

Bishop said that too many droppnd balls were key in a disap­pointing tie last Thursday against Pasqunrilla West. 
She is eonfident, though, that wide receiver Kristen JefJ'ries and running back Beth Gribble each have the ability to steady the Ducks' o!Jicmse. 
The Shamrocks, meanwhile, find themselves in position to take sole possession of lirst place with a vietory tomorrow. 
The raw talent of the Shamrocks has bmm an integral part of the team's success this year, especially that of wide 
see MCGLINN/page 20 . 
SMC SoCCER 

Belles aim to alter poor play 
By ALEX BARKER SportS Writer 

Looking to get its first MIAA victory of the season, Saint Mary's will travel to play Adrian today at 4 p.m. 
So far this season, the Belles have suffered several close losses and currently sit at 0-2 in the conference and 1-7-1 overall. 
Their most recent matchup was Saturday at Hope College which proved to be a liercely contested match that went into double overtime before the Flying Dutch were able to net the game-winner. 
"It was a very well-played game between both teams," 
see ADRIAN/page 20 








