
Prof. McKenna gives first 'Last Lecture' 
Scholar provides life lessons to crowd ofstudents 
shoulder in the Coleman-Morse
By TESS CIVANTOS News Writer ·  lounge, spilling out into the hallway and smaller lounge.  
Short men can wear long ties and tap dancers can be serious schol­ars, Professor James McKenna said in his "Last Lecture" Wednesday. McKenna, Notre Dame's Edmund P. Joyce C.S.C. chair in anthropolo­ He opened with an anecdote about the day he realized that although he is short, he can wear a long tie by giving it a long tail and tucking the tail's end into his pants. "You can break a paradigm," he said of this realization.  
gy, shared the most important les­ He described his terror when, as  
sons he has learned through his years as a student, husband, father  a graduate student, he had to teach his first cla..<>S.  
and friend in the first of a series of lectures planned by student gov­ "If you had said, 'Your hanging is April 16,' I couldn't have been  
ernment.  more afraid."  
CASEY CARNEY!The Observer McKenna spoke to a packed Anthropology professor James McKenna gave room for an hour and a half.  Despite his initial fear, he now  CASEY CARNEY!The Observer McKenna spoke for an hour and a half to a crowd  
his "last Lecture" Wednesday night. Students crowded shoulder-to­ see LECTURE/page 4  that overflowed the Coleman-Morse lounge.  

SENATE 
Members discuss Jenkins' initiatives 
Cultural diversity, female faculty suggestions inspire debate, suggestions on University plans 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 

The Student Senate dis­cussed the University's policies on diversity, female faculty and new ideas for multicultural programming during its meet­ing Wednesday. 
The discussion centered on the suggestions made by University President Fr. John Jenkins' Cultural Diversity committee. Jenkins had asked the Senate for student input on the issue. 
"We're going to be writing a 

Wo111an hit by car near Rock 
Observer Staff Report 
A woman was struck by a vehi­cle on the corner of Dorr Road and Holy Cross Drive shortly after 6 
p.m. Wednesday. 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) and local fire trucks and ambulances arrived at the scene soon after a white sedan hit the victim while she wa.'l crossing the intersection. 
Police on the scene told The Observer the victim was not a stu­dent. She sustaim~d injuries to her left hip and was transported via ambulance to a local hospital. 
Police did not tell The Observer the identity of the driver of the white sedan at the time of the acci­dent. 
nice summary of the discussion and be giving it to Fr. Jenkins at the end of the week," stu­dent body vice president Grant Schmidt said. 
Schmidt said currently only 13 percent of Notre Dame's faculty are considered diversity faculty, and that number has not increased since 2000. Schmidt asked the senators what they thought the University could do to recruit and retain more diversity fac­ulty and if they thought having a diverse faculty was impor­
see SENATE/page 3 


BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
IT officer answers tech questions 
Members voice concerns about wireless Internet, campus printing 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Chief Information Officer Janice Thomasson discussed new innovations in Information Technology on Saint Mary's campus during the Board of Governance (BOG) meeting Wednesday. 
Thomasson took questions from board members about students technology concerns on campus, ranging from wireless Internet to the absence of printers in various residence and academic buildings. 
Thomasson referred to the Information Technology 
Strategic Blueprint for Saint Mary's College, which is avail­able on the Saint Mary's stu­dent Web site. This plan lays out upcoming advancements that will take place at the College in the next few years. 
Thomasson described the plan as "the road we plan to take at Saint Mary's to help you have a better student experience through the year 2012." 
One of the major concerns from board members was the availability of wireless Internet in Le Mans and Holy Cross residence halls. They are the last remaining build­ings without this service. 
The reason the process can­not be sped up is due in large part to funding, Thomasson said. 
"It's Holy Cross especially; very historic, very old, with very thick walls which I have to drill through, and that costs much more money. So, it's all about money," Thomasson said. 
Shauna Morris, the board's athletic commissioner, said residents of Opus Hall, the senior apartments on cam­pus, have been having trouble with their wireless connec­tion. Thomasson said the problems are due to the new­ness of the wireless technolo­
see BOG/page 4 

Wireless system changes 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 

The wireless Internet net­work at Notre Dame is chang­ing from NOMAD to a new sys­tem called NO-secure, a switch the Office of Information Technology (OIT) said will make the network more secure. 
"The NOMAD wireless net­work has served us well, but we've been striving to bring Notre Dame's network in line with wireless industry's best practices and move to a secure wireless network," OIT security professional Mike Chapple said. 
Notre Dame launched the NOMAD network in 2002, Chapple said. The main reason for the switch is to improve security, he said. 
"[NO-secure] uses a secure login process so the informa­tion you send is protected from eavesdropping by other wire­less network users," he said. 
The new network has encryp­tion technology that NOMAD lacked. 
"When you switch to the new network, you can rest assured that other users of the wireless network cannot eavesdrop on your communications. Unencrypted networks, such as NOMAD, do not offer the same capability," Chapple said. "The encryption technology used on NO-secure is similar to that used by secure Web sites." 

Under the new system, Chapple said NO-secure is available across campus in the same places as NOMAD, and WiFi coverage on campus will 
see WIFII page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, November 13, 2008 
INSIDE CoLUMN 

Change not co111ing yet 
No one rnads Tlw Obsnrvnr's sports 
hlog (but hnrn's a shamelnss plug­
you should! Tlw address is observnr­
sportsblog.21 cr.inf'ol, but if' they did I 
might have sonw nxplaining to do. 
Last wnek. I posted in defense of' 
Notre Damn's hnad 
football coach think­

Matt Gamber
ing it would takn <ll 
least until tlw 

inevitabln thrashing Associate 
at USC for the mas­Sports Editor 
sive inrtux of' "Fire 
Charlie Weis" 

rumors, artieles, lnttnrs and Web sites 
to really hnat up. But thanks to 
Saturday's dnbacln at Boston College, 
Christmas 1:omns narly. 

As disheartening as thn last two loss­
es have been, Wnis is still my-our­
man. As athletic director Jack 

Swnrbrick said ynsterday, he has the 
program moving in the right direction. 
But thn Chicago Sun-Times and ESPN 
rnports that Wnis was "officially" on the 
hot seat were probably prnmature. 
Unofficially though, in the court of' ran opinion, he's be1~n on it since last ynar's disastnr. Thn 3-9 season wasn't entirely his fault. and neither is this year's 5-4 record that marks both improvement and disappointment. 
But is the war in Iraq all (;eorge 
Bush's fault? I don't like him either, but 
ther·e are other factors at work. 
Can all thn blame for the economic 
nisis be placed on investnwnt banks? 
Fannie. Freddie and others also 
deserve some nedit-pun intended. 
Are Anwricans tlw only ones con­tributing to environmental decline? A fnw other countries have ears and trash. too. 
llow has the country tried to solve these problems? With a change in lead­ership (wlwtlwr Obama can and will get it donn is a topic for another column). 
Al'tnr the loss to Pitt, Weis altered the practice sdwdule. After tho loss to BC, he's taken over the offensive play-call­ing duties (a situation complicated by a death in Mike Haywood's family-my condolnncns, by the way). 
When Wnis runs out of ehanges, Swarbrick and othnrs might have to start making some. And that usually starts at thn top. 
It won't happnn this week, probably not this year. and chances arc, not even af'ter nnxt year unless the team takes a major dive-which no one wants to see. 
Alumni can eomplain to Fr. .Jenkins and withhold their ticket donations, but until one of them comes up with the x­million dollars it would take to buy out Weis' contract. it'll all be moot. 
That being said, it's dear Weis needs to step it up-at least, he needs his team to step up for him. 
Notre Dame needs to find some moti­vation-to save their coach's job, to qualify for a bowl game, to avoid another embarrassing loss, to shut up whiney alumni-to turn things around. 
Frankly, I don't think anyone cares how the team does it-we just want wins. 
Without them, the Notre Dame foot­ball program might be !crt looking for a leadnr that can instill a belief. validat­ed or not, that "Yes, we can!" 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at m.qamber@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Nov. II edition ofThe Observer, rhe article erided "Students suppnrt hotel workers" said UNITE HERE organizer Richard Kuan was a HE! hotel worker. Kuan does not work at rhc Le Meridian hotel in San Francisco. The Observer regrets this error. 
-
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO 




Billy Shields  Christina McClain  Kate Clitheroe  
sophomore Keenan  junior Lyons  sophomore Lewis  
"Wear more of my roommate's hats. ,  "1/ibernate. ''  "Wish I were back in Oregon. ,  

DO NOW THAT IT'S GETTING COLD? 



Sean Smith  Ying Lui  
senior Keenan  senior Keenan  
"Insulate my room with crumpled up copies ofThe Observer."  "Take my shirt off"  


OFFBEAT 

Pastor issues 7-day sex challenge for married couples 
DALLAS -The pastor of a mega­church says he will challenge married congregants during his sermon Sunday to have sex for seven straight days ­and he plans to practice what he preach­es. 
"We're going to give it a try," said the Hev. Ed Young, who has four children with his wife of 26 years. 
Young, 4 7, said he believes society pro­motes promiscuity and he wants to 
• reclaim sex for married couples. Sex should be a nurturing, spiritual act that strengthens marriages, he said. 
"God says sex should be between a married man and a woman," Young said. "I think it's one of the greatest things you can do for your kids because so goes the marriage, so goes the fami­
1 .. 
y. 

Young said he will deliver his seven-day sex challenge while sitting on a bed in front of his Dallas-area church campus. He is founder of the nondenominational Fellowship Church, which draws about 20,000 people each Sunday and also has campuses in Fort Worth, Plano and Miami. 
Nebraska man attacks girlfriend over macaroni dinner 
NORTH PLATTE, Neb. -An unem­ployed man faces a domestic assault charge after he allegedly attacked his girlfriend last Saturday for making him macaroni for dinner. Investigator Dale Matuszczak said the woman called for help after locking herself in a bathroom. 
Matuszczak said she apparently had been hit with a cooking pot, suffering a cut on her nose and bruise on her face. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY GAME DAY 
a:: 
UJ :::1: 
~ 
UJ 
3: 
....I 
< 


e.
(.) 

0 

HIGH 58 HIGH 47 HIGH 48 HIGH 37
..... 

LOW 45 LOW 45 LOW 32 LOW 28 
IN BRIEF 
"Faith, Democracy and Values: The Challenge of Moral Formation in Families, Schools and Societies" is part of the Association for Moral Education's (!\ME) 34th annual conference. The conference aims to examine moral educa­tion and the ways it informs and, in turn is informed by, faith and political perspectives in a diverse and complex global community. The event is to be held all day today in McKenna Hall and is sponsored by the Center for Ethical Education (CEE). 
Guy Vanmcenen of Catholic Relief Services (CHS), the offi­cial international humanitarian agnncy of the U.S. Catholic com­munity will speak today in the Eck Visitors' Center auditorium at 4 p.m. This event is co-spon­sored by the Mendoza College of Business and the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies. 
The Black Cultural Arts Council is holding an open call in the Washington Hall Lab Theater tonight from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. for models and partici­pants for the Black Cultural Arts Council fashion show. Everyone of every race and gender is invited to try out. 
Student Standup will take place tonight at 10 p.m. at Ledgcnds. 
Flipside is holding a screening of "The Breakfast Club" in the Montgomery Auditorium of LaFortune Friday at 11 p.m. Breakfast food will be served. Admission is free and all are welcome. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mailed detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SUNDAY MONDAY 
e. 


HIGH 40 HIGH 48 LOW 25 LOW 33 
Atlanta 58 I 45 Boston 45 I 32 Chicago 49 I 36 Denver 56 I 29 Houston 77 I 68 Los Angeles 77 I 55 Minneapolis 39 I 29 New York 48 I 38 Philadelphia 52 I 37 Phoenix 76 I 53 Seattle 56 I 50 St. Louis 53 I 43 Tampa 82 I 63 Washington 54 I 39 
Thursday, November 13, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
by the Cultural Diversity committee was the inclusion
Senate 

of a weeklong celebration entitled "We are NO."
continued from page 1 

"This event would enable tant. Notre Dame to celebrate the 
O'Neill Hall senator Kevin strength of our diverse com­Kimberly said recruiting was munity while welcoming indi­important to creating a viduals to experience cultural diverse faculty. entertainment they may have 
"Hecruiting people to come missed during the academic 
here and to apply here is a year," the committee's report great idea to increase diversi­said. ty and I don't think it's unfair Senate Oversight committee either," he said. chair Ian Secviar said he 
Senate Community liked the idea of one large Helations committee chair celebration, adding that the Gus Gari said the life experi­advertising would help give ences of diversity faculty exposure to lesser-known were invaluable in the class­groups such as the German room, particularly in the for­Club. eign language departments. "I really like this idea of 
''I'm a Spanish major and if having one universal event in you have a professor that is addition to everything else," from a Spanish-speaking Secviar said. "I feel it's great country, that's something if everything is highlighted from their background that and it brings us together as a adds a bit to the class," he University community." said. Another recommendation 
Walsh Hall senator Julie by the committee was the Zorb said it is important to inclusion of diversity pro­focus on retention rate as gramming grants, which well because that statistic is would be accessible to groups "indicative of the happiness who need funding to hold of diversity faculty mem­diversity events. bers." "For those groups and fac­
Schmidt said the ulty members who have a University's percentage of desire to provide diversity female faculty was only 24 programming for our cam­percent -a figure much pus, this fund will allow them lower than many of Notre to increase the quality of Dame's peer institutions, their programs without deci­Schmidt said. mating their club alloca­
"The problem is we haven't tions," the committee's report been keeping up with our said. peers," he said. Senate Multicultural Issues 
Faculty Senate liaison and committee chair Alyssa biology professor Kristin Zamora said the fund would Lewis, who attended Notre be useful to many clubs. Dame both as an undergrad­"If you want to promote 
uate and graduate student, diversity, these· funds would said she has seen conditions be available to you," she said. for women The final rec­improve since ommendation she l'irst "Recruiting people to of the Cultural arrived at the Diversity com­
come here and to 
University. mitt.ee is the
apply here is a great
"I think creation of things have idea to increase "Hero Days," gotten better diversity and I don't which would 
for women," honor "mem­
think it's unfair 
she said. bers from vari­
But Lewis either." ous ethnic/cul­said Notre tural groups by Dame's reten­sponsoring
Kevin Kimberly
tion rate for opportunities to 
senator
female pro­celebrate their fessors was O'Neill Hall contributions in low because the form of they had community trouble finding other female service, faculty lectures, professors at the University prayers services and class­to work with. room/residence hall discus­
"I think it takes a critical sions, the committee's mass for women to find their report said. own colleagues, peers and Secviar said the "Hero support groups," she said. Days," which would honor 
Schmidt said one aspect of one person each month the committee's recommen­beginning in the spring dations was to consider the semester of 2009, were a call for more cultural diversi­good idea because they would ty events. provide exposure for a num­
Duncan Hall senator Ben ber of clubs in addition to Linskey said the inclusion of celebrating the values of the multiple events under one University. 
umbrella was a good idea. "I think it's great that it 
"I think that the way it's set focuses on American Catholic up right now, it's kind of values," he said. "This would Balkanized," Linskey said. "I be a great venue for some of think you need a more holis­the lesser-known clubs." tic approach." 
Committee on Academic 

In other Senate news: 
Affairs chair Hyan + The Senate unanimously Brellenthin said it is impor­passed a resolution calling tant not to dilute the quality for intramural sports regis­of the events for the sake of 
tration forms to be put quantity. online. Alumni Hall Senator "I think it's important to not Zach Reuvers, who sponsored 
just have events for the sake the resolution, said RecSports of having events," Brellenthin had wanted to move all the said. "You need to think big." forms online, but needed help Senate Technology commit­from the Office of tee chair Devin Fee said some Information Technology 
(OIT). This resolution, he
multicultural events are not welcoming to the entire cam­said, would help show OIT 
pus. that students supported the ''I'm not really sure the tar­move. get audience for these events is everyone," Fee said. Contact Joseph McMahon at One suggestion put forward jmcmaho6@nd.edu 


Quran a model for Muslims 
Text challenges American followers ofIslam to achieve ideal community 
"This paints and ugly pic­because Muslim ideals match
By LIZ HARTER ture of the world and the well with American ideals. 

Saint Mary's Editor 

Muslim community," she said. "Ethnic diversity and racial "We have to make it clear harmony are American ideals 
The American Muslim popu­that we stand against this vio­so Islam functions as a valu­lation is working towards lence." able contribution to American becoming the model commu­American Muslims are life," she said. nity outlined in the Quran, unique in the fact that Islam Karim has a personal vision Jamillah Karim, an assistant includes both Muslims who of how the American Muslim professor of religion at immigrated to the United community will emerge as the Spelman College in Atlanta, States and native-born model community. Ga., said at a lecture in Americans who have convert­"We need to become a com­Stapleton Lounge at Saint ed to the religion, Karim said. munity that challenges racial Mary's Wednesday. "The significant population and class inequalities and 
Karim began her lecture by of native-born American con­challenges people to see how quoting from the Quran and verts are African-American they share a common back­explaining how the text states because of the early success ground with others," she said. Muslims should strive to be of the religion in appealing to "It's not only a Muslim ideal, like the prophet Muhammad. the social realities of blacks," but an American ideal. We 
"The Prophet Muhammad she said. "However, Islam is share a common commonality loved most those people who also appealing to white as those of different religions were most beneficial to oth­Americans. Out of the 20,000 and class backgrounds." 
ers and most helpful in help­conversions which occur each This commonality is impor­ing others bear burdens," year 27 percent are tant because it will allow Karim said. "We have to whites." American Muslims to become become a people that benefit These conversions have the model community, she humanity and not harm peo­continued after Sept. 11 even said. ple. Muslims are expected to though many Americans "There is a struggle and live up to prophetic guidance report having unfavorable reflection that remains, but a and become model communi­views of Muslims, Karim said. bright future is possible," she ty." "Most Americans have been said. "It depends on both 
Karim said it seems as tolerant and respectful in Muslims and non-Muslims. 
though American Muslims are interactions," she said. We are all here together "severely failing" to meet the Karim said she thinks whether we are born here or expectation to become a Muslims have found a place emigrate here." model community because of in American society and have Muslim extremism and vio­been able to begin building Contact Liz Harter at lence. towards the model community eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 631-7163 Dillon, Campus Ministry, 631-7163 Sus~n Steibe-Pasalich, G:lUnseling Ctr., 631-4365 E.I<l.eva, Health Services, 631-8286  1 I  
Care Center: 234-0363  

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 13, 2008 
WiFi 

continued from page 1 
not be affected by the ehange. 
But the changn is not auto­matic. Students and faculty must provide th11ir NetiD and password in order to join the new network. 
"Wn encourage students, fae­
ulty and staff to switch immedi­ately to gain the security bene­fits of the new network," Chapple said. 
Step-by-step instructions on how to make the change for Windows, Macintosh and Linux systems, along with a variety of other devices, are available at secure.nd.edu. 
Chapple said it is important for all campus Internet users to 
switch to NO-secure to help protect "personal information from prying eyes." 
"We strongly encourage everyone to convert to the NO­secure wireless network as soon as possible. Making the switch should only take about five minutes and it will substan­tially increase the security of your network connection," Chapple said. 

Students can contact the orr Help Desk at 574-631-8111 or can visit 128 DeBartolo Hall for assistance. 
Chapple said the launch of the ND-secure network required over a year's worth of planning and implementation work. 
"Adding encryption to our wireless network required a substantial upgrade of Notre 
Dame's wireless network equip. ment and tiHJ combined effort of a large number of network, security and system engineers," he said. "We also consulted with a wide variety of campus groups, induding departmental IT support personnel and Student Government." 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 


Lecture 

continued from page 1 
loves teaching, and won Notre Dame's Charles .1. Sheedy 'JiJaching Award li1r 200S. 
"Don't fear not knowing what your future is. Don't fear not knowing what your major is. Don't fear not knowing what you'll do with that major," MeKmma said. "Always. always follow your mnotions and what you lild to be right li1r you at that lime -not in I 0 ynars, or two ynars or six months." 
McKenna said hn's donn things in his earner hn muld not havn fathomPd when hn was younger. 
"If you had told mn as a collngn stu­dent. or ov«>n as a graduatn student. that I would lw studying motlwr-infant slnPp patterns and brnast­I'PPding IIPVPJ' in my wildnst imagi­nation would I nvnr havP thought I'd b1l 
"/Jon 't fear not knowing what your future is. /Jon 't fear not knowing what your major is. Don't j(>ar not knowing what you'll do with that major. Ill ways, always follow your emotions and what you feel to be right for you at that time -not in 1 o years, or two years or six months." 
James McKenna anthropology professor 
studying this." McKmna said. 
Kindness and thoughtfulnnss an• somP ol' l.lw most important things in lil'n, McKnrliJa said. A chancn visit to thank an old col­l1•gp professor liw lwr good advi1:e IPd l.o McKmma's first job, tmtch­ing at Bnrknlny lin· a year. 
"1\indnoss gnL'i misconstrund as sonwthing you do l.o manipulatP p«>opl«>," Mt:Knnna said. "But tlw morP you ).,<iVP away, tlw morn you gPL I promisP you. this is so trun." 
Snlf-fullilling proplll'rins are a l'lla]ity of life. lw said. 
"II' you think PVPryonn is nice and gnrwrous. or you think nvnry­lllW is nasty and nwan. rwopln will lw what you PXpPct of tlwm," McKenna said. 
McKPIIIHI advis.-d students not to worry about big dP<'isions or evenLs, but rather to keep things in perspective. 
"There is no single big decision; there are only continuously big dedsions. You cannot know how you're going to feel about some­thing six months from now, a year from now, two years from now," McKenna said. "Make decisions based on what you know to be trun about you right now, and you can nevnr make a wrong deci­sion." 
McKenna advised students to "always be as good as you can." 
"It gives you immediate gratifi­cation, and lays a foundation of peopln wanting to hnlp you," he 
said. 
lie added: "Never ever give up the opportu­nity to make a friend." 
McKenna said some of his favorite advice came from his wili1 of 35 years, Joanne, who once reassured him after a review panel tr·eated him 
ru.~ely. . You cant be rcsponsibln for other people's bad behavior,"' he said shn told him. "'You can only be rnsponsi­bln for your own, 
and making sure you never treat flPopiP like that."' 
McKenna sharPd nwmories of his yPars as a BerkPiey student during tlw tumultuous 1960s. 
"I was the only pPrson to go to 
U. C. Bnrknley from 1966 to 1970 who rwvnr tried marijuana," he said with a laugh. 
lin told studenl'i that some day wlwn their children call home to say that they have picked a "usfl­lnss" major like anthropology, they should not ask, "What can you do with that major'?" but should instead respond. "There is nothing you can not do with that rm~jor." 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 

Saint Mary's College Department of Communication Studies, Dance, and Theatre presents 
Ken Ludwig's 
LEND ME ATENOR 
Directed by Katie Sullivan Costumes by Melissa BBialko 
November 13-15, 7:30p.m. November 16, 2:30 p.m. 
aTony Award winning comedy 
Scenery by Michaela Duffy Lighting by Annaliese Furman 
Olaughlin Auditoriumi Moreau Center for the Art 

Adult-$10, Senior Citizen-$8, SMC/ND/HCC Faculty/Staff-$7, SMC/ND/HCC Student-$5 Box Office: (574) 284-4626 or MoreauCenter.com 
!I 

addressed in the Strategic Blueprint.
BOG 

Thomasson also mentioned continued from page 1 that internships are available in the IT office. All the stu­
gy. 
"Wireless, again, is still in, not babyhood, but it's a tod­dler. And it's not quite ready to be mainstream yet." she said. 
Aside from wireless, board members also mentioned adding network printers to buildings on campus. adding a computer lab in Spes Unica and improving student identi­fication cards. Thomasson said these problems are all dents who have participated in this program have received good, high-paying jobs after graduation, she said. 

The internship counts for three credit hours and can be set up with a faculty sponsor. It allows students the chance to boost their n~sumc, Thomasson said. 
In other BOG news: 

+ The BOG members dis­
cussed an open forum for stu­dents to discuss food at the Noble Family Dining Hall. The forum will be held in the Student Center before Thanksgiving Break, Student Serviens commissioner Catherine Meadors said. 
Barry Bowles, general man­ager of Sodnxo at the College, will be attending the forum in order to take questions and suggestions from the students about the food in the dining hall. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at asharnO I @saintmarys.edu 


Brian Wilson Mannheim Willie Nelson Diane Penning Beach Boys Songwriter Steamroller & Family with South Bend Symphony & Pop Rock Legend Christmas Music Billy Bob Thornton Home for the Holidays Thursday, Nov. 13 Friday, Nov. 21 Friday, Nov. 28 Sunday, Dec. 7 
UPC()minll ~h()WS Valais f2f)l'ale tvents 
Bella Bridal Event Wedding Experts & Style Show 
New Year's Eve Dinner/Dance with P.at Heiden Dance Band 


~ports. 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, Novemeber, 13 2008 CoMPILED FROtv\ THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Managuan election under review 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua -Nicaragua's election council has agreed to allow a review of the capital's mayoral election results aft~r opponents of leftist President Daniel Ortega cried fraud. The race for mayor of Managua was the most closely watched of the 146 municipal elections, which were considered a referendum on Ortega's own performance in office. 
Alexis Arguello. a former boxing champi­on and the candidate from Ortega's Sandinista party. won, according to official results. 
Election council President Robert Rivas announced Wednesday that ballot tally shnets would be reviewed to address alle­gations of fraud in the race. lie said he would ask prosecutors to inves­tigate allegations that ballots were found in a garbage bin. 
Rebels reject ceasefire offers 
KIIAHTOUM, Sudan -President Omar ai­Bashir offered a ceasefire in Darfur on Wednesday and promised to disarm mili­tias, a top rebel demand. in a new push by his government to show it is serious about ending the nearly 6-year-old conflict. 
Darfur rebels dismissed the moves, say­ing they don't trust ai-Bashir and want to see disarmament of the feared janjaweed militias before agreeing to a ceasefire. 
It comes as the Sudanese president is try­ing to fend off possible genocide charges by the International Criminal Court over atrocities in Darfur. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Same-sex couples married 
WEST HAHTFORD, Conn. -Same-sex couples exchanged vows Wednesday for the first time in Connecticut amid cheers and tears of joy, while gay activists planned protests across the country over the vote that took away their right to marry in California. 
The Connecticut Supreme Court ruled 4­3 on Oct. 10 that same-sex couples have the right to wed rather than accept a 2005 civil union law designed to give them the same rights as married couples. A lower­court judge entered a final order permit­ting same-sex marriage Wednesday morn­ing. Massachusetts is the only other state that allows gay marriages. 
Lack of money leads to layoffs 
AUSTIN, Texas -The University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston, which was damaged by Hurricane Ike, said Wednesday about 3,800 workers would be laid off because the teaching hospital is running out of money. 
The University of Texas Board of Hegents said in a news release that the Galveston hospital would have no money to operate in about three months, at its current spending rate. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Tribune cuts staff by 14 percent 
SOUTH BEND. Ind. -The South Bend Tribune is reducing its staff by nearly 14 per­cent this year, cutting 56 positions through retirements, voluntary and involuntary sev­erance packages and by leaving some open positions unfilled. 
David Hay, editor and publisher of the newspaper, says the Tribune decided to offer the severance packages to some employees after other cost-cutting efTorts failed to keep pacfl with the economic downturn. 
FRANCE 

Obama sparks political diversity 
Landmark U.S. presidential election brings hope to European nations 
Associated Press 
PARIS -An Obama effect is rippling across Europe. 
In France, a pro-Barack Obama grassroots group created months ago is morphing into a campaign for political diversity. In Britain, a black voter group says it is inundated with calls and attendance is soaring. 
In Austria, a Rwandan­born activist has fired off letters to big parties urg­ing them to field minority candidates.' And in Germany, the staff of Turkish politician Cern Ozdemir started a Facebook group called "Yes we Cern" -a takeoff on Obama's slogan. "Yes we can." 
Obama's victory is inspiring hopes and even planting the seeds of action for changing the overwhelming whiteness of Europe's political elite. But it's unclear whether these efforts will pay off or merely fizzle. Although polls showed majorities in nearly every European country favored Obama over John McCain, many say Europe is far from voting for a leader from an ethnic minority itself. 

Of course, the victory of son, the Interior Ministry "The vote for Obama end on France's lack of the son of a black man in Germany says "foreign­rings as a critique of poli­political diversity. from Kenya and a white ers" made up about 8.2 tics in France as sclerotic, Spokesperson Azedine woman from Kansas has percent of the population old and tired -and not Haffar said France's brought hope to many in 2006. And anti-discrim­just here," said Faycal stance that all of its citi­parts of the developing ination groups estimate Douhane, a Socialist of zens are simply French world. But in places like that blacks and people of Algerian heritage who holds minorities back. Britain and France, which North African origin -leads an association of "There was a before have long prided them­mostly from former mayors in the Paris area. Nov. 4, and an after Nov. selves on their democra­colonies -make up at "It's embarrassing for 4," he said. "And those cies, it has also empha­least 10 percent of France." who want to stay in the sized how far their gov­France. Neither country Obama's victory was before, we can tell them: ernments are from reflect­collects official statistics particularly resonant in 'No, it's finished. This era ing racial diversity today. on race. France. A group formed in is over."' 
Europe and the relative­Yet only 10 lawmakers a cafe months ago as the Malek Boutih, who over­ly young United States in Germany's 613-seat Friends of Barack Obama sees social issues at have vastly different histo­lower house of parliament in the southeastern city of France's main opposition ries when it comes to come from minority back­Lyon is renaming itself Socialist Party, said he race. grounds. And in France, "The Movement" to lobby plans to use a major party 
The United States is a the lower house of parlia­political parties to select congress this week to lot more diverse: ment has just one black minority candidates. It deliver a message: "Let Minorities now make up lawmaker among 555 also plans to write up and minorities join the politi­about a third of all elected from the French send a report to President cal fight and gain respon­Americans. By compari-mainland. Nicolas Sarkozy by year-sibility." 



Legacy of Klan remains in town 
Associated Press 
OGALUSA, La. -Hattie Dillon got a first-hand taste of the racial hatred that gripped this city in the 1960s when a metal bolt flung by someone in an angry crowd gashed her head as she marched for civil rights. 
On Wednesday, sitting on her front porch just off Main Street, the 61­year-old who is black said Bogalusa is better now. But the bloody legacy of racial violence and brazen Ku Klux Klan activity in the area remains ­evidenced by the arrest of eight local people in the death of an Oklahoma woman shot when a weekend Klan initiation went awry. 

"History was made this month," Dillon said, referring to Barack Obama's election as the nation's first black president. "Then our eyes opened again." 
Sunday's killing was in St. Tammany Parish, just across the Washington Parish line and all the suspects are from Washington Parish, which more than 40 years earlier was beset by anti-desegregation vio­lence. In 1965, Oneal Moore, the parish's first black sheriff's deputy, was slain in an ambush, a crime that has not been solved. 
"In 1965, the Klan ran Bogalusa, and so it's not at all surprising to see the legacy of that organization re­emerge in the form of a new generac tion of Klan advocates," said Lance Hill, executive director of Tulane University's Southern Institute for Education and Research. 
In this week's shooting, St. Tammany Sheriff Jack Strain said Cynthia C. Lynch, 43, of Tulsa, Okla., was recruited over the Internet to participate in the KKK ritual in a rural area and then was to return to her state to attract members. Strain said the group's leader, Raymond "Chuck" Foster, 44. shot and killed her after a fight broke out when she asked to be taken back to the town of Slidell. 

page 6 Thursday, November 13, 2008
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Drununer for Hendrix found dead 
Mitch Mitchell, last surviving member ofthe group, dies at 61 in hotel room 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. -Mitch Mitchell, drummer for the legendary Jimi Hendrix Experience of the 1960s and the group's last surviving member, was found dead in his hotel room early Wednesday. He was 61. 

Mitchell was a powerful force on the Hendrix band's 1967 debut album "Are You Experienced?" as well as the trio's albums "Electric Ladyland" and "Axis: Bold As Love." He had an explo­sive drumming style that can be heard in hard-charging songs such as "Fire" and "Manic Depression." The Englishman had been drum­ming for the Experience Hendrix Tour, which per­formed friday in Portland. It was the last stop on the West Coast part of the tour. 
Hendrix died in 1970. Bass player Noel Hedding died in 2003. 

An employee at Portland's Benson Hotel called police after discovering Mitchell's body. 
Erin Patrick, a deputy medical examiner, said 
Mitchell appar­ently died of' natural causes. An autopsy was planned. 
"lie was a wonderful man, a bril­liant musician and a true friend," said .1 anie 11 end r i x, ehiof executive of the 1\xperinnce llendrix Tour 
and .limi 

llnndrix's stepsister. "llis role in shaping tho sound of t.he .Jimi Hendrix l~xperionce cannot be underestimated." 
Bob Mnrlis, a spokesman f'or the tour, said Mitchell had stayed in Portland f'or a four-day vacation and planned to leavn Wednnsday. 
"It was a dnvastaling sur­prise," Merlis said. "Nobody drummed like he did." 
II e said lw saw Mitclw II pnrf'orm two weeks ago in Los Angeles, and the drum­mer appeared to be healthy and upbeat. 
Merlis said the tour was designed to bring together. veteran musicians who had 
Spangled Banner" before the band launched into "Purple Haze." 
The Jimi Hendrix Experience was inducted into the Rock Hall of 
k n o w n Hendrix like Mitchell 
and y o u n g e r artists, such as Grammy­nominated winner Jonny Lang, who have been 
"Mitch Mitchell had a massive influence on rock 'n, roll drumming and took it to new heights." 
Terry Stewart 

Fame in 1 9 9 2 . According to the Hall of Fame, Mitchell was born July 9, 1947, in E a I in g, England. 
influenced by chief executive of the Rock T e r r y him. Stewart,
and Roll Hall of Fame 

Blues-rock guitarist Kenny Wayne Shepherd, who is 31 and was part of the tour, said Mitchell was to the drums what Hendrix was to the guitar. 
"Today many of us have lost a dear friend, and the world has lost a rock n' roll hero," he said. 
Mitchell was a one-of-a­kind drummer whose "jazz­tinged" style was influenced by Max Roach and Elvin Jones, Merlis said. The work was a vital part of both the 
"He was a wonderful man, a brilliant musician and a true friend." 
Janie Hendrix Jim I Hendrix's step-sister 
Jimi Hendrix Experience in the 1960s and the Experience Hendrix Tour that ended last week, he said. 
"If Jimi Hendrix were still alive," Merlis said, "he would have acknowl­edged that." 
During his 
career Mitchell played with the bnst in the business ­not just Hendrix, but also Erie Clapton, .John Lennon, Keith Hichards, Jack Bruce, JolT Beck, Muddy Waters and othnrs. 
Mitchell was a member of a later version of the Jimi Hendrix Experience that performed the closing set of the Woodstock Festival in August 1969 where Hendrix played a psychedel­ic vorsion of "The Star-
ALUMNI HALL 
N IGI-ITLY HOURS MENU 
SUNDAY: 11:00-1:00 12" PIZZA: $.5
MUN·'IIIlJRS: 10:00 I :00 
16" PIZZA: $7FRIDAY: 12:00 3:00 I'OPPINGS: $..50 IACIISATURDAY: 12:00-3:00 

RREADS riCK..'> (4): $2 CIII'F:>Y RREADSTICK..<; (4): $3 CONTACT COLD SODA: $ . .'i0 IHC ROOTBHR: $1 
AIM: TIIIDAWGPIZZA 1'1 ION[: 57'1-631-9461 
FREE DELIVERY 
.SUNDAYS: 11:00-1:00 
MON· Till JRS: I 0:00· 1:00 (10 ANYWHERE IN ALUMNI OR IHE COURTYARO STFPS OF OII.UON) 


chief exec­
utive of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum, said Mitchell transformed his instrument from a "strictly percussive ele­ment to a lead instru­ment." 
"His interplay with Jimi Hendrix's guitar on songs like 'Fire' is truly amaz­ing," Stewart said Wednesday. "Mitch Mitchell had a massive influence on rock 'n' roll drumming and took it to new heights." 
Hendrix, Redding and Mitchell held their first rehearsal in October 1966, according to the Hall of Fame's Web site. 
In an interview last month with the Boston Herald, Mitchell said he met Hendrix "in this sleazy little club." 
"We did some Chuck Berry and took it from there," Mitchell told the newspaper. "I suppose it worked." 



Ike prompts hospital to lay off workers 

University of Texas Medical Branch will let go of3,800 employees due to lack of funding 
Associated Press 

AUSTIN, Texas -The University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston, a teach­ing hospital severely damaged by Hurricane Ike, will lay off about 3,800 workers -nearly a third of its work force ­because it is running out of money. 
The University of Texas Board of Regents said in a news release that the Galveston hospital would have no money to operate in about 
three months, at "The health care Dr. Kenneth its current Shine, interim
industry tends to be 

spending rate. chancellor of
maintained even

Ike caused the UT system, nearly $710 mil­through an economic was optimistic lion in losses to that most of
downturn. " 

the hospital those laid off when it struck from the hospi­
Dr. Kenneth Shine 

the Texas coast tal would find in September UT Interim chancellor work at other 
Galveston on Sept. 13, flatten­ing buildings and killing at least 37 people in Texas and more than 70 nationally. The monster storm was 600 miles wide when it hit land and is the most expensive in Texas history, an estimated $11.4 billion in damages -so far. 
UT officials had not yet iden­tified which employees would be laid off but plan to pay them through January, according to The Galveston County Daily News. UTMB has 
12,000 
employees. 

and officials have said insur­ance covered only about $100 million of that. 
Some of UTMB's 85 buildings were inundated by up to 8 feet of water. The hospital's kitchen, blood bank and radi­ology department were virtu­ally destroyed. 
The University of Texas sys­tem doesn't have the money to cover the hospital's needs and Federal Emergency Management Agency funds cannot be used for operating expenses, or wages and bene­fits of staff, officials say. 
Ike blasted ashore near health care 
institutions. 
"The health care industry tends to be maintained even through an economic down­turn," he said in the Houston Chronicle. 
A few faculty members would be laid off, but would remain on the payroll through the end of the academic year, Shine said. 
The regents said the impact of the job losses could be less­ened by hiring those affected in open positions at other University of' Texas faeilities or assisting them in job searches elsewhere. 

The Nanovic Institute Film Series presents 
BY JAN 

Animated masterpiece of Lewis Carroll's classic tale 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13TH 6:30* & 9:30PM, BROWNING CINEMA DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
*6:30pm screening will be introduced by Malynne Sternstein Associate Professor of Slavic Studies, University of Chicago 
Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff, and $3 all students Call 574-631-2800 or visit performingarts.nd.edu 
~DEBARTOLO llhlUNIVERSITYOF ~PERFORMING ARTS CENTER w NOTRE DAME 

Thursday, November 13, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

Jones 8,282.66 -411.30 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
323 50 3,250 1,568,816,694 
AMEX  1.;304;49  ·>;~~§~;a~.]  
NASDAQ  1,499.21  -81.69  
NYSE  5,320.70.,;.t3t:t6T  
S&P 500  852.30  -46.65  
NIKKEI (Tokyo)  8,695.51  0.00  
FTSE 100 (London) 4,182.02 -64.67 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -4.40 -3.95 85.82 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -6.16 -0.82 12.50 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -4.62 -1.39 28.71 !SHARES MSQ E.M.I.F. (EEM) -7.42 -1.73 21.59 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -2.40 -0.090 3.665 13-WEEK BILL -28.21 -0.055 0.140 30-YEAR BOND -0.43 -0.018 4.190 5-YEAR NOTE -5.55 -0.139 2.364 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -3.17 56.16 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -14.50 718.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.28 84.95 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 94.8200 EURO 0.7997 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2397 BRITISH POUND 0.6683 
IN BRIEF 

Dems seek help for auto industry 
WASHINGTON -Congressional Democrats are pushing legislation to send $25 billion in emergency loans to the beleaguered auto industry in exchange for a government owner­ship stake in the Big Three car companies. 
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and Senate Majority Leader Harry Heid, D-Nev., hope for quick passage of the auto bailout during a postelection session that begins Monday. 
Legislation being drafted by Rep. Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, and Sen. Carl M. Levin, 0-Mich., would dip into the $700 billion Wall Street rescue money, approved by Congress last month, for the auto aid. 
President Bush is cool to that idea. But the White House says he is open to helping the industry, which is buckling under poor sales, tight credit and a sputtering economy. 
In an Oval Office meeting Monday, President-elect Obama spoke to Bush about doing more to aid the industry, aides said, and Bush said he was open to it. 
Any efl'ort to throw the companies a lifeline could run into GOP roadblocks that could derail it in the Senate. In that chamber, Hepublicans, including some who believe their votes for the Wall Street bailout hurt, and in some cases doomed, their re-electinn bids, are loath to agree to any new money. 
Stock market continues to fall 
NEW YORK -A disheartened Wall Street fell for the third straight session Wednesday as investors absorbed another series of dismal corporate reports and news that the govern­ment won't buy banks' soured mortgage assets after all. The Dow Jones industrials dropped more than 410 points to 8,282.66, and all the major indexes lost more than 4 percent. 
The stock market has lost about $1 trillion over the past three days, according to the Dow Jones Wilshire 5000 index, which reflects the value of nearly all U.S. stocks. 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 

Financial rescue plan to change 
Bush administration focuses on bank stock instead of buying troubled assets 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administration is embracing an old adage when it comes to its finan­cial rescue plan: Try, try again. 
Urgently shifting course, the administration revamped its $700 billion bailout package by jetti­soning the idea of purchas­ing banks' distressed assets -the centerpiece of the original plan -and announcing Wednesday that it will search for new ways to shore up not only banks but credit-card, auto-loan and other huge nonbank businesses. 
Democrats, meanwhile, are pressing hard to include billions of dollars in help for faltering automakers-over admin­istration objections. 
Unimpressed by any of the overhaul talk, Wall Street dove ever lower. 
"The facts changed and the situation worsened," Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said at a news briefing, explaining the administration's switch from its plan to help finan­cial institutions by buying up troubled assets, prima­
Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson addresses reporters Wednesday concerning the Bush
rily securities backed by 
administration's decision to focus on bank stock instead of buying troubled assets.
bad home loans, and instead continue to focus House Democrat was put-done before the economy administration had on direct purchases of ting together legislation can turn the corner. changed the emphasis bank stock. that would send $25 billion To accomplish those because of a need to get Despite its new flexibility, in emergency loans to the goals, Paulson said the money into the financial the administration beleaguered industry in administration would con-system much more quickly remained opposed to using exchange for a government tinue to use $250 billion of because of a worsening the rescue fund to bail out ownership stake in the Big the $700 billion rescue credit crunch. Setting up a the ailing auto industry or Three car companies. fund to make direct pur-purchase program for the to provide guarantees for Not all the news was chases of bank stock as a bad assets was taking too home loans, an idea that bad, Paulson suggested. He way of supplying hundreds much time, officials said. supporters contend offers said the rescue program and potentially thousands It was another rough day the greatest hope for help­approved by Congress a of banks with extra capital on Wall Street as investors ing legions of Americans month ago has already had in hopes that they will received more bad news on who are facing foreclosure. an impact in dealing with resume more normal lend-corporate earnings and Congressional Democrats the most severe financial ing. wer.e also disappointed by felt otherwise on autos, crisis in decades, a credit But Paulson said the Paulson's decision not to and strongly. House squeeze that is threatening administration had decided mop up bad assets of Speaker Nancy Pelosi and to push the country into a that the original focus of financial institutions. The 
Senate Majority Leader deep and prolonged reces-the bailout program -the Dow Jones industrial aver­Harry Reid were pressing sion. purchase of distressed age fell for the third for quick passage of a "Our system is stronger mortgage-backed securi-straight session, plunging 
major package for carmak­and more stable than just a ties and other troubled 411.30 points to close at ers during a postelection few weeks ago," he said. assets on the books of 8,282.66, the lowest close session that begins next But he cautioned that banks -would not be since it hit a 5 1/2-year low Tuesday, and one key much more needs to be employed. He said the on Oct. 27. 


Consumer-based economy to end 
Associated Press season would be "a nail-biter" and after Circuit City Stores Inc. filed for 
slashed its budget for 2009 capital bankruptcy protection. It's also lay­
NEW YORK -Americans have expenditures by ·almost half. ing off thousands of workers and slammed their wallets shut since the Shoppers from the well-heeled to closing 20 percent of its stores. fmancial meltdown, and the future is the low-income have cut back as they Analysts believe consumers -who looking downright scary for stores worry about shriveling retirement usually account for about 70 percent across the country and the whole funds and job security. The changes of economic activity -will no longer 
U.S. economy. could tilt the economy into a deeper, be the key driver of the economy, 
On Wednesday, Best Buy Co. more painful recession. said Scott Hoyt, senior director of slashed its earnings forecast and said "We're definitely spending less. consumer economics at Moody's the changes in consumer behavior The first thing to go was the house­Economy. com. have been nothing less than "seis­keeper and clothes spending," said "This is the end of the consumer­mic," creating "the most difficult cli­Melanie Coyne of Dardenne Prairie, based economy," said Peter Schiff, mate" the company had seen in its Mo., who is dining out less, using who runs the investment firm Euro 42-year history. more coupons and taking her lunch Pacific Capital Inc. in Darien, Conn. 
And Macy's Inc., which turned a to work. She's also "wearing what I "Americans have been buying too profit in the third quarter of last have." much stuff, and now the epic shop­year, swung to a loss this time, The downbeat forecasts from ping spree is over. It is a permanent warned that the upcoming holiday retailers Wednesday came two days change." 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, November I 3, 2008 
-~~~~---.~~====================================================================~============================================================= 
THE OBSERVER 

What is the mandate? 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Jay fitzpatrick John Donovan 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
A'iST. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NllWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 

SAINT MARY's EunuR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD O~.'iiGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTilMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(57 4) 63!-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631·5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphow@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

The Ohserv~r is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notrt· Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Collegt·. Editorial content, including adverriscmenrs. is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither instimtion. Tht· Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of tlw majority of the Editor in Chief: Managing Editor, A">Sistam Managing Editors and" department editors. Commenrarit'S, lcners and columns present the views of tlw aurhors and not necessarily those ofThe ()bscrver. 
Vitwpoim space is available to all readers. The free t•xpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters 10 th~ Editor must be signed and must include wmact information. 
Qurstiom Trf(ttrding Obs=er policies should be dimted to Editor in Chief Chris lline. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'11u: (1!lM."rvrr (l!SI•S '\'J'J l·4UHU) ~ •».rbltslu:d Monrlay thn,uv;h Frulay Cltt• .rpl during ~·)·.,un .11111 v~~·~trnn pcri<><h. A. ,uh•..:riptinn hi Th~ lllr.t"rvt"f Ill $I till tl1r nne ac.ukmk: 
yr:-.u,Sc;SfmnnrKmC1trr.  
The Ohstrvc:r i• publrlhcd .u  PmTMA.STER  
014 ~mth Dirmtg H~11  ~nd .uidras corrections to:  
Nntrc {).unc:, IN <i6~11it•.on9 l~rrtw.lrl.tljHI\U!tC p.u.l .u Nutr( D.mu~  Thc:tlt"!Krvcr ro.&.m  
.md .t•MiriunJI mo~ilu't' ullka..  O.N Sou1h Dinmg H.dl  

None Dilmc, IN tl.f,"i'56·0779 

Tht' ()mery~·r t• a mc:mlw:r of rhc: A.uuu.unl ~-All rcpmdu~;tiun ri~hu: :uc 
ICACIV\"d, 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Kaitlyn Hiely Alex Baker Becky llogan Frank Tolan Megan Loney Shane Steinberg 
Viewpoint Scene Patricia Mark Witte Fernandez Graphics Blair Chemlin 
As of 11 p.m. Nov. 4, Barack Obama was elected to succeed George W. Bush as the forty-fourth president of the United States. A lot of voters across the country -more than in any other elec-· 
tion in history­voted for him. A lot of folks donated time, money, and effort to bring Obama to this point, all for differ­ent reasons, but 

overwhelmingly Jason Coleman because they felt that our country should try heading Man at Large in a new direction. This too was apparent in congressional races, where Democrats picked up seats in both the House and Senate. 
However, Obama himself, put it best in his acceptance speech: "This victory alone is not the change we seek-it is only the,chance for us to make that change. 
What is the change we seek? Or bet­ter yet, what must this new majority achieve in the coming months to vindi­cate the voters of their doubts and inse­curities? Practically speaking, there are three main issues that seem to rise above the rest. 
First, of course, is the economy. Democrats were voted into office (as they were in '92) because the economy wasn't looking good. A new tax plan would probably pass quickly and is nec­essary to spurring growth again. It will involve cuts acros·s various income groups, in hopes of increasing spending again. The details will be controversial and passing something quickly will be diflicult, but not insurmountable. 
Second, some sort of energy policy needs to be put into place. We already import far too much oil, and if there is any sort of price shock while in reces­sion, things could get even more ugly. 
Supporting a seriously alternative ener­gy infrastructure will be expensive, but now is the time to do it. Spending is necessary to boost the economy, and infrastructure spending of this type would be killing two birds with one stone. While the debt will have to be dealt with eventually, the time is not now. 
Finally, a definitive plan needs to be set for Iraq. Whether or not it calls for immediate troop withdrawal, or simply lays out goals that need to be met before withdrawaljs possible, the increasingly dissident public deserves to have some idea of how and when it will end. We also need to be briefed on why Afghanistan is so important, and what the issues with Iran are. 
Luckily, Obama has some tools at his disposal that should ease the process. 
First, he has the attention of the rest of the world. The goodwill that has been generated, if harnessed, could turn into an effective alliance working over a swath of issues. Because our financial problems have become everybody's financial problems, everyone will have to plan together to find a solution. Fortunately, Bush has already called for a conference of global leaders and eco­nomic advisers to begin work. Obama's stamp will only strengthen the legitima­cy and force of such a gathering. Furthermore, it will take an internation­al force to figure out how to ease rising tensions with Iran. An Iran with nuclear weapons, again, is everybody's problem. 
The second tool Obama has is his massive e-mail of supporters. Allegedly, the number of entrants tops 10 million. With the touch of a button, Obama has the ability to inform millions directly of his plans and present his arguments. He will be able to drum up an army of activists lobbying their congressman for action. 
Finally, he has come to power in a time of big problems, and was elected on the platform of big solutions. This is a big opportunity, and his supporters, the majority, have said they want to think bigger. While public opinion is dif­ficult to forecast, I sense that people will be okay with a misstep or two, as long as it is acknowledged and a plan is pre­sented to stay the course. Naturally, there will be those that are ready to pounce at first blood, but I'm not sure those are the ones that drive public sen­timent efiectively anymore. 

Unfortunately, this last tool, the enor­mity of the problems, is also the great­est liability. We arc attempting to wage war on two fronts: our ec<momy has fallen ofT of a elifi, and we can't stop buying oil drawn from countries that are not particularly friendly. It would be difficult for a government built on checks and balances to tackle one of these issues, much less all at the same time. 
The people gave the Democrats a majority, and with it, a mandate to do better than we have bnen doing. This much is dear. Leaders of the world have endorsed Obama and elaimed that they will support him going forward. That is good. 
But it is of the utmost importance that the new majority remembers exactly what it was elected to do. Karl Hove infamously claimed that the Hepublican sweep in 2004 was a new enduring con­servative majority. It lasted just two years, namely because the GOP forgot what it had been elected to do. Hopefully, the Democrats in the !louse and on the Hill wont' forget and seize this great opportunity with humility and purpose. 
Jason Coleman is a junior majoring in management. He can be contacted at coleman. 70@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
When did you stop watching the game? 
Interception return for touchdown Halftime Fumbled punt Watehnd the whole thing-I'm a sucker for punishment 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You can not do all the good the 
world needs, but the worlil needs all 
the good you can do. " 
Anonymous 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Thursday, November 13, 2008 page 9 
A worthy investment, and well worth the risks 
Raise your hand if you've ever scratched your head over that some­what mysterious parable of the master who entrusted his money to three of his servants. The first two invested theirs and doubled their 
amounts; the third Kate Barrett buried his in the 
backyard and had to 'fess up upon Faithpoint the master's return. The trickiest part for me was always when the master, furious, heat­
edly lectures the third servant, takes his money back, and cries, "To every­one to has, more will be given and he will grow rich; but from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away." I remember that as a kid, I con­sidered this principle a horrible idea: What? Give even more to those who already have? Take away from those who don't? 
I've been thinking about this Gospel, which comes from Matthew, chapter 25 (take a look at Matthew 25 -it's not for the faint of heart), because it's this Sunday's gospel. We're in the last two weeks of the Church year, before Advent starts, and the readings in these coming weeks will reflect this in their close focus on the end-times. The mas­ter, in Jesus' parable, doesn't find the third servant's behavior merely disap­pointing, but seriously reprehensible. He takes away the money, but he really means to highlight the magnitude of the servant's mistake: The servant disre­garded the gift, and then if that weren't enough, tried to pin the blame for his lousy decision on the master. 
Here's a cool fact that helps make sense of the master's cryptic tirade against the third servant. The Greek term "talent" describes the weight of the sums of money the master gave the three servants. This parable is the source of the English use of "talent," meaning a gift that can be improved upon with practice. Even as far back as the origins of the English language, people of faith must have understood that Jesus' parable of the three ser­vants didn't literally refer to money, but to the manner in which a person accepts a gift. Those who are properly open to receiving a gift -that is, a freely bestowed offering from God ­will have the faith and trust to find ways to share and spread that gift and so to make it grow, even though it might mean taking a risk. Those who "have not" the open hearts to receive and appreciate such an offering will find that they lose even any limited ability to act out of faithful belief in God's love. 
Coincidentally -I love when this happens -I attended a meeting Tuesday night for parents of second graders who will make their first recon­ciliation in a few weeks, and it remind­ed me of this gospel yet again. We dis­cussed the logistical aspects of our chil­dren's first confession, how we can help them articulate the sinfulness they need to address (second grade sins are rela­tively unimpressive, but believe me, they understand "doing something wrong on purpose"), and how we can help prepare them to understand and welcome God's forgiveness. 
And there, right on the sheet entitled "Examination of Conscience," one of the questions read, "Do I use the gifts God has given me for the good of others?" Well, there's that third servant again! He didn't use his gifts, and it's a sin! The master trusted him with a valuable asset, and out of fear, or laziness, or lack of imagination, or plain old disin­terest, he hid it away where he could ignore it ... until he was forced to face the master and explain himself. 

Imagine how our lives might change if we take seriously our responsibility to receive well the gifts God has given us; that is, if we look at all we have as a gift from God, and then figure out how, practically and regularly, to give it away. And it's a relatively easy task for us. For the people at the time of Matthew's gospel, attempting to spread the gift of the good news about Christianity meant risking stuff like, well, death. 
When you hear this gospel on Sunday, remember that the master -God ­tells us that only by accepting and using our gifts will they grow. Take some risks with your faith, your time, your skills; your attention to others. Wouldn't God rather that we at least take a chance, even if we fail, than bury our talents in the backyard? 
This week's Faithpoint is written by Kate Barrett. Kate Barrett is the direc­tor ofthe Emmaus program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbar­rett@n d. edu 
The views expressed in this Faithpoint are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The not-so elusive Mandate 
First off, full disclosure: Christie Pesavento is a friend of mine. That being said, I'm glad we have never sat down together for a good, long discussion on politics. Her latest Viewpoint column, "The elusive mandate", trots out all the tired conservative talking points this side of Rush Limbaugh. I cannot take her opinion seriously when she starts out by claiming that the principles of the Democratic Party are "bigger govern­ment, spineless foreign policy and increased spending on ineffective social programs". After the past 8 years of Republican futility, in which George W. Bush's administration ran up trillions of dollars towards the national debt, it is impressive that Christie can call the Democrats the party of bigger govern­ment without a hint of irony. This trope that Democrats are weak on foreign poli­cy is the stuff that Sarah Palin and Newt Gingrich sustain their political liveli­hoods off of, but it has no basis in reali­ty. Barack Obama and the Democrats are advocating a smarter foreign policy. How can the world take America seriously if we just spew vitriol to our enemies and threaten to rain bombs on those who disagree with us? Somewhere along the line we lost the notion of diplomacy from our national discourse, and hopefully the Obama administration can deal with the international community in a strategic and reasoned way, not one which drives us into unnecessary war and threatens to completely de-stabilize our economy. Ineffective social programs? One of the biggest messes right now is lame-duck President Bush's No Child Left Behind Act. While noble in intent, its level of execution and planning has rendered NCLB not only ineffective but harmful to the American educational system, with its overemphasis on standardized testing driving teachers and middle class stu­dents out of American public schools. 
I agree with Pesavento's claim that "all any Democratic nominee had to do was avoid any fatal missteps and the election would be gift-wrapped and delivered directly into his or her hands." The Hepublican Party has proven over the past eight years that it is reactionary, small-minded, and harmful for the well­being of the American people. Why is there "widespread resentment towards the previous administration"? Because President Bush and his policies were bad for America, and the electorate decided not to vote in another candidate who shared the previous administration's failed beliefs in government. 
As for her thoughts on President-Elect Obama and his campaign, I can only say this: he was voted into office with an overwhelming majority of electoral votes. Say what you will about our "mes­sianic leader" but in spite of your claims to the contrary, the truth remains that Americans clearly are on the same page with Obama when it comes to governing philosophy. Not only was Obama elected in by a wide margin, but the American people also voted in a largely Democratic Congress to help enact his policies and the policies of the Democratic Party. America is seeking a change in direction and by a vast margin shunning the Republican Party while embracing the principles of the Democrats. Yet it seems that Pesavento is asking us to believe her and the foundering conservative movement over our own lying ballots. 
If there is one thing that Pesavento is absolutely right about, it is that history has not been kind to presidents who overstep their authority. One can only imagine how future scholars will evalu­ate the presidency of George W. Bush, though our tangled foreign policy engagements and collapsing economy can give us just a taste of how harshly his administration will be judged. But unlike Bush, who was only brought into office by a Supreme Court decision after an almost evenly-split election, President-Elect Obama has been given the keys to drive the American state on the road back to prosperity by a wide majority of the electorate. Pesavento, I wish you and your conservative ilk would quit telling the American people that we really did not mean what we voted for when we elected Barack Obama to the Executive Branch. It is clear that America does want Obama and the Democrats to implement their agenda, and by a large margin has granted them the authority to do so. 
Riyath Mallahi junior Dillon Hall Nov. 11 

Sitnple and hilarious 
In response to Robert Scully's "Offensive Comics Are Back" I think it is time for you to chill. David 'The Firestarter" Cavadini was simply referring to the fact that everyone loves Brady Quinn. As a senior, if you are honestly offended by the word erection, too much to show your love for Brady, then I apologize to you for you lack of sense of humor. As for the artistic design of the comic, the fact that David uses simple designs, with simple mes­sages is just down right hilarious. To treat David with such disrespect is the true shame in your ordeal. Just as Picasso was not considered a genius during his lifetime, David might not be either. But time will tell if Mr. Cavadini is still a legend after his short time here at Notre Dame. 

Patrick Augustyn sophomore Knott Hall 
Nov. 12 

Som_e Wom_en Like 'Die Hard' 
Some Women Like "Die Hard" Now that I have your attention, I greatly appreciated Andrew Miller's article "Engendering con­flict," not only because I'm a "die­hard" musical lover, but also for his point on why it's not too far off for men to like musicals ... or are too afraid to admit it. 
On the flip side, there are some women, including myself, who like the so-called "guy movies." As a woman, it may sound crazy, but I would pick a really good action film over a bad chick flick any day. To illustrate my point, I went to see Kill Bill Vol. 2 with 6 guys (since no girl I knew wanted to see it), I get giddy when a new James Bond film comes out, and I find Die Hard rather fun and enjoyable! Seriously, Bruce Willis, Alan Rickman, Reginald Vel Johnson 
a.k.a. Carl Winslow ... you can't go wrong! Granted, I was an FTT major at ND, but still. 
Nevertheless, musicals are my passion. If guys are still a bit hesi­tant to take a leap of faith and enjoy musicals, here's some info that may ease the process. First, before "300," Gerald Butler played the Phantom in the film version of "The Phantom of the Opera." Before he ever said the catch-line, "This is Sparta," he was singing the famous "Music of the Night." Second, while we all loved Eddie Murphy in the Beverly Hills Cop films and on SNL, you can't deny that one of his best moments was his role in "Dreamgirls." Third, Hugh Jackman. Yes, we all know him as Wolverine, but did you know he also won a Tony award for his performance in "The Boy from Oz," a musical? Heck, even Marlon Brando starred in "Guys and Dolls!" And if you think foot­ball and any other sport involves athleticism, just watch the dancing numbers in "Singin' in the Rain," specifically "Make 'Em Laugh," "Moses Supposes," and that little number in which Gene Kelly sings and dances in the rain. Better yet, just watch any musical with Gene Kelly, who brought athletics to musicals. If guys can watch Stewie Griffin dance with him, maybe it 

won't be so difficult. 
So, if I can admit to my liking of "Goldeneye," "300" and the Die Hard series over "The Notebook," "27 Dresses" and "Made of Honor," then maybe guys should "man up" and give musicals a shot. 
Brittany Mazur alumn Class of 2007 Nov. 12 

THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 10 
Thursday, November 13, 2008 





2008. Cartel brings their revamped sound to Notre Dame on Friday for an exelusive concert. The concert promis­es to be an energetie alTair as Cartel steams to campus with the momentum of significant air.time on popular radio as wPII as MTV. Tho national acclaim that the band has nH:eived from the likes of Holling Stone, USA Today and Alternative Press hasn't hurt thn quin­tf't eitl111r. 
The Georgia natives team their pro­gn~ssive pop punk style on Friday night with the unrivaled musings of folk hipster Citiwn Cope. Cope arrives in the midst of a national tour I'Hatur­ing both acoustic and full band per­formances. 
Citizen Cope. whose real name is Clarenee Greenwood. encapsulates his audiences with his masterful verbiage and indefinable sound. Known for his tendencies to traverse varying genres, Cope has achieved his success through live pnrformances and airtime on sev­eral major television programs includ­ing the sitcom "Scrubs" and the popu­lar dance game show, "So You Think You Can Dance?" Since the times of his hip-hop origins in Washington D.C., Cope's sound has evolved, earn­ing him an underground cult follow­ing. 
Though it is very dil'l'icult to classify Cope into any single genre, those who arc familiar with his work maintain that his sound is unique and inl'luen­
to snag the world By PATRICK GRIFFIN 

Sc~nc Wrircr 
Many modern musicians would claim t h at t IH~ ir· c a II i n g has a c e r t a in inescapable control over tlwir life. This claim has probably rwver been l.l'lWI' than in thP casn of' up-and-com­ing pop-ror.k group Cartel. 
In tlw SLIIllnwr of 2007, the band spPnt rwarly thrPP WPeks encased in a "buhhlo" -a I(>00 square foot f'ilwr­glass studio. wiH·n~ they reeordnd lhPir most rPcnnt album under con­stant vidPo survPillarH~P. 
"We were trappt>d in tlwre," drum­mer Kevin Sandt>rs said. "You couldn't go anywlwrP without poople seeing y o u . C a m I' r a s wI' r e I' v e r y w lw r e , broadcasting our every move live onlitw, which was kinda crazy." 
Tlw sp)f'-titled release, whid1 hit st.on~s in August of 2007, has readwd as high as No. 20 on the Billboard Top 200 musk chart. Written in only 20 days, "Cartel" is tlw band's most com­plete work to date. According to front­man Will Pugh, the album covers the band's eoming of age sinen their debut album "Chroma": "You're not going to get whatever people probably would've expected. We're trying to do sonwthing ambitious... A lot of difl'11r­ent things about being a young adult con11~ t.o play in this record." 
Fresh off the Croc's College Tour 
"Lend Me a Tenor!" this weekend in the ()'Laughlin Auditorium. Katie Sullivan, an associate professor of theatre at Saint Mary's and director of "Lend Me a Tenor!" had the chance to speak to the Observer via e-mail about the produc­tion. 
Scene: Can you describe the play and a brief history? 
Sullil1an: This play is a rollicking eome­dy by Ken Ludwig and is based on the wonderful old French bedroom farces, in which characters are confronted with impossibly diflicult situations. mistaken identities, romantic escapades, people kissing thn wrong peopln, people hiding from naeh otlwr. doors slamming right and left. as people come and go in a world which has become increasingly hard to tell up from down. The play was written twenty ynars ago, though, and ti;tl. "I guess it's been a blnssing and a curse," Cope told the Pittsburgh Tribune before a February perform­ance. "It. has probably kept me away from a certain radio format. Also, it's been a thing that's kind of distin­guished me. I think it's kind of kept me away from mainstream popular music. But to me, I've got a verse, a chorus and melodies, and it's essen­tially pop music." 
Cope's most recent album "Every Waking Moment" reached as high as No. 69 on the Billboard charts. !lis next project, entitled "Acoustic Tapes Vol. 1," is set for release in December. 
The dual headliners perform this Friday at 9 p.m. in the Stepan Center 
Sullivan: 

famous tenor. Tito Morelli, to come perform Othello  "/ have also enjoyed working with elegant 1930S period, in both room  Students cast in the play include SMC students  
with them. It is  decor and costumes. There is  Kristina Marinelli,  
opening night, the tenor is late but finally arrives in the middle of a big fight with his wife, who is tired of his womanizing ways.  something extra funny to me of seeing all these far-fetched shenanigans and physical humor undertaken in tuxedo tails and sparkling gowns!"  Elizabeth Carian, Darcy O'Neill and Anne Yurek. Holy Cross College Marlon Burnley is also in the show. along with SMC  
She  mistakes  a  History Professor  
female fan hiding  Katie Sullivan  Bill Svelmoe, and  
in  his  bedroom  director  local actors Steve  
eloset for another  Cole  and  Will  
lover and leaves  Heckaman. SMC  

him with a "Dear John" note which sends student Annaliese Furman is serving as him spiraling down into despair. It looks the Lighting Designer, a job normally like the show won't go on ... until the man­taken be a faculty member, but Annaliese ager ol' the company persuades his assis­is especially interested in lighting. tant, Max. to put on the Othello costume Scene: Is it diflieult to translate a pro-thanks to the most recent efforts of the Student Union Board. Unlike past shows sponsored by SUB, the format for this concert providns patrons with plenty of general standing room near the stage, similar to what you would lind at a typieal rock concert. Seating will be available on the outer areas of the venue. 
Tickets are on sale now at the LaFortune box office for $15. Eaeh student may purchase as many as four tickets at a time and students must provide a valid Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross J.D. at the doors. 
Contact Patrick Griffin at 
pgriffi3@nd.edu 
ters know, or doesn't know, what secrets they are determined to lind out, where they are operating under mistaken assumptions, etc. A particular treat which takes the madcap action to new heights of silliness and dizzying speed occurs at the end of the play in the first of two curtain calls. 
I have also enjoyed working with ele­gant 1930s period, in both room decor and costumes. There is something extra funny to me of seeing all these far­fetched shenanigans and physical humor undertaken in tuxedo tails and sparkling gowns! 
The play opens tonight at 7:30 p.m. Other performances are Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. and on Sunday afternoon. at 2:30. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu. 

ran on Broadway for 476 consecutive perl'ormanees, earning three Tony Awards in 1989 including Best Play. 
Ludwig has set the play in Cleveland in 1934, in a grand hotel suite. The Cleveland Opera Company has managed 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, November 13, 2008 
page 11 

This Friday and Saturday, Notre Dame's various A<>ian cultural organizations are com­ing together for the latest annual Asian Allure. Primarily sponsored by the Asian-American A'>SOCiation, A<>ian Allure is a chance for cam­pus's A<>ian community to showcase a wide variety of talent<> and performances. Past acts have included traditional Hawaiian dancing, Korean Fan Dancing, fashion shows and more. Fifth-year Architecture student Thien­An Nguyen-Vu, the Executive Producer of Asian Allure 2008, recently had the chance to speak to the Observer via e-mail about this year's production. 
Scene: What i<> your role in thi<> year's pro­duction? I low have you been involved in Asian Allure in past years? 
Nguyen-vu: I am currently the Executive Producer and Co-Chair for Asian Allure 2008. I'm a fifth-year architecture student and this happens to be my fourth A<>ian Allure. I was actually in the show my freshmen year and did tech work my sophomore and fourth years. 
Scene: I [ow long has A<>ian Allure gone on at Notre Dame? Can you give us a brief history of Asian Allure? 
Nguyen-vu: Asian Allure has been at Notre Dame since the mid-1990s. I believe we're in its 12th year as a production. Originally, it started out as a fashion show predominantly eventually evolving into a cultural showcase. '11m original people involved in the show want­ed to involve the fledgling A<>ian groups on campus at the time. Twelve years later, we've expanded to include new members and groups. 
Scene: What are some acts to note in this year's show? Nguyen-vu: Some noteworthy acts in this show range from exciting cultural homages 
such as lAND's "Hollywood" to the exciting rock fest of Japan Club's "Sakura ne?: The Final Act" and even the generaUy impressive and mind-boggling Matrix Team. While we always invite clubs to perform in the show, this year, we had an increased interest in perform­ances by individuals. So, people will-definitely be seeing some rather polished and excellent talent from the ranks of Notre Dame's own Asian community. This year's show has a record 18 performances, over half of which are individually driven rather than c!ub driven. 
Scene: How does this year's show compare with last year's? 
Nguyen-vu: This show is entirely and com­pletely superior to the previous year's show. I'll leave it at that. 
Scene: Who runs the show? Is it entirely stu­dent-led? 
Nguyen-Vu: We're student-nm and student­IPd. The Asian-American Association is the chief sponsor and umbrella organization involved in the funding <md production of the show. 
Scene: Why should a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student take time from thPir schedules to cheek out Asian Allw·e 2008? 
Nguyen-vu: Students should definitely take their time to check out Asian Allure to expand their horizons. I mean let's face it, tllis is a bub­ble here. Asian Allure really i<> an attempt to represent a wide and diverse array of A<>ian culture made for students and by students. There is much to enjoy and much to learn, given the rich hi<>tory and current trends for Asians and Asian-Americans. I also believe that it would be a symbol of appreciation for all the hard work, tenacity, and complete dedi­cation of all the individuals involved from pro­duction to execution. We've come far and we've sacrificed much time. And I promise you this; it will be a show to remember. 

flavor. As an added bonus, the heated all the way through. bowl until it just passes the level By MICHELLE FORDICE hummus itself is pretty healthy of the bleu cheese with half Assistant Scene Editor too, much more so than the Bleu Cheese and Bacon Salad olive oil and half balsamic vine­
other potential option of salad BleLt cheese is a strong cheese gar. This week is about using one dressing. that takes a bit of getting used Heat the blue cheese mixture 
, flavor to pull together a bunch Pick up a wrap tortilla of your to for most people, but it is in the microwave until the blue 
l of vegetables -the first recipe choice. entirely worth it. Flavorful and cheese is just about melted. Stir 1 
~ uses hummus and the second Spread a good layer of hum­distinct, it makes for a great together. 
· · takes advantage of bleu cheese. mus over the center of the dressing. In this salad, you'll Pour the dressing over the ~· ~ You always know those vegeta­wrap. pour the dressing over the salad s~ad. ­
i bles are good for you, but after Fill with black beans, while it is still hot, giving it a Dash on some black pepper.
1awhile forcing yourself to edamame, bell peppers, mush­different vibe. Combined with 
' munch on plain vegetables room, spinach, feta cheese and the bacon and egg, this salad Quick Tip 
~ make you feel like a rabbit. red onion. (Or whatever other can definitely stand as a meal Have a cup of tea! Most people ~ These recipes will hopefully give vegetables you like! Die hard unto itself don't take advantage of the hot i them a new zip, without com­meat eater? Shred some grilled Fill your plate with romaine water and tea bags the dining ,. promising too much on their chicken and include that as lettuce, red onion and crumbled hall provides, and as it gets ? healthy nature. well.) hard boiled egg (slice up whole colder it's nice to have an alter­This week's recipes: Squeeze some lemon over the hard boiled eggs from the sand­native to the heavier hot choco­top. wich bar if the crumbled version late and coffee. Try sweetening Hummus Wrap Fold together and stick in the isn't available.) and flavoring with honey, sugar, 
Hummus is the key to this Panini press until the tortilla is Crumbled some bacon over or orange and lemon wedges. wrap. It takes the vegetables crispy and browned. Don't the top. Have your own dining hall you might usually toss into a skimp on the heat; wraps are Fill a bowl with a couple of recipe? We would love to feature wrap and gives them a unifying always better when they are scoops of bleu cheese. Fill the it! E-mail mfordice@nd.edu. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 13, 2008 
MLB 

Maddon, Pinella honored with MOY awards 
Rays rnanager foe Maddon wins AL award after storybook season; Cubs' Pinella claims NL honor with league-best record 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -J01~ Maddon had a good reason !i1r interrupting his IHmeymoon. 
!\bout an hour aller he landed in Honw, the newly married Maddon easily won the American League Manager of the Year award Wednesday !i1r guiding Tampa Bay from baseball's basement to the World Series in one astonishing snw;;on. 
Lou Piniella took the NL honor after hmding the Chicago Cubs to the league's best record. 
Maddon, who sucn~eded Piniella as Tampa Bay manager in 2006, was a runaway winner in balloting by the Baseball Writers' Association of 1\meriea. lie reeeivnd all but one of the 2S first­place votes -the other went to Minnesota's Hon Gardenhire. 
It was a nice wedding gill for Maddon and his wife, .!aye, who got married last weekend. But it nwant that one of the first things he did in Italy wa<> get on the phone for a eonference call with enporters. 
"Jaye is very understanding of the wholn situation. We knew this was a possibility," Maddon said. "Truly a remarkabln sea<>on in so many di!limmt ways." 
Next stop: the Vatiean on Thursday. Then the Sistine Chapd, followed by trips to Florenee, Prah'Ue and London. 
"I really don't think they eare about the World Series over here," Maddon said. "It's kind of fun being a tour h'Uide." 
Pininlla bf1at out Charlie Manuel of the World Series champion Philadelphia Phillies to earn his third Manager of the Year award and first in the NL. The fiery skip­per also won in 1995 and 2001 with Seattle. 

This time, he got 15 of 32 first­plaee votes and totalP.d 1 03 points to 6 7 for Manuel, listed first on eight ballots. Florida's Fredi Gonzalez finished third with five first-plaee votes and 48 point<>. 
''I'm thrillnd and I'm honored. I know thP.re were a lot of managers in the National League who had good seasons," PiniP.IIa said from hi<> home in Tampa, Fla. 
The 65-year-old manager earned a $100,000 bonus for winning, which he plans to donate to the team's charity partner, McConnick Foundation's Cubs Care. 
"My good fortune can get spread around a little bit," Piniella said. "The kid<> in the Chicago area will benefit from this and I'm very happy." 
Two· other managers garnered frrst-plaee votes: Joe Torre of the Los Angeles Dodgers (three) and Tony La Hussa of the St. Louis Cardinals (one). 
Dale Sveum got a third-place vote after managing only 12 games. He took over the Brewers on an interim basis when Ned Yost wa<> fired in September and went 7-5 down the stretch to help Milwaukee secure it<> frrst playoff berth since 1982. 
After the season, the Brewers hired Ken Macha to be their new manager. Sveum will return as hit­tingeoaeh. 
Tampa Bay, which started play in 1998, had never won more than 70 games in a season before Maddon engineered an incredible turn­around. With his motivational quotes and phrases, the 54-year­old skipper led a young team that finished in last place a season ago (66-96) to a 97-65 record and the AL Ea<>t title. 
"The toughest part is to absorb the body blows on a eonsistent basis. I knew what we were doing was right," Maddon said. "We knew we were better, we just didn't know how mueh better. During the season we found out we eould do this, and people started to believe." 
Maddon used his versatile b1meh brilliantly and juggled a mueh­improved bullpen that lost veteran closer Troy Percival to injury. The stunning success continued in October, when the Rays beat the Chicago White Sox and defending champion Boston Red Sox in the playoff<> to capture the AL pennant. 
Tampa Bay's run ended with a live-game loss to Philadelphia in the World Series. 
"It was all there for us. It was just a matter of time," Maddon said. "It happened a little sooner than I thought." 
While Manuel guided the Phillies to their second championship, Piniella and his Cubs (97-64) were swept in the first round of the play­offs for the second consecutive year. Their three-game loss to the Dodgers was a major disappoint­ment for a franchise still seeking its first World Series title since 1908. 
Voting for BBWM awards is con­ducted before the postseason. "Time heals a broken heart, I 

guess," Piniella said. "Looking back, these kids I think tried a little too hard." 
There has never been a unani­mous winner for Manager of the Year. 
La Russa and Atlanta's Bobby Cox have each won the award four times, the only managers with more than Piniella. Dusty Baker and Jim Leyland al<>o have three. 

The BBWM began presP.nting Manager of the Year awards in 1983. 
Piniella beeame the fourth man­ager to win in both leagues, joining Cox, La Hussa and Leyland. Previous winners from the Cubs were Jim Frey (1984) and Don Zimmer (1989). 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Knight to join ESPN broadcast booth for Thursday games 
Associated Press  about trying to react quiekly on the air, Knight cut off the ques­ eall games during his stint in the studio last spring. He'II work a  practices and watched game tape with him, vouched for his ability  Wednesday, though some of the non-basketball variety. Among  
Bob Knight isn't the type to  tioner.  Thursday night game with Brent  to quickly and concisely explain a  them: Texas Tech quarterback  
admit to stage fright. Anyway, he  "I just spent 42 years figuring  Musberger  coneept.  Graham Harrell should win the  
insists he's spnnt the last four dP.eades praetieing the skills hn'll need fi1r his nP.w job. Thf1 llall of  "What I'm trying to do during the course ofa broadcast ofa game is going to be exactly what  out instantly what the (heck) was going on out there," he said. "What I'm trying to do during the course of a  each week starting Jan. 15, and will call some noncon­ference matchups on other days with  "He can point out things that after he points it out, you wonder how you missed it and why you didn't see it because  "He can point out things that after he points it out, you wonder how you missed it  Heisman. Just don't try to tell him he's now a member of the media, a group with which he oftP.n had a contentious relationship. He's just "a coach that's talking about bas­ketball," Knight said.  
Fame who ESPN  eoaeh, joined as a  I tried to do when I was coaching."  broadcast of a game is going to be exaetly what I  Dan Shulman. His first game will be a 2K  when he'd explain it, it seemed so simple. n  and why you didn't see it because when  Knight mentioned Curt Gowdy as an announcer he admirnd, but said he wasn't trying to pattern  
guest studio analyst during last snason's NC!\1\ tourna- Bob Knight ESPN commentator  tried to do when I was coaching: What is happen­ing? Why is it  Sports Classic semifinal next Thursday. Knight will also  Jay Bilas ESPN Analyst  he'd explain it, it seemed so simple," Bilas said.  himself after any other commen­tators. "I hope I'm not particularly like anybody," he said. "I hope I'm like  
rnent,  is  happening? We  appear  as  an  Knight, who  me.  I hope what I do would be  
expanding his role to inelude  don't like that happP-ning-how  analyst on  College GameDay,  won  three  national  titles  at  something that would be unique  
game commentary.  can we ehange it?"  SportsCenter and ESPN Hadio.  Indiana, resigned as coach of  to the way I think about the  
Ao.;ked during a conlimmce call  Knight was already lobbying  Fellow ESPN analyst Jay Bilas,  Texas Tech on Feb. 4. He was  game, the way I look  at the  
W1~dncsday whether he's nP.rvous  ESPN executives for the chance to  who has observed Knight running  already  spouting  opinions  game."  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr to edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
Villa ranch at 18133Annettas Ct. in South Bend. 5 mins. to ND. Built in 2004. 3 bdrm, 2 bath. 1652 sq.ft. Vaulted great room, formal dining 
room, oak eat-in kitchen, all appli­ances. large 3-season room, first floor laundry. Finished basement plumbed for bath, egress window. 
Patio. $249,500. Handicap accessi· ble. Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty Jack Egenhoefer. 574·280·7730 3-bdrm, 2.5 bath Condo. Close to ND, Master bdrm on main floor w/bth. Catwalk between bdrm upstairs. 1896 sq. ft. 1330 Bridgewater Way, Mishawaka. $179,900. Call574-247-1567. 

WANTED 
Babysitter needed for Notre Dame family. Occasional afternoons from 3-6 p.m. Should have own car. Pay: tell us what works for you. 913-426­3838. 
FoR RENT 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09·10 SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER PROPERTIES 574-234·2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. 
Historic gem, beautifully furnished, 5 min. to ND. 2-3 bedrooms. $850 per month, students welcome. 269­782-9921 
A 3-bedroom fully furnished house for rent from mid December 2008 through July 2009. Two bathrooms 
+ renovated basement (potential additional bedroom). 10 minute walk from University of Notre Dame. $1000 not including utilities. Call 574-233-2618 or 631-8213 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap 
I 

Two teachers ready to adopt new· bom and provide a wonderful life for him/her. Confidential. Expenses paid. Stephenandliz@aol.com or call us toll free 1-888·760-BABY UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631· 7819 or Ann Firth at 574·631·2685. For more information, visit our web· site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart· ments/pregnant.shtml 
Watch your back Justin Jones, the hit-sticks are coming. 




OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S ·wrRE SERVICES
Thursday, November 13, 2008 page 13 
NFL 
Men's Basketball Preseason AP Top 25 

team  points  
1  North Carolina  1,800  
2  Connecticut  1,661  
3  Louisville  1,638  
4  UCLA  1,487  
5  Pittsburgh  1.319  
6  Michigan State  1,311  
7  Texas  1,259  
8  Duke  1,250  
9  NOTRE DAME  1,243  
10  Gonzaga  1.162  
11  Purdue  1,999  
12  Oklahoma  987  
13  Memphis  977  
14  Tennessee  920  
15  Arizona Stale  645  
16  Marquette  592  
17  Miami (FL)  570  
18  usc  414  
19  Florida  403  
20  Davidson  347  
21  Wake Forest  312  
22  Georgetown  311  
23  Villanova  256  
24  Kansas  233  
25  Wisconsin  196  

Women's Basketball Preseason AP Top 25 
team points 

1 Connecticut 1,124 2 Stanford 1,018 3 Maryland 1,005 4 Oklahoma 946 5 Rutgers 914 6 North Carolina 892 7 Tennessee 857 8 Duke 815 9 California 769 10 Louisville 726 11 TexasA&M 624 12 Vanderbilt 546 13 Texas 501 14 Oklahoma Slate 442 15 Virginia 437 16 NOTRE DAME 374 17 Arizona State 364 18 Ohio State 359 19 Baylor 353 20 Auburn 239 21 Florida Stale 204 22 Xavier 170 23 Purdue 148 24 LSU 133 25 Old Dominion 124 
NCAA Cross Country  
USTFCCCA Rankings  
Men  Women  
1  Oregon  Washington  
2  Oklahoma State  Oregon  
3  Stanford  Florida State  
4  Portland  Princeton  
5  Alabama  Villanova  
6  Wisconsin  West Virginia  
7  Northern Arizona  Minnesota  
8  lona  Wisconsin  
9  Michigan  Texas Tech  
9  Geogetown  Michigan Slate  

around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Virginia Tech at Miami 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas -Tony Romo laughed at the notion his return to the Dallas line­up will be the complete cure for the struggling Cowboys. 
"We will find out on Sunday," Romo said. "A lot of different people may have gotten to a point where they feel we might not have a chance to do what we hoped to do at the beginning of the year. ... I think that is something that can bring a team together." 
The Cowboys (5-4) have gone from Super Bowl favorites to third place in the NFC East by losing four of their last six. They are 1­2 since Romo broke the pinkie on his throwing hand, but had the same record in the three games before he got hurt. 
Romo, who returned to practice during last week's open date, is ready to get back on the field Sunday night when the Cowboys play the Redskins in Washington. Romo doesn't expect the pinkie to be a problem. 
"It's getting better," Romo said Wednesday. "Every day it gets a little better and I'm confident that I'll feel pretty good for the game." 
Asked what the pinkie might keep him from doing, Romo responded, "I don't know that there will be any­thing." 
Romo said there is a "lit-

IN BRIEF Earnhardt, Ganassi to merge 
NASCAR racing teams 
MIAMI -Teresa Earnhardt and Chip Ganassi will combine their sponsorship-strapped race teams next season, an effort to stabilize their organizations in a tough economic time. 
The combined team will be called Earnhardt Ganassi Racing with Felix Sabates and will field cars for Martin Truex, Aric Almirola, Juan Pablo Montoya and a driver yet to be named. 
"In this ultra-competitive era of NASCAR, it is necessary to build and sustain the strongest team possible, and our combin­ing with the people and equip­ment at Dale Earnhardt Inc. will help create a strong four-car program for years to come," Ganassi said Wednesday in a statement. This is a win-win for both organizations as well as all of our partners." 
tle bit of pain" taking snaps from center, but described that as "no different than having a little bruise or something. You just play through it." 
Terrell Owens said it's obvious Romo is feeling bet­ter the way he is throwing the ball. 
"He's trying to get a feel for what he can do and what he can't do," Owens said. "We're going to assess that, the coaches will, just like any practice. I don't think they're going to hold him back by any means." 
Romo got hurt on the first play of overtime in the Cowboys' 30-24 loss at Arizona on Oct. 12. 
While Dallas had strug­glBd after a 3-0 start with Romo in the lineup, includ­ing a loss to Washington on Sept. 28, the offense was horrendous with Brad Johnson and Brooks Bollinger playing quarter­back. 

The Cowboys didn't score more than 14 points in any of those three games, and won 13-9 over Tampa Bay despite a franchise-low 172 total yards. They then gained only 183 yards in 35-14 loss at the New York Giants before the much­needed open date. 
Romo might not be the cure, but his return certain­ly won't hurt. 
"He has got zip on the ball. Players see that, and I think it helps our practices," coach Wade Phillips said. 
76ertJ snap losinf,! streak 
1n victory over Raptors 
TORONTO -Elton Brand scored a season-high 25 points, Andre Miller and Andre Iguodala each had 18, and the Philadelphia 76ers snapped a three-game losing streak by beating the Toronto Raptors 106-96 on Wednesday night. 
Willie Green scored 17 points and Marreese Speights had 12 for the 76ers, who won for the first time in four road games this season. 
Brand, who had scored just 31 total points in Philadelphia's past three games, eclipsed his previous high of 24, set in an Oct. 31 victory over New York. 
Chris Bosh had 30 points and 12 rebounds, but Toronto still lost for the fourth time in five games after starting the season 3-0. Jermaine O'Neal added 19 points and 11 rebounds, and reserve Andrea Bargnani scored 15 for the Raptors. 

Semin's two goals lead 
Capitals to blowout victory 
RALEIGH, N.C.-Alexander Semin had two goals and three assists to move take the NHL scoring lead. and the Washington Capitals routed the Carolina Hurricanes 5-1 on Wednesday night to take sole posses­sion of the Southeast Division lead. 
Alex Ovechkin had a goal and two assists, and Nicklas Backstrom had a goal and three assists for the quick­starting Capitals. They led 3-1 after one period and cruised to their third straight victory. 
Mike Green added a goal and an assist for Washington. 
Scott Walker scored on the power play for Carolina, which was outscored 10-3 in losing two straight at home. The Hurricanes have lost three of four to fall two points behind Washington. 
The Capitals dominated from start to finish, and Semin had a hand in all five goals. 
Thursday, November 13, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 14 
NHL 


Murray named to replace Burke as Ducks GM 
Associated Press 
ANAIIEIM. Calif.-Brian Burke turned down a eontract extension to remain general manager of the Ducks on Wednesday, citing the need to spnnd more time with his fami­ly and thn strong state of the tnam lw helped turn into a Stanlny Cup ehampion as rea­sons for leaving. 
1111 was replaced by Bob Murray, who has spent the past three seasons in the 

Ducks' front office. League, we've got the best 
"People leaving a job tend to money goaltender, the best want to leave a monument and checking line, and two of the talk about what a great team best y!)ung players (Ryan they left-and the guy coming Getzlaf and Corey Perry). So in wants to point out all the that's part of my decision. If I holes in the hull. But I believe I felt a major overhaul was have delivered here and that needed here, then it would be I'rn leaving Bob a pretty good harder to leave." team." Burke said at a hastily The Ducks are 9-7-1 and in called news confHrence at second place in the Pacific llonda Center. Division this season. 
"The way we look at it,. we The 53-year-old Burke have as good a defense as any­explained that he wants to one in the National llockHy spend more time with his six 
WHY CHOOSE A MINOR OR A SUPPLEMENTARY MAJOR IN LATINO STUDIES AT ND? 
Changes in American demography make it imperative for professionals and leaders, in all fields, to understand the politics, economics, and cultures of the US Latino/Hispanic community. Health professionals, for example, are already implementing programs tailored to the needs ofUS Latinos/Hispanics; the private sector is recognizing their growing purchasing power; and policymakers and political leaders have come to realize that Latinos/Hispanics may play a decisive role in the US electoral vote. 
The minor or the supplementary major in Latino studies will deepen stu­dents' knowledge ofthe cultures, art, history, literature, religious life, politi­cal expression, and public policy issues ofnearly 40 million Latinos/Hispanics in the United States. 
The programs encourage research into new issues such as changing immigra­tion patterns, remittances, emerging transnational communities, and cultural flows between Latinos/Hispanics in the United States and their families' countries oforigin. 
While the emphasis is on domestic communities, consideration ofglobaliza­tion, immigration, and border issues introduces an international dimension. 
For more information contact Yolanda Lizardi Marino, Director ofAcademic Affairs, Institute for Latino Studies, 230 McKenna Hall; (574) 631-0940; or at ymarino@nd.edu. 
INSTITUTE for 


Latino studies 
UNIVERSITY QF NOTRE DAME 
children and that 11 years of 
commuting coast to coast was 
enough for him. 

"This is the toughest decision 
I've ever had in my life, profes­
sionally, as far as what to do 
next," Burke said. ''I've been 
wrestling with the decision. 
I've got four older children on 
the East Coast and two little 
ones (4 1/2 and 2 1/2), and I 
don't see any of them enough. 
So I felt if I can get a chance to 
get in the same time zone with 
them, I'm going to take it." 
Burke and Ducks CEO 
Michael Schulman have been 
discussing this possibility for 
the past 11 months and Burke 
made his decision Nov. 1. 
Schulman said he was disap­
pointed at first, but insists 
their relationship is "stronger 
than ever." 

"The reason for a midseason change is simple: We wanted to give Brian all the time he needed to make a sound deci­sion. After everything he's done for the franchise, he deserved that," Schulman said. "We accept his decision as being in the best interests of his family. We are a family first organization." 
One o( the factors that made the decision easier for Burke was the 2007 Stanley Cup championship. 
"There wouldn't have been any decision without that," Burke said. "I would have con­tinued to do the !lying and the commute. There's no way I would have had the nerve to ask to go back somewhere if I hadn't have won a champi­onship here. So that Stanley Cup justified my asking ­because if I hadn't delivered, it would have been a real differ­ent equation." 
For now, Burke will remain with the club as a special con­sultant to Schulman through the transition period -which he hopes with be a short one. 
''I'm going to try to get off the payroll as quickly as I can once I'm told it's the appropri­ate time frame," Burke said. "Mike Schulman's been very generous with me, and I don't want to draw any pay here after I no longer have a useful roll. But that's their call, too." 
Your vocation to heal starts here. 

Murray has spent 33 seasons 
in the NIIL, and was a two­
time All-Star during his 15­
year playing career -all of 
them with the Chicago 
Blackhawks. They named him 
general manager in 1997 aft1~r 
two seasons under Bob 
Pulford, then fired him in 
1999. 
"It's kind of bittersweet," 
Murray said. "The day I was 
let go in Chicago, one of the 
first phone calls I got that day 
was from Brian Burke. lie 
called me again the next day, 
telling me that he would hire 
me immediately. His goal was 
to get me back in the saddle. 
There's only 30 of these jobs 
available, and it's an honor 
and a privilege for me to come 
here and take over. I'm excited 
and I can't wait to get started." 
Murray also will carry the title of executive vice presi­dent. lie has spent the last three-plus seasons with the Ducks, who have made the playoffs every year he has been with the team. 
"We all knew that Murph was the guy that should take the job," Burke said. "There arc other qualil'ied people on the staff, but Murph has been my right hand man here and has been involved in every decision. lie's going to be the guy to step behind the wheel, anyhow, than the sooner the better. We've got lots of impor­tant decisions facing this hock­ey club." 
Suddenly, Burke has emerged as one of the top can­didates for teams looking to snag a GM with a marquee name and an impressive track record. But he's uncomfortable talking about it, even though he has to find another job eventually. . 
"There's no fun for GMs who are in trouble when there's a guy out there that's available," Burke said. "I remember when I was a rookie GM in Vancouver and Glen Sather got let go (by Edmonton). It was like being on a beach and knowing there was a great white shark out there. So I hope that this situation doesn't change any other GM's situa­tion." 



Sports. E-mail Bill or Dan at sports@ nd.edu. 

page 15 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, November 13, 2008 
MLB 
Rockies ship Holliday to Athletics in trade 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Matt Holliday hardly could have expected to land with the low­budget Oakland Athletics. 
The 1\s completed their trade with the Colorado Rockies for the star outfielder Wednesday, securing the big bat Oakland sought for the middle of its order. 
"Originally, it was a little bit of a surprise considering I've never been traded before," Holliday said. "I spent my first 11 years of professional baseball in the Rockies organization. Any time you make a change there's a bit of an unknown." 
Colorado received right-hand­ed reliever Huston Street, lefty starter Greg Smith and promis­ing outfielder Carlos Gonzalez from the 1\s. The clubs reached a tentative agreement Monday, but had to wait for the results of physicals and other details to be worked out. 
"The long-term model for our organization to be successful has always been built around the team dynamic," Rockies general manager Dan O'Dowd said in a statement. "The three men we acquired from Oakland are tal­ented major league players that are a solid fit for us." 
Oakland GM Billy Beane and O'Dowd speak regularly and had discussed Holliday since just after the season ended. 
"We landed one of the biggest hitters out there," 1\s manager Bob Geren said. "He's definitely a piece of the offense you can build around." 
This is a major move by an 1\s team that began rebuilding last winter and is more accustomed to losing star players than acquiring them. 
"We wanted a right-handed bat and we got one," Oakland outfielder Jack Cust said. "It's usually the other way around ­giving away a bigger-name guy for guys who aren't as estab­lished. It's definitely exciting going into the season." 

Proprietors 
Warren & Linda 
:J.,rs/ OrLy.i'na/ .?1-:zza r'n 7omn / 
Since 1951 

Specializing in lt<J!i:Jn Entrees 
Tues. -Thurs.: 5:00 PM • 11 ;00 PM Fri. -S.U.: 5:00 PM • 1:00AM 537 North St. louis • Sout'l Ber.d, lN 574·23.1-2464 

Holliday, a two-time All-Star and runner-up for the 2007 NL MVP award, is due to make $13.5 million next season and then will be eligible to become a free agent. Whether he stays in Oakland past the 2009 season or even next year's All-Star break, nobody knows. 
''I'm not worried about that. Oakland wanted me for a rea­son," Holliday said. 
He has 128 homers and 483 RBis in five big league seasons. His best year was 2007, when he won the NL batting title with a .340 average. He also had 36 homers and a league-best 137 RBis in helping the Rockies reach the World Series. He fin­ished second to Philadelphia shortstop Jimmy Rollins for NL 
MVP. 
Beane said he's still focused on boosting the A's farm system from the bottom on up, and acquiring talented prospects only helps to pull off deals like this one. He's unsure whether Oakland will be able to keep Holliday long-term. 
''I'm not Pollyannaish enough to believe you acquire one play­er and go from 75 to 95 wins," Beane said. "We'll focus on the whole year. Matt's a premium player. I guess we'll sort of cross that bridge when we get to it." 
Geren spoke to Holliday by phone just after the deal became official. 
"He is going to help us tremendously," Geren said. "We all know the kind of talent he 
has with his numbers, but I 
talked to him and you can tell 
the kind of person he is. It's a 
great fit." 
New 1\s third base coach Mike 
Gallego came from the Rockies 
and has thrown batting practice 
to Holliday the past three sea­
sons -so that's a positive for 
Holliday. 
Oakland reached the AL 
championship series in 2006 
before being swept by Detroit. 
This season, it finished with its 
worst record (75-86) since going 
7 4-88 in 1998. The 1\s lost 44 of 
their last 68 games after being 
just four games out of first place 
on July 11. 
Oakland was last in the major .leagues with a .242 batting aver­
age and last in the AL with 646 
runs. The A's also used eight 
starters in left field, so Holliday 
provides stability in that spot. 
"First of all, we needed to 
upgrade our offense. That was 
obvious," Beane said. "Matt fills 
a much-needed spot in the 
order." 
Holliday joins a roster featur­
ing six-time Gold Glove third 
baseman Eric Chavez, who is 
expected to come back healthy 
from shoulder surgery. The team 
recently re-signed second base­
man Mark Ellis and shortstop 
Bobby Crosby. Cust batted .231 
with a team-leading 33 home 
runs and 77 RBis while drawing 
111 walks in 2008. 
"It's caused a lot of attention 
around these parts, the fact we 
got a big guy the Yankees want­ed and a lot of other teams wanted," Cust said, speaking by phone from New Jersey. 

"The last couple years we've had a lot of injuries and a lot of guys not doing as well as they'd like," he added. "They say hit­ting is contagious and I believe that. Once you get guys rolling and get the pitcher worrying about a few guys, they've got to really bear down in the middle of the lineup. I played with Matt in Colorado. We were in the minor leagues together and now we'll be in the big leagues together, so it's come full circle." 
The 24-year-old Smith had elbow surgery last month. He went 7-16 with a 4.16 ERA in 32 starts and 190 2-3 innings dur­ing his first major league sea­son. 
The 25-year-old Street was demoted from his closer role this season and finished 7-5 with a 
3.73 ERA and 18 saves in 25 chances. He would join a bullpen that includes Manny Corpas but is expected to lose closer Brian Fuentes in free agency. Street can become a free agent after the 2010 season. 
Like Smith, the 23-year-old Gonzalez just finished his first big league season. He hit .242 with four homers and 26 RBis in 302 at-bats. 
Smith and Gonzalez, consid­ered a top prospect, both came to the A's last offseason in the blockbuster trade that sent ace Dan Haren to the Arizona Diamondbacks. 
know no boundaries 

World View is an initiative from the Office of the President to promote constructive ~UNIVERSITY OF 
O
DE BARTOLO 
dialogue about issues of race, class. ethnicity. religion, and gender through the arts. ~NOTRE DAME PEI!FORM:NG AR1S CENTER Offiw ofthe Preaident 
page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 13, 2008 
... like you'~e ne~er heard them before ... 
8PM 481 NAMES 4 
tHe price of NONE 


I\I\ICI ffi 
BRYAN GREENBERG 
TIM BRANTLEY 
12AM 









Night 

DJ ALFINHA 

-------------------------------------. 
Thursday, November 13, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Turner 
continued from page 24 
"She's a guard who can shoot the three, who can handle the ball. She's a good passer, she's a good defender, she really has a complete game," McGraw said. "I think she's very versatile and can do a lot of things." 
Turner's skill may allow her to play with Lechlitner in some scenarios, McGraw said. 
Turner has started for three years at Marian Catholic High School in Joliet 
while averaging 
"She's a good passer, 
10 points and McGraw 
3.2 assists per she's a good defender, said she was game. She she really has a impressed shoots 34.3 per­with Turner's
complete game. " 
cent from 3-multiple gifts. point range. Last "She is season, her team Muffet McGraw going to help was 23-6 and us press, she's
Irish coach 

made it to the Illinois Class 4A sectional final. 
"We really like to draw from Chicago," McGraw said. "That's a great area for Notre Dame in general with Iforward I Devereaux IPeters] and !guard] Lindsay ISchrader] being from Chicago." 
In fact, in Turner's sopho­more year, her team lost in the state semifinals to a Fenwick team that included Pnters. Fenwick went on to win the title, and McGraw said Turner remembered the game. 
"Devereaux set some screens on her," McGraw said. "They were talking 
about that when she came down for a visit. It was a memorable screen, she said." 
The proximity of campus to Chicago helps keep players' parents involved, McGraw said. 
"Kids want to play close to home," she said. "Its impor­tant for them to have their parents come to the games. And it's just a great fit aca­demically and all the way around." 
Blue Star Basketball ranked Turner as the No. 82 prospect in the country, and the Illinois Basketball Coaches Association named 
her second­
team all-state 
last season. 
going to help us run, she really can do 
a lot of things," McGraw said. "We're really excited." 
As a freshman. Turner shot 44 percent from 3-point range and helped her team reach the state quarterfinals. ller team finished 23-10 that season. The Times of Northwest Indiana last sea­son named her Player of the Year as well as a two-time first team all-area player. She was also an all-East Suburban Catholic Conference selection in each of the last two seasons. 
tli1lfll' """ 



Recruits 
continued from page 24 
3.1 assists. Cooley was rewarded with a second team all-state selection by the Chicago Tribune and Associated Press. 
"Jack is an intense, physi­cal player who is a throw­back kind of guy," Brey said. "His style of play compli­ments our style of play and he will be a very effective Big East player. He is a good screener and just has a 
great  overall  feel  and  
understanding  for  the  
game."  

Filling out the class is Knight, who at 6-foot-9 and 260 pounds is the biggest member of the incoming class. Last season, Knight averaged 16.8 points, 8.2 rebounds, 2.6 _assists, 2.3 steals and 3.1 blocked shots while guiding his prep team to the Mountain Valley Conference crown and a runner-up finish at the Class C Western Maine regional finals. 
"Tom's stock rose this summer," Brey says. "He is a big, left-handed frontline guy who is particularly crafty around the basket. Tom has great footwork and one of his greatest assets is that the game comes easy to him. He has a good feel for how to play the game and plays within himself. Tom is just a very steady and con­sistent player." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 


CA-rALYS\ 
"'· A" ~~e\\i-­
tk~t ~cceleY'~+-es 

.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, November 13, 2008 

Zah01 
continued from page 24 
season. Zahm made it to the intnrhall ehampionship game in Notn~ Damn Stadium. Even though it was three full sea­sons ago, Ossei-Anlo still points to that gamn as the highlight of his interhall foot­ball earnnr, as many of those who had the same experinnce undoubtedly would. 
As a four-year starter at run­ning baek. Ossei-Anto beeamn accustomed to the view of the game from within the game. Thus, being sidelined on the first day of practiee with a broken thumb, Theo began his snnior season with a new van­tage point. 
"It was just a real freak acci­dent," Ossei-Anto said of the injury. "It hurt a lot to have to sit and watch the team lose and not be able to do anything about it." 
This frustration led Ossei­Anto to disregard doctor's ordnrs and resume play after only thren weeks, instead of the recommended six. Once baek on the field, Ossei-Anto and the four other Zahm sen­iors set to improving the Rabid Bats 0-1-l record. While it did not neeessarily turn out exact­ly as desired (Zahm finished 1­

Navy 
continued from page 24 
about "making plays," but said sometimes throwing the ball away' or taking a saek bnnefits the offense. 
".lust the r'\atun~ of' playing football, you want to make a play on !Wery single play," he said. "Sometimes it's not a play that ean be madn, and you've just got to either drop the ball down, run the ball or 
even  lake  a  saek."  
The  undern eath  routes  
worked  well  for  Clausen  

against Boston College. lie completed nine passes to run­ning back Armando Allen in thn middle of the field. Clausen said continued suc­cess of' the underneath routes will !'oren the defense to eome forward. opening the deep route again. 
"Once you throw the ball underneath, dink and dunk teams and you can run the ball and make teams come up and guard the underneath s t ll ff. Ill a k e the rn s t 0 p the run," Clausen said. "Then they como up and you have shots down the field that you can throw and make plays." 
In terms of helping the short passing attack. receiver David (;rimes said the receivers rwed to takn advantagll of the opportunilins they're given. 
Grimes said the level of attention in thn offensive mnetings has increased now 

2-1 ). the Rabid Bats were able to win its final game of the season and the final game of Ossei-Anto's career, 8-0 over Fisher. 
"We had a lot of raw talent in key positions, but just didn't gel as well as we should have," Ossei-Anto said. 
A difficulty in finding team chemistry is understandable when the center, quarterback, and running back are all freshmen, as they were for Zahm the first two games in Ossei-Anto's absence. 
But the team's youth hints at potential for Zahm 's coming seasons, and if the Rabid Bats do find success, Ossei-Anto will know he was a piece of the foundation. 
Looking back upon his four seasons and almost twenty games, Ossei-Anto fondly remembers a lot. But one repeated experience, in which he sees glimpses of himself, stands in the forefront. 
"I honestly think the high­light Ibesides playing in the Stadium! was being able to see other people who always loved the game, who dreamed to get on the field, like me, and then succeed," said Ossei-Anto. "I just love interhall football. I love football in general." 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer@nd.edu 
that head coach Charlie Weis runs the meetings. Weis will call plays this week because of a death in offensive coordina­tor Mike Haywood's family. 
"Still the same playbook, same plays, but I think, you know, guys arc paying atten­tion to it and are more aware of attention to detail," Grimes said. 
It doesn't matter to Clausen who calls the plays, he said; the execution of the play remains the same. 
"To be honest, when you're in thll game you're not really thinking, 'Oh, he's calling plays or he's calling plays,"' Clausen said. "You know, you're just getting the play from the sideline and going out there and executing it." 
Both Clausen and Grimes said Navy challenges Notre Dame every time the teams meet. 
"Whenever you play them they're going to give their all," Grimes said. "They're out there defending their country. Football is the best part of the day for them." 
Although Clausen missed last year's Navy game, a triple-overtime loss in South Bend, because of injury. he remembers the impact of the game. 
"I don't think that anyone in this building wants to feel like they did after that game," he said. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


NCAA 
continued from page 24 
on Nov. 25. 
Ifthey keep winning this week­end, though, the Iri'ih ean put themselves in position for a few more games at home-NCAA Tournament games are played on the higher-seeded team's campus until the College Cup's final four (Dec. 12-14 in Fresco, Tex.). 
And that would be an advantage the Irish would love to have. At 9­0-1, Notre Dame is unbeaten at home and settled for its only draw against No. 2 St. John's on Sept. 19. 
"Ideally you want to be in the top four for a No. 1 seed, but it's hard to predict with all the conference tournaments coming up," Clark said. "Ifwe won the two games in the [Big East] final four, we'd have a fair chance of being a top-four seed. If we win one game, I'd say we'll be in the top eight, and ifwe don't win one, we still have a really good chance of being a top-16. 

"That's my reckoning of it, but you just don't know-it's hard to predict how the committee will ultimately decide." 
Ifthe Irish want to earn signifi­cant home-field advantage, how­ever, they'll have to overcome South Florida's tomorrow night. Despite entering the tournament as the Heel division's No.2 seed, South Florida is hosting the semifi­nal and championship games based on a predetermined arrangement. 
"Even though we're the number one seed, with the way things have fallen, it's suddnnly an away game, whieh makes it a little bit more dif~ fieult and more of a challenge," Oarksaid. 
Uke Notre Dame, the Bull<; haven't lost at home all year­they boast a 7-0-1 record on their own field. 
"It's a tough place to go and win," <1ark said. "It's a great envi­ronment. they'll have a groat crowd, it'll bn on national TV -it's exciting stufl'. It's a good tnst to go into thi'i type of environment and see how we handle it." 
llandlll it well, and the Iri'ih won't have to worry about playing away from Numni Field for anoth­ermonth. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 



B '8
-
. . . -·­
• 

www.tlaeteambus.com 
574-256-9956 1-877-EZ-TOUR BUS 

.·\ihldic!At-.;ult·rnil· ( inqbo fi"a1t.nlily/Sururity 0JUUf1S ( i J'\ttql/l~UtliJlaRr ( )uting.:.. <.."l~an..~r~.·nHars 11at•a1t.'"r/{~nnt.~t"fts./Spctf1ing E\'t.•nts 
-3t Chun..ik·~l'&·huul Ontt~ 

Convenient. Safe. Reliable. 
Getting Started in Undergraduate Research 
A series of working sessions for Business and Arts & Letters students 
Working Session I 
"What is Undergraduate Research and Scholarship in Business and Arts & Letters?" 
Tuesday, November 18, 5:30 -7 p.m. Hospitality Room, South Dining Hall (across from Reekers) 
Featured Faculty Panel: 
Prof. Elizabeth Moore, Dept. of Marketing Prof. Jeff Bergstrand, Dept. of Finance Prof. Susan Ohmer, Dept. of Film, Television, and Theater Prof. Jim Sullivan, Dept. of Economics and Econometrics 
What do you want to know about undergraduate research and the research process, but are 
afraid to ask? In this session, students will learn about the diverse research and scholarship that takes place in business and arts & letters disciplines. Facultywill talk about bow they became interested in research, and bow they go about developing ideas and framing questions. 
Bring your ideas andyour questions! 
For more information, contact: 
Cecilia Lucero Asst. Director for Undergraduate Research Office of Fellowships clucero@nd.edu 
Write Sports for 
Ki!M 
The Observer. E-mail Dan at dmurphy6@ nd.edu 
Thursday, November 13, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA

BLACK DoG 

PATRICK GARTLAND 

THE FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 

HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion


JJW/WID11rE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
Those knots should
one letter to each square, 
be gone
to form four ordinary words. 
REMIC 
1 

rJ 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 





i!fl I I 
I BASHUM j 


WHAT THE MOB 1 B055 ALLOWE:O ~
ri [) 

www.jumble.com MA55E:U5E: TO 00. 
I URQUOM I 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

riJ I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer:" rI I]" rI I J r I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: POUND TARRY PUNDIT SOCKET Answer: What the echo was to the banker ­A "SOUND" RETURN 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Across 42 Overall feel 3 Slight "Do you like 44 Coquettish 4 Special green eggs and 45 Relative of a connections 
ham?" speaker mole 5 Bustle 7 In the style of 47 Colorful bed 
6 Port seized by 10 Lao-tzu's way cover Adm. Dewey, 13 Meeting handout 51 Corrida cheers 1898 14 Broke from the 52 Pageant 
7 Poking tools band, maybe adornment 
8 Luau offering17 Cosmopolitan 53 Highest peak of 9 Queen of t11e
staple Crete hill?
19 Date 56 Egg: Prefix 10 Ballyhoo 
20 Uncertainties 57 Wide shoe spec 11 Dismounted
21 It can be silly 60 "Behave!" ... and 22 Spot en el mar a hint to this 12 Like mud 24 W.W. I German puzzle's theme 15 Easygoing 
admiral 65 Representative 
16 Sound at a 26 N .F. L. star 66 Tie, as a score 
greased pig 32 Slip 67 Cry between contest 33 Conquistador's "ready" and "go!" 
18 In the distance quest 68 "Kid-tested" 
22 Figs. clusteredbreakfast cereal • 34 Actress Turner 
around 100 36 Opposite of 69 Keep 
23 Like a WSW 
malfeasant, 
Puzzle by Oliver Hill
Down37 Period of human often 

benightedness Fools 39 Theater seating 53 Miles. after 58 Prefix with 24 Fluids in bags
41 Stroke 2 Author James marriage distant
40 Titles for attys. 
25 Bull Moose 59 "SportsCenter" 54 Red-bordered
party: Abbr. magazine'B'E'T E F F u s E I M A v s 26 Appeal 46 ··say what?" 61 Yellow ribbon 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 43 In disagreement channel 
55 The "W" in Geo.
"U~~ F 0 R A L L A L 0 E 27 Incurred. as holder, in song 48 Pottery materials W. Bush, e.g.
~~rc F L 0 R I D A K E Y S charges 62 Geller with a rrfA~ E A I M • M E D I C 0 S 28 "La Traviata," 49 Reply, briefly 56 Straight-horned psychic act African animal
-E N C A M P • S 0 N e.g. 63 St. crosser
50 Onetime T A R G E T • I !INT ~~~~ 29 Site of the first German leader 57 Author Ferber 64 Bring home 
A S T A • E 0 G [f'l!:.u N K S T A GIE.P H I N D I Asian Olympics T o p _E_l_!!_ DE s 1 • o K E 30 Kind of ~ants 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a
1 

credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
ERE.-o D 0 N • M 1 N o E D 31 Prepare to Annual subscriptions are available for the best of SundayA D 0 • S I M M E R-propose 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. S I N C E R E • S E A L ~~rl-35 1, for hydrogen: 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 TL H Cl R D S ~ RE AI NS ~ Abbr. past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).
;!f_E rij-rf

0
1I

t--=-iB-=+=--' A 1-=-1-=-1-::-38 What a massage Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
0 P E D L A S H E S Jic!.c!. may ease solvers: nytimes.com/learning!xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Rose McGowan. 34; Dweezil Zappa, 38; Michael Keaton, 56; Cathy Guisewite. 57 
Happy Birthday: Nothing can be settled without change. Address emotional issues. make your thoughts known and put your plans in motion. Evaluate your friendships to determine if they are good for you. Your numbers are 7, 12, 17, :9, 31, -+8 
ARIES (March 21-April19): So much can be accomplished if you refuse to let emo­tional issues stand in your way. Don1t let other people get involved in \\that you are doing. Go it alone and do things yuur way. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Clear up any misunderstanding you have with a rda­tive or friend. Dealing with children will be easier if you get boundaries and keep a tight rein. Don't he fooled if someone leaves out s01ne impmtant facts. ~stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June ZO): Don't feel bad because you want to make more altera­tions to your life. Consider making some ne\\' friends. trying a new activity or hobby or even changing your professional direction. 3 gtars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Talk to people with experience and you will pick up valuable information. Make an adjustment at home. Someone you work with or who has jurisdiction over you may cause your emotions to s\vell. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Networking or doing something to help your community or an organization you believe in will all pay off. Love is on the rise and now is a good time to let someone you like know how you feel. Pay close attention to detail. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may find yourself getting too serious about what's going on around you. Keep things clean, separate and in perspective if you want to avoid an argument or a falling-out that can1t be rectified. 2 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): With a little eff01t you can pull off some remarkable feats that will impregs and challenge and put you in a leading position today. You may need to ttavel to get things done properly. You will be successful in the end. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You've got your moves and are well on your way to having your dreams come true. This is no time to second-guess yourself. Just go for it and positive changes will take place. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't worry about moving three steps forward and four steps back. In the end, you will accomplish what you set out to do. Someone is likely to mess up or cause you a little frustration but the lesson you learn will be one to remember. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Invest, collect old debts or close deals but don't act on a whim or because someone has upset you. You may let your love life get the betler ofyou but that is no reason to lose money. Keep business and personal matters sepa­rate. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have a good mind when it comes to cash and closing deals. Your ability to talk your way in and out of things will be a marvel, so don't hold back. Go after what you want with confidence. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Not much can stand in your way today. Action will be required to get your way. Don't get too cocky in the process or the very person who is praising you will cut you down. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are smart, intuitive and adaptable. You don't give up or give in to anything or anyone. 
Eug£!11ill 1S Web sites: astroadvice.com for fuu, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name __________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 







PORTS
Thursday, November 13, 2008 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Hoops teatn nabs four recruits on National Signing Day 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 
Thn time is now for No. 9 Notre Dame, but Irish coach Mike Brey hasn't slopped thinking about the futuro. 

Hrey helped shore up the nnxl wavn of Irish talent Wndnesday as four seniors faxed their letters of intent to play in South Bend for the next four years. This comes on the heels of a year when Notre Dame did not sign any recruits but did nnt two transfnrs ­Scott Martin from Purdun and Ben Hansbrough from Mississippi State. 
The elass of 2009 will includn swingman .Joey Brooks (Houston. Tex.) and a trio of frontcourt talent: Mike Broghammer (Minnetonka, Minn.). Jaek Cooley (Glenview, Ill.) and Tom Knight (Dixfield, Maine). 
"We're excited to have Mike, Joey, .Jack and Tom join our Notre Dame basketball family," Brey said in a statement. "They're a great fit for our program and our style of play. With Mike, .Jack and Tom, we're getting three physical frontline players who like to play hard, while .Joey gives us an athletic presence on the perimeter." 
The recruits fit in with Brey's recruiting style of signing tal­ented but not one-and-done players; players who are likely to develop over four years. Each of the four recruits is rated a three-star player at his position by Scout.com. 

Brooks, a 6-foot-5, 200­pound guard, led Strake Jesuit College Preparatory to the UIL District 18-5A title last season as a junior and averaged 22.0 points, 9.0 rebounds, and 2.0 steals per game. Those accom­plishments earned him a spot on the Houston Chronicle Greater Houston Area team and helped him garner all­state recognition. 
"Joey is lan] extremely ath­letic perimeter player who has the ability to be a slasher to the basket," Brey said. "I was really impressed with him when I first saw him play point guard for his AAU team. lie's got a high basketball IQ and has a great feel and under­standing for the game. " 
Broghammer, a 6-foot-9, 235-pound forward, averaged 
11.9 points and 10.0 rebounds as a junior while leading his team to a 27-2 record with the only two losses coming against 
FOOTBALL 


Air loss 
Irish struggle to improve downfield passing game; team prepares to take on Navy 
By BILL BRINK Sports Edimr 

Opposing defenses learnnd their lesson from watehing tape of Notre Dame in the early part of the season and started laking away deep routns, Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen said in his weekly press conferenee. 
"A.I'ter the first half of the North Carolina game, teams have benn trying to take the two outside guys away, Golden !Tate! and Mike !Floyd!, and dropping more guys into cov­erage and making me tak1~ the undnrneath stuff," Clausen said. 
Boston Collnge took away the deep pass against Notre Dame. Clausen's longest pass, a 32-yard completion to Floyd, was a shorter pass over the middle that Floyd took down the sideline on his own. 
Clauson talked a good deal 
see NAVY/page 18 


eventual Class AAAA state ehampion Minnetonka. 
"Mike is a physical frontline player who eontinues to devel­op his offensive game," Brey said. "He's strong inside the post, but is eomf'ortable step­ping out and facing the basket. Mike is an excellent defendm and a good rebounder at both ends of the floor and passes the ball extremely well." 
Cooley ehecks in at an identi­eal 6-foot-9 and 235 pounds. lie !illed up the stat sheet as a junior, averaging 20.7 points and 11.2 rebounds, in addition 
see RECRUITS/page 17 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Chicago guard signs vvith Irish 
By BILL BRINK Spons Editor 
Kaila Turner, a 5-foot-8 point guard from Joliet, Ill., signed a letter of intent to play for Notre Dame, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said in a press confer­ence. 
Turner signed at the start of the early signing period, whieh began Wednesday. She gives Notre Dame depth at the point guard position, something it eurrently lacks, McGraw said. 
"We need another point guard," she said. "Hight now we're working with one point guard in Melissa Lechlitner. Kaila has an opportunity to learn from one of the best point gua.rds .~n the Big East under Melissa. 
McGraw said Turner's game is complete and that she does many things well. 
see TURNER/page 18 

MEN'S INTERHALL 
Ossei-Anto reflects on career with Zahtn 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Spons Wri tcr 
Even though the team in the gold helmets gets all the glory, those in the white hel­mets put in the work, too. Zahm 's Tlwo Ossei-Anto is a perfect example of that. 
Ossni-Anto's entire extend­ed family is from Ghana, and at the age of live, he, his par­ents and his four sisters moved to the United States. But Tlwo did not start play­ing football until high school. 
He soon learned why so many grown men miss their playing days. 
".Junior and senior years of high school, there was always a lot of personal things," Ossei-Anto said. "But on the lield it all melted away and I truly felt at home." 
So Ossei-Anto was elated when he learned of Notre Dame's well-kept seeret-he eould play full contael foot­ball in college as well. 
In Ossei-Anto's freshman 
see ZAHM/page18 
MEN'S SOCCER ANALYSIS 


ND jockeys for high seed 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame's unbeaten women's team may have already wrapped up the Big East tourna­ment title and the nation's top sned, but the men are still jockey­ing for NCM Tournament position heading into Friday's Big East smnifmal at No. 8 South Florida in Tampa, Fla. 
The No. 9 Irish are all but guar­antend a top-16 national seed in the tournament that begins Nov. 21, which means a first-round bye and a seeond-round home game 
see NCAA/page 17 


JESS LEE!fhe Observer Irish junior midfielder Michael Thomas battles for possession during Notre Dame's 2-1 win over Georgetown on Oct. 29. 





