
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Irish fall to Tar Heels 2-1 in Championship 
Notre Dame loses to North Carolina in national title game for the second time in three years 

cize the Pink Zone game, an the project and going through
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
event to benefit breast cancer the text book." 
News Writer 
patients. The publicity for the The Pink Zone is an event event was put together by a put on by the Women's At Sunday's women's basket­management class at Notre Basketball Coaches ball game against Purdue, the Dame, said sophomore Nicole Association (WBCA), O'Connor cheerleaders donned pink T­O'Connor, a member of the said. Each school involved des­shirts, the Leprechaun wore a class and one of the project's ignates a game to be the Pink pink vest and 150 pink T-shirts leaders. Zone game, and they use that were passed out to students. "Our class's job was to start game to raise money and 
The array of pink replacing promoting the Pink Zone awareness for breast cancer the usual blue, gold and green game," she said. "Tfle class is was part of a project to publi-a combination of working on see PINK/page 4 

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 

Left, North Carolina cele­brates after winning the Championship. Right, Elise Weber and Melissa Henderson after the loss. 
Lenz retires after 35 years of service 
She will retire at the end
By PUJA PARIKH 

of the fall semester after 35 
News Writer 

years of service to the University.
Sister Jean Lenz, O.S.F., "While Sr. Jean has cer­special assistant to the Vice tainty earned the right to President of Student Affairs enjoy a relaxing retirement, at Notre Dame, formally she is a valued and beloved 
announced her retirement member of the Office of from the Office of Student Affairs on Dec. 3. see LENZI page 4 
Students tnake fleece blankets for cancer patients 
Third-annual Aiden Project held in South Dining Hall Saturday 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students made over 250 fleece. blankets and cards for cancer patients at the third-annual Aidan Project Saturday. 
The project began when then-sophomore Aidan Fitzgerald of Knott Hall was diagnosed with cancer three years ago. 
"I had to take a year off my sophomore year for chemo," Fitzgerald said. "And when my roommate, who was the Vice-President of Circle K, 
L__ --------­
decided to start this, he asked 'Would it be all right if we called it the Aidan Project?"' 
His roommate. Chris Esber, and other friends started the project as a means of showing support and raising aware­ness. The blankets are dis­tributed to various hospitals which treat children with cancer, including Riley Children's Hospital, Memorial Hospital, and St. Joe's Hospital, Fitzgerald said. 
He receives some interest­ing responses from the chil­dren who receive the blan­kets. 
"I got a huge packet of 
cards from kids last year, and the little kids are just hilari­ous," he said. 
Esber said the project con­tinues to receive support from Circle K, Kiwanis, Knott Hall, the Class of 2009 and student government. 
Meanwhile, the project has grown more popular with stu­dents every year. 
"It blows our expectations every year," Fitzgerald said. "We had to turn people away last year. This year we dou­bled the amount of fleece we used from last year, and look, 
see AlDEN/page 6 

page 2 The Observer + PAGE 2 Monday, December 8, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Deck the Halls 

As I walked into my building, the 
faint sounds of Christmas music were 
!ward from every corner of the hall. 
The wnleoming aroma of Christmas 
cookies fillnd McCandless, and gra­
ciously met me as I entered the dorm. 
The entire hall appeared to bn in the 
Christmas spirit. 
As I continued on 
Alicia Smith

my trek to the fifth 
floor, I saw wrap­
ping papnr and rib­
bons. bells and News Writer 
Nativity scmws. 
There were snow­
men, stockings, Santas, and 
snowrlakns. As I walked to my room, I 
realized that something was missing. 
Although nearly all of the residents 
had deeorated for Christmas, the 
bright and colorful twinkle of the 
Christmas lights I had grown to love 
could not be found within any of the 
students' rooms. 
Christmas lights are banned from 
Saint Mary's residence halls. Deemed a 
fire hazard. lights are not allowed on 
trees, hung around the rooms, or in 
the windows. All lit dncorations are 
prohibited to students. However, the 
halls may have lights in the lobby. 
Thn lobby of MeCandless, which is 
filled with Christmas lights, has not 
o1w. but several lit trees. Other lobbies 
on campus have lit wreaths and vari­
ous o tlw r Iit d111:o rations. 
An e-mail was sm1t to students 
reminding them that "electric dee.ora­
tiVI' lights are not allownd in or 
around studnnt rooms. This includes 
Christmas lights with exposed bulbs, 
anc~. halogen bulbs are also prohibit­
ed. 
A painful twinge of disappointment ran through mP as I read the e-mail sent last week. No lit Christmas tree for me this year. Although the dorm still remained festive, I could not help but think that just a few eolon~d lights would make the Christmas spirit ooze out of McCandless, as well as create a mon~ homey feel to the building. According to www.ehristmascarni­vals.com, Christmas lights hav1~ been a holiday tradition since approximately 1 SIJ!i when president Grover Cleveland displayed the first lit Christmas tree. Saint Mary's students are not able to tako part in that tradition. 
Although I can understand how the lights eould be a fire hazard if not taken care of properly, I do not see the harm in a little Christmas spirit. Christmas lights make the holidays a little brighter, especially since they are in the building anyway. Maybe it is beeause I am a freshman, but I am unable to eomprehnnd how it is safe to have Christmas lights in the lobby. but it is unsafn to have them in our rooms. 
I visited Notre Dame one evening this past wonk, and noticed that in a few of tlw windows of one of the dorm build­ings, there were strings of Christmas lights. Why are Christmas lights a fire hazard to Saint Mary's, but not to Notre Danw'! I pondered that thought for a fnw moments. With a: frown I continued on my way, wishing that we Saint Mary's students were allowed to havn a little more holiday spirit. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Alicia .','mith at asmithOl@.mintmarys.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional pu'b!ication and strives tor the highest standards ofjounalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have matk a mistake, please contact us at 631-4S41 so we can .correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR LEAST FAVORITE CHRISTMAS SONG? 







Ross Degenhardt  James Bishko  Brandon Porras  Eric Mark  C.J. Ramsey  
freshman Duncan  freshman Duncan  sophomore Duncan  sophomore Duncan  senior Duncan  
"'Joy to the World' -I hate it. ,  "'Jingle Bells' ·stinks."  "Whichever one's being sung.  '"Feliz Navidad' because it's annoyingly repetitive. And not English."  '"Blue Christmas' because Christmas is not a timefor  


OFFBEAT 
MBA graduate posts resume in taxi cab 
NEW YOHK -Are you talkin' to me -about a job'! 
A recent MBA graduate who can't fmd work in his chosen field has resorted to posting his resume inside the taxi he's been driving around New York City. 
James Williamson earned his master's degree in business administration at Philadelphia's La Salle University. Then he spent four months on interviews while looking for work troubleshooting electron­ics, doing technical sales or writing advertising copy. 

When none of that panned out, he got his taxi license a month ago to help pay his bills. 
The native of Durham, N.C., says he posted his resume in the back seat of his taxi as -a last resort, hoping one of his cus­tomers might become his employer. 
Homework cooking makes students sick 
BIHMINGHAM Students at one Birmingham school can honestly say homework made them sick. Nearly half of the students in a 
Smith Middle School lan­
guage arts class became ill 
Friday after tasting meals 
that students had prepared 
as part of an assignment. 
Birmingham schools spokeswoman Michaelle Chapman said the students were to write about their favorite dish and how it was prepared. The teacher allowed them to make and bring the dish to dass if they wished. 
Of the 18 student<>, 16 of them brought in dishes and eight students got sick after tasting them. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY a: 
1.1.1 
::E: 
!;;: 
1.1.1 
3: 

0. 
0.
..... 
e.
oct 

*** 1f *** 1f
'**• ... 

* * * *
(,) 
* * * * 
0

...... HIGH 33 HIGH 32 HIGH 35 HIGH 27 LOW 32 LOW 31 LOW 27 LOW 15 
whiners." 
IN BRIEF 
American Hed Cross will be having a blood drive today from 9:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the · Grand Ballroom of LaFortune. Students who would like to par­ticipate are asked to sign up online at www.givelife.org. Walk-ins are weleomn however. 
A Student Forum on Cultural Difference and Sodal Change will be held today at 4 p.m. in 649 Flanner Hall. Thirteen stu­dents will be presenting research that they did during their travels this past summer. 
A public talk on "American Polities: A New Era?" is taking place Tuesday at 4 p.m. in the Intercultural Studies Audit_orium of' the llesburgh Center. Dr. William Kristol will be speaking on the impact of the recent election. 
The 6th annual Christmas at the CoMo featuring the ND Celebration Choir and Instrumentalists will be held on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Center. The event will feature reflec­tions on Christmas traditions by NU international students. A freewill offering will support the Holy Cross Missions in Haiti. 
The special lecture "What and When was the Christmas Star? An astrophysics per­spective" will be given by Grant Mathews, professor of physics, in the Jordan Hall of Science Digital Visualization Theater. The event, held on Friday from 7 to 8:30 p.m. is sponsored by Department of Physics. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mailed detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 
e. 
e.
'* •... * 
'* •• * 

HIGH 18 HIGH 21 LOW 13 LOW 21 
Atlanta 54 I 38 Boston 27 I 18 Chicago 33 I 31 Denver 39 I 24 Houston 76 I 64 Los Angeles 64 I 47 Minneapolis 261 15 New York 31 /26 Philadelphia 32/26 Phoenix 67 /49 Seattle 46/39 St. Louis 50 /42 Tampa 74/57 Washington 34/30 
Monday, December 8, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
SMC athletics hosts holiday craft event 
By LIZZIEY BROWN 
News1Writer 
Saint Mary's hosted its annual Holiday Party for Children in the Angela Athletic Facility on Sunday. 
The event, hosted by the Student-Athletic Advisory Committee (SAAC) in conjunction with the Athletic Department, was held for children and families of the Saint Mary's community, according to a College press release. 
The children who attended the event made craft<; and participat­ed in other events. 
Six of the College's athletic teams. about 100 students, par­ticipated. decked out in reindeer antlers, Santa hats and jingle bells. 
"I really enjoy the holiday party every year," said Nicole Beier, senior basketball player and com­mittee chair of this year's party, in the College's press release. "It is a great opportunity to give back to the families of Saint Mary's that support us in the classroom, across campus. and on the play­ing fields and courts." 
Student-athletes were waiting for the children and their families when they arrived, said senior Ashley Fusaro, a member of the softball team. 
"We brreeted everyone coming in," she said. "And we had cook­ies and candy waiting for them." 
Various booths were set up along the walls, each offering a different craft and chocolate treats for the children. 
Each individual team had its own booth with a craft for stu­dents. Fusaro said. Many differ­ent crafts were available, includ­ing jingle bell bracelets. stockings and ornaments. 
The student-athletes, like Fusaro, worked with children on the crafts. She helped six-year-old Sydney Miller create a stocking ornament at the softball team's booth. 
'Tm on the softball team and she started with our craft," Fusaro said, "We made orna­ments to go on the tree." 
Fusaro and Miller also wore matching sweaters and so they took a picture together, she said. 
Another p·articipant, Jade O'Brien, 5-year-old daughter of Gwen O'Brien, director of Media relations at Saint Mary's College, created a snowman that she named "Crystal." 
Freshman Arianne Rodriguez even implemented lessons learned from inside the classroom to create her craft. At the bottom of her craft she wrote "Feliz Navidad." 
The athletes also played -sports with the children. Seniors Cathy Kurczak and Nicole Beier along with freshman Maddy Peterek were playing volleyball with a few of the attendees and even low­ered the net so four-year-old Nineth Kanieski Koso could play. 
Other students, like junior Patty Duffy, handed out goody bags to the children. 
The event wasn't just about the children, however, athletes got a chance to bond as well .. They danced to the music, made their own crafts along side the children and their families, and were able to learn a little more about the people in their community. 
"We entertained them for a while and spread some holiday cheer," Fusaro said. 
Contact Lizziey Brown at lbrownO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Mendoza na111es nevv director 
Keane appointed head of Executive Education of business college 
be responsible for overseeing the 
Special to The Observer 
transition to a new Executive 

Sharon E. Keane has been Education center. Notre Dame named the director of Executive recently received a $20 million Education of the Mendoza College gift from alumnus Ralph C. of Business at the University of Stayer, chairman of the board Notre Dame. and chief executive officer of 
Keane will provide strategic Johnsonville Sausage, for the direction to the Executive MBA construction of the new center 
programs  in  just south of the  
South Bend and  business school.  
Chicago, as well as executive non­degree pro­grams, which include custom,  'Tm excited to be carrying forward this tradition. "  Keane joined the Executive Education pro­gram in August 2000, focusing  
online, interna­tional and open­enrollment offer­ings. "The deeply  Sharon E. Keane director of Executive Education of the Mendoza College of  primarily on developing cus­tom programs, which earned a BusinessWeek  
rooted mission of Executive Education at  Business  ranking of 15th among Executive Education cus­ 

Notre Dame has always been to tom programs worldwide in prepare individuals for new levels 2007. Previously, Keane was a of leadership that emphasizes not vice president of South Bend, only work performance but also Ind.-based Corporate Staffing personal integrity and responsi­Resources. She also worked for bility to the greater community," the federal government for nine Keane said. 'Tm excited to be years in policy analysis, sales and carrying forward this tradition." consulting positions, and served In her new role, Keane a:lso will as a legislative assistant to Sen. 
Hank Brown, R-Colorado. 
Keane earned a bachelor's degree in the Program of Liberal Studies from Notre Dame and a master's degree in public admin­istration from Syracuse University's Maxwell School. 
"Sharon brings to the position a strong understanding of the chal­lenges faced by executives seek­ing additional education, particu­larly in today's ever-more com­plex global business environ­ment," said Carolyn Woo, Martin 
J. Gillen Dean of the Mendoza College. 
Founded in 1980, Notre Dame Executive Education provides leaders in the executive and man­agement ranks the opportunity to develop and strengthen their leadership abilities and business acumen skills with an emphasis on values-based principles in keeping with the Notre Dame mission. Today, Executive Education offers degree as well as non-degree programs in South Bend and Chicago, awarding about 120 MBA degrees aimually and delivering programs throughout the United States and abroad. 
Recycling market enters slu111p 
Budgeting at centers becomes tighter with global economic meltdown 
Associated Press 

CHARLESTON Norm Steenstra's budgeting worries mount with each new load of cardboard, aluminum cans and plastics jugs dumped at West Virginia's largest county recycling center, 
Faced with a dramatic slump in the recycling market, the director of the Kanawha County Solid Waste Authority has cut 20 of his 24 employ­ees' work week to four days from five, shuttered six of the authority's drop-off stations and is urging residents to hoard their recyclables afteF informing municipalities with curbside recycling programs that the center will accept only paper until further notice. 
"The market is just not there anymore," Steenstra said. 
Just months after riding an incredible high, the recycling market has tanked almost in lockstep with the global eco­nomic meltdown. As consumer demand for autos, appliances and new homes dropped, so did the steel.and pulp mills' demand for scrap, paper and other recyclables. 
Cardboard that sold for about $135 a ton in September is now going for $35 a ton. Plastic bottles have fallen from 25 cents to 2 cents a pound. Aluminum cans dropped near­ly half to about 40 cents a pound, and scrap metal tum­bled from $525 a gross ton to about $100. 
It's getting more difficult to find buyers in some markets, Steenstra said. 
While few across the country appear to be taking such dras­tic measures as Steenstra, the recycling market has gotten so bad that haulers in Oregon and Nevada who were once paid for recyclables are now getting nothing or in some cases are having to pay t11 unload their wares. 
In Washington state, what was once a multimillion-dollar revenue source for the city of Seattle may become a liability next year as the city may have to start paying companies to take their materials. 
Some in the business are 
describing the downturn  as  
the worst and fastest ever.  
"It's  never  gone from  so  

good to so bad so fast," said Marty Davis, president of 
Midland Davis Corp. in Pekin, Ill., who has been in the recy­cling business since 1975. 
The turnaround caught everyone off guard, said Steven Kowalsky, president of Empire Recycling in Utica, N.Y. 
"Nobody saw it coming. Absolutely nobody," Kowalsky said. "Even the biggest players didn't see it coming." 
At the height of the market just months ago, customers lined the street outside Kowalsky's business, hoping to hawk scrap to pay rising food and fuel costs. 
"That's not happening any­more," he said. 
The Kanawha County authority, which sells donated recyclables from residents and municipalities, sells about 7, 500 tons of paper, plastic and aluminum a year, Steenstra said. 
Ted Armbrecht III, managing partner of The Wine Shop at Capital Market in Charleston, says it won't be a problem pil­ing up his recyclables at home, but he doesn't have that luxu­ry with his wine business, which uses a lot of cardboard boxes. 


lunch SConversation for Gay, lesbian, Bisexual SUuestioning Students at Notre Dame 
Friday. December 12 
Noon to 1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman Morse 
The Core Council invites gay, lesbian. bisexual Squestioning members of the Notre Dame family, along with their friends and allys, to an informal luncheon at the Co~.Mo. Everyone is Welcome and Confidentiality is Assured. 
Lunch Wti/Be Served 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, December 8, 2008 

1984. 
" I ' v e w o r ke d w i t h' t h r e n Notre Dame presidents, and its benn a great girt," she said. "I have so many memo­ries from the ynars. I remem­ber Fr. Jenkins when he was a student here because he had friends in Farley. remember the coeducation process here. What an 

Pink 
continued from page 1 
resnarch. 
Notr·e Dame's Pink Zone gamn will be against DePaul on Feb. S. Tlw ganw will .be televised on ESI'NU. A silent auction and other events will 
raise money for breast can­cer rnsearch, she said. 
The objective of the project was to usn management skills taught in class to market the Pink Zonn game, O'Connor said. The game was ofl1cially annourH.:ed to fans at yester­day's game through the nfTorts of tlw students in the class, she said. 
"The elass teaehes the prin­!:iples of rnanagenHlnt ­planning, organizing, lead­ing, controlling, evaluating," shn said. "So our class was 
Lenz 
continued from page 1 

Student Affairs, and I know I speak for the entire senior staff in saying that her daily presence in the office will be missed tremendously," said Father Mark L. Poorman, 
Vice President of Student Affairs in an e­mail sent to colleges within the depart­ment. "Sr. Jean's dedica­tion, wisdom, and commit­ment to the University are unparalleled." 
Lenz, howev­er, is ready to move on. 

"Sr. Jean's dedication, wisdom, and commitment to the University are unparalleled. " 
Father Mark L. Poorman vice president of Student Affairs 
divided into project teams 
"My body was saying to me: 

a!:cording to those phases." 
I don't want to do this any­

TOM LAffhe Observer
The projnct lnaders were 
more," Lenz said. "It became

Cheerleaders performed in pink shirts during the Irish
given an outline of what was 
very clear to me that it was

women's basketball game against Purdue Sunday night. 
time to step aside from doing administrative ministry. I "It was approved as a serv­
knew that once I retire I did­ice project because it went 
n't have to pick up and make beyond the usual require­
a drastic change in my life ments of teaching in the text­
and that I would be able to 
important step it was that Notre Dame opened its doors to women. And we never had big upsets, it was a gradual shift. But those first women, they were real pio­neers." 
Lenz plans to continue min­istry at the 
University and assisting youth with spiritual direc­tion. She will help students who have basic religious questions, are interested in the Catholic faith, or want to figure out what they will do after leaving the University. 
"I went from the very pas­toral to teaching to adminis­IHHldnd to publieizn the event from Women's Basketball office, and thH students did the l11gwork to get the word out about the Pink Zone game, O'Connor said. 

"Wn put up posters, sent out e-mails and tried to talk up the event in the dorms," was in charge of creating the pink T-shirts. Members of the class submitted design ideas, and they used a local t-shirt company to produce the shirts, she said. Students got free shirts, and the extras· 
she said. "Each student )at were thrown'into the crowd. the Purdue game) got a T­The management class, shirt and a McDonalds gift taught by Chuck Lennon, card, and at the end of the Associate Vice President for game we passed out save the University Hclations, was date cards for Feb. 8." approved by the Center for 
The elass also invited Saint Social Concerns (CSC) as a Joseph Medical Center, service learning class, HivHrBnnd Cancer center, O'Connor said. LaPorte hospital and the "It's tho only management Secret Sisters Society to set class in the College of up tables at the game with Business that was approved information about breast for this distinction," she said. cancer, f)'Connor said. Prof. Lennon presented the 
"The game was sold out, so -idea to the esc because the it was a pretty exciting class would use management opportunity to reach every­principles to do a service 
-onn," she said. project for the Pink Zone bas­O'Connor said her group ketball game, O'Connor said. 
book," she said. "[Lennon] 
stay on campus thought it was a great oppor­
and continue tunity to get us actual real 
doing ministry life management experi­
besides admin­ence." 
istrative work." The posters used to adver­
Lenz, a tise the event were funded by 
Franciscan sis­Women's basketball and the 
ter of the funds for the T-shirts came 
Congregation of from the Alumni Association, 
the Third Order which is headed by Chuck 
of St. Francis of Lennon, O'Connor said. 
M a r y "I think this was a great 
Immaculate, opportunity because we were 
came to Notre able to apply what we were 
Dame from learning in class to real life 
Marquette situations," she said. "It 
where she pur­showed us the full range of 
sued a master's what management requires." 
degree in theol­ogy. After six 
ing me to come help. It was

interested in applying for a 
really walking into the unknown when I first came here. I only

RHODES SCHOLARSHIP 
planed to stay a year or two and

(for IJPoyear.r qjj?,raduate sturfy at O:xford) 
just help them get started with their programs. Little did I 

MARSHALL SCHOLARSHIP 
(for IJJ'o.year.r a/graduate .r/t({fy in the United Kingdom) 
know that I would later go on to become

MITCHELL SCHOLARSHIP 
the rector of 

(for om_year o/~f!.raduate stm[y in Ireland) 
Farley Hall," she said. "My 

"I remember getting the letter from Notre Dame asking me to come help. It was really walking into the unknown when I first came here. " 
Sister Jean Lenz, O.S.F. special assistant to vice president of Student Affairs 
Contact Madeline Buckley at 
years, Lenz, along with 10 mbuckley@nd.edu 
other Franciscan sisters, were asked to come back to 
the University and take part in the University's transition

Attention 
to a coeducational institution after 130 years in an all­
male environment. "I remember getting the letter from Notre Dame ask­

JUNIORS GOING ABROAD 
and DECEMBER GRADUATES 
"Her compassion, warmth, deep faith, and great humor are an inspiration and joy to everyone who knows her ... " 
Father Mark L. Poorman vice president of Student Affairs 
time with 
Farley Hall is so memorable

FULBRIGHT GRANT/ETA 
because of all of the women I came to know. They were all

(lor one_ year of research, .rt11rjy or teacbing English around tbe world) 
so wonderful and bright." 
After serving as rector of Farley Hall, Sr. Jean switched to administrative ministry and entered the Office.. of Student Affairs in


Come to an information meeting on 
Tuesday, December 9@ 5pm in 118 DeBartolo 
If you cannot attend but would like information, please contact the Fellowships ()ffice 346 ()'Shaughnessy fellows@nd.edu 
trative work," Lenz said. Administrative work is so dif­ferent. I just got to a point where it seemed time to leave that kind of administra­tion and the typical stress that goes with you. And I have done pas­toral teaching before and really enjCJy it." 
Poorman 
said that Lenz will be missed. 
"During her time at Notre Dame, Sr. Jean has been a consistent spokesperson for the Catholic character of the University and she is a pio­neer of coeducation at Notre Dame," Poorman said. "Her compassion, warmth, deep faith, and great humor are 
an inspiration and joy to everyone who knows her... " 
Lenz will also continue to reside in Farley llall and assist with ongoing pro­grams. She has been involved with the University's L o n d o n Program, where she served as rec­
tor and chaplain from 1973 to 1983, in addition to being an adjunct instructor in the­ology. Sr. Jean is also the author of "Loyal Sons and Daughters," an account of her years at the University. 
Contact Puja Parikh at . pparikh@nd.edu 



ORLD & NATION 
Monday, December 8, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Counting begins in Ghana election 
ACCRA -Election officials began counting ballots late Sunday in one of Africa's rare democracies, where voters are painfully aware of the example they are setting on a continent better known for coups, rigged elections and one-man rule. 
In courtyards throughout the capital, elec­tion officials put police tape around the ply­wood tables where they began sorting bal­lots. Hundreds of onlookers formed walls around the counting tables, standing on chairs to get a view and whooping as the stack of their candidate of choice grew taller. 
The count capped a long day in this humid capital. The election began the night before, as hundreds of voters slept on the pavement outside their polling stations in an effort to be first. Voters spoke of carrying the burden of the continent's numerous failures as they waited to vote. 
Authority challenged in Thailand 
BANGKOK -Loyalists of exiled former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra met Sunday to counter a sudden bid by the main opposition party to form a new government it says will lead Thailand out of political chaos. 
The move comes after protesters recently paralyzed the capital Bangkok and shut down its main international airport, strand­ing more than 300,000 travelers and dealing a heavy blow to the country's tourism­dependent economy. 
The government was dissolved by a court order Tuesday for election fraud. A number of' members of ousted Prime Minister Somchai Wongsawat's People Power Party, who owe their allegiance to Thaksin, regrouped in a new one, the Pheua Thai Party. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
New "Meet the Press" host selected 
NEW YORK -David Gregory's new job as moderator of "Meet the Press" was made offi­cial Sunday with an announcement on the long-running NBC interview program that he will take over starting next week. 
The 38-year-old chief White House corre­spondent was introduced by Tom Brokaw, who stopped in as temporary host last June after the death of Tim Hussert, the program's mod­erator since 1991. 
''I've thought a lot about what it means to succeed somebody like Tim Russert," Gregory told viewers. 'Tm not Tim. But along with this great team, I can just work real hard to make him proud." 
Brain pills demanded by scientists 
NEW YOHK -Healthy people should have the right to boost their brains with pills, like those prescribed for hyperactive kids or memory-impaired older folks, several scien­tists contend in a provocative commentary. 
College students are already illegally tak­ing prescription stimulants like Hitalin to help them study, and demand for such drugs is likely to grow elsewhere, they say. 
"We should welcome new methods of improving our brain function," and doing it with pills is no more morally objectionable than eating right or getting a good night's sleep, these experts wrote in an opinion piece published online Sunday by the journal Nature. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Two victims killed in house fire 
ELHOD. Ind. -State police say a house firn in the soutlwastern Indiana town of Elrod killed two people. 
Milan firefighters responded to the fire shortly before 7 a.m. Sunday and put out the blaze in about an hour. The bodies were found after the fire was out. Firefighters believe the lire had been burning for some time before it was reported. 
The victims weren't immediately identi­fied. Autopsies were seheduled for Monday at Dearborn County Hospital in Lawrenceburg. 
Iowa Court to address gay marriage 
Officials to hear arguments from couples challenging same-sex marriage ban 
Associated Press 
DES MOINES, Iowa ­The gay marriage debate moves to the Midwest this week as the Iowa Supreme Court hears arguments in a challenge to the state's ban on same-sex marriage. 
If the high court rules in favor of the half-dozen gay couples who sued, it would make Iowa the fourth state after Massachusetts, California and Connecticut to uphold the right of same-sex couples to legally marry. In California, how­ever, voters have negated the courts by amending the state constitution to ban gay marriage. 
The Iowa case has been moving through the legal system for more than three years, and it could take a year or more for the state Supreme Court to issue a ruling after hearing oral arguments Tuesday morn­ing. 
Camilla Taylor, an attor­ney for Lambda Legal, a gay rights organization representing the gay and lesbian couples behind the lawsuit, said the state has historically been a leader in supporting minority and women's rights. 
"Iowa has an opportunity to play the role that it often has played in the past -being at the fore­front of civil rights strug­gles -often long before Judge Robert Hanson, who ney's office declined to a conservative group that other states were willing to said a state law allowing comment on the pending opposes same-sex mar­be similarly courageous," marriage only between a case. In court documents, riage, said Americans have she said. "This is not an man and a woman violated it has criticized the lawsuit repeatedly made clear that uncomfqrtable role for the constitutional rights of as an attempt to change they want traditional mar­Iowans, and we are look­due process and equal pro­the way public policy is riage protected. ing at them to make a real­tection. made. "I think it has to be clear ity out of the promise of After that ruling, nearly "Plaintiffs seek to have to judges that Americans equality in the Iowa two dozen people applied this court establish that do care about this issue, Constitution." for marriage licenses, but the courts and not the and in 30 out of 30 cases, 
Lambda Legal filed the only one couple managed Legislature should make when they've been allowed lawsuit in 2005 on behalf to get married before public policy for the State to vote, they say that of six Iowa couples who Hanson stayed his decision of Iowa by redefining mar­same-sex marriage is not a were denied marriage the next day in anticipa­riage to be something civil right," she said. licenses, as well as three of tion of the state's appeal to totally different from what "Americans don't think the couples' children. It the Supreme Court. The it has ever seen," the that two men in a union names former Polk County marriage of Sean Fritz and county attorney's office are just the same as a hus­recorder and registrar Tim McQuillan of Ames argued. band and wife, and they Timothy Brien. stands, although its validi­Maggie Gallagher, presi­don't really appreciate the 
The lawsuit prompted a ty could depend on the dent of the Manassas, Va.­idea that the legal system ruling in August 2007 by high court. based Institute for is going to force them" to Polk County District Court The Polk County attor-Marriage and Public Policy, accept that. 
GREECE 
Riots rage over fatal police shooting 
Bania in Crete and cities in northern The two officers involved in 
Associated Press Greece, began within hours of the Saturday's shooting have been arrested 
death Saturday night of a 15-year-old and eharged, one with premeditated 
ATHENS -Hundreds of youths shot by police in Exarchia. The down­manslaughter and the illegal use of a angernd by the fatal police shooting of a town Athens district ol' bars, music weapon, and the other as an accom­teenager rampaged through Greece's clubs and restaurants is seen as the plice. They are to appear before a court two largest cities for a second day anarchists' home base. Wednesday. They and the Exarchia Sunday in some of the worst rioting the Soon stores, banks and cars were precinct police chief have been sus­country has seen in years. ablaze. pended. 
Gangs smashed stores, torched cars The rioting was some of the most Interior Minister Prokopis and erected burning barricades in the severe Greece has seen in years. The Pavlopoulos, whose offer to resign wa.•.; streets of Athens and Thessaloniki. Riot last time a teenager was killed in a rejected Sunday, has promised a thor­police clashed with groups of mostly police shooting -during a demonstra­ough investigation. self-styled anarchists throwing Molotov tion in 1985 -it sparked weeks of riot­"ft is inconceivable for there not to be cocktails, rocks and bottles. Clouds of ing. In 1999, a visit to Greece by then punishment when a person loses their tear gas hung in the air, sending U.S. President Bill Clinton sparked vio­life, particularly when it is a child," he passers-by scurrying for cover. lent demonstrations in Athens that left said. "The taking of life is something 
Rioting in several cities, including stores smashed and burned. that is not excusable in a democracy." 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, December 8, 2008 
kets. They try to raise awareness for cancer in col­
Aiden 
lege-age people. "The goal of the project iscontinued from page 1 to raise cancer awareness ­
it's 1 p.m. and we already that it can happen in youth, 
ran oul." it can happen to your 
Esbor said the project friends," Esquibel said. spnnt $4,000 on l'lnece. Fitzgerald added: "We're 
Fitzgnrald said the project not just here to make blan­had ovnr 200 kets, we're partieipants its here to raise nrst ynar, and "We're notjust here awareness." over 500 stu­Students who
to make blankets,
dents had come participated 
to this year's we're here to raise appreciated project on awareness. the chance to Saturday as of take an active 1 p.m. part in helping
Alden Fitzgerald 

"And that's cancer just the pnople project organizer patients. who sign in," "It's a great Fitzgnrald said. cause," sopho­
Janeva Waked, vice presi­more Brittani Hussell said. dent of the Class of 2009, "It's a wonderful way to added: "The reach out to project 0 u t­kids who are grew its old obviously going space in through a
"We were really
LaFun, it out-rough time,
happy with the 

grew this and we should space. We turnout." be doing all we moved it to can to help South Dining them."
Annette Esquibel

Hall and it's M o n s y
Kiwanis Chair 

still paeked." Corbera, one of 
Annette the project's Esquibel, the coordinators, Kiwanis Chair said she has a of Notrn Dame's Circle K, hard time describing her was pleased with this year's feelings toward the project. event. "I can't even describe this 
"We were really happy in words. It's amazing," she with the turnout," she said. said. 
In addition, the project emphasizes awarennss in Contact Tess Civantos at addition to just making blan-tcivanto@nd.edu 
Sit-in a symbol of employees' plight 
Two hundred Chicago workers demand severance and vacation pay 
The Rev. Jesse Jackson deliv­she had representatives at thll 
Associated Press 

ered turkeys to the workers, factory investigating the clo­
CIIICAGO-Chicago workers pledging the support of his sure. in the third day of a sit-in on Chicago-based civil rights "I am extremely concerned the floor of their former work­group, Rainbow/PUSH with the actions of this compa­place peered through the win­Coalition. ny, which are having a signifi­dows of a door Sunday, amazed "These workers deserve their cant impact on employees and by a mix of supporters, politi­wages, deserve fair notice, their families," Madigan said. cians and journalists who deserve health One of the fac­packed a foyer outside. security," tory's workers, 
"We never expected this," Jackson said. 'These workers Silvia Mazon, said Melvin Maclin, a factory "This may be said in Spanish
deserve their wages, 
employee and vice president of the beginning of that she needs the local union that represents long struggle of deserve fair notice, the money owed the workers. "We expected to worker resist­deserve health to her for an go to jail." ance finally." $1,800 monthly
security."
The 200 workers demanding Leah Fried, house payment. severance and vacation pay an organizer for The 40-year-old have become a national symbol the United Rev. Jesse Jackson from Cicero said for thousands of' employees Electrical she has enough laid off nationwide as the econ­Workers union money saved to omy continues to sour. They that represents the workers, survive for one month. occupied the plant of their for­said the company told the "We'rll making history," she mer employer, Republic union that Bank of America said. Windows and Doors, after the has canceled its financing. Patrick Tyrrell, 22, of company abruptly fired them Bank of America received Chicago, visited the workers last week. $25 billion as part of a govern­Saturday and returned the 
At a news conference ment bailout. Some workers next day with home-cooked Sunday, President-elect Barack carried signs Sunday that said: beans, rice, chicken and soup. Obama said Republic should "You got bailed out. We got Tyrrell said he felt he wanted follow through on its commit­sold out." to help, in part, because his ments to its workers. The bank had said in a state­grandfather was an electrical 
"The workers who are asking ment Saturday that it wasn't union member. for the benefits and payments responsible for Hepublic's "This is an impressive histor­that they have earned, I think financial obligations to its ieal event," he said. they're absolutely right and employees. Hepublic has not Hep. Jan Schakowsky, an understand that what's hap­commented on the sit-in. Illinois Democrat, called it the pening to them is reflective of Meanwhile, Illinois Attorney start of a movement. "This what's happening across this General Lisa Madigan said in a story has resonated around the economy," Obama said. news release late Sunday that world," she said. 
Pearl Harbor commemorates 67th anniversary of attack 
recalled Grillin, a retired Army lowing the raid and on an service and still maintains the After the moment of silence
Associated Press 
Air Corps major from Green American response that helped far-reaching U.S. Pacific Fleet. observing the beginning of the 
PEAHL IIAHBOH -While Township, oul'iide Cincinnati. defeat the Japanese and render Underscoring how far attack, the destroyer USS smoke still billowed from the The U.S. military "took Japan the U.S. a military superpower. Americans and Japanese have Chung-Hoon rendered honors to torpedoed ruins of the U.S. fleet entirely by surprise," said At 7:55a.m., the moment on a come since Dec. 7, 1941, the Arizona, which still lies in at Pearl llarbor, Thomas Griffin, a keynote speaker at a Sunday morning in 1941 when President-elect Barack Obama in the harbor with its dead. Gri!Tin's B-25 group took off ceremony Sunday commemorat­hundreds of Japanese planes Chicago on Sunday introduced Nearly 2,400 Americans were from its Oregon base to search ing the 67th anniversary of the began raining bombs and torpe­retired Gen. Eric Shinseki, a killed and almost 1,180 injured for Japanese ships or sub­Japanese raid that marked does onto Oahu's U.S. military Japanese American born in when Japanese lighters bombed marines along tho West Coast. America's entry into World War ships and planes, onlookers Hawaii a year after the attack, and sank 12 naval vessels and 
They didn't lind any, but four II. lie was joined by more than across from the sunken USS as his nominee to head the heavily damaged nine others. months later tho group flew 2,000 World War II veterans and Arizona went silent. Veterans Affairs Department. The Arizona, which sank in from tho aircral't carrier USS other observers. "It was an impossible begin­Sunday's commemoration fea­less than nine minutes after an IIorn1~t and attaeked Tokyo. The Usually, the commemoration ning," Adm. Hobert Willard, tured a performance by the U.S. armor-piercing bomb breached raid inflicted little damage but foeuses on the attack on the USS commander of the U.S. Pacific Pacific Fleet Band, morning col­its deck and exploded in the boostnd U.S. morale and embar­Arizona, Pearl Harbor and sev­Fleet, said in his address. "Yet, ors, a Hawaiian blessing, a rille ship's ammunition magazinll, rassed the Japanese, who eral other installations on Oahu. look at us today." He noted that salute by the U.S. Marine Corps lost 1,177 sailors and Marines. launched tho ill-fatnd attack on But Sunday's remembrance cen­Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard and a recognition of those who About 340 of its crew members Midway Island six weeks later, tered more on the months fol-recently celebrated 100 years of survived the attack. survived. 

I'IC>TRE D.A.I\IIE RIG;I-IT TC> LIFE .Join us in the nation's capital to proclaim the dignity of every human life, from natural conception to natural death. .January 22nd, 2009 Regist:er online at:: vvwvv.nd.edu/""prolit=e Dec. 1 gth deadline Trip cost is subsidized t=or ND/SMC/HCC students and Financial aid is available in case oF need. Questions? E-mail proli'f"e@nd.edu  



recycle ltte Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Monday, December 8, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,635.42 +259.18 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,218 73 923 1,873,029,034 
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE 

S&P 500 876.07 +30.85 
NIKKEI. (Tof<Yo}~i·u:'\isiltilllilllllllil:ii;1 !111:!~11il.l,ll, 
FTSE 100 (London) 4,049.37 -114.24 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +3.08 +2.63 87.93 FIN SELECT SPDR (XLF) +7.92 +0.94 12.81 CITIGROUP INC (C) +4.19 +0.31 7.71 ULTRAFINANCIALS PRO (UYG)+15.30 +0.81 6.11 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +3.39 0.087 2.657 13-WEEK BILL 100.00 +0.005 0.01 30-YEAR BOND +0.84 +0.026 3.11 5-YEAR NOTE +8.67 +0.133 1.667 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.86 40.81 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -13.30 752.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.80 90.30 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 92.6700 EURO 0.7862 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2707 BRITISH POUND 0.6807 
IN BRIEF 
Gasoline hits almost five-year low 
CAMARILLO, Calif.. -The average price of 
U.S. gasoline fell 22 cents a gallon during the past two weeks, bringing it to its lowest level in nearly five years, according to a national survey released Sunday. 
The average price of regular gasoline Friday was $1.75 a gallon, oil industry analyst Trilby Lundberg said. The price of mid-grade was $1.90 a gallon and the price of premium was $2.02 a gallon. 
The last time gas was cheaper was on March 2004, Lundberg said, when the national aver­age for regular was $1.74 a gallon. The all­time high was on July 11, 2008, when the price peaked at $4.11 a gallon. 
or cities surveyed, the nation's lowest price was $1.46 in Cheyenne, Wyo. The highest was $2.54 in Anchorage, Alaska, and the highest in the continental United States was $2.10 on New York's Long Island. 
Recession may affect inauguration 
WASIIINGTON -Unemployment is on the rise. The stock market is in the tank. Is this any time for a party? 
For the sake of the masses expected for President-elect Barack Obama's inauguration, let's hope so. While Obama must be sensitive to the nation's time of war and recession, there still is reason to expect a rollicking time. 
"We're mindful of the fact that people in this country are hurting, that they're going through hard times," said Linda Douglass, spokeswoman for the Presidential Inaugural Committee. "On the other hand, we see this not just as a celebration of an election, but as a time for people to come together and cele­brate their common values and shared aspira­tions and goals." 
The committee has disclosed few details of the celebration, but it surely won't come cheap. President George W. Bush raised $42 million to help finance his second inaugura­tion. Millions more were spent by the govern­ment on security. 
Though costly, an inauguration helps set the tone for a presidency, said Gil Troy, a visiting scholar at the Bipartisan Policy Center who has written extensively on presidents and first ladies. 
Senator calls for GM head to step down 
Chris Dodd, D-Conn., urges Rick Wagoner to leave his post as chief executive 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -A senator who will help determine whether the auto industry gets a $15 b~llion bailout said Sunday that the head of General Motors should step down, telegraphing what could be a congressional demand for a top-line shake­up in Detroit in exchange for fmanciallife support. 
Rick Wagoner, the chief executive of GM, "has to move on," said Christopher Dodd, D-Conn., chairman of the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee. He spoke on CBS' "Face the Nation." 
"I think you have got to consider new leadership," Dodd said. Asked if that should be a condition of any bailout, he added, "I think it is going to have to be part of it." 
"I think it's clear GM is in the worst shape," Dodd said before specifying the need for Wagoner to step down. 
In response, GM spokesman Steve Harris said the company appreciates Dodd's support for the loans, but added, "GM employees, dealers,·suppliers and the GM board of directors feel strongly that Rick is the right guy to lead GM through this incredibly difficult and chal­lenging time." 

Last week, The Associated Press asked Wagoner if he would resign at the request of Congress, to which he doing "the exact right thing" economy deteriorates fur­see happen is for the auto replied, "It's not clear to me in drafting legislation that ther. industry to disappear, but that experience in this "holds the auto industry's Democratic Sen. Carl I'm also concerned that we industry should be viewed as feet to the fire" at the same Levin of Michigan, whose don't put $10 billion or $20 a negative, but I'm going to time it tries to prevent its state is ground zero for the billion or $30 billion or do what's right for the com­demise. battered· industry, told "Fox whatever billion dollars into pany and I'm going to do it The criticism of industry News Sunday" he was confi­an industry, and then, six in consultation with the leaders deepened as nego­dent an agreement would months to a year later, they board." tiators for the White House emerge within the next day. come back hat in hand and 
GM's board recently has and Congress narrowed Democratic leaders have say, 'Give me more,"' Obama been meeting three times a their differences over a plan said they hope to pass the said. week by telephone. to extend roughly $15 billion measure this week. While Obama, who takes office 
But the shots kept coming in short-term loans to any Levin declined to predict its Jan. 20, has drawn some Sunday. President-elect Detroit automaker that approval, support among criticism from Democrats Barack Obama accused auto needs them. Analysts say rank-and-file lawmakers who want him to become executives of a persistent General Motors Corp. and presumably would improve more involved in efforts to "head-in-the sand Chrysler LLC, in particular, dramatically if both White save the industry. The presi­approach" to long-festering are at risk for running out of House and Obama were to dent-elect said his aides are problems. In an appearance money in the next few signal their backing once the monitoring developments on NBC's "Meet the Press," weeks, and that Ford Motor legislation is complete. and considering longer-term Obama said Congress was Co. may need help if the "The last thing I want to plans. 

Legal counsel threatened by economy 
Associated Press ject's lawyers guided her through a decline," said Susan Erlichman, 
7-year legal fight to get her divorce president of national association of 
SEATTLE -The day before Maria and a residency green card. IOLTA programs -the acronym Nunes fled Florida for Seattle, her "I didn't even know I had rights," stands for interest on lawyers trust abusive husband beat her uncon­Nunes said. "It takes a long time but accounts. "In many cases, it's the scious. She had already divorced they didn't quit." double whammy, not only have the him, which made the Jamaica native Now, however, the project is one of interests plummeted, many states vulnerable to ·deportation because hundreds of legal aid organizations are seeing smaller (trust) balances." she depended on her marriage for nationwide that face losing a signifi­In Ohio, revenue from IOLTA is her legal residency in the United cant amount of their operating expected to drop 50 percent this States. money, which comes in part from year to $11 million from $22 million 
At a women's shelter in Seattle, interest on funds that lawyers hold in 2007. Projections for 2009 look Nunes was told she could still in trust for their clients. even grimmer with incoming rev­become a permanent resident, but All 50 states have some form of a enue dropping to $4 million. that the law required women in her law that earmarks such money for Washington state revenue for plight to prove they had been legal services for the poor. grants is expected to drop from $9 abused. Nationally, it added up to about $370 million in 2008 to $6 million next 
Attorney Jorge Baron and the million last year, but advocates say year. Texas initially projected $28 Northwest Immigrant Rights Project that figure could drop by as much as million for 2007, but interest rate -an organization that provides 50 percent in 2009 because of both cuts chopped the figure to $20 mil­legal aid to immigrants in the economic meltdown and low lion. The shortfall in Texas is acer­Washington state at no or reduced interest rates. bated by Hurricane Ike's destruction, cost -stepped in to help. The pro-"We've never had this type of an advocate there said. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, December 8, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

The endangered book 
1~0. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hinc 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
Ass·!: MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
Ass1: MANAGING EmTOR: Deirdre Krasula 
N~ws EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EmTOR: Kam King 
SroRTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 

SAINT MARY's EDITOR: l.iz Uarter 
PIIOTO EmTOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAI'IIICS EDn'OR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGF.R: Maddie Boyer 
An DF.~IGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarty 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
fAX 
(574) 631-6'Jl7 ADVERTISING ('i74) 6.31-6900 obst•rvad@nd.edu EOITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EOITOR (574) 631-4541 obsrne@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 ohsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK ('i74) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK ('i74) 631-4543 sporrs.l @nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoro<i''nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
rHE. 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

Tht· Observer is rhe indept·ndent, daily nt-wspaper published in prim and onlint· by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Fdirorial content, including adverrisemcnrs. is nor governed by policit'S of the administration ofeither insritmion. The Obst·rver rescrvt'S the right to reli.tsc advcrtisemmts based on content. 
Tht· news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials reprcsenr the opinion of the majority of the Fditor in Chid~ Managing Editor, Ao;sistant Managing Editors and department cdirors. Cornmmrarics. letters and columns prescnr the views ofdJt' amhors and not necessarily those ofThc Observer. 
Vitwpoint space is available to all readers. The free t•xpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact int{mnation. 
Qtmtions rrgarding Obrm;rr policies should be directd to Editor in ChiefChris Hinr. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th(' ohwrvl'f (lJSI'S ';IJ') l-4UUO) IIJ'Uhlllihccl Munday dnuugh fridJy t'XI.t'pt ·luring rum .uul vJ.rr,.'llll!l/1 p~rw.L.. h 111hr.a:npriun to Tltr l)l~rver i1 .$1110 fur 1111...-audc:tmr.: y~.:.u; S55 fur uno: r~~;m.;stcr 
The Olwrvcr ia puhli•htd Jr PmTMA.>'TER 1124 Suurh [linm~tll.tll Send Jddrcs,~ correction~ to: Notre P.unc, IN -1!,55(1..0771) ·me Ob~,ervc:r 
I'c:ru)(hc;al pmr.qt" p•iJ •' Norrc l).;~;mc t':O Buxn9 ami .aJdirionJI m.1iling office$. 021 SuUih Dining Hall Notre D;~.mc. IN 46l!){i.ft779 
The Oh~~Crver u. 11 mc:mhcr ul the A.t.M~u1ed Prt:1tl. All repro..Ult:Uon nKhl~ are rnerveli. 
You might want to ask Santa for a book this year, since the book might be on its way out. 
The news from the publishing industry (or at least the trade publish­ing industry; aca­demic presses are still doing rela­tively well, so those of you who are hoping to say goodbye to text­books are out of luck) is grim: Major publishers -Random Ilouse. llarperCollins, Simon & Schuster, to name a few ­are freezing salaries, laying ofT staff members and, the worst sign of all, no longer acquiring new titles. This makes about as much sense as having a TV channel refuse to create new shows; after all, who really enjoys watching TV Land or My Michiana? And it all comes down to old-fashioned demand: Publishers are doing badly because booksellers are finding it harder and harder to sell books bm:ause, in all likelihood, people are not reading for pleasure as much anymore. 
If not the economic turmoil, then technology might spell the end of the poor codex. Amazon's Kindle, for example, is far from perfect in either price tag or the quality of the read, which is about as visually appealing as the display screen of a first-gener­ation iPod. It does, however, repre­sent the first generation of devices that will someday allow us to access all the world's literature (read: Google Books, probably) on demand. No more needing a second hand to turn the page, no more herniating your inter­vertebral discs when moving out of your dorm room; the portable digital reader will do it all. 


Yet there are more than a few reac­tionaries-Luddites, if you like, and mor1~ often than not authors or pro­fessional literary critics -who feel an inexpressible horror at the prospect of replacing books with elec­tronic downloads. J.K. Howling, for example, has stipulated in her eon­tract that Harry Potter will never appear in electronic format, though one wonders whether this is as unbreakable a vow as it seems. Those who, for instance, insist that the aes­thetic experience of reading a book is absolutely unparalleled on the one hand might be surprised at how well technology can recreate the book­reading experience, and on the other appear more than a bit dilettante. Practicality issues, which is to say the apparent inability of anyone to come up with a durable standard for data storage in anything, ever (.doc? · .docx'? .pdf? .wps'?),' will hopefully improve, as will issues with battery life, portability, and hard drive size. Things, in short, are not looking good for print. 
But the book might not be an entire­ly lost cause yet. I don't know whether anyone has studied the psy­chology of reading on a printed page versus a computer monitor. From per­sonal experience, however, I know that whenever I see an electronic screen, I am seized by a sort of intel­lectual psychosis that prevents me from reading more than 50 words or typing more than a dozen before I feel the urge to multitask: cheek IJ-mail, pull up another website, shu1'11e through my iTunes lisl. I f'ind it nearly impossible to read an nntire essay, let alone a whole book, on tho computer; doing so requires so little investment ofenergy and effort-a dick here, an Alt-Tab there to both start and stop-that I can neither prevent my eyes from sliding past entire para­graphs at a time, nor make myself feel bad when I declare my efforts a failure. Heading a book, meanwhile, requires preparation, picking out a comfortable seat, shutting myself off from distractions and setting aside huge blocks of time just to read -a sort of temporary doistnring. Maybe it won't happen with dedicated digital readnrs, but it seems that reading something that doesn't in some way inconvenience the reader makes it harder to invest the time and effort to do so. That is. the e-book might be harder to read well because it will be so easy to read. 
Of course, there is one last point worth mentioning. Books are also harder to steal -which, in South Bend, is probably a compelling enough reason to hope that they don't disappear just yet. 
Darryl CampfJell is a second-year Ph.D. student in History. 1/e can fJe contacted at dcampfJe6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nece­sarily those of The OfJserver. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Mandi Stirone Bill Brink 
"Patience serves as a protection
Ashley Chamley Jared Jedick 
)(lgainst wrongs as clothes do
Amanda Gray Michael Blasco 
against cold. For ifyou put on more "Those in possession ofabsolute Graphics Scene clothes as the cola mcreases. it will power can not only prophesy and Androa Archer Analise Lipari have no power to hurt you. So in make their prophecws come true, 
like manner you must grow in but they can also lie and make their
Viewpoint 
patience when JJOU meet with great lies come true."
Lianna 

wrongs, and~ they will then beBrauwciler powerless to vex your mind., Eric Hoffer American philosopher Leonardo DaVInci Italian polymath 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, December 8, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Spygate, Cassel's success prove We is can't coach 
Perhaps this is just the bitter Steelers fan inside of me speaking after having two AFC Championships stolen, but Charlie Weis built his credentials on a lie now known publicly as "spygate" and Notre Dame deserves their money back. Spygate involved Patriots' video coordinator Matt Walsh filming the opposing team's defensive coordinator as well as pre­game warm-ups with the goal of knowing which play the defense was going to run on each down. Subsequently, Weis and the Patriots' offense would call the play they felt would be most effective against that defense. Clearly, this made calling the right plays and winning superbowls a whole lot easier. 
Sure, there is the school of thought that the Patriots' signal stealing was crafty and just part of the game, but when Notre Dame, a school with no knowledge of this alleged scandal. hires you solely because of your past success at picking plays, this becomes tantamount to fraud -fraud that the school wouldn't tolerate when they hired George O'Leary and fraud the school, when consid­ering its Catholic roots and strict honor code, shouldn't tolerate now. After watching the Irish play their final regular season football game (if you even want to call it that), it became apparent that Weis, without knowing what the defense is running, is far from an offensive genius. In fact, when considering the Patriots' continued success without him and Notre Dame's ineptitude with him at the helm, you'd have to say he's the exact oppo­site-an obese, foul-mouthed, uninspiring leader who appears more desperate than Bob Saget's character in the movie Half Baked. 
Aside from his supposed genius on offense, Weis was brought in to develop young talent, since he was responsible for making Tom Brady what he is today. Or was he? This sea­son, Bellicheck has molded Matt Cassel, a perennial backup who hasn't seen the field since high school, into a 400-yard-per-game fantasy football stud. Meanwhile, Clausen's decision making seemed to only get worse and worse as the season progressed. This is obviously the result of Charlie never having played football and therefore being unable to teach the fundamentals and intricacies of the game. 
To his credit, he never lied about his athlet­ic accomplishments as O'Leary did. So, maybe the University is to blame for wrong­fully attributing the Patriots and Tom Brady's success to Weis, and maybe calling his super­bowls fraud is a bit of a stretch, and maybe Swarbrick should be fired for reliving our mistake, but since Charlie Weis is staying I'd like to offer him one piece of advice: Try not to fall too hard off of Bill Bellichick's coat­tails, or you may just re-injure that knee, and destroy what little remains of your coaching career in the process. 
Ryan Shestak 
)Ull!Of 
Dillon Hall 
Dec. 4 

Bow-l bid essential for teatn 
Dear Mr. McDonnell, 
I can tell from your recent Letter to the Editor "Declining a bowl bid" (Dec. 4) that you are rather disappointed with the way things have gone for our beloved Fighting Irish this year. Please believe me when I say that I share your frustrations. But please, do not allow an unfortunate year of football to cloud your judgment on what is best for our team. 
You assert that Notre Dame needs neither the monetary gains nor the recruiting oppor­tunities that attending a bowl game would otTer. Although I'll agree with you in regard to the recruiting, I do promise you that there are plenty of programs here at Notre Dame that could use a little financial boost, whether they be athletic, academic or other­wise. And I know plenty of students whose lives would be eased significantly if they had a little more scholarship money from the school. Now, I would think that Notre Dame would help all of these people and programs if they had the money, so I'm assuming that Notre Dame could definitely use more money. Do we need the money? Probably not, but I'm sure it would be nice to have. 
You also claim that the extra practices in December that the team would gain wouldn't be particularly helpful. Perhaps not, but they certainly can't hurt the team. And although the senior players -who will be sorely missed -will not gain from the practices, the team is not composed entirely of seniors. There are plenty of talented juniors, sopho­mores and freshmen on our team and they will be benefited by the practices. 
Finally, I notice that you don't actually present any reason that Notre Dame should­n't attend a bowl game, unless you count the incredibly vague statement "the Notre Dame standards of intelligence, sportsmanship and athleticism will not be served by accepting a bowl bid." Now, if there is a good reason why attending a bowl game is bad for the team I'd love to hear it, but so far I'm not seeing it. And as far as your statement goes, I will say this: It seems unintelligent to pass up on easy money and practices, and it seems unsportsmanlike to not play the game just because you aren't winning. 
Plus, there is at least one major bonus to atte11.ding a bowl game -we can win it. I hav~faith in our football team (as any true fan should) that they can rise above some problems in the past to defeat whatever opponent is thrown their way. I don't want to see my Fighting Irish hide under a rock until next season -I want to see them fight. 
Jake Pardo sophomore Keenan Hall Dec. 4 

Meador's arrogance 
As a female alum of the University, I am incredibly insulted that Mr. Meador ("Notre Dame arrogance," Dec. 3) would refer to one of his fellow classmates as a "little girl." It seems that he needs to take a look at himself and his own prejudices and arrogance before he starts casting stones at those around him. Furthermore, if he felt so adamantly that the University was extremely arrogant from the day he hit campus, he should have done the honorable thing and trans­ferred so that someone more appreciative could take his place. 
Sue Ellen Dooley alum class of 2003 Dec. 4 

Use tnoney for good 
I'm an avid alum and fan of football at Notre Dame (ask any of my former students, some of whom even write for The Observer now}. I have posters of Notre Dame in my classroom and every Monday, some­body ..brings up the topic of the game, and I even suffer through watch­ing Pete Carroll gloating as he trounces us! But how much money is it really worth to win a few more games each year? More than football, which I love, Notre Dame taught me to love helping other people. Use the buyout money for something more altruistic and dignified of the University. If they want to get rid of somebody, look for the guy who gave the contract extension to an untested head coach! 
Dave Henner alum class of 1973 Dec. 6 

Carefully consider buyout 
I read with dismay some recent letters from students urging the universi­ty to buy out Charlie Weis' contract. Some students even volunteered to chip in a little for the fund. If Notre Dame buys out Weis' contract, they had better never contact me for a donation again. Any university that chooses to use its resources this way and still expects families to pay $50,000 a year for their children to attend has no sense of proportion at all and does not deserve my financial support. Students and alumni are not "owed" a win­ning program, much less a national championship. They should expect a program with integrity, nothing more or less. 
Michele Thomas alum class ofl983 Dec. 3 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 



By PATRICK GRIFFIN 
One would be surprised to learn the self-categorization of the duo that make up The Knux considering their criminal past and the company they continue to keep. 
Despite their arrests for involvement in an I.D.-forging and auto theft ring, the brothers from New Orleans cite artists such as Radiohead, Led Zeppelin and the Strokes as some of their strongest influences. 
"We spent our youth thuggin'," Kintrell 'Krispy Kream' Lindsey told "Blender" magazine in their December issue. "I know the same people back home [Lil'] Wayne does. The dudes he calls to get someone knocked off? Same dudes I'm gonna call." 
The flannel clad duo of Krispy Kream and his brother, Alvin 'Bah Almillo', recently released their debut album: "Hemind Me in 3 Days ... " The two account for 100 percent of the album as they played every instru­ment including guitars, synthesizers and bass. 
Growing up in the tough environ­ment of New Orleans's Ninth Ward, the Lindsey brothers were made to practice the trumpet, trombone, and French horn by a domineering moth­er. While their peers notched legal altercations all over the streets of New Orleans, Kintrell and Alvin excelled in their school's mar~ing band. 
Their mother's tough love eventually generated the critical acclaim that they have enjoyed of late. The Knux havH garncn~d mass"recognition and have established themselves as con­tenders in the developing "hipster rap" genre. . 
Though the band recognizes their gangster rap influences, The Knux are more than just repetitive beats and arrogant lyrics. 
"We want to bend rules in our music," Krispy explained to "Blender." "Hip-hop is just the lens we run all our influences through." That is just what the brothers Lindsey have done with their initial mainstream effort. 
Though their lyrics channel the likes of fellow rappers such as Big Boi of Outkast and The Hoots, it is the instru­mental styling on display in "Hemind Me in 3 Days ... " that distingUishes The Knux from most hip-hop regulars. Krispy Kream and Rah Almillo com­bine .original and exploratory beats with crunchy guitar rifts that are both simple and memorable. 
In the sixteen-song album, The Knux explore a broad range of subject matter including the typical topics of sex and money. However, the duo also delves into their troubled past and ongoing redemption from their previ­ous legal conl1icts. 
Other tracks celebration the illustri­ous party lives that the brothers now enjoy. In fact, the album's initial track opens with a dialogue featuring Krispy with the baekground ambience of a nightclub. 
Most of the tracks are creatively dis­tinct from each other, providing a brand new experien1~e for every suc­cessive track. 
One of the fnw negative observations of the album may bt• attributed to the album's length. Because the rookies released a high quantity of' tracks, some pieces sePm to lack key instru­mental participation, as if the songs were hastily tossed together. 
It is almost as if The Knux had some leftover lyrics that they just couldn't leave on the back burner, but no significant accompaniment to accent the vocals. Thankfully, these monotonous songs arn few and far between, and there an~ still plenty of quality traeks. 
For a band only several years 
removed from serious 
Remind Me in 3 Days ... legal ramil'ieations, The Knux have dont~ well toThe Knux entirely reinvont thcm­snlvos in a way most ben­
Produced by: E Pluribus Unum elida! to the public. As tho hip-hop industry 
Recommended Tracks: "Hush" and 
continues to evolvP, 
I 
"Cappuccino." resulting in a most dynamie sound. The Knux have proven to be a musi­cal force with a promising future. 
J 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, December 8, 2008 
page 11 
Deck the halls with boughs of holly ­it's officially time for Christmas music. 
I couldn't bring myself to play any of my holiday tunes before Thanksgiving. lleck, mid-November. I heard Mariah Carey's "Alii Want for Christmas Is You" at a local barroom estab­lishment, and that was just too much. Even last week didn't quite I'Pel right, and songs like "Holly Jolly Christmas" went unplayed on my lap­

Analise Lipari 

top and iPod, lonely and gathering cyber dust. 
Scene Editor 

But now that the snow has begun to fall (and to accumu­late, which is key), my dorm room door is gift-wrapped and both white and multi-colored lights have been hung all over the place, I'm ready to jam to my Christmas playlists and start rockin' around the Christmas tree. 
I always like hearing my friends' favorite holiday tunes and contrasting them with my own. I've discovered new and old classics, like Guster's "Donde Esta Santa Claus?" and Darlene Love's 
·original version of "Christmas (Baby Please Come Home)" after trading Christmas playlists with my buds and dorm mates. I've also shared some of my own collection. including some of Bing Crosby's lesser-known ditties like "Christmas in Killarney." Over some hot cocoa and frosted sugar cookies, it's always a good time. 
As the dorm rooms and dining halls keep up their steady soundtrack of holi­day fan1, I'm offering a list of my top Christmas hits to the world. Feel free to add or subtract your own, as there's no shortage of holiday music out there. 
10. "Mele Kalikimaka," Bing Crosby: If you ever lind yourself celebrating Christmas on the white, sandy beaches of' Maui. you'll need this lei and ukelele­tinged hit by one of the business's best crooners. If you think your celebration is lacking some hula-themed spirit, then look no further. 
9. "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas," Judy Garland: I'm kind of a purist when it comes to some of my favorite holiday songs, and this is defi­nitely one of them. The original record­ing comes from the lilm "Meet Me In Saint Louis," and was a favorite among wartime audiences. 
S. "Hockin' Around the Christmas Tree," Brenda Lee: It may sound similar to "Jingle Bell Hock," but this classic 


MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 

holds its own. It's cheery, slightly cheesy, and all around holiday fun. Plus, any song that's worthy of Kevin McCallister's Christmas playlist in "Home Alone" is good in my book. 
7. "White Christmas," Otis Redding: Yes, I know that this isn't the definitive Bing Crosby version, and yes, I realize that to some, that may be nothing short of a holiday sacrilege. But I stand by my choice, because Redding's version is a soulful delight. 
6. "Christmas Don't Be Late," the Chipmunks: Because deep down, I just want a hula-hoop. I remember sitting up in the wee hours of Christmas morning with my siblings, waiting until our par­ents woke up to unwrap our presents, and listening to this song. Nostalgia is a powerful thing. 
5. "Little Saint Nick," the Beach Boys: Totally adorable and definitely loveable, this surfer tune fits perfectly with the rest of the group's library while still feel­ing distinctly like a holiday song. 
4. "Believe," Josh Groban: Now hold on, all you Groban-haters. Even if you think his music is nothing short of pure cheese, you'd have to have a heart that's two sizes too small not to feel a tug at the old heartstrings when this new clas­sic plays. The boy's voice is beautiful, and the song is, too. 
3. "Silver Bells," Bing Crosby: Another classic, this tune is more relaxed than some of my other, jazzier selections, but here especially, Bing's smooth vocals are just right 
2. "Sleigh Ride," Amy Grant: I think you'll be hard-pressed to lind a bad ver­sion of "Sleigh Ride," although the sheer volume of Christmas music out there might suggest otherwise. Instrumental versions are also great, but I have to go with Amy Grant's classic cover from 1983. We still listen to the cassette tape of her Christmas album at my house and I wouldn't have it any other way. 
1. "Hark, the Herald Angels Sing": I couldn't keep any Christmas song count down entirely secular, especially as a Catholic girl at a Catholic university. While I have other liturgical Christmas favorites, particularly "() Come, All Ye Faithful" and "Joy to the World," "Hark the Herald Angels Sing" remains at the top of my list. Plus, on a less holy note, it closes one of my all-time favorite holiday specials, "A Charlie Brown Christmas." 
So what's on your holiday playlist? Keep those tunes pumping throughout the Christmas season, and have a very merry. music-filled Christmas. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
Image courtesy of syracuse.com The rousing finale of "A Charlie Brown Christmas" memo~bly features the clas­sic Christmas carol, "Hark, the Herald Angels Sing." 
SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 
You 



Arguably the movie's best 
scene. 
Charlie Brown Christmas 
lhot's what 
Christmas is all 
about, Charlie Brown. 
12 Days of Christmas -Muppets &John Denver 

Classic tune, classic Muppets. 
Bing CrosbY 'White Christmas'~ 

Atrue holiday standard. 

-

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, December 8, 2008 
NFL 
Tennessee clinches AFC South with rout of hapless Browns 
Eagles deal Giants second loss of the year with ball control, stout defense; stay in the hunt in the NFC East 
enough mistakes to help the
Associa1ed Press 
Browns, who haven't scored an 
NASIIVILLE -The Temwssee offensive touchdown in three 
Titans anm't about to be distract­straight games and couldn't add to 
ml by a powPr outage in tlwir lock­the 6-0 lead Phil Dawson gave 
er room or a struggling opponent. them afhw. the first quarter. Coach 
Not now. Not as a division dmm­Homen Crennel, whose job status 
pion. grows shakiflr with each loss, 
K1~1Ty Collins thrnw two touch­ddimded his team f(Jr still fighting. d11wns. and Chris Johnson ran for "The Titans are a very good foot­I ]6 yards and a score as the ball team, and I think they showed Titans routed the Cleveland why they are today. We came Browns 2X-9 Sunday to grab lhfl down lwre and had some i\FC South title for the lirst lime turnovers and had opportunities to since 2002 in what they hope is try and get a little bit done. We the first of many goals reached wnrnn 't able to get enough done," this season. Crnnnel said. 
"Obviously, wn'm all phmsed and The Titans outgained Cleveland happy we won the division," 390-178, intercepted Dorsey once Collins said. "We know thorn's a lot and sacked him another time. of things left we want to accom­Whitn just missed joining Johnson plish. Today was a good lirst step." with a 1 00-yard rushing game for 
The Titans havn won I 5 of their a second straight week when he · last I(, ganws. and aro the first was stopped for a 1-yard loss on tmun to seeurn a posl'ie<L.'ion berth fimrth-and-2. He finished with 99 this year. ThflY maintained at least yards on 24 carries. a two-game lead with thrnn to play Tennessee took the lead for good for home-field advantagn in the within the opening minute of the i\FC playofls and dindwd a first­second quarter as Collins found round bye when San Francisco Ahmard Hall on fourth-and-1 with beat tlw New York Jel'i 24-14 later a short pass the fullback took up Sunday. the loft sideline for a 28-yard TO 
A subdund celebration f(mtured and a 7-6 lead. playnrs dumping a cooler of water Collins added a 9-yard TD pass over coach Jeff Fisher for the to Justin Gage in the third quarter. Titans' Sllcond consncutive playoff Dorsey started because the Philadelphia Eagles proved more the game the Super Bowl champi­for 30 yards. berth, seeured with thn franchise's Browns have lost both Brady of a headache for the New York ons came up empty on offense and New York scored late in each best record through 13 games, 12-Quinn and Derek Anderson. Giants than all the chaos sur­defense after a week of scrutiny half. Kevin Dockery returned a 
1. Fisher credited hi'i Tita.ns' 10-0 Dorsey hadn't completed a pass in rounding Pla.xico Burress. and media hype following the sus­blocked field goal 71 yards for a start with helping thnm wrest the three years in an NFL game, and Westbrook ran 30 yards for a pension of Burress for the rest of touchdown on the final play of the division away from the he startfld well enough, connecting touchdown, caught another 40-the season in a wake of nightclub first half, and Manning (13-of-27 Indianapolis Colts. with Braylon Edwards on the first yarder from McNabb, and the shooting. for 123) found Darcy Johnson tor a 
"It's a rewarding feeling. Our two attempts. He wound up com­Eagles defense limited the Giants It also didn't help that there is an 1-yard TD pass with 15 seconds to goal when wn left the playoff ga!l'e pleting 22-of-43 as the Titans to 211 total yards in a victory ongoing investigation into the role go. in San Diego, the day we came pressured him early and hit him Sunday that ended the Super Bowl of middle linebacker Antonio The loss opened up the NFC back, W<L'i to have a home playoff ofton. champions' seven-game winning Pierce in the aftermath of the inci­race again. Until Sunday, the game this year. That was our first The Browns also tried running streak and prevented them from dent in which Burress shot him­Giants were the dominant team. goal, first and foremost. We've Joshua Cribbs from the quarter­clinching the NFC Ea..'lt -at least self. The Eagles gave everyone hope, now guaranteed that. We'll move back spot. He finally got to throw for a few hours. "It's a great story," defensive end beating the Giants at their own onto the next step hopefully," in the fourth period, trailing 28-9, The Giants {11-2) still won the Mathias Kiwanuka said. ''I'm glad game: defense and ball control. Fisher said. and Edwards just missed getting a division title when Pittsburgh beat you can use it, but it's a dead issue "It was onn of those days where 
The Titans were a bit like a second foot down for what would Dallas 20-13 later Sunday. with us." their defense didn't play as well a..'l videoboard that didn't work have been their longest comple­"I just think we kind of beat Giants coach Tom Coughlin also they had in the pa..<>t and we playnd thanks to a blown transformer tion. them," said Eagles tight end L.J. downplayed the distraction theory. very well," Westbrook said. that knocked out all but four "We're not last year's team," Smith, who had six catches for 44 "We didn't play well," he said. The Giants, who had overcome emergency lights in their locker Cribbs said. "We have a different yards. "It's tough to say. That's one 'We didn't play the way we had the retirement of Michael Strahan, room. They turned it over three li1otball toam. We have to play bet­of those: 'How many licks does it been playing. We're a better fi:HJt­a season-ending preseason knee times, with Lenl>ale White losing ter f(Jotball." take to get to the center of' a ball team than that. As far as all injury to Osi Umenyiora and a sus­his first fumbiH this sHason, and Tennnssee finally got it together Tootsie Roll?' Who knows if the those other things go, that's all pension and hamstring injuriPs to they had a sml.'>on-high 13 penal­late in the first quartnr in a 68-distractions hurt them and helped speculation." Burress earlier this season in tins fiw I:{ 1 yards. yard drive capped by the TD to us? I don't know." Pierce, who talked to investiga­going 11-1, did almost nothing 
Defensive taeklll Albert I !all. Pinmld at their 7, the Titans The statistics were all tors in the office of' thn Manhattan right in the first half. llaynnsworth said he didn't evnn put together their longest scoring Philadelphia (7-5-1). district attorney Friday, was The one play they got right was notice tlw power even af'ter dress­drive this season by moving 93 McNabb finished 19-of-30 for nowhere to be found on the blocked lield goal at the end of ing in rwar darkness. yards in 10 plays, with White run-191 yards on a windy day that the Westbrook's 30-yard run. He also the first half with Philadelphia 
"I thought tlwy wnrn trying to 1"\ing in from the 3 filr his 14th TO Eagles controlled the ball for was three st1~ps behind on a cross­looking to extend a 1 0-0 lead. get tlw mood right," he said. this season for a 14-6 lnad just almost 35 minutes. Westbrook wa..<; ing pattern on the dinching TD in With David Akers kicking into a 
Cleveland (4-9) lost its third befilrn halftime. the workhorse, gaining 131 yards the fourth quarter. swirling still' wind, defensivn end straight and fi~h in six games. During the drive, Johnson joined on a season-high :n carries and "It was just a bad game," said Justin Tuck got a hand on the ball. with tlw Browns starting a third llall of Famer Earl Campbell and catching six passes for 72 ·yards. Pierce, who had a game-high 15 knocking it toward midfield. dill"nrnnt quartPrbaek in as many Eddie Ceorge as the only rookies The defense limited New York's taekles. Dockery piekPd the ball up, stum­games. It was Ken Dorsey's first in franchise history to rush for !<~ague-leading rushing game to 88 It didn't help that Eli Manning bled forward in brnaking a tackle start since Nov. 27. 2005, when he 1.000 yards, and he topped that yards. didn't have Burress as a target. attempt by Eagles guard Todd W<l.'i with the 49ers. and ho didn't mark with a 15-yarder on only his "This was a big win," Westbrook In his place, Domenik Hixon I lerremans, rngained his balance gel murh lwlp fhun an injury-deci­ninth carry. said after the Eagles won their dropped a 50-yard pass right in and scooted into the end zone for a mated team whose top rncnivnr, second straight game. "But we're his hands with New York trailing score that prevented the Giants light end Knlhm Winslow, was out Eagles 20, Giants 14 in a position now where we have 3-0 in the first half. from being shut out in the first half with a sprairwd ankln. Donovan McNabb, Brian to win them all." "I should have caught the ball," for the first time since 2004 
Tnnness1w didn't make nearly Westbrook and the desperate This is going to remembered as said Hixon, who had three catches against Wa..-;hington. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day trom 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classitleds is 3 p.m. AI classitleds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classitleds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 
SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS 
AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER 
PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR 
KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
Furnished 2-bdrm, house. Living room, kitchen, dining room, full bath. 6.5 blks to ND. $795/mo. Avail Jan. 1. Call 605-397-8135 or 574­234-3007 or 574-261-4444. 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574·631-2685. For more information, visit our website at: http :1/osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assault­ed, visit http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/csap/ 
----~----------~ 
Early one momin' the sun was shinin', I was layin' in bed Wond'rin' ij she'd changed at all If her hair was still red. Her folks they said our lives together Sure was gonna be rough They never did like Mama's home­made dress Papa's bankbook wasn~ big enough. And I was standin' on the side of the road Rain fallin' on my shoes 

Heading out for the East Coast 
Lord knows I've paid some dues gettin' 
through, 

Tangled up in blue. She was married when we first met 
Soon to be divorced I helped her out of a jam, Iguess, But I used a little too much force. We drove that car as far as we could 
Abandoned it out West 
Split up on a dark sad night 
Both agreeing it was best. 
She tumed around to look at me 
As I was walkin' away 
I heard her say over my shoulder, 
"We,l meet again someday on the avenue,•• Tangled up in blue. I had a job in the great north woods Working as a cook for a spell But I never did like it all that much And one day the ax just fell. So I drifted down to New Orteans Where I happened to be employed Workin' for a while on a fishin' boat Right outside of Delacroix. But all the while I was alone The past was close behind, I seen a lot of women But she never escaped my mind, and I just grew Tangled up in blue. She was workin' in a topless place And I stopped in for a beer, I just kept lookin' at the side of her face In the spotlight so clear. And later on as the crowd thinned out l's just about to do the same, She was standing there in back of my chair Said to me, "Dont I know your name?" I muttered somethin' underneath my breath, She studied the lines on my face. I must admit I felt a little uneasy When she bent down to tie the laces of my shoe, Tangled up in blue. 

OUND THE NATION 
Monday, December 8, 2008 CoMPilED FROM THE 0BSERVER:S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

College Football  
BCS Standings  
team  aLJerage  record  
1  Oklahoma  .9757  12·1  
2  Florida  .9479  12·1  
3  Texas  .9298  11-1  
4  Alabama  .8443  12·1  
5  usc  .8208  11-1  
6  Utah  .7846  12·0  
7  Texas Tech  .7840  11-1  
8  Penn State  .7387  11-1  
9  Boise State  .6980  12·0  
10  Ohio State  .6354  10·2  
11  TCU  .5848  10·2  
12  Cincinnati  .5384  11-2  
13  Oklahoma State  .4866  9·3  
14  Georgia Tech  .4516  9·3  
15  Georgia  .3775  9·3  
16  Brigham Young  .3580  10-2  
17  Oregon  .3395  9·3  
18  Michigan State  .2866  9·3  
19  Virginia Tech  .2440  9·4  
20  Pittsburgh  .2377  9·3  
21  Missouri  .1627  9·4  
22  Ball Stale  .1464  12-1  
22  Northwestern  .1377  9·3  
24  Boston College  .1046  9-4  
25  Mississippi  .0837  8·4  
College Football  

AP Top 25 
team points 

1 Florida (50) 1,603 2 Oklahoma (9) 1,540 3 Texas (6) 1,530 4 Alabama 1,410 . 5 usc 1,372 6 Penn State 1,259 7 Utah 1,225 8 Texas Tech 1,193 9 Boise State 1,101 10 Ohio State 1,069 11 TCU 921 12 Cincinnati 863 13 Oklahoma State 853 14 Georgia Tech 761 15 Oregon 710 16 ·Georgia 599 17 Brigham Young • 471 18 Pittsburgh 428 19 Michigan State 423 20 Mississippi 389 21 Virginia Tech 318 22 Northwestern 262 23 Ball STate 249 24 Oregon Slate 163 25 Missouri 150 
record 
12-1 12'-1 11-1 12-1 11-1 11-1 12-0 11-1 12·0 10-2 10-2 11-2 9·3 9·3 9·3 9·3 10·2 9·3 9·3 8·4 9·4 9·3 12·1 8-4 9·4 
NCAA Swimming CSCAA Rankings 

Men  Women  
1  Texas  Georgia  
2  Stanford  Stanford  
3  Michigan  Arizona  
4  Arizona  Texas  
5  Callfornla  Flol'ida  
6  Florida  California  
7  Tennessee  Auburn.  
8  Auburn  Texas A&M  
9  Minnesota  Minnesota  
10  Georgia  Indiana  

around the dial 
NHL Buffalo at Pittsburgh 
7:30 p.m., Versus 


Associated Press 
PHOENIX.~.-Florida was an up-and-corning power and Oklahoma was a declining one when Bob Stoops made his move. He left his po.st as Gators defensive coordinator to take his first head-coaching job with the Sooners. 
Ten years later, both pro­grams are on top. On Sunday, they earned their invitations to play for the BCS national championship on Jan. 8 in Miami. 
As expected, the final BCS standings had Oklahoma at No. 1 and Florida at No. 2 ­the reverse order of their rankings in the Associated Press poll-setting up the first meeting between these storied programs. 

"Nine weeks ago our team got together and said let's make every game count," Gators coach Urban Meyer said, speaking of Florida's rebound from it<; only loss, in September to Missi'>sippi. 
Tim Tebow and the Gators did just that. So did Oklahoma, which bounced back from a loss in October to Texas. 
Two teams with one loss each doesn't normally make for a debate-free lead-up to the title game, but even President-elect Barack Obarna -outspokenly in favor of a playoff for college football -might have to agree that both these teams belong. 
Florida (12-1) has averaged 49 points a game in the nine games since its only lost. Oklahoma (12·1) became the first team since 1919 to score 60-plus in five straight games. 
Other teams had their chances tills season, and also finished with one loss: Texas, Southern California, Alabama, Texas Tech and Penn State. 
Of them, Texas had the best argument for why it should've been playing for the title. The Longhorns finished in a three-way tie in the nation's toughest division ­the Big 12 South-but were denied a spot in the title game because of the tiebreaker. which looks to the BCS stand­
ings. Oklahoma won the tiebreaker. Texas protested. 
"They went to a system we all agreed upon before the season," Stoops said. "If 
. someone didn't like it, they should have decided to change it before the season, and I'd have played by what­ever rules they wanted to play by." -Instead, Texas finished third in the BCS and AP rank­ings and will play Ohio State in the Fiesta Bowl. "Oklahoma's a traditional power just like Florida is now," said Steve Spurrier, the former Gators coach who brought Stoops on as his defensive coordinator in 1996. 
IN BRIEF 
Pa~guiao dominates De La Hoya in eight rounds 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. -The end for Oscar De La Hoya on tills night carne as he sat in the corner after the eighth round, his left eye swollim shut and his face bruised by punches Manny Pacquiao seemed able to land almost at will. 
The decision to call it a night was easy. The decision to call it a career may be a lot tougher. 
"My heart still wants to fight, that's for sure," De La Hoya said. "But when your physical doesn't respond, what can you do? I have to be smart and make sure I think about my future plans." 
Pacquiao gave De La Hoya a lot to think about by beating and battering him around the ring for eight rounds Saturday night before De La Hoya declined to answer the bell for the ninth round. 
De La Hoya absorbed such a beating that he was taken to a hospital after­wards for what was described as a pre­cautionary examination. 

Wie earns LPGA card 
at Qualifying School 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. -Michelle Wie has been playing LPGA Tour events since she was in the seventh grade, drawing the biggest galleries because of her youth and power, but earning little respect from players because of her preferential treatment. 
In the 62 tournaments she has played over the last seven years, Wie received 53 ·exemptions or invitations. 
The next time the 19-year-old from Hawaii tees it up, she finally can feel like she belongs. 
Wie opened with three straight bogeys before settling down in blus­tery conditions Sunday for a 2-over 7 4, easily finishing among the top 20 players at the Q-school to become a card-carrying member of the LPGA Tour. 
"It's a good feeling," Wie said. "I really earned it. I legitimately went through Q-school. I took my medicine. And I got it. It feels good. It's like high school graduation." 
Ski}> Holtz intends to 
meet with Syracuse 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -East Carolina coach Skip Holtz hopes to meet with Syracuse's atluetic director, but said he is not close to accepting the Orange's head coaching job. 
Holtz said Sunday he has had no for­mal meetings with Syracuse and called an NFL Network report that he was to be introduced as the new coach Monday "inaccurate." Holtz, however, didn't rule out replacing the fired Greg Robinson. 
"I would like to have the opportunity to talk to (Syracuse AD) Daryl Gross," Holtz said. "But at thi'l point, no, I'm not going through an interview process. I've · made that very clear." 
Holtz was in Charlotte on Sunday to serve as the keynote speaker for the Bronko Nagurski Trophy dinner, an award given to 11m nation's top defen­sive player. 
Holtz led the Pirates to a 27-24 win at Tulsa in the Conference USA champi­onship game Saturday. East Carolina (9­
4) will play Kentucky in the Liberty 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, December 8, 2008 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish run away in Blueand Goldmeet 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 
Though it's only early 

l>oeember, tho Irish have 
visions of championships in 
their lwads. 
Senior pole vaulter Mary 

Saxer qualified for a bid to 
tho NCAA Championships and 
N o t r n I> a rn e wo n 2 7 o f :~ 2 
e\!J)nts Friday in its first meet 
of tho indoor season at the 
Blun and Gold Invitational in 
the Loftus Center. 
Saxor won the pole vault 

with a height of four motors, 
which was good enough for a 
trip to nationals. 
"Sho has been working 

quito hard this year, and she 
deservns it." coach .Joe Piane 
said. ''I'll be anxious to see 
how high slw goes. That's just 
the lwginning for her." 
Thl! Irish also qualifind for 

the Big East Championships 
in 50 ovents based on 
Friday's marks. 
"That was our objoetivo, to 

got as many pnople qualified 
as we could," said Piane. 
"That was a gn~at way to end 
tho smnostnr, with 50 kids all 
sot and not having to worry 
about qualifying for the Big 
East anymorP." 
Notre Damn had an ath lnte 

in the top fivn in its nvents at 
the nwnt, whieh was against 
Big East rivals DePaul and 
Marquettn as well as Detroit 
Mercy. 
In the men's polo vault, sen­

ior Matt Schipper came in 
first place. with a vault of 
4.95 meters. and his brother, freshman Kevin Schipper, 11n­ishnd second with a vault of 
4.X mntnrs. Both Schippers qualified for the Big East tournament. as did senior Tray Morgan (4.50 m) and sophomore .Justin Schneider 
(4.35 rnntnrs). 
Sehrwidnr also placed first in thn 60-mnter hurdles with a tinw of R.4X and sev1mth in thn shot put with a throw of 12.5X nwlf~rs. 
Senior Anna Weber quali­f'ind for the conference rnnet in tho women's weight throw, winning the event in dominat­ing fashion with a throw of I X.3l rnetnrs. Tho sncond placn f"inislwr. Detroit Merey's Brittany Horne, had a throw of 15.75 meters. Weber also won the women's shot put with a toss of 14.47 meters. 
Notre Darn!' did well in the distance events. The women took eight of the top 10 spots in the 3000-mnter raee, with senior Heidi Hoeha winning the event in the time of I0:00.:~ I. The men took the top three spots in the 3,000­m e t I~ r a 11 d S i X 0 f t he t 0 p seven in the 5,000-meter. Senior Daniel Clark finished J"irst in the :~.000 with a tim1~ of X: 14.26. Snnior Patrick Smyth finished seeond in that event and first in the 5,000, with times of X:2H.47 and 14:21.:~9. respnetively. 
Piane said the team will 

back a day or two early, but mostly it will be a full break. Our schedule goes until June, so there's really no reason to bring people baek early to train." 
The team will be back in aetion at the Indiana Opener in Bloomington, Ind. on Jan. 10, and will have their next home meet at the Notre Dame Indoor Opener on Jan. 16. 
"We hope to pick up right 
SMC .SWIMMING 
Belles finish fourth in TYR Invite 
Observer Staff Report 
Saint Mary's ended up with a fourth place finish in this weekend's TYH Invitational hosted by Carthage College in Konosah, WI. 
The meet was won by a favorite in Division II -No. 3 St. Cloud State University. The Belles also finished behind Carthage and Hillsdale. 
The Belles did have several strong individual performanc­es on the weekend. 
Freshman Audrey Dairymple pulled ofT a solid finish in the 200-yard breaststroke finals with her season best time of 
2:28.76 seconds. The time was just .23 seconds away from the Saint Mary's all-time record. Dairyrnple was also within one second of breaking another school record in the 100 breaststro_ke with a time of 
1:09.45 seconds. 

Freshman Eva Cavadini pitched in with a pair of top 10 results, finishing in fifth place in the 200 butterfly with a time of 2:21.02 and a ninth place finish in the 100 butterfly in 1 :07.42 seconds. 
Sophomore Maggie Williams finished sixth in the 200 back­stroke with a 2:16.95 time, as well as a seventh-place finish in the 100 backstroke in 
1:04.65 seconds. 
In the long distance races, senior Melissa Gerbeth had two eighth place finishes -in the 500 freestyle with a time of 
5:26.30 seeonds and in the 1650 freestyle with a time of 
19:08.31 seconds. 
The Belles will next head on their winter training trip from Jan. 2 to 9. 


one of our homemade French buns then smothered with onions. mayo, 
FREEBIES (SUBS G CLUBS ONLY) 
Onion. lettuce. alfalfa sprouts. tomato, mayo. sliced 
turkey & provolone. jammed into 
lettuce, tomato. & our homemade Real applewood smoked ham and bacon with lettuce.
cucumber. Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar, and oregano. 
Italian dressing. tomato & mayo. what could be better! 
WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK 
eontinun lo work on fitness 
1290 E. IRELAND 138 S. MICHIGAN 54570 N.IRONWOOD DR. 5343 N. MAIN ST. 
over wint1n· break. but will 
574.291.1900 574.246.1020 574.277.8500 574.968.4600
not be eorning baek early for 
SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA
practice. "We'll train this wonk, and then takn a break onen dass­"YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOJ.IN'S!''® © 
ns fHld lon Thursday!." he said. "A few kids will come ®1985. 2002. 2003, 2004. 2007. 2008 JIMMY JOHN'S FRANCHISE. LLC All RIGHTS RESERVED. We Reserve The Righi To Make Any Menu Changes. 
Monday, December 8, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Freshman leads Irish over Purdue 

Information Meeting 
for women interested in learning about the process for applying to live in Ryan Hall 
Thursday, December 11 · 7:00PM 
•

Thursday, January 22 8:00PM 
DeBartolo Hall 1 Room l 02 
Applications Available January 28 -February 6 
homeunderthedome. nd. edu 
Learn more about Notre Dame's next newest living option 
orlh.nd.edu 


OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
305 Main Building 1 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone: 574.631.5878 I E-Mail: orlh@nd.edu 

~ ~~~~~~ 
.....:: 'AI' 
~ 
2009-2010 Assistant Rector Applications 
for 
Undergraduate Residence Halls and Fischer O'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences are now available 
Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 
For more information call the 
Office of Student Affairs at 631-6144 
or go to 
http://osa.nd.edu for eligibility requirements and to download the application 
Completed applications must be submitted by February 13, 2009 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 

Freshman forward Kellie Watson said she didn't want to play like a freshman when she stepped on the court against Purdue. 
She could have fooled the sold­out Joyce Center. 
Her three 3-pointers near the end of the first half, two of them in a 25-second span, gave the Irish a halftime lead they would not relinquish in their 62-51 win over the Boilermakers in the Joyce Center Sunday. 
The Irish offense, suffering from the absence of Ashley Barlow, hit just 3-of-22 shots before Watson's 3s. 
"I thought Kellie was maybe the player of the game," Irish coach Mufiet McGraw said. 
Purdue coach Sharon Versyp said the game plan was to keep Watson from getting an open shot. 
"We were not supposed to help off of her at all," Versyp said. 
Watson finished with 13 points. Guard Lindsay Schrader had her second straight double-double, finishing with 13 points and 10 rebounds. 
Guard Melissa Lechlitner had a career-high 19 points on 7 -of-13 shooting. While always in the dri­ver's seat of the offense, she asserted herself in the paint and created shots for herself in the second half. 
"I thought Melissa played maybe the best game of her career," McGraw said. "She was in command of the game." 
Lechlitner had 11 of her 19 points in the second half. 
"She just keeps getting better and better and better as she's been here," Versyp said of Lechlitner. 
Boilermakers forward Lindsay Wisdom-Hylton led Purdue with 18 points and 10 rebounds, but she made only 8-of-19 field goal attempts. Forward Lakisha Freeman added 12 points. 
Notre Dame held its lead after halftime, but again the offense struggled. Almost three minutes passed after Lechlitner's 3-point­er at 16:33 before the Irish scored again, but once they did, they didn't stop. Lech's 3 started a 14-4 run that put Notre Dame ahead 41-27 with 8:48 to go. 
At that point, Lechlitner took over. She drove the lane for a layup on a give-and-go to Schrader, then hit a jumper with the shot clock winding down. She hit another jumper at the top of the lane to put Notre Dame ahead 49-40 with 2:59 to go. 
"Since Barlow was out I knew coming in I had to take a little more offensive mindset," Lechlitner said. 
The Purdue zone defense spread out to cover the outside, Lechlitner said, which opens the middle of the floor for drives to the basket. 
Purdue started pressing the Irish in the final 10 minutes and produced turnovers, but the Irish defense kept them from capitaliz­ing. Lechlitner stole the ball as Purdue ran the fast break after one turnover, and Watson blocked a shot after another steal. 
The press came back to bite the Boilers with two minutes remain­ing. Williamson rebounded a missed Purdue shot and started a passing chain that snaked through the press and found Schrader by herself under the basket for an open layup to put the Irish ahead 53-42. 
Foul trouble hurt the Irish in the second half. Bruszewski fouled out with 2:55 remaining and Williamson picked up her fourth foul with four minutes to go. 
Foul trouble hampered the Boilermakers down the stretch as well. Malone fouled out with 1:37 remaining and center Danielle Campbell picked up her fourth with two minutes to go. Malone's fifth foul also put the Irish in the double bonus. 
The first half started slowly for both teams, but the Boilers took a 12-5 lead with 12:13 left in the first half. After three offensive rebounds and three missed put­back attempts, Schrader put the fourth home, and two free throws from Novosel brought the Irish within three. Notre Dame out­rebounded Purdue 47-35 and had 17 offensive rebounds. 
"We knew this game would be won on the boards," McGraw said. 
Purdue got an easy layup and a jump shot from forward Natasha Bogdanova. Two free throws from guard FahKara Malone put Purdue up by nine with 7:04 to go in the first half. 
Then Watson got hot from long distance, and the Irish pulled ahead by one at the half. 
Note: 
+Guard Ashley Barlow did not play because of a concussion she suffered in the Michigan State game. McGraw said she was day­to-day. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, December 8, 2008 
HOCKEY 
Red hot Irish vvin 12th in a rovv 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Wrirer 
Two more games, four more CCHA points for the top­ranknd Irish. 
Notrn Damn ( 12-3-2, 8-2-2-2 CCHAl nxtnnded its unbeaten strnak to 12 games this wenk­ond. taking :~-1 and 1-0 deci­sions ovor Ferris State. 
Irish snnior goalie .Jordan 
I' Pearce stoppnd 30 of :~ 1 Bulldog shots Friday night, and mado 25 saves Saturday to nam tho shutout. "I thought he played well both nights," Notre Dame eoaeh .I efT .I aekson said. "I thought Friday night they wore deflnitllly trying to shoot at bad angles on him and ere­ate rebounds. Our team did a good job of coming back and not. allowing any of those robound shots to be taken. !Saturday!. I think he was in much better control of the puek eom i ng ofl' his body." Fnrris State got on the board first Friday. when Blair Hiley knockml in a rnbound at the tail nnd of a 5-on-3 Bulldog advantage just 53 seconds into the socond period. Notn~ Dame staynd positive, though, and equalized on a Bnn Hyan goal. The sopho­morn tueked in an Erik Condra rebound at S:29 of the second period. "It senmed like the second period wo start1~d eoming on," 
Jackson said. "And when we scored I think we were dictat­ing the tempo of the game." 
The Irish took the lead just 
1:12 later with the first of two power-play goals of the night when sophomore Calle Hidderwall redirected a Christian Hanson feed past Ferris Statn goalie Tyler Nnlson. 
llanson gavn Notrn Dame an insurance goal on the power play at 16:02 of the final peri­od with his team-high 10th score of the season. 
Jackson said the Irish power play, which leads the CCHA with a 23.9 percent success ratn, has done well because of the selflessnnss of the players on thn unit. 
"They're sharing the puck," he said. "No one player has been trying to do too much." 
Jackson also said, though, that the squad would have to adapt to maintain its effective­ness. 
"Teams are going to find ways to try and shut it down," he said. "And we're going to havn to try to lind ways to give it a difTerent look." 
The Bulldogs shut down the Irish power play Saturday night. holding the unit score­less in live chances. It didn't matter, though, as a second period goal from Dan Kissel was all the scoring Pearce needed. Kissel knocked in a Hanson pass at 17:55 of the second period for the game-winner. 
Even though the score was tighter, Jackson said he felt his team played better Saturday night against Ferris State's unique defensive trap style. 
"I feel like we had to see it live to get accustomed to what we were going to face," Jackson said. 
Jackson also said the ability to win tight, low-scoring games is an important part of any championship contender. 
"Having the ability to close out games is extremely impor­tant," he said. "Our team has to know how to buckle down. They have to know how to play smarter with the puck. It's all about turnovers, and it's about making sure you don't get beat up the ice by extra people." 
With only two games remaining in the !'irst half or the season, Notre Dame cur­rently sits in second place in the CCI-lA, three points behind leader Miami. The Irish, though, have two games in hand against the HedHawks. 
"We want to get to [the COlA championship in I Detroit," Jackson said. "The biggest thing for us is making sure that we finish in the top four. Every game makes a dif­ference, and we have to just play each league game with that in mind." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
ND SWIMMING 

Maxwell's records headline at OSU 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 

Sophomore Samantha Maxwell's two school records highlighted Notre Dame's third-place finish at the Ohio State Invitational this weekend. 
Maxwell, Notre Dame's top breaststroker, broke her own school reeord Sunday in the 200­yard breaststroke record with a time of 2:12.46 at Ohio State's McCorkle Aquatic Pavilion. Maxwell's record-setting swim in the 200 eame less than 24 hours after she broke another of her own school records Saturday in the 100-breaststroke with a time of 
1:01.57. Maxwell had previously set both records during the 2008 Big East conference champi­onships. 
As a team, the No. 24 Irish fin­ished with a total of 458 points, finishing in third place behind Minnesota and Penn State in the 11-team field. Notre Dame's 458 points was just enough to edge out the host Buckeyes, who eame in !ourth with a total of 434 points. 
Sophomore Lauren Sylvester fin­ished ninth in the 1650-freestyle with a time of 16:57.46. Junior Maggie Behrens finished 1Oth in the 200-baekstroke with a. team­best time of 2:01.66. Sophomore Amywren Miller set a team-best mark with her 1Oth placn finish in the 100-frm~styln after docking in at 50.92. Fellow sophomom Katie Casey aL'io rneorded a soason-bnst time with a time of 2:02.36 in the 200-fly. 
The Notre Dame men's team wrappnd up its perliwmanee with six season-bnst times in eaeh of Sunday's six events. The Irish placed fourth overall out of 12 teams with 398 points, finishing behind Ohio State, Minnnsota and Penn State. llowevnr, the Irish fin­ished two spots ahead of sixth­place Purdun, who had pmviously defeated Notrn Dame on Nov. 8. 
Notre Dame's season-best per­formances began with junior Andrew Deters' 11th plaee finish in the 1650-frenstyle. I lis time of 
15:35.4 was the i~1stost time of any Irish swimmer this season. Sophomore Miehaol Sullivan set a season-best time in the 2(Xl-baek­stroke with a time of 1:49.98, which was also good for 11th over­all. 
In the 100 free, junior John Lyttle fmished sixth overall with a time of 44.78. Senior Daniel Have finished seventh in the 2(X)-breast­stroke with a timn of 2:03.09 and sophomore MacKnnzie LeBlanc's sixth place finish in the 200-fly with a time of1:49.07. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

RING IN 2009 WITH #1IRISH HOCKEYI 
JAN. 2: Mlt~NESOTA-DuLUTH NoTRE DAME  vs .. vs.  UMAss-Lo\IVELl (5:05P.M. CT) UNION (8:05 P.M. CT)  
JAN. 3:  

Ut~tot• vs. UMD oR UMA.ss-LOWELL (4:05 P.M. CT') NoTRE DAME vs. UMD oR UMAss-LowELL 
(7:05 P.M. CT) 

Monday, December 8, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Turner leads Buckeyes pastIrishinIndianapolis 
the arc.
By GREG ARBOGAST 
"They got us out of our offen­
Sports Writer 
sive rhythm," McAlarney said to the Associated Press. "We All week Luke Harangody weren't in a good flow, weren't 
was the main topic of conver­scoring well." 
-sation, but it was Evan Turner The Buckeyes' defensive that had everyone talking by strategy did leave open spaces the end of Saturday afternoon. inside the lane and forced the Turner had 28 points, 10 Irish to utilize the low-post rebounds, five much mOTe than assists. and two they're accus­clutch free tomed to.
"They got us out of
throws to help Harangody was 
seal Ohio State's our offensive rhythm. the primary ben­67-62 upset We weren ,t in a good eficiary. The jun­over No. 7 Notre ior big man, who
flow, weren't scoring 
Dame. reportedly has
well.,,

After Tory lost 12 pounds Jackson made since contract­his third 3-Kyle McAiarney ing pneumonia pointer of the in Maui, showed
Irish guard 
second half to no ill effects in cut the finishing the Buckeyes lead to one with 26 game with 25 points on 10-for­seconds remaining, Turner was 25 shooting and 16 rebounds. put on the free-throw line with "I felt good in practice," 21 seconds to go. The sopho­Harangody told the AP after more nailed both free throws the game. "Once I got out and left the Irish needing a there, it was easy to forget three-pointer to send the game about everything else. Toward to overtime. the end of the game LI felt 
Kyle McAlarney attempted to tiredl. but overall I felt pretty dial up a shot good out there." reminiscent of Despite his 16
"/felt good in
his 3-point rebounds, nei­
shooting bar­practice. Once I got ther Harangody rage against out there, it was easy nor any other 
North Carolina Notre Dame
to forget about 
in Maui, but his player was able
everything else. ,,
long-range to do anything attempt hit off to deny Ohio the side of the State on the
Luke Harangody 
rim and ended boards during a
Irish forward 
Notre Dame's key second half comeback stretch. efforts. Between the 13:45 and 8:51 
McAlarney missing a three­mark in the second half, the pointer was an all too common Buckeyes grabbed five offen­occurrence for the Irish sive rebounds and allowed Saturday. After hitting 10, nine Ohio State to score on seven and seven three-pointers in consecutive offensive posses­Notre Dame's last three games, sions. Before that stretch, the McAiarney missed all six of his largest Ohio State lead had attempts against Ohio State. been six points, but in that That statistic was testament to five-minute stretch the the defensive dis-Buckeyes play put on by the turned a one­
"Their second shots 
Buckeyes who, point lead through Nov. 30, really started to hurt into a nine­were ranked sec­point advan­
us. We probably
ond in the country tage that
didn ,t deserve to win.
in defensive field Notre Dame goal percentage -Ohio State outplayed would never they allowed their overcome.
us and deserved to 
opponents to shoot Ohio State
win.
32 percent from out-rebound­the field. ed Notre Ohio State put all Mike Brey Dame 43-36 that defensive abil­on the game,
Irish coach 
ity to work in an and the effort to negate Buckeyes Notre Dame's 3-point shooting. grabbed 11 offensive rebounds The Buckeyes employed a 2-2--eight of which came in the 1 full-court press to force the second half-to Notre Dame's Irish into a slower half-court nine. offensive game, and they tailed "Their second shots really McAlarney and fellow sharp­hurt us," Irish coach Mike Brey shooter Ryan Ayers around said to the AP. "We probably outside the three-point line. didn't deserve to win. Ohio 
The result was that Ayers State outplayed us and and McAlarney couldn't find an deserved to win." uncontested 3-point shot, and the two finished the game a Contact Greg Arbogast at combined 3-for-13 from behind garbogas@nd.edu 


IAN GAVLICK!The Observer Left, Irish forward Michele Weissenhofer battles for the ball with two Tar Heel defenders during Notre Dame's 2-11oss to North Carolina Sunday. Right, Irish forward Brittany Bock stands with the runner-up trophy after the game. Bock and the other seniors have been to the College Cup three times in their four years. 
Nogueira 
continued from page 20 
cornnr ol' the net. Irish goalie Kelsny Lysander had hardly any timn to wact on the shot. 
"I just hit it as hard as I could, and thank goodnnss it went in," Nogunira said. 
llnr Sl~eorHI goal proved to be the game-winner. With 2:06 rnmaining in the game, tho right-footnd Nogueira hit a lefty shot from just outside thn box. Tlw ball was deflected and sailnd over Lysander's head. 
"On tl11~ greatest platl'orm we have, whieh is thP national championship final. she scored two ol' the most phenomenal go a Is I've P v e r s IHlll," said Dorrance, who has coached North Carolina for 30 years. 
Finals 
continued from page 20 
planned to alter the game plan for her. 
"I wasn't worried about Casoy Nogueira, I mean any morn than any otlwr player Carolina has," Waldrum said. "She's a great player along with a lot of groat players. we didn't rnako any special arrangements for hnr, we didn't do anything dif­fnrPnt than we would do with anybody <>lsn on their tnam." 
Neithor tPam seemed to ehangP its ganw plan, knowing nitlwr could have notched a "I'm talking about, if both of those were struck in a Premiership game, you'd be sePing both of those goals on a highlight reel at the end of the week." 
Nogueira said she came to North Carolina with consider­able raw skills but little idea of how to use them. She said, somewhat jokingly, that her coaches even had to teach her how to sprint. 
"When I came in here my freshman year. there was a lot I had to learn and !Dorrance] has taught me a lot," Nogueira said. " ... I never really knew the dif­ference between playing and competing. Ijust liked to play so I did." 
Dorrance agreed and said that his star forward is still a work in progress. But he also claimed that "the sky is the 
win. Notre Dame and North Carolina could arguably be the two best programs in the coun­try -unfortunately for the Irish, soccer isn't a seven-game series sport. 
The Irish were understand­ably unhappy with the out­come, especially after a debat­ed laek of eall in the box late. 
In the final 30 seconds Hanks made a run down the left nank and fell to the turf. llanks felt she was fouled. 
"I was runnin~ and I know she didn't mean to trip me but she did," she said. "It's in the box and she's the last player. It should havo been a call." 
Waldrum declined~ comment 
limit" for Nogueira. 

"I think Casey has the poten­tial, if she puts all the pieces together, to be one of the great­est players in the world," Dorrance said. 
Dorrance said Nogueira has the skill set to be among the best players in the game. But the coach added that he hopes she continues to improve. 
"You could be the greatest juggler and still be totally inef­fective on the field," Dorrance said. "So her evolution as a player is to take all these remarkable tools she has and figure out how and when to use them." 
Nogueira certainly knew how and when to use them Sunday against Notre Dame. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

on the possible foul, but told fans to watch replays and make the decision for themselves. 
A call in the box and the Irish could have been right back in the game with a shot at over­time. But the luck just didn't swing their way. 
Notes: 

+Courtney Barg, Kelsey Lysander and Kerri Hanks were named to the All Tournament team. 
+Carrie Dew was named the defensive MVP of the tourna­ment. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
1974. The Warriors are 7-6 this season. .
Hawaii 
"We are thrilled to have the University of Notre Dame in
continued from page 20 

the 7th Annual Sheraton on a good note." Hawaii Bowl," Sheraton 
The Hawaii bowl is Notre Hawaii Bowl Executive Dame's 29th in school history Director David A. K. Matlin and fourth in the past five sea­said in a release. "Notre Dame sons. The Irish have not won a is a storied football tradition bowl game since 1994, when and we are honored to have it defeated Texas A&M in the both them and the University Cotton Bowl 24-21. Notre of Hawaii in our 2008 game." Dame is 13-15 all-time in ESPN will televise the game bowl games. at 8 p.m. EST. 
Hawaii is 5-3 in bowl games since it joined the Bowl Contact Bill Brink at Championship Subdivision in wbrink@nd.edu 
Fickle 
continued from page 20 
season it's been." 

Still, seniors Kerri Hanks, Carrie Dew, Elise Weber and Brittany Bock deserved better. 
Even though soccer is often such a erapshoot, the fourth-year players must feel like their numbers never came up. 
AfterNotre Dame beat Stanford 1-0 on Friday despite being outshot 20­12, Cardinal players and coach Paul Hatcliffe repeat­edly talked about the illogi­cal nature of soccer. 
They claimed that they outplayed the Irish in the second half but simply got unlucky. 
Notre Dame, especially the seniors, surely felt the same way as the crowd counted down the final sec­onds of the season. The Irish had defeated North Carolina in the teams' last two meetings but carne up just short on Sunday. 
Most of the Notre Dame 
players took up soccer 
when they were barely 
kindergarten graduates. 
For the most part, the sport 
treated them well and 
that's why they have given 
so much of their time to it. 
But on Sunday, the Irish surely felt lik1~ soccer paeked up its bags and moved out on them. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd. edu 

...... 
Monday, December 8, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

THE DOME PIECE 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


CROSSWORD 
Across 35 Physics unit 70 Card game for Peak 36 Theory's start 
three 

5 Chattered 37 Scary sound 71 Walk leisurely incessantly 
from a cornfield? 

72 Stealth bomber 10 TV horse 41 Splinter group org.
introduced in 1955 ... or a 
44 Motel-discount Plymouth model grp. Down · introduced in 
45 Sales slips: Charles Gibson's 1956 Abbr. network 14 Partiality 49 Galley 2 A.F.L.-_
15 Seeing red implement 3 Cane cutler 
16 Prime draft status 50 Scary sound 4 Biblical son who 17 Drug-yielding from a steeple? 
sold his birthright 
plant 53 Tedious 5 Wavelet 18 Opposite of 6 Language
55 Boot part

serenity whose alphabet 
56 "Whew!" 

19 Cartoonist AI starts alif, ba, ta, 20 Scary sound 57 Misspells, say, tha ... from the ocean? as a ghost might 
7 Child's caretaker 
at 20-, 28-, 37­

23 Park. e.g., in 8 Suffix with hypn­
and 50-Across? 

N.Y.C. 
9 Part of a bottle25 "Sting like a bee" 62 Abominate or a guitarathlete 
63 African antelope 

10 Kind of point 26 Having seniority 64 Hot rod's rod 11 Helpless?
28 Scary sound 67 Lackawanna 12 Filled to the gills
from a war Railroad 13 Big fat mouth 
zone? 33 Juillet's season 68 Countryish 21 Country just 34 Kodiak native 69 Boot part 
south of Sicily 22 Moo goo gai pan 
pan 23 Lawyers' org. 24 Kilmer of 'The 
Doors" 27 _ Irvin, classic artist for The New Yorker 
29 Cowlick, e.g. 30 Fit for a king 31 Blunder 32 "Long ........... and 
far away ... " 36 Creep (along) 38 Name that's an 
anagram of 27· Down 39 de mer 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Gary Steinmehl 
40 Egyptian dry 46 Co. addresses, 58 Hospital measure equal often shipments to about five­47 A duo 59 Styptic agent and-a-half .48 Crafty 60 Part of a bushels 50 Tournament fishhook 
41 Soak (up) pass 61 Island with Waimea Bay
42 Tag for a 51 Like some music 62 Gentlemen particular 52 Musically 
purpose 65 Meadow 
improvise 

66 Shoemaker's 
43 Neighbor of 54 Sport utilizing a helper, in a fairy Slovenia clay disk tale 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are ·available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and rnore than 2.000 
past puzzles, nytimes.corn/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tfps: ·nytimes.corn/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Brian Bonsall, ~7; Anna Chlumskv, ~8; Brw10 Campos. 35: Holly Marie Combs, 35 · 
Happy Birthday: Don't let impulsiveness guide you without having a game plan. If you are well organized. the sll:y is the limit. This year, if you are willing to do the research and position yourself well. no one will come close to vour achievements. Can you take the lazy route to nowhere or the aggressive. hard\vorking path to vic­tory. Your numbers are 3, 15, 21. 23, ~8. 36.46 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): As the year ends. vou can see the changes that need to be put into place. Yon can pick up the educatioti and experience you peed to carry on with your plans. Don't let a lost love or spat with someone bnng vou down. *** ­
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You are overdue for a vacation or just spending tinte with the one you love. Make it happen--don't wait for better times when it's now that you need to nmrure your relationship or rejuvenate your frame of mind.*** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A sudden change on someone else's part may be a blessing in disguise. Prepare to take ad,'antage of any opportunity that presents itself. Your aggressiveness will be envied by those unable to adjust as quickly. 
**** . 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll be emotionally challenged, so don't get into an aTgwnent. Prepare to dtscuss what's really bothering you or nothing will be re­solved. You may not like the outcome but it will push you in a direction that will be better.** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You should be traveling or making anangements for a trip back home or somewhere you know you will enjov. Get into the festive spirit and strut remembering all the people who have.been .kind to you in the pas!.***** 
VIRGO (Aug. :03-Sepl. ~2): Get away from home where the potential for too much friction will push you into a family feud. Making some personal changes that will make you feel good about yourself will be your best bet. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll be pulled between two points of view. Trv to remain neutral and compassionate. Being a good listener can help but. if forced to get involved, pick the side you relate to most. You may have to say no to someone you low.*** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Stop worrving so much about liome and family and allow yourself some fun and enjoyment: A sudden change will help you make a de­cision you've been unable to make in the past. * * * · 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21\ You can take a look at a good property invest­ment and make a deal that will put you ahead f}nancially in !lie new year. This is not lite time to worry about someone else's losses, only you,[ gains.***** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. :22-Jan. 19): Someone will probably bring you back to reality if yo~t ge! tied up in something you shouldn't. If you let low or your emotions sway you,ll will lead to loss. Protect your hea.tt, your assets and vour future.~ stars AQUARIUS (Jan. :!0-Feb. 18): You've got so much ahead of you but choices must be made now if you want to take advantage of your upcoming good fortune. A new career, skill or service that you can offer will tum into a prosperous venture.*** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March :00): Learn all vou can about something vou want to pursue. An emotional plea on yam prut \vill rum a past problem into a future oold mine. Now is not the tune to walk away from something you believe in.*** 
Birthday Baby: You are omgoing. pushy rutd know how to get what you want. You 
defend your beliefs rutd are loyal and a great friend. 
E1igl!llia's ll'i•b sites: eugenialast.comfor confidemial consultmions. nf'!'Jjpoce.comleugntinlast /or Eugenio's blog, nstroadvicr .com for fun 
--------------------~----------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D, Enclosed is $65 for one semester . 
Name ____________~----------------------------­Address _____________________________________ 
City _____________ State _______ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Monday, December 8, 2008 page 20 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Twice denied 
Two Nogueira goals lift Tar Heels over Irish for second time in three years 

By DEIRDRE KRASULA Assistant Managing Editor 
CAHY. N.C. -Not even an undnl'natod season and a goal within the first 17 seconds or thn titll~ game could secure Notre Dame a National c:hampionship. 
With two nearly untouchable shots by Casey Nogueira, North Carolina ended the perfect Irish SPason. 
In tlw S7th minute, Nogueira tested her lPI't foot. Standing from the left side of the Irish 1S, Nogueira sent a chip that dnlleeted off an Irish defender into the top right corner or the Irish net. The goal was a llnal surprising blow in a game the Irish thought was theirs from the start. 
Kerri Hanks and Notre Dame caught North Carolina llat-foot­ed in the first 17 seconds. llanks took a long ball from Courtney Hosen and buried a ball in the right corner or the net and past Tarheel's keeper Ashlyn Harris. 
"Kerri I lanks is a great player. There's no way I'm going come flying out for that ball, she'll tap it right past mn or dribble me, I have way too much respect for her," Harris said. "I just tried to come out. make myself as big as a I could, she just had so much time. she just tapped it right 
Nogueira's great skill set could still improve 
watching, it gets almost none,"By FRAN TOLAN Dorrance said. "As far as those 
A-sociatr Sports Editor 
young girls think. the only sort of people that can hit that kind 
CAHY. N.C.-Arter North or strike llike the two by Carolina forward Casey Nogueira! are these men that Nogunira scored both of her play in the IEnglish] tmun 's goals in a 2-1 win over Premiership. Notrn Damn Sunday, Tar Heels "What's kind of cool right eoaeh Anson Dorrance com­now is in the national champi­pared her skills to thosn of onship final. everyone that Brazilian superstar Honaldinho. Tivo'd that game can show their 
Despite Nogtwira's pair of kids, 'This is how women can rwarly JWrfnct shots, the eom­play."' plinwnt was probably a stretch. Nogueira, a junior who won But it also says a lot about the the ACC player of' the year state of NCAA women's soccer. award, notched her first goal on 
"Obviously, our game drwsn 't a rocket free kick into the left gnt much exposure and certain­ly for the young girls that arn see NOGUEIRA/page 18 
FooTBALL 
Irish get Havvaii bovvl bid 
ND faces Ha-waii in Honolulu Dec. 24 
By BILL BRINK Sports Ediwr 
Notre Dame accepted an invitation to face Hawaii in the Sheraton I lawaii bowl in Honolulu on Dec. 24, the University said in a press release. 
~otre Dame has played in Hawaii three times before. The Irish lost to Southern 
. Methodist 27-20 in the 1984 Aloha Bowl, and beat Hawaii in the regular season in 1991 and 1997. 
"We're very excited about heading out west to play in the Sheraton Hawaii Bowl," Irish coach Charlie Weis said in the release. "This is a great opportunity for our team to face a quality oppo­nent in their backyard and we'll need to be ready. 
"I know the extra practices this month will really brmefit our team and we look for­ward to ending this season 
see HAWAII/page 18 
past me in the corner." 

And even though the Tar Heels managed to outshoot the Irish 7-2 in the first half. Notre Dame clung to the 1-0 lead going into halftime. But the early lead wasn't enough ­that's just how soccer goes, Hanks said. 
"That definitely wasn't our game plan [scoring early!. You score a goal early and that's good for our team, just try to keep doing it, but obviously we didn't get it done," Hanks said. "I thought we played a good game, but that's how it goes. The game of soccer." 
One fewer foul and the gam.e could have gone to the Irish. But in the 48th minute, Notre Dame committed a f'OI.Jl at the top of its own 18-yard box, giving North Carolina a chance to tie it at 1­
1. And that's just what Nogueira did. The Tarheel junior drilled the free kick into the bottom left of the Irish net, evening the score at one and dellating the Irish sails. 
Irish coach Handy Waldrum said Notre Dame seemed to fall off its rhythm early in the sec­ond half. but he felt that his team turned it bacl< around. 
"I actually thought we were better after about 15 minutes," Waldrum said. "I thought early in the second half we were still working, finding our way to get our rhythm to get out, but I actually thought al'ter the first 15 minutes I thought we started to get our rhythm back and ere­ate some opportunities." 
The Tar Heels continued to outshoot the Irish 11-5 in the second half, but the game looked like it was headed for overtime. With livn minutes of regulation time remaining, both teams seemed to slow their pace and prepare for a golden-goal opportunity. That never hap­pened. 
And even though Nogueira had both g~>als for North Carolina, Notre Dame never 
see FINALS/page 18 

Soccer's erratic nature kills 
CARY, N.C.-Soccer is on your best day, even on a Waldrum gave his shortest more fickle than an on­day you dominate, that post-game statement of thn again, off-again significant you're going to win." season. other. The nature of soccer, as "I'm just really proud of 
After his 
Dorrance described it, came our girls. That's it," the team defPated back to haunt Notre Dame. normally gregarious coach Notre Dame 2-After beginning the season said. 1 in the nation­26-0-0, the Irish finished on Notre Dame had an oppor­al title game, a one-game losing streak. tunity to go down as one of North Carolina And that loss is what mat­the best tPams in the history coach Anson ters right now. of college soccer. Instead, Dorrance artic­Notre Dame trailed just the senior class will leave ulated that fact twice all season. with three Collego Cup to highlight Unfortunately for them, one appearances and no mean­the momen­Fran Tolan of those instances was the ingful hardwarP. At least tous feat his final two minutes of thP not the most rnnaningful
Associate
team had national title game. trophy.
Sports
just complet­Which is why it hurts so "The season has been pho­
Editor
ed. much. There's no way nomenal," Waldrum said. "I 
"The trou­around it. And the Irish did­told the girls they'll look ble with a n't try to disguise the pain baek in a few weeks and game like ours is it's a roll they felt. In the team's recognize how great of a of the dice," Dorrance said. press conf'erenee after the "There's no guarantee even game, Irish coach Randy see FICKLE/page 18 


