
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND: No double-take for tw-ins 

Siblings' applications reviewed separately 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS News Writer 
On average, about six sets of twins apply for admission to Notre Dame every year. In 2005, Chris and Lindsay Holland were one of them. 
Though both had dreamed of attending Notre Dame, only Chris was admitted to the class of 2010. 
"I think she was happy for me but it was both of our dreams to come here and I would have loved to share that with her," Holland said. 
The Hollands' case should put to rest any uncertainties about the University's handling of twin appli­cants, Assistant Provost for Enrollment Dan Saracino said. Notre Dame reviews twins' appli­cations separately, he said, quenching rumors that the University would -by policy ­either accept both twins or reject both. 
"Applicants' files are each viewed separately," he said. 
In this way, Saracino said, every student has the opportunity to excel in the admissions office, based on his or her credentials. He said it's not a good idea to base admissions decisions on whether the applicant's twin sibling is also a good candidate. 
"It would not be fair to the twin applicant pool or to the entire applicant pool," Saracino said. 
But freshmen twin brothers Kennedy and Coleman Collins said during their application process last year, a Notre Dame represen­
see TWINS/page 6 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Writer 
After being held at an off­campus location in 2007, "The Vagina Monologues" will be performed in a DeBartolo classroom at Notre Dame from March 26­28. 
Organizers tailored the production to fit specific guidelines set forth by University President Father John Jenkins -who, after speaking with students and faculty for 10 weeks in 2006 -decided not to prohibit the sexually explicit Eve Ensler play at Notre Dame. 
His guidelines, which he delivered in April 2006, 

OLUME 42: ISSUE 79 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2008 
1 Monologues' returns to campus 
Anthropology, Sociology departments co-sponsor play; peiformances to befollawed by academic panels 
entrust academic depart­ments with deciding what events should and should not be sponsored, and they emphasize the need for mul­tiple viewpoints on contro­versial topics. 
As a result, each perform­ance of the "Monologues" will be followed by an aca­demic panel discussion that will approach the play from different intellectual per­spectives. 
"We used those [guidelines) and sat down and consid­ered, 'How can we make this event fulfill this criteria?'" said senior Lisa Raub, one of the play's lead organizers. 
"The Vagina Monologues" 
see PLAY/page 4 




Witness of Rockne crash remembered 
By MEG MIRSHAK News Writer 
James "Easter" Heathman, who was 13 when he rushed to a pasture near his family's home in Chase County, Kan., to find the plane crash that killed Notre Dame football coach Knute Rockne, died Jan. 29. He was 90. 
Heathman died at an Emporia, Kan., hospital of complications from pneumonia, his son, Tom Heathman, said. , 
On a cold, foggy March morn­ing in 1931, Easter Heathman heard the sound of engines roar­ing, his son said. Seeing nothing outside, Easter Heathman thought it was a car racing along the highway. 
Shortly after, the phone rang and a telephone operator from Bazaar, Kan., informed the Heathman household that a plane had crashed near their home, Tom Heathman said. 
"Dad, his dad and a few of his brothers jumped in their Model-T and drove up there," Tom Heathman said. "They saw the tail of the plane in the air and the engines driven into the ground." 
At the crash site, which is on a cattle pasture located three miles south of Bazaar, Heathman saw five bodies thrown from the plane and three more still inside. Just a week shy of his 14th birthday, Heathman was one of the first people to arrive at the scene. 
A few days later, newspapers reported that Rockne was among the victims but even then, "it did­n't mean anything to [Easter)," Tom Heathman said. 
Rockne, who was 43 at the time of his death, led Notre Dame to consecutive undefeated seasons in his last two years. In his 13 years at Notre Dame, Rockne's team won six national champi­onships. 
President Herbert Hoover called Rockne's death "a national loss." 
But to a young Easter Heathman in a small Kansas farming community, Notre Dame football was not a topic of every­day conversation, Tom Heathman said. 
"Dad became more interested in Notre Dame from talking to people," he said. 
After he retired, Easter Heathman got permission to take people to the crash site, which is located on private property. He took people on free tours to the site for about 20 years, Tom Heathman said. 
"He loved taking people up there and enjoyed the people he met who made an effort to come to Chase County from every­where," Easter Heathman's 
'Peru Days' to aid quake victims 
By DENNIS SLATER News Writer 
On Aug. 15, 2007, a powerful earthquake killed more than 500 people in the region just south of Lima, Peru. Today, the Kellogg Center for International Studies will start auctioning the work of internationally acclaimed Peruvian photographer Guillermo Rivas to benefit the victims of the tragedy. 
In exhibition at the Great Hall of the llesburgh Center for International Studies since Jan. 28, Rivas' photographs focus on the colorful Feast of the Virgin of Candelaria, which is going on now in the Andean town of Puno, near Lake Titicaca. The artist's daugh­ter, senior Andrea Hivas Dreyfuss, 
see PERU/page 6 


daughter, Sue Ann Brown, said. 
A monument was erected in 1934 on the site by the Chase County Chamber of Commerce to honor the eight victims of the accident. 
"Dad took it upon himself to show people the monument because he didn't want the guys who died in the crash to be for­gotten," Tom Heathman said. 
The limestone rock and marble monument, which stands at about 10 feet tall, is engraved with the names of all eight victims. But even before the monument was there, Easter Heathman had taken it upon himself to honor those who were killed. 
"Dad built eight wooden crosses because he wanted people to know that there were eight peo­ple, not just Knute Rockne," Tom Heathman said. 
see HEATHMAN/page 4 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Meinbers discuss a possible taxi flat rate 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
The Council of Representatives lCOR) met Tuesday to discuss a plan to make taxi services in South Bend cheaper and more reli­able for students. 
Sophomore Gustavo Gari, the Keenan senator and chair­man of the Campus Life Council's taskforce on commu­nity relations, presented to the Council the basic ideas of a proposal that will be given to Vice President of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman at the beginning of April. 
The proposal will outline suggestions, including the pos­sibility of a flat rate for stu­dents. 
"We'd like something where we can involve cab companies and different parts of the administration to get some­thing where students get charged a flat rate," Gari said. 
Many COR members voiced concerns that cab companies charge students more than other South Bend residents. Gari said the implementation of a flat rate would help fix 
see COR/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 6, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Rooting and recruiting 
Today is perhaps the most exciting 
day in wllege sports. At least in the 
ofT-season. Sorry, Mr. Mora, I'm not 
talking about playoffs, and no, Mr. 
Iverson, I'm not talking about prac­
tice. 
I'm talking 

about National Tae Andrews 
Signing Day. 

On a day more Scene Editor exciting to some than Super 
Tuesday, grown men across the coun­
try will cheek their Internet browsers 
to see if very large and highly athletic 
young men across the country have 
signed on the dotted line with their 
eo liege of choice. 

Notre Dame happens to be one such 
college. 

After suffering through the worst 
s1mson of football in Notre Dame histo­
ry, Irish fans, media and recruiting 
awlytes turn to the future, as names 
such as quarterback Dane Crist and 
n~ceiver Mike Floyd have the potential 
to be1:ome the Brady Quinns and Jeff 
Samardzijas of the future. 

Given tlw utter ineptitude of the 
2007 campaign, the Irish faithful 
found thmnselves reduced to reveling 
in the schadenfreude of other pro­
grams' struggles (see Michigan­
Appalaehian State, or Ohio State's 
blowout loss to LSU in the title game) 
and trading on-fiP.Id trash talk for 
wait-till-next-year wagers. So what if 
(insert team from the 2007) blew out 
Notre Dame'? Our recruiting class is 
top-live, haby! 

As of Tuesday night, recruiting Web 
site rivals.1:om had Notre Dame's crop 
or committed recruits rated third in 
tlw nation, up there with the likes or 
powerhouse programs such as 
Florida. Alabama and Oklahoma. 
Unfortunatnly, during the wooing, 
wining and dining process recruits can 
vacillate more than Mitt Homney dis­
cussing abortion. The wild and woolly 
world of college football recruiting 
features more conniving, de-commit­
ting, backstabbing and betrayal than 
an episode of "The Heal World." 
As such. nothing is set in stone until it's set in ink, which is why today is such an important day for Notre Dame football. One highly-rated prospeet, Omar llunter (cue Darth Vader "kill" chant), already fled the coop for Florida, marking the seeond time in as many years that Gators coach Urban Meyer (cough cough @$"%&$*) has poached a Notre Dame recruit. 
Ilopefully, all of Notre Dame's rncruits will put their ink where their mouth is and make good on their ver­bal commitments. If they do, the Golden Dome looks to have more four­and five-stars gatherPd in one place than a sta!T meeting at the Pentagon. 
So keep your fingers crossed and hope for a little luck for the Irish. Notre Dame's Golden Dome has been lacking in luster as of late. Keeping all of our recruits would help get back some of that golden glow. 
The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tan drew 1(g)ndedu 
CoRRECTIONS 
The reb. I article, "NO looks w boost llnancial aid," said that over the past 18 years, spending on financial aid has risen from $55 million to $72 million. The 1990 tlgure, however, is actually $5.5 million. The article also said the Universiry's spending on tlnancial aid has increased by 13 percent since 1990. That tlg­ure, however, is actually the average annual growth of liniversiry aid resources from I 999-2008. Finally, the article said tuition has only increased about five to six percent over the last 18 years. Tuition has actually increased about six percent every year since 1990. The Observer regrets these errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU GIVING UP FOR LENT? 






Peter Tooher Megan Dunne Kelly Sciacca Elizabeth Dillon Catherine Dunne Brian Boll 
senior freshman freshman freshman senior freshman Morrissey Pasquerilla East Pangborn Breen-Phillips offcampus Dillon 
"Warm "Peanut butter. " "Peanut butter. " "Starbucks. " "Taking classes "Nothing. 
showers." 


BRITIANY BURGESON!The Observer 
Freshman Cecilia Scrafford climbs the rock wall at the Rockne Memorial Tuesday. 
OFFBEAT 

Beer gets seatbelt, child doesn't 
ST. AUGUSTINE, Fla. ­Police have arrested a motorist they say had a 24­pack of beer strapped in with a seat belt but had a 16-month-old girl unre­strained in the back seat with the toddler's mother 
Tina D. Williams was pulled over in St. Augustine on Sunday for allegedly running a red light. 
A 24-pack of Busch beer was strapped in with the passenger-side seat belt, according to an arrest report. The girl was in the 
TODAY et: 
back seat with 20-year-old Amber Tedrick, who is the toddler's mother. 
Williams, 46, said she didn't know why the child wasn't restrained. 
Williams refused to take a breath test and a deputy found two metal pipes eommonly used to smoke drugs in her purse, author­ities said. 
Store clerk robbed twice in one evening 
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. ­Two different armed rob­bers hit a Grand Rapids convenience store in one evening, taking money from the same store clerk on both occasions. Tommy Gutierrez, 31, works at the Shell station on the city's northwest side. 
The robbers struck a lit­tle more than two hours apart on Sunday night. 
Gutierrez told WZZM-TV he gave the thieves what they asked for and no one got hurt. 
Gutierrez said he has no plans to quit his job at the store because he has bills to pay and a wife and ehil­dren to support. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
LLI 
:::z: 

~y{~~ 
(~+6¥(SVf1;_

cs. ' ...


~ 

·~.. 
LLI 

~ ~ 
>$ 


~\ ,/if
~ 


~Q.' 

~N;t~·····
•. ,.. ~
....I 
v~

~:Y
<( 
(,) 
0 

HIGH 35 HIGH 30 HIGH 35 HIGH 33
...I 

LOW 20 LOW 15 LOW 22 LOW 21 
at DeBartolo. " I follow Thor. " 
IN BRIEF 

Ash Wednesday services will be celebrated in the Basilica of the Sacred Ileart at 11 :30 a.m. and 5:15p.m. today. 
The "Lest We Forget: Two Years After Katrina & Rita" forum will take plaee today at 
5:30 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Student Lounge. The event fea­tures an allccted student panel for discussion and ticket give­aways for the upeoming World View Film S11ries showing of "Desert Bayou." 
NDVotes 'OS will host a Super Tuesday and cady primaries analysis featuring political experts from the Univrsity tonight at 7:30 in the Coleman­Morse Lounge. 
A campus-wide Lenten penance service will be held tonight at 8 in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The student body primary election debates will be held tonight at 8 in the lV lounge of LaFortune in front of the Dooley Room. 
The deadline for Spring 2008 Intramural entries and fees is Thursday. Entries are due at Rolfs SportsRec Center. The badminton doubles fee is $5 and the floor hockey fee $50. 
Father Diego lrarrazavaJ, the director of Formation for the Holy Cross District of Chile, will deliver the lecture "Culture and Religion in Latin Ameriean Theology" Thursday at 4:15 
p.m. in room C-1 03 of the Hesburgh Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 32 HIGH 22 LOW 15 LOW 10 
Atlanta 72 I 54 Bos~on 44 I ~3 Chicago 29 I .26 Denver 31 I 13 Houston 75 I 67 Los Angeles 68 I 43 Minneapolis 231 12 New York 62 I 52 Philadelphia 63 I 41 Phoemx 57 I 39 Seattle 43 I 37 St. Louis 50 I 47 Tampa 82 I 65 Washington 67154 
Wednesday, February 6, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Conunittee seeks funds for Midnight Madness 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY News Writer 
The head of the committee for Saint Mary's annual Midnight Madness, senior Noreen Sherred, sought funds for the event at Tuesday's Board of Governance (BOG) meeting. Midnight Madness, co-sponsored by the athletic department, is an annual night of games, food and door prizes inside the Angela Athletic Facility. 
"[The event] brings the Saint Mary's community together and builds Saint Mary's pride," said Sherred, who is also the athletic commissioner. 
This year, the event will be run by students more than in the past, she said. 
"Midnight Madness is put on to reward the women for all of the service they give the community throughout the year," Sherred said. 
And it's only fair that they are in charge of it, she said. 
The committee for the event has sent out letters and is cur­rently receiving donations for prizes, Sherred said. However, it still needs more funding for food and decorations. The usual stipend from the athletic depart­ment has been cut back this year because the department believes it shouldn't spend too many resources on events that aren't specilically for Saint Mary's ath­letes, she said. 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
Student body president Kim Hodges announced there will be a birthday party for Father Basil Moreau, founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, on Feb. 11 from 5:30 to 7 p.m. in the dining hall. 

+ 
Sister Pushpa Teresa Gomes will be speaking at the first lead­ership lunch of the semester on Feb. 11 at noon in the Student Center, chief of staff Sarita Fritzler said. 

+ 
The president of the Student Diversity Board, Abby Henchy, said the Diversity Student Leadership Conference (DSLC) will be held Feb. 13-15. Issues such as immigration, women in business and socio-economic injustices, among other topics, will be covered. 

+ 
Elections for the new leader­ship of the Student Diversity Board and the Residence Hall Association will be held Feb. 11, said Maggie Siefert, elections commissioner. Sarah Barnes and Andriana Rodriguez are running for president of the Student Diversity Board and Maura Claugherty and Shannon Egan for the Hesidence Hall Association. There will be a chance to meet the candidates on Thursday at 6:30 in the west wing of the dining hall. 


Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 





Mass, penance scheduled 
Notre Dame, Saint Mary's offer services for Ash Wednesday 
By NIKKI TAYLOR News Writer 
With the start of the Lenten season today, both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will be offering prayer services and Masses to observe Ash Wednesday. 
Mass will be celebrated at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart today at 11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. At Saint Mary's, Mass will be cele­brated at 7 and 11 a.m. at the Church of Our Lady of Loretto and at 9 p.m. in the Regina Chapel. There will also be a Liturgy of the Word and distribution of ashes at 
12:15 and 6 p.m. in the Regina Chapel. 
"Ash Wednesday services will be standing room only in the chapel," Judy Fe an, director of Campus Ministry at Saint Mary's, said. 
Father Joe Carey, assistant director of Campus Ministry (CM) at Notre Dame, said he expects students to fill the Ash Wednesday services. 
"The Masses in the Basilica and the residence halls are well attended every year," Carey said. 
Since one of the main focuses of Lent is penance, CM will host a campus-wide Lenten Penance service Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. After the prayer service there will be 10 priests available for individual confessions, Carey said. 
For a deeper spiritual experience, both schools also will be offering retreats dur­ing the Lenten season. The Four:7 Catholic fellowship is sponsoring a Lenten retreat, "The Journey Through the Desert," this weekend. At Saint Mary's, there will be a Busy Person's Retreat, designed to fit the hectic schedules of students. 
Running from Feb. 10-14, this type of retreat takes up one hour every day. Participants spend 30 min­utes per day in prayer and then another 30 minutes talking with a spiritual guide, Fean said. 
Father John Pearson will host a three-part analysis on Catholicism and Lent enti­tled, "Sin, Grace, and Reconciliation." He will dis­cuss these topics during the next three Tuesdays. 
The Lenten tradition of Stations of the Cross will be observed at both campuses. Stations of the Cross will be held every Friday during Lent at 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. In addition, Saint Mary's and Notre Dame will both be hosting campus-wide Stations of the Cross in March. 
Notre Dame's Cross Cultural Ministries will also be hosting a Lenten Day of Reflection at Creek House on Feb. 24. 
Fean said she hopes the variety of events and services available to students will allow them to fit some of them into their schedules. 
"We have different events from last year. We are look­ing forward to offering opportunities throughout the six weeks so students can take advantage and grow spiritually," Fean said. 
This is "a season when everyone in this community is encouraged to examine his or her life and see how they can live holier lives," Carey said. 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntayloO 1 @saintmarys.edu 





AGOURMET BURRITO. 
ITS KINDA LIKE A LUXURY PICKUP TRUCK. 

MAIN & DOUGLAS 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 6, 2008 
Heathm.an 
continued from page 1 

lie also rnpairnd the wood-post and barbed-wire fence that sur­rounds the monument. 
"lie li1lt almost a moral obliga­tion to do it out of defimmce to the people it honornd who perishnd at tlw site," Notre Dame Assistant Hegistrar David Kil said. 
Kil, who first vL<>ited the Kansas site in 1973, met Easter lleathrnan when he stoppnd to ask for directions to the memorial. After lnarning llnathman was the young boy who arrived at the crash scnne, Kil accepted his omw lilr a frne tour. 
"lie wa_<; a silent hnro in taking it upon himself to take people to the site no matter who they were," Kil said. 
The unoflidal caretaker of the monument, Notre Dame recog­niznd Easter lleathman's work on Marc:h 31, 2006. During the cere­mony commemorating the 75th anniversary of the crash, Easter llcathman was presented with a Notre Dame shadow box, an unusual award for a non-alum­nus. 
"He thought Notre Dame was special for the way alumni and fans treated him," Kil said. 
At a pep rally for the 2006 Notre Dame fhotball game against Penn State, Easter lleathman, accom­panied by multiple family mem­bers, wa_<; inducted a_<; an honorary member of the Notre Dame 
COR 
continued from page 1 
this problem. 
"It's a legitimate concern and one of the major reasons we're exploring a flat rate," he said. 
The taskforce, Gari said, is currently doing extensive research on the issue by talk­ing to various groups in the Notre Dame administration, including Poorman, Notre Damn Security/Police and Card Services. The task force has also contacted other universi­ties, ineluding the University of Virginia, Duke and Vanderbilt, to learn about the programs they currently have in place. 

"Thn list of schools we're rnsearching for this report has a range of city sizes," student body president Liz Brown said. 
Gari said Virginia's system was especially interesting because it allows students to swipe their student ID inside the cab and charge the fare to their university account. 
In other COR news: 
+ The Council also discussed the possibility of rriaking the Student Business Board gener­al manager a voting member. 

The proposal, which was put forth by Student Union Board treasurer Kedeja Gaines, would require a change to the Student Body Constitution. Though there wasn't an offi­cial vote, Brown conducted an informal "straw poll," where the majority of the membnrs polled said they would not support the proposal. 
The Student Business Board is comprised of two student­owned businesses -Irish c;ardens and Adworks. According to the group's Web site, "it is the responsibility of the Student Business Board to provide students with practi­cal experience in a business environment and offer conven­ient serviens to the Notre Monogram Club, Kil said. 
Brown said her father feared the plane crash story would be lost once he could not take people to the site anymore. But last November, fundraising efforts began in Cha_<;e County for the cre­aticm of a Knute Rockne Museum, Brown said. 
"Dad wanted to see it opened," she said. 
She said the effort began after a member of the Rockne family offered to donate a 1932 restored Hoekne Studebaker ear if a place to display it eould be furnished. 
The Chase County Historical Society has since purchased a building that is currently being refurbished to house the ear and other memorabilia, aeeording to Brown. 
And while a museum might efl'eetively carry on the story of what happened on March 31, 1931, Tom Heathman said his father's own version will also live on among those who knew him. 
"Dad has touched a lot of people and I don't think we will quit hear­ing about !his story)," Tom Heathman said. 
Kil agreed, saying Easter Heathman and all the members of his family "are exceptional people in the way they treat others and respect the legacy of Knute Rockne. Just knowing him, to everyone who came to him and visited him, he treated everybody equally." 
Contact Meg Mirshak at mmirshak@nd.edu 

Dame community. The mmi­mum goal of the Student Business Board is to break­even after all debts are paid." 
Gaines said she "feels strongly that the Student Business Board manager should be added" to the voting list. But for various reasons, many COR members disagreed with her. 
Chief executive assistant Sheena Plamoottil said she wasn't sure any of the issues discussed in COR would apply to the Student Business Board manager. 
"I don't really see the value of him being in COR," she said. 
Junior class president Hobert Reish suggested that perhaps the Student Business Board manager should be added as a nonvoting member, but Brown said she did not sec the purpose in that move. 
+ Brown also announced student government will be hosting a town-hall meeting on the University's policy of hiring Catholic professors. The meeting most likely will be held in Washington Hall in late February. 
There will be a debate fol­lowed by a question-and­answer session exploring whether the University should set a quota for the number of Catholic faculty members. In addition to members of the student body, some Notre Dame faculty and administra­tors will attend. 
Attendance will be mandato­ry for all student government members. 
• con received a brief update on the student govern­ment elections from Judicial Council president Ashley Weiss. 
Weiss said there would be no ehanges to the schedule of the "Vote Like a Champion" events and that the primary election will still be held Feb. 11 from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 



Play 
continued from page 1 

was first performed at Notre Dame in 2002. More than 600 colleges and uni­versities stage the produc­tion during the months of January, February and March as part of the world­wide V-Day campaign, which aims to raise aware­ness about sexual violence against women. 
Jenkins questioned the presence of the production at Notre Dame in a series of speeches after the play had been performed as a the­atrical event on campus for four con­secutive 
"[The girls] came forward 
years. Ten weeks of with a very responsible 
discussions proposal that really 
about 

focused on this play as 
sponsor­s h i p ' an intellectual event 
endorse­from several different 
ment, aca­

perspectives"
d e m i c freedom a n d Mark Schurr 
Catholic Chair of the anthropologycharacter 
department
followed h i s 

101 and was followed by academic panels each night. 
But last year, organizers failed to find a department to sponsor the production and held the "Monologues" at South Bend's First Unitarian Church. This was due to hurried planning ­not faculty or department unease, Rauh said. 
The sociology and anthro­pology departments are co­sponsoring the 2008 "Monologues." Faculty members in both depart­ments agreed to do so unanimously, according to Mark Schurr, chair of the anthropology department, and Rory McVeigh, chair of the sociology depart­ment. 
The academic panel schedule is still being finalized, Raub said. The first panel is scheduled to present a theological per­spective on the play, and the second panel will study the play from socio­logical and anthropologi­cal standpoints. 
The final panel will most likely examine how the "Monologues" can help victims of sexual violence heal and move forward ­a topic "that has never been included" in panel discussions in the past, Raub said. "I think that's an aspect of the play that 
Join Amerita's # 1 Student Tour Operator 
CANCUN, ACAPULCO, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, PUERTO VALLARTA, SOUTH PADRE, FLORIDA, CRUISES
*•'¥
'1~~~-~j


Seiii1:~~~::e~ash c"1,i,_"im=r 
~..."''" 


1-800-648-4849 
www.ststravel.t:om 
"Monologues" -a signal, he said, that Jenkins' final decision regarding the pro­duction was well received. 
"You could put any play on in the DPAC, and if it was just a play by itself it would be entertainment," he said. "But if it was engaged ... talked about by professors, used as a course assignment ... it becomes an intellectual event. It's up to the students and faculty to look for the intellectual con­
.. Free Mardi Gras Beads while they [ last! 
--------------~ 


r-------------------------...., 
is really important." 

The panel for the psycho­logical discussion will inelude psychology experts who study performance and music "as a part of the healing process," Hauh said. Some -but not all -of the play's performers are vic­tims of sexual violence or know individuals who have been, Raub said. 
In pairs, Hauh and other lead organizers of "The Vagina Monologues" pre­sented their proposal for the play's production to var­ious departments in the College of Arts and Letters. 
"The girls have done a fantastic job.... They came forward with a very respon­
sible proposal that really focused on this play as an intellectu­al event from several dif­ferent per­spectives," Schurr said. "For [the anthropology department], 
the  interest  
was  that they  
had  one  

panel specifi­
tent in life. That's one of the 
things we should be doing 
as a university." 
The event, though contro­versial, will "spark impor­tant discussions about important topics and issues that will benefit the commu­nity" especially with the inclusion of different aca­demic perspectives, McVeigh said. 
Students participating in the V-Day campaign are asked to fulfill two criteria in order to perform the "Monologues" on their cam­pus: It must be performed on campus and raise money for local anti-violence organizations. 
The Notre Dame produc­tion has been granted an exception for not fulfilling those criteria. Jenkins' decision prohibited such events from raising money on campus. Raub is still finalizing which DeBartolo classroom the play will be performed in. 
"The Vagina Monologues" has a purpose and place at Notre Dame as long as "new intellectual information can be brought to bare" every year, Schurr said. 
He likened it to a produc­tion of Shakespeare's "Hamlet" or an elective course at Notre Dame ­they are rarely presented annually in order to ensure that students are always engaging fresh material. 
"If !the 'Monologues'] did change every year," he said, "I could see having it every year. If it didn't change much, I think it would be perfectly reasonable to have it less frequently." 
Sophomore Stephanie Newsome is directing the "Monologues" this year. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

address, culminating in his decision to allow the "Monologues" at Notre Dame. That year, the play was performed in DeBartolo 

cally directed toward social science approaches." 
Schurr has not noticed discussion among faculty members regarding the 


Fresh Flavorful & Fun Food 
Wed. Feb -6·····-­

Thur. Feb 7 
,Jambalaya. 

Andouille 
; THVRSDAY
Dessett& 

Sausage 
I$1.00 OFF ALL
Regular Drink 

Sandwich & 
! IHTRRl'l'f)"
I -,,.
$6.99 

Regular Drink 
I

$5·99 
L__..._........___J 

Cajun • C-aribbean • Southwestern 
Huge Burritos • Cuban Sandwiches 
Tacos • Nachos • Salads 
Gumho &.Jambalaya 
Vegetarian Menn and so much more! 
Rioo'• Filling Stoti.::= ~== ~•riuno Gcill• : --~ 
!,,, 

located itt the Campus Shoppes 1841 South Bend Ave across the parking lot from 
l----~-~~~tl~~~1~~~~s~:>:~c;;~~~~~~~..~.~~i:_ 









ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February 6, 2008 CoMPILED rRoA,, TI-·lE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Al-Qaida training militants in Pakistan 
WASHINGTON -Al-Qaida, increasingly tamped down in Iraq, is establishing cells in other countries as Osama bin Laden's organi­zation uses Pakistan's tribal region to train for attacks in Afghanistan, the Middle East, Africa and the United States, the U.S. intelligence chief said Tuesday. 
"Al-Qaida remains the pre-eminent threat against the United States," Mike McConnell told a Senate hearing more than six years after the Sept. 11 attacks. 
McConnell said that fewer than 100 al-Qaida terrorists have moved from Iraq to establish cells in other countries as the U.S. military clamps down on their activities, and the organ­ization "may deploy resources to mount attacks outside the country." 
McConnell said while the level of violence in Iraq has dropped sharply since last year, it is going to be years before Iraq is stable. 
"It is not going to be over in a year. It's going to be a long time to bring it to closure," he said. 

Ban on rentals to innnigrants challenged 
FARMEHS BRANCH, Texas -A lawsuit was filed Tuesday over this Dallas suburb's latest e!Tort to keep out illegal immigrants by barring home rentals to people who can't prove they an~ in the country legally. 
The suit, filed on behalf of real estate broker Guillermo Hamos. alleges th{l Farmers Branch City Council violated the Texas Open Meetings Ad when it drafted and approved the new rule late last month. 
The law requires prospective tenants to get a eity license to rent houses and apartments. 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Tensions rise between Sunnis, U.S. 
BAGHDAD -The U.S. military faced com­plaints Tuesday from its Sunni allies over claims that more civilians had been killed by American forces -amplifying tensions as the Pentagon tries to calm anger over an airstrike last week that claimed innocent lives. 
The disputes have further strained ties with anti-al-Qaida fighters considered cru­cial in turning the tide against extremist vio­lence. 
The latest deaths occurred when U.S. sol­diers -acting on tips -stormed a squat, mud-brick house in the village of Adwar, 10 miles south of Saddam Hussein's hometown of Tikrit. The predominantly Sunni area is home to many former members of Saddam's regime, and has been the frequent site of American raids. 


Israel retaliates, kills 8 Hamas militants 
GAZA CITY -Israel killed eight Hamas militants Tuesday, firing missiles into the sandy courtyard of a Barnas police station as the Islamic militant group claimed responsi­bility for a bold strike inside Israel, the first suicide mission in over a year. 
The latest round of violence followed two weeks of anarchy on the Gaza-Egypt border that has heightened Israeli concerns that Islamic militants could use the chaos to infil­trate into Israel to carry out attacks. 
LOCAL NEWS 

State drops plan to privatize hospitals 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Family and Social Services Administration has dropped a plan to privatize three state hospitals, throwing new uncertainty into its future care for chronically mentally ill patients. 
Less than five months after FSSA Secretary Mitch Hoob told a state panel that a federal audit showed Indiana need­ed a new way of delivering care to chroni­cally mentally ill patients, he has ended negotiations with a group vying to take over Richmond State Hospital. 
Hoob for the past 2 years maintained that the best way for the hospitals to remain open decades from now was for local nonprofits to take over their opera­tions. However, in a Jan. 24 letter to the leader of the Richmond group, he said the slate needed to revamp its system of care for mental patients. 
McCain seizes GOP command 

No end in sight for Democratic race; Clinton takes Calif., Obama still alive 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Sen. John McCain seized com­mand of the race for the Republican presidential nomination early Wednesday, winning dele­gate-rich primaries from the East Coast to California. Democratic rivals Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama traded victories in an epic struggle with no end in sight. 
Clinton won Super Tuesday's biggest state, California, in the Democratic campaign, capitalizing on backing from Hispanic vot­ers. Obama fashioned victo­ries in Alabama and Georgia on the strength of black sup­port. 
McCain's own victory in the Republican race in the Golden State dealt a crush­ing blow to his closest pur­suer, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Homney. 
"We've won some of the biggest states in the coun­try," McCain told cheering supporters at a rally in Phoenix, hours before California made his Tuesday Super. An underdog for months, he proclaimed him­self the front-runner at last, and added. "I don't really mind it one bit." 
In the competition that counted the most, the Arizona senator had 561 del­vote count it was likely to be shifts in the political land­Obama was collecting the egates, nearly half of the hours before it became clear scape. overwhelming majority of 1,191 needed for the nomi­whether he or his rival had For the first time this year, votes cast by blacks -a fac­nation -and far ahead of captured a majority of the McCain ran first in a few tor in victories in Alabama his rivals. state's 72 delegates. states among self-identified and Georgia. 
Even so, Romney and for­The Democratic caucuses Hepublicans. As usual, he Clinton's continued strong mer Arkansas Gov. Mike in New Mexico remained was running strongly among appeal among Hispanics ­Huckabee said they were unsettled. independents. Romney was she was winning nearly six staying in the race. "I look forward to continu­getting the votes of about in 10 of their votes -was a 
Neither Clinton nor Obama ing our campaign and our four in 10 people who big factor in her California proclaimed overall victory on debate about how to leave described themselves as con­triumph, and in her victory a Super Tuesday that this country better off for the servative. McCain was win­in Arizona, too. sprawled across 22 states, next generation," said the ing about one-third of that McCain, the early and with good reason. former first lady, looking group, and Huckabee about Republican front-runner Obama won 13 states and ahead to the primaries and one in five. whose campaign nearly Clinton eight plus American caucuses yet to come. Overall, Clinton was win­unraveled six months ago, Samoa. But with victories in Obama was in Chicago, ning only a slight edge won in New York, New New York, New Jersey and where he told a noisy elec­among women and white Jersey, Connecticut, Massachusetts, the former tion night rally, "Our time voters, groups that she had Missouri, Delaware and his first lady led narrowly in the has come. Our movement is won handily in earlier con­home state of Arizona ­early tabulation of delegates real. And change is coming tests, according to prelimi­each of them winner-take-all for the night. to America." nary results from interviews primaries. He also pocketed 
Missouri was so close that Polling place interviews with voters in 16 states leav­victories in Oklahoma and although Obama won the with voters suggested subtle ing polling places. Illinois. 

CHAD 


Cease-fire reached after hundreds die 
Associated Press by French Mirage jets -but France littered the streets. 
said it had not yet gone on the Most downtown shops and build­

N'DJAMENA -Hundreds of civil­attack. French intervention in the ings have been looted. Further from ians have died in fierce fighting past helped stave off a major rebel the center, the state broadcasting between rebels and government attack in this oil-rich country on station and the parliament building forces in Chad's capital, Heel Cross President Idriss Deby, accused by were stripped by rampaging looters. officials said Tuesday, as the insur­the insurgents of corruption and The Presidential Palace, which gents agreed to a cease-fire and embezzling millions in oil revenue. backs onto the Chari Hiver. was off their momentum faded. Former Tuesday, bodies lay rotting under a limits, the entrance blocked by tanks colonial power France threatened to tropical sun in N'Djamena, accord­and tree limbs. Presidential Guards enter the fight to support the gov­ing to a local reporter who left his patrolled outside. ernment. home Tuesday for the first time Chad Hed Cross officials said hun­
Chad's government told the French since the rebels entered on dreds of civilians have died, most military it still was fighting rebels Saturday. from bullet wounds. The officials, using "air po~er" outside of Corpses of more than 10 military who were driving around looking for N'Djamena, the capital. according to and civilian victims were sprawled wounded, said they were too scared French military spokesman Cmdr. across Avenue Mobutu, a main thor­to give their names. Christophe Prazuck. oughfare. The charred hulks of two More than 1,000 people have been 
Chief rebel leader Mahamat Nouri tanks and several pickup trucks, wounded, the International charged they were being bombarded used by both sides in the fighting, Committee of the Heel Cross said. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, February 6, 2008 
Twins 
continued from page 1 
talive in Florida told thPm the University would not aeeept one unless it also accPpted thn other. 
"I nevPr had to worry about wlwtlwr or not I would conw to Notrn I>anw if Colmnan didn't get in. Thny told us that thny wouldn't split up twins if tlwy had com para­hiP or bordnrlirw scorPs and appli­cations," Knnnndy Collins said. 
.lust as lngadns, nthni<~ minori­t.ins, athlntos and tlw childrnn of liwulty nwrnhl'rs arn givl'n partic­ular wPight in tlw admissions olli!:n, "sonw S)JPrial consideration is giwn to twin studPnL'i applying to Notn• Damn," Sararino said. 
If orw of tlw twins is bordnrline admissions matPrial. thn University may admit him or h1w to avoid brPaking up tlw pair. 
"But thPy haw to bn dose lin t1wrns of antdPrnir pnrfin·m<uJen]," 

Peru 
continued from page 1 
obtaim~d his pPrmission to organ­ize tlw P-xhibil and auction the prinL'i. Tlw display and the silm1t auction -which starl'i today and nmls Fob. 1:~ -are part of Peru Days, a cPiebration of the <~nun­try's culturn put on by the Kellogg lnstitutn and a 1-,l'fOtrp or Peruvian st.udonL'i. 
1'1~ru Days expands on last ynar's I'Pru Day -also organized by the Knllogg Institute -to edu­cate the campus mmmunity about "the ridmess of Peruvian eulture and, of course, about its delicious and varied euisine," Hivas Drnyfuss said. 
"Very fnw pnoplp, know mueh about Pnru and its thme totally dillimmt rngions in tho eoast, the Andes and the Amazon jungle so we wanted to tnach people," she said. 
She and fi~llow studnnt coordi­nator Claudia Barbaehan helpnd plan tonight's Pniia Criolla, an 1went with rwn li1ocl, music and domonstrations on Arro-Peruvian dancing. The armL'i most alli~ctod by August's earthquake -the dties of Chineha and Piseo -am also the birthplaep,s of this fill"m of dance and musk, Rivas Drnyfuss said. 
SRI LANKA 




Rebels killed in major 
n1ilitary offensive 
Associated Press 
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka ­Government troops launched an ol'fnnsive Wednesday against rebel fortifications in northern Sri Lankan, destroy­ing 30 bunkers and killing 12 Tamil Tiger lighters, while air forcp, jets bombed a mp,eting of the separatist group's leaders, thn military said. 
The attaeks were part of an esealating operation against tho rnbds' df1 f'aeto state in the north. l'rP-sidP-nt Mahinda Bajapaksa's government has prornisod to destroy the group by thn 1md of thn ynar and end the long-running war in this Indian Oeean island nation. 
In thn fighting Wndnosday morning, troops baeked by artillery, mortar lire and tanks Saracino said. 

Currently, there are approxi­matnly 24 sel'i of twins enrollp,d at Notre DamP-, Saracino said. 
The Admissions offiep, always hopes to bn able to give good news if possible to both twins applying liw admission -but never at the p,xpp,nse of lowering admissions standards. Saracino said. And in eases like the Hollands', where twins arn indned split up, he sug­gested the option or transferring into Notro Dame latnr on. 
"Each student nnds up where they am supposed to be, whether that is Notre Dame or some otlwr school," Sm·acino said. 
And that also applins to tlw dorms thny may Pnd up living in. 
"Wp do not eneouragn twins to live in thP same dorm togPthor, but rathnr we try to put thmn in tlw same housing lottery as every other studt>nt." Saracino said. 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 
Tlw U.S. Geological Survey National Earthquakn Information Cp,nter said HO pereent of Pisco was dnstroyed during the two­minutP narthquakn. 
"When I visited the aroas hit hard al'tnr tht~ earthquake, peopln wnrn sleeping on the streets and plaz<L'i because evnn if thnir hous­ns had survived, tlwy eould erum­ble at any moment," Hivas Dreyfuss said. 
Slw hopes the silent auetion raises money for thn victims. 
"We arp, hoping peoplp, will begin to bid on IHivas' photo­graphs! for this charity," Hivas Dreyfuss said. 
ller l"atlwr's photographs had previously been displayed in Lima's National Musoum and dur­ing China's world-famous Pinyao international photography festival in 2006. 
"So whatever the photos end up going liJr, it will be a steal," Rivas Dreyfuss said. 
Peii.a Criolla will bogin at 6 p.m. today at the Hesburgh Center Main !!all. Peru Days will run until Feb. 13 when the silent auetion ends. That same day, there will be a scrm~ning of the film "Dias de Santiago" in the Hesburgh Centnr auditorium. Filmmaker Josue Mendp,z will present the movie and answer questions. 
Contact Dennis Slater at dslater@nd.edu 
crossed over the front lines south of rebel-held territory 
about 5:15  a.m.  and attacked  
a  string  of  Tamil  Tiger  
bunkers,  said  military  

spokesman Brig. Udaya Nanayakkara. 
After about an hour of fight­ing that killed 12 rebels, the troops returned to their posi­tions, he said. 
"We don't want (the Tamil Tigers) to get organized in the first line of defense so they would start troubling us," he said. "We wanted to give them maximum damagp, and maxi­mum destruction." 
Two hours later, air foree jets bombed a meeting of rebel [p,aders northwest of Kilinoehehi, the main town controlled by the Tamil Tigers, Nanayakkara said. 


424 N. Frances Street 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 


(574) 234-2436 
.. 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 


Wednesday, February 6, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,265.13 -370.03
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 637 77 2,710 26,812,286 


NIKKEI (TO/(yo~:;;;;i1;;\l~'~~~:~~~~[~~:il:iiillliilli 
FTSE 100 (London) 5,868.00 -158.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -2.68 -3.69 134.13 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -2.85 -1.28 43.69 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -3.71 -1.12 29.07 !SHARE RUS 2000 INDX (IWM) -2.56 -1.84 69.95 
Treasuries 10-YEAR NOTE -1.54 -0.056 3.587 13-WEEK BILL -1.15 -0.025 2.145 30-YEAR BOND -0.73 -0.032 4.342 5-YEAR NOTE -3.90 -0.108 2.664 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.61 88.41 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -19.10 890.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.10 93.00 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 106.5500 EURO 0.6833 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0072 BRITISH POUND 0.5088 

IN BRIEF Stocks fall as investors sense recession 
NEW YORK -Wall Street plunged Tuesday, driving the Dow Jones industrials down 370 points after investors saw an unexpected contrac­tion in the service sector as evidence the economy is sinking into recession. It was the Dow's biggest percentage drop in almost a year. 
The volatility that pummeled stocks in January returned with the news that the service sector shrank last month for the first time since March 2003. The report from the Institute for Supply Management wiped out the nascent optimism about the economy that had sent stocks surging higher last week. 
"The report drives a nail into the coffin from investors' minds that we're in a recession," said Todd Salamone, director of trading at Schaeffer's Investment Research. "That doesn't mean stock prices in the months ahead will be lower. But when you see headline numbers like this, there tends to be a reactionary sell." 

Treasury watching global markets 
WASHINGTON-U.S. and global financial mar­kets are continuing to adjust to a period of pro­longed turmoil and the Bush administration is closely monitoring developments, two top Treasury Department officials said Tuesday. 
Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, testifying before the Senate Finance Committee, said the administration has been closely watching capital markets since a severe credit crisis hit in August, roiling markets around the globe. 
"While we are in a difficult transition period as markets reassess and re-price risk, I have great confidence in our markets," Paulson told the com­mittee. "They have recovered from stressful peri­ods in the past and they will again." 
Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke will be in Tokyo this weekend for a meeting of finance ministers and central bank presidents from the Group of Seven major indus­trial nations. 
David McCormick, the department's undersec­retary for international affairs, said that the mar­ket turmoil would be a top item on the discussion agenda at the Saturday meeting among the G-7 countries. Those nations are the United States, Japan, Germany. Britain, France, Italy and Canada. 



THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 
Service sector shrinks in January 
Decline the first of its kind since 2003; observers surprised; recession feared 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -For the first time in almost five years, the nation's services sector -including restau­rants, travel, banking, con­struction and retail -con­tracted in January, stoking rising worries of a recession. 
The Institute for Supply Management's report, released Tuesday, shook the stock market while bond prices surged. The Dow Jones industrial average, the Standard & Poor's 500 index and the Nasdaq composite index all fell. 
"This is an absolute col­lapse of this index," said Nigel Gault, chief U.S. econ­omist at Global Insight. 
The Institute for Supply Management reported that its new composite index measuring the health of the service sector was 44.6 in January. A reading above 50 indicates expansion, while below 50 indicates contrac­tion. ISM introduced the composite index on Tuesday. 

ISM's measure of non­manufacturing business activity fell to 41.9 in January from a revised reading of 54.4 in December. Economists surveyed by Thomson Financial!IFR had expected a slight slowdown but had still forecast growth, and during that recession, prices, and worries over cutbacks in less-essential with a median estimate for the index hung around 48 or inflation and the housing spending has dragged down the index of 53. 49 -several points higher market. such segments as arts and 
The consensus among sur­than January's reading. "It gives me a dose of real­entertainment, fishing and vey respondents was that "This is a very bad ity that this sector, which hunting, and lodging and the services sector, which report," Gault said, in terms has been resilient for some food services. accounts for about two­of convincing economists time, now it has become Two measures that fell thirds of the economy, has that we may be in or headed susceptible to all the influ­were those for new orders "come to the end of a long­for recession. "I think it will ences in the economy," and employment, which term period of growth," said be tipping plenty of people Nieves said. Nieves said were more for­Anthony Nieves, chairman of over the edge." ISM said only three service ward-looking-so their the Institute for Supply Price increases have industries reported growth, drops could indicate trouble Management's non-manu­slowed while costs are up, while 14 showed contrac­ahead. New orders fell to facturing business survey said Nieves, who is also sen­tion. The three growing seg­43.5 while employment fell committee. ior vice president for supply ments -utilities, profes­to 43.9. 
Gault said that in March management at Hilton sional services and educa­"That's not instilling any 2001, the beginning of the Hotels Corp. Survey respon­tional services -include confidence in me that we're last recession, the index had dents cited recession fears more crucial needs such as going to see any real strong a break-even reading of 50 taking hold, high energy doctor visits. Meanwhile, uplift," he said. 


Administration defends Bush's budget 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Top administra­tion officials were on Capitol Hill Tuesday defending President Bush's $3.1 trillion budget plan from com­plaints by Democrats that it adds almost $800 billion to U.S. debt and doesn't pay for the war in Iraq. 
Democrats on two Senate panels tossed brickbats at Bush's budget and some key Republicans criticized it as well as lawmakers made it plain that they would ignore the president's proposals to cut Medicare and Medicaid spending. 
At the Senate Budget Committee, White House budget chief Jim Nussle put in a combative perform­ance, returning criticism of Bush's budget with attacks on lawmakers for not fully funding his long-pend­ing war request and challenging them to join Bush in curbing the rapid growth of benefit programs. 
Senate Budget Chairman Kent 
Conrad, D-N.D., slammed the budget for piling $7 61 billion in debt onto the government's books, both in bonds held by investors at home and abroad and IOUs in the Social Security trust funds. 
"The debt has done nothing under this president's watch but skyrock­et," charged Conrad. 
"Then let's open up mandatory spending," Nussle shot back, refer­ring to the spiraling growth of bene­fit programs like Medicare. 
Top panel Republican Judd Gregg of New Hampshire again criticized the Bush blueprint for having "some serious flaws from the standpoint of accuracy and even more serious flaws from the standpoint of policy." But he also attacked Democrats for assuming phony revenue boosts when passing a congressional budg­et plan last year. 
A few floors below, at the Finance Committee, with jurisdiction over taxes and Medicare, the atmosphere was more sedate, but the Bush budget plan wasn't faring any bet­ter. 

"A good budget must be realistic," Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., said at a hearing featuring Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson. Baucus, Finance Committee chairman, said key aspects of the Bush budget ­proposed cuts in health programs, making Bush's tax cuts permanent and omitting war costs in predicting a budget surplus by 2012 -failed that test. 
The top Republican on the panel, Sen. Charles Grassley of Iowa, chid­ed the administration for not consid­ering the costs of adjusting the alternative minimum tax in future years and acknowledged that peo­ple's attention was already shifting to the next administration. "The focus is not going to be on the presi­dent's budget. The focus is going to be on what the next president will d0., 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, February 6, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
Support the bouts 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR rN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
AsST. MANAGING EDimR: Kyle Cassily Ass·I: MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWrOINT EDITOR: Joey King SroRTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGI'R: Jessica Cortez 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 

ADVERTISING (574) 63 I -6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThc Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. L-etters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom rrgarding Obsm1er policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'11~ Ohw-rvcr (USPS '!99 2-4000) tR publi•hc:d Momlay tlm'u~ Friday exc~:pt tlurins tK:Im ~nd "al.::ttinn pc:riud~. A rulx.cnpdon wThe Oh~fVt'r tJ$100 furoncacad.;mk Y~U: $')5 ((If UllC II(JnCllf('f. 
·nl~ Oh!w:rvcr is publ~hcd .H POSTMASTER 024 Somh Dining Hall Send .uJdrt4!> corrccrioru. to: Nmrt' l),um:, IN 4fl5%·0n9 The Observer Perindkod po~u~c-p;~id at Nor~ Do~mc 1~0. Box 719 :md :tddinnn.tl m.liling of'fiul. 024 SiiUth Dining Hall 
None D~mc. IN 4(,556..0179 
The Oll\Crvrr llf a menthcr of rhe A.wxwced P~. All reprnducr'ion right.~ lttC rc~rVcil. 
Are they nuts? 237 students returned from Christmas to go into training for the Bengal Bouts. In addition to endless push­ups, sit-ups, running, etc., they invite the rearrangement of their own facial land­
scapes. Charles Rice 
No, they are not crazy. Let me tell you why. A family 

of four among the Right or Wrong ultra-poor served by the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh would live for at least a week on the $3.87 we casually drop for a latte at Starbuck's. In 2007, the Bouts contributed $60,000 to those mis­sions. The Holy Cross Brothers had run a boxing program at Notre Dame in the mid-1920s, but the Bengal Bouts began in 1931, with all proceeds going to the mis­sions as they have every year since then. Bangladesh has 140 million people in a country the size of Iowa. It is 88.3 percent Muslim, 10.5 percent Hindu and 0.3 per­cent Christian. The per capita annual income is $1,470. Holy Cross missionaries came there in 1854. There are 145 Holy Cross priests, seminarians and brothers (133 of them Bangladeshi) and 70 Holy Cross sisters there. They run two colleges, eight high schools and 10 parishes as well as other apostolates. In addition to politi­cal violence and corruption. they have to deal with the effects of Cyclone Sidr last November 15, which killed at least 5,000 people, injured 40,000, destroyed or dam­aged 1.2 million homes and 1.6 million acres of cropland and killed 1 million live­stock. The missions depend on the Bengal Bouts, according to Father Tom Smith of the Holy Cross Mission Center. The needs are basic: sanitation, clean water, safe shelter, electricity, etc. In Khalippur Parish, 20 villages of poor tribal people need for each village a latrine, costing $25 each and a tube well at $150 each. St. Joseph the Worker Parish in Srimangal needs to repair seven one­room primary schools of mud-wall or bamboo construction with tin roofs. A pri­mary school hostel for forty boys (kinder­
garten through grade five) needs a roof 
and benches. The only way students from 
remote villages can get an education is to 
live in those primitive hostels. 
Space limits prevent mention of many other urgent needs. But the next time you interview for a job after graduation, give a thought to Holy Cross Parish in Dhaka which needs to hire a full-time teacher­catechist to work among the Telegu, a people of the lowest caste, many of whom are joining the Church. The teacher's annual salary will be $1,000. 
The participants in the Bouts take their purpose seriously. The program, under the sponsorship of Rich O'Leary and Dave Brown of RecSports, is run by the officers of the Boxing Club, president Hunter Land and captains Jesse Brawer, Patrick O'Brien, Patrick Ryan, Lawrence Sullivan, Michael Lee, Leo Rubinkowski, Mark Weber and Andres VIllalba. "We run a tough program," Hunter Land said, "but the rewards are great, including the camaraderie and friendships and espe­cially the certainty that we are helping those who need it most." 
The toughness of the program is largely the doing of Tom Suddes, a Columbus developer who runs practices guaranteed to reduce the number of participants. Tom describes the practices as "character building." Those who survive tend to agree. 'The boxing alumni," notes Tom, "say that what they remember above all about Notre Dame is the Bengal Bouts and the resulting friendships." Tom and the other head coaches -Chicago attor­ney Terry Johnson and University pilot Pat Farrell-are former Bengal champs and volunteer their time. The assistant coach­es include Sweet C. Robinson of the Buchanan Police Department, former boxers Ryan Rans, Chip Farrell, Thad Naquin, Judge Roland Chamblee and Father Brian Daley. Jimmy Rogers, of RecSports, doubles as coach and supervi­sor. 
The emphasis is on safety, with no seri­ous injuries in 77 years. Dr. Jim Moriarty, the University physician and his staff, keep that record going with strict testing and safety rules. Emergency Medical 
Technician Terri Engel attends every 
sparring session along with EMTs Eva 
Chu, Baker Jones, Jordan Lacy, Wayne 
Bishop, and Gordon Martinzak of the 
Notre Dame Fire Department. 
If you think that no one is indispensable, let me introduce you to the student man­agers, Melanie Rodarte, Meghan O'Farrell, Kelly Garvey, Ac;hley Mensch and Katherine Johnston. They maintain the financial, sparring, Pquipment and other records. They organize, thPy solve problems and they leave no doubt in any­one's mind that if they faltered, thP opera­tion would dPscend into chaos. They share the viPw expressed by MPlanie when asked why she gives so much time to this. "One word," she said. "Bangladesh. When I graduate, I want to know that I did something special here that helped real people in real need." 
The Bouts will be held in four sessions, all in the Joyce CentPr: Feb. 25 and 28 at 6:30p.m., March 11 at 7:00p.m. and the finals on March 14 at 7:30p.m. The first two sessions will havP two rings opPrating simultaneously. A "season ticket," at $10, will admit you to all sessions. Admission on Feb. 25, the preliminaries, is free. 
One final word, from Father Louis Cruge, who runs the Nevin Clinic for the Sick Poor in Dhaka: "So many sick people are coming to us from the city slum area, the budget is always in the red. Most expensive is our care for cancer patients. We never have enough to care for all the sick who come. The patients can offer very little. Please pray for us so that we can do something good for the poor and needy sick people and show God's kind­ness and mercy to them." 
Please support the Bengal Bouts. They are fun to watch. And they are one of the very best things we do at Notre Dame. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the law school faculty. He can be reached at (574) 633-4415 or at rice.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Marcela Berrios Fran Tolan What was your favorite Super 
Madeline Buckley Michael Bryan 
Bowl commercial?
John Tierney Griffin Dassati 
Budweiser Clydesdales 
Graphics Scene 
FedEx Pigeons "It is not the mountain we conquer,
Madeline Nies Tae Andrews 
Doritos Mousetrap but ourselves." 
Viewpoint 

Bridgostone Squirrel 
John Dailey Sir Edmund Hillary mountaineer and explorer
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
.------------------------------------------------­
-------------~ 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 6, 2008 

U-WIRE 
The incredible story of 2008 thus far and not likely to be dethroned in terms of newswarthiness unless an event of overwhelming importance transpires in the next 11 months, presidential can­didates Barack Jed Pressgrove Obama and Hillary Clinton hugged. The Reflector 
Politicians rarely hug. As we know, they are not normal people. And normal people hug quite a bit. Appropriately in stores and inappro­priately in church. 
These candidates, in fact, are more like bears. Both are ferocious, and both will leave you alone if you play dead. You could think of delegates as skittish salmon. (I would be skittish too if two hunky bears like Hillary and Barack were after me.) Yet again, even a.s an easy comparison can be drawn between these officials and 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Vote for bears 
bears, we see the same delineation. Bears hug, politicians don't. 
After drilling into my brain for answers, something told me politi­cians embrace for reasons akin to those of large mammals that lust after honey, run at surprisingly high speeds and protect their families swift-paw. 
My understanding of the academic literature on bears hugging is admit­tedly limited. Still, persistent thought and reading have led me to three rea­sons to share, three reasons that bears hug. 
As we move from reason to reason, I will evaluate whether these are plau­sible explanations for the warm dis­play of these two politicians. 
First, bears have reported in several surveys that they hug to crush the bones of humans. One researcher, Frances Skalayhew, probed a commu­nity of bears on why its members dis­mantle human anatomy in this way. The reason given? Unfocused anger. 
I suppose this theory is somewhat credible. We have seen both Hillary and Barack deface the other in recent news. Perhaps they wanted to crush human bones because of unfocused anger. Neither was strong enough­or unfocusedly angry enough -to do this, so scratch that possibility. 
Second, researchers have discovered at least 25 bear religions (as opposed to bare religions, such as the Christian Nudists). In seven of these religions, hugging is a ritual believed to build kind habit and informed doctrine. For a bear, kind habit is spraying insecti­cide for the community. Informed doc­trine is defecating into a river. 
I doubt this possibility, frankly. Neither candidate could ever be privy to the technique involved in poison spraying. I also doubt either would be willing to defecate in a river or able to recognize one, whichever comes first. 
Third, research has established a theory where bears hug each other to 
page 9 

display affection. This affection can be genuine or pageantry, planned or spontaneous, heartwarming or awk­ward. In this way, bears are like humans. 
Having established politicians are not normal people and as this final reason links the behavior of bears to that of normal people, I reject this notion. 
So unfortunately, despite promise. and a well-oiled theoretical engine, I cannot say the obvious connection between politicians and bears can illustrate why Hillary and Barack wrapped their suit-clad bodies around each other. 
This column originally appeared in the the Feb. 5 edition of The Reflector, a publication of Mississippi State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


A compelling argument for McCain 
After eight long years under President Bush, there's hardly a face in the Republican field that wouldn't represent a welcome departure from the status quo. Among these candidates, however, Sen. 
John Mc~ain stands Staff Editorial 
out for his pragma­tism and political courage. The Daily 
In years of public Californian service, McCain has repeatedly taken bold stances unpopular within his own party, reaching across the aisle to like­minded Democrats in the process. 
His work on campaign finance reform demonstrated real bipartisan leadership, and we applaud his unequivocal opposition to the use of torture on terror suspects. 
In calling for the closure of the facilities at Guantanamo Bay he takes a position even many Democrats find too hard to market, giving us some hope that he has the backbone to salvage the rotting remains of U.S. moral authority abroad. 
The senator's staunch defense of the war in Iraq -occasionally bordering on out­right enthusiasm -is unsettling to those who found the venture misguided from the get-go. That said, his position is typical of the Republican candidates, and we can at least trust McCain as a veteran and former POW to prioritize the best interests of U.S. troops when formulating military strategy. 
In the realm of economic policy and on social issues such as abortion we have additional disagreements with the senator -and every other viable Republican in the race. But our concern is mitigated by the reasonable belief that as president McCain would respect the limits of the office, allow­ing the legislature and judiciary to provide the input Bush has consistently ignored, manipulated and suppressed. 
Mitt Romney's history of growing busi­nesses and bridging the party divide is appealing given the impending economic downturn. Unfortunately, it is accompanied by an equally lengthy record of complete reversals on a range of issues, indicating a shallowness and political opportunism that make McCain seem all the more appealing. 
As for Mike Huckabee -his tendency to confuse the Bible for the Constitution rules him out as potential leader of a country whose diversity and international commit­ments demand a far broader ideological understanding. 
We are wary of the some of the senator's policy preferences, but deeply respect his character and record of principled argu­ment. 
Vote McCain for Republican nominee for president. 
This column originally appeared in the the Feb. 5 edition ofThe Daily Californian, a publication ofThe University ofCalifornia at Berkeley. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, February 6, 2008 



I • stic 
' .. ·,.:. 

higHlights slate of new shows 
NEW BREED OF HIGH-POWERED WOMEN NAVIGATE "LIPSTICK JUNGLE" 
By CASSIE BELEK Assistant Scene Editor 

Carrie, Miranda, Charlotte and Samantha are the women of the past as "Sex and the City" grows up in Wendy, Nico and Victory of "Lipstick Jungle"-the new hour-long NBC series based ofl' of Candace Bushnell's book of the same name. The show's promos say it all: They're not looking lor Mr. Big. They are Mr. Big. 
"Lipstick Jungle," which premieres Thursday at 10 p.m., follows three high-powered New York City women as they balance family, friendship and careers. It goes beyond "Sex and the City" as it focuses less on the politics of sex and more on the everyday struggles of working women. Brooke Shields stars as movie exec­utive Wendy Healy, Kim Haver stars as editor in chief Nico Heilly and Lindsay Price stars as fashion designer Victory Ford. Much like in "Sex and the City," the cen­tral component of the show is the characters' friend­ship, something they lean on to get through just about everything. "Lipstick Jungle" is a departure from "Sex and the City" yet it still draws inspiration from its pred­ecessor. 
"The women are a little older, a little wiser but sort of equally as flawed," NBC development executive and Notre Dame alumna Katie O'Connell said by phone Monday. O'Connell, who developed recent dramas "Chuck" and "Bionic Woman," convinced Bushnell to bring "Lipstick Jungle" to NBC. "I knew Candace and I had read her book over the summer and I loved it and I thought that it lent itself so cleanly to a television series," O'Connell says. 
O'Connell got the ball rolling on the series two and half years ago when she started a development depart­ment for NBC in New York City. After hearing that Bushnell had almost closed a deal with another net­work, O'Connell sent the "Sex and the City" author a giant basket of lipsticks and had a fortuitous run-in 
· with her at fashion designer Cynthia Rowley's wedding. In the end, O'Connell convinced Bushnell that NBC was the network for "Lipstick .Jungle." 
Bushnell isn't the only big name attached to the proj­ect. The most notable leading lady is Shields, the popu­lar star who had another series with NBC in the late 1990s -"Suddenly Susan." O'Connell first met with the actress about "Lipstick Jungle" whon she was star­ring as Roxie Hart in "Chicago" on Broadway. By the time the show was ready to cast li1r the pilot, Shinlds was pregnant, but thanks to the pushing back of pro­duction, she was able to do the series all.er all. 
"She's always loved the book and she's always been kind of the prototype li1r us lor the Wendy charaeter," O'Connell says of Shields. 
O'Connell also praises executive producer Timothy Busfield, who has aetnd in series such as "30-some­thing" and "The West Wing" and is a co-executive pro­ducer of both "Without a Trace" and "Ed." "I think he's really captured a tone that I haven't seen in television in a long time," she says. It's a tone that Buslield has said he brings from "30-something" and it's a tone that, according to O'Comwll. sets "Lipstick Jungle" apart from new ABC rival "Cashmern Malia." 
The two series have already drawn endless compar­L<>ons even as they try to set themselves apart from one another. "Cashmere Mafia" comes from the creative mind of Darren Star, who ereated a cultural juggernaut with Bushnell in IIBO's "Sex and the City." O'Connell recognizes that the shows are rather similar on the surface, but she adds: "Our cast is completely dill'erent. our tone is a little bit mon~ grounded and it feels a little bit more relatable." 
As an NBC executive, O'Connell says that she relates to the struggles of the characters in the show. which she says is one of the reasons that she has been so involved in the development of the series. 
"What we've endeavored to do is really explore for each character a robust personal life and a robust pro­fessional life," she says. Wendy, Nico and Victory get through their professional and personal lives in each episode through the stnmgth of their friendship. "It's really a celebration of successful women and the bene­fits that come with and also the challenges that come with. that," O'Connell says. 
Starting tomorrow, three new fashionistas will navi­gate the jungle of New York City with careers, friends and family, and they'll do it wearing perfect lipstick and stiletto heels. They just won't need Mr. Big. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, February 6, 2008 
page 11 
NEW SPRING TELEVISION 
By CASSIE BELEK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
The writers' strike may have extended into the cold winter months, but that doesn't mean the networks don't have any new scripted program­ming left. The following are the mid­season replacements offering a break from game shows and reality pro­gramming. 
"Cashmere Mafia," Wednesday, 10 p.m. (ABC) 
Premiere Date: Jan. 6 
Starring: Lucy Liu, Frances O'Connor, Miranda Otto and Bonnie Sommerville 
Summary: Four high-powered female executives living in New York Gty balance their careers with their family and love lives. In the pilot, Mia (Liu) loses her fiance after beating him out for a job, Juliet (Otto) decides to take a lover after discovering her husband's affair, Caitlin (Sommerville) thinks that she is ales­bian, and Zoe (O'Connor) searches for a new nanny. 
"Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles," Monday, 9 p.m. (FOX} 
Premiere Date: Jan. 13 
Starring: Lena Headey, Thomas Dekker and Summer Glau 
Summary: A continuation of the "Terminator" movie franchise, "The Sarah Connor Chronicles" begins where "Terminator 2: Judgment Day" left off. As Sarah (Headey) and John (Dekker) concentrate on stop­ping the creation of Skynet, a new Terminator (Glau) poses as a female high school student to protect John at his school. 
"Eli Stone," Thursday, 10 p.m. (ABC) 
Premiere Date: Jan. 31 
Starring: Johnny Lee Miller, Victor Garber and Loretta Devine 
Sununary: Eli Stone (Miller) has it all. He works for a top San Franci<>co law firm and he's engaged to the boss' beautiful daughter. But when he begins to have visions of George Michael singing "Faith" in hi<> living room and is diagnosed with a brain aneurysm, he has to figure out if he's sick or ifhe's a prophet being guided to take certain cases. 
"Welcome to the Captain," Monday, 8:30p.m. (CBS) 
Premiere Date: Feb. 4 
Starring: Fran Kranz, Chris Klein, Jeffrey Tambor and Raquel Welch 
Summary: The new sitcom focuses on the life of former writer hot shot Josh Flug (Kranz) after he moves into a famous old Hollywood apartment building, the El Capitan. His life becomes intertwined with the eclec­tic group of residents who dub their home, "The Captain." 
"Knight Rider" (NBC) 
Premiere Date: Feb. 17 
Starring: Justin Bruening, David Hasselhoff and Will Arnett (voice of 
KlTT) 

Sununary: In this new version of 1980s series "Knight Rider," Bruening stars as Mike Traceur, the estranged son of original lead Michael Knight (Hasselhoff). Hasselhoff will make a cameo in the two-hour pilot. KITT (Arnett) has been upgraded and now includes additional features such as xenon headlamps with infrared night vision and self-regeneration and damage repair. 
"Unhitched" (FOX) 
Premiere Date: March 2 
Starring: Craig Bierko, Johnny Sneed, Shaun Majumder and Rashida Jones 
Summary: The new comedy focuses on a group of friends who find them­selves newly single and starting over in their 30s. Familiar face Jones (Karen of "The Office") is the divorce lawyer of the three guys in the show who moves into the brownstone next to Gator (Bierko) when she herself gets dumped. 
"New Amsterdam" (FOX) 
Premiere Date: March 4 
Starring: Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, Zuleikha Robinson and Alexie Gilmore 
Summary: Dutch soldier John Amsterdam (Coster-Waldau) obtains immortality 1642 after saving the life of a Native American girl. Amsterdam will not become mortal until he finds his one true love. In the present day, Amsterdam lives as a New York City homicide detective and a recovering alcoholic who has seen all his family and friends die over the centuries. 
"The Return of Jezehel James" (FOX) 
Premiere Date: March 14 
Starring: Parker Posey and Lauren Ambrose 
Summary: In this sitcom, Sarah (Posey) is a successful children's book author who decides she wants to have a child. When she discovers that she cannot carry her own baby, she turns to sister Coco (Ambrose) to carry it for her. The estranged sisters move in together and Sarah turns Coco's child­hood imaginary friend, Jezebel James, into a new children's book. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 6, 2008 
NBA 

Newcomer Gasolleads Lakers to easy victory 
Williams pushes Bucks to comeback win over Grizzlies; 17-0 fourth quarter run helps 76ers snap losing streak 
2007. rebound of Bryant's missed
Associated Press 

"I think ifyou would tell us that jumper and put it back while 
EAST HUTIIEHFOHD, N.J. -going into the game, we'd have a being fouled. His three-point play Kobe Bryant was hurting and pretty good chance of winning," made it a six-point game and coming ofT his worst scoring Nets guard Jason Kidd said. "But kicked off an 11-2 spurt, and he night in more than a year, and that just shows the player that added another bucket off a feed yet kept coming back to the same Kobe is, if his shot's not going he from Bryant before Fisher word: easy. found Gasol or whoever else. capped it with a layup to make it 
Thanks to Pau Gasol, the Because he gets so much atten­95-83 with under 3 minutes to !.akers no longer need Bryant to tion, he found the open guys and play. be great every night anymore. he's got a nice addition of Pau to Despite having just one prac­
Gasol had 24 points and 12 the team, which he can help take tice and one shootaround with rebounds in his Los Angeles care of that load. And if you pay the Lakers, Gasol was in the debut, and the !.akers beat the attention to those two guys, then starting lineup and received a New Jersey Nets 105-90 on Derek knocks down 3s." loud ovation when he was Tuesday night despite a season­Bryant, who dislocated the announced during introductions. low six points from Bryant, his pinky finger on his right hand, first single-digit effort in more seemed to work well with Gasol, Bucks 102, Grizzlies 97 than a year. who was 1 0-of-15 and showed he Mo Williams made sure the 
"He played extremely well," may help the Lakers get by just short-handed Milwaukee Bucks Bryant said. "Defenses are used fine until Andrew Bynum returns didn't fall to the new-look to playing a certain way. You from his knee injury. Memphis Grizzlies. know, screen-and-roll, where I "I still don't know a lot of the Williams scored 32 points and come oil" the pick, they're used to wrinkles and a lot of details, but led a fourth quarter rally to help playing a certain way. Now they my teammates helped me out a the Bucks snap a three-game los­have to evaluate how they play lot on it through the whole ing streak with a victory over the that. It's going to be a little bit game," Gasol said. "I was pretty Grizzlies on Tuesday night. more for defenses to kind of try comfortable." "We really needed to get some to come up with a scheme." Vince Carter scored 27 points guys shooting, and Mo was really ing from a left knee strain, and Yi sloppy, missing nearly every shot 
Derek Fisher matched a season for the Nets, who trailed by only on a mission," Bucks coach Larry Jianlian, who injured his right -including all 10 3-pointhigh with 28 points to lead the three points midway through the Krystkowiak said. "He really got shoulder in the Bucks' 91-83 loss attempts -and the scrappy !.akers, who improved to 3-1 on fourth quarter before Gasol it revved up and got his flow to the Houston Rockets on Sixers capitalized with one of their nine-game road trip. Bryant keyed the decisive surge. going." Saturday. their more impressive comeback shot 3-of-13 from the floor but Consecutive baskets by Richard Williams, who was 14-of-22 But Williams, who also had victories of the season. had eight assists in his lowest­Jefl"crson cut the Lakers' lead to from the field, scored all 10 seven assists, took care of "You get a steal here, a deflec­scoring elli.Jrt since an eight-point 84-81 with 6:13 remaining Milwaukee points as the Bucks Milwaukee down the stretch, tion there and it just kept going," game against Denver on Jan. 5, before Gasol pulled down the overcame a five-point deficit in scoring 12 of the Bucks final 14 Iguodala said. "We just kept 
the final 2 minutes. points to overcome the Memphis making little things happen. We 
"I had one thing on my mind, lead. got a lot of hands on a lot of just to play," Williams said. "I balls." play my best when I let my 76ers 101, Wizards 96 Rodney Carney's open dunk off instincts take over." After watching the 76ers get ofl" a steal tied the score at 90 and 
Memphis was down 100-97 on the wrong foot, coach Maurice Iguodala's layup at the 4 minute when Rudy Gay's 3-pointer Cheeks had to know a comeback mark put the 76ers ahead 92-90. bounced off the rim with 8 sec­against the Wizards would be no They would never trail again. onds left. Mike Miller's 3-pointer easy feet, make that, feat. The dismal Sixers couldn't as time ran out also was off the With Cheeks sitting on the have been blamed if they were mark, sending the Grizzlies to bench and suffering from gout, waiting for the other shoe to their fourth straight loss. Philadelphia played a near-flaw­drop. After all, Cheeks coached 
"I had a perfect look at it," Gay less fourth that helped their pop­his second game in two nights said of the shot that would have ular coach be able to kick his feet wearing only one shoe -on his tied the game. "Usually I would up and celebrate, right foot -because of gout. His knock it down, but not today." Andre Iguodala scored 20 left foot was grotesquely swollen, 
Charlie Bell finished with 17 points and Philadelphia stunned he walked with a limp and only points for Milwaukee, while the Wizards with a 17-0 run late briefly paced on the sideline. Charlie Villanueva had 16 points in the fourth quarter that lifted "I saw his foot before the game and 16 rebo.unds. Andrew Bogut the 76ers to a win on Tuesday and I was like, 'man, I'd never added 12 points for the Bucks. night. It was Washington's fourth seen nothing like that before,"' 
Miller led Memphis with sea­straight loss. Carney said. "He said it's not son-high 32 points, while Gay "That was a great win for us going to bother him. He's going to contributed 21 and six assists. the way we stayed in there, the coach like he always does." Darko Milicic had 11 points and way we hung in there after get­Instead of another collapse ­12 rebounds, his third-straight ting down," Cheeks said. the Sixers blew a 20-point lead a double-double. The Sixers trailed by 12 eatly night earlier in a loss at Atlanta 
The Bucks were without two of in the fourth and showed few -Cheeks had to enjoy watching their key pieces -leading scorer signs of taking off on such a deci­the Sixers put their best foot for­Michael Redd, who is still suffer-sive spurt. Then the Wizards got ward. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
For rent: 3-4-5 bdim, 3 bath homes close to UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? FOR SALE: Two story house ready for campus, safe, cathedral ceilings, Do not go it alone. FoR SALE WANTED immediate occupancy or fireplace. 2-car garage, 10x20 deck, If you or someone you HUGE Wooden Bar! II! 
next school year. Off street deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008-love needs confidential Call847-347·3820 Oakhill Condo for Sale. Students Minor League soccer club looking parking includes motion 09; also Aug. 2009-1 0. support or assistance, will love living here and parents will for part-time intern. Must have sensor light for security. Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 please call Sr. Sue Dunn, Dear Terrelle Pryor, love knowing their child is looJ<ed strong computer and communica-Four individually locked or 574-340-1844. OP, at 1-7819. after and safe! Secure, upstairs, lion skills. Please send resume to: bedrooms, central station Please do not commit to Michigan. two-level furnished two-bedroom, ininvaders@aol.com or invader· monitored security system, For more information, visit our web­two-bath condo unit with loft area. scoach@ hotmail.com six blocks from Notre Dame, TICKETS site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart-<3, Notre Dame One thousand twenty-two square bus stop jn front of house, ments!pregnant.shtml or see our bi-feet of beautifully redecorated Jiving Laundromat next door, BUY NO vs MARQUETTE TIX. weekly ad in The Observer. If you keep a goldfish in the dark space-includes 42' HD flat screen FoR RENT basement available for Looking to buy 1 to 6 Regular room, it will eventually turn white. TV and parking spaces in front of storage, new furnace and Admission basketball tickets vs If you or someone condo. Garages are available at an Blue & Gold Homes Showing for central air, new kitchen Marquette on 2/9. Please call847-you care about has Only try this with a goldfish you additional cost. Parking lot surveil-08/09.09/10 Now offering "flex' including appliances, large 948·8293 or email been sexually assaulted, don'tlike. lance cameras, pool, clubhouse. leases bluegoldrentals.com living room, free trash removal. lsullivan1 @msn.com visit water and rubbish removal included Garage available for car-extra. On average, 12 newborns will be · as part of the ownership package. 522 Napoleon Street: 1-2 students. http://osa.nd.edu/departments!rape. given to the wrong parents daily Only $180 per month exterior main· Newer ktchn,bath.Bsmnt storage. Call 289·4071. PERSONAL shtml 
tenance fees. Five minute walk or Washer/dryer. 5 blks W off NO The phrase "rule of thumb' is Jess to the Notre Dame campus. Avenue. $570/mo+utl Houses for rent for 08-09 close to PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-ADOPTION -Catholic family will derived from an old English Jaw shopping and restaurants. Less (219)629-5483 Denise campus. ONE WHO IS? You do not have to provide your baby with a life of which stated that you couldn't beat than ten minutes to other hot spots Ranging from 2 BR to 6 BR. be alone. We want to help. Call our unconditional love, opportunity & your wife with anything wider than and mall by car. $200,000. Only 5 bedroom house just off Angela & 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-security. Exp paid, Atty involved. your thumb. serious offers considered. 31. Available now & for next year. 2 Call574-234-2436 or 800·No Abort or visit our web site at 562-733-5166. baths & laundry. 232·6964. Kramerhouses.com www.Jifecall.org 1-888·833-8230. One million $1 bills weighs 1 ton 





OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S wmr SERVICES 
Wednesday, February 6, 2008 page 13 
MLB

CollegeSwimming.com NCAA Men's Swimming Top 25 rank team point$ 1 Texas 300 2 Arizona 289 3 Stanford 288 4 Michigan 271 5 Auburn 265 6 Florida 251 7 Tennessee 250 8 Indiana 236 9 Minnesota 212 10 Georgia 211 11 California 201 12 Purdue 192 13 Ohio Slate 179 14 North Carolina 171 15 Virginia 1.60 16 Penn State 151 17 Texas A&M 136 18 LSU 134 19 Northwestern 129 20 Missouri 113 21 SMU 101 22 Harvard 68 23 Louisville 59 24 UC-Santa Barbara 58 25 BYU 58 CollegeSwimming.com NCAA Women's Swimming Top. 25 rank team point;s 1 Georgia 293 2 Slanlord 291 3 Florida . 273 • 4 Arizona 2'i't··· 5 Auburn 263 6 TexasA&M 258 1 Tennessee 239 8 Calilomra 9 Minnesota 18 Virginia 11 Michigan 12 North Carolina 13 Penn Stale 14 SMU 15 UClA 16 ASU 11 Texas 18 LSU 19 Indiana 20 Wisconsin 21 Missouri 22 Florida State 23 Virginia Tech 24 Washington 25 usc MIAA Women's Basketball Standings rank team confere'!ce overall 1 Hope 10-0 18·0 2 Albion 8-3 15-4 3 Calvin 84 12·7· 4 Olivet 6-4 8-10 5 SAINT MARY'S 5-fi 9-10 6 Adrian 4-6 6·12 7 Alma 4-6 NO 8 Tri-State 2-9 5·14 9 Kalamazoo 1·10. 4~15  

around the dial NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL Connecticut vs. Syracuse 7 p.m., ESPN Duke vs. North Carolina 9 p.m., ESPN  


Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Roger Clemens spoke under oath for about five hours to congressional lawyers Tuesday, and said after­ward that he told them he did not use performance­enhancing drugs. 
"I just want to thank the committee, the staff that I just met with. They were very courteous," Clemens said after emerging from the offices of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. 
"It was great to be able to tell them what I've been saying all along -that I've never used steroids or growth hormone," the seven-time Cy Young Award winner and former New York Yankee said. 
Clemens, wearing a pin­striped gray suit, did not take questions from reporters. Carrying a black briefcase and accompanied by two attor­neys, Clemens headed to an elevator to exit the building. 
Someone down the mar­ble hallway at the Rayburn House Office Building yelled out the pitcher's nickname, "Rocket!" That drew a quick wave of a hand from Clemens as he stepped into the wood-paneled ele­vator. 
Clemens, 45, ranks 
IN BRIEF Arkansas asks NCAA to let 
Mallett play in '08 
FAYETIEVIllE, Ark. -Arkansa<; will ask the NCAA to allow transfer quarter­back Ryan Mallett to play immediately for the Razorbacks without sitting out a year. 
Mallett transferred from Michigan after Rich Rodriguez replaced retiring coach Uoyd Carr. 
"After visiting with Ryan and his par­ents, we feel that it is appropriate to file a waiver in this ca<;e based on extenuat­ing circumstances," Arkansas athletic director Jeff Long said in a release. "While the outcome of the waiver request is uncertain, we feel strongly that as an institution we should offer our full support to Ryan and his family in this process." 
The 6-foot-7 Mallett, who played in 11 games for the Wolverines last year, has three years of eligibility remaining. Mallett appears well suited to a pro-style offense, but Rodriguez's offense works well with a more mobile quarterback. 
eighth in major league his­tory with 354 career wins. He put off retirement yet again in 2007, returning to the Yankees in June and going 6-6 with a 4.18 ERA. 
His closed-door, sworn testimony on Capitol Hill came one day after his Yankees teammate and workout partner, Andy Pettitte, gave a deposition to committee staff for 2? hours. 
Both players' interviews are part of preparation for a Feb. 13 hearing, a public session expected to focus on allegations made in the Mitchell report by their former trainer, Brian McNamee. McNamee said that he injected Clemens 
more than a dozen times with human growth hor­mone and steroids in 1998, 2000 and 2001. 
"I look forward to being here, I guess in this room, next week," Clemens said in his 25-second statement after the deposition. 
He has chosen various ways to strongly deny what McNamee said, including a taped TV interview, a live news con­ference and, repeatedly, through his lawyers. 
Tuesday's deposition was the first time Clemens addressed the allegations under oath -meaning it also was the first time he faced legal risk if he were to make false statements. 
Packers sign McCarthy to 
five-year contract 
GREEN BAY, Wis. -The Green Bay Packers signed coach Mike McCarthy on Tuesday to a five-year contract that runs through the 2012 season. 
"We have accomplished some of our goals over the past two seasons, but there remains much left to be done," McCarthy said in a statement. "I am excited by the opportunity to meet those challenges and someday return another Lombardi Trophy home to Green Bay." 
McCarthy, who had a year left on his original three-year deal, report­edly agreed in principle last month to the new contract, which is worth about $4 million per season. 
"Mike brings tremendous passion, work ethic and structure to his posi­tion," general manager Ted Thompson said. "These are the traits we saw in him when he was hired, and we're very happy for the success we have had under his guidance." 
Pats' Anderson pleads not 
guilty to possessiOn 
LOWELL, Mass. -New England Patriots defensive back Willie Andrews pleaded not guilty to drug possession Tuesday, hours after authorities said they found him with a half-pound of marijuana. 
Andrews was charged with possession of marijuana with intent to distribute and driving an unregistered motor vehi­cle. Prosecutors said he had $6,800 in cash, three bags of marijuana, and no means to smoke the drugs. 
According to authorities, Lowell police responded to an anonymous caller who reported possible drug activity in a black motor vehicle. Police later pulled over the car, and when they approached it, detectives smelled a strong odor they believed to be marijuana, District Attorney Gerry Leone said. 
Andrews was released on personal recognizance after entering not guilty pleas during his arraignment in Lowell District Court. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 6, 2008 
NFL 

Giants celebrate Super Bowl win with parade 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -On a day for jumping and whooping it up, Michael Strahan showed the throngs of jubilant fans just how it's donn, New York Giants style. 
The star defensive end fires up his team -a wildly improbable NFL champion -with a leap that he calls "stomping you out." And with that, Strahan jumped skyward on the podium at a Sup1~r Bowl rally Tuesday, lifting his krwes to his shoulders. 
"We would like to extend this to every other team in the NFL and particularly for tlw last team we defeated, the New England Patriots," he said. his teammates standing behind him. "Because you know what we did to you? We stomped you out!" 
Two days after the Giants won the title with a 17-14 victory that ended the Nnw England Patriots' perfect season, fans gathered at City llall Park after a ticker-tape parade to watch their team get the keys to the city. 
And those fans, umbrellas raised in a light rain, made a plea to Strahan, who is contem­plating retirement. "One more ynar!" came the chant as soon as hn got to the podium. 
':Or~e ~ore ~ear?" Strahan s<ud. We II see. 
Eli Manning, the MVP of the Super Bowl, said the team was proud to "bring the champi­onship back to New York City." 
"It's b1~en an unbelievable jour­ney," he said. 
Manning and Strahan were joined by the entire Giants organization in a parade through the "Canyon of Heroes" before hundreds of thousands of fans, many decked out in Giants blue, to celebrate one of the city's great sports triumphs. 
After the Manhattan lovefest, the team took buses back to New Jersey, where it was met by a crowd of more than 20,000 fans at Giants Stadium. The crowd saved its loudest cheers for coach Tom Coughlin, who emerged from a tunnel holding aloft the Super Bowl trophy. 
"You believed in us and this group of young men believed in themselves," he said. "And that's why we're standing here today." 
The crowd burst into cheers when wide receive David Tyree was introduced and pressed a football to his head, simulating his astonishing catch in the final minutes of Sunday's game. 
State Senate President Hichard 
J. Codey took a jab at the Patriots when he referred to their video­taping scandal at Giants Stadium against the Jets in September. 
"If the Patriots were here today, they could film all they want," Codey said. 
Earlier, across the Hudson Hiver, the Giants rode in floats and many players carried video cameras to record the moment. A huge cheer went up when Manning joined Strahan at the front of a float. The float also carried Mayor Michael Bloomberg as well as the Vince Lombardi Trophy, which was cradled like a baby in Strahan's massive arms. 

"I've never ever played with a bigger group of goofballs than this group here," Strahan said. "And you know what? We won the Super Bowl!" 
Bloomberg gave team officials and players keys to the city after the festivities. Gov. Eliot Spitzer and Sen. Charles Schumer were among the politicians joining Bloomberg at City Hall. 
'The Giants may not be perfect but no one is, at least not this year in the NFL," Bloomberg said, taking a shot at the Patriots' 18-1 season. 
Schumer said: "Now the Giants aren't just New ¥ork's team, they're America's team." 
Coughlin thanked the city for the outpouring of enthusiasm. 
"That parade and that show of loyalty and the response to our championship season is just something we'll remember for the rest of our lives," he said. 
While it dearly was a day for a parade, it was also a day for poli­tics: New York and the 23 other Super Tuesday states were hold­ing primaries. 
Near City Ilall, signs for Democratic candidate Barack Obama were surrounded by fans wearing Giants red, white and blue. Spitzer told the crowd he had written in Coughlin for his presidential pick, with Manning for vice president. 

Wednesday, February 6, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 

Coffee at the Como 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, February 7 7:30p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council invites gay, lesbian. and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family. their friends, and supporters to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone IS welcome and confidentiality IS assured. 
CORE CUU~Cil 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish edge BYU in first home match 

By DAN MASTERTON Sports Writer 
The No. 19 Irish (2-2) opened their home schPdule with a 4-3 win over BYU (2-5) Tuesday in front of a large crowd at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Notre Dame got the ball rolling by taking the doubles point. 
"We knew 
but Notre Dame responded. 

The chance to seal the match fell to No. 88 Colleen Rielley, and the sophomore delivered with a hard-fought victory, 6­4, 7-6 (9-7). 
"Colleen was the clincher," Buck said. "She had a close match, and she fought off five set points. She did well under pressure knowing we needed one more win to clinch the vic­
tory." 

No. 64 Buck 
going into it that and No. 82
7Colleen Rielly] did 
BYU was win­Katie Potts
well under pressure 
ning doubles were both points," Irish knowing we needed upset in long, captain Brook three-set
one more win to 
Buck said. "So matches after
clinch the victory. '' 
that point was the Irish crucial, and it already had the got our momen­Brook Buck match wrapped tum going." up.
Irish captain
After the pair of Cosmina Ciobanu and Colleen Rielley took their match 8-3, Buck and doubles teammate Kelcy Tefft sealed the doubles point for Notre Dame with an 8-5 victory. Buck and Tefft are now 4-0 for the dual season. 
No. 89 Kali Krisik and Tefft kept the momentum going as each won handily in two-set singles victories to put the Irish ahead 3-0 for the match. 
BYU appeared to be mount­ing a comeback as the Cougars' Anastasia Surkova upset No. 62 Ciobanu 6-2, 6-3, 

Buck said 
playing at home will be "a huge advan­tage" as the season goes on, Buck said. 
The Irish were pleased with their overall effort but have no time to rest on their laurels. 
"It was a good start to an intense week of tennis," Buck said. 
The Irish now look to the National Team Indoors in Madison, Wise. at the end of the week. 
Contact Dan Masterton at dmastert@nd.edu 

JIMMYJOHNS.COM 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 6, 2008 
NBA 

Cavs continue hot play -with -win over Celtics 
Associated Press 
CLEVElAND-LeBron James scored 33 points and barely missed a triple-double as the Cleveland Cavaliers beat Boston for the second time this season, downing the Celtics 114-113 on Tuesday night. 
.lames added 12 assists. nine rebounds and live steals to pace the Cavaliers, who improved to 1 !i-4 sincn Dec. 25 and handed the NBA's best road team just its fifth loss away from home. Cleveland also beat the Cclties in overtime on Nov. 27. 
For a change, James, who leads the league in fourth-quar­ter scoring, didn't have to do it all by himself' down the stretch. 
Zydrunas Ilgauskas added 21 points, Larry llughes had 1 X and seldom-us!HI Ira Newble had I !i for Cleveland. Also, guard Daniel Gibson made a big stmtl in the final minutP to help tlw Cavs hang on. 
Hay Allen scored 24 points and Paul Pierce 19 for the Celties, who were again without KPvin Garnett. The All-Star center missed his fourth straight game with an abdomi­nal strain sustained on Jan. 25, and is likely to sit out Friday's game in Minnesota, his first visit back there since the Timberwolves traded him to Boston last summer. 
For three quarters, a matchup betwnnn two of the East's top teams looked more like one between two up-and­down Western Conference teams as defensn was scarce. But with the gamn on the line in the fourth quarter, both teams tightened things up. 
The Celtics pulled to 97-96 before James drained a 3-point­er and drove the lane before feeding Ilgauskas for a dunk. Gibson then· scored on a circus­like scoop shot in the lane and James hit a jumpm to put the Cavs up 106-<JS with 4:43 left. 
Boston, though, quickly cut it to two as Kendrick Perkins scored on a three-point play and Pierce drained a 3. 
Hajon Hondo made a jumper and two free throws as the Ccltics pulled within 110-108 with 1:4S remaining. But on Cleveland's next possession, Boston's defense was so con­cerned about stopping James that the Celtics let Newble, who needed four stitches to close a gash over his right eye in the first half, .drive the baseline for a dunk. 
Pierce's basket got Boston within two. and the Celtics had a chance to tic it but Gibson stripped Hondo and llgauskas made two free throws with 1C1.6 seconds left to put Cleveland ahead 114-110. 
James Posey dropped a 3­pointer for Boston at the horn to close the scoring. 
Already playing without Sasha Pavlovic (sprained foot) and Anderson Varcjao (sprained ankle), the Cavaliers lost forward Drew Gooden early in the third with a strained right groin. 
Gooden hurt himself while crashing the boards, grabbing a rebound and dunking over an unsuspecting Allen. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Lawson likely out for UNC 
Speedy sophomore on crutches with sprained ankle for Duke game 
Associated Press 

CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -Roy Williams went to the training room Tuesday morning to see how point guard Ty Lawson was recovering from a sprained left ankle. The answer was enough to give the North Carolina coach reason for con­cern. 
"lie walked in the trainer's room on crutches," Williams said, "and. I think it's awfully diflicult to go from crutches one day to playing against Duke the next day." 
Lawson's status has become the biggest variable in the latest matchup of college basketball's most intense rivalry. With a healthy Lawson, the third­ranked Tar Heels can run with their typical zeal and better handle the second-ranked Blue Devils' perimeter pressure. If the speedy sophomore is limit­ed or can't play at all, North Carolina will be a different team. 
Lawson was hurt about four minutes into Sunday's 84-73 overtime win at Florida State and dido't return. lie missed practice Monday and was unavailable for comment before Tuesday's practice because he was ·receiving treatment. Afterward, team spokesman Steve Kirschner said Lawson was unable to participate in team drills and managed only some light shooting on his own while wearing an air cast, though he has not been ruled out. 
It is the second time this sea­son Lawson's ankles have been a hot topic leading up to a game. He sat out at Ohio State in November after spraining his right ankle against BYU in the Las Vegas Invitational. 
But this time, the Tar Heels (21-1, 6-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) have less depth to handle it. Heserve Bobby Frasor, who started against the Buckeyes and could play both guard positions, was lost to a season-ending knee injury in December. 
That leaves the Tar Heels with senior Quentin Thomas, a career reserve and the only active player remaining from the 2005 NCAA championship team. He would likely inherit the starting role if Lawson is out with junior swingman Marcus Ginyard also to see time at point against the Blue Devils (19-1, 7-0). 
"For me personally, it's being ready for anything," said Thomas, who had a career-high nine points to go with six assists in 36 minutes against the Seminoles. "And whenever my time is to go out there for the game, I just have to be pre­pared.... Whether it's 36 min­utes or 2 minutes, I just need to do what it takes." 
Either way, both teams sound ready to run in a matchup of two of the nation's top ofl'enses. North Carolina ranks second nationally in scoring at 91 points per game, while Duke ranks third at S5.7. Duke eoach Mike Krzyzewski is preparing his team as though Lawson will play at full strength. 
"I just think it's tough to keep any kid out of this game, from either side," Krzyzewski said. 
Interested in submitting a proposal abstract for the University Scholars Conference? 
Learn more 

Conference Application, Abstract-Writing, and Presentation Workshop 
Thursday, February 7, ·4:30-5:30 Coleman Morse Center Student Lounge 
Writing Center staffwill be on hand to provide guidance for developing conference abstracts. Bring drafts ofyour papers or proposals. 
RSVP to clucero@nd.edu by NOON, Thursday, February 7 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·----­
Europe is calling. Will you answerl 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies provides financial support for undergraduate summer research, study, and internships. 
RESEARCH AND TRAVEL GRANTS UPTO $4,000 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS THIS FRIDAY 
FEBRUARY 8, 2008 
Ciho~ 
Thursday, February 7 7:30P.M., Little Theatre 
The internationally acclaimed 
Cashore Marionettes redefine 
the art of puppetry. The 
program, Simple Gifts, is a series 
of touching portrayals and 
poignant scenes from everyday 
life set to stunning music by 
such composers as Vivaldi, 
Strauss, Beethoven, and 
Copland. This performance is 
recommended for adults and 
children age eight and up! 

Wednesday, February 6, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
SMC BASKETBALL 
No. 5 Belles set to host rival Alma 
Team hopes to pick up second straight conference victory 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's broke is MIAA losing streak Saturday with a 10-point victory over Adrian College. The Belles will look to continue their success against conference rival Alma tonight. The fifth-place Belles (5-6 MIAA, 9-10 overall) kick off a stretch of five home games when they play the Scots at 
7:30 in the Angela Athletic Center. 
Losing three consecutive conference games wasn't the statement Saint Mary's wanted to make to the rest of the MIAA during the last three weeks. After losses to third-place Calvin and the nation's No. 1 Division III team, Hope, Saint Mary's lost its third contest in a row to Olivet Jan. 30. 
Against Adrian, the Belles came back in the second period after being down 31­28 at the half. The Belles shot 42.3 percent for the half, with junior Erin Newsom scoring 10 points in the first seven minutes of play. Katie Rashid, another junior, chipped in eight points in the half and 14 overall. 
"I thought our team played a great second half against Adrian on Saturday," Belles coach Jenn Henley said. "And I am expecting to build upon that performance as we face Alma." 
The Belles' concentration is on enhancing their defense. 
"We continue to focus on improving our overall team defense while controlling the boards," Henley said. 
Saint Mary's has been out­rebounding opponents by an average margin of 41-37.4 per game. But Adrian pulled down just as many rebounds as Saint Mary's on Saturday. 
Looking ahead to its game against Alma, Henley has outlined additional goals for her team. 

"We have been working on ways to score on the inside to prepare for Alma," Henley said. "They are a strong team that will show us a lot of different looks defensively." 
This season, Saint Mary's has been scoring an average of 67.2 points per game while Alma has been aver­aging 58.5 points per con­test. 
Alma stands at seventh place in the MIAA, two spots behind Saint Mary's. In their three meetings last season, the Belles defeated the Scots by scores of 72-60, 66-58 and 66-54. 
"The game against Alma will be another great MIAA matchup," Henley said. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO1 @nd.edu 
Recruits 
continued from page 20 
involved the recruits with the inner workings of the pro­gram, informing them via e­mail with the day-to-day oper­ations of the team. 
Nearly a year ago, the Irish received their first commit­ment for this class from Mike Golic Jr., son of former Irish defensive lineman Mike Golic. They received their latest commitment from Deion Walker on Jan. 5. In between, Weis gained a _slew of top commitments, including scout.com's No. 1 tight end Kyle Rudolph, Minnesota wide receiver Michael Floyd, California quarterback Dayne Crist, Oregon defensive end Ethan Johnson, and Chicago linebacker Darius Fleming, all slated to attend Notre Dame in the fall. 
Last season, the Irish had three early enrollees -quar­terback Jimmy Clausen, run­ning back Armando Allen, and cornerback Gary Gray -who began attending the University last spring semester. This year, only one recruit, offen-sive lineman Trevor Robinson, decided to enroll early. 

Part of Weis' success recruiting this season came as a result of learning from his mistakes in the past. 
After losing multiple prospects last season just before Signing Day, Charlie Weis instituted a policy that said he would revoke scholar­ship offers from recruits who gave their verbal commit­ments to the Irish, then took scheduled visits at other schools. Hunter chose to take an official visit to Florida, and Weis subsequently revoked his scholarship offer. 
The rest remained commit­ted to Notre Dame, giving even the most despairing Irish fan hope for the future. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

Dr. Johnnetta B. Cole 
"'AreDiversity and lndusion on Your Agenda.?" Frida:g,February 15at 12:30pm Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College Free andopen to the public. 
DIVERSE STUDENTS1 LEADERSHlP COJ\TFERENCE 
f£e6!11J4ry 13-15, 2008 • Saint :Mary's College, .:Notre CDame, I:N 
Opening Keynote Address hy Dr. Gwemlolyn Dungy Wednesday., Fehruary 13 at 7:00pm., Stullent Center Lounge 
Conference jru_o:JudM 'l'wo day-worksh~ Career Fair, Diversity Show-east>.., a~~d ~.Sehool Trat"k 
·Offiee .rMulticultural AJJairs TrL (S74) Sf...-1721 Fas. (574) 284--t.SSO 
~~fona atflttp://www3.sairmurys.Ju/tfsfc 
:N.~ Fft' -Oa.-.~ AHiiW!Ir 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, February 6, 2008 
Sheahan 
continued from page 20 
at this level, and hopefully in moving onto the next level. That's just the I way I play, and that's the way the game should be played ­hard and physical." 
As important as the pro­tection he provides for Irish goaltender Jordan Pearce is the role he has acquired as a mentor to freshman defenseman Teddy Huth, a second-round NIIL pick and one of Notre Dame's bud­ding stars. 
"We've become pretty good friends off the ice, which is interesting for a guy Eiv~1 years you n.ger .~ha.n 
me, Sheahan said. Its 
pretty unique having a rela­
tionship with a guy who I 
think is going to be in the 
NIII. some day. 
"lie can be a leader for years to come on this team, even as a sophomore {next yearl, and that's something I'll tell him as I'm moving on -just make sure he keeps working and carrying on the Notre Dame tradition." 
After the Irish won only five games in his freshman season, Sheahan has seen his squad's win totals more than double in each of the past two years: from five to 13 as a sophomore, to a school record 32 last sea­son. 
"We were here in that transition period, so we def­initely got to see the pro­gram transform into more of a powerhouse, nationally­prominent program," said Sheahan, one of Notre Dame's five seniors. "Our elass, along with the senior elass from last year, had a big part in changing the cul­ture of the program and the expectations of the players, and that's my biggest memo­ry." 
Those with whom he shares that memory realize both the impact Sheahan makes on a daily basis and the imprint he's put on the team and program. 

"lie's fired up every day, and he brings it in practice every single day," senior for­ward Evan Rankin said. "When you have a guy who's one of your leaders, a cap­tain, and he's coming out every single day in practice like that, it make you want to give that extra effort, too." 
As much of an impact Sheahan has had on the Notre Dame program, Jackson has returned the favor to the defenseman. 
"Ever since Coach Jackson has been here, it's been about doing all the little things to the best of your 

ability -little things in practice like doing push-ups after you miss the net," Sheahan said. "I hope to carry that over into every aspect of life, and hopefully that helps me as a person ­just doing the right things and good things will hap­pen." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Apa1..1111e1JI..'t 
Hall 
continued from page 20 
Saturday. 

The Irish, who lead the con­ference in rebounding margin, will have an advantage in the frontcourt against Seton Hall -mostly because of leading scorer Luke 1-Iarangody, 
The sopho­more forward is averaging 

things yesterday at practice," he said. "We'll probably start off in man and see what hap­pens." 
Notre Dame is 1-2 in true road games this season, although the atmosphere in Newark's Prudential Center probably won't reach the ani­mosity the Irish saw in games at Marquette, Georgetown and Villanova. 
The Prudential Center is live miles from Seton Hall's campus and is not known for being an intimidating venue. However, the game is sold out, something that rarely happened when the Pirates played at the larger Continental Airlines Arena, 14 miles from their campus. 
Note: 

High school junior Jack Cooley of Glenview, Ill., orally committed to play for Notre Dame beginning in the 2009-1 0 school year. 
Cooley, a 6-foot-8, 21 0-pound forward, has been compared to llarangody. Cooley also had scholarship offers from Illinois and Wisconsin. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

"There are other guys on the team that will pick it up." 
What Seton Hall lacks in frontcourt play, the Pirates make up for with shooting from their guards. Guard Brian Laing leads the Pirates with 
19.3 points per game; he scored 24 against the Iloyas to keep the game competitive. 
Three other guards ­Eugene Harvey, Jeremy Hazell 
24.4 points in 

"We'll probably start 
conference 

offin man and see
games, includ­ing 28 per con­what happens." test during Notre Dame's 
Luke Harangody 
current three­

Irish junior forward
game winning 

streak. Harangody has also pulled down double-digit rebounds in six of eight confer­ence games. 
Although the sophomore, who is the reigning Big East player of the week, has been Notre Dame's offensive leader, he doesn't feel an obligation to score all the time. 
"I wouldn't say I feel pres­sure at all," 1-Iarangody said. 

So close to campus yoa caa he•r the shouts tJad see tile lights
. . 
Furnished Studio Apartments One Bedroom Apartments Tw-o Bedroom One Bath Apartments Two Bedroom One and a Half Bath Apartments with Fenced in Patio 
Best Value in Town CoHJe See Why.' 
,.. Indoor/ Outdoor Tennis a:.nd Basketball ,.. Free Tanning ,.. Heated Puol ,.. Hela.:zing Jacuzzi ,.. Gated Ct1.m.m unity ,.. Ct1.m.m unil'y Business Center ,.. No App}icatirut Fees flH' StuJents ,.. Close to everything___ far frt1.m tH'Jinary! 
1.801.1. Cl.e~l..a:nd Rd. South Bend, IN 4663'1 ~one: l5'14) 2'12-81.1.0 F~: l5'14) 2'12-81.1.4 
Hfnl' _ cppj _cam 


APARTMENTS 
1710 E. Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 Phone: 574-272-8124 
(112 b)ock east of campus on Vaness Street) 
Fax:574-273-6921 ,www.LiveTtlr.tl_g__Cx~~e k~<:Qn.J
tile 
TURTLE CREEK AMENITIES 
<>Tan for FREE at Fun Tan 
<)Heated Pool and .Hot Tub 
0 Pet Friendly 
<:'>On Site Security 
52555401 

and Jamar Nutter -aver­age double-figure points per game. Against Louisville on Jan. 19, Hazell scored 29 points and hit eight 3-pointers. 
Last time Notre Dame played a team that could shoot as well as 
Seton Hall from the outside ­a 90-80 win over Villanova on Jan. 26 -the Irish used a 1-2­
2  zone  to  try  to  keep  the  
Wilcats  from  getting good  
looks.  

Harangody said the team is practicing several defenses to use against the Pirates, but he wouldn't go into specifics. 
"We went over a couple 
Wednesday, February 6, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
BLAcK DoG 
TWO-THOV SAtJD-2-'E I"Z-o -Z.ERO­pt-.f:.-IY OVER oo?.S -OUT oF Tlf"'''C SO lo~I&HT I'M 6-0N/\JA 
PArt.TY L-1 KE.. IT'5 I '1 '1 'l / 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
kJI/,1, l-OSe: BOTH THe SeAT IF YOU HAD T/ZAINeD IZACe AND ANY Set,F­AND ST/ZeTCHeD-YOU DID /ZeSPeCT YOU HAD-NeiTHeR!. eN.JOYT!-/e VlekJ. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
IF Yov DIT>N'T CoME To P'ARTY Dot-J'T BoTHER. Kr-JOC!<:-11\J' oiJ MY DOOR I G-oT A LioN IIJ MY PoCILE:r: Ar-Jt:> f>ABY HE> ,.::.EAt>Y 
To RoAR 1 
flC_~It>hJT CL-1/J-,.ON, '(ov SEEM PLEASE-I> WITH HILLAR'(:S 
5:Ho>VI/J~. 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
HC>NeSTt,Y, YOU l>C>N1T  
eveN STAND A C!-IANCe  
AGAINST YOU!ZSet,F.  
NeXT T/1'1e l>C>N1T P!Ze­ 
A/Ze Ai,SC> FIZOI-1  SAMe FOIZ 1'111/ZAT!-/ONS­ 
KeNYA--8UT eVeN  ANI> 8/ZINS kJATe/Z•••  
THeN PIZ08A8t,Y.  NOT BOONeS FA.e<-1--­ 


CROSSWORD 
historical novel 58 Langston 
Hughes poem 59 Back biter? 60 Not discounted 61 Terse denial 62 Trims in 
Photoshop, e.g. 63 Itinerary data: 
Abbr. 64 Heroic exploit 65 Hit Broadway 
musical based on a comic strip 
Down 
Glacial ridge 2 Deep pink 3 Hockey no-no 4 Rakish sort 5 Something risky 
to work on 6 Bleach brand 7 One-sided 
contests 8 Not backing 9 Field utensils 
1 0 2003 Kentucky Derby winner 11 Andrea Bocelli delivery 
12 Microwaves 13 "Lohengrin" role 21 Hand-me-down 26 Quakers in the 
woods 27 Most are good 
conductors 28 Boxing Day mo. 29 Prefix with bucks 30 Nailed 31 Beatty and 
others 32 Easily split mineral 
WILLSHORTZ 
Puzzle by Jim Page 

33 Month after 41 2008 Olympics 49 Six-foot-tall Shevat host African animal 
34 Unwelcome auto 42 Razor-sharp 50 As such 
noise 44 1984 gold-51 Fit for duty 35 Vehicles at a medalist 52 Conk out 
petting zoo marathoner Joan 
53 "Superman II" 36 Part of S.S,S.: villainess
46 Scoring attempts 

Abbr. 47 Show contempt 55 Oklahoma tribe toward
38 Grafton's " 56 Workout locale, for Noose" 48 Kite's clutcher for short 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJ1JJWJID)1JE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
OATAR 
± 
@2008 Tnbune Media Serv1ces. Inc. 
~~~f~fl (]
tSAWURL I 
WHt:N THE: SPAC.t:­

IJ I I I 
C.r<AFT L.ANOE:O, THE:
www.jumble.com 
ASTRONAUT WAS--­


tDOHOKE I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

• 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: BYLAW HAREM FERRET CAMPER Answer: A good place to find a date ­A PALM TREE 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Jennifer Jason Leigh, 46: Christopher Guest, 60; Barbara Hershey, 60: Roger Staubach, 66 
Happy Birthday: A serious outlook will enable you to work toward your personal 
gnals. Be aggressive and it \vill sho\V others ynu mean business and won't stop until you 
reach your destiny. Take the initiative and you will fmd yourself in a power position that will set the stage for many years to come. Your numbers are 14, 16, 27. 31. 38,43 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't wait for things to fall apar1, Position yourself so you can handle whatever comes your way. Someone you trust may let you down. so 
don't share your'secrets. concerns or ideas. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): Take car·e of your own responsibilities so that no one can point the finger or complain about you. Love is on the rise and a trip, outing or 
sotne form of fun and entertainment should be in your plans. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can dazzle everyone with your clever ideas and ways 
of doing things. Focus on \Vhat you \Vant and how you can make more money and you \\'ill be successful. It's important to push \vhile the going is good. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take a closer look at your personal papers and invest­ments. There may be a few things you should change or clear up. Get any matter out of 
the way that concerns government agencies. large corporations or institutions. Love is in 
the stars. 3 stars 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be emotional. lovable and in the mood for a little ro­
mance today. Don1t make a promise you aren't going to keep or tell someone you are in 
love if you aren't. As long as what you do and say comes from the heart, you will build a solid base and a strong relationship. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a break and do something nice for yourself. A little 
pampering tin1e alone with someone you love or even a ne\v look, outfit or attitude will 
e1thance Y\'U personally, helping you get what you want. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Explore new avenues. try new things and. most of all, ex­
perience things that will give you greater perspective on yom future and your personal 
life. Don't get disgruntled if someone you are close to doesn't approve. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Dou't let the people closest to you cause you upset. They are only trying to look out for you. You may not please family but you must please yourself. Take a deep breath and proceed to the finish line. You won't be sorry. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIDS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Explore the interests you have and you may find a way to turn something you love doing into a profitable endeavor. Hard work. dedication ar1d believing in your abilities will lead to the winner's circle. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Stand your ground and you will get your way. Your determination and resistance will be what counts. Don't let anyone who is negative stand 
in your way. Now is not the time to slouch when there is so much to gain. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take a sec-ond look at something that interests you. Trying something different will lead to a host of new friendships and plans. An unusual 
pastime or hobby can provide greater confidence and possible prosperity. 3 stars . 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep your personal life mysterious and focus on what 
you can offer professionally. Ifyou can be totally businesslike. you will intrigue the 
people you are dealing with and therefore get more in retun1. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You like to be in the lead. to take things apart to see how they work and 
to race about until you find or get what you want. You are determined. aggressive and 
strong-willed. 

Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comjor ftm, eugenia/ast.comjor confidemia/ consultations 

Across 

Wrong 6 Study hard and 
fast 10 Daunt 14 Game follow-up 15 Sole 16 Orsk's river 17 Like Green Beret 
units 18 The triple in a 
triple play 19 Just beats 20 "The Defiant 
Ones': co-star, 1958 22 Rocket launcher 23 Many an M.I.T. grad: Abbr. 24 Brillo rival 
25 The second Mrs. Michael Corleone 
27 Felipe Calderon's land: Abbr. 
28 Sony music player introduced in 1984 
32 Delineated, with 
uout" 
36 Movie chase scene, e.g. 37 Yo-yo 
38 Song from 65­Across that's hidden in 20­and 54-Across and 1 0-and 35­Down 
39 Just beat 40 Hashish source 42 Massages 43 Some socks 44 Would­
( aspirants) 45 "_: Miami" 46 Cross-
referencing word 47 Organ piece 51 Pale hue 54 Cornmeal dish 
often served with maple syrup 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, February 6, 2008 
page 20 
fOOTBALL 

Good ne-w-s, bad news 
Irish prepare for National Signing Day 
By CHRIS H INE Sports Editor 

Nalional Signing Day -the day din-hard fans have longed for sinen Notre Dame's season of rewrd-sntting futility began -is linally here. 
During a season that saw tho Irish start 0-4 for the 11rst limn in school history and lin­ish a dismal 3-<J, the prosp1~ct of nabbing a top-tier recruit­ing elass buoyed fans weighed down by dnprnssing perform­ances on tlw liPid. 
And barring a rush of last­minutn def'nctions, fans should get their wish. 
Notrn Damn has the second best class lirwd up, according to scout.eom. It has third-best ;u:eording to rivals.com and No. 1 according to Tom Lemming of CSTV. 
Irish coaeh Charlie We is, doing his best impersonation of Illinois coach Hon Zook, managnd to rneruit well in a year wlwn his team failed to pnrform. Luckily for the Irish, they reeeivnd 1 R of their 22 verbal commitments before the regular season began and managed to prevent all their prospects, aside from defen­sivn tackle Omar Hunter. from backing out of thnir commit­ments. 
Over the course of the sea­son, tlw Irish eoaehing staff 
see RECRUITS/page 17 


Reports: Yeatman arrested for DWI 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 

Irish tight end and lacrosse player Will Yeatman has been suspPnded indefinitPiy from both teams. 
The South Bend Tribune reported Tuesday that Yeatman had been arrested on Jan. 2R li>r operating a vehieln whiln intoxi­cated. In 2005, tho University suspended fullback Hashon Powers-Neal from extracurricu­lar aetivitios after he was arrest­ed for a similar crime in his home state of Minnesota. 
Yeatman, a rising junior, was the football team's No. 2 tight end in 2007, behind senior John Carlson. With Carlson's gradua­tion. Yeatman was expected to take over the top spot at his posi­tion. 
Rising sophomore Mike Ragone and non-scholarship ris­ing senior Kevin Brooks are the only other returning tight ends on the Irish roster. 
Notre Dame is expncted to sign two top-rated high school senior tight ends today, which is the tirst day seniors can sign binding scholarship oll'ers with schools. 
Cincinnati prospect Kyle Rudolph -ranked by analysts as the No. 1 tight end in his dass -and Joseph Fauria, of Encino. Calif., are considered solid Irish commitments. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish get set to battle Pirates 
Squad looks to snag 

away win against 
Seton Hall in N.J. 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
Lifn in th11 Big E<ist doesn't allow for murh downtime. 

After two wins in throe days ov1~r Providence and DePaul last wnnknnd. No. 21 Notre Damn trav11ls to Newark. N.J., to take on Seton llall tonight at 7. 
T h n I r is h ( I (, -4 . 6 -2 B i g l~ast) sit in seeond place in the conference, 1 112 games bnhind nrst-place
-. 
(;eorgntown. But with Louisville (7-3) and Connnctirut (fl-3) hot on Notre Damn's tail, the toam can't afford to slip up. 
Tlw !'irati's (15-7, 5-4) nntPr tonight's contPst in a three­way tin with Pittsburgh and w(1st virg i n i a f0 r s !1 ven t h placo in tlw confen~nce after losing 73-61 to the lloyas on 
see HALL/page 18 


HocKEY 

Jackson calls Sheahan a 'w-arrior' on the ice 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 

As the old saying goes, you don't get a second chance to make a first impression. When he met Irish coach Jeff Jackson for the first time in May 2005, current senior defenseman and alternate captain Brock Sheahan didn't need one. 
"When I first came in here, it wasn't difficult to pick out the guys who I thought could help us build our identity as a program, and Brock was one of those guys from day one," said Jackson, who took over after Sheahan's freshman season when former coach Dave Poulin resigned. "That's because he has great intensi­ty, a great work ethic, a great desire to beeome a great player: and I could tell imme­diately that he'd be one of the guys to try to build the cul­ture around." 
Sheahan, a native of Alberta, Canada, has lived up to Jackson's lofty expecta­tions, emerging as a vocal leader, an elite blue-line defender and il gritty, hard­nosed player for the Irish. 
"lie's a warrior," Jackson said. "lie's not the biggest man, but he plays extremely big. lie has no f1~ar, he con­stantly will physically pay the price, and he's smart with the puck. 
''I'm extremely proud of Brock and what he's done, and I don't know if there's a better defensive player in the CCHA." 
Slwahan's tenadous. hard­hitting style stems in part from what he calls being a "late bloomer" -the trait that led him to Notrn Dame in the nrst place. 
"My goal was to play cDllnge hockey-I wasn't going to be playing major junior hockey back home becausn I was too small," Sheahan said. "I've learned I havn to play a hard­nosed game to be suceessful 
see SHEAHAN/page 18 




