
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 58 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER21, 2008 

Leaders discuss building credibility 
Panelists argue Central American democracies risk losing structure in face of problems 
ByJOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Panelists participating in a Kellogg Institute-sponsored discussion of "The Future of Democracy in Central America" agreed Central American democracies risk losing their governmental structure if they do not do something to improve their credibility. 
Building credibility in gov­ernment is not something that can be achieved instantly, according to panelist Ricardo Maduro Joest, who was presi­dent of Honduras from 2002 to 2006. 
During his presidency, he 
fought frequently with the nation's teachers in his quest to improve the nation's edu­cation. In negotiations with the teachers, Maduro said that "more often than not, we had to go find Cardinal Rodriguez" to verify the fair­ness of an agreement "because they didn't believe in anyone else." 
"Who can we believe in? What can we fall back on?" are some of the questions that people ask when they feel that their government is not trustworthy, according to Maduro. 
Maduro expressed frustra­
see KELLOGG/page 6 




Groups hope Obama will close Gibno 
Students argue new administration should prioritize ending human rights violations 
policy will be "significantly dif­ferent" from President Bush's. 
McKinney, the president of Human Rights-NO, said she is in the process of analyzing Obama's plans to see what will actually happen when he takes office. 
"It's going to be a priority of ours to make human rights a priority of the new Obama administration," she said. 
McKinney acknowledged that the new president will be confronted with many other problems, but said she thinks closing Guantanamo Bay 
see GITMO/page 6 


By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 

A month before the presi­dential election, senior Catherine McKinney stood on South Quad beside a makeshift prison in an orange jumpsuit, protesting the existence of the Guantanamo Bay detention center and asking people to sign petitions urging its clo­sure. 
Now, with President-elect Barack Obama planning his transition to the White House, McKinney is hoping the Obama administration's Guantanamo 
-----.. 
NDSMCOB'SERYER.COM 


Syracuse game to be sustainable 
Contest will be first carbon neutral event 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 

Notre Dame is bringing a green theme to one of its most treasured traditions -a football Saturday. This weekend's football game will be the University's first ever car­bon neutral game. 
"There are various aspects of the game that produce carbon emissions," Rachel Novick, educa­tion and outreach coordinator at the Office of Sustainability, said. She said things like lighting, fan travel and gameday waste are examples of activities that pro­duce carbon emissions. 
This weekend, the Office of Sustainability will make the game carbon neutral by using efficiency projects that reduce carbon emis­sions to offset the emissions nor­mally produced at a game. 
Various projects throughout the year have increased efficiency and reduced carbon emissions, and those reductions will be allocated towards making the game carbon neutral. 
Novick cited the student-initiat­ed gameday recycling project as a major contributor to reducing car­bon emissions. 
"Recycling really saves a lot of energy," she said. "Probably the most extreme case is that of an aluminum can." 
It takes 95 percent more energy to make a new aluminum can ­
see GREEN/page 8 


Disability seminar hosts art show 
Seniors prepare for 

Students team up with Logan Center as part of course project 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
Students in the College of Arts and Letters Disability seminar hosted "Art from the Heart," a showcase of paintings and photographs by the disabled clients of the Logan Center, Thursday evening in O'Shaugnessey Hall. 
Professor Essaka Joshua said her 16 students had to design a project with the clients of the Logan Center as a eourse requirement. 
"It's developed as a proj­ect which is part of the assessment for the college seminar on disability," she 
see DISABILITY/page 8 



final home game 

By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Tomorrow's matchup against Syracuse marks the last home game of the 2008 football season, leading Notre Dame's senior to reflect on their time at the University. 
Senior Laura Schwartz said most seniors would consider the 2005 game against USC the best they saw while sitting in the stu­dent section. 
"You'd be hard pressed to fmd a senior who doesn't say the USC game," senior Laura Schwartz said, referring to when USC defeated the Fighting Irish after 
Students from the Disability seminar pose for a picture in the running back Reggie Bush 
O'Shaugnessey's Great Hall, where the art show was held. pushed quarterback Matt Leinart 
into the end zone to score a last second touchdown. 
Senior Jimmy Champlin agreed about the USC game, adding he was one of the students who pre­maturely rushed the field. 
"USC got the touchdown, but by that time I was already twenty rows down headed for the field," Champlin said. 
When how he felt about the end of his final football season, Champlin said he felt sad. 
"It's pretty nostalgic and a little sad," Champlin said. "But I real­ize that part of what makes a game in the student section spe­cial is the knowledge that you only have a few." 
Senior Kadeja Gaines said she 
see GAME/page 8 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, November 21, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Christmas 

too soon 
I love Christmas. I mean, who doesn't? Jlowever, I love Thanksgiving more and it makes me sad that it has become Christmas season halftime. Christmas songs have already taken over the radio, Christmas show are beginning to play on the television, and we have all 
Ashley Charnley 
seen the holiday aisles in the stores. So, when did this News Production happen? It confuses Editor me how every year people complain about the early onslaught of Christmas, yet every year it comes sooner and soon­er. 
I think the first, and most annoying of 
the early holiday strikes, is the music. 
There are already whole stations devot­
ed to the cheery tunes. Christmas music, 
no matter how happy it makes me, gets 
old. Too much of anything is not good, 
and the three and a half weeks after 
Thanksgiving can even be too much. I 
put on Perry Como as I help my family 
decorate the tree, and of course "Red 
Baron" will randomly play on my iPod. I 
can even take it all day Christmas Eve, 
but to hear Jingle Bells before the 
turkey hits the table is just too much for 
me. 
My next grievance with the early attack of Christmas decor is the holiday items that go up in the stores as soon as Halloween costumes are taken down. As a matter of fact. I was shopping for a costume and I ran into three aisles of outdoor Christmas lights. I couldn't believe it. We all complain every year that Santa Claus starts popping up soon­er and sooner, but every year I hold out hope that there has to be a limit. Clearly, stores want to make as much money as possible, but how much of these things are they really selling in Oetober? I don't know what worries me more, the fact that they think we will buy deeorations so early, or that we actually are buying them and that is why they are already out. 
Lastly, are Christmas commercials. They infiltrate the networks earlier and earlier each year, not to be outdone by their fellow mndiums. Advertising com­panies solicit us to subdue our selfish buying habits, and buy presents for oth­ers instead. Making needless items nee­essary for our family and friends. What other time of the year do we spend a vast portion of our money to buy things that we aren't really sure people will like and that will often be returned? I love presents, but I prefer the ones that have thought put into them more than money. Then again, that probably stems from my poor college student budget. Most of my family and friends will be getting smiles and hugs from me come Deeember. 
Please don't misunderstand, however, as I said, I love Christmas. But I love it most because of its uniqueness. It only comes once a year and that makes it special. People are thinking of others, making time to spend with each other, and in general happy with Christmas eheer. I just don't want the novelty of Christmas to wear off before the day even gets here. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards ofjounalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 63 1-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: JET-PUFFED OR GENERIC MARSHMALLOWS? 




Ali Buch  Bethany O'Connor  Jon Heintz  Kevin Sonn  Ryan Oakley  
senior off-campus  senior off-campus  senior St. Edwards  senior Alumni  senior off-campus  
"Jet-Puffed, because Notre Dame is all about tradition. "  "Generic, because you're going to throw them away , anyways.  "Generic­more willfit in my flask."  ''I'm not bringing any marshmallows. "  "Lucky charms, taste the rainbow ... "  




OFFBEAT 
Sky-high birth on Flnnair flight at 11,000 meters 
HELSINKI, Finland -Finnair says a Swedish woman gave birth to a girl 11,000 metres over Kazakhstan on a flight from Bangkok to Helsinki. 
The Finnish national carrier's spokesman Christer Haglund says mother and baby are fine. 
They were met at the airport by a medical team. 
Two doctors and two nurses were among the 227 passengers on the 
11-hour flight aboard the MD-11 aircraft. 
They assisted the birth Thursday with the aid of a satellite link to a med­ical service. 
It was the first time a baby had been born on a Finnair flight. 
Haglund said the air­line will give the family return tickets to Bangkok. 
Iowa zoo manages to recapture a flamingo 
DES MOINES. Iowa ­An Iowa zoo has recap­tured a flamingo that new over a Des Moines neighbourhood, a golf course and the entire zoo during a seven-hour freedom flight. 
Blank Park Zoo work­ers clipped the adult Chilean flamingo's wings a second time after it was recaptured. The zoo's flamingos usually don't fly because their 
wings  have  been  
clipped.  
However,  zoo  

spokesman Terry Rich says the birds can molt and regrow those feath­ers, enabling them to fly. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 

Notre Dame Women's Soccer will eompete against Minnesota in the NCAA Fourth Round Tournament today at 7::JO p.m. on Alumni Field. 
There will be a ground­breaking ceremony for Harper Hall, the new home of expanded medical and cancer research initiatives at the Indiana University School of Medicine -South Bend and Notre Dame, today at 10 a.m. adjacent to Raclin-Carmiehael Hall on the corner of Angela Boulevard and Notre Dame Avenue. 
The Graduate Student Union will be holding a Graduate Research Symposium from 3-5 p.m. today on the second floor of McKenna Hall. It is open to the public. Hefreshments will be served. 
Student Ufe is having an event called FlipSide: Meijer Madness today at 
9:45 p.m. Students who would like to participate need to meet at Library Circle. It is a free scavenger hunt, food, contests, and shopping at the supermar­ket. 
Arts and Entertainment is going to have a concert with the Anonymous 4: "Long Time Traveling" on Sunday at 2 p.m. in Debartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $38 for general admission and $15 for stu­dents. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 41 HIGH 39 LOW 34 LOW 27 
TODAY TONIGHT GAME DAY SUNDAY 




... 
c:s:: 
(,) 
0 
HIGH HIGH 37 HIGH 39
..... 
LOW LOW 23 LOW 31 

Atlanta 52 I 30 Boston 39 I 30 Chicago 43 I 30 Denver 65 I 36 Houston 73 I 53 Los Angeles 77 I 51 Minneapolis 34124 New York 38 I 29 Philadelphia 35 I 29 Phoenix 86 I 57 Seattle 55 I 45 St. Louis 55 I 32 Tampa 62 I 43 Washington 38 132 
Friday, November 21, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Fonnn addresses food service issues 
Saint Mary's dining hall general manager answers student questions 
said. to get it for you," Bowles said. 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 

In order to improve the com­The issue of communication 
News Writer 

munication problem, Karen again was addressed because Johnson, Vice President of students do not know all the Barry Bowles, general manag­Student Affairs, suggested adding services available to them in the er of Sodexo at Saint Mary's updates on the student home dining hall. For instance, at the College, invited students to come page. This would allow students grill, hamburgers are served, but ask questions and make com­to know when students can ask ments about food services at an popular menu for grilled fish or
"Feedback is 

open forum held Thursday night items will be chicken as well, in the Student Center. served in the din­feedback. It can Bowles said. "First things first, we are a ing hall daily. ortlY make things B.owles also contract food service company. Executive chef, addressed the
better."

We don't work for the College, Ken Acsta, said it boycott that was per say ... We work for a compa­was hard to held against the ny called Sodexho," Bowles said. determine what Barry Bowles dining hall in 
Sodexho is the second largest variety of food to general manager mid-October of food service in the United States offer. this year. Two
Sodexho

and Saint Mary's is a client of the "We don't real­students anony­company, he said. ly know what mously slid fliers 
One of the largest issues everybody wants, but we get the under the doors of student rooms addressed was the lack of com­varieties out there so that every­calling for students to not eat in munication between students body can put together what they the dining hall. and the dining hall. The company want," Acsta said. "What hurt me more than any­is working on ways of improving Although the dining hall cannot thing is that I did not know," this problem, Bowles said. accommodate everyone, Bowles Bowles said. 
"One thing I want to point out, said the opportunity for variety is He stressed his open-door poli­food services are probably one of there if students get creative with cy for student concerns and the worst ones on campus on it. issues and that comment cards getting the word out," Bowles "If you ask, they should be able are available to students. 
"Feedback is feedback," Bowles said. "It can only make things better." 
Bowles said he is hoping to hold another forum at the begin­ning of the spring semester that will allow him to get more input on student needs in the dining hall. With only ten students in attendance at this forum. Bowles would like to see increased inter­est as the year progresses. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Rescue planfor auto industries collapses 
less aid had reached a 16­
Associated Press 
year high and the number of 
WASHINGTON -The $25 Americans searching for billion rescue plan for the work had soared past 10 mil­auto industry, desperately lion. Congress approved a sought by Detroit's belea­measure to extend jobless guered Big Three, collapsed benefits through the holidays, Thursday as Congress drew and the White House said the line at one more bailout President George W. Bush and Democrats said they would quickly sign it. wouldn't even consider it But Democratic leaders until the companies produced scrapped votes on the auto a convincing plan for rebuild­rescue, postponing until next ing their once-mighty indus­month a politically tricky try. decision on whether to 
The demise of the rescue -approve yet another unpopu­at least for now -left uncer­lar bailout at a time of eco­tain the fate of General nomic peril, or risk being Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. blamed for the implosion of and Chrysler LLC, and sent an industry that employs mil­Wall Street spiraling to its lions and has broad reach lowest level in years. The into all aspects of the U.S. Dow Jones industrials economy. dropped 445 points, the sec­"Until they show us the ond straight plunge of more plan, we cannot show them than 400, and hit the lowest the money," Speaker Nancy point in nearly six years. Pelosi, D-Calif., said at a 
The carmakers have been hastily called news confer­clobbered by lackluster sales ence in the Capitol. and choked credit, and are GM and Ford quickly issued battling to stay afloat through statements promising to sub­year's end. Failure of one or mit the blueprint the more of the Big Three would Democrats demanded.· be a severe further blow to Pelosi and Senate Majority the floundering economy -Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., and to many Americans' view said Congress might return to of the nation's industrial work in early December for a strength -and throw a mil­vote on aid to the carmakers lion or more additional work­-but only if they show ers off the job. Congress they could use the 
Just Thursday, the govern­funds to transform their ment reported that laid-off struggling industry into a workers' new claims for job-viable one. 

Welcome to Lake Chapin Shores, our exclusive 21-homesite development on a 600-acre all-sports lake. Everything you're looking for is right here. Spectacular open-plan homes nestled amid soaring, majestic trees. Sailing, waterskiing and canoeing on expansive Lake Chapin. Easy access to New Buffalo wineries, shops, antiques and restaurants. Your own private piece of year-round heaven, just 90 minutes from downtown Chicago. 


Inquire about introductory pricing on our lakefront homes from the S500's, and lakeview and wooded homes from the mid-$300's. 
Call 877-90-CHAPIN (877-902-4274) or visit LakeChapinShores.com 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 21, 2008 



Graduate students to present research 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Studrml<i curious to leam about the dill'en\nt types of research Notre Dame's wide variety of graduate student<; perfi~rm at the first Graduate Research Symposiwn today on the seeond floor of McKenna IIall from 3 to 5 
p.m. 
"Thn Graduatn Heseareh Symposium has two goals. One L<; to provide J.,rradu­ate student<; with a professional development opportunity ... the seeond is to high­light the kind of work that J.,rradu­ate student<> do in the University," Caitlyn Shea, Graduate Student Union 
eo-vi<~ president m1d Ph.D. candi­date in Civil Engineering. said. 
Shea said prP.S(mting and com­municating research is a "pri­mary focus" of graduate students. but it L<> not uncommon for gradu­ate students to not know what other graduate students are 
this by creating a forum for gradu­ate students to di<>Cuss their work with others who are interested. 
"The goal is to provide an opportunity for graduate stu­dent<>. faculty. undergraduates or guest<; of the University to leam what J.,rraduate student<; do," Shea said. 
Shea said sinc,e many graduate students are "largely unaware" of what their fellow graduate stu­dent<; are studying. it L<> likely that the rest of the Notre Dame eom­munity is also unaware. 
"It's not unexpected that the rest of the University community would not know about some of the exdting and irmovative proj­ects going on around eampus," she said. 
Undergraduate students ean also attend the symposium to learn more about possible research arP.as that they could pursue in graduate school, according to Shea, particularly since she said University President Fr. John Jenkins 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. WayneSouth Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
encourages undergraduates so consider attending graduate sehoul. 
Presenters competed to be part of the symposium. A total of sev­enty-seven graduate students submitted abstracts of their research in hope of being presen­ters at the symposium. Twenty­seven students were selected, and eaeh will display a poster to pres­
"Many different specific disciplines or departments will have their own research symposiums. '' 
Caltlyn Shea Graduate Student Union c~vlce president 

ent their research at the symposium. 
"It's kind of an informal envi­ronment," Shea said. 
Guests will be able to walk around and see the posters describing the various research projects. This structure gives visitors the opportunity to be flexible with 
their schedules and choose to learn about the research that most interests them, Shea said. 
Students will present research in the divL'lions of Sciences, Social Sciences, Engineering and Humanities. There will also be a division for the 2008 Notre 
studying. "Many diflerent specific disci­plines or depart­ "The goal is to provide an opportunity  Dame Forum topic of Sustainable Energy. One  
ments will have  for graduate  winner in each  
their own research symp<>­siums," Shea  students, faculty, undergraduates or  division will receive a prize of$500.  
said. "I think thL<;  guests ofthe  "Each division  
is the first one that encompass­es all divisions of  University to learn what graduate  has a panel of judges and we have judges  
the  graduate  students do."  from the admin­ 
school."  istration, faculty  
The Graduate He search  Caltlyn Shea  and students," Shea said.  
Symposium will  Graduate Student Union  The Graduate  
seek to remedy  c~vlce president  Research  

Symposium is 
open to the pub­lic and will be held in conjunction with the meeting for the Graduate School Advisory Council, Shea said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
Crafts sale helps developing nations 
Local fair trade store selling goods from artisans all around the world 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 

If you're looking to get ahead on your Christmas shopping and support a good cause in the process, stop by O'Shaughnessy Hall, where fairly traded crafts made by artisans in developing nations are being sold from 9 a.m. to 
4:30 p.m. today. 

Ten Thousand Villages, a local fair trade store, works with 66,000 artisans from 36 different countries, said assis­tant manager Cheryl Schairer, creating a "long-term relation­ship" with artisans so that they can have a sustainable income to provide for their families. 
Schairer said Ten Thousand Villages is unique in that they pay artisans fair wages before their products are sold, and then "it's up to us to sell it." 
"Unlike most other compa­nies that send money back if [the products] sell," she said. 
Ten Thousand Villages is selling its products in honor of International Student Week, including a tea light made by industrial design professor Ann-Marie Conrado. 
Conrado designed her prod­uct -a small 
copper tea light shaped like a lotus flower - ''There will be products for sale  she said. "It has quadrupled in  
in  2003  in  there that were  size just based  
Nepal. It is designed to float in water, such  actually designed by ND students.''  on the orders of that tealight," Conrado said.  
as  in  a  pool.  Conrado  
Because  it  is  Ann-Marie Conrado  receives  no  
made of copper, "you'll have this wonderful  Industrial design professor  profit, and said she does this because she  

greenish tint" that comes to resemble the flower the longer it stays in the water, Conrado said. 
Conrado's product alone has 



fALO~(~O 
1733 N. Ironwood Dr. • South Bend 
574.277.6767 
7220 Heritage Sq. Dr. • M:ishawaka 
574.272.6767 
www.salonnouveau.com 
AVEDA.. 
lht ort cond *Cienc. tJ pure fl-r ond plont --. 
Hair Care • Extensions • Skin Care • lVlake Up 
-
Nail Care • Body Care • Gift Cards 
~~welcome back students and faculty, book any 2services and receive $20 off with this ad. Not Valid with any other promotion." 

DAN JACOBS/The Observer Ten Thousand Villages, a local fair trade store, is selling traded crafts In O'Shaugnessy Hall today. 
helped to revive the dying cop­per industry in Nepal and since the creation of her prod­uct, the employment in the copper industry in Tansen­Palpa, Nepal has increased dramatically, 
wants to "use design to help support other people." 
In addition to Conrado's tea light, the Ten Thousand Village stand in O'Shaughnessy Hall is selling an array of hand-made crafts, including chocolate and coffee made from fairly traded beans, teapots, soap, scarves, wooden sculptures, plates made of recycled magazines, and jewelry. 
Jewelry has been one of the best sellers at Notre Dame, assistant manager Cheryl Schairer said. 
Conrado said that another opportunity to buy fair trade products is coming up on Dec. 5 in Badin Hall. 
"We're going to be doing A Conscious Christmas. There will be products for sale there that were actually designed by ND students," she said. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

· bserver. 
. . 
:1. 

10) It's like the O.C. without the ocean. 
9)  Cathedral ceilings good for late night chicken fights.  
8)  Washer and dryer in each apartment.  
7)  2 Large bedrooms and no parietals.  
6)  2 Full bathrooms-this means you have your own.  
5)  Dishwasher big enough for 20 plastic cups.  
4)  Your parents lived in the dorms.  
Do you really want to be like your parents?  
3)  Walking distance to campus and local bars  
and restaurants.  
2)  1,200± square feet of space that includes asweet balcony.  
1)  FREE WIFI!  






ORLD & NATION 
Friday, November 21, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S vV1RE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Copernicus' remains found in Poland 
WARSAW -Researchers said Thursday they have identified the remains of Nicolaus Copernicus by comparing DNA from a skele­ton and hair retrieved from one of the 16th­century astronomer's books. 
The findings could put an end to centuries of speculation about the exact resting spot of Copernicus, a priest and astronomer whose theories identified the Sun, not the Earth, as the center of the universe. 
Polish archaeologist Jerzy Gassowski told a news conference that forensic facial recon­struction of the skull, missing the lower jaw, his team found in 2005 buried in a Roman Catholic Cathedral in Frombork, Poland, bears striking resemblance to existing por­traits of Copernicus. 
The reconstruction shows a broken nose and other features that resemble a self-por­trait of Copernicus, and the skull bears a cut mark above the left eye that corresponds with a scar shown in the painting. 
U.N. agrees to send troops to Congo 
GOMA-The U.N. Security Council unani­mously agreed Thursday to send 3,100 more peacekeeping troops to Congo, while rebels said they remained committed to a pullback from the front lines despite an army attack. 
British Ambassador John Sawers said the 15-nation council wants to help contributing nations "as best we can in getting troops on the ground rapidly" once they decide to help 
out. 
"Exactly how many weeks it will be, it's not clear. But this is a matter of urgency," Sawers said. 
Countries have not worked out yet who will eontribute the additional troops and police. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Woman cnu;OO of killing FBI agent 
PITTSBURGH -A judge denied bail on Thursday for a woman aeeused of killing an FBI agent during a drug raid that led to her husband's arrest on eoeaine-dealing eharges. 
Christina Korbe, 40, was arraigned early Thursday on a homicide charge in the shoot­ing death of Special Agent Sam Hieks on Wednesday. 
Korbe told investigators she thought her home was being burglarized and that she was shooting at an intruder. 
!licks and other law enforeement offieers went to Korbe's home to serve a warrant on her husband, Robert, as part of a drug sweep. 
Christina Korbe ealled 911 during the raid and said her house was being robbed and that she had fired at a burglar. She was arrested while still on the phone with an emergency dispatcher. 
Syrian arms dealer convicted 
NEW YORK-A wealthy arms dealer long suspected of aiding militants in some of the world's bloodiest eonfliets was eonvicted Thursday of conspiring to sell weapons to informants who posed as arms suppliers for terrorists willing to kill Americans. 
Syrian-born Monzer al-Kassar, 62, and a co-defendant, Luis Felipe Moreno Godoy, were convicted of conspiring over a four­month period last year to try to sell millions of dollars worth of heavy weaponry to Colombian militants. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Bookkeeper sentenced to house arrest 
CROWN POINT. Ind. -A former bookkeeper has been sentenced to house arrest for stealing more than $200,000 from the Merrillville clerk­treasurer's office. 
Sixty-eight-year-old Rosemary Barath admit­ted Thursday in court that her gambling addic­tion had led to the thefts. Barath pleaded guilty to felony charges of theft and official misconduct as part of a deal with Lake County prosecutors. 
Lake Criminal Court Judge Thomas Stefaniak Jr. sentenced Barath to nine months of house arrest and 39 months probation and ordered her to pay $279,749.46 restitution. 

HAITI \ 
Storms ravage Haitian food supplies 
Children hardest hit as food becomes scarce, impoverished regions hard to reach 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE -The 5-year-old teetered on broomstick legs -he weighed less than 20 pounds, even after days of drinking enriched milk. Nearby, a 4-year-old girl hung from a strap attached to a scale, her wide eyes life­less, her emaciated arms dangling weakly. 
In pockets of Haiti accessi­ble only by donkey or foot, children are dying of malnu­trition -their already mea­ger food supply cut by a series of devastating storms that destroyed crops, wiped out livestock and sent food prices spiraling. 
At least 26 severely mal­nourished children have died in the past four weeks in the remote region of Baie d'Orange in Haiti's south­east, aid workers said Thursday, and there are fears the toll will rise much higher if help does not come quickly to the impoverished Caribbean nation. 

Another 65 severely mal­nourished children are being treated in makeshift tent clinics in the mountainous area, or at hospitals where they were evacuated in Port­au-Prince and elsewhere, said Max Cosci, who heads the Belgian contingent of weighed in at 19.8 pounds, Fortune said. of food aid -enough to feed Doctors Without Borders in even after days of drinking Rural families already 5,800 people for two weeks Haiti. milk enriehed with potassi­struggling with soaring food -into the remote southeast­
One evacuee, a 7 -year-old um and salt. Doetors said he prices in Haiti, the Western ern region sinee September, girl, died while being treat­needed to gain another five Hemisphere's poorest eoun­and other groups funded by ed, Cosci said, adding: "The pounds before he could go try, lost their safety nets the U.S. Ageney for situation is extremely, home. when fields were destroyed International Development extremely fragile and dan­Dangling from a scale and livestock wiped out by have sent food as well, she gerous." mounted from the ceiling, 4-the storms, whieh killed said. 
At a makeshift malnutri­year-old Veneeia Lonis nearly 800 people and But the steep, narrow tion ward at a Doctors looked as limp as a rag doll caused $1 billion worth of paths and poor visibility Without Borders hospital in as doetors weighed her, her damage in August and make it diffieult to deliver the capital, 10 emaciated huge brown eyes expression­September. the food to the mountain children were under emer­less, her hair tied with bright U.N. World Food Program communities where hunger gency care Thursday, their yellow bows. country director Myrta is worsening. In one case, a stomachs swollen and hair Mackenson's grandmother, Kaulard said she fears more WFP truck flipped over while faded by pigmentation loss who has raised him sinee his deaths from malnutrition in struggling up a hill and slid caused by malnutrition. mother died, said she barely other isolated parts of Haiti, into a ravine, killing an aid Several had the puffy faces has a can of eorn grits to and search and medical worker. typical of kwashiorkor, a feed herself, the boy and her teams were fanning out in "There is always a bottle­protein -deficiency disorder. 8-year-old granddaughter the northwest and along the neck. The same situation 
Five-year-old Mackenson eaeh day. southwestern peninsula to that the people are faeing is Duclair, his ribs protruding "These things did not hap­check. the same situation we're also and his legs little more than pen when I was growing The World Food Program facing," Kaulard told The skin stretched over bones, up," 72-year-old Ticouloute has sent more than 30 tons Associated Press Thursday. 


Police close case on chairman's death 
his "irrational and violent behavior." of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco
Associated Press Autopsy results said Gwatney died and Firearms that day, the report LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -City and from a shot to the head. Johnson was said. state police have dosed their investi­shot six times. The 986-page report says police gations into last summer's shooting "I wish there was a conelusion, but searched through electronic and of Arkansas' Democratie Party chair­there wasn't," said Lt. Terry paper files at Gwatney's businesses man without offering an explanation Hastings, a police spokesman. for Johnson's name, but that it never of why the attack occurred. Authorities discovered a note with turned up. Gwatney owned three Bill Gwatney died Aug. 13 after a telephone number and the word General Motors car dealerships and being shot three times by a man who "Gwatney" on it in Johnson's home, was a state senator for 10 years lost his job at a Target store that but the report found that it was a before becoming the state's morning. The shooter, Timothy Dale telephone number for Gwatney Democratic chairman last year. Johnson, was chased into Grant Towing Company in Jaeksonville, A separate report released County, where he was shot and killed whieh is no longer in business. Thursday by Arkansas State Police after threatening officers. The FBI also reviewed the history found that the officers who fatally A police report said an autopsy on Johnson's computer, and found shot Johnson acted properly. found Effexor, an antidepressant, in that he visited Wikipedia, Yahoo and Prosecutor Eddy Easley said no crim­Johnson's blood. Investigators said news sites the day before the shoot­inal charges would be filed in con­the drug may have played a part in ing. Johnson also visited the Web site nection with Johnson's death. 
P"""----------------------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 21, 2008 
Kellogg 
continued from page 1 
tion with citizen's inability to trust a democratic govern­ment that he felt was trust­worthy. 
"The fact is, you don't build credible institutions overnight," Maduro said. "You need to change certain things for a long time and create credible institutions." 
Nicaraguan ambassador to the United States Arturo Cruz said credibility is a major problem in Central American democracies. lie attributes much of this to the govern­ment's inability to balance meeting people's immediate needs and planning for the future. 
"Sometimes, I wonder how you govern a type of society that is always overwhelmed by the need of the people," Cruz said. "There's a funda­mental problem with promis­ing the future and not deal­Rica." 
Because the governments are weak and take advantage of the people, according to Solis, the entire system of democracy is called into ques­tion. 
"Will the governance weak­nesses continue to be blamed on the institutions of democ­racy?" he asked. 
He cited corrupt courts and legislatures, along with ineffi­cient government programs overall, as a bulk of the prob­lem. 
"They have weakened democracy," Solis said. "Costa Rica is the worst case. More people think it would be bet­ter to have a dictatorship because some people have talked against the very insti­tutions of democracy." 
In spite of all the corrup­tion, the panelists agree that there is hope for Central American democracies. 
Solis attributes this hope a predicted return of "more pragmatic policies" under the incoming administration 

ing with the "Sometimes. I wonder of U.S. present," President­
how you govern a type

especially in a Elect Barack
ofsociety that is always 

society in Obama. which 79 per­overwhelmed by the Solis is also cent of the hopeful
need ofthe people ... 

population because of the lives on less American than two dol­Arturo Cruz economy, lars a day, Nicaraguan ambassador growing prac­
Cruz said. 
In such impoverished soeieties, gov­nrnmcnts have difficulties ful­filling promises for the future when people are concernAd about bning abln to lind din­ner. 
"llow do you manage expec­tations?" Cruz asked. "If you bn patient, and IAt the market function, then you have a future. But the futurA isn't coming yet ... If we pretend to govern as we wish it to be, we have chaos and bnmkdown." 
Cruz said that the best way to deal with this problem is by what lw eaiiMI "responsi­ble or measured populism." 
"That was my hope. a hope that withers away every day," Cruz said. 
Olton Solis, a former presi­dential candidate of the Citizens Action Party in Costa Hica, attributes much of his eountry's problems to the negative impacts of free trade agreements. 
These agremncnts, accord­ing to Cruz, neglected "inward oriented consensus building," while instead pur­suing "outward secret pacts, like in the case of Structural Adjustment and CAF'IA" 
Solis also denounced cor­rupt govcrnnwntal policies. "Deecntralization of power and tlw elimination of pop­ulist practices" arc areas in which better policies are nec­~~ssary, according to Solis. 
"People are usnd," he said. "Perhaps the worst country. in this is my own country, Costa 
tices of market 
intervention, and "the fear of new populist leaders elected" in Central America. 
Central American democra­cy has also not been without succnss, according to Cruz. 
"We have finally had -my God, espeeially in my country -some level of peace," Cruz said. 
"We're also having great statistics when it comes to crime," he said. 
A third achievement of the Nicaraguan democracy is the electorate system, but that electorate system could begin to become problematic, according to Cruz. 
"Since 1990, Nicaragua has realized that we can change governmnnt without killing or dying," he said. 
Similar participation in the democratic system is essential in Honduras, according to Maduro. 
"What can keep us from extremns'? The only way to do 
it  is  to  delegate  more,"  
Maduro said.  
Under  the  current  

Honduran government, Maduro said that citizens are seared to participate in democracy. 
"Now we're being persecut­nd if we have an opinion against the government," he said. "llow do we get back so people are willing to partiei­pate?" 
Contact John Tierney at jtiecne1@nd.edu 

GitDlO 
continued from page 1 
should be a top priority. Last week, advisors to Obama told the Associated Press that dos­ing the prison is, in fact, a top priority of the incoming presi­dent. 
The detention of approxi­mately 250 people at Guantanamo Bay has negative­ly affected the "national image" of the United States, McKinney said, an image Obama can begin to repair if he shuts down the detention center. 
"We need to make sure that we've got a very secure image in a global perception so that we are not discredited, because if we start criticizing a country for its human rights practices and abuses, then it's thrown back at us," she said. 
Professor Mary Ellen O'Connell, a Notre Dame pro­fessor of international law and a specialist on the law of war, said keeping Guantanamo Bay open would weaken President­elect Obama's position on the world stage, especially at a time when the United States is negotiating with other coun­tries about how to solve the global financial crisis. 
'If he immediately takes away big, glaring examples of violations of international law, namely Guantanamo, then all of a sudden, the powers of the world, with whom we are negotiating, say 'this is a man we can trust,"' she said. "That's why I think he can't wait on Guantanamo Bay." 
Obama stated during his campaign that he wants to close the detention center, and although his advisors are now increasing discussion about shutting down the facility, the details of the fates of the approximately 250 detainees at Guantanamo Bay are still unclear, the Associated Press report said last week. 
The new Obama administra­tion must respect international law when planning for the clo­sure of Guantanamo Bay, O'Connell said, specifically cit­ing the Geneva Convention, which cover most of the detainees. 
The two prisoners who were detained as teenagers should be repatriated to their home countries immediately, she said, and the United States should also begin negotiations to return persons not accused of any crimes to their home countries. 
For those prisoners for whom evidence suggests they had been involved in planning ter­rorist attacks, O'Connell said they may lawfully be tried before regular federal courts with criminal jurisdiction in the United States. Many other prisoners should be returned to Afghanistan to be detained until the end of hostilities there or face trial, if there is evi­dence they have committed crimes, she said. 
O'Connell stressed that the United States should now and should always have followed the law in place at the time and not create new courts for per­sons already in detention. The idea of new security courts is one that has been floated by Obama advisors in Associated Press reports. 
The creation of new courts is something Obama needs to stay away from, O'Connell said, because it would violate the Geneva Conventions. 
"You can't go around creat­ing new courts for the purpos­es of the people you don't like," she said. 

While the exact details of a Guantanamo Bay shutdown remain unclear, O'Connell said she is "confident" that Obama will close the detention center as president. 
McKinney agreed that her ideal -that Guantanamo Bay closes in Obama's first term ­is realistic. 
"I would like to think that in four years you can process, in our judicial system, 270 prison­ers and figure out a just system for them," she said. 
Human Rights-NO is consid­ering sending people to Washington, D.C. in .January to join Witness Against Torture, a campaign to shut down Guantanamo, in kicking off its planned 100-day presence in front of the White House. 
"If we don't send people to D.C.," McKinney said, "then we are going to be doing a lot of campaigns here to make sure human rights, specifically Guantanamo Bay, but all human rights, are made a pri­ority and words turned into action." 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 




THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Friday, November 21, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

Jones 7,552.29 -444.99 
Up: 334  Same: Down: 39 3,413  Composite Volume: 1,683,014,892  
AMEX  
NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500  1,316.12 4,651.21 752.44  -70.30 <360.78 -54.14  
NIKKEI (Tokyo) FTSE 100 (London)  7~484.63 3,874.99  -2ISAL -130.69  

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -7.42  -6.05  75.45  
CITIGROUP INC (C)  -26.41  -1.69  4.71  
FINANCIAL SEL (XLF)  -10.74  -1.13  9.39  
POWESHARES (QQQQ)  -4.84  -1.30  25.56  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -7.28  -0.247  3.144  
13-WEEK BILL  -92.31  -0.060  0.000  
30-YEAR BOND  -6.87  -0.273  3.699  
5-YEAR NOTE  -7.36  -0.154  1.937  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -4.45  49.65  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +12.70  748.70  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +3.00  87.60  
Exchange Rates  
YEN 94.0650 EURO 0.8030 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2983 BRITISH POUND 0.6790 



IN BRIEF Black Friday sales may disappoint 
NEW YORK -After pushing steep discounts throughout November that are usually reserved for the day after Thanksgiving, retailers from Kohl's to Toys "R" Us are offering even bigger cuts and promotions for Black Friday in a fran­tic bid to pull in shoppers. 
But the bargain hunters showing up for the early morning specials on toys and TVs are not expected to buy with the same gusto as a year ago, as they fret about tightening credit, mas­sive layoffs and shrinking retirement funds. 
Not to mention that consumers are already jaded by all those "60 percent off'' signs plas­tered on storefronts. Analysts say shoppers may stick to smaller gifts like cosmetics rather than $1,000 flat-panel TVs in a holiday season expected to be the weakest in decades. 
Another concern? There aren't any must­have items so far, even in toys -though some items have been popular, such as Spin Master Ltd.'s Bakugan. 
Congress aims for "greener'' legislation 
WASHINGTON -Democrats steered the House toward more aggressively tackling global warming and other environmental problems Thursday, toppling veteran Michigan Rep. John Dingell, a staunch supporter of Detroit automak­ers, from an important energy panel in favor of California liberal Rep. Henry Waxman. 
The switch could help President-elect Barack Obama on Capitol Hill with one of his favored issues: trying to curb global warming by limiting greenhouse gas emissions. But Waxman's com­bative stance on climate change and other issues also could alienate Republicans and moderate Democrats, making it harder to get the biparti­san support Obama will need. 
Waxman is an avid environmentalist and booster of health care programs -and a home­state ally of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. He defeated Dingell on a 137-12 2 vote in the Democratic Party caucus, capping a bruising intraparty fight. 
The Energy and Commerce panel is one of the most important House committees, with sweep­ing jurisdiction over energy, the environment, consumer protection, telecommunications and health care programs such as Medicaid and the popular State Children's Health Insurance Program. 
Congress rushes to keep benefits alive 
Unemployment funds running out on many; market drops to five-year low 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Jarred 
by new jobless alarms, 
Congress raced to 
approve legislation 
Thursday to keep unem­
ployment checks flowing 
through the December 
holidays and into the new 
year for a million or more 
laid-off Americans whose 
benefits are running out. 
The economic picture 
was only getting worse, if 
Wall Street was any indi­
cation, The Dow Jones 
industrials dropped more 
than 400 points for a sec­
ond straight day, reaching 
the lowest level in more 
than five years, and the 
Standard & Poor's 500 
index fell below lows 
established six years ago. 
The Senate's vote fol­
lowed Thursday's govern­
ment report that laid-off 
workers' new claims for 
jobless aid had reached a 
16-year high and the 
number of Americans 
searching for work had 
surged past 10 million. 
The White House, which 
had opposed broader leg­
islation containing the 
benefits extension, urged 
passage of the new ver­
sion and said President 
George W. Bush would 
quickly sign it. 
As Congress prepared to 
leave town -perhaps for 
the year -there was no 

such resolution on helping ple would exhaust their Durbin, D-Ill., said after even worse next year. 
the auto industry, a disas­unemployment insurance the voice vote in the The legislation as 
ter in the making that by the end of the year Senate. "It is money that approved would provide 
could lead to hundreds of without the extension, will create economic seven additional weeks of 
thousands if not millions sponsors said. The meas­growth in America." payments to people who 
of additional lost jobs. ure is estimated to cost The House had have exhausted their ben­
Democratic leaders said about $5.7 billion, approved the bill in efits or will exhaust them 
they could return to although economists put October. soon. Those in states 
Washington in mid­the positive impact at More than 1.2 million where the unemployment 
December to vote on res­$1.64 for every dollar jobs have been lost so far rate is above 6 percent 
cue loans if the carmak­spent on jobless benefits this year, and the civilian would be entitled to an 
ers first present a plan on because the money helps jobless rate is at a 14-additional 13 weeks 
transforming and mod­sustain other jobs and year high of 6.5 percent. above the 26 weeks of 
ernizing their operations. restores consumer confi­Thursday's Labor regular benefits. Benefit 
Discouraged by the dence. Department report said checks average about 
stalemate over auto aid, "Putting money in the claims for unemployment $300 a week nationwide. 
investors sent the Dow hands of unemployed benefits jumped last week The benefits provided 
Jones industrials down to families means they will to 542,000 the highest would be in addition to 13 
another big loss, 445 be able to pay their rent level since July 1992 and weeks of federally funded 
points. and utility bills, buy gro­fresh evidence of a rapid­extended benefits 
As for the jobless bene­ceries and clothe their ly weakening job market approved by Congress last 
fits, about 1.2 million peo-children," Sen. Dick that is expected to get June. 


Stocks tumble for second straight day 
Associated Press industrial average, meanwhile, fell can result in relatively light volume. 
445 points, or 5.6 percent, to its Observers said the selling high­
NEW YORK -Stocks plunged for lowest close since March 2003. The lighted the entrenched pessimism a second straight day Thursday, decline brings the Dow's two-day about the prospects for the econo­falling to levels not seen in at least drop to 873 points, or 10,6 percent, my. five years as financial and energy its worst two-day percentage loss "Unrelenting gloom has taken stocks tumbled while demand for since October 1987. over the markets," said Dana the safety of government debt Financial stocks plunged on wor­Johnson, chief economist at spiked. ries that the government's financial Comerica Inc. "The economic news, 
Stocks saw the most intense sell­rescue won't be sufficient to cover the concerns about some major ing late in the session after hopes banks' losses. Meanwhile, a sharp financial institutions, the concerns faded that lawmakers would quickly drop in oil prices weighed heavily about the auto sector, earnings assemble an aid package for U.S. on energy companies. reports, everything is coming out in automakers and as the Standard & Thursday's pullback came amid a way that is just provoking a mas­Poor's 500 index broke through heavy volume, a welcome sign for sive selling in the stock market," lows established in 2002. That some investors who are looking for "Back in October we were looking breach of a key technical threshold the market to experience a cathar­at a potential catastrophic melt­sent a shudder through the market tic sell-off that could lay the down of the credit markets, and and touched off further selling. groundwork for a recovery. Heavier that didn't happen," he said. "But 
The Standard & Poor's 500 index volume can signal investors are that doesn't mean tremendous dam­fell 6. 7 percent to its lowest close scared enough to sell rather than age hasn't been done to the econo­since April 1997. The Dow Jones simply sit on the sidelines, which my." 

Paul Nawrocki, of Beacon, N.Y., walks through Times Square in New York City on Tuesday seeking employment. Claims for unemployment hit a 16-year high last week. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 21, 2008 
Green 
continued from page 1 
mining tho aluminum and pro­dudng it-than it does to create a n~cyded aluminum can. 
"Aluminum cans are a big per­centago of the matoria.ls that are used at tailgates," Novick said. "By getting all that into recycling, we're having a big impact." 
Novick said projects like Sunday evening's energy audits and light bulb exchange also help to reduce emissions and improve eftieiency. 
"Thus far we've exchanged 4,400 light bulbs in residence hall<;," she said. "We did an audit of dorm rooms, and we collected a lot of information about ther­mostat<; that don't work, rooms that overheat, windows that don't close. The maintenance staff on campus is now going to follow up on those reporl<;." 

Building renovation projects will also improve efficiency, she said. 
The concept of a completely green football game was first suggested by NBC, Novick said. NBC has a eontract to broadcast all Notre Dame home games. 
"They contacted us because they have an annual Green Week where they do all kind<; of envi­ronmental programming as part of their national broadcasts ... so they wanted to highlight some of the sustainability programs at Notre Dame and also Syracuse," Novick said. 
NBC also decided to host a contest on the Web site Carbon Rally. 
"The idea is to challenge the two schools to see how many they can get to commit to more ceo-friendly lifestyles," Novick said. 
The contest runs until the end of November, and the winning school receives $10,000 to be used for sustainable initiatives. 
Novick said the football game broadcast would feature various initiatives on Notre Dame's cam­pus, including gameday recy­cling. 
In addition, NBC sponsored an ad competition between Notre Dame and Syracuse. Students from both schools submitted 30­second films about sustainability issues, and the winning ad will be featured on the NBC Web site. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 


Disability 
continued from page 1 
said. "It's a chance for the stu­dents to create, in partnership with the Logan Center, an event and a display of art." 
Joshua said the project allowed her students to see the importance art plays in the lives of people with disabilities. 
"It's a student project investi­gating how art impacts the lives of people with disabili­ties," she said. "What I wanted the students to do was to assume the idea of inclusive art in the context of the Logan Center. The idea was to put people with disabilities behind the cameras as well as in front of the cameras." 
Logan Center community­based learning coordinator Nichole Maguire originally sug­gested the idea for the art show. 
"I geared them towards doing an art show because it's really cool to see the artwork for our clients and how they express themselves," Maguire said. "It's visually stimulating for the clients and it's also just fun. I like the idea of giving them a blank slate ... that way they can really be creative and express themselves." 
Sophomore Jason Deska, who is a student in the seminar, said the project allowed the stu­dents to closely interact with the clients and was mutually rewarding. 
"Once we started talking to the clients and saw how excit­ed they were for it we knew it was definitely a good idea," he said. 
Deska said he was often sur­prised by how many of the pho­tographs were of high quality, and he said it was hard to decide which images were the best. 
"There was one role where there was only one picture that was even usable, but there were some where it was hard to single out one as the best," he said. 
Sophomore Casey Larkin said she was surprised by the cre­ativity of some of the clients she worked with, who took pic­tures around the Logan Center with disposable cameras. 
"We just kind of wandered around Logan Center and told them to take pictures of any­body and anything they want­ed," Larkin said. "It was a lot of fun. I did not expect the art to come out as well as it did." 
Larkin said some of the clients had amazing artistic vision and were able to find amazing pictures. 
"They had better eyes than I did. There were some where I was thinking, 'Why would you take a picture of that?' And they you see it and you think, 'Oh my goodness,"' she said. 
Joshua said it was important for her students to become integrated into the work of the Logan Center clients, and the project helped teach them many valuable lessons about working with people with dis­abilities. 
"The clients at the Logan Center did their own composi­tions and they've been going through classes learning how to hold cameras, and I think students were excited to be involved in that because it's a service placement and they're learning about the mechanics of charitable organizations and project management," she said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
Own a Piece of ND History Commemorating the 35th Anniversary of ND Coeducation 
Available at Amazon (www.amazon.com), Barnes and Noble (www.bn.com), and on campus at The Notre Dame Bookstore 
Thanking



Father'. 
Ted 
Thrity-Five Years of Notre Dame Coeducation 

Thank in~ huher Ttd FounUauon 
<rl 
Ann Thcrco~.~c lhnn PalnH'r, Ed1tor 
From Andrews McMeel Publishing 
NJ) alumnae and NJ) celebrities thank Ft~ther Tedfor the gift of coeductttion and discuss the imptiC! oftheir ND educations. 
Profits benefit The Thankin!: rather Ted Scholarship Fund 
The Thanking Father Ted Foundation 
For more in(onnatio11, go to www. Thallki11gFatherTed.com 
Notre Ddme WOmen ~ Connect 

Gante 

continued from page 1 
believes the Fighting Irish will be able to win tomorrow. 
"I think we will win," Gaines said. "Hopefully winning will give us a better chance of going to a bowl game." 
Gaines, who works for Notre Dame's recruiting department, has had some unique memories over the years thanks to her job. 
"My favorite was seeing Notre Dame students doing push-ups with recruits five times their size," Gaines said. 
For Schwartz, a highlight of the game will be seeing all of the sen­ior football players getting a chance to play. 
''I'm really excited that it's sen­ior day," Schwartz said. "It'll be fun to see my classmates get a chance to contribute to the game." 
Champlin is excited for the marshmallow fights that take place in the senior section during the final home game. 
"I just want to let the ushers know that if they do see me throwing marshmallows I'm just returning them to their rightful owners," Champlin joked. "Please don't throw me out. I'd probably start crying and make a scene." 
Gaines will miss the end of foot­ball games in the student section. 
"Notre Dame football has become such a part of our lives here and it's going to be really weird not having it in our lives," Gaines said. 
Syracuse, who is 2-8 this sea­son, is coming into the game otT a 39-14 loss to Connecticut. In addi­tion, Syracuse recently fired head coach Greg Robinson. However, he will finish out the season before stepping down. 
The game kicks otT tomorrow at 
2:30 p.m. A pep rally will be held tonight at 6:00 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 



Friday, November 21, 2008 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Bill Brink 
Dan Murphy 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarty 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.!@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
PouciES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisemcnrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ohzcrvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) i~ ]lllblisbcd Munday thmugh Friday except during c:um and V~~Utinn periods. A \Ub!icri~1tinn to Tin: Ohscrvc:r is $100 fc;r one academic yeu; $5~ fur n~ !ll:'mc:ster. 
The ObsttVCr 111 published at: POSTMASTER 
024 Sou1h Dimng Hall Send addre,\15 conectiom to: 
Notre Dame. IN 46556-0779 TbeOb.<u:rver 
Periodical po~tagc paid ar Notre Dame P.O. Box779 
Jnd addiriomtl mailing offko. 024 Snudt Dining Hall 
Norn: Dame. lN 46556-on9 
The Observer is a member ofthe 1\ssl)datcd PreM. All tc:pfQduction righu art reserved. 
TooAv's STAFF 
News Sports Joe McMahon Greg Arbogast Ashley Charnley Jerrid Jedick 
Amanda Grey Scene Viewpoint Stephanie DePrez Kara King Graphics 
Andrea Archer 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT 
page 9 

1 Last Lecture' a success, could use more space 
Notre Dame students are often called apathetic when it comes to their awareness of the goings-on on their cam­pus and in the world. Talk of "the bubble" aside, students on this campus are busy people with busy lives, and that preoccupation can translate to a lack of involvement on the part of those students when it comes to campus organizations or events. 
Without dwelling too much on the stereotype, it's safe to say that it's an ongoing task for those plan­ning these campus events to get students involved. 
Which is why Bob Reish, Grant Schmidt, OBSERVER more intimate setting for the lecture, an idea the Academic Affairs Committee and which has merit. However, with the high level of Student Government deserve praise for the attendance, it was impractical and cramped.
Editorial 
polling and surveys, one name repeatedly came up: Professor McKenna, the University's Edmund P. Joyce 
C.S.C. chair in Anthropology and an expert in mother­child co-sleeping and primate behavior. 
This feeling was reflected in the high attendance at McKenna's "Last Lecture" on Nov. 12. Students crammed into the Coleman-Morse lounge, most standing and crouching to see and hear McKenna's lecture. Some stu­
dents were unable to stay and listen, due to a lack of space. The choice in venue would have encouraged a 
very successful beginning to their "Last Lecture" series, a featured lecture by Anthropology professor James McKenna. 
The "Last Lecture" concept -asking professors and faculty to give a hypothetical final lecture on what mat­ters most to them -is not new. It garnered nationwide attention in 2007 when Randy Pausch, a professor of com­puter science and design at Carnegie Mellon, gave a simi­lar lecture titled "Really Achieving Your Childhood Dreams." Pausch had been diagnosed with pancreatic cancer a year prior, and his message and lecture have since been published and inspired a nationwide audience. 
This year, the Reish-Schmidt administration decided to bring the Last Lecture series to Notre Dame. Through Student Government should be encouraged 
for the stellar attendance levels at the first event in the "Last Lecture" series. It's clear proof that no matter how apathetic students may appear to be, their attention can be successfully grabbed by compelling events and speakers. Planning the lecture series took ini­tiative and creativity, and that spirit should continue in other Student Government efforts as the academic year continues. 
We also want to encourage the student body to continue to support the efforts of Student Government by attending these types of events when they're offered each semester. The best way to break the apathetic stereotype is to pop the bubble yourselves. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
What are your plans for Thanksgiving? 
"Glory is fleeting, but obscurity is forever. " 
Stay on campus Stay home and have relatives over 

Napoleon Bonaparte Visit family short French dude 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, November 21, 2008 
Giving thanks for the cathedral steps 
On any evening in Washington, D.C., should you walk a few blocks north of th!~ White Ilouse past the Cathedral of St. Matthnw, you may notice a lump inconspic­uously tucknd away to the right of the main doors on the top of tho cathedral steps. At times, ospodally after sundown, it is dillicult to see sinco thn lump blends into the shadows of thn nvening. During the summer, the lump takes on the outlinn of a cardboard square-or if it is raining, a largo black open umbrella. Other times, including now with subzero-deJ.,rree weather, the lump is complntnly wrapped in a black sleeping bag. 
!laving served as a lector at St. Matthew's Cathedral for nearly two decades, I cannot recall a time when the lump was not at the top of our catl1edral steps. While last Sunday our priest rnmind­nd us that cathedrals wnre made so that the homnless can meet the con~-,rregation, I did not obviously think of the woman who lbrms that daily lump. Yet, fi>r some unknown reason this year, I regularly think of her, and especially now as we approach Thanksgiving week. Does she give thanks for anything other than the reliable step upon which she seeks her nightly solace? 

To sec the woman in person, the average visitor at the cathedral would not know that she was homeless. She is tall and car­ries herself in a stoic manner. Her dothes are clean. Her makeup in1maculately applied with bright red lips. She always wears a black dress, and her black hair is pullnd back but has a large white streak which reminds me of the bride of Frankenstein. Most noticeably, though, her constant padng on the top step or inside the cathedral reveals some personal wwasiness. 
Whilo I do not know her name, she assists the staff whenever the cathedral is open. She will replace the booklets in the pew holders and evenly stack the books at the main entrance. When I directly pass her, she nods slowly without saying a word. I oftentimes watch her walk past my home which is located four blocks from the cathedral. I imagine that she uses some facility nearby to groom herself, but I am at a loss to discover where that may be. 
Hecently, I thought of her while I ate din­ner at the Democratic Club located next door to the Democratic National Committee Headquarters building. It was karaoke evening when several talented congres­sional staff and a few congressional wives belted out tunes to the cheers and applause of the crowd. Television commentator Donna Brazil and campaign wizard Joe Trippi were among several congressional representatives and a European ambassa­dor who were enjoying the amateur enter­tainment. Surely, none of them were ever curled up in a lump at the top of cathedral stairs. 

Yet while sitting amidst these seemingly carefree, materially wealthy and nationally famous personalities, it struck me that everyone needs some type of safe place in life. I wondered to myself how many of the people around me are in reality an Ebenezer Scrooge whose life revolves around the security of a dollar. With all of the status and power in the room, I also imagined how many egos teetered simply on the number of votes cast during an elec­tion. 
For my entire adult life, Thanksgiving has always been a trip over the Potomac River and through the woods of Southwestern Pennsylvania to be home with family. For most who attended karaoke night, that is considered the ulti­mate Thanksgiving. But with my parents now both passed on, my dog, Peso, and I will remain in the nation's capital next week. My only scheduled event is a tour of the White House for one last glimps!~ of the Oval Ollice before the new president redec­orates. It is a time killer like the Notro Dame -USC game will be the previous day. 
Thanksgiving this year is not about boun­ty, friends or family for me. This year, Thanksgiving will be my own -a personal experience replete with introspection and solace. Ironically, I will think about how in many ways the lump at the top of the cathedral steps is an extremely lucky one. And in my mind, I will search for my own private set of cathedral stairs upon which I can find the comfort and stability that rep­resents a meaningful Thanksgiving holiday. To all in the Notre Dame community and beyond, the best of holiday wishes from Peso and me. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton sadministration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Mike Anello: the nevv Chuck Norris 
Mike Anello doesn't sleep ... he waits. 
Mike Anello is the reason Waldo is hiding. 
Mike Anello ean believe it's not butter. 

Mike Anello's tears cure cancer ... too bad he has never cried. 
Mikn Anello can slam a revolving door. 

There is no theory of evolution, just a list of creatures Mike Anello has allownd to live. 
Mike Anello can win Connect Four in three moves. 
The way to a man's heart is with Mike Anello's fist. 
If you can see Mike Anello, he can see you ... if you can't see Mike Anello, you arc seconds away from death. 
Mike Anello can judge a book by its cover. 
Mike Anello is not afraid of th11 dark, the dark is afraid of Mike Anello. 
Kevin Sullivan 
senior 
Stanford Hall Nov. 20 
Dueling pianos and Catholic identity 

This p<L'>t wnnkend, I attended the "Dueling Pianos" night at Legends. Thn music was rathnr enjoyablo save for one song. Due to numerous requests from tho studenl">, the performers decided to play a song by Tenacious D entitlnd "F**k I Ier Gently" (this is how iTunes writes the title. Tenadous Dis more explicit). Many of you may know this song, but fi>r those who do not, il"> eontent live up to il"> title. 
Nnndlnss to say, this song completely degrades human sexuality and goes against Catholic teaching on this subject. Although the performers decided that tl1ey would play thn song but sing only "95 percent of the lyrics," they encouraged the student<> to lill in the blanks aloud. Nonetheless, the message of thn song was heard loud and dear. 
I cannot help but feel that this is a perfect opportunity for the University to step up and defend its Catholic identity. As much as I enjoyed the rest of the show, the University should take a stand and stop allowing garbage like this to occur at Our Lady's University. Make an example of tl1is group. Do not invite them back to campus. At the very lnast, inf(>rm them and other artists that come to perform here that songs like this should not be part of their performance. I firmly believe that Our Lady, Our lloly Father and Our Lord would not approve of such songs. 
Notre Dame eontinues to daim to be the "Great Catholic University." It's about time to start showing it. 
Tyler Deschamps freshman Alumni Hall Nov. 15 


Have patience -with Weis 
While I understand that Notre Dame fans are very impatient when it comes to head coaches, l believe that many fans (Iacovo and Sullivan, "Weis Accountable," Nov. 18, included) are miss­ing the point when it comes to Weis' job. 
We have all heard the complaints about the record against teams with winning records. We have all heard the complaints about our team's lack of a "signature game." What students and fans like Iacovo and Sullivan fail to realize is that the process of building a football team can be painful and slow. 
Iacovo and Sullivan bring up several instances where they question Weis' decisions. Let me be the first to say that I absolutely hate the Wildcat offense. However, if Weis decides to run a play from this formation, who would you rather have with the ball besides Tate? He is one of the fastest players on the team and its pretty obvious that the player taking the snap isn't supposed to be a real passing threat. That's why defenses are taught to stop the run first in that formation. Suggesting that Tate has to be a good passer in order to run that formation is ridiculous. Any pass made from the formation would only work if the receiver is wide open. 
Secondly, Weis took out his starters because he wanted to respect Navy as well as give his younger players some real game experience. I agree that it happened a little too early, but his motive was correct. His gamble to run a play on fourth down was in an eflort to not let Navy have the ball back. Ifwe got a first down on that play, the game was over. 
As for the example where you bring up about the Sugar Bowl and faking a punt, Weis knew that we were pretty big underdogs in that game. A fake punt is the type of play where if it suc­ceeds, it completely changes the game in our favor and he was looking for any sort of upper hand that he could find. 
What this issue comes down to is that our foot­ball team needs to show improvement, and it has. Our team has scored over eight more points per game this season than last while allowing eight fewer per game. Our running game has increased 50 yards per game while giving up 60 fewer yards per game. We're passing for almost 80 more yards per game than last year. In total offense, we've increased by 130 yards per game. Our sacks have dropped from 58 last year to 14 this year. You might just dismiss these stats, but it shows remarkable improvement from last year. 
The issue of Charlie Weis comes down to rec­ognizing improvement and being patient with the system. You might not be happy because you're leaving at the end of this year and you want immediate results. Too bad, it won't happen. 
Last year we had very few upperclassmen that made a difference on the roster. This year we are still extremely young. Our top three receivers include two sophomores and one freshman. Our top two running backs are sophomores. Our quarterback is a sophomore. Where do you think the leadership is coming from? 
Results don't just happen when you have a very young team. We saw what Charlie could do when he has some upperclassman leadership. Wait until next year to judge Charlie's coaching job, and if he still isn't performing up to your standards, at that point you can daim to be dis­appointed. It is simply ridiculous to hold a coach to extremely high standards when he puts that young of a team on the field every week. 
Todd Henkel 
sentor 
ofT campus Nov. 18 


Salute the seniors 
As seniors here at Notre Dame, we have stood through 25 regular season football games, and rain or shine, win or lose, we have proudly supported our team. 
Our request is simple: that the football team recognize our commitment to them over the past four years by standing in front of the senior section for the Alma Mater at our last game as Notre Dame students. 
Thank you for making our experience here unforgettable. 
Sincerely, 
Rachel Hoffman Amy Wilhelmy 
seniors 
Nov. 18 

' 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Friday, November 21, 2008 page 11 
LEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
Hooking-up norm.al 
What's with all the hate? It took guts for Melissa ("The hook-up culture," Nov. 19), to come out and talk about something that so many girl refuse to acknowledge: she's kissed a few boys. Most girls I know are so uptight about discussing anything even related to sex with a guy that it is a breath of fresh air to hear a girl admit that she's kissed some­one before, let alone yell it to the entire campus. If she had told me this personally, I would have given her a sassy z-snap and a "you go girl!" 
Too many guys have such an awful view of hooking-up: just because you kiss someone -or even do something more-doesn't mean you can't treat them like a person after­wards and at least be cordial, rather than running away like a little son of a ... 
Personally, I have tried to stay in contact with the girls I've hooked up: at the very least. I say "hi, how ya doing?" when I see them. However, I just have to say that although guys are pretty bad offenders at the whole not-making-the-next-time awkward thing, girls aren't perfect on this point by any stretch. 
Of the girls I've hooked-up with-or, probably more common, struck out with-there have definitely been more than a few that just refused to even seek something as simple as a friendly acquaintance. 
I remember the second week I was here, I kissed a girl on a bench. It was nothing too big, and I proceed to spend the rest of the night babysitting her "friend" -read drunk bull elephant-before walking her and the Baby Dee to a taxi. After multiple unre­sponded texts over the course of a week, I saw her again at Reekers. I talked to her a bit, and I walked with her and her friends to Blinky. She hasn't talked to me since, and that's not for my lack of trying. 
I think that Notre Dame has a huge problem with hookups: people take things way too seriously. College is a time when thousands of young singles-many of whom are just starting to explore their sexuality-live basically as next-door neighbors. Obviously, some sparks are going to fly; some start fires that burn, some for an hour (or if you're from Fisher. as long as she needs). 
People hooking-up is a healthy, natural part of life-don't swear off it, getjiggy with it -but that does not excuse disregarding people's feelings afterwards. Whether it is a guy or girl, no one enjoys another person avoiding them and pretending not to know them. It is true that most people who hook-up will not become b.f.f.s; however, a simple wave every once and a while never killed anyone. At least not yet. 
Declan Sullivan freshman Fisher Hall Nov. 20 

Hook-up a bad introduction 
Although I guess I should've been distraught upon learning that a fellow school­mate's (Melissa Buddie, "The hook-up culture," Nov. 19) method of making pals has been failing her consistently, my concern for her social life was nothing compared to my shock that nearly a semester had passed before she began to think that hooking up with random boys isn't a reliable way of establishing meaningful friendships at Notre Dame. 
Really? 
I know I'm not the only one who read the letter with a look on my face that was much more distaste than pity. However, it may be comforting to hear that it's not unnatural for her to be suffering the cold shoulder treatment from the partners of pre­vious hook-ups. It's standard fare. 
The hook-up culture she proudly practices typically implies a no-strings-attached attitude. That's supposed to be the entire appeal. 
So what's the big surprise? I don't blame those boys for being short on words after the act (I assume kissing was the extent of these six hook-ups, otherwise I would be writing another letter entirely), and I suspect that her very public announcement isn't going to make them any more eager to hang out with her. 
A rearrangement of priorities could prevent future problems. Dropping the "kissing hobby" is a good start. If Buddie is looking for a phone call or a lunch companion, I suggest that she makes friends with the boy(s) first and kisses second, if at all. 
That being said, I'm not sure that sharing Buddie's letter in the Viewpoint was any­thing short of Too Much Information for those of us who aren't a) among her six male addressees or b) also extremely baffled by why the people we're intimate with yet never intend to date feel awkward around us. Believe it or not, some of us college girls don't like to get our thrills by being the weekend conquest of a random dude. We'd prefer to read a piece that's a little more relevant and, dare I say, mature in nature. 
Just a thought. 
Marla MacMichael 
senior 
Howard Hall Nov. 20 

In defense of Buddie 
After reading the barrage of letters defaming Melissa Buddie ("The hook-up cul­ture," Nov. 19) in yesterday's Viewpoint, I felt as though I would offer some words or encouragement. 
I-like Melissa-have made out with six guys this semester. I have not received 
much anticipated phone calls or lunch offers, not even the curious poke on facebook. 
And Melissa, if you think your lovely autumn strolls on South Quad are made awk­ward by your actions, eye contact with my former lovers is beyond awkward on so many levels. 
Stay Strong Melissa! (And Easy!) 
Sincerely, 
Dan Kuzma senior off-campus Nov. 20 


A product of the system 
Stop talking about Melissa ("The hook-up culture," Nov. 19), stop talking about Will ("Dear Jane(s)," Nov. 20). The supposed hook-up culture at Notre Dame is not created by men, nor fueled by women, but instead a product of the system we call the University of Notre Dame. Since it is the reverends and alumni that run the school we love so much, the buck stops at every one of their desks. It is on them to change the problems that are popping up at this University. 
Tradition is a wonderful thing, and helps Notre Dame boast at how storied it is; but there does come a time where you can be too steeped in tradition; and that time is now. I sit here three months into the school year and have no problem telling you that I still have not one legitimate girl friend like I did back home, and I know I'm not the only one. 
And this is not because I am the kid that sits in the corner of the classroom hop­ing his Jedi mind tricks will actually lift the pencil in the air for once. If you know me you know I'm not exactly a shy person. So what exactly are parietals and sin­gle-sex dorms doing? They're stopping exactly what we're longing for. 
Parietals are not stopping sex from happening, and are not making people do homework that they otherwise would not get done. Instead, they are preventing the casual movie watches, hang-outs, and friend-to-friend interaction that is absolutely necessary in a teenager's life. 
In order to fix the gender relations at Notre Dame, we need to do something about the single-sex dorms. like almost every other school out there (including other religious universities), our dorms should be single-sex by floor. This would fix a number of problems. Not only would it be extremely easy to meet girls by bump­ing ittto them but it would make it a thousand times more convenient to, God for­bid, hang out. We have so much schoolwork here that we only get miniscule breaks in-between homework. But even then, our breaks are spent playing video games or joking around with a same-sex friend down the hall. 
Instead, a new dorm system would allow me to walk down one flight of stairs to actually talk to a girl. While this is an enormous change from the system we have now, we can dull it down by starting with a choice. For example, over the summer the school could ask which housing you want, single-sex or multi-sex; and depend­ing on the results, some dorms would become multi-sex and some stay single-sex. Students would still stay in the same dorms for all four years to keep the amazing comradery we have now, except this would now include girls as well. 
The truth is, something needs to be done. But using the Letter to the Editor sec­tion in the Observer as an advertisement of how you're fun and up-for-anything is not productive at all. While ideas may seem radical to some, I'm sure the decision to admit women in the first place did too. 
P.S. -I lied earlier. I do in fact sometimes find myself wisqmg that the Jedi mind trick would work for me. 
Marko Pesce freshman Keenan Hall Nov. 20 


Another perspective 
Dear 23 girls I have hooked up with this semester, 
Thank you for the hook-up. It was ... spectacular, stimulating, mediocre, awful, mind-blowing, forgettable (is it 25?), awkward, heavenly, tricky, !icky, sticky, and all together a solid time. From my experience, it was the typical senior year post-Feve hook-up. 
Yes the hook-up itself was fine, but afterwards we've run into a problem. The problem isn't the dining hall, I'm a senior, I don't have a meal plan. It's the par­ties, in class, at bowling, Corby's, and Feve. It's the way you look at me, like you totally want it again. I want to scream, "Yes we did hookup once and I know I was great but there's no way you'll get that lucky again!" Other times we see each other and you totally eye me or you suddenly ditch the people you're with to throw yourself at me. To be fair, I think I may have been ignored by a few of you (actually that never happens, you all can't get enough). 
What about your number, did I ask for it just as a matter of course? Yes. But you had to request mine and now my thumb is getting tired silencing your calls. Is this your way of saying, "Thanks for the hook-up. It was the best thing I've ever experienced and I'll never be the same?" Get over me. How many of you have deleted my number? The answer is none of you because you treat my digits like the winning lottery numbers. 
Blame me for not calling you. I didn't break my phone and I haven't lost your numbers. I simply have no interest in seeing you again. If I do call, you know I am black out drunk looking for a booty call. Could we ever be friends? No. Ignoring you, apparently, is the only choice I have. 
Of course, I'm not blameless. You were the most convenient form of instant gratification I could fmd, hoodrats and dimes alike. I realize that but won't admit I am as guilty as you are. Stop knocking at my door at 1 a.m. begging to come in. Stop climbing in my window and lying in my bed hoping you'll get another shot. 
Even though I doubt you are willing to do this, I am sure of one thing: You 23 girls (25?) are not even close to where I draw the line. This weekend, and all weekends until I graduate, I will continue to add more conquests to my Excel spreadsheet. I will hook up with as many random girls as possible. Not because I am looking for a girlfriend or wife, but because I want to exploit your body. At Notre Dame, I am trying to get some play, and I'll never find a new hobby. Why should I? You still want it. Good thing I won't see you at the dining hall, I cook. 
Sincerely, 
Melissa Buddie's next hook-up 
P.S. don't worry about our (insert whatever we did together here), I'm clean, you didn't get it from me. 
Peter Leonard semor off-campus Nov. 20 



THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Friday, November 21, 2008 
SEt~ _,a""~ ... r~ ..,.._.... ""'<rt•, \~t..,... 

.....
•.,. ~"'''·' ,..._. oll-'41..,.; n olw •-"
w-MO .,.....,...... <If '!O<Ill1\ ' 
--,~~~ 
. f1 ... _.~ --·--­
11"' .... .... . ·-' ..... 
L\IU. U.l~WLI 

~£t1TM[]£5
-· ...,._,1......, .u.~..:.~ ~ ... I i """'"' y ~ ... ~ ••• """".............,. 1: 
Hock:e-esque coach butting heads with a George("
JORDAN GAMBLE 
Gipp-esque player, with cameo appearances by
Scene Writer 

none other than the original Four Horsemen. A forgotten piece of Notre Dame legend returns to "Notre Dame football players were these mythical eampus tonight. characters. That's how the legend all began, and......... 
Out of' print for years, the 1931 film "The Spirit of still persists 70 years later," Mandell said. "The"' Notrn Dame" was eclipsed by 1940's "Knute Rockne University is now very careful to not be known as a AII-Ameriean" and 1993's "Hudy." Even the most football school. which started all the way back in 
,i• ~ ~ ~ 'i _& _ obsessive Notre Dame fans haven't seen it or even 1931 when it got taken advantage of by Hollywood )' :f.-'know it exists. Knute Hockne III, with this film." 
• .. · the grandson of the legendary .. In his book, Sperber describes the· ...._ coach, hopes that will change after Notre Damefootball film as "a sports potboiler exploit­
this Friday, ~.hen "The S~irit of players were these ing the school's name." -I jNotre. Da~e s~reens at the mythical characters. But Rockne's grandson sees 
I I 

Brownmg Cmema 111 the DeBartolo , merit. "I think this movie really Performing Arts Center at 7 pm and That s how the legend does go beyond football. Football is~rw.....~ ·9::-w pm. Tickets are $3 for stu-all began, and still the vehicle by which the message dnnts ~nd ~5 for f'aeulty. and staff; persists 70 years and values of Notre Dame [are 

"I thmk It's a great 1dea they re . . shown]." Roekne III thinks the movie is important because of, he . '"' /a ~,tdnyhone_ i,?u~rview from. his is now _Df!ry careful to says, "how it deals with the atmos­,., ~ • fwmc m Uta~ h leads to the h1sto-not be known as d phere and psyG)lological makeup of 
,..4""4","\ .,. ~ ry and mystique of Notre Dame. I . Notre Dame in that particular peri· · ~.-."'~ ~ hope that every time they show it, football school, whtch od of time." it's a sellout crowd." started all the way Christine Sopczynski, the out­Indeed, "The Spirit of Notre back in I93 1 when it reach specialist at FTT, agrees with Dame" and the history of its pro-him. "The film itself isn't that /" ... r.:.,W!Dl ra~ 
s~..::.::-~u LnlLSFJ.

duetion should be the stuff of leg-got taken advantage strong" she said, "but it shows the 
end '""' ~"Qli\J.i~t'MEN ~_......... ,.,.l s~~·lif ..!'wr·,

I nnd. ofby Hollywood with football culture and what it was 
J.s,.:•~ .:"~i Fir... • :.>t¥~·1"1 "One of the tidbits about this this film." like. The film's screenwriter actual­...tl~J-,tNr.('A.~JC).f(j k.,,;t'rW" movie is that this is the movie that ly came and lived with the football killed my grandfather," said Hockne players for a few weeks. From that 
III. "When he was going to California, he was going perspective it's fascinating." to write this script and put it into production," and But just getting a copy of the film to show to any it was on that trip that Knute Rockne's plane crowd has been a journey, said John Vickers, the 
d in Kansas. Managing Director at the DPAC. The idea to resur­The whole story can be found in Murray rect "Spirit" eame after the University announced _·. _ ··f''~perber's book_. "Shake Down. the. Thund.er." its fundraising campaign also called "The Spirit of' ~:=, .1 ;' ._r;' Sperber, along w1th the help of Umvers1ty ArchiVes. Notre Dame." But unlike the other Notre Dame (•::_ ,:;) '"'" . found letters from Knute Rockne to the University tilms, "Spirit" was not on DVD, video, or even in the -president. Hockne wrote that although the 111m's university archives. With funding from the College creators oiTered him $50,000 to portray himself in of Arts and Letters, Vickers used his contacts in the 
~ tlw movie. he had no intention of accepting the lilm industry to track it down. ~ monny. "I basically went to Universal Studios and con­· ~-"The only thing is I thought perhaps there might vinced them that we should have a copy of one of 
~JIIIbe a ehance to put out a picture that might be their film titles here on campus. They took one of 
!1. 4 instructive and educational as regards Notre Dame their negatives and struck a new print," he said. ., 1'., './ , in every sense of the word," Hockne wrote in a let-That new 35 millimeter print will be shown ,,·. /'!../6-ter dated March 30, 1931, one day before he died. Friday night before 11nding a place in the Notre
1 

.,~ •' Ut?; Ted Mandell, a faculty member in the Department Dame library, and Vickers hopes other groups, suchz·C /', \Jjr of' Film, Television, and Theatre, said the University as alumni clubs across the country, give the film life v~o went ahead and allowed the film to be made, for outside of campus. 
• ~·~(>the sake of Hockne's widow and in the hopes that it Hockne III, who will be at the screening Friday ·~ J would fullill Hockne's original intent. and will flip the coin to start the Syracuse game 
·• "This film came out because of that (Rockne's Saturday in honor of his grandfather, has high!'!(~·; dnath). Universal rushed out this film, and it came hopes for the future of "The Spirit of Notre Dame." ,. -~;: ,.. t.."-' out seven or six months later, kind of taking advan· "I really hope that every student on campus goes, ,.-p,• ·• 
. "· tage of the tragedy," Mandell said. to see it." · J• ·. •. Universal Studios took the commercial approach ' ~ ~ for the story, focusing on football more than the 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
:. 

J.~!r '' 
''t-'' ......... 
·.c.~' 





Friday, November 21, 2008 The Observer+ INTERHALL INSIDER page 2 
Keenan challenges dominant Siegfried 

Brothers Kelly lead Ra111blers 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
For most players and coaches, thn lnterhall Championship is just a ehanee to play a little competi­tivfl football, but for the three Kelly brothers. il'> a family aflhlr. 
A'> SinJ.,rf'ried's otlimsivn coordi­nator, coach Hob Kelly oversees both of his younger brothers, sen­ior team captain and tight end, Kevin, and sophomore defensive taekle, Patrick. 
"It is humbling," Hob Kelly said of eoaehing his younger siblings. "My first attempt at coaching was with 4-year-olds and I've found there are a lot of similarities between 4-year-olds and college studenl'>." 
Coincidentally, Siegfried's head coach, I'.J. Zimmer, asked Hob Kelly to help him out with coach­ing this sea.'ion, at the same time that the youngest brother, Patrick, a recent transfer from lloly Cross College, was pulled into Siegfried and decided to go out for the team as well. 

With both returning senior Kevin and newly-recruited Patrick trying out for the team, Hob found himself in a tough situ­ation. 
"I had to take myself out of that decision," Rob said. "[ certainly had a conflict ofinterest." 
But both made the team, and therefore, The Ramblers' Kelly Trio was formed. 
"The fact that [my coach] is my brother made it a little awkward at flfSt," Kevin Kelly said. "But he is really good at inspiring and being the devil's advocate on the team." 
Initially, Rob didn't share his brothers' enthusia.'im for football, but over time took to the sport. 
"I was more interested in schol­arly competitions in high school," Hob said. "I fell in love with foot­ball by the time I came to Notre Dame." 
As a member of the class of 2003, Rob graduated with a degree in aerospace engbrreering and management, and currently works at Notre Dame as the director of procurement services. 
But in offensive coordination, Rob found an area of football strategy where he had passion and expertise, despite never play­ing organized football. 
"Coach Zimmer is the real offensive architect, but I bring the critical eye," Rob said. "This is an aspect of football that I can really get myself into, the intellectual component." 
In contrast to their older broth­er, both Kevin and Patrick played together at Addison High School, a small public school in their southern Michigan town. 
"It was an island for me," said Kevin of being the trailblazer of the family's football participation. "All the team dinners and the summer practices, they were a new venture for me." 
The brothers all agree that having family members on cam­pus and alongside on the playing field changed their collegiate experiences for the better. 
"It's more relaxed now," Kevin said. "You always have someone to go to when you need some­thing." 
Quintessential of the Notre Dame culture of tradition in both family and football, Rob, Kevin, and Patrick will be representing both as the Interhall Championship game approaches this Sunday. 
"I left Notre Dame, but found my way back," Rob said. "I always find it providential that we ended up back here." 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

Siegfried featured in ESPN.com story 
By SAM WERNER lnterhall Editor 
Siegfried entered a new realm of interhall publicity yesterday. 
The currently undefeated and untied Ramblers were featured in a 3,000-word fea­ture about interhall football by Kieran Darcy on ESPN.com. 
Darcy's story focused on the 
uniqueness of n't mentioned
"/ really appreciate 
interhall foot­in the article.
how he did that for 
ball and its Several Knights place in the us. p I a y e r s Notre Dame tra-expressed their dition. Darcy dismay at the
Kevin Kelly
interviewed team's practice
Siegfried captain
many Siegfried Thursday 
players for the story, including captain Kevin Kelly. Kelly said that he believes Darcy was inspired by the story of David Ruffer, a former Siegfried player who is now a kicker on the varsity team. 
After meeting with repre­sentatives from RecSports, Darcy wanted to focus on a particular team, and who bet­ter than the currently 6-0 Ramblers. 
"He got in contact with us and came out to our prac­tice," Kelly said. 
Darcy went on to describe the Ramblers' 14-6 semifinal win over Morrissey, which sent the team to the champi­onship game. 
Kelly said he was grateful 
night. 

"It's just not cool," Keenan captain Brett Wilps said. "He didn't even mention last year's champi­onship [where Keenan lost to rival Stanford]." 
The Knights have made the championship four of the past five years. but Darcy's article focused almost on the Ramblers. Wilps said he planned to use the story as motivation on Sunday. 
"I didn't realize only one team was playing in the championship," he said. "It's posterboard material for us. We're going to tack that up in the locker room." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

for the exposure, and thought Darcy did a good job portray­ing interhall football's status at Notre Dame. 
"It was really cool and well­written," Kelly said. "I really appreciate how he did that for us." 
Not every interhall football player was happy with the article, though. Keenan, Siegfried's opponent in the championship, was disap­pointed that their team was­
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Wrirer 
David meets Goliath this Sunday as Keonan challenges Singl'ried for the Interhall Championship in legendary Notrn Dame Stadium. 
No. 7 seed Keenan has faced an uphill battle in the postsea­son but has emerged with con­vineing wins in each contest. J.iknwiso, No. 1 send Siegfried has lived up to the high expoc­tations, rolling past the compe­tition in pursuit of a pnrfeet sea­son. 
After reclaiming the Chapel last week in a 14-8 vietory over rival Stanford, Keenan captain Barton Dear is confident his team can build upon its success and carry the momentum into its third championship game in four years. 
"Beating Stanford was a huge achievement for us," Dear said. "Losing to our rival last year in the Stadium didn't sit well with us. We came out strong and played a great game against a gn~at team." 
The Knights have eome a long way from the beginning of the season to earn a spot in the championship. After beginning thn year 0-1-1, Dear said the tnam nnndnd to rediscover its identity and make some serious ehangns to turn the season around. 
"We realized that we had some players out of position," Dear said, "so we switched our quarterback to tight end and started a freshman in his place. 

The offensive line also worked 
some stuff out, and it translated 
into positive results on the 
field." 

Thrust into the offense as quarterback, freshman Terry Mahoney has thrived in a famil­iar role, leading the Knights to three victories. 
"I've had experience in the quarterback position before," Mahoney said. "I was ready since the beginning of the sea­son for a chance to play. I just had to wait for my opportunity. Thankfully I got it, and I've done my best for the team." 
Led by Mahoney, the balanced Keenan offense hopes to contin­ue moving the ball against a merciless Siegfried defense. Mahoney will try to establish a connection with senior wide receiver Jim Zenker, something he's been able to accomplish all season. 
"Any time I throw Jim the ball I know he's going to come down with it and make a play," Mahoney said. "The chemistry is there, we just need to exe­cute." 
Siegfried, however, has been effective in disrupting opposing offenses and preventing them from getting into a rhythm. Led by middle linebacker Dex Cure, the Ramblers forced three turnovers en route to a 14-6 victory over Morrissey in the semifinals last week. 
"We just keep things simple on both sides of the ball," Siegfried captain Kevin Kelly said. "As a team we're just going to keep doing what we've done all year: force turnovers and give our offense a chance to score." 
If the Ramblers maintain the same level of play they dis­played in the regular season, a championship is well within their reach, as the Ramblers are undefeated and untied through six games. Siegfried's success has even brought back memories to many of the leg­endary Dillon teams of the late SO's that dominated the inter­hall circuit. 
"I appreciate the responses, but we've still got one more game to go," Kelly said. "We can't lose focus and underesti­mate a good opponent. It's all about getting the job done in the Stadium." 
Kelly and the Siegfried seniors remember the last time they were on the Stadium field when USC ended a premature Irish celebration in 2005. They expect a much more enjoyable experience when they step on the field this Sunday. 
"I can't wait for it, and I know my teammates are just as excit­ed," Kelly said. "This will prob­ably be our last time on the field, and we want to remember it with a victory." 
The seniors from both teams agree that playing in the cham­pionship game will be the most meaningful four quarters in their careers. 
"If we win, it'll be a great ending to a hard-fought story over the last four years," Kelly said. 
But for Keenan senior Alex Gonzalez, Sunday's game will be a bitter-sweet experience. 
LEE!The Obs~rver 
Siegfried running back Marcus Young, left, takes a handoff from quar­terback Max Young during the Ramblers' semifinal win over Morrissey. 
Gonzalez, who has carried the Gonzalez said. "With the best Knight offense on the ground quarterback and receiver with his powerful running combo in the league, my team­game, will be inactive with a mates are more than capable of broken thumb. This will be the stepping up. The seniors and I third time in his interhall career have been a big part of he will be inactive for the cham­Siegfried football for four years. pionship game with an injury. We want it bad." 
"It's a terrible feeling, but I just want to be able to motivate Contact Chris Masoud at my team on the sidelines," cmasoud@nd.edu 
Friday, November 21, 2008 The Observer+ INTERHALL INSIDER page 3 

Welsh Fam looks to stay perfect vs. McGlinn 
By RYAN O'CONNELL Sports Writer 
West Quad neighbors Welsh Family and McGlinn haven't played each other in more than three years, but the unfamiliari­ty will end Sunday when the teams face off in the Interhall Championship game. 
"We haven't played them since my freshman year," Welsh Fam senior captain Jenni Gargul a said. "We don't know what they look like as a team, but we never focus on who we play from week to 
week. We "This year, we've had a championship only focus on different experience in game." 
our game­It's more than
that we've had a lot of
plan and just experience playing our close games. We've that has Welsh best." learned to score when Fam confident, 
This strate­however.
the pressure is on us" 
gy has "We have a worked well talented, bal­for the Jenni Gargula anced team this Whirlwinds. Welsh Fam captain year," Gargula after they've fallen behind. 
"Last year we basically killed every opponent we faced in the regular season and playoffs," Gargula said. "We'd never been behind until Cavanaugh scored first in the championship game. This year, we've had a different experience in that we've had a lot of close games. We've learned to score when the pres­sure is on. For example, we ended up coming back to beat Pasquerilla West when we were down by a touchdown with only a minute or so left. I definitely think those kind of games have helped prepare us for the 
who are cur­rently unde­feated. However, going unde­feated, at least in the regular season, is nothing new for Welsh Fam. 
"The past two years we've gone undefeated in the regular season," Gargul a said. "We lost last year in the stadium to Cavanaugh." 
The Whirlwinds believe, though, that their recent history of losing in the playoffs will change, as Gargula said the team has learned how to over­come adversity and win games said. "Both our 
offense and defense are great. Anyone on our team is capable of making a big play. As far as our passing game, we spread the ball around. No one receiver has caught most of the passes. Also, our secondary has made a lot of interceptions. All our players are talented and anyone is capable of making big play." 
McGlinn, on the other hand, overcame low expectations for the season to make it all the way to the championship. The Shamrocks, though. are not content with just what they've achieved so far. 
"We are so excited to be play­ing in Notre Dame Stadium, but with that being said, we are not just satisfied getting there; we want to win," McGlinn captain Sarah deGroot said. "This sea­son has been truly remarkable as no one expected us to make the playoffs or let alone make it to the stadium, but I had confi­dence in our team and knew that we had the players to make a run at a championship." 
Like Welsh Fam, the Shamrocks are also very strong on both sides of the ball. 
"Our offense has been great, especially at putting points up early in the game, and our defense has been lights out and played a near perfect game against Farley last week," de Groot said. "We have a lot of momentum going into Sunday's game and feel as though we are playing our best ball this year, and we will need to be on top of our game against a very good Welsh Fam team." 
McGlinn knows that they have a formidable opponent in Welsh Fam, so they're aiming on bringing their "A" game to the championship. 
"Welsh Fam comes into the game undefeated and has been playing some great ball, but so have we," de Groot said. "We are going to be the underdogs in this matchup, but we have been the underdogs all year and look where we have gotten so far." 
Contact Ryan O'Connell at roconne3@nd.edu 


By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Writer 
After starting at quarter­back for four years, leading the way to three consecutive undefeated regular seasons, and to two Stadium appear­ances, Jenni Gargula has one goal left to attain. 
On Sunday, the Welsh Family Whirlwinds will look to Gargula for leadership as they have all season -and most of the past four -in an effort to finally win the Interhall Championship. 
Towards the end of her freshmen season, Gargula took over at quarterback for the Whirlwinds. Since then, Welsh Fam has not lost a reg­ular season game. Along the way, Gargula has pushed her­self to improve. 
"Jenni has learned a lot about the game," senior receiver Meghan Mulhern said. "She has always been 
Gargula looks to end interhall career with championship 
she shares it as much as she put pressure on myself every can. game to perform well. Even if "She has helped me learn we win and I don't play as about the game so much," well as I should have, I'm not 
freshmen receiver Natalie Baldasare said. "Her experience and knowledge help us learn about adjust­ments during the game." 
Compliments such as these may be nice, but they do not ease the pres­sure Gargula feels every week, but espe­cially concern­
"I put pressure on myselfevery game to perform well. Even if we win and I don't play as well as I should have, I'm not happy about it. " 
Jennl Gargula Welsh Fam captain 
ing this upcoming game. The team's success throughout her career has only driven Gargul a's aims higher, as well as her expectations of herself. 
"I don't want us to have gone four years without 
very knowl­getting a
"I don't want us to 
edgeable, but championship
have gone four years 
she goes into because we each game each without getting a have been so week knowing successful,"
championship because 
and remember­Gargula said. 
we have been so
ing what the "It just does­upcoming team successful. " n't feel right has done in the that we past." would end up
Jenni Gargula
Not only does without a
Welsh Fam captain
Gargula vividly champi­
remember her opponents, but every week she also needs to correctly remember the fifty plays Welsh Fam runs. It is this pursuit of knowledge that differentiates Gargula from typical team leaders, as 
onship." 

"I do feel pressure on myself [to win the championship]. I think a lot of that pressure I put on myself as well. I have really high standards for myself. I feel pressure in every game; I 
happy about it... 
The time nears for the pressure to produce the desired results for Gargula, and no one on the Whirlwind team is shy about the specificity of the desired results. 
"Our goal has been to not only get to the 
championship, but definitely to win," Mulhern said. 
"We know what it feels like to go into the Stadium and lose. We don't want that feel­ing again," Gargula said. "We're looking to end our careers on a high note and finally get that elusive cham­pionship, which has been our entire focus this year." 
When teammates old and new say things such as "We know what to expect of Jenni," and "Jenni is the cen­ter of our offense," as Mulhern and Baldasare, respectively, did, it is clear that Gargula will be the focus of both teams on Sunday. Yet, the most pressure she feels will be from within herself. She would have it no other way. 
"Our time is now," Gargula said. "Our goal is to win." 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer 1 @nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Friday, November 21, 2008 
page 13 

~~~uv··~~ ~~~ OI'I'ICII or TID PIUIIIIDJIN'l' 

!!arch 30, 1931. 
Bev. Charles L. O'Donnell, c.s.c., otfice of the rresident, 
Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Dear Father: 

The enclosed letter speaks for itself. I came up to see you and fonrul you would be out oi' town for the de.y. I leave this ~tter entirely in your hands. They have offered me fifty thousand ($50,000.) dollars for this proposition, which, however, doesn't interest me :J.t all. 1'he only thing is I thought perhaps there m:J.ght be e. chance to put out a picture that might be instructive and e1uce.tion~l as reeards Notre Da."'lle in every sense of the word. 
Please wire ~e collect at the Hotel Biltmore, Los k.nzeles, where I wi 11 be ·,lednesdey. 
Sincerely yours, 
KKR:tm 
.~ 

NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Toliver highlights an 18-3 run to lead Terrapins to \Yin 
Five Huskies score double-digit points in win over San Diego State; Poston sparks Boilermaker's victory 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, November 21, 2008 

''I'm very excited about theAssociated Press second half," Terrapins coach  
COLLEGE PARK, Md. -Brenda Frese said. "I thought  
Maryland was locked in a tie we had some critical stops at  
game with James Madison really key points in the game.  
when Kristi Tolivp,r took it Our defense helped us exe­ 
upon herself to end the cute on the offensive end."  
I>ukns' upset bid. Maryland trailed by one  
Slieing through the lane at before Marah Strickland  
every opportunity, the 5-foot­made two free throws to  
7 Toliver rnadn three layups spark an 8-2 spree that made  
and two free throws during a it 51-46. But a layup by Evans  
pivotal I X-3 run that carried and three straight baskets by  
the 11th-ranked Terrapins to Sarah Williams got the Dukes  
a lJ0-76 victory Thursday within a point, and a 3-point­ 
11 ight. er by Hamner tied it at 57.  
Toliver finished with 27 The Dukes, however, would  
points and 10 assists to help make only one basket over  
Maryland (2-1 l extend its the next six minutes.  
homn winning streak to 23. Liles and Toliver each  
Tho score was 57-all with scored 10 points, and  
11:46 left before the Maryland overcame 13  
Terrapins, led by tlwir senior turnovers to take a 35-34  
point guard, pullnd away. halftime l1-1ad.  
"When the game was get­There were !'ive ties in the  
ting close, that's the timA to early going until the  
attack the rim," Toliver said. Terrapins used a 10-3 run to  
"I just wanted to attack their go up 29-22. The Dukes  
bigs. because I knew I was stayed close behind Evans,  
f'astnr than them. You have to who accounted for 14 of  
take advantage of what the JMU's first 22 points and had  
dnfense gives you." 16 at the break.  
Toliver gave Maryland the Evans gave the Dukes their  
lead for good with a layup, only lead of the half. hitting a  
and a jumper in tho paint by jumper to make it 34-33.  
Marissa Coleman made it 61­AP  
57. After Dawn Evans hit a 3­Huskies 99, Aztecs 55 Maryland guard Kristi Toliver, right, puts up a shot against James Madison's Dawn Evans  
pointer for the Dukes, the Last season, Kalana Greene during the second half of Maryland's 90-76 victory on Thursday.  
Terrapins peeled off 14 was having season-ending  
straight points to seal the surgery on her right knee the  
win. day Connecticut played San  off the rim with 16:24 to play.  pass from Caroline Doty. That  The Aztecs travel back to San  
"We had a couple of mental Diego State.  "Kalana did a great job of  started a 10-0 UConn run.  Diego for a game Tuesday,  
breakdowns in the defensive Greene hit her first five  being a leader tonight,"  UConn shot over 65 percent  and then head to Hawaii.  
end whic:h led to some easy shots Thursday to help UConn  Moore said. "It makes us feel  from the floor in the first half  That's over 10,200 miles in  
opportunities for them," (2-0) to a rout of the Aztecs.  invincible knowing that when  and led 56-27 at intermission.  eight days.  
James Madison coach Kenny The junior scored 13 points  Katana's on, what's the other  The Huskies opened the sec­ 
Brooks said. "And even when and was one of' five Huskies  team going to do? It just gives  ond half with a 14-0 run,  Boilermakers 70, Pilots 50  
they missed, they clflaned up in double figures.  us a whole lot of confidence."  allowing coach Geno  FahKara Malone made four  
with second-chance opportu­"I'm playing with a little  Renee Montgomery also had  Auriemma to go deep into his  of six 3-pointers in scoring 17  
nities. We let it get away from more confidence each game,"  13 points for Connecticut and  bench early.  points and No. 21 Purdue  
us, didn't execute, and it cost Greene said. ''I'm feeling bet­ freshman Tiffany Hayes  When Charles passed over a  beat Portland Thursday night.  
us." ter. I feel like I don't even  added 11, hitting 3 of 4 from  double team and found  Chantel Poston scored 15  
Evans led James Madison think about my knee, like I've  3-point range.  Meghan Gardler underneath  points off the bench for  
{1-1) with 33 points on 14­never been injured."  The Huskies, who hit 64  with just under 11 minutes to  Purdue, which scored 26  
for-33 shooting and Courtney Maya Moore led UConn with  p·ercent of their shots, made  go, it was 85-36. Twelve  points off turnovers. Lindsay  
Hamner scored 12 of her 16 21 points, 17 in the first half.  nine of their first 12, and  Huskies played, and 11 of  Wisdom-llylton shot 6-of-8  
points in the second half. The sophomore also had nine  opened on a 12-2 run. The  them scored.  from the field and scored 14.  
The Dukes, who had their rebounds and six assists  Aztecs missed their first five  "We were in a real good  Danielle Campbell chipped in  
30-game home winning while playing just 25 minutes.  shots and hit just 37 percent  rhythm offensively,"  11 -nine on free throws - 
streak ended by Maryland Tina Charles added 17 points  from the field.  Auriemma said. "We could  for the Boilermakers (2-0).  
last year, are 1-7 against the for the Huskies, who now  "We have this saying that  score almost every time down  Laiken Dollente had 19  
Terrapins. have won 26 consecutive  hard work beats talent when  the floor, and much of that  points to pace the Pilots (1-2).  
"We're not into moral victo­home games and 89 straight  talent won't work hard, so  had to do with the fact that  The Boilermakers led by as  
ries, but I'm proud of the games over unranked oppo­ when you put great talent  we were intent on being  many as 29, buoyed by 41.4  
effort they gave," Brooks nents.  that works hard against peo­ aggressive and making the  percent shooting from the  
said. "If we continue to get Jene Morris scored 17  ple who weren't working  next play."  field and 75 percent shooting  
that kind of effort, it will points and had five rebounds  hard, I'm really disappoint·  San Diego State, which  on free throws. Portland  
equate to wins for us." to lead San Diego State (2-1 ).  ed," Aztec coach Beth Burns  opened its season with wins  managed just 34.8 percent  
Lynetta Kizer scored 18, Greene, who went five-for­ said.  over Northwestern State and  from the floor and 68.4 per­ 
Demauria Liles had 16 and five in the Huskies' season­ San Diego State got as close  Long Beach State, was mak­ cent from the line.  
Coleman added 14 for opening win over Georgia  as 28-18 before a pair of  ing its first trip to the East  Purdue scored 18 points off  
Maryland, which got only four Tech, didn't miss against the  buckets by Greene, the sec­ Coast since playing at Penn  offensive rebounds, while the  
' '  points from its reserves. Aztecs until a 3-pointer fell  ond one coming on a no-look  State and Duquesne in 1997.  Pilots scored just four.  
'  
'I  
I  

I The Observer accepts classi"fieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to editI CLASSIFIEDS
I all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
' 
' 
I.' 
I I  FoR SALE Villa ranch at 18133 Annettas Ct. in  FOR SALE: $20,000 ·A SET OF TWO TIME-SHARES AT VARSITY CLUBS, MISHAWAKA, IN. One Sophomore TimeShare (1 Flexible Week, cannot be booked during ND Home Football  GUESTHOUSE RENTAL 25 MILES WEST OF CAMPUS 31arge Bedrooms each with Private Bath. Great Common Room w~h floor to ceil· ing Windows and outside Deck over·  Student rentals 2009/2010. St. Peter/S.B. Ave. homes. $1300­$1960/mo. 5--7 bdrms 1st & 2nd floors. Contact Bruce Gordon 574-87&3537.  PERSONAL UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not  ADOPTION • Loving Domer cou· pie looking to adopt a baby (babies), please call Marie and James (301 1977·5069 or (8661 202-1424 PIN 5448.  
South Bend. 5 mins. to ND. Suitt in  games) and One Senior TimeShare (1  looking rolling prairie. Breakfasts. No  A3-bedroom fully furnished house for  go it alone. If you or someone you love  
2004.3 bdrm.2 bath.1652 sq.ft. Vautted  Flexible Week, guaranteed booking for  smoking; no pets. Call219·77&-2585  rent from mid December 2008 through  needs confidential support or assis·  Sitting on a cornflake,  
greatroom,formal dining room, oak eat·  ND third home football gamel. Call  or email share@sharefoundation.org  July 2009. Two bathrooms+ renovated  tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at  waiting for the van to corne.  
in kitchen. all appliances, large 3-sea·  Sara Slavinski 71&361·0911 or email  basement (potential add~ional bed·  (574)631-7819orAnn Firth at 574­ 
son roorn, first floor laundry. Rnished  s.slevinski@gmail.com for more info.  HOUSES FOR LEASE 09·10  room). 10 minute walk from University  631·2685. For more information, visit  Corporation tee-shirt,  
basement plumbed for bath. egress window. Patio. $249,500. Handicap  You can view Varsity Clubs at ILXresorts.com  SCHOOL YEAR. 2·10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER  of Notre Dame. $1000 not including utilities. Call 574·233--2618 orl331-8213  our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslpreg­ stupid bloody tuesday.  
accessible. Century 21 Jim Dunfee  PROPERTIES 574·234·2436 OR  nant.shtrnl  Man, you been a naughty boy,  
Realty Jack Egenhoefer.574-280-7730 3-bdrm, 2.5 bath Condo. Close to ND,  FoR RENT  KRAMERHOUSES.COM Furnished 2-bdrm, house. Living  NOTICES  If you or someone you care about has been sexually  you let your face grow long. I am the eggman,  
Master bdrm on main floor w/bth. Catwalk between bdrm upstairs. 1896 sq.ft1330BridgewaterWay, Mishawaka.  Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574}243·2818 or  room, kitchen, dining room, full bath. 6.5 blks to ND. $795/mo. Avail Jan. 1 . Call 605·397 ·8 135 or  CHESS LESSONS FIDEIUSCF National Master lntemet or In-Person (Michiana areal historicchess@com·  assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap  they are the eggmen. •I am the walrus,  
$179,900. Cal1574-247·1567.  (5741276·6118.  574·234·3007 or 574·261·4444.  cast.net574·277-8673  I  goo goo g'joob.  




OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM TI--IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
Friday, November 21, 2008 page 15 
NFL NCAA Football 
AP Top 25 
team points 
1 Alabama 1601 2 Texas Tech 1574 3 Florida 1476 4 Texas 1437 5 Oklahoma 1369 6 usc 1310 7 Penn State 1178 8 Utah 1158 9 Boise State 1098 10 Ohio Slate 1017 11 Oklahoma Stale 987 12 Missouri 913 13 Georgia 864 14 Ball Slate 714 15 TCU 659 16 BYU 656 17 Michigan State 612 18 LSU 526 19 Cincinnati 413 20 Pittsburgh 406 21 Oregon Slate 389 22 Maryland 161 23 Miami 139 24 Oregon 126 25 North Carolina 116 
NCAA Football 
Coaches' Poll 
team points 
1 Alabama 1508 2 Texas Tech 1465 3 Florida 1373 4 Texas 1322 5 Oklahoma 1305 6 usc 1245 7 Utah 1113 

Until Thursday, when tion on his current condi­Dalrymple said Felix
Associated Press 
8 Penn State 1093 

announcing that Jones tion and his ability to Jones hurt his toe while
9 Boise Slate 1023 

IRVING, Texas -The will be placed on injured perform all of the run­doing some rehabilitation
10 Ohio State 957 

mystery surrounding reserve, the Cowboys had ning tasks involved in work Nov. 7, the Friday
11 Missouri 894 

injured Dallas Cowboys not reported the toe playing in a game." going into the team's
12 Oklahoma State 838 

rookie Felix Jones has injury. The practice That was the first time open date. Phillips said
13 Georgia 832 

14 BYU 690 been solved, and the run­report released by the Jones had practiced since Jones' toe bent back 
15 Michigan State 654 ning back will not play team Wednesday, after hurting his hamstring. when his foot slipped 
16 Ball State 613 again this season. Jones had limited partici­Based on that practice while running on the 
17 TCU 533 Jones has a torn liga­pation, listed only the session and an evaluation grass. 
18 LSU 429 ment beneath his left big hamstring. by Dr. Robert Anderson, a In his six games, Jones 
19 Pittsburgh 406 toe, sustained two weeks The Cowboys now say North Carolina-based foot rushed 30 times for 266 
20 Cincinnati 358 ago while doing rehabili­Jones, one of the team's and ankle specialist who yards (8.9 yards per 
21 Oregon State 321 tation on the left ham­two first-round draft reviewed an MRI of carry) with three touch­
22 Oregon 169 string he hurt Oct. 12. picks, practiced then so Jones' foot, the Cowboys downs. The 22nd overall 
23 Maryland 140 The hamstring is healed, they could evaluate his decided Jones couldn't pick, the speedy Jones 
24 Northwestern 117 but he will need surgery ability to play with the play again this season provided a change of 
25 BC 97 on the toe and up to six toe injury. and that the best option pace to bruising Pro Bowl 
months to fully recover. Team spokesman Rich for his long-term future starting running back 
"Obviously disappoint­Dalrymple said in a state­was surgery. Marion Barber. Jones 
ed, certainly for him and ment that Jones' partici­Team owner Jerry also returned 16 kickoffs 
us," coach Wade Phillips pation in practice "was Jones said the surgery for a 27.1-yard average,
NCAA Football 

said. "But long term, he's designated as a day to would be done Saturday including a 98-yardBCS Standings going to be all right." obtain a thorough evalua-in Charlotte by Anderson. touchdown. 

team  points  
1  Alabama  9787  
2  Texas Tech  9698  
3  Texas  8911  
4  Florida  8755  
5  Oklahoma  8388  
6  usc  7873  
7  Utah  7643  
8  Penn State  6957  
9  Boise State  6559  
10 Ohio State  6154  


around the 
NBA 
New Orleans @ Oklahoma City 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 

IN BRIEF Utley may miss opener
due to surgery in right hip 
PHILADELPHIA -Three-time All­Star Chase Utley, who anchored the middle of the lineup for the World Series champion Phillies, will have surgery and may not be ready for the start of the 2009 regular season. 
Utley will have surgery next week to repair any bone or cartilage dam­age he may have in his right hip. He will be able to begin baseball activity in three to four months. But depend­ing on the extent of the damage, full recovery could take until May, team officials said Thursday. 
"Our feeling is that he's going to be fairly close to ready if not ready by opening day," general manager Ruben Amaro Jr. said. "We fully expect to have Chase Utley with us for the bulk of the season." 
Utley was bothered by symptoms during the season but still hit .292 and led all second basemen with 33 home runs and 104 RBis. 
Philliesand Rangers complete
trade of first round p1cks 
ARLINGTON, Texas-The World Series champion Philadelphia Phillies and Texas Rangers swapped former first-round picks Thursday. 
Texas acquired outfielder Greg Golson from the Phillies for outfield­er John Mayberry. 
In another move, the Rangers des­ignated right-hander Kameron Loe for assignment in anticipation of sell­ing his rights to a team in Japan. 
Golson, who is from Texas, was the 21st overall pick by the Phillies in the 2004 draft. He spent last season at Double-A Reading, where he hit .282 with 13 homers and 60 RBis in 106 games. He went 0-for-6 as a September call-up for the Phillies, his only major league action. 
Mayberry, drafted 19th overall by the Rangers in 2005, hit .263 with 16 homers and 58 RBis in 114 games for Triple-A Oklahoma City this year. 
Kenseth siJ!ns mega-deal
with Roush renway Racing 
CONCORD, N.C. -Matt Kenseth signed a multiyear contract extension Thursday with Roush Fenway Racing to continue driving the No. 17 Ford. 
The deal comes at the end of one of Kenseth's most disappointing sea­sons: He failed to win a race for the first time since 2001, and his 11th­place finish in the standings was his lowest since that season. 
But the 2003 series champion has been with Roush since 1998, winning 16 Sprint Cup races and 24 Nationwide Series races. His champi­onship was the first for owner Jack Roush at the Cup level. 
"It's been a great 11 years at Roush Fenway Racing," Kenseth said. "We've had a lot of success together including a championship and I'm really proud of that. I'm looking for­ward to the next few years and win­ning another championship with Roush Fenway." 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 21, 2008 
MLB 

Hal officially takes 
over the Yankees 

Associated Press 
NEW YOHK George Steinbrenner is boss of the New York Yankees no more. 
The omnipresent owner's colorful 35-year reign of pro­nouncements, threats and 11r­ings ended Thursday when he passed eontrol of baseball's most famous franchise to his youngest son. llal. 
Th1~ elder Steinbrenner has gradually withdrawn from the Yankees' day-to-day opera­tions in recent years as his health faded, and brothers llal and !lank were appointed eo-chairmen in April. 
"I realize it's a great responsib iIi ty," said II al 
bought the el ub in January 1973 for an $R.7 million net priee and beeame one of the most high­profile ownPrs in all of sports. lie dominatl'd the baek pages of Nnw York's tabloids, earn­ing tlw nickname "The Boss" as lw spl'nt lavishly on play­nrs and changed managers 20 Limes during his lirst 2:~ years as owrwr. f1~uding with Billy Martin. Yogi Berra and Dave Winl'inld. 
Tlw Yankees regairwd tlwir forml'r glory. winning six Wo r I d S~~ ri e s t i t le s a n d 1 0 Amnriean Lnagun pennants from I 1)76-2003. They also tra11sformnd themselves into 
Steinbrenner, 

"I realize it's a great
who turns 40 responsible for on Dee. 3. "My responsibility. My 11nancial opera­
dad is, needless dad is, needless to tions of the 
to say, a tough elub, and Hank
say. a tough act to 
aet to follow." oversees gener­George follow." al manager Steinbrenner, Brian Cashman now 7H, headed and the base­
Hal Steinbrenner 
a group that ball operations.
Yankees owner 
a sports empire person along
"Really, for the last 
that owns a with their
two years I have been
eabln tell·vision daughters, nntwork and intimately involved Jennifnr food eonens­with all aspects and Steinbrenner sion company Swindal and
all departments of
and is pn•par­.Jessiea ing to move the company. It's Steinbrenner. 
into a $1.:~ bil­what I've been doing Before Hal, 
lion nPw each son-in-law
day-to-day."
Y a n k n e of the ownnr Stadium nnxt emerged as heir ynar. Hal Steinbrenner apparents, only 
SteinbrPnnPr to divorce the
Yankees owner 
was baseball's long1~st-servi ng eurn~nt owner. but has cut baek his role with the team following fainting spells that required hospitalization in Deenmber 2003 and October 2006. 
!lis speeeh in public has been halting and weak since the sncond fall. and he has nended assistance when walking. From a golf cart, he delivnred the balls l'or the ceremonial first pitches at July's All-Star game at Yankee Stadium, then stayed home in Florida to watch the H5-ynar-old park's 11nal game on television in September. 
Baseball owners unani­mously approvnd the ehange in control during a meeting Thursday, ending an era in which Stninbrenner became the team's d1)f1ning image as much as Babe Huth and .Joe DiMaggio did in earlier eras. 
"lie's been slowing down the last eouple years," llal 
Steinbrenner said. "Really, for the last two years I have been intimately involved with all aspects and all depart­ments of the company. It's what I've been doing day-to­day. My duties aren't really going to change and my workload isn't going to change much. So, I mean, it's as much a procedural thing within the family, I think, as anything at this point." 
llal Steinbrenner shuns attention as much as his father craved it. But while 51-year-old Hank has become the public voice of the team's ownership in the past year, Hal was at Yankee Stadium far more fre­quently than his brother. Hal is 
"''m not going 
to ask the peo­
ple in the fami­ly why they picked one against thn other," said base­ball eommissionor Bud Selig, who visited Steinbrenner in Tampa, Fla., bnfore Game 2 of the World Series last month. "I get enough troubln as commissioner. I don't need to g1\t into family squabbles." 
Major League Basnball said George Steinbrenner request­nd tho change in control be made, and the Yankees said llank Steinbrenner voted in favor of it. George Steinbronner retains his title as the team's chairman and his wife, Joan, is a vice chair­
ownor's daugh­ters and depart tho team. 
.Joe Molloy, married to .Jessica Steinbrenner, was a gennral partner from 1992-· 
97. Steve Swindal, married to Jennifer Steinbrenner, was a general partner from 1998­06, then became chairman of Yankee Global Enterprises LLC, the team's holding com­pany. He was publicly desig­nated by George Steinbrenner as his successor in .June 2005 but Swindal departed after his driving under the inf'lu­ence arrest early on Feb. 15, 2007. 
Hal Steinbrenner became 
more  active in  the team's  
operations  following  
Swindal's arrest.  

"George is still going to be involved," Yankees president Randy Levine said. "This is really just a codif1cation, with the commissioner's help and input, of what's been going on the last several years." 

Friday, November 21, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
MLB 
Quinn to play with broken finger 
Baseball institutes 
Associated Press 
BEREA, Ohio -Brady Quinn got his first NFL win as a starter almost single­handedly. 
Quinn broke his right index finger during the first half of Monday night's game against the Buffalo Bills, but Cleveland's new starting quarterback stayed in and led the Browns to a 29-27 victory. 
Despite the injury, Quinn will try to play Sunday when the Browns host the Houston Texans. 
"At this point, it's just a lit­tle sore," he said before practice on Thursday. "Just doing the best we can to take all the precautions to make sure it's all right." 
Quinn didn't seem to be 
bothered by the finger while throw­ing during the 30-minute segment of practice open to the media. He didn't favor the fin­ger while tak­ing snaps and fired a few tight spirals while working 
out in the team's indoor practice facility. Later, the team's injury report said Quinn participated in the full practice. 
The Browns initially thought Quinn only bruised his hand after banging it on the helmet of a Bills player. But after he complained of soreness following Wednesday's practice, X-rays were taken and revealed a fracture on the tip of his fin­ger. 
Quinn was cleared to play by a specialist at the Cleveland Clinic. 
"The hand specialist says 
because it's a fracture, sore­ness initially will be the thing that he has to deal with the most," coach Romeo Crennel said. "Then probably after this week, the soreness will die down. We plan to monitor 
'iH this point, it's just a little sore. Just doing the best we can to take all the precautions to make sure it's all right., 
Brady Quinn Browns quarterback 

"But he's going to play, he's going to practice, he's going to try to help the team 
win.,, 
Romeo Crennel Browns coach 

former Notre 
NEW YORK -There has 
Dame star 
never been a rain-shortened 
game in the postseason, and
completed 
passes of 12 
now there never will be. 
and 16 yards 
Baseball commissioner Bud 
to set up Phil 
Selig announced the sport 
Dawson's 
will enact a rules change 
winning 56­
stating that postseason 
yard field 
games cannot be shortened 
goal with 
because of bad weather. 
1:39 left. 
"All postseason games, All­
Q u i n n 
Star games and that, will be 
banged his 
full-length affairs, and the 
him on a regular basis, just to make sure that it's not getting worse or anything like that. But he's going to play, he's going to practice, rule will be so written," Selig said Thursday following an owners' meeting. 

Selig said the change also will apply to tiebreaker games that decide division titles and wild-card berths. 
"Any game that has signifi­cance for the postseason," he 
he's going to try to help the team win." 
Quinn's injury was a surprise to his teammates. 
"I didn't even know he was hurt," center Hank Fraley said. "I don't think anybody in this locker room has a 

clue. I'm going to snap a lit­tle lighter, I guess." 
Fraley said Quinn showed no signs of being slowed by the injury during practice on Wednesday. 
"He looked fine," he said. "If you didn't say a word to me or anybody in this locker room, I don't think anybody else would have even known." 
Making his second career start and first on the road, Quinn finished 14-of-36 for 
newpostseason rule 
185 yards against the Bills. 
He didn't throw a touchdown pass or an interception. Late 
Associated Press 
in the fourth quarter, the 
"All postseason 
Crennel said he didn't con­
said. "It will be put up for sale 
very clear now. games, All-Star when Tribune
sider making the switch back 
to Anderson, a Pro Bowler 
Everybody will games and that, will Co. agreed in 
know exactly." April 2007 to
last season, after Quinn got 
be full-length affairs, 
medical clearance. 
Under base­be acquired by 
ball's rules, and the rule will be Sam Zell. The
"If the specialist had said 
games are offi­so written. " next round of
he can't play, then we would­
n't play him," Crennel said. 
cial as soon as bids is due Dec. 
"But the specialist says he 
the trailing 1, and repre­
Bud Selig 
can practice and he can play. 
team has made sentatives of 
15 outs. MLB commissioner four groups
I think that the organization hand on a helmet in the first quarter and then again in the second. He was surprised to learn that it was broken and said he has never had a similar injury. 
Cleveland's most popular player, Quinn was promoted two weeks ago when Crennel benched Derek Anderson fol­lowing a loss to Baltimore. 
still led 2-1 when play was
LEGENDARY TEAM·~~ .LEGENciR-Y Boois'·· ;,:.: stopped, the game would have gone into a rain delay until it could resume -even if that took several days. "We'll stay here if we have to celebrate Thanksgiving here," he said. Management lawyers will
NOW AVAILABLE 
discuss the contemplated
ALSO AVAILABLE 

change with the players' association. "I expect that will be hav­
NOTR.EDAME 

ing discussions with the com­
FOOTBALL 

missioner's office about that rule in the weeks to come," union general counsel 
HARDCOVER • SI9.95 HARDCOV'"ER e ~27.95 
I:V\RDCOVER e $29·9S 


During World the player in conjunction 
wants to do what's best for 
Series Game 5 with what the medical staff 
between Tampa tells us. When the doctor 
Bay and Philadelphia last said that he can play, then 
month, Selig decided that it we're going to let him play. 
wouldn't be cut short "That's the way we treat 
because of pouring rain. Just all the players," he added. 
after the Rays tied it in the "If the doctor says they can 
top of the sixth, umpires play we let them play." 
halted play and the game was suspended for 46 hours. 
~ ... ' ' ' 
Selig said that if the Phillies 
Michael Weiner said. "I don't want to prejudge it one way or the other." 
Selig had former Federal Reserve board chairman Paul Volcker address owners. Volcker, chairman of the Federal Reserve board from August 1979-August 1987 and an adviser to President­elect Barack Obama, served on Selig's economic study committees from 1990-92 in 1999-2000. 
Selig saw no need to sub­stantiate what Volcker said. 
"Me substantiating Volcker would be like you substanti­ating Grantland Rice," he told a reporter. 
Selig wouldn't speculate on whether the economy would 
slow the poten­
ti<il purchase of 
the Chicago 
Cubs, who were 
have met with 
MLB officials in 
recent weeks. 
"The process is in Sam Zell's hands," Selig said. "Time will tell. The bids will come in and then we will be able to make a judgment ­he 'II be able to make the judgment." 
There has been widespread speculation that the bidders will have trouble financing any deal given the lack of liq­uidity in the credit markets. 
"I don't know what eco­nomic problems the bidders have or haven't had," Selig said. "And I don't know that the Tribune knows it, either, frankly." 
At the meeting, owners unanimously approved 39­year-old Hal Steinbrenner as controlling owner of the New York Yankees, ending the 35­year reign of George Steinbrenner, who is 78 and in declining health. 


H A M M E S --=-­
NOTRE DAME~·~ BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: {574) 631-6316 • www.ndcotalog.com 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 21, 2008 
MLB 

Yankees pitcher Mussina hangs up the cleats after 18 years 
A few hours before his offi­
Associated Press 

eial announcement, Mussina 
NEW YOBK-Mike Mussina shoveled snow and cleaned took a secret to the ballpark closets at his home in evnry day this season. Maybe Montoursville, Pa. He likes that's why he was so success­small-town life, often coached ful on the mound, so jovial in basketball and football at the the elubhouse. loeal high school and intends 
From Day One of spring to spend a lot of time watch­training, he knew this was his ing his 10-and 5-year-old final year -even if it meant sons play ball. giving up bids for 300 wins, a In five years, Mussina will 
World  SPries  become eligi­ 
ring and  a  bet­ ble for the Hall  
ter shot at  the  of Fame, and it  
Hall of Fame.  figures to be. a  
The Nnw York Yankees piteher walked away from basPball  "I don't have any regrets with what I decided. This is the  lively debate. lie aeknowl­ndged there are solid argu­ 
Thursday after his only 20-win  right lime."  ments sides.  on  both  
SIHLSOn, a month shy of his 40th birthday with a  Mike Mussina Yankees pitcher  "It's not decision make,"  my to he  
still-potPnt right  said.  
arm.  Mussina  
"I don't have  never won a Cy  
any rngrets with  Young  Award  

what I doeid1HI. This is thn or a World Series champi­right time," Mussina said on onship and was a 20-garne a eonferencn call. winner just on the !"inal t.iay 
"I don't think there was of his career. He was 7-8 with ever a point whern I looked a 3.42 EHA in postseason around and said, 'You know play. what, I'm going to change my lie was amazingly consis­mind,"' he said. "It was like tent -al"ter going 4-5 as a the last year of high school. rookie with Baltimore in You know it's going to end 1991, he became the only AL 
and you enjoy the ridn." 
Mussina fin­ished 270-153 with a 3.68 EBA in 18 seasons with Baltimore and NtlW York. A thinking man's pitcher who relied on sharp control and did more than overpower hitters, he ranks 32nd on the career wins pitcher to reach double figures in wins for 17 straight 

"I love baseball, I love years. lie was 
a five-time All­

playing, I love 
Star and won 

pitching. This is good his seventh for me. This is it. " Gold Glove ear­
lier this month. Tall and slim,

Mike Mussina 
Mussina spent

Yankees pitcher his whole career pitching in the bruising AL East, smack in the Steroids 
list and 19th in strikeouts Era. with 2,813. His best outing came in 
His dad and brother tried to 2001 at Boston, when he talk him out or retirement came within one strike of a and Yankees general manag­perfect game before Carl er Brian Cashman called to Everett singled. Mussina's ask about his future. Instead, proudest moment came in "Moose" became the first Game 7 of the 2003 ALCS, healthy pitcher to leave on when he made the first relief his own accord following a appearance of his career and 20-win season in more than a 


Eddie Cicotte and Lefty Williams got tossed in the Black Sox scandal. Henry Schmidt won 22 for Brooklyn in 1903 as a rookie, then 

COME TO THEdecided to go West and return to the Pacific Coast League. 
"I love baseball. I love play­ing, I love pitching," Mussina said. "This is good for me. This is it." 
On Mussina's last day as a 

SOUTH SIDE.big leaguer, he pitched six shutout innings at Fenway Park to beat Boston and wind up 20-9 -it made him the oldest first-time 20-game winner ever. 
"It was a nice way to fin­ish," he said. 
century. 
Sandy Koufax left the Dodgers after 1966 because of agonizing elbow pain, 

threw three scoreless innings 
against the Red Sox. 
"My numbers match up well 
with guys who are in the Hall 
of the Fame," he said, adding 
other pitchers have won more 
games and been left out. 
Said Yankees captain Derek 
Jeter: "Moose's accomplish­
ments in the game over the 
last 18 years represent a Hall 
of Fame player." 
Mussina said he couldn't 
envision himself working in 
baseball in the foreseeable 
future, though he was open to 
someday helping out young 
pitchers. 
Money isn't an issue. He left Baltimore to sign an $88.5 million, six-year eontraet as a free agent with. the Yankees before the 2001 season and finished with a $23 million, two-year deal. 
Mussina graduated early from Stanford with an eco­nomics degree -he won the College World Series with the Cardinal -and carne to the Yankees with a reputation as an ace pitcher with a prickly personality. He softened over the years, and by the end became a chatty clubhot1se spokesman who kept reporters chuckling with his witty observations and thoughtful answers. 
Mussina frequently sat in front of his locker doing crossword puzzles. In fact, he appeared in the 2006 docu­mentary "Wordplay" and kept a thesaurus in his stall for knotty problems. 
No words, however, could change his mind on calling it a career. Mussina said he decided last January that he had one more season. 
"Good or bad, this is going to be the last year," he told himself. "That's just how I felt." 
Mussina said most of his teammates knew his plans. More relaxed, he called it a fun year. . 
Now, he said, it was time to stay home. Spring training would have to come and go. 
"I think February is going to be a little strange," he said. "It'll be different. It'll be weird." 
FOOTBALL HOURS 

FRIDAY Restaurant: 11:00 am · Midnight Pub: 11:00 am · 2:00am 
SATURDAY Restaurant: 8:00am · Midnight Pub: 8:00am · 2:00am 
574.6312582 't-NJW.\egendsofnotredame.org 
As for what's next, "I don't really have any plans," he said. 
A man of diverse interests, no telling whether he'll get to enjoy the things he some­times talked about-going to 


the Daytona 500, seeing his 

MAJOR IN FILM, TELEVISON, AND THEATRE.
favorite Irish setters in the 

CLICK HERE: ftt.nd.edu
Westminster Kennel Club dog show. 


Friday, November 21, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC BASKETBALL MEN'S SWIMMING 
Saint Mary's begins life vvithout Kessler 
last year. To combine with a
By KATE GRABAREK 
strong veteran core, the team 
Sports Writer 
also has seven freshmen on the roster this season. Tonight begins a new era "Our freshmen need to for Saint Mary's basketball. learn our program and what 
When the Belles take on we are trying to establish," Ohio Wesleyan tonight to Henley said. "We have a very open their season, they will talented young group that do so without Alison Kessler, will have the opportunity to who graduated last spring as contribute early for us." the program's all-time scor­The Belles are coming off a ing leader. fourth-place finish in the 
"There certainly was a void MIAA conference last season to fill after the in which they graduation of went 13-13 Alison," Belles overall, 8-8 in coach Jen "I expect us to have conference. Henley said of The MIAA
more depth in our

Kessler, who preseason
program this season.,, 
holds five other coaches' poll school records. picked Saint "But every pro­Jen Henley Mary's to finish gram goes fourth again
Belles coach 

through that transition as your seniors graduate. The team has adjusted well." 
The Belles will be led this season by their four seniors -guards Meghan Conaty and Katie Rashid along with for­wards Nicole Beier and Erin Newsom. 
Newsom had six double­doubles last season, and she combined with junior forward Anna Kammrath to amass 551 points, and 432 rebounds last season. 
"I expect us to have more depth in our program this season," Henley said. "We need to improve our overall team defense and be more balanced in our offense from last season." 
The Belles will get a boost from junior guard Mary Lynn Carlson, who missed signifi­cant time with a knee injury 
this season 
with Hope, 

Calvin and Albion predicted to finish atop the conference. 
Tonight's match-up with Ohio Wesleyan starts the Anderson College Tip-Off Tournament in Anderson, Ind. 
"It's tough to be specific since it's the first game of the season for both teams," Henley said. "The only stats we have are from last season. Those do not give an accu­rate view of a team's poten­tial." 
The Belles will play in either the tournament's con­solation or championship game on Saturday before their home opener against Wheaton on Tuesday at 6 p.m. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at KgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Serving Lunch & Dinner Come Dine With Our Family And Be Our Friend! 
Tues-Sat 11-2; 4-9 
Closed Sun & Mon 
Our Specialties Include Exquisite Meat Entrees & Healthy Vegetarian Dishes 
Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiches Meat Dishes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts Dine In • Take Out • Catering Reservations Accepted 
115 Db.ie Way North, South Bend 
(574) 277-7239 
Buckeyes burst into Rolfs 
2 under Coach Tim Welsh. 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
But in their only meet 
Sports Writer 
against top-25 competition, 
the Irish fell to No. 16 
Notre Dame faces its tough­Purdue, 187-108. est challenge of the season Unfortunately for the Irish, it when No. 11 Ohio State trav­doesn't get much easier els to the Rolfs against the Aquatic Center Buckeyes. at 5 p.m. "Ohio State tonight with an "Ohio State may be may be the undefeated 3-0 the fastest team to fastest team to record on the visit Notre
visit Notre Dame this 
season. Dame this sea-The Irish son, Irish
season. 
enter the meet coach Tim with a 3-2 Welsh said.
Tim Welsh 
record on the "They swim
Irish coach 
year. In their very well in most recent dual meets, meet, they and we are swept a dual meet at expecting this to be one of our Cleveland State against the toughest of the season. Vikings and Miami (OH). The Hopefully this will bring out Irish improved their record fast swims on our end as against Cleveland State to 22-well." 
The meet is the first of at least two times where the Irish will face off against the Buckeyes. Notre Dame returns the favor and travels to Columbus for the Ohio State Invitational, which runs from Dec. 5-7. This is Notre Dame's last meet before the trip. 
Although the Irish and Buckeyes have not swam against each other in a dual meet in quite some time, they have participated in the Ohio State Invitational in each of the past two seasons. The Irish finished third in 2006 and fourth in 2007 while the Buckeyes placed second in both years. The University of Minnesota came in first in each meet. 

Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Pitt offense runs through McCoy 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH If Pittsburgh's Top 25 game at Cincinnati is tight in the fourth quarter Saturday night, both teams know what will happen when the Panthers have the ball. 
The same thing that hap­pened in last year's Panthers­Bearcats game. The Pitt-Notre Dame game earlier this month. The Pitt vs. then-No. 2 West Virginia game last season. 
LeSean McCoy, college foot­ball's road runner, is going to get the ball. A lot. 
McCoy is only a sophomore, but he might be the Panthers' best big-game rusher since Heisman Trophy winner Tony Dorsett in the 1970s. McCoy doesn't pile up his yards against the lightweights on the Panthers' schedule or in games in which they're lead­ing big. 
McCoy is often at his best when the games are the biggest, a quality not all 1,000­yard rushers possess. Especially in road games, where McCoy has gained more than haif of his career yardage. 
"We don't want to take the ball out of Shady's hands," offensive coordinator Matt Cavanaugh said. 
For good reason, too. 
During Pitt's 39-36, four­overtime win at Notre Dame on Nov. 1, McCoy rushed for 101 yards -from the fourth quarter on, finishing with 169 yards and a touchdown. That performance came during a four-week stretch in which he ran for 613 yards and 10 touchdowns against South Florida, Navy, Rutgers and Notre Dame. 
McCoy gained 137 yards as Pitt beat then-No. 23 Cincinnati 24-17 last season. Later in the season, he ran for 148 yards on 38 carries -on the road -as Pitt defeated West Virginia 13-9 in the biggest upset in school history. 
McCoy's ability to get tough yardage in difficult circum­stances has allowed Pitt to win its last five road games, beat­ing two Top 10 teams (West Virginia and then-No. 10 South Florida), plus Notre Dame. 
Now, No. 20 Pitt (7-2, 3-1 in Big East) will try to beat another ranked team on the road in No. 19 Cincinnati (8-2, 4-1), which is 0-7 against the Panthers. 
"Playing good on the road, that's worked out real well for us," said McCoy, who has 1,043 yards and 16 touch­downs this season after run­ning for 1,328 yards and 14 TDs as freshman. "This is in the point in the year where we really need it. We have a big game with Cincinnati on the road, so we have to keep our streak going." 
His streak, too. McCoy has rushed for 142 yards or more in each of his last five road games, and has gained 120 yards or more in seven of his nine career games away from Heinz Field. 
McCoy has been held below 100 yards only twice on the road and below 86 only once, a 60-yard game at Rutgers last season. He has gained 1,202 of his 2,371 career yards and has nine touchdowns in his nine road games, an average of 
133.6 yards. 

-WALLEIS ·SCARVES -PURSES -CHANGE 
"As You Wish" 
Imports 
-INCENSE. PURSES 
LOADS OF SILVER & BEADED JEWELRY, SILVER RINGS AND TOE RINGS. 1-:.<\PESTRY WALL HANGINGS/ BEDSPREADS AND MUCH MUCH MORE 
LOW PRICES! GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFTS! Guat";e'Tlaia -· t?olivia ··· Fcru --Mexico -Th.ai:and -l.ndia 
La FortLme :::..:: s-orin Roo~ ![)ec. 1-6 (Sal.) 1 J-Spm M-F Eves 7:30-lOpm 
Proceeds from sales of jewelry guaranTee The loving hands of Gua-temalar famHies 3 'times Their average saJary, o.s well as funds for 'their educat-ion 
According to Stats, Inc., the only running backs on Top 25 teams who have gained more road yardage than McCoy the last two seasons are MiQuale Lewis of Ball State (1,287 yards in nine games) and Chris Wells of Ohio State (1,282 yards in nine games). 
A big game from McCoy is almost a necessity if Pitt is to win at Cincinnati, which can all but wrap up the Big East title and a BCS bowl bid with a victory. The Bearcats' only remaining conference game after Saturday is against Syracuse (2-8, 1-5). 
"Cincinnati, I'm sure they're going to do their best to stop the run," quarterback Bill Stull said. "Louisville put a lot of extra time into doing that and was successful, but that allowed us to mix in a couple of other things with some reverses and trick plays." 
Louisville was so geared up to stop McCoy, limiting him to 39 yards and a touchdown on 17 carries on Nov. 8, that the rest of the offense pretty much did what it wanted. Stull passed for 216 yards and a touchdown and the Pitt defense scored two touch­downs during a 41-7 victory. 
Cincinnati's rushing defense is the third best in the Big East, allowing an average of 112 yards. 
"They probably have the toughest defense we'll face all season," Stull said. "They have a good secondary, but we believe they'll try to stop the run first. That's fine with us." 
A victory opens the door for the Panthers to win the confer­ence if they can beat West Virginia and Connecticut in their final two games. 
"Maybe we can be the team to do what we did to West Virginia last year, we can knock everybody else out," McCoy said. "That's our mind­set. We have three tough games left against three tough teams, so the way we look at it is, 'How bad do we want it?' " 
"The leaders on this team, they want it bad.... So does coach (Dave Wannstedt). Coach, he wants this real bad." 


r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, November 21, 2008 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

NDreadyfor retnatchvvith Huskies 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles look to push record over .500 

Recruits 
continued from page 24 
es in the country." 
While Larson was selected by Calgary in the fourth round (108th overall) of last year's NHL draft, two of hi'> future classmates have been tabbed as "Players to Watch" by the NHL. 
Given an "A" rating, Palmieri was dassified as a "Must See play­er" and a projected first or seeond round draft piek. Calabrese was given a "C" rating as a potential lat1~-round choice. 
Both Fowler and Sheahan are not elif.,rible filr the 2009 NHL Draft but are expected be to be first­round choic1~s in 2010, a und.eom mlease said. 
Calabrese is a 5-foot-1 0, 170­pound, right-handed defcnseman who has filur assi'il'i in 1!) games with the national team this year. lie joined the Team USA program after rm:ording 10 goals and 62 assists in 70 games with Team Illinoi<; in 2(X)6-07. 
"Sam is a very mobile defense­man with exeellent offensive instinets who has improved his def(msive game over the last two seasons," Jackson said. 
At 6-filot-2, 190 pounds, Fowler brin!-,'S sound oflimsive skills and a powerful left-handed shot to the defimsive unit. lie ha<> three goals 
By JARED JEDICK Spons Writer 
l11e Big Eru-.1 Champion<;hip starl'i up with a bang this morning in Pitl<>burgh with an opening round rematch again'it Omnectkul 
Attnr earning the number five sood la<>t weekend with a win over that same Connecticut team, the Irish are poi<>ed til build on some late season momentum <md make a run at the Big Ea'it Champion'>hip. 
"I think we have a really good chan<".t~ at winning the tournament," Iri'ih coach Debbin Brown said. "We have boon doing some things very well lately ;md I am very optimi'itic." 
The Irish have always played inspirnd volleyball in the Big Ea'>t Championship, especially in Pitl<>burgh. Ttu~ lri<>h havn won fwe of six league tournaments played in Piusburgh with <m impnJSsive 12-1 record. 
"In tl~rms of prPparation, we feel g<KKI. Wf~ know it will be a tremen­dously mmpetitiw tournament and we like that. because that type of environment brings out the best in us," Brown said. 
Ttw Irish are looking fbrward to tho t.oumament where all the teams are now even and anything can happPn. 
"The Big East tournament is 
SAINT{iJOSEPH LV~ 
~ioru1l Medkal Ce;.rter 
111Y-..tf.ttlllon.-ll'-llh<-•Mio:-­
always fun and exciting," Brown said. "A'i much a<; we'd like to go into the tournament as a higher snnd, everyonn is 0-0 at this point. We're excited wfaee a first-round opponent that we just played. Whether we had won or lost the previous match, I'd say the same thing. You know who the players are and you have a better feel for the team, opposed wsomeone you played in the season's first week­end." 
The tournament will begin in unill>ual fashion, with the Irish play­ing the fourth-seeded Huskies for the second game in a row. The match la'>1 weekend ended in a 3-2 viewry for the Irish. The win against Conneetieut snapped the Huskies' SIWen game winning streak. 
"I was very plea'ied with how the def{m<;e played again<;t Connocticut," Brown said. "We held them to a very low hitting percentage." 
The fiuniliarity will be an advan­tage fbr the lri'ih, as they know what it takes to beat the I Itt<;kies. 
"It helps that we just played them," Brown said. "It would be dif­feront if we played them earlier in the year, but we know exactly what toexpeel" 
The Htt<>kies eome inw the tour­nament on fire. The loss to Notre Dame was only the second loss Connecticut has suffered since and 11 assists in 19 games under the US Under-18 team thi<> season and tallied two goals and 12 assists in 59 games for the Under­17 squad last season. 
"Cam is a dynamic player at the defense position," Jackson said. "He'll be a great power-play quar­terbaek and potentially is as tal­ented a defenseman as we've ever had at Notre Dame." 
Palmieri, the final member of the Team USA trio, is a 5-foot-10, 180-pound right wing who moved up wthe Under-18 squad midway through last season after starting the eampaign with the Under-17 team. He wtaled 29 goals and 19 assist<; in 66 games between the two teams last year, and has five goal<; and four assist<; through 19 games thi'> season. 
"Kyle is a dynamic player who plays with a lot of jam. He's a ommsively skilled with excellent hockey instincts and is a fierce eompetitllr," Jackson said. "Kyle i'i one of those players that makes thinf.,'S happen on the ice." 
At 6-foot-2 and 203 pounds, Larson is a prototypical, physical Jell wing who is a facwr in front of the net. Last season, he played alongside current Irish freshman forward Billy Maday with the Waterloo Black Hawks, when he totaled 19 goal<; and 19 assi<;l<; in the regular season and added three goals and two assists in the playoii'i. 

"Nick plays well without the pouck and knows how wput him­self in position to score," Jackson said. "He's got a good shot with a quick release and is at his best when he plays with a physical edge." 
A second cousin of former Irish defenseman Brock Sheahan, who graduated last year, Ryan Sheahan is a 6-foot-2, 195-pound center who is a quiek, skilled offensive threat. His team, the St. Catharines Falcons, lead their divi­sion, and he leads the squad with 1 7 goals and 31 assists in 24 games-that's two points a game. 
"Riley will be a dynamie player at the collegiate level," Jaekson said. "He's got all the wols. He's as complete a player as we've recruited from an offensive per­spective, and yet he's not afraid w get hi'> nose dirty." 
While the Irish are surely look­ing forward to the arrival of their five future teammates, thls year's installment of Notre Dame hockey will begin a home-and-home weekend series with Bowling Green wnight. 
The No. 5 Irish (7-3-1, 3-2-1-1 CCHA) host the Falcons (5-5-2, 4­3-1-0 CCHA) at 7:35 p.m. tonight before the same two teams meet tllmorrow night in Bowling Green, Ohio. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
Oewber 18. 
The Irish played some great 
defeuse against Coupecticut that 
they would like wsee again in the 
rematch along with a little more 
offense. Brown believes the key w 
the Irish's ~uccess this weekend will 
be a stronger and more diverse 
offense. 
After the first round games the 
winners will play again on Saturday. 
Ifthe Irish advanee they will play the 
winner of the No. 1 St. John's and 
No. 8 South Florida game. 
Assuming that St. John's can 
avoid the big upset, the Irish will 
play the other team that they fu.ced 
last weekend. Once again the Irish 
will benefit from the experienee they 
gained playing against the league's 
bet,iteam. 
Brown believes that the Irish 
played one of their best games this 
year in the close 2-3 loss la'it week­
end against St. John's, and the team 
is looking forward to the possible 
match-up in the semi-finals. 
Sunday's title match will be on 
Sunday. Ifthe lri'ih run the tallle and 
be\nme the winner of the Big East 
Championship, they will reeeive the 
league's auwmatic bid wthe 2008 
NO\A Division I Women's Volleyball 
Champion'>hip. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
T'eo 

continued from page 24 
Calif. Part of the reason as to why Gaffney is interested in Notre Dame is thanks to spe­cial teams coach Brian Polian's 
efforts in the Golden State. 
"Brian Po!ian's done a great job of recruiting him all through­out, and Gaffney has always said he'd visit," Frank said. "It's just a matter of finding the right time since a lot of these guys are still in their 

playoffs. It's really hard to know when they're going to be able to get out and take a look. I think Tyler Gaffney likes Notre Dame quite a bit. He likes the tradition and the school, and he likes the faet that it's a strong aeademic institution. He's got a lot of options, but I think he likes the 
By ERIC PRISTER Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's will continue its 2008 season with the Patrick Woehnker Invitational, a two-day event starting today. 
The Belles are coming off a solid win against conference opponent Alma College, which improved their overall record to 2-2, not including a 4th place finish in Dennis Stark relays at the beginning of the season. 
Saint Mary's has been led by stellar performances from underclassman. Sophomore Maggie Williams and fresh­man Eva Cavadini lead the 
"Brian Polian 's done a great job of recruiting him all throughout and Gaffney has always said he'd visit." 
Mike Frank Irish recruiting analyst 

idea of Notre Dame." 
In addition, a pair of junior wide receivers from the Chicagoland area is visiting this weekend. Corey Cooper, who committed early to the University of Illinois, is still keeping his options open and will take his second unofficial 
thus far. 

"Kyle's had a really nice year," Frank said. "He's put up some good numbers and he's a guy to keep an eye on bneause I know Notre Dame is pretty interested." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
team with seven first-place finishes apiece, and fresh­man Audrey Dalrymple has per!o.r me d "}Ve P ~i tb si~ 
first-place finishes of her own. 
Last year in the Patrick Woehnker Invitational, the Belles finished in last plaee, but they hope to improve on that performance in this year's meet. 
The invitational is hosted by Wabash College in Crawfordsville, IN. It will begin tonight at 6:00 P.M. in the Class of 1950 Natatorium in the Allen Athletics and Recreation Center. 
Contact Eric Prister at 
eprister@nd.edu 

visit to Notre Dame Saturday. Cooper is from the same high sehool as Irish safety Sergio Brown, Proviso East High. 
The other receiver is Kyle Prater who is a teammate of Cooper's and has had a solid junior campaign 
Friday,November 21, 2008 
The Observer+ SPORTS 

Do you consider the -word "tnotivated" an understaten1ent? 
·~ "'f.JI 
h 

~ve t_,_()U l1t S()$ 
lfs time for your hard vvork to pay off within an organization that was once again named one of BusinessWeekls 50 Best Places To Launch A Career. We offer a collaborative~ inclusive culture. With customizable careers, professional development~ and benefits. And a commitment to community~ the environment, and making time for family. 
''? ·-.' .' "·<"" •.' 
.-: .· ·. .; ; "' ~. 




For an electronic information packet text IJNOTREDAME" to 78573. Visit us on the web at deloitte.com/us/notredame. 
Deloitte LLP and its subsidiaries are an equal opportunity employer. About Deioitte Deioitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, a Svviss Verein, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate 
and independent entity. Please see vvvvvJ.de!oitte.com/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu and its member firms. Please see www,deloitte.com/us/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte LLP and its subsidiaries. Copyright @ 2008 Deloitte Development LLC All rights reserved 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, November 21, 2008 
Diggins 
continued from page 24 
me next year.· And at first thought she meant we had too many guards and I didn't think she was going to lit, and I had a moment of 'I bntter explain this right away.' 
"And tlwn I just realized she was saying 'Yes.' Thero was some pandemonium in the locker room. 
Unlike with most players, who start getting heavily recruited later in thPir high school earners, Diggins' process bngan much oar­tier. McGraw said she lirst ollcrnd thn 5-loot-9 !,'liard a scholarship in eighth grade. 
"We had seen her play and I knPw she was going to bn a great player," McCraw said. " ... She was really special illld I think we could tell that right away." 
Pnwiously. thP earliest McGraw said shn omm~d a scholarship was during the sophomore seasons of current juniors Ashley Barlow and Mnli<>sa Lnchlitnnr. 
"They both committed at the olli~r. so that's why we thought it was supposed to work," McGraw said jokingly. 
One of the things that made 
. signing Diggins more dillieult than any other prospect during McCraw's long tenure at Notre Damn is that she is by far the highest ranked prospect to com­mit to the University in program history. McGraw said the national attention Diggins received made rneruiting her a lot morn stressful than her expnrience with other players. "It is a long promss, and I think it got a little morn strnssful as the process went on," MeGraw said. "Wn were just trying to not put 
pressurn on her, illld trying to let her come to the decision herself without trying to talk her into it." 
The fact that Diggins is a South Bend native helped ease the process, McGraw said, since she illld her staff could put in a lot of face time at Diggins' high school games. McGraw said she almost had to "1-.ruard her turf' because of the numbnr of coaches flying into South Bnnd to watch Diggins play. 
"We keep talking to people at the airport to delay the nights coming in, put that fence up around town, charge a toll to get in. We could have made a lot of money this year," McGraw said. 
Hegardless of the extra atten­tion on Diggins, McGraw said the proeess remained the same as it has with all of her other players. 
"Most of [the girl<> on the team] committed so early in the process, nom~ of them except for [sopho­more forwardl Devereaux [PetersI. took any other official vL<>­it.<>," she said. 
Diggins is currently 19th on the all-time scorers' list in Indiana high school girls basketball with 2,036 points. She has averaged 24.8 points, 5.6 rebounds, 5.4 assist.'>, 4.1 steals and 1.3 blocks per game during her three years on the varsity team at Washington. She has also started 81 of 82 games at the school­which has a 76-6 record in the last three seasons -illld won the state championship her sopho­more season. 
Diggins joins point guard Kaila Turner from Joliet, Ill., and Marian Catholic I Iigh School as this year's recruiting class ­ranked between No. 13 and No. 18 by national recruiting services. This marks the twdfth consecu­tive top 25 recruiting elass for thP Irish, a feat matched only by perennial powerhouses Tennessee illld Connecticut. 

McGraw said her recruiting is likely done, unless a big name post player comes up later in the process. If current senior guard Lindsay Schrader opts to take her redshirt fifth-year (earned after tearing her ACL two seasons ago), the Irish will have 13 players on the roster next season. 
But looking into the more immediate future, the Irish will take on Boston College Sunday at Chestnut Hills, Mass. 
The Eagles currently sit at 3-0, thilllks in large part to their front court. Center Carolyn Swords stands at 6-foot-6 and forward Stefanic Murphy have helped lead the scoring so far this year for Boston College. Sword<> is first on the team, averaging a double­double through three games at 
21.7 points and 10 boards, while Murphy is third with 11 points per game. 
"We're going to count on Erica Williamson and hope our post defense can really come through tor us," McGraw said. 
McGraw said the team will be working on boxing out and rebounding this week at practice to make up for the size differen­tial. In Notre Dame's la<>t game, a 96-61 win over Evansville Wednesday night, the-Irish were outrebounded 42-36. 
McGraw said she doesn't expect her team to play as much man-to­man defense to avoid mismatches, but added that this game will come to which scheme will work best. 
"We'll see is it a speed issue or a size issue, what's going to win," she said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at j6tzpa5@nd.edu 
Sweet 16 
continued from page 24 
go after it," he said. "They're very similar to Marquette or (North] Carolina in that way ... At the end of the day, I think we're gonna go out there and lind a very good team." 
But that's not to say that Minnesota has a weak back line. 
'They're a very good defense, much like we are," he said. "They haven't given up a ton of this season. Bock, whose injured leg has no structural damage, has been unable to practice due to the intense pain it causes her. 
'To tell you the truth, I think we've gotten beyond the fact that we might have to play with­out her," Waldrum said. " ... But [the team] hasn't skipped a beat with lout herl. We've played the last few games of the season without her and, in the begin­ning of the season, we played some big games without her." 
Freshman Melissa Henderson, 
who has scored 
17 goals, gives 
the Irish enough
goals but we "Usually we look at 
have the depth up front to
the cold [weather} as 
weapons, and if replace Bock. 
we stick to our a homefield advntage Waldrum said the Irish must
game-plan I for us. But that's not 
think we'll be play every game
the case this time 

alright." like it is their last The undefeat­around." because any of ed Irish, who the remaining 16 are no strangers teams is capable
Randy Waldrum 

to hosting late­or winning the
Irish coach 


r o u n d Tournament games, welcome a Golden Gophers team that is used to the cold weather. 
"Usually we look at the cold (weather] as a homefield advan­tage for us," Waldrum said. "But that's not the case this time around." 
For that reason, Waldrum said the Irish hope to see tremendous fan support tonight. 
"That's where the crowd can really help us out," he said. "We really need their help so I hope to see a Iotta students come out." 
The Irish will play without co­captain Brittany Bock for the fourth straight game and Waldrum said the team is not optimistic that she can return national title. 
"I think when you look at the 16 that are left, there are no real surprises out there," he said. "At the end of the day, any of them can win it all and it wouldn't be a terrible surprise. It's the lirst year in a long time where there haven't been any big surprises." 
So Notre Dame heads into tonight's matchup with the Golden Gophers with the inten­tion of focusing on one game at a time. And Waldrum said the team cannot wait to take the field. 
"I think everyone's ready to go, and excited," he said. "Even with the eold weather, we're ready." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


Friday, November 21, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLACK DOG 
INI>IAI-JA IS CRAC-KIN6-MY NAME. IS OFFICER. 
D0Wt-.l ClN !:lR:.LIIIIK I:>RIVI"'If: TIM 1'\.:.CART'HY FOR 
ll'E-1"\EMSE'R.' IF VDU THE: 11-Jt-IANA STATE. 
oPE!(ATC AVEJ-Ifc..LE­f'OLIC£ AND I'M A 
\,JHILE. INTOlCICATE!>, YOU PVNAHOI..IC..
MI(;HT cloSeT PLAcE!> U., CARDIAC All/USr'. 
DAVID CAVADINI 
DOME PIECE 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JroJMLIDibl! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. 
one letter to each square. · to form four ordinary words. 
RUSIV 
j
CII±

©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
GEISE 
tRAWSEN t 
EASIL-Y RAISED AT
J (] ] 
MORNING ROL-l­
www.jumble.com 
CAL-l-. 

I SCAFIO ± 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I I r IJ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: rrrriJ'D (IIIIJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: DUSKY VIPER FEEBLE SLOUCH Answer: What the beauticians did before the cosmetics exam -"BRUSHED" UP 
CROSSWORD 
Across 33 Taylor Hicks, 64 Risky person to do business
e.g. with, briefly C-shaped 
gadget 35 Sharp as a tack 

66 Holy ones: Abbr. 6 Breastplate, e.g. 38 Cable network 
67 Made public 11 "Kinda" suffix owned by NBC 
68 Possessive 
Universal

14 Spokes, pronoun in an essentially 39 Oh-so-cute 
old hymncarnival prizes,
15 Break from 69 It may be 
briefly
service cocked 42 Pirouette pivot 

16 E-file preparer. 70 Some are proper 43 Adoption agcy.
briefly 71 Church 17 Good-looking, 45 Projector unit assembly briefly 
46 "Jerusalem 19 Part of a Delivered" poet Down confession 
48 Of yore fralche 20 Oscar winner 
2 Agent Swifty 50 Fall settingTomei 3 Deck out 52 Dry rot, e.g.
21 Like a woodland 4 Flunkies 54 Bustle 23 Inventor Rubik 
5 Places to refuel 24 Bounty letters 55 "Don't forget ... " 
6 Toby filler 26 Thumbscrew 7 Marine hazards 
59 Prayer wheel ridges inscriptions 

8 Deli supply 27 Final Four org. 61 "Oops!" list 
9 It's too much 29 Dom or earl 
63 Phoenix-to-10 Take umbrage at 30 Low man Albuquerque dir. 11 Winter hazards, briefly ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
12 Hawker's line 13 Deck crew 18 'That's a laugh!" 22 Be a sourpuss 25 Fair one? 
..:,:.+.:::.+~~-r:,:. .-.:.,:.r::..r:~....-! 28 "Le d'Or" 1111111--=+=+=+-=+=-1 29 Rang out 30 H.O.V. lane user 31 Shakespeare's 
"poor venomous fool" 
32 Student writing competition, briefly 
34 Buck's mate 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

a natural disaster 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656. $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
WILLSHORTZ 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kate Moss, 34; Sade, 49; John Carpen­ter, 60; Dr. Laura Schlessinger, 61 
Happy Birthday: Think matters through before you take action. You may not have all the infonnation you need to make a good decision. Be willing to research every aspect of what you want to see happen before you make your move. This is the year to be fully prepared so that you can make the most of the opportunities around you. Your numbers are 7, 13, 20, 25, 32, 46 
ARIES (Mardi 21-Apri119): Don't let someone else's emotional trauma bring you down. You have plenty going your way and, ifyou stop to meddle in other people's problems, you will miss something special. You'll have a passionate ap­proach to whatever you do. 3 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't expect to get help from others when you should be doing the work yourself. Someone from your past may propose some­thing that interests you. A new project can turn into a long-tenn, profitable ven­ture. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Not everything will be out in the open or made readily available for you to see. Scrutinize what others are doing. A cheerful ap­proach will help you to decipher what everyone around you is up to. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-Jnly 22): You may not like change but you are overdue. A little effort will result in comfortable surroundings. A good talk with someone you love will lead to a better understanding of one another. 4 stars LEO (July 23-Ang. 22): You may feel more like having some fun but you should be focusing on what you can do to get ahead professionally, educationally or fi­nancially. The time you spend organizing, planning and manipulating your future will pay off. 2 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Deal with emotional issues quickly and you will spare yourself ongoing problems. Be precise about how you feel and what you expect and you will gain the respect of the people you are dealing with. A new challenge will inspire you. 5 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put more effort into fiXing up your place or looking for a new investment that will help you save. Getting out with friends or family and trying something new will inspire you to do more of the things that you find motivating. A love interest will develop. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your emotions will be tested today. Not everyone will be forthright regarding intentions and expectations. Instead of letting things get to you, make decisions that will set you apart and help you counteract any fonn of manipulation. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dee. 21): Get serious about your future. Travel, educa­tion and picking up information that can transfonn your life should be consid­ered. An older or more experienced individual will be able to shed some light on an interesting topic. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dee. 22-Jan. 19): Spend time on yourself. Ifyou look good, you will feel good. A property deal or investment can be put into play with the expec­tation of making a clear profit. A move from one location to another will revital­ize you. 5 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Help others and you will help yourself. Taking action will prove that you are capable ofbeing a leader and give you the respect of people who cau influence your future. Your chann, electric personality and vision will be all that's required. 2 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-MarclJ 20): Don't put too much trust into what others say they will do. Unless you have something in writing, it isn't likely to manifest into any­thing. Offer your time and expertise but don't give cash to a cause you Irnow little about. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are aggressive, forthright and in command. You are capable of getting others to do things for you and can always come up with solutions when needed. You are a leader. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
home of King's 65 Online revenue Peak sources 
.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, November 21, 2008 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Irish say aloha to top outside linebacking prospect incountry 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Hailing from Honolulu, llawaii and Punahou High School, Manti Te'o is perhaps the most sought-after outside linebacker prospect in the nation. thanks to his speed and tackling instinct. The blue-chip talent has received special 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Notre Dame ready for Gophers' attacking style, cold weather 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Spores Editor 
In round one, Notre Dame delivered a series of punishing blows to il<> helpless opponent. 
In round two, the team traded punches with its foe before the Irish delivered a late uppercut to gain the upper hand. 
Now it's time for round three. 
Aftnr blowing out Toledo and squeaking past Michigan State last weekend, No. 1 Notre Dame (23-0-0) prepares for a slugfest against No. 22 Minnesota (22-3­
0) tonight at Alumni Field. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum said the Big Ten champion Golden Gophers play an up­tempo, attacking style. 
"They love to attack, they love to pressure the ball, they really 
see SWEET 16/page 20 

treatment from coach Charlie Weis, as he has personally flown to Hawaii twice in the past year to recruit Te'o. 
Mike Frank, who covers Notre Dame football for Scout.com thinks very highly of Te'o, and would be an excel­lent addition to an already solid class of 2009. 
"Manti is a game-changing type of linebacker," Frank said. 
"He's a guy that can make big, big plays. He's a guy with incredible speed and the ability to run sideline to sideline. He's got the kind of speed and ath­leticism that they've been look­ing for at linebacker." 
If Te'o were to give his verbal commitment to Notre Dame, Frank believes that the line­backer would have an immedi­ate impact, even as a fresh­man. 
"He's the type of guy that if he comes in as a true fresh­man, he has the ability to get on the field quickly, maybe even start," Frank said. "lie really has that kind of skill." 
One of the more interesting aspects of Te'o's recruitment is that the high-school senior wishes to go on a Mormon mis­sionary trip in between his 
Round Three 

JESS LEE/The Observer Irish forward Michele Weissenhofer battles for the ball during Notre Dame's 5-0 win over SMU Sept. 12. Weissenhofer registered one shot during the game. 
sophomore and junior seasons. Coach Weis has already grant­ed Te'o approval to embark on the mission if he pleases. 
Te'o will be on campus this weekend for the Syracuse game. 
Another 2009 recruit that will be on hand is fullback Tyler Gaffney out of San Diego, 
see T'EO/page 20 
HOCKEY 

Recruits sign for Fall 2009 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 

Irish coach Jeff Jackson locked up fivn recruits Thursday that will arrive at Notre Dame next fall, con­tinuing the tradition of strong recruiting that Jackson has devel­oped since arriving in 2005. 
Defensemen Sam Calabrese and Cam Fowler join forwards Kyle Palmieri, Nick Larson and Riley Sheahan to form one of the most highly touted five-man recruiting classes in the nation. 
"We're very excited about this group of players and have been waiting a long time for their arrival," Jackson said in making the announcement. "This class L<> as good a class a<; we've ever had at Notre Dame. They will definitely be one of the elite recruiting class-
see RECRUITS/page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Diggins stays in South Bend 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Managing Editor 
Af'tnr years of waiting, MuiTet McGraw can finally relax. 
That's because the Notre Dame coach finally landed Skylar I>iggins -a live-star senior ).,'liard from Washington lligh School in South Bend. Diggins signed her letter of int.Pnt to play lhr the Irish beginning next fall earlinr this week. 
But that dm~sn't mean she didn't hrive McGraw one la<>t scarn. 
"I kept looking ovnr to thn Sfmts wondering whnn she wa<> going to get there because she wasn't then~ at the bP).,rinning," McGraw said at a press conference announdng thn signing Thursday. "And then aftPr the game she came in to tlw loeknr room with tlw stat and she kind of looked down and said 'Boy, I'm just won­dering where you're going to play 
see DIGGINS/page 22 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Weather, competition heat up for Notre Dame 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Let the test begin. 

Faced with arguably the most difficult schedule in the country, No. 9 Notre Dame will begin its difficult non-conference slate with a West Coast swing that begins tonight against Loyola Marymount. 
The Lions aren't the difficult part. Loyola Marymount has lost all three of its games this season, falling to Milwaukee, Iowa State and UC Davis. 
The Lions likely will bring emotion to Friday night's con­test with the Irish, though, as the game will serve as the team's home opener as well as a commemoration for Hall of Famer and LMU alum Pete Newell, who died on Monday. 
Things get tougher for the 
Irish, as following the weekend they head to llawaii for the Maui Invitational. The Irish have a potential stretch of three games in three days after bat­tling Loyola Marymount only two days prior to the start of the tournament. 
The Irish will face in-state rival Indiana in the first round in a nationally televised game on ESPN2 at 5:30 p.m. Eastern time. After the Hoosiers were faced with scandal under for­mer coach Kelvin Sampson, they brought in a familiar face for many Irish fans, former Marquette coach Tom Crean, to lead the program. 
Crean appears to still be set­tling into his new role. The Hoosiers have looked far from convincing in their first two games where they led 
see MAUllpage 22 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 21, 2008 
COMMENTARY 

There's no shame in shedding tears 
"A League of Their Own's" Jimmy Dugan is arguably the most memorable coach in American cinematic history. 
Dugan's legacy '1Hty not stack up against the likes of our own All-American 
K n u t e 
Hockne, 
Norman Dale from II ickory lligh, or even District Five's Gordon Bombay. 
But he will forever be 
rernnmbnrnd Sports Editor 
for his one famous rule: "There is no crying in base­ball." 
The rule has been broken plenty of times, and if it is applied across all sports the number of infractions jumps exponentially. So, is it really wrong to shed a few tears in either pain or joy after an emo­tionally draining game, season or career? 
Cowboys' star Terrell Owens certainly d01~sn 't think so -he proved that during his blubber­ing defense of his "teammate" Tony Homo after a playofl' loss last year. 
Neither does the onn and only Michael Jordan. MJ cried his eyes out 


the past four years have cer­tainly been packed with excite­ment and emotions. 
Despite having gone through the highs and lows, this year's seniors still have no idea how they will handle their last trip to Hoek's house. 
Fullback Asaph Schwapp said he didn't know what would be going through his mind when the ride finally ends. He did say that he knew some guys would break down, but he didn't throw any of them under the bus. 
"I don't want to name any names, that would be pretty embarrassing for those guys," he said. 
But really, there is nothing to be ashamed of. 
For four years the senior elass has put in endless hours in the weight room, in practice and in meetings to perform on Saturdays. Many have over­come injuries and adversity throughout their tenure, and for most this is the end of the line for a game that has eon­sumnd their lives. 
Leaving behind football will be like losing a family member -definitely grounds for weep­ing. 
For the half dozen walk-ons, some that we now know better than others, the journey has 
been even hard­

af'ter winning er. All of them
"I don't want to name
his fourth NBA started their titlo on Father's any names, that careers in the Day in 1996, would be pretty dead of winter only three years with 5:30 a.m.
embarrassing for 
af'ter his own workouts every
those guys." 
father was mur­morning. While dernd. most of us were 
Any athlnte Asaph Schwapp snug in our worth his weight beds after a
Irish senior
in Kleenex knows that sports are played with raw emotion. Sometimes those emotions spill over into the aftermath. and despite what Jimmy Dugan may have to say on the matter, it's part of the game. 
So, don't be surprised to see some waterworks following Saturday's game against Syracuse as a group of 23 sen­iors leave the beloved tunnel for the very last time. Irish coach Charlie Weis sure won't bn. 
"This is a tough game for a lot of players, personally," Weis said. "You see them in the lock­er room before and after the game, you'll see kids after the game that you didn't even know how much they eared and they're bawling, just cry­ing because how mnotional it is." 
This year's senior class, both those who have played and those who have watched, have had their up and downs inside Notre Dame Stadium. 
The first time they saw "the greatest sight these eyes have ever seen" was a heartbreak­ing overtime loss to Michigan State. Two weeks later the Stadium hosted one of the most exciting football games in col­lege football history against Southern Cal -we won't get into winners and losers in that game. 
These seniors have witnessed baek-to-baek BCS bowl bids, and they have also witnessed the worst record in the pro­gram's history. If nothing else, 
long night of 

complaining about bowl losses, they were hard at work trying to fix the problem. 
Who is going to tell Nik Hodriguez or John Leonis they don't deserve a good ery? They have already given the Irish their blood and sweat, why not their tears? 
Ironically enough, 65 fiction­al years ago when Dugan first handed out his decree to Evelyn Gardner they were standing -where else? -in our very own South Bend, Ind. 
Dugan's Hockford Peaches were taking on the South Bend Bltw Sox when he put a ban on bawling in 1943. The same year that Frank Leahy won his first National Championship and Angello Bertelli won Notre Dame's first ever Heisman Trophy. 
The Stadium has seen seven more championships and six more Heisman winners since then, but none of them were legally allowed to celebrate with tears. 
This year, it is finally time that we lift the ban. 
So, seniors, this Saturday when all is said and done leave everything you have on the field, the sidelines or even in the stands. And remember, it's your party so cry if you want to. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd. edu 
2008 Irish opponents 

Last week This week L, 63-14, Utah UNLV 
L,21-14, NW'em at Ohio State 
Idle at Penn State 
L, 22-17, Iowa Indiana L, 45-23, USC at California 
L,17-15, Maryland NC State L, 27-7, UCLA at Wash. State Idle at Cincinnati 
W, 27-17, FSU at Wake Forest 
L,27-21,ND at N. Illinois L, 39-14, UGonn at Notre Dame W, 45-23, Stanford Idle 
A NEW LUDIC FOR OXFORD WORLD'S CLASSICS! 



*May not be combined with any other offer. Valid Jn~store and 
on selected Items only. While supplies last. 
0700KB091908A 
Friday, November 21, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Steady hand 
While others transferred, Sharpley remained consummate teammate 
named ahead of you, no one tant," Powlus said. "Evan is
By CHRIS HINE 

wants to sit the bench, a great teammate, he's got
Editor-in-Chief 

everyone wants to play. good leadership qualities. When something like that He's a guy the guys really After Brady Quinn graduat­happens, it's tough," rely on in the room for his ed in May of 2006, Evan Sharpley said. "We all put in experience and knowledge. Sharpley was one of four hard work. I thought I put in Evan doesn't have a lot of possible candidates to a lot of hard work, but that's experience on the field, but replace Quinn as the starting up to the coaches and you as far as the playbook and quarterback. But Sharpley have to be supportive and be what to do and how to look wouldn't lead the offense there for the at things, that against Georgia Tech to open rest of the can be invalu­the 2007 season. Demetrius team." able to these
"Even ifsomething's
Jones did. Sharpley may Sharpley's younger guys. have been upset, but he did­glad he stayed bad, it's always in There's no n't show it. because his God's hands and you doubt, he's a Then when Sharpley was time on the huge asset ...
may not understand 
by-passed again for the team at Notre "I think Evan
the reason why it's 
starting job the following Dame has brings a cer­week, again he didn't show taught him a happening, and it may tain level of his disappointment. And lot and pre­normalcy to
be out ofyour control, 
when Sharpley wasn't named pared him for our room. He's
but the only thing you 
the starter after he relieved life after col­been through it Clausen against Purdue and lege. can control is your now for four threw for 208 yards and two "I have this years and he's
attitude. " 

touchdowns, Sharpley didn't conversation not too off kil­complain. all the time ter and nor­
Sharpley didn't complain with a lot of Evan Sharpley malcy is what after he started against people and my Irish quarterback we need right Southern Cal, but then lost teammates as now." the job following Notre well. They Sharpley said Dame's loss to Navy and, have my respect and it's a both freshmen have done a finally, as he realized tough situation for our team, good job adjusting to Notre Clausen would the quarter­but I think I've earned a lot Dame, both on and off the back this season. of people's respect and you field. 
"I didn't really can never get "I roomed with Nate during expect that. too down," camp and both he and Dayne That was some­Sharpley said. have done a great job pick­thing that was "Any time someone "Even if some­ing up the offense," Sharpley talked about in thing's b-ad, said. "I think it's good for
else is named ahead 
the spring. it's always in them to have guys like Jimmy's getting ofyou, no one wants God's hands Jimmy and myself that have the job and it to sit the bench, and you may already been here for a was his job to not under­while, not only running the
everyone wants to
lose," Sharpley stand the rea­offense and getting comfort­
play. When something
said. "We all son why it's able with college football, backed him and like that happens, it's happening, but also getting comfortable supported him and it maybe with the college life. It's a lot
tough."

and he's doing a out of your different than high school, good job for us control, but the classes, the girls, differ­and as a team Evan Sharpley the only thing ent things like that. We've we need to sup­Irish quarterback you can con­had a good time and we've port him. That's trol is your really become pretty close." the type of guy I attitude." Sharpley and the other am, that's kind This year, quarterbacks are such good of my M.O." Sharpley's attitude has been friends that they formed 
Sharpley didn't transfer, as instrumental in helping their own society -the red Zach Frazer and Demetrius develop Clausen and fresh­army. Jones did, he didn't cause men Dayne Crist and Nate "Early on in camp, I came dissension amongst his Montana. Quarterbacks up with a nickname for the teammates; rather, he stayed coach Ron Powlus said quarterbacks," Sharpley said at Notre Dame and did all he Sharpley has a calming with a smile peaking could to help his team. effect on the team. through. "We all wear red 
"Any time someone else is "Evan's been vitally impor-jerseys during practice so I 

JESS LEE!The Observer 
Irish quarterback Evan Sharpley scrambles out of the pocket during Notre Dame's 27-141oss to Boston College on Oct. 13, 2007. 
coined ourselves the 'red try to tailor it to my game." army.' We have our own And Sharpley said his rela­secret codes and we have tionship with Notre Dame secret missions. It's pretty coach Charlie Weis has good stuff. We have our own become stronger over the secret names. I could proba­past few years. bly give you some stuff, but "It's progressed greatly there's too much classified since freshman year," information. We'll just put it Sharpley said. "With me as a this way, I'm the leader of freshman and him coming in the red army and they kind as a new head coach, it was of follow my a little dif­lead." ferent and I 
But when think now he's not jok­"Early on in camp, I came him and I ing around, up with a have a very Sharpley said good rela­
nickname for the
he tries to tionship, him pass along to quarterbacks. We all helping with the younger wear red jerseys my future quarterbacks and different
during practice, so I
the same les­talks. He's sons Quinn really
coined ourselves the 'red 
taught him army.' We have our own become a when he was pretty good
secret codes and we have 
a freshman players'
secret missions. " 
and sopho­coach. I more. think he's "I think I Evan Sharpley really on learned from board with
Irish quarterback
the work helping us ethic that he players had, studying whether it's film off the field, the type of on the football field, playing person that he was off the professionally in the near field and on the field the future, or getting a job, type of leader he was with something in the real world." the guys and also the type of Sharpley, who's also a mem­student he was," Sharpley ber of Notre Dame's baseball said. "I was like that before, team along with his brother but I think it was also good Ryan, can apply for a fifth-year to see someone doing it him­on the football team, but not on self." the baseball team. He said he'll 
Sharpley said Quinn helped make that decision later this him navigate through his year. challenging freshman sea­"It's going to be all baseball in son, when Sharpley didn't the spring and I need to do very see any action. well and help my team win and 
"Everybody usually comes we'll take it from there, but once from a situation where the spring comes around, we'll you're playing all the time, be focused on baseball." so it's kind of tough as a Sharpley said. freshman to come in and not Sharpley may not have played play, but I understood that as much he wanted to during his obviously," Sharpley said. "It Notre Dame football career, but was an opportunity for the even if he doesn't come back for first two years to sit behind a fifth year, it's clear that his Brady, and watch him do impact will be felt in the pro­well and learn from him and gram for years to come. I think I've taken a lot of his

VANESSA GEMPISffhe Observer 
Irish quarterback Evan Sharpley audibles at the line during Notre Dame's 4644 loss to Navy on Nov. 3, game, a lot of his personality Contact Chris Hine at 2007. Sharpley threw for 140 yards and two touchdowns in the game. both on and off the field and chine@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 21, 2008 
MIKE TURKOVICH 

Turkovich eases into left tackle position 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer  
l!'dilor 's  note:  this story  
originally  ran  on ,<.,' epl. 26.  

200H. 
So far this season, Notrn 
I> am n 's o ITn n s i v e Iinn h as given up thrPn sarks, which is as many as it surrnnclnn~d in thn first quartl'r of last sea­son. On major part of' that is llw pnrsonrwl changes made in the trnndws. ~~specially al lf'l't. t<u:kln. 
Sl'nior Mike Turkovir.h look ovnr t.hn duty of' protnrting quartnrback .Jimmy Clausl'n's blind sidn this spason, rnplac­ing snnior Paul l>unean. 
Turkovich played all of' last SIHtson, starling every garrw al lnl'l guard, bPI'ore making tlw transition in the spring. lin said the transition was a rnsult of' the rotation the ol'l'nnsivn linemen did during training camp to f'ind thn bnst f'it. 
"In thn spring, we wern rotating guys around and [offensive line[ coaeh [John Latina! said, 'Could you go in at left tackle today?' And I was working with [the back­ups) because I was getting baek in the rotation [after) an injury," Turkovich said. 
Turkovich said he felt com­fortable with the switch to the outside of the line right away. 
"I thought, 'Hey, this is your chanen. .Just play with reck­loss abandon.' You can't be thinking out there. Just do your job and do it fundamen­tally sound," he said. 

Latina said that the transi­tion from guard to tackle is a morn diff'ieult ono than from tacklo to guard bneause you arn morn isolated and f'aeing a dil'f'ernnl kind of' rusher. Playing in what the eoaeh called "a phone book amount of' spacn," a guard is glmnral­ly rnatdwd up against a large defensive tackle. But an oiTensivn tackle has to bloek spendinr defensive ends and linnbaeknrs one-on-one. 
One main reason Turkovich has bnm1 able to transition .so nas i I y i s b e cct u s ~~ he h as played the position before. llis first two years at Notrn Damn were spent as a taekle befon~ he moved inside last season. Turkovich said he made thn switch to guard because Latina said it would be his best fit. 
Turkovich also played tack­le in high school, but started his football career as a tight end. 
"In high school I was a tight end that ate himself into the tackle position," he said. "I weighed 215, 210 my junior year of high school, bulked up my senior year." 
Turkovich also credited his teammates with easing his transition back to tackle, especially left guard Eric 
Olsen. 
"When you play next to a guy like Erie IOlsenl, he's a good player and he makes it easinr on you. You know he's going to do his job," Turkovi1:h said. "You ean trust him. Same thing with tight ends, you can trust them. It's made the transition easier." 
This season, Turkovich has been a solid pHrformer on the line, as nvident by the fact that Clauson has yet to be hit from his blind side. And dur­ing last wnek's 23-7 loss to Mil:higan State when the line surrendered its only three sacks of' the season, the Spartans blitzed when tho Irish were in nmpty backfield formations, putting the ol'fen­sivo linn at a disadvantage. 
Turkovieh said thn offensive line is better than it was last season, but still has room for improvement -especially af'tcr netting only 16 yards rushing against the Spartans. 
"We can get better as far as the run game and get better with our fundamentals," he said. " ... Last game they were getting pressure and getting sacks and we can't win if that happens." 
But even with the line's marked improvement this season, something Turkovich has been a major part of, he remains his own harshest critic. 
"Even if I make a block on a play, I'll still [thinking] I could have done better," the senior said. "I think that I've done good things, but there's definitely room for improve­ment still." 

Turkovich said the most important thing for him this year is to make sure he leaves Notre Dame on a high note. After last season's deba­cle for the linemen, he wants 

,--------­
Friday, November 21, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Ups and downs 
Through high school and college, David Grimes has seen the best and worst of football 
won two state championships, school I went to was real
By BILL BRINK 

in David's sophomore and jun­closely knit. We did a lot of 
Sports Editor 

ior year. His junior year, things together outside of 
Grimes caught an 80-yard sports. Some of my best 
For David Grimes. growing touchdown pass in the title friends come from high up in Michigan made him want game. school." to beat Michigan. In Grimes' senior year, 
The senior wide receiver DePorres lost in the state title Jolt of reality from Detroit said he came to game despite his stat line. That sentiment vanished Notre Dame for the same rea­Grimes, who also played during Grimes' first year at son many other athletes say defensive back, returned a Notre Dame. Between the they come here -the combi­fumble 36 yards for a touch-course load, the rigorous foot-nation of good academics and down and ball schedule solid athletic programs. But made seven and being away before giving the party-line tackles in addi­from home, he
"It's great to be out
response, Grimes mentioned tion to his five said, freshman the Wolverines. catches for 59 there with your year took its toll This year, the win tasted yards. Grimes on him.
brother and take it to 
partieularly sweet. caught 41 "I got real
the next level in 
"Last year, having that dis­passes for 800 homesick, even appointing loss, and then to yards and eight college." though it's close, come back and get the win is touchdowns I didn't have a huge," he said. "Eventually I that year and car to go back,"
David Grimes

had to go back home and put was a team said Grimes, a
Irish receiver

up with all the Michigan fans, captain. The marketing and now I can talk a little Detroit Free major. "It was trash myself'." press selected not one of my 
Whatever his motivations for him as a first-team all-state better years here. School was coming here, Grimes has made wide receiver. real tough." an impact. Heading into Carl went on to play at Still, he was not entirely tomorrow's game, he is the Michigan State. lie graduated unprepared. active leader in career recep­in May, but had a year of eligi­"It's everything that my tions with 79 and career bility left, so he transferred to brother told me it would be," receiving yards with 783. This Saginaw Valley State. he said. "It would be demand­year, Irish coach Charlie Weis "It's great to be out there ing in the classroom and rewarded him by with your demanding sports-wise, but naming him brother and you got to get through it and offensive captain. take it to the make the most of it."
"We had a lot ofnew
lie's had the next level in Off the field, Grimes said best of both faces coming in, and college," spending time with his friends worlds, visiting a lot ofguys Grimes said. helped him acclimate to cam­two BCS Bowls The rivalry pus life and take his mind off
graduated and left.
before playing between David the stress. On the field, he
But that's the nature 
for the worst and Carl when began to see time as a kick team in Fighting of college football, Notre Dame returner. He averaged 22.5 Irish history. p I a y e d yards and had a 40-yarder
guys leavin{j, 
"It was disap­Michigan State, against Purdue. Even though
and new guys
pointing and David said, he had success, he said he still frustrating but I coming.,, never got too wanted to catch the ball. think the best serious. "I was fine with it, but I was part we got out "Just a little also still competing to get in at
David Grimes 
of that season is friendly compe­wide receiver," he said.
Irish receiver
that we made an tition, talking He got there sophomore effort not let that trash here and year, catching 26 passes for happen again," there," he said. 336 yards and two touch­Grimes said. "I think that's "Bragging rights when we downs. He caught eight passes kind of what we fed off into come home." for 76 yards against UCLA. this year." Grimes said he enjoyed high Meanwhile, he still returned 
school because of the tight kicks, and broke a 50-yard Sibling split community and the interaction return against North Carolina. 
Grimes played with his older with teammates off the field. Against Navy, he caught his brother Carl for three years at "It was probably the best first touchdown pass, a 36­St. Martin DePorres High four years of my life," he said. yard strike in the corner of the School in Detroit. The pair "Just high school itself, the end zone. 

IAN GAVLICK/The Observer Irish receiver David Grimes runs after a catch during Notre Dame's 29-24 loss to North Carolina on Oct. 11. 
The chance to play with 25 contender and ended up Brady Quinn was nice, Grimes losing nine games -two of said, considering he used to them, to Michigan and USC, watch him play on TV. 38-0 losses. Grimes caught his 
"Seeing how far I've come, share of passes (27) but his sitting at high school at home yardage dropped, to 224. He watching Notre Dame and missed the UCLA and Boston Brady Quinn, and actually hav­College games because of an ing the opportunity to play for injured ankle, but still scored him, play with him," Grimes two touchdowns in the season. 
said.  "All  my  T  h  e  
friends and fam­ turnover,  
ily ask me, you played with  "It was disappointing  Grimes said, is a part of  
Brady how feel?"  Quinn, does it  and frustrating but I think the best part we  college foot­ball. "We had a  
During  got out of that season  lot  of  new  
Grimes' first two seasons, Notre Dame reached the Fiesta Bowl  is that we made an effort not let that hap­pen again. I think  faces coming in, and a lot of guys gradu­ated and left,"  
and the Sugar  that's kind of what we  he said. "But  
Bowl. those  Both experi­ fed offinto this year."  that's the nature of col­ 

ences will stick  lege football,  
with  Grimes  David Grimes  guys leaving,  
after he gradu­ Irish receiver  new  guys  


ates. 
"I think of it as if there was a sports clicker, going week by week," he said. "Notre Dame beats Michigan, Notre Dame goes to the Fiesta Bowl, Notre Dame goes to the Sugar Bowl against LSU." 
One experience in New Orleans had a special impact. The team helped clean up a building that Hurricane Katrina had damaged, Grimes said, and he liked helping the hurricane victims. He said the trip was also a nice opportuni­ty for his family. 
"Down in New Orleans, it was a good opportunity after Hurricane Katrina to get down there and help the community with the little service that we did," Grimes said. "But we also had a good time down there. And it was an opportunity for my family to come down and experience some things that they would never get to see." 
9-3 to 3-9 
coming," 

But the sea­
son strength­ened the team, Grimes said ­players worked out in the off­season and the team came together early in 2008. The Irish avenged the loss to Michigan with a 35-17 win at home in the rain. That game, Grimes said, signaled the return of good football. 
"After the Michigan game, we actually had evidence," he said. "It wasn't just lip service, it actually came to fruition." 
Grimes said he wants to give the NFL a try after graduation, but if that doesn't work out, he'll go into advertising. Whether he continues to play football or not, his memories of Notre Dame's successes will keep football in his head forev­er. 

"It was one of the best times of my career here," he said of Notre Dame's two BCS Bowls, "and I'll remember it when I leave." 
Irish receiver David Grimes catches a touchdown pass during Notre Dame's 21-13 win over San In 2007, Grimes' junior year, Contact Bill Brink at Diego State on Sept. 6. Grimes had 5 catches for 35 yards in the win. the team fell from being a top-wbrink@nd.edu 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 21, 2008 
THOMAS BEMENDERFER 

Offensive line111an to enter 111edical school after graduation 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Managing Editor 
While some of' his classmates will be looking into the job market and others will be proparing f'or tho N Fl. dral't in April. linoman Thomas Bnmnnderf'er will bn gdting rnady f'or rnndieal school. 
The Mishawaka nativn only applind at one school -pre­ferring to stay in-state at Indiana -and said he feels conlidm1t about being accepted tlwrn. lie has already taken his interview for IU, but has not heard back yet. 
Bnmnndnrf'Pr is a Scinnce Pre-Professional major enrolled in tho College of' Sdonce, and has also made the Dean's List. lin said that com­bining a rigorous acadnmie sdwdule with f'ootball has b!HHl one of tho more reward­ing parts of' his college experi­ence. 
"It's probably one of the most valuable things I've learned by taking hard eourses and doing football at the same time is time management,'' Bemenderfer said. "You always have to realizll what you have to get done, when you need to do it. To be suceessful, you have to put a lot of time in." 
Bemenderfer added that the benefits that come from his busy schedule should pay off in the long run. 
"One of the things you sacri­lice is free time, but it's worth it. It's worth it to do well in school, it's really worth it to do well in football," he said. 

Despite seeing limited play­ing time during his time with the Irish, Bemenderfer has taken his work ethic from the classroom and applied it to the praetice field. 
"You can never take a play ofT, you can never choose to be lazy, because if you're doing that you're not getting better," he said. 
Offensive line coach John Latina said this hardworking personality is one of the things that has made Bemenderfer such an asset to the line dur­ing his time at Notre Dame. One major result of his hard work is that Bemenderf'er can play at all three interior line positions. 
"lie's a guy who's been around a long time. Understands concepts, under­stands our bloeking schemes and our plays. It's a great 
advantage when  we can do  
that," Latina said.  
Latina  added  that  

Bemenderfer has been a great role model for other players in terms of his work ethic and study habits. 
"I think a lot of the younger players look up to him because they respect his hard work ethic, he's a tough kid, he's smart," Latina said. "They see that he's played multiple posi­tions, and the only way you do that is become a student of the game. And they also know his off-the-field habits in the classroom. I think he's a great guy to emulate if you're a young player." 
Even though Bemnnderfer grew up in South Bend and had two older brothers attend Notre Dame, his first choice was Northwestern, where he received a full athletic scholar­ship. However, after tho death of' former Wildcats coaeh Handy Walker, Bemenderfer decided to transfer to Notre Dame. 
Bemenderl'nr said tho deci­sion was a tough one to make since he was walking away from a guaranteed free ride without any guarantee of mak­ing the football team. 
"I took a leap or faith without any promises and without talk­ing to the coaching staff and everything turned out really well and I got really lucky," he said. 
But when it eame down to it, Bemenderfer decided he had to follow his dreams. 
"When it comes down to it, you only live life once, you might as well do it the way you want to and live your dreams," he said of his decision to trans­fer. 
Going to Notre Dame was always a dream for Bemenderfer, one that started when his father would take him to games as a child. 
"It was just an incredible 
experience, walking around, seeing all the people, the emo­tion, walking around campus and seeing the tradition. Everything about Notre Dame is magical," Bemenderfer said. 
All of Bemenderfer's hard work and gutsy decisions have paid off so far, as he has earned a scholarship each of the last two seasons. 
"It puts you on top of the 

world when you get that schol­arship and you know that all your hard work had some kind of result. 
But not even that could go to Bemenderfer's head. 
"[The scholarship) just moti­vated me to work harder," he said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfi.tzpa5@nd.edu 
PAUL DUNCAN 

Injured offensive tackle laments the loss of season 
"We could have obviously
By MATT GAMBER 

after last year and going into 
Associate Sporrs Editor 

the spring, just been like 'Oh geez, we're horrible,"' he 
Tho fact that he'll likely said. "But we just kept push­have the opportunity to ing, kept growing and kept return for a f'il'th year hasn't learning. You just learn how rnadn it much easier for Paul to keep f'ighting and get more Duncan to sit out his senior game-time experience." season with a hip injury. The lessons the unit learned 
"It's not cool at all," said during a disappointing 3-9 Duncan. who started all 12 season have carried over into games at offensive taekle last the line's revamped attitude season. "I've been pretty this year, Dulll~an said. upset to miss the opportunity "It's been really exciting to bn out there with a lot of just to see them do well. I like tho guys I carne in with and to think I have a little part of aren't going to be here next it, especially from the spring year. But you know what, with a lot of' the development. there's still a lot to look for­and just to see it come to ward to." fruition during the season has 
Tlw Dallas. Ca. nativn was been great. exJHH~ted to compete with fel­"The opportunity to sit back low snnior Miehanl Turkovieh and watch Ithe offense I. go to start at lel't tackle. But torn more into the details, kind of hip cartilage sidelined coaching ... being able to sit Duncan during preseason back and help guys with dif­drills, and Irish coach Charlie ferent pointers and tech­Weis announced on Oet. 21 niques has helped me." that he was out for the year. Offensive line coach John 
"We're buds, and I love the Latina said Duncan's contri­opportunity to see Turko butions to the line's continued play,'' said Duncan, a man­development have not gone agement-entrepreneurship unnoticed. major. "It was really disap­"I obviously hate the fact pointing for me in camp when that he's not out there for us Pat Kuntz, safety Kyle stuff. It's just a different had always lived with just the n~al battle went down and now, but he's a very intelli­McCarthy and linebacker aspect of life." athletes, I probably wouldn't I got hurt and couldn't f'ight gent player and a smart play­Steve Quinn in a house But living on campus for have met my girlfriend !who for it. But I'm really happy er who understands our dubbed "The Kingdom." three years -two in O'Neill, graduated last spring!. Just for Turk, and he's played offense," Latina said. "I think "We try to keep it low-key, then one as a junior in Knott being a regular student, really well." tho light-switch has really don't get too erazy, whieh is -is not something he would hanging out -you've got to 
Though unable to suit up on gone on for him.'' nice. Wn keep it nice and trade, Dulll~an said. be with other people in differ­Saturdays, Duncan has taken Duncan's teammates have clean,'' Duncan said. "In the "I've got great bonds with ent roles of' just bning in col­pride in tlw marked improvP­lwlped him keep that light­house, you rely on !your tho guys in O'Neill. I love loge." nwnt of' an offensive linn that switch on -literally. Duncan roommates! so much more those guys and I spent a lot of 
Contact Matt Gamber at

was mtH:h-maligned a year lives off-campus with Ithan in dorms I -for the gas time with them,'' Duncan 
mgamber@nd.edu

ago. Turkovirh. defensive linmnan bill, the electric bill. all that said. "i\nd to be honest, if I 

.-----------­
Friday, November 21, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Heart of Gold 
Maurice Crum Jr. has given all he can over the past five years, on and off the field 

there are plenty of other pretty quickly with such a bumps and bruises that a mid­young team. He did get the dle linebacker picks up during chance to watch players like games. Brandon Hoyte and Corey 
"Bruised legs, turf toe, you Mays, which helped him learn know, just the regular kind of how to work well together. football stuff." "They all had a role, one was 
Crum said that a big part of the hammer one provided the his will to play through injuries energy. I had a different group comes because he wants to set of guys to study and take their a good example for whomever skills and apply them to my may be watching. own play," he said. 
"I don't know who's watching Crum couldn't define a spe­me or who wants to be like me cific role for himself because and I don't want them to get he has had to wear about the wrong idea. every hat there There's a differ-is in the past ence between four years for 
being hurt and "I feel like my his team. 
being injured." All of his hard
greatest attribute is 
work has cer­Leading the toughness. IfI can tainly paid off. way help the team and The entire 
Crum is very nation is start­
be effective, I'm 
conscious of his ing to recognize role as a leader going to play." Crum's work on of the Irish and off the field. team. He is one He is currently a
Maurice Crum Jr. 
of only 1 7 play­finalist for the
Irish linebacker 
ers to be named Lowe's Senior captain twice. CLASS Award, He was the only which is given to captain who was not a fifth­a senior from each sport every year senior and this year he year for their leadership on the was a shoe-in for the spot field, in the classroom and in along with offensive captain the community. David Grimes and special Crum graduated from Notre teams captain David Bruton. Dame last May with a degree 
"Being a leader of a team in Sociology and enrolled in means that you have to be graduate school after the whatever your teams needs University approved him for a you to be," Crum said. fifth year on the field. 
Crum said that in a season Crum attributes the praise of full of many highs and lows, that award to his family. his job has changed on a week­"The way that raised me and ly, or even daily basis. As mid­teaching me values, teaching dle linebacker and the oldest me to be that well-rounded player in a young defense, guy. [The award] is just a Crum has had to be a rock for result of my upbringing," Crum his team on and off the field said. this season. The winner of the award is 
Crum attributes most of his based on nation wide fan vot­leadership skills to his father, ing and will be decided on Dee. Maurice Crum, Sr. who was a 10. linebacker at the University of Between a degree from Notre Miami. Dame, a place in the Irish 
"My dad has always been a record books and annual trips very important factor in my to African orphanages Crum life. Him being around and certainly has the resume to knowing the game, it helps," win. Crum said. 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 
Editor's note: this story origi­nally ran on Nov. 7, 2008. 
It takes a pretty good excuse for Irish coach Charlie Weis to allow a player to miss practice. This summer fifth-year senior Maurice Crum Jr. came up with one that was good enough to miss a whole week of work­outs. 
Crum spent a week in Accra, Ghana bringing much-needed eomputers and books to a local orphanage. 
Crum along with several oth­ers from Students Bridging the Information Gap (SBIG) arrived in 

While in Africa, Crum helped set up the new library and taught some of the 300 chil­dren living at the orphanage how to use the computers. They also had some time for fun. 
"I got to play a soccer game with the kids. They were younger kids, but they killed us," he said. "Next time I go back, I think I'll bring a foot­ball." 
The program intends to visit and donate to a different orphanage in Africa each year. Crum said he plans to attend and do as much as he can to help out. 
Playing soccer with the kids inspired Crum to want to start 
his own charity 
called Cleats 
for Kids to dis-

Africa on June tribute cleats
"Having a chance to
10 to spend a throughout the week at the see someone else's continent. He 
orphanage and lifestyle and being is currently in a 
deliver 15 new graduate class
welcomed into their 
computers and that teaches over 2,000 culture really put my the ins and outs donated books life in perspective. " of getting help 
to the children from the United there. The Nations. Crum 
Maurice Crum Jr.
group also said that he raised enough Irish linebacker plans on doing money to con-work to set it struct a brand up once the new, air-condi-football season tioned comput-slows down. er lab to house the new In the meantime, Crum has a machines. few things to keep him busy on 
"The trip was really special," the field. Crum said. "Having a chance This Saturday against Boston to see someone else's lifestyle College, Crum has a chance to and being welcomed into their crack the Irish record books. culture really put my life in He is currently five tackles perspective." away from joining the top 10 
SBIG was founded by Crum's tacklers in Notre Dame history. former teammate Abdel Banda Crum is third on the team this who started the organization season with 49 tackles through after suffering a career-ending eight games, bringing his injury in his sophomore year. career total to 290. Banda included Crum in the "That is stuff you dream project from the start. about. I've been in the right 
"I got a pretty big heart as place a bunch of times to make far as giving back, so naturally a bunch of tackles," Crum said. when he first started talking He is also only 10 tackles about it, one of the first people away from passing former that he was talking to about it safety Tom Zbikowski for was me," Crum said. eighth place all-time. Bob Crable, who played in the late 1970s, has a safe hold on the No. 1 spot with 521 career tackles. 
"Leaving my mark on this place is something special and something that at least I'll be in the books for something," he said. 
Iron man 
Crum already holds an impressive spot in the books with the longest games played and games started streaks in the program's rich history. Crum was red-shirted his freshman season, since then he has played in every single game for the past four years. 
"I feel like my greatest attribute is my toughness," Crum said. "If I can help the team and be effective, I'm going to play." 
Crum has also started 44 of those 45 including 43 in a row to start his career. Crum's one miss was two weeks ago against the Huskies in Washington. Crum sat out the first play because of the forma­tion Washington opened the game with. 
And he has never missed a game due to injury. 
"It has a lot to do with will power. You're going to get beat up, but for me the greatest cure for pain is for the next play to occur," he said. "As long as you are out on that field and the adrenaline is pumping, nothing else really matters." 
Crum needed all the adrena­line he could muster during his sophomore season when he played the majority of the sea­son with a back injury. Crum said that he frequently had back spasms throughout the season, but didn't want to get the necessary surgery until the season had ended. 
"Needless to say, it hurt, but my will power and my desire to help the team kept me on the field," he said. 
The back hasn't been a prob­lem since his surgery, but 

ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer 
Irish fifth-year senior middle linebacker Maurice Crum Jr. prepares for a play during Notre Dame's Crum said that he was forced Contact Dan Murphy at 28-21 win over Stanford on Oct. 4. Crum had four tackles 1n the game. into being a veteran player dmurphy6@nd.edu 
page 8 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 21 , 2008 
•
.• 
•
.
. RAY HERRING 
After injury, Herring still has unfinished business 
opportunity fot' !!erring to play
By GREG ARBOGAST 

owr tim nextthrne years.
Sport' Writn 

IIPrTing did make one start, in 2006 against Stanford when Hay IIPITing is no stranger to Zbikowski was out bec.ausn of an grabbing tlw attPntion of tPns of injury. IIPrring made the most of thousands of pPopiP. his opportunity. n~wrding nirw 
BeforP his sPnior yPar at lloly tackles during a 31-10 Irish victo­Trinity lligh School. IIPITing was ry. and lw recalls that game as askPd hy thP Florida 'li1day rwws­one of his favorite memories of his papPr to ke!•p a diary of his final Notrn I hunn carP!W to-dal!1. SPason. J'IP ll ty of JlPO(J(P W!H'P "It was good beeausP it was my 
int.Pn•stPd in what  first  start,"  
IIPrring. a startPr  llerring said. "I  
both ways during tlw first. fi mr years of varsity football at lloly Trinity, had  "It was kind (~{hard. /Jut at a good program like  ww> pretty nerv­mrs." Other than the Stanford game,  
to say. "Anytinw I had thoughts. I wrote tlwm down on tlw  this where you have good players, sometimes you got to  Ilerring was pri­marily eon­signed to spedal teams duty his  
website fill' !;lorida Today," llnrring  wait your turn. "  first three years. llis freshman  
said. "Tiw day I !:omm itted Ito  Ray Herring  year, Herring made his first  
NotrP  l>anw I.  I  Irish Strong Safety  appearance on  
think  I  had  special  teams  
100,000  people  against  

visit my site. I Florida Today] said Washinhrt.on, and he recorded five that was the most they'd ever tackles in 115 special teams had. even more than when the appearances on the year. Challengm blew up, so I broke !!erring's role expanded slightly that reeord on that." his sophomore year as he became 
While Herring is a bit of a a mainstay on special teams and celebrity in his tiny hometown of received playing time at safety Melbourne, Florida, he's still try­late during several games. On the ing to w~hieve the same status in year, he finished 13th on the team South Bnnd. with 18 total tackles, and he also 
Pegged by the Notre Dame added two pass break-ups. After coaches as a strong safety, playing both ways for four Herring came to South Bend straight seasons in high school, behind Tom Zbikowski on the Herring had to adjust to more depth chart. The li>rnHJr Irish All­limited playing time at Notre Ameriean didn't leave much Dame. 

Irish strong safety Ray Herring runs stride-for-stride with wide receiver George West during a practice April 5, 2008. 
"It was kind of hard," Herring play for the rest of the season. "I kind of had to start over on said. "But at a good program like Although Zbikowski's decision to the depth chart," Herring said on this where you have good players, return for his senior year in 2007 the em1ct of his injury. "I had Kyle sometimes you got to wait your meant that Herring was still !McCarthy] behind me, and he's a turn. I believe everything happens blocked on the depth-chart, good player. He got in front of me, for a reason." Herring's injury opened the door and it was kind of hard to pass 
Herring may still be searching for teammate Kyle McCarthy. him because he's a good player for the reason why his junior sea­McCarthy hasn't looked back as too, so I kind of have to wait right son went down the drain. Four he assumed the starting strong now." games into the year, Herring safety spot and currently leads the Herring has received academic injured his groin and wouldn't Irish in tackles in 2008 with 89. eligibility for a fifth season, and he 


Friday, November 21, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 9 
Tough it out 
Whether it's opponents' offensive lines or teammates' sanity, Pat Kuntz is a disruptive force 

"Seeing him pay me off wasBy BILL BRINK probably one of the best feel­
Sports Editor 

ings I've had," he said. Playing high school football Editor's note: this story origi­meant a great deal to Kuntz. nally ran on Oct. 3, 2008. "That was probably one of my best experiences of my 
No matter what Pat Kuntz life," he said. "People take it faces -opposing offensive for granted playing with guys linemen, public speaking you've known your whole life engagements or Halo chal­that would basically die for lengers -he toughs it out. you. With the success my foot­
That's why, in his senior year ball team had -we won three of high school, he played his consecutive state champi­last four games with a broken onships-it was just one of the right arm. best times of my life." 
Not a hairline fracture that Notre Dame was a logical didn't show up on an X-Ray. A choice coming from a Catholic teammate's helmet squashed high school in Indianapolis, his arm as Kuntz made a tack­Kuntz said. He grew up a Notre le, and Kuntz had a cast from Dame fan. But for Kuntz, com­his wrist to above his elbow. He ing to South Bend was about 
played anyway.  more than fan­ 
After one game  hood.  
without elbow  "What  made  
flexion,  he  me  want  to  
decided  he  come here was  
needed  more  "What made me want  tradition  and  
mobility and cut the cast down so his arm could flex.  to come here was tradition and being the guy from my  being the guy from my town who went here," he said. "I didn't  
"It hurt a but it was  lot, my  town who went here.,,  care who offered me. I wanted to  
senior year," he said.  Pat Kuntz  come here the whole time."  
It's that atti­ Irish senior  Kuntz  said  
tude  that  playing behind  
helped  Kuntz  defensive line­ 
become  what  man  Derek  
defensive line  Landri  helped  

coach Jappy Oliver calls his him learn essential skills to most disruptive player and playing his position. what defensive coordinator "Being the first guy off the Corwin Brown calls a "tough ball, being relentless and hav­guy." ing a motor that never stops. 
"''d say that I kind of have That's probably the best thing I some of those qualities," Kuntz learned from him," Kuntz said. said. Kuntz played for two years in 
Before he was disruptive, he the 4-3 defensive scheme, was tough at the high school where four players start on the level. Kuntz holds the career line of scrimmage and only sack record at Roncalli High three linebackers play. For the School in Indianapolis with past two years, he's played in 
25.5 sacks, something he is the 3-4 scheme, which reverses quite proud of. He bet an older those roles. This year, however, teammate who previously held Kuntz said his role mimics the record that he would break what he played his first two it, then did just that. years. 
DAN 

Senior defensive lineman Pat Kuntz attempts to break up a pass in Notre Dame's 23-7 loss to Michigan State on Sept. 20. 
"It's a lot more attacking defense," he said. "I played a lot of 3-technique my first two years. It's definitely different, but it reminds me a little bit of it." 
Stanford's running backs, Toby Gerhart and Anthony Kimble, present a two-sided challenge to Notre Dame's defense Saturday. To quelch the running game, Brown said, the defense has to control the line of scrimmage. 
"All running backs run the same when there's no hole," Brown said. "When there's no hole or the holes are small, it's harder for them to be effec­tive." 
For that to happen, he said, Kuntz has to cause problems up front. 
"We need him to play hard, be disruptive in there," Brown said. "He's the oldest guy out there for the most part. He's gotta show them. When he's out there he needs to be a problem." 
Disruptiveness isn't a physi­cal trait, Oliver said. It's a men­tality. 
"The way we call our defens­es help that because we call an aggressive style of defense," Oliver said. "It's their attitude, just wanting to get there." 
That aggressive play-calling hasn't produced much in the way of tangible results this sea­son -only one sack -but that didn't concern Kuntz or Brown. Kuntz said there were other stats, like completion percent­age or turnovers forced, that showed the success of a defen­sive scheme. Brown's philoso­phy, he said, is to keep the offense short of the sticks at all cost. The other team could complete 70 percent of their passes, he said, but as long as 
they were short passes and the locker room. defense forced three-and-outs, "They love to play practical he'd be okay with it. jokes," Oliver said of the defen­
"You can be very effective sive linemen. "You better watch with the pass rush by not get­them, because they'll get you. ting sacks," Kuntz said. They will get everybody and "Getting your hands up, alter­anybody." ing throws, things like that." Kuntz agreed. 
If disruptive describes Kuntz "Everybody's open game. It on the field, messy describes doesn't matter if you're a him off of it. He's an eccentric freshman or a senior," he said. guy, outgoing with a vibrant "If you do something stupid, personality. His hair reflects everybody's going to get after the many sides of his psyche; you." 
so far this sea- Recently,  
son,  it  went  Kuntz  had  a  
from long, flow­ problem with  
ing brown hair to a thoroughly terrifying skul­let to a shaved  "Everybody,s open game. It doesn ,t matter ifyou ,re a freshman or  nose tackle Ian Williams' dreadlocks shedding hair  
dome. Now he sports a buzz cut. Kuntz's room­ a senior. If you do something stupid, everyone ,s going to get  onto his table during meet­ings. After Williams  
mates at their off-campus  after you. ,,  ignored .Kuntz's warnings to  
house known as "the Kingdom,"  Pat Kuntz  stop, pulled  Kuntz out  
tackles  Paul  Irish senior  wads  of  his  
Duncan  and  long locks and  
M  i  k  e  spread them all  
Turkovich, line- over Williams.  

backer Steve Quinn and safety "And I didn't tell him until after Kyle McCarthy, describe him as the meeting," he said. the untidy child of the house. Kuntz's act will soon go pub­He's not proud of it, but it's a lic; he's scheduled to speak at stigma he's stuck with. tonight's pep rally. He won't 
He's got them all beat at give any hint as to what he'll Halo, however. He said he's a say, but he has "a little some­level 48, out of 50, on xBox thing something" planned. Live, and scoffs at the idea that ''I'm a pretty good public guard Eric Olsen is anywhere speaker. Let's just say I'm prob­near his level. ably going to have a good 
"He's not even in my league. time," he said. "People might He's in double-A, and I'm in the like it, people might not. We'll MLB," he said. see what happens. I told some­
No one on the team escapes body that they better put Kuntz's insults and jokes. The Jimmy first because I'm going defensive linemen alone offer to be a tough act to follow." him enough fodder most of the time, but he's not afraid to Contact Bill Brink at spread the love around the wbrink@nd.edu 
page 10 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 21, 2008 
JOHN LEONIS 

Walk-on balances football with aerospace engineering 
cult, especially in the early once the season ends.
By LAURA MYERS stages when the potential walk­"It's a special group of guys in 

Sports Wrirer 

ons had to work out at 5:30 a.m. there, and I'm just glad to be a 
three times a week. part of them. We have a lot of 
Most students would disagree "It was shell-shocking, really, fun in the locker room and out with .John l.nonis when he says because you didn't really make of practice," he said. "It's going he is nothing special. The walk­it until al'ter the Spring Game, to be difl"erent in the spring not on cornerback spends his time and even then you don't know if being able to see these guys watching hours of tape in order you'll be invited to camp," he every day, but you know, it's to help prepare the offense for said. "And you can't be running kind of the nature of the busi­tlw next opponent. Whatever out of the tunnel, hands down. I ness." timn is left goes to studying, mean, I got to run out for the Leonis grew up as a Notre bncausn Lnonis is Spring Game, Dame fan, because his grandfa­an <wrospacn the Stadium ther graduated in the 1940s and enginnnring was half full, his mother went to Saint Mary's. major. "It's a special group and it was "It was cool actua~ly being 
"It's a lot of bal­ofguys in there. and crazy. I didn't here after all that," he said. "It's ancn between know what to going to be sad to graduate, and 
f"m just glad to be a
work and foot­do with myself." I kind of don't want to, but real ball." Lnonis said. part ofthem. " Leonis is part life knocks on the door and you "You sacririee of the defensive have to answer it." your soeial life a show team, Unlike those of some of his
John Leonls

little bit. I enjoy which simulates teammates, however, Leonis'
Irish Cornerback 
trying to spend the opponent's future does not lie in football. time with my defense to help llis plans after graduation no friends -I can't the offense gain doubt reflect the rest of his go out with them much, but I the right looks during plays. He class. drive tlwm around sometim1~s." performs a similar function on ''I'd like to get a job, that's pri­
l.nonis did not arrive at Notrn special teams. However, the ority number one," he said. He Damn expecting to play football. positions do not come with a lot said he hopes to get a job with Though he played varsity foot­of glory. Lockheed Martin or a similar ball all four years at his small "We each have company, and Oregon high school, he had no our own role. I still preferably on
"/ don't consider 
plans to continue. However, do what I can to the West Coast, after meeting a football player get the olfense get what I did anything so he can be in his dorm and playing inter­ready with show special. I just came closer to home. hall for Stanford. he dedded to teams," Leonis Leonis said
out here and did
try out. said. there is one lin was unsucenssful his fresh­Despite the neg­what I wanted to do." thing he wants man year, but that did not stop atives, though, people to him. Leonis said he remember
John Leonis 

"I wasn't really prepared to would not do about him. 
Irish cornerback 
try out so I came back after that things differently. "I am not and just rededicated myself, "It's been really Mike Anello," refocused, came out my sopho­fun, he said. "I wouldn't trade he said. "Last year when we did more year, and. well, here I my experience for the world." show team, Patrick Graham, our am." he said. Leonis said he would miss the defensive graduate assistant Leonis said tryouts were difli-football team's camaraderie who runs our show team, used 

to just call all of us -me, Mike Anello, and a guy who graduat­ed named Wade lams -'The Anellos.' He would say 'Anello, get in there,' and we wouldn't know who he was talking about." 
Anello and lams were both part of the defensive show team and walk-ons with Leonis in 2007. 
Despite the tremendous amount of work he did during 
his time at Notre Dame, Leonis does not think of himself as dis­tinctive in any way. 
"I don't consider what I did anything special. I just came out here and did what I wanted to do," he said. "I just came to the school, and football presented itself as an opportunity, so I took it." 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

NIKOLAS RODRIGUEZ 
Walk-on halfback refuses to let injuries stand in his way 
Nikolas Rodriguez fought on despite disappointing setbacks and enjoyed a 'special' experience as a result 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Wrircr  After going through a lot of rehab, it took nearly 11 months for me to get back to  Hodriguez. He elected to play through it. "The doctor told me my  and the bowl game will be a memorable experience." Although the past few sea­ football on top or that is pret­ty stressful. But when I have to prioritize my things at  
full speed," Rodriguez said.  shoulder was going to require  sons have not been ideal for  work, I think I will  be pre­ 
It isn't IHtsy walking on  to  "When the next year's tryouts  surgery  at  some  point,"  the Irish, Rodriguez has one  pared."  
one  of the most storied pro­ came up, I was just starting to  Hodriguez  memory that  Hodriguez also said that  
grams in all of college foot­ get back into shape. I  told  said. "But the  he won't soon  playing under Charlie Weis  
ball. Throw an injury into the mix and that task almost  myself that this is what I wanted to do and I went out  s u r g would  e r y have  "The whole thing was  be forgetting. "This may  taught him some things that he would not have learned  
bncomns downright impossi­bln. Nikolas Hodriguez found that out the hard way his freshman ynar after a sevnn~  and gave it another shot." The second time went according to plan for Hodriguez who successfully madp, the Irish squad as a  prevented me from playing this season and I didn't want that to  definitely a trying experience for me. But I wouldn't have traded it for the world. "  sound a little cliche, but I won't ever forget the feeling I had  playing in another program. "Since [Weisl comes from the professional ranks, he expects us to be more mature than your average program,''  
hamst,.ing injury  left  him  running back.  happen.  It's  the first time  he said. "It's  a  good thing  
unabln to finish walk-on try­outs at spring practiee. "I madn it all tho way  "The whole thing was defi­nitely a trying experience for me," he said. "But I wouldn't  painful to play with, but it's not like  Nikolas Rodriguez Irish halfback  I walked out of the tun­nel," he said.  because he treats us like grown men and that helps you grow up faster and know  
through tho tryouts boforn I  have traded it for the world."  it's going  to  "My mom"was  what to expect wlwn you get  
got injured,'' Hod riguez said.  Things didn't get any easier  gp,t  any  in the crowd  out in the real world. lie's  a  
"But sinen  I  couldn't play  once  he  joined  the  team.  worse."  too  so  it was  professional and expects you  
spring  ball,  During spring  Heading into his last home  even  better  to  be  able· to  to  always  give  your  best  
thny  didn't  practiee earli­ game  as  a  player at Notre  share that experience with  effort."  
know if I could rna/ly play and thny had to lnt mn go." Coming off injury and with the odds already staeked against him, giving up and going tho  "Since I couldn't play spring ball, they didn't know if I could really play and they had to let me go." Nikolas Rodriguez Irish halfback  er this year, Rodriguez suffered another injury that threatened to end his final season with the Irish before it even got started. Rodriguez  Dame, Rodriguez still isn't her." sure how he'll feel when he As for the future, Hodriguez takes the field at Notre Dame hopes to get a job in advertis-Stadium for ing before the final returning to time. "It hasn't fully hit me school to get his "It hasn't MBA. Hodriguezyet. It's hard to believefully hit me attributes what my athletic career isyet. It's hard he learned on to believe my about to come to an the field at Notre athletic Dame as helpingend." career is prepare him for  Hodriguez doesn't take for granted the opportunity he enjoyed representing the Irish as a member of the football team. "It's definitely an honor to be a part of this team," he said. "There a ton of people who would do anything to be in the position that I was in, to play football for Notre Dame. This is the top pro­ 
lnterhall route seemed to be a  more  likely  suffered a torn rotator cuff that normal­ about come  to  to an  Nikolas Rodriguez  what is to come after football.  gram in the history of college football and it was truly spe­ 
scenario. But that option just  ly requires season-ending  end,'' he said.  Irish halfback  "It has certain­ cial to be  a part or this great  
wasn't in the playbook for this  surgery to fix.  "I'm  just  ly improved my  tradition."  
San Antonio, Texas native.  But much like before, call­ going to have  time  manage­ 
"I just eouldn't see  myself  ing it quits just never seemed  to take it all in and hopefully  ment," he said. "Having to  Contact Alex Barker at  
being  done  with  football.  to  be  a  viable  option  for  this last month of the  season  deal with school and then  abarker1 @nd.edu.  

Friday, November 21, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page II 
From hardwood to gridiron 
Justin Brown didn't playfootball until his senior year ofhigh school, but he is making upfor lost time 
coaches from big time pro­
By JAY FITZPATRICK grams -led to Brown not get­

Managing Editor 

ting the offers he wanted. 
But Brown had another plan Hditor's note: this story origi­to get his scholarship after bas­nally ran on Nov. 14, 2008. ketball fell through -start 
playing football. 
During his career at Notre Dame, Justin Brown has been a ... to the gridiron ... solid, steady presence on the Throughout his time at defensive line. The fifth-year Bishop McNamara, Brown said end has 60 tackles, including head football coach Bernard nine for loss and 2.5 sacks, in Joseph would half-jokingly tell his career for thfl Irish while him that he needed to start adding dp,pth to the front four. playing football. 
Not bad for a guy who didn't Three games into the 2003 start playing football until sen­season, Brown took him up on ior year of high school. the offer. 
"I talked about the football From the hardcourt... thing with my dad and my 
Brown grew up a basketball brother and decided to try it player, as a for-out. I came ward who three games played competi­"/ was only 200 pounds late and played tively during seven or eight
{in high school]. They 
middle school games, and 
and high just put me on the field things worked school. and let me run around out well," he 
Brown said said.
and make plays."
lw was a solid Brown played basketball play­a sort-of hybrid er. starting for Justin Brown defensive the varsity Irish defensive end end/outside team at Bishop linebacker that McNamara season, but said High School in Forestville, Md., that his position didn't matter during his junior and senior to his game plan. Joseph and seasons. the other coaches gave Brown Brown was originally going to simple instructions for playing. go to college to play basketball, '"Just go get the ball carrier. he said. Starting his junior sea­Just go and run and make son, he began to shop himself plays.' And that's what I did. I around to some Div. I programs was only 200 pounds. They just for a scholarship. put me on the field and let me 
"Going into the summer time, run around and make plays," I focused more in on trying to Brown said of his high school get scholarships for basketball. coaching. What was happening was I This plan was immediately started getting injuries -ankle successful, and Brown finished injuries. Just going to camps his first year of organized foot­and going to AAU tournaments ball with 65 tackles, nine sacks where a lot of scouts are, I just and three fumble recoveries. As had ankle injuries," Brown his senior season wore on, he said. started getting more looks for 
Those ankle injuries kept him that big-time college scholar­out of competing in other ship he did not get in basket­camps and tournaments later in haJJ. the summer. Brown said his While Brown was initially inability to play basketball dur­recruited mostly by local, small­ing the ofl'season -and in turn er Div. I schools. like Richmond impress college scouts and and Towson, eventually Boston College started showing more interest in him. After the Eagles, teams like Notre Dame, Penn State, Michigan and Florida all started looking at Brown. 
Brown said that the biggest reason for this increased atten­tion was the work of Joseph and his father, Michael Brown. 
"After a couple of games, I played really, really well and my dad was just, 'We need to send some of these tapes out.' So between my dad and my coach. they made some tapes. My dad just sending tapes everywhere, probably like 50 schools, or something like that," Brown said. 
Brown said he didn't know how he was so lucky that he could wind up playing football at Notre Dame after only one year, but said that he was meant to be here. 
"That was God's work, I say. It's interesting. I play for Notre Dame and through God in there, and it's such a religious institution. There's a reason for everything happening. I'm sup­posed to be here, I guess," he said. 
Brown said that when Notre Dame first started recruiting him, he had no idea about the school's history or tradition, but knew it must have been a spe­cial place because of how oth­ers treated it. 
"The thing that struck me was this place had to be special because of the reaction I would get from everyone. It was the reaction that people gave me that kind of gave me the sense that this was some place spe­cial. And when I came up here, it sort of proved itself true," he said. 
But after giving the Irish another look, he said the school was a perfect "three-for-three" fit for him. 
"One of the things that stood out to me was that people talk about -you get a degree from Notre Dame, you're set for life. The fact that the school was a very religious institution, very 

VANESSA GEMPISffhe Observer 

religion-conscious, very faith­"And if that doesn't work, based -that was important. always have my Notre Dame And then, I believed in the foot­degree to fall back on," he said. ball coaches and what they Brown graduated in May with were telling me. Coach [Tyrone] a double major in Film, Willingham recruited me, and I Television and Theater and felt like I wanted to come here Sociology. He started with the and play," he said. FTT major with a concentration 
Once he got to Notre Dame, in television, something he has the biggest adjustment Brown always been interested in, he had to make was learning how said. to play technical football. ''I'm really interested in 
"I didn't know so much tech­media. Coming into college, I nique and knowledge of the wanted to work with advertis­game [was involved]. And ing, so that's where I went. I 
everything that's  really like the  
going  on  creative aspect  
because there is so much going on, on a football  "Probably for the first two or three years  of things. I was happy when I saw that they  
field. There was  here I felt like I was  have a film pro­ 
a lot I had to learn. Probably for the first two  playing catch-up to everybody else,  gram here," he said. Brown said he  
or three years here I felt like I was playing  physically and mentally.''  added the sec­ond major because he  
catch-up  to  thought it would  
everybody else,  Justin Brown  be  a  good  fit  
physically  and  Irish defensive end  with the FTT.  
mentally,"  he  He is currently  
said.  enrolled  in  a  

Brown said the most difficult non-degree graduate studies part of that adjustment period program, taking some psycholo­was learning how to take on gy courses and a special studies blockers, something which has class. For the special studies, he become much easier as he has is working on a multimedia CD put on 77 pounds during his for his brother's wedding, five years with the Irish. which was in October. 
But off the football field, one But in the much more imme­big adjustment for Brown was a diate future, Brown said he is coaching change after his fresh­excited to play Navy and excited man year. Brown said that, to see his family. while he sat out the year and "I guess, it's kind of like my was not fully integrated into the Thanksgiving. I don't get to go system and therefore the home before Thanksgiving, so change did not have as big of that's always good to see my an impact on him, Willingham's family around this time of year. firing was still difficult for him People don't always get to see to deal with. their families, so I'm fortunate 
"You always see those things to see mine." happening to other teams on Brown said he didn't know ESPN. When it happened to us, how much time he would get to it was kind of shocking. It was spend with them, but it won't shocking and surprising, but it be enough if this year is any­was something we had to deal thing like his last trip to with and move on," he said. Maryland two years ago. 
"Last time, they were calling ... and beyond me to get on the bus because I After this season, Brown said wasn't ready to leave yet." his dream would be to play in 
Irish defensive lineman Justin Brown, right, and linebacker Brian Smith pursue Air Force quarter­the NFL. But, just like in high Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at back Shaun Carney during Notre Dame's 41-24 loss on Nov. 10, 2007. school, he has a contingency. jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 21, 2008 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 

HEADT
Record: 6-4 
AP: NR 
• 
Coaches: NR 
Charlie Weis Fourth season at Notre Dame career record: 
28-19 
against Syracuse: 
1-0 

Roster  
No.  Nam•  Pos.  HI  WI.  YR  
1  lkion Walkt·r  WR  6-2  tHB  FR  
Midmel Floyd  WR  6-3  215  FR  
Gary l;ray  DB  5-11  1H8  SO  
Arm.mdo Allt•n  RB  5-10  195  SO  
6  Ray Herrin~  DB  5-10  19H  SR  
7  Jimmy Clnu><•n  QB  6-3  217  SO  
8  Raeshun McN<"il  DB  6.()  19\1  )R  
9  Ethan Johnson  DE  6-4  275  FR  
9  Kyle Rudolph  TE  6-6  252  FR  
Ill  [),,ynt• Crist  QB  6-4  233  FR  
II  DavidGrim<·s  WR  5-10  177  SR  
12  Nick Lezynski  QB  5-8  157  SO  
12  Rot....rt Blanton  DB  6-1  180  FR  
13  Evan Sharplt•y  QB  6-2  215  SR  
14  Brandon Walkt•r  K  6-3  202  SO  
15  Brian Castello  QB  6-2  191  SO  
15  Dan McCarthy  DB  6-2  2lKI  FR  
1b  Nc1tt> Muntc11M  QB  6-4  200  FR  
IH  Duval Kam<~ra  WR  6-5  219  SO  
19  Gmrge Wt-sl Jr.  WR  5-10  196  )R  
20  Tt·rrail Lamlwrt  DB  5-11  195  SR  
21  Barry Gallup Jr.  RB  5-11  200  )R  
22  Jl.mison Smith  DB  6-2  2lll>  SO  
2.1  Golden Tat••  WR  5-11  195  SO  
24  l.con.ud Gordon  DB  5-11  187  )R  
24  !Irian Coughlin  WR  6-0  172  JR  
25  Jonas Gray  RB  5-tll  2.10  FR  
2h  Jamoris Slaughter  DB  6.()  182  FR  
27  D.wid Bruhm  DB  6-2  212  SR  
2H  Kyle McCarthy  DB  6-1  203  SR  
29  jash;~ad Gaim-,;  DB  6-0  202  JR  
29  Michilcl Gnrcia  WR  6-1  178  SO  
30  Steve l'askofl.  FB  6-2  2.15  SO  
31  Sergio Bmwn  DB  6-2  205  JR  
32  I.ukt• Schmidt  TE  6-3  246  JR  
33  Robt•rt Huj~hc•  RB  5-11  2.17  SO  
34  Jam<'!! Aldridge  RB  641  22.~  JR  
35  Kevin Smith  l.B  5-8  200  SR  
35  Kevin Brm>ks  TE  6-2  241  )R  
36  joe llizjak  K  6-2  165  )R  
36  David l'<l!lluszny  LB  6.()  220  FR  
37  Mik1• Andlo  DB  5-10  170  SR  
37  Eras Noel  RB  5-8  190  SO  
38  Chris Balhon  DB  5-10  1Y2  )R  
3H  Chrislopht·r Gurri<'S  WR  5-10  181  SO  
39  Ryan Burkh<~rt  K  5-11  190  )R  
40  Maurice Crum Jr.  LB  641  2.15  SR  
41  Scott Smith  LB  6-3  235  SR  
41  Nikolas Rodriguez  RB  5-11  205  SR  
42  Kevin Washington  l.B  6-1  250  SR  
42  Dan Francu  WR  5-10  tHB  )R  
43  John Lconis  DB  5-9  169  SR  
43  Eric Maust  I'  6-2  177  )R  
44  Asaph Schw.1pp  FB  6.()  257  SR  
4'i  Darius Fl<•ming  LB  6-1  2.16  FR  
4'i  Kris Patterson  WR  5-11  185  SR  
46  Steve Fil.-r  LB  6-3  2.162  FR  
47  Joe Vitluri.l  LB  5-11  44  )R  
47  Mikl• Narv.wz  FB  5-11  231  )R  
48  Steve Quinn  LB  6-2  225  SR  
4Y  Turyan Smith  LB  6-1  244  )R  
51  Dan Wcngt·r  C  6-4  302  )R  
52  Braxslun Cave  C  6-3  315  FR  
53  Morrice Rit:hdrdson  DE  6-2  255  JR  
'i4  Anthony McDonald  LB  6-3  22.~  FR  
55  Eric Olsen  OG  6-5  303  )R  
'i6  Kerry Nco~!  LB  6-2  246  SO  
57  Mike Golk Jr.  C  6-3  2HO  FR  
5H  Brian Smith  LB  6-3  245  SO  
59  Chris Stew.~rt  OG  6-5  337  )R  
61  Martin Quinlan•  I.B  6-1  242  )R  
62  Bill Fl.win  C  6-3  252  SO  
63  )<"ff Ttsak  OT  6-3  306  SR  
h4  Tum Burkt•  LB  5-10  242  )R  
6'i  Mike Hern.md<·'  OL  6-2  275  FR  
67  Tom Bemenderlt•r  C  6-5  300  SR  
6Y  C.~rl Brophy  OL  6-4  278  FR  
70  Matt Romin<'  OT  6-5  292  SO  
71  D<•nnis Mahom•y  Ol.  6-6  290  FR  
72  Paul Dunc.m  OT  6-7  308  SR  
74  S<~m Young  OT  6-8  330  )R  
75  Taylor Dt•vt•r  OT  6-5  308  SO  
75  Lane Clelland  OT  6-5  281  FR  
76  Andrew Nuss  DE  6-5  304  SO  
77  Mike Tur'-ovich  OG  6~  305  SR  
78  Trt•vor Robinson  OG  6-5  301  FR  
79  Hafis Willi,lms  DE  6-2  302  FR  
81  john Goodman  WR  6-3  197  FR  
H2  Robby Parris  WR  6-4  210  )R  
84  Will Yeatm.m  TE  6-6  265  SO  
&'i  Sam Vus  WR  5-10  199  )R  
Hh  Paul Kuppkh  TE  6-3  232  SR  
87  joseph ~uria  TE  6-7  245  FR  
HY  K.1pron Lewis-Moore  DE  6-4  257  FR  
YO  John Ryan  LB  6-5  264  )R  
91  Emeka Nwankwo  DE  6-4  295  SO  
93  Paddy Mullen  NT  6-3  300  )R  
Y4  justin Brown  DE  6-3  277  SR  
95  Ian Willi.1ms  NT  6-2  310  SO  
q6  Pal Kuntz  DE  6-3  283  SR  
97  Kallen Wad<•  LB  6-5  255  )R  
48  Scan Cwynar  DE  6-4  283  FR  

Irish experts 
LLI 
~ 
<t 
c 
LLI 
a:: 
t­
o 
z 


Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Notre Dame 2008 Schedule 

Sept. 6 Sept. 13 Sept. 20 Sept. 27 Oct. 4 Oct. 11 Oct. 25 Nov.1 Nov. 8 Nov. 15 Nov. 22 Nov. 29 

SDSU-W MICH-W at MSU-L PURDUE-W STANFORD-W atUNC-L atWASH-W PITT-L atBC-L NAVY-W SYRACUSE at USC 
COACHING 

Offensive coordinator Mike Haywood will miss practice again this week, putting Charlie Weis in charge of play­calling once again. On the other side of the ball, Corwin Brown has his defense playing as 
consistently  as  they  
have  in  a  very  long  
time.  

Syracuse announced following last week's loss to the Huskies that head coach Greg Robinson will be gone after this season. After four years as the leader of the Orange he has racked up a grand total of nine wins. 

IRISH PASSING 

For the first time in four years the Notre Dame pa<>sing offense has taken a baek seat to the ~-,rround game. Clausen threw only 18 times last week, but did so efficiently after a few early miscues. The passing game will be hurt with the loss of star receiver Michael Floyd. 
Syracuse doesn't crack the top 100 in FBS pass defenses, but they are experienced at corner­back and have come up with seven interceptions so far this season. 
After an up-and­down season so far this year, Weis has fmally taken back the offensive reins and is ready to show how fancy a Jimmy Clausen-led offense can be. The seniors step up and make their last game at the Stadium one of their best. Throw in a reel­

QUARTERBACKS 
Jimmy Clausen has turned the ball over six times in his last two games. But last week against Navy he seemed to be getting back on track completing 15 of his 18 pass attempts. Senior Evan Sharpley might also see the field in his final home game. 
Former walk-on Cameron Dantley and Andrew Robinson are expected to split time under center this Saturday. The duo has thrown for less than a touchdown per game and completed less than 50 percent of their pass­es. 
With Charlie Weis manning the helm once again thi<> week, the Irish offense will continue to thrive. Jimmy Clausen plays better than he's shown the past two games; he's just been in a funk. The running game continues to suc­ceed, especially if Weis 
IRISH RUSHING 
Last week Notre Dame dedicated itself to the run against a smaller defensive line_ It paid oil' as the Irish ·picked up t 230 convincing yards on the ground with each back contributing to the effort. 
The Orange have given up over 200 yards on the ground in four of their past five games. The line­men range from 240 to 290 pounds and will be undersized against the Big Notre Dame front five. 


ean adjust at halftime like he did against 
Navy. The defense hasn't had a problem so ing Syracuse team with an interim head far, and against the 2-8 Orange, problems coach and you have the makings of a blow won't begin now. out win. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 45 
Syracuse14 Syracuse 10 
Friday, November 21, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 13 

Syracuse 
Orange

HEAD 
Record: 2-8 
AP: NR Coaches: NR 

Greg Robinson 
Fourth season at 
Syracuse Orange 

INTANGIBLES 

It's senior day in South Bend. The Irish defense is led by three seniors who will undoubtedly be fired up for a memorable farewell. The rest of the team will also be intent on sending out their elders on a high note.  
The Orange learned early this week that this was the end of the line for head coach Greg Robinson. Those announcements can often give a team a spark and of course a big underdog is always dangerous.  

Syracuse has absolutely nothing to lose this weekend, which makes them scary. Expect to see plenty of trick plays and weird risks from the Orange. But even the Annexation of Puerto Rico (see little Giants) wouldn't be enough for 'Cuse this weekend The 
ORANGE RUSHING 


ORANGE PASSING 
When I was a sophomore, my friends and I agreed that, since I'm kind of a big guy, I would only go up for push­ups if Notre Dame hit 40 points. That hasn't happened in a few years. I think this week I'll finally get another chance in my last home 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Syracuse 2008 Schedule 
Aug. 30 Sept. 6 Sept. 13 Sept. 20 Sept.27 Oct. 11 Oct. 18 Nov.1 Nov. 8 Nov.15 
atNW'em-L AKRON-L PENNST.-L NE'etn-W 
Pm-L 

atWVU-L atUSF-L 
L'VILIE-W 
atRUTGERS-W UCONN-L 
Irish run game dominates again in a freezing 
z 
0 
-1 
:::a 
'" 
~ 
s: 
'" 
tJ) 
-<
:::a 
>
(") 
c: 
(/) 
'" 


Syracuse career record: 
9-36 

against Notre Dame: 
0-1 
No. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
9 10 11 12 14 15 16 17 
18 20 21 22 23 23 24 25 26 27 28 28 29 30 31 31 32 33 
34 
35 36 36 37 37 38 39 40 41 42 42 43 45 46 46 47 47 48 49 50 51 51 52 53 
54 
56 57 57 58 60 61 63 64 65 66 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 81 82 83 84 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 92 93 94 94 95 96 97 98 99 


Greg Robinson head coach 
Roster 
Name Pos. Ht Wt. David Legree QB 6-4 214 Delon€ Carter RB 5-10 214 Cameron Dantley QB 6-1 218 Marcus Sales WR 6-0 184 Da'Mon Merkerson CB 6-1 185 Dante Davis WR 6-0 173 Cody Catalina QB 6-3 221 Andrew Robinson QB 6-3 222 Dorian Graham CB 5-11 185 Lavar Lobdell WR 6-3 210 Tyrell Harris CB. 6-1 190 Grant Mayes WR 5-10 180 Bntce Williams -s 6-Q 200 
Ryan Nassib A.). Brown Trey Fairchild Randy McKinnon Ryan Howard Curtis Brinkley Daniel Bailey George Mayes Max Suter Derrell Smith Kevyn Scott Frank Satterfield NicoScott Averin Collier Antwon Bailey Vincenzo Giruzzi Ryan Ahem Dan Vaughan Doug Hogue Ben Maljovec Paul Chiara Mike Holmes Jerry Harden Malcolm Conway Daniel Collier Michael Jones Ryan Novak Austin Wallis Ryan Donnelly Ryan Gillum Quintez Scott Patrick Shadle Tony Fiammetta jake Flaherty LB Parker Cantey Robert Nieves Rafael McCrae Rob Long Car! Cutler Darnell Pratt MikeMele Andn•w Lewis Boah Kwaku Oliver Haney Chad Battles Mikhail Marionvich Cory Boatman Elon Mitchell Maximilian Leo Michael Stenclik Jim McKenzie Dan Pena Dave Zaske Corey Chavers Michael Kay Jason Ross Chris Basile Ryan Bartholomew Adam Rosner Nick Lepak Jonathon Meldrum Nick Speller Ryan Durand ian Allport Tucker Baumbach josh White Dalton Phillips Dan Sheeran Van Chew Chaz Cervino Michael Acchione Nick Provo Mike Owen David Stevens Brett Hoffman Lamar Middleton Roland Burke jared Kimmel Shane Kimmel J are! Lowery 
Bud Tribbey NikoRechul Nick Santiago Zary Stewart Arthur jones Romale Tucker Chandler jones QB 6-3 215 s 6-0 201 WR 5-11 185 
s 5-10 198 CB 5-8 185 RB 5-9 203 RB 5-7 167 DB 5-10 182 
s 5-11 190 
LB 6-1 225 s 5-11 197 WR 5-11 179 CB 5-10 180 RB 5-10 200 TB 5-8 196 DE 6-3 241 DB 6-2 197 LB 6-2 221 RB 6-2 215 TE 6-3 237 s 5-11 205 CB 5-11 185 RB 5-9 188 p 5-11 175 FB 6-0 240 RB 5-11 205 K 5-11 170 K 5-10 185 TE 6-3 234 LB 5-11 220 DB 5-10 185 K 5-8 209 FB 6-1 239 LB 6-1 228 LB 6-3 218 FB 6-0 211 DB 5-9 175 p 6-4 175 TE 6-2 234 TE 6-4 222 LB 6-0 218 DE 6-3 267 LB 6-2 245 OL 6-3 288 LB 6-3 224 DE 6-4 230 DE 6-2 260 DT 6-2 245 LS 5-11 210 LB 6-0 229 c 6-4 286 DT 6-2 266 LS 5-10 250 T 6-5 295 OL 6-2 281 LB 5-10 202 DE 6-4 280 G 6-3 290 G 6-6 303 
6-4 318
~ 
T 6-5 305 T 6-5 310 G 6-5 303 OL 6-4 300 T 6-5 307 T 6-5 294 c 6-3 278 WR 6-3 217 WR 6-1 165 WR 5-10 180 WR 159
6-Q TE 6-4 232 TE 6-4 251 TE 6-4 220 TE 6-3 215 DE 6-3 254 TE 6-5 267 DE 6-6 255 LB 6-1 238 DT 6-4 285 DT 6-1 288 p 6-2 195 DT 6-3 294 DE 6-4 229 DT 6-4 291 DE 6-4 231 DE 6-5 238 
Irish 
YR FR JR 

SR FR FR JR FR JR .# 
FR SR FR FR SR FR JR FR FR SR SR SR JR FR JR FR FR JR FR 
FR 
SR JR FR FR JR JR FR FR 
so 
JR FR 

so -~ 
FR SR FR FR SR JR JR JR FR FR FR FR FR 
FR 
FR 
so 
FR FR FR FR SR JR SR SR SR 

:z:
so 
JR 
FR 
JR SR )R jR FR FR FR JR FR JR FR SR SR FR FR FR FR )R FR FR FR SR )R 

FR ­
FR 
FR 
SR 
so 
FR SR FR FR 

-
-
game as a senior. Hopefully the Irish cold, possibly snowy, game. Picking a win 
can put this one away early and let against Syracuse isn't a bold statement to go out some of those seniors get in their final on, so don't be surprised ifthe Irish finally pick 
experts

home game in the Stadium. up thatgoose egg they've been lookingfor. 
RNALSCORE: NobeDame 42 ANAL SCORE: Nobe Dame 24 Syracuse 17 SyracuseO 
-
page 14 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER November 21, 2008 
Man of the house 
• in the house." McCarthy said.
By BILL BRINK "lie's got boxers on, but that's 

Sports Ediror 

about it. 
Quinn called McCarthy the Hditor:'i note: this story origi­dad of the house, but Kuntz nally ran on Oct. 19. 2008. called him the mom. McCarthy 
agreed with Quinn. "Takl' oil' your shirt!" ''I'm the dad of the house," he Kyle McCarthy shahs his said. "Pat's a child. I have to 
lwad. unabiP to hifiP a slwepish whip him into shape every once grin. in a while." 
"Take oil' your shirt!" tlw yell The five of thmn carpool to conws again. It's not from a campus, but not everyone pulls f'emal11 student dying to s1w a thnir wnight. McCarthy and football player topless, but Kuntz an~ the main drivers­rather from nose tackle Pat tlw "workhorses," Kuntz said­Kuntz, orw of McCarthy's house­while Duncan slacks in the mates. OncP lw heard transportation departnwnt. McCarthy, a sPnior safdy, would "Duncan. I don't think he's have his picture taken. Kuntz ever started his ear," MeCarthy had to be a part of it. and lw said. "lie's trying to save gas kPpt asking -no, pleading­monPy." li1r McCarthy to undn•ss. Lest orw get thn wrong idea. 
McCarthy rPI'usPd. So his MeCarthy was qukk to mPntion housenHttes -Kuntz, ol'f1111Sive that tlw live of them <~lfmn the tackle l'aul Duncan and lirw­house once a week. backer Stevl' <)uinn -along "I don't want you guys to gPt with lirwbackPr .John Hyan and the wrong impn~ssion, it's not a receiver Hobby l'arris, conspire shack. It's a niee house," he to rreatP tlw said. most ridiculous And McCarthy setting imagina­"It was a tough would, reluctant­ble for a pi<:­ly. call himself a JESS LEE/The Observer 
decision, but the lure 
ture. nice guy. "I don't Irish senior safeties David Bruton (27) and Kyle McCarthy wrap up Wolverines running back Sam McCarthy, ofplaying big-time want to be McGuffie during Notre Dame's 35-17 victory Saturday. 
... 
who acts college football really boastful, but I'd respectful and say I'm a nice, now plays for the Baltimore what he needs to be doing. But can't reconcile the two -thny
won me over.
inlldligent, put hardworking Havens, in front of him, but he he's a big boy now." get along both on the field and up with the Midwestern kid." said the two became close. ofT. nonsense. lie Kyle McCarthy he said. "Zibby and Tackling "We'll watch film together, rnsnrves him­Irish safety myself' became machine we'll talk about schemes togeth­self for the most Path to success real good So far this er," he said. "We've got our dif­
''I'm the new guy,
part but exudes But years friends right ofT season, the big fenmces, but we generally like a quint snnsP of before he was the bat," he right? I hope they boys on the each other." humor. lin looks surprised, man of the house, McCarthy said. "We both underestimate me ... field have had however. when told he led the played quarterback at Cardinal play the same to fear Targeting Ringer 
And it kind of
nation in solo tackles with 17. Mooney High School in position and McCarthy. McCarthy, Bruton and the rest
motivates me, to be
"You'rn honestly the lirst per­Youngstown, Ohio. He rushed have the same The style of of the Irish defense have a new son that told me that," he said for 1,273 yards and 14 touch­interests. I felt honest, to get my the Irish task this wePkend: stop after a pausf~. downs and passed for 557 yards like his style of defense and its Spartans running back Javon
respect.,
Before long, it will be hard to and five touehdowns as a sen­play and my opponents have Ringer, who has nine touch­ignore. ior. lie also played safety, style of play somewhat downs in three games this sea­recording 70 tackles and five were pretty Kyle McCarthy inflated son. Full house interceptions his senior season. similar, but Irish safety McCarthy's "The guy that they've got, he's 
MeCarthy painted quite a pic­When colleges came calling, we're both our tackles. Notre a Heisman hopeful. he's got that turn of his off-campus home. McCarthy heard from MAC own player." Dame has been kind of talent," McCarthy said. There's Pat Kuntz, the resident schools as well as service acad­McCarthy said in the nickel "We've got to be prepared, the child, making a mess and play­emies who were interested in he learned the workings of the package for the first two games defensive line, linebackers and ing Halo :{. There's Paul him as a quarterback. defense from watching on the of the season to neutralize the safeties to come up and tackle Duncan. the nicnst person Tempting, but not right for him. sideline, but the transition from spread offense, and running him." MeCarthy's ever met. There's "It was a tough decision, but being a big deal in high school backs have been funneled to Tackling Hinger, he said, was Stevn <)uinn, who loves gummy the lure of playing big-time col­to a relative no-name his fresh­McCarthy and safety David not so much a matter of posi­boars for some r11ason lege football really won me man year humbled him. Bruton. tioning as one of prepping one­McCarthy can't fathom. Tlwre's over," he said. "When you're "It taught me that no one's Irish defensive coordinator self for a potential big hit. also tackle Mike Turkovid1. who playing for Notre Dame, it's a going to give me anything, Corwin Brown said McCarthy is "llonestly, you probably just ... Md:arthy couldn't think of whole dillf~rent story." you've got to work for it," he a reliable guy and someone who have to buckle up a little bit anything, so lw asked Kuntz. When he arrived at Notre said. ''I've tried to keep my does what he's taught. tighter," MeCarthy said. "He's a 
"lin always wears boxers," Dame, however, he battled both head down, keep working." "Up until this point, he's a guy guy that will juke you, but he's Kuntz oll'emd. injury and the depth chart. He He knew he was on the right that you give him got some weight "Ynah, lw never wnars dothes had safety Tom Zbikowski, who traek, however, near the end of rules and assign­to him, some
"[Javon Ringer is/ a
his junior season, when he ments and he muscle to him, started getting more playing tries his best to Heisman hopeful, he's hP'II try to run time. His confidence has never execute them," you over at
got that kind of 
wavered, he said, but playing in Brown said. "He times."
talent. We've go to be
front of 80,000 people can take doesn't get all of If one were to some getting used to. the flash and the prepared ... to come look at his team­McCarthy's older brother flair, and every­mates' stage
up and tackle him." 
Brian graduated from Notre body isn't holler­theatrics for his Dame in 2006, and his younger ing his name, but photo shoot. brother, Dan, is a freshman at·the Pnd of the Kyle McCarthy however, one safety on the team this fall. day when you Irish safety might think McCarthy said he enjoys having look at the film MeCarthy capa­his brother around, both during and you look at ble of stopping football and outside of it. thP stat sheets and he's doing anyone. In various poses, with 
"We pick on him a little bit, his job." Kuntz as the art direetor, he has myself and my friends inducted. McCarthy said it wasn't a neg­a foot on Parris' gut while I think they think he's their ative that other offenses Kuntz holds on for dear life. brother too," he said. "We're focused more on Bruton; in fact, Duncan, who wanted no part of excited for him to come along it gets him going. any of this, stood in hysteries in next year, and he's going to be a ''I'm the new guy, right'! I the background. great player." hope they underestimate me," Will McCarthy to live up to his 
To make sure his brother he said. "It kind of makes me teammates' view of him. as well takes care of himself. McCarthy excited. And it kind of motivates as his lead in solo tackles'! lie said he ehecks up on Dan from me, to be honest, to get my doesn't know, but he's not wor­time to time, but that to some respect." ried about it. llis thoughts are extent. he's on his own. McCarthy and Bruton got to elsewlwre. Aftnr learning lw 
"I can guide him in certain know each other well coming in had the lead, he said, "I guess I areas he needs to be guided." as freshmen from Ohio, and hope I lead at the end." he said. "[ keep an extra dose despite disagreements over 


Irish safety Kyle McCarthy, right, defends wide receiver David watch on him in the meeting music -Bruton likes rap, Contact Chris Hine at Grimes during the Blue-Gold game on April 19. rooms, to make sure he's doing McCarthy likes rock, and they chine@nd.edu 
-
Friday, November 21, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 15 
Brute determination 
Senior safety David Bruton works toward career in NFL 
receiver and safety for Bruton said Jaden's birth
By CHRIS HINE 
Miamisburg High School in caused him to make the deci­
Editor in Chief 
Miamisburg, Ohio, hardly saw sions in his personal life that the field in his freshman year it was time to grow up. 
Editor's note: this story orig­and prior to his sophomore "Am I going to college to inally ran on Sept. 26, 2008. season, have fun, or am I he was going to college This time last year, the NFL close to to support was still a distant dream to giving it "''m zeroed in a lot more Knucklehead?" senior safety David Bruton. up for Bruton said last
than I was. Ofcourse it 

lie was having a solid sea­good. year. "And I nar­
wasn't easy first becoming 

son in an otherwise miserable " M y rowed it down to year for Notre Dame, but to h e a r t afather...your head's just 'I'm going to Bruton, the idea of playing on wasn't school and play­
spinning, but I found a 

Sundays was still unfath­really set ing football to 
way to turn it into a

omable. on foot­support But to some people, it wasn't b a I I , " positive and use it as a Knucklehead."' so incomprehensible. Bruton Bruton motivational force. , Without Jaden, started to notice these people said. "I Bruton said he showing up to watch him play. didn't wouldn't be the 
David Bruton

Bruton may have not have p I a y man -or the known them, but they certain­m u c h Irish safety football player ­ly knew who he was. They freshman that he is today. were NFL scouts. year and And the NFL 
This season, Bruton has I wasn't would just be givnn those scouts a lot to a big fan of being a receiver something he watched on TV praise -he recovered a fum­and not getting many looks at every Sunday. bin in the fourth quarter on defensive back. I felt like I'd "It put my life in perspec­Notre Dame's 1-yard line never play anyway or see the tive," Bruton said. ''I'm zeroed against San DiP-go State. And field." in a lot more than I was. Of against Michigan, Bruton But Notre Dame fans can be course it wasn't easy first forced another fumble and thankful Bruton had a conver­becoming a father; you don't had an interception inside the sation with his friend and know left or right anymore Notre Dame 5-yard line. teammate, Kelly Lewis. Lewis, and your head's just spinning. Bruton, now playing in his his coach's son, convinced but I found a way to turn it final season for Notre Dame, Bruton to give football another into a positive and use it as a has developed a knack for get­shot. Bruton saw some action motivational force." ting turnovers at key times -early in the season at wide Bruton is not one to go out certainly something that will receiver due to an injury to much on the weekerrds. He help him get to NFL. one of the starters. Then, said he doesn't go to many 
"I realized it wasn't that Bruton earned the starting house parties. Instead, he said nized pre-draft process where On the field, his teammates far," Bruton said. ''I'm in my spot at safety his junior year he does work, watches TV or, every bench press and 40-in the secondary play a little final year here, and I have a and parlayed that into a schol­in keeping with his love of the yard dash time could raise or differently because they know really good chance to go to the arship at Notre Dame. Olympics, play "Mario and lower your value in the draft. Bruton is there to back them next level." Now, the Olympics were an Sonic at the Olympics" on his Still, Bruton said that doesn't up. 
But just a few years ago for afterthought. Nintendo Wii. worry him too much. "He's got range back there Bruton, getting to that next But even a free-ride to one "I feel like that's only fair," "I plan to be a that not a lot level meant going somewhere of the most storied programs Bruton said. "Jaden's mom is lot more ready of safeties other than the NFL -the in college football history was­taking a whole lot of responsi­than I am now Tm here to provide have," corner­Olympics. n't enough to give Bruton the bility on herself and that kind when I go to back Raeshon
and hopefully get a
kind of focus he needed to of hinders her from going out. train," Bruton McNeil said. Finding football make it to the NFL. It's feels like the right thing to said. "My 40-good future for my "It allows me, In high school, Bruton do. I'm not here to just shoot time will drop. Terrail
son. 
dreamed of becoming an Getting his priorities straight the crap. I'm here to provide I'm not really Lambert, Olympic sprinter, much like In November 2005, during and hopefully get a good worried about Hobert 
David Bruton 
his cousin, Tyson Gay. his freshman year, Bruton's future for my son." that. My vertical Blanton, Gary 
"I wanted those 200-and son Jaden -who Bruton jump, I'm really Irish safety Gray, whoev­400-meter races," Bruton said affectionately calls Getting ready for the future not worried at all er's in there, with a smile. "Knucklehead"-was born. But before Jaden can see his because that's to play with a 
Football was merely an When interviewed for a Sept. father play on Sundays, me, I just jump. The bench little more confidence and be afterthought. 28, 2007 article by The Bruton has to go through the might be the only thing that's a little more aggressive ... 
Bruton, who played wide Observer's Jay Fitzpatrick, laborious and highly-scruti-suspect but when you train because you know anytime on you can always put on weight a deep ball, Bruton's going to and up your reps." be in the vicinity." 
And if he ever needs advice And if Bruton has anything he has former teammates now to say about it, he'll be in the in the NFL -John Carlson, vicinity of a lot of deep passes John Sullivan and Tom for years to come after his Zbikowski-to ask for advice. final season at Notre Dame is He also can call up a new over. friend of his that he made at But Bruton in the NFL is last year's Blue-something Irish Gold game -defensive coor­former Tampa "I will say that I've dinator Corwin Bay and Denver Brown doesn't
been around guys 
safety John want to imagine 
Lynch. and I've seen guys right now. "He told me to that have done it at a "Oh, I'm not just be aggres­go
pretty good level and going to 
sive," Bruton down that said. "You have ifhe does things the road," Brown to showcase right way he can said Wednesday. your abilities, "But I will say
do it.,
show you can that I've been hit and get your around guys respect that David Bruton and I've seen way." Irish safety guys that have 
Bruton has done it at a taken the Pro-pretty good Bowler's advice to heart. His level and if he does things the teammates respected him right way he can do it. I'll just enough to make him captain leave it at that. I want to focus this season, a distinction he on him being a good college carries with pride. player right now. I don't want 
"You're not just a guy who to put him in Canton." made plays and got voted Canton may seem far away because of popularity, you for Bruton at this point, but a were voted because you were few years ago, so did the NFL. a hard worker and you've made plays and you have Contact Chris Hine at guys' respect," Bruton said. chine@nd.edu 


page 16 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 2 I, 2008 
PAUL KUPPICH 

Tight end joins squad after transferring from Columbia 
York City, it kind of takes away
By SAM WERNER 
from campus life and support,"
Sports Writer 
he said. 
Kuppich said he contacted Hon 

Even though senior tight end Powlus, who was at that time and long-snapper Paul Kuppich Notre Dame's director of player is a walk-on in his first, and last, pnrsonnel, to gauge whether or ynar with the Irish, he is trying to not he'd be able to walk-on with make the most of his Notrn Dame the Irish. though Kuppich said experience. that football was not the primary 
Kuppich transferred to Notre faetor in his decision to transfer. 
Dame from Columbia after his "It played a small part," he freshman year, and he said the said. "But it wasn't the end-all, biggest dill'ernnce he has experi­bn-all." enced bntween the two s1:hools is N'ter sitting out his sophomore Notre Dame's sense of communi­year due to NCM transfer re6'll­ty. lations. Kuppieh walked on in the 
"llt'sl more of an undergradu­winter of his junior year, and ate f(H~l." Kuppieh said. "People suddenly realized that he had are really supportive of each stepped up a level from other. Not only supportive of the Columbia. But he didn't back team, but just everyone in gener­down from the challenge. al. "In a sense it's humbling, 
"It's kind of cliche to say 'We because you realize you've are Notre Dame,' but it's real stepped up a level and so the once you get competition's here." going to rise, 
Kuppich did not "You realize as a but I think that's apply to Notre walk-on it's not about something that 
Dame out of high everyone
yourself You're 
school, as he wants," he said. wanted to play supposed to be "As an athlete, football in college making the guy you thrive on and Notre Dame competition,
across from you
did not oll'er him a being able to
better."
scholarship. compete and 
At Columbia, make the team Kuppich was the Paul Kuppich better." Lions' second­That competi­
Irish tight end
string tight end tion was high-and played regu-lighted in larly on special teams. llowevcr, Kuppich's first training camp during his freshman year, the with the Irish this fall. He was Columbus, Ohio nativn decided listed as a co-starter at long­that the New York City school snapper with four other players. just wasn't for him. "Every time you go into a train­
"Because there's so much ing camp, from my experience at going on outside of school in New Columbia too, is that it's really a 
"Before and Beyond Modernism: Icons as Art" 
Charles E. Barber, Professor and Chairperson, Art, Art History, and Design 
11:00 a.tn. Saturday, Novetnber 22, 2008 
Annen berg Auditorium, Snite Museun1 of Art 
The icon is both ubiquitous and a highly successful 
medium for religious art with visual qualities that 
appear archaic and strange. Yet it also embodies the 
comfort of a timeless tradition and can be found in 
churches and homes of all denominations. Barber 
will discuss these qualities in light of modernist 
aesthetics and posrmodern rheology. 
competition. That's to push peo­ple to become better themselves, but also to push others to become better. They put people on equal footing to see who comes out." 
Kuppich said his goal as a walk-on is to work his hardest to improve the rest of the team. 
"You realize as a walk-on, it's not about yourself," he said. "You're supposed to be making the guy across from you better." 
lie also said that, even though he's a walk-on, the rest of the team doesn't treat him any dif­ferently than any scholarship player. 
"There aren't divisions or labels. Everyone's a Notre Dame football player," he said. 
With the glory and prestige of being a Notre Dame football player though, comes the respon­sibilities associated with it. 
"The players treat you the same, the coaches are going to treat you the same as a scholar­ship player," Kuppich said. "They're going to expect you to know the plays, they're going to expect you to be on time, they're going to expect you make every you're seeing everything you working hard to fix it. meeting." always dreamed of." "While I didn't experience it 
That hard work paid off for That feeling wore off quickly, first-hand, I'm still working as Kuppich against San Diego State, however, when Kuppich realized hard as I ean for those guys who though, when he put on the gold that he had work to do. did because everyone deserves to helmet for the first time and got "You have to actually become be respected as a Notre Dame to run out of the tunnel as a what you've always looked up athlete, especially a football play­Notre Dame football player. Even to," he said. "You expect to kind er," he said. though he wasn't a Notre Dame of take it all in, but in reality Kuppich, who plans to attend fan growing up, he said it was you're so focused on the game, law school after graduation, will definitely a special moment for you weren't in awe any more. have one more chance to take him. You had to take it seriously." the field as an Irish player this 
"It's kind of surreal in a way. While he wasn't with the team weekend against Syracuse. As a kid, you always dream of last year, Kuppich said he suf­playing for a big-time college fered through the team's 3-9 Contact Sam Werner at program. Once you're here, season as a student, and was swerner@nd.edu 


Fall 2008 Schedule 
Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues of our times. 
~  09/06-San Diego State  
"Faith Taking Shape: Early Christianity and the Arts"  
Thomas F. Noble, Professor and Chairperson, History  
~  09/13-Michigan  
"Peter Pan as Cultural leon"  
Susan C. Ohmer, William T. Carey and Helen Kuhn Carey Associate  
Professor of Modern Communication, Film, Television, and Theatre  
~  09/27-Purdue  
"Election 2008: Race, Gender, and Faith~  
David E. Campbell, John Cardinal O'Hara, C.S.C., Associate  
Professor, Political Science  
Darren W Davis, Professor, Political Science  
Christina K. Wolbrecht, Associate Professor, Political Science  
~  10/04-Stanford  
"1l1e Sub-Prime }.1orrgage Mess and Federal Reserve Policy" Christopher J. Waller, Gilbert F. Schaefer Professor of Economics  
~  11/01-Pittsburgh  
''Catholics and Evolution: Old Tensions and New Directions"  
Phillip R. Sloan, Professor, Program of Liberal Studies  
~  1 I/22-Syracuse  
''Before and Bevond Modernism: lcons as An"  
Charles E. Ba;ber, Professor and Chairperson, Art, Arr History,  
and Design  
3-I/2 hours bdore kickoff in the Annenberg Auditorium,  
Snite Museum ofArt (unless otherwise noted).  
For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu  


UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
... 
Friday, November 21, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 17 
Walking tall 
Former walk-on Anello earns scholarship, playing time and respect 
outside of Chicago, he didn't does comes from wrestling.
By DAN MURPHY see the 11eld once. Ilis coaches Weis and the coaching staff 
Sports Editor 
told him that if only he was a also found that wrestlers often 
little bit taller or weighed a make good football players. 
Editor's note: this story orig­few more pounds he could get "The few [wrestlers! that inally ran on .'·:ept. 13, 2008. some playing time. I've had. their track record is After a frustrating year, good," Weis said. "You have to Loss than a month ago, Mike Anello quit the be a sicko to Anello walked into Notre team to focus wrestle any­Dame Stadium and was told on wrestling. way and I
''That was really tough, 
by an employee he had to By his senior think that it 1Pav11. ThP anm was for play­year, the doing all that [hard kind of helps Prs only. coaches real­work] and not even in your devel­"I walkPd down and they ized their mis­opment as a
knowing that you 

told me to stop," Anello said. take and con­football play­"I think thny confusP.d me for vinced Anello would make the team. er." a student manager." to JOLO the They were only about 
At a press conference earlier team again. Move over
30 minutes long, but
this week Anello found himself "I missed it a Rudy surrounded by reporters jam­lot," Anello man, sometimes you lie's an ming microphones and cam­said. "My jun­would leave those undersized, eras in his face. They all knew ior year I just Midwestern
workouts crawling out 
exactly who he was. felt like some­special teams
the door.'' 

Last week the former walk­thing was walk-on, and on was just anothPr name on missing, I don't he even wore the depth chart. But after four like to have too No. 45 last
Mike Anello 

big special teams tackles much free season.
Irish defensive back 

against San Diego State, the time." Anyone who secret is out. Anello was has ever heard 
The 5-foot-1 0, 170-pound named a week-of Irish foot­former walk-on plays gunner ly captain eight times and ball before could make the on the Irish punt team and is helped lead the team to the connection with Notre Dame's also on the kickoff team. state quarterfinals that year. most famous player, Rudy. Anello made his debut on the He was all set to head to the After last year's Michigan field last year in Notre Dame's University of Illinois the fol­game, when Anello went to 38-0 loss to Michigan in the lowing fall, where he had pick up his jersey, No. 45 was Big House. been accepted into an exclu­sitting there waiting for him 
"I remember I had a good sive business program. But for the first time. week on the scout team the after a trip to South Bend and "I saw it and turned to our week before," he said. some sound advice from an equipment manager and said "During practice, Coach old coach, he knew Notre 'You've got to be kidding me,"' !Charlie] Weis started yelling Dame was the place for him. he said. The equipment man­'Where's Anello decided ager asked what he was talk­Anello?' I almost immedi­ing about and Anello said, thought I had ately to give "Come on, 45, that's Rudy's done some­"I walked down and football a try. number." thing wrong." "I figured at Anello said he dido 't mind
they told me to stop. I 

Weis told the very least I the comparisons and just kind
think they confused 

him that he would stay in of laughed about them now. had cracked me for a student shape for anoth­Being compared to anyone the depth er nine months," who got the chance to run out
manager.

chart and he said. of the tunnel and take a snap would be on the field is fine w'ith him. going to Ann Mike Anello Wrestling This year, Anello wears No. Arbor that Irish defensive back Background 37 on game days but said the weekend. Anello's top change in number had nothing Anello waited sport throughout to do with creating his own all week for all of high school image or getting rid of the the eoaches to pull him out of and his childhood was Rudy stigma. the spot, but it never hap­wrestling. He had the oppor­"Coach Weis just came up to pened. On his second trip tunity to wrestle in college but me when we were getting our down the field he got to the decided against it because of jersey and told me I wasn't ball and recorded his first col­the wear and tear on his body. wearing Rudy's number again legiate tackle. 'Tve seen the guys who this year, he pointed to 37 and 
"It was kind of a surreal wrestle in college and it just that was fine with me," Anello experience, if you had told me doesn't seem like fun. I didn't said. a few years ago that I would want to spend four years Anello actually knew Rudy even be on the Notre Dame doing that and worrying about before he stormed down the team I would've probably cutting weight all of the time," sidelines with No. 45 on his laughed at you," Anello said. Anello said. back. He and Rudy's son, 
The road to where he is now But all of that work in the Danny Jr., wrestled against was not an easy one. ring wasn't lost. Anello said one another several times as As a 120-pound sophomore that a lot of his work ethic and they were growing up and got at Carl Sandburg High School ability to train as hard as he to know each other pretty 


IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 

Irish senior defensive back Mike Anello chases after a punt during Notre Dame's loss to Boston College at Alumni Field. 
well. go for a run or hit the gym 
Anello said he called Rudy after a full day's work. after the Michigan game last "That was probably the year to tell him about the new toughest part, working that number and the Irish legend hard and then having to go congratulated him on the work out afterwards. There game. were plenty of days when I 
didn't want to be there," he Nothing comes easy said. 
Anello's ascent from unrec­Despite the challenges, ognizable to a fan favorite Anello never once thought of may seem like it happened giving up. The thrill of throw­fast, but it was the result of ing on the gold helmet every years of tireless work. day was enough to keep him 
The process started four going. years ago when Anello first started training for walk-on Hard work pays off tryouts. Every day he forced Those sunrise workouts and himself to run sprints and lift 100-hour weeks paid off in a for hours on top of his classes big way this August when and the other work he had. Weis announced Anello was After a long, lonely few given a full scholarship for his months, things only got contributions to the team. tougher. "I dido't give the kid a schol­
When he returned to cam­arship because of his appear­pus for spring semester fresh­ance. I gave it to him because man year he he earned it," started working Weis said. out with the Anello's par­
"I didn't give this kid 
other walk-ons. ents were in 
a scholarship because 
The group got town to watch together at 5:30 ofhis appearance. I the practice and 
a.m. to run witnessed the
gave it to him
sprints and get moment.
because he earned 
ready for try­"I was the last outs. it., one he called so "That was I was getting a really tough, little bit nerv­
Charlie Weis 
doing all that ous," Anello
Irish coach 
and not even said. "But when knowing that coach started you would make saying 'This the team," he said. "They next guy is 5-foot-2, about 12 were only about 30 minutes pounds,' I knew who he was long, but man, sometimes you talking about." would leave those workouts Weis continues to remind crawling out the door." Anello how undersized he is 
Anello made the team that on almost a daily basis. spring, but as so often hap­"At first I was 5-4. then 5-2, pens, his reward for hard now I think I'm under five feet work was more hard work. He according to him. For some continued to train hard to reason, I keep on shrinking," move up the depth chart and he said. make himself and the team Anello might be shrinking in better. Weis' eyes, but to the rest of 
After his sophomore season, the Notre Dame football Anello got an internship at an world, he can't get much big­investment banking firm that ger. had him logging upwards of 
Irish senior defensive back Mike Anello runs downfield on kickoff coverage in Notre Dame's 17-0 80 hours per week, but still he Contact Dan Murphy at loss to Boston College on Nov. 8. Anello had three tackh~s in the game. found time to get up early and dmurphy6@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 21, 2008 
Scorr SMITH 

Linebacker 111atures ''physically and mentally'' at ND 

By DEIRDRE KRASULA simple guy," Smith said. Assistam Managing Editor But even though Smith isn't the most boisterous presence in 
What you see is what you get. the room, he's made himself At least that's what senior line­known over his years on the backer Scott Smith thinks field, improving as the years about himself. went on. 
"I like to think I'm a pretty As a freshman Smith saw field time primarily from spe­cial teams. But his first tackle for Notre Dame was one that came at a crucial moment on a reverse against Michigan. And even though Smith's tackle was a big one, adjusting to the col­lege game wasn't necessarily an easy thing. 
"When I came in as a fresh­man I kind of didn't know what to expect, everything was a lot faster. the guys were a lot big­ger, the things you usually hear when you l'irst play collp,ge football," Smith said. 
But with three years under his belt, things looks a little dif­ferent. 
"I think I've matured both physically and mentally and just having the opportunity is something I've just kind of rel­ished, every time I've gone out there just to practice, being able to put that gold helmet on every week is a special feeling and one that I'm going to appreciate for a long time." 
Smith dido 't see the field in 2006, but he was back and stronger in his junior season. Smith saw action in all 12 games and recorded a career­best 18 tackles (seven solo). 
And so far Smith is on track to match last year. 2008 has brought Smith playing time in 10 games along with 9 tackles (seven solo). And not having played in 2006 leaves the ques-
KEVIN SMITH 

S111ith takes time off fro111 football to head to Beijing 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer  the team's training camp as he traveled across the world to participate in the experi­ fifth-year long snapper at the University of Florida in their hometown of  
ence of a lifetime. Smith was  Gainesville,  Fla.  Kevin's  
As  a  linebacker  on  Notre  an  intern with NBC, and he  identical twin Brian is a line­ 
Dame's  scout  team,  Irish  traveled to  the Olympics in  backer on  Navy's undefeated  
senior Knvin Smith spends  Beijing to  work  as  a  logger  sprint football team.  
much  of  his  time  on  the  for the network's coverage of  Because Kevin's brother  
pradice  field  mirroring  the  games.  As  a  logger,  plays for the Naval Academy,  
many of Notre Danw's oppos­ Kevin  would log video and  he had  a  specific goal  set  
ing linnbacknrs  to  help his  sound  clips  so  that  they  forth  for  last  weekend's  
teammates prepare for what  could be called up faster at a  game  against Navy.  Kevin  
opposing defnnses will show  later time.  knew that each week, the  
thnm  on  the  field  each  lie specifically worked  on  scout  team  player  of the  
Saturday. llownver,  most of  some  of the  lesser-known  week  was  allowed to  travel  
the players that Smith mir­ events, such  as  BMX,  road  with the team for the upcom­ 
rors  each day  on  the  field  cyeling, and the triathlon. In  ing game. Knowing that this  
would have an extrnnwly dif­ addition,  his press creden­ would  be his last chance to  
f'ieult time mirroring Smith's  tials allowed him  to  attend  play in front of his brother,  
accomplishments  off  the  many of the other events,  with  whom  he  says  he  is  
f'itdd.  including a number of United  extremely elose with, Smith  
S  m  i  t  h  States  men's  was  determined to  win the  
walknd  on  to  basketball  chance to travel to Navy.  
the Notre Dame football tnam in the  ''The Olympics were extraordinary, and  games. As a student majoring in  "Each week the scout team player of the week travels with team, so I worked really  
spring of his sophomore year, and hn is  the Chinese put on a good show. "  political science and peace stud­ies, the experi­ hard in practice," Smith said. Smith was thrilled when he  
noaring  the  ence  was  an  learned that he would be  
end of his sec­ Kevin Smith  interesting aca­ traveling to Navy.  
ond fall on tlw Irish linebacker Irish roster. Before joining the Irish, Smith had a busy extracur­was able  demic experi­ence for Smith. During his time in China, Smith to see China and  "Normally they announce who the player of the week is at the end of practice, but coach Weis called me into his office on Thursday morning  QUENTIN STENGER/The Observer Irish linebacker Kevin Smith returns to his position during Notre Dame's 27-21 win over Navy on Nov. 15.  
rieular life. Although Smith  how impressive their opera­ to let  me  know so  my family  the game to see the youngest  for the Irish.  
was very active in HecSports  tion was.  would have enough time to  Smith boys  on  the field with  ''I'm really happy that I've  
as a member of Knott's inter­ "The  Olympics  were  make arrangements to get to  each other. The trip wound  been able to be a  part of it,"  
hall  football  team  and the  extraordinary,  and  the  the game," Smith said.  up  being  Kevin's  fondest  he said.  "I'm grateful that  
rugby  team  - before it  was  Chinese put on a good show,"  Kevin  said  his  brother  memory of his time  on  the  I've had the chance to do it."  
officially rAinstated  - he  Smith said.  "The Chinese  Brian was very excited when  Irish football team.  After  graduating  from  
was  as  equally involved in  were very nice people."  he learned that he would be  "Navy was amazing," Kevin  Notre Dame, where he  has  
student government. Smith  Family life is  an  important  making the trip.  said.  "Traveling with  the  had  a  unique and extraordi­ 
snrved  as  Knott  llall vice  aspect of Kevin's life.  Kevin  "He  was  excited for me,"  team  makes  you  feel  so  nary  college  experience,  
president,  was  a  member of  is  one  of four  children in  Kevin said. "He has  a  really  involved, and I  even  got to  Kevin hopes to join Teach for  
Student Senate and  a  repre­ what he describes  as  a  very  sarcastic sense of humor and  play on a few plays."  America  and  eventually  
Sflntative  on  the freshman  close, very athletic family.  told me how they were going  Heading into his final game  attend law school.  
class couneil.  The three Smith boys all play  to destroy us."  at Notre Dame Stadium  on  
This past summer, howev­ college  football.  Smith's  Kevin's parents and older  Saturday, Kevin is thankful  Contact Mike Gotimer at  
er,  Smith  was  absent from  older  brother James  is  a  sister wound up making it to  for the opportunity to  play  mgotimer@nd.edu  


tion open for a fifth year of eli­gibility. But Smith isn't thinking about that quite yet. 
"Hight now I'm just focused on finishing out the rest of tho season strong and finishing this game against Syracuse," Smith said. "It's a possibility and its something I've thought about and considnred, but when the time comes make a decision. but now, worry about the rest of the season and finish this season out strong and kind of worry about it aJ'tAr that." 
With Brian Smith out, this Smith is likely to see a lot of playing in what could possibly be his last home game -both on special teams and at linP­backer. And transitioning back and forth between the two has never been a problem. 
"It's really just staying in game modA because no matter what you're doing you really just have to stay attacking you have to play physical you have to play fast," Smith said. "A lot of what you do on defense transfers over to special teams and vice-versa, just being able and willing to go and make a play when you're number's called, and that's something I've just tried to do is go out there and make things happen to help this team win." 
A home win that could possi­ble be the last one Smith sees as a student-athlete. With a fifth year not a guarantee, Smith has started thinking about life beyond the gridiron -a possible earner in consult­ing. 
Both being a studont and a player at Notre Dame has allowP.d Smith to realize that no matter what happens a year from now, he'll be roady. 
"I know that this place pre­pared me to do well whatever I decide to do al'tt~r I leave here. I'll be confident that I'll find the right fit for mo," Smith said. 
But liko overy Notre Damn student, senior year is bitter­sweet. And even though Smith may be loaving his golden hel­met behind, ho'll also be Jp,av­ing the (;olden Dome soon ­and that's something every stu­dent can appreciate. 
"Being on campus, walking around, seeing the dome, kind of just being around everyone, being around you're friends, being around your peers that you've bmm here with for four years and gone to class with everyday and studied with and hung out with, that whole atmosphere is something that you can never quite have again," Smith said. 
Sweet and simple from player who tells it how it is. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at 
dkrasula@nd.edu 

Friday, November 21, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 19 
Muscle Man 
Asaph Schwapp has had to work hard his whole life to get where he is, and he wouldn't have it any other way 
By DAN MURPHY SportS Editor 
At six feet tall, 260 pounds. Asaph Schwapp is an imposing figure, and that's after losing weight during the offseason. 
Despite dropping nearly 20 pounds last winter. Notre Dame's fullback remains a bruising force on the field -a forcr. that is pr.rhaps topped only by his handiwork in the weight room. Schwapp is widely regarded at the team's strongest player. This summer, he bench pressed 530 pounds, that is more than double his body weight. 
"Yeah. I still hold that title," Schwapp said. "I love bench pn~ssing and that type of stuff." 
Schwapp said he's been a gym rat since his days in high school and still likes to get in a few oxtra sets in the off-season after he is done with the team's regu­larly-sehed­uled lifts. 
"I do the program with the team and lation of "United in Brotherhood" spans a banner above his initials. 
On the right arm, is a portrait of his mother, Evelyn, who died of cancer when s(:hwapp was only nine years old. 
"It was tough but I learned to deal with it," he said. "I believe it made me a stronger person." 
Schwapp said that the picture on his arm serves as a constant reminder of her and drives him to succeed in everything that he does. 
"I always think she's looking over me and wants me to do the best, so I always try to do the best," he said. 
After his mother's death, Schwapp was raised by his aunt and uncle who encouraged him to play football. 
"I always liked football, but my uncle used to always want me to play because he figured I 
would make  a  good football  
player," he said.  
Schwapp's  
uncle will be  
in  town  this  
weekend for  
his nephew's  


then I have ''I'm always fired up to last pep rally 
some stuff and home
play, every time I hit the 
my high game. school coach­field I'm just trying to On the field 
es showed bash somebody. " Schwapp 
me that l'll has also had do over in to deal with 
Asaph Schwapp

Rolfs [Fitness his fair share Center]." he Irish fullback of adversity 
said. 
Schwapp has gotten so big that he has to redo some of the tattoos on his biceps. His right arm now fea­tures a trio of Aces -in honor of his nickname -originally, he only had the canvas for one. 
"The centerpiece was my first tattoo, but my arm got a little too big so I had to add some to fill it out a little bit," Schwapp said. 
The Aces are hardly the most important ink that Schwapp has on his big frame. A pair of tat­toos on his inner forearms reminds him daily of his family. On the left arm, the Latin trans-
on the field 
during his 
career at 
Notre Dame. 

As a fresh­man, he was thrown right into the mix appearing in all 12 Irish games that year. He racked up 67 yards on 27 carries includ­ing eight in his biggest game of the year against BYU. The Irish won that game 49-23. 
Schwapp looked like he would continue to be a major part of the Irish offense at the start of his sophomore season. However, his season ended less than two games in against Penn State. 
Late in third quarter of a 41­17 win over the Nittany Lions, Notre Dame ran a toss play and Schwapp was hit awkwardly, aggravating an old knee injury. This time, it required surgery that would leave him on the sidelines for the remainder of the season. 
"It definitely set me back a lit­tle bit, but I worked it out and rehabbed pretty hard and I was able to get back into the swing on things," Schwapp said. 
After surgery in October, it was back to the familiar con­fines of the weight room. He put in two or three sessions every day in order to rebuild some of the strength he had lost in his legs. Schwapp did countless hamstring and quadriceps workouts to regain the muscle mass he lost as a result of the surgery. 
"It wasn't fun," he said. "It 

Irish fullback Asaph Schwapp settles into his position behind the line before the snap duringNotre Dame's 28-21 win over Stanford on Oct. 4 
was tough, I had never had any­thing like that in my life, never had surgery in my life. It took some getting used to." 
Schwapp's hard work put him back on the field at full strength for the season opener in 2007 against Georgia Tech. 
"It was great not having to wear that knee brace anymore and being able to run with no worries," Schwapp said. 
With the brace gone, Schwapp was able to get back to doing what he loves the most -mak­ing holes. 
In 36 career games, No. 44 has racked up exactly 44 car­ries for 99 yards, but that's just fine with him. Schwapp said he gets the most joy out of leading the way for his fellow running backs. 
"''m always fired up to play, every time I hit the field I'm just trying to bash somebody," he said. 
That's the way it's been for the senior since his days playing midget football in Hartford, Conn. 
Schwapp's hard-nosed style of play is slowly disappearing from the game, especially at the next level. Spread offenses and limit­ed player rosters have caused most NFL teams to cut down to one or no true fullbacks on their rosters. Schwapp isn't dis­couraged. 
''I'm still trying to turn this into a career," he said. "I think I'm good at what I do and if I can get to a team that will use a fullback, I think they'll like me." 
Schwapp is scheduled to graduate this May, but because of his injury he is eligible for one more year with the team. He has decided not to make the decision about whether or not he will apply for a fifth year until after this season comes to a close. 
Whether he decides to enter the draft or not, Schwapp still has at least one more game at Notre Dame Stadium and right now that's all that's on his mind. 
"It's gonna be 
emotional for a 
lot of guys and I 

"I was always  "Yeah, I still hold that  wouldn't be sur­ 
a blocking full­back just because I was  title. I love bench pressing and that  prised if it was pretty emotional for me too," he  
pretty good it," he said.  at  type of stuff."  said. "Even if I do end up play­ 
When he moved up to high school football at  Asaph Schwapp Irish fullback  ing next year, it's the last time I'll be playing with  
Weaver  High  a  lot  of these  
School  in  guys."  
Hartford,  The  senior  

Schwapp continued to focus on said it's just starting to hit home blocking. But his strength and that this could be the end of the speed allowed him to stack up road. some impressive numbers "First thing that goes through despite the minimal amount of my mind is, man I'm getting touches. As a junior he rushed old. Time flies," he said. for over 1,300 yards, averaging Schwapp said that he feels 12 yards per carry. that he has grown up a lot in 
"I really didn't carry the ball the past four years. His time at more than six or seven times in Notre Dame has prepared him a game until my senior year, so for whatever is next whether it that really didn't take any get­is a trip to the NFL or another ting used to here," Schwapp year in South B11nd trying to said. push that bench press up to 
His senior year he racked up 540. another 1,100 yards on his way to being named Connecticut's Contact Dan Murphy at Gatorade Player of the Year. dmurphy6@nd.edu 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
• ~ •
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
l• 
~ 
l• 
~ 
j 

page 20 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 21, 2008 

THE BEST IN ALUMNI D~~~~--:~::~) 'I! 


ALUMNI ROW 
AT THE FOUNDRY 
, ~ ~ ' y 
OFFERED EXCLUSIVELY 
TO THE ALUMNI OF UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
ST MARY'S COLLEGE AND IU SOUTH BEND MEDmCAL SCHOOL 
• 
Expansive windows with spectacular views 

• 
Private baths for every bedroom 

• 
Exposed brick walls and hardwood style floors • Stunning 1 0-foot ceilings 

• 
Intrusion alarms on all apartments 

• 
Garage parking 

• 
Roof top deck wittl panoramic view of ttle University of Notre Dame campus 

• 
Retail shopping and restaurants conveniently located on the ground level 

• 
24-hour fitness center with state-of-the-art equipment 

• 
Private movie theatre • Community and billiards rooms 

• 
Business center I Conference and meeting rooms 

• 
Full service concierge • 24-hour maintenance service 





LEASING OFFICE NOW OPEN! 
AT THE EAST CORNER OF THE EDDY STREET CONSTRUCTION SITE ON ANGELA BLVD. 



Friday, November 21, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 21 
More than MSU 
A mainstay in the secondaryfor the past three seasons, cornerback Terrail Lambert leaves an extensive legacy 
this works on defense because · 
By FRAN TOLAN 
obviously [!'vel got a lot of 
Associate Sports Editor 
aggression." 
Even though Lambert 
Many Notre Dame fans will became a defensive back by always remember cornerback an accidental event, he has Terrail Lambert for his two assimilated well to the posi­interceptions against tion. lie said he loves the Michigan State in 2006, which pressure cornerbacks face on helped the Irish erase a 17-every play. point dflficit before winning "Playing defensive back, 40-37. especially corner, is a lot like 
But Lambert, now a fifth­sky-diving," he said. "You're year snnior. hopes the come­living life on the edge and it's back against the Spartans is a rush. All these things can just a small part of his legacy. happen in the blink of an eye 
"llonestly, I just [want] to be so it's just a challenge itself remembered as someone that just being able to think on just became part of the Notre your feet and having that Dame family and be remem­chess match, one-on-one with bered as a guy that did every­the receiver you're lined up thing in his power to leave it across from. It's just a better than it was when I first euphoric experience to say got here," he said. the least." 
Lambert f'irst got here by the grace of a position change Excelling at the position in high school. Because Lambert had the 
mindset of a cornerback Picking a position before adopting the position, 
Lambert did not even play he said the switch from on the defensive side of the offense to defense was not ball until after he entered very difficult for him. high school. As a freshman at "I think from the defensive s t standpoint, I 
Bonaventure High School, he played  "Honestly, I juts [want] to be remembered as  decided on that side of the ball and  
running back and backed up his cousin L o r e n z o  someone that just became part ofthe Notre Dame family and be remembered  particularly to focus on D-back, I think at this  
Booker, who went on to play running back at  as a guy that did everything in his power to leave it better than it was  level is just because it just seemed like the right  
Florida State.  when I got here."  position for me, it suited  
But St. Bonaventure  Terrail Lambert  me," he said. "I've always  
coach  Jon  Irish cornerback  been the type  
Mack  saw  that,  high- 
that Lambert  pressure sit­ 

might be a good fit at defen­uations, I thrive off of it. It sive back. would make somebody else 
"Interestingly enough, it nervous or a little bit uneasy. was a playoff game ... I got a I_jus~ love being in that posi­toss, and needless to say I was tion. in the backfield, the corner Lambert anchored the St. came up, I ran him over and Bonaventure secondary and he had a concussion," was named to the California Lambert said. "And then the all-state second team. He following spring my coach, he chose to attend Notre Dame was like we're gonna see how because of its tradition, and said he is satisfied with his UCLA the following year. cornerback position and antici­decision. Against the Bruins, Lambert pated the receiver he was cov­


"I played made an inter­ering would run an outside pretty decent, ception with route. Lambert was wrong, but had a pretty his mother in fortunately for the Irish, it did­good [high attendance. n't cost him. As Irish linebacker school] career, "Playing defensive "The only Maurice Crum blitzed Michigan part of what's back, especially corner, reason I say State quarterback Drew now a formida­that was a Stanton, Stanton hurried his
is a lot like sky-diving. 
ble program on great memory pass. the West You're living life on the was a) that "[The receiver] takes off Coast," he said. edge and it's a rush" was another inside so I just chased him on "I sort of got comeback win his hip and Mo's blitzing and my name out for us and b) Stanton gets rushed and he
Terrail Lambert 
there and my mother sort of overthrows him,"
Irish cornerback 
somehow was able to Lambert said. "And the ball reached here see me make a just kind of falls into my hand and by the play in col­and I catch it with one hand grace of God lege, live in because I had one hand on the I'm here." person," he receiver." 
Lambert said his best mem­said. "That was the first time Lambert said he noticed a ories at Notre Dame are the I really made a great play that change in the crowd as soon as 2006 game against Michigan she was there to he made the State and the team's win over see." pick. 
And against "I just looked
"It really didn't hit 
Michigan State. down and as every Irish fan me until I woke up in soon as I had 
should know the the morning [the next seen the ball in 
story. Lambert my hand it was
day] and I see my
said he hopes like dead the two intercep­highlights on ESPN." silence, I could tions against the have heard a Spartans don't pin drop," he
Terrail Lambert 
define his said. "As loud as
Irish cornerback 
career. But cer­it was, I couldn't tainly no recap hear anything of his career all the way to would be complete without the the end zone." story of that game. 
Notre Dame 40, Michigan Michigan State 37, Notre State 37 Dame 33 After the interception, 
In the driving rain in East Lambert took the ball 23 yards Lansing, Lambert said he knew to the endzone. He then capped he and his teammates had their off the win for the Irish when backs up against the wall. But he picked off another Stanton before the Spartans set up at pass on the final play of the the line of scrimmage for a game. Lambert said he did not third down late in the fourth fully realize the magnitude of quarter, the Irish got a sign that his performance at the time. their fortunes might be chang­"It really didn't hit me until I ing-the rain stopped. woke up in the morning [the 
"I remember breaking the next day] and I see my high­huddle, the rain had just lights on ESPN," he said. " ... It stopped the series before that was a blessing to be a part of because it was just pouring that." rain like coming in sideways," Many Irish fans would he said. "And fans were undoubtedly echo Lambert's screaming, everyone's just get­sentiment. ting on their feet and it's just super loud." Contact Fran Tolan at 
Lambert said he got in his ftolan@nd.edu 
page 22 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 21, 2008 
JEFF TISAK 

Walk-on tackle living the life he never thought he could 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Wrirer 
ommsive tackle Jell" Tisak took the long and hard road of a walk-on to the Notre Dame filOt­ball team, but he doesn't regret a second of it. Being a part of the Notre Dame football tradition has been an experience beyond what he ever imagined. 
"Notre Dame is something that you do not even think is real," Tisak said. "It is something that you see on television and could never ima~-,riml being a part of. It goes way beyond just being a fan. It is like being a part of a fable or a legend." 
Tisak said he is honored that he was given the chance to just keep playing. 
"I love being part of the tradi­tion, being around a ~-,rreat group of guys and a great bunch of coaches. and play for the University," Tisak said. 
Growing up in the small steel town of Ambridge in western Pa., with his two younger siblings Becky and Jon. Tisak never knew that he could be a part of some­thing as spedal as playing foot­ball at Notre Dame. But Tisak drnw inspiration from his father who was both a lieutenant colonel in the marines and is now an FBI agent in Duluth, Minn. 
"We came from a blue-collar town." Tisak said. "With my fathnr being an FBI agent and a member of the military, he has really been an inspiration to me." 
The beginning of Tisak's love for Notre Dame really came seven years before his accept­ance into the University when his family would make trips between the Pittsburgh area and Duluth. They would make stops along the way that would inevitably include the Notre Dame campus. 
"By the time l got into Notre Dame. it was already like a sec­ond home to me," Tisak said. "I had been here all the time, l knew the ins and outs of the campus and knew a lot of people already on campus." 
But getting on campus and joining the football team was not as easy as just being familiar with them -it would take a lot of hard work. Tisak had to first get into Notre Dame academical­ly and then go through the ardu­ous process of walking on under Irish coach Charlie Weis. 
"ln high school. I had to work really hard to get all the grades to even get in," Tisak said. "Then l had to work very hard every day on the practice field and in the weight room." 
That hard work has to extend even further, as Tisak is a double major in the fields of political sci­ence and sociology. Balancing that heavy workload with playing on the football field has not been easy. 

"You don't sleep very much. You come out of practice late, get something to eat, and start studying," Tisak said. "You have to make do with what you've got. You have to just make do." 
Tisak finds relief from the work and inspiration from his two sib­lings, Becky and Jon. . 

Becky is a trainer on campus and Tisak gets a chance to see her from time to time around the facilities. 
"It is great to just see her around every once in a while," Tisak said. 
Tisak is also proud of his younger brother Jon, who is cur­rently at the end of his high school career and is looking at possibly coming to Notre Dame as well. 
"My brother Jon plays football and baseball and he has excel­lent grades," Tisak said. "He is hoping to get in, but it is up to the coaches. He is a good student and a good player." 
Tisak's .first experience on the field at Notre Dame Stadium in his junior year was an odd but exciting one, as he did not get to block for quarterbacks Brady Quinn or Jimmy Clausen, but instead he was blocking for for­mer safety Tom Zibikowski. who lined up in the quarterback posi­tion. 
"It was great just trying to open up a hole for Zibby," Tisak said. 
But the experience was more a novel one for Tisak, it was the experience of a lifetime. 
"It was amazing," Tisak said. "You are wearing maybe 20 or 30 pounds of pads, but you don't even feel it. I felt the fastest I have ever been, I felt the lightest I have ever been, and I felt the strongest I have ever been. I went out there and played hard­er than I ever thought I could." 
But what Tisak expects to remember the most when he moves on are the little things, like the relationships he has formed with his teammates. 
"The things you remember the most are just messing around with your teammates," Tisak said. "Trying to survive camp together and just spending all that time together, you cannot help but form strong friend­ships." 
Tisak said some of his best friends on the team are center Thomas Bemenderfer, junior guard Chris Stewart and junior tackle Sam Young, who love to tease him, as all good friends should. 
One of those little things that he will always remember is his nickname, Theodore Gabriel. According to Tisak there is no reason why his teammates call him 'Ted,' but it's a name that stuck. That type of camaraderie and rapport among the ofl"ensive linemen is something that he will keep with him for a long time to come. 

Following his 1-,rraduation, Tisak would like to stick around Notre Dame and try to get into the law school. After that. he may look to join the Association of the United States Army as a lawyer. 
"I want to go to law school,'' Tisak said. I would like to see if I can end up being an AUSA, or something like that. But I want to stick around here." 
When asked what he would like people who knew him here to remember his as, Tisak remained humble. "I want people to remember that I was a good guy,'' Tisak said. 
Contact Jared Jedick at 
jjedick@nd.edu 


KEVIN WASHINGTON 

Despite a diversion from planned outcome, Washington thrives 
but it'll help your family out." aspeet to where you could 
Though he didn't even see devote time or energy that will game action until his junior also have a positive [outcome],'' year, Washington said he Washington said. "You can't just thought of transferring only look at one nngative thing and "fleetingly." hope that it changes when you 
"Going back down to Texas, to can also be doing other different me that would be like turning things." my back on something that has But that doesn't make actual so much more for me," said playing time any less significant Washington, a native of Sugar for Washington, who made the Land. "Football, you don't know only solo tackle of his career in how long that's going to take last year's home finale against you, and Notre Dame can take Duke. you a lot further than that." "Anytime you get on the field 
Washington -a film. televi­and actually play, that's what sion and theatre and sociology you eame here for,'' Washington double major -hopes his said. "You're going to be excited degree can take him to law about it, regardless of what school. capaeity it's in ... Your parents 
Though he had expressed an are still going to call you any­interest in the law before arriv­time they see you on the sidn­ing at Notre Dame, Washington lines. let alone in the game. initially set his sights on a Anytime you get on the field it's career in broadcast journalism. gratifying." But aseries of law-related class­And perhaps more than any­es and some LSAT preparation thing. a sheer lack of playing have pushed Washington toward time taught Washington the pursuing a law degree at an most valuable lesson he'll take 
senior linebacker. "I can tell years at Notre Dame. undecided school that must away from his time at Notre 
By MATT GAMBER 

you, this year if we wanted to, "My role on the team didn't meet only one criterion. Dame. 
Associate Sports Editor 

we could make him the defen­play out as most recruits Jike "Somewhere back down "If anything, it's just being sive show team player of the myself would have wanted it to,'' where it's warm,'' Washington able to roll with the punches. Asked at his Tuesday press week every single week. And Washington said. "But you said with a laugh. "As much as I honestly,'' Washington said. "It's eonfnrnnee to talk about thn what we do is we usc guys like wouldn't want to go out and say love this snow and all the cold not how I exactly pietured or positive attitudes of uppnrdass­him as examples ... this is the 'OK, since I'm not playing, I'm weather, I love my 50-degree maybe wanted it, but there's still men who have been surpassed way it's supposed to be done, not going try my hardest or give winters a lot better." positives you can bring of that on the depth chart by younger this is the way you praetice ... [I the best looks I can.' That would If not for a realization he -the relationships I've built playnrs, Irish eoach Charlie Weis havrd a lot of respect for players just be letting the team down ... made as a sophomore. however with teammates, a lot of the highlighted one namn in partie­like that." Any time you have the chance to -that even though his football connections I've made outside of ular. Washington said the motiva­make your team better and pre­career wasn't quite panning out, football. There's so much more I 
"Kevin Washington has been tion behind his practice habits pare them for what they're he could still progress academi­can take from that." 
here for four years, hardly has comes from the sense of family going to see, you're going to cally -Washington might not 
played at all -a little bit on that he and his teammates have take that as seriously as possible have that choice to make at all. Contact Matt Gamber at 
speeial teams," Weis said of the developed over the last four -even if it's not what you want "There's always another mgamber@nd.edu 
Friday, November 21, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 23 
STEVE QUINN 
Linebacker earns larger role in final season of play 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 

Come Saturday, Steve Quinn will walk out of the tunnel at Notre Dame Stadium for the last time as a football player. For the senior linebacker, the experi­ence is one that will surely be a bittersweet moment that will return him to friendly memo­ries. 
'Til have mixed emotions," he said. "It will 
majority of his career and played the role of a reserve line­backer. This season, Quinn has seen his minutes increase, as he is beginning to understand the ins and outs of his position. Part of the reason for the added con­tributions was the switch in defensive philosophy that came when Corwin Brown was appointed as the defensive coor­dinator. 
"l think it really has kind of clicked for me," Quinn said. "Dating back not 
obviously be my too long ago with
"I guess that's what 
final game so to the defense that go out of the "I'll remember forever was installed tunnel and see reall:r kind of
-that I was that kid 
all the fans made sense to
who blocked that 
going crazy. I me and I was get excited for punt at USC." able to pick it up every game so and I wasn't in that sense it thinking as much
Steve Quinn 

will be the and just reacting
Irish linebacker 

same, but at the because I knew end of the game, what I was doing when we walk out, it will be a out there more. It was just much different feeling." working, coming early in the 
Knowing well that his time is summers, working hard in the almost done as a player, Quinn spring and it's kind of paid off has learned to appreciate what this year for me." remaining time he has as a stu­Brown has also seen the pro­dent-athlete. gression Quinn has made, and 
"I mean, I've only got a couple as a result, has put his confi­of games left," Quinn said of the dence in the senior in an array waning moments of his career of situations. at Notre Dame. "I've really got "I think Quinny has worked to give everything I've got his way into this position," because r want to take advan­Brown said. "The light bulb, I tage of the couple of games I think has come on, but it's have in me, so I won't have any because of things he's done. regrets." He's put himself in that position. 
The path hasn't always been We haven't given him anything. so clear for the Cherry Hill, N.J., He's earned it. He kind of native, as he was relegated to deserves it and that's what hap­special teams duty for the pens when you're an older guy and it matters to you." 

Earlier this season, Quinn picked up a sack that forced a punt against Pittsburgh. Perhaps his most memorable moment of the field, however, dates back to 2006, when he blocked a punt against Southern Cal that sparked a touchdown. 
"Honestly most people, when I tell them who I am, they say, 'Oh are you that kid that blocked the punt at USC,' so I guess that's what I'll remember forever -that I was that kid who blocked that punt at USC," he said with a laugh. 
What he will remember the 
most, however, is the friend­ships that he has acquired through the years in the pro­gram. 
"Oh yeah, I mean, there have been a lot of great guys since I was a freshman, that I've had a lot of fun with," Quinn said. "Guys like [Pat] Kuntz, [Kyle I McCarthy, Robby Parris, some of those guys that I'm close 
with.". As the time winds down on Quinn's career as a football player and graduation looms on the horizon, the senior wants to have a career in federal law enforcement. One thing that 
Quinn can take with him once he ventures into that field is the early mornings he has had to endure at Notre Dame. 
"Getting used to all those early morning workouts," he said. "Getting up early and working hard. I guess in that sense, I'm already ready for the working world." 
So in the near future, if you ever run into an Officer Steve Quinn, be sure to ask him about that kid who blocked that punt at USC in 2006. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 


KRIS PATTERSON 
Patterson achieves career goal, gets to travel -with team 
of Thursday practice and I had pretty good seats so "The next day, he called me 
got scout team player of the they were really excited." aside and I thought I was in 
week," Patterson said. " ... I he said. "[After the game] trouble. He just said, 'Nice 
mean, they let me travel to they just said they were catch.' It was kind of 
Ann Arbor but I was kind of proud of me." funny." 
hopping on the sidelines." Patterson said before he Patterson has already 
But Patterson didn't give made Notre Dame's team, accepted a job as a business up on his goal of logging he could never have imag­analyst for Target in game action for the Irish. ined suiting up Minnesota for lie rehabbed for the for the Irish. next year. He remainder of the school "Growing up said he knows
"I can't say enough
year and suited up again for and being a his experience 
summer training camp. Notre Dame about Notre Dame. at Notre Dame This season, before the football fan, I will pay divi­
I'm a better man 
Irish were set to travel to always wanted dends when
because ofit. " 
Washington, Patterson was to play for the he heads out again named the top player Irish," he said. into the real on the scout team. But this "But as I got Kris Patterson world. time was different -and older, I only got "The Notre
Irish receiver 
probably worth the wait. interest from Dame net-Patterson, a Seattle native, smaller schools work, they finally got into a game and and I didn't just watch out his family and friends were think it was a possibility." for eaeh other," Patterson there to see it. And even after making the said. " ... I can't say enough 
"Obviously that's my squad, Patterson said at about Notre Dame. I'm a hometown so it first he was better man because of it." was special, not sure if the And Patterson said the but it was also "Just being able to person that best decision he made at about the one­mattered most Notre Dame was to try out
play every day with 
year anniver­coach for the football team after sary of when I my friends and my Charlie Weis winning the lnterhall cham­got hurt. So it teammates, being -recognized pionship with Zahm as a had a lot of him. It didn't freshman.
able to strap on that
automatic spot on the Irish special mean­take long for "Just being able to play
By FRAN TOLAN 

roster that weekend. ing," Patterson gold helmet and run that to every day with my friends 
Associate Sports Editor 

For Patterson, it was a said. out ofthe tunnel ... change, and my teammates, being dream come true. But the Patterson, though. able to strap on that gold
it's indescribable." 
Just several weeks into his dream did not play out as who did not "I remember helmet and run out of the junior season, wide receiver he had planned. He sus­even join the the first time tunnel ... it's indescribable," Kris Patterson finally tained a severe knee injury Irish until he Kris Patterson coach Weis he said. "I mean, you really reached the biggest goal he before he had a chance to was a sopho­Irish receiver knew who I can't explain it until you set as a walk-on -he was see the field against more, said he was. Fall of run out of the tunnel. It named scout team player of Michigan that Saturday. located his my sophomore never gets old." the week. For every away "It was actually pretty bit­family in the stands during year we had a scrimmage in game, the outstanding scout tersweet because I [got the game. the Stadium and I caught a Contact Fran Tolan at team performer earns an hurt] the second-to-last play "I could hear them. They touchdown," Patterson said. ftolan@nd.edu 

.' ' 
' 
' 
'
• 
~­




