
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Deans discuss seniors' progress towards graduation 
Most of Class of 2009 seems on track to graduate in May, some may have to repeat a course to receive degree 
periodically, he said. confirming that they are eli­Gaglio said he estimates long line at registration. I 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
"In January, we will check gible for graduation. that of the estimated 550 don't like to make students News Writer 
e v e r y "A stu­seniors in wait," he 
senior's d e n t the College 
said. 
The Deans' offices at the 
schedule to should be of Business "Then University leave nothing to see if their responsi­each year, can give chance when ensuring that plan indi­ble, but we about 510 you more the seniors' fulfill all of cates they d o n ' t or 520 time." their graduation require­will gradu­expect you graduate. Jennifer ments when they register for ate on to know Most stu­Nemecek, their last semester of class­t i m e , " everything dents that an · assis­es. Gaglio we know, don't grad­tant dean 
Class registration for sen­said. "If by which is uate do so in the iors began Monday, marking Gaglio the ofif why we because Piernek College of their last chance to take all c h a n c e take all they chose to take more Arts and the classes needed to gradu­that a student has not com­these extra steps," Gaglio time, he said. About 10 to 15 Letters, said the College ate. pleted a course, we send an said. "We don't leave it to students have to complete encourages students to come 
Samuel Gaglio, an assis­e-mail to every students who chance." their degree in summer in once every semester to tant dean in the College of is short." Gaglio said the office also school after senior year, but make sure they are complet­Business, said the Dean's Then, prior to the 10th day does projections to figure Gaglio said this rarely hap­ing all their requirements office does everything it can of class in the spring semes­out exactly how many stu­pens. and taking classes that will to make sure all students ter, the office checks every dents need certain classes at Gaglio said if students are benefit their academic expe­are on track for graduation. senior's schedule again to certain times to avoid timing having doubts about meeting rience. The deans require students make sure they have not conflicts or a lack of spots. requirements, they should "If you get into the habit of to fill out a plan of study dropped a course needed for "We try to take care of you come in as early as possible. seeing us every semester, as when they start the business graduation, he said. If guys," he said. "That's what "I just wish students would a senior, you shouldn't have major and they have to con­everything is in order, the we are--being paid for. That's come in sooner to ask ques­tinue to update their plans students receive an e-mail why we are here." tions so I don't have such a see SENIORS/page 4 



O'Neill speaks on pianos and passions at entreprenuer lecture 
By ROBERT SINGER News Writer 
Notre Dame alum and mem­ber of The O'Neill Brothers piano duo, Tim O'Neill did not start his career by visiting the Career Center. Instead, O'Neill found what he loved to do and opened his own business, he said as he spoke to an audience at the Mendoza College of Business Tuesday evening about "Turning Your Passion into Profit." 
"You're up against a lot to start your own business," he said. "But you can do it." 
O'Neill shared his own story as a self-employed musician, while giving advice on how others can succeed as entre­preneurs. 
He invited the audience to think about three questions: What do you love to do? Who else would love that? And, are you willing to take that risk and put that passion into action? 
"Your mom and your broth­er don't have the answer," he said on finding your passion. "Someone else might tell you what your passions are, but only you can answer it." 
O'Neill said he made a mix tape of his piano music for his mother to listen to when he studied abroad in Austria during his sophomore year at Notre Dame. When he returned, he learned that she had made fifty copies and passed them out to friends. He had found other people who loved his passion, a con­sumer base of people in their forties, fifties and sixties. 
O'Neill said he decided to make a thousand tapes and distribute them to all the local gift stores he could find. 
One of his tips on making sales was that it was "no risk" for the stores. 
When starting a business, he said you should frame your proposals to buyers in terms that will benefit them with little risk. 
"Sit in their shoes and ask 
see PASSION/page 3 


Timothy O'Neill plays the piano as part of his "Passion for Profits" lecture Tuesday night. 
Progratn helps high schoolers 
Upward Boundfocuses on aiding students in recognizing their potential 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 
For Alyssia Coates, director of Upward Bound, the organ­ization is like a hidden treas­ure among Notre Dame's many service organizations. 
"Although it's been here for so long, it seems like no one knows it's here," said Upward Bound director Alyssia Coates. 
But the program is hardly rare; Notre Dame's branch is one of 750 across the coun­try. At Notre Dame, the pro­gram's main foGus is to help low-income and first genera­tion students from the South Bend area graduate high school and move on to col­lege, according to the pro­gram's Web site. 
"We help students under­stand what their potential is, and draw out their strengths," Coates said. 
The Notre Dame branch is one of the oldest and has been in operation since 1966, Coates said. 
"Father Hesburgh was a strong advocate for the Upward Bound program," Coates said. 
The Upward Bound pro­gram is one of seven pro­grams in the TRIO program, and one of two at Notre Dame. 
TRIO programs are govern­ment-funded programs that help students overcome class, social and cultural 
see UPWARD/page 3 

College offers students summer abroad inChina 
By SARAH GUNN News Writer 
For the second year in a row, Saint Mary's is offering a summer study abroad pro­gram in China from May 17 to June 7. 
Five or six students from the College will accompany 10 students from Creighton University in Nebraska on the trip facilitated by Alice Sinquin Yang, the assistant director of Global Education 
in the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership at the College, and two profes­sors at Creighton. 
Yang said the program focuses mainly on Chinese culture rather than the lan­guage because learning the language is secondary to learning the culture. 
The culture is multi­faceted with various areas of appeal, Yang said. China's large population and its role 
see CHINA/page 4 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Yes, I atn a band groupie 
On Saturday, I'll bt~ attending my last homP gaJne at Notre I>mne stadium as an undergradu­ate. 
<>n Wednesday of next week, I'll mnbark on my I<L'->l Thanksgiving Br~mk a'-> an undnr~-,rraduate. 
I>uring the two V' --·eks alter that, I'll be attend­ing the la'it da'ises of my second to la'it 
Liz Hartersemester a<; an undnr­
graduat.t~. And then I'll 
be taking my second to 

Saint Mary's 
la'>t set of final exlUTis a<; 

Editor
m1 undnrgraduat.tt 

Needless to say, I'm suu1.ing lt> freak out. The thought of being a sec­ond semest.t1r senior scares me. It brings a.bt>ut thoughl'> of graduation, finding a job <md becom­ing an adult. Scary. 
To pm~ify these !(mrs. though, I have been telling myselftlmt I still have second semester. I still have one more chance t.t> add lt> the outra­geous <md ama.?jng memories I've already made in tlm pa'>t three <Uld a half years. 
Second semnst.t1r, however, will let me down in one way-tlmfll's no marching b<md. 
For tlm pa<;t two <Uld a half years my lile ha<; mnsist.t~d oftlm1e tl1inJ..,'S: da<;ses, The Observer and tlw Bm1d oftl1e Fighting Irish. While I can't daim to bt~ a mmnbtw of tl1e marehing band, tlmy have been a larw~ part of my life since my best liil'nd joi!l(ld thP saxophone section in our sopho­more year. 
Without tlw b<Uld Katin and I would probably still Ill~ spending our Friday nights watching movies in tlw lobby of MeCandles.'i I I all <md mak­ing lim ofthP girls running down the st.t1ps in thdr too high hed'i and too short skirts to eat.t~h thl' TroiiPy. 
Witl10ut thP bm1d, I wouldn't have been abiP to <L'ik Matt oftlm Saxophonns t.t> accompany meW tlw Junior Fonnal in an lnsidc1 Colwnn la'>t year For all tllosP still wondering, he said yes (Thanks again liw bPing a good SJllllt about it Matt!). 
Without tlu1 band, I wouldn't have rmtlized my obsession with Chic~ago (tlw b<md, not tllP dtyl, nor would I haw ll11cm a.ble to see them in concert lhur times m1d mnet tllnm. 
Without tlw bcmcl. I wouldn't have mnt half of the ama.?jng Jll~ople tlmt I have come to e<Lll my liinmls. 
!\II in all, the band i'i pretty much saladoLL'i. 
l~ven with all tl1e good tl1ings that have eome out of my acqullinl<Ulee with the band, I have a lovc'/hat.t• relationship with it. For exlUTiple, I love wat.t:hing the bculCI Jll~rlom1 their halftime shows on game days, but I hate it because they leave me alone on clUllpLL'> every Monday through Thursday throughout first semest.tlr. The only fe!L'ion they aren't utkcm away from me on J<riday's for practice i'i btleause I go U> them. I've only rni'iscld two Friday marehout<; and practices in tho p<L'->t two years. I even hobbled out to mar­ehout whnn I WIL'i on erut.t:hes the Friday bnlbre tlw Pitt game. 
I also don't get t.t> sit with most of my liiend'-> at lbotll<Lll g1U11ns a'> they are on the field. llowever, I havn adjust.t1d my gmne day schedule to lit in time with them. No t<lllgating for me. Instead, I drive Sllint Mary's band girl<> to Notre DIUlle lhmki'ihly early in the morning and make my way to em:h and every Concert on the Steps. 
Still. I e<m dmtl witl1 nating dinner with my few liiPnds not in b<md or ac:companied with my trusty copy of The Obsllrvnr if only btlcause it mem1s the~ seruor show, our senior show, at tllis wnek's glllTie will btl amazing. 
I have faiili that it will be. 

And to all my senior liiends in band, a'i per my stalker t.tmdendns at every other marehout and gaJnP during the la'>t thrne years, you ean rest a'isur~ld that your la'>t wnekend perlbnning at honw will bt1 well dcK~umented. 
Th<mks fi:>r a great two and a halfynars, guys. 
The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obser11er. 
Contact Liz llarter at 
eharteO I @saintmarys. edu 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives lor the highest standards of jounalism ar all rimes. We dn, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please comacr us ar 631-4541 so we can correc£ our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS YOUR REACTION TO BRADY QUINN ON MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL? 







Steve Simeonidis  Jane Lee  Joey Leary  Brian DeSplinter  Aidan Fitzgerald  
senior off-campus  senior PE  senior Dillon  senior Alumni  junior Knott  
"David Cavadini's comic,  "It was ro times better than I imagined  "I realized I needed to go to the gym to up  "It's inappropriate for publication."  "In the words of Billy Madison, . so hot-want  

Domepiece it would be. ,, my Adonis 
,,

pretty much status. sums it up." 

As many students bundled up in the snowy winter weather, at least one per­son decided to get creative and hang a bike from a tree Monday night. 
OFFBEAT 
Austrian city imposes tracksuit ban for cabbies 
VIENNA, Austria ­Cabs in the Austrian city of Salzburg just got classier: Drivers can no longer wear tracksuits. The new regulation took effect earlier this month in an attempt to improve the image of eabbies in a place known for its upmarket clientele. 
Also new is a smoking restriction -for both cabbies and customers. 
Peter Tutschku, a local taxi functionary, said Tuesday passengers have told drivers that cabs have to smell good. 
Offenders eould face fines. 
Inmate who escaped returns to jail on own 
PADUCAH, Ky. -Chad Toy's escape from jail was­n't what shocked his jail­ers; it was his plea to be let back in. "When I rang the bell at the jail and told them who I was, they were surprised," Toy told The Paducah (Ky.) Sun newspaper. "I guess they haven't seen that before." 
Toy, 21, was in the McCraeken County Regional Jail in western Kentucky awaiting trial on charges stemming from a July home invasion. lie's also serving a four-year sentencn for theft. 
Officials said he escapod early Monday while on a cleanup detail in the lobby. He bolted after a guard unlocked the front doors to elean trash from a breezeway. 
But Toy returned that afternoon, wet and cov­ered with grime. He told authorities his sister had persuaded him to surren­der because his family feared for his safety. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY c:: 
LLI :::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
_, 
<( 
* * 

0***.
0***.(.) 
* * * * 
0***.
* * * * 

....0 HIGH 39 HIGH 29 HIGH 35 HIGH 29 LOW 32 LOW 22 LOW 25 LOW 23 
to touch the hiney. ,, 
IN BRIEF 
Estampas Portenas, a tango group from Argentina. will dance at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center today at 7 p.m. Tickets am $15 for students and can be purchased online or at the Ticket Ofliee. 
This month's Evenings of Prayer from Around the World will feature Muslim prayer. The servicn will be held at 7 
p.m. today in 330 Coleman­Morse. Students of all faith tra­ditions arn weleomn to the Campus Ministry-sponsored event. 
The Collngfl of Seinnee is hosting a Planetarium Show Featuring Exoplan<'ts in the Digital Visualization Theater in the Jordan Hall of Science at 8 and 9 p.m. Thursday. The event is free and will be fol­lowed a by a question and answer session. 
The Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will show the film "Boy A" at 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Thursday. In the film. a man who committed a terrible crime as a child is released from jail as an adult into a world he has never been part of. 
There will be a ground­breaking ceremony for Harper Hall, the nnw home of expand­ed medical and caneer research initiatives at the Indiana University School of Medicinn -South Bend and Notre Dame. Friday at 10 a.m. adjacent to Haclin-Carmiehael Hall on the corner of Angela Boulevard and Notre Dame Avenue. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

GAME DAY SUNDAY 

Atlanta 52 I 30 Boston 39 I 30 Chicago 43 I 30 Denver 65 I 36 Houston 73 I 53 Los Angeles 77 I 51 Minneapolis 34 I 24 New York 38 I 29 Philadelphia 35 I 29 Phoenix 86 I 57 Seattle 55 I 45 St. Louis 55 I 32 Tampa 62 I 43 Washington 38 I 32 
Wednesday, November 19, 2008 The Observer CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND faculty lllelllber vvins EllllllY 
Director offoundation relations is co-creator ofanimated television series 
Special to The Observer 
George Keegan, the University of Notre Dame's director of foundation rela­tions, has an interesting connection to the famous inventor and businessman Thomas Edison, and that connection, as well as a similar entrepreneurial spirit, recently earned Keegan, of all things, an Emmy Award, the highest honor of the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. 
Keegan is co-creator of the animated television series "The Adventures of the Young Thomas Edison," which won the 2008 Mid­Atlantic Emmy Award for Children/Youth/Teen Program or Special after airing on New Jersey Network Public Television. The show teaches creativity and innovation through the scientific method. 
"I kept hearing about how science and math standards had been dropping," Keegan said. "And then I read a report that said if you don't capture students' interest in math and sci­ence by fifth grade, you've lost them for life. I wanted to make an impact by inspiring kids to ask ques­tions and think differently. The series is something that parents have been looking for because it's completely different." 
Keegan, accepted his "dream job" at Notre Dame in February, leaving behind a career that many people might consider the same thing. He served as the executive director of the Edison Innovation Foundation in Newark, N.J., which is committed to edu­cating the next generation of great innovators through Edison and his Invention Factory. Keegan worked alongside his father John, chairman and president of the Charles Edison Fund, from which the foundation was created, and remains a 
Passion 
continued from page 1 
what's the risk for them," he said. "If there's no risk, they'll probably try it." 
Although he had both a talent and passion for piano music, O'Neill said he declared a marketing major his junior year because he was still unsure about a career. However, he said a marketing degree is not essential to starting a busi­ness. 
"I want to create an idea in your minds that you can do this to," he said. "It was­n't a degree that made this happen. It was hard work that made it happen." 
lie said the only interview 
trustee of both the founda­tion and the fund. 
The connection to the Edisons began with Keegan's father. A 1961 Notre Dame graduate, John Keegan was one of the attorneys who oversaw the estate of Edison's son Charles, who assisted his father in running the busi­ness, as well as serving as secretary of the Navy and governor of New Jersey. He didn't have any chil­dren, so he left all of his money to his estate for his­torical preservation, med­ical research and higher education. Currently val­ued at around $200 million, the fund, incidentally, has a long history of support for science and engineering at Notre Dame. 
A 1995 Notre Dame grad­uate, Keegan earned a mas­ter's degree through the University's Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) program, as well as an MBA from the University of Florida. After serving as the assistant fiscal manager for the Diocese of St. Augustine in Jacksonville, Fla., Keegan joined the Edison Innovation Foundation. 
"Back in 1998, the board of the Charles Edison Fund felt Thomas Edison's legacy was not being preserved the way it should be," Keegan explained. "So, they set up the foundation to concentrate directly on his life and legacy and began a marketing cam­paign that would license Edison's name around the world." 
Keegan's idea for the chil­dren's series and, conse­quently, its Emmy, has given the marketing cam­paign a huge boost, and h~ says the concept took root years before. 
"When I was in business school I had a concentra­tion in entrepreneurship and innovation, and that's when I really started talk­ing to my father about 
he had senior year was with Hallmark. During the inter­view, O'Neill said he was mainly thinking about how many of his COs he could supply to Hallmark. 
"I realized I didn't want to work at Hallmark," he said. "I wanted to do my own thing." 
O'Neill's advice of "don't set goals" may seem coun­terintuitive. But he explained, "The reason why I say that is that I think when people set goals they get locked in on it." 
A narrow focus on a par­ticular set of goals can close you off to other opportuni­ties, he said. 
After graduating, O'Neill found himself mowing lawns for seven dollars an hour. lie said although his dad 
Edison and what he did," Keegan said. "Besides wanting to combine my two master's degrees in educa­tion and business, that's when the light bulb really went on for me." (No pun intended) 
Keegan partnered with Randall Rossilli Jr., produc­er and founder of Nightstand Creations, and in 2006 his idea blossomed into a pilot. The pilot was produced in only nine months, which is unheard of in children's animation, and, as Keegan admits, "especially for two guys who have never had any producing experience." 
Now, eight months after a "great opportunity present­ed itself" at Notre Dame, Keegan remains protective of "Young Thomas Edison." He still reviews all creative content for the show, which is committed to air next fall on participating PBS sta­tions. The pilots already have airing committments in New York, Mississippi and Florida, as well as New Jersey, and there are DVDs of each show, story books and animated music videos. 
"It's surreal," Keegan said. "Everyone is kind of shocked that a pipe dream of one of their employees could be Emmy-worthy. It's a nice recognition, but, to me, what really needs to be done is to reintroduce Edison to the next genera­tion of kids to allow them to think the way he thought." 
Although he has "dis­cussed the series with a lot of folks in Hollywood," Keegan doesn't want to sell out to someone who won't look after the initial pur­pose of the show, and he intends to stay at Notre Dame. 
"The Emmy is simply a validation of a concept that I thought would work," he said. ''I'm not planning to be the next Walt Disney. My skill set is more con­ducive to helping raise monies for Notre Dame." 
thought he was "crazy," he had long-term plans in mind. 
Attending a craft show with his mother, O'Neill said he noticed a lack of music. He saw an opportunity and began playing music at craft shows while peddling his COs, he said. On one week­end he sold eleven thousand dollars of music. 
One of O'Neill's other tips was to "bring it to them." He said anyone with a product should not expect buyers to come to them. Instead, as he pointed out in the case of the craft shows, the person with the product should be persistent and assertive when marketing it. 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 

China 
continued from page 1 
in the world economy make it a very interesting and unique program to experi­ence. 
Students will have the opportunity to learn about the culture with course options such as Chinese 
Women  and  Society,  
Introduction to  Buddhism  
and Chinese Art.  

Along with taking classes, students on the trip will be immersed in the culture by way of a service learning project at an orphanage, she said. 
The trip includes stops in the North and Eastern areas of China including Beijing, Xi' an, D a tong, Nanjing, Pingyao and Shanghai. 
Last year students visited the Yellow Mountain, but this upcoming program could feature a visit to the Silk Road, Yang said. 
Other features of the pro­gram are the trips to the Soong Ching Ling Foundation, a children's foundation, and meeting with Chinese college stu­dents. 
Yang said she believes the requirement for the pro­gram is an interest in the Chinese culture because a specific GPA or language proficiency is not required for acceptance into the pro­gram. 
Yang said the China pro­gram is unlike any other program a student could choose for their. study abroad options. 
"[It provides] an eye-open­ing experience for students who are curious about China and Asian countries," she said. 
If you are interested in the China Summer Study Abroad program, you can visit the Web site http://centerfor­womeninleadership.org/glob al-education-/study­ab r o ad/places-go/china­summer-program. 
There is also an informa­tional session today in Conference rooms A and B in the Student Center. 
Contact Sarah Gunn at sgunnO1@saintmarys.edu 
gram is exposing students to new and exciting things,"
Upward 
Coates said. "Providing those continued from page 1 opportunities is the best." 
Two Notre Dame Upward barriers to higher education, Bound program graduates, according to the TRIO Web seniors Thy Nguyen and site. Briana Miller, are graduating 
According to the program's from Notre Dame this spring, most recent according to newsletter, stu-the newsletter. dents learn "Briana and
"We look for students 
through the Thy are testa­four principles who have the ments to the of dreams, potential for success of 
decency, dignity Notre Dame
college.''

and diligence. Upward 
The program Bound," said is geared Alyssia Coates the newsletter. towards high director While Upward school students, Bound receives
Upward Bound

Coates said. federal funding, 
"We look for Coates said students who they have have the potential for col­fundraisers throughout the lege," she said. year to earn money. A portion 
Several University students, of proceeds raised at these like junior Mike Padberg, events goes to high school went through the Upward seniors in the program. Bound program during their One of these fundraisers, the 
high school career. 
"My favorite part of
"The program was great for the program is 
me," Padberg exposing students to 
said. "It helped 
new and exciting
me stay on top of and complete things." my college and financial aid 
Alyssia Coates
applications." 
director

Padberg also 
Upward Bound
said that the p r o g r a m allowed him to first annual Father Ted Fun Run held last Spring Fun Run raised $5,000, enough to give 10 graduating high school seniors $500 towards col­lege, she said. The second Fun Run will be on April 26. Coates said she 
see the world beyond South Bend when he went on a Spring Break trip to Boston in his senior year of high school. Trips like that are one of the things Coates enjoys most about working with the pro­gram. 
"My favorite part of the pro-hopes to raise at least $10,000 again this year. 
Upward Bound is also host­ing a fundraiser at Strikes and Spares in Mishawaka on Nov. 29, Coates said. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 



proactive this year in mak­completed an ecology send them a list of students every summer before their ing lists of students who requirement," Buechler said. who need these classes to graduation, so the seniors
Seniors 

have to still take require­continued from page 1 ments and contacting them." 
Greene said there are sev­any problems," sho said. eral reasons why students "For tho most part, students would have remaining are pretty resourceful." requirements to fulfill senior 
So far this year, the offiee year. has not encountered prob­"Half a dozen students get 
lems with  sen- to  be  seniors  
iors rngister­ing for the  "A student should be  and didn't take their college  
e Iassns they n e t1 d Nemeenk said.  responsible, but we don't expect you to  seminar or thought a course counted  
Stuart  know everything we  for their litera­ 
Creene, Associate Dean for undergradu­ know, which is why we take all these extra steps."  ture require­ment, but it didn't," he said. "But we try  
ates  in  the  every possible  
Collngo said only thrnn stu­dents in the past two years  Samuel Gaglio Assistant dean College of Business  way to resolve it so the stu­dents.. ean grad­uate.  
have  had  to  Steven  
takn  summer  Bueehler,  an  

school after snnior ynar to assoeiate dean in the College nH:oivn their degree. of Seienee said graduation 
"Idnally wn would have progress is watchnd very had znro, espncially from the carefully for the seience perspnclivn of thn o1w stu­majors. dent who has to come back," "Wn know for instance how he said. "We are being many biology majors haven't "Because we know the list of majors, the advisors keep track of what requirements haven't been satisfied." 
Buechler said only about three or four students don't complete the required class­es before graduation and have to then take summer school or an extra semester. 
"Of the students that I can think of who had a require­ment remaining, it wasn't because they couldn't get into classes, it was because they failed a class and had to drop one and just couldn't make it up it time," he said. 
The occasional problems that do come up concern students who have an addi­tional major in another College, Buechler said. However, these students are usually accommodated with­out problems by the deans in the other Colleges. 
"We offer a Science Business major where they have to take business class­es, and Business is very good about accommodating our students, but we have to 
Lavvyers revievv Clinton for position 
Attorneys hired by the Senator work with Obama transition team 
Associated Press 

CIIICAGO -Sen. Ilillary Hodham Clinton has engaged a team of prominent lawyers to help President-eled Barack Obama vet her eandidaey for secretary of state <W<~n as some insiders eritieiznd the pick and advisnrs to the for­mer first lady said slw was weighing whether to take the job if Obama offered it. 
Attorneys Cheryl Mills, David Kendall and Hobert Barnett are working with the Obama transition team to review information about the Clintons' baekground and finances, ineluding Bill Clinton's post-presidential business deals and relation­ships with foreign govern­ments. Bruce Lindsey, a long­time Clinton adviser who now heads the former president's eharitable foundation, has taken a leadership role in the process, aides said. 
All representnd the Clintons on legal matters in the White House, including President Clinton's dalliance with intern Monica Lewinsky that led to his impeachment in 199R. 
Officials knowledgeable about the vntting said it has gone smoothly and that both Clintons wnre eooperating fully. 
Bill Clinton already has appeared to take an important step toward smoothing his wife's path to the job. 
Democrats familiar with the negotiations said the former president has suggested he would step away from day-to­day responsibility for his foun­dation while his wifn served and would alert the State Department to his speaking sdwdule and any new sources of income. 
J\ top aide involved in the vetting said there was nothing obvious in the formnr presi­dent's d<~alings that would tor­pedo his wi fn 's prospects for tho job. Thn aidn was not authoriznd to discuss tlw mat­tor. and would spnak only on background. 
The aidn pointed out that li1rmnr President George II.W. 
Bush has given paid speeches and participated in interna­tional business ventures since his son, George W. Bush, has been president without stir­ring publie complaints about a conOiet of interest. 
But another Democrat who advised Hillary Clinton's presi­dential campaign warned that Bill Clinton's business arrangements were more complieated than many pnople realized. During the cam­paign, few of her senior strategists knew anything about the former president's business deals and whether they would hold up under scrutiny if she won the nomi­nation, this person said. The adviser spoke on background, not authorized to speak pub­liely for Hillary Clinton's politi­cal operation. 
It was unclear whether Bill Clinton has agreed to submit financial information to the transition team that has not been made publie through reeently filed tax forms for his foundation, Hillary Clinton's Senate disclosure require­ments or during her cam­paign, when the couple released several years of joint tax returns. 
For example, still unknown are the names of donors to Bill Clinton's foundation and presidential library or what he earns as a partner with Yueaipa Global Opportunities Fund, a private investment venture run by billionaire Ron Burkle, a dose friend. 
During his primary cam­paign against Hillary Clinton, Obama pressed the former president to name the donors to his library. Bill Clinton refused, saying many had given money on the condition that their names not be revnaled. lie promised to make the donors' names pub­lie going forward if his wife won the Demoeratic nomina­tion. 
The former president has engaged in other deals that could eomplieate his wife's work with foreign govern­ments as secretary of state. Heeords show he raised 
money for his foundation from the Saudi royal family, Kuwait, Brunei and the Embassy of Qatar, and from a Chinese Internet company seeking information on Tibetan human rights aetivists. 
While many people familiar with the New York senator's thinking say she is inclined to take the secretary of state's job if it is offered, others say she is also considering the consequences of leaving the Senate, where she had hoped to take a leading role on health eare reform and other issues. 
"Would she be willing to give up her independent stature in the U.S. Senate, Robert F. Kennedy's seat, to be in the Cabinet? It will be a consider­able decision for her," said Lanny Davis, a former Clinton adviser not involved in the vetting. "It's a completely dif­ferent life than you lead in the Senate, where you are your own spokesperson, your own advocate. When you join the Cabinet of the president of the United States, that is no longer the case." 
Clinton declined to discuss any part of the selection process Tuesday. "I've said everything I have to say on Friday," she said. 
At the State Department, the prospect of Clinton as secre­tary is creating some anxiety among career foreign service officers worried that she would install her own loyalists and exclude them from policy making. Some at the State Department see her as a for­eign policy lightweight, although there is grudging acknowledgment of her star power. 
Others closer to the Obama camp have eriticized Clinton's credentials for the job. 
Greg Craig, a law school elassmate of both Clintons who led President Clinton's defense team during his impeaehment, wrote a blister­ing memo during the primary campaign attacking Hillary Clinton's claim to have bro­kered foreign policy deals dur­ing her husband's presidency. 
make sure they get in got the audits in the sum-there," he said. mer." Pieronek Buechler said said. "Beyond his advice to that, the
"We are being
students is to departments 
check regularly proactive this year in are responsible with their advi­making lists of for working sors to make with seniors to
students who have to 
sure they are make sure they
still take 
completing all complete their the necessary requirements and requirements." requirements. In the rare
contacting them." 
"If students event that a take responsi­student has to bility for their Stuart Greene take summer degrees and Associate dean school after layout their senior year to
College of Arts and 
plans with receive their their advisor, degree, there won't be any trouble," Pieronek said it is usually he said. because the student failed a 
Cathy Pieronek, a dean in class in the spring semester. the College of Engineering, "If a class is full and we said there have been no need to make room so a stu­problems registering seniors dent can finish, we will do for required classes. The that," she said. "But we do a College tracks students' really good job here of progress before graduation scheduling our classes in the in order to let students know first plaee so conflicts can't which classes they still need occur. .. to take, she said. 
"We send lthe students] an Contact Madeline Buckley at audit that we do manually mbuckley@nd.edu 
SUDAN 

Government seeks cease-fire agreement 
Associated Press 
EL FASHER-A senior com­mander of international peacekeepers in Darfur said Tuesday the mission is encouraging rebel groups to accept a government cease­fire offer -a task made diffi­cult by recent violence. 
Maj. Gen. Emmanuelle Karenzi, deputy commander of the joint U.N.-African Union peacekeeping mission, said an investigation is under way into conflicting claims by the gov­ernment and rebels over who is to blame for recent violence in northern Darfur, but he said the violence should not derail a cease-fire. 
"It is unfortunate," Karenzi said in his office at UNAMID headquarters in El Fasher. "But ... if the people have been fighting and one of the parties just declares a cease­fire, it is not like you are switching on and off your lights in the house. You will have incidents like this." 
Rebels took up arms in Sudan's western Darfur region in 2003, citing neglect and marginalization by the central government. So far 300,000 people have died and 2. 7 mil­lion have been displaced. 
Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir announced last week that his government is seeking a cease-fire as part of a peace initiative. But new accusations of violence high­lighted the volatility of the sit­

uation in Darfur where many cease-fires have come and gone. 
Over the weekend, rebel groups said government planes bombed an area along a major northern road and a base along the border with Chad. Government officials said they were responding to a rebel attack on a relief convoy. It was not possible to inde­pendently verify the disparate claims. 
Karenzi said his mission is keeping an eye on the situa­tion on the ground and doesn't believe the fighting means a cease-fire is now out of the question. 
Meanwhile, both the Sudanese government and rebel groups in Darfur came under criticism in a report Tuesday by a panel of four independent experts tasked by a U.N. committee monitoring sanctions to assess the situa­tion. The committee said it will study the 93-page report and deliver its review to the Security Council. 
The report painted a grim picture of combatants step­ping up the violence in Darfur while expanding their attacks elsewhere in Sudan and aeross the border into Chad. 
Offensive military over­flights, which are supposed to be banned, are also continu­ing with impunity, it said. The panel said both sides have also flagrantly violated a U.N. arms embargo. 



ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, November 19, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OssERVEtts WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Stem cells used in new procedure 
LONDON -Doctors have given a woman a n~~w windpipe with tissue grown from her own stem cells. eliminating the need for anti-rejection drugs. · 
"This technique has great promise," said Dr. Erie Genden. who did a similar transplant in 2005 at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. That operation used both donor and recipient tissue. Only a handful of windpipe, or trachea, transplants have ever been done. 
If successful. the procedure could become a new standard of treatment, said Genden, who was not involved in the research. 
The results were published online Wndnesday in the medical journal, The Lancet. 
The transplant was given to Claudia Castillo, a :m-year-old Colombian mother of two living in Barcelona, suffered from tuberculosis for years. Aftr~r a severe collapse of her left lung in March, Castillo needed regular hospital vis­its to clear her airways and was unable to take care of her children. 
Israeli tanks raze Gaza farmlands 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -Israeli tanks pushed into the southern Gaza Strip on Tuesday, drawing mortar fire from Palestinian militants and intensifying vio­lence that has chipped away at a tenuous cease-tire. 
Israel and Gaza's ruling Islamic militant llamas movement have been trading fire for two weeks after nearly five months of relative quiet. The violence comes as the Egyptian-negotiated truce that began June 19 is due to expire next month, and both sides might be trying to dictate more favorable terms in anticipation of the agreement's renewal. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Nebraska alters safe haven law 
LINCOLN -Nebraska lawmakers gave preliminary approval Tuesday to a new 30-day age limit for children who can be legally abandoned under the state's safe­haven law. 
The restrietion is designed to stop par­nnts and guardians from using the law to drop ofT oldf~r children at Nebraska hospi­tals. 
The state's safe-haven law is the only one in the country without an age limit and has led to the drop-off of 34 children -none of them infants -since July. 
Supporters say the age limit would ref'lect the original intent of the law -to prevent newborns from being abandoned in trash bins or worse. 
Man charged for friend's murder 
INGHAM. Texas -A wealthy retiree opened his three-story lake home to an out-of-work mechanic he had befriended. then was murdered and his possessions plundered, according to indictments against the mechanic and 15 other people. 
The mechanic, Charles Lee Tidwell, 46, and another man were indicted on mur­der charges Monday in the death of retired investment banker 52-year-old Allan Kowalski. Fourteen people, mostly frinnds and family of Tidwell, were indict­ed on theft charges and related crimes. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Woman sues BMV over license plate 
INDIANAPOLIS -A woman is suing the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles for refus­ing to issue a personalized license plate with the words "BE GODS." 
The suit was liled in U.S. District Court on Monday, the same day the Indiana Court of Appeals upheld the constitutionality of the state's "In God We Trust" license plate. However. the BMV prohibits vanity plates referring to race, religion, deity, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation or political party. 
Obama enthusiastic about Holder 
Transition team begins testing waters for in Senate confirmation 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President-elect Barack Obama's top choice for attorney general is Eric Holder, a former No. 2 Justice Department official in the Clinton administration and Obama campaign aide who would become the first African American to serve as the nation's chieflawyer. 
The Obama transition team has gone so far as to ask senators whether they would confirm Holder, who reviewed Clinton's contro­versial pardon of fugitive Marc Rich just leaving office, an Obama official and people close to the matter said Tuesday. 
But the Obama official said the decision has not been finalized, and transi­tion spokesmen said no decision has been made. 
Holder did not return messages seeking comment Tuesday. Asked Monday by The Associated Press whether he expected to be nominated, he responded in an e-mail: "Who knows?" 
In the past week, Obama aides have asked Senate Republicans whether they Asked if Holder would be tors that persuaded him to nished by charges of politi­would support Holder. In a good .choice for attorney issue the pardon. cal meddling by the White particular, the aides ques­general, Specter said it was Holder has publicly apolo­House during the Bush tioned whether Holder's too soon to say. gized for what he said was a administration. confirmation would be "I know something of snap decision that he should For that reason, Holder delayed because of his Holder's work in the Clinton have paid more attention to. has been reluctant to lobby involvement in the 2001 administration and that's Had he taken more time to for the attorney general's pardon of Rich. about it," he said. ''I'd have review the case, he would post for fear the Hich par­
One person involved in the to take a much closer look have advised against a par­don would invite a bloody talks said the Obama team at his record and talk to him don, he said. nomination process and fur­has received some assur­and think about it." Holder, 57, also a former ther strain the department's ances that, while the pardon Senate Judiciary judge and U.S. attorney in emdibility, this person said. would certainly come up Committee Chairman Washington, is widely Holder has been one of during hearings, the nomi­Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., had respected in legal circles Obama's most trusted advis­nation likely wouldn't be not been informed about and among Justice ers. He was a member of held up .. Holder, his spokeswoman Department career lawyers. the team that helped select 
All spoke on condition of said. He has been on Obama's Sen. Joe Biden as Obama's anonymity to describe pri­On the last day of Clinton's short list to be attorney gen­running mate. The two have vate conversations. term, Holder, then the eral since before the elec­known each other only 
Sen. Arlen Specter of deputy attorney general, tion, and already has had briefly, however, after meet­Pennsylvania, the top was asked whether Clinton private conversations about ing at a dinner party four Republican on the Senate should pardon Hich, a how he would run the years ago. Judiciary Committee, said wealthy commodities dealer department. Holder has other deep ties the pardon "would be a fac­who had spent years run­One of his top priorities, to Obama's team. Holder's tor to consider." ning from tax charges. according to a person famil­wife, an obstetrician. deliv­
"I wouldn't want to articu­Holder said he was "neutral, iar with his thinking, is to ered incoming White House late it among the top items leaning toward favorable" rebuild the department's chief of staff Hahm but it's worthwhile to look on the pardon. Clinton later reputation after its fiercely Emanuel's daughter. at," he told reporters. cited that as among the fac-independent image was tar· 

PUERTO RICO 
Evidence found in Holloway case 
Associated Press lack proof they need to convict Van earlier this year based on hidden­
der Sloot, who has been arrested camera recordings made by a Dutch 
SAN JUAN -A new witness has twice and released for lack of evi­TV crime show. On the video, Van der come forward in the 2005 disappear­dence. Sloot says Holloway collapsed on the ance of American teenager Natalee "After three years of investigating, beach after they left the bar and that Holloway in Aruba, and prosecutors it is very, very difficult to find that evi­he called a friend to dump her body said Tuesday they are seeking more dence," prosecutor Hans Mos told The at sea. evidence against the only remaining Associated Press. "We have to be The new witness, once a friend of suspect. realistic." Van der Sloot, confirmed that he gave 
A woman told Dutch police this Holloway, an 18-year-old from her roughly the same account shortly month that Joran van der Sloot con­Mountain Brook, Alabama, was last after Holloway's disappearance. But fessed to her years ago that he was seen in May 2005 leaving a bar in the Mos said her statement does not involved in Holloway's disappearance, Aruban capital Oranjestad with Van bring authorities any closer to resolv­according to Ann Angela, a spokes­der Sloot on the final night of a high ing the case. woman for the Aruba Prosecutors' school graduation trip to the island. He also said the witness would lack Oflice. Extensive searches have found no credibility in court unless she 
But the Dutch Caribbean island's trace of her. explains why she waited so long to chief prosecutor said authorities still Investigators reopened the case come forward. 
ENGLAND 

Officials consider prostitution ban 
Associated Press 
LONDON -The British gov­
nrnnwnt wants to make it illegal 
to pay for s.~lx and is eonsiderin~ 
a plan to nanw and shame 
men who visit prostitutos -a 
move critics say would turn 
back the clock to Vietorian 
times. 
The sox trade is aln1ady heavi­
ly restrieted in Britain, unlike in 
many of its European rwighbors 
whorn prostitution and solicita­
tion am tolerat11d in sonw form. 
l>llnmark has even decriminal­
izod tho businoss. 
But Britain wants to go its own 
way, marking yet another foray 
into human tilibles by a govern­
ment many poople call overly 
moralistic. 
Prinw Ministllr Gordon Brown, 
the son of a Prnsbyterian minis­

ter, has already backPd a serios 
of sin taxes on alcohol and ciga­
rettes. called for tougher drug 
laws and scrapped plans for 
Britain's first Las Vegas-style 

casino. 
OITicials say thero is also a 

need for a crackdown on prosti­
tution. 
"Basically, if it means fewer people are able to go out and pay for sox I think that would bo a good thing," llome Secr~tary Jaequi Smith told The Guardian newspaper over the wookend, ahead of the government's announcement of the plan's details Wednosday. 
Any changes will havo to be approved by Parliament, whero Brown's Labour Party has a 63­seat majority. Debate is oxpected noxt month. 
Thn proposal would makn paying for sex illegal and carry additional p11naltios for men who havn sex with women forced into prostitution. the llomfl Ollke said. But it declined to give details on fines and othor penalties bnfore the formal announcnment. 
Men who lb'quent prostitutes wuld also bn id11ntifiod publicly, as tlwy are in the London bor­ough of Lambeth. wh1we police sPnd warning letters to the homes of drivPrs whosp license plate numlwrs are caught on closed-circuit television picking up street walkers. 
In addition, the plan would make it a criminal oll'ense to pay for sox with a prostitute "con­trollod for another person's gain" and could bring rape charges against men who know­ingly paid for SPX with a woman f'on~od to work as a prostitutn. 
Undnr curwnt laws in England and Wales, it is illegal to loiter and sllll sex on thn streots or nlsnwhere in public. Keeping a brotlwl is unlawful. but a lone woman selling sex inside is not. Similarly, paying f'or snx is legal. But solicitation in public-com­monly known as "eurb crawling" -is not. 
Sonw XO,OOO prostitutes are 

estimated to be working in 
Britain, the same as during the 
Victorian Age -an era when a 
raft of Jaws were enacted in a 
vain efl'orl to curb the nourish­
ing sex trade. These days, cards 
advertising purported escort 
services and erotic sites on the 
Web are plastered inside the 
country's iconic red telnphone 
booths. 
Sex workers criticized the gov­
ernment's proposal. They said 
they migh~ be put at greater risk 
if they had to ply their trade in 
remote neighborhoods or to 
work alone. 
"The plan is puritanical," said 
Cari Mitchell, spokeswoman for 
the English Collective of 
Prostitutes. 
"If they make solicitation ille­gal and start outing clients, men are going to be more nervous and women will be forced to make hasty decisions to survive economieally. As Britain and the rest of the world face dire eco­nomic circumstances, the gov­ernment should try to help women rather than make things harder." 
Britain made global headlines in 2006 when a man murdered live prostitutes in Ipswich, about 70 miles northeast of London. Hecenl headlines, however, have focused on police raids on broth­els where women from eastern Europe, Asia and Africa have been forced into the sex trade. 
There is growing debate on whether a crackdown would lessen violence or cut down on human traiTicking. 
Scottish cities such as Edinburgh used to have "toler­ance zones" where prostitutes wem allowed to work freely. 
But when the zones were scrapped in several cities years ago and curb crawling was made illegal, reported attacks on sex workers increased because prostitutes were forced to work in more isolated areas, according to the Sco ltish Prostitutes Education Project, which represents workers in the sex industry. 
In the Pacific nation of New Zealand. where prostitution was decriminalized in 2003, sex workers said the change has given women greater legal pro­tection. 
"I do think it's extraordinary that the U.K. is considering such a dreadful turn," Catherine llealy, national coordinator for New Zealand's Prostitutes Collective, told The Associated Press on Tuesday. "We know from a lot of resnarch ... that sex workers in this country are feel­ing much safer, better protect­ed." 
The Ilome OITice s<;~.id the gov­ernment's plan was put together after top officials visited Sweden, where selling sex is legal but paying f'or it is not. Norway plans to introduce simi­lar legislation. 
Observer. 
Governor holds climate sutntnit 
Schwarzenegger opens conference with taped message from Obama 
Associated Press 

BEVEHLY HILLS -Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger opened his international cli­mate change summit on Tuesday by upstaging himself with an even bigger political star -President-elect Barack Obama. 
Schwarzenegger, a Hepublican whose efforts to combat global warming in California have generated worldwide acclaim, wants to show that governments can balance environmental protec­tion and economic growth. lie hopes his summit will influ­ence negotiations over a new climate trnaty during a U.N. gathering in Poland next month. 
In a taped message to atten­dees, Obama said his adminis­tration is committed to a cause that has all but languished at the federal level during the term of President George W. Bush. 
"Once I take of!ice, you can be sure that the United States will once again engage vigor­ously in these negotiations and help lead the world toward a new era of' global cooperation on climate change," Obama said. 
U.N. negotiators have a December 2009 deadline to complete the next global warming treaty, which would succeed the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. That treaty, which expires in 2012, does not include the U.S. or China-the world's largest emitters. 
Negotiators want to cut in half the amount of' carbon dioxide discharged into the atmosphere from transporta­tion, industry and power gen­eration by mid-century. 
In his roughly four-minute address to Schwarzencggcr's conference, Obama said the 
U.S. economy would continue to weaken if climate change and dependence on fornign oil arc lel't unaddressed. 
lie reiterated his support for cutting greenhouse gas emis­sions using a cap-and-trade system, an approach also favored by Schwarzenegger. Obama said he would establish annual targets to reduce emis­sions to their 1990 levels by 2020 and reduce them another 80 percent by 2050. 
Obama also promoted anew his proposal to invest $15 bil­lion each year to support pri­vate-sector efforts toward clean energy. lin said tackling climate change can create mil­lions of new jobs as the U.S. invests in technologies to pro­mote solar and wind power, biofuels and eleanor coal-11red plants. 
"I promise you this: When I am president, any governor who's willing to promote dean energy will have a partnnr in the White House," Obama told the participants. "Any compa­ny that's willing to invest in clean energy will have an ally in Washington. And any nation that's willing to join the cause of combating climate change will have an ally in the United States of America." 
Scientists say the kind of ambitious goals set by Schwarzenegger and Obama must be reached to minimize the consequences of rising global temperatures. 
The U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has said temperatures worldwide could increase between 4 degrees and 11 degrens Fahrenhnil by 2100 unless nations rnducn their emissions. 

Just how countries will cut emissions remains a topic of intense dnbate, especially as the world grapples with thn worsening financial crisis. U.S. and foreign businesses, as well as some European countries, have qunstionnd whether cut­ting emissions will b.P too cost­ly. 
Schwarzenegger said states, provinces and countries ean cut emissions by forming part­nerships, as he has done as governor. 
"I still have friends in the business world that come to me and say that this is going to hurt the economy," Schwarzenegger said in his opening remarks. "But of course, we bnlieve very strong­ly it is going to help the econo­my." 
Sehwarzenegger has signed partnerships with governors of' seven Westnrn states and four Canadian provinces to develop regional cap-and-trade sys­tems. lie also has an agree­ment with the stale of New York to explore linking California's future carbon mar­ket with a trading system in the Northeast. 
The governor also has signPd agreements with the United Kingdom and Australia's pre­mier in Victoria to combat cli­mate change. 
Schwarzenegger addressed attendees from 19 other coun­tries and 17 states. He announced the conference in September and sent out some 1,400 invitations to regional government representatives, scientists, policy experts and industry representatives. 
21minorsinprotective custody 
Founder of evangelical group faces federal child sex charges 
Associated Press 

LITTLE HOCK -State offi­cials on Tuesday took into pro­tective custody 21 children asso­ciated with an evangelieal group whose founder faces federal child sex charges. 
The children, all younger than 18 and part of the Tony Alamo Christian Ministries, were taken while custody hearings were being held for six girls seized during a September raid of Alamo's compound in Fouke, in southwest Arkansas. The court must decide whether the girls should be returned to their par­ents or remain in state care. 
Authorities took three chil­dnm into custody Tuesday at the courthouse in Texarkana, 130 miles southwest of Little Hock. Police seized the other 18 chil­dren from two vans during a traiTic stop, said Julie Munsell, a spokeswoman for the state Department of Human Services. She said she didn't know why the children were in the vans or where they were headed, and she dndined to elaborate on the court order, which cites allega­tions of neglect and physical abuse as the reason for the seizures.. 
On Monday, a 14-year-old girl taken by the state during the September raid testified that Alamo molested her, counted a number of young girls as his wives, and coached her and oth­ers to say they weren't touched improperly or beaten. 
She said Alamo crnpl up behind her while she was show­ering, held his hand over her mouth and sexually molested her. She said Alamo warned her to keep quiet, saying if she did­n't, she'd be beaten by a man who witnesses have described as Alamo's enforcer. 
Alamo, 7 4, is charged with two counts of transporting a juvenile across state lines for sex, once in 2004 and again the following year. The preacher, listed in court documents by his real name, Bernie Lazar Hoffman, has pleaded not guilty to the federal charges, each of which carries a sentence of 10 years to life in prison and a line of up to $250,000. He is in jail in Texarkana awaiting trial, whieh is set to begin in February. 
Alamo has preached that the Bible allows young girls to marry once they reach pubnrty but has said he didn't adopt the practice. 
His attorney, John Wesley llall Jr., said Tuesday he doubts Alamo can get a fair trial in Texarkana because of the media scrutiny surrounding the case. He said Alamo is an easy target in the child welfare hearings because Alamo is in jail and can't attend the hearings. 
"Tony Alamo is not able to be th1m1 to defend himsnlf, not able to cross-examinn thesn people, which is a f'undamnntal right," llall said. 

The 14-ynar-old girl, who spent much of her time in Alamo's organization in Fort Smith, testified that Alamo coached her and others to say they weren't sexually molestnd or beaten, and said Alamo recorded interviews with the girls to document the state­ments. 
"Tony told us what he was going to ask us and what wn were supposed to say," the girl testified. 
The girl reiterated claims by witnesses at a bond hearing last month, including that Alamo had taken s1weral young girls as wives. 
She listed eight names, includ­ing Alamo's legal wife, Sharon Alamo, as being the "sisters in the house" at Alamo's residence in Fouke, where she said she lived for a time. 
"Thny all wear wedding rings. They go into his room at night and close tlw door. They're the only ones that do that," said the girl. who said she lived for a time at Alamo's Fouke resi­dence. 
An 18-year-old man tnstified about being beaten several times by Alamo's alleged enforcer, and said he'd also watched his sister get beaten. 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Wednesday, November 19, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Big 3 carmakers want $25 billion 
Stocks 

Dow 
Automakers seek large bailout from reluctant Congress to stem economic problems
Jones 8,424.75 +151.71 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
Associated Press 
1,306 94 2,325 2,456,852,562 
WASHINGTON -Detroit's Big Three automakers
AMEX 1,356:71''''' lllilii!1'4 
pleaded with a reluctant
NASDAQ 
· Congress Tuesday for a $25 billion lifeline to save the once-proud titans of U.S. 
NYSE ~:~~~:~~····@l:iii;~~@
S&P 500 859.12 +8.37 
industry, pointedly warning 
NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8,328.41 :8t(l~iQ;,Qo 
of a national economic FTSE 100 (London) 4,208.55 +76.39 
catastrophe should they col­lapse. Millions of layoffs would 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
follow their demise, they 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +1.88 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.11 FINANCIAL SEL (XLF) -1.43 CITIGROUP INC (C) -5.96 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -4.04 13-WEEK BILL +22.22 30-YEAR BOND -1.47 5-YEAR NOTE -4.77 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
Exchange Rates 

YEN EURO CANADIAN DOLLAR 
"Our industry ... needs a 
BRITISH POUND 0.6686 
bridge to span the financial chasm that has opened up before us," General Motors Corp. CEO Rick Wagoner told the Senate Banking Committee. He blamed the 
IN BRIEF 
Bush to open holiday air travel space 
industry's predicament not 
WASHINGTON -The government is opening 
on management failures but some military airspace to ease airline congestion 
on the deepening global over Thanksgiving and Christmas, though the 
fmancial crisis. effort is likely to have only limited results. And if 
And Robert Nardelli, CEO the weather's bad. all bets are off. 
of Chrysler LLC, told the panel the bailout would bePresident George W. Bush announced Tuesday "the least costly alternative"that he's expanding the Thanksgiving express when compared with dam­lanes this year to include military air corridors in age from bankruptcy. 
the Midwest. the Southwest and the West Coast. 
Under questioning fromThat's in addition to the East Coast corridors, skeptical senators, both said which were also freed up for holiday traffic last 
they'd be willing to consider year. 
slashing their salaries to $1 The military uses the space for exercises, but 
to show a willingness to sac­often makes some available to commercial planes 
rifice for federal help. on an ad hoc basis. 
Sympathy for the industry was sparse, however, with bailout fatigue dominating
Dems won't revisit oil and gas ban 
Capitol Hill. Lawmakers
WASHINGTON -House Democrats have no bristled with pent-up criti­interest in restoring the broad ban on oil and gas cism of the auto industry,development off the Atlantic and Pacific coasts but and questioned whether a will seek to "delineate areas available for drilling" 
stopgap loan would really when Congress returns next year, the second­ranking Democrat in the House said Tuesday. 
+1.61 87.08 said, as damaging effects rippled across an already­
-0.03 28.34 
faltering economy. 
-0.17 11.75 
But the new rescue plan appeared stalled on Capitol Hill, opposed by the Bush administration and 
-0.53 8.36 
-0.15 3.53 
Republicans in Congress who don't want to dip into
+0.02 0.11 
the Treasury Department's 
-0.06 4.14 
$700 billion financial bailout 
-0.11 2.19 
program to come up with the $25 billion in loans. Hank and file Hepublicans 
-0.56 54.39 
and Democrats from states heavily impacted by the auto
-9.30 732.70 
industry worked behind the 
-0.20 84.50 
scenes trying to hammer out a compromise that could speed some aid to the 
97.0650 
automakers before year's 
end. But it was an uphill fight. 
0.7926 
1.2320 

cure what ails the compa­nies. 
At the start of a more than four hour grilling before his committee, Sen. Christopher Dodd, D-Conn., told the leaders of GM, Chrysler and Ford Motor Co. that the industry was "seeking treat­ments for wounds that I believe to a large extent were self-inflicted." 
"You're asking an awful lot," Dodd, the panel chair­man, said at the dose of the session. ''I'd like to tell that you in the next couple of days this is going to happen. I don't think it is." 
Sen. Mike Enzi, R-Wyo., complained that the larger financial crisis "is not the only reason why the domes­tic auto industry is in trou­ble." 
He cited "inefficient pro­duction" and "costly labor agreements" that put the 
U.S. automakers at a disad­vantage to foreign compa­nies. 
Ford CEO Alan Mulally told senators the auto indus­try was "a pillar of our econ­omy." 
GM's Wagoner refuted criticism that his company was not keeping pace with the times, saying it had been on the brink of a turnaround before the financial melt­down hit, reducing sales to the lowest per-capita level since World War II. 
Failure of the auto indus­try "would be catastrophic," he said, resulting in three million jobs lost within the first year and "economic devastation (that) would far exceed the government sup­port that our industry needs to weather the current cri­sis." 

Chrysler's Nardelli sought to respond to those who sug­gest the automakers seek Chapter 11 bankruptcy pro­tection, as have some air­lines that later emerged restructured and leaner. 
"We just cannot be confi­dent that we will be able to successfully emerge from bankruptcy," Nardelli said. 
Chrysler was bailed out by the federal government once before, in 1979, with $1.2 billion in loan guarantees. The company repaid the loan, plus interest, ahead of schedule. 
Majority Leader Steny Hoyer of Maryland made clear in remarks at the National Press Club that some limits on offshore drilling will be pursued. 
Congress in October ended a quarter-century 
Market rebounds in turbulent session 
ban on drilling in 85 percent of the nation's off­shore federal waters from New England to the Pacific Northwest. 
Associated Press 
"Nobody is suggesting that we return to the NEW YORK -Wall Street same position (of an across-the-board ban)," said rebounded Tuesday in another tur­!Ioyer, saying that no proposals are being made to bulent session, as investors rushed reinstate the 26-year-old ban on drilling in 
back into the market after the Atlantic and Pacific federal waters. 
Standard & Poor's 500 index tested a But IIoyer said that "there will be real discussion 
2003 low. on the parameters on which drilling will be pur­
The market, which had been down sund." 
four of the past five sessions, has been volatile amid worries aboutPrnsident-elect Barack Obama has said he would 
how long a recession might be.
supported some limited expansion of offshore oil That's driven many retail investorsand natural gas development if states adjacent to to the sidelines, while big institution­that onshore drilling approve and if it is part of a 
al traders like hedge funds keep
broader energy plan aimed at moving the country major stock indexes vacillating. 
toward greater use of alternative, nonfossil ener­
That was the case on Tuesday as gy sources and greater elliciency. 
stocks rallied in the final hour of trading. At least some of the buying was because fund managers whose portfolios are tied to the S&P 500 had to find a replacement for Anheuser-Busch Cos. The brewer was officially removed from trading at the market's close after its takeover by Belgium's InBev SA was completed. 
Investors also used the market's big drop earlier in the session as chance to scoop up undervalued stocks. There was some encourage­ment about corporate earnings after Hewlett-Packard Co. said fourth quarter and 2009 results will sail past Wall Street expectations. 
But still underpinning the market were concerns that the economy has fallen into a recession that could be the worst downturn in more than two decades. A disappointing read­ing on wholesale prices and the housing market only confirmed this. 
The Labor Department reported that wholesale prices plunged a record amount in October, a drop that could indicate a rising threat of deflation. '\1eanwhile, homebuilders' confidence in a near-term housing recovery sank to a new all-time low this month, according to the National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo housing market index. NAHB Chairman Sandy Dunn said the report "shows that we are in a crisis situation." 
Analysts said the market continues to search for a much-elusive bottom. 

THE OBSERVER 
page 8 
IEWPOINT Wednesday, November 19, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
The scribbling of the damned 
P.O. Rnx 779. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIH Chris Hint• 

MANAGING EDITOR 8tJSINESS MANAGER Jay fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler A'iST. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jmn Mctz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King SI•ORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink SeEN!; EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: l.iz llarter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
Au OE.'iiGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROUJlR: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 

(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 63 I -6')27 ADVERTISING (574) 6.3 I -6900 obS<'fvad@nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 vit·wpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independmt, daily newspaper publisht·d in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's (:ollege. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse .ulverriscmt·nts based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possibk Unsigned cdirorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, A~'istant Managing Editors and department edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns prt-scnt the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThc ()hscrvcr. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The tree expression ofall opinions through lcrters is encouraged. l.eners ro the Ediwr must be signed and musr include t·onract information. 
Q1mtiom rtgarding Ohsm1a policies shott!d be directed to Editor in CbiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

l'h•· <li"~KtWt (I JSPS ~')•J l-41)110) IJ puhle\hcd Mund.-y 1hrvugh Ftid;~y M«'l'l durmg rum .tml v.aL.lltlllt pc.:ru..:l,. A ,nl...:riptinrt lo'l1lr.: t>lhrtvt"r ill $100 tilt till~,: :tlJ(lc.:mk yt>.lt, $~') fi.,r tllll'<tCIIIMf<;t. 
Tht' llb~~ervcr i1 puhh~hCll .n Olot ~unh lluung llo~H 1\t>mJ:ultlrn\CUrrcctiorn: 10: None D.am,, IN 1M~6-U779 Thcl)l~rvtr f'rrmdiCill pcnugr p.ud ,11 None D.amc r(1 Una: 719 •lnd ~.tdiruu1~lmo~ilinK ,,11\cu Ol4 "iu1.uh Dining 11.;&11 
Nom: D.unl!, IN 46';'i6·0n9 
1lic ONcncr I• .. ltlctuhcr uf the A3.JUCtJrnJ r~. All rqnuJtu:Jlnn njtlus arc t('WrV'I:'d. 
When I pulled out a notebook in Hussian class the other day, I happened to open it, accidentally, from the back. As I flipped through it backwards to get out of the random notes and reach the pages most rele­vant to Hussian, an Katherine Irish classmate, 
Khorey

Faith. happened to glance over. Both Sides 
"Okay." She said. Now "I just saw the word hell there, in really big letters, right next to a black scribble." 
"Oh ... " My cheeks went hot. I'd taken the notes in question at the International Students' You'd-Better­Turn-In-Your-Final-Essays-On-Time­Or-Else Meeting. "Urn, I'm a compul­sive doodler." 
"Me, too." Faith said. "Only I draw girls. I like drawing them with really big skirts." 
Actually, I do as well. I just tend to scribble over them afterward. But right I needed to darify a more pressing matter with Faith. 
"And that was a note telling myself to get the hell on with my papers." 
or course by then all ten members of the class were listening, so everyone laughed. One person said, "Wow, what a nice thing to write to yourself." 
And yes, I suppose, in the great crunch of finals season, we can proba­bly lind less abrasive means of self­motivation. 
But be honest. There's no way I'm the only student in the world of university culture who's beginning to feel, as the last of the fall semester slips by, that they're heading straight to hell, in real­ly big letters, next to a black scribble. 
You may have read, in previous Observers, about the slightly misnamed National Novel Writing Month. If not, then the basic premise is that a bunch of us wannabe fiction writers from 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
around the world get together on a rel­evant message board and spend sever­al weeks commiserating about subplots that grow out of nowhere and charac­ters who hook up with each other with­out our permission. In the midst of all this, each of us are striving, or at least attempting to strive, to tinish a 50,000 world novel within the month of November. 
I am only an attempter. My "novel" is very far behind, in terms of both lflngth and plot, though I've written a signifi­cant amount ( 14,000 words, and the focal character has still not put in her appearance). The project is, at the moment, my most time consuming extracurricular, and I can't even make it consume time productively. 
Meanwhile the end of the term crePps up. The remaining weeks on tho syllabi are few. Starbucks is playing Christmas music (though, here in Dublin, not advertising peppermint mochas). And yet the "NaNoWriMo" crunch, and the paper and l1nal crunch, remains. 
You feel it, too. You have your winter weight training, your thrice a week 7 
a.m. shifts at North Dining llall, and your constant rehearsals that leave strains of "Hallelujah" circling around in your head all through Microbiology. And, too, you have your three papers 
· due the Monday after Thanksgiving, the first of five sections of your Arcane Economics in Japanese final scheduled for the first week of December, and half a textbook's worth of B/C Calc to catch up on before zero hour. Oh, and yeah. There's that thesis outline to start thinking about, too. 
Each day of this may be a struggle: there may be constant pressure from all sides, and a distinct feeling that you may never escape it all, never leave your desk or the dish line, never step ofT the bus on a snowy evening, see the family car idling at the curb, and scratch your dog's ears as you are wel­comod back into a house scented with pine and hot chocolate. You may fen! as though that unwritton 20-pagn Philosophy of Lost Civilizations resnarch paper may be forever hanging ovnr your head like a blaek scribble, just as I fnel that I'll nnver manage a scholarly essay on The Exorcist in tim!' to lloe to England, gather with my fam­ily, and enjoy unwisnly large quantities of thn Christmas Cakn my aunt and I baknd last week. 
Hell, in really big lntters? Almost. 
Thn funny thing is, though, tho capacity we all have to survive. or course, unless you're very crnative, a Works Cited pago can't kill you, and neither ean the papnr attadwd to it. Everything on earth is finite, including our own stress. 
We are, and always have been, stronger than the things that pressure us now. We will n~membnr that, and remain active and productivo. Wn will study, write, sing, lil't our way through these next few weeks. We will do what we can for stress rolief, makn the best of every difl1culty. and enjoy what hap­piness comes our way in the meantime. We will not be burnt out, so to speak, nor scribbled over, by "II ell." 
We will remember exactly what "hell" is, and find a Faith to keep it in perspective for us. 
Mine makes second-year Hussian a lot more fun. 
Katherine Khorey is an English major and Russian minor spending her junior year abroad at Trinity College. Dublin. Had she been at Notre Dame this year, however, she would have totally gone to Andrew Miller's showing ofMy Fair Lady, and is now singing show tunes from across the ocean. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
~~... 
TODAY'S STAFF 

OBSERVER POLL
News  Sports  
Liz llarter  Fran Tolan  
Madeline Buckley  Sam Werner  What are your plans  
Nora Kenney  Eric Prister  for Thanksgiving?  
Graphics Madeline Nies  Viewpoint Patricia  Stay on campus  
Seene  Fernandez  Stay home and have relatives over  
Michelle Fordice  Visit family  
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at  
www.ndsmcobserver.com  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Always remember others may_ hate !JOU OUt those who hate you (ion 't wm unless y_ou hate them. And then you aestroy yourself" 
Richard M. Nixon former U.S. president 

~ 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, November 19, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Tropic Thunder' OK 
I have been blessed with having known my mentally disabled Aunt Susan for my entire life, as well as having my life enriched by working with disabled children in the past, so I agree with I .indsey McMahon that the r-word can be a hurtful word. I Iowever, I find that her ensuing indignation of "Tropic Thunder" is more than a little unfair, since she has never seen the film. 
Rather than priding herself with having been offended by a movie she has never seen, McMahon could have saved herself the effort of expressing her outrage by actually doing some research on the subject of her Viewpoint letter. Had she actually seen "Tropic Thunder" she might have discovered that the film does not insult the mentally disabled. 
The purpose of the film is to lampoon Hollywood. In it, Ben Stiller depicts a bad actor starring as a mentally disabled char­acter in an equally bad film. This is not meant as a slight at the mentally disabled. Far from it. It is more meant as a parody of dramatic movies, whose depictions of the mentally disabled are well-meaning, but poorly executed, with the end result of rein­forcing negative stereotypes of these people. 
McMahon would do well to understand the difference in fic­tion between the voice of an author and the voice of a character. It appears that she has legitimate disagreements with particular characters in the film. but since the film sets out to ridicule these same characters, I would suggest that McMahon and the cre­ators of "Tropic thunder" are on the same page. Using her logic, the "Dark Knight" should never have been played at St. Mary's, since the character of Joker involves himself in numerous activi­ties that would not be condoned by the Catholic Church. 
In short, in the future, don't be so hard on movies you haven't even seen, because you may be depriving yourself of a valuable experience. 
William Sanchez 
senior 
KnonHall Nov.!? 
Union needed and -welcom.e 
Does America need unions? Yes. Despite the nasty stories many people will tell about unions, the truth is that unions are necessary to America's well-being. Unions understand the digni­ty of human labor, and furthermore, they actually respect it. Union workers, according to the Bureau of Labor 
Statistics, consistently make 30 percent higher wages than non-union workers. From a theological perspective, "Workers not only want fair pay, they also want to share in the responsibil­ity and creativity of the very work process. The want to feel that they are working li>r themselves-an awareness that is smoth­ered in a bureaucratic system where they only feel themselves to be "cogs" in a huge machine moved from above." (John Paul II, Labormn Exercens) 
Please understand this is not an attack on capitalism, on nei­ther JPII's part nor mine. Of course I would agree that an employer has the right to run his or her business the waythey see lit. I have a problem when the employer takes too many shorteul<> to save a penny, and stops treating the person who deans the floors as a fellow human being. We can call it "corpo­ratist hrreed," when CEO's are making 262 times what their low­est-paid employee makes (in 2005). This is not "sharing in the responsibility and creativity of the work process," this is not soli­darity; it is creating a culture of fear and resentment. 
Unf(Jrtunately, Notre Dame is no exception. It is supposedly the best place to work in the region, but stories from the workers here are enough to convince anyone otherwise. There are peo­ple on this campus that weren't paid for those extra hours, peo­ple who have been working here 10 years or more and still treated like temporary workers without extra benefits. One of the greatest advantages to working at Notre Dame is that one's child can go to school for free; however, Executive Vice President John Affieck Graves cites that Notre Dame doesn't need to pay a living wage because many employees are single (2006). Where is the benefit? 
Sixty-million nonunion workers would form a union, ifthey could, according to a recent poll by the AFL-CIO. Again, Notre Dame workers are no exception. What's stopping them? The administration of our Catholic university should be first to wel­come a union on campus, but this will not happen until the sup­port of students, professors, and alumni are behind the idea, which will enable workers to speak up without fear of being fired. I urge everyone to find a CLAP member and sign a yellow "union welcome" card. It's time we recognize the dignity of work, not just in CST or Theo classes but in action. It's time we let our workers share in the responsibility, creativity, and success of our great university. 
Christine Clark 
senior 
off-campus Nov.l2 
You talkin' bout Christm.as? 
Can you feel it? The collective kinetic pulse, the palpable hue of anticipation for a certain such holiday? No, I am not talking about the feast day of Saint Andre Dung Lac on Nov. 25 or even Thanksgiving. That's right, it's Christmas season. 
As I am lambasted by the oncoming horde of Christmas 2008 (and probably a little from 2009 already), I lament this premature onslaught. What is the limit as "X-mas" approaches "infini­ty" on a scale of anticipation and preemption? 
Any uttering of Christmas before Turkey Day used to be considered anathema, but now even the revered Holy Day of Halloween has been diluted by talk of the faraway Season of Cheer. 
Look, I enjoy Mariah Carey's gusto-filled rendi­tion of the "All I Want for Christmas Is You" as much as the next guy, but I feel like I've been hit in the upper cranium by a sock (most likely a gift from Aunt Tabitha) filled with newly-minted state quarters. It's too much too soon. Next thing you know, Ebenezer Scrooge will be sporting swim trunks or finding a Christmas tree will be a Fourth of July festivities. 
Radical measures need to be taken. Much as like Gandalf was the last hope for stopping the Balrog from crossing the Bridge of Khazad Dum, we faithful Catholics must stop this temporal encroachment now! Seeing as how overcommer­eialization has pushed "90 percent Off All Scented Yankee Candles" back into the Stone Age, I pro­pose a return to the barter system or possibly experimenting with communism (Obama's not enough). 
Something needs to be done, because there is no way Christmas Cheer can stretch this long. It's like trying to spread a slab of butter on a piece of toast the size of Adrien Brody's schnoz. So, I beg thy, do not festoon your rooms yet, but wait until ... December 24? ... Please 

Paul Hotovy sophomore Keenan Hall Nov. l3 

The hook-up culture 
Dear six guys I've hooked-up with this semester, Thank you for the hook-up. It was ... decent. From my experience, it was a typical freshman year hook-up. 
Some of you shamelessly lead me on, while with oth­ers it just sort of happened. Obviously, I wanted it too because I definitely didn't stop you. In fact I love to kiss boys, my roommates and I refer to it as "my hobby." 
Yes, the hook-up itself was fine, but afterwards we've run into a problem. The problem is the dining hall, at parties, the quad, and in class. It's the way that you look at me, with that awkward stare that makes me want to scream "Yes we did hookup once and no we haven't talked since then!" Other times we see each other and you quickly dart your eyes to avoid eye contact or suddenly become enthralled in conversation with the nearest object. To be fair, I think I may have gotten a "hey" from one or two of you before (it's been a while though, so forgive me ifmy memory isn't per­fect). 
What about my number, did you ask for it just as a matter of course? Is it your way of saying,"Thanks for the hook-up, can I have your number so that I can delay your realization that we are never going to speak again?" Well it worked, I gave every one of you my number and haven't heard from most of you sinee. How many of you would actually call me ifyou needed someone to go grab lunch with? Or ifyou needed help studying for a class that we both have? How many of you haven't deleted it, or are just now realizing that I must be that mysterious "Melissa" entry in your con­tact list? 
Don't blame me for not calling you, a broken phone can attest to the fact that I've lost most of your num­bers. I doubt you would answer even if I could call you. 
I'm a good person and an even better friend. But obvi­ously, since we hooked-up, it would be too much to ask that we ever consider friendship as an option. Ignoring each other, apparently, is the only choice that we have. 
Of course, I don't render myself blameless. Our hook-up was the most convenient form of instant grat­ification that we could find. I realize that and I admit to being just as guilty as you are. But next time I smile at you on the quad, or say hi to you in class, can you pretend that you haven't gone both deaf and blind since that night that we met at that party? 
Although I doubt that you are willing to do that, I am sure of one thing: You six guys are where I draw the line. This weekend, and all weekends until I grad­uate, I refuse to add to this list. I won't hook-up with any more random boys. Not because the act itself was­n't enjoyable, but because this campus isn't that big and I can't afford to have any more boys refusing to look me in the eye when I walk down South Quad. At Notre Dame, I am looking to make friends (not boyfriends, fiancees, or husbands) and hook-ups obvi­ously lead to anything but fiiendship. I can fmd a new hobby, hopefully something that really does make me happy, but I will not hook-up. I'll see you at the dining hall. 
Sincerely, Melissa. 

P.S.-Don't worry about our kiss under the arch­unless we move to Utah, it's unlikely that all six of you will find yourselves married to me. 
Melissa Buddie freshman Lyons Hall Nov. 13 

Student critics held accottntable 
On Nov. 18, NO students wrote a letter holding "Weis Accountable." I am writing to hold these students accountable. Too many times people make uninformed criticisms. Now I'm not going to write and say that Weis has always made the best decisions, but some of the examples given in the students' letter are simply wrong. 
First, the Navy game was no debacle. Notre Dame won. The QB-read sneak on 3rd and 4 is not something that is on Weis. Jimmy Clausen made that call. Yes, it's an option in an offense that puts a lot of decision-mak­ing on the QB's head, but ifJimmy makes the wrong decision, you can't blame Weis. That was on Jimmy. 
The criticism put on Weis on using the Wildcat for­mation was that Tate isn't a passer. The Wildcat isn't designed to have a passing threat. Pitt ran it flawlessly against ND with a great runner that has no ability to throw. The point is to get the ball quickly into the hands of a running playmaker. 
A second criticism that lacks substance. The students criticize our HC trying to get some second-string guys experience. I bet they're the same people that said Weis was 'classless' two years ago when he kept the starters in to dose out Navy. And probably the same people that last year said the reason we were strug­gling was because Weis never played the backups dur­ing the prior year. Folks, you can't have it both ways. This was the right call-it's up to the players to play. I will agree with the fourth and third call. The players have to go get those onside kicks. The team has prac­ticed those plays, the players just didn't execute and attack. The Letter was supposed to be about decision­making by Weis, and this point comes out ofleft field and is pretty much irrelevant. Players need to make plays. In general, Weis hasn't been perfect. I agree that there have been decisions that made me scratch my head and wonder where the heck the guy is coming from (your Navy field-goal example in '07 is one). But he's a first-time HC, and he's bound to make some mis­takes. He's shown that he's willing to learn from those mistakes, and try to get better. Folks love to play arm­chair QB/critic, and it's really easy to do so. Weis isn't perfect, but he's getting this team back on track, and it's about time that the fans show a little patience. Year four in the Weis Era isn't a typical Year four when you deal with something like we had in Year three. Plus, results are there. They may not be the prettiest results, but the Irish are a likely 7-5 and bowl-bound after a 3­9 year, with all five losses coming to Top 25 team. Really though, my point is tlll.s: ifyou're going to criti­cize, let's at least do so accurately. 
John Tabis alumn class ofOO Nov.l3 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, November 19, 2008 
By SZYMON RYZNER 

Though a promising opening car chase created a strong start for the "Quantum of Solace," the film soon deteriorated into reused character archetypes and a general laek of creativity. 
To be fair, the beginning was brilliant -grand choreography on the roads, an interrogation follownd by a betrayal, and a Parkour-esque romp through an Italian dty. Yet while the 22nd Bond film seemed early on to bn a grand return to glory, the film limitnd itself to mediocrity. 
The action sequences began to drag soon after the first sequence and shaky camera work created endless confusion regarding what was actually going on. There was a fight on foot, in a car, in the air, and on the water. Perhaps the next movie will take the jump to the final frontier? Sure, Bond has done it before, but why not again in the next film? That's what "Quantum of Solace" has devolved to -a Bond film just like any other. Catered to today's cinemagoers tastes and with a dash of current poli­tics, "Quantum of Solace" is just the next 
Bond film, nothing 
more. 
The many locales

Quantum of Solace 
that Bond traveled to were exotic and pro­vided for great visuals.

Directed by: Marc Forster 
The entirety of the

Starring: Daniel Craig, Olga Kurylenko, Mathieu 
travels really gave a 

Amalric, Judi Dench, Gemma Arterton 
lin's a governnwnt agent, a member of Iter Majesty's Secret Service, and one of Britain's tinest. lie's been Scottish, English and Irish. !lis women have ranged from Pussy Galore to Vesper Lynd, and he's been a womanizer long before Britney Spears ever brandished the epithet. I lis weapons have run the technologieal gamut, as have his many gadgets. llis classic ride? An 
-Martin, darling. 

Who is he? Bond. James Bond. 
Through the years, the movies have seen Ian Fleming's literary hero jump from page to semen in multiple in1:arnations and over 20 films. In honor of the latest Bond flick, "Quantam of Solace," Scene takes a doser look at each portrayal of Bond in his over 40-ynar long film l1~gaey: Bond by Bond. 
Sean Connery (1962-1971) 
For many, the definitive Bond. Connery and his Scottish aeennt delivered Bond's quips and quibbles with ease. Connery's smoking, smoldering Bond was featured in seven films, ranging from the first Bond adaptation, 1962's "Dr. No," to his appear­
en in 1971's "Diamond's Are Forever." I lis arguably quintnssential performance as 007 was 1964's "Goldfinger," a hallmark of tl1e lranchisn for iL'i wit, style and intrigue. 
sense for the lifestyle that Bond leads, creat­ing an enticing product for the viewer. Still, the large floating text bub­bles above every loca­tion Bond visited, describing exactly 

the role was British actor David Niven, but particularly in "Goldfinger" Connery makes the character his own. According to the Web site 007 .info, Connery's Bond was nicknamed Mr. Kiss Kiss Bang Bang by Italian moviegoers, a nickname that undoubtedly fiL-; his smart, sexy portrayal of this cinematic icon. 
George Lazenby (1969) 
Australian actor George Lazenby's turn as James Bond was a brief one, but his film was often cited as a success among Bond experts and die-hards for its close resem­blance to its source material. "On Her Majesty's Secret Service" is based on Fleming's 1963 novel, and features, among other elements, Bond's marriage to Contessa Teresa ''Tracy" eli Vicenzo (Diana Higg of "The Avengers"). Lazenby's approach to the role was less than popular at the time, and critic Leonard Maltin has remarked that, were Connery to have played the role in "On Her Majesty's Secret Service," it might have been the greatest of the tilms. 
Roger Moore (1973-1985) 
After Connery's brief return in 1971, Hoger Moore took the reins as Britain's favorite MI6 agent. Moore's Bond has a more light-hearted humor than Connery's, often calling a self-conscious attention to where he was, were distracting and a bit over the top. 
The villain was rather lame and unin­teresting-a short, mean, environmen­talist wasn't as scary or innovative as prior villains. Generally ruthless capital­ists/environmentalists with bulging creepy eyes do not make for great vil­lains. Neither do evil sexist generals. The final showdown between the two main characters in "Casino Hoyale" came down to a poker game, which was subtle yet effective, but the conclusion was filled with explosions, screaming, and other disappointing affects standard to the action genre. The film was sup­posed to develop Bond as a character, instead it typecast him into a very physi­cal action oriented role. 
An interesting facet of this film's devel­opment centered around the evil organi­zation Quantum that has people every­where and has a hand in everything. Though the only real show of' Quantum's power is within the first portion of the movie, the storyline is left for future films to pick up. Many members of Quantum are introduced and as an extremely powerful and evil organiza­tion it is bound to inspire many missions for Bond, hopefully with more interest-
one­liners might betray. In "Live and Let Die," Moore romances Jane Seymour in her pre­Dr. Quinn days through Jamaica, all the while imitating the conventions of popular blaxploitation films. "Moonraker" saw 007 in the midst of intrigue on the final frontier -the untapped landscape of outer space. Moore's Bond expanded the boundaries of the genre while indulging in tongue-in­cheek humor and some good, old-fashioned womanizing. The Bond of the 70s and 80s vacillates between playboy and detective in a way that endeared Moore to fans of the series and new viewers alike. 
Timothy Dalton (1987-1994) 
While Dalton's two Bond films were released in 1987 and 1989, he was officially considered as Bond until Pierce Brosnan assumed the role in 1995. While Dalton's run was also short, the choice to cast him reflected a desire to move Bond back towards a more Connery-like portrayal; less cheese, more muscle. Dalton's grittier, more vengeful Bond ultimately, however, didn't last very long. 
Pierce Brosnan (1995-2002) 
Brosnan's Bond has an Irish lilt to man­age the suave smoothness he brought to the role. Beginning with 1995's smash hit "GoldenEye" and continuing through "Die Another Day," Brosnan took the role and ran with it into the 21st century. His Bond ing villains and secret bases. 
Bond's supporting east was a mi bag. The Bond girl, Camille Montes Kurylenko). was made ente · · the fact that she was a Bolivian by a Ukrainian, but otherwise her acter was boring. The elem is not new, and it was not Still. the lack of sexual invol between Bond and Kurylenko's e ter Camille Montes was a nice touch her self-contained action sequ were refreshing. Agent Fields, p Gemma Arterton, was standar foolish female fodder. M was, as al strongly played by Judy Deneh. 
The film was entertaining, but ering the jump "Casino Hoyale" this is a step backwards. "Quant Solace" was filled with irrelevant lains, a lack of compelling suppo characters, and action sequences t would have worked better if the film called "The Bond Supremacy." It's n1 bad !ilm by any means, it is just an hyped disappointment that continues Bond action tradition, but reverts on promises made by "Casino Hoyale." 
Contact Szymon Ryzner at sryzner@nd.edu. 
was imm po , grossed over $350 million worl later spawned an extremely popular game title of' the same name. llis are well-known to today's ente scene, from Denise Hichards to I Brosnan's Bond was also movin the Cold War conflicts of his c and into the modern context of an ingly globalized world. In "Tomorrow Dies," Bond teams up with a Chinese to take down his baddie; in "Golden 007 is working to prevent a global crisis; and in "Die Another Day," Bond a mission to North Korea. Admit , portion of Brits felt their hero had altered by his Irish portrayer, with reportedly calling him "James O'Bond. 
Daniel Craig (2005-present) 
While still a fledgling Bond, the first actor to inhabit the role is definitely his own. Craig's Bond shot new life series in 2006's "Casino Hoyale," 007 as a "blunt instrument" training and experience to hone an Ml6. "Casino Hoyale" was l<lnmina'cl Bond novel, and the tilm works to rejuvenate the series by starting iL-; all over again. Who knows how s or how long Craig's run will be, but no doubt that Bond will live on. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, November 19, 2008 page 11 
By JAMES MCGUIRE Scene Writer 
Auric Goldfinger 

Played by Gert Frobe, Auric Goldfinger was a gold-crazed business man who tried to break into Fort Knox before getting thwarted by 007 (Sean Connery) in "Goldfinger." To his credit, Goldfinger orchestrated some of the most needlessly complicated deaths in the series, including encasing his assis­tant Jill Masterson completely in gold and trying to slice Bond in half with a giant laser. Besides his elaborate schemes, Goldfinger is probably best remembered for his henchmen, includ­ing the giant Korean assassin Oddjob and the temptress Pussy Galore (which has to be one of the best Bond girl names ever). 
Ernst Stavro Blofeld 

No, that sinister bald man stroking the big white cat is not Dr. Evil. It's Blofeld, the dastardly head of SPECTRE (Special Executive for Counter­Intelligence, Treason, Revenge, and Extortion) whose hobbies include hijacking spacecrafts and poisoning the world's food supply in hopes of world domination. Blofeld is a hard man to track down; we see little more than the back of his head in his first few Bond appearances. Though voiced and played by several actors, Blofeld was probably best embodied by Donald Pleasance in "You Only Live Twice" and Telly Savalas in "On H~r Majesty's Secret Service." 
Max Zorin 

Played with slick creepiness by Christopher Walken, Max Zorin was a world-famous industrialist and a pain in James Bond's side in "A View to a Kill." Even if the 80's Bond movies were nothing to write home about, Zorin was one of the standout villains in Bond his­tory. Although he was the man with the plan (he wanted to cause an earthquake in Silicon Valley to take over the microchip market), he was also a stone­cold killer along with his wiry bench­woman MayDay (model Grace Jones). He gets his comeuppance in rather cool fashion, though, by falling from the top of the Golden Gate Bridge. 
Xenia Onatopp 

Bond girls aren't always sugar and spice and world-class experts in what­ever science 007 needs at the time. Xenia Onatopp (Famke Janssen) stole the show as Alec Trevelyan's lusty henchwoman in "GoldenEye." A noted sadist and masochist, Xenia took a little too much pleasure in killing people in her boss's grand scheme to steal and fire the GoldenEye laser in an attempt to destroy the world's financial mar­kets. When her trusty AK-4 7 wasn't available, Xenia was happy to use her very strong thighs to take out anyone who was in her way, including 007 (Pierce Brosnan in his first turn as the special agent). 
Jaws 

It might be a funny name but don't laugh because he just might take a bite out of you. Jaws (Richard Kiel), an angry giant with stainless steel teeth, definitely gave Bond a hard time in "The Spy Who Loved Me" and "Moonraker." Though at first he is a cold-hearted killing machine, he did do some pretty cool stuff like bite through metal chains and stop an entire cable car system with his bare hands. Jaws does eventually see the light and man­ages to help James Bond and Holly Goodhead prevent the evil Hugo Drax from destroying the human race. 
Contact James McGuire at jmcguir2@nd.edu. 

Bond 
-James Bond ­
is back 

JAMES BOND 

-
r.!T 



NBA 
Without Garnett, Celtics take down Knicks 
Indicted Cuban watches on as Mavericks defeat Bobcats; LeBron's 31 leads the way for Cavaliers over Nets 
mean, they are the world cham­
Associat.,d Press 
pions and rah, rah, rah, but the 
BOSTON -It was quiet -too tough part I don't factor. quiet-in thP. Boston loeker "I come from a neighborhood room before the game. On the where you can say what you l'loor, the C!11ties managed to want to say, but until you do replace Kevin Garnett's intnnsity something, it don't mean noth­just fine. ing." 
"Not having a great player out Garnntt did not miss a game thnre, you delinitPiy miss him," last season until Jan. 27, when point guard Hajon Hondo said he began a nine-game stint in after Boston beat the New York street elothes because of an Knieks 110-101 on Tuesday abdominal strain; the Celtics night while Garnett servnd a were <J-2 in all without him dur­one-game suspension. "But we ing tlwir NBA championship tried to go out tonight and get run. But he was suspended for the ball moving and that's what throwing a punch at we did .... A lot of guys got Milwaukee's Andrew Bogut on shots." Saturday and forced to sit out 
Starting in plaee of Garnett, one game. Brian Scalabrine hit a 3-pointnr Celtics coach Doc Rivers decid­with I: 14 left to help Boston ed to start Scalabrine, the little­recover after its 15-point, used big man, rather than pull fourth-quarter lead was Leon Powe off the second unit trimmed to four. Paul Pierce and upset his rotation. Powe seored 22 with eight rebounds, scored 14 with seven rebounds Kendrick Perkins had 16 points ofT the bench and played most of and eight rebounds and Hondo the fourth quarter, but had 15 points, eight boards and Scalabrine came back in with seven assist<>. 1:50 left after the Knicks used 
"It was kind of a different runs of 11-2 and 5-0 to get to atmosphere in the loeker room, 103-99. a little bit quieter than usual," Pierce hit one of two free Pieree said. "Thank goodness we throws to make it a five-point were able to take up the slaek game, then Scalabrine hit a 3­li>r one game and get the win." pointer from the left corner. 
Wilson Chandler scored 23, Sealabrine also hit back-to-hack and Zaeh Handolph had 18 long jumpers in the third, one of points and eight rebounds for them a 3-pointer, for his only New York. The Knicks tried to other baskets of the night. musde their way closer in the "He played good defense and Atlantic Division -they were hit two big 3s and I just feel called for three technicals -but good for him," Celtics guard instead lost to Boston for the Eddie House said. "He got his seventh consecutive time. number called and he was 
''I'm just real curious to see re~dy. lie was a true profession­what those guys will be saying if al. we weren't in a basketball league and didn't have refer­Mavericks 100, Bobcats 83 ens," Knieks forward Quentin Mark Cuban yelled and Hiehardson said. "I mean, it cheered from his courtside seat wouldn't be the same story. I during the game, then high-fived 

AP 

Mavericks owner Mark Cuban congratulates James Singleton after Dallas' 100-83 win over Charlotte. 
his players after it was over. 

The boisterous Dallas 
Mavericks owner didn't act any 
differently a day after being 
charged with insider trading. His 
team, meanwhile, stoppod look­
ing like the dysfunctional unit 
that started the season. 

Dirk Nowitzki scored 32 points, outscoring Charlotte's entire starting five, and the Mavericks never traiJp,d in a rout on Tuesday night for their sec­ond straight win, overcoming any distractions their owner might have presented by toying with the lifeless, undermanned Bobcats. 
"It was a big win for us for sure," Nowitzki said. 
A career-high 21 points from rookie D.J. Augustin was nowhere near enough for Charlotte, which fell behind 15-0 while playing again without top scorer Jason Richardson (knee). The Bobcats didn't score until nearly 7 minutes had elapsed in a woeful performance that kept them winless all-time against Dallas. 
"It looked basically like the varsity scripting plays against a rec team out there," said Bobcats forward Gerald Wallace, held to eight points on 3 of 13 shooting. "They did whatever they wanted to do." 
With Nowitzki adding nine rebounds and Josh Howard scoring 21 points, the Mavericks led by as many as 23 in a rare blowout after a horrible start to the season, made worse when their famous owner suddenly faced legal trouble. 
The billionaire Cuban was charged by federal regulators Monday of using confidential information on a stock sale to avoid more than $750,000 in losses. Cuban has disputed the Security and Exchange Commission's allegations and said he will fight the charges. 
Cavaliers 106, Nets 82 

With free agency awaiting him in 2010, LPBron James put on a show for the New York metro­politan area and its deep-poekPt teams highlighted by length-of­the court sprint to block a dunk by Devin I larris. 
James had 31 points, eight rebounds and four assists in another dominating perform­ance and the Clevp,land Cavaliers rolled to their Pighth straight win with a dedsion over the New Jersey Nets on Tuesday night. 
The play that everyone will remember is the block. The 23­year-old James came from 20 feet behind the track down the Nets point guard, fordng him to rush a dunk that the high-flying James touched. 
"I just never gave up on the play," James said. "That's how we all are. You never give up on plays no matter if a guy is in front of you or what." 
Harris laughed when asked if he saw James coming at full throttle. 
"He's 6-9 and 260," Harris said. "You try to quick dunk him if you can. If not, hey, he got a piece of it. He came back and he played it. If I had a good ankle, now that would be something to think about. You got to go for it. I had my shot at it and I missed it, you move on." 
The question of moving on is a big part of James' life. The 23­year-old is scheduled to become a free agent in 2010, and there already has been speculation that the Nets and the New York Knicks are already dearing salary cap room to make a run at the superstar who on Tuesday became the youngest NBA play­er to reach the 11 ,000-point plateau. 
Before the game, James said he would not hesitate to leave Cleveland if another franchise offers him a better chance to win multiple NBA titles. 
"I think you do what is best for you and you do what is best for your career," James said when asked about his sense of loyalty to the Cavaliers before they played the Nets in New Jersey. 
After the game, he focused on his team, which is off to a 9-2 start. 
"A-plus," he said of the sec­ond-half effort. "The thing we did was we stopped turning the ball over. We had only one turnover in the second half." 


They also got big eil'orts from Mo Williams and Delonte West. 
Williams had 8 of 16 points and five of his six assists in the final 24 minutes, while West scored 14 of his 16 points, hit­ting all four of his 3-pointers in the decisive third quarter when Cleveland broke the game open. 
"Mo and Delontc did a great job coming into the third quarter and shooting lights out," said James, who was 9 of 20 from the field in posting his fourth 30­plus point game in five contests. "We took that momentum and just ran." 
Harris, who was looking for his fourth straight 30-point game, had 23 points to lead New Jersey. Vince Carter added 12, shooting 3-of-12 from the field as the Nets' two-game winning streak was snapped. 
"It was a rough night and I wasn't hitting my shots," Carter said. 
James put on a show for the less than capadty crowd at the lzod Center against a team par­tially owned by his friend, rap­per Jay-Z. lie dunked, hit layups and faked Jarvis Hayes out of his socks on a great cross-over drib­ble move that got him his 11 ,OOOth point, and finally entertained the crowd with a late tap-in on an alley-oop from Zydrunas Jlgauskas in the dos­ing minutes. 
"His strength and his quiek­n ess, at his size, is pretty unheard of." said Nets rookie forward Hyan Anderson, who got a chance to face James. "The things he can do is pretty amaz­ing. Ile is so athletic, and he's 6­
9. He is an incredibly talented guy." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE FoR RENT 
A 3-bedroom fully furnished house Student rentals 2009/2010. St. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do You won't fail your biology test, Tara for rent from mid December 2008 Peter/S.B. Ave. homes. $1300· not go it alone. If you or someone through July 2009. $1960/mo. 5-7 bdrms 1st & 2nd you love needs confidential support Womanizer 
floors. or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Woman-Womanizer 3-bdrm. 2.5 bath Condo. HOUSES FOR LEASE 09·10 Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876· Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann You're a womanizer 
SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS Two bathrooms + renovated base-3537. Firth at 574-631·2685. For more Oh Womanizer Close to ND. Master bdrm on main AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER ment (potential additional bed-information, visit our website at: Oh You're a Womanizer Baby floor wlbth. PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR room). http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-You. You You Are 
KRAMERHOUSES.COM nant.shtml You, You You Are Catwalk between bdrm upstairs. 10 minute walk from University of PERSONAL Womanizer, Womanizer 1896 sq. ft. 1330 Bridgewater Way. Furnished 2-bdrm, house. Living Notre Dame. $1000 not including Two teachers ready to adopt new-Mishawaka. $179,900. room. kitchen, dining room, full utilities. If you or someone you care about bam and provide a wonderful life for Oh yeah, all right 
bath. 6.5 blks to ND. $795/mo. Avail has been sexually assaulted, visit him/her. Confidential. Expenses Take it easy baby Jan. 1. Call 605-397 ·8135 or 574-http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap paid. Stephenandliz@aol.com or Make it last all night 
Call574-247-1567. 234-3007 or 574-261-4444. Call574-233·2618 or 631-8213 I call us toll free 1·888·760-BABY She was an American girl 

OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, November 19, 2008 COMP£LfD FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
MLB 
NCAA Women's Basketball 
AP Top 25  
team  points  previous  
1  UConn (45)  1125  1  
2  Oklahoma  1018  4  
3  Rutgers  1010  5  
4  North Carolina  963  6  
5  Tennessee  931  7  
6  Duke  900  8  
7  Cal  788  9  
8  Stanford  764  2  
9  Louisville  724  10  
10  Baylor  698  19  
11  Maryland  680  3  
12  Texas A&M  658  11  
13  Vanderbilt  603  12  
14  Texas  519  13  
15  NOTRE DAME  456  16  
16  Virginia  440  15  
17  Ohio State  361  18  
18  Arizona State  345  17  
19  Oklahoma State  291  14  
20  Auburn  258  20  
21  Purdue  178  23  
22  Florida State  173  22  
23  Xavier  152  22  
24  TCU  148  NR  
25  Old Dominion  106  25  
AVAC Women's Volleyball  
Top 25 Coaches Poll  
team  points  previous  
1  Penn State (60)  1500  1  
2  Stanford  1425  2  
3  Nebraska  1376  3  
4  Texas  1308  4  
5  Washington  1277  5  
6  Hawai'i  1170  6  
7  Cal  1137  7  
8  Oregon  1073  8  
9  UCLA  971  9  
10  usc  936  10  
11  Wichita State  911  11  
12  Minnesota  773  15  
13  Kansas State  742  14  
14  Florida  724  12  
15  Colorado State  643  16  
16  Illinois  592  17  
17  San Diego  576  13  
18  Purdue  441  18  
19  Kentucky  403  22  
20  Michigan  360  19  
21  Saint Louis  295  20  
22  Utah  228  23  
23  Long Beach State  172  25  
24  Pepperdine  134  24  
25  San Francisco  108  NR  

CSCAA Swimming and Diving Rankings 
Men Women 
1 Texas (10) Arizona (10) 2 Stanlord Georgia 3 Arizona Stanford 4 Michigan Texas 5 Florida Florida 6 Cal Cal 7 Auburn Auburn 8 Tennessee TexasA&M 9 Georgia Indiana 10 Minnesota Tennessee 
around the dial 
NCAAF 

(17) Ball State at Central Michigan 7:00 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

Chicago at Portland 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Dustin Pedroia could easily be mistaken for a mechanic, carpenter or plumber, most anything except a major leaguer. 
''I'm not the biggest guy in the world. I don't have that many tools," he said. "If you saw me walking down the street, you wouldn't think I'm a base­ball player." 
Well, not unless he was 
carrying  his  AL  MVP  
award.  •  
Pedroia  added  to  his  

ever-expanding trophy case Tuesday, becoming the first second baseman to earn the honor in nearly a half-century. 
The Boston little man with the meaty swing easily beat out Minnesota slugger Justin Morneau, Red Sox teammate Kevin Youkilis and record-setting closer Francisco Hodriguez in a scattered ballot that saw five different players draw first place-votes. 
Generously listed at 5­foot-9, Pedroia has quickly piled up a huge stack of hardware. Earlier this month, he won the Gold Glove. He was the 2007 AL Rookie of the Year and capped off that season with a World Series ring. 
"I had to overcome a lot of things to prove people wrong, and so far I've done that," he said on a confer­ence call from his home in Arizona. "I have to find a way to have that edge." 
Pedroia drew 16 of the 28 first-place votes cast by members of the Baseball Writers' Association of America and fmished with 31 7 points. He was even left off one ballot, while Morneau and Youkilis were listed on every one. 
"You look around the league, there are a ton of great players," Pedroia said. 
Pedroia led the AL in hits, runs and doubles in helping the Hed Sox win the wild­card berth. He batted .326 with 17 home runs and 83 HBis and also stole 20 bases. 

Pedroia became a fan favorite at Fenway Park with his scrappy approach. In a lineup depleted by injuries to David Ortiz, Mike Lowell and J.D. Drew and the midseason trade of Manny Ramirez, Pedroia took his hearty hacks wherever needed -while he usually batted second, he also hit leadoff and cleanup. 
Nellie Fox was the previ­ous second baseman to become AL MVP, in 1959 with the White Sox. No position has produced fewer MVPs overall -just 10 overall since the AL and NL awards were first pre­sented in 1931. 
IN BRIEF Muschamp to replace Brown 
at Texas after retirement 
AUSTIN, Texas -Texas defensive coordinator Will Muschamp has been designated as the head-coach­in-waiting by the university, expect­ed to take over the Longhorns when Mack Brown retires. 
Muschamp is in his first year with Texas, but athletic director DeLoss Dodds said Tuesday he and Brown know they want to keep him at Texas. To do that, they will more than double his salary from $425,000 to $900,000 in January. He will remain defensive coordina­tor. 
Dodds said he wants the 57-year­old Brown to coach for a long time but said he wanted to line up Muschamp now to avoid the "trau­ma" of a coaching search when the day comes that Brown steps down. 
The No. 4 Longhorns (10-1) are preparing for their Thanksgiving night game against rival Texas A&M. 
Cubs resign pitcher
Dempster to four-year deal 
CHICAGO -Pitcher Ryan Dempster and the Chicago Cubs agreed Tuesday on a $52 million, four-year contract that includes a player option for 2012. 
He gets a $4 million signing bonus, $8 million next year, $12.5 million in 2010 and $13.5 million in 2011. Dempster has a 2012 option for $14 million. 
Dempster was 17-6 with a 2.96 ERA for the Cubs last season, then became a free agent after making the switch from the closer to starter. 
"It was imperative that we kept him in house," Cubs general manager Jim Hendry. "No doubt in our minds that Ryan would have exceeded this deal on the streets in three or four weeks from now, the way the market is for starting pitching. Hyan was commit­ted. From Day One he told us he wanted to stay. And it was a priority for us to try and get it done before we got too far down the road in the win­ter." 
BattierkMcGrady practice
for Roc ets Tuesday 
HOUSTON -Houston Rockets forward Shane Battier practiced with the team for the first time on Tuesday, but Hon Artest and Yao Ming skipped the workout after leaving Monday's win over Oklahoma City with sprained ankles. 
Tracy \1cGrady also practiced Tuesday after re-aggravating his sore left knee in Monday's game. McGrady was going to have an MRI on the knee, but decided with team officials that the test was unneces­sary and practiced instead. 
The Rockets play Dallas on Wednesday and Artest and Yao said they would be ready by game time. 
Battier has been bothered with inflammation in his left foot for months after offseason surgery. He said Tuesday that he needs a few more full practices before he's ready to play in a game. 
CYCLING 

Arn1strong -would fear for safety in Tour return 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Lance Armstrong fears he could be attacked· by spectators if he returns to the Tour de France next year. 
The seven-time Tour champi­on, who is making a comeback after three years in retirement, said in an interview in The Guardian on Tuesday that he is concerned about his safety. 
"I don't want to enter an unsafe situation but you Sfle

Friday No11. 21 6-lOpm 
this stuff coming out of France," said the AmericanOn Mic:hip.n St. by the College Foot.hall Hall ot Fame rider, who has many critics in France. "There're some aggressive, angry emotions. If
Li\fe Mucical Perlormers: 
you believe what you read, my personal safety could be in

This End Up 
jeopardy. "Cycling is a sport of the 
open road and spectators arc
DOWNTOWN 

7 -lOpm 
lining the road. I try to believe that people, even if they don't
~[TI[j~ 


like me, will let the race unfold."
=[j[J:
0 • 0 
Armstrong was asked if he 
lt .. 
specifically fears a physical attack. "Yeah. There're directors of 
SOUTII BBND 

Admission $5/ Kids Under 12 Free 2-lor-1 Admission 6-7pm 
French teams that have encouraged peopiP. to take to

Acttfittes Hosted 1n1 MDA -Participate and Support a Great Causel 
the streets ... elbow to elbow. It's very emotional and tense,"

More inlo: cltsbFootballParty.com or call DTSB at 5711..282.1110 
he said. 
It's unclear why Armstrong is worried about his safety now, given that attacks on riders are extremely rare. Organizers have in recent years taken additional steps to protect rid­ers from spectators, including increased use of crowd barri­ers. 


The Tour has its own police force to guard the route and ensure safety, and Fnmch police paid particular attention to Armstrong's safety when he was riding. 
Armstrong announced his comeback in September and joined the Astana team. lie is reunited with Astana team leader Johanna Bruyneel, who teamed with Armstrong for all seven Tour de France wins from 1999-2005. 
Armstrong plans to meet with Tour officials before deciding whether to compete in the 2009 Tour. 
Previously, he had expressed doubts over trying for win another Tour title because of the problems he might encounter with French organ­izers, journalists and fans. 
Armstrong is scheduled to race the Giro d'Italia for the first time. The 1OOth anniver­sary edition of the Giro is scheduled for May 9-31. The Tour de Franc11 starts July 4. 
The 3 7 -year-old Armstrong said in the Guardian interview that he is in better shape at this stago of the season than in past years. 
''I'm much better physically now," he said at his home in Austin, Texas. "And mentally there is no comparison. I'm far stronger and more motivated. The motivation of 2008 feels like the motivation of 1999. I was back from cancer then. I had the motivation of vengeance because nobody wanted me or believed in me." 

Wednesday, November 19, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Purdue dovvns Loyola-Chicago 
Indiana squeaks by IUPUI; Texas cruises easily past Tulane 
AP 

Purdue's Robbie Hummel drives past Loyola of Chicago's Walt Gibler during the first half of 
the Boilermaker's 78-46 NIT Season Tip-Off semifinal win. 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.­E'lwaun Moore scored 14 points, and No. 11 Purdue defeated Loyola of Chicago 78-46 on Tuesday night to advance to the NIT Season Tip-Ofl' semifinals. 
Hobbie Hummel scored 13 points and Marcus Green had 12 points and matched his career­high with 10 rebounds for the Boilermakers (3-0). 
Purdue had only been to New York's Madison Square Garden for the semifinals once in three previous tries. The Boilermakers lost to North Carolina in the semifinals in 1998. 
Justin Cerasoli had 14 points for the Hamblers (1-2), who were coming off a 74-5:~ win over Georgia on Monday and shot just 30 percent against the Boilermakers. 
Purdue missed 10 of its first 15 shot<;, but controlled the first half with it<; defense until the offense got going. Keaton Grant made consecutive 3-pointers to give the Boilormakers a 25-9 lead. 
Moore scored on a putback at the buzzer to give the Boilermakers a 40-14 halftime load. Purdue nearly surrendered it<; lowest point total in a half in school history, but Cerasoli made a 3-pointer late in the half to help Loyola avoid the record low of 12 points. Loyola went nearly eight minutes without a field goal over one stretch. 
Purdue shot 50 percent in the first half and held Loyola to 20 percent shooting. The Boilermakers l'oreed 15 turnovers and committed just l{mr in the first 20 minutes. 
The Boilermakers doubled the seoro, 56-28. midway through the second half on a basket by Nemanja Calasan. Purdue's largost lead was 35 point<;. 
Grant had 11 points, five assists and live rebounds, and Calasan scored 11 points. 
Indiana 60, IUPUI 57 
Tom Pritchard played an almost perfect game Tuesday night. 
lie held his ground. stood strong, dominated the middle and swatted away IUPUI's des­peration shot for overtime Tuesday night -even if wasn't 
drawn up that way. Indiana needed every one of Pritehard's contributions. 
The freshman forward scored 19 points, making 7 -of-8 field goals and 5-of-7 free throws, and preserved a victory by blocking Leroy Nobles' last-second 3-point attempt to force overtime. 
'The good thing was that his facial expression never changed," coach Tom Crean said. "He just has a great tempera­ment, and we've got to do a bet­ter job getting him opportunities because we've got to play through him in the post." 
The Hoosiers (2-0) executed Crean's strategy precisely, and Pritchard made sure it worked. 
lie single-handedly kept Indiana close in the first half when his teammates were strug­gling and again came up big in the second half when the Hoosiers were fighting to hang on. 
Virtually every time, Pritchard produced a big play, including that block Crean second-guessed. 
"Probably not," Crean said when asked if that's what he wanted Pritchard to do. "But we're so far behind in teaching those situations." 
It didn't seem to bother the young, short-handed Hoosiers. 
Matt Hoth scored 12 points while Nick Williams and Devan Dumes each scored 10 for Indiana (2-0). Williams also had nine rebounds. 
Texas 76, Tulane 51 
Damion James scored 16 points and No. 7 Texas cruised to a victory over Tulane on Tuesday night. 
Dexter Pittman, a 6-foot-10, 300-pound junior forward, mus­cled over the Green Wave for 10 points and six rebounds in his second career start for the Longhorns (2-0), who had five players score in double figures. 
A.J. Abrams, who had 21 points in the season-opener, had 15 against Tulane, hitting three 3­pointers. 
Texas used a stellar defensive effort to turn the game into a rout by halftime. The Longhorns had 16 steals and forced 25 turnovers, while holding Tulane to 31 percent shooting. 
Kevin Sims scored 11 point<; to lead Tulane (1-1). 
Texas coach Rick Barnes promised he would use a big lineup this season and Pittman had promised he could be a much more effective player than his first two years with the Longhorns when he struggled with his weight and conditioning. 
Pittman had started to come on strong for Texas in the NCAA tournament last season and attended the late Hall of Fame coach Pete Newell's camp for big men in Las Vegas last summer. He clearly picked up better foot­work and passing techniques, showing off quicker and stronger moves to the basket. 
The Longhorns also saw the debut of sophomore guard Dogus Balbay, who will be counted on this season to fill the void at the point left by D.J. Augustin, who is in the NBA. 
Balbay sat out last season after a knee injury and while serving an NCAA suspension for playing for a professional club as a youth in his native Turkey. The suspen­sion forced him to miss Texas' season-opening win over Stel<>on. 
Balbay entered the game against Tulane with about 13 minutes left in the first half and quickly contributed a layup and had one of Texas' eight steals in the first half. 
Abrams had 10 points with two 3-pointers as Texas built a 42-25 halftime lead. Texas led 15-10 before Balbay's layup started a 16-4 run that opened up a dou­ble-digit lead. 
Wisconsin 88, Southern Illinois­Edwardsville 58 
Reserve Jon Leuer scored 19 points to lead No. 25 Wisconsin to a victory over Southern illinois-Edwardsville on Tuesday night. 
Marcus Landry added 15 points for the Badgers (2-0), while Jason Bohannon had 14 and Trevon Hughes 11, even though the starters spent most of the second half on the bench. 
Barry Wellington led Edwardsville (1-3) with 15 poinl<>. 
Wisconsin opened a double­digit lead less than eight minutes into the game, pushed it to 40-21 at halftime and had it to 30 points six minutes into the sec­ond half. 

BCS 
ESPN to broadcast BCS games in 2011 
Nat'l Championship game moves to cable 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Bowl Championship Series games are moving to ESPN, the lat­est high-profile sporting event to migrate from over­the-air television to cable. 
BCS coordinator John Swofford is confident that fewer and fewer viewers make a distinction between the traditional broadcast networks such as Fox, the current home of the BCS, and cable channels such as ESPN, which will start airing the games in January 2011. 
Playoff games in the NBA, NHL and Major League Baseball are already broad­cast on cable, as is Monday Night Football. ESPN announced last week that the British Open will be televised live exclusively on eable beginning in 2010. 
This marks the first time, though, that the decisive game in a major U.S. pro sports league or NCAA col­lege football or men's bas­ketball will air on cable. 
"You're talking about a sit­uation where we're seeing more and more sporting events go to cable," Swofford, the ACC commis­sioner, said on a conference call Tuesday. "And certainly I think that the college foot­ball community, people who truly follow college football, are extremely well tuned into ESPN and see ESPN as in essence for television the home of college football." 
The BCS and ESPN announced a new four-year contract Tuesday. ESPN out­bid Fox, which is paying $80 million annually to broadcast the games from 2007-10. 
ESPN's offer was for $125 million a year, according to a person with knowledge of the negotiations. The person requested anonymity because the networks are not releasing financial details. 
Fox would not offer much more than $100 million annually, the person said. 
Bowl payouts will increase because of the new deal, Swofford said. 
ESPN runs ABC Sports, but chose to slate the games for the cable channel, not the over-the-air network. 
Owning a valuable property like the BCS eould help ESPN when it negotiates future subscription fees. 
The agreement covers the Fiesta, Orange and Sugar bowls each year and the BCS title game from 2011-13. The Rose Bowl will continue to be televised on ABC through at least 2010 under a separate, previous contract, said ESPN president George Bodenheimer. 
ESPN is available in just over 98 million U.S. homes, which is 86 percent of all households with televisions, according to Nielsen. Swofford expects that num­ber to grow by 2011, and ESPN notes that 95 percent of people who watched the BCS title game on Fox last season had cable or satellite. 
Measuring the difference in viewership between sports on over-the-air and cable networks is difficult because ratings often fluctuate wildly depending on matchups. 
The seven-game American League championship series between the Boston Red Sox and Cleveland Indians aver­aged 11.6 million viewers on Fox in 2007. A seven-game series between the Red Sox and Tampa Bay Rays on TBS this year averaged 7.4 mil­lion. 
But when TBS boasted appealing matchups for the 2007 division series, it actu­ally drew 26 percent more viewers than the previous year, when the broadcasts were split between Fox and ESPN and therefore available to more people. 
BCS officials decided in April to keep the current for­mat -and not switch to a playoff system -until at least 2014, and the TV con­tract reflects that. Numerous ESPN commentators have disparaged the BC5 structure over the years, which could make for some awkward pairings if previously critical analysts now wind up calling the games. 
Bodenheimer said those opinions will continue to be voiced. 
"We have a church and state operation here between editorial and on-air talent and the business side," he said. 
NHL 

Oilers snap losing streak against Blue Jackets 
Wild ride hot goaltending to shootout win over Pens; 'Canes record season-high 48 shots to beat Canadiens 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS. Ohio -ThP l·:dmonton OiiPrs got high marks for shooting Prlil'iPncy in tlwir higlwst-scoring gamn ol' thn sPa­
soiL 
Shawn llorcoll' had a goal and two assists to lnad sPvnn multi­pin-point srorPrs. and tlw OiiPrs snappnd a thrPP-ganw losing strPak with a 7-2 rout ol' tiJP Columbus BluP Jacknts on Tunsday night dPspitn hning out­shot :{IJ-1 1). 
"I don't rPally think thn scorl' was indicativP ol' how l'losn tlw ganw was." llorroiT said. "I thought WI' showPd a lot of good charadnr to gPt that lillh goal. Wn kind of gavP oursPivns somf' brnathing mom." 
Shnldon Souray. Andrnw Cogliano. Tom Cilbert and Lubomir Visnovsky had a goal and an assist, and Marc Pouliot and Dustin Pnnrwr s<:ornd for tlw Oilnrs. who wnnt a strotrh of rwarly 20 minutns without put­ting a puck on rwt. Thny staynd in it behind surwrb goaltnnding by llwaynn Holoson, and pullnd away Jato in tlw third pnriod with thnH~ goals in a span of 
:Hn. 
"Thny likP to drive thn net hard and just throw things from bad anglns and go for rnbounds," Holoson said. "You've got to givP our forwards and '()' a lot of <TPCiit. I was abln to make the first save, and any­thing that was around there tlwy WP.rl~ ablt~ to get somnthing on it to dear out the rebound." 
Sam Gagnnr had two assists. and Ales llnmsky finished with thrnn. 
Kristian llusnlius and Hick Nash had a goal and assist for Columbus, whieh was 5-1-3 in its previous nine. The !Hun .laekP.ts fp,ll apart behind their Nlll.-worst powPr play and its 1­for-7 P.ll'ort against Edmonton. 
"Wn lost thP special teams ganw." Columbus coach KPn II itcheock said. "You can't livn on the nngativn play of our spe­cial tnams and win." 
Columbus failnd to gain momentum at kny points early in the second and third periods with the Blw~ Jackets on thn man-advantage and trailing by two goals. When they did create chances, Boloson was there to stop Jason Chimera, FrP.driek Modin and ILl. Umberger on prime opportunities. 
"lie was really on top of his game," Oilers eoaeh Craig MacTavish said of Holoson. "When your goaliP. outplays the other guy. it's normally a good indication of tlw result." 
Wild 2, Penguins 1 (50) 
Not many teams can beat the Pittsburgh Penguins by putting the puck into the net only once. Thn Minnesota Wild aceom­
plished it the timeworn way, 
with an excellent defP.nse and a 
goalt<~nder who is allowing 
fewer goals than his low-scoring 
team is getting. 

Mamk Zidlicky seomd the only goal in the shootout and the Minnesota Wild bmwfited from a gift goal that Pittsburgh put into its net for a victory Tuesday night that ended the Penguins' six-game winning streak. 
Niklas Backstrom, 3-0 in shootouts this season. stopped 24 of 2!i shots before turning aside Petr Sykora, Alex Goligoski and Sidney Crosby in the tinbreaker. Crosby, 9-of-32 in carenr attempts, neoded to score to kenp the shootout going but couldn't bc~at the Wild goalie with a wrist shot. 
"You look at their lineup and look at their players. To keep them to one goal, that's a big e!Tort," said Backstrom, who has allowed six goals while winning four of five. "You always want to compare yourself against the best teams out there, and you try to get up there. Your team gets conlidence when you beat them." 
Hurricanes 2, Canadiens 1 

The punchless Carolina II urricanes kept peppering Carey Price, and got a couple of pucks past the Montreal goalie just in time. 
Sergei Samsonov and Hay 

Whitney scored 3 minutns apart in the third period. and Carolina put a season-high 48 shots on net in its come-from-behind vie­tory over the Canadiens on Tuesday night. 
"WP. came out with the atti­tude that we wern going to shoot some pucks and erash the net a little bit more," Samsonov said. "We really made an effort to try to put the puck on net from any position, and I think that kind of created the forecheck." 
AP 

Whitney follownd Samsonov's first goal of the snason with the go-ahead score with 13:27 remaining to jump-start a Carolina offensn that averaged fp,wer than two goals in its prn­vious six games. 
"Wp,'re doing what we're doing now with not a lot of goal­scoring," Whitney said. 
Hobert Lang scored for the Canadiens, who snapped a lnngthy power-play drought yet lost for the third time in four games. 

Wednesday, November 19, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Syracuse 
continued from page 20 
"I think the last home game could hardly ever be put in that category," Weis said. "It wouldn't make a difference who you were playing. I think there's still going to be a ton of reason to play well, a ton of rea­sons. But most importantly, because it's the last one for those seniors." 
Weis did say, however, that he wanted to get past Syracuse because the team faces a short week with the players entering Thanksgiving break before they play USC on Nov. 29. 
The knees of receiver Michael Floyd and line­backer Brian Smith, Weis said. are "too loose" to practice on. The two will have magnetic resonance imaging scans to deter­mine the extent of the damage. In Floyd's absence, Weis said, Duval Kamara, Robby Parris and David Grimes. who is now healthy, will have to step up. 
"So if you look at that combination of guys, I think that with those four front line guys playing, I think that, hey, we'll miss Michael," Weis said. "Just like we'll miss Brian. We'll miss those guys, but I think I feel pretty confident that the players we're putting in there will play well." 
Note: 
+In Brian Smith's absence, linebacker Toryan Smith will continue to play. Steve Quinn and Scott Smith will also see playing time. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. -Stan Van Gundy predicted at the morn­ing shootaround that Toronto forward Chris Bosh would score 40 points against his Orlando Magic. 
The Magic coach turned out to be right -and he still got to smile about it. 
Jameer Nelson, Hedo Turkoglu and Rashard Lewis had 22 points apiece as the Magic overcame Bosh's 40­point, 18-rebound night in a 103-90 win in a rematch of first-round NBA playoff foes. 
Bosh, matching up at times with Lewis and All-Star center Dwight Howard, made 14 of 19 field goals and 12 of 16 free throws. 
"It's not they came in and Bosh couldn't make a shot," Van Gundy said. "As a matter of fact, he couldn't miss one. We had to play really well." 
Toronto, playing without injured point guard Jose Calderon, was done in by 24: turnovers and by a strong Orlando second quarter, in which the Magic turned a 10­point deficit into a 45-45 half­time tie. 
"That was our best stretch of the year," Van Gundy said. 
Orlando built a 13-point third-quarter lead before hang­ing on for the victory. It was the Magic's eighth win in the past nine games. 
Bosh and Howard, who had 18 points and nine rebounds, work out together during the offseason. They have long talked trash to each other, and Bosh said that gives him a psy­chological lift when they meet. 
"I guess they just catch me at the wrong time," Bosh said. "I 
NBA 
Magic win despite Bosh scoring 40 
always say against my friends I want to play my hardest bas­ketball." 
"The way he's playing words can't describe, and it's not just scoring and rebounding," Toronto coach Sam Mitchell said. "He's doing all the little things." 
The Magic used a team effort to subdue the Raptors, who they beat 4-1 in their Eastern Conference playoff series last season. 
Nelson, who'd averaged 18.3 points over his past three games after struggling early in the season, asserted himself early and made 10 of 15 shots for a season-high in points. 
Jermaine O'Neal had the bet­ter of the battle of big men early, hitting his first four field goals and scoring 10 points in the first quarter as the Raptors built a 26-21 lead. Howard did­n't hit a shot from the floor in his first 13 minutes, finally making a basket to end a streak of 39 minutes of playing time in his past two games without a field goal. 
The All-Star center played 25 minutes against Charlotte on Sunday, missing all three of his field-goal attempts and scoring his only four points from the free-throw line. 
O'Neal finished with 16 points. 
The Raptors, who were shooting 59 percent midway through the second half, began missing shots and turning the ball over early in the third quarter, as the Magic went up 67-54 and cruised the rest of the way. 
Magic guard J.J. Redick made the first start of his three-year career and scored 10 points. Redick played in 

Irish Studies at Notre Dame 
Dance -Film -History -Language -Literature 
Beginning Irish I Tara MacLeod IRST 10101:01 MWF 1 0:40-11 :30 T 9:30-10:20 
Beginning Irish I Tara MacLeod IRST 10101:02 MWF II :45-121:35 T 11:00-11:50 
Beginning Irish II Mary O'Callaghan IRST 10102:01 MWF 11:45-12:35 R 9:30-10:20 
Beginning Irish II Mary O'Callaghan IRST 10102:02 MWF 10:40-11:30 T 11 :00-ll:50 
Intermediate Irish 
Anne Corbett 
IRST 20103:01 
MWF 10:40-11:30 
Celtic Heroic 
Literature Hugh Fogarty IRST 20109:01 TR 9:30-10:45 
Advanced Readings in Irish Culture B1·ian 6 Conchubhair IRST 20203:01 MWF 9:35-10:20 
British & Irish Gothic Heather Edwards IRST 20539:01 TR 3:30-4:45 

Irish & American Tap Dance James McKenna IRST 21601:01 MW 4:30-5:45 
Irish Folk Custom & Belief Diarmuid 6 Giollain IRST 30105:01 TR 12:30-1:45 
Migration & Identity in the New Ireland Sean O'Brien IRST 30109:01 TR 11:00-12:15 
Violence in Late Medieval & Renaissance Europe 
Rory Rapple IRST 30274:01 TR 3:30-4:45 
Introduction to Irish Writers Brian 6 Conchubhair IRST 30372:01 MWF 11:45-12:35 
British History, 
1660-1800 James Smyth IRST 30413:01 MWF 9:35-10:25 
Early Modern Ireland Rory Rapple IRST 30434:01 TR 12:30-1:45 
Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies-422 Flanner Hall 
Irish-American History Patrick Griffin IRST 30610:01 MW 11:45-12:35 
Folklore, Literature & 
Irish National Culture Diarmuid 6 Giollain IRST 40316:01 TR 9:30-10:45 
Contemporary British 
& Irish Fiction Mary Smyth IRST 40515:01 MW 11:45-1:00 
Film, Literature & 
Irish Culture Luke Gibbons IRST 40605:01 TR 11:00-12:15 
Folklore, Literature & 
Irish National Culture Diarmuid 6 Giollain IRST 50316 TR 9:30-10:45 
The Feminine in Irish Literary & Oral­Vernacular Tradition 
Geariiid 6 Crualaoich IRST 50318:01 TR 3:30-4:45 
TI1e Minor in Irish Studies helps students develop their understanding of Irish society, culture and politics: students complete three semesters of Irish Language, four classes in other fields such as English, History or Anthropology and a senior-year capstone essay. 
-631-3555-iJ:i!;lb.~tu@.nr,LS)\ilJ 

only six of Orlando's first 10 games. 
"Whenever I get a chance, I've got to do what I can to get back in the rotation," Redick said. 
Said Van Gundy: "I thought 
J.J. was the best choice for us tonight. Nobody's down for the count." 
Redick played in place of Mickeal Pietrus, who bruised his ribs in Sunday's win over Charlotte. 
Van Gundy started Redick instead of Keith Bogans, who normally comes in for Pietrus, because the coach said he did­n't want to disturb his rotation. Bogans had three points in 20 minutes. 
Orlando finally got a respite from its 3-point shooting woes. The Magic, who made 801 3s last season, second-best in NBA history, had been shooting only 
31.3 percent this season, 24th in the league. They made 11 of 23 on Tuesday night. 
Will Solomon got his second straight start in place of 
Calderon,  and  had  seven  
turnovers.  
"It's  tough  right  now,  

Mitchell said. "It's tough when you have to learn out there on the court in front of 18,000 people." 
"You've just got to take care of the ball," Bosh said. "That's what we've thrived on in the past couple of years. That's what keeps us in games." 
Heat 94, Wizards 87 
Before the game, coach Eddie Jordan said of his Washington Wizards: "We don't have rhythm, we don't have harmo­ny, we're trying to incorporate chemistry." 
The Miami Heat seem to have the makings of all three, even though they're starting two rookies on a team that last year went 15-67. 
The Heat beat the Wizards on Tuesday night for the second time in five days. Dwyane Wade scored 19 points, leading six players in double figures in the victory. 
"We would love to have a game like this where everybody is in double figures all across the board," said Wade, who also had 10 assists. six rebounds and five turnovers despite rolling his ankle Sunday against Toronto. "That means a great team. That's kind of how the Lakers are, they're a great team and all the guys are solid across the board so Kobe (Bryant) doesn't have to do that much this year. That's what we want to do." 
OK. it might be a bit preco­cious to mention the Heat next to the Lakers -Miami is only a game above .500 -but it might soon be time to start comparing this year's Wizards to last year's Heat. Washington is 1-7, its worst start since 1999, and Jordan essentially said afterward that only so much could be expected from a team relying heavily on youth because of long-term injuries to Gilbert Arenas and Brendan Haywood and a sore knee that has Arenas' backup, Antonio Daniels, on the bench. 
"This team is built a certain way, fellows," Jordan said. "This team is built for Gilbert Arenas to lead us. This team is built for our All-Star forwards to carry the wings for us, and for Brendan Haywood to have a career year man1:1ing the mid­dle for us. We don't have those things. 
"And this team, you're asking people to do things that they're not capable of doing. They're not capable of carrying the load for us like a Dwyane Wade, like a Gilbert Arenas. You've got young guys who aren't going to make veteran plays night-in and night-out. You put all those things togeth­er, and to be in the game is a credit to everybody in this organization right now. You've got to stay positive, but you've got to be realistic about things." 
Antawn Jamison (25) and Caron Butler (21) had 46 of the 59 points scored by the Wizards starters. Nick Young added 12 points off the bench, but his four turnovers included a bad pass in the final minute that ended Washington's attempt to comeback from a 13-point, fourth-quarter deficit. 
"I think guys are not playing smart in certain situations of the game," Jamison said. "We got the playing-hard part down. We played hard tonight, but we just didn't get the job done." 
The Heat shot only 6-for-16 in the final period, but they held the Wizards to 7-for-20 shooting to finish off a rare away win. Miami entered the game 4-1 at home and 1-4 on the road. 
"What I liked the most was we went six straight minutes in the fourth quarter without a field goal," Miami coach Erik Spoelstra said. "We went through a drought, and that's happened to us on the road, but somehow we were able to find a way to dig out some pos­sessions defensively to be able to secure the win." 
The Heat routed the Wizards 97-77 in Miami on Friday by pulling away in the third quar­ter. They threaten to do the same on Tuesday, opening the second half with a 12-0 spurt. 
But Washington chiseled away at the lead and cut the deficit to three on Jamison's putback with 2:04 left in the game and would have cut the lead to one had Jamison hit a jumper on the next possession. Instead, the Heat rebounded and got lucky at the other end when Wade's pass, broken up by Butler, ended up in the hands of Shawn Marion, who put in the garbage basket to restore the five-point lead. 

Aces 
continued from page 20 
have to get a little bit more going in transition," she said. "We didn't get any easy baskets, we had to work for every basket we got." 
Deveroaux Peters' offensive production didn't sutTer. She went 6-of-7 from field goal range and had six rebounds to go with her three blocks and three steals. Peters suffered a torn anterior crudate ligament (ACL) in February, and McGraw said she is probably about 90 percent lwalthy. 
"At six months you're sup­posed to bn• at S5 percent. 
Shootouts 
continued from page 20 
Hiddnrwall said. 
Hidderwall scored the game­winner against the Lakers, as tho fourth shooter to go. After taking the puek the puck at conter ice, Hidderwall deked I.aknr goalie Brian Mahoney­Wilson and lifted the puck into the net. 

"I used a little move I did back in .Juniors, where we had a lot of shootouts," Hidderwall said. "I knew it had worked before, but I just hoped it did this time, and fortunately it did." 
Notrn Damn snnior goalie .Jordan l'narce was also in favor of the rule change. 
"I like shootouts," he said. "I think they're really fun and they're a great way to get crowds into tlw game. Friday night, the students were into it. thny wnre making a buneh of noise." 
l'naren said that he and Irish captain Erik Condra played together on the Lincoln Stars 
U.S. llockey League Junior team, and went 7-1 in shootouts during their time with th1~ Stars. 
"Erik and I wero both in the locker room at the beginning of tho SIHtson and !coach .Jeff .Jackson I asked us our opinion, an? thinking back_ to, l:ineo.~~ bIH ng 7-I , we sa1d S u r e , Pearce said. 
Pearce said that his goal in shootouts is to put as much prnssure on tho shooter as pos­sibln. 
"My m i nclset is to be really extra focused on the puek and to try to make them make the first move," he said. "If you can bn patinnt and stay up as long as you can, it forces them to make a move and beat you. You do~·.~ rmtlly want to beat your­sell. 
The Irish players are well­prepared for the new shootouts, as they have had shootout competitions after practice for several years. Up until now, however, those con­tnsts had just been for bragging rights. 
"Every Thursday bofore game wnnkends we'd do a little shootout compotition after practicn," Hidderwall said. "It allows guys to work on their moves a littln bit, and it's just good times. That's helped us a lot. I think." 
.Jackson said he's started 

We're at seven months," McGraw said. 
Peters struggled last season to stay out of foul trouble, but only had two fouls in 28 minutes of play against LSU. Peters has said she wants to limit her friv­olous fouls; McGraw said the game was very well-officiated and Peters was allowed to bloek shots. 
"She stepped in and tried to get a couple eharges -at least one -and it was a no-call," McGraw said. "But she didn't have any really bad fouls. Maybe just a little more experi­ence, she just wants to stay in the game longer." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
tracking the competition to determine his order for shootouts during games. lie said he divides the team into two groups and allows the players to vote on the order of shooters during practice. 
"They probably know best who's going to give their team the best chance to win," Jackson said. "And we've been tracking who's scoring and who's not." 
Despite the players' enthusi­asm for the shootouts, Jackson said he dislikes the system. The CCHA coaehes voted against the rule change 7-5 in the otT­season, but the measure was passed by the athletic direc­tors. 
''I'm not a fan of it," Jackson said. "It's fun to watch, but for a 2S-game schedule, to me, it's too risky in how much it can al'fect our standings." 
Jackson said the possibility of a team with more regulation wins losing out on a conferenee championship or a high confer­ence tournament seed because of shootout wins is too much of a drawback. 
"My biggest concern is that we'd be determining who our league champion is," Jackson said. "Or determining who fin­ishes in fourth place, for home ice in the second round Iof the CCIIA tournament!. by a shootout." 
Currently, if the game ends in overtime, the winning team receives two points while the losing team receives none. If the game advances to a shootout, the winning team receives two, but the losing team receives one. Jackson said he favors the NIIL style, where each team earns one point for advancing to over­time. In addition, the NIIL plays four-on-four in overtime, which Jackson also likes. 
"If at the end of regulation, we made it one point for eaeh team, in my opinion, there'd be more wide-open overtime hockey," he said. "And if we made it four-on-four, it'd make even more sense. You're trying to exhaust every opportunity to end the game by playing the game. We don't get a point at the end of regulation, and I think that stymies overtime." 
Jackson said the CCHA coaches are likely to revisit the system al'ter the season, but for now at least, the shootouts are here to stay. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
SI Shoot 
continued from page 20 

deserved the national exposure. 
"I feel kind of guilty being in that [cover] shoot with all he's done and accomplished. I feel like people will look at it and say, 'Why is he on it, this little Irish ... jerk,"' McAlarney laughed. 
But the Sports Illustrated higher-ups are not the only ones that envision McAlarney as one ·of the faces -if not the face -of Irish basketball. 
"He has been our best voice," Brey said of his senior guard. "Just hearing Kyle talk this year it's been his team, a lot of responsibility." 
McAlarney said the Sports Illustrated cover -which depicts him dribbling and grin­ning as a smiling Barlow guards him -took some time to shoot. Still, before the issue hit newsstands, he said he could not wait to see it. 
"It was a little awkward, a lit­tle weird. But thinking about it, it's pretty surreal, pretty cool," he said. 'Tm probably going to blow it up and save it because it's something I may never get to experience again. I'm pretty excited about it." 
This season, McAlarney has attracted extra attention not only from the media but also from his teammates. As the team's most serious and vocal captain, he said he knows the other Irish players look to him for leadership. 
He has tried, then, to lead by example. The workaholic McAlarney even said he has tried to spend more time in the gym. 
"''ve gotta really be locked in, getting in the gym, working out more. [!'vel gotta set an exam­ple for these guys here," he said. " ... Just consistently com­ing in, doing my work, showing these guys what it takes. llopnfully, if I show these guys that I want it, that flows down to the rest of the team." 

Note: 
+ Barring an injury to one of Notro Dame's top eight play­ers, Irish sophomore forward Tim Abromaitis will sit out this season, preserving a year of eli­gibility, the South Bend Tribune reported Tuesday. 
Irish eoach Mike Brey said there would not be enough minutes to go around if Abtomaitis, the youngest player on the team, were to play this year. 
Last season, eurrent sopho­more Carleton Scott did not play and eould apply for a fifth­year whon the time eomes. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
UNC blows out Kentucky 77-58 
Associated Press 

CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -Deon Thompson scored a career­high 20 points to help top­ranked North Carolina beat Kentucky 77-58 on Tuesday night despite playing yet again without national player of the year Tyler Hansbrough. 
Wayne Ellington had 16 points for the Tar Heels (2-0), who led by double figures barely 4 minutes into the game and never looked back in a matchup or the win­ningest programs in men's col­lege basketball. 
Patriek Patterson had 19 points and 11 rebounds to lead the Wildcats (0-2), who finished with 28 turnovers in their second straight mis­take-prone performance. 
North Carolina didn't real­ly need Hansbrough, who has missed almost three weeks of practice with a shin injury. Hansbrough sat out Saturday's opening win against Pennsylvania. It was the first game the senior had missed in his career. 
And just as against the Quakers, Thompson provided the frontline scoring punch that's missing with Hansbrough's absence. 
After matching his previous high with 17 points in the opener, Thompson was 10-of­16 from the field and had nine rebounds. He left the game to a standing ovation with 2:45 left and fans chant­ing his name. 
The Tar Heels got a scare late in the game when fresh­man 7-footer Tyler Zeller took a hard foul by Ramon Harris on a dunk attempt in transition after yet another Kentucky turnover. Zeller fell to the ground under the bas­ket and got up holding his left wrist before heading to the locker room with 1:26 left. 
Coaeh Roy Williams said Zeller was taken to a hospital for X-rays. Zeller has started for II ansbrough in the first two games. 
Kentucky was eoming off a 
with or without Hansbrough. 
North Carolina got ofT to exactly the kind of start Gillispie had worried about. 
Its trapping defense caused all kinds of problems for Kentucky early, speeding up the Wildcats and keeping them from getting the ball inside to Patterson -the matchup that most concerned Williams with Hansbrough sidelined. Instead, the Wildcats commit­ted six turnovers in the nrst 5? minutes to help the Tar Heels run out in transition to a 15-2 lead. 
The Tar Heels quickly increased the margin, convert­ing a backcourt turnover into a 3-pointer from Ellington then forced another one that led to an alley-oop pass from Ty Lawson to Ellington for a dunk and a 25-6 lead midway through the hall'. 


Kentucky never had an answer. The Wildcats got no eloser than 11 points, fell behind by 16 at half'time and trailed by as many as 21, at 52-31 on Thompson's jumper with 13:34 to play.­
Tho game drew aetress and noted Knntueky fan Ashley Judd. who made good on a pledge to attend tho game during a campaign stop in Chapel llill last month to sup­port President-eleet Barack Obama. 
Check out our blog, The Casual Observer, at observersportsblog.21 cr.info 
111-103 loss to VMI, the 
l:.xperience an evening qfMuslim prayer and meditation as
Wildcats' second stunning 
the third in a series exploring the be/i~fS andpractices
early season home loss in as 
o{the world:~ greatfaith traditions: 
many seasons. And consider­ing how the Keydets' run­
Sponsored hy:
and-gun style frustrated the 
Campus Ministry
Wildcats, it was understand­
ISSA, GSU. FOG graduate re.:.idences. 
able why coach Billy Gillispie 
University Village & Muslim Shulent As.<ocialion was so concerned about the Tar Heels' fast-paced offense 

Wednesday, November 19, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLACK DoG 
THE DOME PIECE 
More Awkward Hook-up Moments 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJIJJWID~JJl. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NAFTI 
I [J (] 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
HARCO j
I I [ [] 


WHEN THEY ME:T ON THE: TE:NNIS 
t TECHIC
] [] [) 
C.OURT AND 1.-ATE:R 
MARRIE:D, IT WAS
www.jumble.com 

A--­tRAMMOTj 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday's I Jumbles: SHOWY FOIST LEEWAY GUILTY Answer: What the family had to do until the air conditioner was fixed -SWEAT IT OUT 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Across 36 "Survivor" 61 Lounge in the shelter sun
Witty sorts 37 Some red wines 62 Feel nostalgia,
5 Make sense 38 Obey the 
e.g.
1 0 Choice word coxswain 63 Grips or Bloods
14 Think tank 39 Cheroot residue 
nugget 40Wings it Down
15 On the lam 41 Place for a 
1 Faux 'fro?
16 Gerund, e.g. 
hoedown 

2 Brouhaha17 Bond villain 42 Classic blues 3 Goo in a do19 Saw red? 
musician 4 Most mournful 
20 Ph.D. thesis: 
44 Intuit Abbr. 5 Most-wanted
45 The "35" in John 21 Gets corroded 
group for a party
11:35 22 Bemoan 
6 Puts on
46 Prodded 7 Follow
25 "Beats me" 47 Woods or Irons everywhere
gesture 

50 Flair 28 Rub out 
8 Put to work
51 Laugh heartily 29 Certain trout 
9 Part of r.p.m.
52 Patriarchal 

33 Basis of a suit gorilla 10"Stop!" 11 Wall Street
34 Endless, 58 Pond organism minimumspoetically 59 Primp 12 Fatty treat for35 Fraternity P 60 Natural soother 
birds ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 Pulls the plug on 

18 Ticket cost? 21 Game sheet 22 Deadly 23 Work up 24 First first lady 
25 Germ-free 26 As a result of this 27 Patronizes U­
Haul, e.g. 29 Plays for time 30 Gofer's job 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Puzzle by Steve Kahn 
31 When repeated, 41 Nontraditional 50"... after" cry by chair style 
52 U-2 pilot, e.g.

Shakespeare's 
43 Czech composerRichard Ill 
53111 temper

Antonin 32 Consumed 
44 Go up, up, up 54 Grazing ground heartily 
46 Filmdom's Close 55 Carte start

34 Octogenarian, for one 47 Omani, e.g. .56 Bamboozle 37 Pole tossed by 48 Fast-food drink 57 Fraternity party Scots 49 Makes "it" setup 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: ny1imes.corn/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning!xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Owen Wilson. 40; Kirk Hammett, 46; Eliza­beth Perkins, 48; Linda Evans, 66 
Happy Birthday: Change is upon you at home and at work. Balance will be your saving grace and your ability to see the big picture will spare you from making a mistake. Love is on the rise and can be brought to a higher level through greater understanding of what you and your partner both want. Your numbers are I, 7, 18, 20, 26, 33,42 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Don't let a minor setback ruin your plans. Not everyone will think or do things the same way you do. A financial gain is within reach. Don't be misled by someone who is fearful. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't judge someone too quickly or you will miss out on something enlightening. A false impression regarding your home life will leave people wondering who you really are. You may want to say something to anyone making incor­rect assumptions. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Spend more time with the ones you love. Family and good friends can make a difference to the outcome of a dilemma you face. With a little tender loving care you can turn your home into a comfort zone. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Booking your next trip will give you greater incentive to work hard, get ahead and make more money. You are overdue for a change of scenery. A relationship you have will open your mind to a host of new adventures. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be excitable and ready to take on the world but, before you do, make sure you have your facts straight and your plans in order. A trip or talks could potentially lead to a better position. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Put your best foot forward and volunteer to help others. A love connection can be made if you are single or you can enhance your current relation­ship by setting some goals as a couple. Commitment will improve your position. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Someone will be willing to help you out if you ask. A new idea will capture the interest of someone looking for an investment. Don't spend too much on a lover, your home or your family or you will be short of cash at month's end. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be careful what you reveal. If you say too much, you will be taken advantage of but, if you don't say enough, you will not get the help you need. It will be a fine line. Keep everyone interested but guessing. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): There is a moneymaking opportunity right in front of you. Meeting someone halfway will pay off. Stick close to home and do all your bar­gaining over the Internet or via phone. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put your cash where it can work for you. You need to press forward with something you are familiar with. If it requires relying on someone else, take a pass for now. A change in your current direction is apparent. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A false sense of security may develop if you believe ev­erything you are told. Someone you care about will lead you on regarding his or her feel­ings. Consider ulterior motives on your part as well as on the part of anyone you are in­volved with. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't suffer loss because you are being too generous. Love may be a factor in one of your decisions that can influence your status. Before you give in, take a practical look at the possible consequences. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are unique, original and have strength of character. You are playful and fun-loving but also responsible and precise. You welcome debate and ferret out infor­mation. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations, myspace .comleugenialast for Eugenia's blog, astroadvice .com for fun 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, November 19, 2008 
page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Evansville and Natalie Novosel's sister collle to to\Vn 
said, Natalie hasn't said much you've got a team coming in attitude about the defense," she against LSU, scoring only 24 By BILL BRINK 
about it. that took 17 in a game. We real­said. "They're really focused points in the first half, but Spons Editor 
Both teams enter tonight's ly are going to be tested defen­and playing with a little more McGraw said the performance game 1-0. The No.14 Irish sively to know where the shoot­intensity." is consistent with where the Evansville brings a sibling defeated No. 24 LSU 62-53 ers are and do a better job of Since guard Tulyah Gaines -team is offp,nsively. rivalry to the Joyce Center Sunday, and Evansville beat guarding them." a defensive stopper -graduat­"I was really pretty happy with tonight when the Purple Aces East Tennessee State 83-73 Forward Robyn Jennings and ed in May, McGraw said more the way we executed, we just face the Irish -Evansville cen­Saturday in head coach Misty guard Ashley Austin each people on defense have done didn't shoot the ball well in the ter Shannon Novosel and Irish Murphy's debut. scored 20 points for the Aces their jobs and improved the first half," she said. ''I'm not too guard Natalie Novosel will play The Irish defended the 3-point against East Tennessee State. unit. worried about, I think we'll each other for the first time. line well against LSU -the Austin also had 10 rebounds in "Last year we relied on shoot the ball better as the sea­
Shannon. a senior, and Tigers missed all four 3-point the game, and Jennings scored Tulyah a lot to guard the best son goes on." Natalie, a freshman, won a att•~mpts -but face a tougher 18 of her 20 points in the sec­player and we didn't play a lot The Tigers defense kept Notre state championship together at challenge in the Aces, who shot ond half. McGraw said, howev­of man-to-man, and now they're Dame from finding any quick Lexington Catholic High School 8-of-17 from 3-point range. er, that her team takes more trying to prove they can guard buckets, McGraw said. in Lexington, Ky., but have "This is going to be our pride in its defense this year people," McGraw said. "We're ''I'd obviously like to score never played on opposite sides !perimeter defense's) first test," and has focused on it in prac­not relying on one or two people more than 62 points, but we in a formal game. As of yet, McGraw said. "LSU didn't really tice. to play defense for everybody." Irish coach Muffet McGraw look to shoot too many but now "I feel like there's a different The offense started slowly see ACES/page 18 
FooTBALL 
Charlie in charge 
Weis to retain play-calling duties for remainder of regular season; team prepares for life without Floyd 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
One more week of the head honcho calling the plays. Irish coach Charlie Weis said in his Tuesday press conference he would hold onto thP call sheet for the Syracuse game. 
Weis said offpnsive coordi­nator Mike Haywood will miss pradiee for p<~rsonal reasons, so Weis will retain play-call­ing duties. 
"And with that being said, followed up by a short wnek next wonk. for the rest of thf1 regular season I will be han­
d~~ng t.!w ~lay. calling on ollnnsn, Wms said. Calling plays against Navy, Wnis said, was comfortable for him. lin fplt he could tin­
knr with the game plan at halrtime and adjust any nec­essary problems. 
"I think that probably the thing that was nasiest thing for me to do is to come in at halrtime and bn able to whit-tie through the game plan and get back to what we needed to do to win the gamP," Weis said. "And I think when you're not involved in that whole process and all the play-call­ing, that's a much more diffi­cult test to do than when you're actually involved in the play-calling." 
lie said the ofl'ensive staff assisted him, but being involvHd with the game plan was the key for Weis' half­lime adjustments. 
"I think that more than any­thing else thf1 biggest comfort zonn was being able to, because we were involved with the whole process. be able to tweak some things at halftimn to kind of get it right," Weis said. 
Wnis dismissed the notion that Syracusf1 could be a trap game -it is the last game for the seniors, and there are other rHasons to play well. 
see SYRACUSE/page 17 

HOCKEY 
Team gives opinions about shootout rule 
By SAM WERNER Sporrs Writer 
Last year, Notre Dame's Friday night gamn against Lake Superior State would have end•~d in a 3-3 tie. This year, though, the players stayed on tlw ien and took part in thn first shootout of the Irish season. 
Over the summer. the CCIIA athletic directors voted to adopt shootouts as a means of rnsolving tins during the regu­lar season. If the game remains tied after a five­minute sudden death overtime period. each team selects three players to participate in the shootout. If the shootout is tiPd al'tor three shooters for each tnam, it becomes sudden death, with the teams alter­nating shots until one makes and one misses. The new format has received positive reviews from Irish players. 
"I love it," Notre Dame sophomore forward Calle 
see SHOOTOUTS/pagel8 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

McAlarney graces SI cover 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Editor 
Irish co-captain Kyle McAlarney said junior forward Luke 1-larangody is the face of Notre Dame's basketball pro­gram. 
But last week, Sports Illustrated printed a series of regional issues for its college basketball preview and MeAlarney, along with women's player Ashley Barlow, graced one of the six covers. 
A self-effacing McAlarney said I Iarangody is the one who 
see SI SHOOT/page 18 





