
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 95 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26,2008 

University switches to Common App 
Office of Admissions will accept standardized format next year with supplemental portion 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
NewsWrirer 
Prospective students will apply to Notre Uame through the Common Application next year as the Office of Admissions abandons its cus­tom application for the first time. 
The change was made to ease the rigorous admissions process for high school sen­
iors,  said  Dan  Saracino,  
director  of  the  Office  of  
Admissions.  

Students will be able to access the Common Application on July 1. 
The Common Application originated in 1975 when 15 private universities agreed to accept a single, standardized application for admission. More than 300 universities and colleges in the United States are now members of the Common Application. 

The Common Application is designed to let admissions officers evaluate all aspects of a candidate's record, Saracino said. 
"You, as an institution, have to be committed to viewing application files holistically­not just looking at numbers -and be committed to diver­sity," he said. 
Though Notre Dame has been asked to join the Common Application several times, the University said joining before this year "did­n't seem necessary." 
The Common Application was once considered new and 
experimental, Saracino said. 
"Now they have gotten all the kinks out of it," he said. "I have heard nothing but good things about it recently. Students and colleges are happy with it." 
Now that the Common Application is completely online and supported by strong software, its use will allow elimination of paper waste and confusion from written applications, Saracino said. 
"It will be much more effi­cient," he said. 
The Common Application will also simplify the admis­sions process for students who can use the same form for the majority of their applications, he said. 
"Virtually all of the schools that our students also apply to are members of the Common Application," he said. "We know the schools our students also apply to. If a student applies to Northwestern, or Stanford, let them for convenience sake, be able to apply to Notre Dame the same way." 
Northwestern and Stanford, along with the University of Chicago, are among a num­ber of schools that recently joined the Common Application, Saracino said. 
"Joining just seemed like the right thing to do," he said. 
Notre Dame's Common Application will have a sup­plemental application, which 
see ADMISSION/page 4 

Wabruda events honor black history 

Weekend conference features guest speakers, trip to Underground Railroad landmarks 
black men on campus. 
Two-year Wabruda presi­dent, senior William David Williams, said he envisioned the Conference a year ago but began planning the event in December. 
The Conference was designed to address black history and its effects on American society today, Williams said. 
"I think that we commit cultural genocide by ignoring these issues," Williams said. 
Presentations given by three speakers Saturday attracted about 100 students, faculty, staff and community members, he said. 
see HISTORY/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
The Shirt to fund scholars 

Proposal to remember seven ND students 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
The Financial Management Board is moving to create seven new scholarships in memory of students who died while attending Notre Dame, Student Union Board treasurer Kedeja Gaines said. 
If the initiative succeeds, funds from The Shirt Charity Fund will be used to create scholarships with a $25,000 endowment, Gaines said. 
The Fund will reach $1 million for the first time this year, she said. 
Gaines said she hopes to estab­lish the scholarships before the end of the academic year. 
Students who would be memo­rialized include Timothy Aher and Connor McGrath, both of whom died in unrelated incidents Feb. 17, Ryan Rudd who died in 2007, Caitlin Brann who died in 2006, Daniel Kish who died in 2005 and Chad Sharon, who went missing in December 2002 and was found dead in February 2003. 
"The scholarships would serve as a great way to not only benefit the Notre Dame community in the name of the deceased student in question, but also a way to forever inunortalize each student and the impact they have had on our com­munity," she said. 
This is not the first time money from The Fund was used to create an endowed scholarship memori­alizing a student. 
see SHIRT/page 4 


By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 
This weekend's inaugural Black History Conference underscored the importance of remembering and cele­brating black history through cultural immersion in a series of lectures on campus and a vitsit to Underground Railroad landmarks in south­ern Michigan. 
The conference was spon­sored by the Notre Dame stu­dent group Wabruda in honor of Black History Month. Wabruda, a group whose name means "brother" in Swahili, promotes brother­hood and leadership among 

Fans flood JACC to cheer basketball wins 
Arena sees high attendance levels during Student tickets will not be set aside for 36-game win streak over three seasons Big East tournament in New York City 
"We've been very 
Berlo said. He did not sayBy EMMA DRISCOLL pleased with our fan sup­ByJOHN TIERNEY how many tickets will be 

NewsWrirer port, and in particular the News Writer available through the
student body this year," 
Ticket Office. 

Fans have been paeking Berlo said. "We always 
Unlike ticket distribu­

the Joyce Center all sea­want a full building." The Notre Dame men's tion for some away foot­son and have helped the When filled to capacity, basketball team, which ball games, there will be 
men's basketball team the JACC holds 11,418 has rode the passionate no Big East tournament 
tally a 36-game home people. support of student fans to 
tickets set aaide specifi­

winning streak -the sec­"We want as much of a a 36-game home winning cally for students. 
ond longest streak in the home court advantage as streak that started in Students who are inter­nation. we can have, and we 2006, can expect contin­ested in acquiring tickets 
Josh Berlo, assistant always want to have our ued fan support through­
for the Big East tourna­

athletic director at the student body behind us out the Big East and 
ment, which will be held ticket office, said the and with us along the NCAA Tournaments, said March 12 through March games against DePaul, way." Josh Berlo, assistant ath­

15 at Madison Square

Marquette, Pittsburgh, This season, ticket sales letic director for the 
Garden in New York City,and Syracuse sold out and increased from last sea­Ticket Office. 

are encouraged to contact 

the game against St. son, which saw only two Fans are able to acquire John's on March 5 has Fans cheer on the Irish at the game against postseason tickets almost sold out. see FANS/page 4 Syracuse on Feb. 24 in the Joyce Center. through the University, see TICKETS/page 4 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Ca1npaign strategies 
Every student by now has noticed 
the plethora of' campaign posters 
canvassing the walls of' their dorms, 
classroom buildings, and dining 
halls. 
Everywhere 

Joseph McMahon 
we go, W!~'ve 
been remind­

ed to vote for Assistant News 
some generic Editor 
ticket for 
class council 

in yesterday's election. 
Most of the posters are exactly the 
same. They feature the four candi­
dates in formal attire smiling, arms 
crossed and standing in front of 
some school landmark like the 
Dome or that giant granite ball in 
CoMo. 

As someone who has seen both his 
parents run for election four times 
in the past eight years, I know how 
important it is to make yourself 
stand out to the voters. 
Distinguishing yourself from the 
other candidates is one of the most 
important things you can do, and 
one of the best ways to do this is 
through effective, unique advertis­
ing. 

The trend of smiling faces in front 
of some Notrn Dame landmark has 
to stop. If you want to win, you have 
to do something that really reaches 
out to voters and makes them want 
to vote for you. 

One of the major reasons Bob 
Heish and Grant Schmidt were so 
successful in their campaign for stu­
dent body president and vice presi­
dent was because of their Web site, 
bobandgrant.com. This was easy for 
students to remember, and Heish 
and Schmidt won their election by 
more than 1,000 votes. 
However, most tickets for both 
junior and sophomore class councils 
have failed to learn from this exam­
ple. There is one-the sophomore 
class council ticket of Zach Reuvers, 
Steven Ouyang, Melissa Truitt and 
Nicole Navas. 

Through their Bob and Grant 
inspired Web site, 

zachandsteve.com, Reuvers and 
Ouyang have separated themselves 
from rest of the generic tickets. 
However, it is their poster that 
really helps set them apart. Inspired 
by the Will Ferrell movie 
"Anchorman," the four candidates 
are set in front of a red background 
that features the words "News Team 
11." 

Ouyang, set to the far left, is 
wearing a cowboy hat while waving 
at the voters. Reuvers is in the cen­
ter, flanked by Truitt and Navas and 
although he does have his arms 
crossed, his face conveys the joking­
seriousness that Ferrell is best 
known for. 

Steve Carell's character from the 
movie, Brick Tamland, is also fea­
tured standing in the right corner. 
It is this type of poster that will 
really stick in students' minds and 
influence their voting. Besides, hav­
ing Steve Carel! in your poster is 
way cooler than that granite mon­
strosity in CoMo. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irselfas a professional publicuion and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we ctn correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 26, 2008 QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD HAVE A UFET/ME SUPPLY OF ANYTHING, WHAT WOULD fT BE AND WHY? 




Jen Padgett  Sean Mallin  Caitin Hildebrand  Charles Ramsey  
junior McGlinn  junior Keough  junior Lewis  junior Mor,rissey  
"Cupcakes because every day is delicious."  "Spam-it doesn't need a reason."  "Tommy Gruffi because he's a rock star."  ''I'd like a lifetime supply of'Hint of Lime' Tostitos  
-taste one and you'll know why."  



DUSTIN MENNELLA!fhe Observer Graduate student Ed Crago, left, and art professor Garrett Krueger, right, pour molten brass into molds in Riley Hall of Art & Design for a project by graduate stu­dent Emily Gustafson, standing in background. 
OFFBEAT 
German pollee dogs to wear shoes 
BERLIN -Police dogs in the western city of Duesseldorf will no longer get their feet dirty when on patrol -the entire dog unit will soon be equipped with blue plastic fiber shoes, a police spokesman said Monday. 
"All 20 of our police dogs -German and Belgian shepherds -are currently being trained to walk in these shoes," Andre Hartwich said. ''I'm not sure they like it, but they'll have to get used to it." 
The unusual footwear is not a fashion statement, Hartwich said, but rather a necessity due to the high rate of paw injuries on duty. Especially in the city's historical old town ­famous fo·r both its pubs and drunken revelers ­the dogs often step into broken beer bottles. 
School bus driver claims to be a cop 
ECONOMY, Pa. -A school bus driver in Beaver County said he told stu­dents he was an undercov­er officer so they wouldn't misbehave on the bus. They didn't. 

But the real police said what William Dunn, 59, did was wrong and have charged him with imper­sonating a public servant. Police said Dunn flashed a badge and identified him­self as an undercover offi­cer to at least three peo­ple on Feb. 5. 
Dunn said a fellow bus driver, who has asthma, had been harassed by stu­dents, and he was driving her route that day. 
Dunn said he didn't mean any harm. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~h~~~'

A~ry/J~ 
,,f6~}~

r~VIJ~ 
,":s.\~,1-,j/
~ 
LLI 
~{ \~
b ~ 
.-~--. j~. 
~~
~~

3: 
~ 
..... 
~;y 



'~)Jl~
£f;;.,y 
."<. ; •• \~ 
~ 
cr:: 
(,) 
0 
HIGH 27 HIGH 19 HIGH 20 HIGH 25

.... 
LOW 20 LOW 15 LOW 8 LOW 15 


Mark Lyons Mary Beauclair 
sophomore sophomore Knott Pangborn 
"Crispix ... "98 percent duh." dark chocolate. " 
IN BRIEF 
Jo Reger, associate professor of sociology at Oakland University, will speak on "Fashion & Feminism in the Contemporary U.S. Women's Movement" at 12:30 p.m. today in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Former Senator Rick Santorum will present a lectun~ entitled "Gathering Storm of the 21st Century" today at 7 
p.m. in the McKenna Hall audi­torium. The lecture is sponsored by the Intercollegiate Studies Institute and the Ethics and Public Policy Center. 
NO women's basketball will play South Florida Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
The Gender Relations Center is presenting a Notre Dating panel discussion Wednesday at 9 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse lounge. The discussion will actress how competition and perfectionism affect gender relations at Notre Dame. 
The Bengal Bouts quarterfi­anls will be held Thursday at 
6:30 p.m. at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Tickets are avail­able at the Ticket Office. 
The film "The Diving Bell and the Butterfly" will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Thursday at 7 p.m. 
There will be Stations of the Cross on Friday at 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Stations will be held each Friday during Lent. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

~3 
'\ :v"V,
.'(')-'-~7/


'! \"/
"-1 t:::::
•.;,;,..,.;, r. , 

#f))lt~

~ 
HIGH 28 HIGH 35 LOW 20 LOW 25 
Atlanta 55 I 48 Boston 44 I 30 Chicago 29 I 26 Denver 46 I 18 Houston 61 I 53 Los Angeles 74 I 50 Minneapolis 24 I 17 New York 44 I 34 Philadelphia 50 I 32 Phoenix 78 I 50 Seattle 51 I 36 St. Louis 33 I 32 Tampa 78 I 65 Washington 51 I 37 
Tuesday, February 26, 2008 The Observer ~• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Forn1er prof. publishes religious education text 
Surveying 12,463 students in
Special to The Observer 

109 institutions, the study sug­
"Teaching and Learning in gests the existence of a "great College Introductory Religion divide" between the desires of Courses: A Study of 533 faculty members to encourage Classrooms," by Barbara E. "critical thinking" and stu­Walvoord. fellow in the dents' desires for spiritual Institute for Educational development, and examines Initiatives and professor the methods many faculty emerita of English at Notre employ to address it. Dame, has been published by According to one review by Blackwell Publishing. Raymond Brady Williams of 
The result of her study of 533 Wabash College, Walvoord's introductory religion courses new book is "instructive, and 66 successful teachers in inspiring, practical. This is public, nonsectarian private, scholarship of teaching at its and religiously best-careful 
affiliated institu­tions of higher education,  "This is scholarship ofteaching at its best  analyses of stu­dents' and teachers' goals  
Walvoord's book examines student goals, student learning, and  -careful analyses of students' and teachers' goals."  and evaluations along with detailed case studies of effec­ 
effective pedagog­ tive  teaching.  
ical methods. Supported by Notre Dame, the  Raymond Brady Williams book reviewer  Every teacher can learn from this book how  
Wabash Center for  to  become  a  

Teaching and Learning in better teacher." Theology and Religion, and Other books by Walvoord Kansas State University's IDEA include "Academic Center, Walvoord's research Departments: How They concerned the effects of cours­Flourish, How They Change," es on world religions, the "Assessment Clear and Simple: nature of religion, theology, the A Guide for Institutions, Bible, and Christian formation Departments, and General on a wide variety of students, Education," "Effective Grading: including self-professed A Tool for Learning and Christians or adherents of Assessment," and "Helping other religions, as well as Students Write Well: A Guide doubters, seekers, agnostics for Teachers in All and atheists. Disciplines." 




1\llodel UN draws students 
Members from Around the World club debate international issues 
activity fell out of practice Affairs, Guan said. The 
By DAVIS RHORER, Jr. 15 years ago. group will also receive 
News Writer "We're expanding what assistance from the Student 
our objectives and goals Diversity Board. 
While students at Saint are" Meghan Ferrara, an In addition to represent­Mary's College have studied Around the ing their abroad for years, one stu­World mem-assigned dent organization is bring­ber and nations, ing the themes of interna­participant schools are
"We're expanding 
tional diplomacy and cul­in the also asked to
what our objectives 
tural diversity back to cam­upcoming contribute to pus. model UN and goals are." various com­
This March, five members trip, said. mittees mod­of the Around the World Ferrara eled after the
Meghan Ferrara
club, a group comprised of cited the different

junior
students interested in efforts of duties and studying different cultures Saint Mary's services of the and foreign nations, will freshman actual United travel to the University of Jingqiu Nations. At California-Berkeley to par­Guan in reinstating the least one member of the ticipate in a national colle­activity. , Saint Mary's delegation giate model United Nations "I always wanted to par­must participate in each of forum. ticipate in a the committees, Guan said. 
At the model UN," said Committees include forum, Guan, whose high Disarmament and Security, the Saint school did not Legal, World Trade Mary's offer the activity. Organization, Security
"/ always wanted to
delega­When she found Council and World Health
participate in 
tion will Saint Mary's did Organization. represent model UN." not have a model Guan expressed hope that Cost Rica UN, she decided the activity would become i n to help create an annual tradition at Saint

Jingqiu Guan
debates one. Mary's. 

a b u freshman the to
o t Around Group leaders hope w o r l d World sought create a one or two credit issues. College funding to course around the activity 
T h e help pay for the through the political sci­Around trip to California. ence department, said the World members are They received $4,405 from Around the World secretary reviving an extracurricular the Center of Women's Jeannie Choquehuanca. tradition, as Saint Mary's Intercultural Leadership students participated in Office and $300 from the Contact Davis Rhorer at model UN events until the Office of Multicultural drhorer@nd.edu 


Looking for solid business and accounting experience to put on your resume? 
.. 

The Observer is accepting ap,plications for a 2008-09 Business Manager and Controller. Respo,nsibilities include preparing a yearly budget and handling pa.yroll for a 200-person staff. 
Since the Controller will take ov,er as the 2009-10 Business Manager, Controller applicants should be sophomores, or juniors sta~ving for a fifth year. 
Both positions are salaried, about six to 10 hours a week. Please contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu or Kyle West at kwest1@nd.edu if interested. 

Ad01ission 
continued from page 1 
will contain "morn informa­tion that wn want." 
For nxample, Saracino explainnd that the Univnrsity is intnrnsted in the rnligious background or tlw applicants. hut ndigion is loft out of the Common Application. The supplenwnt will also contain an additional essay question, lw said. 
The decision to join the Common Application was not madn to inernasn the number or applicants, though that may oeeur. 
"Univnrsitins always report that with thn Common 


Fans 
continued from page 1 
snllouts -Villanova and Marquntln -according to Bnrlo. Studnnt tieknt booklets eamn dose to selling nul this snason. 
lie attributed high sales to coaching and the way that the team plays, as well as its sue­cess this season. 
"Coach Brey and the team have done a fabulous job or playing ... and or 
Application, their number of applicants go up," Saracino said. "But we are not interest­ed in more applications for the sake of it ... I am not interested in sending out any more 'no' letters to students," he said. 
Although the Common Application may cause a rise in applicants, the overall pro­filn of the student body is not expected to change signifi­cantly. 
"!Admissions) is quietly get­ling more competitive, and thn overall profile of incoming flrst year students will proba­bly increase, but that has been happening anyways," said Saracino. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
arn talking about." 
Sophomore Tommy DnCregoris, who purchased studnnt tickets and has attend­ed most home games, has also seon the size and liveliness of the fan base grow throughout the season. 
"As the season goes on, other than the Marquette game -which was a huge spike -the student section has been getting bigger, but more than that, the energy of the section is getting better and better," DeGregoris said. 
There was 
a particularly 
large number 
of fans at this 

course riding weekend's
"Coach Brey and the team 
a 36 lhomel Syracuse game win-have done a game, he 
ning streak." fabulous job of said. 
Berlo said. "It looked
playing ... and ofcourse
Junior Troy like the stu­
Sustieh. who riding a ]6/home] dent section has attended game winning streak." was sold out, rwarly nvery it was pretty homo ganw much packed,
Josh Berlo
this season. a lot of good agrnnd that director energy," he t lw sueenss Ticket Office said. 
o I' llw ln am dons tmeour­agn allef1­danr.n. But. hn said. tlw loam itself attracts fans to games. 
"I also think that Notrn Damn baskl'tball is going to draw a lollof' pnoplel anyway," lw said. 
Suslieh said lw has noticed tho size of' tlw nowd increas­ing throughnultlw season. 

"At the hnginning of the ynar, then~ are a lot less pno­pln tlwre because the oppo­rwnts arn a lillln lnssnr." he said. 
Sustieh said that now toward lhn nnd of' thn season, with ganws against Big East teams, there are "a lot morn people tlwre and the crowd is a lot morn nnthusiastie." 
The atmosplwre in the Joyce Center has btwn "pretty nlne­trie," he said. 
"We have a great fan base, and even when tlw team is los­ing ... fans will get real into it and try to bring the tt~arn back into it," Sustieh said. lie added that Notre Damn fans are "very knowlndgeabln" about lhn ganw and "know what they B o h 
Sustieh and 
DeGregoris 

enjoyed being part of thn enthusiaslk crowd at games last year. but agreed that this year's crowd is even better. 
''I'd say the energy level is nvnn a little bit bigg<H than last year." DeGregoris said. 
lie added that last season was a grnat season to build on, as the tnam posted home wins over Villanova, Providence, Dnl'aul and Marquette. 
"I don't think llhe crowd's mwrgyl ever dropped ofT from !from last year to this year!." DnGrngoris said. "I think it's getting bigger pretty much nvery game." 
Bt~rlo said the student sec­tion plays an important role at home games. 
"Students contribute a lot of nnnrgy and excitement to the games," he said. "I know our soason ticket holders appreei­ate and enjoy that. 
"Evnryone prefers it when the students are hern for our games." 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 



Shirt 
continued from page 1 
In 2001, a memorial scholar­ship was created in honor of Connor Murphy, a junior who died ofleuknmia, Gaines said. 
The Pund's other function is to help students pay for medical expenses. 
Gaines said the Financial Management Board will not pro­ceed with individual scholarships before acquiring permission of the student's family. She has yet to approach the Aher and McGrath families, she said. 
''I'd really Hke to respect tl1e sit­uation of the families and give them a little bit of time to them­selves," she said. "Then I'd just like to let them know that this opportunity is out tllere to really honor their sons and keep them 
immortalized within the school." There are two main steps in creating the scholarship. _ 
First, a minimum of $25,000 must be depositnd for the estab­lishment of an endowed scholar­ship fund, Gainns said. The schol­arships will rely on the Financial Management Board, which is responsible for approving all activities of The Fund, for the ini­tial $25,000, she said. Later, other dorm and class council groups may contribute to renewing the scholarships. 
After the initial funds are allo­cated, representatives of The Fund will work with the student's family and friends in order to establish the criteria by which scholarship recipients would be selected. 
"Normally, these criteria would reflect some aspect of the memo­rialized student," she said. 
If the necessary $25,000 is 
able until after March 16, when the Irish will know


Tickets 
when and where their first, and possibly second, round
continued from page 1 

games will be held. the Ticket Office directly, "Details regarding the cost, Berlo said. quantity, availability and on­
"Students are a top priority sale date are entirely depend­for any ath-ent on the NCAA letic event, host site and will including not be available postseason until after the
"Historically, tickets
men's bas­tournament field ketball have been is determined," games," he made available Berlo said. said. Berlo said the
to students ifat
Student Ticket Office and 
interest in all possible. " the Offices of the Big East Student Affairs tournament work together to
Josh Berlo 
has been determine NCAA
director
markedly ticket availability
Ticket Office
low in past for students. years, Berlo "llistorieally, said last tickets have been March. made available to 
While ticket information for students if at all possible," he the 12-team Big East tourna­said. ment is available, NCAA ticket The distance to the game information will not be avail-site and the chances of miss­acquirnd, Gaines said the scholar­ship would pay approximately $500 per year to thn student recipient from interest on the endowed sum. llownver, the scholarship can grow with dona­tions from dorms and other on­campus organizations. 
The scholarship for Mara Fox, a lrnshman struck by a ear in 1993, has bnnn fundnd by Fox's lilflnnr dorm, Lyons llall, through the Mara Fox Hun. 
"With !Fox's! dorm, they creat­ed an event that currently kicks monny into this endowed memori­al scholarship," Gaines said. 
Gaines said she will bn meeting witl1 the Student Bar A<>sociation to discuss a scholarship li1r Aher and with representatives from Pasquerilla East llall to discuss one lilr lilrmer resident Brann. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmahol@nd.edu 
ing elass to attend are gener­ally factored into decisions about whether some tickets will be allocated expressly to students or if general tickets will be promoted to student buyers. 
Council of Hepresentative members requested a ticket lottery for the fall football game at Boston College last semester and were met with opposition from the University because it was s aid a two­day weekend wasn't enough time to make the trip to Boston and not miss elass. 
Berlo said, however, that student fans are considered important to the success of the teams. 
"Whenever possible, the men's basketball team and Athletic Department want our student body cheering on and supporting their elassmates on the court," he said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne1@nd.edu 

Black ingenuity is an integral part of everyday life. Peek into the lives of a suburbanite family as they try to survive in a world gone mad when the inventions of Africans and African Americans disappear! 
Staying on campus during spring break? Need something to do? 
Date: Friday, February 29, 2008 Time: 7:00 PM Location: Hesburgh Library Auditorium 




ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 26, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
N. Korea welcomes N.Y. Philharmonic 
PYONGYANG, North Korea -Swirling dancers and musicians beating traditional drums welcomed the New York Philharmonic to North Korea Monday for a historic cultural exchange between coun­tries that have been technically at war for more than a half-century. 
In a burst of musical diplomacy notably devoid of propaganda glorifying leader Kim Jong II or attacks on U.S. policy, North Korean dancers balanced water jars on their heads or twirled pink and green fans to entertain the celebrated American orchestra -which gave them a standing ovation. 
The Philharmonic is the first major American cultural group to visit the isolated communist nation and the largest-ever dele­gation from the U.S. to visit its longtime foe. 
Skull found in fonner children's home 
LONDON -Police used dogs to search for more bodies Monday at a former children's home on the British island of Jersey after a child's skull was found under a concrete slab there. 
The skull was found Saturday by a police dog in an investigation of the property, which was a home for orphaned and aban­doned children until 1986. Forensic experts have determined the remains are at least 20 years old and that of a child. · 
Officials said that without dental records and a full list of who went missing from the home it may be difficult to determine the child's identity. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

NIU students struggle to retmn to nonnal 
DEKALB. Ill. -Students carried backpacks stuffed with books, headed in and out of class, grabbed something to eat and plopped down in the library just like always. 
But there was nothing normal about Northern Illinois University on Monday. Not with white crosses on a small knoll and television news trucks parked around campus. And not with crime scene tape strung in front of the auditori­um where 11 days earlier a gunman wordlessly pumped bullets and buckshot into a crowded class, ending the lives of five students before tak­ing his own. 
"You've got to move on," said Jonathan Brock, a 25-year-old studying industrial management, who was clearly not quite ready to do that as he looked for a spot to add his thoughts to message boards on which students have expressed their grief, faith and anger. 
Police shooting arouses suspicion 
NEW YORK-Three undercover police detectives who fired 50 shots at an unarmed man on his wed­ding day, killing him, were reckless and trigger happy, prosecutors argued Monday at the opening of the officers' trial. 
Sean Bell, 23, who had been at a bachelor party on the night before his wedding, was killed in a barrage of bullet<; out<;ide a Queens strip club in the early hours of Nov. 25. Two ofhis friends were wounded. 
The shooting sparked protest<; and debate over exrAJssive force and police conduct in New York City. 
Prosecutor Charles Testagrossa told the judge that once the evidence is heard, "It will be clear that what happened eannot be explained away as a mere acci­dent or mistake. It ean only be characterized as criminal." 
LOCAL NEWS 

Three boys drown in separate incidents 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -Two boys pulled from the St. Marys River near a downtown Fort Wayne apartment eomplex died early Monday, while crews searehed in Elkhart for a boy pre­sumed drowned in another river, authorities said. 
The boys, ages 4 and 9, were pronounced dead shortly after midnight at Parkview Hospital, about five hours after they were pulled Sunday night from the frigid water, Indiana Conservation Officer Rodney Clear said. 
He said the boys, who were unresponsive when they were found, never regained con­sciousness. 
VENEZUELA . 


Leftists find refuge in Venezuela 
Rebels fighting Columbia's U.S.-backed military receive weapons, food and medical treatment 
Associated Press 

EL CRUCE, Venezuela Leftist rebels fighting Colombia's U.S.-backed mili­tary have increasingly found refuge in Venezuela, where they get weapons, food, medical treatment and a smuggling route for the cocaine that keeps them afloat. 
Former rebels, local citi­zens and Colombian officials told The Associated Press that hundreds or even thou­sands of Colombian inswr­gents are in Venezuela at any given time. 
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, who last month publicly recognized the rebels as "insurgent forces," denies directly sup­porting them. He blames Colombia for failing to poliee their 1,370-mile border. 
But former rebels say the two main Colombian rebel groups, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, and the National Liberation Army, or ELN, buy protection from high­ranking Venezuelan National Guard and army officers, with whom they often also share a leftist ide­ology. 
"Venezuela's army helps the guerrillas a lot," said Antonio, who spent 13 yeaJ~s with FARC. Now an inform­ant for Colombia's military, buying weapons and seeking United States and Europe, ipal hospital in Guasdualito, he asked that his last name refuge in Venezuela long according to U.S. and a town in Apure. be omitted to protect rela­before Chavez came to Colombian officials, who He said FARC paid for the tives from reprisals. power in 1999. But border spoke on condition of operation and his monthlong 
Antonio was among two zone residents say their anonymity because they said recuperation at a private FARC and four ELN desert­presence and influence have they didn't want to provoke residence with seven other ers interviewed by AP who grown under Venezuela's Chavez. guerrillas. said they moved freely leftist leader, principally in In the dusty Zulia village "I was the only one who across the frontier, a tangle the states of Zulia, Tachira, of El Cruce, Venezuelan sol­wasn't there for bullet of thick jungle, wild rivers Apure and Chavez's home diers maintain nearby wounds," he said. Roman, and rugged mountains. state of Barinas. checkpoints but cede control too, would only be identified 
Well inside Venezuela, Inside Colombia, the rebel of the town to Colombian by his first name. Colombian insurgents rest, forces have been seriously rebels, residents say. No one interviewed by AP train, buy arms and uni­weakened by a Colombian Venezuelan officers also -including retired Gen. forms, recover from wounds military fortified by U.S. ferry rebels around in their Raul Baduel, a former close and process cocaine, accord­training, weapons, satellite vehicles, the deserters said. ally who recently split with ing to the rebel deserters, intelligence and communica­"They are protected by a Chavez-alleged or provid­Venezuelan opposition politi­tions intercepts. cloak that nobody touches," ed evidence that Chavez is cians and Colombian offi­Venezuela's safe haven said Teofllo Duran, a Chavez personally involved in shel­cials. has helped to keep their foe who is mayor of the El tering or militarily backing 
Some top rebel command­insurgencies alive, particu­Cruce district. Colombian rebels. ers even raise families and larly because it enables the Roman, who quit FARC in But there is little doubt educate their children in rebels to extract tons of January, said he broke his senior rebel commanders Venezuela, deserters told AP. Colombian cocaine for left thigh bone last year and have traveled freely and 
Colombian rebels were unhindered shipment to the had it repaired at the munic-even lived in Venezuela. 

Am.. Airfu1es defends staff after_in-flight death 
emergency medical technicians per­and needed oxygen. "The flight atten­
Associated Press 

formed CPR on Desir, a diabetic. dant responded, 'OK, but we usually 
NEW YORK -American Airlines Desir, herself a nurse, had complained don't need to treat diabetes with oxygen, defended its staff as professional and its of not feeling well and being very thirsty but let me check anyway and get back to equipment as sound Monday after a swift after she ate a meal on the flight home you,"' Wilson said. review of a passenger's in ..flight death, from Port-au-Prince to John F. Kennedy The employee spoke with another despite her familys claims that the crew International Airport, according to flight attendant, and both went to Desir ignored her pleas until it was too late. Antonio Oliver, a cousin who was travel­within three minutes, according to 
Carine Desir, 44, was pronounced dead ing with her and her brother. A flight Wilson. Friday on a Haiti-to-New York flight by a attendant gave her Water, he said. "By that time the situation was wors­pediatrician who said he tried to use the A few minutes later, Desir said she was ening, and they immediately began plane's defibrillator on her as she faded, having trouble breathing and asked for administering oxygen," he said. but her pulse was already too weak for it oxygen, Oliver said. "Don't let me die," Flight attendants are trained not to to work. he recalled her saying. automatically give oxygen to every pas­
The doctor, Joel Shulkin, was one of But a flight attendant twice refused her senger who requests it but instead use several medical professionals who request, Oliver said. airline criteria to judge when it's needed, stepped in after flight attendants asked if Airline spokesman Charley Wilson said said Leslie Mayo, a spokeswoman for the any were on board. Shulkin said through Desir's cousin flagged down a flight union representing American's atten­his attorney, Justin Nadeau, that two attendant and said Desir had diabetes dants. 
History 
continued from page I 

A planned lecture by Reginald Hobinson, a profes­sor at Southern Illinois University, was prevented from reaching campus by bad 
weather. In his stead, James Ford, a gradu­ate student at Notre Dame, discussed reconstructing the record of black history. Ford spoke of the need for b I a c k Americans to know and appreciate where they came from, a 

"It was a successful B e n d , " Moss said.
way ofbuilding the 
Many com­

community between 
munity mem­Notre Dame and bers shared South Bend., their person­al histories of t h e 
G. David Moss 
Underground assistant vice president Railroad with Office of Student Affairs the Wabruda 
theme Williams said was cen­tral to the conference. 
After Ford's talk, Verge 
Gillam,  founder  of  the  
Association  of  African- 
American  Role  Models  

(AAAHM), spoke about the Underground Railroad. Gillam discussed black history during the era of the Civil War and the impaet of black migration northward. 
Saturday's final presentation featured Bishop Gideon Adjei, founder of Crystal Horizons Investment and father of Notre Dame junior Alvin Adjei. 
His lecture, called "Visions for Victory," focused on the number of different platforms on which people must focus in order not only to achieve equality in society, but also to better the world. 
Adjei began by introducing himself as the descendent of Ghanaian slave traders. He apologized to the black com­munity for his family's help in selling many blacks into slav­ery. He noted that his ances­tors were unaware of the inhumane treatment that they were to receive upon arrival in the Americas. 
"On behalf of the South Bend and Notre Dame communities, I accepted his apology," G. David Moss, assistant vice president with the Office of Student Affairs and advisor for Wabruda, said. 
Moss said Adjei's public apology was one of the most profound aspects of the Conference for him. 
"We can now look past this since we have reconciled and look at what we can do to move on," Moss said. 
Adjei discussed a number of different areas, or "visions," on which to focus, from regaining spirituality to strengthening family relation­ships to taking care of educa­tion, which he said is "the key to success." 
Adjei said there is a need for universal betterment of socie­ty, regardless of race, age or socioeconomic status. 
"These visions for victory can be applied to anyone," Adjei said. 
Saturday's events closed with a performance by spoken word artist Taalam Acey at Legends, where the Conference saw its highest attendance with more than 100 audience members, Williams said. 
Sunday's activities took par­ticipants out of the classroom with an excursion into south­ern Michigan to view a num­ber of important Underground Hailroad sites, including a visit to the Underground Hailroad Cemetery in Vandalia, Mich., a family farm in Paw Paw, Mich., and the Sojourner Truth 
statue in Battle Creek, Mich. 
Williams and Moss both said they were pleased with Sunday's turnout, particu­larly with the numbers of South Bend community members. 
"It was a successful way 
of building the community between Notre Dame and South 
members. 
" T h e 

Conference really aimed to create some dialogue," Moss said. "The more we can talk about these issues honest­ly, the more the Nofre Dame community can move forward." 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
Attention Seniors! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected 
to tnake an important contribution to the recruitment and selection of the first-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and communication within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions. Additional responsibilities \Vill be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrolhnent. 
Atnong our candidates, \Ve will specifically seek an 
African American Recruitment Coordinator. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong fmniliarity -vvith all aspects of student life at Notre Dmne. 

Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the willingness to \:vork long hours, including many evenings and Sahtrday mornings. 



Please Note: Interviews will be scheduled after April 1. 
Preferred start date is July 1, 2008. 

Please forward your resume to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions 220 Main Building Attention: Alisa M. Fisher, Senior Associate Director 
IRAQ 


Civilians fear Turkish troops 
Associated Press 
AMADIYA -Turkey says it is not targeting civilians as it chases after separatist rebels in northern Iraq, but people in Iraq's semiautonomous Kurdish region say they have lived in fear since the incur­sion began. 
Some residents of this area 18 miles from the Iraq-Turkey border thought they'd escaped to a safe haven, having aban­doned homes closer to the bor­der to avoid skirmishes between the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, and Turkish troops. 
But with the Turks mounting their first confirmed ground operation in Iraq since the U.S.-led invasion in 2003, some say they are fearful of getting caught in the deadly crossfire. 
Already, the Turkish military says it has killed 153 rebels since fighting began last Thursday. Turks fired barrage after barrage of artillery shells at rebels Monday, and its mili­tary said it had hit some 30 targets in the last 24 hours. The Turks have put their own death toll at 17; a funeral service for three troops was held Monday. 
"Whenever the children hear the military operations, they feel frightened," said school headmaster Aoni Mashaghti. "Most of the women came to school to take their kids out. Whenever they hear any sound of bombardment, the school becomes empty." 
Hawzan Hussein, who lives in a community of about 160 families, said people are wor­ried because some of the Turkish targets are so close to their homes. 
The explosions "have become a daily scene that frightened me with the possi­bility of hitting our house any time," the 25-year-old said. 
Associated Press Television News footage from the border area showed Turkish tanks dug into barren hillsides, with armored vehicles taking posi­tions in towns. 
The PKK wants autonomy for the predominantly Kurdish southeastern Turkey, and rebels have carried out attacks in Turkey from bases in Kurdish Iraq. The conflict started in 1984 and has killed up to 40,000 people. 
Turkey has assured Iraq and the U.S. military that the oper­ation would be limited to attacks on rebels. The U.S. and European Union consider the PKK a terrorist group. 
Lt. Gen. Carter Ham, direc­tor of operations for the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, told reporters at the Pentagon on Monday that the United States has no indications that the Turks are straying from their original assurance to Washington that their incur­sion would be "limited in depth and in duration." 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Tuesday, February 26, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  12,570.22  +189.20  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,583  82  770  3,267,186,272  
AMEX  2i~06:9;l: :~~\.f1.!\J;~*III:  

NASDAQ 2(327.48 . +24.13 NYSE 9,210.08 +145;25 S&P 500 1,371.80 +18.69 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 13,914.57£, 0.00 FTSE 100 (London) 5.999.50 +111.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS {SPY) +1.26 +1.71 137.33 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) 0.00 0.00 27.20 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.50 +0.22 43.90 CITIGROUP INC (C) -1.51 -0.38 24.74 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +2.96 +0.112 3.902 13-WEEK BILL -1.40 -0.030 2.110 30-YEAR BOND +1.79 +0.082 4.664 5-YEAR NOTE +5.21 +0.146 2.947 
Commodities 
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.42 99.23 GOLD {$/Troy oz.) -7.30 940.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.65 96.18 
Exchange Rates YEN 108.0750 EURO 0.6743 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9957 BRITISH POUND 0.5082 
IN BRIEF 
Getty Images to sell for $2.1 billion 
SEATILE-Getty Images Inc., the leading sell­er of stock photography and video footage, said Monday it has agreed to a $2.1 billion buyout from the private equity group Hellman & Friedman LLC. 
Ten-year-old Getty, whose nearest competitor is privately held Corbis Corp., put itself up for sale in January after taking a beating on Wall Street for two years. 
After reaching a high above $94 per share in November 2005, Getty's shares tumbled 77 per­cent to $21.80 in Jan. 18 of this year, as higher costs ate away at profits. Four days later, the Seattle-based company said it would consider strategic alternatives to boost shareholder value. 
Troy Mastin, an analyst at William Blair & Co., said Getty's core business of selling more-expen­sive photographs to newspapers and magazines had declined as those media struggled with the rise of Internet content. Sales to direct mail and brochure customers also cooled. 
VISa IPO could raise nearly $19 billion 
NEW YORK -Stocks are shaky, credit is tight, the economy may be tipping into a recession. Not the best of times to be going to the markets for what could be the largest initial public offering in 
U.S. history. 
That's the gamble Visa is taking as it gave details Monday about an IPO that could raise up to nearly $19 billion: If it works, it could be an encouraging sign to the stock markets and may even help loosen the credit knot. 
While Visa's !PO will have little direct effect on its cardholders, the banks that issue Visa cards are expected to see a total windfall of more than $10 billion-which might keep them from pulling back credit lines further and pushing rates higher. 
'That's a good thing f(Jr the banks, and a good thing for consumers. It might help ease the credit crisis a bit," said Ben Woolsey, marketing director at the card in!iJrmation Web site CreditCards.com. 
Banks have summ~d huge losses tied to defaults on subprime housing loans and are gearing up lor more as consumer crndit deteriorates. JPMorgan Chase & Co. -which has a 23 percent stake in Visa -stands to gain the most. The more cash­strapped Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. are also Visa stockholders. 
Inteme~t networks fight for rights 
Questions raised about owners interfering with traffic flow on the Web 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Internet users should be free to surf where they want and down­load what they please. But shouldn't the owners of the networks that make the Internet possible also have rights? 
That, in a nutshell, is the topic of debate at a special public meeting of the Federal Communications Commission at Harvard Law School on Monday. 
Recent events involving Comcast Corp. and Verizon Wireless have raised ques­tions about network owners interfering with customer traffic flow. The meeting also is expected tQ attraet a rally on minority media owner­ship. 
The session is the agency's most serious public discus­sion to date of the principle of "network neutrality." That is the idea that all Internet traf­fic should be treated equally. 
Among the speakers are the federal policy chiefs for Comcast and Verizon Communications Inc. as well as representatives from pub­lic interest groups and acade­mia who have criticized the companies' practices. 
Comcast is the subject of an FCC investigation regarding charges it has hampered traf­fic between users without applications, including peer­network neutrality issue. circulated on the Internet. notice. This practice was to-peer services, and no one Markey, chairman of the The flier includes quota­raised by an Associated Press has demonstrated other­House Energy and tions from several civil rights story in October. wise," company spokes­Commerce subcommittee on groups criticizing Martin's 
''I'm concerned about woman Sena Fitzmaurice telecommunications and the policies on media ownership. Comcast limiting the ability of said. Internet said Friday his bill is The Rev. Jesse Jackson was people to go anywhere they The public meeting also an effort to "ensure that we quoted as claiming Martin want to on the free Internet," will address Verizon Wrreless' do have a national broad­supports a "massive new and the commission chairman, denial in late September of a band policy" and to make unjustified welfare for the Kevin Martin, told the AP on request by an abortion rights · sure "consumer rights are rich program." Friday. "And that's what the group to use its mobile net­protected" when it comes to But in a statement Friday, hearing is about." work for a text messaging broadband, or high-speed, Jackson denied making such 
The company is accused of program. The company has services. a comment and said it does violating the FCC's poliey since said it was a mistake. On the same day and loca­not reflect his position or that against Internet discrimina­Congress is considering leg­tion of the hearing, the of his Rainbow/PUSH tion. Comcast has denied the islation by Rep. Ed Markey, Boston and Cambridge, Coalition. "We have always allegations. D-Mass., that would require Mass., branches of the enjoyed a constructive rela­
"To be clear, Comcast does the FCC to conduct eight NAACP plan to host a "take tionship with the FCC and not, has not, and will not "broadband summits" back our media" rally, look forward to continuing block any Web sites or online around the country on the according to a flier that was it," the statement said. 


Wall Street storms upward, revives hope 
There lias been speculation that "Even the smallest bit of positive
Associated Press 
Ambac might find sufficient capital news and the market takes off," he early this week to hold onto the stellar said. "Investors get excited if they 
NEW YORK -Wall Street bolted "AAA" rating it needs to remain in the sense a bottom in the financials higher Monday after Standard & municipal bond business. because they've been the Achilles' heel Poor's affirmed its ratings for Ambac Municipalities and companies use of this market." Financial Group Inc. and MBIA Inc., these insurers to back bonds, allowing The Dow rose 189.20, or 1.53 per­raising hopes that troubled bond them to get higher ratings and cheap­cent, to 12,570.22. insurers will emerge from the credit er financing. Broader stock indexes also closed market crisis on solid footing. The "This is essentially evidence that with a solid advance. The Standard & Dow Jones industrials rallied nearly S&P has signed off any tentative deal," Poor's 500 index rose 18.69, or 1.38 190 points. said Charlie Smith, chief investment percent, to 1,371.80; and the Nasdaq 
The news came as a relief to a mar­officer at Fort Pitt Capital Group, of composite index added 24.13, or 1.05 
ket that has fallen sharply in recent the rating agency's announcement. percent, to 2,327.48. months on any negative news about Financial institutions have already Advancing issues outpaced decliners the insurers; investors feared that a suffered billions of dollars in losses by about 2 to 1 on the New York Stock downgrade of the insurers' credit rat­from securities that lost value during Exchange. Consolidated volume, ings would lead to billions of dollars in the fourth quarter. which spiked after S&P affirmed the 
write-downs of securities held by Chris Johnson, president of Johnson bond insurers, came to 3. 71 billion already troubled banks and invest­Research Group, said the market con­shares from 3.46 billion on Friday. ment frrms. Hating agencies including tinues to look for any sign that finan­Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10­S&P have been under pressure to cial stocks will make it through the year Treasury note, which moves downgrade the insurers after they credit crisis. Experts believe keeping opposite its price, rose to 3.90 percent weakened their financial positions by bond insurers whole will spare greater from 3.80 percent late Friday. The insuring subprime mortgage securities losses for major global banks and bro­yield edge up to 3.91 percent in after­that later collapsed. kerages. hours trading. 
Minister regains control of Muslitn tnovetnent 
Farrakhan recovers to lead Nation ofIslam again 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO -A year after delivering what the Nation of Islam deemed its ailing leader's final public address, Minister Louis Farrakhan has regained control of the move­ment and his place in its spot­light, a top aide said. 
Months before delivering the 2007 Saviours' Day speech in Detroit, Farrakhan had passed daily leadership of the Chicago-based religion to an executive board as he recuperated from serious complications from prostate cancer. 
Some experts were quick to predict an inevitable fractur­ing of Nation of Islam leader­ship without Farrakhan, the organization's best-known leader and charismatic speak­er. 
But on Sunday, a healthy­looking Farrakhan returned for another Saviours' Day, delivering a two-hour speech in which the 74-year-old expressed his hopes for the presidential election and out­lined his view of the Nation's future tone. 
Ministnr Ishman! Muhammad, top assisting minister at the organization's Mosque Maryam on the city's South Side and who is widely believed to be Farrakhan's successor, told The Associated Press that Farrakhan has qui­etly reassumed full responsi­bility for the Nation during the past year. 
In fact, Farrakl;lan passed daily leadership duties to an executive board for only a few months before taking back the organization's reins, Muhammad said. 
"God has spared his life and kept him here," Muhammad said. "He has work to do and complete." 
In May, Farrakhan delivered a message of unity at St. Sabina Catholic Church on Chicago's South Side. In October, he addressed a crowd of about 5,000 in a commemoration of the 12th anniversary of the Million Man March. He has since pro­duced a series of lectures for youth with titles like "Black Youth in Peril." 
On Sunday, Farrakhan spoke for two hours to an estimated 20,000 people dur­ing his first major address in a year, pausing only to wipe sweat from his forehead. 
lie told followers his weight was up to a robust 192 pounds -up from a low of 158 pounds in late 2006 ­and suggested that he may be ready to assume a more pub­lic profile. 



Catholic Charities USA® 
Fr. larry Snyder; President of Catholic Charities USA will discuss: 
• 
The mission of Catholic Charities 

• 
Getting involved in Catholic Charities 

• 
Professional and entry-level postitions 


Tuesday, March 11, 2008  
5:30-6:30 p.m. Pizza Provided  UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME  
Mendoza College of Business  
Giovanini Commons, lower level  
Mendoza College of Business  

For information contact (574) 63 I-3277 • Jean.Meade@nd.edu 
Keep your career on a direct path to success. 
Start out in the right direction at Ernst & Young. With our award-winning training programs, you'll have invaluable resources to help you enhance your skills. And since you'll be working alongside some of the best talent in the industry, getting ahead is as simple as following the signs. 
Grow. Succeed. Visit us at ey.com;usjcareers and our Facebook.com group. 


Tuesday, February 26, 2008 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Ga. schools separate sexes 
Associated Press 
(;Hf·:I~NSBOHO. Ga. -Nearly l'our dc1~adns al'tnr this rural (;porgia 1:ounty stopped segre­gating its schools by race. it wanL<> to dividn studrmts again -this time by snx. 
Grnn1w County is set to bnwme the first school district in tlw nation to go nntirnly sin­gle-sex. with boys and girls in snparatn classrooms -a move born ol' desperation over years ol' poor test scorns, soaring dropout rates and high num­lwrs ol' tmmage pregnancies. 
"At tlw rate we'rn moving, wn'rn nnver going to catch up," Supnrintnndnnt Shawn McCollough told parents in an impassionnd spnneh last week. "II' we're going to takfl some stnps, let's take some big stnps." 
This pine-shrouded eounty of about 14,400 people between Atlanta and Augusta has in rncnnt years b11comn a magnet for rntirees moving into luxury developments along the shore of Lake Oconee. But the vast 
It's 8:30 .pm on Tuesday, and 


I need help with mll"...~computer 



No worries/ 
Call the OIT Help Desk at 

631-8111 
In addition to our regular hours, we offer computer help over the phone from 5:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m1., Monday through Thursday.* 
You can even call us on Sundays between .3:00p.m. and 8:00p.m. 
majority of longtime residents -and most of the 2,000 stu­dents in the county's schools ­are black and working class. 
McCollough pointed to research showing that boys and girls learn differently, and said separating them will allow teachers to tailor their lessons. Also, boys won't misbnhave as much because they will no longer be trying to impress the girls. and the girls will be more liknly to speak up in class because they won't be afraid to look smart in front of the boys, he said. 
The school board's move to radically overhaul the system next l'all has angered parents, students and teachers, who say they weren't consulted. And one of the nation's foremost proponents of single-sex educa­tion warned that the board has gone too far. 
The measure, approved two weeks ago. applies to the high school, the middle school and both elementary schools. It exempLc; only the preschool and a charter school, which is pub­lic but operates independently. 
"I am outraged," said Tammi Freeman, who has two children at the high school. "I am dis­gusted. It's making our county look like our kids are trouble when they're not." 
Leonard Sax, head of the National Association for Single Sex Public Edueation. said that while single-sex schools and classrooms arc on the increas1~, he knows of no otlier communi­ty that has converted its entire school system. He called the move illegal. 
Federal law allows single-sex classrooms or ~•chools, but par­ents must also have the option of publicly funded coeducation for their children, Sax said. 
"This is the worst kind of publicity for our movement," he said. "It misses the whole point. Our movement is about choice. One sizn does not fit all. Even a small school distriet needs to provide choice." 
U.S. Education Department spokeswoman Samara Yudof said oflicials "do not have suffi­cient facts to determine if the district would be in compli­ance" with federal law. 
AUSTRIA 


Docu111ents Ina y reveal Iranian nuclear plans 
Tehran may have developed arms after 2003 
Associated Press 

VIENNA, Austria -The U.N. nuclear monitoring agency present­ed documents Monday that diplo­mats said indicate Iran mav have focused on a nudear weapo~s pro­gram after 2003 -the year that a 
U.S. intelligence report says such work stopped. 
Iran again drmied ever trying to make such arms. Ali Ashgar Soltanieh, the chief Iranian dele­gate to the international Atomic Energy Agency, dismissed the infor­mation showcased by the body as "forgeries." 
He and other diplomats, all linked to the IAEA, commented after a closed-door presentation to the agency's 35-nation board of intelli­gence findings from the U.S. and its allies and other information pur­porting to show Iranian attempts to make nuclear arms. 
A summarized U.S. National Intelligence Estimatp,, made pub­lic late last year, also came to the conclusion that Tehran was eon­ducting atomic weapons work. But it said tlw Iranians frozn such work in 200:~. 
Asked whctlwr board mem­bers were shown information indicating Tehran continued weapons-related activities after that time, Simon Smith. the chin!' British delegatn to the IAEA, said: "Certainly some bf'the dates ... went beyond 2003." 
He did not elaborate. But another diplomat at the presen­tation, who agreed to discuss the meeting only if not quoted by name, said some of the docu­mentation focused on an Iranian report on nuclear activities that some experts have said could be related to weapons. 
She said it was unclear whether the project was being actively worked on in 2004 or the report was a review of past activities. Still, any Iranian focus on nuclear weapons work in 2004 would at least indicate con­tinued interest past the time­frame outlined in the U.S. intelli­gence estimate. 
A senior diplomat who attend­ed the IAEA meeting said that among the material shown was an Iranian video depicting mock­ups of a missile re-entry vehicle. He said·IAEA Director General Oli Heinonen suggested the com­ponent -which brings missiles back from the stratosphere ­was configured in a way that strongly suggests it was meant to carry a nuclear warhead. 
Other documentation showed the Iranians experimenting with warheads and missile trajecto­ries where "the height of the burst ... didn't make sense for conventional warheads," he said. 
Smith and the senior diplomat both said the material shown to the board came from a variety of sources, including information gathered by the agency and intelligence provided by member nations. 
"The assumption is this was not something that was being thought about or talked about, but the assumption is it was being practically worked on," Smith told reporters. 
He said the IAEA presented a "fairly detailed set of illustra­tions and descriptions of how you would build a nuclear war­head, how you would fit it into a delivery vehicle, how you would expect it to perform." 
The U.N. agency released a report last week saying that sus­picions about most past Iranian nuclear activities had eased or been laid to rest. But the report also noted Iran had rejected doc­uments linking it to missile and explosives experiments and other work connected to a possi­ble nuclear weapons program, calling the information false and irrelevant. 
The report called weaponiza­tion "the one major ... unsolved issue relevant to the nature of Iran's nuclear program." 
Most of the material shown to Iran by the IAEA on alleged attempts to make nuclear arms came from Washington, though some was provided by U.S. allies, diplomats told the AP. The agency shared it with Tehran only after the nations gave their permission. 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, February 26, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Challenging male promiscuity 
1~0. Box 779, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Norre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily AssT. MANAGING EliiTOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT ElliTOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine ScF.NF. EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
·SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
I'HOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennell• 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ALWEIITISING MANAGI;R: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGF.R: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(174) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BusiNESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoco@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the smdenrs ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not gowrncd by policies ofthe administration ofeither insrirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adwrtisemcnts based on conrent. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief; Managing Editor, A<sistant Managing Editors and department editors. <:ornmenrari<-s. letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe ()bserver. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free <"<pression ofall opinion> through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qut'.<tiom rr~arding Observer policies should be dimud to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th~; ()J,!oe'rvt't {USPS '\lJ'J l-41.10tl) '' puhlt.llCtl Monday rhmu~h Fd.lay C:X<..cpt dur1n~ l'lWB .uul v.ll.lllllll IJCriu.J, A •uhe... nptiun w '11u:: OIJ<oervn 11 $!()() fur one al.ulcmi~.. 
Yt"ilt; ~'i'i (,,,fill(' "CIIIC\U't 
'!1tc ( >hsc:rv~r •• puhh~ln:1l .n I'<>STMASTER 014 South Duung llo~ll St-nd o~ddrn~ corrcctiut~ to: 
Nnut' n~mc.IN o4t.~'it.-077 1) ThcOhscrvtr l'cn•kltl"ll pu•IJ(.t.t' p;ud .u Nm~ 0.1n1< P.O. l\ux 779 .md ~ddiuunJl mJilinK ulfko. O.l4 Suud1 Dming H.tll 
Notre Dame. IN 4l,~-sD.II779 
The Ohwrv.:r •• .I mcmiJCf ul rht" AlitK.i.Jtl.'d r~. All repmrlucuuu uf,lus IUt' rncrvc<l. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

The old double-standard-promiscu­ous males are studs, promiscuous females are sluts. A perennial source of outrage, bewilderment or rejoicing. 
It seems this double standard is rap­idly vanishing, and that chastity is almost as stigma­tized among younger women in particular as among men. But insofar as the dou­ble-standard still exists, it's usually challenged by women. Isn't that partly what "The Vagina Monologues" is about? I'll undnrstand if some of you think "only at Notre Dame ... " as I challenge it from the men's side. 
When I was little, a Bon Jovi song recalled being taken to a motel by some woman and being made by her into a man. There's probably few people on Earth with less knowledge of being or becoming a man than Jon Bon Jovi; it's common sense that one cannot give what one doesn't have, so the idea of a woman giving men their manhood is idiotic. But common sense wasn't my strength, and I was very interested in becoming a man, so the suggestion intrigued me. 
I soon learned what was meant by it, but it wouldn't have mattered if I had­n't. The idea that being a man meant being unchaste was thrown at me countless times as I grew up -by teammates, upperclassmen, bosses, popular culture, sometimes even older relatives-and I still encounter it. I'd say it's part of our society's cultural wallpaper. 
I find this attitude as bizarre as it is prevalent. Is it that sex itself makes one manlier? Our very instincts tell us no. There's a place in our psyche in which the Samson story rings true. It makes sense to us intuitively for athletes to 


abstain from sexual activity before competition, as is customary. We know 
what Dietrich von Hildebrand meant when describing the perfumed, suffo­cating atmosphere of sex. And don't we have an innate respect for asceticism'? Isn't their love of pleasure one reason we despise the French, and don't we suspect it's somehow connected with their lack of courage? 
Okay, maybe "success" with women isn't the cause of one's manliness so much as its effect? Again I'd say no. On the contrary -aren't the guys who get lots of girls usually just a bit promiscu­ous'? Maybe a lot promiscuous? 
Well, so what? Am I just that annoyed by guys boasting about fornicating, or even going to strip dubs, as if it were some kind of heroic accomplishment'! Yes, but that's not it. Having taught in Catholic schools, I've seen how hard it is to evangelize teenage boys. There's many reasons, including evangelizers like me. but one major obstade is their perception of the faith as effeminate. The liturgy's one problem. Catholic moral teaching is another. Now, it's ter­ribly wrong to reduce the faith to morality, or reduce Catholic morals to sexuality. But for many people, old and young alike, a salient feature of Catholicism is the Church's prohibitions about sex. 
We need to present the Church's teachings differently. Saint Thomas Aquinas taught that a measure of wrath is necessary to protect one's purity. How stirring, and utterly unlike how the call to chastity is usually offered! Priests and teachers of the faith should explain the pursuit of chastity as more like joining the Marines, less like join­ing the Peace Corps. 
There's aspects of the faith that can't be made attractive to men, like the commands to forgive enemies and turn the other cheek. Discipleship in Christ transcends the narrow category of mas­culinity. But there's lots about following Our Lord that requires us to bn as 
strong as we can. 
The affirmation of ehastity as a steep good must never d11gnneratn into a crabbed hyper-stoicism. Nor must it nurture pride and self-righteousness, spiritually deadlier than all depravity. Least of all should it make us deny the surpassing goodnnss of trun love of man for woman, the love that makes him want to lay down his lil'e for her. 
Popular reeognition of ehastity as a virtue in the true sense-an excel­lence, a perfection of man proper to his nature and an enhancement of his being-isn't going to happen. Outright physical cowardice will sooner be cele­brated. So we must rnach individual hearts. It's not enough to toll boys to bn chaste out of respoet for women's digni­ty, especially when so many of the women they see show no ovidenee whatsoever of any such dignity. At some point, cynical as this sounds, we, men. have to stop objoetifying women not because of who they are, but because of who we ourselves are. And this might sound even worse, but it's also true that a chaste man can't be controlled. 
In a previous artiele I implied that it takes manlier qualities to be altogether celibate than to bP profligate. Judging by my inbox, that struck a nerve. Whnn so many boys and young men are quite comfortable discussing even their pornography habits with eaeh other, as if those habits could possibly be any­thing other than profoundly shameful, it's natural that there's resistance to the idea of a pure heart being brave and strong. But this is a big topic, and here might be a good place for a small mind to drop it. 
Greg Yatarola is a 1999 alumnus. He hopes 'The Vagina Monologues" might encourage more men to consider celibacy as a life choice. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Karen Langley Fran Tolan 
What are you doing for spring 

Becky Hogan Michael Bryan Ashley Charnley Deirdre Krasula break? Graphics Scene Service ''The avoidance oftaxes is the 
Matt Hudson Tae Andrews Going somewhere warm only intellectua( pursuit that 
Viewpoint carries any reward." 
Going home 
Kara King 

Staying on campus John Maynard Keynes Stuck at work English economist Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
,-------------------­
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 26, 2008 page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Acceptance, not tolerance 
Haeism is a reality that will never be completely extin­guished as long as differences among people exist in socie­ty. What we can strive for. however, is acceptance through understanding. Acceptance, not tolerance. For to merely "tolerate" someone di!Terent carries the implication that we agree to live side-by-side without strife because it is "the right thing to do." But we must look beyond what we have been taught in the classroom about the ideal of equality and examine what it truly means to achieve this ideal. 
Equality is not the slatus quo; it is an uncommon bal­anced state that is only achievable through combined effort and individual commilment. Each individual on this campus must care enough to question his or her subconscious prej­udices, and reach out to learn about others outside of his or her comfort zone in small, but significant, ways on a daily basis. Sadness and anger are humane and important reac­tions or those who have been exposed to the depth, history and continuing reality of racism. 
For instance. Irving Howe commended the novel "Native Son." because "Wright forced his readers to acknowledge his anger, and in that way, if none other, he wrested for himself a sense of dignity as a man. He forced his readers to confront the diseasH of our culture, and to one of its most terrifying symptoms he gave the name of Bigger Thomas." But anger is useless if it is not backed by the strength and conviction needed to accomplish change; and change does­n't always happen in loud movements. There is no reason to remain heartbroken, Cor as long as the students at Notre Dame really arc the good-hearted and willing people that I have had the fortune to encounter in the past few months, there is every reason to believe that we can come closer to the delicate balance of equality, and remain distinct and true to our backgrounds in the process. 
Melissa Harintho freshman McGlinn Hall Feb. 25 
PERSPECTIVE: MARCH 9, 1967 


The above image first appeared in the March 9, 1967 edition of The Observer. 
PERSPECTIVE: IVIARCH 20, 1972 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE

page 12 
Tuesday, February 26, 2008 
STRIKE-AFFECTED SHOW STILLS GARNERS SOME LAUGHS 
For the record, I love the Oscars. Speaking of Best Song, I have to Blood." "Jun1 Wait, that's an understatement. admit that the performances from I've got to say, though, that those for B1 I'm obsessed with the Oscars. "Enchanted" were disappointing Europeans sure do know how to "No ( Which is why even though the and awkward. Poor Amy Adams give an acceptance speech. In his accet Sunday night telecast was a tad did a brilliant job singing "Happy speech, Bardern joked, "Thank you said,' underwhelrn-Working Song," but it was just her, to the Coons for being crazy muc~ ing, I'm not alone onstage. The song loses enough to think that I could do won 1
Cassie Belek 1
going to say I some of its charm when the CGI that and put one of' the most horri­don' was disap­rats and cockroaches are missing. ble haircuts in history over my said
Scene & Heard

pointed. Jon But the classiest moment of the head." lie then spoke in his native "N Stewart was evening and of recent Oscar histo­tongue, dedicating his award to his hom1 much more at ry carne after "Falling Slowly" won mother, grandparents and Spain. rack· ease than last time, we had some the category. Glen Hansard got to Swinton, who won in a category Bour wonderful victory speeches and give his thanks, but right as co­that was still wide-open by the ning the In Memoriam montage made writer Marketa Irglova stepped to. time the awards began on Sunday. Editi me cry again. the microphone, the orchestra cut wished Oscar a happy birthday Editi 
In fact, everything that went her off. Stewart saved the day and said, " ... and George Clooney, actio wrong with the Oscars I'm going to when after the commercial break, you know, the seriousness and the shou blame on the fact that they only he escorted Irglova onstage so she dedication to your art, sneing you Pictu had 11 days to write the telecast could have her Oscar moment. She climb into that rubber bat suit in ha due to the writers' strike. So kudos said, "This is such a big deal, not from 'Batman & Hobin,' the one the S to writer Bruce Vilanch (that's only for us, but for all other inde­with the nipples, every morning O'Co1 right) and host Jon Stewart for pendent musicians and artists that under your costume, on the set, off mixi1 making it happen. spend most of their time strug­the set, hanging upsidn-down at the 2 
I'll admit that I was a little harsh  gling, and this, the fact that we're  lunch, you rock, man."  hour.  
on Stewart two years ago, but he  standing here tonight, the fact that  Backstage, Swinton explained  "Apo  
made me proud this time around.  we're able to hold this, it's just to  that she was  
My favorite joke carne when he  prove no matter how far out your  just ribbing  
was commenting on all the dark  dreams are, it's possible."  Clooney as  
themes and psychopathic killers  Unsurprisingly, the presenters  usual. For  
present in this year's nominations. He quipped, "All I can say is thank God for teen pregnancy." Adding that the country "needed that kind  didn't offer much entertainment this year. Jennifer Garner didn't slip this time and when presenting the award for Best Makeup.  me, it was nice seeing someone remind  So there you have it. too spectacular, but too terrible. We had n  
of light-hearted fare." The ceremony was once again heavy on the montages, but since I love old movies so much I always  Katherine Heigl stated how nerv­ous she was and said ''I'm not very good at this." She could have fooled me since she's famous and  Clooney that however big he gets, he'll always be  Gooding, Jr. momen streakers running ac stage, but Oscar's  
enjoy those. Stewart gave us a taste of what an even more mon­ everything for acting and being composed under pressure. Maybe  the guy who wore the  birthday was still a g  
tage-heavy night would have been  she suddenly became aware of  nipple suit.  
like if the writers' strike hadn't  how heavy her bronzer was.  Cotillard  
ended. We saw snippets of  Nevertheless "La Vie en Rose" won  became the  
"Oscar's Salute to Binoculars and  the category, and as soon as I saw  Oscar sweetheart of the evening  ning  
Periscopes" and "Bad Dreams: An  the joy on Marion Cotillard's face, I  after beating expected winner  SOth  
Oscar Salute." Was I the only one  wanted her to win Best Actress.  Julie Christie. The French actress  
who wanted to see more?  It was an unusual year for Oscar  in the much-debated fish-inspired  
Stewart kept the jokes corning  because all four acting awards  dress beamed as she said, "Thank  
when he gave a little tribute to the  went to Europeans. Javier Bardem  you life, thank you love, and it is  
acting skills of Cate Blanchett, say­ (Spanish) won Best Supporting  true, there is some angels in this  
ing that she had played a queen, a  Actor for "No Country for Old  city." I personally think we need  
man and although it was a little  Men," Tilda Swinton (British) won  more people like Cotillard to  
known secret, the pitbull in "No  Best Supporting Actress for  remind us that sometimes,  
Country for Old Men." The "Daily  "Michael Clayton," Marion  Hollywood is magical. She had me  
Show" anchor even played Wii on  Cotillard (French) won Best  in tears.  
the giant screen with the 11-year­ Actress for "La Vie en Rose" and  Other awards on Sunday went to  
old girl who sang "Raise it Up,"  Daniel Day-Lewis (British) won  expected winners Diablo Cody for  
nominated for Best Song.  Best Actor for "There Will Be  Best Original Screenplay for  


l~HE OBSERVER 



CENE

Tuesday, February 26, 2008 
page 13 

MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 
" and Joel and Ethan Coen Adapted Screenplay for ntry for Old Men." When 
the Oscar, Ethan simply We, uh ... Thank you very . " Later, when the brothers 
Director, Ethan joked, "I have a lot to add to what I arlier. Thank you." Country for Old Men" took 
. the top prize of the evening, g up four total wins. "The c Ultimatem" ended up win­reo Oscars for Sound g, Sound Mixing and Film 
g. As happy as I was for the film that many believed have bAen in the Best 
. category, my heart broke f for poor Kevin O'Connell, tsan Lucci of tho Oscars. noll. nominatod for sound 
for "Transformers," lost for th time on Sunday. Three after he lost last year for 
pto," his mother passed away. Then backstage, the winner for "Dreamgirls" insulted him. The guy can't catch a break. but here's to next year Kevin. 
So there you have it. Nothing too spectacular, but nothing too terrible. We had no Cuba Gooing, Jr. moments or streakers run­

oss the stage, but Oscar's day was still a good It was a celebration of the 
the writers' strike, some­that Stewart liked to call ~up sex." Sadly, the awards n is over. Now let's get ready 
views expressed in Scene & are those of the author and ·zy those of The 
By KELLY O'SULLIVAN 
Scene Writer 

Although the Academy Awards would not have taken place without the great films of the past year, the fashions on the Red Carpet drew a large number of viAw­ers before any statuettes were handed out. Whether audiences hoped to see ele­gant gowns or wanted to mock a fashion faux pas in real time, this year's pre­Oscars festivities did not disappoint. 
There were several standouts in the early evening festivi­ties: Cameron Diaz wore a pale pink Dior 
through the thigh, the gown featured a unique texture, with layers of black mate­rial that fell into larger ruffies at the bot­tom. 
Kelly Preston strolled by the paparazzi on John Travolta's arm in a gown featur­ing a recently popular silhouette. What set Preston's look apart was the fresh and interesting marigold shade by Hoberto Cavalli. Pregnant beauties Jessica Alba and Cate Blanchett glowed in richly col­ored gowns by Marchesa and Dries van Noten, respectively. 
True to its name, the Hed Carpet fea­tured several dresses of the same color. Teen pop sensation Miley Cyrus wore an elegant, age-appropriate Valentino gown. Reminiscent of Old Hollywood glamour, Katherine Heigl showed off a vintage­inspired Escada gown, with an equally fit­ting hairstyle. The always classy Helen Mirren touted a deeply colored Georges Chakra gown with stunning Swarovski crystal sleeves. 
Also in crimson, Heidi Klum's bold John Galliano gown was auctioned off after the big night to benefit The Heart Truth, an organization founded by the National Institute of Health to promote awareness 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

of women and heart disease throughout the country. The red dress is the national symbol of worn en and heart disease awareness, and Klum began her help pro­moting the cause when she wore a red Marc Jacobs creation on National Wear Hed Day at the recent Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week. 
The most debate-inspiring gown on the Red Carpet was certainly French actress Marion Cotillard's mermaid-esque gown by Jean Paul Gaultier. However, even skeptics of the design could not deny Cotillard's beauty when she stepped for­ward to accept her Oscar for Leading Actress for t,er role in "La Vie en 
gown with clean archi­One ofthe biggest misses F~ose." tectural folds that fell One of the biggest miss­
ofthe night was Tilda 
into a nicely draped es of the night was Tilda
Swinton's shapeless and
body and skirt while Swinton's shapeless and Jennifer Garner's overly modest black overly modest black Oscar de la Renta was washed silk-satin Lanvin
washed silk satin Lanvin 
another interesting gown that perplexed
gown that
design. Strapless at many. Hebecca Miller, the top and fitted perplexed many. wife of Daniel Day Lewis, 
topped the worst dressed 

list along with Swinton. Miller's black frock featured large black gems on the bust and red ribbon bows as straps, along with long sleeves that appeared below her bare shoulders. 
Further confm.ing the evening's audi­ence were the simple shoes that Diablo Cody showed off to photographers. Cody was scheduled tc· wear a pair of million­dollar metallic T·strap heels designed by Stuart Weitzman that featured roses of Kwiat diamonds. In the days leading up to the ceremony, the writer of Indie film "Juno" had made known her disappoint­ment at being used as a stunt to publicize the shoes. 
Despite the few exceptions, the ladies of Hollywood cleaned up nicely for the indus­try's most important night. I lowever, even those gowns that impressed viewers the most still lacked a certain something that memorable gowns in recent years had brought to the table. Loyal Hed Carpet fans will certainly be waiting for more noteworthy looks, from both the best and worst dressed, at next year's event. 
Contact Kelly O'Sullivan at kosulli2@nd.edu 


BENGAL BOUTS 

Whalen wins unanimous decision over Zehrbach 
Senior Grissinger defeats freshman Cray in third round; Gough knocks Gallic out of ring, wins by TKO in second 
By MATT GAMBER, JARED 
JEDICK, PETE REISENAUER, 
SAM WERNER and LAURA 
MYERS 
Sports Writers 
166-pound division 
Scott Whalen def. Nick 
"Jackhammer of Truth" 
Zehrbach 
Whalen, a freshman, took advantage of his height early, knoeking the senior Zehrbach down twice in the first round. The second round saw eontin­ued dominance from Whalen, as Zehrbach was forced to defend most of the round. Whalen continued to control the paee until the end, earning a unanimous vktory. 
Bryan Grissinger def. 
David Cray 
Grissinger dietated the tempo of the bout by displaying a loose, confident swagger. Cray didn't baek down, though, doing most of his damage in the second half of each round. (irissinger finally took a decid­ed advantage by bloodying Cray's nose early in the third and then putting the fight away following a brief stoppage. 
Charlie Gough def. Rob Gallic 
Gough literally blew Gallic out of the ring in this fight, knocking him down and through the ropes early in the seeond round. Gallic landed several punehes early in the first, but once Gough gained an advantage, he didn't relinquish it as the fight ended early by TKO. 
Nazur Ahmed def. John Tierney 
The eontrasl in styles was immediately evidnnt, as Tierney stood straight up and looked for headshots while Ahmed's stratngy was to stay lownr than his taller opponent. The latter approach prevailed, and Ahmed dominatnd the final two rounds en route to vietory by unanimous deeision. 
170-pound division 
Mike Doran def. John Soltis 
Doran displayed perhaps morn emotion than any other fighter on tlw night, jumping out of his eorner before every round, engaging the erowd and othnrwise giving ofT an air of confidence unmatched during tlw preliminary rounds. In a split decision that truly went down to the wire -an advan­tage wasn't clearly established until the final round, when Doran laid into the junior Soltis against the ropes before Soltis could only hold on for dear life -Doran, a freshman was able to advance. 

Drew Whiting def. 
Brendan Collins 
The sophomore Collins used a distinet height advantage to take an early lead, out-punch­ing Whiting, a senior, nearly three to one throughout the first round. Whiting, his face covered in blood, wouldn't let his smaller stature hold him back, unloading several hooks that eventually gave him the momentum he needed to win by split decision. The fight appeared to be a deadlock after two rounds, but Whiting out­lasted Collins, forcing him into the corner repeatedly in the final minute and winning the third round decisively because of his ability to land a series of jab-hook combos. 
Christopher Jordan def. 
Charles Cossell 
The senior Jordan's experi­ence proved too much for Cossell, a sophomore, who was knocked down near the end of the first round. The officials stopped the fight after one round. 
Eric Jones def. Matt Paletta 
Jones, a junior, knocked down Palletta, a sophomore, who appeared to tweak some­thing in his lower body. The officials were forced the stop the fight early in the first round. 
Ben O'Brien def. Andrew Renz 
O'Brien defeated Henz by unanimous decision to advance to the quarterfinals. Renz came out aggressively in each round, but 0' Brien maintained his eomposure and leveled several series of jabs against his oppo­nent. Renz got in some good body shots, but ended the fight bloodied and beaten. 
Mike Cimino def. Scott Jarvie 
Cimino, a senior, held off a late charge to beat freshman Jarvie by a split decision. 
Jarvie eame out with fists fly­ing, getting in strong jabs in the first round, but Cimino blocked well and countered with some good series of his own. Both fighters tired late in the fight, and Jarvie got Cimino against the ropes late in the third round. Unfortunately for Jarvie, though, the comeback was too little, too late. 
Matt Gimlett def. 
Vincent Keneally 
Gimlett easily defeated 
Keneally by a unanimous deci­
sion. 
The fight started off with a 
quick pace, and Keneally 
appeared to tire late. By the 
end of second round, Gimlett 
was chasing Keneally around 
the ring, landing punch after 
punch to wear down his oppo­
nent. 
Bernardo Garcia def. 
Patrick Martin 
Garcia, a freshman, won over Martin, a junior, by unanimous decision. Martin had trouble protecting himself throughout the fight, and Garcia took advantage. Martin was able to land a few good series on the freshman, but a solid consistent jab allowed Garcia to advance to the quarterfinals with rela­tive ease. 
176-pound division 
Mike Lee def. James Hassan 
The fight went down to the wire, but Lee landed a good combination of body shots and jabs in the final round to take the fight. Both fighters adapted a somewhat defensive style early on, with each getting in a few good, calculated shots. Lee took control in the final round, though, and advanced to the next round by unanimous deci­sion. 
Pat Jackson def. Jonathan Parry 
Pat Jackson didn't tire and managed to beat junior Jonathan Parry by unanimous decision. The fight was close for all three rounds, but Jaekson was able to get in more consistent punches throughout the match. He put the nail in Parry's coffin in the third round, when he backed the junior against the ropes and landed a flurry of jabs and body shots. 
Dominic Golab def. Richard Paulius 
In a fight that was fast-paced from start to finish, Golab defeatnd Paulius by unanimous decision. Both fighters came out flying, and neither seemed to tire as the bout wore on. The intensity ramped up at the end of the second round when both fighters continued to throw punches after the bell sounded. Golab proceeded to take control in the final round, landing several shots to his opponent's head and leaving him bloodied. 

Mike Delach def. 
Ken Shamrell 

Delach, a freshman, outlast­ed a tough contest from Shamrell to win by unanimous decision. Both fighters did a lot more punching than defending and with the fight close all the way through, both came out swinging in the third round. Delach was able to land a series of solid body shots and advanced to the quarterfinals. 
Josh Von Schaumburg def. 
Daniel Glees 

Glees came out more aggres­sive than Von Schaumburg, who may have focused on blocking Glees' attack instead of mounting his own in the first round. After getting knocked down in the first, Von Schaumburg turned the tide in the second, connecting on sev­eral jabs to the body and hooks to the face that knocked down Glees, a junior, in the second. It was more of the same in the third, as Von Schaumburg dominated the last two rounds en route to a victory by unani­mous decision. 
Matthew Belton def. 
Gavin Payne 

Payne, a junior, dominated the first half of the opening round, immediately backing Belton into the corner and keeping him there long enough to land near a dozen solid jabs. Once Belton got out, though, it was a different story as he mixed in a few uppercuts to go along with an impressive arse­nal of hooks and jabs. The start of the third looked much like the fight's beginning, with Payne able to get Belton in the corner once again. But once again, the senior Belton escaped and regained control, winning the fight by unani­mous decision. 
Jordan Smith def. Pat Allare 
Smith was able to corner Allare several times, giving him plenty of opportunities to rack up the punches and points that gave him the victory by a unanimous decision. Allare mounted a substantial come­back in the final round by landing three or four upper­cuts, but Smith's recovery ensured him the win. 
Andres Villalba def. 
Barry Clark 
Like many of the night's suc­cessful fighters, Villalba estab­lished himself by immediately controlling the tempo and put­ting his opponent on the defen­sive. Clark had to focus on blocking Villalba's repertoire of hooks and jabs -so much so that he could hardly fight back during Villalba's unanimous victory. 
189-pound division 
John Tchoula def. Bobby 
Hicks 
Tchoula dominated this fight from start to finish -which was ended midway through the first round. lie was simply too tall, strong, quiek and aggres­sive for Ilicks. 
Kevin Carrier def. 
Daniel McDonald 
Carrier charged at McDonald before the opening bell even finished ringing, immediately taking his opponent into the corner with a series of jabs before attempting several uppercuts. McDonald hardly had the opportunity to mount an attack of his own until the second round, but by then, Carrier had pulled too far ahead, guaranteeing him the unanimous decision. 
Andrew Mrugala def. 
Kyle Kownackl 
Despite being just a fresh­man, Mrugala came out show­ing no hesitation -the opening bell had to be re-sounded because he came out of the gate so quickly. A knockdown in the second round and a bevy of body shots in the third ensured Mrugala the unanimous victory over the senior Kownacki. 
Xavier Burton def. Matthew Gray 
Both fighters kept up the intensity for all three rounds, but Burton outlasted Gray, landing a consistent series of jabs in the first two rounds. Gray attempted to storm back in the third, but Burton fended off the attaek, and effeetively countered with his own flurry of punches. Burton won by unanimous decision. 
Chris Hapak def. Thomas Smith 
Hapak dominated Smith and beat the freshman by unani­mous decision. Hapak was 
see RING/page 16 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make NOW HIRING ALL POSITIONS UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Every time you lick a stamp, a difference in the life of a child! jwillys Grill Exciting New Menu Do not go it alone. If you or some-you're consuming 1/1 0 of a 
NOTICES Summer therapy camp for children Apply Friday 2-4 p.m PERSONAL one you love needs confidential calorie. 
with physical disabilities. Located on support or assistance, please call NOW HIRING ALL POSITIONS shore of Lake Superior in Big Bay, MI. www.jwillys.com PREGNANT OR Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at1-7819. For You share your birthday with at jwillys Grill EXCITING NEW MENU Positions available for Counselors, KNOW SOMEONE WHO IS? more information, visit our website least 9 million other peof.Jie APPLY FRIDAY 2-4 P.M. Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/Arts at: in the world. www.jwillys.com & Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, FOR RENT You do not have to be alone. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-
Therapists. Food Service, and We want to help. nant.shtml or see our bi·weekly ad 22,000 checks will be deducted Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, Blue & Gold Homes Call our 24 hour confidential hotline in The Observer. from the wrong bank accounts in WANTED responsible, and love children. June 8 Showing for 08/09,09/10 at 1-800-No Abort the next hour. through August 3. Salary, room & Now offering "flex" leases or visit our web site at On average, 100 people $14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT board, and experience of lifetime pro-bluegoldrentals.com www.lifecall.org choke to death on ball-point Coca-Cola translated from 
WORK flexible, no vided. Call or write for application and pens every year. Chinese means "to make experience needed, customer information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09 If you or someone you care about mouth happy" sales/service, conditions apply, P.O. Box 310, Big Bay. Ml49808, CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RANGING has been sexually The average person will spend ages 18+, (906) 345-9314, email FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR. assaulted, visit two weeks of their life Human jaw muscles can 574·273-3835, BayCiiffHC@aol.com. Vis~ us at CALL 574-234-2436 OR http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. waiting for traffic lights to generate a force of 200 pounds on www. workforstudents.com www.baycliff.org KRAMERHOUSES.COM shtml change the molars. 




~OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, February 26, 2008 
NCAA Men's Basketball AP Top :lS Poll 

record  votes  
1  Tennessee  25·2  1.797  
2  Memphis  26·1  1,682  
3  North Carolina  26·2  1,668  
4  UClA  24-3  1,593  
5  Texas  23·4  1,478  
6  Kansas  24·3  1,368  
7  Duke  23-3  1,344  
8  Stanford  22-4  1,264  
9  Xavier  24-4  1,228  
10  Wisconsin  23-4  1,175  
11  Georgetown  22-4  1,101  
12  Indiana  23·4  969  
13  louisville  22-6  828  
14  Butler  25-3  752  
15  Connecticut  21-6  668  
16  Purdue  21-6  655  
17  NOTRE DAME  21-5  630  
18  Vanderbilt  23-4  627  
19  Michigan State  22·5  625  
20  Drake  24-3  621  
21  Marquette  20-6  369  
22  Washington Slate  21-6  364  
23  Kent State  23·5  125  
24  Gonzaga  21-6  94  
25  Saint Mary's  23-4  77  

NCAA Men's• Basketball ESPN/USA Today Poll 
record votes 

1 Tennessee 25-2 n5 2 North Carolina 26·2 726 3 Memphis 26·1 714 4 UClA 24-3 669 5 Texas 23-4 635 6 Duke 23·3 590 7 Kansas 24-3 561 8 Slanlord 22-4 546 9 Wisconsin 23-4 523 10 Georgetown 22·4 501 11 Xavier 24-4 475 12 Indiana 23-4 424 13 Butler 25-3 365 14 Vanderbilt 23-4 346 15 Michigan State 22·5 287 16 Connecticut 21-6 265 17 NOTRE DAME 21-5 272 18 louisville 22-6 268 19 Purdue 21-6 263 20 Drake 24-3 259 21 Marquette 20-6 173 22 Washington State 21-6 138 23 Saint Mary's 23-4 69 24 Kent State 23-5 30 25 Brigham Young 21-6 27 
MIAA Women's Basketball Standings 
team league overall 
1 Hope 16-0 24-0 2 Albion 13-3 20~4 3 Calvin 11-5 15-8 4 SAINT MARY'S 8-8 12-12 5 Olivet 7-9 9-15 6 Adrian 7-9 9-15 7 Alma 6-10 9-14 8 Tri-State 3-10 6-18 9 Kalamazoo 1-15 4-20 

around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL Ohio StatE! at Indiana 8 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA BASKETBALL Tennessee at Vanderbilt 10 p.m., ESPN 
CoA-trlLED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES 
NASCAR 
Associated Press 
FONTANA, Calif. -For Carl Edwards, it's a signal. At least one NASCAR Sprint Cup team is ready to take on Hendrick Motorsports. 
Edwards won the rain­delayed Auto Club 500 on Monday, finishing ahead of Jimmie Johnson and Jeff Gordon. In a race that resumed with the 88th of 250 laps, Edwards assumed the lead for good with 13 laps left. 
"I hope it's an indication we've caught up with them," Edwards said after the eighth victory of his career. "They still were sec­ond and third and they were the guys to beat today. I hope this is a sign we're up to their standards, to their level." 


Johnson took the green flag for the final restart in the lead with 26 laps left, but Edwards surged from third. He then showed fme form on his traditional vic­tory backflip after capturing the checkered flag in a race that ended under caution when Dale Jarrett spun on the final lap. 
Edwards had it all but wrapped up at that point, driving his Roush Fenway No. 99 Ford to a lead of more than four seconds over Johnson. It was his first victory at Fontana but his seventh top-1 0 fmish in eight starts at the track for­merly known as California Speedway. 
IN BRIEF 
Tennessee takes over No. I 
spot, Memphis falls to No. 2 
Tennessee surged to the top of The Associated Press college bas­ketball poll for the first time Monday on the strength of its victo­ry over Memphis in a Nos. 1-vs.-2 matchup. 
The football team at Tennessee has been ranked No. 1 during four seasons, including two national titles. The wome£Ls basketball pro­gram has been a regular atop that poll since 1977, winning seven national championships under coach Pat Summitt. 
Now it's the men's turn. 
The Volunteers (25-2) were a run­away choice, receiving 69 first­place votes and 1,797 points from the 72-member national media panel after a 66-62 victory at Memphis. Tennessee is the 53rd school to hold the No. 1 ranking since the poll began for the 1948­49 season. 

Gordon, who dominated Sunday's rain-interrupted racing, finished third. He was followed by Kyle Busch and Roush's Matt Kenseth, who had won the two previ­ous February races at this track. Another Roush driver, Greg Biffie, won this event in 2005. 
A year ago, Johnson and Gordon ended 1-2 in the season points. Johnson won his-second straight Cup title and the team rolled up 18 victories in 36 races. The Hendrick contingent also won nine of the 16 races in which NASCAR's new Car of Tomorrow was raced. 
The CoT is being used for the entire Sprint Cup sched­ule in 2008 and its debut on Auto Club Speedway's 2­
Tampa Bay to pursue Barry
Bonds 

ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -The Tampa Bay Rays have had internal discussions about the prospect of pursuing Barry Bonds. 
Manager Joe Maddon said Monday he knew "little" about what was going on, but acknowledged some thought has been given to the career home-run leader. 
"A minor discussion was thrown out there a little bit, and it's really not gone any further than that," Maddon said after Monday's work­out at the team's spring training facility. "That's all it is right now." 
The St. Petersburg Times report­ed in Monday's editions that team officials have conferred among themselves about Bonds and other veteran unsigned free agents, such as Kenny Lofton and Mike Piazza. Andrew Friedman, Rays vice presi­dent of baseball operations, called the report a "non-story." 
page 15 
mile oval was a triumph for Edwards and Roush Fenway Racing. 
"I know that last year I would not have traded my car in for one of theirs at any of the CoT races towards the end of the year," Edwards said. "I thought we had the best car. Everyone knows, all the drivers know for sure, it's what you're sitting in a lot of the times that makes a tiny little difference and I'm proud to be driving this car." 
Team co-owner Jack Roush dragged his feet test­ing the bigger, boxier CoT a year ago. But Roush said that changed last May when he realized other teams were getting too far ahead. 

ForsberJ;! to finish season in 
ColoradO 
DENVER-The Avalanche and Peter Forsberg have agreed on a deal to bring the NHL's 2003 MVP back to Colorado through the end of the sea­son. 
Forsberg will earn about $1.1 mil­lion prorated from a one-year, $5 mil­lion deal, since there are about six weeks left in the regular season. 
Forsberg won two Stanley Cups in his nine seasons with the Avalanche and won the Hart Trophy in 2003 after scoring 29 goals and adding 77 assists. 
But foot and ankle injuries have plagued him in recent years. 
Until Monday's announcement, it appeared Forsberg wouldn't return to an NHL team this season. His agent, Don Baizley, informed teams last week that Forsberg didn't have enough confidence in the strength of his surgically repaired right foot to play. 
.---------~------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------~~--~~----~ 
Ring 
continued from page 16 
rnlnntlnss, !waling up on Smith from the mornnnt tlw bnll sounded. Tlw freshman was unable to dPf'end himsnlf' as hn f'acnd a barrago of' jabs and swings. Smith improvnd as thn light wnnt on but just couldn't stand up to tlw law studnnt's onslaught. 
Thomas Haan def. 
Ryan Landsberg 
llaan took control in the sne­ond half' of' till' fight, and dnf'natnd Hyan Landsbnrg by unanimous dndsion. Both fight­nrs startnd ofT with a very dnf'nnsivn styln, with each get­ting in only a rew jabs in thn first round. llaan landed a snries or solid jabs to start of the sm~ond round and dominat­1\Cl for thn remainder of' the round. llaan's suprernaey flowed into the final round, and lw will advanee to thn quartnr­finals. 
Alexander Lough def. 
Fritz Schoenhut 
Lough defnated Schoenhut nasily, with the referne stopping thn fight in the second round. 
Both lighters came out tenta­tively, but Lough took control late in the first round, backing Sdunmhut into a corner and attacking him with a barrage or jabs and uppercuts. The sopho­more continued to rely on a strong uppnrcut in the seeond round to put Sehonnhut on the dnfonsivo and eause the referee to ond thn fight. 
206-pound division 
James DiGiacomo def. 
Wll Henderson 
I> i G iaeo mO·, a sophomore. landed one of the night's most thunderous blows, knocking out the MBA student, Henderson, with a haymaker midway through the first round. 
Dex Cure def. Ryan Hawley 
Cure more than made up for in quickness what he lacked in height in this battle of Siegfried residents. The fight was competitive for the first round and a half, but Cure connected on some big shots to knock Hawley off balance and eventually bloody his nose on the way to a unanimous deci­sion. 
Brent Coudron def. 
Reid Mahoney 
Coudron used his southpaw stance to establish an early advantage and eatch the fresh­man Mahoney ofT guard, tak­ing it to him for the first 20 seconds. The fight's pace slowed eonsiderably from there, as Coudron, a law stu­dent, forced Mahoney to come to him. Each fighter sporadi­cally landed punches in the final two rounds, but Coudron's fast start proved to be enough to earn him a unan­imous decision. 
Tony Klausing def. Brian O'Connor 

Klausing defeated O'Connor ... when the referee stopped the contest in the second round. 
Klausing chased O'Connor around the ring from the beginning of the fight, at points sprinting after him to level a flurry of punches on the freshman. O'Connor never really appeared to have a chance, as he was unable to land solid punches on Klausing at any point in the fight. Klausing swung his arms wild­ly, but all his punches found 

The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 26, 2008 
O'Connor's head, and the ref­
erne was forced to call the 
fight. 

Heavyweight division 
David Stedman def. Daniel Scime 
In the only heavyweight aetion of the night, Stedman beat Sdme by unanimous ded­sion. 
Neither appeared to have an advantage early in the fight, but Seime landed a solid jab at the end of the first round to leave Stedman wobbling. Stedman landed several jabs and a strong right uppercut to start on· the second round, but Scim11 counternd with a strong left hook. At the end of the round, Seinw backed his opponent onto the ropes and used a snries of hooks to leave Stedman reeling. Stedman responded in the third round, landing a good series of body shots and uppnreuts to take the fight. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu, Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu, Pete Reisenauer at preisena@nd.edu, Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu, BRITI BURGESONfrhe Observer and Laura Myers at Junior Patrick Martin crouches over freshman Bernardo Garcia during the Bengal Bouts preliminaries in lmyers2@nd.edu the JACC on Monday night. Garcia won an unanimous decision over Martin in the 170-pound division. 


Anttouncittg the Year 2008 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino fmnily, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to a1mounce the year 2008 am1Ual competition for travel in support ofsummer resem·ch and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not nonnally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a .tormal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year ofItalian language. The course work \vill normal1y be in Italian; will involve the study ofItalian language, llteraturc, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree pro&rram at the University of Notre Dmne. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department ofRomance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1)  an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhm1ce their  
degree program at Notre Dame;  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-tem1 goals;  
3)  a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow;  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved;  
5)  two ietters ofrecommendation  
6)  a transcript showing all grades and courses completed  
7)  a list ofother sources offunding (being sought or confinned) for the same project  
(i.e. Office ofintemationa1 Studies, Nanovic Institute, etc.)  
Application Deadline: \Vednesday, February 27, 2008  
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship  
Pr·ogram in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
University of Notre Dame  

Tuesday, February 26, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
DakicJh faces OSU in first home game 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS Dan Dakich passed his first test as Indiana's new coach Saturday night. 
On Tuesday, the former Hoosiers player and Bob Knight assistant will fulfill his lifelong dream -being intro­duced to the home fans as the Hoosiers' new coach. To Dakich, who laments the cir­cumstances surrounding Kelvin Sampson's resignation last week, it will be a bitter­sweet moment. 
''I'm obviously thrilled to be sitting here, I'm not thrilled at the circumstances and I hope that's obvious, too," Dakich said Monday night on his first weekly radio show. "But I do want to thank a ton of people who sent me e-mails, text messages, letters and phone calls. The messages they left were unbelievable to me and my family. It tells me the mag­nitude of Indiana basketball, regardless of how things go, and it's just been an incredible thing for me personally." 
For Dakich and the 12th­ranked Hoosiers (23-4, 12-2 Big Ten) it's been a tumultuous couple of weeks. 
Since the university released an NCAA report accusing Sampson of five major rules violations Feb. 13, basketball has taken a rare backseat to rumors, speculation, criticism and consternation. 
Many fans questioned whether Sampson should have even been hired at a school that prides itself on not having committed a major NCAA vio­lation since 1960. Some critics responded by booing Sampson during pregame introductions of the Hoosiers' last three home games even though the Hoosiers continued to chase their first outright Big Ten title since 1993. 
Sampson's resignation Friday and Dakich 's subse­quent promotion were fol­lowed by a threatened players' boycott that never material­ized Saturday at Northwestern. The result: An 85-82 victory that was more impressive in demonstrating the Hoosiers' resilience than their play. 
Still uncertain is how fans might react to the players, six of whom skipped Dakich's first practice Friday. Dakich has repeatedly downplayed the supposed rift, reflecting on the hypothetical situation of how he would have acted in a simi­lar predicament during his playing days. 
"You don't miss practice, ever. But this isn't ever. This is extraordinary circumstances," he said. 
Are you considering graduate school 
and are you 
African American, Hispanic, Native Ameri,can, or a first-generation college student from a low income family? 
LEARN ABOUT THE 
MCNAIR SCHOLARS SUMMER RESEARCH PROGRAM AT NOTRE DAME 
AN 8-WEEK RESEARCH EXPERIEl~CE WITH HOUSING, MEALS, AND A STJ[pEND; FREE PREPARATION FOR THE GlR.E; TIPS ON APPLYING TO GRADUATE SC~HOOLS 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2008 
5:00-6:00 PM 
ROOM 218 MAIN BUILDING 
(Visit the program at http://www.nd. edu/,___mcnair/) 
MLB 
Nevv ac~quisitions give Angels depth for '08 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. -The Los Angeles Angels have been one of baseball's better tnams over the past several yean. They've won the AL West three of the past four seasons -and gone home frustrated in October. 
"One of the things that I believe hurt us the last few years is depth. I think the real good teams have good, solid depth," said Arte Moreno, who bought the Angels in 2003, the year after they won their first -and only -World Series title. 
Last fall, about half of the lineup was slowed or sidelined by injuries when Los Angeles was swept by Boston in the AL division series. 
The way the Angel:> stack up this spring, depth shouldn't be a problem. There's a surplus of Angels in the outfield and start­ing rotation, with some other spots also deep in talent. 
"You have to win your divi­sion first. You have to win your division outright," Moreno said. "Then you have to build for a short series. llow do you match up? I'd like to think we're built for the playoffs." 
Los Angeles has four outfield­ers with outstanding credentials aftnr signing f'ree-ag,~nt center finlder Torii II unter in the off­season. Vladimir Guerrero is in right. Garret Anderson in left, and Gary Matthews Jr. is being shift11d from center to some­where. Manager Mike Scioscia intends to keep all four in the lineup, using some sort of rota­tion at DH. 
Two other outfielders, Juan Rivera and Reggie Willits, will have to fight for playing time. 
Rivera hit .310 with 23 homers and 85 RBis and had an AL-high 13 outfield assists in 2006 but missed most of last season recuperating from a broken left leg. He has been working some at first base this spring, with Scioscia thinking he may be able to add depth there. 
Willits, impressive during his rookie campaign last year despite being hampered by a gallbladder problem, batted ' .293 (430 at-bats) with 27 steals. 
The mound is almost as crowded as the outfield. 
With five starters seemingly set, the Angels added a sixth when they sent shortstop Orlando Cabrera to the Chicago White Sox for Jon Garland. His acquisition looks more signifi­cant now, since 18-game win­ncr Kelvim Escobar is sidelined with a sore shoulder and may miss part of the season. 
"A few years ago, if Kelvim Escobar went down, we'd have a problem," Moreno said, allud­ing to the added depth. 
Not only do they have an abundance of proven players, the Angels have a number of highly regarded prospects in the pipeline. 

Join Us For Our Karaoke Paiama Pa1nv Wednesdav, Feb. 21' 
9:00 PM 'til 2:00 AMI 
$1.25 Beverages! 
K's Grill &Pub is located on State Road 2 3 (South Bend Avenue) 1/4 mile East of campus, next to Turtle Creek Apartments 

·o  
~  
University ofNotre Dame  ~ --..-§~  

NCAA BASKETBALL 

Emotional Huskies return to court after tragedy 
Associated Press 
CIIICA<;o -Michael Patton heard the news and immedi­ately grabbed his phone. 
A gunman had just opened firn in a crowded lecture hall at Northern Illinois. and he wanted know where his broth­er was, so lw tried to eall. 
No luck. 
lie tri<~d again. And again. 
Miehanl Patton was safo at baskntball practice, hut his brother was somewlwrn on ram pus. 
Bir.ardo Patton was worried. too. On till' way home from a recruiting trip, tlw lluskies' basketball wach kn e w 1111 (' s 0 n forward after such a devastat­ing tragedy, I think it's great to get back to some sense of nor­malcy as best you can." 

No NIU athletes were among the killed or wounded, although a men's soccer player was in the class during the rampage. 
The shootings stirred the elder Patton's memories of the Columbine High School mas­sacre in 1999. lie was the head coach at Colorado and 11110 of his players, Josh Townsend, lost a sister. Patton look over 11 months ago at this rural school in DeKalb. Ill.. about 65 miles from 
Chicago. 
Senior Shaun 

was linn but llw wlwrnahouts of Bicardo .Jr.. a football player.  "!think it's great to get hack to some sense ofnormalcy as  Logan had f'ilm analysis elass tho day of the shootings in tho  
wen~ a mystPry. CPll ralls WPI'I~  best you can. "  lneturo whnre  hall they  
going nowlwrn, but linally. al'tPr  Ricardo Patton  oeeurrnd. "I was just in  
nnarly  thrPn  Huskies coach  thorn  that  
hours. Mirhapf's  morning," said  
phorw rang. ffis  Logan,  a  for­ 

brotlll'r was on till' otlwr end, ward. "If this would have hap­and tlw mystery was solved. pPnnd any earlier.. I would "We got lucky." Michanl have b1H~n in there. So it 
Patton said. makns you fen! kind of weird." No llllP needs to remind him Michael Patton's friend was how lucky. tlwn~ during the shootings, but 
Nortlwrn Illinois will take she escaped without injury. lin anotlwr stPp toward normalcy has a theater class in that hall. when tlw II uski1~s host but hasn 'l btHHl by since then. Westnrn Michigan Tuesday in llis class got moved, as did the first athletic evPnt on cam­Logan's. pus since tlw shootings on Fd>. "I don't know if I'd want to 
14. go by it, to be honest with 
Classes resunwd Monday, but you," said Michael Patton, a getting back to routirw won't freshman. "For me, it's just be easy. kind of' easier to stay away 
Not when there are whitn from the area. It makes me crosses on a knoll. Not when think about it a lot more. there's crime scene tape out­Hopefully, I won't have to go side thn auditorium whnro tho near that lecture hall." gunman opnned fire, killing There has been an outpour­five students before taking his ing of support from colleges own lif'e. Not when counselors and pro teams since the shoot­are attending classes, offering ings. Coaches and administra­to lwlp students. tors got calls from their coun­
For a school determined to terparts at Virginia Tech, move on, a basketball game is where a massacre last spring just a small step. Or, maybe it left 33 dead and dozens is more than that. injured. 
"I think it's huge," coach Closer to home, there were Bicardo Patton said. "When moments of silence at college you talk about trying to get and pro games. The Chicago over as best you can and move Bulls wore NIU T-shirts during pregame warmups, and the Chicago Blackhawks sported NIU decals on their helmets. The Chicago White Sox will autograph caps that they wear during Wednesday's exhibition opener against Colorado and ship them to NIU for an auc­tion to benefit the university's February 14 Student Scholarship Fund. They will also auction an autographed NIU jersey and cap along with a White Sox bat and two other signed items on their Web site next month, with the proceeds going toward the scholarship fund. 
Western Michigan has been paying tribute, too, wearing NIU ribbons on its jerseys. And, of course, there will be tributes on Tuesday. 
This was already a difficult season for the Huskies (6-17, 3-8 Mid-American Conference), even though their most recent game was their best. Two days before the shootings, they beat Akron 88­78 and snapped the Zips' 22­game home winning streak. They were scheduled to host Western Michigan on Feb. 17, but NIU had closed down by then. 
When the team returned to practice on Wednesday, the elder Patton noticed "a level of focus and excitoment just got­ling back around one-anoth­
er." 


Write Sports: 
Call Chris at 1-4543 

For more information go to http://ace.interrtgooglepages.com/home 
ACE UNDERGRADUATE I NTERNSHIPS 

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-~ 

#Tuesday, February 26, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
evident throughout the match middle of the second round, bell --and Marra took advan­sophomore Brian Nelb before and he scored a knockout in Biddle had Bock on the run, tage, forcing the referee to stop Mower was able to retake com­
PreliiD~; 
the middle of the third round. and the referee stopped the the fight in the first round. mand of the fight. The third match for a standing eight­round saw a furious frenzy from 
continued from page 24 
Christopher Schiraldi def. count. The count did not derail Brian Heath def. Anthony Nelb that was stopped by the ee to stop the fight about a Nathan Serazin Biddle, who continued his Dayrit sound teeh.nique and retaliation minute in. Conti came out In the first upset of the night, strong round. Bock seemingly Despite Dayritt's late combos of Mower. The judges awarded aggressively, knocking Schiraldi beat the favored used all of his energy in the near the end of the closing Mower the win by unanimous Camarda down 30 seconds in Serazin by unanimous decision. first round as Biddle kept con­round, Heath's early advantage decision. before landing the blow that Schiraldi came out with a trol in the third round before in the back-and-forth contest ended the bout. strong first round against the the referee stopped the match proved too much, as the judges Matt "Mullet" Posluszny def. 
highly-seeded Serazin. The sec­and gave Biddle the win. named the sophomore the vic­Ryan "Th4! Uon" Carey Sean McNichols def. ond round was little bit closer, tor by unanimous decision. The first round was mostly a Michael Perez but it was clear that Shiraldi Chris Hartstein def. Chris 14E1-pound division danee with both fighters sizing 
McNichols got off to a quick was still in control, getting the Borchers eaeh other up. Junior start and then outlaslted Perez, bigger punches in despite sus­Hartstrien came out with a Thomas Schanzer def. Andy Posluszny's size and height as endurance wasn't a concern taining a bloody nose toward series of punches that knocked Zic1:arelli advantage over Carey was key, for the junior --who is also a end the round. Serzazin made a Borchers back and led to a In a bout that pitted a pair of allowing him to connect on marathon runner. McNichols comeback attempt in the final quick decision with Hartstein Dillon Hall residents against numerow; eombinations, while landed his punches with a round, but it was not enough. winning before the first round each other, Schanazer estab­keeping Carey at a distanee too greater frequency as the fight was even over. It was one of the lished control early by putting far to retaliate. Posluszny eame wore on, and he eventually 138-pound division most dominating performances the freshman on the defensive. away with a unanimous deeision proved too much for Perez. of the night in either ring. Schanazer's reach was helpful over the li·eshman Carey. 
Mike Howard def. John in the second round when he Andrew Mok def. Andrew Thomson Chris Cugliari def. Kevin got a couple of hard punches in Bert FitZJ~~erald def. Nick Crecelius In the weight class' opening O'Brien on Ziccarelli to close out the "Gary" SE~veryn 
Both boxers came out swing­bout, Howard dominated early Both fighters came out round. Ziccarelli tried to make The first round started out ing from the get-go, with nei­in the first round. By the end of aggressively, but Cugliari even­a comeback in the last round, with even competition as both ther fighter allowing the other the first, though, Thomson tually landed several combos to but it was just not enough as fighters exchanged jabs. The to dance away in the first made it interesting with a the face that O'Brien couldn't Schanazer's size advantage seeond round featured furious minute. The pace slowed con­series of jabs. Thomson was block. Cugliari's quickness gave him a unanimous victory. fighting with each boxer trying siderably from there as each able to avoid Howard's big proved to be the difference in to fmd a weakness in the other's got winded and settled down. punches in the second round, his win by unanimous decision. Mar•k Costanzo def. Andrew defense. Although Severyn con­Mok took advantage of but Howard outlasted Thomson Balhoff neeted 010. several eombinations Crecelius' over-aggressiveness. in the third to win by split deci­Michael Johnston def. Thomas Tlh.e first two rounds were to the he.!ld in the third round, winning the fight by unanimous sion. Blanchette pretty close as both fighters the grad1uate student Fitzgerald decision. Blanchette resorted to grab­landed some solid punches. was able w seeure the vietory by 
Bobby Powers def. James bing Johnston whenever he Costanzo took control early in split decision. Matt Dobleman def. Daniel Woods Ill could and was able to land sev­the third round but Barhff was Rotar The fight opened up with a eral shots at Johnston's body able to make a comeback later Lawrenc•3 Sullivan def. Marty 
The match started out close bang as both fighters threw before pinning him in the cor­in the round. But it was too lit­Sandberg but Rotar tired quiickly and huge punches quickly after the ner early in the third round. tle too late, and Costanzo was Sandberg eame out swinging, Dobleman took over. He even­opening bell. The second round Johnston reestablished the given the victory by unanimous but the more patient Sullivan tually threw a flurry of punch­was stopped as Woods suffered momentum he held early, going decision. seemed to land nearly every es, which gave Rotar a bloody a bloody nose, which persisted on to win by unanimous deci­punch he threw, espeeially in the nose. Dobleman was given the and became a major factor as sion. Ma1tthew Ireton def. Stephen early going. Sullivan showed his victory when the referee sus­the fight went on. Powers' abili­Ma1ttingly versatilitr by throwing punches pended the match. ty to land thundering punches Will Marra def. Soeren Ireton came out hitting early from each side and every angle 
at Woods' already weakened Palumbo and often, dominating the first and his strength by pinning Patrick W. O'Brien d1ef. nose won him the fight, which The more experienced Marra round and putting Mattingly on Sandberg against the ropes in all Nicholas Abercrombie was ended by the referee in the used a bevy of uppercuts to the defensive. The second round three rounds to win by unani­
At the close of the fiirst round, middle of the third round. knock out Palumbo, who, like was no different, with Ireton get­mous deeision. O'Brien took control of the most of the young fighters par­ting: a couple huge body shots in match with a couple of solid John Biddle def. Nicholas ticipating in the Bouts, had on Mattingly, who was unable to Brian KoE~psel def. James punches. The second round Bock never been exposed to punches use his long reach to his advan­Heilbron brought much of the same, with In the first round, Bock threw like the ones the senior threw tage. Ireton won the match by Koepsel knocked out Heilbron O'Brien throwing a punishing a punishing body shot to at him early and often. unanimous decision. early in the first round. blow at the end of the round. Biddle, who came back with a Palumbo was forced to go on Koepsel's long reach conneeted, O'Brien's size advantage was hard shot to Bock's face. In the the defensive from the opening Mark Weber def. Sean Pennino and Heillbron fell down and was 
Weber showed why he's a jun­unable to get himself baek up to ior captain, using his reach fight. advantage to control the pace of the fight and force the officials to Daniel Iwanski def. Tomas stop it in the second round. Castillo Pennino simply couldn't estab­Castillo, a junior, defeated lish any momentum as Weber freshman Iwanski by unani­dictated the tempo by landing mous decision. several big blows to the fresh­The first two rounds were man's face and body. dose, as the two traded blows 
with no decisive hits. However, Shc1wn McNeilly def. John Castillo <Carne out strong in the Fulllard third round, attacking at a fero­
In a fight narrowly decided by cious speed. split decision, McNeilly edged Fullard on the strength of a Kristoph1er "EI Azteca" Perez dominating third round. def. Mar•,co Rosales McNeilly got more aggressive as Perez, a junior and two-time the fight wore on, and Fullard's defending ehampion, defeated ability to block his opponent's freshman Rosales in a close attack eventually deteriorated. mateh. The first round was 
even, but Perez came out Tim Thayer def. Ryan McCargar strong in the seeond round, on 
Thayer, who held a generous his way w what looked like an height advantage, crushed easy vietory. Rosales put up McCargar as the fight was more of a fight in the third stopped midway through the round, but his effort was not first round. Thayer's reach was enough. too much for the freshman, who couldn't block an array of jabs 155-pour1d division and hooks. 
Dillon "lr·ish Car Bomb" Bailey Eri1:: Arevalo def. Michael Bruns def. Tim "Business Socks" 
In a fight that was stopped Hronick several times, Arevalo used an Dillon Bailey, a freshman, aggressive approach to top eonneeted on several punishing Bruns by unanimous decision. blows to fellow freshman Both fighters needed assistance Hroniek's head~ Hroniek rallied at some point during the fight, to make it a fight in the seeond but Arevalo prevailed, outlasting round. 1-Ironick took a lot of his opponent despite the ail­punishment in the third round ments. and showed his heart, but 
Bailey eame away with the 149-pound division unanimous victory. 
PaiLII "The Punisher" Mower Luciano Lara def. John "My delr. Brian "G-Loves" Nelb Body is a Wonderland" Maier 
Senior Paul Mower came out Lara. a senior, didn't let his strong in first round, connecting size disadvantage slow him on several combinations. Round two saw an early comeback from see CONT.'D/page 21 

PGA TouR 

Tiger's hot start fuels thoughts of Grand Slam 
Associated Press 
MAHANA. Ariz. -The closest anyone came to a perfect season on the PGA Tour was Ben Hogan. 
He won every major champi­onship he played in 1953, and every official tournament he entered except for the Seminole Pro-Am Invitational, where he tied for second. Then again, !logan only played six times that year because of battered legs from a bus accident. 
Tiger Woods will play no more than 17 evenl<> on the PGA Tour this year, so a 2-0 start might be a little early for anyone to get exeited. 
Even so, expectations were as high as the desert sun at noon when Woods left Arizona with yet another victory. It was his fourth in a row on tour sincn early September, all done in meord fashion. 
lin set a 72-hole seoring meord at Cog llill outside Chicago and won by eight shots at the Tour Championship and the Buick Invitational. both record mar­gins. On Sunday. he smoked Stnwart Cink S and 7 in the Aecenture Match Play Championship, the biggest blowout in the finals in 10 years of a tournament that Woods eon­siders the toughest to win this side of a m<~jor. 

"I think this certainly is the best stretch I've every played," Woods said. 
Strong words -downright scary -considering that Woods won nine times, including three straight majors, in 2000 and that he won six consecutive PGA Tour events at the end of 2006, a streak that reached seven until losing in the Match Play the fol­lowing year. 
Woods, who also won in Dubai earlier this month, has never before started a season with three straight victories, and it is hard not to speculate how long he can keep winning given his history at some of the tourna­ments coming up. 
Next is the Arnold Palmer Invitational March 13-16 at Bay llill, where Woods won four straight times from 2000 to 2003. The week after that is the CA Championship at Dora!, wlwre he has won the last throe yoars. 
Then the Masters April 10-13. 
"lie just morphs his game into the courses," Cink said. "So I don't think there's a course that's going to present him with a real obstacle as far as him not being a favorite." 
Woods did little to squash the notion of a perfect season when someone asked him if winning them all was within reason. 
NFL 

Bush skips deposition in illegal gifts lawsuit 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO-Heggie Bush failed to show up for a sched­uled deposition on Monday, the latest twist in the civil lawsuit against the former Heisman Trophy winner who allegedly accepted cash and gifts from sports marketers during his sophomore and junior seasons at Southern California. 
"lie literally ran from his dep­osition." said Brian Watkins, the attornny for sports marketnr Lloyd Lake, who is suing Bush. 
Watkins said he received a fax from one of Bush's attorneys saying the New Orleans Saints' running back wouldn't bn corn­ing. 
Bush's attorney, David Cornwell, dndirwd to eornmnnt. 
"I have nothing to provide fi1r you," Cornwell said when readwd on his cell phone. 
Watkins requested that Bush bring extensive financial rncords, including thosn doeu­nwnting the purchase of a <~ar, as well as canceled rent chocks for thn suburban San Dingo honw whnrn his parents lived and for a condo in Los Angeles. 
Lake is seeking to recoup somn $291.000 in cash and gifts tlw star running back and his family allegedly acceptnd from Lakn and his former partner, Michael Michaels, while Bush was at USC. 
Lakn daims he gavn Bush eash to buy a car and that Michaels allowed Bush's parents to live rent-free in a San Diego-area horne. Lake and Michaels were trying to attract Bush as a dient for their marketing firm, New Era. 

Michaels settled with Bush in 2007. 
The latest development came 13 days after Lake and Watkins walked out of a deposition after a man accompanying Cornwell opened his jacket to expose a pistol. 
Watkins said Bush's lawyers are trying to keep transcripts of Bush's deposition from being given to the NCAA. 
"That's my intent. That's why you play," Woods said after col­lecting his 63rd career tour vic­tory and his 15th title in the World Golf Championships. "If you don't believe you can win an event, don't show up." 
But it also is his intent to make every putt and hit every shot just how he wants. No one does that, of course. No one wins every tournament. Byron Nelson holds the record with 11 straight victo­ries during a year in which he won 18 times in 30 events. That means he lost 12 times that year. 

A perfect season in golf? 
"I do find that laughable," Hal Sutton said Monday. "Anybody who knows golf knows that ain't going to happen. You can only own this game for a certain peri­od of time. Even if your name is Tiger Woods, you don't own it forever." 
Sutton was among those who beat Woods during a time when the world's No. 1 player looked unbeatable, going head-to-head with him at The Players Championship in 2000 and win­ning by one shot. 
He watched part of the cham­pionship match Sunday "until I got bored." 
'Tiger is defmitely more domi­nating," Sutton said. 
Curtis Strange is among those who played in the prime years of Woods and Jack Nicklaus, and he said it is pointless to compare generations. 

The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a nomination fonn, please visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/prograrns-and-links/dennymooreaward.shtml 
Nominations are due by Tuesday, March 11, 2008. 

.---------------------------------------------. 
Tuesday, February 26, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MIAA 
continued from page 24 
One of our team goals was to be in the top four of the MIAA so that we could be at home." 
Last season, Henley led the Belles to one ol' their best seasons in the program history with a record of 12­13, 10-6 MIAA. The season. 
"The tournament week is always tough," Henley said. "You are seeing teams for the third time in a season and everyone should be playing their best basket­ball. There is not a lot of down time between games, so teams really have to be focused." 
Tonight's winner will play Thursday against the winner 
of tonight's 
game between 

squad reached "One ofour goals was No. 8 Tri­the semifinals State and
to be in the top four 

of the post­No.1 Hope.
of the MIAA so that

season tourna­Hope bumped ment, where it we could be at home." Saint Mary's lost 71-52 to out of the IIope. tournament
Jenn Henley 

Olivet was last year, and 
Belles coach

knocked out of has beaten last year's the Belles tournament by twice this sea­Albion in the first 1round. son. But the Belles are The Belles hope to hand focused on Tuesday's game Olivet a similar fate tonight. before looking ahead. 
"If there is an advantage "We need to carry over the to playing Olivet on Tuesday, momentum we had from it would be Saturday into that we are [tonight's I familiar with "We need to carry g a m e , " them," Henley Henley said.
over the (flOmentum 

said. "We need to 
we hadfrom Saturday

After being improve on on the road for into [tonight's] game." the boards the early part and be sure to of the season, finish our
Jenn Henley 

Saint Mary's shots in the 
Belles coach 
I

has played its last five games at home, going 3-2 in those contests. 
Senior Alison Kessler has rewritten Saint Mary's histo­ry during this homestand, setting the career points record against Adrian on Feb. 20 to go with a record for career 3-pointers on Feb. 9. She riow has 1581 points and 139 treys as a Belle. 
Despite their current hot streak, the Belles know they have their work cut out for them as they begin the post-
r 
t 
t:
F' en
k 
paint. 
thought we 
missed too many layups on Saturday." 
Whatever the outcome of tonight's game, Henley said she is pleased with her team and its season. 
"I think, overall, we have worked very hard to be in the top four of the confer­ence," she said. "I am very proud of this team and its strong finish down the stretch." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Cont.'d 
continued from page 19 
down, coming right at Maier. There was not much contact in round two, with both fighters feeling each other out for weak­nesses. Maier, a sophomore, came alive in the third, finally taking advantage of his height advantage over Lara, but it would not be enough to defeat the scrappy Lara, who won by split decision. 
Mark "Senor Marco" Bennett def. Hamilton Marx 
There was heavy action right off the bat, as both fighters sought to overwhelm each other early. The senior Bennett knocked down Marx with a fero­cious right hook in the second round, almost knocking him out of the ring. Marx, a senior, fell for a second time later in the round, causing the referee to stop the fight. 
Pat "My Room is a 24-hour Space" O'Brien def. Michael "Wu Shack" Wu 
Both fighters traded numerous body shots to start the first round. O'Brien, a senior, took control in the second round with repeated left-right combinations. The freshman Wu continued to back away, trying to keep in the fight. In the third round Wu took some serious punishment when O'Brien poure on the pressure. O'Brien was awarded the fight by unanimous decision 
161-pound division 
Joe "The Roman Catholic" Church def. Colin "Oscar" Meyer 
Church connected with several big punches early against Meyer, nearly knocking him down. Meyer kept pace with Church, but Church was able to keep the pressure on, probing for weak­nesses in Meyer's defense. The 



University ofNotre Dame 
Emerging Directions in 
Probability and Statistics 
·-.... u 

ca February 29-March 1, 2008 
E G) (Friday-Saturday) 
.c:

.... http://cam.nd.edu/upcoming-conferences/spring2008/ 
ca 
:E
, 

This workshop will bring together re­
G)

-
·-searchers working on the frontiers of a. activities in probability and mathemati­c 
a. cal statistics. Emphasis will be on ex­pository lectures which survey the.. "state of the art" in a particular sub­0 area with a specific goal of communi­
..... 

cating and promoting interactions with
.. 

scientists, social scientists, and engi­
G)

.... neers who wish to make use of methods 
third round brought much of the same, with both fighters blocking the other's attacks, but Church struek more often than Meyer. Church received the nod from the judges by unanimous decision. 
Jaso11 Miller def. Kevin "Just One More" Goodwin 
Miller took advantage of his size, keeping Goodwin at a dis­tance and connecting on several combinations. Goodwin couldn't get up to Miller's height, as Miller gradually wore him down. Goodlwin made a spirited attack in the final round backing Miller down, but it was just not enough as Miller continued to assert hin1­self. Miller won by unanimous decision. 
Nick "The Ponz" Ponzio def. Jack "The Ripper" Peterson 
In the first round Ponzio came right at Peterson, but Peterson madB him pay the price for clos­ing the distance. Ponzio was able to get some valuable blows in and 
back Peterson up to the ropes. The fighters settled in after two rounds, answering combination for combination. Peterson began to use his size advantage in the third round, but Ponzio kept up · the pressure in an inspired effort. Ponzio edged out Peterson in a 
split decision. 
Ryan "Se(Jiui-Man" Smith def. 
David Landry 
Smith came right at Landry at the start of the fight, backing him across the ring. Landry looked lost as Smith landed blow after blow. The punishment continued in the third round, with Smith scoring a knockdown of Landry, causing tile referee to call the fight. 
Contact Ptter Reisenauer at preisena@nd.edu, Laura Myers at lmyersO:Z@nd.edu, Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu, Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu and 
Matt Gamher at 
mgamber(~~nd.edu 


HOLY CROSS 
Col.I.EGE 
You can advance the Catholic Mission of Holv Cross! 
•' 

HALL DIRECTORS NEEDED 2008-2009 I l.OL"T CR<)SS-, C"'OLL l"'G'F'-'
:·: ·J: ~'-·-~-~-~ ·... :: ··"-' 
MARRIED OR SINGLE GRAD STUDENTS LAW STUDENTS 
c and concepts from probability and sta­
G) tistics. 
(.) 

CONTACT 
RESLJFE(a)HCC-ND~Eou 
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Stretch 
continued from page 24 
beat No. 21 Syracuse in the 
Carrier Dome on Feb. 16 
and outlasted DePaul on 
Sunday with a two-point 
win. 
Notre Dame did slip up once on the road trip, a 57­51 loss at No. 4 Rutgers last Tuesda~ but that loss is to be expected in the Big East. 
Even though that loss did not sever Notre Dame's chances of a bye, it did expose an alarming trend for the Irish this season. Notre Dame has beaten infe­rior teams all season, but has struggled mightily against other ranked oppo­nents. Other than Rutgers, the Irish played three teams currently ranked in the top live, and were blown out in two of them -both at the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame played No. 1 Connecticut on Jan. 27 and lost 81-64 and then lost to No. 3 Tennessee 87-63 on Jan. 5. The Irish also lost to No. 13 West Virginia in Morgantown 56-50. a remarkably close finish after the Irish managed only 11 first-half points. 
Currently, only Connecticut (13-1), Hutgers (12-1) and West Virginia (11-2) sit ahead of the Irish (9-4) in the conference standings. But what makes the final three games so crucial for Notre Dame is the logjam behind it. 
Syracuse, Louisville and Pittsburgh all sit one game back of the Irish at 8-5 and DePaul is 7-6, still within striking distance of the earn­ing the bye. 
One major factor in decid­ing the No. 4 seed in the Big East tournament is schedul­ing. The Irish haVf1 already faced their toughest confer­ence tests this season in the Huskies and Searlet Knights, and look to finish off the year against some of the dregs in the bottom of the standings. 
The Orange still have to host the Mountaineers before traveling to l'iseataway, N.J., on Saturday for a matchup with Hutgers, meaning they could eonceivably finish the season 1-2. Louisville and Pittsburgh each have easier roads to the tournament; each plays West Virginia and two other schools that are in the bottom half of the league standings. 

In its last three regular season games, Notre Dame will play host to South Florida (3-1 0) on Wednesday and Seton Hall (3-10) on Saturday before finishing with St. John's (4-9) on March 4. 
On paper, those games look like they should be easy wins, but McGraw fears these games the most head­ing into the stretch run. This is the last season in which only 12 of the 16 Big East teams make the conference tournament, leaving the bot­tom four to start their off­seasons a week earlier than they would like to. Currently, the Red Storm occupy the No. 12 spot, but the Bulls and Pirates are only a game out. This means that Notre Dame, with its postseason spot all but guaranteed, will be playing teams that are in must-win situations from here on out. 
McGraw is not the type of coach that will let her team slack off at the end of a sea­son, so she needs tell her team to stay focused and to make sure it wins these next three games. 
The worst thing that could happen for Notre Dame at this point is any kind of let­down. Last year, the Irish had a two-game home skid to end the regular season and then lost in the first round of the Big East tour­nament to DePaul. Even though the Irish still made the NCAA Tournament, they were a No. 8 seed and had to play No. 1 North Carolina in the second round -not the ideal situation for any team. 
The best way for Notre Dame to make sure that they are the bully picking ofT mid­dle-ranked teams in March is to finish with three solid wins that would impress the NCAA Selection Committee. 
The Irish have a knack for winning games they are sup­posed to. They just need to do it three more times. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

Race 
continued from page 24 
onship can be shared between two or more teams, but only one can claim the No. 1 seed in New York. 
Head-to-head record is the first tie-breaker, which Georgetown holds over Notre Dame. The winner of Notre ence to play Florida Gulf Coast, a team the Golden Eagles fig­ure to rout, but by playing an extra game they run the risk of injuries and fatigue. 

On the bubble 

The top five teams in the Big East are all considered locks for the NCAA Tournament, but right behind them is another group that is lighting for the The Wildcats (7-8) were ranked for much of the early season but fell by the wayside with a five-game losing streak in late January. They get another shot at a big win on March 2 against Louisville. 
Syracuse (7-8) is on life-sup­port for a bid. The Orange have a big win over Georgetown, but have lost four 
of their last five. 
They still have 

Dame's game with Louisville final two or big games left
The winner ofNotre 
would hold the tie-breaker three spots the against
Dame,s game with 
between those two and conference will Pittsburgh and Louisville holds the tie-breaker earn in the Big Louisville would hold Marquette. over Georgetown. Dance. Cincinnati sits
the tie-breaker 
The second tie-breaker is West Virginia at 8-6 in confer­
between those two.
record against common confer­(8-6) has been ence opponents, in order from up and down all best team to worst. season, and it 

needs to finish Chasing a bye on a high note to get a bid. A 
Until a 66-62 loss to win over Connecticut would do Villanova Saturday, wonders for the Mountaineers, Connecticut (10-4) was one of and a win in their rivalry the teams focusing on the con­match-up with Pittsburgh on ference title. But because of March 3 would both help their that loss and Marquette's wins resume and hurt the Panthers. 
over Rutgers  They also have  
and Villanova,  games against  
the Huskies  DePaul and Saint  
find themselves  The top five teams in  John's.  
just one game ahead in the loss column of the 11-5  the Big East are considered locks for the NCAA  For its part, Pittsburgh missed two huge opportunities for  
Golden Eagles  Tournament.  resume-building  

for the final bye in the Big East tourna­ment. 
Connecticut has a pretty easy road ahead of it. Its only away games are at Rutgers and Providence, and they finish the season with slumping Cincinnati. West Virginia may provide a test, but that game is at home. 
Marquette is almost the exact opposite of the Huskies. It has a huge game with Georgetown and has to travel to Syracuse on the last weekend of the sea­son for what will probably be a must-win game for the Orange. 
They also step out of confer-wins this week­

end by losing to 
Notre Dame and Louisville. The Panthers start­ed the season 11-0, including a win over Duke, but have been bitten by the injury bug and are just 7-7 in the Big East. Like the Mountaineers, the Panthers are looking forward to March 3. The rest of their games in conference -against Cincinnati, Syracuse, West Virginia, and DePaul -pro­vides a chance for the Panthers to get back in the Tournament. 
Villanova added a major resume-building win Saturday against Connecticut but fell short to Marquette Monday. 
ence play and 
will probably 
beat out some 
of the above teams for Big East tournament seeding. However, the Bearcats had an ugly non-conference experience and are only 13-13 overall. They have a chance to play spoiler against Pittsburgh Wednesday and when they visit Connecticut in their regular season finale. 
Hoping to get to New York 
The top 10 teams in the con­ference all feel comfortable about their prospective trips to Madison Square Garden (although if Syracuse falls apart, it could be left out). However, there is a logjam in slots 10-14 and only two of those teams can get to the con­ference tournament. 
If the season ended today, Seton Hall (6-8) and DePaul (5­
9) would be in, but hot on their heels are St. John's (4-10) and Providence (4-11). 
South Florida (2-12) and Rutgers (2-13) need monu­mental collapses by the teams in front of them to make the conference tournament and are just hoping to stay out of the Big East cellar. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


Tuesday, February 26, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
BLACK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


LOLLERSKATES 

ANOTHER UNFUNNY COMIC 
LIZ MURPHY and SARAH MUSCARELLA 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

67 Proficient 
68 O.K. 
69 Newsman Koppel 
70 Fix, as laces 
71 This puzzle's 
theme 

Down _Strip (much­fought-over area) 2 British P.M. 
Douglas-Home 3 Whip 4 Prefix with 
matter 5 Like wearing a seat belt, e.g. 6 Lombardy province or its 
capital 7 De-squeak 8 CBS forensic 

drama 9 "Our Gang" kid 10 Famous Virginia 
family 

11 Lofty place for an academic 12 Pepsi vis-a-vis Coke 
13 Symbol of justice 18 Racetracks 
22 Bout decision 
24 Didn't stay on 
25 Kerfuffles 

27 Part of M.I.T.: Abbr. 28 Highway toll unit 29 Its academy is in 
New London, Conn. 30 Some E.R. cases 32 _ vez (again, in Spanish) 
WILLSHORTZ 

for hire)51 Four duos 
401n of 
52 Peter of "M" 61 Wraps (up) 
42 First drug 
54 Super stars
approved to treat 
56 _-Tass news 64 Snare 
AIDS 
agency 45 90210, for 58 Court plea, 65 Prefix with Beverly Hills informally dermis 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAr/ BLED WORD GAME by Henri Amold and Mike Argirion

JJ1JJMJID11IE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
j 
Two-hourto form four ordinary words. 
SUPEA 
I I [

@2008 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

RAXOB 

j
I CI SYMICT j 
A JU06E: WIL.L. 00

I I r (] 
THIS WHE:N HE: HAS 
www.jumbie.com 

A TE:NNIS MATCH GROCED Now arran!JS the circled letters 



to form the surprise answer. as 
suggested l~y the above cartoon. Answer here: rnTO " rr~r I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: SUAVE FLUID 1\IOODLE CABANA Answer: When the sailor didn't tie the rope properly, it was -"BOUND" TO FIIIL 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Justin Jeffre. 35; Sean Astin, 37; Tom Courtenay. 71: Sally Jessy Raphael. 73 
Happy Birthday: There will be lots going on behind the scenes this year. You will have to ask questions if you want to be in the loop. Opportunities are present and money and deals can be made. Take action and you wJJl succeed; let others take over and you will stand still. Your numbers are 10, 14, 22, 27, 41,47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You have lots to gain i:f you help others. Your ability to find solutions and match what anyone else can offer will enhance your chances of advancement. Changes made now will lead to greater stability. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Go after what yon want and don't let anrone stand in your way. Someone you Jove may not agree with yom tJehavior but, if tt helps you get ahead, you have to follow through. Take advantage of career and learning oppor­tunities. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will get a response regarding a position or an opening that interests you. A personal connection to scmeone you are working with 
will develop. Travel for education or business will pay off down the road. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll make a big deal out of nothing. Contain your anger, enthusiasm and your actions so that you don't make a mistake you'll regret. An opportunity may be lost if you are too aggressive or sbJbbom. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A few alterations at borne will make things easier for )'OD but someone may complain in the interim. Love may stress you out, especially tf you are uncertain or have met someone new. Proceed with caution and don1t make a com­mitment to anyone just yet. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your unique way of handling situations and other people will put you iu the category of a hero. Keep up the good work and, although 
someone may be jealous. you'll be the one to come oul on top. Your true friends will be happy for you. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You don't have to oversr.end in order to impress some­one. A trip will spur some creative ideas that can he Jl you choose a new direction. Don't let your emotions get the better of you or you moy reveal too much personal in­formation. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Concentrate on work :ud doing a good job instead of pointless arsuing. It's easy for someone else to criticile you but, if you take what's being said literally, you are likely to lose ground. Believe in yourself. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Getting involved is the first step to getting ahead. You should offer your services and donate ymu· time to something you believe in. A chance to meet someone who can boost your corfidence and perhaps your income is in the stars. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dee. 22-Jan. 19): By trying something new or visiting a destination to which you've never been, your eyes will be opened to a new way of doing things. A slight change of plans will lead to a more secure future. Do the unexpected. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Things are looking up so don't bold back when there is so much to gain. A chance meeting with someone who can help you out financially will boost your morale. Be outgoing, creative and inv•mtive. Money is heading your way. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Think and do is the g:trne plan. Stop waffling and start to turn your ideas into something tangible. Taking action doesn't have to cost a lot. Sharing your ideas will lead to support and a possibJ,o partnership. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are inventive, unique, versatile ;md a fearless trendsetter. You are hardworking and energetic, with great potential. ~·ou aren't afraid to go it alone. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.t;omfor confidential coruultalions 

CROSSWORD 
Across Some charity fund-raisers 

6 Outspoken 11 Org. with a code 14 Singer Davis 
with the 1998 hit "32 Flavors" 15 Airplane seat choice 16 Old _, London theater 17 Joie de vivre 19 Lab eggs 20 Accomplish 21 Star-related 23 Prank player 26 "South Park" kid 27 Preceder of Bell or shell 31 Speed-happy driver 
33 Book in which the first Passover occurred 
35 Castle protector 
36 Middle-earth 
meanie 39 Teacher's charge 
40 Paris's lnvalides 41 Colder and windier 
43 "__ a Tramp" ("Lady and the Tramp" tune) 
44 Si ~ger Pinza 
46 Popular setting to· a wedding 47 Fantastically wonderful 50 Snare 
51 Daughter of C:~ar Nicholas I or II 
53 Arctic bird 
55 Nawswoman Katie 
57 D;ner sign filler 
62 __-Ia-Ia 
63 S:>eaking manner 66 Go wrong 

P-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Tuesday, February 26, 2008 
page 24 
-· BENGAL BOUTS 
First day of tourney sho·wcases 182 fighters 
By PETE REISENAUER, 
LAURA MYERS, JARED 
]EDICK, SAM WERNER and 
MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writers 
Tho 7Hth-annual Bengal Bouts boxing tournament bngan Tuesday with IJI l'ights between lighters or 13 weight dassns. 
130-pound division 
Jack Dillon def Daniel Brannon 
In the night's opening bout, Dillon won a elose fight that wasn't decided until tlw l'inal round. Neither lighter estab­lished a ddinitiVll advantage until Dillon landed a couple of eombos early in the third, earning him a unanimous vic­tory. 
Matt Conti def. Joe Camarda 
Conti was able to knock Camarda down twice in the l'irst round, causing the refer-
see PRELIMS/page 19 
Fists of fury 


BRITT BURGESON!The Observer Left, senior Matt Decker raises his fist after winning his Bengal Bouts preliminary match against freshman Kevin Kray. Right, Bernardo Garcia and Patrick Martin trade punches. Garcia won by unanimous decision and advanced to the quarterfinals on Thursday. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL ANALYSIS 

First place up for grabs at top of Big East pack 
After a murky beginning, weeks from now in New in the NCAA Tournament. games. Recently, however, the Cardinals will also play a horne thn liHtms of the Big East are York, with the top four lloyas have faltered, losing to game against Villanova, which beginning to separatP as the teams getting a bye. The Big Three Louisville and Syracuse. will be lighting for its NCAA c~onfnrenee tourrwy draws Three teams -The Jloyas and Cardinals are Over the next two weeks, Tournament life. nnar. Georgetown, Louisville, and tied at the top of the league at Georgetown has two more DPspite having to play the 
Most of Notre Dame-are tied at 12-3, with the Irish close on major tests -a visit to Cardinals on Thursday, Notm the league Chris Khorey the top in the loss column their heels at 11-3. All three Milwaukee to play Marquette Dame might have the easiest has thrM1 with three losses apiece, are in good position to earn a and a rematch with Louisville schedule of the three. After games while Connecticut and bye in the first round of the in Washington. The lloyas lin­taking on Louisville, the Irish
.f.)ports Editor

remaining, MarqueltR loom beyond with conference tournament, but ish up with a game against play DPPaul, St. John's and whiln four and five losses respec­the main goal for these three is bottom-feeder St. John's. South Florida, none of who so me tively. to win the regular season con­Louisville might have the have a winning rceord in con­t11ams. likn thP Irish, have Behind those top squads, ference championship. toughest road through the final ference play. f'our. The top 12 teams in the several teams are trying des­Georgetown started the con­stretch of the season. It faces The conference ehampi­16-squad confernnce make perately to get a few more ference season hot, winning Georgetown and. a home the Big East tournament two wins to solidify their places nine of' its first 10 league mateh-up with the Irish. The see RACE/page 22 
NO WoMEN'S BASKETBALL ANALYSIS 
Team attempts to earn bye 
With six ganws left to play in Notre Dame's conf'erP.ncn schedule, Irish coach Mul'f'et Mc(;raw said lwr team need­C1d to go 4-2 if it wantnd to sec:urn a first-round Jay Fitzpatrick 
byn in the Big East Associate tourna­.')ports Editor 
nwnt. So far. nvnry­thing is right on schmfule. 
Th11 Irish c:onw homn on W11drwsday after thnir thrcw­ganw road trip-thn long11st in thn Big East this snason­having gorw 2-1. Notr11 Dam11 
sec STRETCH/page 22 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles set to take on Olivet in tournam_ent 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Wrirer 

Saint Mary's begins post­season play tonight at home at 7:30 as thP Belles take on rival Olivet in the first round of the MI/\A tourna­ment. 
The week-long tourna­mcmt kicked off last night with a play-in game between No. 9 Kalamazoo and No. 8 Tri-State in which the ThundPr knocked the Hornets out with an 80-70 victory. 
The Bellp,s (12-12, 8-8 MIA/\) defp,ated Olivnt 74-56 Saturday in thPir last regu­lar season ganw -giving them a fourth-place finish in the rPgular snason and earning them home-court advantage for tonight's con­test. 
"It's nice to host this part of' the Ml/\1\ tournament," Belles coach Jnnn llenl11y said. "Wp, have been on the road so much this sPason. 
see MIAA/page 2 1 






