
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 62 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER3, 2008 

Mooney: Education more important than cost 
Saint Mary's President writes letter to parents ofprospective students to encourage consideration ofall financial options 
Presidential Perspective post­tain economic future." may not be the final price ty."
By LIZ HARTER 
ed on the College's external However, quality cannot be that student will pay because Susan Dampeer, Mooney's
Saint Mary's Editor 
Web site sacrificed in some areas, of financial aid. executive assistant, told The 
o n 
Mooney said. "Many private institutions, Observer that the perspective 
With the economy at the Monday. "Even in difficult times, for like Saint Mary's, offer schol­posted on the Web site is not forefront of most news "It is the some things quality is worth arships, need based aid, the first time Mooney has dis­broadcasts and on front natural the sacrifice," she said. loans, work study, and other cussed the subject of the pages of many newspapers, reaction in "Some decisions are too solutions. Nearly one-fourth economy. the effects are beginning to uncertain important to be left in the of our operating budget is Mooney addressed the cur­reach higher education and times to hands of the lowest bidder." devoted to making a Saint rent economic situation and raising questions as to tighten our She encouraged the parents Mary's education affordable the College's response to it whether or not families will belts," of prospective students -the for our families," Mooney with the faculty and staff be able to send children to Mooney main target of the external said. " ... The end result is during a series of talks in expensive colleges and uni­said in the Mooney Web site -to explore their that, for some students, the early November, Dampeer versities. perspective. "People are driv­financial aid options in these cost of attending a private said. 
Saint Mary's President ing less, shopping less, and "uncertain times" and college or university is actu­"The presidential perspec-Carol Ann Mooney respon­doing more with less -all reminded parents that the ally lower than that of 
ded to this dilemma in a wise reactions to an uncer-"sticker price" of a college attending a public universi-

NDSP gives winter driving advice 
Students should increase following distance by 3 seconds, heed weather agency warnings 
of friction between the tires andBy ROBERT SINGER the road surface isn't there," he

News Writer 
said. "If you steer, you might end up going in a straight line. When 

Captain Phil Trent, public infor­you hit the brakes, you slide mation officer at the South Bend because there is no stopping abil­Police Department, gave some ity." advice to students who plan to Korros also pointed to some drive on wintry roads: "Practice guidelines for returning to cam­makes perfect. Give yourself a lot pus in one piece. Drivers should of time and distance between you increase their following distance and the cars in front of you." to three seconds, clear all win­
Driving on roads layered by ice dows beforehand, apply steady and snow is among the adjust­brake pressure and in the event ments students coming from that the car loses traction, the warmer climates like those found driver should release the gas in California and Florida must pedal and turn the steering wheel make in the northern Midwest. slightly in the direction that the 
Notre Dame Security Police rear-end is drifting. Major Jeff Korros explained the In slippery conditions, "jab­difference between driving on bing" at the brakes will cause snow and driving in clear condi­tires to lock and slide while tions. "overcorrecting" and turning the 
"The biggest difference is that you lose traction. The coefficient see SNOW/page 4 see MOONEY/page 3 


Groups to host 
greenshow 
By ELLYN MICHALAK 
News Writer 
In light of the University's recent efforts to "Go Green," Notre Dame will host its first ever environmentally friendly fashion show, "Trash to Class: A Green Fashion Event" to raise money for an environ­mental justice solutions organ­ization. 
The fashion show is hosted by Students for Environmental Action, GreenND, the Energy Center and the Office of Sustainability and all proceeds will go to Sustainable South Bronx. Sustainable South 
see FASHION/page 4 



Panel discusses popular history 
History Dept. Chair Thomas Noble says academic history is different 
By CATHERINE MILLER 
NewsWrirer 
There's popular history, and then there's unpopular histo­ry, said Thomas Noble, Chair of the Department of History and the first of three panel 
members  to  speak  at  
Tuesday's  discussion  
"Academic  vs.  Popular  

History," which aimed to dif­ferentiate between the two genres of history in today's society. 
"One of the obvious differ­ences between popular and academic history is that popu­lar history makes an enor­mous amount of money," Noble said, as he began the event sponsored by the Department of History and Exploring History Beyond the Classroom, a one credit class designed to encourage intel­lectual discussion among his­tory scholars. 
Enhanced with colorful images and visuals, prominent publishers issue popular his­toric books, while academic books tend to lack visuals and are usually published by a university, Noble said. 
"There is a difference in how the books are prepared," he said. 
Once written, an academic book is reviewed by an author's colleagues. For a 
popular book, no review process is necessary, and edi­tors work more closely with authors. Also, success of a popular historical book is measured by the number of copies sold, instead of the quality of the review neces­sary for success of an academ­ic book. 
"There is one piece of bad news and two pieces of good news [about this fact]," John McGreevy, O'Shaughnessy Dean of Arts and Letters, said. There is an enormous amount of bad popular history, he said. 
Portions of the History 
see HISTORY/page 3 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Kirk clarifies role of Office of Residence Life 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 

The Office of Residence Life (ORL) is charged with educating students, not with punishing them, according to associate vice president of Residence Life Bill Kirk, a 1984 graduate of Notre Dame who spoke at Tuesday's Council of Representatives (COR) meeting at the request of Student Body President Bob Reish. 
"[ORL] is not about the mini­mal expectations of society, it's not about treating everyone the same," Kirk said. "It is much more about an attempt by the University to try to help in the formation of the students in their education. Our primary role is education." 
Much of ORL's role in the edu­cational process is overshad­owed by the perception that the office is only focused on disci­pline, but Kirk said that the office's disciplinary measures serve a greater purpose. 
"Quite obviously, they deal with discipline, but it's about educa­tion, it's about formation, it's about trying to assist students in 
see COR/page 3 

page 2 The Observer + PAGE 2 Wednesday, December 3, 2008 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Decline a bovvl gatne 
It snmns to bn of/ieial. ESPN, WNDU, 
lrisheyns.eom and, according to today's 
sports snetion of The Observer, a source 
dosn to tho administration have confirmed 
that Charlie Weis will remain as the head 
football coach at our fair University. 
I won't lie and say I'm not entirely sad 
that I'll bn graduat­
ing at the end of the 

Liz Harter
year and won't have 
to sit through anoth­
er dismal season in 

Saint Mary's
the student seetion. 

Editor
Instead, I'll most 
likely bn sitting else­

where in the stadium watehing a dismal 
season-let's faee it, I'll be an Irish fan 
for life. 

That bning said, I, like many fans, was 
disappointed in the Irish's showing against 
USC. Obviously, I don't like that we lost or 
the fact that it took us almost 45 minutes 
to get a first down. But what I'm most dis­
appointed in is the laek of passion I saw 
from our team. 

Now. I've never written a sports artielc, nor do I daim to have an extensive knowl­edge of the sport of football, but I was at USC. I don't know how much they showed on TV hut before the game the players of both teams got into a light. Th1m, two play­ers, one from each team, were ejected from tho game because or lighting. 
After the game, Charlie Weis said that he nxpeets the team to be going somewhere wlwn bowl stdnction day rolls around. 
I want to ask why'? Why should we go to a bowl game'? 
We barely beat Navy. We lost to a tPam that was 2-H. What have we donn that shows that we d1~servo to go to a bowl'? 
Sure, we lost to USC. but let's bP honest, who didn't sen that onP coming'? I'm not saying that we don't deserve to go to the Sun Bowl or tlw PoinsPttia Bowl just because wn lost to a team that we knew was going to bP able to beat us into the ground. 
I'm saying we don't desnrve to go to a bowl game because the only time I saw our players get lirnd up on Saturday was when they wern lighting USC players. Why not put the passion you showed us yelling and pushing the Trojans into the tackles you tried to makn that night? 
I'm saying we don't deserve to go to a bowl game because the only excitement I saw on the field during the Syracuse game was when Pat Kuntz got mad because he got hit with a snowball. 
Don't get me wrong, I commend our players for being students and athletes, but really. at the past two games they looked tired. They didn't show me any­thing that made me want to see them play again this season. It's getting to be cruel and unusual punishment watching Notre Dame football games. Why do I want to watch any more'? 
I'm sorry that if Notre Dame doesn't go to a bowl game the senior football players won't play for the Irish again, but maybe it's best to just go quietly. Congratulations on four years, but please don't subjeet me to anymore. 
I understand that money changes hands when teams are invited to bowl games, and therefore ND will obviously go wher­ever they arc invited. But seriously, think about sparing us the pain and respectfully decline. 
Personally, I know I would thank you for doing so. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Liz 1/arter at 
eharteO 1 @saintmarys. edu 

CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error, Saint Mary's senior Krisri Pelligrini was incorrectly identified as a Notre Dame studem in rhe article "Irish t;ms disappoimed, embarrassed by USC loss" in the Dec. 2 issue ofThe Obserever. The Observer regrets this 
error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE PICK UP LINE? 

Brent Gills  Jake Wilson  Luke Stavole  
senior offcampus  senior Fisher  sophomore St. Edwards  
"How much does a polar bear weigh? Enough to break the ice."  "Did you just wax your pants because I can totally see myselfin them."  'Tmfrom Steds. ,,  


VANESSAS GEMPISffhe Observer 
Irish dancers perform during halftime at the Notre Dame men's basketball game Tuesday night. 
OFFBEAT 

Man accused of throwing Christmas tree at dad 
PARRISH, Fla. Authorities say a west Florida man who lives with his parents has been arrested on a felony assault charge after he used a Christmas tree as a weapon to attack his father. 
According to the Manatee County sher­iff's report a 37-year­old man was arrested last week after he threw a 3-foot Christmas tree at his father. The tree missed, but the man 
then tried to use the steel base from the tree to strike his father. 
The man was charged with felony assault. He denied trying to strike his father. 
Woman accused of stealing decorations 
MANCHESTER, Md. -A woman was facing misdemeanor theft charges for allegedly swiping Christmas dec­orations from her neighbor's lawns. The county sheriff's office 
said  a  51-year-old  
woman  was  found  
Monday  in  her  


Manchester home with 
decorations from at 
least three area homes. 
Authorities said the investigation began about 4:30a.m., after a woman reported a loud noise and discovered her 4-foot-tall Santa and snowman had been taken from her yard. 
After deputies went to her home, another neighbor who was walking her dog reported that she, too, had been targeted. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 


Q
3: 

0.
...J 
<C 
***
***** **
* * 
**** **

* * ...J 0 HIGH 35 HIGH 25 HIGH 37 HIGH 30 LOW 25 LOW 15 LOW 25 LOW 18 
0 




Monica Garcia-Blizzard  Tony Ceravolo  
senior McGlinn  senior Duncan  
"If! could rearrange the alphabet I would put U and I together. "  "Do you work at Subway? Cuz you're giving me a footlong. "  

IN BRIEF 
Human rights activist Winona LaDuke will speak on "The New Energy Eeonomy: Nonviolent strate­gies of change utilizing indigenous knowledge" tonight at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Auditorium in the Ilesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Students for Environmental Action (SEAl and GreeND are hosting a Green Fashion Show tonight from H p.m. to 9 at the LaFortune Ballroom. Tickets are $5 and proceeds go to the Majora Carter Sustainabln South Bronx. 
Members or Saint Mary's Women's Choir will perform at the College's :l6th annual Madrigal Dinners this wef~k­end. Performances are Friday and Saturday at 7 
p.m. and Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m. Tiekets are $40 for evening performanc­es, $35 for matinee perform­ances and $15 for children. 
Circle K, Knott Hall and the Class of 2009 will make fleece blankets to donate to cancer patients as part of The Aidan Project. The proj­eet will take place Saturday from 11 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. in 
the  East  Wing  of  South  
Dining Hall.  
Notre  Dame  Women's  

Basketball team plays Purdue at 2 p.m. Sunday in the Joyce Center. Call 574­631-7356 for tickets or visit the Athletic Ticket Office Web page. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mailed detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

Atlanta 49 I 32 Boston 50 I 40 Chicago 34 I 21 Denver 54 I 31 Houston 72 I 45 Los Angeles 67 I 55 Minneapolis 38 119 New York 49 I 38 Philadelphia 48 I 37 Phoenix 78 I 50 Seattle 51 I 46 St. Louis 46 I 27 Tampa 62 I 48 Washington 49 136 
Wednesday, Demeber 3, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COR 
continued from page 1 
coming to understand that their actions have consequences," he said. 
Kirk is not personally involved in disciplinary hearings, contrary to popular perception, as he is not involved in the day-to-day procedures of the ORL, he said. 
"I supervise the administration of that office." 
ORL is directly supervised by Jeff Shoup, the Director of the Office of Residence Life and Housing. It is Shoup who runs disciplinary hearings, Kirk said. 
Kirk said he understands that he and the ORL are not well liked by students, but he said that he hopes that his appear­ance at the COR meeting will help to clear up some of the mis­understandings about his role at Notre Dame. 
Despite his assumed unpopu­larity among many students, Kirk said it is an "absolute delight to teach and be around" students. 
He received a favorable reac­tion from most COR members, especially after he was given a chance to articulate his view of the mission of Residence Life. 
"It's very clear that you have the best interests of the students and the community at heart," sophomore class president Cynthia Weber said. 
Kirk said that one of the key roles in Residence Life's educa­tional mission is instilling a sense that actions have consequences in students. Actions "really do have an impact on the rest of the community," Kirk said. 
Understanding this reality is important for the idea of living in a community that the University embraces, according to Kirk. 
"The sense of community is very important" at Notre Dame, he said. 
One important disciplinary role filled by ORL that is often over­looked is in regards to cases of sexual assault. 
Weber said many members of the sophomore class were most interested in the University's policies in regards to sexual assault, especially in light of the University's ban on premarital sexual intercourse. 
Kirk said that the University has two unrelated rules. 
"One deals with sexual mis­conduct and the ways that you can be charged with sexual assault," while the other is con­cerned with premarital inter­course, he said. 
"When an allegation of sexual assault is raised, the University says we're going to deal with that really important allegation," Kirk said. 
The University will not punish either party for premarital inter­course if an allegation of assault is raised, even if the individuals engaged in consensual inter­course prior to the alleged inci­dent of assault, he said. 
Cases of sexual assault are incidents in which the University often believes that further edu­cation of the perpetrator is impossible. 
"If someone sexually assaults someone, that's not a person we believe we can educate any more," he said. 
He said it is often difficult to establish the truth in an alleged sexual assault incident, unlike in most cases that Residence Life hears, which often regard alco­hol-related offenses. 
"Getting to what happened [in cases of sexual assault] is going to be very difficult," Kirk said. "It's not a situation where any­one is ever going to be happy." 
In cases that are not related to sexual assault, the facts of the case are generally clear-cut, he said. "There are very few cir­cumstances where there's ever a question of what actually hap­pened," he said. "Virtually always, there's a recognition among the students in the room that they engaged in this behav­ior, but there's almost always disagreement as to what the appropriate response is." 

"I think that reasonable people can disagree whether [Residence Life's sanctions] are effective, whether they do what we want them to do," Kirk said. 
Off-campus safety was an important topic in COR's discus­sion with Kirk. Kirk said off­campus security is the responsi­bility of South Bend Police, not of the University. 
Notre Dame Security Police's jurisdiction only extends on cam­pus and "on roads that run through and around campus," Kirk said. Therefore, NDSP is unable to "go and do police and law enforcement things else­where in the county," he said. This jurisdiction is set by Indiana state law. 
Kirk said that contrary to per­ception, South Bend police "are remarkably student-friendly." 
"They treat students with great respect and restraint, especially when the students they're dealing with generally have some level of intoxication," Kirk said. 
Also, contrary to popular belief, South Bend Police were not responsible for the Colfax Street raid on Sept. 21, accord­ing to Kirk, where 37 people were arrested. The Indiana State Excise Police and the St. Joseph County Police conducted the raid. 
"South Bend almost never brings anything to the University's attention, makes arrests or issue citations [for alcohol]," Kirk said. "I can't remember the last time I learned of an underage drinking arrest or a violation of a noisy house ordinance that came from the South Bend police." 
Kirk said that the primary role of the South Bend Police Department is not to prevent underage drinking. However, that is an important role of the excise police, which is charged to "enforce laws regarding the use 


Give the Gift of 




FIGHTING IRISH PRIDE 
this Holiday Season with Officially Licensed ND Slippers 
Order online now to receive 


15o/oOFF
your total purchase 
Vis1t www mycollege!ootwear.com and enter the cooe MCFNO 1o receJv* !his exchJSiV€< offer kw NO siudenis, staff and faculty. 01fm B:lpiws on 11:1voo Show !hit world what Q;Jkm; you !:lice!! \his I'WIMay ooaGnn! 1\valliilite 111 mans atitl womerl'S: styles 
and abuse of alcohol," according to Kirk. 
"I've seen the excise police deal with students very respect­fully," Kirk said. "The excise police are doing what their mis­sion is calling them to do." 
While Kirk described the Colfax Street raid as "unfortu­nate," he said that he under­stands the actions of the police forces. "I don't like it when stu­dents have to go to jail," he said. "But I understand our local police departments' hesitation about releasing 30-some odd intoxicated people out into the night." 
Kirk said that Notre Dame expects a higher standard from its students that merely obedi­ence to the law. Therefore, the University is able to discipline students for their actions off­campus, even when they are also punished by civil authorities. 
"You've chosen to be part of a pretty special group of people ­Notre Dame students," Kirk said. "We have a higher standard that, generally speaking, virtually all of our students are in favor of." 
"When the University finds out [about an off-campus offense,] the University has an interest in you as a person," he said. "If you're routinely becoming drunk, that's a problem -it's immoral, unethical, and wrong." 
The actions of law enforce­ment will not help the student change his or her behavior, according to Kirk. 
"A public citation isn't going to call you to examine the role of alcohol in your life," he said. But he hopes that a disciplinary hearing will have that effect. 
''I'm not going to sit here and tell you that every student comes away saying 'I'm going to reflect on my drinking,"' Kirk said. "But I can tell you that there have been dozens of occasions in the past couple years where stu­dents tell me that it has." 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 

Mooney 
continued from page 1 
tive on the economy was written after those discus­sions as a way to reach out to the parents of prospective students," she said. 
Mooney is also working on a communication to the par­ents of current students, which should circulate soon. 
"[Mooney] will thank them for their sacrifices and affirm that the gift of a Saint Mary's education to their daughters is worth the sacri­fice," she said. 
Dampeer said the College is committed to remaining aware of how it is using its resources. 
"Saint Mary's, like all other colleges and universities, will be vigilant in our efforts to be good stewards of our resources during difficult economic times," she said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edn 


History 
continued from page 1 
Channel, sometimes referred to as the 'Nazi Channel' by pro­fessional historians because of the focus on hot-button topics and military history, and quick­ly written academic history fall under this category, he said. 
Positively speaking, McGreevy said that academic historians are attempting to write for a broader audience and reach beyond scholars. 
Tony Judt's novel 'Postwar' exemplifies the attempt because it is self-consciously aimed at a broadly intellectual audience, he said. 
Professor Linda Przybyszewski, Associate Professor of History, shared her theory of popular history and its five categories, which intrigue and garner attention from the general public. 
The first sub-category, 'Letters in the Attic,' repre­sents already accounted his­toric events that an author tries to reinvent. Novels writ­ten on important historical fig­ures such as George Washington fall under the cat­egory of 'Aren't We Great.' 'Train Wrecks of History' include events such as the Holocaust. The 'That's Weird' category includes events such as convicted murderers, and the 'Sex with Kings' discusses scandals in history. 
Przybyszewski said the gen­eral audience is making more of an effort to bridge the gap between popular and academic history, and professional histo­rians need to appreciate the writing style of popular novel­ists in order to improve aca­demic writing, making aca­demic history accessible for all readers. 
Contact Catherine Miller at hmiller2@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer ~ CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 3, 2008 
cutting up an old Hecyclin' and Theater costume depart­"The most dangerous intersec­

Irish T-shirt. I thought that an ment loaned the show several 

tions are always intersections environmentally friendly fash­costumes made out of ceo­

Fashion 
Snow 

that are most heavily traveled," continued from page 1 ion show could be a new inno­friendly material to exhibit 
continued from page 1 he said. "If you're going up by the vative event, so I pitched the during the event. 
mall, they tend to have multiple Bronx is an organization that proposal to GreeNO and they "These outfits are really 
wheel too far can cause the car to intersections. They have more pursues environmental justice liked it." creative. We have one dress 
fishtail out of control, Korros said. than their share of accidents." through innovative projects The fashion event will fea­made entirely of coffee filters 
Korros added that students While slick roads cause acci­and was founded in 2001 by ture both pieces purchased and a skirt made out of maga­
planning a trip off campus should dents to rise in South Bend dur­Majora Carter. Carter served from resale stores and stu­zine pages," Sena said. "[The 
be wary of sudden drops in tem­ing the winter months, fatalities as a panelist Notre Dame's dent-designed outfits made outfits] are meant to inspire 
perature, as roads that were pre­and serious injuries do not 2008 Forum on Sustainable from recyclable material. the audience; people would 
viously wet can quickly turn to account for most of the increase, Energy where she discussed Student volunteers will model never think to wear these 
ice. Trent said. the impact of environmental 96 environmentally friendly materials, but maybe after the 
Korros and Trent both advised "Serious injury accidents don't issues on poorer areas of the outfits with the accompani­show, they'll look at their 
people, especially students who increase that much," he said. United States. ment of professional hair and recycled materials in a differ­
lack experience with icy condi­"Fender bender accidents proba­"We were trying to find makeup. Origins, a hair care ent light." 
tions, to avoid driving when bly increase. 80 percent of our some kind of organization that company that features an Throughout the event, a 
weather agencies deem condi­minor accidents occur after it was green. This year's forum organic line, and Salon slideshow that displays pic­
tions dangerous. snows." was on sustainable energy, Nouveau, a local Salon, will tures and offers tips about 
"If there's a winter weather While not as dangerous as los­and we thought that Majora do the models' hair and energy, conservation and the 
advisory put out and the Indiana ing control of your vehicle, dead Carter's fund would be a good makeup, respectively. The environment will play on 
State Police say that the roads are batteries and frozen fuel lines can tie in because she was a pan­secondhand pieces will com­a projection screen. 
closed, then you should heed be major inconveniences during elist," event coordinator prise one part of the hour­Immediately following the 
those warnings put out by the the winter. Laura Moore-Shay, a junior at long event. event, there will be a small 
weather agencies," Korros said Trent recommended that peo­the University, said. "[The "Since we were able to find reception and silent auction to 
"It's certainly a judgment call," ple make check that their cars Sustainable South Bronx[ also a cute skirt or sweater and bid on the clothing pieces 
Trent said. "I would say that if pass these kinds of general main­i nel udes an aspect of social not head-to-toe cohesive out­shown on the runway to bene­
you're not used to driving in con­tenance tests. justicH, whieh many Notre fits, the models will be wear­fit the Sustainable Bronx 
ditions like that, I would alter my "Make sure that you have a Dame students are interested ing some of their own clothes, Fund. 
plans when it's suggested by the winter survival kit and a blanket in." but it will be clear which arti­"I hope that students who 
national weather service." and flashlight," he said. "Dead Moore-Shay has been cle we are showcasing," jun­like fashion but maybe aren't 
Trent warned that the most batteries and frozen gas lines involved in several environ­ior Sena said. "While people interested in the environment, 
dangerous roads during the win­tend to be the major problems." mPntal activism groups during mainly associate recycling will appreciate the idea of 
ter months are the ones with the her two and a half years at with bottles and cans, clothing recycling and conserving 
thickest traffic, usually in major Contact Robert Singer at Notre Dame. A membnr of can also be recycled. So more," Moore-Shay said. "We 
retail areas. rsinger@nd.edu GreeN!>, Studnnts for many pieces of elothing are want to get people involved Environmnntal Action and the produced each yea~ but they who aren't normally interest­Ennrgy Center's Advisory are also thrown away each ed. A lot of the environmental Board. Moore-Shay camn up year. So instead of always things have been academic, with the idna last spring as purchasing brand new but this fashion show will she was recycling some elothes, we encourage people offer a different and artsy dothes of her own. She then to try shopping at a seeond­look at being green." rneruitnd junior Lindsay Sena hand store." "Trash to Class: A Green and senior Ann Kelley, the Another part of the event Fashion Event" takes places president of' SEA, to assist her will showcase "recycled cou­tonight at 8 p.m. in the in planning the event. ture" outfits. These clothing LaFortune Ballroom. Tickets 
''I've always loved fashion artieles, made out of recycla­are $5 and can be purchased and art," Moorn-Shay said. "I ble materials and meant to at the LaFortune box oflice. came up with the idea for this have a high fashion look, were new event last spring at an made by several design stu­Contact Ellyn Michalak at advisory board meeting while dents. The Film, Television, emichala@nd.edu 


Welcome to 21st century student apartments. 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME 
Brand new, contemporary, furnished apartments now leasing for Fall 2009. 
• 
Two bedrooms 


• 
Private, full bath in each bedroom 

• 
Furnished 


• 
Includes 42" flat panel HDTV 

• 
Laundry room with washer & dryer 

• 
FREE Internet & 200+ TV stations 

• 
Walk to campus 



lrishRowApartments.com 574.277.6666 
Just aastof Buidette.,m.vanes$;. Jusrnotttl tifBetween the Buns Re'itaurant 

IIIrish 

luxury apartments
ROW 








ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, December 3, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Concern rises over detainees 
BAGHDAD -The United Nations expressed concern Tuesday about over­crowding and "grave human rights viola­tions" of detainees in Iraqi custody -in one case, 123 men crammed into a single cell. 
The warning comes as the U.S. prepares to turn over control to the Iraqis of thousands of security detainees in its custody under a new security pact that would end the U.S. mission here by 2012. The pact, approved last week by Iraq's parliament, calls for American forces to transfer all detainees believed to be a major threat and to release the rest "in a safe and orderly manner." 
But as overall violence declines in the country, the U.N.'s 13th report on the human rights situation in Iraq casts doubt on whether the Iraqis will be ready to take cus­tody of more detainees properly. 
Russian warships train with Chavez 
Venezuela -Russian warships have ended training exercises with Venezuela's navy in Moscow's first such Caribbean deployment since the Cold War. 
Russian television on Tuesday showed images of a Venezuelan-operated Sukhoi fighter jet swooping low over Russian war­ships in a simulated air attack. 
The exercises that ended late Monday with a fireworks display included an air defense exercise and joint actions to spot, pursue and detain an intruding vessel, Russian navy spokesman Capt. Igor Dygalo said. 
The Russian ships arrived in Venezuela last week in an operation widely seen as a show of Kremlin anger over the U.S. deci­sion to deliver aid to Georgia aboard war­ships following that country's conflict with Russia. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush touts mentoring program 
GREENSBORO, N.C. -President George W Bush, trying to emphasize the softer side of his policy record before leaving office, on Tuesday thanked volunteers who have served as mentors to children of prisoners. 
"These youngsters have ambitions and goals," Bush said after a private discussion with a few chil­dren and their mentors in North Carolina. "They want to go to college. They want to make a differ­ence. And I suspect that the mentors will be anxiously following the career of someone they've been able to help." 
Bush popped into the Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Greensboro-which has worked with Youth Focm; Inc., a nonprofit agency -to match 220 chil­dren of prisoners with adult mentors. The program is part of a national initiative, championed by Bush, that has provided mentors to more than 110,000 children. 
Chained teen shows up at gym 
TRAC..'Y, Calif. -A Girl Scout leader and her husband were arrested after an emaciated, terri­fied and nearly naked 17 -year-old showed up at a gym with a chain locked to his ankle, saying he had just fled his captors, authorities said Tuesday. 
Police were also seeking the boy's aunt and had an outstanding felony warrant against her for an earlier alleged assault against the teen. 
The boy, who authorities said ran away from a Sacramento foster home last year, came into the In-Shape Sport<; Oub in Tracy on Monday wearing only boxer briefS and covered in what appeared to be soot, gym manager Chuck Ellis said. Tracy is about 70 miles south of Sacramento. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana flunks college study 
INDIANA-An independent report on American higher education flunks all but one state when it comes to atfordability -an embarrassing verdict that is unlikely to improve as the economy con­tracts. 
The report card uses a range of measurements to give states grades, from A to F, on the perform­ance of their public and private colleges. 
Besides the F for affordability, Indiana also received grades of C for preparation and participa­tion, B-minus for completion of bachelor's degrees within six years of enrollment, D-plus for benefits and incomplete for learning. 
Obama vows to aid state economies 
The president-elect promises to help governors get thier states back on track 
Associated Press 
PHilADELPHIA-President­elect Barack Obama promised swift action Tuesday on an economic plan "to solve this crisis and to ease the burden on our states," and he cast governors as his partners in crafting a recession-rebound strategy. 
"This administration does not intend to delay in getting you the help that we need," Obama said as he met with the chief executives of most states and sought to rally bipartisan support for an economic stim­ulus. 
The president-elect has set a goal of saving or creating 2.5 million jobs to boost the econ­omy, which experts say has been in recession for the past year. His aides and congres­sional leaders have been dis­cussing the outlines of a meas­ure that could exceed $500 billion over two years. Congress wants to have it ready for his signature shortly after his Jan. 20 inauguration. 
Incoming White House chief of staff Rahm Emanuel, told reporters that in a private por­tion of the meeting, Obama and Republican and Democratic governors agreed that the measure must focus heavily on money for infra­structure as well as bureau­cratic reforms to make it easi­er to complete programs with­out having to cut through piles of red tape. 
"The top priority is to invest increase the federal govern­recession, sat at desks in the Obama said. in these areas," Emanuel said, ment's contribution to the hall, with no separation by Biden told the governors he listing roads, bridges, high­Medicaid program for the poor party. They included former hopes they will not criticize speed rail, water-treatment and disabled. and possibly future political the incoming administration systems, schools, medical "We're going to review all rivals, such as GOP Govs. for raising the deficit as it tries information technology, broad­that," Emanuel said. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana and to help them. "I know none of band networks, transportation The measure is expected to Sarah Palin of Alaska, the you would do that," he said systems and "green" technolo­blend money for those priori­party's vice presidential nomi­jokingly. Most states have con­gy. ties with tax cuts, a temporary nee this year. stitutions that prohibit deficit 
"The governors see that as increase in food stamp pay­In his brief public com­spending. essential to their own econom­ments, as well as investments ments, Obama called the The governors, in turn, ic recovery in their states, and in renewable energy projects meeting the start of a partner­pledged their cooperation. we see it as essential to the and other "green jobs" initia­ship, and said he will go Pennsylvania Gov. Ed economic recovery of the tives. beyond asking governors to Rendell, a Democrat who country," Emanuel said. Obama and Vice President­implement the economic plan chairs the National Governors 
But Emanuel was noncom­elect Joe Biden spoke to the that will include tax cuts for Association, said: "We are mittal on whether the legisla­bipartisan group of governors "hard-pressed middle class here with the understanding tion would contain exactly at historic Congress Hall. families" and increased feder­that we have to be not only what the governors seek -Republican and Democratic al spending. participants but to lead in some $136 billion more for governors, nearly all of whom 'Tm going to be interested dealing with the financial infrastructure projects and at are struggling with budget in you helping to draft and problems that are upsetting least $40 billion to temporarily deficits at home because of the shape that economic plan," our states." 

ISRAEL 


Jews mourn victims of Mumbai attack 
29, and his 28-year-old wife, Rivka. The York, vowed, his voice shaking, naming 
Associated Press 
two were outreach envoys dispatched to his weapon -the teachings of God. 
KFAR CHABAD -Thousands of grief­Mumbai as part of the movement's He pledged to rebuild the Mumbai cen­stricken Orthodox Jews prayed and wept attempt to bring its brand of Judaism to ter and name it after the Holtzbergs. Tuesday before the shrouded bodies of Jews across the world, running an open Chabad operates thousands such out­Israelis killed in Mumbai, joining the house aimed mainly at Jewish travelers reach centers around the world. national mourning in a ceremony broad­and merchants. The Holtzbergs' bodies -hers cast on TV and attended by Israeli lead­The couple left a 2-year-old son, Moshe, wrapped in a shroud, his in a prayer ers. who was rescued by his Indian nanny. shawl -rested on benches on a dais 
The six died when gunmen on a deadly Rivka was six months pregnant when she nearby. Coffins are not used in Jewish three-day rampage through the Indian was killed, a Chabad spokesman, funerals in Israel. city struck Chabad House, the Mumbai Avraham Berkowitz, said Tuesday. Their small son, who returned to Israel headquarters of the Jewish Chabad­The crowd of thousands at their funeral on Monday with the nauny and the bodies Lubavitch movement, last Wednesday. Six included Israel's president, Shimon Peres, of his parents, was not present. At a tear­Israelis were among the 172 dead. the country's chief rabbis and other top ful ceremony held at a Mumbai syna­
A crowd gathered at Kfar Chabad, the government officials. gogue before their flight, the boy called movement's Israel headquarters, to "We will answer the terrorists," Moshe out for his mother in a scene that was mourn Rabbi Gavriel Noach Holtzberg, Kotlarsky, a Chabad rabbi from New repeatedly broadcast on Israeli TV. 

ZIMBABWE 


Country faces water cuts, cholera crisis 
Associated Press 
IIAHAHE -As children played near cesspools, their parents shook their heads at a public service announcement drifting over the radio Tuesday: It urged people to boil water before drink­ing it. 
It sounded like a taunt in a country where water and electric­ity are cut ofl' far more than they are on. 
Authorities turned off the taps in Zimbabwe's capital again this week because they had run out of purifying chemicals -even as a cholera epidemic threatened the country, elaiming hundreds of lives since August. 
The crisis is the latest chapter in the collapse of this once-vibrant nation. President Hobert Mugabe, who has ruled for 28 years, has refused to leave office following disputed elections in March. And a power-sharing deal worked out with the opposition has been deadlocked for weeks over how to divvy up Cabinet posts. 
In the township of Mabvuku, where residents have dug shallow wells in open ground, people say they know not boiling the water can make them sick, but they have no choice. There is no elec­tricity. and wood, charcoal or other fuel to build fires is scarce and so expensive it is out of reach for most people. 
"We are afraid, but there is no solution. Most of the time the elec­tricity is not available so we just 
use  the water,"  one  resident,  
Naison  Chakwicha.  told  AP  
Television News.  

In the western Ilarare suburb of Mbare, Anna Marimbe said she had traced the deaths last week of two neighbor children to the stinking open drains where they used to play. 
Hesidents of Chitungwiza. a densely populated township 15 miles south of Harare, sued the National Water Authority last week, saying they had been with­out running water for 13 months, causing an outbreak of cholera and leading to deaths. 
The lawsuit tiled with the High Court describes "largp pools of raw sPwerage" in the streets of the town of 500,000, where the first cholera cases were reported in August. 
Like most of Zimbabwe's main cities and towns, Chitungwiza once had functioning sewage and water delivery systems. but authorities have made no repairs for years. 
Harare is the epicenter of the cholera epidemic, which has spread across the country. Controlling the disease depends on providing clean water. which means repairing broken water and sewage pipes as well as dilap­idated pumping and purification equipment. 

And the collapse of all services, 
including refuse collection, has 
turned the city into a playground 
for rats that threaten to spread 
other more deadly diseases. 
The government has reported 
473 cholera deaths since August 
and a total of 11,700 people 
infected as of Monday, according 
to Paul Garwood, spokesman for 
Health Action and Crises, the 
humanitarian arm of the U.N. 
World Health Organization. 
Garwood said that according to 
the official toll, 4 percent of peo­
ple are dying of a disease that 
usually claims fewer than 1 per­
cent of those infected and is easily 
treated with rehydration salts or 
an intravenous drip. 
Doctors say the death toll is 
nearer 1,000, or 10 percent of vic­
tims, because many of those 
affiicted with cholera die at home 
or in the countryside without 
medical care. 
All the country's main public hospitals have closed and those that continue to operate have little or no medicine and suffer from a shortage of staff, whose monthly salaries do not cover even one day's bus fare to get to work. Costly private clinics. which accept only foreign currency, are out of reach for the vast majority of the population. 
The opposition-controlled Harare City Council is burying cholera victims for free because people cannot afford to buy graves. 
Zimbabwe's government, nor­mally hostile to international aid agencies, is welcoming an initia­tive by several -including UNICEF. WHO and Doctors Without Borders -to provide emergency care and try to ensure safe water supplies. 
Health officials, following the line of a government that has refused to declare a national emergency, insisted the cholera outbreak was under control until five days ago. The best advice Health Minister David Parirenyatwa could offer was to urge people to stop shaking hands. 
"I want to stress the issue of shaking hands. Although it's part of our tradition to shake hands, it's high time people stopped shaking hands," he told state-run daily, The Herald. 
Still, Zimbabweans continue to lind ways to deal with the crisis. 
Those who can afford it are dig­ging wells and bore holes. Others are buying tanks and pumps to install on their roof or yards, then paying $50 in foreign currency for a single delivery of 500 gallons of water. 
Most vendors in Zimbabwe only accept U.S. dollars or South African rand since the Zimbabwe dollar, once on a par with the greenback, devalues with each passing hour. 

In-law charged with murder 
Suspect already in custody in Jennifer Hudson's family slayings 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO Jennifer 
Hudson's brother-in-law was 
charged with murder 
Tuesday in the shooting 
deaths of three of the 
actress's family members, 
including the 7 -year-old son 
of his estranged wife. 
William Balfour had been in custody since Oct. 24, when the bodies of Hudson's moth­er, Darnell Hudson Donerson, and brother, Jason Hudson, were discovered in their South Side home. The body of Julian King, Balfour's stepson and Hudson's nephew, was found in a sport utility ~chicle three days later. 
Until Balfour's arrest in the murder case Monday. police had publicly identified him only as a "person of interest" in the investigation. Balfour, 27, who previously was held on a parole violation, is charged with three counts of first-degree murder and one count of felony home inva­sion. 
Balfour's attorney said his client is insistent about his innocence. 
"It is scary as hell, he's charged with terrible crimes that he adamantly contends he's not guilty of," attorney Joshua Kutnick said before the announcement of the charges, which he said he expected. 
Still, added Kutnick, "He's exhibited to me, at least. the patience to let the process unfold." 
Chicago Police Superintendent Jody Weis said at a news conference 
Tuesday that although Balfour has not confessed to the crimes, he is "confident in the evidence." Investigators have not said what evidence they have linking Balfour to the killings, but said Tuesday that they are not looking for other suspects and believe Balfour acted alone. 
"There is physical evi­dence," Deputy Superintendent Steve Peterson said, but he stopped short of saying whether that evidence linked Balfour to the crimes. 
Weis praised the communi­ty for the way it "stepped up to the plate and helped police solve this case," but would not provide any details. 
Police have said from the beginning that the slayings were domestic related, but they have not elaborated. They would not say. for example, if they believed the boy was part of any dispute between Balfour and his estranged wife, Hudson's older sister, Julia Hudson. 
Police believe Julian was killed inside the SUV the same day as the adults, but "the exact timing" has not been determined, Peterson said. 
Police have said far less than Illinois Prison Heview Board Chairman Jorge Montes, who told reporters last month that Balfour's girl­friend or ex-girlfriend told police she saw Balfour with a gun "identical" to the weapon police recovered near the SUV where the boy's body was found -which they have said was the murder weapon. 
When asked about the woman Tuesday, Peterson said that she cooperated with police, but would not say what information she provid­ed, if any. Nor would he say that detectives have linked the weapon to Balfour. 
Jennifer Hudson's publicist Lisa Kasteler declined to comment after Balfour's arrest on Monday, but Peterson said the family was "relieved and happy that the Chicago Police Department 
would bring this case to  a  
successful conclusion."  
Jennifer  Hudson  was  a  

finalist in the 2004 season of "American Idol" and won her Oscar in 2007 for her film debut. a supporting role in "Dreamgirls." She has mostly stayed out of the spotlight and close to her family since the killings. 
Detectives went to Stateville Correctional Center Monday afternoon, served an arrest warrant on Balfour and brought him back to Chicago. 
Balfour had been in custody since the day the adults' bod­ies were discovered. After 48 hours -the longest Chicago police can hold a person with­out charges -he was taken by the Illinois Department of Corrections on a suspected parole violation. Balfour had served seven years for a 1999 attempted murder and vehic­ular hijacking conviction. 
Balfour is scheduled to appear in bond court Wednesday afternoon. After the hearing, Cook County State's Attorney Anita Alvarez will talk about the case, her office said Tuesday. 

Economy spurs enlistment 
Recession causes soldiers to stay in military, receive steady paychecks 
Associated Press 
FOHT HILEY, Kan. -Sgt. Hyan Nyhus spent 14 months patrolling the dead­ly streets of Baghdad. where five members of his platoon were shot and one died. As bad as that was, he would rather go back there than take his chances in this bru­tal job market. 
Nyhus re-enlisted last Wednesday, and in so doing joined the growing ranks of those choosing to stay in the 
U.S. military because of the bleak economy. 
"In the Army, you're always guaranteed a steady paycheck and a job," said the 21-year-old Nyhus. "Deploying's something that's going to happen. That's a fact of life in the Army -a fact of life in the infantry." 
In 2008, as the stock mar­ket cratered and the hous­ing market collapsed, more young members of the Army, Air Force and Navy decided to re-up. While sev­eral factors might explain the rise in re-enlistments, including a decline in vio­lence in Iraq, Pentagon offi­cials acknowledge that bad news for the economy is usually good news for the military. 
In fact, the Pentagon just completed its strongest recruiting year in four years. 
"We do benefit when things look less positive in civil society," said David Chu, undersecretary of defense for personnel and readiness. "What difficult economic times give us, I think, is an opening to make our case to people who we might not otherwise have." 
The retention rate of early-career soldiers in the Army has risen steadily over the past four years and now stands 20 percentage points higher than it was in fiscal 2004. As for the Navy and the Air Force, early-and mid-career sailors and air­men re-enlisted at a higher rate in October than during the same period in 2007. The Marine Corps was not immediately able to provide comparative figures on re­enlistments. 
Alex Stewart joined the Army two years ago, when the factory where he worked as a welder started laying off. He was sent to Afghanistan with the 82nd Airborne Division, which suffered 87 deaths last year, the highest total suffered by the 20,000-member unit since the fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan began. 
When his hitch was up in earlier this year, the 32­year-old from Grand Hapids, Mich., didn't hesitate to re­up for five more years. 
"I want a stable life for my wife in a very shaky econo­my," Stewart said. "There were no other options." 
Stewart's new assignment will take him to Germany, where he will serve as a truck driver, though it is always possible he could be sent back into combat. 
"I figure if I do another five or 10 years in the Army," he said, "the econo­my will turn around and I can get a truck-driving job." 
Army Spc. Alicia Fauls, 20, of the Woodlands, Texas, had two years to go when she re-enlisted last week at Fort Riley, home of the Army's 1st Infantry Division, which has one brigade in Iraq, one headed home and another preparing to ship out. She has not been sent into the war zone yet but knows an assignment in Iraq or Afghanistan is prob­ably in her future. 
"I did have only two years left, but I'm not sure what I would do," Fauls said. "It's harder to find jobs. If I do wait"to get out, the economy should be in better shape." 
Wednesday, December 3, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 
Jones 8,419.09 +270.00 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,842 77 990 2,675,933,959 


NASDAQ 1 449.80 +51.73 

,NYSE--~m 0~;il!lw~r?i~~s11nllllillill~lii 
S&P 500 848.81 +32.60 


NtKKEI•.(to/<Yoj••••··•':IJIIRIIIIiilllllillll!lllll 
FTSE 100 (London) 4,122.86 +57.37 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +3.85 +3.16 85.27 CITIGROUP INC (C) +11.94 +0.77 7.22 GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) +13.61 +2.11 17.61 FORD MOTOR CO (F) +5.88 +0.15 2.70 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -0.96 -0.026 2.693 13-WEEK BILL +400.00 +0.040 0.050 30-YEAR BOND -1.05 -0.034 3.202 5-YEAR NOTE -2.96 -0.051 1.672 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.32 46.96 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +6.50 783.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.03 92.25 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 93.0150 EURO 0.7883 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2534 BRITISH POUND 0.6723 

IN BRIEF 
Car sales sink to worst level since 1982 
NEW YORK -U.S. auto sales plunged 37 percent in November to their worst level in more than 26 years, dashing expectations that this dismal year for vehicle demand had found a bottom, and adding more ammunition to the Detroit automakers' case for a con­gressional lifeline. 
"Our industry is in a much more severe situation than the rest of the economy," said Mike DiGiovanni, General Motors Corp.'s executive director of global market and industry analysis. "We cannot continue at these level<> or el<>e the entim industry is going to go down." 
U.S. auto sales in November fell to 746,789, accord­ing to Autodata Corp. On a seasonally adjusted basis, automakers reported an annual sales rate of10.2 mil­lion unil<>, the lowest level since October 1982. 
Automakers and analysts blamed the crumbling economy, less access to vehicle financing, and a wait­and-see approach among consumers more preoccu­pied with the value of their homes and the fate of their jobs than the lure of a new car. 
"Consumers (are) not showing up at the dealerships -regardless of the deals they're being offered and regardless of how low the gas prices go," said Jesse Toprak, executive director of industry analysis for the automotive Web site Edmunds. com. 
EPA eases mining waste disposal 
WASHINGTON -The Environmental Protection Agency, rejecting pleas from state governors and environmental groups, signed off Tuesday on making it easier to dump mountaintop mining waste near rivers and streams. 
But the EPA said it did so because it secured additional safeguards. 
The governors of Kentucky and Tennessee, as well as other lawmakers from those states, had urged EPA Administrator Stephen Johnson to block the rule -which would rewrite a regulation enacted in 1983 that bars mining companies from dumping huge waste piles within 100 feet of temporary streams when it could diminish water quality and quantity. 
Under a provision of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act -promulgated largely by the Interior Department-the EPA must concur in writing to any mining regula­tions that could affect air and water quality. 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 

US automakers ground jets for trip 
Automaker executives drive hybrid cars to Washington instead 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -If the Detroit 
Three automakers have 
learned anything since their 
last trip to Washington, it's 
that the old way of doing 
business just won't fly. 
So the decision by auto 
executives to travel in hybrid 
cars rather than corporate 
jets is just the start to over­
hauling their image as the 
industry pleads its case for 
$25 billion in federal loans. 
Automakers "should not be 
afraid to acknowledge their 
mistakes," said Adam 
Mendelsohn, a partner in 
Mercury Public Affairs and 
former communications 
director for California Gov. 
Arnold Schwarzenegger. "It's 
not necessarily a weakness. 
It's actually a positive. It will 
send a very clear message 
that they intend to make 
changes." 
The . CEOs of General 
Motors, Ford and Chrysler 
are making the roughly 525­
mile trek from Detroit to 
Washington in hopes of 
securing loans to help them 
through the recession and 
the worst sales downturn in 
25 years. Hearings are 
scheduled for Thursday and 
Friday. 
Ford CEO Alan Mulally left 
for the capital Tuesday after­
noon in a small Ford Escape 
sport utility vehicle, which 
runs on gas and electricity. 
Rick Wagoner of GM departs 
Wednesday in a hybrid 

Chevrolet Malibu. Chrysler Committee, said last month the roughly nine-hour trip. pilloried on radio, TV and 
LLC said its chief executive, that it was "a delicious irony" Ford also announced Web sites. 
Robert Nardelli, would leave to see the executives arrive Tuesday that it will sell its "The idea of a CEO flying in 
Tuesday night, driving a on private jets "with tin cups five corporate jets, and GM on a jet to ask for a loan ­
hybrid Dodge Durango or in their hands." said it would close its corpo­that's something that today's 
Chrysler Aspen SUV. In response, the automak­rate jet operations on Jan. 1 media will absolutely seize 
The move to travel more ers said top executives need­and try to sell the remainder upon," Mendelsohn said. 
like regular Americans ed to fly on corporate planes of the lease time on its seven Mulally, in an interview 
comes after the CEOs' last for security reasons. They aircraft. from the road Tuesday, 
visit for hearings in also pointed out that taking Chrysler spokeswoman acknowledged the symbolism 
November turned into a pub­commercial flights risked Lori McTavish said the com­of driving. 
lic relations disaster. delays or cancellations, a pany renl'> two corporate air­"We need to demonstrate 
Lawmakers learned that all chance the executives would craft on an as-needed basis that we heard their concerns 
three had flown in separate not want to take when sched­from an aircraft company and show we are willing to 
corporate jets to ask for the uled to testify in front of and does not own any jets. change," he said in an e­
bailout dollars, and critics Congress. The image of seeking help mail. "This is a small way of 
harangued the CEOs. In an effort to curb bad from the taxpayers while fly­showing that." 
Democratic Rep. Gary publicity, Ford Motor Corp. ing corporate jets will take a Mulally drove part of the 
Ackerman of New York, a and General Motors Corp. long time to live down. The way and did business by tele­
member of the House said their CEOs would take executives were parodied on phone, but not while behind 
Financial Services the wheel for at least part of "Saturday Night Live" and the wheel, he said. 


Fed extends key credit programs 
Associated Press makes loans to money market mutual funds sion, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke on 
-viabanks-to help the funds, which have Monday said he stood ready to lower interest 

WASHINGTON-The Federal Reserve has been under pressure as skittish investors rates again. extended the life of key programs aimed at demand withdrawals. Many analysts expect the Fed to cut its key busting through credit clogs and restoring Some other crucial Fed programs aimed at rate when its meets next on Dec. 15-16. stability to financial markets. unlocking lending already are authorized to The Fed's key rate now stands at 1 percent 
The Fed said Tuesday that the programs, last through April30, the Fed noted. -a level seen only once before in the past originally slated to last through Jan. 30, will Those include a program where the Fed half-century. The Fed can slice its rate only so be extended through April 30. The Fed said it buys mounds of short-term debt that compa­far -to zero -to try to stimulate economic was taking the action "in light of continuing nies rely on for day-to-day operations, a facili­activity. Given that, Bernanke said the central strains in financial markets." ty where the Fed provides a financial back­bank was exploring other ways to revive the 
The Fed's emergency lending facility, which stop for the mutual fund industry, and credit moribund economy. investment firms can tap for a ready source of arrangements with other central banks. "Economic activity appears to have down­cash, is covered by the decision This category The central bank's arsenal of such pro­shifted further" after financial conditions took was recently broadened to include any loans grams has figured prominently in its strategy a turn for the worse in September, Bernanke that were made to the U.S. and London­to battle the woTh1 financial crisis since the observed Monday. ba..OO broker-dealer suh.idiaries of Goldman 1930s. 'The likely duration of the financial turmoil Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch. The Fed's dec~ion to extend the life of its is difficult to judge. and thus the uncertainty 
A program that lets financial institution<> key programs comes one day after the surrounding the economic outlook is unusual­temporarily swap risky investments, such as National Bureau of Economic Research ly large," he said. "But even if the functioning shunned mortgage-backed securities, for declared that the country has been in a reces­offinancial markets continue to improve, eco­super-safe Treasury securities also is covered. sion since last December. nomic conditions will probably remain weak 
Another Fed program being extended To help ease the damage from the reces-fora time." 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT

page 8 Wednesday, December 3, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

It's a Christmas miracle 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining H•ll. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EI>lTOR IN CHIEF Chris !-line 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
Nh"WS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

AtWERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROllER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
F~ 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right tO refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chict; Managing Editor, Ao;sistant Managing Editor.. and department edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The tree expression ofall opiniom through letters is encouraged. l.l'tters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact intonnation. 
Questions rtgarding Obsi!T'Vn-polici~s should b~ direct~d to Editor in C'hiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'!'he Ol~rvt'r (lJSI'.'i ~·JI) 2-41MXI} Dvuhlt.!lcd: MunJ.., thrtmgh Friday n:.:.t:pl duting CUI\\ .uulvo~uttml vcriut.L,, A ,U~TIJttlflll w·n\C l)l""rvcr II $tnn lt•rnrw .aodcmk.: yt-.lt: $'jS fn1 nnctcnu:stcr 
1 he llh!!t'tVt't II pubiW1t"d at I'OHMAHER 
Ol-4 ~outh Dimn~ i 1,~11 Xnd addrt"Jo\ COti'C'Ctiom to: 
Nntrt O~rnc, IN 4M1ft.On9 ThcOI>~~trvtr 
1\:riudit:ai[Mt.l.gc p.1id .1.r Nt3trc D.unt" P.O. BoK 779 
.. nd .. d,ltrionJ.I mo~ilin~ utlh:a. 0.24 South Dining llodl 
Notre 0.1mc, IN 4MS6-.0771J 

Tiuo Ol~~ervt'r 1~ ~ member nJ the A'I.M)(.Uini f'~. AJJ tcpruducrum riWn.t-.u-c 
rescr\l<'d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Liz Ilarter Eric Prister Madeline Buckley Matt Gamber Hobert Singer Greg Arborgast Graphics Scene Madeline Nics Michelle Fordice 
Viewpoint Patricia Fernandez 
It's that time of year again: the prover­bial "most wonderful time of the year." I, however, disagree with this statement. I want to make it publicly known that, much like Oscar the Grouch, I hate Christmas. 
I've never under­stood why Christmas is such a happy and cheerful holiday for people. So many of my Christmases have been fouled and disturbed by such very different events and occur­rences that I have come to have no faith nor trust in this ostensible day of warmth and family love. 
First Instance: 
I believed in Santa Claus for a very long time. My innocence was taken from me at a much later age than you would expect based on my current cynicism and bitterness. 
It was when I was eight, during a rou­tine early December game of hide-and­seek with my sister Katie, that I stum­bled upon a set of gifts that looked like it could be for me. At first I was incredu­lous. Why would my mom buy gifts for my cousins that she knew I would like and why would she put them in the stor­age space that I clearly was going to use as my hiding place? How dare she be so inconsiderate? I stormed back upstairs, ended the game, and demanded answers from my mother. 
"Well, Andrew, those are not actually fur your cousins." 
I needed to know who they could pos­sibly be for if not for the cousins I had assumed. 
"Those are your Christmas gifts." 
When on Christmas morning, I went to open the gifts labeled "From Santa" and saw that they were the very gifts that my mom had "hidden" in the storage space, I finally knew that Santa did not exist. 

Christmas ruined. 
Seeond Instance: 
My sister Maureen always used to joke around with me about what she was getting me for Christmas. "This year I'm going to get you a whole sock full of rocks, Andrew." But she never got me any rocks. "This year I'm going to give you a push down the stairs, Andrew." But the push never came. "This year I'm going to give you a big box of nothing, Andrew." But on Christmas morning, as always, there was a legitimate present under the tree to me from my dear sis­ter Maureen. 
Then the next year, the motif of the "box of nothing" beeame a running gag in my family. Maureen, Katie and I would light-heartedly threaten on birth­days, anniversaries and any gift-giving celebration that the "box of nothing" would rear its intangible and depressing head. Maureen, more so than either Katie or I. loved talking about how one of these days she would give me the "box of nothing." Finally as sehool start­ed in September the joke became tired and we all moved on with our lives. 
Around Advent-time that year, I devel­oped a cane fascination that has stuck with me to this day. I wanted a cane so badly that the only thing on my Christmas list was a gentleman's walk­ing stick. As soon as the tree went up, Maureen put a present under it labeled from her to me. I looked at it confused but then she told me that she had bought me a collapsible cane. It didn't matter if it wasn't exactly a gentleman's walking stick-it was a cane! On Christmas morning I rushed to open this gift, tore ofT the wrapping paper, and there inside the box were pipe cleaners spelling out N-0-T-H-I-N-G. A literal box of nothing. I cried. 
Christmas Huined. 
Third Instance: 
When I was 14, I asked my parents il'l could have an electric guitar for Christmas. They said no. On Christmas morning I woke up and sure enough, there was an electric guitar, but it was­n't the one I wanted. 
Christmas ruined. 
Now I'm not one to hold a grudge, but these three Christmases have combined with a bunch of other lousy memories that make me want to just do away with the whole event. I'm sick of people buy­ing into such a campy, over-emotional, sap-filled crap-fest. 
Honestly, Christmastime is a nonsensi­cal and delusional period of time in our lives. What makes people change their routine unhappiness and all of a sudd1m adopt the most carefree and joyous atti­tude possible? Let's all drink hot cocoa! Let's all sing carols! Let's all spread Christmas cheer! 
Nuts to that. When will people wake up and realize that Christmas is miser­able. In my mind there's only one day worse than Christmas and that's Christmas Eve: all the build up and fake­ness of Christmas with none of the gifts. Headers, I implore you do not buy into this holiday season. Sure it may seem tempting. But after it's over, where arn you left? 
With your family, in your home, trying to relive any good moments that may or may not have actually happened. 
Merry Christmas. 
P.S. -Some people may assume that I'm simply discussing the commercial­ization of Christmas. That's not what I'm on about at all. I'm talking about every­thing related to the Holiday we collec­tively celebrate on Dec. 25. Eliminating Christmas is my prescription. It's not like there aren't other days to receive presents throughout the year. Think about your birthday. And then it's just you-you don't have to share the gift­receiving spotlight with anybody else. Unless your twin. But twins are a differ­ent story, readers. and not something I'm willing to discuss in my Christmas column. 
Andrew Miller is a senior English major. He can be contacted at amille15@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
Should Charlie be fired? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Such is the inconsistency ofreal 
love. that it is always awake to 
suspicion, however unreasonable; 
always requiring new assurances 
from the object ofits interest .. " 
Ann Radcliffe author 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Catholic schools should support all children 
Aim.ing at the -wrong target 
It is easy to read not only the outrage, but the pain in Liz Froehke's letter on Nov. 17 (Lack of Acceptance an Issue of Ignorance). We share that pain. At the same time. please allow me to respond to Liz's challenge regarding Catholic schools as a Catholic educator as well as a lifelong advocate of all students with learning and behavioral issues. 
The Nov. 17 Observer came to my ofllce just as twenty Catholic school edu­cators from Florida, Tennessee, Texas, Michigan. Illinois. Connecticut, Delaware, Indiana, Maryland and the District of Columbia were deep in con­versation in the next room discussing the knowledge and skills needed by Catholic schoolteachers to ensure that "all Catholic schools are prepared to educate thH children of God regardless of special needs in language acquisition, learning, behavior, or social economic status" (ACE position statement on Inclusion, 2008). Are these teachers and educators the exception? Not at all. Catholic schools across the country are accepting children with special needs. In a survey of our ACE (Alliance for Catholic Education) teachers just last month, 98 percent reported having children with learning and behavioral issues in their classrooms, including children with Down's Syndrome and Autism. 
It is not enough, however, for Catholic schools to accept children that have learning differences. These schools and te~c.q,~_rs need the resources. and skills so that the special gifts of persons with dis­abilities can be celebrated within our classrooms. To that end, ACE has three initiatives under way. First, we are edu­cating Catholic educators, such as those here this week, to become trainers for Catholic dioceses across the country in the strategies needed to help Catholic schoolteachers meet the individual learning needs of the "differently abled." Many of those being trained are gradu­ates of the ACE program who have remained teaching in Catholic schools and are committed to this vision. Secondly, through our new office of ACE Consulting, we are providing workshops to diocesan superintendents on the opportunities for accessing federal dol­lars to support the services for children with special needs whose parents choose to place them in our Catholic schools. Lastly, the ACE faculty, just this week. reviewed a proposal for a new ACE certi­fication program in Mild Disabilities for Catholic schoolteachers. 
We understand that at present, teach­ers in Catholic schools are typically unequipped to face the challenges of helping diverse learners reach their God­given potential. These initiatives, there­fore, are built upon a core belief that every baptized child has a right to a Catholic education. We seek to provide within our nation's Catholic schools a more welcoming and inclusive -and indeed effective -learning environment for children with diverse educational abilities. With the help of the Holy Spirit, ACE might contribute in some same way to assist schools in accommodating the richly diverse learning needs of all God's children. 
Joyce Johnstone staff Alliance for Catholic Education Nov. 19 

Notre Dam.e arrogance 
The recent football spectacle created by Charlie Weis ought to be used as an opportunity for the entire University to reassess an unfortunate culture that has developed over the years at Notre Dame. And that is Notre Dame arrogance. 
Arrogance is embedded in all environ­ments at Notre Dame: the students. the alumni, the faculty, athletics, probably even the subway alums. It overwhelmed me when I walked on to campus in the fall of 1994. 
For example, I had a professor that told me that he knew that the reason I left my home state and came to Notre Dame was so that I could get a real edu­cation. My senior year, our class embarassed ourselves in the final weeks before graduation as we criticized the selection of our graduation speaker. One little girl commented that even the University of Oklahoma got Margaret Thatcher. 
Now, Weis has thrust Notre Dame arrogance into the national media. What is sad about arrogance is it is counter­productive to the goals and ideals that are Notre Dame. We should and often do boast about our committment to aca­demics, especially with our student ath­letes. What we have done by not com­promising our academic integrity with our athletes, when almost every other university in today's world does, is a true accomplishment. 
The arrogance of Notre Dame tarnish­es, if not overshadows, this fantastic accomplishment. We have a lot to be proud of at Notre Dame. I am proud to be a Notre Dame alumni. But we would be well-served if we used this Charlie Weis spectacle as an opportunity to be introspective and reassess the culture of arrogance that has developed at Notre Dame throughout the years. 
Todd Meador alum Nov. 30 

ND students should be extremely unhappy and the snowballs are indicative of their frustraction. However, the misguided idiots who hurled the snowballs at cameramen are aiming at the wrong target. 
Mounting frustration (not snow­balls) should be directed at the administration. Home football games are something this school is supposed to hold sacred. 
Many students choose to attend the school in large part because they want to be a part of the ND football experience (I did in 1988). For many students, the home games are highlights of the school year (once again. true of me). 
Despite this, the administration willingly and openly prostituted the entire football experience by selling it to NBC. Football games should not last 4.5 hours. If a game is more than three hours, it lacks rhythm and flow. The constant, extended commercial interruptions greatly diminish the experience for the stu­dents, the players and the fans across the country. Also, the team loses a big part of its home field advantage when these long breaks drain much of the emotion in the stadium. As the game is so annoy­ingly stretched into a marathon, it is difficult for fans to maintain their enthusiasm and for players to feed off of it. 
The administration needs to pro­tect home football games for those who love them instead of selling it to those who seek only profit. Yes, the NBC contract ensures that I can see every home game on tv; howev­er, I will take the sanctity of football Saturday at NO over that assurance in a heartbeat. I love ND football. I will find a way to watch it when the NBC debacle ends and I will enjoy it so much more. 
James Gillen almnus class of '88 Nov. 26 


Rules for selecting head 
coaches 
It's been 20 years since our last national title. In the two decades between 1966 and 1988 we won four. What makes the most recent twenty years so empty? 
Compare the head coaches. Ara Parseghian, Dan Devine and Lou Holtz all had 13 or more years of head coaching experience and win­ning percentages of .644 or greater prior to arriving at Notre Dame. Lou and Dan also won big bowl games during their successful years at Arkansas and Missouri. Ara and Lou turned around horrible Big Ten teams (Northwestern and Minnesota). 
I could keep going, but the point is, all three had extremely successful and impressive head coaching resumes before being hired by ND. Bob Davie and Charlie Weis had zero head coaching experience. George O'Leary and Ty Willingham had no more than eight years of head coaching experi­ence. Their winning percentages prior to ND were .611 and .550. 
This may sound obvious, but Notre Dame should stick with what works and hire nothing less than coaches with proven records of head coaching success as we did with Ara, Dan, and Lou. 
Unfortunately, this hasn't been obvi­ous during the last 12 years. We've broken with a winning tradition and hired individuals that didn't meet our golden Notre Dame standard. We've made the "Gerry Faust Error" four times in a row. If we're looking for the next Knute Rockne or Frank Leahy (who both had zero or very little head coaching experience) we haven't been very lucky. 
Plus, college football was in its infant stages prior to 1950 and the ultra-competitive nature of today's football requires a well defmed head coach selection process. 
Pilots with only a few years of expe­rience shouldn't be chosen to fly Air Force One. The President's surgeon shouldn't be the young fellow that just finished his residency. 
In the same way, the individual selected to coach Notre Dame Football should not be someone that has less than 13 years of head coach experience and a winning percentage less than .644. A spectacular turn­around and bowl game wins on his resume would, of course, be pre­ferred. 
Notre Dame is not the place for new head coaches to start their careers or mediocre coaches to build their resumes. Notre Dame is the place where the best coaches in college football go to make history. 
Edward Prusiecki alum class of'02 Nov. 30 


THE OBSERVER 





CENE

page 10 Wednesday, December 3, 2008 

1) It's a Wonderful Life (1946) 
This dassic (the American Film Institute named it the 
number one American inspirational film) is essentially a 
revamped version of "A Christmas Carol." On Christmas 
Eve. James Stewart's George Bailey has Jordan Gamble 
to see what the world would be like if 
he'd never been born to realize the------­
value of his own life. 
Scene Writer 

2) White Christmas (1954) 
In this musical, two army buddies from World War II, now song-and-dance men, try to woo a sister act while the four of them put on a stage show to save a failing winter resort. 
3) A Charlie Brown Christmas (1965) 
The half-hour television special, the first with Charles Schultz's "Peanuts" characters, denounces the materialism of Christmas, with Charlie Brown getting a wilting tree instead of an aluminum one and linus bringing it all to a crescendo when he recites the Nativity story from the Gospel of Luke. 
4) The Santa Clause (1994) 
Tim Allen. tliCn at the top of his "Home Improvement" fame, stars as Scott Calvin. a guy who accidentally kills Santa Claus and because of that, must become the next one, whether he likes it or not. 
5) How the Grinch Stole Christmas (1966) 
The original TV special, adapted from Dr. Seuss's book, continues in the same vein of "A Charlie Brown Christmas," with tlw Grinch realizing that Christmas is more than "packages, boxes, or bags!" 
6) Home Alone (1990) 
Macaulay Culkin's character gets left behind on Christmas, and must fend off boredom, insecurity and bur­glars until his parent<> make it home. llilarity ensues. This movie was the top grossing movie of the 90s, until "Titanic" came along. 
7) A Christmas Story (1983) 
It's December in 1940s northern Indiana and all Ralphie wants for Christmas is Red Ryder BB gun. "A Christmas Story" turns 25 years old this year, but the sight gags of Halphie's friend's tongue lrozen to the flag pole, the bunny suit and the leg lamp probably won't get old anytime soon. 
8) Rudolph, the Red-Nosed Reindeer (1964) 
Of all the stop-motion specials produced by Rankin and Bass. Hudolph has endured the longest. It's got memorable characters (a misfit reindeer, an elf who longs to bn a den­tist. a gold miner named Yukon Cornelius, and of course, s.an~a) and,catehy musk. from the title song to "Holly Jolly (.Jmstma<>. 
9) Love Actually (2003) 
Intertwining at least nine difl(mmt love stories, this movie is a must for anyone experiencing the holiday blues. Surn, there are some downbeat parts. but when the little girl belL<> out Mariah Can~y·s "All I Want for Christmas Is You" at the end. you'd have to be a real Scrooge to resist the Christmas cheer. 
10) Elf (2003) 
The 6-foot tall Buddy (Will Ferrell), clad in an elf ensem­ble straight out of "Hudolph," discovers he is actually a human adopted by the North Pole, and sets out to reeon­neet with his real father. Ferrell is both convincing and hilarious in a movie that generated such catchphrases as "Santa! I know him!" 
The views expressed in Scene and /Ieard are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Of>server. 
Contact Jordan Gamble atjgamble@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Wednesday, December 3, 2008 
page 11 

gathering around the last snowfall. drift out of dorm ildings are adorned d d Michelle Fordice 
"''sc~ne Writer 
d 
If at Notre Dame, begins here ring. 
certainly beginning hristmas. Even if it times, the snow on t for all of us who te Christmas in We'll all be trying snow angels and we can before we abound: the giant s have been lit, ve been set up and classroom buildings nd the school. and are making each little more cheery. g like a Winter 
to be filled with candy by the hall staff members that support us all year round. The glee club travels to different dorms and classroom build­ings, standing in for our neighbor­hood Christmas carolers. These early weeks of the season are the chance to celebrate Christmas with the friends that have become our family away from home. ··· ''·"'· ,· ..~··.., ·. · 
All of these Christmas preparations and celebrations remind us of the spiritual side of Notre Dame. The first advent candle has been lit in the Basilica and chapels across campus, hymns like "0 Come, 0 Come Emmanuel" fill us with anticipation, and the nativity scenes set up at the grotto, the Dome and O'Shaughnessy become a visual reminder of why we celebrate Christmas. We start to think about giving back as service projects and donation drives abound, remind­ing us to care for the people that are not guaranteed a good Christmas. The heart of Notre Dame is about considering what matters most; you can find a good education at many universities, but Christmastime is just one reminder that Notre Dame is about something more. 
So take time to breathe in the crisp winter air, bask in the glow of Christmas lights, and remember that there are more important things than just making it through the last few weeks of papers and exams. Celebrate the spirit of Christmas a lit­tle bit each day, along with the rest of our Notre Dame family. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at 
mfordice@nd. edu 

By ANALISE LIPARI 
Ice-skating at Howard Park 
Hours can be found at: 
www.sbpark.org/skate/iceskate.htm 
Sure, it's fun to skate in the Joyce Center whenever the rink's open, cruising along the ice with your friends and dormmates. Why not give it a try off-campus? South Bend's park system deserves a second look, especially this time of year, when Howard Park offers an outdoor skating rink for wintertime fun. Practice your figure eights and smooth moves at this local park -it's less than two miles from campus, so you've got no excuse. Admission costs $4 with a skate rental included. If you've got your own pair of skates, the rink will sharpen them for $4. Christmas at the Movies 
This holiday season should prove like any other at the movies, with a slew of holiday fare hitting the big screen. "Four Christmases," starring comedy high-roller Vince Vaughn and Reese Witherspoon, took the top spot at the box office last weekend. Another Christmas release, "Nothing Like the· Holidays," is due in theaters Dec. 12, and should also prove to be a welcome holiday distraction from the joys of finals week. 
"A Christmas Story" at the South Bend Civic Theater 
Performances continue to December 20th. 
The South Bend Civic Theater has brought this 1983 classic Christmas film to life on the stage. Join this local theater community in celebrating one of the holiday sea­son's more unconventional stories as 11 year-old Ralphie Parker dreams of a Red Ryder BB gun for Christmas. Even if you'll "shoot your eye out," you can't pass up this Christmastime production. The story, which takes place in Indiana, was first brought to the stage in 2000. South Bend Symphony Orchestra performs "Home for the Holidays" 
Sunday Dec. 7, 3 p.m. 
If you're in the mood for some holiday cheer, check out the South Bend Symphony Orchestra this Sunday at the Morris Performing Arts Center. In addition to the orches­tra itself, this popular concert will feature performances by soprano Diane Penning and the South Bend High School Festival Choir, a group comprised of students from Adams, Riley, Clay and Washington High Schools. Supposedly Kris Kringle himself will make an appear­ance at the show, so you better watch out! 
"The Nutcracker" at the Morris Performing Arts Center 
Dec. 13 at 2 p.m, and 7 p.m. and Dec. 14 at 2 p.m. 
Christmas in South Bend wouldn't be the same without the local production of this beloved holiday tradition. Watch and wonder as young Clara experiences a night of enchantment, drama and mystery, scored by Tchaikovsky's beautiful music and performed by a local dance company, the Southold Dance Theater. 

Glee Club Christmas Concert at the DeBartolo 
Performing Arts Center 
Dec. 13 at 6 p.m. and 8:30p.m, 
An absolute must, this annual concert is one of the Glee Club's finest offerings each academic year. The men of the Glee Club will perform a variety of holiday tunes, traditional carols, contemporary selections and more. 
"Kathy Mattea's Christmas" at the DeBartolo 
Performing Arts Center 
Dec. 14, 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. 
This country artist has two Grammy Awards and three Country Music Association Awards under her belt, and will be coming to the Leighton Concert Hall for a unique Christmastime performance. Called "one of Nashville's most spiritual singers" by USA Today, Mattea will per­form Christmas standards as well as some of her own holiday tracks, including "Mary, Did You Know?" 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, December 3, 2008 
NBA 


Murphy's tip-in helps Pacers shock Lakers 
Washington outscores New Jersey 35-12 in the third quarter cruising to first win over Eastern conference opponent 
if the Lakers were destined
Associated Press 

for yet another rout. 
INDI/\Nt\POI.IS -Troy Granger and MurphyMurphy and Danny Granger r.hangnd those plans. spent most of Tuesday night Granger, who scored 32 working to knnp the Pacers points, and Murphy, who close to tlw !.akers. had 16 points and 17 
Tlwy SJWnt those final few rebounds, methodically led SIH~onds like everyone else their teammates baek byin Consneo Finldhousn -making big baskets and get­watd1ing, waiting and won­ting the ball to op1~n team­
dPring if Murphy's tantaliz­mates. The Pacers (7-10)ing tip would actually drop also allowed just 16 pointsthrough the 1wt. over the final 12 minutes. It did -just as the buzzer The combination, and sounded. · 
Murphy's ability to get his 
Murphy's game-winner hands on a eomplntnd batted ball, an improba-bailed thBm
"That spurely
b I e ~~ lllll e ­baek and unbelievable. Troy is a out. 
"There was 
gave the 

monster on the boards. some luek Pacers a involvBd, but
lie gobbles up so many
desperately that's the way 
n ~~ ed nd l l 8 -rebounds, and I'm glad 
basketball is I I 7 victory he got it because I if you don't 
al'tnr replay take care of
couldn't get lo il. " 
reviews eon­businBss,"firmed the 
Lakers eoach basket was Danny Granger Phil Jaekson 
good. Pacers forward said. "They
"That's 

got some purely unbe-energy goinglievable," Granger said. to the hoop and the right
"Troy is a monster on the thing happened for them." boards. lie gobbles up so It was a dramatic: shift for many rebounds, and I'm the Pacers, who had lost glad he got it because I five of six, including their couldn't get to it." last two home games in 
The Lakers (14-2) entered overtime. They play six of 

with a seven-game winning their next seven on the streak, the league's best road. record and a perfect 5-0 The Lakers jumped ahead 
mark on the road. So when repeatedly against Indiana they closed the third quar­but the Pacers kept rallying. 
ter with a 17-0 run to take When reigning MVP Kobe a 101-86 lead, it seemed as Bryant scored the Lakers' 


final nine points of the first Granger's fourth 3, with half to give Los Angeles a 1:42 left, closed the margin 66-59 lead, Granger caught to 115-114 and Marquis Murphy's long inbounds Daniels made two free pass, spun and hit a 17-throws on Indiana's next footer at the buzzer to make possession to put the Pacers it 66-61 at halftime. in front. 
When Bryant B r y a n t opened the answered with second half by "It looked like it sat a pull-up 21­scoring the footer before
on there forever. But
Lakers' first missing an 18­
seven points, I'm happy it finally footer that Granger did went down. " gave Indiana a everything he chance to call could to keep timeout and set
Troy Murphy
it close. up one last And when Pacers forward play. Los Angeles Although it put together didn't work, its big run at the end of the Daniels broke free on the third, Granger and Murphy baseline, put up a short returned the favor by ignit­shot that bounced off the ing a 10-0 spurt early in the rim and got batted around fourth to get the Pacers before Murphy charged in within seven. and tipped it toward the Bryant finished with 28 basket. After bouncing off points, becoming the sec­both sides of the rim and ond-fastest player in league into the air, it finally history to reach 22,000 dropped and sent Pacers career points. Wilt players running toward 
Chamberlain was one day their sideline. younger than Bryant when "It looked like it sat on he reached that milestone. there forever," Murphy said. 
"They did a great job on "But I'm happy it finally the offensive boards and went down." our turnovers created momentum for them," Wizards 108, Nets 88 Bryant said. "Their 3-point Caron Butler had 22 shooting kept them in the points and 10 assists, and game." DeShawn Stevenson added 
21 to lead the Washington Wizards to an easy victory over the New Jersey Nets on Tuesday night. 
The victorr ~.~s th~ first road win of the season for the Wizards (3-12) and their 
first win over an Eastern Conference opponent after 11 straight losses. 
The loss snapped a three­game winning streak for the Nets (9-8). who won all three contests on the road. The Nets were led by Devin Harris, who had 18 points, but only three after half­time, and Vince Carter, who had 16 points. Keyon Dooling added 14 off the bench for the Nets. 
After a closely contested first half. the Wizards blew the game open, outscoring New Jersey 35-12 in the third period. 
The Wizards led 51-50 at halftime, then outscored the Nets 14-3 over the first 4:54 of the second half to take a commanding 65-53 lead. Butler and t\ntawn Jamison (22 points) each scored four points in the game-deeiding run. 
The Nets cut the lead to 70-60 on a three-point play by Carter. But the Wizards went on a 16-1 run over the next 3 minutes and coasted from there. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Furnished 2-bdrm. house.  If you or someone you care about  So  Womanizer, woman-womanizer  
FoR RENT  Living room,  PERSONAL  has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edufdepartmentsfcsapf  for  You're a womanizer  
kitchen.  There  your  Oh, womanizer, oh  
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  You're a womanizer, baby  
SCHOOL YEAR.  dining room.  Do not go it alone. If you or some- were  reading  
one you love needs confidential  
2-10 BDRMS AVAILABLE.  full bath.  support or assistance, please call  no  pleasure...  You, you, you are  
Sr. Sue Dunn. OP. at (574)631-7819  
CONTACT KRAMER PROPERTIES  6.5 blks to ND.  or Ann Firth at 574-631-2685. For  classifieds  You, you, you are  
more information, visit our website  
574-234-2436  $795fmo. Avail Jan. 1. Call 605­ at:  tonight...  present  Womanizer. womanizer  
397-8135 or 574-234-3007 or 574­ http://osa.nd.edufdepartmentsfpreg­ 
0R KRAMERHOUSES.COM  261-4444.  nant.shtml  at all  to you:  Womanizer  

r~---------~--­
: 
OUNDTHENATION 
Wednesday, December 3, 2008 CoMPilED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 13 
Men's Basketball············· APTop 25 

team points rec~Jrd 
1 North Carolina (72) 1800 H 2 UConn 1723 6,.0 3 Pitlsburgh 1592 7-0. 4 Duke 1526 NF 5 Gonzaga 1489 5·0 & lklahoma 1437 6,.0 7 NOTRE DAME 1359 ····.s~t· 8 Texas 1231 5~1 9 Purdue 1086 5~1 10 Tennessee 1016 54 11 louisville 1003 2•1 12 UCLA 96& 4"1 13 Michigan State 946 4~1 14 Xavier 902 .6·0 
..

15 Wake forest 73& 6•0 16 Syracuse 668 6~0 17 Villanova 570 6~0 18 Memphis 526 4·1 19 Arizona State 401 ··· ··5S1 20 Georgetown 388 / 44• 21 Miami 309 44. 22 Davidson 286 s•t··· 22 Florida 281 54 24 Baylor 272 6·1 25 Marqueue 221 5·1 
Women's Basketball 


APTop25 
team points 

1 Connecticut (45) 1125 2 North Carolina 1073 3 California 1009 4 Stanford 973 5 TexasA&M 8&8 6 Oklahoma 845 1 · Tennessee·· '1\ltl 8 Maryland 781 9 Texas 748 10 Baylor •677 11 NOTRE DAME 6&9 12 Duke 652 13 louisville 623 14 Auburn 576 15 Rutgers 536 16 Va oderbilt 397 17 Purdue 363 18 Ohio Slate 353 19 Oklahoma Slate 351 20 Virginia 280 21 Michigan State 204 22 TCU 129 23 Xavier 128 24 Pittsburgh 94 25 Arizona Stale 68 
pre.v•···· · 

Big East Women's· Volleyball····· Conference Standings 
Team Conf Record 
1 St.John's 
12~2 2 Cincinnati 12~2 3 louisville 11~3 4 Connecticut l0-4 5 NOTRE DAME 9~5 6 Syracuse 8.-6 7 Pittsburgh 8-6 8 USF 7~7 9 Georgetown J,J 10 Seton Hall 6·8 
around the dial 
NCAAB 

Indiana at (17) Wake Forest 
7:15 p.m., ESPN 

(1) North Carolina at (12) Michigan State 9:15p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Six play­ers, including the heart of the Minnesota Vikings' stout defensive line, were sus­pended for four games without pay by the NFL on Tuesday for violating the league's anti-doping policy. 
All six were punished for using a diuretic, which can serve as a masking agent for steroids. 
The suspended players were running back Deuce McAllister and defensive linemen Charles Grant and Will Smith of New Orleans; defensive linemen Kevin and Pat Williams of Minnesota; and long snap­per Bryan Pittman of Houston. 
A seventh playe~ Atlanta's Grady Jackson, was not suspended. NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said league chief counsel Jeff Pash had asked for addi­tional information from Jackson. 
The punishment is an especially harsh blow to Minnesota, which leads the NFC North and relies heavi­ly on the two Williamses in its run defense, which ranks second in the league. 
Angelo Wright, the agent for Pat and Kevin Williams, said he would file a motion in federal court Wednesday morning, presumably to put offthe suspensions. 
If a player's team makes the playoffs, the player will be eligible to return to the active roster on Dec. 29. 
Asked about the late scheduling of the suspen­sions, Adolpha Birch, the NFLs vice president of law and labor policy, said the timing was "a function of a lot of factors." 
"I think if you ask most coaches, every game is important. I don't think they'd clifferentiate between the first and the last," Birch said in a conference calL "We do have things in place to get them done as quickly as possible. But we had to deal with the number of players involved and adjust travel schedules. We have to fit it around the players' ability to attend." 

David Cornwell, the lawyer for the three Saints, called the decisions "incon­sistent with the objectives of the steroid policy." 
"Deuce, Will, and Charles did not try to enhance their performance with steroids, nor did they knowingly expose themselves to the adverse health risks of a diuretic," Cornwell said in an e-maiL "They took a weight loss supplement that they had every reason to believe was safe." 
In their appeals, some players said the banned substance Bumetanide was not listed as an ingredient in StarCaps, an over-the­counter weight-loss pill. 
IN BRIEF Kell_y says he'll remain 
head coach at Cincinnati 
CINCINNATI -Coach Brian Kelly tried to end speculation Tuesday that he's leaving No. 13 Cincinnati, saying that he's happy with the football pro­gram's development and he plans to stay. 
He was upbeat Tuesday following a meeting with the school's president, AD and the head of its board of trustees to get an update on plans to expand the Bearcats' small football stadium and to improve their practice fields. 
Kelly acknowledged that other schools had expressed an interest in him, but said he's not interested in leav­ing. 
"All I can say is that with all the spec­ulation and all the jobs that have been out there, sooner or later 'no' means 'no,"' Kelly said. "Again, no one can ever speak in terms of forever and ever, but what I can tell you is there's been a lot of interest in my services, and I want to be here at the University of Cincinnati because of the right reasons." 
McGrady_ to miss three 
weeks with knee injury 
HOUSTON -Houston guard Tracy McGrady will miss three weeks to rehabilitate his sore left knee, another blow to an injury-plagued season for the Rockets. 
McGrady sat out Houston's last three games after starting the first 15. He had arthroscopic surgery on May 6, but said Tuesday that doctors have told him that the knee is not healed. 
"Obviously, I came back a little bit too early," said McGrady, who was averag­ing 15.6 points. ''I'm just not ready." 
McGrady visited renowned orthope­dist James Andrews on Monday. The team said Andrews confinned the ini­tial medical assessment by team doctor Tom Oanton that McGrady is suffering from general soreness in the knee. 
Saturday will mark seven months since the surgery, and McGrady said doctors told him that his knee would require 6 to 8 months to heal. He said Andrews reassured him that he won't need more surgery. 
Quinn to have season­
ending finger surgery 
CLEVELAND -Brady Quinn has decided to get his frac­tured finger fixed. 
After weighing his options over the past week, Cleveland's quarterback has elected to have surgery on his right index finger, which he initially broke on Nov. 17 at Buffalo and then made worse by playing in the Browns' game a week later against Houston. 
The team said that Quinn's operation will be performed on Wednesday in Birmingham, Ala., by hand specialist Dr. Thomas Hunt. The procedure, which will likely involve a pin being inserted in Quinn's finger to stabilize the bone and dam­aged tendon, will require up to 10 weeks of recovery time. 
' page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, December 3, 2008 
NFL 

Plaxico done for year, suspended for 4 games 
After Burress accidentally shoots himself in leg, Giants suspend wide receiver for conduct detrimental to the team 
spoke with Plaxico he expressed free agent. Pierce's lawyer said Tuesday being involved .... I've got to be
Associated Press 

great remorse for letting down "When you lose a player of he contacted prosecutors as strong," he said. 
EAST HUTIIEHFORD. N.J. -his teammates." Plaxico 's ability, it is incumbent soon as he was hired by the Bradshaw's attorney, Charles Super Bowl hero Plaxico Police and prosecutors still that everybody step up and fill linebacker on Monday. Stacy, said his client wasn't sus­Burress is done for the year. want to talk to a pair of the void," said Coughlin, whose "After the events in question, pected of any wrongdoing. 
The New York Giants fined Burress' teammates, Antonio team is 11-1 and a win away Mr. Pierce did what any other Both players said they were and suspended Burress on Pierce and Ahmad Bradshaw, from clinching the NFC East. "In reasonable person would do planning to speak with the dis­Tuesday for four games -the who were at the club when the the last two seasons, this team under the circumstances, he trict attorney's oflice in the near rest of the regular season -shooting occurred but insist has done an outstanding job of hired counsel," attorney future. after he accidentally shot him­they did nothing wrong. that. We made it clear to Plax Michael Bachner said. He said Authorities are also upset that self in the right thigh over the Neither Burress nor his agent, today that we are here to sup­he hasn't been notified that the hospital didn't report the weekend at a Manhattan night­Drew Hosenhaus, was immedi­port him in any way possible." Pierce will be charged. shooting. Hospital officials said dub. The team ately available Fines in the NFL typically "Mr. Pierce, given the extraor­"take this very seriously, and are also plaeed him for comment. mean a player loses a paycheck dinary circumstances of that conducting a thorough investiga­
"As we have said
on the reserve Dr. Scott for each game he misses. In evening, acted responsibly in tion into why this gunshot wound non-football since Saturday Rodeo, a team Burress' case, that would mean trying to save what could have was not reported to the police injury list, which physician, exam­roughly $206,000 per regular been the life of a friend," department in a timely fashion." 
morning, our concern 
means the wide ined Burress and season game. He also was due Bachner said. Hospital spokeswoman Kathy 
is for Plaxico 's health
reeeiver eouldn 't told the Giants to receive $1 million from his The episode has frustrated Robinson said Tuesday an indi­come baek for and well-being." that the gunshot signing bonus on Dec. 10. It was police from the start. Officers vidual has been suspended in playofl"s, either. wound would not immediately clear whether said they were promised by NFL connection with the case, but The team pun­have sidelined the team still had to make the officials Monday that Pierce would not say if the person was
John Mara 
ished Burress a the 31-year-old payment. would appear for questioning, a doctor or hospital staff mem­
Giants president 
day after he was player for 4-to-6 The player's latest woes but he still hasn't. ber. charged with weeks anyway. began in the wee hours Police said Tuesday that the A person familiar with the case illegal weapons possession, "I had two conversations with Saturday Giants did said a doctor who was not a stafl" whieh carries a penalty of 3 and Plaxico today, and it was obvi­morning when send two train­member came to the hospital 1/2 to 15 years in prison if he's ous that he understood the he shot himself "!had two conversations ers and an offi­shortly after Burress arrived eonvieted. Burress is due back magnitude of this situation," in the VIP sec­with Plaxico today, and cial who deals there around 2 a.m. and treated in court again on March 31, Reese said Tuesday. "He knows tion of a club with player him. The doctor's privileges to
it was obvious that he 
unless he reaches a plea agree­that we are here to support him called the issues, who work out of the hospital have ment. and help him get healthy." Latin Quarter, understood the provided infor­been suspended, according to Burress arrived Tuesday This is the second time the where he went magnitude of this mation about the person. The person was not morning at Giants Stadium, and Giants have suspended the trou­with two team­the shooting. authorized to speak publicly and 
situation." 
met individually with Giants bled receiver this season. He mates. That includes spoke to The Associated Press on president .John Mara, general missed the Oct. 2 game against Police want Charles Way, the condition of anonymity. manager .Jerry Heese and coach Seattle for missing a team meet­to know what Jerry Reese the team's Mayor Michael Bloomberg Torn Coughlin. lie left for a ing. lie also has been fined Pierce did Giants general manager director of spoke out again Tuesday, saying nwdieal test and returned in the dozens of times since 2005 for moments after player devel-he talked to Mara and NFL com­afternoon for another brief ses­violating team rules, and he was the shooting opment, and missioner Roger Goodell. He told sion with team ollicials. hit with a $45,000 fine by the and whether he took part in a trainer Ronnie Barnes. But them the law says "you see 
Even as they suspended him league this season for abusing cover-up. They also plan to police are still waiting to speak something, you got to call the for conduet detrimental to the an official and throwing a ball interview the people at New to more informed witnesses. cops. That's the thing you should team, Giants ollicials expressed into the stands during a game. York-Presbyterian Pierce declined to answer d0." eoneern for Burress, who "Our concern all along has Hospital!Weill Cornell Medical questions about the shooting on The Giants say they have been caught a touehdown pass from been for Plaxico the person, not Center, who treated Burress and his regular Tuesday afternoon cooperating with authorities Eli Manning that gave the Plaxico the player," team chair­did not report the shooting, as spot on Sirius NFL Radio. "It's since they learned about the Giants a 17-14 Super Bowl win man Steve Tisch said. "We are . required by law. not appropriate with the police shooting. over Nnw England in February. here to support him and his 
"As we have said since family as he recovers from his Saturday morning, our coneern wound and deals with some is for Plaxieo's health and well­serious issues." being," Mara said. "This is an Burress is fourth on the team important time for him to take with 35 catches for 454 yards eare of his body and heal up and four touchdowns. He has and also deal with the very seri­eaught 244 passes for 3,681 ous legal eonsequences and yards and 33 touchdowns since otlwr issues in his life. When I joining the team in 2005 as a 
"As You Wish" -WALLEIS -SCARVES 
·-.· .... --PURSES -CHANGE 
~ '--.../ ::-·
Imports ··g·· 

-INCENSE PURSES 
LOADS OF SILVER & BEADED JEWELRY. SILVER RINGS AND TOE RINGS. TAPESTRY WALL HANGINGS/ BEDSPREADS AND MUCH MUCH MORE 
LOW l'RICI'S! GREAT Cl IRISTMAS GIFTS! 
C"7uat.~mala ·-Bolivia -F'!!ru -M.::xlco -Thal:and -India 
---·-·· 
La Fortune -Sorin Room IDec. J-6 (Sat.) ll-5pm M-F Eves 7:30-lOpm 
Proceeds from .sales of jewelry guarant-ee "the loving hands of Gua"temalar 
famfltes 3 "times 'their average. salary. as well as funds for "their educa1"ion 



Wednesday, December 3, 2008 · The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
Eastern 
continued from page 20 
Lechlitner added 15. 
"Lech in the second half really took control of the game offensively," McGraw said. 
Novosel's 18 points, along with her eight rebounds, were a career high. Notre Dame out-rebounded Eastern Michigan 60-44. In addition to Schrader's 10, Bruszewski had six and center Erica good disciplined effort." 
Mary Lawson scored 14 points and hit 4-of-12 shots from 3-point range. Aside from Lawson, however, the Irish defended the 3-point line well: the Eagles made only 5­of-20 3-point attempts. 
"We're getting better at it," McGraw said. "The freshmen have to figure out how to learn how to find one person." The advantage on the glass resulted partially from Notre Dame's size advantage. Three of Notre Dame's five starters and two of their bench players 
Williamson had "I thought we played are over six five. feet, but the
OK defensively in the
Notre Dame Eagles had only
first halfbut we just
(6-0) led 50-33 two starters with 14 minutes fouled too much. That over six feet remaining in tall.
was not a good

the second half, The Irish
disciplined effort." 
but Eastern turned the ball Michigan (2-5) over 18 times, closed the gap Muffet McGraw three more than to seven with the Eagles. The
Irish coach 

9:14 remaining. Four points from guard Cassie Schrock and a 3-point­er from guard Mary Lawson helped erase the deficit. 
Three free throws from for­ward Becca Bruszewski and a Schrader jump shot helped the Irish regain a 13-point lead, and a six-point run near 
the end of the second half put Notre Dame ahead by 20. Eastern Michigan would not get closer than 15 for the 
rest  of  the  
game.  
Schrock  fin­ 

ished with 16 points and 14 rebounds, but· shot only 3-for­11 from the 
"We were really sloppy with the ball, careless, nonchalant, we really didn't look like we had a lot of 
focus.~· 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 

field. She got her points from the foul line, where she made 10-of-14 free throws. Both teams went to the foul line often in the game. Notre Dame made 25 of its 40 free throws, and Eastern Michigan sank 22 of its 28. 
"I thought we played okay defensively in the first half but we just fouled too much," McGraw said. "That was not a 
turnover deficit was unusual for Notre Dame, 
who usually leads in the turnover department. 
"We were really sloppy with the ball, careless, nonchalant, we really didn't look like we had a lot of focus," McGraw said. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a 
9-2 lead, but free throws from Schrock and two jumpers from guard Tavelyn James brought the score to 19­13 with 6:27 left in the first half. 
Lechlitner's two layups sent the Irish on a 10-4 run to take a 29-17 
lead. Six Eagle foul shots pulled Eastern Michigan with­in 12 points at the half. 
Foul shots also helped at the start of the second half, keep­ing Eastern Michigan within 10 points, but then the Irish started their run and put the game out of reach. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
NBA 
Miller's 28 help end 76ers skid 
Billups tallies double-double in win; Barea's three caps Dallas comeback 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Andre Miller scored nine of his season-high 28 points in overtime Tuesday night and the Philadelphia 76ers ended their four-game losing streak with a 103-95 vic­tory over the Chicago Bulls. 
Andre Iguodala added 25 points and Elton Brand had 22 points and 14 rebounds as the Sixers avenged a loss to the Bulls two days ago in Philadelphia. 
Derrick Rose led Chicago with 24 points and Ben Gordon added 18. Tyrus Thomas had 14 points and 13 boards. 
Thomas' thunderous followup dunk tied at 90 with 17.6 sec­onds left in regulation. 
The Sixers had the last shot, but after holding the ball and running down the clock, Iguodala drove the lane and fed in the corner to Miller, whose shot was short. 
But in overtime Miller took over. He had a three-point play and then a soft jumper to give Philadelphia a 99-92 lead: 
Philly, which led by 15 Sunday before losing to the Bulls 103-92, had a 16-point cushion Tuesday and was also ahead by nine in the fourth quarter before Chicago rallied. 
But this time the Sixers held on. 
Brand's jump hook gave the Sixers a 79-70 lead in regula­tion. Iguodala's drive along the base line and thundering dunk kept the lead at seven with three minutes remaining. 
Rose drove for a bank shot and Drew Gooden's two free throws after a nifty pass from Rose brought the Bulls to within two with 1:15 to play. 
Thomas blocked a shot by Miller but then was called for an offensive foul at the other end with 40 seconds remaining. 
But a driving Iguodala lost the ball under the basket with 
23.9 seconds to go and the 
Bulls had a last chance. After a timeout Rose, drove the basket and missed but Thomas fol­lowed it up with a slam to tie the game with 17.6 seconds to go. 
Iguodala's three-point play and then steal and dunk in the final seconds of the third quar­ter highlighted a strong 12-2 finish for the 76ers as they took a 67-61lead. 
Looking flat after a seven­game road trip that ended Sunday with the victory over the Sixers in Philly, the Bulls fell behind by 1 0 after a listless first quarter in which they had eight turnovers and shot 33 percent. 
Philadelphia went up 30-14 in the second quarter. But the Bulls chopped away and after a rally that saw them shoot 58 percent in the second period, they actually had a chance for the halftime lead before Andres Nocioni's baseline jumper was long with about half a minute left. Iguodala's banker put Philadelphia up three at the half. 
Nuggets 132, Raptors 93 
Thanks to Chauncey Billups, Carmelo Anthony doesn't have to shoulder the Denver Nuggets' offense while grap­pling with an ailing right elbow. 
Billups had 24 points and 14 assists in Denver's rout of the Toronto Raptors on Tuesday night in a game that was out of reach by halftime. 
After a slow start, Anthony finished with 23 points 48 hours after scoring just one bucket in 14 agonizing minutes against Houston, which snapped his NBA-best double­digit streak at 222 games. 
Jermaine O'Neal returned from a sprained left ankle that had cost him three games and he scored 12 points to go with Chris Bosh's 24, but they could­n't keep the Raptors from being routed. 
Nene added 19 points and 11 
STUDY ABROAD THIS SUMMER THROUGH NOTRE DAME! 
Notre Dame will offer faculty-led programs in: 
Cape Town, South Africa 
Dublin, Ireland Paris, France Toledo, Spain Vienna, Austria 
SUMMER PROGRAMS INFORMATION SESSION THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 7PM 125 DEBARTOLO 

University of Cape Town
www.nd.edu/ "'ois APPLICATION DEADLINE: 3/1/09 
boards for the Nuggets, who are 12-3 since trading Allen Iverson to the Detroit Pistons for Billups, the Denver native and former University of Colorado star whose homecom­ing has gone better than any­body would have expected. 
Thanks to Billups' play up and down the court, this game was never in doubt even with Anthony's fitful start. During Billups' 32 minutes of playing time, the Nuggets were an incredible plus-48 on the score­board. 
Anthony's right elbow has been bothering him since train­ing camp but has gotten pro­gressively worse over the last couple of weeks. He received treatment on the team's off-day and skipped much of the Nuggets' shootaround Tuesday morning, then returned to the starting lineup. 
He missed his first four shots and two of his first four free throws before finding a rhythm. He even passed up some shots early on that he normally takes and banked a layup off the glass for a 24-second violation before swishing a 17-foot jumper that gave Denver a 47­28lead. 
Mavericks 100, Clippers 98 
Jose Barea hit the go-ahead 3-pointer in the final minute, Dirk Nowitzki scored 29 points and the Dallas Mavericks ral­lied from a 15-point deficit to beat the Los Angeles Clippers Tuesday night. 
Barea capped Dallas' closing 18-4 run with a long-range jumper with 50.2 seconds left that gave Dallas its only lead of the game. 
After the teams exchanged empty possessions, the Clippers had a chance to win. 
Baron Davis missed a 3-point­er with just over a second left and Nowitzki grabbed the rebound as time expired. After the final buzzer sounded, team­mates mobbed Barea under the basket. 
Jason Terry scored 26 points for the Mavericks, who moved over .500 for the first time this season. Barea chipped in with a season-high 15 points, and Brandon Bass added 14. 
Zach Randolph had 27 points and 10 rebounds, AI Thornton had 23 points and Davis added 22 points for the Clippers, who didn't score in fmal 2:55. 
Steve Novak hit a jumper early in the fourth to give Los Angeles an 83-68 lead as the Clippers seemed poised to win its second game over the Mavericks this season. 
The Clippers still led by 12 with seven minutes left when the Mavericks, behind a three­guard lineup of Jason Kidd, Terry and Barea, started their comeback. 
Nowitzki's putback cut the Clippers' lead to 96-91. After Thornton's jumper put Los Angeles up 98-91, the Mavericks scored final nine points of the game. 
Terry hit jumper and a layup that brought Dallas to 98-97 with 1:15 left. 
After Eric Gordon missed a jumper, Kidd found Barea for a 3-pointer from the left wing. 
The Mavericks have won seven of eight since starting the season 2-7. The Clippers have lost five in a row and 18 of 21 in Dallas. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, December 3, 2008 

Calle 
continued from page 20 
Hidderwall's ovnrtime game­
winner against Michigan in last 
ynar's national semifinal didn't 
grant him rnprinve from his 
teammatns' hmsing, but maybe 
the CCIII\ offensive player of 
the Wtlek award hn earned 
ovtw thn weekend will. 
"It's awesomn," Hidderwall said of thn award. "It's one of those things that shows all thn work you've benn putting in is paying off. It's good to get awards. but a lot of it is also bncause of my lincmates. We've btJcn clicking these last couple games hnre." 
Hidderwall. a native of 
Stockholm. Sweden. scored live 
points (two goals. three assists) 
in two games against Western 
Michigan over tlw weekend. lie 
has now tallied 14 points over 
a five-game point streak that 
includes a pair of four-point 
outings. 
Hidderwall's 18 points (seven goals. 11 assists) tie him for the team lead, and his five goals and 12 points on the power play are also team highs. 
"Calle's been playing well for a while now, but this is the first real opportunity to show the offensive skills and the scoring skills we felt he had when we rncruited him," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "I think part of it was [freshman right wing[ Hilly Maday coming on board and the chnmistry those two have with Kevin Deeth. It's just worked out to our advantage." 
After Hidderwall joined the Irish last fall with high expec­tations. Jackson said he gave the freshman too much respon­sibility by starting him on the power play and penalty kill units. 
"Calle fit right in. He's a great kid, he's always got a smile on his face, and I think his teammates liked him a lot as a freshman," Jackson said. "The biggest problem was that we knew what kind of player he could be. and I gave him too much ... and he kind of strug­gled with it." 
When he reduced Hidderwall's role, Jackson said the freshman's confidence suf­fered for a period of time ­but once Hidderwall regained it. he showed why his future looked so bright in the first place. 

"We expected him to be a 
pretty exciting player for us. 
and it didn't happen right 
away," Jackson said. "Once he 
got back in [the lineup] near 
the end of [last[ year. he start­
ed to show some real improve­
ment in his understanding of 
the game ... Now it's not even a 
concern of mine. lie's done a 
really good job of learning to 
play the system." 
That learning experience has 
bcwn vital to his success early 
in his sophomore season, 
Hidderwall said. 
"I needed a longer adjust­ment period, having kind of a slow freshman year, so I think last year was more a learning experience for me than a pro­duetive year when it comes to hockey," Hidderwall said. "I think freshman year has defi­nitely helped me [in terms of'J confidence and getting play time ... Now, it feels awesome when you have a little bit of confidence from the coaching staff and you can play your own game, make a mistake and still play. I'd say confidence is a huge part of success." 
But Hidderwall is a different player than he was a year ago from a physical standpoint as well. liB stayed on campus for summer school and additional strength training and then con­tinued that program for the rest of the off-season, putting on nearly 15 pounds of muscle. 
"We always knew he had a good shot and really good puck skills," Jackson said. "The biggest thing for him corning into collegH hockey, I don't think he was strong enough physically ... The additional strength has helped him win a lot more of those battles for loosH pucks and rebounds, and getting second opportunities at pucks helps you score goals." 
As for the ribbing he receives from his teammates. Hidderwall knows it's all in good fun. 
As for that hockey thing? lie's got that down. 
"We're a pretty closH team and we're all friends," Hidderwall said. "Whenever there's something I don't really get or something I don't under­stand. I always have a team­matH to help me out. But when you get out there on the ice, it's not that different." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Please remem 
to recycle Til. 
Observer. 
Ayers 
continued from page 20 

Notre Dame's previous two games -with seven threes and 27 points. In all, the Irish hit 19 three-pointers in 3 7 attempts, setting a Notre Dame and Joyce Center record for three-pointers made. 
"I should've bought a ticket tonight." Irish coach Mike Brey said with a laugh after the game. "All I did was sub guys." 
The onslaught began on Notre Dame's first possession, when forward Luke Zeller, who Iinished with eight points and six rebounds, spotted up outside against South Dakota's 2-3 zone and knocked down a three. Ayers followed with a corner jumper -one of the rarfl two-pointers that he took. Then McA!arney hit a three and Ayers hit his first from beyond the arc. The Irish led 11-0, forcing South Dakota to take a timeout -all within the first two minutes of the game. 
"Usually you see teams make adjustments [defensively[ as guys hit one or two [three­pointers[, but that didn't really happen until Hyan hit seven," said senior forward Zach llillesland, who finished with six points and nine rebounds. 
At this point, Ayers and McAlarney were just getting warmed up. 
Ayers hit another three on Notre Dame's first trip down the floor following the timeout. Zeller then downed his second and Ayers followed with a cor­ner three to put the Irish up 20-2 with 16:34 left in the half. 
"As soon as we learned about their zone we were drooling," Hillesland said. "Because what team in their right mind would want to zone such a prolific shooting team as we have. You have arguably the best shooter in the country [in McAlarney[ and we don't think Hyan's that far behind. You have a big guy like Luke Zeller and you bring in guys off the bench that can hit threes. Pick your poison. If you play zone, you're going to have to leave one of them open." 

Ayers drained still another three following the media timeout with 15:46 left the half. McAlarney followed with three treys to put the Irish up 36-13 with 10:31 left in the half. 
Ayers would spread out his next three from beyond the arc the rest of the half as Notre Dame took a 60-30 lead into the half. 
South Dakota cut the lead to 78-59 in the second half. at which point Brey but his starters back in the game. On Notre Dame's next trip down the floor, Ayers knocked down another three to stern the Coyotes' run. Notre Dame quickly went on another run of its own, and went up 89-59 seemingly in the blink of an eye. Ayers had a chance to tie McAlarney's program record of 10 3-pointers in one game, which McAlarney set last week against North Carolina. but his attempt from the left wing missed. Then Brey took him and the other starters out of the game the rest of the way. Junior guard Tory Jackson fin­ished with 10 assists in the three-point exhibition. 
Note: 

+Brey said that he will take things "day-to-day" with junior forward Luke llarangody, who has sat out Notre Dame's last two games because of pneu­monia. His status for Saturday's game against Ohio State is undetermined. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

Wednesday, December 3, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
2008-2009 Cleveland squad fit for a king 
Amongst the league leaders in all major categories, Cavaliers off to best start in franchise history at 14-3 
Associated Press  contract expires in 2010 when he will headline a star-studded free­ the club record for wins (57) in a season, but their record has been  Williams, who has brought Oeveland backcourt stability and  have what it takes to win a cham­pionship, we just have to stay  
INDEPENDENCE, Ohio -While  agent class, knows he'll get  padded by victories over some  taken some of the scoring burden  healthy and have a little luck."  
he teases New York's voracious  another round of questions from  inferior teams. Of Cleveland's 14  off James.  Ilgauskas has been with the  
media and desperate Knicks fans about his free-agent future, LeBron James and his current  New York reporters looking to discuss something other than Stephon Marbury's ugly separa­ wins, only five have come against teams with winning marks. Still, that's a positive  Willliams (15. 7 points per game) along with Delonte West (11.4 points)  Cavs since 1996. He been through a 17-win season -the year before James' arrival -and  
team have become an NBA pow­erhouse. The Cleveland Cavaliers are  tion from the Knicks. His answers are prepared. ''I'm happy with the fans here,"  because the Cavs of the past had a tendency  "Jt,s a matter ofgoing  and Zydrunas Ilgauskas (15.6) give coach Mike  experienced the franchise's first trip to the NBA fmals two years ago. Cleveland's start won't mean  
rolling like never before. At 14-3, they're off to the best start in franchise history. Undefeated through nine home games, the Cavs have won 13 of 14 ­their best stretch since 1989 -and are blowing out teams with stunning regularity. They're ranked among the league leaders in every important statistical team category, and although it's their defense that defines them, the  James said after practice on Monday. ''I'm happy with the organization. There's nothing more for me to say." So, why doesn't he stop? James could easily end the flir­tation he seems to enjoy by saying he's done discussing it. But he fig­ures that would be no use. 'They (the questions) are going to come," he said. "As soon as I say I'm not going to talk about it  to play down to their competi­tion. This season, they've pounded the lesser teams, winning their last eight games by an average of 11 points. "It doesn't  out and getting it done. We have what it takes to win a championship, we just have to stay healthy and have a little luck.,, Ben Wallace Cavaliers forward  Brown another offensive option to complement James, who is attacking the rim more than e v e r . Cleveland's bench is not only deep but diverse as Daniel Gibson,  anything without a finish. "We had a good month, but we haven't won anything," he said. "We haven't won the division. We haven't won the conference. There's really nothing to be proud of, to be honest with you. For us, we have bigger goals. We wantto be playing in June. Anything other than a championship for this group is a failure." James insists his future deci­ 
Cavs have offensive firepower more befitting a Western Conference squad. And James, surrounded by the best supporting cast of his career, is playing with an intensity he has only shown in glimpses previous­ly. He is positioned to win his first NBA title-in Cleveland.  no more, that's when they're real­ly going to keep coming. I'm going to answer them and just move on like I've been doing." James' willingness to engage in talk about his future prompted harsh criticism from former NBA star Charles Barkley, who said James should "shut the hell up."  matter who you are playing, you have to go out there and beat them," said James, confident he and his teammates can maintain their intensity. "I think we're capable. We've been injury-free. We have everything in place right now, everything is flowing."  Anderson Varejao, Wally Szczerbiak and Sasha Pavlovic have all con­tributed to wins. But Cleveland's calling card has become its defense. It took some time, but the Cavs, who are hold­ing opponents to 42 percent shooting, have finally embraced  sion will be based on where he can win multiple titles -not one, but several. He can't quiet the speculation about where he might be headed on July 1, 2010, so keep those questions coming. His teammates don't care if he continues to talk about his plans, either.  
Spike Lee, your thoughts? The What-wili-LeBron-do-in- James countered by saying Barkley was "stupid."  It has come together faster than anyone expected.  Brown's defense-above-all philos­ophy.  He's with them now. In Cleveland. Not New York.  
2010 wheel will get another spin on Wednesday when the Cavaliers, riding a five-game win­ning streak, host the Knicks. Last week, Cleveland beat New York  James was asked if he had heard back from Sir Charles. "For what?" he wondered. "I said what I had to say." The needless chatter has  After they lost to Boston in seven games in the Eastern Conference semifinals last season, the Cavs, who were turned upside down by a six-player trade last  Ben Wallace, a four-time defen­sive player of the year with Detroit, is patrolling the lane the way he once did with the Pistons. "It's a matter of going out and  "We're not concerned," Williams said. "Believe it or not, that's a long time from now. A lot of things can happen in those two years. We have a lot of goals  
by 18 points during the LeBron Lovefest at Madison Square Garden. James, whose current  detracted from Cleveland's impressive start. The Cavs are on pace to shatter  February, had a quiet summer. General manager Danny Ferry traded for point guard Mo  getting it done," said Wallace, who came over in last year's mid­season blockbuster deals. "We  in those two years. We're not concerned about what's happen­ing there."  

. .  .  
WorldvRenowned H  
"The New. ,Energy,Economy~  
Nonvioleflt Strategies of Changebltilizing  ·  
11\drgenow.s.Know.ledge  
·Laqyke; OJibway  
uditorium  Band ofAnl~hnaabeg, is renowned activist and advocate for  
Hesburgh---Center For lnternationai<Studies  
"Promoting Eq9ity•--.  

page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, December 3, 2008 

5 E RV IcEMEANS GETTING 
THE HEAtL.: SlART Y~UqlE EARNED, 
~~5,000 :..r 2.99% APR. C:XC:LUSIVEI..Y FOR ROTC. Take the first step In the right direction with a Career Starter~ Loan from USAA. Pay off student loans. Eliminate credit card debt. Invest in your future. At USAA, we know you're focused on your academic and military life right now, so we want to help you get a jump start on your financial future. 
»GO TO USAA.COM/ROTC OR CALL 877.820.8321 
~ 

USAA We lmowwhatitmeans to serve~ 
Loat! subject to credit approval and IS available to officer candidates wtthfn 18 months of commiS11onrno and newly commiS11oned office!"$ wtltlln one year after commtss!onlnQ. Loan payments wru be clel'em!<l tor 90 days after commlsslonlno or 90 days after loan doslno date If alnllldy commiSsioned. Automatic payment from, end direct deposit of pay Into, a USAA ChecklnQ account, end overdraft prot&ctlon using a USAA Credit Card or USAA Savings account are required. In the IMlnt of a loan default or los$ of status as commissioned officer. loan rate wMIInaaese to USAA'll standard unsecured loan rate in effect at that tlma Credit cards provided by USAA Savings Bank. other banking products provided by USAA federal Savings 8ilnk. Both Member FDIC. 02008 USAA 8T771-Q808 



Wednesday, December 3, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD

MICHAEL MIKUSKA JUMBLE
BLACK DoG 
MIKE ARGIRION 


DAVID CAVADINI 
f'CJo'• f \ \ $ 

THE DOME PIECE 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
J&WID11rE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HAYDN j
[] [ I I 
@2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NAWTY j
rJ r I I

tCUDREE I 
WHE=N THE= GANG­
STE=R WE=NT TO
IIJ 

PRISON HE= BE=C.AME= 
www.jumble.com 
PART OF--­

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: rI I ] "[I]" rI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: HONEY CAKED FAIRLY PIRACYSaturday's 
Answer: A nice welcome ­"CORDIAL"
WE/5 5EVERENCE C/.A/.15& PRICE/.&55 
CROSSWORD 
Across 34 Creamy soup 64 "Unfortunately 
1 Does sums 38 City where Van 65 Give a hard time 
5 Pillow filler Gogh painted 66 Nobodies 
sunflowers 13 Scuttlebutt 40 Suffix with suer­9 Flapper hairdos 67 Small field size 
and !act-68 Branch of Islam
14 Like a manly man 41 Pacific republic 69 Plow pullers 
15 Escapade 70 Jean who wrote
42 Substantial 16 Part of the eye "Wide Sargasso
portion

that holds the Sea" 
iris 45 Pile 
17. _ and pains 46 Component of 
Down 
18 What "thumbs bronze No longer aup" means 47 Permit minor19 Bandleader in 48 Washington's 2 Couchthe Polka Music 
Capitol_ 

3 Made a stand 50 Precipitates at and would go no Hall of Fame 
22 Explosive initials about 32°F further 23 Pinocchio, 4 Polaris, e.g.
52 Left hurriedly 

famously 5 Bangladesh's54 New Deal 24 Mock capital, old-style 
program inits.

28 Dance with a 6 Color of fall 
57 One who lost

wiggle leaves
what's hidden in

30 Lord 7 'Thank
19-, 34-and 42­

31 Card that's taken goodness!"
Acrossonly by a trump 8 Rhinoplasty

60 Hawaiian isle 

32 Mail carriers· 
9 Chapassignments: 63 More than 
10 Tree loved by Abbr. perturbed squirrels 
11 Maidenform
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
product 12 Cloud's site 14 Psycho 20 90" turn 21 Ushered 25 "Fantastic 
Voyage" actress 26 Honda division 27 Get ready to 
drive, in golf 29 _-friendly 30 Agents under J. 
Edgar Hoover, informally 32 Balsa transports 33 Path 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
L--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
WILLSHORTZ 


recesses36 Tempe sch. 51 Doolittle of "My 58 Fearsome dino 

Fair Lady" 
37 Comedian Mort 59 Jack of early 

391972 52 Distress signal late-night TV 
U.S./U.S.S.R. shot into the air 
60 
missile pact 53 Divulge Butterworth's 

43 Latin American 61 What a doctor

55 Explorer who 
with mixed might ask you to

proved that 
ancestry 

say 44 Oedipus' realm island 62 Israeli gun 
Greenland is an 
For answers, call 1·900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or. with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytirnes.corn/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytirnes.corn/puzzleforurn. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.corn/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Nelly Furtado, 30: Monica Seles. 35; Lucy Liu, 40: Stone Phillips, 54 
Happy Birthday: Let your emotions play a role in what you do this year. Not ev­erY.one will like your plans but. 1f you can see your way through the maze, vou will come out unscatlied and feelm~ good ~hout who you are and what you've ac­complished. Your numbers an~ 10, 1-l. 23, .-9. 30. 36,44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't let love bring you down or cost you emotion­ally when you should be experiencing what lift: has to offer. You are in a high leaming cycle and it's important to try new things. **** 
TAURUS (April 20-Muy 20): Pick up something unique for someone you love. Emotions may be hard to hide but. in the end. others will see how sensitive and compassionate you can be. Don't make an impulsive purchase.** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can present and promote a 2reat idt>a and will easily drum up"interest !rom someone who can contribute to your cau>e. Serious help from someone with experienc.: will be a bonus. ***** 
CANCER (June 21-July 221: Get or'-'anized at home. Do a little decoratin!! or preparation for the festive season. A change in plans will help you out financially. Talk !O someone you've been responsible tor in the past and see what he or she has to offer.*** 
LEO (Julv 23-Aug. 22): Don't let your generosity limit your financial situation. This may be agood time to pick up the perfect gift for someone you love but be prudent and slick to a budget. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your ability to think outside the box will make you a contender for advancement. Take work nome where vou will have the pnvacy and the peace and quiet to come up with some reallv eood ideas. Love is in tbe stars. *** ·­
LIBRA (Sept. 2.~-0ct. 22): Qualify your position regarding what you expect to see happen with some of the plans you have been discussing with family. It won't be clear sailing but you can work toward a compromise ana. ultimately. a solution. 
***** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 2.,·Nov. 21): This is no time to get involved in talks that can be misinterpreted. Love and romance are apparent but changing partners may or may not be what's required. ** 
SAGITTARIUS {Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Talk to as many people as you can about your plans and ideas. Change will come about if you are willing to push for what you want. Be aggressive, persuasive and to the point about your needs and wants 
for the future. **** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let someone talk you into volunteering for something you don't believ.e in. Choose the cause you are goin$ to support and you will get far more out of II m terms of the people you meet. *""'* 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): This is not the time to exaggerate or to aive your o~vn spin to the way you see things. Stick to basics and you will accomplish more. F1rrn up a dectsmn you've been asked to make and move forward.*** 
PISCES (Feb.19-March 20): A surprise is in order and will put you in the spot­
light when revealed. Getting serious about your future intentions will help to sta­bilize yoW' life and give you greater vision.*** 
Birthday Baby: You are gifted with originality and innovation. You are an activist and a competitor who strives to be at the top and to lead the pack. 
Eugenia's Web sites: <'ltgenialast.comfor confidemial consu/tatiol!s, myspace.com/eugenialastfor Eugenia's blog. astroadvice.comfor jim 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, December 3, 2008 
page 20 
FooTBALL 

University sources say Weis will remain head coach 
By BILL BRINK Spom Editor 

Charlie Weis will remain the head football coach next sea­son, a source dose to the 
administration  told  the  
Observer Monday.  
WSBT,  WNDU  and  FOX  

Sports also quoted unnamed sources "close to the football team" as saying that Weis had 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Ayers drops 35 points in rout ofSouth Dakota 
By CHRIS HINE Editor-in-Chief 
The Irish sent a warning shot across the bow of each of their opponents with their 102-76 win over South Dakota -play a zone and Ryan Ayers or Kyle MeAiarncy will burn you. 
That's exactly what the two housemates did to the Coyotes in the first half Tuesday night at the Joyce Center. 
Ayers hit 7 -of-1 0 treys in the first hall', 9-of-14 for the game, on his way to scoring a career­high 35 points. 
"I just felt a little more relaxed more calm," Ayers said. "I just felt more relaxed, more calm. My teammates got me the ball and once I hit one shot, I just kept rolling ... I had a great feel, every time I fol­lowed through I knew it was going in." 
A bearded McAiarney contin­ued his hot shooting -he hit a combined 19 three-pointers in 
see AYERS/page 16 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Spom Editor 

lie scored arguably the biggest goal in Irish hockey history, but sophomore left wing Calle Hidderwall's Swedish accent and fashion sense is still the butt of con­stant jokes from linemate Kevin Dnnth. 
"I always impersonate his accent-I can't talk to him without talking in his aecent anymore, which is ridieulous," Deeth said with a laugh. "Ilis haircut and his style is so 'Euro', he just takes it to the next extent. lle'll wear the tightest jeans ever and these ultra-metro polos that you'd never, ever wear ... It's hilari­ous." 
see CALLE/page 16 

been informed of the decision to keep him as the coach and told to continue recruiting. Scout.com reported that Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick would make an announcement today regard­ing Weis' status. 
Neither Swarbrick nor Weis said anything official as of last night. Swarbrick said he and Weis would likely meet next Monday, when both he and Weis were back on cam­pus. 
Weis has a 28-21 record in four seasons as the Irish head coach. He took the team to two BCS bowls in his first two seasons, then lost a school­record 15 games in the next two. He is 4-10 against ranked opponents and his teams have lost to USC by a combined 76-3 in the past two seasons. A close call 
against Navy and a final­minute loss to Syracuse at home turned many students and alumni against him. 
His recruiting, however, remains impressive despite the records. Scout.com ranked the 2006 recruiting class as No. 5 in the country, 2007 as No. 11 and 2008 as No. 2. Two five-star recruits from the class of 2009, run­ning back Cierre Wood and offensive guard Chris Watt, have both given Notre Dame verbal commitments. 
Weis is in the third year of a H)-year contract that he signed midway through his first season. 
Chris /line contributed to this report. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 
After a tough start to the sea­son that pitted Saint Mary's against a number of strong non­conference opponents, the Belles will open MIAA play against Trine University Wednesday night at the Angela Athletie Center. 
Saint Mary's rode its strong oiTensive attack to a fourth-plam finish in the conference last sea­son with an 8-8 record. The Belles will look for a fast start against the Thunder, who fin­ished eighth last season with a 3­13 record. 
The Belles got the ball rolling this season with a couple of quali­ty wins. In the first game of the season, they had no trouble find-
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Lighting it up 

VANESSA GEMPIS and IAN GAVLICK!The Observer Left: Senior Ryan Ayers releases a jumper during Notre Dame's victory over South Dakota Tuesday. Right: Junior guard Melissa Lechlitner runs the offense during a Nov. 29 Irish win. 
Four in double-digits as ND rolls over EMU 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 

In the absence of two key players, the Irish bench filled the gap. 
Freshmen Natalie Novosel and Erica Solomon scored 1 S and 12 points, respectively off the bench and No. 11 Notre Dame beat Eastern Michigan 83-63 on the road Tuesday. 
The Irish, who lost forward Devereaux Peters for the sea­son and missed guard Ashley Barlow in this game because of a concussion she suffered against Michigan State, need­ed production off the bench and got it. 
"Natalie was a huge lift off the bench for us, she really played well the whole game but gave us a great spark in the first half," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Guard Lindsay Schrader had 17 points and 10 rebounds and guard Melissa 
see EASTERNIpage 15 
SMC BASKETBALL
HocKEY 
Belles w-elcoine Trine to 
Ridderwall on a hot streak 
open conference slate 
ing their shot in a 70-60 victory over Ohio Wesleyan in the first round of the Anderson College Tip-oil' tournament. In the cham­pionship game, they took on a solid Hobert Morris team and were edged out on the final pos­session, 65-64. 
It didn't take long for the Belles to bounce back. In their next game, Saint Mary's broke a 10­game losing streak against Wheaton College by narrowly defeating the Thunder, 81-78. 
The Belles dropped two con­tests in their annual Thanksgiving classic against Otterbein College, the eventual tournament champion, and No. 21 University of Chicago. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker 1 @nd.edu 





