------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~­

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Universitymakes diversity a priority 
Notre Dame makes small strides in hiring women, faculty ofcolor, but more progress is required 
Female faculty Fall2006 
Notre Dame: 23°/o 
Association of American 

By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
The University has made small strides in hiring and retaining women and faculty of color in recent years, but two committee reports issued at the behest of University President Fr. John Jenkins indicate Notre Dame is falling behind other universi­ties in maintaining a diverse faculty. 
Fr. Jenkins and University Provost Tom Burish released a letter to faculty on March 2 that pledged to make faculty diversity a priority. 
"The University has made progress increasing the num­ber of women faculty and faculty of color in recent years, but the reports demonstrate that more progress is required," the letter said. "In particular, Notre Dame must do better in recruiting and retaining senior women faculty, and in recruiting and retaining fac­ulty of color at all levels." 
The University Committee on Cultural Diversity and the University Committee on Women Faculty and Students began examining the issue of, recruiting and retaining women faculty members and 
see DIVERSITY/page 6 



Faculty ofcolor Fall2007 
82'Yo White 13% Minority 5% Non-resident alien 
University of Chicago: 




SMCtoelect n1embersto Alumnae Board 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Alumnae Board will be choosing four new . members during their annual spring meeting Thursd_ay as four former alumnae will be retiring, · Kara O'Leary, director of Alumnae Relations said. 
They will be electing two 1,1ew alumnae, as well as two current student members. 
"At this meeting the Board will also be interviewing and selecting one member each from the class­es of 2010 and 2011 to serve on the Board. The student member is a newly created position with the senior having full vot!ng priv­ileges and the junior being men­tared by the senior to assume the student member position her sen­ior year," O'Leary said. 
The Board visits the College twice a year to conduct business. 
"As a group they meet on cam­pus each fall and spring. Many also return to campus to assist with events sponsored by the Alumnae Association and to par­ticipate in reunion.". 
While visiting, the Board will have committee meetings, attend general sessions, hear presenta­tions from College administra­tors, and meet with student groups., O'Leary said. 
"Several members will also be participating in an Alumnae Panel that is part of the Diverse Student Leadership Conference 
see ALUMNAE/page 6 


Group sponsors toiletry drive 
Undergraduate Women in Business Club gives goods to YWCA 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
·The Undergraduate Women in Business Oub is conducting a toiletry drive for the first time and the collected goods will be donated to the South Bend Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA), vice presi­dent Elizabeth Slawin said. 
"This is the first year that we've really done any kind of service project," Slawin said. "We thought that doing some­thing with the women's shelter would be very appropriate for our club just because our club is about giving woinen the skills to enter the business world." 
Slawin said the club called the YWCA to see what sort of supplies they need. The drive is collecting basic toiletry items like shampoo, soap, tooth­paste, toothbrushes and tow­els, Slawin said. 
She said they decided to do the drive after spring break because many people will have just been home and could pos­sibly bring items back from home to donate. 
Although the club has only been around for five years, they have wanted to do a serv­ice project for a while, Slawin said. 
"We want to make service part of our club because our club is all about helping girls gain the skills they need to have successful careers," Slawin said. 

It is important for them to implement service into their club, she said, because for a lot of women at Notre Dame, and especially for the girls in the club, maintaining a relation­ship with the community is important. 
Because this is the first year that the drive is being conduct­ed, Slawin said they do not expect any certain number of goods to be collected. 
"The more the better. We didn't really set a goal because this is our first year," $he said. 
Slawin isn't as concerned with the number of donations, 
see WOMEN/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Professors reacttostem celldecision 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 

In response to President Barack Obama lifting the limits of federal funding for stem cell research, Notre Dame profes­sors took a stance on the issue and explained how it will affect Notre Dame as a Catholic uni­versity. 
Obama's executive order overturned former President George W. Bush's policy. which gave federal funding only to research that used embryos left over from in-vitro fertilization clinics already going to be destroyed. Now, Obama will give federal funding to research that uses embryos created sole­ly for the sake of research, associate professor of Law Orlando Carter Snead said. 
"President Obama does not make any sort of distinction between the sources of embry­onic stem cells that are eligible for research funding," Snead said. "That's the most radical • proposal that's ever been sug­gested." 
Obama's decision sparks con­troversy because many dis­agree over the nature of a human embryo and whether' or not it deserves the same rights as every human being, Malcolm Fraser Jr., professor of biologi­cal sciences, said. 
He said he believes that lift­

• ing the ban was the appropri­ate action to take because it will force society to face the issue and make the "hard deci­sions." 
see STEM CELLIpage 4 


Bookstore Basketballto benefit Jamaicanyouth 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 

The annual Bookstore Basketball tournament is more than a popular activity for students; it also works to help the less fortunate. 
Established in 1995, the Jumpball Basketball Program is run through the Notre Dame Club of Jamaica that raises money to help the youth of Kingston, Jamaica. A considerable portion of the team registration fees for Bookstore Basketball goes, towards the Jumpball Program. 
"What makes Jumpball unique is the ability to 
impact children's lives and help make Jamaica a better community through one person at a time," said Chad Sutcliffe, the director of the Jumpball program and a 1995 Notre Dame graduate. 
Sutcliffe was one of the initiators of the influen­tial program that organiz­es basketball clinics for the kids living in Kingston. It is an effort to help keep the disadvan­taged youth from the drugs and violence that is extensive in their neigh­borhoods. 
"With the high poverty rate, we felt that by run­ning a free clinic during 
see BOOKSTORE/page 4 


r page 2 INSIDE COLUMN 

NCAA brackettips 

I first remember filling out an NCAA tournament bracket in fifth grade English class. 
I haven't stopped filling my soul with optimism since. Is there a bet­ter feeling than finishing the Douglas Farmer bracket you are sure is "the 
Sports Writer 
one," that will 
.....
predict 63 games correctly? 
I haven't stopped watching Bucknell or Davidson break my heart since. Is there a worse feeling than watching your Elite Eight dark horse fall in the first round, bracket busted? 
With two midterms and a paper this week, I swore, no brackets this year. Then Sunday night came and I was at the LaFortune computer clus­ter printing out 10 copies. 
So for the bracket novices out there, from Kansas or Connecticut, Canada or Colombia, here are some tips: 
Alabama State will not beat Louisville; Morehead State eliminat­ed them tonight. 
Morehead State will not beat Louisville; Wake Forest will. 
Notre Dame will not win the NCAA tournament; the Irish are in the NIT tournament. 
A twelve-seed will beat a five-seed; it is likely that two, if not three, will. 
If a team beat Notre Dame, that does not justify them as exceptional­ly good; 10 teams in the tournament did so. 
Making picks based on mascots is not only allowed, but often effective. 
VCU stands for Virginia Commonwealth University, but it really doesn't matter, just pick UCLA, which stands for UCLA. 
When forced to pick between Boston College and USC, a Notre Dame football fan picks the bullet. A Notre Dame basketball fan doesn't care, so trust the Trojans. 
This is the first year North Dakota State was even eligible for the tour­nament. That does not mean they won't win a game or two while in it. 
Temple's point guard is named Christmas. Unfortunately for him, the grass is green and Christmas is nine months away. 
Stephen F. Austin is a long name, so don't waste ink advancing the 
Lumberjacks. • 
BYU is not allowed to play on Sundays, but Notre Dame football can play on Christmas Eve. 
Do not pick all one-seeds to make the Final Four. Last year was a fluke, and no one will respect you. 
A nine-seed over an eight-seed is not an upset. A 10-seed over a seven-seed barely qualifies. 
Missouri will not make the Sweet Sixteen, but Portland State will. 
No Big East teams will advance to the Final Four, but three ACC teams will. 
Memphis will choke in the final, again, and Roy Williams will finally win a title with his own players. 
Actually, the safest bet is probably Alabama State. The Hornet's best player is named Chief .Kickingstallionsims. 
The views expressed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and 
not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at 
dfarmer 1 @nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a reporting error in the March 17 edition of The Observer, it was said that voting for the Saint Mary's Student Government Association Constitution began March 17 and will continue 
•through March 23. The voting does not begin until March 23. The Observer regrets this error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 18, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE THING ABOUT BASEBALL? 





Nathan Furtado Sarah Weber Julie Wamser Tiz Shadley 
sophomore sophomore freshman sophomoreDillon LeMans Lewis 
Lewis 

"Getting home "Baseball "Cheering on 'The tight 
,,

to see my Red means spring. the Fighting pants. Sox at Fenway Irish.,, 

Park.,, 


OFFBEAT 

Officer finds crack inside sack of dog food 
AUBURN, Mass.-Finding a bag of dog food in a car carrying a dog is not unusual. But a sharp-eyed Massachusetts state troop­er knew something was awry when he noticed a plastic bag inside the sack of food in the back seat of a car he pulled over on the ramp from the Massachusetts Turnpike to Interstate 290 in Auburn on Monday night. 
Police said there were about 20 grams of crack cocaine in the plastic bag. 
Two brothers were charged with drug traffick­ing. One man was also charged with possession of a dangerous weapon, a double-sided knife. They are scheduled to be arraigned Tuesday. 
State police said arrange­ments have been made to care for the dog. 
71-year-old man fends off robber with ice scraper 
RAPID CITY, S.D. ­Police said a 71-year-old man, armed only with an ice scraper, frustrated a 20-year-old would-be rob­ber who approached him with a knife. Police said the man was scraping ice off his car Friday when the 20-year-old pulled out a knife and demanded money. 
Police Sgt. Pete Ragnone said the man used his ice scraper to fend off the attacker -who then ran to his girlfriend's home nearby. 
That's when a fight broke out between the 20­year-old and his girlfriend. 
The would-be attacker surrendered to police and faces charges of attempted first-degree robbery and aggravated assault-domes­tic violence. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 



..... 

e
c( 
(,) 

..... 0 HIGH 60 45 HIGH 43 
LOW 35 33 LOW 25 


IN BRIEF 
Finance professor Carl Ackerman will lead a Senior Transition Seminar on personal finance today at 6 p.m. The seminar will be held at Legends. 
Brittany Maier and the Notre Dame Hand Bell Choir will per­form tonight at Washington Hall in a concert to support Disability Awareness Month. The concert will begin at 7 p.m. and is open to faculty, staff, and stu­dents. Parking and shuttle serv­ice will be available at Stepan Center. 
Efren Rivera Ramos, profes­sor of law at the University of Puerto Rico, will deliver a lec­ture titled "Territory, Citizenship, and Rights: The Challenges of Overcoming American Colonialism in Puerto Rico" Thursday at 4 p.m. The lecture will be given in 200 McKenna Hall and is open to the public. It is part of the Institute for Latino Studies' lec­ture series titled "Caribbean Flights: From the First Colonial Cities in America to Metropolis U.S.A." 
A lecture entitled "The USA and the EU: 1\vo Modern Forms of Empire?" will take place in the C-1_03 Hesburgh Center for International Studies at 12:30 
p.m. on Thursday. Lunch will be available after the lecture. 
Gaelic Storm will be perform­ing a concert at 2 p.m. on Saturday in the DeBartalo Performing Arts Center. Purchase tickets online, visit or call the ticket office at 574-631­2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 
e 
e 

HIGH 57 HIGH 63 LOW 35 LOW 45 
Atlanta 69 I 49 Boston 56 I 35 Chicago 57 I 42 Denver 54 I 33 Houston 79 I 57 Los Angeles 69 I 54 Minneapolis 51 I 25 New York 41 I 22 Philadelphia 61 I 39 Phoenix 90 I 59 Seattle 52 I 39 St. Louis 67 I 52 Tampa 78 I 62 Washington 67 I 41 
Wednesday, March 18, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 3 
New challenges arise for minorities in 2010 census 
Associated Press 
What seems like a simple question How many Hispanics are living in the United States? -has become surprisingly complex as the 2010 census approaches. 
Hispanics and other minori­ties have historically been undercounted in the once-a­decade survey. Advocacy groups are now launching their traditional efforts to ensure an accurate count, but a variety of factors have created new prob­lems for the painting of America's official portrait. 
Activists and government offi­cials say fears over immigra­tion enforcement and govern­ment snooping are making peo­ple more reluctant to share their information. The econom­ic meltdown and Bush adminis­tration budget cuts have slowed funding for the census. Millions of laid-off renters and fore­closed homeowners are on the move. 
There are more immigrants here, speaking more languages, 
than ever before. Some of those immigrants may not know what a census is, or may come from countries where such informa­tion is used against rather than for the people. 
"This country is just much more complex now, on many different levels," said Terry Ao, director of census and voting programs · for the Asian American Justice Center. 
The 2000 census counted 35,305,818 Hispanics in the United States. Hispanic groups estimate that several million more were missed. In 2007, the most recent year available, the Hispanic population had grown to an estimated 44,852,816. 
The Constitution m1;1.ndates that every ten years, each per­son living in the country ­regardless of citizenship or immigration status -must be counted. 
The census results are used to draw congressional districts and allocate hundreds of bil­lions of dollars in federal fund­ing for schools, roads and other services. The data also trickles down to state and local govern­ments for determining every­thing from the size of hospitals to the placement of bus stops. 
On a more emotional level, the census is the measure of our nation, a literal definition of what we are. That can touch nerves left raw by the simmer­ing immigration debate. 
Anti-immigration groups don't object to an accurate count, which may provide fuel for their arguments. But they are opposed to the past prac­tice of suspending immigration raids while the census is being conducted. And they have major objections to counting non-citizens when drawing congressional districts. 
Steven Camarata, director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies, called the practice "an assault on the 'one man, one vote' idea." 
"It transfers political power to the citizens who live in dis­tricts with high numbers of ille­gal aliens," he said. "If you live in Southern California, your vote counts a great deal more than if you live in Michigan or somewhere with lower immi­gnition." 
Ensuring that the maximum number of minorities are counted "seems to be a much bigger issue for the ethnic interest groups and advocacy groups, because that's how they build their interests and politi­cal .power," said Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform. 
Those interest groups point out that everyone suffers if 
undercounting leads to less 
funding for schools, roads or 
hospitals. 
"If you go back to your dis­
trict, regardless of how many 
people there are citizens or vot­
ers, when you're counting one 
million and need to count two, 
this has a huge impact on 
whether you can deliver servic­
es for your voters," said Efrain 
Escobedo, senior director of 
civic engagement for the 
National Association of Latino 
Elected Officials. 
Numbers certainly do mean 
power, so the census has long 
been subject to political 
maneuvering. 
Earlier this year, for example, 
a brief dispute arose after President Barack Obama nomi­nated Republican Sen. Judd ·Gregg of New Hampshire to head the Commer.ce Department, which oversees the census. Minority groups protested that Gregg and other Republicans had voted to cut census funding because count­
ing additional minorities or 
urban dwellers was unlikely to 
lead to more GOP votes or dis­
tricts. 
The White House responded 
by saying it would take a 
greater role in supervising the 
census -which prompted a 
Republican outcry over possible 
Democratic manipulation of the 
redistricting process. 
The exploding Hispanic popu­
lation has been widely noted in 
political circles, and Hispanics 
were considered a key compo­
nent of Obama's presidential 
victory in states like Florida, Nevada and Colorado. 
Hispanic groups are now at the forefront of a coalition spanning politics, social servic­es and Spanish-language media that is planning a broad census effort. They are hoping to part­ner with the Census Bureau on community-based programs, public service announcements and paid advertising. They also want minorities hired to plan the outreach and conduct door­to-door surveys in areas with high percentages of immigrants and other hard-to-count popu­lations, such as black men. 
"We're prepared to mount our own national campaign to count ourselves," Escobedo said. "We are going to motivate every ounce of people power that we have ... to let people know it's so criticp.l for your child's education, and for your services in the community." 
The Census Bureau seems receptive to these efforts. 
For the first time, it will mail bilingual forms to 13 million homes this year. It has a more accurate database of addresses and demographic information thanks to the annual American Community Survey, which began in 2001. It is soliciting employees who can speak lan­guages other than English. 
Stephen Buckner, a Census Bureau spokesman, said it will be working with minority groups to "hire indigenously." 
"When somebody knocks on your door and you answer it, you're almost going to see a reflection of yourself," he said. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 18, 2009 
Bookstore 
continued from page 1 
the summer we could have a positive impact," Sutcliffe said. "We are trying to teach the children life skills through the sport of basket­ball." 
Using the money that is raised through Bookstore Basketball and from dona­tions, Jumpball organizes a week of free basketball clin­ics for the inner-city youth. In addition to providing basket­ball training, it also awards the children based on their ability, attitude and sports­manship, and provides them with a T-shirt and a free lunch. 
"There are a number of kids that end up coming to Jumpball simply because it is a free event and lunch is pro­vided," Sutcliffe said. "These are some of the kids we hope to influence the most as they do not normally have this kind of opportunity." 
Sutcliffe said that before Jumpball came to Kingston in 1995, there were little activi­ties for the children of the city to participate in. 
"There was a tremendous interest in basketball from all around the city. With this, the poverty level and the lack of activities for children, we really felt like we were filling a need," he said. 
Looking at the level of par­ticipation, it appears Jumpball has filled this need since the program's inception in 1995. 
"Jumpball has grown grad­ually from 7 5 participants to over 600 today," Sutcliffe said. "We believe we have had a huge impact on many of the children. They are offered a free opportunity to be part of a highly organized event where they are exposed to a high quality of coaching and teaching." 
Sutcliffe says that the pro­gram also focuses on the Jamaican coaches that par­ticipate. Members of Jumpball have determined ways in which the program can help these adults as well. 
"We provide training for the coaches speCifically in terms of running and operating a Jumpball clinic but also as part of a nationally recog­nized training program which can assist them in obtaining jobs as teachers or coaches," he said. "Finally, this coming year we are offering two scholarships to our volunteer coaches to assist them finan­cially in attending a second­ary school." 
Involving members of the Kings,ton community has made the youth participants 

Mary's News! 
Contact 

Ashley a-· 

574~284l:~~05· 


able to see the impact of Jumpball as a whole. 
"The kids are able to see not only the U.S. volunteers but also the Jamaican coach­es giving back to the commu­nity," Sutcliffe said. "In many cases the volunteers are for­mer campers that have grown up through Jumpball. There is a high level of enthusiasm that is conta­gious." 
To date, Jumpball has raised around $20,000 for the Kingston community. 
Sutcliffe says that none of it would have been possible without the continuous sup­port from the University and the proceeds from the Bookstore Basketball tourna­ment. 
"In recent years due to the help of Bookstore we have been able to expand the pro­gram. Some of this growth is directly attributable to Bookstore's donations. Without a doubt, Bookstore Basketball has had a tremen­dous impact on the number of boys and girls that Jumpball is able to reach each year." 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 



Ste01 Cell 
continued from page 1 

Fraser said due to Obama's decision, "there will be pub­lic debate and public scruti­ny, and hopefully we as a society will come to an understanding about what we can or cannot allow." 
He said although he per­sonally would prefer to find alternatives to human embryonic stem cell research, he thinks that lift­ing the ban was the appro­priate approach because it does not limit scientific investigation or force one point of view. 
"I value the contributions of science to humankind too much to want any one person or group telling scientists what they can or cannot explore," Fraser said. 
Snead disagrees with the argument that no avenues of research should be closed off. 
"I don't find that com­pelling. Obviously there are and should be ethical limits to science." Snead said. 
"What we owe to human embryos is a moral question, not a scientific question." 
Snead does not support Obama's decision to lift the ban on federal funding for stem cell research. 
"I think it's regrettable that tax players are being com­
pelled to support this kind of research, especially in light of all the alternative sources of stem cells that don't require the destruction 
0 f 
embryos," Snead said. 
N o t r e 

Dame currently does not par­ticipate in stem cell research, Fraser said. 
However, Notre Dame does participate in adult stem cell research, which takes stem 
. cells from tissue that does not require the destruction of a human embryo, like from umbilical cord blood, fat cells or bone marrow, Snead said. 
"If [Obama] decides to dis­proportionately fund embry­onic stem cell research to the exclusion of other forms of 
stem  cell  research,  our  
researchers may see a  drop  
in funding," Snead said.  

Both Snead and Fraser are in favor of exploring alterna­
"Talk is cheap. We need action at the scientific forefront of this endeavor, and we need it at this University.,, 
Malcolm Fraser Jr. professor of biological 
sciences 
tive methods to embryonic stem cell research. 
"I think we should seize this opportu­nity to be truly reflective of our convictions and ini­tiate a research program expansion in stem cell research so that we not only espouse 
.n o n -e m b r y o n i c stem cell research from an ideological perspective, but we 
also participate in, if not pio­neer, the development of real scientific advancements that provide alternatives," Fraser said. "Talk is cheap. We need action at the scientific fore­front of this endeavor, and we need it at this University." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 18, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE O:ssERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pope addresses use of condoms 
AOUNDE, Cameroon -Pope Benedict XVI said condoms are not the answer to the AIDS epidemic in Africa and can make the prob­iern worse, setting off criticism Tuesday as he began a weeklong trip to the continent where some 22 million people are living with HIV. 
Benedict's first statement on an issue that has divided even Catholic clergy working with AIDS patients carne hours before he arrived in Cameroon's capital -greeted by thousands of flag-waving faithful who stood shoulder-to-shoulder in red dirt fields and jammed downtown streets for a glimpse of the pontiff's motorcade. 
In his four years as pope, Benedict had never directly addressed condom use, although his position is not new. His prede­cessor, Pope John Paul II, often said that sex­ual abstinence -not condoms -was the best way to prevent the spread of the dis­ease. 
Army gives control to Rajoelina 
ANTANANARIVO, Madagascar -In one tumultuous day, Madagascar's top generals handed over control of this Indian Ocean island nation to the opposition leader on Tuesday, hours after the president himself stepped down and tried to put the military in charge. 
In a ceremony broadcast from a military camp in the capital, Vice-Admiral Hyppolite Rarison Rarnaroson said he and two other generals rejected President Marc Ravalomanana's attempt to transfer power to a military directorate. 
Instead, Ramaroson said the military was installing the president's bitter rival, opposi­tion leader Andry Rajoelina, as the country's leader. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Amish farmer gets jailtime 
EBENSBURG, Pa. A western Pennsylvania Amish farmer was sentenced Tuesday to 90 days in jail after refusing to bring a pair of outhouses into compliance with state sewage laws. 
Andy Swartzentruber, of Ebensburg, cited his conservative religious beliefs in refusing to abide by a court order to make the privies used by schoolchildren compliant and pay a $500 fine._ 
Cambria County Judge Norman Krumenacker said he respected the Amish's religious beliefs but had no choice but to sen­tence Swartzentruber to jail and fine him $1,000 for being in contempt of court. 
Creationists add Darwin exhibit 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -A controversial Kentucky museum that trumpets the Bible story of creation and rejects evolution is making room for an odd guest: Charles Darwin. 
A new exhibit at the Answers in Genesis Creation Museum argues that na:tural selection ­Darwin's explanation for how species develop new traits over time -can coexist with the creationist assertion that all living things were created by God just a few thousand years ago. 
"We wanted to show people that creationists believe in natural selection," said Ken Ham, founder of the Christian ministry Answers in Genesis and frequent Darwin critic. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Obama nominates Indiana judge . 
WASHINGTON -President Barack Obarna nominated a moderate Indiana judge Tuesday to serve on a Midwestern federal appeals court, his first step toward reshaping the fed­eral judiciary and preparing for a possible Supreme Court opening. 
The White House chose U.S. District Judge David Hamilton of Indiana for the Chicago­based 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, con­tending Hamilton was a mainstream jurist who could overcome the bitter Senate confir­mation fights of the past several years. 
Obarna has 15 federal appellate vacancies to fill, including the 7th Circuit court that cov­ers Wisconsin, Indiana and Illinois. ·. 
Irish pride celebrated across the nation 
People take a breakfrom their economic worries to celebrate St. Patrick's Day 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -St. Patrick's Day revelers took a break from worries about the global economy to enjoy a day of shamrock-therned frivolity, dyeing city fountains green, taking icy ocean plunges and crowding sidewalks along parade routes to see and be seen. 
Organizers predicted 200,000 participants-and at least as many spectators -would line New York's Fifth Avenue for the city's 248th annual march. 
Holly Lopez, a nurse from Buffalo, stood in the dozen­deep Manhattan crowd wear­ing a temporary shamrock tattoo, green feather neck­lace, an Irish flag in her cleavage and ~ she said ­green underwear. 
She was part of a group of women who have attended for 20 years, "except for pregnancies," said Pam Dempsey. 
"We were here before we met our husbands and we'.U be here until we're dead," said their friend, Lucy Hoffman. 
One of the women held up a sign thanking soldiers. Another sign read: "Is it cold under those kilts?" 

Earlier in the day at his Manhattan pub, Ciaran Staunton served up an over­Avenue. In Portland, Maine, 75 peo­heart attack. Steve Dunne, a the-top Irish breakfast -Ken Ferguson, a truck driv­ple greeted the day with an 59-year-old tenor drummer sausages, bacon, black and er, said his work week had icy plunge in the Atlantic in the Police Pipes and white pudding, horne fries, been cut to four days. Ocean, charging into the 37-Drums of Bergen County, col­fried tomatoes, and baked But on Tuesday they were degree water and celebrating lapsed near 75th Street and beans. soaking in the St. Patrick's with a Guinness afterward. was pronounced dead at St. 
Even with all the revelry, Day spectacle. Before dawn in Luke's Hospital shortly after the Ireland native said his "It's bigger and better than Indianapolis, dye was poured 12:30 p.m. thoughts drifted to his in Ireland," Ken Ferguson into the city's downtown Dunne, a state court officer, nephews back home -an said of the parade. canal, triggering a fountain of was a founding member of unemployed carpenter, brick­In Los Angeles, a Roman green water before the city's the band in 1992. layer and electrician who Catholic priest celebrated St. parade. Fountains at the Despite all, New York City helped push Ireland's jobless Patrick's Day by giving away White House in Washington Mayor Michael Bloomberg rate past 10 percent. some green. also ran green for the day. summed up the spirit of the 
"The economy's in shreds Father Maurice Chase went And in Savannah, Ga., day. in Ireland," said the 45-year­to Skid Row with a wallet masses of revelers clad head­"I can't think of any better old pub owner. "People are packed with $20 bills to give to-toe in green-crammed time for a parade, when being laid off as we speak." to some of the city's neediest sidewalks and oak-shaded some people are distressed 
Ken and Mary Ferguson, of residents. More than 300 squares for the best parade and some people are disap­Enniskillen, Northern people lined up for cash. view. pointed and some people are Ireland, were on vacation in Cities and towns around A sad note rang through depressed," he said. "People New York and reflected on the nation honored Ireland the New York festivities when need a pick-me-up, people the economy as they watched with their own signature cel­a member of a New Jersey need to know that we can get the marchers pass by on Fifth ebrations. police band suffered a fatal through this together." 



SRI LANKA 

Deathsblamed on lack ofmedical supply 
Associated Press and tlie first part of this year. have been prevented if basic infra­
The letter, seen Tuesday by The structure facilities and essential 
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka-A lack of Associated Press, was signed by the medicines were made available," it medical supplies has led to the need­health officers of Kilinochchi and said. less deaths of hundreds of hospital Mullaitivu. Kilinochchi was the head­On Tuesday, a further 23 patients patients in parts of northern Sri quarters of the Liberation Tigers of died out of 108 wounded civilians Lanka ravaged by civil war, the Tamil Eelarn until it was overrun by taken to a makeshift hospital in the regions' top health officials said. government troops in early January. northeast, said Kandasarny 
The international Red Cross said The last remaining remnants of the Tharmakulasingharn, a hospital conditions for civilians were "deteri­rebels are fighting in Mullaitivu to administrative officer. orating by the day," and the U.N. hold on to a shrinking swath of land Human Rights Minister Mahinda Children's Fund said thousands of -estimated at 13.5 square miles (35 Samarasinghe said any letter corning children were at risk because of "a square kilometers) -on the north­out of the rebel territory is "suspi­critical lack of food, water and medi­east coast. cious and subject to verification." He cines." The letter said more than 500 declined further response until he 
In a letter to the Health Ministry, patients died since January after could consult senior health officials. officials from two northern Sri arriving at hospitals and that thou­The U.N. says 150,000 to 180,000 Lankan regions said just 5 percent of sands of others may have died out­civilians, displaced from Kilinochchi the needed drugs and dressings were side of hospitals. and Mullaitivu, are trapped in the received in the last quarter of 2008 "Most of the hospital deaths could war zone. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, March 18, 2009 
Aluntnae 
continued from page 1 
(DSLC) that will also be tak­ing place on campus this week," O'Leary said. 
During this visit, the Board will also hold meetings to dis­cuss alumnae engagement, as well as prepare some plans for the reunion this June. 
"The various committees will be communicating with the Board their strategies to work more effectively with club leadership, provide pro­gramming to foster alumnae engagement, and ways to educate students about alum­nae involvement," O'Leary said. 
The group also has plans to choose recipients of the Alumnae Association awards, which include Distinguished Alumna, Alumna Achievement, Humanitas and Outstanding Young Alumna, 

O'Leary said. 
Each time the Board visits, student groups are allowed to participate with them. "Students serve on the Clubs and Resources, Student­Alumnae and Alumnae 
. Engagement committees. At each meeting the Board meets with two to three stu­dent groups the evening they arrive," O'Leary said. "At this meeting they will be meeting with members of the Student Academic Council (SAC) and several RA's." Out of 19 members, 17 will be attending this visit. Some members of the Board will be staying at the College at Riedinger House, LeMans Hall and The Inn at Saint Mary's, O'Leary said. They will arrive March 19, and will remain on campus through March 21. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Wonten 
continued from page 1 
but the impact the drive will have on the connection the club can build with the YWCA. 
"Even though this might end up being kind of a small start, it could help our club build a rela­tionship with them," Slawin said. 
The club will also be hosting a bake sale in conjunction with the toiletry drive at the end of the week, said senior Dana Gates, a member of the Undergraduate Women in Business Oub. 
"We thought cookies would get people's attention and promote what we are doing a little better," Gates said in an e-mail. 
Slawin said a few members of the club will bring the collected items to the YWCA next week. 
"Ultimately it is about empow­ering women." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

Chinua Achebe to give lecture series 
Special to the Observer 
Nigerian novelist and poet Chinua Achebe, winner of the 2007 Man Booker International Prize, will deliver the third bien­nial Blessed Pope John XXIII Lecture Series in Theology and Culture at the University ofNotre Dame on March 23, 25 and 26 (Monday, Wednesday and Thursday). 
. Widely regarded as the father of modern African literature, Achebe is best known for his 1958 novel "Things Fall Apart," which has been listed as one of the most important books of the 20th century. 
'The Igbo and their Perception of God, Human Beings and Creation" is the central theme of the lecture .series. The March 23 lecture will focus on "God," the talk on March 25 will focus on "Human Beings," and the March 26 presentation will focus on "Creation." Each lecture will begin at 7:30p.m. in the Jordan Auditoriumin Notre Dame's Mendoza College ofBusiness. 

Achebe' works, which include four additional novels and numerous collections of short sto­ries and poetry, have sparked international dialogue around the effects of colonization on African culture and the way in which Western writers have depicted Africa and Africans over time. Achebe currently is the Charles P. Stevenson Professor of Languages and Literature at BardCollege in NewYork. 

Diversity 
continued from page 1 
faculty of color in the fall of 2007 and released reports to Fr. Jenkins with suggestions on how to create a mQre diverse faculty at Notre Dame. 
Film, Television and Theater Professor Susan Ohmer, chair of the committee on women faculty and students, said the University recruits female fac­ulty members at a higher rate than other universities, but lags in retaining them in the long term. · 
In the fall of 2006, 23 per­cent of Notre Dame faculty members were female, com­pared to a total of 28 percent at private universities that are members of the Association· of American Universities (AAU), according to the committee's report. 
The report said that for every 100 female faculty members at AAU private schools, Notre Dame had 82, a ratio that has dropped 10 per­cent in the past 10 years. But at the recruiting level, for every 100 assistant professors at AAU private schools, Notre Dame hires 105. 
"In recruiting women, we do better than other schools," 0.\lmer said. "But we can't keep them." 
In order to understand why women are leaving, Ohmer said the committee examined exit interviews, which record­ed reasons female faculty members left the University over the years. 
"Spousal hiring and child­care were issues that came up," she said. 
The report proposed several suggestions to improve child­care opportunities for faculty members and a spousal hiring program, which would estab­lish a fund to "support dual academic hires" when both spouses work in the field of academia. 
The report also suggested creating a hiring plan that would increase the number of senior women faculty mem­bers. 
While the Committee on Women Faculty and Students found that the University recruited female faculty mem­bers in high numbers, but did not retain them, Ohmer said the Committee on .Cultural Diversity concluded Notr.e Dame is not recruiting high numbers of members of facul­ty of color, nor is it retaining the-members it does hire. 

"When it comes to faculty of color, we don't even do enough at the recruiting point, let alone keep people," she said. "We need to get them here so in that sense, it's more dire." 
The report released by the Committee on Faculty Recruitment and Retention ­a subcommittee of the 
Committee on Cultural Diversity -said that in the fall of 2007 82
· per­
cent of Notre Dame faculty were white, 13 percent minority and 5 percent non-resident alien. 
According to the report, Notre Dame ranks lower than many AAU 
"University of Chicago is very international, very cos­mopolitan," she said. "We are working on that. We are becoming more global, but it's not the same." 
Ohmer said the committee wants to look into ways to make faculty of color more' comfortable with Indiana and Notre Dame. 
"They need to know that 
"In recruiting women we do better than other schools. But we can't keep them. " 
Susan Ohmer chair of the committee on women faculty and students 
Notre Dame is a welcoming place for peo­ple • from diverse back­grounds," she said. "We want it to be for stu­dents' sake and faculty's, but sometimes it's a harder sell." 
Another obstacle in recruiting fac­ulty of color is the competi­
Many other top universities already have programs like those proposed by the com­mittee, Ohmer said. 
Ohmer said she is delighted by Fr. Jenkins' response to both committees' reports. She said the University has already committed to increas­ing funding for the Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC), and starting in August, faculty members in the Office of the Provost will be assigned to work to increase faculty diversity. 
"In the committee, we feel we are getting real results," she said. 
In the letter circulated to faculty, Fr. Jenkins said creat­ing and maintaining a diverse faculty is essential to the Catholic character of the University. 
The letter stated the University will implement sev­eral of the committees' sug­gestions immediately, such as a Dual Career Assistance pro­gram for spouses of faculty members and a new postdoc­toral training program to "attract top young academics from underrepresented groups, especially women and faculty of color." 
Ohmer said she is pleased with the progress the University is making in creat­ing a diverse faculty and she said she hopes the efforts will help Notre Dame emerge as a more globally aware and enriched university. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 


private Universities. The University of Chicago led AAU schools in 2007 with 20 per­cent faculty of color, com­pared to Notre Dame's 13 per­cent. 
Ohmer, who was also involved with examining the report on faculty of color, said location is a large part of the issue. 
tiveness of the field, Ohmer said. The scholars often have multiple offers, so the University needs to make Notre Dame appealing. 
The report suggested creat­ing a fellowship program for faculty of color, a hiring plan to recruit new faculty mem­bers, mentoring programs and an office devoted to diversity. 


DRUMMERS NEEDED 
WANT TO BE APART OF THE NOTRE DAME GAMEDAY TRADITION? DON'T HAVE TIME FOR THE MARCHING BAND? 

., I '· 
JOIN THE NOTRE DAME BAGPIPE BANDI 
• 
TIME COMMITMENT IS APPROX. TWO HOURS A WEEK PLUS SATURDAY MORNINGS DURING FOOTBALL SEASON (DON'T WORRY, YOU WILL NEVER MISS A KICKOFF) 

• 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR ALL DRUMS (SNARE, BASS, TENOR) 


CONTACT DAVE WARTKO FOR MORE INFORMATION 
dwartko@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Wednesday, March 18, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,395.70 +178.73 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,877 98 889 2,768,816,768 

NASDAQ 1462.11 +58.09 
:MI!~i:lffi~llilirr,li!;lil;i1i;!!i·W!III!It&tlli11111.1 
S&P 500 778.12 +24.23 NIKKEl ('To#WjJ · :.:7;jl:~~~~~' ,ii!lilliill FTSE 100 (London) 3,857.10 -6.89 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CmGROUP INC (C) +7.73 +0.18 2.51 Bt< OF AMERICA (SAC) +1.46 +0.09 6.27 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +3.06 +2.32 78.18 FINANCIAL BULL 3X (FAS) +15.28 +0.74 5.61 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.76 +0.052 3.00 13-WEEK BILL , +2.27 +0.005 0.23 30-YEAR BOND +1.04 +0.039 3.80 5-YEAR NOTE +3.14 +0.060 1.97 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.10 47.35 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -8.10 922.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +3.00 88.50 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 98.8200 EURO 1.3034 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2693 BRmSH POUND 1.4068 
IN BRIEF 
2,400 Caterpillar employees laid off 
PITTSBURGH -Caterpillar Inc. on Tuesday announced plans to lay off more than 2,400 employees at five plants in Illinois, Indiana and Georgia as the heavy equipment maker contin­ues to cut costs amid the global economic downturn. 
Caterpillar, the world's largest maker of min­ing and construction equipment, has seen its sales wither as the sluggish world economy and the credit crisis weaken demand for its prod­ucts, used to build everything from houses to highways. The company had expanded dramat­ically in recent years, helped by a building boom in developing countries. 
In response to the worsening conditions, Caterpillar in January announced job cuts that will ultimately eliminate 20,000 positions. It also said it would slash executive compensation by up to 50 percent and offer buyouts to about 25,000 U.S.-based employees. Caterpillar, which employs about 112,000 people world­wide, said it had imposed a global hiring freeze. 
In the latest cuts, the Peoria, IlL-based com­pany said 2,365 support and management workers had been notified of layoffs expected to last at least six months -including 245 announced previously -and 89 workers will be let go permanently. 
Government aids small businesses 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Internal Revenue Service issued guidelines Tuesday that will allow tax relief and refunds for some Bernard Madoff victims who were levied for investment earnings that turned out to be nonexistent. 
IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman told Congress the new guidelines are for taxpay­ers who have suffered losses from Ponzi investment schemes such as the massive Madoff swindle. 
He· said the guidelines will apply to victims of all Ponzi schemes -fmancial scams in which early investors are paid returns from money put in by later investors. But given the scope of the Madoff scandal, the IRS wanted to establish an easy system for investors to recover taxes they paid on "fictitious income," Shulman said.has their ability to-thrive or survive. 


Wholesale housing prices edge up 
Critics view increase in housing construction as only a "temporary gain" 
Associated Pres1; 

WASHINGTON -Housing construction posted a sur­prisingly large increase in February, bolstered by strength in all parts of the country except the West. 
While the surge in con­struction was far better than the continued decline economists had expected, experts viewed the rebound as a temporary gain given all the problems the hous­ing industry still faces. 
The Commerce Department reported Tuesday that construction of new homes and apart­ments jumped 22.2 percent in February compared with January, pushing total activity to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 583,000 units. 
Meanwhile, the Labor Department said wholesale prices edged up a slight 0.1 percent in February as a big drop in food costs offset a second monthly increase in energy prices. 
After the news, investors reignited Wall Street's rally, snapping up financial and homebuilder stocks among others. The Dow Jones industrial average and other major indexes all fin­ished with gains of more than 2 percent, with the tech-laden Nasdaq compos­ago. The strength in turnaround would be a percent in January. ite index jumping more February was led by a three-month sustained The world economy than 4 percent. sharp gain in apartment increase in single-family remains soft and is getting 
The protracted housing construction, which can be permits. weaker, making it difficult downturn, rising foreclo­highly volatile from month "We got several months for companies to raise sures and a deepening U.S. to month. over the past three years prices, said Nigel Gault, recession have battered All areas of the country where permits increased chief US economist at IHS homebuilders and scared reported an increase in only to drop the following Global Insight. off many potential buyers. February, except the West, month," Newport said. "Inflation is clearly very Analysts expect mounting which has been hardest hit The 0.1 percent increase quiet," Gault said. "The jol'r losses and foreclosures by the housing slump. in wholesale inflation was risks, if we're looking over and tightening lending stan­Patrick Newport, U.S. much lower than the 0.8 the rest of the year, are dards to continue to sup­economist for IHS Global percent surge in January more toward deflation than press home sales. Insight, said the uptick in and smaller than the 0.4 inflation, but deflation cer­
"Building permits are construction was driven by percent increase econo­tainly is not here yet." indicating that starts could improving weather in mists had expe"'Cted. Companies are continuing improve modestly in coming February, particularly in Compared with a year ago, to slash costs. months, but we believe the the Northeast, where a wholesale prices are actual­Caterpillar Inc. on reprieve will be short­severe winter had slowed ly down 1.3 percent. Tuesday announced plans iived," Solei! Securities construction in December Core inflation, which to lay off more than 2,400 Group analyst Anna Torma and January. excludes energy and food, employees at five plants in wrote in a research note. "The numbers are so low edged up 0.2 percent in Illinois, Indiana and 
Even with the big that any increase will give February, only slightly high­Georgia as the heavy equip­increase, construction activ­you a big percentage er than the 0.1 percent gain ment maker continues to ity remains 4 7.3 percent increase," Newport said. economists had expected. cut costs amid the global below where it was a year He said a surer sign of a Core prices had risen 0.4 · economic downturn. 

Taxpayers unhappy about AIG bonuses 
Associated Press ing whether the government should bleed to death because I'm not sure 
For many Americans. who could even be in the bu~iness of bailing out that they've got blood. I think it's ice use a bailout just to balance their Wall Street -an attitude that could water that runs through their veins," checkbooks and make it through the dangerously undermine further said Gary Jarvis of Herron, Ill., who month, the thought of their tax dol­efforts by the Obama administration lost his job as a forklift driver in a lars going to million-dollar bonuses to prop up the economy. factory closing two years ago. "To for AIG executives is enough to "Wasn't Obama supposed to fix me, it's just stunning to think they're make them furious. this?" said Maria Panza-Villa, a not even ashamed of their disgusting 
"It's difficult to comprehend how mother of two in Hillsboro, Ore. She greed." screwing up gets you rewards," said said she has lost three jobs since AIG -teetering on the brink of George Padilla, a teacher in El Paso, November as one employer after collapse because it insured many of Texas. "I tell my students that if they another folded. the toxic mortgage-backed securities don't put in the effort and get pass­The intensity of the populist fury at the vortex of the financial crisis ­ing grades, I will not pass them." He became plain when a member of the has mostly been ari unknown quanti­added: "I use the old 'In the real Senate, Iowa Republican Charles ty to the general public, in part world ...' line to point out that you Grassley, actually suggested AIG because its business is so complex. would be fired if you didn't do well executives should follow the But paying bonuses to people in your job. Well, I guess 'the real Japanese warrior example and responsible for nearly bringing the world' proved me wrong." resign or commit suicide. company, and the economy, to its 
Workers, business owners and tax­While many ordinary Americans knees may be even more incompre­payers interviewed across the coun­said Grassley's comments were out hensible to nearly anyone who runs try this week fumed over the $165 of line, others weren't so sure. a business or tries to balance a million payout, with some question-AIG executives are "not going to household budget. 
page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 18, 2009 
CANADA 
Bush refuses to criticize Oballla, 'deserves lllY silence' 
Former president plans to write book, wants "people to understand what it was like to sit in the Oval Office" 
Associated Press 
CALGARY, Alberta -Former President George W. Bush said on Tuesday that he won't criti­cize Barack Obama because the new U.S. president "deserves my silence," and said he plans to write a book about the 12 toughest decisions he made in office. 
Bush declined to critique the Obama administration in his first speech since leaving office in January. Former Vice President Dick Cheney has said that Obama's decisions threat­ened America's safety. 
''I'm not going to spend my time criticizing him. There are plenty of critics in the arena," Bush said. "He deserves my silence." 
Bush said he wants Obama to succeed and said it's important that he has that support. Talk­show host Rush Limbaugh has said he hoped Obama would fail. 
"I love my country a lot more than I love politics," Bush said. "I think it is essential that he be helped in office." 
The invitation-only event titled a "Conversation with George W. Bush" attracted close to 2,000 guests who paid $3,100 per table. Bush received two standing ovations from the predominantly business crowd. About 200 protested outside the event. 
Bush is unpopular in Canada but less so in oil-rich Alberta, the country's most conservative province and one sometimes called the Texas of the north. 
"This is my maiden voyage. My first speech since I was the president of the United States and I couldn't think of a better place to give it than Calgary, Canada," Bush said. 
The event's organizers declined to say how much Bush was paid to speak at the gath­ering. 
Bush said that he doesn't 
MEXICO 




11 dead in Mexico tour bus accident 
Associated Press 
SALTILLO~ A drunken driv­er lost control of his tractor­trailer and slammed into a bus carrying Canadians and Americans touring northern Mexico, killing 11, officials said Tuesday. 
Seven Americans, three Canadians and the Mexican bus driver were killed, said Jose Angel Herrera, a federal homicide detective in northern Coahuila state. 
They included two Texas middle school teachers on a spring break, a retiree from Iowa and a Quebec business consultant easing into retire­ment with a tour of the U.S. and Mexico. Many were snow­birds from colder climes who spent their winters in Texas' Rio Grande Valley. 
Todd Huizinga, a spokesman for the U.S. consulate in the nearby city of Monterrey, said nine Americans were injured and that most were in stable condition. 
Herrera said the tractor-trail­er driver lost control, swerved onto the shoulder to his left, then overcompensated to the right and crashed into the bus coming from the opposite direction on Monday. State civil defense officials said 16 people were injured, many seriously. 
Photos showed much of the side of the bus torn off. 
"I can't believe anybody got out alive," said Beverley Kinnammon after speaking by phone with her sister, Barbara Jewell Dalke, of Mission, Texas, one of the survivors. 
"She said it was really bad," Kinnammon said by telephone after speaking with her sister earlier in the day. "We feel very lucky that Barbara seems to be OK." 
Herrera said the truck driver, who was among those hurt, had been intoxicated and would be charged with involun­tary homicide. 
Two of those killed were mid­dle-school reading teachers at Cummings Middle School in Brownsville, Texas: Ana Maria Bujanos of Brownsville and Rebecca Pemelton· of Harlingen. 
"Tomorrow would have been our 33rd wedding anniversary, that's why I'm taking it so hard," said Bunanos' husband, Chris. 
Bujanos, 56, had taken simi­lar trips for years, her husband ooid. 
The Canadian Press news agency identified the Canadians who died as Robert Lacas, 56, of Quebec, Carolyn Kowaleski, 68, of Caledonia, Ontario, and Marilyn Jackson, 67, of Vancouver. 
Lacas was "a man who worked hard all his life and was finally, slDwly going into semiretirement an.d he was really excited about taking this trip," said Jean-Luc Morin, who worked with Lacas for 14 years. Lacas's wife, Line Carrier, 55, was among the four injured Canadians. 
The couple had been touring the southern United States in a recreational vehicle. They left it at a campground in McAllen and boarded the bus for a whirlwind trip in northeastern Mexico, Carrier's son Christian Poulin said. 
"They raised their family, worked hard and were think­ing about themselves -and it was time to do that -and sadly misfortune has befallen them," Poulin said. 
Ron Christy 73, of West Liberty, Iowa was an avid bocce ball and shuffleboard player who operated the sound system for dances and church services at an RV park in Donna, Texas, where he win­tered with his wife Margaret Christy, 69. 
know what he will do in the 
long term but that he will write 
a book that will ask people to 
consider what they would do if 
they had to protect the United 
States as president. 

He said it will be fun to write 
and that "it's going to be 
(about) the 12 toughest deci­
sions I had to make." 

''I'm going to put people in my place, so when the history of this administration is written · at least there's an authoritarian voice saying exactly what hap­
pened," Bush said. 

"I want people to understand 
what it was like to sit in the 
Oval Office and have them 
come in and say we have cap­tured Khalid Sheik Mohammed, the mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks, the alleged killer of a guy · named Danny Pearl because he was simply Jewish, and we think we have informa­tion on further attacks on the United States," Bush said. 
Bush didn't specify what the 12 hardest decisions were but said Iraq is better off without Saddam Hussein in power. 
Bush was also full of jokes during his appearance. He joked that he would do more speeches to pay for his new house in Dallas. 
"I actually paid for a house last fall. I think I'm the only American to have bought a house in the fall of 2008," he quipped. 
He also said his mother is doing well. Barbara Bush was released from a Houston hospi­tal Friday, nine days after undergoing heart surgery. "Clearly he can't live without her," Bush said of his father and former President George 
H.W. Bush. 

Bush seemed to enjoy himself even though the event started a half later than expected because of tight security. 'Til sit here all day," Bush said dur­ing a question-and-answer ses­sion. ''I'm flattered people even want to hear me in the first place." 

:Now £easina Por 2009-2010 .Jlpp{y 'Totfay 
~ 

£imiteaSpace.Jlvaua6Ce!II ­
Offering f"J1ie <Best CJ?§nta{<Rgtes in 'Town! $99 for 1" !M.omlis 'R§nt 'Uitli 12 !M.ontli Lease! $300 Offtst !M.ontlis '%nt <Witli 9 !M.ontli Lease! Pree.JI:ppfu:atitm Pee PorStwfents 'Uitli IJD. I Cli>se to Campus! 


eastle1'oint 
~ UO:U. a.-z.-ct at. .SO.Ut a-ct, D.f M637Apar.tRlen.S ftwte: (474) 272-(JU.O Bac: (474) 272-(1.1.14 
I 
www.ald•DII.com 
1
1

'1,011 ANNIJAJ. (~ONFI~REN(~E 01~ 01~ 61U~A1, IAAKJ~S 1l ill~ Ru;AN S'l,tJIIIES ASS()(~ l1lT I 0 N 
All are welcome Admission is free for Notre Dame faculty and students 
Come consider how America is pictured, 
configured, and imagined on multiple 
levels. Please join us at free film showings, 
areception at the Northern Indiana Center 
for History, and numerous panels and, 
roundtable sessions. 
For more information, please contact: 
Erika Doss, Chair 
Department of American Studies 
574.6311706 or doss.2@nd.edu 
"lmaging Amerk~· is made possible in part by generous support 
from the ln~titute fO! Scholarship in the liberal Arts, College of 
Am and Lette!'1, University of Notr~ Dame. 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Department ofAmerican Studies 

Wednesday, March 18, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Fonner 1970s radical releasedfrom prison 

NOW HIRINGTOUR GUIDES 

FORTHE SUMMER AND NEXT SCHOOLYEAR 
Applications available for pick up in the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. 220 Main Building 
Questions? Contact Beth Giudicessi, egiudice@nd.edu 


They said it couldn't be done, but we brought it back! 
RECEIVE A FULL 

Associated Press 
CHOWCHILLA, Calif. -A for­mer 1970s radical associated with the group that kidnapped newspaper heiress Patty Hearst finished her California prison sentence Tuesday, ending a legal drama that harkened back to a violent era of social unrest. 
Sara Jane Olson, 62, was freed from the Central California Women's Facility in Chowchilla shortly after mid­night and was allowed to serve her yearlong parole in Minnesota, the state she adopt­ed during her 24 years as a fugitive. 
Olson served seven years ­half her sentence-after plead­ing guilty to helping place pipe bombs under Los Angeles Police Department patrol cars and participating in the deadly 1975 robbery of a bank in a Sacramento suburb. 
The crimes too~ place while she was a member of the Symbionese Liberation Army, a relatively short-lived but violent group that sought to overth'tow the government while engaging in killings, robberies and gun battles with police. Then she was Kathleen Soliah; she changed her name after fleeing to Minnesota. 
Among the group's victims was 42-year-old Myrna Opsahl, a mother of four who was gunned down during the bank robbery. 
"''m just glad that the former SLA members were finally held accountable for, the murder of my mom," Jon Opsahl, who is now living in Southern California, said Tuesday after hearing of Olson's release. 
"It does finish out this chap­ter, and I hope it's the last chap­ter," he said. ''I'm glad she's leaving the state." 
Olson was released by mis­take a year ago after California Gorrections officials miscalculat­ed her parole date; she was re­arrested after spending five days with her family. Authorities now say she has served the proper seven-year sentence; she had been sen­tenced to 14 years but got time off for good behavior and prison work . 
"She was definitely relieved that it all went smoothly," said David Nickerson, one of Olson's attorneys. 
He said Olson and her hus­band, Dr. Gerald "Fred" Peterson, were trying to make travel arrangements to return to their home in St. Paul, Minn., and their three daughters. A bouquet of flowers was left at the couple's home Tuesday morning, but no one was there to receive it. 
Not everyone in Minnesota will be happy to see Olson return. 
Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty and ·police protective leagues in Los Angeles and St. Paul wrote Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, urging him to have Olson serve her parole in the state where she committed her crimes. Some Minnesota lawmakers also called for Olson to r.emain in California. 
"I think today is a slap in the face of California law enforce­ment and (other) law enforce­ment," Los Angeles Police Protective League President Paul Weber said in an interview. 
Schwarzenegger said he deferred the decision to the cor­rections department. Department spokeswoman Terry Thornton said parole decisions are intended to give former prisoners the best chance of reintegrating into society and avoiding re-arrest. 
"Being with their family increases the chances that they will succeed on parole," she said. 
More than 1,000 California parolees are being supervised in other states. They typically have a week to report to the state in which they will serve their parole. 
Several hours after her release from the prison, which sits among orchards and vine­yards about 150 miles southeast of San Francisco, Olson and her husband returned to a Madera County parole office to finish paperwork. 
Neither her lawyers nor cor­rections officials would say where they went afterward, other than to say they were making arrangements to leave the state. 
Olson's mother and younger sister declined to speak to reporters when they returned Tuesday afternoon to the family home in Palmdale, a working­class suburb in the high desert north of Los Angeles. 
In a brief telephone conversa­tion, the younger woman identi­fied herself only as Martha. She said she had not spoken to her older sister since her release from prison but had heard through someone else that she was doing fine and looking for­ward to going home. When asked how her mother. Elsie Soliah, was doing, the younger woman said, "She's just glad everything is over." 
The Symbionese Liberation Army was a band of mostly white, middle-class young peo­ple. In addition to the 1974 Hearst kidnapping, it claimed responsibility for assassinating Oakland Schools Superintendent Marcus Foster and was involved in a shootout with Los Angeles police officers that killed five SLA members. 
In a sign of those turbulent times, the group adopted a seven-headed snake as its sym­bol and the slogan, "Death to the fascist insect that preys upon the life of the people." 
"We were young and foolish. We felt we were committing an idealized, ideological action to obtain government-insured money and that we were not stealing from ordinary people," Olson wrote in an apology before her sentencing for the bank robbery. "In the end, we stole someone's life." 
In Minnesota, Olson devel­oped an identity that was worlds apart from her California past. She volunteered in social causes and acted in community theater while rais­ing the couple's daughters. The Olson home was a frequent site of dinner parties. 
Her past resurfaced in 1999, when she was arrested while driving a minivan after she was profiled on the television show "America's Most Wanted." 
All former. SLA members but one have been released from prison. 
Emily Montague-Harris was paroled in February 2007 after serving half her eight-year sen­tence. She says she accidentally fired the shotgun that killed Myrna Opsahl. 



THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, March 18, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
Do not let the dialouge die 
P.O. Box 779, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Noue Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Maddine Buckley 
SPORTS EDITORS: Marr Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: !an Gav!ick 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO (574) 63!-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 • MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 

(574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY's DESK smc.1@nd.edu PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphow@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 63 I -8839' 
OBSERVERONUN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as·accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lette"fs and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. utters to the Editor must be $igned and must include comact information. 
Q}lestions regarding Observerpo!ici~ should be directed to Editor in Chieffenn Ma,. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The oo.;,,,, (US~S ll"-1 l-4000) ;, l"'blioh<d Mon<l.y <h•ougn FM.y "'""!" dwing u:;m:~. ;and ~ion:P'riod$.1\.~ri-o:n to 'nu:-O~.t~$100 !t,r (J~ ~mk ~$55 f"f one t:c:m~cr. 
Tbco Observer is: published u: 024-SoUlh Dining Hall Send addms ®maioos'o: 
None Dame, lN 465"56-0779 The Obsctver 

Periodical pas~ age paid at Nom Damt 1\0.&.779 and additional mailing offias. ~24 SOud> Dining H.JI 
Nom! D.unc.IN465S6.o779 
The Observer is a member ofdte Associato:l PR::SS. All reproduulon rights uc­
~ 

We would like to applaud Christie 
Pesavento ("A nation of cowards," 
March 3) for her willingness to confront 
issues of race that face this country. 
However, we feel that this particular · line of dialogue 
may serve to Black Students 
undermine our Association 
collective efforts 
and stunt an hon­

est and thorough Guest Column 
conversation on 
race. 
Firstly, one need 

not be the literal author of a particular 
piece of legislation to be a figurative 
one. Even if we grant Pesavento's point, 
it would seem that we cannot demand 
accountability or moral responsibility 
from a President based on a particular 
bill passed through Congress. Is this the 
kind of slope we want to travel on? 
Secondly, we do agree that it is 
unlikely that the New York Post car­
toonist set out with an intent to create 
a racist cartoon. However, we cannot 
logically infer that a particular cartoon 
is not racist from a belief that inten­
tions that caused this particular car­
toon were decidedly non-racist. Simply 
put, it is possible for a cartoon to be 
racially offensive without its author 
intending racism, and since many black 
people believed it was racist, it was. AI 
Sharpton and other critics were object­
ing to the actual content of the cartoon 
being racist, not its author. 
As a matter of course, media outlets 
must be more sensitive to publishing 
potentially offensive material in a way 
that some of us may not be in everyday 
discourse. Consciously reflecting on, 
considering and publishing a reason­
ably offensive (whether non-affected 
persons regard it as offensive is irrele­
vant) cartoon for mass consumption is 
an entirely different exercise than a 
person saying something off-the-cuff 
that could potentially be construed as 
offensive. 

Thirdly, while our nation's efforts at recognizing the accomplishments of the black community and legislating of equal rights laws must be noted, we must also recognize that the de jure ending of segregation does nothing to alter the de facto segregation that still exists institutionally. Most of the press­ing problems that America faces today (unemployment, failing schools, pover­ty, health care, crime, etc.) dispropor­tionately affect the black community. These circumstances are direct effects of that ugly era where "we" took Africans into slavery, "we" denied them citizenship and basic human rights and "we" continued to employ blatantly segregationist measures well into the 20th century. 
Attorney General Holder, in calling us a nation of cowards, was merely imploring us to come to terms with our past. Heal dialogue cannot begin until we can dig through the attic of our nation's history and reflect on how cer­tain actions and attitudes brought us to where we are today, and how we can move forward. Superficial dialogue, as we believe Pesavento's piece reflected, is not enough. Simply constructing arguments along the lines of "But my best friend/President is black!" under­mines the entire dialogue on race. 
Lastly, we wish to make two inter­twined points. Frankly speaking, black people have historically been victims in this nation. This does not mean black people should continue to be victims, but to ignore acts (however seemingly innocuous) that may serve to perpetu­ate the racial divide is irresponsible of the black community, and, further­more, of our nation's citizens. If one is not black, it is inherently difficult to explicate why or why not a black per­son should feel victimized in a particu­lar situation. Some blacks feel victim­ized in some situations, some don't. Some tend to feel victimized more often than others. In any case, this judge­ment should be reserved solely for members of the black community. We're all (for the most part) trying to 
contribute to the dialogue on race, not 
fuel the fire. 
On a different side of the same coin, it is inherently difficult for a non-racial minority who has not had to cope with the lingering effects of racism (of the institutional, not the individual sort) to empathize with those who have felt his­torically victimized just because of the color of their skin. But their experi­ences are a reality. Though race is, by most accounts, a socially constructed concept, it is still real insofar as we recognize it and have historically rec­ognized it; how we have historically recognized it is a crucial factor in how we interact and have interacted with our fellow countrymen. 
Pesavento calls us to see each other as fellow humans, but we must not for­get that race plays a significant part in our socio-cultural identities. We will always have a history of strained race relations, no matter how far they run into the distant past. The sentiment, however, that race does not sufficiently define us as humans is crucial, and our most important task is to balance these two notions in our construction of a truly diverse society. 
We would like to thank Pesavento again for opening an opportunity for dialogue, and we sincerely hope that the dialogue does not die a tragic death at the end of the week. 
This letter is written on behalfof the executive board ofthe Black Student Association. Its contributers include: Aaron Quarles, Megan Black, Danielle Keller, Chrisandra Downer, Coutney Haynes, Khai Thomas and Marques Camp. They can be contacted at BSA@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Laura Myers Sarah Mervosh Eric Prister Megan Loney Alex West 
Graphics Scene ' "The opportunity for brotherhood 
"Ninety percent ofthe politicians give the 
Blair Chemidlin Michelle Fordice presents itself every time you meet a 
other ten percent a bad reputation. " human being. " 
Viewpoint Stephanie Vossler Henry Kissinger 
Jane Wyman U.S. diplomat and scholar U.S. Actress 



THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 18, 2009 page 11 
The blacker the berry the bigger the fool 
For the first 15 years of my life, I wandered aimlessly through an analog wasteland, losing hope after genera­tion upon generation of mobile phones failed to plug me into the so-called 
"Information Superhighway." Sure, I found phones that could make crystal clear calls and wouldn't shatter when I dropped thein. I wasn't forced to hoard quarters 

and find pay · 
Brad Blomstrom
phones in order to 
get in touch with 
The Daft Punk 
someone when I wasn't home. Nonetheless, every text message I tapped out in T9 caused a feeling of hollowness to grow within me. Something was missing from my cell phone, but I couldn't quite put my finger on it. Little did I know that "it" was a little, white trackball. 
When the BlackBerry arrived in 2002, I soon realized that it represent­ed the final link between the human and the Divine. I am convinced that if 
-Michelangelo were alive and painting today, Adam's outstretched hand on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel would feature three fingers tightly wrapped around this wondrous device. At long last, I feel truly connected to the world around me. In my pre-BlackBerry life (or what I like to refer to as the "Dark Ages"), I had to log on to a computer to check my e-mail. Eww. How 1990s is that? 
Never mind that Research in Motion created the BlackBerry for traveling business people; I clearly need one. I am a college student, and that means that I receive extremely important emails that require action A.S.A.P. (Did you know that this Friday is Salsa Funk Nightclub Night at Legends, btw? No, you didn't. You don't get Notre Dame Gmail on your pathetic Motorola). 
Furthermore, my Facebooking has improved exponentially since I got my BlackBerry. I give status updates in real-time now (Currently: "The Daft Punk is venting his disdain for inferior people with inferior phones"). I've cut my average wall-to-wall response time down to 3.7 minutes, and I now adhere to a strict R.S.v.P. policy for all event and group invitations. Side note -you're welcome, "Need Numbers: Lost My Phone While Drunk" groups. Without me, you'd have zero respons­es. Maybe next time you'll think about getting a real phone instead. But I digress. 
Thank. God I have my BlackBerry. Otherwise, I'd be forced into second class citizenship and would be exclud­ed from the conversations of Notre Dame's power elite. To offer you a concrete example from my semester abroad in London, take a conversation I held with my girlfriend at the time and two other people (N.B. The Daft Punk has made up a lot of stories in his day, but this one is pretty much the truth). Three of the four people in the room had BlackBerries. I, unfortunate­ly, had left mine in the States because I didn't think the BlackBerry culture had taken over London yet. In less than five minutes the three cool people in the room were BBM-ing (BlackBerry Messaging, for the ignorant layperson) instead of talking, while I just sat there and contemplated my miserable existence. I knew I was outclassed, and I cried myself to sleep for the rest of my time on that horrible island. 
To be honest, the best part about my BlackBerry is that it has made me a better man. It's taught me how to com­municate in ways I'd never dreamed possible, and has taught me which people to eliminate from my social cir­cles. In a moment of weakness, I start­ed dating a girl who didn't have a BlackBerry. Although we got along well and she was a wonderful person in many respects, after a few weeks it became obvious that things just weren't working out. She kept asking stupid questions like, "What is BrickBreaker?" and "How do you even use that keyboard?" I didn't say any­thing about it at the time, (The Daft Punk has some class, mind you), but I wanted to stream at her: "I have a BlackBerry, which means my time is valuable! Do you think I really have the luxury of wasting precious seconds and oxygen answering inane questions like those? Go call your mom with your Razr and check your: e-mail using America Online." You better believe that relationship didn't last. Social Darwinism got a bad rap in the 1800s but it really came through in the clutch for me there. 
Listen, I'd love to stay and chat, but ... wait, who am I kidding? You could tell I was done with this conversation two minutes ago when I quit listening to you and started scrolling through the message boards on my favorite Web site, CrackBerry.com. For a glimpse of my awesomeness, search the website to see how I was willing to be hit with 100 paintballs on my bare chest in order to get a BlackBerry Storm. Shoot me a BBM sometime and maybe we'll discuss it. Until then, enjoy the SMS world. Loser. 
Sent via BlackBerry by AT&T. 
Brad Blomstrom is a senior majoring in Finance & Economics. He is currently wandering the analog wasteland but is excited to join the BlackBourgeoisie this summer. He can be contacted at bblomstr@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Rape vs. abortion: culture vvar 
Recently, an abortion was performed in Brazil. Brazil's one of those places where that's only legal in cases of rape (she had been), incest (it was her step­father) and to preserve the health of the mother (she was a nine-year-old bearing twins-her body could­n't take that. This is one of the many, many reasons you do not have sex with children). The mother of the child and the doctors who performed it were all summarily excommunicated, and their excommuni­cation has been upheld by Pope Benedict. Even worse, the rapisVpedophile who did this to her has been deliberately not excommunicated, because, while child molestation may be "heinous," abortion is, of course, a great deal worse. . 
This is not morality, nor is it ethics. When the Catholic Church explicitly values unborn, undevel­oped fetuses over a nine-year-old girl who has already experienced rape and trauma at the hands of her stepfather, and now gets to grow up knowing that this same event led her mother to be excommu­nicated from their religion, something is wrong. The pain and suffering of living, breathing people -of children-is secondary to their "moral" grandstand­ing. 
Similarly, in the March 2 issue of the Irish Rover, staff writer Mary Kate Daly argues that some raped women have not "robustly defended their own digni­ty" (by, you know, not being all slutty). While she isn't "blaming" victims for their rape (she:S only declaring that victims "share responsibility," which, if you're a writer for the Irish Rover, apparently means some­thing completely different), she is saying that our current focus on "consent" in terms of sexual assault, instead of how responsible the victims are, and how not responsible drunk rapists are, misses the point. 
Maybe I'm spotting a trend where there isn't one, but we seem to have lost the plot here. Moral priori­ties are all out of whack, when the things you're wor­ried about in these situations is that a raped nine­year-old carries to term and gives birth to twins and that raped women stop wearing sexy clothes. Maybe this isn't morality-maybe this is simply a culture war. If it is, then I guess I know what side I'm on. 
James Spitalere 
sentor 
off-campus 
March 17 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, March 18, 2009 

Twenty-four years ago, Alan Moore 
a different world: Nixon was 
third term, America had left 
victorious and masked heroes 
the streets, pursuing law, order 
d justice. Until they were outlawed, 
at is. It is against this dark backdrop 
Moore is able to tell one of the best 
of the last century, while stripping 
ay any of the shining brilliance 
uwHUJl.u5 on our super heroes. Moore's 
12-chapter graphic novel changed 
way people look at both the medium 
the subject of super hero comics, 
was the American dream, replaced 
stark humanity. The novel is fantas­
c but human, gritty but realistic, 
eachy but not condescending. These 
play into its brilliance. 
When confronted with such a stunning 
ieee of literature, Hollywood has no 
ce but_ to turn it into a full-length 
As early as 1987, two years after 
publication, a film was in the 
from Fox. Not only were several 
ig names attached to the lllm, it even 
"Watchmen" is based on a revolutionary 80s comic book many have never heard of, but "Watchmen" isn't a tale of a superhu­man man from Krypton or a noble-hearted billionaire-vigilante. The subjects are all­too-human costumed superheroes, often with more flaws than the criminals they fight. It is set in a dystopic America, with Nixon in his third term as president and nuclear war hovering over its head. The 
of "Watchmen" were once society's =,,,...,..,. protection and powerful tools of 
government in the Vietnam War, but they have since been outlawed. Dr. Manhattan (Billy Crudup), however, still 
the government's greatest asset. Once a nuclear scientist, Jon Osterman became Dr. Manhattan after a terrible lab accident. He can change matter at his will and seems the only thing protecting 
from a nuclear war with the Soviet 
Watchmen Director: Zack Snyder 
had the blessing of its creator. 
Few were surprised whrm plans were delayed. First there were the special effects issues -one of the main charac­ters glows blue and has the ability to grow several stories in height. Furthermore, the plot is complex, the scenery is ambitious and the guaranteed audience is small. Unable to get enough funding from Fox, the film went into turn­around in 1991 and the long wait for the fans began. 
A decade later, superhero movies were gaining buzz following the spectacular success of "X-men." After spending short spans of time at just about every studio in Hollywood (with the exception of Disney), "Watchmen" ended up in development at Warner Brothers. After achieving signifi­cant critieal and financial milestones with the reboot of the Batman franchise, the studio was ready for another great comic. 
Several unseen problems lay ahead. Moore, with a sour taste in his mouth from his previous work in Hollywood, wouldn't even lend his name to the script. Yet as the movie lost one major name, it gained another: Zach Snyder, a golden figure after the release of "300." 
his comrades. What he uncovers is actually a scheme much greater than even the audi­ence can imagine. 
Many have called "Watchmen" unfilmable. ltsplot is thick with detail, its themes are as dense as a piece of classic lit­erature, it requires amazing special eflects and it has a loyal fan base with high expec­tations. Director Zack Snyder is clearly a fan of the comic book and he struggles to keep his film as dose as possible to the orig­inal material. Some necessary changes were made, including a major twist in the ending, but the film stays mostly true to the comic. Snyder even keeps the original set­ting of Cold War-era America when many thought he would choose a modern context involving terrorism and thn wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
The special effects are truly spectacular. Each scene is vivid and intense. Snyder never shies away from the graphic violence of the comic. "Watchmen" isn't just violent, though -it is gruesome and gory. The film is not for the queasy or the faint of heart. The violence is necessary.· Unlike traditional comics, "Watchmen" strives to be brutally realistic. The costumnd herons don't disarm their opponents and turn them in to the 
police. They kill them with 
important flashbacks. Many of the nuances of the plot arn told 
Staning: Billy Crudup, Jackie Earle Haley, 
Malin Akerman, Patrick Wilson 
through flashbacks, and they are necessary for character develbp­ment. Snyder makes the scenes f'low naturally, adding to the beauty of "Watchmen." 
Rorschach, an unabashedly violent but somehow moral cos­tumed vigil'ante, narrates and bloody brutality. The violence, while gruesome, is necessary to the integrity of the film. 
Snyder also succnnds in beauti­fully transitioning his l'ilm b1\l,ween the present story and Hecognizing his ability to win filmgoers, Warner Brother's gave Snyder near com­plete creative control of the film. With fans cheering his ev.ery move, Snyder changed the PG-13 script to a full-fledged 
H. restoring all the violence, sex and pro­fanity of the novel. 
As stills, posters and trailers reached the public, excitement grew within the fan base and spilled into the general con­sciousness. It seemed the film might live up to expectations and maintain public appeal, but a lawsuit from Fox threatened all this hope. While not given much notice when it was filed; a judge had ruled Fox still had the rights to the film. After weeks of questions, the studios settled out of court and prepared to finally release "Watchmen." 
After surviving over 20 years in devel­opment, one question remained: Would the film faithfully portray the book and satisfy its fans or will it fulfill the deepest fears of its creator? Now that "Watchmen" has hit theaters, audiences can finally know. 
Contact Nick Anderson aC.;.f 
nanders5@nd.edu 

drives the film. Jackie Earl Haley gives an outstanding performance, even though he spends most of his screen time behind mask. lie dives into his character and never resurfaces. Billy Crudup as Dr. Manhattan is also excellent. He may be blue, but quiet voice and subdued demeanor n•n..-o"•­ly fit the used-to-be-hun1an who ha..•,; lost compassion for the human race. J Dean Morgan receives more screen ti than you'd expect. He features mostly flashbacks, but he is unforgettable. He violent, selfish, a sexual deviant and alto­gether amoral. Unfortunately, the film n't show as much humanity in Th Comedian as the comic did, but plays him as a multifaceted character needs a bit more back-story. 
The rest of the cast, however, doesn't a.'> well. Patrick Wilson as Night Owl II is lonely and pathetic wreck after years retirement from fighting crime, as h should be. However, he is almost to pathetic to believe that he could zip up suit again and save the world. Mali Akerman as Silk Spectre II does her job wearing a yellow spandex suit and heels, but fails at anything else. Her acting is decent and mostly awkward. She rests in the mold of a one-din1ensional female her character is supposed to break. Matthew Goode is fine as Ozymandias, not great. Be does well as the supposed smartest man in the world, but he is easily the most forgettable charaeter. 
"Watchmen" is a very cool movie. I visually stmming and a better adaptation the cornie than many expected. While succeeds with iL'> overall intentions, it fails at developing some of iL'> deeper themes. It can also feel a bit slow at times. But, rngardless, it's an enjoyable flick worth see­ing. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, March 18, 2009 
page 13 

Originally released in 1986, the "Watchmen" comic was almost instan­taneously greeted with unanimous praise. Covering topics from warmon­gering to the deification of human sci­entists, it quickly gained popularity and ultimately achieved a spot on The Times 100 greatest novels. The film is a justification of the novel's relevance, yet it fails as an influence within cur­rent media. 
For a movie that attempts to Xerox its source material, "Watchmen" intro­duces flaws that detract from its quali­ty. Instead of creating and establishing the uneasiness of a terrorist-like attack on one of America's heroes, the film chooses to mimic Nixon and com­from the 80s. Despite consis­nt copying of the time period and 
Watchmen Director: Zack Snyder 
' -" ~ 
.(~~:#
.. _,:..--;· 

"Watchmen" is tl1'e only graphic novel included in Time Magazine's list of the 100 greatest novels of all time. Unfortunately, the film version of "Watchmen" will probably never be on anyone's list of the greatest movies. 
On the surface, Alan Moore's novel is about masked vigilantes trying to solve a murder and prevent a possible nuclear war, a very common plot for any super­hero movie or comic. What separates it from the rest of the pack are the com­plex characters and the depths that Moore goes to get inside their heads. The characters' philosophy and psychology propose questions to the reader that are not found in any other superhero story. If there were masked vigilantes in the real world, why assume that they would be squeaky-clean citizens like Superman or 
Watchmen Director: Zack Snyder 
characters from the comic for the film, "Watchmen" chooses to pursue topics that were insignificant to the viewers and destructive to the building tension. Important dialogues and soliloquies present in the comic were often rushed or avoided, most likely due to the philosophical subject matter that would not appeal to general audiences. An overlong sex scene detracts from the film by breaking momentum only to satisfy the director's apparent long­ing for R-rated material. The film often loses sight of its goal, its philosophy and its attempt to appeal to the mass­es. 
Despite the lack of blockbuster actors, all of the characters are well received. Jackie Earle Haley takes on the role of Rorschach with perfect exe­cution, providing both an image and a voice for a character that has fascinat­ed fans for years. He plays the part as 
though he has lived the char­
acter and steals every scene in which he partakes. Billy Crudup as Dr. Manhattan is also memorable as he pTo­vides a foil to the mortal heroes. 
Starring: Billy Crudup, Jackie Earle Haley, For the most part, "Watchmen" manages to sur­
Malin Akerman, Patrick Wilson 
round itself with a high quali­ty soundtrack to provide a 
sort of back-story into the very different world .of Watchmen, starting with Bob Dylan's "The Times They Are A-Changin'." Oth.er tracks, 
Spiderman? What is it that would actual­ly motivate a person to dress up in a cos­tume and fight crime? If a person did don a costume and fight crime, what would this do to his or her psyche? Would society react positively or nega­tively to costumed heroes working out­side of the law? 
The answers to these questions unfold in the gritty, intense and depressing world of "Watchmen." Almost all the heroes have major psychological prob­lems, and their opinions of humanity are so negative that they-allow themselves to operate almost completely free of con­science. The paranoid, crazy Rorschach tortures random people to get informa­tion from them and inflicts punishment on the criminals he captures without any real authorilJ. The brutal Comedian tries to rape one woman, and murders a for­mer lover. The god-like Dr. Manhattan almost completely loses touch with humanity and feels little motiva­tion to help prevent nuclear 
holocaust. The development and revelation of the vigilantes' characters through flashbacks are both gripping and repulsive, making "Watchmen" a thought­such as "All Along The Watchtower" Hendrix, and "99 Luftballons" by Ne help solidify the films meaning thr musical and imagery-oriented a sions. Other original tracks by Tyle Bates contribute and create a feel fo the film. UnftHtunately these hi quality moments are intermittent often tracks, seemingly provided by director, detract from the overal soundtrack. 
The film has moments of brilliance, but succumbs to mediocrity wi extreme frequency and this become frustrating for the audience. It entan gles the viewers with strong chara but fails to deliver a strong conclusion The development of the heroes seem wasted on the ending, which fails dignify any characters other than Dr. Manhattan and Rorschach. 
A common failure of many adapta­tions, "Watchmen" fails to establish itself as a film of significance by rely­ing too heavily on the source material. It never quite becomes its own work, riding on the coattails of its predeces­sor. Through flashbacks it builds char­acters but never quite establishes a soul of its'own. The film endless relies on the graphic novel for gui ance, sacrificing its own identity. pleasant as it is to witness a simu­lacrum of the beloved novel, "Watchmen" never comes to life on i own. 
Contact Szymon Ryzner at sryzner@nd.edu 
almost every frame in the movie mroN"n·" corresponds to a panel of the book movie fails to capture the intricate sophical themes that make the book riveting. Director Zach Snyder deeply philosophit;al moments from book as mere excuses to throw in stomach turning violence. Snyder is good at filming action sequences, but matters of heart or head he fails to ture the book's brilliance. The ical insights into human nature ed by the characters are lost in a w wind of graphic violence and sexu (the latter peaks in one awkward, un essary and painfully long love between Silk Spectre and Nite Owl). only character in the movie who ""rna<'""' close to the emotion and intensity of book's version is Rorschach (Jackie E Haley). A few other actors conve glimpses into their characters' true ches. namely Patrick Wilson (Nite Jeffrey Dean Morgan (The Comedian) · and Billy Crudup (Dr. Manhattan), b these moments are few and far between. The other actors are mostly average except for Malin Akerman (Silk II), who might be the worst actress the planet. 
The best part of this movie is how i · reminds the audience of the comi .·· book's brilliance. The film is not brilli in itself. It seems that Alan Moore correct when he insisted that his sto simply could not be adequately p trayed on film. 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornl@nd.edu 
Starring: Billy Crudup, Jackie Earle Haley, Malin Akerman, Patrick Wilson 
provoking book. 
Sadly, the movie almost com­pletely fails to go past the sur­face of the "Watchmen" story. Occasional glimmers of the novel's themes come through, but on the whole it is merely another entertaining superhero movie, albeit a very dark, harsh and violent one. Although 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 18, 2009 
NBA 

James scores CavalietS'last five points to seal victory 
Spurs victorious over Timberwolves without Duncan; Harford, Smith lead Hawks to win over Kings 
when Lewis missed, the Cavs
Associated Press 

had survived one of their tough­CLEVELAND-LeBron James est tests at home. dropped a long 3-pointer with The temperature outside felt 
47.4 seconds left and added two like June and the heat inside free throws with 8.7 seconds to the building matched playoff go as the Cleveland Cavaliers levels. Both teams wanted this improved to 30-1 at home with one, not just for postseason a 97-93 win over the Orlando seeding, but for a psychological Magic on Tuesday night. edge in case they meet in play­
With Cleveland trailing 93-92 offs. in a game soaked in playoff The Magic had won three intensity, James, wearing green straight in Cleveland and had and white Nikes to celebrate St. beaten the'Cavs in seven of Patrick's Day, pulled up in front their past nine meetings. of Orlando's bench and coldly Orlando also came in with road knocked down his 3. Magic cen­wins over Boston, the Los ter Dwight Howard was called Angeles Lakers, San Antonio, for a 3-second violation on Portland, Dallas and Utah. Orlando's next trip, giving the Orlando carried a three-point ball back to Cleveland. lead into the fourth period and 
James was then fouled while had a chance to open a four­shooting and made his two free point lead late in the quarter. throws as the crowd serenaded But Rafer Alston missed a him with chants of "MVP." jumper and Williams made 
Rashard Lewis missed a 3-Orlando pay by drilling a 3­
pointer with 2.5 seconds left for pointer from the right wing with 
the Magic, who came in with 1:59 left to put the Cavaliers up 
the Eastern Conference's best 92-91. 
road record, but couldn't send Before the game, James was 
the Cavs to their second home asked about Orlando's chances 
loss. in the postseason. Although the 
James added 12 rebounds Magic aren't mentioned as often and eight assists. Mo Williams as the Cavaliers and Celtics, added 21 points for Cleveland, James knows better than to which held the Magic to 18 overlook them. · points in the fourth quarter. "You can't look past any team 
Howard had 13 points, 15 in the playoffs, period," James 
rebounds and six blocks for the. said. "It doesn't matter if Magic. But Orlando's big man they're the eighth seed or the attempted just eight shots, none No. 1. You've got to win 16 in the fourth quarter as the games to win it all." 
Magic chose to attack from out­for the Spurs, who now await a "He doesn't love [sitting out], Sacramento Kings on Tuesday side. Spurs 93, Timberwolves 86 bigger test Friday at home but it's important for him to be night. 
Orlando took its last lead Tony Parker scored 24 points against the Boston Celtics. Mike fresh and healthy at the end of "We didn't want to lose to a when Courtney Lee drove for a to once again carry San Antonio Miller scored 15 for the Wolves, the season," Popovich said. team like Sacramento," Smith layup with 1:24 remaining. On against Minnesota, and the who lost for the 14th time in 15 Duncan, 32, hasn't quite been said. "No offense to them, but Cleveland's next possession, Spurs survived without Tim games against San Antonio. himself since returning from [after] beating New Orleans and Delonte West missed a 3-point­Duncan in a victory Tuesday Duncan sat for precautionary the injury. His 20.7 scoring Utah, teams who are on top of er, but Cavs forward Anderson night. reasons. But skipping another average led the Spurs before his the Western Conference, we Varejao got the rebound, giving Giving their All-Star forward game or two down the road sore knee first forced him out didn't want to let ourselves the Cavs another chance. the night off, the Spurs pushed during back-to-backs to lessen Feb. 24 against Dallas, and he's down by losing this game. James made the most of it. their lead over Houston to two the wear on his occasionally averaged 15.1 points since com­We're just trying to separate
Dribbling a few feet from games for the No. 2 seed in the troubled knees may not be far­ing back March 1. ourselves from the pack. Magic coach Stan Van Gundy, West. They did so behind fetched. Miami's right on our heels still." James surveyed his options Parker, who averaged 33 points Popovich didn't say he would Hawks 119, Kings 97 Improving to 26-7 at home, before shooting his big 3-point­in four wins over the bench Duncan again during the For just a few seconds, it the Hawks are 40-28 overall, er -a shot that sent the Timberwolves this season. three remaining back-to-backs, appeared as if AI Hurford might their highest win total since Quicken Loans Crowd into a One night after losing at but acknowledged doing so be seriously injured when h~ 1997-98. They moved three frenzy. After Howard was called Oklahoma City to one lottery­helps keeps his star healthy. went down after a hard foul. games ahead of fifth-place for 3 seconds, James faked Lee bound team, the Spurs rested Duncan missed three games at Instead, he got up and made his Miami in the Eastern into the air and drew a ques­Duncan against another. the end of February with a right free throws. Conference. tionable foul on the rookie. Duncan wanted to play, but quad injury. The Atlanta Hawks weren't Kevin Martin scored 31 for 
James then stepped to the coach Gregg Popovich said he Popovich said Duncan's occa­going to let anything keep them Sacramento, which fell to 0-27 line, where he has had prob­wanted Duncan healthy for the sional knee trouble is some­down, either. against teams from the East lems in the past, and made both playoffs more. thing he's had to deal with Hurford had 23 points and 12 and extended its losing streak attempts. Sebastian Telfair and Kevin "more than people would rebounds, and Josh Smith fin­to four. The Kings have dropped 
Cleveland's defense made it Love had 17 points apiece for know." Duncan's official diagno­ished with 21 points and 10 four straight and 13 of 14 away impossible for the Magic to get Minnesota. sis last month was right quad rebounds in the Atlanta's sixth from California, where they are a clean look on its last trip, and Roger Mason had 15 points tendonosis. straight victory, over the 4-30 this season. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit

CLASSIFIEDS 
all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS 3bdrm, 1.5 ba home in nice, clean, UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do ' Kramer: The bus is outta control. Could you whisper in my ear across from Notre Dame Stadium. quiet family neighborhood. Living & not go it alone. We have many So I grab him by the collar, I take The things you wanna feel FoR SALE The Foundry features private baths dining rms, kitchen, computer rms, resources in place to assist you. If him out of the seat, I get behind the I'll give you anything 
for every bedroom, washer/dryer, large sunroom. Basement for stor-you or someone you love needs wheel, and now I'm driving the bus. To feel it comin' "Slightly Stoopid" Concert Tix fitness center, theater room, tanning age. Close to shopping, confidential support or assistance, Do you wake up on your own Friday, 3/20 8 pm Congress salon, game room. Preleasing for Restaurants and bus. $2,000/mo. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 Jerry: Wow. And wonder where you are Theater, Chi. 2 great tix at $80/both. August. Call574-232-1400 or lease 1st &last mo. rent reqd. plus or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more You live with all your faults Cathy at 57 4-273-1702 or 57 4-344-online www.foundryliving.com deposit. 1-yr. lease. Call574-233-information, visit NDs Assistance for George: You're Batman. And I'll do anything you ever 6468, codell@nd.edu ---------------8886 after 4pm or 574-386-7100 Pregnant Students//Office of Dreamed to be complete 
Need off-campus housing for next Geri. Student Affairs website at: Kramer: Yeah, yeah, I am Batman. Little pieces of the nothing that fall yea (09-1 0)? 2,3,4 and 5 bedroom ---------------osa:nd.edulhealth-safety/assis-Then the mugger, he comes to and May put your arms around me houses available 1/2 miles from andersonNDrentals.com FREE lance-for-pregnant-students. he starts choking me. So I'm fight-What you feel is what you are
FoR RENT campus, ND ALUMNI OWNED. As COMCAST! ---------------ing him off with one hand and I kept And what you are is beautiful 
low as $275 per student. Contact Tommy used to work on the docks driving the bus with the other, ya May do you wanna get married Why pay for 12 months? Now offer-on-campus rep at ebarloh@nd.edu Unions been on strike know. Then I managed to open up Or run away ing 1 0-month leases. or 1-513-706-9655 Hes down on his luck ...its tough, so the door and I kicked him out the Bluegoldrentals.com ---------------PERSONAL tough door, ya know, with my foot, ya --------------­
---------------Lux twnhs: 3 bdrms 3 ba, next to St. Gina works the diner all day know, at the next stop. Cause it's you and me and all of the 
Marys $680 moper bdrm. 574-If you or someone you care about Working for her man, she brings people with nothing to do Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 271-7030 harvey.18@nd.edu has been sexually assaulted, visit home her pay Jerry: You kept making all the Nothing to lose 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. ---------------Support Services for Victims of For love -for love stops? And it's you and me and all of the Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at Rape &Assault at: ---------------people 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous-4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts http:1/osa.nd. edu/health-Kramer: Well, people kept ringing And I don~ know why, I can~ keep es.com 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-7653. safety/assault/ Oh, the weather outside is weather. the bell! my eyes off of you 



OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, March 18, 2009 page 15
CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER:s WIRE SERVICES 
::::wt;:.. 
NBA 

NCAA Men's Baseball USA TODAY/ESPNfbp 
:,;f.;... 
team record points 
1 North Carolina (18) 14-2 755 2 Texas (5) 14-2 726 3 Georgia (3) . 15-2 649 4 Arizona State (1) 14-2 638 5 LSU (1) 13-4 629 fi CS Fullerton {2) 13-3 618 7 Miami Fl(1) 14-3 608 8 Texas A&M 13-4 566 9.... Georgia Tech 12-1 556 10 Costal Carolina 15-1 428 11 Oklahoma State 13-4 423 12 Rice 10-5 410 13 UC Irvine 10-5 317 14 Virginia 15-0 279 15 Arkansas 12-3 278 16 Oklahoma 17-4 261 17 Baylor 10-4 243 18 TCU 10-4 218 19 Clemson 11-4 186 20 Ole Miss 11-4 1'71 21 Pepperdine 11-5 163 22 UC Riverside 14-3 107 23 Cal Poly 11-4 95 24 Florida State 9-6 89 25 Florida 9-7 62 

NCAA ESPN.com/USA Softball Collegiate Top 25 
team record points 
1 Florida (19) 27-2 
2 Alabama 2H 
3 Washington (1) 24-3 
4 Stanford 24-1 
5 UCLA 24-3'! 
6 Tennessee 23-3 . 
7 California 21-4 
8 Michigan 20.7 
Associated Press 

9 Georgia 16-4 
326 Houston police said notified. Smith did not know Rockets, averaging 9.3 
319 .
10 Oklahl!ma 23-8 HOUSTON -Houston Landry was driving his if Landry was the person points and five rebounds in 11 Arizona Slate 25-5 i!'l§'lMJf· 
310.!1:'·''·· Rockets forward Carl sport utility vehicle south­who called police. his second NBA season. He
28!f''''·'''
12 Northwestern 13-7 
Landry is expected to miss bound on a city street, when Landry had a female pas­had 12 points and six 
13 Missouri 22-3 256 
one to three weeks after he a northbound car swerved senger in his SUV, and she rebounds in Monday's 95-84 
14 Ohio State 2D-3 234'-" 
was shot in the left leg early into his path arid collided was not injured, police said. win that kept Houston in 
15 Arizona Slate 26-7 22B~Y 
Tuesday while driving near with his vehicle. Landry and General manager Daryl third place in the Western
16 Louisville 22-3 191 
his home. ' the driver of the other vehi­Morey visited Landry at the Conference standings. 
154 ..
17 Massachusetts 11-6 
The injury was minor, and cle made U-turns and the hospital and said he sus­Houston coach Rick
18 North Carolina 21-7 140 
the team said the former vehicles collided again and tained a surface wound that Adelman said he had not
19 UL Lafayette 15-5 105 
Purdue star was treated at Landry's SUV hit a utility 'was no worse than a calf talked to Landry since the
20 LSU 15-fi 92 
a hospital and released. pole. strain. shooting, but several play­
21 Depaul 11-7 84 '''.'''""'"·'·~:::••@ 
Landry, who also dislocated Smith said Landry got out "We're just happy Carl is ers had -checked in with
22 Florida. State 2D-8 80 
a finger on his left hand, of his SUV to inspect the OK," Morey said. "By what their teammate. 
23 TexasA&M 21-10 64 
also was examined by team damage, and was shot by we can understand, he was "He just sounded happy,
24 South Illinois 17-4 62 
25 Fresno State 14·12 46 doctor Tom Clanton. one of the two occupants of very lucky -obviously blessed," said point guard 
The shooting occurred the car. The suspects then unlucky to have this situa­Aaron Brooks. "It was a sit­
about 2:30 a.m., a few fled the scene, while Landry tion happen to hlm, but very uation that pretty much 
hours after the Rockets ran to get help, police said. lucky that he came out anybody could've been in. 
returned from a game at Smith originally said the without anything major." He's just blessed to be OK,

NCAA Men's Lacrosse 
New Orleans. Landry drove incident occurred about 4 The 6-foot-9 Landry has blessed that he's alive and Nike/lnside Lacrosse Poll ··· ' home after the team arrived a.m., but said later that was become a valuable player that he'll be back and be about 12:30 a.m. the time authorities were off the bench for the Carl again." 

1 ' '' Virginia 2 Syracuse 
IN BRIEF 

3 NOTRE DAME 4 Cornell Obama chooses Steelers Clemens lawyers question Mid-majors upset over 
5 Princeton owner as U.S. ambassador defamation suit rejection major conference bias 6 UMBC WASHINGTON -President Barack HOUSTON -Lawyers for Roger INDIANAPOLIS -College basket­7 Johns Kopklns Obama on Tuesday selected Pittsburgh Clemens asked a federal judge to ball's big boys still rule Selection 
8 Duke 
Steelers owner Dan Rooney to be U.S. reconsider his decision dismissing Sunday.
9 Hofstra 
,.r, ambassador to Ireland, turning to a most of a defamation suit the pitch­And there's nothing the non-power
10 Maryland 
' · lifelong Republican who provided the er filed against his former personal conference schools seem to be able to 
11 North 
Democrat critical campaign support trainer over allegations of perform­do about it.
12 
during the White House race. ance-enhancing drug use. The six BCS conferences took 30 of 
The 76-year-old Rooney endorsed U.S. District Judge Keith P. 34 at-large bids in Sunday's NCAA Obama over Hillary Rodham Clinton Ellison dropped most of Clemens' tournament draw, their highest total during Pennsylvania's contentious lawsuit against Brian McNamee on this decade. Democratic primary; Clinton won the Feb. 12, saying statements Davidson, last year's tourney dar­contest last ApriL Rooney later cam­McNamee made to baseball investi­ling with Stephen Curry, is out. St. 
paigned for him in Steelers country in gator George Mitchell were pro­Mary's, San Diego State and Niagara, western Pennsylvania, and Obama tected. all with RPis in the top 50, are out. went on to win the state last McNamee told federal agents, Creighton, the regular-season co­
NBA November. Mitchell and a House of champion in the Missouri Valley The grandson of an Irish immigrant, Representatives committee that he Conference, is out, too. Rooney in the 1970s helped found the injected Clemens more than a But the committee did take Arizona 
around the dial 
Miami at Boston 

American Ireland Fund, an organiza­dozen times with steroids and from the Pac-10, with an RPI of 62, 
7 p.m., ESPN tion that has raised millions for advo­human growth hormone from and three Big Ten teams ­cacy of peace and education in 1998-2001. Wisconsin, Michigan and Minnesota Ireland. His legacy is reflected in a In a filing Monday, Clemens' -that were hardly locks to make the
Detroit at Houston 
Steelers-themed bar in a disused linen lawyers asked Ellison to examine 65-team field. 
9 p.m., ESPN 

mill in one of the roughest parts of whether he was wrong in holding To the smaller-name schools, it's a northwest Belfast. McNamee's statements to MitchelL message they don't want to hear. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, March 18, 2009 
NBA 
Nowitzki scores 30 in Mavericks' win over Pistons 
Miller, Curry lead Bulls over Celtics despite 37 from Pierce; Rivers criticises referee after being ejected 
Associated Press 
DALLAS-For three quarters, 
the Dallas Mavericks showed 
they'd finally learned how to 
handle an injury-depleted team. 
Then, they nearly blew it. 

Although Dirk Nowitzki and the 
Mavs led the Detroit Pistons from 
start to finish Tuesday night, the 
finish got pretty close before 
Dallas pulled out a 103-101 vic­
tory. • 
"Hey, stuff happens in this 
league," said Nowitzki, who 
scored 30 points. "We'll take the 
wins as we can get them." 
Richard Hamilton was a late 
scratch for Detroit because of an 
aggravated groin problem. With 
Rasheed Wallace (calO and Allen 
Iverson (back) also out, the 
Pistons were missing a combined 
average of 48.5 points per game, 
and were out of whack from the 
start. 
Dallas made its first six shots, 
while Detroit missed six of its 
first seven. The Pistons never 
even tied the game while falling 
behind by eight after one quarter 
and 13 before halftime. 
Down 14 going into the fourth quarter, Tayshaun Prince showed that Detroit was going to keep ·fighting by flying past Dallas cen­ter Erick Dampier for a thunder­ous dunk. With Will Bynum get­ting on a roll, and the Pistons scooping up rebound after rebound and converting them into points, they wound up scor­ing on their first nine possessions of the quarter and were within 
90-85. 
Dampier put Dallas back up by 
10 with 2:10 left, but Detroit 
never went away. In the final 18 
seconds, the Pistons got within 
98-95, 100-97 and 101-99. They 
scored again as time expired to 
make the final score look as close 
as the last few minutes played 
out. 
"I was very pleased with our 
effort," Detroit coach Michael 
Curry said. "We stuck with it, 
continued to fight and did a lot of 
good things .... If we put in the 
same effort with [Hamilton] 
tomorrow, we'll be good. If he 
can go, he will." 
Prince scored 28 points and 
Bynum set a career high with 19. 
Hodney Stuckey added 17, Arron 
Afflalo had 16 and Antonio 
McDyess 10 as the Pistons lost 
their second straight and fourth 
in six games to slip back to .500 
(33-33). 
The victory against a short­
handed team was quite a switch 
for the Mavs. In the last month, 
they were drubbed by San 
Antonio when the Spurs were 
without Tim Duncan and Manu 
Ginobili, and lost to Oklahoma 
City when it was without its top 
two scorers; the loss to the 
Thunder prompted Dallas owner 
Mark Cuban to publicly question 
his team's effort. 
Antoine Wright joked that 
Dallas took care of its problem 
against wounded teams, but the 
problem protecting late leads 
"still lingers." 
"We're still a team in 
progress," he said. "But we're 
getting better." 
Dallas was outrebounded 43­
33 and gave up 27 second­
chance points, while scoring only 
five. Coach Rick Carlisle said 
that's mostly a sign of effort, but 
also noted that he's using a lot of 
smaller lineups. 
"Five guys are going to have to 
get in there and dig it out," he said. "In those situations where we don't have the length in there, we're going to have to do it with grit. Simple as that." 
Jason Terry continued to be Nowitzki's scoring wingman, put­ting up 18. Dampier tied high season high with 16 points and added 13 rebounds. 
The Mavs won their eighth straight at home, although this was their lone game in Dallas during a 17-day, seven-game stretch. They were coming off a 2-2 trip West and are headed East for games in Atlanta and Indiana. 
Josh Howard won't be part of the trip. This w~s the sixth straight game the swingman has missed because of a problem with his left ankle, and Carlisle isn't expecting him back before late next week. Howard is getting a cortisone shot and will need arthoscopic surgery at some point, although possibly not until the offseason. 
Bulls 127, Celtics 121 
The lat~st loss was as painful and frustrating as any for the Boston Celtics, so it was no shocker when coach Doc Rivers vented afterward. 
But he didn't aim his anger at his players. His target was a ref­eree. 
John Salmons tied a career high with 38 points, and the Chicago Bulls rallied for another surprising victory, beating the Celtics on Tuesday night despite 37 points from Paul Pierce. 
Rivers, meanwhile, was irate after he got whistled for his sec­ond technical foul with 29.8 seconds left. That led to an automatic ejection and a rant against referee Bill Kennedy. 
Rivers claimed he was goaded and called it "the most unpro­fessional tech I've ever had." 
It was a fitting end to a frus­trating night for the Celtics, who were trying to clinch at least a share of the Atlantic Division title. Instead of a cele­bration, there was more frus­tration. 
Coming off an 86-77 loss at Milwaukee on Sunday in which they set a season low for points scored, the Celtics set one for points allowed in another disap­pointing loss for a team that's trying to lock down home-court advantage in the playofl's. 
Boston led by 13 in the third quarter, only to give it away, and Chicago surprised another playoff-bound team after beat­ing New Orleans 97-79 on Saturday. 
Leading the late charge were Brad Miller, Derrick Hose and Salmons. 
The Bulls. who are leading the race for the eighth playoff' spot in the East by a half game over Milwaukee, shqt 70 per­cent in the fourth quarter, with Miller scoring 13 of his 21 points and Rose and Salmons adding nine apiece. 
"We just wanted to attack them and take control," Hose said. 
Pierce, Hajon Hondo (26 points) and Hay Allen (17 points) did what they could for the Celtics, who have dropped four of five and have struggled lately through injuries -the most notable being Kevin Garnett's sprained right knee. The might be without Allen, too, when they play Miami on Wednesday, after he hyperex­tended his right elbow. 
"It's all predicated on how I feel tomorrow," he said. The Celtics are just in a painful stretch, period. 
The Bulls scored six in a row to grab a 117-111 lead and were ahead 122-117 after Salmons drove across the lane for a three-point play with just over a minute remain, the ball bouncing off the back of the rim before falling through the net. 
Salmons came up with another big basket after Miller rebounded Rose's miss and handed off to him, making it 124-119 with 29.8 seconds left. The Celtics called a timeout, and Rivers got tossed, leading to a free throw for Ben Gordon. Salmons then hit two more foul shots after a layup by Hondo, making it 127-121, and the Bulls escaped with their sev­enth stcaight home win. 
"It really was a fun game," Salmons said. 
Not for Rivers. 

"[Kennedy] stood there and goaded me and goaded me and goaded me and stared at me," Rivers said. "Look at the film. I actually walked away. He asked me, 'Where do you want the ball?' And I said, 'Ask them,' talking about our play­ers. That's my right to say that, and I walked away. He stood there and stared me down and stared me down and goaded me until I turned around and said, 'What?' That's when I got thrown out of the game." 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Notre Dame Apartments 

Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 
2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Off-Street Parking Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 

Wednesday, March 18, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
The Fo Progra n 
The lm_pad of Religion on Development 

R. Scott Appleby & Rev. Paul Kollman, CSC 
TONIGHT at 7:00 PM -Coleman-Morse Lounge (1st floor) 
Refre~hments will be served. THE FORD FAMILY PROGR,A.M 

KELLOGG 
IN HUMAN DEVELOPMENT STUD!ts 
INSTITUTE 


AND SouD.ARITY 
For more information visit: kellogg.nd.edu/fordprogram 

NHL 

Theodore. blanks 
In winCapitals • • 
Drury scores final goal in shootout t.o give Rangers the victory over Canadiens 
Associated Press 
SUNRISE, Fla. -Jose Theodore shut out Florida through two periods, and then his Washington Capitals team­mates took care of the Panthers all by themselves in the third. 
Theodore made 19 saves Tuesday night, in earning his second shutout of the season, and lifted the Capitals to a win over the slumping Panthers, who didn't manage a shot in the third period. 

"No shots in the third period," Theodore said, "that's a first for me." 
Brooks Laich and Viktor Kozlov scored for Washington, which earned its fourth win in five games. Mike Green added an empty-net goal with 1:27 left, and John Erskine had two assists. 

"I thought the defense as a whole played as good as I've seen them play all year," Washington coach Bruce Boudreau said. "To hold them to zero shots in the third period and 19 in their building in a game that they had to win was quite a testament." 
Florida dropped a fourth straight game for the first time since late December. The Panthers hadn't lost two con­secutive home games since January. 
"Tonight was the first night I've been really disappointed with how we've played," Florida coach Pete DeBoer said. "There's been very few nights this year where I've questioned our effort level. They haven't always been pretty and we haven't always won but usually we've brought a good despera­tion level, and the effort's always been there. Tonight, it was questionable." 
Washington remained in third place in the Eastern Conference behind New Jersey, which beat Chicago 3-2. The Capitals had an opportunity to move into second place on Monday, but lost 5-l to the Atlanta Thrashers in Washington's most lopsided defeat since a 6-2 loss to Florida on March 1. 
Tomas Vokoun stopped 22 shots for Florida, which is in the midst of a five-game homes­tand. 

Vokoun had lost two previous starts against Washington this season and is 1-6 in his last seven games against the Capitals. 
"They played their third game in four nights. We didn't take advantage of that," Vokoun said. "It's tough. We need to get our power play going and get some kind of spark and it's cru­cial this time of year." 
The Panthers went 8-5 in February but the team, coming off a 4-3 shootout loss to Tampa Bay on Saturday, has been struggling of late. Florida, which has not been to the play­offs since 2000, entered Tuesday's game in ninth place in the East. The Panthers are one point behind eighth-place Carolina. 
"If you can't look at the stand­ings and create that despera­tion now, I don't know how you create it," DeBoer said. "We know where we're sitting and the fight we're in. That should be self-manufactured this time of year. You're not going to cre­ate that if they can't create it themselves." 

Kozlov's goal made it 2-0 at 

2:36 of the third period, beating Vokoun with a wrist shot from the top of the left circle. The Capitals took a 1-0 lead with Laich's short-handed goal at 
5:46 in the second period. Laich's wrist shot from a sharp angle found the back of the net for his 18th goal. 
"I threw the puck at the net," Laich said. "I watched the replay and he was a little out7 side the crease, maybe he played the angle a little bit too much. It's a lucky goal, but you throw the puck at the net, you never know what happens." 
Alex Ovechkin, held without a point for the first time in 11 games on Monday, had an assist on Green's goal, but it was the first time in a month that he has had back-to-hack games without netting a goal. . 
Rangers 4, Canadiens 3 
MONTREAL -Chris Drury put the New York Rangers ahead for good with their final shot, and the Montreal Canadiens ultimately ran out of comebacks. 
Drury scored the deciding goal in the shootout to give New York a win over Montreal on Tuesday night. 
Markus Naslund and Nik Antropov beat Carey Price on the Rangers' first two attempts before Drury scored to seal the win for New York, which blew three one-goal leads in regula­tion. 
Henrik Lundqvist, who made his 60th start of the season, stopped Andrei Kostitsyn on the Canadiens' first attempt after making 26 traditional saves. He was beaten by Alexei Kovalev and Andrei Markov as the Canadiens drew even twice in the shootout by converting each of their next two attempts. 
"I was very disappointed to let in two out of three, but they're pretty skilled. You have to give them that," Lundqvist said. "When I came in here I thanked Drury right away. It was a big goal. We didn't have to come back for another round, and that's a huge point for us." 
New York moved one point 

ahead of Montreal into sole pos­
session of sixth place in a tight­
ly contested Eastern Conference 
playoff race. 
"We found a way," Rangers 

coach John Tortorella said. 
"Both teams I thought played 
hard and it could have gone 
either way, but we found a way 
to win it." 
Antropov, Nikolai Zherdev 

and Ryan Callahan all scored to 
stake the Rangers to leads. 
"We just played 65 minutes of playoff hockey," Antropov said. "It was up and down, it was a great feeling. The fans were the same as we played when I was in Toronto because these are both Original Six teams, so it's always a rivalry and a nice atmosphere." 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 18, 2009 
WBC 
United States stays alive with 9th-inning ~in 
America overcomes a two-run deficit in the 9th to defeat Puerto Rico in the second round ofthe World Baseball Classic 
Associated Press 
MIAMI-Hobbled and hum­bled in the World Baseball Classic, Team USA is still swinging. 
David Wright sliced a two-run single that capped a three-run rally in the bottom of the ninth inning Tuesday night, and the injury-plagued Americans quali­fied for this weekend's semifinals with a 6-5 win over Puerto Rico. 
Wright's hit with one out elimi­nated Puerto Rico from the tour­nament. 
"That situation is what you dream about when you're a kid," he said. 
The Americans advanced to the next round at Dodger Stadium. It was an especially sweet victory after Saturday's embarrassment against Puerto Rico that triggered the mercy rule when the Americans fell 10 runs behind, ending the game in the seventh inning. 
"Getting a crack at a team that embarrassed us a few days earli­er, to have the resiliency to bounce back in the ninth and steal one from them was pretty big," Wright said. 
This time the teams played a full nine, and the Americans saved their best for last in the 3­hour, 54-minute marathon. 
"They kept on the heat, and they didn't give up," Puerto Rican manager Jose Oquendo said. 
Trailing 5-3, Team USA began its rally when Shane Victorino and Brian Roberts singled to the start the ninth against J.C. Romero (1­1). Derek Jeter flied out, Roberts stole second and Jimmy Rollins walked on a 3-2 pitch. 
"We just had to string them together, and we were able to do that," Rollins said. 
Fernando Cabrera came on to pitch, and he walked Kevin Youkilis to force in a run. 
Wright then lined a 2-1 pitch just inside the right-tield line, rais­ing his fist when the ball dropped in. The New York Mets star called the hit the biggest of his career. 
"You're talking about represent­ing the United States of America," he said. "You've got that across the front of your chest. To be able to get that hit, that's got to be right up there at the top of the list." 
Wright was mobbed by team­mates near second base after two runs scored. 
"You're celebrating a game," Youkilis said. "You're celebrating a nation." 
The rally came after the Americans stranded seven run­ners in scoring position in the first eight innings. 
The WBC has some marketing to do, as Tuesday's modest crowd of 13,224 showed, and the tour­nament's version of the Yankees provided a boost by making the fmal f(mr for the first time. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Eagles victorious is play-in game 
Morehead State to face Louisville in opening round of NCAA tournament 
Associated Press 
DAYTON, Ohio-As a New Jersey guy, center Kenneth Faried had never heard of Morehead State the first time the school came calling. 
No wonder. The Eagles won only four games as recently as 2005-06, hadn't been to the NCAA tourna­ment since 1984, and were pretty much an afterthought in a state where basketball comes in shades of Kentucky blue and Louisville red. 
Now, there's a little more room to brag in the Bluegrass. 
Faried got the better of his bigger and more syllabic counterpart Tuesday night, and the Eagles never trailed during a 58-43 victory over Alabama State that opened the NCAA tournament and ended a quarter-century of futility for Morehead State. 
"For every fan out there, this is for you," said Faried, who had 14 points and 21 rebounds. "Even for those in the last 25 years when we haven't made it, this one is for them." 
Morehead (20-15) played its way into a first-round rematch on Friday with top­seeded Louisville, another Kentucky team that it knows well --maybe a little too well for a good night's sleep the next few days. 
The Eagles hadn't made the tournament since 1984, when quarterback Phil Simms' alma mater became· a footnote to NCAA basket­ball history. The Eagles beat North Carolina A&T in an opening game that featured the first television replay used to settle a tournament dispute. They lost their next game to Louisville by 13 points. 
Twenty-five years later, they're on a parallel course. Up next: a Louisville team 
that beat them by 38 last November. 
"I think we'll do a lot bet­ter," said Maze Stallworth, who added 11 points. "That game is a big blur to us. A lot of us· don't remember that game --or don't want to remember that game. It's great to play them one more time on a neutral court." 
Alabama State (22-10) hoped to set the tone defen­sively behind shot blocker Grlenntys Chief Kickingstallionsims Jr., a 7­foot-1 center whose reach is as long as his name. He swatted away three shots, but wasn't much help where he was needed most --on the boards. 
The Hornets could have used a few more Chiefs. 
Faried, the Ohio Valley Conference's defensive play­er of the year, led a team that relies on balance and rebounding to get it done. Morehead State dominated the boards 50-27. 
The senior center chose to go to Morehead even though he thought someone was playing a joke on him the first time he heard the school wanted to recruit him. 
"I'm from northern New Jersey, and to hear about Morehead --that was amaz­ing," Faried said. "I thought it was a pretty funny name, that they were playing around with me. I didn't know who they were." 
Andrew Hayles scored 14 points for Alabama State, which shot only 31 percent in addition to getting outre­bounded. 
"They crashed the boards hard," guard Brandon Brooks said. "We just didn't play our game tonight. We came out timid. We should have come out like we want­ed to win this game, and we didn't. The better team won." 
Both teams shot so poorly that fans at the crowd of 11,346 at 'University of Dayton Arena --the largest for an NCAA opening-round game --resorted to doing the wave in the second half. Morehead couldn't bring the fans to their feet, but did enough to move along to another game in Dayton. 
Alabama State's distinc­tion? The Hornets had the biggest name in the tourna­ment --counting vowels and consonants, that is. · 
Kickingstallionsims (it stumbles off announcers' tongues as KIK'-een-stal'­yun-sy-ems) was the SWAC's defensive player of the year. He showed off his reach by swatting away the game's first shot, but made little impact the rest of the way. He had only two rebounds and was 0-for-2 from the field. 
Instead, with Faried (pro­nounced fuh-REED) leading the way, Morehead State did what it does best, gobbling up the rebounds and con­trolling. the game. The Eagles had a 29-13 edge on the boards in the first half, when it opened a 13-point lead that was never serious­ly threatened. 
With no clear-cut rooting interest, the crowd wore green for the occasion --St. Patrick's Day --and settled in to see which team would grab its imagination. For most of the game, it was nei­ther. 
Alabama State went nearly seven minutes without scor­ing in the first half, missing six shots and throwing the ball away three times. That provided an opening for Morehead State to pull ahead 25-12 even though the Eagles shot only 36 per­cent from the field in the first half. 
"We're taking this very serious­ly," Wright said. "This isn't an exhibition to us." 
Team USA will play Venezuela in Miami's final game of round two Wednesday night to deter­mine seedings for the semifinals. 
The Americans will advance despite a recent wave of injuries that has sidelined infielders Dustin Pedroia and Chipper Jones and reliever Matt Lindstrom for the rest of the tournament. Left fielder Ryan Braun was also unavailable Tuesday with a sore right side, but he hopes to return this weekend. 
Alex Hios homered and then singled home the go-ahead run in the sixth for the Puerto Ricans. They totaled only five hits, but three walks'"led to runs, and U.S. starter Ted Lilly gave up three runs on two homers. 
Carlos Delgado hit a two-run homer for the Puerto Hicans, and they broke a 3-all tie in the sixth. 

Ivan Rodriguez led off with his third walk, took second on a sur­prise sacrifice by Carlos Beltran and scored on Rios' single. 
Ramon Vazquez singled home the Puerto Ricans' final run in the ninth. Youkilis homered for Team USA 
Lilly gave up only two hits, but both were homers, and he depart­ed after 3 1/3 innings with the score 3-all. Jonathan Broxton (1­
0) earned the win despite allowing a run in the ninth, his lone inning. 
Puerto Rican starter Jonathan Sanchez lasted only 2 2/3 innings. He allowed five hits and three runs. 
Nifty baserunning by Wright put Team USA on the scoreboard in the second. lie singled, stole sec­ond and took third on a single by Mark DeRosa. When Brian McCann flied out to left field, Wright tagged up and scored by eluding the catcher's tag with a headfrrstslide. · 
NHL 

Brodeur passes Roy 
on all-time win list 
Long-time New Jersey goalie earns record­breaking win zn victory over Blackhawks 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. -Martin Brodeur stands a1one among NHL goaltenders. 
Brodeur posted his 552nd win and passed childhood idol and Hall of Farner Patrick Roy for the most career victories in league history. He made 30 saves in the New Jersey Devils' 3-2 victory over the Chicago Blackhawks on Tuesday night. 
The victory came in Brodeur's 987th game in a 15­year career played entirely with the Devils. 
During that tenure, the lik­able Brodeur has led the Devils to three Stanley Cups and won four Vezina Trophies as the league's top goaltender. 
Now he holds the wins record, and others could soon fall. He is within four shutouts of passing Terry Sawchuk 
(103) for the league record, and at 36 he has a chance to push his win total well beyond 600. 
"If this continues being fun, I'll stick around for a long time," Brodeur said during an on-ice interview after the game. 
Brodeur tied the mark in an emotional setting, his home­town of Montreal on Saturday night with Roy in attendance. 
With family in the crowd in Newark, Brodeur took the ice in front of a full house that cheered him from the warmup to the final buzzer, mostly with the echoing chant of "Mart-tee! Mart-tee! Mart-tee!" 
Those cheers turned to "Thank you, Marty" as the clock ticked down. Brodeur preserved the win with one last save in the closing seconds. 
"Martin Brodeur is the gold standard of goaltending -the model of character, consistency and commitment to the craft," NHL commissioner Gary Bettman said in a prepared statement. "A champion. A winner above all. 

"It is difficult to imagine any player who is more universally, and deservedly, respected," Bettman added. "The National Hockey League is extremely proud of Martin, his historic achievement and his enduring contribution to our game." 
Brodeur wasn't the only record-setter on the night for New Jersey. Patrik Elias became the Devils' career leading scorer when he record­ed his 702nd point with a per­fect pass to set up a short­handed goal by Brian Gionta late in the second period for a 3-0 lead. 
The Devils took ther pressure off Brodeur early with two goals against Nikolai Khabibulin in the opening 6:01 in extending their record for home wins to 10. Zach Parise set up both, finding Jamie Langenbrunner in the slot 38 seconds after the opening face­off and then threading a pass through the crease to Travis Zajac at 6:01. 
After that it was up to Brodeur to protect the lead and he looked extraordinarily focused in winning for the eighth time in nine games since returning from elbow surgery late in February. 
Blackhawks defenseman Cam Barker got the first Chicago goal, firing a point shot past a totally screened Brodeur on a power play late in the second period. Dustin Byfuglien made it 3-2 with 
2:03 left in tqe game. 

It could not prevent the Blackhawks from losing a sea­son-high third straight game, and fifth in sixth. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, March 18, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

NHL 

Detroit rallies in fin.al 111inutes to beat Philly 
Penguins' Malkin reaches 100 points in win 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -The Detroit Red Wings' patience and hard work paid off. 
Johan Franzen and Henrik Zetterberg scored 1:32 apart in the third period to wipe out a one-goal deficit and rally Detroit to a 3-2 win over the Philadelphia Flyers on Tuesday night. 
Pavel Datsyuk had a goal and an assist, and Franzen also had an assist for Detroit, which hasn't lost to Philadelphia at home since Nov. 4, 1988 (14-0­2). Chris Osgood made 24 saves. 
"In the end, we found a way," Zetterberg said. "We made their defense tired because we stayed in their end a long time. Eventually with patience and shooting the puck, the puck werit in." 
Scott Hartnell had a goal and an assist, jlnd Jaffrey Lupul also scored for Philadelphia. Martin Biron stopped 45 shots. 
"We've got some work to do to catch up with them," Flyers coach John Stevens said. 
The Red Wings are the defending Stanley Cup champi­ons and have the most points in the NHL this season. Philadelphia is tied for second in the Atlantic Division. 
Franzen made it 2-2 at 9:47 
of the third period with his 
29th goal. It was set up by 
Datsyuk, who got to a puck 
along the left wing boards and 
avoided defenseman Ryan 
Parent at the same time. 
Datsyuk then sent a cross-ice 
pass to Franzen, who put a 
shot over the sprawling Biron. 
"It was Pav all over the ice," 
Osgood said. "Makiqg great 
plays, backchecking, stealing 
pucks." 
Zetterberg broke the tie with 
8:41 left when he scored from the left circle, his 29th goal. 
"This game's fair. If you do things right and do them right longer, you tend to win more often," Detroit coach Mike Babcock said. "We made a mis­take a couple times and they scored on their chances, but I thought it was fair. The team that stuck with it the longest got a win tonight.". 
Philadelphia held a 2-1 lead after two periods. 
Lupul's 21st goal gave the Flyers a 2-0 lead 4:28 into the second period. He beat Osgood from the right circle with a snap shot. 
Datsyuk put the Red Wings 
on the board with 2:33 left in 
the second with his 28th goal, 
beating Biron high on the short 
side with a wrist shot from the 
outside edge of the left circle. 
"It was just a great shot," 
Biron said. "I didn't give him 
much, I didn't think I gave him 
much. It was just a great shot. 
"It's a different game if it's 2­
0 after two." -Philadelphia led 1-0 after the 
first period despite being out­
shot 19-8. 
Hartnell opened the scoring with 3:26 left when he took a long pass from Braydon Coburn for a partial break­away and, while holding off Marian 1-lossa, beat Osgood. It was Hartnell's 26th goal. 

The Flyers had trailed after 
the first period in their previ­
ous 11 games. 
Pittsburgh 6, Atlanta 2 

Evgeni Malkin was held 
scoreless in three of his previ­
ous five games, and he missed 
practice Monday because he 
was ill. 

It seemed the Penguins' star 
was losing his grip on the NHL 
scoring title. One stellar per­
formance was all Malkin need­
ed to regain control. 

The Russian All-Star tied a 
career-high with five points to 
surpass 100 for the second 
consecutive season and the 
Pittsburgh Penguins beat the 
Atlanta Thrashers Tuesday 
night. 

"He played great tonight, and 
it's fun to see that," captain 
Sidney Crosby said. "When he's 
playing well, everything he 
touches, he makes something 
happen. That's a good feeling, 
and that's a good sign for us 
when he's going like that." 

Malkin had two goals and 
three assists to give him 102 
points this season. He extend­
ed his lead in the scoring race 
over Crosby to 10 points. 

''I'm happy because we 
won," Malkin said. "We played 
great, the team played great. I 
did not feel great on the day 
off, but I was better today." 

Sergei Gonchar had a goal 
and three assists and Kris 
Letang and Crosby had two 
assists each for Pittsburgh in a 
game matching the two hottest 
teams in the Eastern 
Conference. 

Atlanta entered with a fran­
chise-record six-game winning 
streak, and the Penguins 
improved to 11-1-3 under -interim coach Dan Bylsma. · 
Bryan Little and Eric Boulton 
scored for Atlanta, which was 
playing without star wing Ilya 
Kovalchuk for the third 
straight game due to an 
unspecified upper body injury. 

The Thrashers were miffed 
that rookie Zach Bogosian was 
knocked out of the game on a 
hit by Matt Cooke. Cooke was 
given a two-minute penalty for 
tripping on the play, but 
Atlanta wanted at least a 
major for kneeing. 

"It was d~finitely knee-on­
knee," Thrashers coach John 
Anderson said. "The referee 
said if (Bogosian) was injured, 
(Cooke) would have gotten five 
minutes. He was injured-he 
just didn't lay on the ice." 

That second-period incident 
stewed and likely led to a 
melee with 4:16 to play in 
which 44 penalty minutes were 
assessed and Boris Valabik 
sustained an unspecified injury 
in a fight with Eric Godard. 

"To me (Bogosian) is an 18 
year-old future superstar, and 
if people are going to protect 
superstars in this league then 
that was a knee in my book 
and in anyone's book," Valabik 
said. "I think you can't hurt 
anybody with a trip, and that 
(hit) you could hurt somebody 
with." 

Chris Kunitz, Jordan Staal 
and Mark Eaton also scored for 
the Penguins, who are on a 9­
0-2 run and are 9-1-1 in their 
past 11 at home. 

.--------------------~--­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 18, 2009 
NBA 
Jazz end three-game 
losing streak with win 
76ers triumph with Iguodala's 3 at buzzer 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY -Deron Williams admitted that the Utah Jazz put an underwhelming end to a three-game losing streak. 
The Jazz played well enough to beat the Washington Wizards 103-88 on Tuesday night, but knew they got away with mis­takes that would have cost them against better teams. 
"I don't think it was our best effort, but we did what we had to do," said Williams, who had 12 points and eight assists. 
After winning 12 straight, the .I azz had lost the final three games of a five-game road trip and couldn't afford to slip up against the hapless Wizards, who have the second-worst record in the NBA. 
"It was just important for us to get this one-just for our con­fidence," Williams said. "We had three tough losses on the road and we were struggling." 
Ronnie Brewer scored 13 despite playing only the second and fourth quarters as punish­ment for oversleeping and miss­ing Tuesday morning's shootaround. Kyle Korver added 15 points on his 28th birthday as seven Utah players scored in double figures. 
Nick Young and Juan Dixon had 14 points each to lead Washington. 
Antawn Jamison added 13 points and 10 rebounds and Andray Blatche pulled down 13 boards for the Wizards, who hung with the Jazz for the first half but couldn't keep up in the third quarter. 
"I thought in the first half our defense was actually pretty solid. In the second half they wore us down and that ends up being the story of the game," Washington coach Ed Tapscott_ said. "It's hard to come back against this team. A lesson learned." 
Mehmet Okur scored 13 points and grabbed six rebounds and Andrei Kirilenko and Paul Millsap scored 10 points each for Utah, which fin­ished 41-of-81. Korver went 6­for-9 from the floor and Brewer finished 6-for-10 and had five assists for the Jazz, who won their 12th straight home game. 
"I didn't think we played par­ticularly well tonight," Korver said. "We finally got some stops and we were able to get out and run a little bit." 
The losing streak knocked Utah to No. 7 in the Western Conference playoff nice and out of the Northwest Division lead. With 14 regular-season games remaining, the Jazz can put themselves anywhere from No. 2 in the West to out of the play­otis completely. 
"That's one of the things you always have to be concerned about is are the playoffs impor­tant enough for you to go after it?" Utah coach Jerry Sloan said. "We can talk about it all we want, but sometimes our effort doesn't look like that." 
Utah was playing at home for the first time since March 6 and was sluggish through the first half while taking a 46-36 lead. Utah had a little more life in the third quarter as Williams sparked the offense and the Jazz went 12-for-21 from the floor. 
"It wasn't the prettiest game. It was a little ugly," Boozer said. "For us, we'll take a win after a three-game slide." 
Utah used a 7-0 run to pull away early, then really got going after a brief confrontation between Williams and Dixon in front of the Utah bench. 
Dixon caught Williams up high with a foul during a drive toward the basket with 8:07 left in the period. Williams had a few words for Dixon as he was pulled away by teammates, including Boozer, who charged in and cleared out some room for his star point guard. 
Williams made both free throws to give Utah a 55-41 lead, then a few minutes later bounced a backward pass between his legs to Okur, who dro~e for a layup to put Utah up 62-43. The pass was pretty, but Williams topped it on his next assist when he threw an alley­oop before he was even at the midcourt line for a reverse dunk by C.J. Miles that put the Jazz up 64-43 with 5:51 left. 
"I just looked up and was kind of surprised to see him that open," Williams said, sneaking in a jab at his teammate. "That means he wasn't rebounding." 
Philadelphia 94, Los Angeles 93 
Andre Iguodala scored 25 points, including a buzzer-beat­ing 3-pointer, and the Philadelphia 76ers overcame a 14-point fourth-quarter deficit to stun the Los Angeles Lakers on Tuesday night. 
The Sixers were trailing 78­67 when interim coach Tony DiLeo put little-used forward Donyell Marshall into the game for the first time, hoping he could the same spark he did in Sunday's 85-77 win over Miami when he scored 10 fourth-quar­
. ter points-his first since Feb. 17. 
The 14-year veteran drained a 3-pointer 19 seconds later, igniting a 20-2 blitz that turned Philadelphia's 12-point deficit into an 86-80 lead with 5:24 to play. Marshall capped the rally with another 3-pointer, then hit his third 3 of the game to put the Sixers back in frorit 91-89 with 2:22 left. 
Pau Gasol hit two free throws for the Lakers with 1:39 to go, and Kobe Bryant-who scored ·~ 11 points during a foul-plagued 33 minutes-hit a 3-pointer for a 93-91 lead after missing his previous five shots. 
Then Andre Miller inbounded to Iguodala, who was covered loosely by Trevor Ariza before connecting from the top of the key. 
The Lakers were ahead 59-58 when Bryant tried to set a screen for Ariza and was called for an offensive foul with 6:52 left in the third quarter. That was Bryant's fourth of the game, and the reigning MVP didn't report back in until the start of the fourth period. 
In the meantime, the Lakers outscored Philadelphia 10-0 over the final 3:03 of the quar­ter to pull ahead 73-62, and Jordan Farmar's 3-pointer gave Los Angeles its biggest lead, 76­62, 16 seconds into the final period. 
It's not too late... 
TO UVE IN ONE OF THE BEST CRIBS IN TOWN NEXT SEMESTER 
Be the first person to ever live in a brand new Irish Row Apartment or Irish Crossings Townhome which will be complete this summer. 
There are still a lew units availa! le for fall and plenty !eft for the 2010-2011 school ye; r. 
Just one block east of campus, y·1u'll find: 
• Furnished residences 
-Including a 42" flat panel HDTV in every living room 
• 
Up to 4 bedrooms per unit 

-Private, full bath in each bedroom 

• 
FREE Internet &200 + TV stations 

• 
La1mdry room with vvasher & dryer in each unit 

• 
Fitness center and lounge, including tanning 



in the competition. 
Rules governing the com1tet:n1~1)n available in the Art Department Office, 308 Riley Hall. 
Due In the Art Department.Office· 
5:00 pm, Monday, March 23. 
• 
Brand new coqstruction 

• 
Community social events 

• 
Nearby groceries, restaurants and entertainment 


Visit the !ri>h Row leasing office at the corner of Vaness and Burdette Streets and get a FRH Irish Row or Irish Crossings "Kiss Me I'm Irish" t·sh1rt, while they last. You can also find us on the web at www.lrishRowApartments.com. 
IIIrish 
ROW 

lrishRowApartments.com 1 lrishCrossings.com 
kariem@iri~.hrowapartmen(~.com l SR277.6666 
-

Wednesday, March 18,2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Rockets 
continued from page 24 
played since the March 10-11 Buzz Classic because their planned five-game series in Virginia over the weekend was canceled due to rain and snow. 
.On March 10, Toledo won its first game of the season, a 7-4 decision over Georgetown. 
Gumpf said she does not consider a team's record when preparing the team. 
"Let me ·tell you, anyone can beat you," she said. "We try to practice for every sin­gle team we play exactly the same. We just need to focus on what we do right, not what our opponent does right or wrong." 
Senior pitcher Brittany Bargar (6-5) and sophomore pitcher Jody Valdivia (2-5) will each start a game for the Irish. Bargar holds a 1.47 ERA in 76 innings pitched, 
and Valdivia has a  4.12 ERA  
in 37 1-3 innings.  
Sophomore  Sadie  

Pitzenberger leads the Irish 
offensively -with a .322 bat­ting average. Juniors Heather Johnson and Christine Lux share the team lead with 10 runs batted in apiece. 
Lux, the team's first base­men, also leads the team on the defensive end. She has 92 put-outs and has yet to com­mit an error. 
Gumpf said she would not be making any big changes to her lineup or field. 
"I think every time we're out there we're making little adjustments to get a little bit better," she said. 
Rockets pitcher Brooke Gates was named Mid­American Conference player of the week on March 11. At the Buzz Classic, she batted .357 and had a 3.00 ERA with six strikeouts on the mound. 
This will be Notre Dame's last game before it begins Big East play Sunday against St. John's. 
The first game of tb.e dou­bleheader will begin today at 3:30p.m. and the second will follow at 5:30 p.m. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
RUNAWAY BAY 
LUXURY 1-2 BEDROOM APARTMENTS 
·SAUNA ·POOL ·2 LAKES WI WATERFALL ·VOLLEYBALL. BASKETBALL. TEN-NIS COURTS ·WALK-lN CLOSETS 
·FIREI'LACES 
·WID CONNECTIONS ·7 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME 
·FITNESS CENTER 
•HOTTUH 

ENJOY THE ATTRAC.IIVE SURROUNDINGS AND AFFORDABLE RATES 
CALL TODAY FOR OUR SPECIAlS (574) 256-1350 
their last eight after a suc­cessful spring break trip to
Luck 

Texas. continued from page 24 
"We're starting to settle in on a lineup and get some the game." consistency," sophomore Senior shortstop Jeremy third baseman Greg Sherry Barnes' single jump-started said. "We're starting to get an eighth inning that would hot. We did the same thing allow the Irish to take the last year. We've just got to lead for good. make sure we Junior second continue baseman Ryne throughout the
"We're starting to 
Intlekofer sin­year."
settle in on a lineup
gled, but an Sophomore error allowed and get some left fielder both him and Golden Tate
consistency."
Barnes to got the Irish advance, giv­on the board 
Greg Sherry 
ing the Irish in the third runners on Irish third basemen inning when second and he led off with third with one a triple. 
out. McConnell then beat Senior first baseman Evan out a throw to get an infield Sharpley's groundout scored single, and Barnes scored Tate and the Irish took a 1­the winning run on the play. 0 lead. 
Freshman Will Hudgins (1-Tate went 2-for-2 with a 
0) got the win for Notre walk and two runs to Dame. Hudgins pitched 2 1-improve his average to .389. 3 innings of no-hit ball after "St. Patrick's day, wearing replacing freshman starter green, weather's awesome, I Dustin Ispas, who gave up felt like it was time," Tate four runs on six hits in 5 2-said. "I struggled a little bit 3 innings. Junior Steven on spring break, and now Mazur got the save, striking I'm just kind of relaxing, out two in the top of the not thinking so much." ninth. The Cardinals tied the 
"Will was the key today game in the top of the pitching-wise," Schrage fourth when sophomore said. "They scored four runs starter Kolbrirl Vitek dou­and he just shut them bled. Freshman first base­down." man Ian Nielsen blooped a 
Junior reliever Scott single to center that drove Brothers Jr. took the loss in Vitek. for the Cardinals. Notre Dame took advan­
The Irish have now won tage of an error in the bot­four straight and seven of tom of the fifth inning. 
Calvin. 

"One of the major team goals is to win the confer­ence tournament," senior Katie Rashid said. "We also want to advance to the Regional tournament for the first time in school history." 
Saint Mary's will host Manchester in a double­header today beginning at 3:30p.m. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba01 @saintmarys.edu 


today. 
"Manchester is our first inter-region game," Sullivan said. "We are 29-5 at home in the last three years and we will be looking to contin­ue that streak. Also, this year's freshman class is undefeated at home and they also want to maintain that dominance." 
The team will look to con­tinue tuning up their games before opening conference play on March 30 against 

Sherry singled, and Tate laid down a sacrifice bunt to move him to second. Junior · right fielder David Mills grounded to second, but Cardinals senior second baseman Nate Fields bob­
, bled the ball while trying to backhand it. Sherry scored instead of stopping at third, and the Irish led 2-1. 
"They were throwing me fastballs in so I just took the approach I usually do, just try to hit the ball hard," said Sherry, who went 2-for­4 with two runs. His aver­age, .388, is second on the team behind Tate's. 
The Cardinals got to Ispas in the sixth inning. After lspas walked Fields and junior catcher Zach Dygert singled, junior left fielder Kory Benbow hit the first pitch he saw over the left­centerfield fence for a three-run home run. Ball State led 4-2 in the middle of the sixth. 
Notre Dame tied the score at four in the bottom of the 
-seventh. Sherry singled and Tate walked, and a throwing error on Dygert allowed the runners to advance to sec­ond and third. Mills ground­ed out to second, driving in Sherry, and junior center fielder A.J. Pollock ground­ed out to short to score Tate. 
The Irish will host Valparaiso today at 5:05 
p.m. at Eck Field. 
Contact Bill Brink at · wbrink@nd.edu 

Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Lafayette Square Town homes 

Enjoy the good life when you live off campus at a very reasonable price! 
3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Town homes 
2 1/2 Baths 
Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Off-Street Parking Located Close to Notre Dame 
Only $350 per month, per student! 
*Our townhomes rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 
Shutout 
continued from page 24 
of the season. 

Peterson and Fusaro were stars in game one as well, hitting back-to-hack doubles in the fourth inning to break a scoreless tie. 
Peterson is currently riding a 12-game hitting streak. The Belles will remain at home to face Manchester 
NCAA TOURNAMENT 
Oba1na releases NCAA bracket 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -President Barack Obama is picking Louisville, North Carolina, Memphis and Pittsburgh for the Final Four in the NCAA men's basketball tourna­ment. 
The First Hoops Fan indulged in one of the week's most popular pastimes, fill­ing out his NCAA bracket Tuesday for ESPN. The net­work, which is posting Obama's bracket online Wednesday and showing Andy . Katz's report on "Sportscenter" at noon EDT, · will reveal the president's pick for NCAA champion then. 
The president stuck prima­rily with No. 1 seeds. The sole ex'ception was Memphis, seeded No. 2 behind Connecticut in the West regional. 
"It was an educated brack­et," Katz said. "He knew what he was doing. It wasn't some random kind of pick. There were no political favors or anything like that." 
A private campaign prom­ise earned ESPN the hoops scoop. 
Katz interviewed Obama during the presidential cam­paign last October for a story about the president's. broth­er-in-law, Oregon State head basketball coach Craig Robinson. After the inter­view, Obama invited Katz to play in a pickup basketball game on Election Day in Chicago, and he did. 

Katz extracted a promise from Obama that if elected, the new president would reveal his NCAA picks to ESPN when the pairings were announced in March. 
"They stayed true to their word and didn't hesitate to get it done," he said. 
Even with a lot on his mind, Obama seemed up on the latest news, such as which teams had won confer­ence tournaments and what players were injured, he said. 
They even had some good­natured arguing. Katz is picking Wake Forest and Connecticut in his ·Final Four, along with North Carolina and Pittsburgh. The two men also disagreed on the eventu­al national champion. 

r------------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 18, 2009 
we were expecting that, but sively, holding UAB to just second half. It came complete with as the game went on, it felt four points over the next But they didn't go quietly. authoritative dunks, monster
UAB 
more and more like a Big 10:02. During that span, Consecutive 3-pointers from blocked shots by both teams, East game." Notre Dame's offense was guard Robert Vaden, who fin­and an ESPN -worthy alley­
continued from page 24 
On the court, it resembled hardly spectacular, but was ished with a game-high 24 oop from UAB forward some of Notre Dame's Big serviceable enough to build a points, pulled the Blazers Lawrence Kinnard to guard 
Notre Dame advances to East games as well. In wins 60-50 lead, thanks in part to back within four. A 3-point Paul Delaney III. play New Mexico Thursday, over Rutgers and South sophomore forward Tyrone play from Harangody made The Blazers stayed close also at home, at 7 p.m. The Florida, Notre Dame needed Nash. Nash had six points the score 63-57 with 1:20 for most of the half, and 16 game will be broadcast on to clamp down defensively to and nine rebounds as he saw left. And free throws from points from Vaden helped. ESPN2. compensate for a struggling extended minutes in place of Harangody and junior guard Notre Dame looked like it 
The crowd may have been offense. The story senior for­Tory Jackson sealed the win was ready to distance itself small -no doubt many stu­was the same ward Zach in a game that could have from UAB for good, thanks to dents were busy spending against UAB. "This group has Hillesland, been a let-down for the Irish an 8-0 run late in the half. most of their day celebrating Notre Dame was always been ready to who sat out after they failed to make the Harango'dy found Nash inside in anticipation of Notre down 46-41 with most of the NCAA Tournament. for a layup and senior for­
compete and get back 
Dame's win-but Irish coach 14:49 remaining second half "I would've been shocked if ward Ryan Ayers hit two 3­Mike Brey said those in and had hit just on the horse and try because of a we weren't ready to go," pointers to put Notre Dame attendance were a big help. one of its first 10 it again." knee injury. Brey said. "This group has ahead 39-30. 
"Our sixth man tonight, our shots to start the " [Nash l always been ready to com­However, Vaden scored the students were great, and the half. continues to pete and get back on the last five points in the remain­
Mike Brey
people that were there gave "You lose, give us a big horse and try it again." ing minutes, capping off the us energy," Brey said. "I you're done," sen­Irish coach lift with the Notre Dame had led 39-30 half with a deep 3-pointer thought there was good ener­ior guard Kyle rebounding late in the first half, but over Ayers and bringing his gy, we had a home-court McAlarney said. and the stuff Vaden scored five points in team back with four at 39­advantage tonight." "And that thought definitely around the basket," Brey the final seconds to pull UAB 35. 
Junior forward Luke crosses my mind right there, said. within four at the half. "He ·looked like Kobe Harangody, who led the Irish but our huddles were very The Blazers didn't help Notre Dame was clicking [Bryant] for a second," with 22 points and 10 strong and we did it on the their own cause either, shoot­offensively in the first half, Jackson said. rebounds, added: "We knew defensive end." ing just 5-for-13 from the whichoolooked more like a there w~sn't going to be a Following a timeout, Notre free-throw line, with most of pickup game, as opposed to Contact Chris Hine at huge crowd out there ... so Dame toughened up defen-those misses coming in the the ugly second half. chine@nd.edu 
NIT 
Curry scores 34 as Davidson defeats South Carolina 
Battle scores eight in overtime to help Penn State escape George Mason 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA. S.C. -Stephen Curry scored 32 points as Davidson started its latest post­season run with a 70-63 victor.y over South Carolina on Tuesday night in the NIT. 
The stage may not have been as large as the Wildcats' NCAA tournament upsets a year ago, but Curry was just as spectacu­lar. 
The game was tied 51-all after Devan Downey's driving basket with 9:15 to go. Then Curry scored 13 of his team's last 17 points over the next 8 minutes as Davidson (27 -7) took control. 
Andrew Lovedale had 17 points and nine rebounds for the Wildcats. 
The Wildcats will play either St. Mary's or Washington State in the second round. 
Downey had 18 points to lead South Carolina (21-10). 
Curry pretty much picked up where he left off in the NCAA's a year ago when he averaged 34 points over four games in lead­ing Davidson into the round of eight before falling to champion Kansas. 
This time. Curry opened the game with 25-foot 3-pointer. He scored 12 of team's first 23 points as the Wildcats opened an 11-point lead. 
But Curry picked up his sec­ond foul soon after and spent much of the rest of the period on the bench. 
The Gamecocks tried several defenders on Davidson's star junior. Downey, tied for third nationally with three steals a game, started. Zam Fredrick, Evaldas Baniulis and Branden Conrad all took their turns shadowing the NCAA's top scor­er. 
South Carolina didn't help itself with awful shooting. At one point the Gamecocks were 
4. of 19 overall while Davidson was 4-for-6 on 3-pointers. 
South Carolina took advan­tage of Curry's bench time, clos­ing the half with a 14-3 run. Downey, an all-Southeastern Conference performer, looked out of control most of the half as he began 0-of-3 with three turnovers. 
However, his spinning, twist­ing drive with 2 seconds left moved the Gamecocks within 28-26. 
Curry got going quickly in the second with Davidson's first four points. He only managed a 3-pointer the next 10 minutes as South Carolina rallied at home, where it had lost only 
• twice before this season. Things began to change in Davidson's favor when Gamecock coach Darrin Horn was called for a technical foul. Curry made both foul shots to make it 55-51. Curry continued his hot stretch the rest of the way. 
During a stoppage in the last minute, Curry pointed to a group of Davidson fans cele­brating the Southern Conference champions' latest win over a team from a power conference. 
Penn State77, George Mason 73 (OT) 
Tal or Battle scored eight of his game-high 24 points in overtime and tied the game with a 3-pointer at the end of regulation as Penn State defeated George Mason on Tuesday night in the first round of the NIT. 
Ore Smith hit two fi.Jul shots with 5 seconds left in regulation to give George Mason a 65-62 lead before Battle hurried down the court for hi'> buzzor-bcating 3 fhr Penn State (23-11). It was Battle's first bucket of the second half after missing hi'> first seven shots. 
Battle hit two more 3s in over­time, scoring all but four of Penn State's 12 points in the extra fi·ame. 
John Vaughn's deep .3 with 7.7 seconds in OT drew Mason (22-11) within 75-73, but Stanley Pringle hit two foul shots with 7.0 second'> left to finally seal the win. 
Penn State moves on to face Rhode Island at the Jordan Center on Thursday night. The Hams defeated Niagara, 68-62 earlier Tuesday. 
Spurned by the NCAA tourna­ment, the Nittany Uons were able to smile again after getting their first postseason victory since upsntting North Carolina to advance to the NCAA regional semifinal<> in 2001. 
Penn ~tate needed more late­game dramatics Tuesday night after George Mason erased. a nine-point deficit in the first half and traded leads with the Nittany lions down the stretch. 
Darryl Monroe scored two key buckets in the final three minutes of regulation, including a layup with 
1:01 left that gave Mason a 63-62 lead. 
Battle couldn't convert on two chances to take thn lead in the linal minute of regulation, mL<>sing a run­ner in the lane as the shot dock expired and slipping on another drive to turn the ball over with 6 seconds left. 
Pringle then fouled Smith, who hit his two late foul shots before Battle's buzzer-beater. 

AP 
Davidson guard Stephen Curry shoots during the second half of the Wildcats' 70-63 victory over South Carolina Tuesday. 
apartments available for 2009-2010 ::walking distance to campus :: 2-bedroom, 2·ba!h with 990± SF:: free internet:: washer, dryer and dishwasher:: centra! air conditioning :: large balcony :: cathedral ceilings 
Wednesday, March 18, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

<.'ELEBRITIES UORN ON 11US DAY: Da.·id Gallagher.14: Mena Su•·ari, 30: Zhang Ziyi, 30: Joe l'esd, 66 
Happy Birthday: i.<><Jk back l:wfore you move forwl!fd. Cnmidcr the patterns of your past:md e.oue.ct for the future anything that didn't pan out. Make thi~ a new beginning. T? st;md still and ~vail will kad to more ofth<' >ame. In~tead, s"t your goal and work ddigendy lowardtL Yuuf numbers are ·t 9, 17.:!0, 25, ~2. 4(o 
ARlHS (March Zl·April 19): Stand behind your l:wliefs and d<>n'tl<'l anyol!" push y(>U around. Uncertainty regarding work and future direct inn can lead to all sorts of varia­tions that will help you build a ~tronger base. Don't rely on others to drum up busines•. 5 stars 
TAURUS (AJ>ril:20-May 20): l)(m't giw in to pWS>'tU'C or l~t stubbornness be your do\'mtall. Takin; on too much or being too indulgent or melodramatic can lead to chal· lenges that will cnst you time and mooey. Get ~s much done on your OMI as possible. 2 sl:ars 
GRMlNI (May Zt-lunc 20); Doors are <)pening and the time'" talk about ymtt plan.~ \s U()W, Your Ckmini charm will entice others Itt do thing> for' you and will atlnoct romantk interactitln. A playful approach 1<:> cwrylhing you do will seal the deal p<:n;onally and profcssinnally. 4 stan> 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let an incident cause you to miss oot on an oppor· tunlty for monetary help. Being pushy or dingy will hold you back You need a ehmge <>f se~ry to n:thillk where you fed you ~hould be heading. 3 star~ 
LEO (JUly 23-AuJ. 22): You haw plenty to contribute to any group. A partn.."rsbip is apparent and can change your world professionally, p<:rsonally or both. Don't back ""''llY when all you have 10 dn is lake what you want. J stars 
VJROO (Aua. 23-Scpt. 22): Change is nn the horirou t>ut you have to pUsh a little harder to get thing> to fall into ploc-e. Don'i let your emotions hold you badr. when you have so much to gain by taking a strong position and sticking to your schcduk. 3 stars 
UBRA (Sept. 23..Qc:t. 22): SPI"'ad the wmd regarding what ynu want and how vou sec thing.< unfoldil•s-You can110tlet a negative lnflU<lllce in Y"ur ltfc stifle your plan; or make yoil feel unsure. Take advantage ·of the IJ!lllOti.Umty you have. 4 stan 
S<-'ORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Th:nft give in to bullying or to somoone trying to gel you to do IOQ much. Underhandedness is apparent. so oo not fall for the false information being gi\'cn.Ask qnesti<)tl< and gn to the sourc.. if you want a true asses.<mcnL 2 stars 
SAGrrfARllJS (Nov. 22·Dec, 2l): Love is aU around you and a lot can tJ., accom· plished with the p..-otlle )'OU are el~t to. A few alterations regao·ding your vocation are looking positive, The infomation or skill you acquire should lead to mon' personal free. dom. S stars 
CAPRICORN (D<lc. 22-Jan. 19): You may end up lil!ddled with a prohkm som.:m~e brings with him or her. A C<)tl!tad will be riddled with problems that must re adjusted l:wlme you can agn:e to sign. Los.s h apparent if ~'tlu let )·~>Ur ~motions rule. 3 slars 
AQUARlUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Emotions are hi;h and the ability to chanJ,!e your p..-r· sonallile is looking very positive. Sl"'uk up about your plans for the future and the in· 
tcrcst someone has in you will gr<>w. Now" a great tirne 10 nuke changes. 3 .,,.,.. 
.PISCES (Feb. 19-Mar"h 20): Don'llet ilOmi.'OOO tnke over or oo your work for y<>u, If you aren't in the !<lOp. you will lose out. You cannot tru•l anyone to do what's best for yoo. Uncertainty within a relationship must be handled carefully. 3 stan 
Birthday Uahy: You are outgoing. ent<?rtainlng. intelligent and inwnth·e. You are pow~'l'· ful and charismatic, with an inner li&hl that mak~ others gravitate toward you. 
Eugenia's m>l> sires: t'lltll>llinlasl"'"''for Cfmfidmliaf Wmltflllliom < ti~<Sptlce .comlrugenialti.>rfor Eugmi11 '> blog, nstrondl'ir:t'.J:Orll for ftm 
CROSSWORD 
Across the Hull of "Star Wars" 6 "Me, me, me" attitude 
9 Parties Where dresses are rarely seen 14 Key location 15 Works on the 
wall? 16" 17 Comment at the 
reptile exhibition? 19 Dog with an upturned tail 20 Online chuckle 21 Kisser 22 Underhanded 23 Joining alloy 25 Spread out 
27 Where the Nobel Peace Prize is awarded
. 

29 Daring actions 
33 Put into effect 36 Terrier type 38_.fruit 39 New Mexico 
athlete 
400. Henry specialty 41 Mop the floor with 42 From 43 Find awful 44Wildtlme 45 Not taking sides 47 Prefix with meter 49Crew 51 Depot purchase 55 Halve 58 Grow dim 60 English cathedral city 61 Hacienda brick 62 Bruin, Golden 
Bear or Wildcat? 64 Till now 

65 Rumble in the Jungle victor 66 Orange box 67Does in 68 Marked off 69 Conger catcher 
Down 
Bloodhounds have big ones 2 Sound before a 
blessing? 3 Ultimateaim 4 Baseball club 5 Bit of a limerick 6 Bloodhounds 
have big ones 7 Dozen dozen 8 Likesome 
stock$, for short 9 Non-vector 10 Command to a photog? 11 "CelesteAida,~ 
e.g, 12 Stan on the sax 13 Hotel visit 18 Weightlifter's 
maneuver 22 Weather caution for motorists 
24 Horse vet? 26Gymclass 28 Ruby's victim 

31 What a private eye may eye 32 Something to buitdon 
33 Spirited style 34 Plane part 
WlLLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by fllchllrd Slllrftlrl 

35"_Ben 50 Low-lying 56 Tiger Beat cover Adhem• (leigh wetland subject Hunt poem) 
52_AtatOrk, Eil Soft seat
37 Beby beaver 
founder of 

59 Timothy Leary4{} U follower 
modem Turkey 

dropped it44 "Nova" subject 
53 Please no end 
621rene's
46 Grand Prix participants 54 Polk's counterpart in 
predecessor Roman myth
48 Sight from Taormina 55 Stereo knob 63 Pique condition? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
For answers. can Hl00-285-5656, $1.49 a minute: or, with a credil card, 1·80()..814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7-ACROSS, AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to dOwnload puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more infonnation. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.comlwordp\ay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comlleaming/xwords. 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
DAVID CAVADINI 
JUMBLE 
~0011l! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RAWi 
rx 
©2009 TribUne Media Services, Inc. 
r~rfi 
tLAWHER t


IJ I J 
NEW .lllMBlE NINTENDOwww.jumble.corrvds 
~ GINANA 
t 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKEARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
WHAT THEE COW~OY Wl-0 I<EEPAII<EEO THEE TRUCK TUI<NEEO INTO. 

WWW. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
THE DOME PIECE 
---· 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
IJ I J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans: A " ( X I I l X]" l I J XJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: BROIL PAYEE CLOUDY AMOEBA Answer: When the smoke detector went off in the wee hours. they were -"ALARMED" 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address _____________________ 
City _________ State ____ Zip______ 
-
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, March 18, 2009 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

One do"Wlt, four to go 
Irish beat Binningham in first round of NIT 
By CHRIS HINE SportS Writer 

Just because it was St. Patrick's Day Tuesday didn't mean the good Irish karma on campus would make things easy for Notre Dame. After all, Notre Dame was founded by a French priest and has a French name, and it was Alabama­Birmingham (UAB) who came dressed for the occasion in its road-green uniforms. 
Nevertheless, No. -2-seed Notre Dame (19-14) was able to gut out a 70-64 win over the No. 7-seed Blazers (22-12) in the opening round of the National Invitational Tournament in front of an offi­cial crowd of 2,039 at the Joyce Center. 
see UAB/page 22 

NO SOFTBALL 

Squad set to kick off 
home play 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 

The weather got better at just the right time for the Irish. 
Notre Dame (8-10) will host a doubleheader against Toledo (1-10) tod.ay at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
The games mark the home opener for the team, which spent the first part of the season playing in warmer locales. 
Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said being at home should help her team. 
"I think our advantage is that it's our first home game and that we're a good ball club," she said. "We're pre­pared to play." 
The Rockets have not 
see ROCKETS/page 21 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Laxers beat Rutgers in first Big East game of season 
owns the Irish points record for the Irish were sophomores by junior Amy Winik, who secutive win in the series for the 
By MEGHAN VESELIK 

with 259, including 34 this sea­Kailene Abt, Shaylyn Blaney and closed out the game. Irish, after defeating the Scarlet Sports Writer 
son after scoring four goals on Jackie Doherty and senior Beth Leading the Rutgers scoring Knights 20-9 at Rutgers last 
seven shots. Sciosia brought her Koloup. Freshmen Megan were senior midfield Michelle season. 
No. 11 Notre Dame celebrated point total to 38 with two ·goals Sullivan and Maggie Tamasitis Poole with three goals and jun­Next up for the Irish is a third St. Patrick's Day with an 18-9 and six assists. both came off the bench to ior midfield Mary Cryan with consecutive home game. They victory over Rutgers to start Big Following Byers and Sciosia make their first appearances in two. will take on California (4-5) in a East play. The Irish (7 -1, 1-0) were sophomores Ansley a game, Sullivan scoring twice ·The game was the lOth meet­nonconf&ence game Sunday at increased their winning streak Stewart and Kaitlin Keena. and Tamasitis once. ing of the two teams and the 1:00 p.m. at the Loftus Sports to six games. Stewart scored three goals on In goal, senior goalie Erin seventh win in the series for the Center. 
Leading Notre Dame were her three shots while Keena net-Goodman played 47 minutes Irish, including going 4-1 at senior attack Jillian Byers and -ted two ofher five shots on goal and made seven saves. She was home against the Scarlet Contact Meghan Veselik at junior attack Gina Sciosia. Byers and made an assist. Also scoring relieved with 12:23 left to play Knights. This is the second con-mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
BASEBALL 

Irish slip by Cards in opener 
Freshman pitcher Hudgins records first career victory 
By BILL BRINK 

A close game came down to an infield single, but the ball rolled Notre Dame's way. 
Sophomore catcher Cameron McConnell's dribbler gave Notre Dame a 5-4 win over Ball State Tuesday at Eck Stadium. 
Plenty or fans came out for Notre Dame's (11-5) home opener and enjoyed the 71­degree weather. 
"We played on St. Patrick's Day and the luck of the Irish came through." Irish coach Dave Schrage said. "We could­n't get a sacrifice bunt down so-we got a swinging bunt down and it ended up winning 
see LUCK/page 21 

SMC SOFTBALL 

Freshn1an tosses no­hitter in Belles sweep 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 

Freshman Angela Gillis became an instant star when she threw a no-hitter to help the Belles sweep a doublehead­er against GoshP-n Tuesday at Saint Mary's. 
The Belles shut out Goshen in both contests, winning the first game 4-0 and the second 11-0. 
"IGillisl was fantastic," BnllP-s coaeh Erin Sullivan said. "She hit all of her spots and stayed very composed out there on the mound. Ashley Fusaro also called a gn~at gamn-for us behind the plate, and our defense made some great plays behind hP-r." 
Gillis (6-0) struck out seven of the 18 batters she faced in thP­game. 
The Belles' bats were behind Gillis throughout the game, and the team jumped out to an early 5-0 lead after the first inning. 
"Chemistry is definitely a strength for our team at this point," Sullivan said. "We don't know which portion of our team is going to shine for us on a day-to-day basis, which makes us tough to scout. Today it was our bats, but other days our pitching has really stepped up and helped us win some close games." 
Junior Ashley Peterson and senior Cathy Kurczak added to thP-lead for the Belles with homp, runs in the second and third innings, respedively. 
Freshman Kristen Nelson also drove in a run in the third inning of the gamn to give the Belles an 8-0 lead. 
In the f'irst game, freshman Monica Palicki threw a three­hit shutout to earn her fifth win 
see SHUTOUT/page 21 





