
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 97 THURSDAY. FEBRUARY 26.2009 

Facebook temts of use cause alamt 
Discontent prompts reversal change, privacy questions linger 

By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Associate News Editor 
This is the first installment of a three­part series that will explore the recent Terms of Use controversy inv(}lving Facebook and delve into the way interac­tion with and opinion of the site has changed since 2004, when Notre Dame stu­dents were first able to become users. 
The Consumerist, a consumer issues blog, posted a story Feb. -15 that caused alarm throughout the Facebook user com­munity and began a stream of complaints that quickly prompted Mark Zuckerberg, the founder and CEO of the popular social 
Centerjoins ''Quest'' to raise funds 
for hospital 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Donating cents makes sense, according to Jeanie Martz, Program Manager in Employer Helations at the Career Center. 
The Career Center has decid­ed to take part in local country radio station B100's "Quest for a Million Pennies," in conjunction with the nation-wide "Country Cares for St. Jude Kids" Radiothon, Martz said. 
"We're all blessed with healthy kids, but there are sick children," Martz said. 
The "Quest for a Million Pennies" is meant to help these sick children at St. Jude's Hospital, Martz said. Members of the community outreach team at the Career Center heard about the program and decided to get involved. 
The "Quest for a Million Pennies" began in January, according to Martz, but the Career Center didn't get involved until Feb. 4. The last day to donate is March 6. 
"We have collection jugs on the first floor outside of the Interview Center and in the lobby of the Career Center on the second floor of Flanner Hall," Martz said. 
Cafe de Grasta, on the first floor of Grace Hall, has also partnered with the Career Center with collection jugs, according to Anita Hees, Associate Director of the College of Arts and Letters department at the Career Center. 
see CENTER/page 6 

OIS extends abroad invitations 
STUDY ABROAD APPLICAN'I'S 2009 

STUDENT SENATE 

Affleck-Graves addresses ND finances 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
In light of the struggling econ­omy, Student Senate hosted Executive Vice President John Aflleck-Graves to address ques­tions about the University's financial situation at Wednesday's meeting. 
"It is a very tough time for our country and our world," Aflleck­Graves said. "We rely a lot on our benefactors, but our bene­factors fi'ave lost a lot." · 
Affleck-Graves said the University is down 90 million dollars in gifts and pledges from last year's number. 
"This is a very significant fac­networking site, to reverse a change made to the site's terms of use. 
The blog post at consumerist.com point­ed out that Facebook had changed some important language in its terms, which could affect the privacy of Facebook mem­bers. 
When a person signs up to join Facebook, he agrees to the terms of use. In doing so, he grants Facebook a license to his user content. Early in February, Facebook removed the following lines from its terms of use, The Consumerist blog reported: 
"You may remove your User Content from the Site at any time. If you choose to remove your User Content, the license granted above will automatically expire, 
see FACEBOOK/page 8 
tor for us, and we don't see it picking up," he said. 
The University also relies on government grants for research funding and money brought in from auxiliary operations such as the Hammes Bookstore and the Morris Inn, both of which are down this year, he said. 
Affleck-Graves said the University's most critical goal is to continue to meet the demon­strated financial aid need of every student, but he predicted students will require more financial aid next year. 
The University's budget allot­ted $83 million for financial aid next year, but Affleck-Graves 
see SENATE/page 4 


By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 

Earlier this month, the Office of International Studies (OIS) invited stu­dents to participate in study abroad programs after thoroughly review­ing applications. 
"Everything went out on February 6, all of our let­ters," Kathleen Opel, director of the OIS, said. 
The OIS received 384 applications from stu­dents whose first choice was to study abroad in the fall, 515 who hoped to go in the spring, and 56 who wanted to go for an entire academic year, totaling 955 first-choice applications. Including 
see ABROAD/page 3 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Tw-o sexual assaults reported 
Observer Staff Report 
Two alleged sexual assaults were reported on campus recently, according to an e-mail sent to the stu­dent body from the Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) early Thursday morning. 
The e-mail, dated Feb. 25 and sent through the IHISH­LINK listserv, came during the same week students and campus groups were observ­ing Sexual Assault Awareness Week. 
A University administrator reported receiving informa­tion of an alleged sexual assault committed by "acquaintances of the sur­vivor" in a campus resi­dence hall on Feb. 8, the e­mail said. The incident was not reported to NDSP. 
Another alleged sexual assault, committed by an acquaintance, occurred on Feb. 23 in a residence hall. the e-mail said. The incident was reported to NDSP the same day. 
Information about sexual assault prevention and resources for survivors of sexual assault is available at www.ndsp.nd.edu and from the Office of Student Affairs at http ://osa. nd. ed u/he a! th­safety/assault, the e-mail said. 
To report a crime in progress, suspicious activity or a fire or medical emer­gency, dial 9-1-1 from any campus phone or 574-631­5555. 
r--------------------------------------­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Hello friends=> 
As I approach the last two months of college, my friends and I have been rem­iniscing about things we've done, things we haven't done, and things we didn't even know existed. This will be a very informative col­umn, as, for people who know me, I tend to stay rela­tively active (in between bouts of sloth). So take note: 
Go to Quarter Dogs at least once. And by once, I mean thirty or forty times. A quarter. For a hot dog. Even as a sen­ior I've gone more than once this year. Not the healthiest midnight snack, but delicious nonetheless. 
Buy men's basketball season tickets. This is the first year I've done it and I'm really happy I did. And at the very least, you get a free T-shirt. 
Run the Holy Half. I tried to last year, trained, and then gave up. Because, come on, 13 miles is really, really far. But I commend those who do it and I will cheer for you again this year. 
Do trivia at Between the Buns. For those of age, it is a very enjoyable way to spend your Tuesday evenings; second only to Corby's. 
Go tubing at Saint Patrick's Park. It's only 10 minutes away and the price is right at $3. Since it snows October through March, it's a good way to spend a Saturday afternoon. 
Go to Studabagels. If you've never had it, you haven't lived. 
Paint your body for a football game. While my parents didn't exactly approve of me strutting around in a sports bra and green paint, it was definitely a crowd pleaser and my roommates and I even made it on a banner or two. Note: do NOT use poster paint or acrylic paint. Poster cracks. Acrylic stains. I was blue for three days. Go team. 
Go to Bengal Bouts. This is the first year I've gone, and it's awesome. You can see your friends shirtless, relive your greatest Rocky fantasies, or just watch complete strangers hit each other. And it's for charity. 
Run the Finish on the 50. It will proba­bly be the only time you will ever run out of the tunnel in the stadium. Also, free T­shirt. 
Take advantage of the lakes. Feed the ducks. Run around them. Sit on a bench. Glare on the Dome; drink it in. 
Go to mass at the basilica. Even if you're not Catholic, it's a magnificent piece of architecture and very entertain­ing to look at the ceiling. 
Use a fake ID at CJ's. And don't pre­tend you haven't done it. Because I know you have. And I may or may not have too. Jury's out. 
Go to a pep rally. Not several pep ral­lies, just a few. 
Domerfest. Even as a senior, I still rem­inisce exchanging awkward introduc­tions under the romantic glow of strobe lights. Magic. 
So basically, I guess this is a senior year bucket list. For what it's worth, these past four years have been unbe­lievable and there are things I haven't had the chance to do, but not a lot. Enjoy. 
The views expressedin the Inside Colmnn are tlwse ofthe autlwr and not necessarily tlwse ofThe Observer. Contact Katie Kohler at kkohle01@saintmarys.edu 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, February 26, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO PEOPLE CALL YOU OTHER THAN YOUR REAL NAME? 







Dan Florin  John Dalhoff  Clare Heintz  Allison Rider  Jayde Kennedy  Emily Tarnacki  
senior  senior  senior  senior  senior  senior  
offcampus  offcampus  offcampus  offcampus  offcampus  offcampus  
"Deef-man  "Pothee's  "Diddy Dwedle  "Nosilla or  "Jayda-Q."  'Tm Oooomalie  

,

with the head of broooother." orjust Doodle. " Lala. 
a white tiger. Or Flop." 


Market warns theif, 'we will get you' 
BEND, Ore. -A sign 
hangs amid the bottles of vinegar at Newport Avenue Market. It's sim­ple, to the point: "Thanks to the Balsamic Vinegar Thief this area is now under surveillance. We will get you." The last sentence, it should be noted, is underlined. For . about a year, a thief pinched bottle after bottle of balsamic vinegar from the store -and not the 
low-end stuff. 
No, this thief was after 
bottl~s that go for $30 or 
$40 a pop. "Thieves with good taste." That's how owner Rudy Dory explains them. 

The store figured out what was going on when the order writer noticed he was buying a lot more balsamic vinegar than what the store was actual­ly selling. The market has quite a large balsamic col­lection, but the thefts were noticeable. 
So the sign went up. 
Passenger douses bus driver with coffee 
LOWELL, Mass. -Police said a bus passenger angry about a possible strike that would disrupt his commute threw a cup of hot coffee on the driver, then ran away with the driver in pursuit. The Sun of Lowell reported that Debra Kemp, a driver for the Lowell Regional Transit Authority, told police the passenger was upset by a newspaper story about a possible drivers' strike. 
Police Deputy Superintendent Deborah Friedl said the man then doused the driv~r with his coffee at about 8 a.m. on Tuesday and took off. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

...I <( 
e
I I I 

~ 
(.) 0 

HIGH 47 HIGH 32
...J 

LOW 30 LOW 15 

35 
28 

HIGH LOW 
Taaanacki. I have unlimited taaaxt 
messaging. 
IN BRIEF 
Sexual Assault Awareness Resource Tables will be avail­able in South Dining Hall, North Dining Hall and LaFortune today from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 
p.m.. Tables are provided by Gender Relations Center. 
"Guernica," a play inspired by the true story of a ship that sunk in 1997, will be performed in the Philbin Studio Theatre in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The play is being per­formed at 7:30 p.m. through Saturday and at 2:30 p.m on Sunday. For .more ticket infor­mation: performingarts.nd.edu or call the DeBartolo Ticket Office at 574-631-2800. 
There will be free swing dance lessons with the ND Swing Club in the LaFortune Ballroom 8 p.m. to 9 p.m and 9 
p.m. 
to 11 p.m. there will be open swing dancing with live music featuring ND Jazz Band II. 

A student-faculty dinner will take place at Legends from 5 

p.m. 
to 7:30 p.m. in honor of Sexual Assualt Awareness Week. RSVP to grc@nd.edu or 574-631­9340. 


Bengal Bouts fmals take place Saturday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
The Notre Dame German Club is hosting a Sound of Music Sing-A-Long event Saturday, Feb. 28 at 7 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of Hesburgh Library. Admission is free, and free food will be served at inter­mission. A costume contest will also be held. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

SUNDAY 
MONDAY 


35 20 

HIGH LOW 

Thursday, February 26, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Panel discusses ferrrinist stereotypes 
Professors address gender equality during Women's Appreciation Week 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
A panel of four Saint Mary's professors addressed feminist stereotypes Wednesday evening in the Student Center as part of Women's Appreciation Week. 
The panel was made up of psychology professor Bettina Spencer, communications professor Terri Russ, history and women's studies profes­sor Amanda Littauer, and religious studies professor Stacy Davis. 
The panel talked about dif­ferent stereotypes against feminists including that they are all white, pro-choice, ugly and lesbians. Also, that feminism is outdated and no longer necessary. 
Spencer opened the panel discussion with an overview of two types of sexism: benevolent and hostile. Hostile sexism is a term used to refer to the negative opin­ions associated with women. Benevolent sexism is a term used to describe how "posi­tive" associations with women are used to reinforce women's gender roles, Spencer said. 
"I always think of a hot dog commercial when I think of benevolent sexism," Spencer said. "In the hot dog com­mercial, a guy fumbles while trying to cook a hot dog -as though he is such a guy that 
he can't figure it out. A get older or making 77 cents woman comes into the to thl:l dollar that men make." kitchen, takes over the hot­Littauer first addressed the dog cooking, and succeeded." lesbian stereotype associated This type of commercial with feminists. By putting uses the idea that women are feminists on the defensive good at cooking as a positive with this stereotype, people· re-enforcer for their gender detract from the arguments, 
role. Women use benevolent Littauer said. sexism to distance them­Littauer selves from feminist stereotypes 
"We spend our time 

and the hos­
worrying about being 

tile sexism that -goes an 'ugly feminist' along with 
instead of worrying

the stereo­
about paying more

types, Spencer said. health insurance than Benevolent 
men as we get older or 

sexism is rel­
making'77 cents to the

evant at Saint 
Mary's dollar that men make." College, she said. 
Terri Russ

"Our stu­
professor

dents score pretty high on benevolent sexism scale, much higher than other colleges," Spencer said. 
Russ followed Spencer's topic with an argument about equal rights. 
"The feminist argument is about equality," Russ said. "It is about people having the same rights as everyone else. We spend our time worrying about being an 'ugly femi­nist' instead of worrying about paying more health insurance than men as we 

also argued against the ideas that feminism is an outdated movement and the stereotype that all femi­nists are pro­choice. Davis spoke against the stereotype that all femi­nists are white. Although white women started the feminist 
movement, the things they were fighting for did not apply to African-American women, Davis said. Alice Walker coined the term "womanist" which encom­passes equality on all levels, in terms of gender, race and class. 
"The movement needs to be more than gender," Davis said. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 




Funds created for pro-life activities 
Special to The Observer 
· A fund has been established in the Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Culture to support pro-life activities within the University and beyond its campus. 
The efforts supported by the Notre Dame Fund to Protect Human Life will particularly con­cern issues arising from the plight of human life in its earliest stages, from conception to the early days ofinfancy. 
According to David Solomon, WP. and H.B. White Director of the center, "There are currently a number of different forces in the academy, as well as in the broader culture, that make it difficult to focus..on the many threats to inno-· cent human life in the womb and in its earliest stages. 
"Christians thought at one time that they had defeated infanticide and its advocates, and driven it back into the darkness from which it had come, but infanticide now has influential and respectable defenders at the heart of many of our greatest universities. The bioethics establishment in this country and in Europe is largely committed to pro-choice positions and many of the countries that have traditionally staunchly opposed liberalization of abortion laws have changed their position under the pressure of modernizing influences. The current focus in the public sphere on narrowly eco­nomic matters has destroyed the 
2/22-311 "Giving a Voice" Poster Campaign featuring GRC FIRE Starters 2/23 Take Back the Night Prayer Service; 7:00pm at log Chapel Mardi around carnpus Speak Out at Bonfire; B:OO pm at Holy Cross Hill (with hoH:hotolate, srnorE.>s and free t·shirts} 2/24-26 Resource Tables frorn 1 ·1 :30 to 1:30pm in LafortunE.> and the Dining Halls 
·2/25 Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention (CSAP) Student Forum 
7:00 pm in Reekers Hospitality Room 
2/27 "A Time to Heal" Dinner wlth Faculty and Student Speakers Carolyn Nordstrom Professor of Anthropology John Cavadini Department Chair and Professor ofTheo!ogy Kyle A.C. Rocca Survivor of sexual assault Tim Latham President of Men Against Violence Anonymous. Student Survivor of sexual assault 
5:00--7:00 pm at legends. All are welcome and the dinner is free, but you must RSVP by February 23 to gn:::@nd:t?du or 631-9340 3/1 SAAW Sunday f~~aturing petitions, ribbons and prayer cards at rv1asses 
sense of urgency many have felt about life issues in the past. We know that many evil and dreadful practices have sprung into exis­tence when good people are dis­tracted by economic distress." 
The fund will be administered by a committee chaired by Solomon. Its members will be Daniel Mcinerny and Elizabeth Kirk, asso­ciate directors of the Center for Ethics and Culture; 
Rev. Wilson Miscamble, C.S.C., professor of history at Notre Dame; and 0. Carter Snead, associate pro­fessor of law at Notre Dame and former chief counsel for the presi­dent's Council on Bioethics. 
Accordillg to Kirk, "We want to educate Notre Dame students and others in the rich intellectual tradi­tion supporting the dignity of human life, specifically in its begin­ning stages, and to prepare those students, through personal wit­ness, public service, and prayer to transform the culture into one where every human life is respect-
d .,
e . 
As examples ofthe sorts of activi­ties the fund will support, Kirk mentioned transportation and other costs of student participation in the annual Right-to-Life march each January in Washington, D.C., the expenses of the undergraduate and Law School student Right-to­Life clubs, essay contests and aca­demic competitions encouraging scholarship on pro-life issues, and sponsorship of lectures and semi­nars on campus. 
I 
I
• j I 

E ES 
EE 

Jll L,IF<>muK • 574.631.9340 • grcmLedu • grc(f?>nd.cdu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 26, 2009 
Charityeventraisesfunds for Riley's 
Dance Marathon committee holds third annual designer jean sale 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Dance Marathon committee held its third Charity Denim event in the lower level of the Student Center, giving students the opportunity to shop and donate to Riley's Children's Hospital at the same 
time. 
Event Fundraising Co-Chair and sophomore Kelli Minor, was in charge of planning the event. 
"Every time we have it, we raise more money," Minor said. "It's always been successful and really easy to organize." 
For a $1 donation at the door, close to 100 students were able to sift through shirts and the over 500 pairs of designer jeans. Ten percent of each sale is donated to Riley Children's Hospital. 
Since the designs are from last season, jeans that are nor­mally sold startii)g at $200 and up can be purchased at much lower prices. The prices range from $65-$100 depending on the brand. 
Brands included William Rast, -Justin Timberlake's new line -as well as Seven For All Mankind, Red Engine, J Brand and many others, Minor said. 
The idea for Charity Denim came when Maura Clougherty, senior and organizer of the event, found a version of it online last year. 
Charity Denim events are organized all over the country, Minor said. The committee con­tacted Steve Price, founder of Charity Denim, who brought the jeans and other clothes to earn­pus. 
Applications for Dance Marathon were al'io available at the event. So far, the group has collected over 50 names for dance, which will be April 3-4. 
If applicants are able to pro­vide 15 addresses, they will then be given a T-shirt with the Riley Children's Hospital emblem on it. The addresses will be used to send letters ask­ing for donations to the Hospital, senior and Campus Marketing Chair Meg Varty said. 
Varty got involved in the 
group last year after participat-' ing in the event both her fresh­man and sophomore years. 
"I wanted to get involved because it was for a good cause, it wa~ year long, and it is fun," she said. 
Dance Marathon also has activities planned throughout March ·to help raise money for the event. Organizers will be holding Salon Night in the base­ment of the Student Center March 3, senior Sarah Voss said. Also, they will be holding events at Steak '.n Shake and Max and Erma's. Portions of the sales will be donated to Hiley's, Minor said. 
This year, the committee is continuing to raise the bar. "Our goal is to stay above Purdue and raise over $100,000," Minor said. 
The committee also launched a new Web site, www.smcdm.org, where any­one interested in donating will soon be given the opportunity, Minor said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Group therapy popularity growing 
Six groups are still available for students to join, discuss .issues 
By LIZ LEFEBVRE 
News Writer 
This semester, the University Counseling Center is offering 10 different coun­seling groups which cover a range of topics from eating disorders to alcohol and sub­stance abuse to relieving stress. 
The counseling groups are made up of six to 10 students who usually meet once a week during the semester to discuss common issues and struggles. This setting pro­vides a plaee to evaluate per­sonal relationships and learn new ways of responding to people or situations that may be problematic for students. 
Groups are chosen for the semester based on "student interest and staff expertise," as well as the types of issues that lend themselves to group participation, said Dr. Rita Donley, the Associate Director of the University Counseling Center. 
According to the Counseling Center's Web site, ucc.nd.edu, "The great advantage of group therapy is that you not only can count on the expert­ise of the counselors who facilitate the group but-you also can get to know oth~r students who are going through similar issues as you." 
Although four of the groups have already been filled for this semester, six are still available for students to join, Donley said. Beyond Facebook, Sober 4 Good, Caught In The Loop, Graduate Student Therapy Group, Success Without Excess and Feel Better Fast all currently have openings, she said. 
These six groups are designed for students who wish to: relate to each other through group interaction, achieve sobriety, reduce com­pulsions and obsessions, gain greater confidence and self­understanding in light of adjusting to graduate school, experience legal social drink­ing without risking negative consequences, and improve their moods by reducing stress and attaining better sleep, according to the Web site 
Students interested in join­ing group counseling should contact the University Counseling Center. 
Donley cited the importance of therapy and .counseling within a group setting. 
"I think that by far the biggest advantage of group counseling is learning from oth'ers and being assured that you aren't alone." Donley said. "In group counseling, it's a bit like a learning lab. You are learning how to express yourself and deal with feel­ings as they eome up while learning how to relate with others." 
Donley noted that in her over 20 years of work at the Counseling Center, rarely has there been a breaeh of confi­dentiality from a group ses­sion. 
"Because most students want their own privacy pro­tected, they feel it is impor­tant to protect the privacy of others in the group so that the group can function best and they have done a great job protecting each other," Donley said 
Overall, Donley has found that students have appreciat­ed and grown from their experiences in group counsel­ing. 
"Life is full of risks. You have to decide what risks you are willing to take. The majority of students who have taken this risk have reported to us they are glad they did," she said. 
After fall registration is complete, the Counseling Center will begin working with interested students to 
coordinate schedules for group counseling. Visit the Counseling Center on the third floor of Saint Liam Hall or call574-631-7336. 
Contact Liz Lefebvre at elefebvr@nd.edu 

Senate 
continued from page 1 

said he believes this number will not cover the costs. 
"It is definitely a time when the University budget is feeling some pressure," he said. 
Affieek-Graves said there is good reason to be optimistic because the University has managed its money wisely thus far. 
"We have a hi'itory of being very fiscally conservative," he said. "Our operations are reasonably effi­cient." 
The University has four main sources of revenue: 29 percent tuition accounts, 27 percent endowment, 21 percent auxiliary operations, 14 percent research contracts and 9 percent annual giv­ing. 
The University's budget is always balanced, and there is a low level of debt, Affieck-Graves said. 
Also, while most colleges and uni­versities pay out about five percent of the endowment, Notre Dame only pays out about 3.6 percent ­a practice that has been heavily criticized in the past, he said. 
But Affieck-Graves said this con­servative spending approach has allowed the endowment to remain more stable than the endowments at some other schools. 
Another policy that has helped the University remain strong in the economic recession concerns the construction projects on eampus. 
Currently, Hyan Hall, a female dorm, Geddes Hall, the new build­ing for the Center for Social Concerns, Stinson-Remick Hall, an engineering building and the new Law School are being built on cam­pus. 
Affleek-Graves said he is not allowed to approve any construc­tion project that is not 75 percent funded from the start, and the remaining 25 percent must follow within five years or less. 
"We cannot put a spade in 
Student Affairs 
ground until 75 percent of the cash 
is in hand," he said. 
Because of this, all of the current 
construction projects are financially 
stable and will continue on the pro­
posed schedule. 
Several senators asked why 
tuition rates are so high when the 
endowment is stable and producing 
returns. 
Affieck-Graves said the money 
that makes up the endowment is 
given by a donor with the promise 
that it will be used in a certain way, 
and the money is an investment, 
meant to grow, so the University 
cannot touch it, sometimes for as 
long as 25 years. 
"It's restricted money," he said. 
Affieck-Graves said another goal 
of the University's is to bring more 
faculty to campus in order to 
decrease the student-faculty ratio, 
but faculty salaries present a big 
expense. 
"People with specialized skills that are hard to replace are demanding more money," he said. . "People are loyal to their profes­
sion." 
In order to maintain a qualified 
staff to teach the students, as well 
as meet financial aid needs, 
Affieck-Graves said tuition has to 
remain high. 
He said the issue for students to 
consider is what kind of school they 
want to attend. The tuition is high 
in order to bring in top-noteh pro­
fessors to teach at Notre Dame. 
Affleck -Graves also discussed the­current status of the construction of Eddy Street Commons, a center of .commercE) just south of the University. 
While the University bought the 
land, the project is owned and 
funded by a private developer, Kite 
Realty. 
Affleck-Graves said there are 
many leases pending for shops and 
restaurants in the Commons. 
"Chipotle might come here," he 
said. "We are trying to get that let­
ter of intent."· 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

is now accepting notninations for the 
Denny Moore Award ·For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitn1ent to Notre Dan1e, and writing ability. 
Candidates tnay be nominated by faculty, stafT, or fellow students. 
For a nomination fonn, please visit our website at: 
http://osu.nd.edu/get-involved/student-activities-and-awards/denny-moore-n,.,.·ard/ 
Nominations are due by Thursday, March 5, 2009. 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 26, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Both gov'ts seeking aid for rebuilding 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -The rival Palestinian governments -U.S.-backed moder­ates in the West Bank and the Islamic militants Qf Hamas in Gaza -presented competing plans Wednesday for rebuilding war-ravaged Gaza, each seeking roughly $2.8 billion in foreign aid. 
The moderates, led by Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, believe they can raise the full amow1t at an international donors conference for Gaza neXt week in Egypt. The U.S. is expect­ed to contribute about $900 million, and Saudi Arabia has promised $1 billion. 
However, Gaza would need open borders and an internationally accepted government for reconstruction to move forward smoothly. At the moment, it has neither. 
Hamas is widely shwmed as a terrorist group, and Israel and Egypt have kept Gaza cut off from the world since the militants violently seized the territory in June 2007, leaving Abbas only in control of the West Bank. 
Turkish plane crashes, few deaths 
HAARLEMMERLIEDE, Netherlands -A Turkish Airlines jetlinf)r plummeted out of the mist and plowed into a muddy field Wednesday near Amsterdam's main airport, but nearly everyone on board -125 people -survived. The nine dead included both pilots. 
The Boeing 737-800 was en route from Istanbul to Amsterdam carrying 134 people when it suddenly lost speed and fell out of the sky about two miles short of the runway at Schiphol Airport, investigators said. 
The jetliner broke into three pieces upon impact: the fuselage tore in two near the cock­pit and the tail was ripped off. Despite the cat­astrophic impact, the wreckage did not burn and scores of people walked away. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Manual focuses on new warfare 
FORT LEAVENWORTH, Kan. -For the first tin1e since the end of the Cold War, the Army is updating its plans for electronic warfare, calling for more use of high-powered microwaves, lasers and infrared beams to attack enemy targets and control angry crowds. 
The new manual, produced at Fort Leavenworth and set for release Thursday, also is ainled at protecting soldiers against remote-con­trolled roadside bombs and other nontraditional warfare used by increasingly sophisticated insur­gents. 
"The war in Iraq began to make us understand that there are a lot of targets that we should be going after in the offensive or defensive mode to protect ourselves," said Col. Laurie Buckbout, chief of the Army's electroni<; warfare division in Washington, D.C. 

Witness taken out of Minn. trial 
ST. PAUL, Minn. -An argument that Republican Norm Coleman hoped would draw him closer to Democrat AI Franken suffered a hard blow Wednesday in the Minnesota Senate trial when the judges threw out the testimony of the only witness to claim seeing errors that may have given some people two votes. 
The testimony of Minneapolis election judge Pamela Howell was thrown out because she had supplied materials to Coleman's legal team that weren't given to Franken's lawyers. The judges deemed that a Violation of civil trial procedures. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Demolition ordered for sinking hotel 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -An Allen County official has ordered the developers of a half-built hotel to begin demolishing the sinking seven-story structure in about a month or the county will do it for them. 
Building Commissioner Dave Fuller said SAMS Hotel Group must provide a signed contract with a demolition company by Tuesday and begin tearing down the structure by March 27. 
If that doesn't happen, Fuller plans to take bids and ask the County Council to pay for the demolition so the demolition can start by March 28, Fuller said Tuesday. 

~ ~ 
President Barack Obama, with Senate Banking Committee Chair Chris Dodd, O.Conn., answers questions in the Diplomatic Reception Room in the White House Wednesday. 


Obama demands stronger regulation 
Possible system would keep risk-taking in check to avoid market meltdowns 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -After devoting money and time in search of a rescue for the ailing banking sector, President Barack Obama on Wednesday demanded tough new regulations to keep financial institutions in check and avoid future Wall Street meltdowns. 
Obama pressed key law­makers to overhaul the nation's financial regulatory scheme to restore "account­ability, transparency and trust in our financial mar­kets." He specifically called for a system that would monitor the risks that insti­tutions can take. 
"We can no longer sustain 21st century markets with 20th century regulation," Obama said after meeting with Treasury Secretary Tim_othy Geithner and the chairmen and top Republicans of the two House and Senate commit­tees charged with writing new regulatory legislation. 
Obama leveled a broad indictment of the industry, saying the current financial crisis occurred when ''Wall Street wrongly presumed the markets would continu­ously rise and traded in complex fmancial products without fully evaluating night, Obama warned that tions, but to protect con­the consumer." their risks." But he also the rescue effort could cost sumers and investors, and An administration official blamed government regula­even more. ultimately to keep those said Obama wants Congress tors for not adequately pro­The president offered no financial institutions to work on the regulatory tecting consumers. specific regulatory frame­strong." overhaul in the next several 
In calling for a sweeping work on Wednesday, but An industry lobbyist, Scott weeks, before April's meet­regulatory change, Obama called for a series of "core Talbott, said most of ing of the world's _20 major is providing ballast to his principles." Among them Obama's principles were economies. The official still unfinished effort to are consumer protections, broad enough to not raise spoke on the condition of shore up the ailing industry. accountability for execu­alarms. But he said his call anonymity to provide con­As such, he is taking both a tives and a regulatory plan to monitor the scale and text to the president's policy and a political step that covers a broad series scope of risk and to remarks. designed to assure the pub­of financial transactions strengthen supervision of Among those at lic that bailing out banks is that have escaped regula­financial produ<;ts was Wednesday's meeting at the not his only prescription for tion in the past. potentially troubling. White House was House the industry. "Let me be clear: The "You have to allow for Financial Services 
Members of Congress, choice we face is not appropriate risk," said Committee Chairman echoing public sentiment, between some oppressive Talbott, the chief lobbyist Barney Frank. The have been wary, if not hos­government-run economy for the Financial Services Massachusetts Democrat tile, toward the $700 billion or a chaotic and unforgiv­Roundtable. "You can over­has already begun working the government is spending ing capitalism," Obama protect consumers to the on legislation that would to infuse capital into banks said. "Rather, strong finan­point of stifling ingenuity by establish a regulator to in hope of loosening credit. cial markets require clear regulating a product to oversee the kind of systemic In his address to a joint ses­rules of the road, not to death. That would limit the risks that led to the market sion of Congress Tuesday hinder financial institu-availability of products to free fall last year. 
SWITZERLAND 


Glaciers melting faster than expected 
"That's unusual and unexpected," he The head of the Intergovernmental
Associated Press 
told The Associated Press in an inter­Panel on Clinlate Change, a group set up 

GENEVA-Glaciers in Antarctica are view. by the United Nations, told lawmakers melting faster and across a much wider By the end of the century, the acceler­on the Environment and Public Works area than previously thought, a develop­ated melting could cause sea levels to Committee that Earth has about six ment that threatens to raise sea levels climb by 3 to 5 feet -levels substantial­more years at current rates of carbon worldwide and force millions of people ly higher than predicted by a major sci­dioxide pollution before it is locked into to flee low-lying areas, scientists said entific group just two years ago. a future of severe global warming. Wednesday. Making matters worse, scientists said, For years, the continent at the bottom 
Researchers once believed that the the ice shelves that hold the glaciers of the world seemed to be the only place melting was limited to the Antarctic back from the sea are also weakening. on the planet not experiencing climate Peninsula, a narrow tongue of land The report Wednesday from Geneva change. Previous research indicated that pointing toward South America. But was a broad summary of two years of temperatures across much of Antarctica satellite data and automated weather research by scientists from 60 countries. were staying the same or slightly cool­stations now indicate it is more wide­Some of the fmdings were released in ing. spread. earlier reports. The report Wednesday was compiled 
The melting "also extends all the way In Washington, as part of an overall as part of the 2007-2008 International down to what is called west Antarctica," update on global warming, top Polar Year, an effort by scientists to con­said Colin Summerhayes, executive researchers on Wednesday sounded a duct intense Arctic and Antarctic director of the Britain-based Scientific similar warning to the U.S. Senate about research over the past two Antarctic Committee on Antarctic Research. risfug temperatures in the Antarctic. sUlllillers. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 26, 2009 
Center 
continued from page 1 
One of Notre Dame's residence halls has gotten involved as well, Martz said. 
"Cavanaugh Hall is participat­ing by holding a section compe­tition to see which section will raise the most pen11ies," Martz said. 
Caitlyn Dix is running the competition, Martz said. 
The five-gallon jugs were donated by Hawkins Water Tech, Inc., a water treatment facility in Middlebury, Ind., and hold roughly 70,000 coins, or $700 in pennies, Martz said. 
According to BlOO's Web site, anyone can participate, and get a collection jug from the sta­tion's studio. The last chance to turn in jugs is March 7. 
The beauty of this fundraiser is that it doesn't require much effort, Martz said. 
"Just tossing a few coins into a jug is giving back," Rees said. 
However, any amount, and any denomination, can be donated. 
"Pennies are the foundation of this fundraiser, however I heard a rumor that silver is the new copper and we will definitely take any loose change," Martz said. "Oh, and any other cash ... We will turn no coin or bill away.'·' 
This is an easy project to get involved with, Martz said. 
"The simple act of tossing a few cents into one of the collec­tion jugs will help reach the g(}al of a million pennies," said Martz. "We want to see BlOO successfully raise one million pennies for the St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, Tennessee." 

Danny Thomas founded St. Jude Children's Hospital in 1962, Martz said. 
"Danny Thomas' dream was for the cure for cancer to be found in his lifetime. Now, that didn't happen, but wouldn't it be great if it happened in ours?" said Martz. 
Contact Amanda Gray at 
agray3@nd.edu 


In Me.mo·ry of Rabbi Michael Signer 
Abrams Professor of jewish Thought and Culture 

The Department of Theology invites all members of the University and ;local comm,unity to a Memorial Service 
Monday, March 2nd at 4:30p.m. 
McKenna Hall (across from The Morris Inn) 

LOOKING FOR AN ON-CAMPUS JOB? 

The Observer is now accepting applications for 2009-10 for the following positions: Controller • Viewpoint Copy Editor Systems Manager • Ad Design Manager 
The Controller position, which provides great accounting experience, is open to rising juniors. It is a h~vo-year position; the 2009-10 Controller will becon1e the 2010-11 Business Manager. 
The Vie\vpoint position is open to any student; sophomores are preferred. 
Systems Manager applicants should be highly adept at con1puter troubleshooting. 
The Ad Design Manager position is open to all students with graphic design experience and leadership skills. 



All positions are paid. 
Please contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu if interested. 
Thursday, February 26, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,270.89 -80.05 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,498 94 2,293 142,315,869 

AMEX 1i311;97 ):;'':7.08 NASDAQ 1,425.43 -16.40 NYSE 4/75aa~ ,,,,, ¥~8~57 S&P 500 764.90 -8.24 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 7,589.95 4;,128.73 FTSE 100 (London) 3,848.98 +32.54 
COMPANY "loCHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (BAC) +9.09 +0.43 5.16 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) ·0.78 ·0.61 76.87 aTIGROUP INC (C) ·3.08 -0.08 2.52 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -0.62 -0.05 8.00 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +5.22 +0.146 2.950 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.00 0.295 30·YEAR BOND +3.06 +0.107 3.600 5-YEAR NOTE +7.12 +0.134 2.020 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.54 42.50 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) ·3.30 966.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.95 78.95 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 97.5950 EURO 1.2742 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2545 BRITISH POUND 1.4259 
IN BRIEF 
Florida hedge fund manager caught 
NEW YORK -A Florida hedge fund manag­er who disappeared for two weeks as investi­gators closed in on him can be freed on $5 million bail after being accused of ripping off investors of as much as $350 million, a judge said Wednesday. 
U.S. District Court Judge Denise Cote reject­ed a prosecutor's arguments that no release conditions could ensure that Arthur Nadel would. not flee. 
Defense lawyer Todd Foster, however, said Nadel does not have the $1 million in cash that Cote requires, so Nadel likely will remain behind bars unless the bail requirements are reduced. 
The judge also said four financially secure people must sign Nadel's bond before he can go home, where he would be subject to elec­tronic monitoring. 
Foster said Nadel's friends are "very, very afraid to come and assist Mr. Nadel" because of bad publicity and inaccuracies they have heard about the case. 
Stock market shows improvement 
NEW YORK -Wall Street showed a little resilience as investors got answers to some of their questions about banks. · 
The major indexes closed down about 1 per­cent Wednesday but recovered from much steep­er losses early in the day, continuing the volatile trading that has buffeted the market this week. 
Stocks initially fell on growin!J pessimism about the banking industry and a home sales report that came in weaker than the market expected. But as the day wore on, some of the uncertainty about the troubled banking system lifted when the Treasury Department said it's beginning to "stress test" the banks. The test will use two economic scenarios to measure banks' health, and the process is expected to be done by the end of April. 
The government also gave the market some reassurance by confirming that it will buy pre­ferred shares from banks that can be converted into common shares. And investors found solace when Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke rejected for the second straight day the notion that banks could be nationalized. 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS 
page 7 

Dem. Congress approves legislation 
$410 billion set aside for programs, while Bush admin. policies are criticized 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Democratic "control led House pushed through $410 billion legislation Wednesday that boosted domestic programs, bristled with earmarks and chipped away at policies left behind by the Bush administration. 
The vote was 245-178, largely along party lines. 
Republicans assailed the measure as too costly ­particularly on the heels of a $787 billion stimulus bill that President Barack Obama signed last week. But Democrats jabbed back. 
"The same people who drove the economy into the ditch are now complaining about the size of the tow truck," said Rep. James McGovern, D-Mass., point­ing out the large increase in deficits that_ President George W. Bush and GOP­controlled Congresses amassed. 
From the GOP side, Rep. Jeb Hensarling of Texas said the legislation was "going to grow the govern­ment 8.3 percent ... but the family budget which has to pay for the federal budget only grew at 1.3 percent last year." 
The debate occurred one day after Obama told Congress in a prime time television address that he intends to cut deficits in half 
help reduce greenhouse gas roughly 8 percent for the for Common Sense. 
over the next four years, emissions while generating ·federal agencies it covered, Majority -Democratsand one day before he was revenue that could help about $32 billion more than declined to provide a num­submitting tax and spend­finance other elements of last year. ber of earmarks, but saiding plans for the coming an ambitious agenda that The bill is intended to the cost was far smaller, year. 
includes health care and allow smooth functioning of $3.8 billion, 5 percent lessOfficials said the presi­education reform. the government through the than a year ago. 
dent"s first budget would The spending bill that Sept. 30 end of the fiscal Among the earmarks wascall for a permanent tax cut cleared the House drew the year. The Senate has yet to one sponsored by Rep.
of $400 for lower-and mid­support of 229 Democrats vote on its version. Howard Berman, D-Calif.,
dle-class workers and $800 and 16 Republicans. There After persuading lawmak­who secured $200,000 for afor families, a break mod­were 159 Republicans and ers to keep earmarks off the "tattoo removal violence
eled after the temporary 
20 Democrats opposed. stimulus bill, Obama made outreach program" in Losprovision in the economic In a symbolic bow to the no such attempt on the first Angeles. Aides said thestimulus legislation. 
recession, Democrats non-emergency spending money would pay for a tat­Obama also intends to ask included in the spending measure of his presidency. too removal machine that
lawmakers to approve a 
measure a prohibition on a The result was that law­could help gang members new cap-and-trade system cost-of-living increase for makers claimed billions in or others shed visible signs
of limits and pollution 
members of Congress for federal funds for pet proj­of their past, and anyone• allowances, especially for the year. ects -a total of 8,570 ear­benefiting would beindustries such as utilities Overall, the legislation marks at a cost of $7.7 bil­required to perform com­
with coal burning power 
, would provided increases of lion, according to Taxpayers munity service. 
plants. The program would 

Banks to be stress tested for downturns 
Associated Press  Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  public.  
Wells Fargo & Co. The 19 largest  The option to convert the preferred  
WASHINGTON -The Obama  banks hold two-thirds of the banking  shares into common shares is a  
administration hopes to restore con­ industry's assets.  change in the rescue program  
fidence in the nation's ailing financial  Treasury officials said the new sup­ designed to give the government  
sector by subjecting 19 of the largest  port will be provided through the~  greater flexibility in managing its  
banks to "stress tests" that will  government's purchase of preferred  assistance. The conversions would  
gauge whether each institution has  shares of the banks' stock that are  give the government larger owner­ 
adequate capital to survive a severe  convertible into common shares at a  ship stakes and dilute current share­ 
downturn.  10 percent discount to their price  holders. That has raised concerns  
Banks that need new funds will be  before Feb. 9. The additional financ­ the government could ultimately  
given six months to obtain it from the  ing will be available immediately if  takeover, or nationalize, ailing  
private sector or, failing that, from  needed, the department said.  banks.  
the federal government's $700 billion  The preferred shares will carry a 9  The Treasury Department also pro­ 
bank rescue program, the Treasury  percent dividend and be convertible  vided details of how the new stress  
Department said Wednesday.  at the bank's option, subject to regu­ tests will function. The tests will be  
Government officials haven't  latory approval. They will automati­ conducted by bank regulators,  
specifically said which banks will be  cally convert in 7 years. Banks seek­ including the Federal Reserve,  
subject to the tests, but under the  ing additional funds will have to  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,  
government's criteria they would  demonstrate how they would use the  Office of the Comptroller of the  
include large nationwide banks such  money to support their lending activ­ Currency and Office of Thrift  
as Citigroup Inc., Bank of America  ities. Those plans would be made  Supervision.  

.--------------------------­
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday,-February 26, 2009 
other," Zuckerberg said. "There's no system today that
Facebook 
enables me to share my email continued from page 1 address with you and then 
simultaneously lets me control however you acknowledge that who you share it with and also the Company may retain lets you control what services archived copies of your User you share it with," he wrote. Content." But shortly after midnight 
Gordon Wishon, Notre Dame's Feb. 18, Zuckerberg and Chief Information Officer, Facebook reversed the terms of Associate Vice President and use changes. Prompted by feed­Associate Provost, said the post­back from users, Zuckerberg ing of terms of use language is decided to go back to the previ­fairly common · ous terms until on the Web. they can create, 
"Every compa­"Every company that with input from ­ny that provides provides services or Facebook users, services or soft­a clearly written
software on the

ware on the set of terms that Internet to a Internet to a will govern the community of community ofusers way users inter­
users typically act with the site
typically protects its 
protects its intel­and vice v~rsa. leCtual property intellectual property It was "gratify­rights," Wishon rights." ing" to see that said. "The ques­users recognized . tion that often the seriousness 
Gordan Wishon

arises is then, in of the issue, the course of Chief Information Officer Wishon said, and 
normal use of the service, who actually owns the content and what rights does the company providing the service have to the content? That's exactly what's come up in the case of Facebook." 
The Consumerist's Feb. 15 blog post, with the alarmist headline "Facebook's New Terms of Service: 'We Can Do Anything We Want With Your Content. Forever,'" had more than half a million views and propelled coverage of the story by other news media. 
The concern raised through­out the Internet did not go unnoticed by Zuckerberg. The Facebook founder posted an item on his site titled "On Facebook, People Own and Control Their Information" in the late afternoon on Feb. 16. He said the site had updated its terms of use on Feb. 4 to clarify points about information owner­ship. He wrote several para­graphs outlining Facebook's phi­losophy on privacy and why the terms were edited. 
"Our philosophy is that people own their own information and control who they share it with," Zuckerberg wrote. "When a per­son shares information on Facebook, they first need to grant Facebook a license to use that information so that we can show it to the other people 
they've asked us "The typical user what's in the to share it with. isn't even aware of mind of the peo­
Without this ple that are run­
the concerns or

license, we ning these com­couldn't help knowledgeable panies," he said. people share that enough to ask the The Office of information." Information
right questions, to
Most people do Technologies 
not read through look for the right (OIT) has not 
the terms of use language in the end performed a before choosing survey of the
user licensing

"I Agree," number of 
Wishon said. agreement or terms Facebook users "The typical ofservice. " at Notre Dame, user isn't even but Wishon said aware of the con-he would guess 
cerns or knowl-Gordan Wishon the percentage edgeable enough Chief Information Officer is "quite high." 
also that 
Facebook acknowledged it needed to take different steps to ensure user confidentiality. 
Zuckerberg invited users to join the conversation about the governing documents in the "Facebook Bill of Rights and Responsibilities" group. The new Terms will be unveiled in "the next few weeks," Zuckerberg wrote Feb. 18. 
Wishon said he was surprised by the initial changes to the terms of use on Facebook. 
"It was surprising to find that at least there was an interpreta­tion of the new terms of service that suggested that Facebook was reducing the level of protec­tion, or making claims that they hadn't previously made to con­tent," Wishon said. "I was happy to see, of course, the company reverse that position and change the language so it was more clear what their intent was." 
Wishon said his impression of Facebook and of Zuckerberg is that they are concerned about the privacy rights of users. 
"I think that their prior history has shown that they do have a concern," he said. "There are others that simply don't have that same level of concern, and the challenge of course is for the end user really 'to know, and in fact the end user never knows, 
to ask the right questions, to look for the right language in the end user licens­ing agreement or terms of serv­
_, ice," he said. It is "essential" that people look at the terms of service for all sites before agreeing to it, he said. In his post, Zuckerberg spoke of the complexity of the terms language and of the manage­ment of the site content itself. Giving people full ownership and control of their information so they can turn it off at anytime and enabling people to share information with others and using shared information are two positions "at odds with each 
Facebook lists 27,638 people in the-Notre Dame network. Of course, not all of these people are students at the University. 
But Facebook has inliltrated Notre Dame student life to a great degree since its inception. Friendships are confirmed on the site, event invitations are sent out and photo albums shared. 
The second installment of this series will explore how Facebook use has evolved at Notre Dame, from 2004 to now. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
South Bend Symphony Orchestra 
Classical Guitar 
Saturday, Feb. 28 
Gordon Lightfoot 25th Annual Putnam Concert County Spelling Bee 
Songwriter Legend Broadway Musical 
Thursday, March 12 Fri-Sat, March 13-14 


£()mino 'h()W§
=-~.,....,..., 


The Nanovic Institute for European Studies presents 
The Animated Films of 

Portuguese Animation Director Founder of Film6grafo Animation Studio Grand Prix winner of Anifest 2003 
Director Abi Feijo will introduce the 6:30 pm screening. 
'fickets: S6, SS faculty/staff, 54 seniors citizens. and $3 all students Call 574·631-2800 or visit prrforminqans.nd.rdu 
DEBARTOlO 
PfRfORMING ARTS CENTER 

Thursday, February 26, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
family, Opel said. Applicants also need aca­
Abroad 
demic approval from the 
Office of Undergraduate
continued from page 1 
Studies or the Office of the first, second, third and Dean, depending on the stu­fourth choice applications, dent's college, to show the the OIS received 1551 total selection committee that the applications student can from students, study abroad according to "Being on the waitlist and still meet Opel. means you ,re eligible graduation 
Students who requirements
to go, and we have to
applied to on time, Opel 
study abroad see how many spaces said. programs may become available.,, Parental con­have been sent and tran­accepted, scripts are also
Kathleen Opel
placed on a reviewed. 
director
waitlist or not "We evaluate invited to a 015 each file in its 
program. 
"Being on the waitlist means you're eligible to go, and we have to see how many spaces become available," Opel said. 
The number of openings for students depends on the host university, budgetary constraints and living accom­modation spaces, she said. 
"We want to give as many as possible the opportunity to go to a study abroad site that is appropriate for them," she said. 
For each site, a committee of three people reviews applications and makes deci­sions, Opel said. 
In evaluating applicants, the OIS must first consider the guidelines and require­entirety," she 
said. "No one part is the deciding factor." 
The selection committee then decides which students are qualified, and then, depending on availability, the most qualified students are invited to study at the site, according to Opel. 
Once OIS determines which students to select and where to send them, a list is sent to the Office of Residence Life and Housing for review, she said. 
"They'll tell us which stu­dents they might have reser­vations about or [which stu­dents] might not be appro­priately placed." 
The selection committee 
and Office of 
Residence Life 

With This Special OffeL Your Chariot Awaits! 
An Auto Loan from Notre Dame Federal Credit Union comes fully equipped with agreat low·rate and 
afull1% Cash Back. 

Apply Today! 
ments set by and Housing
"Having an offense 
host institu-consider the
that you have 
tions, Opel student's past said. Some learned from does not behavior when 
institutions disqualify you, but a making deci­
may have mini­sions.
pattern ofbehavior
mum GPA or "Having an 
course require­does concern us.,, offense that ments that stu-you have dents must learned from
Kathleen Opel
meet. does not dis­
director
After deter­qualify you, mining whether 015 but a pattern 
an applicant meets specific requirements set by the host university, they are screened to determine how well a pro­gram fits their needs and interests. 
Selection committees con­sider how a site fits into a student's curriculum, major or career plans and whether internship or study opportu­nities would be available, Opel said. 
Another aspect considered are a student's interests and reasons for wanting to study in a. site and how the student plans to be involved in their community abroad, she said. 
"What are students looking 
to do while studying abroad?" Opel said. 
Applicants write essays as part of the application. 
"For me, the most important piece of a stu­dent's applica­
tion  is  the  
essay,  she  
said.  In  the  

essay, students present an 
"It was fairly 
it helps if stu­similar I believe that dents apply to multiple pro­
we came out just as 
grams.

we did last year. We 
Despite cur­didn ,t see growth, but rent economic 
we didn ,t see a troubles, the 
OIS received

decrease. ,, 
about as many 

applications Kathleen Opel from students 
this year as

director 
last year.
015 

argument for why they would be good candidates for a study abroad site. 
Two academic references provide insight into appli­cants as students, she said. A reference from a rector helps the committee get an idea of how a student will adjust to the living accommodations of an abroad site and may help determine whether a student wou-ld thrive in a dorm, an apartment or with a host 
of behavior does concern us," Opel said. 
When the OIS goes through its first round of considering applicants, it only looks at the programs students select as their first choice·, she said. 
Typically, after acceptances are sent out, OIS starts to see how many spaces will be available and may offer them to students who selected the program as a second choice if there are no other students who selected the program as a first choice on the waitlist, Opel said. 
In order to increase the likelihood of being .accepted 
into a pro­
gram, she said 
"It was fairly 

similar," Opel said. "I believe that we came out just as we did last year. We didn't see growth, but we didn't see a decrease." 
She said she was still not sure whether conditions will change and cause students to withdraw from an abroad program, but feels confident that students will be able to participate. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, February 26, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 

Obama's'jenga agenda 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CmEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 

ASsT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 

An DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR 1K CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@nd.edu 
SPDRTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
Obsener ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is "!lcouraged: Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obsuver (USPS 599 2-4000).is: published Monday through Friday except during Qam and vacation perio<;ls. A subs~;riptinn w The Oh!i!:rver .is $100 for one aq.demlc year; $~5 for one semester. 
The Observer iJO puhlish<:d at: POSTMASTER 024 Souch Dining Hall Send address--torrectiml5: m: Notre Dame, IN 46-556-0779 TheO~erver Periodical pPStagc: paid a~ NQtr.e Dame P.O.llox779 and additional mailfng offi!Xlh OU Soucll Dining Hall 
Noue p..,~ IN 46556.0179 

The O~nrcr :is a membc.u-afilie As®ci.tted Press. A11 reproduction tigh<S are r-e:served. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

Tuesday night, President Obama addressed a joint session of Congress to 
__ put forth his agenda for the coming months and years. The plan was incredi­bly ambitious, outlining not only a plan for a revival of the short-term economy, but also imagining future reforms for education, energy and healthcare and greatly reducing the Federal deficit. 
The first half of the speech was large­ly focused on the short-term eco­nomic woes facing the administration. He explained some of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and lauded the speed with which it was passed. He attempted to explain the government's actions in "bailing out" banks and financial institu­tions, and why these actions were neces­sary for the average American. And he, in his first bold proclamation of the address, urged congress to quickly begin work on a new legislative regulatory framework for the financial system. Even this widely supported endeavor (in this economics climate, at least) will be very difficult to pass quickly or easily. 
Obama continued explaining that the best gifts one generation can give to the next are the investments in the future. With this in mind, he outlined health care, education and energy as the most important investments. 
He began with energy. He noted that in three decades of talking, there has been little progress in energy independ­ence. The stimulus package contains a considerable amount of money for renewable energy programs. Not set­tling, Obama exhorted congress to find him a market-based cap and trade sys­tem that would help make alternative energy a profitable industry. 

In the education department, Obama noted, correctly, that our educational edge has dulled over the last decades and that a retooling of the system is nec­essary. The United States rate of high school graduates has dropped to ninth among industrial countries, and the rate of college graduates has fallen to lOth. In an economy that is largely based on educated and trained professionals, in order to grow there has to be more, bet­ter educated people. 
And finally, Obama acknowledged the elephant in the room in terms of budget problems: health care. Federal health care, namely Medicare and Medicaid, accounts for 4 percent of the US GDP, and is expected to more than double in the next 20 years. Not only did he pledge to lower costs through pushing for emergency medical records, but also in one of the few poorly worded phrases of the night, seemed to have promised a cure for cancer. 
As the speech progressed and grew ever more ambitious, I began to think back to the game everyone played at least once growing up. Jenga was a game of skill, focus and daring. As the game progresses, it becomes much harder to play. Each block that is pulled out is stacked on top, and the tower's integrity is even further compromised: 
Obama built himself a Jenga tower with this speech. He started at the bot­tom: layering bank refinancing and loan help for homeowners with new regulato­ry .standards and job creation. Talk of education reform added a few more blocks, as did that cap and trade energy reform. Health care, an issue that has derailed the two previous administra­
. tions agendas, added an entire midsec­tion to the tower. Each policy goal and specific idea added blocks and rows to the agenda, and as if a very lofty tower were not suf­ficient, Obama added that the deficit 
would be thoroughly examined and trimmed in his first term. This did not add bricks to the tower as much as it limited which blocks could even be pulled. It is as if Obama is allowing him­self only to pull the middle blocks out of the tower. Although this would not be an issue for the first couple of efforts, as the final reforms, laws and ideas are attempted, the tower will begin to sway, and perhaps even collapse under its own weight. So is the case with the Obama agenda. 
It is certainly my hope that Obama succeeds in all of these efforts. Each one is more than necessary to grow as a nation in an increasingly more competi­tive world. But with issues as complicat­ed and often controversial as health care, social security, financial regulation and education, I can't help but imagine that an agenda built on all of these issues is prone to fail at some point in time. 
However, Obama, reminiscent of his own Inauguration speech, recalled moments in our history where great 
,progress followed great hardship. He spoke of the transcontinental railroad built in the throes of the Civil war, and talked about the growth of the public school system following the industrial revolution. He called to mind the G.L Bill and the growth of university level educa­tion following the Second World War. As always, Obama eloquently provided a history of our country and attempted to let us imagine where we could fit in the story. He provides examples where American has risen to the occasisons, and for our own sakes, I hope, in this sense, that history repeats itself. 
Jason Coleman is a junior accounting major. He can be contacted at coleman. 70@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports Mandi Stirone Bill Brink OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Ashley Charnley • Michael Bryan Amanda Gray Enz Prister Are you giving something up for Lent? 
Graphics Viewpoint Andrea Archer Patricia "The man who has confidence in 
Yes
Scene Fernandez himselfgains the confidence of Mark Witty No others." 
I'm not Catholic 
Hasidic saying 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Thursday, February 26, 2009 page 11 
This Lent I'm giving up Lent 
A few years ago, I asked a friend, who had just finished his dissertation, "What are you giving up for Lent this year?" Still dazed from the research and writing hell he had just endured, 
he looked, slightly  
befuddled, slight­ly angry, at me  Fr. LOL! DeiFra  
and said, "I justfinished Lent.  Faithpoint  
This year for Lent  

I'm giving up Lent!" Seemed fair enough.... 
For Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Catholics, Lent does arrive at a time that pretty much is Lent already ­February, with Canadian winds air con­ditioning themselves over the Great Lakes before barreling into our little Shire. One student coming out of her dorm some frigid morning last week turned and said to her friend (in a great Southern drawl that absorbed and expelled her frustration with a wonderful, comic class) -"Sometimes I walk out here in the morning and want to say a prayer to start the day, but I feel that wind and the only thing going through my mind is, "Girl, what were you thinking coming here?!!" Throw in midterms, no football, no Wrigley, now an economic recession ­and the Church wants to throw Lent into the mix?!! Just what we ·needed! Or is it? 
I suppose if one understood Lent pri­marily as a season of suffering, we might reasonably find that there is already plenty happening in our lives and world to make the season rather redundant. Rubbing in the bad news, so to speak-a bad pun, I realize, after Ash Wednesday. 
But what if the purpose of Lent is not understood to be the rubbing in of bad news, as much as it is a preparation for the reception of good news? What if the end result of Lent is not a height­ened awareness of how grey and cold the Midwest winters, or our souls, are, but the stirring up of-right in the midst of winter -the hope for the bare-foot, Frisbee tossing warmth of the Spring? 
As humans, we find it easier to rec­ognize and ritualize our present limita­tions, more than our future glory. And this for an obvious reason -we live squarely in the former, while the latter exists beyond "what eye has seen or ear has heard." So it is perhaps not surprisingly that we celebrate the 40 days of Lent exceedingly more effec­tively than the 50 ensuing days of Easter. Ask most Catholics three weeks after Easter, "What day of Easter is it?" 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Why everyone alw-ays needs guns 
The other day, a student attempted to enter the home of a 28 year old man. After showing deliberate malice by knocking threateningly at the door, the man reacted the only way he could. He didn't try to see who the person was, which is good, because if you can see them, then they can see you, and, by extension, KILL YOU. Instead, he enveloped himself in complete and utter terror -like he should -and fired his gun wildly through the door. I do have to denounce his'"'aim, however. He only hit the victim, a 23 year old ND student, in the arm, while everyone knows that that won't stop your common hooligan, all hopped up on "mary-jane" and the . "hook-up culture." Instead, it only makes them angrier, which is why you have to aim for the head. Like zombies. George Washington didn't make up the second amendment just be~ause God told him to. He also knew that you can TRUST NO ONE, and must be prepared at all times to unleash a panicked volley of bullets. This is why, whenever any­one tries to pass me on the highway, I brandish my uzi, because I never know when someone is going to swerve in front of me, block the road, bludgeon me with a shovel, and sell my uncon­scious body to Eckerd's Pharmacy for medical testing. This happens EVERY DAY. So, anonymous 28 year old gun­man, I salute you. Keep fighting the good fight, against anyone and every­one, everywhere. 
James Spitalere 
senior 
off campus Feb. 25 

Apologizing in March 
Thanksgiving in February is a wonder­ful event that gives the Notre Dame stu­dent body an opportunity to express their gratitude for the monetary support alumni and other donors offer to the school to make its academic mission pos­sible. 
Nevertheless, I think there is an addi­tional, more important message we need to relate to alumni. It is my opinion that the student body should-on behalf of the University -apologize for the treat­ment to which the alumni have been made subject at football games in recent years. For this reason, I propose a corol­lary to Thanksgiving in February: Apologizing in March. 
We're sorry that you are constantly harassed by ushers and police on game­day. We're sorry thatyou have to watch your step inside the Stadium, not because you're worried about falling and hurting yourself, but because the slight­est slip or stumble seems to have turned into a clear sign that you are intoxicated. 
We're sorry that showing your support for the team outside the student section has become reason to be ejected from the stadium. We're sorry that Cappy and many of the ushers are more concerned with hunting down and turning as many people as possible over to the police for arrest than with creating a safe and enjoyable environment for football fans. We're sorry the essential characteristic for a "good" game no longer involves the outcome on the field but whether or not you end up in jail that day. Finally, we're sorry that some of you had to voice your complaints and concerns on the Internet because many higher-ups here at the University would not listen. 
This list of apologies can go on much longer than this, but I think everyone gets the idea. 
James McCaughan juniot ­Siegfried Hall Fep. 23 

and, especially on the East Coast, they will call you an insulting name. But ask any Catholic how many days of Lent left, and they will blurt out "18!" with images of cheeseburgers and chocolate dancing in their heads. It's just easier, this side of heaven, to sacramentalize our present incompleteness than our future wholeness. 
In my favorite Mardi Gras Gospel­the one that prepares me for Lent bet­ter than any other -Jesus is asked, "Why do John the Baptist's and the Pharisees' disciples fast, but your disci­ples do not fast?" Jesus answered, "How can the guests of the bridegroom fast while he is with them? The time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, then they will fast." 
I love these words, for two reasons. First, they justify the Lenten fast from Jesus' own lips, which always helps when I am ready to succumb to that Bruno's sausage and pepperoni combo (have you had Bruno's homemade sausage yet-giving up Bruno's home­made sausage for Lent is the stuff of saints). Second, what I like most about this Gospel is that its focus -from beginning to end, from non-fasting to fasting -is the presence of Christ. 
Fasting, this Gospel suggests, is not primarily ritualizing the curse of being ­human, or the extinguishing of our hope. Or, more properly, fasting ritual­izes the temporary absence of Christ ­precisely to ones who have already deeply experienced His presence. And who have been promised eternal life with and through Him in the Resurrection, as inconceivable and dif­ficult-to-ritualize that may be. 
Lent, like everything we do as Catholics, must ultimately be about increasing our awareness of and responsive to the living presence of Christ. In our minds and hearts. In the lives of others, particularly the suffer­ing. In our Church and worship. In our world. In every aspect of our lives. Perhaps we might choose a fasting that will heighten our longing in all these places for the joy and wholeness that is promised us through the presence of Christ. Though I do not recommend giving up Bruno's sausage to the feint of heart.... 
This week's column is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, Director ofCampus Ministry Bible Studies and ACE Chaplain. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Health care purpose 
By lumping Grandma's health care treatment together with patients who are in a persistent vegetative state (PVS), Professor Rice misses the point of what's at stake in providing health care treatment to the elderly ("Catholics and euthanasia", Feb. 24). 
Patients who are in a PVS, such as Terry Schiavo, are usually stable and able to stay alive almost indefinitely if they receive food and water. It is only as to these PVS patients that the Vatican has stated that the denial of food and water, even through a feed­ing tube, would be a form of euthanasia. 
By contrast, very few elderly patients wind up in a PVS. Rather, they suffer from one or more PfO· gressive and irreversible illnesses, such as Alzheimer's ,disease, Parkinson's disease or cancer. In .many such cases, a terminal stage is reached where treatment can no longer prolong life or alleviate suffer­ing. 
Nothing in Church teaching, and specifically in the 2007 CDF state­ment, compels physicians or families to continue with a feeding tube or other forms of artificial nutrition and hydration in those circumstances. 
Martin Hagan alumnus class of'73 Feb. 24 


.-------------------­
THE OBSERVER 



CENE

page 12 Thursday, February 26, 2009 

ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

Billed as an "upscale casual dining" items including eggs benedict and home­ding are able to be ashamedly enjoyed. By].]. REES experience, Trio's makes an attempt at made blueberry shortcake. The highlight of the desserts was the Scene Writer emulating a bigger city offering. Executive Chef Brett Boomhower homemade whipped cream -almost a 
The room is divided into one-third serves American food, highlighting the dessert in itself. 
While certainly not a big city, South restaurant, one-third jazz club and one­cuisine of Kansas City and New Orleans. All things considered, the best way to Bend is able to claim a fair influence on third bar, although the short balustrades Dishes like "St. Louis style" barbeque describe Trio's is as a near miss. The jazz. South Bend has yielded notables, leave openness for all three to intermin­pork ribs and jambalaya are meant to service was excellent; our amicable wait-from Junior Walker's star Motown drum­gle. Even though Trio's opened in the fall evoke Boomhower's national ress chatted with us mer Billy "Stix" Nicks to the nation's old­of 2007, the paintings and colors give the worldliness, but these items about the menu and est Collegiate Jazz Festival. Even leg­atmosphere a 90s feel, and uncomfort­don't exactly whisk diners out even tried the specials. endary Wynton Marsalis has performed ably so; I was almost wary of running of South Bend. But, the sampler came at Notre Dame twice in the last five years. into friends' parents on their date night. Some of the best food from out a minute after our 
Trying to capitalize on the city's jazz The bathrooms were in fine shape, but Trio's is hidden in the spe­entrees, leaving us to heritage is a fair number of jazz clubs, the bizarre faucets would have been cials, like the voodoo Oatbread play a difficult game of ranging from hole-in-the-wall (The Pub) -more appropriate at Tomorrowland. pizza, with a taste of chipotle. lifeboat ethics with the to high-end (Club LaSalle). Somewhere in Next to the award-winning menu (the For appetizers, the sampler food. The dips were the middle falls Trio's Restaurant & Jazz handout, not the food), certainly one of provided perhaps the best fantastic, but the pita Club, at Michigan and Colfax in the city. Trio's best assets is the music. While not part of the meal: an excellent was stale. The gumbo 
Trio's Restaurant and Jazz Club 
129 N. Michigan St. (574-288-8746) 
Hours: 1Q-3Su, 11-2M-F,5-10M-Th,5-11 F-Sa !=!rices: Apps $4-9, Entrees $13-29, Desserts $5-7 10 Words or Less: Upscale casual dining, almost very gobd, live jazz. 
aged jazz as 
Some ofthe bestfood from Trio's is hidden in the specials, like the voodoo flatbread pizza, with a taste of chipotle. 
exactly one of the city's red pepper hummus and pita, was a treat, but lacking more fun jazz clubs, the full spinach artichoke dip and chips and a certain authenticity. The yankee pot music seems to be on bruschetta with a slightly spicy tomato roast was well-rounded, but the gravy par with the rest. A live mix. On Mardi Gras, the crawfish and sauce tasted canned. The desserts were jazz pianist works shrimp gumbo was a marvelous non­tasty, but too sweet or too soft. Even the Wednesdays and menu item treat. atmosphere was almost fit, but the light­Thursd~ys, and South Plates are served with generous por­ing was much better suited for nighttime. Bend favorites like tions, especially for upscale dining. The Trio's is only over a year old, and Nicks' Quartet and desserts run the gamut. The key lime pie Boomhower and staff could do well to Trio's house band, The is not bad, but too many things are slight­continue tweaking. With the great loca­Herb Wilson Ensemble, ly ofl TheJ:wdy is too creamy, the crust is tion (across the street from the South play Fridays and too soggy and the pie is not tart enough Bend Chocolate Company), and the great Saturdays. Their thor­to compensate for the sweet drizzle. The outlet for South Bend Jazz, Trio's has ough website has an homemade peach bread pudding was potential as a solid date restaurant. I extended schedule (and something to acknowledge. Even the haven't written Trio's off, but I'll wait for also full menus). On sweetest tooth won't be able to cope with some minor changes before my next visit. Sundays, Trio's offers a the overwhelming primary taste of sugar, Champagne Jazz although in between the first and last few Brunch, with menu bites, the warm bread and sugary pud-Contact J.J. Rees at jrees@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

music to be studied, Previous performers and judges at p.m. on Friday. 
By MARTHA KARAM Scene Writer  improved and learned, which before Notre Dame was unheard of in most  the Intercollegiate Jazz Festival have been Bill Evans, Quincy Jones,  Even for students who do not know or are not remotely interested in jazz  
Collegiate music programs. The edu­ Wynton  Marsalis  and  Dee  Dee  music_, the festival includes other  
Celebrating 51 years with Jazz  cational goal of the festival is the  Bridgewater, and if those names don't  events  on  campus commemorating  
bands from all over the country, the Intercollegiate Jazz Festival of Notre  most important aspect still. The Festival started in 1959 and  mean anything to you, then you have all the more reason to attend the fes­ and celebrating the "jazz lifestyle." To kick the festival tonight there will  
Dame starts today. The fes­ was hosted by Lyon's Hall,  tival.  be  free  swing  lessons  in  the  
tival is the oldest college jazz festival in the nation and though judges will be  Intercollegiate Jazz Festival of  nicknamed the "hotspot of Jazz on the Notre Dame campus," and was spon­ This year's performers live up the festival's reputation with the Notre Dame Jazz Band, the Western  LaFortune Ballroom at 8 p.m. and open swing dancing at 9 p.m. featur­ing the Notre Dame Jazz Band II and  
presiding, the festival is not  Notre Dame  sored by the "Collegiate  Michigan  Jazz  Combo,  two  jazz  Notre Dame New Orleans Brass Band.  
a competition, but a learn-· ing experience for the com­peting bands and the audi­ Friday and Saturday  Jazz Festival Committee." The festival included door prizes, many more bands  ensembl"es from Eastern Illinois, Alma College Jazz Percussion and Steel Drum Ensemble, Notre Dame  The musical aspect of the festival is split into two sessions, Friday from 7­11 p.m. and Saturday from 7-llp.m.  
ence. As the first collegiate Jazz Festival in the nation, the Intercollegiate Jazz Festival of Notre Dame is an inte­ 7-1 I p.m. Tickets are free for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or  than the festival currently does and was held in mid­March. The fes'tival consists of clinics -free for students  New Orleans Brass Band and North Ca.roline Central University Vocal Jazz Ensemble. This year's judges include Nnenna Freelon, a five time nominated  A free clinic with the Collegiate Jazz Festival Judges will be Saturday at 10 a.m. at the Ricci Band Building. Tickets for the Concert Sessions are available at the LaFortune Box office.  
gral reason why you listen to jazz today. The festival moved jazz into main­ Holy Cross Students  to attend -that feature jazz bands and ensembles ranging in size from one  Grammy Award singer who has worked with acts such as Ray Charles, Ellis Marsalis, AI Jarreau,  All events are Free for ND/SMC/1-ICC students. Non-student prices are $5 for one session and $8 for two ses­ 
stream  culture  as  "All­ performer to thirty in some  Anita Baker and Aretha Franklin.  sions. Tickets can also be purchased  
American Music", shifting away from  instances.  The  featured  judges,  The other judges featured  are  Joel  at the door.  
the depictions of jazz as  the back­ notable musicians invited by the  Holmes, Wayne Batchelor, Kinah Boto  
ground music only heard in dark, sin­ University, answer questions and cri­ Ayah and Virginia Mayhew, who will  Contact Martha Karam at  
ful smoky bars. The festival encour­ tique the performances.  all be performing with Freelon at 10  mkaram2@nd.edu  


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, February 26, 2009 
page 13 

Valentiger: p.m., 
Anybody heard of Ben Kweller? What about 
Format or Collective Soul? Having played ... • in your vocabulary. When Carl Allen (Jim with all of these artists comes Valentiger, a;:' Carrey) notices that his life is officially band hailing from Grand Rapids, Mich., who·.. going nowhere, he realizes a change is in will perform tonight in South Bend's "Ewing ~:'order. He decides to sign up for a self­
,Cafe" at 8 p.m. Valentiger's new album,;..~ help program and his life immediately "Power Lines to Electric Times (PLTET)" fea-\ veers off its monotonous course onto a tures Brent Shirey on "the vocals and guitar, ~*';path much more exciting and unexpect-· 
.Eric Kehoe on the bass and keyboards and: fi. ed. 
· Scott Rider on the drums. Citing the 60s as a f'): Things get increasingly better for Carl, heavy inspiration for their style, the band 1.,::but as we all know, what goes up must seeks to cultivate a mixture of warm classic -~.'!,come down. Watch this hilarious Jim 
•··•~vLu'~"' with contemporary experiences. Enjoy/ · Carrey flick for a good laugh Friday sounds similar to that of Neil Young, The· :·night. Beatles and The Kinks by coming out to the·.. The film also staPs Zooey Deschanel Ewing Cafe for what promises to be a fun and '''("The Happening") as Allsion, Allen's love entertaining night. ·interest. Tickets are $3 for students. 
'' <~,+2'· .. ; ..~.:i::i~.:-.~:~-.. ;~\:'".,..~:.~·-~';·--·<J~·=::~:~.·:·::·.:~·:,_<·;,·-.,0 (~·.,: '~-<'v;· ·-~ :~·. -~ > -~:A
-> 
Hula Girls (2006): 9:30p.m., Browning America the Beautiful (2007): 3:00 p:m., .Cinema -··Browning Cinema
•. 

. With a tagline that reads, "They danced their way.·< No topic is left untouched in the documen­into the heart of a nation," the film "Hula Girls" :':tary "America the Beautiful," which conquers promises to be an inspirational, entertaining and ·<American's perceptions of beauty and the .heartwarming tale based on a true story. In 1965, ,~·implications those perceptions have on our when Japan's largest mainland coalmine Joban ,~·:society. With topics ranging from child mod­faced threats of an imminent closing, the town ',;,,:els to plastic surgery to celebrity worship, decided to rise up and save the industry that many~·· ~this winner of many international awards will of their families had come to depend on. The event ~v. make viewers question the heroes we look up "Hawaiian Paradise" was created to both raise :;;ic<to today and the industry that constantly money for the mines and to lighten the gloomy :,manipulates our view of what is physically 
· mood that had befallen the town, featuring a spe-:<acceptAble. Learn more about America's cial hula show put on by the coal miners' daugh-<·obsession with aesthetics this Sunday in ters. As challenges befall the young women who ~·.Browning Cinema. 
attempt to dance their way into the heart of :•.:' This is a free but ticketed event. their nation, they learn to knock down barriers and · overcome trials. 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
Assistant Scene Ediror 

Hopefully Dining Hall Dish is doing a good job diversifying your dining hall meals, but if not, don't hesitate to come up with your own ideas. The last thing you want to do is get bored with what you eat; it's a long semester. 
A good way to start is to pick one ingredient you haven't used in awhile and see what you can build around it. And when you're finished? Share it with the rest of us! 
This week's recipes: 

Grilled Chicken and Mushroom 
This recipe requires you to wait for the next time the dining hall does grilled vegetables, but it is a good way to put a twist on some­thing already good. Make sure to use good bread to give it the best start. 
1. 
Pick up two good slices of bread and spread a thin layer of olive oil on one side. Grill in the Panini press until they are toasty. 

2. 
Place a grilled chicken breast on the toast. Top with a slice of provolone or Swiss cheese. 

3. 
Top with grilled mush­


rooms. (If you aren't a fan of mushrooms, try out the other grilled options like zucchini.) 
4. 
Sprinkle some balsamic vinegar, salt and pepper on top of some spinach. Add to sandwich. 

5. 
Close up the sandwich and enjoy. 


Leprechaun Poo Shake 
This is a very tasty-and creatively named-milk­shake thought up by Charlie Vogelheim. Mint mixed with chocolate is hard to beat! 
1. Fill three-quarters of a cup with mint soft serve. 
2. Add  some  crushed  
Oreos and  a  little bit of  
chocolate syrup.  
3. Fill the rest of the cup  
with milk and mix with  a  
spoon.  
,  
Quick Tip  
Tired of regular cereal for  
breakfast? T.ry replacing  
the milk with yogurt for  a  
different start to the morn­ 
ing.  Fruit and honey  can  
add new elements as well.  -­ 
Have  your  own  dining  
hall recipe? We would love  
to  feature  it!  E-mail  
mfordice@nd. edu.  ·  

,----------------------­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 26, 2009 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Huskies beat Eagles for Calhoun's SOOth win 
Northwestern gets first-ever win at Assembly Hall over Indiana; Virginia Tech upsets No. 12 Clemson at home 
Connecticut squandered several involve 7-foot-:~ Hasheem
Associated Press 

chances to run away. Thabeet on offense very much in 
MILWAUKEE -Jim Calhoun's After yet another Marquette the first half, despite having a 800th career victory came rally, Price finally clinched the significant size advantage over thanks in large part to senior game by hitting a 3-pointer to Marquette's tallest starter, 6-8 guard A.J. Price, who scored a put the Huskies ahead by eight Dwight Burke. But Thabeet career-high 36 points as No. 2 points with 1:10 left in the scored nine of his 14 points in Connecticut beat No. 8 game. the second half and finished Marquette 93-82 on Wednesday Trailing by 11 early in the sec­with 15 rebounds. night. ond half after Price hit two 3-Thabeet remained a force on 
Calhoun became only the sev­pointers and a jumper on three defense throughout th<;J game, enth coach in Division I history straight possessions, Marquette blocking five shots and altering to win 800 or more games. went on a 12-0 run that includ­just about anything Marquette Stanley Robinson added 19 ed two 3-pointers by Acker..to did in the paint. points and 10 rebounds for the take a 1-point lead with 12:07 Marquette's student section Huskies (26-2, 14-2 Big East), remaining. didn't let Calhoun forget about who had a pronounced size But Connecticut regained con­llis recent dustup with a free­advantage going into the game trol with an 11-0 run that lance journalist, frequently but ended up getting the best of included three three-point plays chanting "not one dime" -part Marquette on the perimeter, too. -one by Kemba Walker and of Calhoun's terse response to a 
Jerel McNeal scored 26 points two by Robinson on consecutive question about giving back part for the Golden Eagles (23-5, 12-possessions that put the Huskies of his salary -and holding up 3), who played most of the game up 82-7 4 with 4:28 remaining. signs with Calhoun's head on a without guard Dominic James Marquette rallied again to cut coin. who broke a bone in his left foot the lead to three on a pull-up in the first half. jumper by McNeal with 2:28 left. Northwestern 75, Indiana 53 
James played only 4 minutes, And the Golden Eagles appeared Northwestern waited more and the school announced after to come up with a defensive stop than four decades to win in halftime that he broke the fifth when Price missed a driving Bloomington. metatarsal in his left foot. No layup, but McNeal was called for So imagine how it felt when Connectiut coach Jim Calhoun celebrates Wednesday after timeline was given for his a loose ball foul and Jeff Adrien the futility ended Wednesday capturing his SOOth career win over No. 8 Marquette. return. James, one of the Golden hit two free throws to extend the night. Eagles' trio of standout senior lead to five. Craig Moore scored 17 points that the short-handed Hoosiers Terrence Oglesby had 22 guards, has 1,749 points and is Price hit the clinching 3-point­and Michael Thompson had 16, could not derail. points, including six 3-pointers, considered one of the Big East's er from the left wing with 1:10 and the Wildcats pulled their for Clemson. However, he could­top defensive players. remaining, then added two free starters in the closing minutes, Virginia Tech 80, No. 12 n't get free on the Tigers' final 
Maurice Acker picked up the throws to put Connecticut ahead putting away'Indiana 75-53 for Clemson 77 play and Stitt had to force up a majority of James' minutes run­91-81 with 45.5 seconds left. the school's first-ever victory at Malcolm Delaney scored 26 wild shot that did not have a ning the offense, and the Golden Perhaps surprisingly, the Assembly Hall. points and Virginia Tech ended chance of going in. Eagles kept rallying after Huskies dido 't do much to It was a long time coming. a three-game losing streak with Trevor had 21 points and 11 
The Wildcats (15-11, 6-9 Big a victory over No. 12 Clemson rebounds, his lOth double-dou­Ten) had lost 33 straight on the on Wednesday night. ble of the season, for the Tigers Hoosiers' home court, 35 in a Delaney put the Hokies (17 -10, and K.C. Rivers also had a dou­row in Bloomington, and their 7-6 Atlantic Coast Conference) ble-double with 11 points and last at Indiana came in 1968. ahead for good with 7 minutes 10 rebounds. After all that, and enduring left, then kept pushing them for­A.D. Vassallo added 21 points some rugged moments ward to keep their NCAA tour­for Vir~nia Tech, which had lost Wednesday, they made this one nament hopes alive. its past four games to Clemson. look easy. Clemson (22-5, 8-5) had a Delaney's free throw broke a 
Indiana (6-21, 1-14) was led final shot to tie the game, but 68-all tie with 6:42 to go. He hit by Kyle Taber , who scored a Demontez Stitt missed a desper­his last 3-pointer with 3:35 career-high 12 points. Nick ation 3-point try. remaining to put the Hokies Williams had 11. The Ilokies jumped on the ahead 75-70. 
But the Hoosiers were out­court with Delaney leading the But this is a series that almost played by Northwestern's cheers. And why not? His latest always goes down the wire ­defense, committing 17 performance capped an amaz­the past seven games have been turnovers, and were outscored ing two games against the decided by five points or less ­24-12 over the final 12 minutes. Tigers this season. He had 37 and this one was no different. 
At times, it got physical. Craig points last month -still tops in Delaney missed a close-in shot Moore and Williams drew dou­the ACC this year -in in the final minute that Booker ble technieals in the second half, Clemson's 86-82 win at converted into a breakaway and Moore crumbled to the Blacksburg. layup to bring the Tigers within ground when Indiana's Tom Delaney didn't start out well, 78-77. Pritchard was called for a mov­shooting 3-of-1 0 from the field Vassallo added Virginia Tech's ing pick. In the first half, for nine points in the first half. final points moments later with Indiana guard Devan Dumes He and his teammates picked up two free throws, setting up grabbed his right shoulder, the pace in the second half. Clemson's last chance. wincing in pain after a tussle Delaney hit three of his four 3-Virginia Tech looked ready to with Northwestern players, but pointers down the stretch and pull away in the middle of the continued to play. the Hokies were 7 -of-11 from second half. Hank Thorns hit a 
To the Wildcats, it didn't mat­behind the arc in the second go-ahead 3-pointer and a driv­ter. They were on a mission, one h~f. ' ing basket. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

Houses for the 09-1 0 school year.  1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS  Kathleen McDonald,  Start tearing the old man down  
FoR RENT  2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at  across from Notre Dame Stadium.  PERSONAL  Disney World is not the only place  Run past the heather and down to the old road  
574-234-2436 or  The Foundry features private baths  
 where dreams come true.  Start turning the gram into the  
Affordable Graduate and Faculty  www.kramerhouses.com  for every bedroom, washer/dryer,  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not  Be the Wendy to my Peter Pan,  ground  
Off-Campus Housing.  --------------­ fitness center, theater room. tanning  go it alone. We have many resources  marry me!  Roll a new leaf over  
Call for Availability  NOW LEASING. LAFAYETIE  salon, game room.  in place to assist you. If you or some- In the middle of the night there's an  
-­ (574)243-2818 or  TOWNHOUSES.  one you love needs confidential sup- Baby just say yes,  old man  
(574)276-6118.  $350/PERSON. 3,4 & 5-BDRM  Preleasing for August.  port or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  Betsy  Treading around in the gathered  
--------------­ UNITS. 2.5 BATHS.  Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1­ --------------­ rain  
andersonN Drentals.com  FREE INTERNET. NEWLY  Call574-232-1400 or lease online  2685. For more information, visit NOs  I got a little bit of hope  Hey mister if you gonna walk on  
REMODELED.  www.foundryliving.com  Assistance for Pregnant  Like a soap on a rope  water  
FREE COMCAST!  CALL 574-234-2436 OR  --------------­ Students//Office of Student Affairs  Sweeter than sour  Would you drop  
--------------­ WWW.KRAMERHOUSES.COM  House for rent.  website at: osa:nd.edulhealth- But getting thinner by the hour  a line my way  
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ --------------­ Very clean 3/4 br, 1.5 bath,  safety/assistance-for-pregnant-stu- Falling fast, and I'm running  Omaha  
ing 1 0-month leases.  Student rentals 2009/2010. St.  2 living rooms and big  dents.  out of gas  Somewhere in middle America  
Bluegoldrentals.com  Peter/SB Ave. Homes.  backyard.  ---------------­ Still I couldnt get arrested  Get right to the heart of matters  
--------------­ $1300-$2000/month. 5-7 bdrms, 1st  Avail 09-10 school year.  If you or someone you care about has  Though I got more hooks  It's the heart that matters more  
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts  or 2nd floor.  Affordable and very close  been sexually assaulted, visit Support  Than Madonna got looks  I think you'd better turn  
6/09. $850/mo.  to campus.  Services for Victims of Rape &  And just like that AC/DC song  your ticket in  
Contact Bruce Gordon  CaiiAJ@  Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/health- Come on baby, shake me all night  And get your money  
574-250-7653.  574-876-3537.  (440)463-5633.  safety/assault/  long  back at the door  
--------------­ --------------­ --------------­ ---------------­ --------------­ -------------­ 




OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, February 26, 2009 
NCBWA'Division I Men's Baseball Poll 
·team record ,. points 

1 North Carolina 3·0 30 2 LSU 3·0 29 3 TexasA&M 4·0 28 4 Georgia 3·0 27 5 Florida St. 4·0 26 6 Arlzana St. 4·0 25 7 Texas 4·0 24 8 Georgia Tech 3·0 23 9 Rice 1-2 22 10 Miami (Fla.) 3·1 21 11 Stanford 2·1 20 12 Oklahoma St. 4·0 19 13 Florida 3·0 18 14 UC Irvine 3·1 17 15 Fresno St. 2·1 16 16 Cal St. Fullerton 1-2 15 17 San Diego 2·1 14 18 Coastal Carolina 3·1 13 19 Clemson 3·0 12 20 Baylor 2·1 11 21 Pepperdlne 2·1 10 22 Oklahoma 4·0 9 23 East Carolina 3·0 8 24 Mississippi 1·2 7 25 Michigan 4·0 6 
USTFCCA Division I Men's Indoor Track and Field 
team points previous 
1 Oregon 168 3 2 Arkansas 149 1 3 Florida St. 101 5 4 TexasA&M 95 4 5 Nebraska 91 20 6 LSU 84 8 7 Florida 76 6 8 Texas 75 7 9 Oklahoma 68 19 10 Texas Tech 67 9 11 Minnesota 62 NR 12 Arizona St. 60 2 13 Georgia 59 11 14 UCLA 59 23 15 Baylor 57 21 16 Oklahoma St. 50 NR 17 Kentucky 50 18 18 BYU 46 12 19 Michigan St. 45 NR 20 Washington 43 NR 21 Auburn 43 NR 22 South Carolina 42 14 23 Missouri 42 25 24 Arizona 40 22 25 Kansas St. 40 17 
Big East Women's Basketball Conference Standings 
team conf. record 

1 Connecticut 14·0 
2 Louisville 12·2 
3 Pittsburgh 10·3 
4 Villanova 9·5 
5 NOTRE DAME 8·6 
6 DePaul 8·6 
7 Rutgers 8·6 
8 Georgetown 7-7 
9 Marquette 1-7 
10 South Florida 6·8 
11 West Virginia 4·9 
12 St. John's 4-10 
13 Syracuse 4-10 
14 Providence 4-10 
15 Seton Hall 3·11 
16 Cincinnati 3·11 
around the dial 
NCAA Men's Basketball 
No. 22 Xavier at St. Joseph's 7 p.m., ESPN2 
No. 16 Purdue at Michigan 9 p.m., ESPN 

CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WlRE SERVICES 
PGA 
Associated Press 
MARANA, Ariz. Eight months later, Tiger Woods looked as though he had never been away. 
Woods made a tri­umphant return to golf Wednesday in the Accenture Match Play Championship with a start that showed golf what it had been missing in the 253 days since he limped his way to an epic U.S. Open title. 
Just past high noon in the desert, Woods fired an 8-iron into 5 feet for birdie. Then came a gen­tle fist pump when his approach to the par-5 second settled 4 feet 
page 15 

Woods walked onto the tee could be heard all the way down the fair· way. 
Woods hacked off his tee shot, and without much expression, belted a fairway metal down the right side of the fair· way. 
"You are. back!" one spectator shouted. 
Was he ever. 
He won the first two holes before some rust settled in. Woods made three bogeys over his next five holes and was leading, 1 up, until he birdied the par-5 eighth with a 6-foot putt. 
Jones never got .any closer. 

from the cup for eagle. 
He closed out Brendan Jones of Australia with a 3-foot par on the 16th hole for a 3-and-2 victo· ry. 
"I told Stevie I felt like we haven't been away," Woods said, referring to caddie Steve Williams. "It' was business as usual." 
But this was no ordi~ nary day. 
Before thousands of fans who scurried through the high desert, eager to· see every shot from the world's No. 1 player, Woods never showed any indication that he had reconstruc­tive surgery on his left 
knee a week after win­ning the U.S. Open. "It held up," he said. "It felt good." 
Woods said he had looked forward to the nerves of standing on the first tee and the rush of competing. It was as if all that time away from golf had been bottled up inside of him. And then it came gushfng out on a scorching day north of Tucson, where tempera­tures approached 90 degrees. 
Fans packed into the bleachers around the first tee, with more lined up behind the ropes all the way to the green, and the cheer when 

IN BRIEF Brooks Dunn, others 
released by Buccaneers 
TAMPA, Fla. -Derrick Brooks, one of the top players in Tampa Bay histo­ry, was cut by the Buccaneers on Wednesday in a purge of the team's older players. 
Brooks, the NFL's defensive player of the year when Tampa Bay won the Super Bowl after the 2002 season, was among five players cut, four of them older than 32-year-old Raheem Morris, the team's new head coach. 
The others were wide receivers Joey Galloway and Ike Hilliard, run­ning back Warrick Dunn and line­backer Cato June. The 29-year-old June is the only player under 30 and the only one younger than Morris. 
The releases save more than $10 million in salary cap space for a team that already is close to $50 million under the projected cap of $123 mil· lion. General manager Mark Dominik said the o~ject of the cuts-was less to save money than to get the team younger.. 
Rodriguez hits home run 
in spnng training debut 
DUNEDIN, Fla. -Back on the field, Alex Rodriguez was able to put aside the steroids scan­dal. 
At least for a little while. 
Booed and taunted by oppos· ing fans in the Yankees' spring training opener, Rodriguez homered and drew two walks Wednesday in a 6-1 exhibition victory over Toronto that was anything but routine. 
It was his first game since admitting he took performance­enhancing drugs from 2001-03 with Texas. He left after draw­ing a walk in the fifth inning, then signed autographs for five minutes before calling it a day. 
"This is what I do. I know how to play baseball," Rodriguez said. "I just hope that's the start of something really special for this year. I feel really good about our team." 
Running back Jacobs signs
four-year deal with Giants 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­Less than two weeks after putting a franchise tag on him, the New York Giants signed bruising half­back Brandon Jacobs to a four· year, $25 million contract on Wednesday. 
The signing came less than two days before the start of the NFL free agency period. 
"I was confident all along that this was going to get done I didn't panic one bit," Jacobs said in a statement released by the team. "I know the reason we did it the way we did; I knew I was going to be here. I was super-confident and I am here. I'm happy about it." 
The deal includes $13 million in guarantees. Jacobs will earn $15 over the firsttwo years. 
Putting a franchis·e tag on Jacobs earlier this month guaran­teed him a $6.6 million salary next season. 
page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 26,2009 

Thursday, February 26, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Jets release receiver Coles 

Associated Press NEW YORK -The New York Jets restructured Laveranues Coles' contract Wednesday, allowing the veteran wide receiver to become an unre­stricted free agent when the signing period begins Friday. Coles, 31, was heading into the final year of his contract, but was looking for a long-term deal. Because of the compro­mise between the sides, the Jets are off the hook for the guaran­teed $6 million Coles was due this upcoming season. "I spoke with him today and expressed my appreciation for his contributions both on and ­off the field," general manager Mike Tannenbaum said. "This move will allow Laveranues to explore his options, and we both agreed to keep the lines of communication open." The move comes after a series of salary dumps by the Jets, who have also cut tight end Chris Baker, defensive back David Barrett, and linebackers David Bowens and Brad Kassel!. Coles will immediately become one of the top available f free agents at wide receiver, joining a group led by T.J. Houshmandzadeh. Teams are allowed to begin signing free agents on Friday aC12:01 a.m. EST. Coles caught 70 passes for 850 yards and seven touch­
~ 
downs from Brett Favre last 
season. He was a third-round pick by New York in 2000 and played two seasons before sign­ing as a free agent with Washington. After two years with the Redskins, Coles was traded back to the Jets before the 2005 season. "I have had the· pleasure of getting to know Laveranues since he entered the league in 2000," Tannenbaum said. "He is a fierce competitor, a great teammate and a good friend who has always given his best to the New York Jets." Before last season, Coles threatened to sit out during the offseason program because he wanted a long-term deal, but coach Eric Mangini -during a trip to the receiver's home ­convinced him to back off his demands after expressing that he was an invaluable part of the team. The Jets then had the final two years of Coles' con­tract-about $11 million ­guaranteed in a good-faith move. That would've put the Jets on the hook for his salary this sea­son if not for the compromise. Coles told The Star-Ledger of Newark that he could still end up re-signing with the Jets. "We didn't leave on bad terms," Coles told the newspa­per. "It's not out of the question that I could come back." A team captain in 2007, Coles also became a fan favorite dur­
ing his second stint with the Jets while playing through numerous injuries in recent seasons, including at least two concussions. He had his streak of playing in 107 straight games end in November 2007 bl;lcause of a concussion, and was briefly knocked unconscious wh(ln he was leveled by a hit by Miami's Zach Thomas in December 2006. He also suffered a con­cussion early last season. 
·Coles, who had a career-high 91 catches in 2006, has 631 career receptions for 8,095 yards and 44 touchdowns. He struggled to click with Favre early last season when the Jets cut his good friend Chad Pennington. A few days later, Pennington was signed by Miami and led the Dolphins to the playoffs while being voted NFL Comeback Player of the Year for the second time in three seasons. 
Coles, from Jacksonville, could possibly seek a reunion with Pennington and try to sign with the Dolphins. Also, Bill Parcells, the man who drafted Coles when he was with the Jets as general manager, is current­ly the Dolphins' executive vice presichmt of football operations. 
If Coles doesn't return, it would leave New York extreme­ly thin at receiver, with only Jerricho Cotchery, Brad Smith and Chansi Stuckey having played a significant number of games. 

The Joyce Award for ExccHcnce in U ndcri,rraduatc Teaching 
Student. faculty and staff nominations are sought to identify faculty or professional Student and faculty nominations are sought to identify faculty who: staff members whose involvement with undergraduates inspires students to reach their academic and career goals. Nominees may be members of the academic advising and • Create environments that stimulate significant student learning career counseling staffs or members of the faculty and staff who: • Elevate students to a new level of intellectual engagement 
• foster students' ability to express themselves effectively within the discipline 
• 
Facilitate learning outside the classroom 

• 
Serve as mentors or role. models Nominations due by Tuesday, March 3. Nineteen recipients will be selected. 

• 
Encourage student participation in fellowships. internships, undergraduate research and post -graduate opportunities 

• 
Cultivate relationships with organizations that recruit Notre Dame graduates 


Nominations are due Tuesday, March 3. Three faculty or staff will be chosen. 
~UN I V.ERSITY OF 
Submit online no1ninations at prO\'Ostawards.nd.cdu. ~NOTRE DAME Office of rhe Provost 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 26, 2009 
Notre Dame Graduate NBA 
Joins Leading Area Veterinary Hospital Marbury released by 

Magrane 
Pet Medical Center 


Afagrane Pet lvfedic·at Center Welcomes: 
Knicks after five years 
agreement

Conveniently located to N.D. in the Edison Lakes Business Park (Mishawaka) 
Marbury's disappointing and 

8 minutes from Notre Dame, directly east on Angela I Edison Road distracting Knicks career. Walsh made it clear that 

Marbury had to make a sub­stantial concession to arrange his exit. 

"Obviously the buyout was significant enough for us to stop our worries about the risk of 

Keith Kitson Logue, DVM 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Donnie Walsh Dr. Logue is a graduate of University of Notre Dame 
never enjoyed having a role in the Stephon Marbury soap

and Purdue's School of Veterinary medicine. 
opera, but was prepared to deal with it until he found the right

Dr Logue brings a wealth of experience in emergency and critical 
conclusion for the New York 

care medicine -care ofthe sickest pets, lo our experienced staff. 
Knicks. When he finally did, Walsh let 

"Caringfor your pet is caring for a fiJmi(v memher and lji.wl JH:ivileged to 
Marbury go in time to be eligi­

li'Ork with t:i great team to care .for your pel, whether healthy or ill." 
ble to play in the postseason. That came Tuesday, when To schedule an appointment call: 574.259.5291 

what began as an arbitration Email •Juestions to kkluguc(!imagrancPl\fC.tom 
hearing turned into a negotia­tion, and the sides came to an that ended 

the competitiveness side of it. I don't mean on the basketball floor, but from a financial situa­tion," Walsh said Wednesday. "So we're willing to say, 'OK, we'll do it and vou can find your team."' · 
The sides had first tried to negotiate a buyout nearly three months ago, but that meeting lasted just 20 minutes before Marbury walked out, frustrated with the terms Walsh sought. 
Marbury originally vowed he wouldn't give up any of the $20.8 million he was scheduled to earn this season, then even-· tually said he would surrender $1 million. Walsh likely sought double that to let Marbury leave. 
They were face-to-face again Tuesday when an arbitrator heard Marbury's grievance of the nearly $400,000 in salary the Knicks docked him after alleging he refused to play in a November game. That was quickly scrapped as buyout talks began after lunch. 
Walsh could have held on to Marbury through this weekend, making him ineligible to play for another team in the post­season, but preferred to avoid that -if Marbury cooperated. 
"Not if I saw he was making a legitimate effort to put us in the right position, acknowledging our position," Walsh said. 
Walsh, in his first year in New York, acknowledged the situa­tion being a distraction for him, and said he wasn't comfortable being at odds with a player. 
The players didn't have the same difficulties. To them, Marbury was long ago gone and forgotten. 
"He hasn't really been seen in a little while," forward David Lee said after the Knicks' morn­ing shootaround. "Almost some­what of a dead issue for us because we knew at some point it would probably happen." 
Marbury's exit may have taken longer than expected ­there was some surprise he was even with the team when train­ing camp opened -but the Knicks haven't been spending much time thinking about their former captain. 
"It's not like, 'Oh now we can really play basketball, we're not distracted,"' coach Mike D'Antoni said. "We weren't dis­tracted before." 
Nor does D'Antoni have any regrets about the way he han­dled his time with Marbury, starting with his decision to bench him on opening night that surprised both the point guard and Walsh. 
"We said all along, tough situ­ation," D'Antoni said. "We weren't on the same page." 
Marbury is now free to join a playoff contender once he clears waivers, and he's already been linked to the Boston Celtics. Nobody knows how much he'll help though, since he hasn't played a regular-sea­son game in more than a year. 
"We'll see. I don't know," Knicks forward Quentin Hichardson said. "I don't know what he's been doing. I assume he's been working out or what­ever. I mean, only thing I can say is time will tell. Good luck to him." 
Though Marbury had still been a Knick, he wasn't a part of the team much toward the end of his turbulent time in New York. 
Thursday, February 26, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 26, 2009 


NHL 

Tortorella gives Rangers new rules 
He admitted that he stuck ward Scott Gomez said. 
Associated Press 

too long to that style last sea­The mood was businesslike 
GREENBUHGH, N.Y. -John son in Tampa Bay when his Tuesday as the large media Tortorella brought bluster defensemen couldn't handle throng tiptoed its way through and a new set of rules during it. Tortorella wants to try it the tight dressing room. his first day as coach of the again, and feels confident that There was some laughter and New York Hangers. if opponents get good scoring excited expeetation as the 
The man with the booming chances, Henrik Lundqvist -clou.d of Renney's tenuous job voice and the rugged reputa­whom he called the NHL's best status was suddenly gone. tion got right to work Tuesday goalie -will bail out the The Hangers (31-23-7) are morning as he presided over Hangers. still in position to make the practice and tried to turn ·Tortorella took time during playoffs, but their perform­around a slumping team that praetiee to talk one-on-one ance over the final 21 games has lost its way. with Wade Hedden along the will determine if they grab 
You didn't have to look fur­boards. The defenseman, who one of the eight spots in the ther than the dressing room signed a luerative six-year Eastern Conference. to see where Tortorella has deal in the summer, hasn't The stretch drive begins already lel't his mark. No lived up to expeetations and Wednesday at Toronto against longer will anyone -player, has heard constant boos from the Maple Leafs, the team coach, trainer, or media mem­the home erowd. that helped seal Henney's fate ber -step foot on the big "lie definitely ·has different with a 3-2 overtime win Hangers logo in the center of philosophies than Tom Sunday night at Madison the carpet. Hespect starts brought, but we've got to feed Square Garden. there way before it ever off of it," Hedden said. "It's a "Eyeryone knows that their shows up on the ice. ·change and something to personalities are probably dif­
"There is not much room on shake everybody up and get ferent, but the one thing in the two sides there, so we're them going. common with Tom, Torts and going to have to figure that "I like what I see. I heard all of us is we want.to win," out," Tortorella said less than lots about him and played captain Chris Drury said. 24 hours after replacing fired against him for a long time so "Whatever that takes in the coach Tom Renney. "I just I know the fire he brings and next 21 games, we've got to don't think you should do the intensity. It was evident in try to find a way to do it." that. I don't think you walk on the first practice, for sure." Tortorella doesn't have a logo anywhere. So, yeah, Not that it was so unusual, much time to eompletely that's the way it's going to but many players were on the change the culture from the be." iee several minutes before the laid-back Henney, but he will 
While Henney preferred a scheduled start time for prac­start Wednesday when the defensive-oriented system tiee. Tortorella's history of Rangers begin a run of three that featured four lines and ruling with a strong hand is games in four nights. often produced low-scoring well-known throughout the "Tough is the wrong word," games decided after regula­league, and no one dared Tortorella said of his some­tion, Tortorella favors an up­press his buttons yet. times grating style. "Just tempo, aggressive mentality ''l'm always here early. I'm being honest is what I try to that pressures the opposition. too scared to be late," for-be." 

) 
Thursday, February 26, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Jackson 
-continued from page 24 
ing the lead, with help from Jackson. 
It was a Jackson jumper that gave Notre Dame a 38-37 lead with 17:16 left in the first half, Notre Dame's first lead since the score was 4-2. And it was Jackson who hit a key 3-pointer and assisted other pivotal baskets that helped Notre Dame build a 65-53 lead with • 
4:56 left in the 

"My shot felt as good
game. came out with a "Coach [Mike as it always is and renewed focus 
Brey] has been every time it went up in the second 
on me about half to capture
it felt ]ike it was

that, just going the win. Notre out and play­going in." Dame will face ing," Jackson No. 2 said. "He wants Connecticut
Luke Harangody 

me to score too Saturday on the
Irish forward 

and my thing is, I try not to put too much pressure on myself offensively and try to defend well, but today, what helped me out was, I didn't focus on any of that, I just went out and played my game." 
But Notre Dame nearly relinquished that lead. 
Rutgers guard Mike Rosario, who finished with 20 points, hit a 3-pointer to spark a 9-0 Rutgers run that cut Notre Dame's lead to 65-62 with 
2:13 to play. But Harangody and Jackson hit their free throws !,ate to prevent the comeback. 
Senior guard Kyle McAlarney finished with 13 points. Harangody bounced back in the second half to end the game with 20 points and 15 rebounds on 7-for-25 shooting. 
"My shot felt as good as it always is and every time it went up it felt like it was going in," Harangody said. "I just couldn't catch a break tonight." 
Few games are easy in the Big East and Rutgers let Notre Dame know early that -even though it only has one win in conference play -the Irish wouldn't be able to take the night off. In the first half, the Scarlet Knights were able to get open shots against Notre .Qame's defense, which, in the first half, didn't look like the defense that held Louisville and South Florida to 57 points two weeks ago. Rutgers opened a 21-10 lead. 
Sophomore forward Tyrone Nash helped to temporarily chip away at the lead by scor~ ing four points off the bench, but Rutgers was able to pre­vent any Notre Dame run from forming, thanks to a 15­for-2 8 (54 percent) perform­ance from the field in the half. Meanwhile, Notre Dame didn't help itself offensively with seven turnovers, but 
road. 
"We're play­ing for something," Brey said. "There's no question about it and it's a fine line of 'Hey fel­las, this is a really big game' and not getting too tight and tying yourself in knots. At times we did that in the first half." 
Notes: 

uin his postgame press con­ference, Brey said he was a little more animated on the sideline than usual in order to try to motivate the crowd. 
"I was worried about this game ... but once the crowd got going, man, that helped us defensively," Brey said. "Our crowd is loud when we're in half-court defense, especially down there in front of the stu­dents. That made all the dif­ference in the world. I was just trying to get them going and get them up and get them rolling." 
uSenior forward Zach Hillesland exited the game because of an injury early in the second half and didn't return. Brey said Hillesland was healthy enough to come back in the game, but did not want to mess with the rota­tion that was playing well at the time. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

PAT COVENEYfThe Observer Junior forward Luke Harangody goes for a layup during Notre Dame's 70-65 win over Rutgers Wednesday. 
Would you Jibe to study/research/teach abroad for a year after graduation? 
Come meet Notre Dame 2007 Graduates 

and 
t"ulbrltaht ETA (Uruguay) 
ANNE LUKEMAN 

Fulbright Researcher (Jordan) 
MONICA ...........,.__.. 

tortirtft!IJ. February 
2:00-3:00 in the 

Center for the Study of Languages and Cultures 329 DeBartolo Hall 

Mary Anne and Monica can tell you about their teaching and research experiences throughout Uruguay and Jordan as part of the Fulbright program. 
For more i1~t£wnwtim1 about Fulhrigllt Grants nnd English Teaching Assistantships, see UIWtv.fullJriglttonliue.org and visit tile Office ofUmfcrgmduatc and Post-Baccalaureate Fellows/rips 
346 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
'Wnrw.ud.edu/-fellmvs 


I
I page 22 Thursday, February 26, 2009 
I 
I The Observer + SPORTS 
I 
' 
' 
Buckeyes 


continued from page 24 
Alaska. The Nanooks finished their conference schedule last week, so the Buckeyes can jump them with a sweep. 
That should be easier said than done, though, as they take on No. 7 Miami, who currently sits in second place behind the Irish. The Buckeyes won a huge game last weekend over No. 3 Michigan to keep their hopes for a bye alive. 
Miami, however, won't be rolling over as they have plenty to play for as well. With the Wolverines nipping at their heels, Miami will need at least one win to hang on to the No. 2 spot in the postseason. If Ohio State sweeps Miami and Michigan sweeps Ferris State, the Wolverines will take that spot and be able to avoid Notre Dame until the finals. 
Expect Ferris State to put up a fight as well. They currently sit in the middle of the pack with Northern Michigan and Nebraska-Omaha. All three of those teams are within one point in the standings. 
Nebraska-Omaha struggled 

Everyone is Welcome and Confidentiality is Assured 
2009/2010· Academic Year 
Limited Number ofApartments Still Available 
2Bedroom lBath Units &om 
$595PerBed 
mightily down the home stretch, picking up only one point in their last nine games. 
~ 

f,f ~\ ' 
~;,""-­

:.~~··.,"':·.•. .:. 
Coffee andRefreshments WiHBe Served ­

Se01is 
continued from page 24 
have." 
In Tuesday's opening round play, the Belles disposed of No. 7 Adrian (14-11, 7-9 MIAA) 74-60 in a snoozer at the Angela Athletic Facility. After building a 12-point lead only five minutes into the first half, Saint Mary's supe­rior shooting (41 percent from field goal ran~e) and defense never allowed the Bulldogs to sniff the lead. Freshman forward Kelley Murphy led all players with 17 points, while senior for­ward Erin Newsom picked up her seventh double-double of the season with 13 points and 10 boards for the Belles. 
"I think [Adrian] was a huge win for us," Hen le_y said. "It is hard to see a team three times in a season. We did a great job of scoring in transition and out rebound­ing them." 
Saint Mary's will also face the Knights (16-9, 9-7 MIAA) for the third team this sea­son, having handed Calvin close losses in December and 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
.600 so far this season. 
Georgetown senior out­fielder Sean Baumann went 2-for-5 with a run and four RBis in the Hoyas' 10-4 win over Norfolk State Wednesday. Georgetown travels to Davidson, N.C. 
this  weekend  for  four  
games.  
Rutgers allowed 18  runs  

in a loss to Miami Sunday. Junior pitcher Kyle Bradley pitched 3.1 innings and That effort gives Ferris State the opportunity to jump them with a win or a tie against Michigan. Northern Michigan is also in control of its own des­tiny at this point. They need to keep pace with whatever the Bulldogs do in order to main­tain their own point lead and ensure a matchup against one of this season's bottom­dwellers, most likely Michigan State. 

Sitting at the nine and 10 spots, respectively, Western Michigan and Lake Superior State aren't quite out of the mix yet either. Both teams play winnable series this weekend and are oiliy three or four points away from taking over a home ice spot. They will need some help from the team's above them in order to make any serious moves. 
However that middle section shakes out, the 7 -vs.-1 0 and 8­vs.-9 matchups in the first round will be very evenly played. It would make sense for most of those teams to try to maneuver themselves into a game with Nebraska-Omaha, but right now there are too many question marks to figure out where any of them might end up. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
January. The Knights dis­patched No. 6 Alma with a 69-41 blowout victory in the first round to advance to the semifinals. 
Tuesday night's victory fea­tured the return of senior forward Marcia Harris, who scored 10 points in only 14 minutes in .her first action since suffering an injury ear­lier this season. Harris is noted for her dominant post play on both sides of the court. 
"Calvin is a very good team," Henley said. "They are playing very well right now with the return of [Harris]. We need to focus on keeping their points out of the paint. They also play aggressive and solid defense. We need to take care of the ball and continue to attack them." 
The game begins tonight at 
7:30 at the Belles' Angel-a Athletic Facility in Notre Dame, In. In the other semifi­nal game, No. 5 Albion will take on No. 1 Alma to com­pete for a spot at Saturday's MIAA tournament finals. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
gave up six hits, five runs (three earned) against the Hurricanes. 
The bottom: Cincinnati (0­
3),  Louisville  (0-3),  
Villanova (0-3)  
The Wildcats  are last in  

the conference in batting average (.172). ERA (9.38) and runs (seven). Cincinnati sophomore outfielder Justin Riddell, however, has the second-highest batting average in the conference at .615. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
.. 

Thursday, February 26, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
PATRICK GARTLAND 
CROSSWORD 
Across 37 Primitive trophies ... or a
Schmo 
hlnt to this 

Trash cans and 
puzzle's theme 

such 
41 Karmann_ I Walking 
(oldencyclopedia 
Volkswagen) I"Howdid_ 
42Genuine this happen?" 
43 Alternative rock i Opposite of band with four someways platinum albums ; Alto lead-in? 46 Repair shop figs. 'Paris's de 47 Cry out loud Lyon 50 Conformation defect in a horse
l Benjamin 52 Words Orl a
1Wood alternative 
Wonderland 

I Split 
cake l Refrain from 54 Traffic sign that singing in indicates a kindergarten? 
possible ~Picketer's sign temporary road closure
!Zing 58 Deal preceder 
I Chinese dollar 
61 Cause for pulling

I All over 
• over ~ 1990s war site 
62 Where samson i_feuilletee defeated the (puff pastry) Philistines 
NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

63 Lawless role 64 Managing, with 
"our' 
65 Zest 
66 Front 

67 Go from one 
number to another 
68 1 00 18-Acrosses 
Down Macrocephalic 2 Sainted king known as "the Fat" 3 Numbers in the 
thousands? 4 ''S.N.L." alum 5 Creep 6 Gelato holder 7 "Pick me! I know 
the answer!" 8 Angry diner's decision 9 Egoist 10 Like a bishop's authority 11 Elongated fish 
12Day-~ 

13 One way to meet 21 "Happy birthday• follower 22 Back muscle, for short 25 Slightly 26 Fails to keep 27 It's barely passing 30 Seal's org. 31"My Way" songwriter 
32 Eleanor Roosevelt, to Teddy 
WILLSHORTZ 

PUUie by Gary J. Wl!itelleed 
34 Unable to think 44 Done, to Donne 55 Ship part at all 
45Nutjobs 56 Bausch & Lomb 
35 Things with lens-ca.re 
antennas 47 English essayist product 37 "Rich Man, Poor 
Richard 57 Playwright

Man" novelist. 48Certain William
1970 
Nebraska native 

58 Chopping part of
38Uelow 
49 Lady Jane a chopper39 Wickiup, for one 
Grey's fate 

59 French word in40 Lightened 51 ______-Mart some bios
41 Test forMA seekers 53 Shoelace tip 60 Former TV inits. 
For answers, call 1·900·285·5656. $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1·800-814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytlmes.comlwordptay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comtleaming/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES.BORN ON TIDS DAY: Justin Jeffre, 36; Sean Astin, 38; Tom Courte­nay, 72; Sally Jessy Raphael, 74 
Happy Birthday: Take care of emotional matters this year. Your creative spin to an old idea will interest someone you have not talked to in a long time. Reconnect by making the first move. The results will positively affect how far ahead you get this year. Your numbers are 10, 12, 16, 21, 26, 34, 49 
ARIES (March 2l-Aprill9): Judge your next move based on your own position and what you want to see unfold. Talks will help but only with those who are already on 
board. It's OK t<> sit back and observe. *** 

• TAURUS.(Apri120-May 20):.11. past problem at work will surface again if you didn't '· take care of it the first time around. Rely on your allies in order to win a better position. ··. It's all .about standing up for your rights. **** 
GEMINI (May 2l·June 20): Someone will pull a fast move that could derail your plans. 
.Uncertainty regarding some of your social and family relationships must be put aside and 
llQt be allowed to influence what needs to be done immediately. ** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You've got more going for you than you realize. Take a stab at 1!omethlng you enjoy doing. Changes to your environment will enable you to find 
a space that contributes to your comfort and peace of mind. ***** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Love is skyrocketing and solid ground can be found on which to build your life. Past connections that were never allowed to develop will now help to 
fulfill your dreams, hopes and wishes for the future. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23·Sept. 22): You've got a lot at stake and if you don't resolve past issues first, you may lose out on something good. A little fancy talking and a few crucial maneu · vers and you should be in the ballpark for an opportunity that develops. *** 
~u~~~m~~~~~~~-~~~~ 
ity to develop and creatively and intelligently put things together, you will fmd yourself 
placed in a key position. Social activities and networking will be to your advantage. 
*** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23·Nov. 21): Get out and about where you can breath easy and discover what it is you really want to see happen. Get away from your normal routine and negative people. It will help you gain a clear picture of what you must do. ***** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22·Dec. 21): Someone will try to outmaneuver you by making last-minute alterations or decisions. Don't fall into an unstable trap. Follow your heart and stay within your means financially, mentally and emotionally. Positive changes should be made at work and at home. ** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Everything will be dependent on how you feel and what you do. Don't let an emotional relationship cause you to second-guess your next move. An interesting change in what you do to earn a living will allow you to go in a di· rection that has always interested you. **** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20·Feh. 18): You'll be looking through rose-colored glasses and must give yourself a reality check. Put things in perspective. You may be surprised to find out who's been watching and waiting for you to notice him or her. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be forgiving, open and respectful of others. Consider your own fanlts and flx anything you have left unfinished. Change will bring about stability and a better future. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, caring and compassionate. You have great faith in 
who you are and what you can do. You are a humanitarian and a good friend. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations, 
myspace.comieugenialastfor Eugenia's blog, astroadvice.comfor fun 
www. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HENRI ARNOLD MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
~rn. 

Unscramble these fuur Jumbles. one letter to each square. **%$#!1! You're 30 minutes behind to form four ordinary words< 
SASEY 

I I I 
•t2007 Tribune Media Services. lrn;;.All Alghts Aesor...OO. 
STUCO 
I 
rJ 1tNORBIN t 


WHAT THE: SERVE:RS TUI<NEO INTO
J I I J 

WHE:N THE: KITCHE:N
www.jumble.com 
WA5 BACKE:O UP. 
LEWLOY 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
[J I [] 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer here: ~~ 

rI I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) TABOO FABLE SPEEDY HOOKUPYesterday's IJumbles: 
Answer: Often follows when a business falls into the red -THE BLUES 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, February 26, 2009 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Silent Knights 
Jackson's 18 points push Irish past Knights 
By CHRIS HINE Editor-in-Chief 
On Saturday, Notre Dame was able to beat Providence without much help from jun­ior point guard Tory Jackson. But on Wednesday, after Notre Dame trailed by eight 
·-at halftime to lowly Rutgers and forward Luke Harangody hit just 2-of-12 first half shots, Jackson knew his team needed him. He answered the challenge and scored 18 points to pro­pel Notre Darpe to a 70-65 win over the Scarlet Knights in the Joyce Center. "When we played Providence, it was a reality check for me " said Jackson, who had just two points in 12 minutes against the Friars. "I can't play tight. My team needs me." Jackson, however, had some assistance in inspiring the Irish in the second half. 
Senior forward Ryan Ayers has sparked Notre Dame with a key offensive play many times in his career at Notre Dame, but against Hutgers, it was a defensive play from Ayers that ignited his team. 
With 18:04 left in the sec­ond half, 6-foot-11 Scarlet Knights junior Hamady Ndiaye went up for a shot in the lane. Waiting there was the 6-foot-8 Ayers, who put up his long right arm and plucked the shot out of the air, grabbed the ball and began a Notre Dame fast break that ended with a Luke Harangody 3-point play, assisted by Jackson. The sequence brought Notre Dame within one point of Rutgers. 
"That put us in another gear, picked us up and got us pumped up a little bit," Jackson said. "He had a few blocks today like Dikembe [Mutombo]. He was Dikembe Ayers." 
Ayers' block helped awaken the languid Irish, who wasted little time after that reclaim-
see JACKSON/page 21 

BASEBALL 
Teams travel south to escape cold weather, begin play 
Their early success puts two HBis this weekend. The Mountaineers beat game at North Florida.
By BILL BRINK 
the Irish (2-1) atop the Big Junior reliever Steve Mazur Indiana and Northwester Pittsburgh lost a 9-8
Sports Editor 
East, but the season is too threw three hitless innings but dropped games to extra-inning game to young for judgment yet. of relief and earned a win Minnesota and Illinois. They Bradley and also dropped a Cold weather still blankets Here's a look at the confer­over the weekend. travel to Myrtle Beach, S.C. game to Air Force, but beat half of the Big East campus­ence: Seton Hall beat Minnesota for a four-game swing. Navy 3-1. Junior speedster es, but baseball is underway and Michigan State but lost Chris Sedon has stolen three down south. The early leaders: Notre to Penn State over the The middle: Connecticut bases in three attempts this 
Notre Dame won two of Dame (2-1), Seton Hall (2-weekend. Junior pitcher (1-2), Pittsburgh (1-2), season. three in the Big East/Big 1), St. John's (2-1), West Sean Black was named a Big South Florida ( 1-2), South Florida sandwiched Ten Challenge in Florida Virginia (2-2) East Player of the Week. Geor~etown (1-3), Rutgers a win over Purdue with loss­last weekend, including a The Irish travel south • The Hed Storm scored 33 (1-3) es to Michigan and Indiana 10-inning win over Purdue again this weekend when runs in their first two Connecticut lost two and tied the Netherlands Sunday. The Irish lost to they face Gonzaga, Dayton games, both wins, but lost straight before a 10-1 win Tuesday night. Senior out­Ohio State 2-0 Friday, but and Creighton in Arizona. 4-2 to Michigan. Sophomore against George Mason. The fielder Mike Consolmagno is their bats heated up in a Sophomore outfielder third baseman Greg Hopkins Huskies head to Florida hitting .467 and sl~gging 14-7 win over Illinois Golden Tate hit .500 with also earned Big East Player again for another game Saturday. four runs, two doubles and of the Week honors. against the Colonials and a see BIG EAST/page 21 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles face Calvin in semis 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
Tonight, the Belles could make history. 
A victory this evening against No. 3 seed Calvin in the second round of the MIAA Tournament will give No. 2 Saint Mary's (16-9, 13­3 MIAA) a team-record 17th victory and vault the Belles into the finals. 
While an opportunity to play for Saint Mary's first MIAA title weighs heavily on each player, head coach Jennifer Henley is certainly not overlooking Calvin. 
"We continue to take one game at a time," Henley said. "At this point, that is all we 
see SEMIS/page 21 


HOCKEY 

Battle for first-round byes, home ice heats up 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 
Coming into the final week­end of conference play, No. 2 Notre Dame has the top seed in the CCHA playoff's locked up, but the rest of the conference still has some sorting out to do. 
The Irish current conference record is 19-4-3, but the team has won all three of those ties in shootouts giving them a total ol' 44 points thus far. That gives Notre Dame a first-round bye and home ice advantage in the second round. 
The CCI·IA playoffs basically divide the 12 teams into three tiers. The top four teams receive byes, the middle four have home ice in the first round and the bottom four have to fight against all odds to make it to Detroit's Joe Louis Arena for the semifinals and champi­onship in late March. 

The interesting battles to watch this weekend will be with teams on the verge of moving up or down a level in that three-tier system. 
No. 15 Ohio State currently sits in fifth place, but the Buckeyes control their own des­tiny as far earning a free pass to the second round. With 31 points, Ohio State is currently three behind fourth-place 
see BUCKEYES/page 22 







