
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 

After suffering two years of losing football, Notre Dame students are excited about this year's team follow­ing Saturday's 35-0 win over Nevada. 
"Compared to the San Diego State opener last year, this team was more legitimate," senior Tom Matthew said. "It was apparent that there was a great connection among the offense and that they had put in a lot of work in the offseason." 
After watching the team post 510 yards, Matthew is not the only one in singing the offense's praises. 
"It was obviously a very good game for the Irish offense," junior Michael Flanigan said. "There was a lot of car­ryover from Hawaii and all the talk 
Wolf Pack tamed 
Student body applauds football team's shutout victory 

about the team's work in the offsea­son showed." Students were also ecstatic about the dynamic passing game. 
"Clausen and Floyd worked great together," Matthew said. "Clausen knew where Floyd was going to be on that field." 
Saturday's ganie marks the first shutout for the Irish since a victory over Rutgers in 2002, and was the first shutout with Weis as coach. 
''I'm proud to have been here for the first shutout in seven years," sophomore Sara Teising said. "It must be pretty cool for Weis to have the opener be a shutout," said Teising, who is a part of the Student Management Organization and assists the football team at practices. She 
see GAME/page 4 
ND's first w-otnen make book donation 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
As part of one of the first coeducational classes at Notre Dame, Ann Therese Palmer quickly learned to blend in with the men. 
Being a woman at a univer­sity that had been reserved for men since its founding in 1842 wasn't always comfortable. 
A member of the class of 1973, after the University went coed in 1972 under the leadership of University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Palmer said women were a minority on campus -and they stood out because of it. 
"It was a real shock to go into the [Hammes Notre Dame] Bookstore today and see all of the Notre Dame clothing in hot pink," Palmer said. "Women wouldn't have been caught dead in pink or chick clothing. You'd be set­ting yourself up to be the punch line of a joke." 
But the women rallied. 
"One of my best friends was a government major. She had a required class on the fourth floor of the Dome in the spring semester ... The professor said he'd taught at ND for 25 
see WOMENIpage 3 

Studentsgivemixed reviews ofPepRally 

The return of Dillon Hall's signature event draws a large crowd to South Quad Friday 
Willingham -attempted to avoid the controversy that had dogged the event in past years. 
"It started off kind of slow, but it picked up," junior Justin Brown said. 
Certain skits stood out in the minds of students who attend­ed the event. Sophomore John Kelly said one highlight was a skit titled, 'CS-CSI' -a play on titles of CBS' hit shows and the order of priests that founded Notre Dame. 
"I thought it was quite well­written," said Kelly. This year's Pep Rally also included a musical number, 
see DILLON/page 4 


Alumnus talks about life in politics 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
In politics, you can go very far, very quickly, if you're willing to work hard, Pennsylvania State Representative and Notre Dame alumnus Brendan Boyle said in a talk with Notre Dame students Friday afternoon. 
Boyle (D -Philadelphia/ Montgomery) worked as a consultant for AMS Consulting immediately after graduation, when "compa­nies were even hiring Arts and Letters majors" thanks to a soaring economy. After three and a half years, how­ever, he realized politics was his true passion. 
Boyle's bookshelf in his consulting office was filled with biographies of past presidents and American history books. 
"You don't belong in con­sulting," a coworker told him, according to Boyle. "It sounds cliche but it's true, do what makes you happy. As much as I liked consult­ing, it wasn't where my heart was." 
Family connections are not 
see BOYLE/page 3 


By JOHN McKISSICK News Writer 
The return of Dillon Hall's signature pep rally to campus was met with mixed reviews by students, although the event, which took place Friday afternoon on South Quad, was well attended, 
"I've never seen so many people together in my life," freshman Kathleen Monahan said. 
The Pep Rally -which included skits were students impersonated University President Fr. John Jenkins, Irish coach Charlie Weis and even former Irish coach Ty 
INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Saint Mary's freshman experience page 3 • Postgame Insider pullout • Mas Def album review page 10 • Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, September 7, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Broken Bubble 
Since coming to Notre Dame in 2007, I was always content just living inside of the bubble. South Bend, I had always thought, was a somewhat scary place, and an Observer headline announcing theshootingsoftwo students at Oub 23 Joseph McMahon during my fresh­man orientation 
Associate 

weekend seemed to 
News Editor 

confirm my notions. 
As such, I was happy to live inside the bubble. As a freshman, I couldn't imagine anything better than the sweaty, loud parties that we used to host in our cramped Alumni dorm rooms. Even better was going off campus, where a party was good as long as there were members of the opposite sex present. It was a simple, na'ive time. 
However, since returning from Europe, where I spent last semester and also worked this summer, I have been com­pletely and totally underwhelmed. The bubble I thought protected me feels more like a jail cell. 
Now please do not misinterpret me ­this is not a column about a person who went abroad, came back, and is now resentful that he lives in a society where the legal drinking age is 21. While the rules here certainly do not permit alcohol consumption, everyone knows it occurs here quite frequently. 
Rather, what I am more troubled by is the circumstances under which alcohol consumption takes place. While abroad, going out to a bar or a club was more than just about drinking-it was a chance to meet new people, to practice our language skills, and to experience a new culture. 
Sometimes at Notre Dame, I truly can­not understand why people bother going out at all. On Saturday night, following the football team's thumping of Nevada, the halls of Alumni were again filled with blaring music, as girls in high heels and skimpy cocktail dresses wandered the hallways attempting to find a party. Even more comical are the throng out in front of main circle attempting to catch a cab to a party that will either be shortly bro­ken up by the police or run out of alcohol. 
Ultimately, I have become disenchanted with the way in which Notre Dame stu­dents who are not of the legal age limit socialize. Most people in the administra­tion would criticize the Notre Dame party scene as dangerous and illegal, but I see it as something else altogether-com­pletely pathetic. 
However, this is not entirely the fault of Notre Dame students. Operating within the parameters of the bubble, students are forced to cram like sardines into dorm rooms or venture off campus in the hopes of finding a decent party. While abroad, the times I enjoyed most were simply sitting at a table with a few friends and maybe even a couple of professors while we discussed everything from poli­tics to relationships over a beer. It was civilized, and it also helped cut down on dangerous binge drinking (the only time we ever had to take someone to the hos­pital was to get his tonsils out). I felt as though I had finally outgrown the need for a protective bubble and had truly matured into an adult, only to find myself back on campus, where I am treated not only by the University, but by society in general as a child. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmah06@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WERE YOU EXPECTING THE IRISH TO COMPLETELY DOMINATE? 









Brandon Vo  Dan McDonald  Brandl Allen  Lora O'Shaughnessy  Max Osbon  Tylor Mondragon  
freshman  senior  junior  junior  senior  freshman  
Keough  Dillon  Badin  Badin  Dillon  Duncan  
"We were on a  "Of course I  "I certainly  "No, but  "Giving Weis  "It was my first  
roll and I was  expected it! Go  didn't expect a  greatness was  four years to  football game  
hoping it would  IRISH!"  shutout!  thrust upon us  prepare for the  and it was a  
be higher but it was a bust!"  Woohoo!"  that beautiful ,day.  game was like giving Einstein  great way to start offthe  
four years to  season.  
take the SATs. ,  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer Notre Dame photographer Matt Cashore, left, sprints from the football field immediately prior to kickoff Saturday. Cashore captured a stunning 360-degree panoramic image that can be seen at gameday.nd.edu 
OFFBEAT 
Pa. man fires cannon, hits neighbor's house 
UNIONTOWN, Pa. -A Pennsylvania history buff who recreates firearms from old wars accidentally fired a 2-pound cannon­ball through the wall of his neighbor's home. William Maser, 54, fired a cannonball Wednesday evening outside his home in Georges Township that ricocheted and hit a house 400 yards away. The can­nonball, about two inches in diameter, smashed through a window and a wall before landing in a closet. Authorities said nobody was hurt. 
State police charged Maser with reckless endangerment, criminal mischief and disorderly conduct. 
No one answered the phone Friday at Maser's home. He told WPXI-TV recreating 19th century cannons is a longtime hobby. He said he is sorry and he will stop shooting them on his property, about 35 miles southeast of Pittsburgh. 
Goat wanders into Bronx nursing home 
NEW YORK -It's anoth­er case of the wandering goat. Officials say an ema­ciated-looking Nubian goat wandered onto the proper­ty of a nursing home in the Bronx, where two other goats were discovered in July. 
Animal shelter officials said the male goat was found Tuesday. He was feverish and suffering from pneumonia. 
He has joined the other two goats, nicknamed Duncan and Isadora, at the Farm Sanctuary in Watkins Glen, N.Y. 
Officials say the goats' origin remains a mystery. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 
!;: ::1: 
1.&.1 
0.
,,,,,,,

~ 
,,,,,,,

..... 
,,,,,,,

e
e

<
(,) 
0 
HIGH 74 HIGH 59 HIGH 75 HIGH 76
...I 
LOW 59 LOW 55 LOW 58 LOW 58 
IN BRIEF 
An exhibit titled "Fritz Scholder, Contemporary Artist: Influences" is currently on display at the Snite Museum of Art and will run until October 18. He is a con­temporary Native American artist, and will be speaking on Sept. 13 at 3:30 p.m. Admission is free. 
A lecture titled "When will we find ET?" will be held at 101 DeBartolo Hall today at 8 
p.m. The College of Arts and Letters Dean's Fellows will host a lecture by Dr. Seth Shostak, senior astronomer in SETI (Search for Extra­Terrestrial Intelligence) Institute and host of NPR sci­ence show "Are We Alone?" 
There will be a Dirty/Dusty Book Sale in the Hesburgh Library concourse on Sept. 10 from 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. This sale is open to public. 
"King Lear" will be per­formed by Actors From the London Stage at Washington Hall from Sept. 9 to 11. AFTLS visits campus twice a year with five actors to bring some of Shakespeare's great works to life. Ticket prices vary and the event is open to public. 
A film titled "Vanaja" (2006) will be shown on September 11 at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center in the Browning Cinema at 9:30 
p.m. The film follows the 15­year-old daughter of a finan­cially troubled fisherman. Purchase tickets online at performingarts.nd.edu 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSDAY  FRIDAY  
0.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,  0.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,  

HIGH 76 HIGH 73 LOW 59 LOW 57 
Atlanta 84 I 64 Boston 72 I 55 Chicago 75 I 59 Denver 82 I 59 Houston 93 I 71 Los Angeles 81 I 61 Minneapolis 81 I 59 New York 73 I 62 Philadelphia 75 I 62 Phoenix 101 I 82 Seattle 64 I 51 St. Louis 79 I 60 Tampa 91 I 74 Washington 78 I 65 
Monday, September 7, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Wo01en 
continued from page 1 
years, never taught a woman and wasn't starting now. He threw her out of the class," Palmer said. 
She ended up in the Dean's office, who sent her back to the class. She was a human ping-pong ball for about a week, until she called her brother, who was at Tulane, for advice. He said she need­ed to stick it out and get the top score on the first quiz and shut him up, which is exactly what she did. 
Along with a group of Notre Dame alumnae who wanted to give back to Notre Dame, Palmer, president of the Thanking Fr. Ted Foundation, collected letters from women graduates of Notre Dame and edited them into a book: "Thanking Father Ted: Thirty-Five Years of Notre Dame Coeducation." 
The Foundation, made up of Notre Dame alumnae, decid­ed to donate about 1,000 books to the women of the class of 2013 as well as give the proceeds from book sales to the University in order to fund a scholarship for a female to attend Notre Dame. 
"To date, through individ­ual donations and the sales of our book, we've collected more than $150,000 to fund a scholarship for an undergrad­uate student," she said. "The Development Office recently told us the scholarship will be awarded for the first time next year to an undergradu­ate student." 
The books will be distrib­uted to the women through their residence halls. 
Secretary of the Thanking Fr. Ted Foundation Sheila O'Brien, a member of the class of 1977, said the book is a good way for current Notre Dame women to hear stories about past Notre Dame women. 
"Giving back to Notre Dame is something we really want­ed to do," she said. "Giving the book to the first years, it's fun to tell the story of women at Notre Dame. Women need to hear the stories of other women." 
Palmer said she also believes it's important for current Notre Dame women to hear the stories of the women who preceded them at Notre Dame. 
"We realized a few years ago that women on campus today have no idea what it was like to be a coed pioneer. Today, it's a given that women are accept.ed on cam­pus, accepted as equals in the classroom, in extra-curricu­lars, in sports," she said. "But, each of these givens has been the result of women groundbreakers. They weren't handed to us on a sil­ver platter." 
Palmer said she owes her degree to Hesburgh and said he took a lot of criticism for instituting the change to coeducation. 
"He was a night owl, would start around noon and work through until the early hours. If you needed to talk to him, you always knew you could find him in his office around 1 a.m.," she said. "It was very comforting because he always knew what to say to make us feel good and make us feel we could succeed, no matter what the obstacles we were facing." 
Along with being education­al, O'Brien said the book is just a fun read. 
"There's a lot of Notre Dame women graduates now and hearing the story is good for all of us and retelling the story and thinking of Notre Dame's history is good for all of our hearts," she said. "We're all part of a great legacy." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 


THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
BOOK REMAINDER SALE 
•
re·main·der (noun) : a book sold at a reduced price re·duced (verb) :up to 30% off regular prices (but wait, there's more...) PLUS YOUR DISCOUNT!* 



Art Biography Business Computer 


Education Engineering Fiction/Literature Sociology 
1 OR 2 COPIES OF SOME OF YOUR FAVORITE TITLES. GET THEM WHILE YOU CAN! 



Saint Mary's first years adjust to life on campus 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
After spending a little over two weeks on campus, some Saint Mary's first year students are starting to find their niches while others struggle with the transition to college life. 
"I really like it," first year Cecelia Gatto said. "I feel like there's a lot to offer to get involved in." 
Like Gatto, Bonnie Sanders also has a positive outlook on college life. 
"I like my classes," Sanders said. "The campus is beautiful. I just like how close knit it is." 
However, some first years 
"It's really different 
did have some up late trying to negative first from high school. It's get all that impressions of done," Sanders
really fast paced and
the College. said.
you have to keep up." 
"All through Though many high school, all have had some through when I Meghan Feasel issues with was younger, I classes, Gatto
first year
always had said that she
Saint Mary's 
boys as best enjoys most of 
friends, so all girls is kind of hard." Samantha Brady said. "I don't like the lack of variety in the dining hall food. And I can't have a microwave in my room. I don't like to have to pay for laundry." 
Although most students have enjoyed their time on campus so far, some are having a hard time adjusting to their new academic experiences. 
"I love the atmosphere. I think the people here are real­ly friendly and nice, but I just haven't adjusted academically yet," Emily Reeg said. "It's so 

Boyle 
continued from page 1 
necessary to have political success, Boyle said. In fact, it's possible to get elected without any connections at all. 
"I knew almost no one in elected office," he said. "Don't let that discourage you." 
Boyle encouraged aspiring politicians to take on even the least glamorous jobs. A politi­cian who is willing to lick envelopes and knock on doors will go much farther than one who wants to just "consult" a 
campaign, he "It's amazing what is Romney." said. people will tell you on Boyle offered 
"Anyone who several pieces
their front doorstep. " 
believes in of advice for democracy students inter­should spend an Brendan Boyle ested in enter­
afternoon State Representative ing politics. knocking on Law school and
Pennsylvania
doors for a campaign," he said. "It's amazing what peo­ple will tell you on their front doorstep." 
Boyle recommended active involvement in the community as a way to gain recognition and respect from potential constituents. 
Boyle also discussed some of the negative aspects of running for political office. He was technically unemployed while running for office, and although he was able to live off his savings, he had no health insurance, making him different than high school. I just hope that I can adjust soon." 
One reason some students are struggling with classes is the distinct difference between high school and college. 
"It's really different from high school. It's really fast paced and you have to keep up," Meghan Feasel said. 
Others agreed that classes at the College were considerably different from high school. 
"[I am] still getting used to doing homework and getting enough sleep. In high school that wasn't a big deal. You did­n't get much homework. Here, every class expects you to do a lot of homework. I've been staying 
hers. 

"I love going to all my class­es," Gatto said. "My teachers are all so nice and when I go to class I feel comfortable being myself." 
Overall, first year students have had pleasant experiences while attending Saint Mary's. 
"I enjoy meeting new people and it feels good to walk out­side and see so many people you know and just say 'Hi,"' Reeg said. "It's like a friendly warm feeling." 
Contact Alicia Smitb at asmitbO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
nervous about illness or injury. His other biggest worry is fundraising. 
"I stared at the phone for two hours before making my first fundraising call," he said. 
One way Boyle recommend­ed to raise money is to start with family and friends. Boyle's campaign held "beef and beers" parties for $30 as a simple fundraiser. 
"Free alcohol is always a good way to draw people, whether at college parties or campaign parties," Boyle said laughing. 
The fundraising aspect is intimidating to anyone, Boyle 
said, "unless 
your last name 
graduate 

school in public policy are good ways to pre­pare for political careers ­Boyle himself holds a mas­ter's in public policy from Harvard University's John F. 
Kennedy  School  of  
Government.  
Unpaid internships are  an  

easy way to "get your foot in the door," Boyle said, noting that his office recently hired one of his previous volunteer interns. 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 
I
I 
I 
I 
I Ga01e 
continued from page 1 
I 
f said while theoffense put up good numbers, she was just as I happy with the defense on 
Saturday.

I 
I 
"I was really impressed with Kyle McCarthy's interception," Teising said. "It was a good catch and return." 
Flanigan said there was much to pleased about after watching the defense's per­formance on Saturday. 
"You really enjoy seeing no points up on the board for Nevada," Flanigan said. "Especially holding them to 150 yards rushing shows real positive signs that the defense 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 7, 2009 

is showing up. The game was­n'tjust about the offense." 
Matthew agreed that the Irish defense defied expecta­tions. 
"I was surprised that they prevented Nevada from scor­ing at all," he said. "And while the shut-out is nice, if Nevada would have scored that field goal it wouldn't have made the win any less significant. I'm just glad that the Irish were ready to play." 
While many students are still reveling in the victory over Nevada, some are already looking ahead to next week's game at Michigan. 
"We played a good game against Nevada but that does­n't change the fact that we've got to go to the Big House next week," Teising said. "I think that game will deter­mine how the rest of the sea­son goes. It will be tough since Michigan's obviously been practicing more than us." 
Flanigan also expressed some worries about playing the Wolverines on the road after Michigan's own impres­sive 31-7 victory over Western Michigan this weekend. 
"I think that Michigan's tougher than a lot of us ini­tially thought," he said. "I think that it's going to be a really good game next week and that the outcome will help shape the rest of the season for the Irish." 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 




Dillon 
continued from page 1 
"Here at NO," parodying "Under the Sea" from The Little Mermaid. It featured backup dancers dressed as a quarter dog, the golden dome and Touchdown Jesus. 
"I thought it was fun. The skits were a little awkward," freshman Maricruz Menchero said. "But I did like the dance." 
The Pep Rally -as is tradi­tion -allowed students to dis­play dorm pride. 
"Every dorm had a flag except for Badin," freshman Brianna Neblung said. "Our flag's still sitting outside the hall government office." 
Dillon also used their stage as an opportunity to poke fun at their long-time rival, Alumni Hall. One skit featured the men of Alumni dancing across the stage in tights, which elicited some jeers from the crowd. 
"I have no comment. The skit was horrible. People from Alumni were so fed up, (they) actually left after a half hour," freshman Matt Schirtzinger said. 
While some students liked some of the individual skits, many more said the overarch­ing storyline behind the skits was hard to ·follow. 
"I didn't really understand what was going on," freshman Margaret Bellon said. "The conflict wasn't resolved." 
Other complained that the event was poorly planned and the layout of the stage made it hard for the people in back to see. 
"I would have made the stage higher," Monahan said. "Lots of people were around me, asking, 'What's going 
?'"
on. 
Neblung said the skits failed to engage the student body and left much to be desired. 
"Maybe if [the Pep Rally had] something a little more student interactive, engaging the dorms, getting the spirit going," she said. "The skits didn't get us excited." 
Kelly disagreed, saying the skits helped "hype up the crowd more." 
"It condensed the best parts of a Dillon Pep Rally and a reg­ular pep rally," he said. "It was more hilarious than any attempt by SAO." 
Contact John McKissick at jmckissi@nd.edu 

In honor of workers on this Labor Day, and in the tradition of Msgr. George Higgins, the Higgins Labor Studies Program proudly supports this affirmation of the dignity of work signed by many Catholic faculty and community leaders 
-Marty Wolfson, Director of Higgins Labor Studies Program 
As Catholic leaders concerned about the pain that workers are experiencing during the present economic crisis in our nation, but especially in our local communities throughout St. Joseph County, we want to affirm the recent Catholic social teaching statements in support of the dignity of workers. Pope Benedict XVI issued his third encyclical this summer, Caritas in Veritate (Charity in Truth), promoting the Catholic social tradition of tying the dignity of work to the dignity of the human person. The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops also recently addressed the need to support workers in the healthcare industry this summer in their statement, Respecting the Just Rights of Workers. This Labor Day is an important historical moment to retlect on work as an expression of our dignity and our involvement in God's creation. 
The Holy Father and the U.S. Bishops emphasized four principles related to people's engagement with the economy as part of human development. First, the dignity of work is a fundamental good for humanity. Second, people need to come first by prioritizing labor over capital. Third, people have a right to work together through the right of association. Fourth, people's quality of life depends on receiving a living wage. Pope Benedict stated, "The repeated calls issued within the Church's social doctrine, ... for the promotion of workers' associations that can defend their rights must therefore be honored today even more than in the past."(#25) 
Pope Benedict XVI goes on to say, " ... poverty results from a violation of the dignity of work." (#63) In our region, cuts in the workforce and the lack of living wage jobs have accelerated the double digits rate of poverty in our area, especially among children. Together we can act to improve the quality of life tor workers in our communities. There exist no simple solutions. The social doctrine put forth in Caritas in Veritate addresses multiple approaches to lifting humanity out of poverty. Among the conditions needed to allow for "decent work", the Holy Father emphasizes, "Work that permits the workers to organize themselves freely, and to make their voices heard." He emphasizes that the economic security of all depends on the economic security of workers. This insecurity has been aggravated by the weakening of unions. 
In conclusion, each of us is endowed by God with particular gifts and talents. We need to recognize our gifts and contribute to the needs ofthe greater society. Work is a vital activity that allows each of us to contribute to the broader community. This Labor Day we afl1rm the dignity of work and the guiding points in Catholic social teaching that assist us in acting upon this belief. We ask that our Lord, Jesus Christ, who himself was a carpenter, gives us the strength and courage to live charity in truth. In Christ, 
Joe Carbone, St. Joe Valley Pr~ject-Jobs with Justice Dan Graft~ Associate Director, Higgins Labor Studies Program and Director of Undergraduate Studies, Department of History, University ofNotre Dame Bill Purcell, Associate Director, Center for Social Concerns, University ofNotre Dame 
Co·Siwers [organizations listed for identification purposes only] 
R. Scott Appleby, Professor ofHistory and Director ofthe Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, University ofNotre Dame Michael Baxter, South Bend Catholic Worker. and Visiting Associate Professional Specialist in Theology. University of Notre Dame Mary Beckman, Associate Director, Center for Social Concerns, and Concurrent Associate Professor of Economics and Policy Studies, University of Notre Dame Rev. Thomas Blantz, C.S.C. Professor of History, University ofNotre Dame Kathleen Cannon. O.P., Associate Dean, College ofScience, and Concurrent Professor ofTheology, University ofNotre Dame Rev. Leonard F. Chrobot, Ph.D., Pastor, Catholic Community ofSaints Patrick and Hedwig, South Bend, IN Rev. Leonard J. Collins, C.S.C .. Pastor, St. Augustine Parish, South Bend. IN Rev. Christopher W. Cox. C.S.C., Pastor. St. Adalbert Parish-St. Casimir Parish, South Bend. IN Kathleen Sprows Cummings, Assistant Professor ofAmerican Studies and Associate Director ofthe Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism, University of Notre Dame Mary R. D'Angelo, Associate Professor ofTheology, University ofNotre Dame JoAnn DellaNeva, Professor ofRomance Languages and Literatures, University ofNotre Dame Rev. Robert A. Dowd, C.S.C., Assistant Professor ofPolitical Science and Director ofthe Ford Family Program in Human Development Studies & Solidarity, University ofNotre Dame Stephen Fallon. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Professor ofthe Humanities, and Chair ofthe Program of Liberal Studies, University ofNotre Dame Dolores Frese, Professor ofEnglish, University ofNotre Dame Rev. Patrick Gaffney, C.S.C., Associate Professor of Anthropology, University ofNotre Dame Rev. Bernard Galic, Pastor, Holy Family Parish, South Bend, IN, and Vocation Director tor the Fot1 Wayne·South Bend Diocese Patrick Griffin, Professor of History, University ofNotre Dame Rev. Dan Groody, C.S.C., Assistant Professor ofTheology, University of Notre Dame Rev. Thomas Jones, C.S.C., Pastor, Sacred Heart Parish, Notre Dame, IN Rev. Paul Kollman, C. S.C., Assistant Professor ofTheology, University of Notre Dame Rev. Bill Lies. C.S.C., Director ofthe Center for Social Concerns, University ofNotre Dame Carl Loesch Nicole MacLaughlin, Assistant Professional Specialist in the University Writing Program, University ofNotre Dame Tim Matovina, Professor ofTheology and Director of the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism, University of Notre Dame 
Sara Maurer, Assistant Professor of English, University ofNotre Dame 
John McGreevy, Professor ofllistory and I.A. O'Shaughnessy Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, University ofNotre Dame 
Br. Bill Mewes, C. S.C., Chair ofthe Justice and Peace Commission. Congregation of Holy Cross, Midwest Province 
Rev. Wilson D. Miscarnble, C.S.C., Protessor ofHistory. University of Notre Dame 
Rev. Robert Pelton. C.S.C., Concurrent Professor Theology (Emeritus), University ofNotre Dame 
Margaret PfeiL Assistant Professor, Theology, Urtiversity ofNotre Dame 

AnnMarie R. Power, Director ofUndergraduate Studies, Department of Sociology, University ofNotre Dame 
F. Clark Power, Professor in the Program of Liberal Studies, University ofNotre Dame Valerie Sayers, Professor ofEnglish, University ofNotre Dame Mary Ann Burgess Smyth, Assistant Professor ofEnglish, University ofNotre Dame John Welle, Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures. University ofNotre Dame Todd Whitmore, Associate Professor of Theology and Director ofthe Program in the Catholic Social Tradition, University ofNotre Dame 
Higgins Labor Studies Program 510 Flanner Hall 631-6934 




ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 7, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE O:ssERVER:s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. airstrike causes NATO dispute 
KABUL -An airstrike by U.S. fighter jets that appears to have killed Afghan civilians could turn into a major dispute for NATO allies Germany and the United States, as tensions began rising between them Sunday over Germany's role in ordering the attack. 
Afghan officials say up to 70 people were killed in the early morning airstrike Friday in the northern province of Kunduz after Taliban militants stole two tanker trucks of fuel and vil­lagers gathered to siphon off gas. 
Afghan and NATO investigations are just beginning, but both German and U.S. officials already appeared to be trying to deflect blame. 
German Defense Minister Franz Josef Jung said the Taliban's possession of the two tankers "posed an acute threat to our soldiers." German officials have said the tankers might have been used as suicide bombs. 
Philippine passenger ferry capsizes 
MANILA, Philippines -Passengers leapt into the dark sea and parents dropped children into life rafts when a ferry carrying nearly 1,000 people capsized in the middle of the night in the southern Philippines. 
Nine people died and more than 30 were missing though rescue efforts saved about 900 terrified victims on the Superferry 9 early Sunday after it turned on its side 9 miles (15 kilometers) off Zamboanga del Norte province. 
The vessel's violent rotation roused frightened passengers from their sleep and sent many jumping in the darkness into the water, coast guard chief Admiral Wilfredo Tamayo said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Supremacist gunman renounces views 
LOS ANGELES -A white supremacist who killed a postal worker and wounded five people at a Los Angeles area Jewish commu­nity center in a 1999 shooting spree says he has renounced his racist views. 
In a letter to a Los Angeles Daily News reporter, Buford 0. Furrow Jr. says he regrets the pain he has caused. 
Furrow. who is serving a life sentence with no chance of parole, describes himself as a "model inmate who has shunned criminal activity." 
He says he has thrown away his nco-Nazi literature and now believes "a life based on hate is no life at all." 
Ten years ago Furrow wounded three little children, a teenager and an adult at a Granada Hills community center. He later killed letter carrier Joseph S. Ileto. 


Ocean stations to help research 
FALMOUTH, Mass. -A Massachusetts ocean studies institute is building underwater data collection stations to help researchers under­stand the ocean's role in climate change. 
The Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution on Cape Cod has received nearly $100 million in federal grants to help develop and operate the underwater "Observatories. 
Underwater stations will be built in locales worldwide, from the Gulf of Alaska to about 75 miles southeast of Newport, R.I. They'll meas­ure variables such as water temperature and current movements. 
Woods Hole scientist Robert Wellers says the stations will help scientists make prolonged deep water observations that aren't possible now and save money spent on data collection. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Five Planned Parenthoods to close 
INDIANAPOLIS -Planned Parenthood will close five health clinics across central Indiana after losing some of its federal grant money to provide family planning services to low-income women. 
The clinics in Anderson, Franklin, Kokomo, Shelbyville and Indianapolis will close over the next six months, Planned Parenthood of Indiana said in a statement provided to The Associated Press on Sunday. 
The five centers, none of which provide abortions, serve a total of about 8,500 patients, the statement said. 
GREAT BRITAIN 


Britain: No demands for victims 
Libya not required to offer compensation for deaths of Britons in IRA bombing 
Associated Press 

LONDON -Britain made no demands that Libya offer compensation for Britons killed by Libyan explosives supplied to the Irish Republican Army for fear it could jeopardize ties with Tripoli, according to new documents released Sunday. 
The revelation prompted accusations that Britain had acted to protect energy deals, and added to ques­tions about whether trade ties influenced last month's decision to release Lockerbie bomber Abdel Baset al-Megrahi. 
Prime Minister Gordon Brown said his government "does not consider it appro­priate to enter into a bilat­eral discussion with Libya on this matter," according to a letter to victims' lawyer Jason McCue released by Downing Street. 
The news outraged British survivors of IRA bombings -particularly since U.S. victims of IRA attacks have secured a sep­arate compensation deal with Tripoli. 
Brown later told reporters in Berlin he would offer diplomatic support to pri­vate efforts to secure com­pensation, but he still shied away from pursuing the issue with Libya directly. its sponsorship of terrorism gram, and accepting his Rammel said in the letter, 
"I desperately care about and its pu.J:Suit of nuclear government's responsibility dated Nov. 6. In addition to what has happened to the weapons. for the Lockerbie bombing, cooperating on terrorism, people who have been vic­"It is these concerns -the 1988 attack which killed Rammel noted that "Libya tims of IRA terrorism," he security and terrorism, not 270 people, mostly is now a vital partner for said. oil or commercial interests Americans. the U.K. in guaranteeing a 
McCue said he was over­-that have been the domi­Brown and other govern­secure energy future for the joyed at the announcement nant feature of our relation­ment officials stressed the U.K." of diplomatic support, pre­ship," Brown said. need to keep Libya on that Ganesh told British broad­dicting a compensation deal Libya once supplied route when explaining why casters that that passage could now be negotiated weapons and explosives to they did not press the said it all. within weeks. terrorists around the world, Libyans for compensation "It's because of an oil deal 
The foreign affairs including several tons of for the IRA's attacks. But with BP. I really believe spokesman for Britain's Semtex plastic explosive documents released Sunday that," he told Sky News tele­opposition Conservatives, sent to IRA rebels fighting -including a letter sent vision. He was referring to William Hague, said Brown to drive Northern Ireland from Middle East minister the $900 million exploration should have provided diplo­out of the United Kingdom. Bill Rammel to Jonathan agreement the British ener· matic support "as a matter The IRA used those explo­Ganesh, a survivor of one of gy company signed with of course, not as a result of sives in the 1980s and 90s. the IRA bombings -sug­Libya Investment Corp. in public pressure." But Libyan leader gest that the government May 2007. 
Brown argued that his Moammar Gadhafi per­was also keeping Libya's The same month, Britain government had previously formed an about-face in the vast oil wealth in mind. and Libya signed a memo­avoided broaching the issue wake of the Sept. 11 "Libya has genuinely randum of understanding with the Libyans out of a attacks, renouncing terror­become an important inter· that paved the way for al­desire to wean the North ism, dismantling his coun­national partner for the Megrahi's release from a African nation away from try's secret nuclear pro-U.K. on many levels," Scottish prison. 

Four dead in violent La. murder-suicide 
The father of the pregnant woman, wife, Amber Carter, was badly hurt and
Associated Press Amber Carter, said the suspect had a his­their son, Masson Carter, 2, was found HOLDEN, La. -A man shot his tory of abusing his estranged wife and dead outside. estranged wife, son and 2-year-old recently tried to attack her with a Williamson said Carter Jr. had previ­grandson to death and seriously wound­machete. ously fought with his father to protect his ed his pregnant daughter-in-law at their "This had been going on for quite some mother. rural Louisiana home, then killed himself time," Paul Williamson said. "It was one Rushing said it appeared Amber as police tried to pull over his car 20 min­of those domestic violence things that just Carter, who was about six months preg­utes later, authorities said. gets worse and worse." nant, and Masson Carter managed to The pregnant woman later gave birth, Another 16-month-old boy was in the escape from a second-floor window but it about three months early, her father said. house during the shootings but was not was not clear if the gunman shot them The shootings late Saturday appeared hurt. The child was related to the Carters inside or followed them outside and shot to stem from an ongoing dispute between but Rushing was not sure how. them there. 50-year-old Dennis Carter Sr. and his Authorities were called around 10:30 Rushing said deputies spotted Dennis wife, Donna Carter, who had a restrain­p.m. Saturday to the home in Holden, Carter Sr. about 20 minutes after the ing order against him, Livingston Parish about 30 miles east of Baton Rouge. shootings driving on a highway. When Sheriff's Office Chief of Operations Perry Donna Carter, 49, and Dennis Carter Jr., they tried to pull him over, he shot and Rushing said Sunday. 26, were dead inside. Dennis Carter Jr.'s killed himself. 
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 7,. 
·V./ 



New Smithsonian chief has big ideas 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Wayne Clough pulls a thwnb-sized com­puter flash drive from his pocket and marvels at how many of the Smithsonian Institution's millions of objects can be captured on it. 
The device holds sounds from endangered frogs, images from an archive of Depression-era paintings, a 360-degree view inside a Concorde supersonic jet and much more. The mini archive reflects one way the former engi­neer, now head of the institution, aims to share the collection of the world's largest museum complex online with more people than ever before. 
"It is no longer acceptable for us to share only 1 percent of our 137 million specimens and arti­facts in an age when the Internet has made it possible to share it all," Clough told curators and sci­entists earlier this year. 
Unlike his predecessor, who sought to maximize the institu­tion's potential as a visitor attrac­tion and business enterprise, Clough is intent on building up the Smithsonian's science, research and educational impact beyond its walls. 
A year into his new job, the 68­year-old former president of the Georgia Institute of Technology is reshaping the sprawling complex of 19 museums, the National Zoo and numerous research centers spread from Massachusetts to Kenya. 
It's something of a back-to-the­basics approach for a place founded on science, with a mis­sion to pursue the "increase and diffusion of knowledge." 

Clough wants to combine the Smithsonian's resources to become a major voice on the toughest issues of the day. Among his key priorities: climate change, education and immigration. 
"We can help our nation and the world face the grand chal­lenges that lie ahead," he told the Smithsonian staff. 
They're big goals. But he's already begun transforming the somewhat stuffy "nation's attic" (a term that makes Clough bristle) into a more innovative place. 

"He is a scientist himself, and I think he really gets it," said Eva Pell, who will become the under­secretary for science in January. "All the ingredients are there ­it's just a matter of bringing things together in a different way." 
Pell, senior vice president for research and dean of the gradu­ate school at Pennsylvania State University, said she was drawn by Clough's vision for bringing scien­tists and even curators in arts and history together to collaborate on research. It's an approach they believe could spark discoveries. 
To bolster the Smithsonian's educational offerings, Clough recently secured a $1.3 million gift to hire an education director and create the institution's first central office focused on K-12 learning. (Previously, 32 different units carried out their own edu­cational programs.) 
When the country celebrated Abraham Lincoln's 200th birth­day in February, Clough oversaw the first interactive online link to 5,000 K-12 students and teachers in 50 states and 75 countries with lessons focused on the 16th presi­dent. Six curators showed off Lincoln artifacts and took ques­tions. Another online conference about climate change is planned for later this month. 
Clough has also forged new alliances with colleges. 
A broad research collaboration is in the works with scientists and scholars at the University of Maryland. And he signed a deal with George Mason University in Virginia to build residence halls and laboratories as part of a joint-degree program pairing stu­dents with researchers at the National Zoo's 3,000-acre Conservation and Research Center in Front Hoyal, Va. 
Less than a decade earlier, Lawrence Small, the previous Smithsonian chief, had proposed closing the VIrginia facility, anger­ing many scientists. Clough, though, is unflinching in his dedi­cation to research. 
"Zoos have to be research facil­ities," he said. "If they're just there for tourist attractions, they'll fail." 
Scientists and curators said Clough brought a sense of excite­ment at a time when morale couldn't have been lower. 
"It's a game changer really," said Steve Monfort, a longtime staff scientist who is now acting director of the zoo. ''I'm seeing a change of culture that is setting in ... a sense that we have a secre­tary who is very strongly engaged." 
In 2007, former secretary Small was forced out because of his high compensation and lavish spending -including charter jet rides and earnings of more than $900,000 -amid a shrinking work force and $2.5 billion in maintenance needs. Some execu­tives followed him out. 
Clough faced the task of imple­menting reforms and said it's still a work in progress. Among the changes: He began to lower the six-figure salaries of at least 17 top executives to conform with federal pay scales. 
One of his biggest challenges will be raising money to reduce the Smithsonian's heavy reliance on Congress for funding. Federal funds provide about 65 percent of the estimated $1 billion annual budget. And the outlook for pri­vate philanthropy is gloomy because of the recession. 
Still, Clough has quietly begun work on the Smithsonian's first major capital campaign with the goal of raising well over $1 bil­lion. 
"We need more big ideas," he said. "I've talked to donors who say 'Hey, I'm really interested in the fact that you have resources to be an honest broker in the cli­mate change debate ... and I would be willing to put up signifi­cant money to do tl1at."' 
One thing he doesn't plan to change, though, is the free admis­sion at the museums. The American people own those museums, he said. 
Clough has a track record for transforming institutions, a dis­tinction that earned a chapter in Thomas L. Friedman's best-sell­ing book "The World is Flat." Friedman described how Clough's philosophy of attracting science students with artistic and creative interest raised Georgia Tech's graduation rate and encouraged more creativity in engineering. Clough's work over 14 years raised the school's academic pro­file. 
That vision of fusing science with the arts makes him a good fit for the Smithsonian, which holds numerous art, history and cultural treasures, Smithsonian American Art Museum director Bet..<>y Broun said. 
Drug lord now serves hot dogs 
Associated Press 
MARKHAM, Ill. -Two decades after customers clamored to buy cocaine from a teenager named John Cappas, they're lined up again to buy what he has to sell: Hot dogs. 
The one-time "drug king­pin," as the newspapers called him in the late 1980s, this summer became an owner of a hot dog stand called Johnny's WeeNee Wagon. 
It's a few Chicago suburbs and a world away from where he ran the drug empire that made him $25,000 a week ­enough to buy a house, fast cars and a necklace that spelled "Spoiled Brat" in dia­monds to drape around his Playboy bunny girlfriend. 
In a bright red building that looks like a barn with a man­sized statue of a hot dog wearing an American flag out front, he sells hot dogs, gyros, burgers, and now for the !irst time since the place opened in 1955, french fries. 
''I'm doing the right thing now," said the 43-year-old Cappas, who was released in 2004 after serving 15 years in prison. 
That doesn't mean Cappas is shying away from his past. 
He obviously enjoys telling stories about what life was like before he was arrested. Like the time he made head­lines when, knowing federal agents were looking to arrest him, he and a local television reporter took a spin on Lake Michigan on a friend's speed­boat ("The feds had already seized mine," he said.) before he turned himself in. 
Nor did he keep it a secret that for his grand opening last weekend -an event that included a magician and a tiger he says belonged to for­mer boxing champ Mike Tyson -he'd asked two friends who were Chicago police officers before they were convicted of selling cocaine to judge his auto show. 
But Cappas knows that his reign as a drug kingpin includes more than funny sto­ries about his lavish lifestyle. He's linked to the deaths of two 19-year-old sons of Chicago police officers, both of whom killed themselves with their fathers' service revolvers after, authorities said at the time, at least one of them bought drugs from one of Cappas' accomplices. 
And he knows that for all the "toys" he had, there was a time members of his family wanted nothing to do with him. 
"I was banished from my (family) house," he said, his father, Louis Cappas, nodding in agreement. 
Then he was banished from society, with a judge who sen­tenced him to 45 years in prison, angrily telling him that he had "lost his soul." 
"I am what I am," he said simply. ''I'm never going to live that down." 
That helps explain why he said it is important to let peo­ple know he is no longer the same young man he was when he was sentenced to prison -something he says he deserved. And that he wants to make amends. 
"I do not want kids to follow in my same footpaths ... " he said. ''I'm paying some penance for what I did in the past." 
That means his plan is not just to own a successful hot dog stand in a community, but to play a role in that commu­nity. He talks about plans to sponsor Little League teams and build a baseball diamond, as well as continue talking to at-risk kids, as he's done for the last few years. 
He said a big part of his message is that it's possible to turn your life around, to come out of prison and make an honest living. 
"This is my way of giving back," said Cappas, who also plans to publish a book about his life. 
It all has impressed Scott Ladany, the owner of Red Hot Chicago, Inc. to sell Cappas his hot dogs. 
"I did hesitate but ... it's a gut feeling that he deserved a second chance in life," Ladany said. 
Ladany said that what Cappas did after he got to prison -earned a college degree and studied and taught cooking classes ­helped convince him that Cappas had changed. 
So far, Cappas sees no signs that his past has cost him any customers. In fact, on one recent day, customers ­many of whom said they knew all about Cappas' drug dealing past -were in a line that stretched out the door. Some said his past was partly why they were there. 
"It's great to see somebody whose life is turned around and is trying to do something good," said Mary Beth Johnson, a 47-year-old Orland Park resident, who grew up nearby and came to the stand regularly when she was a little girl. "It's great to see this in our neighbor­hood." 



THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,441.27 +96.66 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) +1.68 +0.08 4.85 FANNIE MAE (FNM) +7.93 +0.13 1.77 BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) +1.48 +0.25 17.09 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SYP) +1.40 +1.41 102.06 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +3.43 +0.1140 3.44 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.00 0.125 30-YEAR BOND +2.96 +0.1230 4.27 5-YEAR NOTE +3.29 +0.0750 2.36 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.06 68.02 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.00 996.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.00 82.88 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 93.0150 EURO 1.4293 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0893 BRITISH POUND 1.6391 

IN BRIEF 
Conn. women buying more guns 
WATERBURY, Conn. -Connecticut residents are arming themselves at quite a clip, with women, in particular, packing heat in growing numbers. 
The state issued 7, 7 41 pistol permits from January through May, a 90 percent increase over the same time period in 2008. Nearly 12,000 new permits have been issued so far this year in a state that recently posted one of the lowest gun ownership rates in the country, according a study of 2006 data by the Violence Policy Center, a national gun control advocacy group based in Washington, D.C. 
Connecticut gun retailers and educators who run the safety classes required for pistol permit applicants report a surge in first-time gun pur­chases, particularly by women, who account for up to half of the students taught in Torrington. 
"I think that the percentage that you'd see of women coming for the first time has quadru­pled," said John Petricone, a staffer at Tactical Arms in Torrington. Pistol safety classes that once drew about nine men for every woman are now evenly split, Petricone said. 
Labor Relations board still gridlocked 
WASHINGTON -Another Labor Day, another year of dysfunction in the agency that's sup­posed to protect workers from unfair labor practices and referee clashes between unions and management. 
The enduring stalemate at the National Labor Relations Board, the longest in its history, comes as evidence that elections don't always settle political tugs of war. Ten months after the elec­tion of a president and Congress from the same party. no end is in sight to the deadlock. 
Decisions are stalled on dozens of disputes that could set labor-management policies for decades to come. Can employers prohibit employees from using the company's e-mail sys­tem to send union-related messages? Where may union members distribute literature at work sites? What about organizing a union by simply signing cards instead of having a secret­ballot election? 
These matters and more are going nowhere because the board, since January 2008, has had one lonely Democrat, one lonely Republican and a political stalemate over three empty seats. 
Layoffs toughest on old, young 
Ends of the age spectrum feeling employment pinch the hardest in tough economy 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. -Marcus Wells and Shirley Walker view their economic prospects from opposite ends of the age spectrum. 
Wells, 25, was initially optimistic about his prospects for finding a new job after he was laid off as a systems analyst in January in San Jose, Calif. Now unemployment has begun to wear on the him, and he believes his age has factored into his frustration. 
"More experienced people are getting hired, and they're downgrading their skills to get the job," Wells said. "I feel like I'm compet­ing with older workers, not college graduates. It wears on your confidence." 
Walker, 58, lost her job running a nonprofit which helped minority women in business in Orlando and hasn't had any luck finding new work in the three months since. 
"What they tell us is that they're looking for more mature and experienced workers, but they want us to work for less, or what they could pay younger people to do," she said recently outside an Orlando job fair. "Maybe younger people would be willing or able to accept lesser pay." County, where Wells lives, homes in a recession, while age group have seen the 
Would-be retirees have registered 14.41 on the people later in life are more most dramatic rise in watched their savings dwin­stress index in July, the likely to declare bankruptcy unemployment during the dle and health care costs most recent month for in order to protect their past year compared to soar, while workers recent­which figures are available, assets, said Tay McNamara, other age groups. Their ly out of school and bur­while Walker's Orange director of research at the unemployment rate went dened by debt try to County, Fla., came in at Center on Aging and Work from 5. 7 percent in July advance in careers that no 15.76, both well above the at Boston College. 2008 to 10 percent in July longer have room for them. average county's 10.54. "Last hired, first fired. 2009, according to the 
The results show up on The groups associated Generally, that is very true," Bureau of Labor Statistics. the map: Places with high with the highest stress McNamara said. Compounding the pain for concentrations of people in scores in each U.S. county Chane! Moore knows how some young workers can be their late 20s or nearing are men and women that goes. The 25-year-old big bills from their careers what they thought would be between ages 25 and 29 Orlando resident was laid as students. The average their retirement age are and women over age 55. off last year from a job in undergraduate fmishes col­feeling the recession the That doesn't necessarily retail and has found herself lege with $17,700 in debt at hardest, as measured by mean having a high per­competing with older work­four-year public schools The Associated Press centage of people in those ers in her jobs searches. and $22,375 in debt at four­Economic Stress Index. The groups causes a county's ''I'm young, trying to get year private schools. Also, index assigns each county a economic health to worsen, on my feet, and then you student loan provider Sallie score from 1 to 100, with though the two appear to have people older than me Mae reported this year that higher numbers reflecting go hand in hand. who are already on their seniors graduated college greater stress, based on its Experts said a variety of feet looking for jobs with with an average credit card unemployment, foreclo­factors may be at play. more experience than me," debt of more than $4,100 in sures and bankruptcy rates. Young adults are more at Moore said. 2008, up from $2,900 four 
California's Santa Clara risk for losing their jobs and Workers in the 25 to 34 years earlier. 

Obama plans to address organized labor 
Associated Press February as senior adviser to Treasury statement released Sunday night. 
Secretary Timothy Geithner as part of Before moving to Treasury, Bloom 
WASHINGTON -President Barack Obama's auto industry task force. was a special assistant to the president Obama is addressing one of his key Bloom is traveling to Cincinnati with of the United Steelworkers union. He constituencies -organized labor -on the president, the White House said. He was a founding partner in the invest­Monday as union members gather to will be working with the National ment banking firm of Kellin and Bloom. celebrate the holiday named for their Economic Council to "provide leader­Despite a friendly audience at the movement. ship on policy development and strate­labor picnic, where Obama is expected 
As Obama prepares for a critical gic planning for the president's agenda to be welcomed by national union lead­speech Wednesday to Congress and the to revitalize the manufacturing sector." ers John Sweeney and Richard nation about his efforts to overhaul The White House said Bloom would Trumka, the gathering could turn out health care, a supportive audience at continue in his position with Geithner to be a small oasis in the swing state of the AFL-CIO's annual Labor Day picnic but would expand his role to coordi­Ohio. in Cincinnati should provide welcome nate administration manufacturing Opposition to Obama's health care relief from the highly charged partisan policy with the Departments of overhaul was evident Saturday at a atmosphere surrounding the issue. Commerce, Treasury, Energy and 'Tea Party" rally in the Cincinnati sub­
Besides addressing health care, Labor. urb of West Chester, where a crowd of Obama will tell the assembled union "Ron has the knowledge and experi­thousands protested with signs such as members he has named Ron Bloom as ence necessary to lead the way in cre­"Government-run health care makes senior counselor for manufacturing ating the good-paying manufacturing me sick" and "Leave our health care policy. Bloom has served since jobs of the future," Obama said in a alone." 


Monday, September 7, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 


Health care debate 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 


masks real issues 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDI10R BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King Assr. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaton Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDI10R: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PH010 EDITOR: lan Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVEIUlSING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD 0FSIGN MANAGER: Mary jesse CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR·IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK acharnO I @sainrmatys.edu PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhe students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available w all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Ediwr must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q=tiom regarding Observer policies should be directed U! Edit:tJr-in-Chiefjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ObSC!tvt.r (USPS 599 l-4000) ~ publilhoed Monday through Ftiday except during t.JWU and vacation periods. A subscrip[ion to The Observer is $r20 for one ;academic year; $65 fur o~ semes!cr. 
The Observer i~> published af: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corm:;tions to: Nom: !nmc, lN 46556-0779 The Observer Pmodic::al pos~ paid ar NOlre Dame P.O. Box779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame:, IN 46556.0779 
Tiu: Observt:T is a mm~bcl"'i;f rhc ~iattd Press.. AU reproducrkm r.igh!5 arc ==!. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Joseph McMahon Matt Gamber Amanda Gray Meaghan Veselik Graphics Chris Masoud Mary Cecilia Scene Mitsch Jess Shaffer 
Viewpoint Lianna Brauweiler 

If you've been following the news for the past few weeks, you're probably get­ting tired of hearing about health care reform. Democrats and Republicans have managed to avoid much serious debate about this crucially 
Ben Linskey

important issue, 
instead launching 
College

inane charges of 
Libertarians

extremism at each other. The carica­tures produced by the leaders of both par­ties would be laughable if they weren't bandied about with such frequency and earnestness. Republicans accuse Democrats of being socialists intent on creating death panels to arbitrarily kill senior citizens, while Democrats counter that Republicans an1 un-American fas­cists in the pocket of health insurance companies. This nonsensical political cir­cus obscures the true significance of the health care debate: While health care reform is an important and eonsequential matter, Americans are primarily con­cerned about the rapidly expanding size and role of government in everyday life. 
Talk of "rationing" health care provides an important insight into the fundamental issues underlying the debate. Conservative politicians arc fond of warn­ing that Democrat.<;' proposals will ration care, conjuring up the image of imperson­al, bureaucratic agencies limiting Americans' health care options. There is an element of truth to this claim -a gov­ernment-run "public option" would natu­rally have to make hard choices about which forms of medical treatment would be covered and which would be excluded. What Republicans usually nPglect to men­tion, though, is that all health care is rationed. All goods, in fact, are rationed -this is a basic truth of economics. Just as there does not exist an infinite supply of Lamborghinis or ice cream, an endless reservoir of health care is not available. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
. ? 0¥,.. 7 Q..A,S'S ?g. 
\Nere~~~To \NA.TC\-\ P~\~NT OEA}J\t\..'S ~\4.... 
1\-\\<;;. 9:::\-COL \ S 
~\)\_~~~ 
?o~n:sLe 

\Nt::ex::\1<\NATION 
·---·-·-----'t--......_,.~ ----~ 
\ 

OBSERVER POLL 
What did you think of the Dillon Pep Rally? 
Liked it Didn't like it Didn't go 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Thus, we must fmd a way to distribute, or "ration," this scarce good. 
There are two basic means by which to do this. One option is to establish a free market, in which the "invisible hand" famously idPntilied by Adam Smith works to distribute goods in the most eflicient means possible. The other is to place all economic goods in the hands of a single governing agency and entrust it to use its presumably superior wisdom to deter­mine who should have what. This latter method, of course, is fraught with prob­lems. America has long favored free mar­kets over central planning, but in recent years, the United States have abruptly and dramatieally shifted course, bringing many formerly private sectors of the economy under government control and spending at an astonishing rate. 
The past year alone has seen a series of Wall Street and auto industry bailouts, culminating in the federal government's takeover of General Motors. These expan­sions of government power were accom­panied by hundreds of billions of dollars in "stimulus" spending, boosting the total national debt to well over 11 trillion dol­lars. Meanwhile, the U.S. is engaged in two major conflict.<; in Iraq and Afghanistan, which combine to produce a significant drain on the U.S. treasury. In this context, Democrats' proposed health care reform appears as less of a radical shift than a continuation of the present course. 
What, then, are we to make of the heat­ed debate over health care? Americans are beginning to beeome alarmed at the nonstop expansion ofthe federal govern­ment, and they're worried about the prospect of lawmakers and bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. becoming involved in the intensely personal issue of medical care. Politieians would do well to note, however, that the real issue at stake is not merely health care, but the relationship between U.S. citizens and the govern­ment. Americans have a long, proud tra­dition of individualism. We prize our liber­ties, and we place great value on the virtues of self-sufficiency and personal responsibility. That is not to say that opponents of the Democrats' health care reform proposals are unconcerned about the plight of those unable to alford health care -they simply recognize that govern­ment expansion into the medical industry will significantly, and likely irreversibly, expand government while bringing with it a host of new problems. Yet at a time when Americans are clamoring for a seri­ous conversation about the size and scope of the state, politicians in Washington rarely engage in serious debate. 

Whether the Democrats' health care reform efl'orts succeed or not, voters will go to the polls next year with a new per­spective on politics. Aller years of balloon­ing government under the Bush adminis­tration and a Republican-controlled Congress, Barack Obama and Democratic legislators promised to usher in a new era of change and responsible leadership. What Americans have gotten, though, is more of the same. While Democrats push to expand government further, GOP lead­ers who formerly supported the "big-gov­ernment conservatism" of the Bush administration mouth small-government platitudes. If President Obama and mem­bers of Congress are to achieve long-term political success, they will have to cut out­of-control spending, move beyond empty rhetoric and truly embrace Americans' desire for limited, responsible govern­ment and individual freedom. 
Ben Linskey is a junior majoring in political science and philosophy. He can be contacted at blinskey@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
D • 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The universe is full ofmagical

things, patiently waitmy,Jor our 
wits to sharpen. ' 
Eden Phillpotts English author 


THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Monday, September 7, 2009 page 9 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Keep Library a relevant institution 
While "A library with no books" one's heart's content. Now in the peri­cost-cutting). In the process, the Library has lost some of its luster and (Staff Editorial, Sept. 4) may have odical room one finds totally meaning­Hesburgh Library has become virtual­while the editors seem to endorse been written with some tongue in less journals (to a large extent) and on ly useless as a place to browse and making life easier for the students by cheek, I thought it raised an interest­the ninth floor chaos and predomi­spend non-academic time in. This doing away with exams and research ing point. Gone are the days (back in nantly empty shelves with a few seems to take away an important papers, I would suggest that more 2002 when I was a graduate student) copies of ancient journals that cannot aspect of a library -namely to could be done in balancing the techno­when one could walk into the Library be computerized. encourage people to read. logical age (of all computers) with the and find in his two favorite places -Because of the assumption that In the course of this past year that I traditional age of hands-on materials. the periodical room on the first floor everyone has computer access all the was in South Bend, I went to the and the political science section (I time, the Library made the shift to library twice for non-academic pur­Fr. David Kashangaki think it is on the ninth floor) -jour­electronic cataloguing and online poses and a few more times to sit and Uganda nals and books on political science to journals (I imagine in the name of write. It is unfortunate that the Class of 200 5 
U-WIRE 
Exam_ining the po-wer of unions 
With Labor Day upon us, many in America have forgotten why they're off work or out of class (for some). Labor Day has become a perennial pic­nic, the signal of the end of summer. But this holiday signifies something much larger than the simple pleasantries of an end-of-summer fried 
chicken feast. 
Labor Day in America was born out of the Pullman Strike, becoming a federal holiday when President Grover Cleveland decided to make improving labor relations a top domestic priority. Prior to that, labor unions virtually had no seat at the powerful political table. Since then, America has witnessed the rise of labor, peaking in the mid­20th century with almost 29 percent of all workers unionized. 
But many today wonder where labor is going. 
lan Sams 

University of Alabama The Crimson White 
Today, unions maintain less of a percentage of the workforce than virtual­ly ever before. Unions have weakened to the point where current union membership in the private sector is below nine percent. 
Despite those numbers, Big Labor still exercises incredible influence over modern politics. Democrats have for years considered labor one of its most precious (and most powerful) allies. The Employee Free Choice Act, publicly touted by President Obama, has been one of the biggest pieces of legislation on Congress' plate over the past year. Celebrities like Martin Sheen and Bradley Whitford have starred in ads encouraging popular support for the bill. With the bill a top concern of many of his constituents, Sen. Arlen Specter, 0-Pa., faced a barrage of questions on whether he would support the measure when he switched parties in April. Big Labor still has a powerful agenda, and they're pushing Congress and the presi­dent to not only support but enact their proposals. 
But some people question this seemingly bountiful political power at a time when unions are smaller and weaker than ever before. Some ultra­conservatives attack labor as coercive and power-hungry, willing to sell out even its own unionized workers before sacrificing its position of public power. But honestly, most politicians, Republican or Democrat, respect unions and the role they play in public life. 
Mitt Romney, former Republican governor of Massachusetts, said in a March op-ed in The Washington Times, "At their best, labor unions have always fought for the rights of workers and generations of Americans have been better off for it." 
Former Democratic President Jimmy Carter famously said of unions, "Every advance in this half-century -Social Security, civil rights, Medicare, aid to education, one after another-came with the support and leadership of American labor." 
Unions have been a backbone of America for over a century. They've allowed workers to bargain for fair wages, to receive high quality health care, to prepare for a successful retirement and to establish a safe and healthy workplace. 
And unions still maintain an important place in our society. Unions are so often the check that workers have on Big Business, the blue-collar voice at the white-collar negotiating table. Unions have immeasurable value for thousands, if not millions, of Americans. 
But as we prepare to end the first decade of the 21st century, we must ensure that unions do not obstruct pathways to a more prosperous and equitable U.S. economy. 
Over the next 20 years, the Democratic and Republican parties must focus on maintaining strong relationships with labor leaders, not attacking them as ruthless or ambitious, while ensuring that Big Labor does not dic­tate the moves our nation takes towards finding economic opportunities for all Americans. 
It'll take some tricky political maneuvering to accomplish this, but in a new technology-driven economy where you get paid for what you know and not what you do, we have no other option. Manufacturing jobs are leaving this country, and Big Labor understands that. The focus now must become how to incorporate the remaining voice of labor into a modern, prosperity-driven economic political discussion. 
We can't let labor fall by the wayside. But it has to be labor's responsi­bility to rebrand and restructure itself for the new economy and to do so in a way that promotes a strong American economy. 
This column first ran in the Sept. 4 edition ofThe Crimson White, the daily newspaper serving the University ofAlabama. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Trust the people (unless they disagree -with us) 
Is American democracy on the brink of inex­orable ruin? 
That's the inference one would seemingly be forced to make after listening to not only the radical fringe of the political chattering class, but also some of the rel­atively mainstream 

Asher Smith 

Republican voices. At a town hall event in 
Emory

California, U.S. Rep. 
University

Wally Herger, R-Calif., 
Emory Wheel 

posited that "our democ­racy has never been threatened as much as it is today" by the specter of health care reform. Rush Limbaugh, whom no Republican politician with national aspirations would even think of publicly rebuk­ing, regularly invokes fascism and Nazi Germany as points of comparison for the progress of the Obama administration. 
And it would be negligent not to mention Glenn Beck, who on FOX News' second-highest rated show a few days ago connected the dots on the first letters of random words he used to describe the Obama administration ("Obama," "Left-Internationalists," "Graft," "Acorn," "Revolutionaries" and "Hidden Agendas") to spell what he believed the Obama administra­tion had become: an 0-L-I-G-A-R-C-H-Y (Your guess is as good as mine as to where that 'Y' came from.) 
So why, then, is it that every strategy in the Republicans' playbook-on health care and virtually every other issue of national impor­tance -relies on employing the most thor­oughly undemocratic tactics imaginable? 
The self-stated goal of most of the town hall protesters that furiously inserted themselves ­at the behest of the insurance industry-into the national discourse in August was to shout down their elected representatives. In opposi­tion to the Waxman-Markey bill (otherwise known as cap-and-trade), which is still working its way through Congress, coal industry firms are hiring lobbying outfits to flood congression­al offices with mail purporting to be from con­cerned constituents and nonprofit groups against the climate change legislation, attempt­ing to create the appearance of grassroots out­rage where none exists. 
Meanwhile, the decision by congressional Republicans to employ the filibuster to require that important measures have the support of three-fifths of the Senate represents an unprecedented subversion of the basic principle of majority rule. While informed observers have been quick to adjust to the notion that 60-plus votes are now needed to pass major legislation, not enough attention has been paid to just how singularly ludicrous the present situation truly is. Previously a tool of the retrograde Southern bloc as a means of blocking civil rights legisla­tion, even the Democratic caucuses of the 109th and llOth Congresses largely reserved the par­liamentary procedure for extreme judicial nom­inations. 
The resulting variance between public opin­ion and the situation on the floor of the senate is expectedly stark. According to a Washington Post-ABC poll released on Friday, almost six in 10 respondents support the new energy policy waiting for a vote in the Senate. Fifty-five per­cent of Americans approve of the way Obama is handling the issue; only 30 percent described themselves as opposed. In any fully functioning democracy, those numbers would suggest that positive action is coming, and soon. But because of the actions of the dwindling minority that claims to be so afraid for the future of American democracy, the legislation will likely die on the vine without receiving an actual vote. 
This is all right on the heels, of course, of a national election that President Obama won by more than 9.5 million votes-an election in which both candidates had clear and contrast­ing proposals on how to handle health care, energy policy and the economy. An election in which Obama won a purple state like Nevada in a landslide, turned blood-red VIrginia, North Carolina and Indiana -Indiana! -blue and even eked out an electoral vote from Nebraska. 
If American democracy is under threat from any corner, it's under threat from those who don't care for election results, who suggest that our democratically-elected and fully vetted president is illegitimate, who don't respect the concept of offering votes on the merits of legis­lation and who are congenitally unable to offer any sort of constructive opposition. And unless those selfsame individuals genuinely believe all their Sturm und Orang about the impending doom of our democratic form of government, they are betraying a cynicism that actually does run the risk of striking a real blow to the health of our governmental institutions. 
This column first ran in the Sept. 3 edition of the Emory Wheel, the daily newspaper serving Emory University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 10 
Monday, September 7, 2009 
Mos Def's Ecstatic, "Wo"Aerft.t18 ~tr~~e" Rap 
By NICK ANDERSON Assistant Scene Editor 
Eminem, T.l., Ludacris, LL Cool J, Ice Cube, Ice-T, Method Man, RZA, and even Snoop Dogg. All rappers turned, with vary­ing degrees of success, into actors. Hollywood, for some unexplained reason, keeps casting rappers in their big-budget movies. These parts have included bit roles in big budget comedies, a supporting actor in Oscar fare, a less than stereotypical street thug and several family fun fests. By all accounts, it doesn't really make sense. 
Rare, however, is the rapper-turned-actor who is actively trying to do both without one noticing the other. Mos Def is on that quest. He's doesn't promote his music with movies, hasn't made a vanity piece (his only cameo was in Talladega Nights) and his most criti­cally acclaimed role was in an off-Broadway play. 
By all appearances, Defs music has taken an unfortunate back seat to his acting. This would all be a very sad story if it was not for his return to form in "The Ecstatic. " 
Def never was a typical rapper. His back story sounds familiar:, born in Bedford­Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, he would have known of the already famous rappers from his neighborhood including The Notorious B.I.G., Big Daddy Kane and GZA. All three made careers walk­ing the line between glo­rifying and regretting their now­stereotypical "gangsta" lifestyle. 
Def never quite fell into that trap. His immense tal­ent was recognized early and he landed a collaboration with De La Soul as well as a role in the short-lived "Cosby Mysteries" (yes, that Cosby). His music took off before his acting and two classic albums, "Mos Def and Talib Kweli are Black Star" and "Black on Both Sides" made a stir in the 90's. Both confronted issues Def was immersed in growing up. Instead of violence, vulgarity, and shock value presented as the focus, which often happens in rap, he centered his music and identity on his race, passion, and religion. 
Without fail, he was regulated to the posi­tion of the socially conscious rapper. At the time the title came with a point of pride. Today, even with the recent resurgence of hope, it brings an air of arrogance from the artist and indifference from the public. 
The opening moments of his new album, "The Ecstatic," are odd. The words are a speech of a black political leader telling the listener, "You're liv­ing at a time of extremism, a time of revolution ... and now there has to be a change and a better world has to be built." 

This is an album from the age of Obama, w h a t should we expect? But quot­ing a speech f r o m Malcolm X comes as a surprise. It follows the phrase that has opened each of his albums, "Bismillah ir Rahman ir Raheem" (In the name of God, the. Compassionate, the Merciful). Somewhere between these two phrases lies "The Ecstatic." 
"The Ecstatic" is a showcase of Def's tal­
ents. His voice offers his strongest point, easily transi­tioning from rapping on " T h e Embassy" to singing on "Priority" with most songs sitting easily on an ODB-esque flow, both familiar and entirely dif­ferent. Def's flow could offer some of the smoothest hooks in the industry if 
only he were to consistently utilize a stan­dard song structure. 
Instead, the versus-chorus-verse formula ditched for a stream-of-thought style depen­dant on bridges. The results are songs that won't receive much radio play but will embrace the listener in a welcoming strangeness. This ear for odd sounds lead to fruitful production work from Madlib, Oh No and the late J Dilla, all of which are bril­liant. 
Def's music is unique by any standard. After a couple of listens, Def's adopted moniker, The Boogie Man, comes to the forefront. It's mysterious and at times uncomfortable but intriguing and original. In the end, it's a return to form, a turning point after two less-than-stellar albums, a wonderfully strange, sonically diverse and oddly inspiring work of art. 
Contact Nick Anderson at nandersS@nd.edu 
Down Home 
Greek Cooking at 
l:JL~~AO~R'S ~RlLL 
By GENNA McCABE, ERIC PRISTER, and JESS SHAFFER Scene Writers 

With its copious portion sizes, incredibly friendly owner, eager to please staff and solid Greek cuisine, Alexander's Grill is an endearing dining experience. 
One of the few South Bend area restaurants specializing in Greek cuisine, Alexander's offers a menu not only ideally priced for college students but also particularly suited to the tastes of college stu­dents. Alexander's is equipped to handle both American tastes and those ready to sample the common spe­cialties of Greece. 
Alexander's, despite its label as "Grill," is more akin to an upscale diner in atmos­phere, sporting a shiny new interior, two flat screen TVs, and a steady flow of regular customers. The proprietor, who is actively run­ning around the floor taking orders, chatting with diners, warmly greets frequenters and new comers alike, making everyone feel like part of the Alexander family. 
Daily specials are on the board, but the full menu is well rounded for American and Greek fares. Portions are huge. Also, most meals come with standard Greek salad {with notably good Greek dressing), fries or Greek potatoes and also the soup of the day, typically a lemon rice soup. These sides could be a gratifying meal in and of them­selves, particularly the lightly cit­rusy and satisfyingly creamy soup. 
Appetizer options range from Hummus and fresh Pita to Spanakopita and Dolmas (stuffed grape leaves). There are also the extensive Hot and Cold Appetizer Plate options. The Hot Appetizer Plate came with Tiropita and Spanakopita, Greek pastries filled with cheese and spinach, respec­tively. Appealing favorites, these were light but full of flavor. Also included on the Hot Plate was gyros meat, which was served in ample portions and had a somewhat salty, but still quite enjoyable flavor. The final part of the appetizer was homemade pita and gyros sauce, which capped off the dish well. A comprehensive sampling of the menu, this appetizer gets full bang for the eater's buck. 

Entrees 

The Pastitsio, a Greek lasagna, was not the highlight of the meal, but was nevertheless a solid entree. The consistency was different and took getting used to, but the combi­nation of ground beef, Greek cheese, and lasagna noodles added a unique twist on a traditionally Italian dish. 
The Grecian Chicken is an entire half of a chicken prepared with lemon and oregano. While it was exceptionally moist and very well prepared, it was somewhat bland. 
It was served with a bed of rice also flavored w i t h oregano. The whole meal was certainly good, but not great. 
T h i s entree is particular­ly advis­able for anyone who might want a taste of Greek cui­sine, but is not inter­
ested in diving head first into the flavoring and often somewhat exot­ic ingredients of Greek cooking. This dish was certainly not what Greek cooking is all about, so it cannot be surprising that it left something to be desired. 
Also the unfussy staple of casual Greek cuisine, the gyro sandwich deserves recognition. A piece of pita bread packed sky high with shaved lamb meat and assorted veg­gies this is a hefty and affordable Greek classic. Salty and a bit greasy, the meat is full flavored and well compliment­ed by vegeta­bles and 
Alexander's Grill is by no means a high-end establishment, but a com­bination of satisfying and enjoyable food with the service from an owner who wants nothing more than to make sure that each and every one of his customers is fully satisfied makes Alexander's Grill and establishment well worth try­ing. And the best part, with its oversized portions you are ensured to have at least one to go box and filling meals to come. 
A short drive or long walk from campus, Alexander's is located on 1841 South Bend Avenue. Also Alexander's can be reached by phone at 57 4-24 7-1780. 
Genna McCabe, Eric Prister, and Jess Shaffer contributed material to this article. 


The Ecstatic Mos Def  
Studio: Downtown Music, LLC Recommended Tracks:"The Embassy," "Priority"  

MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 







NSIDER 
OTHE 

Monday, September 7, 2009 BSERVER Notre Dame 35, Nevada 0 
Opening statetnent 
Clausen, Floyd dominate early and often in 35-0 shutout of Wolf Pack 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Four times Michael Floyd caught the ball, and three of those times he scored a touch­down Saturday as the sopho­more receiver led the Irish to a 35-0 victory over Nevada. 
"It's the first game," Floyd said. "You have to show the nation what kind of team Notre Dame is and how we are going to do everything." 
After receiving the opening kickoff, the Irish offense quickly set to showing its vast capabili­ties to Nevada and the 80,000 fans in attendance. On the team's first third-and-long of the season, a third-and-16 on Nevada's 19-yard line, junior quarterback Jimmy Clausen threaded a pass over a Wolfpack safety to sophomore tight end Kyle Rudolph in the back of the end zone. The 12-play, 67-yard drive gave the Irish a 7-0 lead after freshman kicker Nick Tausch converted the first extra point of his college career. 
"[The touchdown play] was something we had worked on all week, and Jimmy showed a lot of trust in me," Rudolph said. "I just wanted to go and make a play on the ball, and it worked in our favor." 
On Notre Dame's next drive, Clausen connected with sopho­more receiver Golden Tate for a gain of 36 yards. Later in the drive, on the first play of the second quarter, Floyd ran a route across the middle, and as he crossed the goal line the Irish sophomore wide receiver Michael Floyd races down the sideline for an 88-yard touchdown In Saturday's 35-0 romp over receiver pulled in his first touch­Nevada. Floyd had four receptions for 189 yards and three touchdowns in the game, the first Notre Dame shutout since 2002. down of the day. The 24-yard score capped a 78-yard drive in "Those guys are playmakers," performance, not giving up a back, obviously they made the 38-3 to USC last November], less than five minutes. Clausen said. "All I have to do is sack in the game, to prevent any plays and we didn't," Nevada Coach Weis talked to the whole 
Before Nevada had a chance give them the ball and they loss of yardage. coach Chris Ault said. team, and we were going to take to respond, the Irish defense fol­make plays." "I told [the fans] when we "Somebody's got to make a play, a step forward and never look lowed the offense's lead and Before the end of the first half, started that drive on the one­and they seem to make them back. We did that in Hawaii, and showed what it could do. After junior running back Armando yard line that we were going 99 every time." obviously out there again Tausch's kickoff was downed at Allen scored the first rushing yards for the touchdown," sen­The 88-yard touchdown is the today." the Nevada 31-yard line, junior touchdown of the year for the ior center Eric Olsen said. third-longest score through the In meeting that standard linebacker Brian Smith record­Irish. The one-yard jaunt topped "When I got into the huddle, I air in Notre Dame football histo­Saturday, the Irish defense ed his first sack of the season. off Allen's 47 yards in the first said 'Don't make me look bad ry. recorded its first shutout in The 11-yard loss led to a quick half. The back ended the after­guys. I just told them we were After completing his hat trick Weis' tenure, while the offense three-and-out by the Wolf Pack, noon with 78 yards on 15 car­going 99. "' on only four catches, Floyd never turned the ball over, and giving the ball right back to the ries. After Allen rushed for 11 ended the day with 189 of Clausen only had three incom­potent Irish offense. Nevada received possession to yards on three carries to give Clausen's 315 passing yards. pletions among 18 attempts. 
"[Smith] had two sacks rela­start the second half, but still the Irish some breathing room, "You want to [score every time Notre Dame will look to con­tively early," Irish coach Charlie couldn't find success against the Floyd made Olson look like an you get the ball], but there are tinue to surpass that standard Weis said. "They just change the Notre Dame defense. After run­oracle. Clausen threw a deep some plays that are not seen as next week when it travels to momentum." ning back Vai Taua ran 18 yards jump ball to the receiver, and going for the whole thing," Michigan to play in the 106,000­
With the ball back in his for a first down, the Irish Floyd leaped higher than the Floyd said. "You just try as hard seat Big House. hands, Clausen found Floyd defense buckled down once cornerback covering him to pull as you can." "[The big win] feels good, but once again on a quick screen more to force a punt. After the the ball in at the Notre Dame The four-touchdown day by I'm already thinking about play. Floyd caught the ball ball was downed on the one­40-yard line. With only his man Clausen was only the second of Michigan." Olsen said. "We did a around the Notre Dame 30-yard yard line, Clausen, Floyd, and to beat, Floyd broke a tackle his career, the first being the great job all around on every line, and, after a block from company were given the ball over the Wolf Pack player and five-touchdown game the quar­facet of the game, but our Tate, ended the play standing again. cruised final 60 yards to the end terback had in the Hawaii Bowl work's not done yet." alone in the end zone with Notre With the offense lined up on zone and a 35-0 Irish lead. in December. Dame an extra point away from its own goal line, the offensive "When you're one-on-one and "We have set a standard," the Contact Douglas Farmer at a 21-0 lead. line needed to continue its solid it's a receiver and defensive quarterback said. "Since [losing dfarmer1@nd.edu 

player of the game 
Michael Floyd Irish wide receiver 

Floyd tallied 189 yards on just four catches with three spectacular touchdowns in under three quarters. 
stat of the game 
303.67 

Jimmy Clausen's NCAA high passer rating after completing I 5 of18 passes for 315 yards and four touchdowns. 
play of the game 
Clausen to Floyd (pt. Ill) 88-yd touchdown 
The final acrobatic score was the third longest pass play in school history. 
quote of the game 
"/was right on it and I was just so happy, it was one ofthe happiest times ofmy life." 
Kapron Lewis-Moore Irish defender on his fumble recovery 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 7, 2009 
report card 
A+ quarterbacks: Clausen was almost per­
8+ 
A+ 
8+ 
B­
8+ 

fect, and even the incompletions weren't off by much. As a junior he looks in total control of the offense and has a better pocket presence. 
running backs: The Irish rushed for 178 yards, with Allen leading the way. Jonas 
Gray had a solid showing as the second option and James Aldridge looked good in his new role before leaving the game. 
receivers: Michael Floyd was dominant, put­ting up video game statistics and averaging 47 yards per catch. Golden Tate and Kyle Rudolph also added a few nice grabs and Duval Kamara looks healthy after surgery. 
offensive line: The line gave Clausen all day to throw and didn't give up a sack. Still room for improvement in the running game, but 4.3 yards per carry is nothing to complain about. 
defensive line: Kapron Lewis-Moore had a big fumble recovery, but no sacks for any defensive lineman despite consistent pressure. 
linebackers: Brian and Toryan Smith both had big games getting after the quarterback. Manti Te'o shined in his debut. and Darius Fleming was also able to apply consistent pressure. 
defensive backs: Kyle McCarthy and 
B 
Robert Blanton had interceptions and 
+ 
the WolfPack passed for just 154 yards. 
Harrison Smith looked very comfortable 
3.58 

back at safety.  
A- special teams: Nick Tausch converted his extra points and had good hang time on his k.ickoflS. Freshman Theo Riddick looked quick on his kickoffreturn, and  
Eric Maust put two punts inside the 20.  
coaching: The offense scored on five of  
A  the first six possessions. The blitzing defense kept the WolfPack from estab­lishing a rhythym and stepped up  
against every threat for the shutout.  
overall: The best opening game  

of the Weis era, notching the first Irish shutout since 2002 and firing on all cylinders on offense. 

adding up the numbers 
The number of Irish players making their first game apperances against Nevada, including 
18 
seven freshmen. 

3 
Times Nevada has been shut out in coach Chris 
Ault's 25 year coaching career with the Wolf Pack. 
Yards the Notre Dame offense 'ft averaged per play, the highest game 
8.36
total of the Weis era. 

The number of yards in the completion from
88 Jimmy Clausen to Michael Floyd in the third quarter, the third longest pass in Notre Dame history. 
The number of consecutive times Notre 
2 4 

Dame has beaten Navy either on the road or at a neutral site, a streak that dates to 1960. 
7 Seasons since the last Notre Dame shutout, a 42-0 victory over Rutgers in 2002. 
Receiving yards for Michael Floyd, the most for an Irish player since 
189 
Jeff Samardzija in 2005. 

4 
Jimmy Clausen's rank among Notre Dame's 
career touchdown leaders after adding four scores on Saturday. 

PAT COVENEY !The Observer 

Juniors Armando Allen (5}, Brian Smith (58) and Golden Tate (23} celebrate with the Irish team in front of the student section Saturday after the 35-0 victory over Nevada, the fourth opening game win in the last five years. 

Game shows BCS potential 
As the clock wound down on Notre Dame's dominant season­opening win over Nevada, Irish Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick could be seen mingling on the sidelines with Orange Bowl representa­tives, clad in distinct orange 
, ......-.

blazers. Hopefully 
'1.~ 

Swarbrick will 
l\'t~'

be hearing from them, or another BCS 
Sam Werner 

bowl, later this season. 
Associate

The mere fact 
Sports Editor 

that the Orange Bowl deemed it necessary to send representatives to this game says a lot about the state of the Notre Dame program, and the Irish certainly dido 't dis­appoint. 
"Overall, I thought the operation, especially in the first half how everything went, it went pretty much like clockwork," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. 
Clockwork. indeed. The Irish did Saturday what a good team -a team with legitimate BCS aspira­tions -should do in their opening game. They went up against a less talented team and walked away with a business-like victory. 
Florida beat Charleston Southern 62-3, Texas downed Louisiana-Monroe 59-20 and USC beat San Jose State 56-3. The Irish want to prove they belong in that mix of teams, and they cer­tainly took a step in doing so Saturday. 
"How do you keep momentum 
F«nue rnatdqJs 111 peg111n;si, check oot1he nhnorIXXk3St
t 

IRISH INSIDER at ndsmcobserver.com/podcasts 
as wnters Sam Werner~ Michael Bryan~ and Matt Gamber wrap up the game against Nevada.
PODCAST 
rolling from a game that was so long ago?" Weis said, referring to Notre Dame's big Hawaii Bowl win in December. "And a lot of it has to do with hunger. You know, these guys are hungry." 
For the first time in way too long, Notre Dame didn't play down to its competition. The theme of 2008 seemed to be that no matter how bad the opponent was, the Irish always played poorly enough to make it a game. San Diego State and Syracuse leap promi­nently to mind. 
The thing is, the Irish could have struggled slightly on 
Saturday and no one would have been the least bit surprised. They would have chalked it up to opening game jit­ters, inexperience, and, hey, Nevada is supposed to be a pretty good football team. 
"''m sorry we did­
o 't give [Charlie Weis] a better game so we could see what his ballclub is 
"Overall, I thought the operation, especially in the first halfhow everything went, it went pretty much like clockwork." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 
like," Nevada coach Chris Ault said after the game. 
Nevada is a better team than they showed on Saturday, and will win their share of games this sea­son, but Notre Dame can't control how the opponent plays. All the Irish can do is take advantage of it -and they certainly did. 
The most noticeable difference isn't even in Jimmy Clausen and Michael Floyd's video game stats or the defense's first shutout since 2002. The difference was notice­
able as soon as the teams took the field. 
After last year's loss to Syracuse, receiver Golden Tate described the sideline emotion as "Eh." Against Nevada, nothing could be further from an accurate description. This team has swag­ger, confidence, and plays with a boatload of emotion. 
The telling play was a 4th-and-1 stop in the first half. Last year, Nevada would have converted the first down. In 2007, the Wolf Pack probably would have scored a touchdown. This year, Notre Dame had three guys in the backfield 
before you could say "Kaepernick." 
Now, one game does not a whole season make. It's easy to play with poise when you score on five of your first six posses­sions. It will be interesting to see how this newfound strut changes when the Irish find them­selves trailing. A trip to the Big 

House could be a better litmus test for this team. 
"It was just a good start," Weis said. "That's what today was, it's a good start." 
A good start towards, hopefully, seeing those guys in orange blaz­ers again soon. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd. edu 



Monday, September 7, 2009 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 


Defensive gameplan stifles Nevada 

By MATT GAMBER Sports Editor 
Saturday's was the kind of dominant .. defensive effort Irish fans haven't seen in a long time -since 2002, Ty Willingham's first year at Notre Dame, in fact. 
Nevada's vaunted Pistol offense surely didn't live up to the hype, and all-WAC Colin Kaepernick certainly didn't play his best game for the Wolf Pack. But the fast, disciplined, 
opportunistic Irish "Being a defensive seemed to center defense most definitely guy, [a shutout] is around getting bodies had a lot to do with that. in the Nevada back­
something you shoot 
On Nevada's first pos­, field. session, Notre Dame fi "There was a lot of
or. 

allowed the Wolf Pack to us moving the line of move the ball downfield scrimmage the other
Kyle McCarthy 
with three straight plays way," Weis said. "We
Irish safety 

of 10-plus yards. But jun­had two sacks and 
Irish were up 21-0 midway through the second quarter. 
"Obviously, it feels good to put up a shutout on defense. Being a defensive guy, it's something you shoot for," sen­ior safety Kyle McCarthy said. "We're happy with how we played today." 
Co-defensive coordinators Jon Tenuta and Corwin Brown had the Irish defense obviously well-prepared for Nevada's unique offense and the Wolf Pack's multitude of rushing weapons, and the play­ers went out and exe­cuted a game plan that 
ior linebacker Brian Smith's takedown of Kaepernick for a loss of seven led to a third-and-12, and the Irish defense held to set up a missed field goal. 
That's about as close as Nevada would come to scoring all day. 
Nevada would muster just one first down on its next two possessions com­bined, and by the time the Wolf Pack started their fourth possession, the 
four tackles for loss, 
and to be honest with you, we had another four sacks that we could have had that we missed a few tackles there. I think that's going to be one of the points of emphasis for the defensive staff going into Michigan." 
As Weis suggested, there is likely room for improvement, both in terms of tackling fundamentals and stopping the inside run more consistently. But considering the Irish are less than two years removed from having to return to a back-to-basics training camp mentality a few games into the 2007 season, one has to be pleased with the defense's progress. 
All three defensive position units ­the defensive line, linebackers and defensive backs -made at least one big play. Sophomore defensive end Kapron-Lewis Moore recovered a fum­ble, linebackers Brian Smith and jun­ior Toryan Smith each recorded a sack and McCarthy and sophomore corner Robert Blanton each intercepted a Kaepernick pass. 
Notre Dame's defense combines tal­ented youngsters with seasoned veter­ans, and the Irish appeared to have a newfound confidence and swagger, celebrating big plays and engaging the crowd in key situations. 
"Guys out there getting rowdy, not just offensive guys with offensive guys, defense with the defense, but the team collectively. We had each other's backs," junior linebacker Brian Smith said. "Whenever the offense was in a bad situation, the defense put us in a good situation. We kind of fed off of each other today." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
•

scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3nl 4th  Total  
Notre Dame  7  21  7  0  35  
Nevada  0  0  0  0  0  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 7, Nevada 0 
Kyle Rudolph 19-yd pass from Jimmy Clausen 
(Nick Tausch kick) with 8:42 remaining. 
Drive: 12 plays, 67 yards, 6:18 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 14, Nevada 0 
Michael Floyd 24-yd pass from Clausen 
(Tausch kick) with 14:54 remaining. Drive: 9 
plays, 78 yards, 4:24 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 21, Nevada 0 
Floyd 70-yd pass from Clausen (Tausch kick) with 11:42 remaining. Drive: 2 plays, 79 yards, 
0:49 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 28, Nevada 0 
Armando Allen 1-yd run (Tausch kick) with 1:48 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 80 yards, 3:45 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 28, Navy 0 
Floyd 88-yd pass from Clausen (Tausch kick) with 10:12 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 99 yards, 
1:58 elapsed. 

statistics 
total yards 
ND 510 

rushing yards 
ND 178 i\\' I :=;_1 
passing yards 

ND 332 

return yards 

ND 45 

time of possession 
ND 33:40 

passing 

Clausen 15·18·314 Kaepernick 12-23·149 
Allen Gray, J. Hughes Riddick Aldridge 

Floyd Tate Rudolph Allen Walker, D. Parris Gray, J. 
rushing  
15·78 9·51 6·20 5-20 3·13  Taua Kaepernick Ball  18·111 10-67 1-0  
receiving  

4·189  Session  5-51  
3-59  Tau a  3·38  
4·29  Wimberly  2-36  
3·25  Wellington  2-27  
1-15  Green  1·2  
1·10  
1·5  





18 players make Irish debuts in victory 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Editor 
Eighteen players took the field as Notre Dame football players for the first time Saturday, and that tally includes seven true freshmen. 
"That's a lot of guys to be get­ting their first snap of football," Irish coach Charlie Weis said Sunday. "I thought the team as a whole, shown by the number of mental mistakes not being very high and the number of penalties not being very high, I think that the team played with pretty good poise, especially the fact that you're throwing in so many new guys into the mix." 
Sophomore Kapron Lewis­Moore was among those seeing his first game action, and the defensive end notched his first career fumble recovery. 
"It wasn't hard to keep my head about me, I was more nervous than anything," Moore said. "Going out on the field for the first time in about two years, since high school, was just a great feeling. I felt like I settled down after the first cou­ple of plays." 
Other notable debuts includ­ed freshman linebacker Manti Te'o (2 tackles), freshman kick­er Nick Tausch (5-for-5 on extra points), freshman running back Theo Riddick (5 carries, 20 yards), sophomore quarter­back Dayne Crist (2-for-2 pass­ing) and sophomore wide receiver Deion Walker (1 recep­tion, 15 yards). 
More on openers 
The shutout of Nevada was Notre Dame's first in an opener since Aug. 31, 2002, when the Irish topped Maryland, 22-0, on the road. Notre Dame's last season-opening shutout at home took place on Sept. 22, 1973, in a 44-0 thrashing of Northwestern. 
Notre Dame scored first in its opener for the first time in eight seasons, with the last time com­ing in that 2002 victory of the Terrapins. 
The 28-0 Irish halftime lead was their biggest in a season opener since Notre Dame led 33-0 over Vrrginia in 1989. 
Jimmy's Day 
Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen's quarterback rating of 303.67 set a Notre Dame Weis era record, as the junior sur­passed his Hawaii Bowl mark of 277.63. It was his second straight game completing at least 80 percent of his passes, and the contest marked the third such game of Clausen's Irish career. 
Clausen's third touchdown, on which he connected with sophomore receiver Michael Floyd on a 70-yard screen pass, helped him pass Jarious Jackson (1996-99) for fourth on the all-time touchdown passes list at Notre Dame. That pass was the longest of Clausen's year -until his 88-yard strike to Floyd in the third quarter. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
r page4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 7, 2009 





Tinte to exhale 
It was like Hawaii all over again for the Irish offense, as Jimmy Oausen and 
the passing game continued their dominance over WAC defenses with 314 yards and four scores. Michael Floyd tore up the Nevada secondary to the tune of 189 yards, the highest total in the nation after one week. The offensive line gave Oausen time in the pocket and did not give up a sack, and Armando Allen led the running game to over 170 yards. Nevada's vaunted pistol offense was stifled the entire game by a bli1zing attack led by the Smith linebackers -Brian and Toryan. Manti Te'o made his highly anticipated debut and appears poised to live up to the lofty expectations set for him as a freshman. Fifth year senior and captain Kyle McCarthy led the team in tackles and had a key interception for his unit to preserve the shutout. 

Clockwise from top: safety Harrison Smith drags down Nevada running back Val Taua; Alphie the Nevada mascot mourns another Clausen passing touchdoWn; senior offensive tackle Sam Young reacts after a key run in the first quarter; running back Theo Riddick leaps over a Wolf Pack defender; and safety Serg1o Brown hits the deck after leaping for a ball. 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Monday, September 7, 2009 
page II 
By ANDY SEROFF Scene Writer 
In the beginning, there was "Battlefield 1942." Since then, garners have fought in Italy, World War II, and even in the year 2142. Now, the well­established, ten-year reign of Electronic Arts' "Battlefield" series of video games has a new king ­"Battlefield Heroes." 
Not too long ago, garners were a clique culture. Strategy and RPG games were at their prime, requiring devotion to master, and leaving the casual gamer with their head in the hands. With the arrival of the Wii, video games have found a much broader fan 

base. Simple, pick-up and 
Battlefield Heroes 
play games are 
vastly outselling their predeces­sors, and this latest installa­tion of the first­person shooter series caters to 

this new trend. 
Your charac­ter can be one of three classes: com­mando, soldier and gunner, each with a variety of unique abilities. The sol­dier is your run-of-the-mill class, the gunner specializes on heavy weaponry, and the commando is the sniper and assassin. The game makes an effort to balance the classes, for example, commandos' range and stealth are countered by their low survivability, however each class plays better or worse depending on the battlefield. 
At the moment, the game has four maps -Coastal Clash, Seaside Skirmish. Victory Village and Buccaneer Bay. The cute alliterative names each have an equally cute bat­tlefield to match. Victory Village is set in a quaint Germanic town, complete with narrow alleys and rooftops to engage in urban combat in. Seaside Skirmish is a little bigger, with houses and a windmill surrounding a small river. Buccaneer Bay and Coastal Clash are huge, sprawling maps. Unlike Victory Village and Seaside Skirmish, which only have jeeps to drive around, the open-air settings of Buccaneer Bay and Coastal Clash facilitate the use of tanks and air­planes. 
In "Battlefield Heroes," you fight in a cartooney world. Instead of attempting the create realistic people, places and warfare, the game instead invites you into a world where soldiers have speed boosts, magically appearing shields, and a massive bazooka that can be stuffed into a pocket when not in use. Your character is a soldier of either the Royals (the "good guys") or Nationals ("bad guys"). When captur­ing checkpoints, your team's fight song plays, as you dramatically raise your flag up the flagpole -light blue and a gold crown for the Royals, dark red and a big black skull for the Nationals. Explosions from sticky dynamite, tank shells, or grenades send you comically flying into the air. Characters casually sit on the wings of planes, and if it turns out their pilot 
hasn't exactly gotten his wings at Online FPS Air Flight School, you can just jump right off and you're covered, thanks to an always­ready para­chute. 
And the best part is it's free. 
All you have to do is go to their web­site (www.battlefieldheroes.com) and download the small, web-based pro­gram. In-game currency is earned by completing achievements and missions in battle, which can be spent on differ­ent weapons, bandages, and outfits. The outfits purchasable with these Valor Points are different color combi­nations of the standard garb, but cool or silly additions are available for micropayments of real money. Fortunately for the gameplay, all per­formance-enhancing items are for Valor Points and not US currency, pre­venting people from paying money for a leg-up on the competition. Also for purchase are emotes -one second ani­mations your character can do. Simple emotes like "Yes" and "No" are for Valor Points, but you can get silly ones for real money as well. 
The game isn't perfect, but since the game is free, you get much more than you're paying for. It has some glitches, and the friend-finding system can be touchy, but all in all it's a fun time. Watch out for the sniper in the full knight armor, clucking like a chicken. 
Contact Andy Seroff at aseroff@nd.edu. 
The game isn ,t perfect, but since the game is free, you get much more than you're paying for. 
IMOGEN HEAP "Soft & Powerful" in Ellipse 
By KATHERINE GREENSPOON Scene Writer 
Imogen Heap's voice, tone and lyrical masterpieces are what put her on the map as a talented and unique artist. After a four-year hiatus with the release of her second album, "Speak for Yourself," the British singer-songwriter has graced the lists of music charts yet again, taking the 5th spot on Billboard top 200. Heap's new album "Ellipse" gained Heap her highest chart position ever. This comes as no surprise with her innovative approach to her old new sound. 
"Ellipse" was completed in Heap's hometown of Essex, England, where she com­posed the entire album in her studio basement. The name references the oddly shaped structure of her house where she spent most of her time composing and writ­ing. Heap took advantage of simple sound and common household distractions such as floor board creeks, birds chirping and kitchen commotion which aided her in blending all of her ideas together to form what later turned into "Ellipse." 
Heap's new album is loaded with new unconventional melodies and contemporary orchestral influences that capture listener's attention immediately. Her voice and unique lyrics tell amazing stories, "Train Ride Home" and "Canvas" are only a couple of the newest songs she has debuted on this album that showcases her unbelievable charisma and talent. Her artistic approach to every song makes her so intriguing and attracting to listeners. 
Every song on this album has a catchy chorus and distinct lyrics that force the lis­tener to continue listening. "Tidal" is one of the thirteen songs on this album that really stands out with its natural and mellow tone. The simplicity and easy rhythm th~t has be.come Heap's sty~e com~s across in several of her songs. Every aspect of this album IS easy and relaxrng to listen to and ideal to enjoy during those long nights of homework. 
Heap's voice is absolutely hypnotizing and irresistible. She combines her streaming piano sessions and electronic additions to create new and exciting music that tran­scends gender and dramas. Electronic synthesizers plus a voice that echoes pure poetry combine as two ingredi­ents that are guaranteed to give extraordinary performance. 
However, Heap's execution of "Earth" on the album seems to be a bit out of place and tedious. She has a pattern of sweet and light pieces but with "Earth" sounding more repeti­tive and irritating it does a poor job flowing with the rest of her collection. 
Heap's witty and boisterous conver­sation throughout the rest of her songs makes her work relatable and effortless for the public to listen to. With her ingen­ious instrument usage and ideas she is able to reach a broad audience through her energetic and breathtaking performances on and off the stage. 
Her progression from her first two studio albums, "iMegaphone" and "Speak for Yourself' is extraordinary. "Ellipse" stands out as more contemporary and cutting edge with songs like "Little Bird" and "Between Sheets," both of these pieces being very imaginative and creative. 
Heap has had several appearances on TV shows including Letterman and has lent her sound to many soundtracks including "The O.C," "American Psycho 2" and "Heroes." Her soft but powerful voice is contagious and her newest CD offers fans new material that is both mature and well versed. Heap has said that her album cycles are three to four years and hopes to get started on her next album, which will include bonus tracks and a new electronic sound. 
Everything from her hair to her shoes is different and edgy, and whether she has multicolored dresses on or feathers and flowers in her hair, her music will always out­shine every aspect of her image. 
Contact Katherine Greenspoon at kgreenOl@saintmarys.edu 

Ellipse 
Imogen Heap 

Studio: Nonesuch Records, Inc Recommended Tracks: "Little Bird," "Between The Sheets," "Tidal" 


-------~"------------------------------­
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 7, 2009 
MLB 


Ichiro gets 2000th hit in Mariners 5-2 victory 
Pelfrey consistent from the mound for Mets; Brewers and Giants battle it out in 12 innings 
Associated Press  Suzuki, who has a 17-game hitting streak against the A's,  "My last couple starts have been embarrassing," Pelfrey  
OAKLAND, Calif.-Scott  drilled  Gonzalez's second  said. "I know I need to be  a  
Hairston took advantage of a  pitch down the right field line  lot better and I'm going to be  
second chance. Ichiro took  for  a  double  and  hit  No.  a lot better."  
advantage  of  the  second  2,000.  Following  his  previous  
pitch.  "No matter what the situa­ start, the 25-year-old Pelfrey  
Ichiro's 2,000th hit  was  tion is I want to get a  hit as  had a  long chat with manag­ 
overshadowed  by  the  go­ early  as  possible," Suzuki  er  Jerry  Manuel  that the  
ahead grand slam Hairston  said through  an interpreter.  pitcher described as "all pos­ 
hit in the seventh inning to  "Personally it's not a big sur­ itive."  
help the Oakland Athletics  prise, but looking back to my  "He told  me  he expected  
beat the Seattle Mariners 5-2  first spring training when I  more out of me and I told him  
Sunday.  was  criticized, it does have  the same thing. I said, 'Hey,  
Suzuki reached the mile­ meaning now."  your  expectations  aren't  
stone on a double in the first  The Mariners' outfielder,  higher than mine, "Pelfrey  
inning against Gio Gonzalez  who accumulated 1,278 hits  said. "I  can finish this thing  
(5-5), who went a career-high  in Japan, became the second­ on a positive note."  
seven innings, allowing two  fastest to 2,000 hits, record­ Pelfrey (1 0-1 0) allowed five  
runs on six hits.  ing it in his 1,4 0 2 major­ hits in his longest outing this  
"I was very clueless to what  league game. AI Simmons did  year and Murphy finished  a  
happened," Gonzalez said.  it in game 1,390.  double shy of the cycle. The  
"He's the first batter, I tried to go inside and he gets a  "I knew he could play base­ball and he's just fun to  Mets took two of three from Chicago in a series between  AP Mets' Angel Pagan, right, steals second base before Cubs'  
leadoff hit. He did his job and  watch," Mariners' outfielder  preseason NL favorites who  shortstop Andres Blanco could tag him Sunday.  
I congratulate him." Hairston popped up with the bases loaded in the fifth inning against Seattle starter  Ken Griffey Jr. said. "That's a special day for him and for all of us. It's nice to see his­tory made. Five more hits  have struggled all year. It was the first time New York won a series since tak­ing three of four games  a 6.09 EHA in his past six starts. But he was rarely in trouble Sunday. He struck out five, walked one and threw  said. Brewers 2, Giants 1 Prince Fielder closed his  
Doug Fister . When he found himself in the same situation two innings later, he deliv­ered. "He's been struggling lately but the ball jumps off his bat," A's manager Bob Geren said. "He's getting a chance to play every day and he'll only keep getting better."  and we get to watch it all against Colorado from July over again." 27-30. The injury-depleted Even before the ball fell in Mets went 0-8-2 in series front of the Seattle bullpen, during that span. fans stood to Francisco cheer Ichiro, Rodriguez , pitch­who led off a ing on his bobble­"/ can finish this game with a head day, allowed hit for the thing on a positive a run in the ninth 215th time. note.,, before nailing  70 of his 105 pitches for strikes. "He was tremendous. He was rolling. He was throwing every single pitch for strikes," Hodriguez said. "He was the Mike Pelfrey that everybody was hoping to see." After Soto's RBI double with  glove and completed Milwaukee's first triple play in 10 years. Then he swung his booming bat and ended the game. Fielder hit a solo home run with one out in the 12th inning and the Brewers, boosted by their fielding gem, beat the San Francisco Giants  
Hairston made an impres­sion on Geren when he home­red twice in a spring training game. "It was kind of our intro­duction to him," said. Geren. "It was 'Wow, who is that?' Littfe did we know then he'd be with us a few months later."  "He's a down his 30th special play-save in 35Mike Pelfrey e r , " chances. pitcherWakamatsu Manuel and a said. "He'll New York Mets trainer came out continue to to check on tack on Rodriguez after record after record as long as Geovany Soto's two-out HBI he stays healthy." double, but the All-Star clos­Suzuki has 128 hits in er waved them off and got  nobody out in the fifth, the big right-hander retired his next three batters to limit the damage. "From here on out I think we'll see pretty good efforts from Mike," Manuel said. Murphy hit a solo homer into the second deck in right field in the fourth. A two-out  2-1 Sunday. "It was fun, especially the way the season is going now for us," Fielder said. "It's always good to have some fun." The loss dropped the Giants two games behind Colorado for the NL wild-card spot. Fielder hit his 37th home  
Landon Powell also home­red for the A's, who won their second straight. Jose Lopez and Adrian Beltre drove in runs for the Mariners, who had won nine of their previous 13 and  Oakland, his favorite road park. His 227 hits against the A's is his second most behind the 239 he's earned against the Texas Rangers . Suzuki, the 259th player to reach the milestone, went 1  pinch-hitter Kosuke Fukudome to ground out on his next pitch. Hodriguez said his left leg simply cramped up. "I probably didn't get enough water," he said.  error by third baseman Aramis Hamirez extended the New York fifth, and Murphy made the Cubs pay for their mistake with a tiebreaking HBI single. "You've got to pitch around  run, connecting against Merkin Valdez (2-1). The slugging first baseman untucked his shirt before reaching second base and jumped on home plate as his teammates fell over back­ 
seemed on their way in this  for 4 and needs five  more  Soto had a pair of run-scor­ the  error.  That's what good  ward in unison in  a  choreo­ 
one before Hairston's slam off Scott Kelley (4-2). Fister lasted five innings,  hits for 200 on the season, which would break the record he shares with Willie  ing doubles for the Cubs, who mustered little offense in support of Handy Wells (1 0­ pitchers do and I didn't," Wells said. With two on and two outs in  graphed celebration. Fielder's drive gave him career home run No. 151.  
giving up a run on six hits before leaving after develop­ing a blister. "He developed it about the third inning and he did a good job of getting through five," Mariners' manager Don Wakamatsu said. "It's unfor­tunate because from the beginning it looked he was going to pitch a heck of a  Keeler at nine consecutive seasons with 200. Mets 4, Cubs 2 Mike Pelfrey's inconsistency has been a mystery to the New York Mets this season. Fed up with his own perform­ance, the big right-hander brought a new attitude to the mound Sunday.  8). A contender for NL Bookie of the Year, he yielded two runs -one earned -and seven hits over six innings in a hard-luck loss. "There's no sense in talking about it," Cubs manager Lou Piniella said. "Wells did a nice job again. He's been one of the most positive develop­ments here."  the seventh, Murphy hit a long drive to center against Kevin Gregg that went over Sam Fuld's head and off his glove for a two-run triple. Cubs shortstop Andres Blanco turned in a spectacu­lar play in the fourth to rob Jeff Francoeur of a hit. Blanco made a diving stop up the middle and threw to first  The triple play, that was No. 1 for him. San Francisco led 1-0 when it put Randy Winn on second and Hyan Garko on first in the sixth inning. Aaron Howand followed with a grounder that third baseman Casey McGehee fielded right on the bag. McGehee touched third and  
game." Brad Ziegler pitched the  Pelfrey pitched eight effi­cient innings and Daniel  Chicago 0. 70 ERA  starters have a in the last six  from the seat of his pants as he rolled over on the outfield  threw to second baseman Felipe Lopez for the force.  
eighth and Andrew Bailey got the final three outs for his 23rd save in 27 chances, including the last 18 in a row.  Murphy homered, tripled and drove in four runs to lead New York past the Chicago Cubs 4-2.  games, but the team is only 3-3 during that stretch. A 13-game winner last sea­son, Pelfrey entered 1-4 with  grass. "That's as good a play as I've ever seen made at the major league level," Piniella  Lopez's relay to Fielder beat Rowand by a step, and pitch­er Braden Looper celebrated by pumping his fist.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right w edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
Remodeled 2-bdrm house, less UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
than 10-min walk to ND. Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has WANTED FoR RENT TICKETS PERSONAL many resources in place to assist 
For rent or sale with guaranteed you. If you or someone you love PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­repurchase. 269-267-4008. HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRITING needs confidential support or assis­appt.,no experience needed,cus­ND vs MSU Weekend, Sept. pay top$$. 574-251-1570. ACT, Inc. invites you to participate in tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at tomer sales/service, 18,19,20. Rooms in Sacred Heart ATTN: GRAD STUDENTS/FACUL­an essay-writing study. Limited 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For 57 4-273-3835. Parish Hall on campus. $400/per TY EXECUTIVE HOUSE 4 RENT. VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade number of participants so register more information, visit ND s website 
person two nights includes game FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232-soon to secure a spot. at: FOOSBALL PLAYERS wanted. ticket, bed, parking, K of C Smoker, 2BR, 2 1/2 Bath, LR, DR, SunRm, 0964. www.act.org/essaystudy http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Have the best table in the area to Lunch at Morris Inn tent, etc. All kitchen, washer/dryer, 2-car play on. Play at a high level. profits go to South Jersey Notre attached garage + security sys­Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking If you or someone you care about Saturday highlights: Interested? Call257-4441 or 339-Dame Club Scholarship Fund. tems. Close to Notre Dame. pass. 574-276-8507. has been sexually assaulted, we Michael-9:50 power hour 2838. Available now. One Year Lease -can help. For more information, visit Sam-PARTY IN THE USA, Leave message if no answer. Email: Bi11Burns.68@Aiumni.nd.ed Shown By Appt.only. 1-262-332-Desperately need season tix/MSU, Notre Dame s website: MILEY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Mishawaka address. Ask for D. or call Bill Burns 609-368-1962. 0015 (Cell). BC. Call574-654-01681ocal call. http:1/csap.nd. edu Gamber-Too terrible to talk about. 



OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES
Monday, February 7, 2009 
page 13 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
NCAA Men's Soccer NSCAA Division 1 Preseason Poll 
team  previous  
1  Maryland  1  
2  North Carolina  3  
3  Wake Forest  2  
4  Akron  9  
5  St. John's  4  
6  Creighton  5  
7  Indiana  6  
8  California  12  
9  Northwestern  7  
10  UIC  11  
11  South Florida  8  
12  Connecticut  14  
13  NOTRE DAME  18  
14  Tulsa  16  
15  UC Irvine  10  
16  UC Santa Barbara  22  
17  Dartmouth  20  
18  Loyola (Md.)  15  
19  UCLA  RV  
20  Michigan St.  17  
21  St. louis  21  
22  Michigan  13  
23  Cal Poly  23  
24  Boston U.  RV  
25  Louisville  RV  

NCAA Women's Soccer NSCAA Division 1 Rankings 
team  previous  
1  North Carolina  1  
2  NOTRE DAME  2  
3  Portland  3  
4  Stanford  4  
5  Florida St.  5  
6  Florida  7  
7  West Virginia  14  
8  Virginia  10  
9  UCLA  9  
10  TexasA&M  6  
11  Illinois  13  
12  San Diego  15  
13  Penn St.  8  
14  Purdue  RV  
15  Colorado  18  
16  Boston College  20  
17  Wake Forest  RV  
18  Georgia  16  
19  Minnesota  17  
20  Oklahoma St.  21  
21  Utah  NR  
22  Santa Clara  19  
23  Missouri  22  
24  Duke  11  
25  St. John's  NR  

NCAA Women's Volleyball AVCA Division 1 Coaches Poll 
team  points  
1  Penn St.  1492  
2  Texas  1429  
3  Washington  1388  
4  Hawaii  ·1299  
5  florida  .1212  
6  Nebraska  1142  
7  Michigan  1056  
8  Illinois  1036  
9  UCLA  993  
10  California  921  

around the dial 
NCAA Football 
Miami at Florida State 8 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 

Boston at Chicago White Sox 8 p.m., CSNCH 

Associated Press 

OKLAHOMA CITY ­Before the season started, Oklahoma's offensive coordi­nator talked about preparing the Sooners to deal with an injury to Heisman Trophy winner Sam Bradford. 
The worst case scenario became reality Saturday night and the result was a season-opening 14-13 upset at the hands of BYU. 
Now, with no timetable for their star quarterback's return, the Sooners are look­ing for Plan C -or at least a revised Plan B. 
"Whether he is here or is not here for this week and the weeks to come, we're sit­ting right here at 0-1 and we've got to buckle it up and get moving in a quick direc­tion and a positive direction," offensive coordinator Kevin Wilson said Sunday. 
Oklahoma's medical staff was still taking a look at treatment options for Bradford on Sunday. The injury to Bradford's right, throwing shoulder has been called a sprained AC joint. Purdue quarterback Curtis Painter missed two games last season and played as a reserve three weeks after injuring the joint. 
Wilson said a similar process is ongoing for sec­ond-team All-America tight end Jermaine Gresham, who has cartilage damage in his right knee and didn't play against BYU. 
"Those are not just neces­sarily for our team, but those are two tremendous players that have great futures. We want to make sure their best interest is taken into consid­eration with what's being done," Wilson said. 
"There's no rush. There's no judgments." 
Only four days before he was hurt, Bradford described how he'd taken out an insurance policy after he decided to pass up the chance to be a first-round pick in this year's NFL draft and instead pursue a nation­al championship at Oklahoma. 
The Sooners have no such policy, but they have been through this before. Starting quarterback Jason White got hurt in both 2001 and 2002, 
IN BRIEF 

Texans' CB Robinson 
reaches agreement 
HOUSTON -Dunta Robinson and the Houston Texans were moving ahead Sunday after the star corner­back ended his holdout and signed the one-year deal the team had been offering all along. 
He took his physical early in the morning, then worked out for coaches. 
"I feel like being a rookie all over again," Robinson said. "I walked in here and all the guys they welcomed me with open arms with a lot of high­fives and a lot of hugs. It's good to be back." 
Coach Gary Kubiak said there was no animosity even though Robinson held out for the entire training camp. 
"It's very positive," Kubiak said. ''I'm just excited to have him back. 
''I'm fine with it. I understand the business and I understand what he went through. I understand all that. That's over. It's time to go play foot­ball." 
Mariners' Suzuki notches 
2000th career hit 
OAKLAND -Ichiro Suzuki took Gio Gonzalez's first offering for a ball. He drilled the second pitch down the right field line for a double and his 2,000th career hit. 
The Mariners' outfielder, who accu­mulated 1,278 hits in Japan, became the second fastest to 2,000 hits, recording it in his 1,402 major-league game. AI Simmons did it in game 1,390. 
Even before the ball fell in front of the Seattle bullpen, fans stood to cheer the Japanese baseball icon, who led off a game with a hit for the 436th time. 
"The game is international and even though there were players from Japan before him, he's the one you think about first," A's manager Bob Geren said following Saturday night's win over the Mariners. "He's big over there and he's made our game bigger here. There's a big turnout wherever he goes and that's good for the game." 
prior to his Heisman Trophy run. Adrian Peterson was a season and a half removed from being the Heisman run­ner-up when he broke his collarbone in 2006 and missed seven games. 
Two of those three seasons ended with Oklahoma still winning the Big 12 champi­onship and going to a BCS bowl. 
"We do have a track record here," Wilson said. "We've lost some guys through the years. It is a part of the game. You don't want it. You don't want it for any­one, but I do think we've shown that we do have the ability to adjust and we do have a bunch of good players here that will rally and pick it up." 

Ores;!on RB Blount makes 
apofogy to Boise St. 
PORTLAND -Oregon running back LeGarrette Blount called Boise State defensive end Byron Hout and coach Chris Petersen to apologize for the punch he threw following Thursday's game between the two teams. 
Blount and Ducks coach Chip Kelly made the conciliatory phone call on Saturday. A spokesman for Oregon confirmed it took place, but would not discuss what was said. 
Blount punched Hout in the jaw following the 16th-ranked Ducks' 19-8 loss to the 14th-ranked Broncos on Thursday night. Hout was knocked to his knees. 
On Friday, Kelly suspended Blount for the rest of the season, effectively ending his career at Oregon. Blount will remain on scholarship and be allowed to prac­tice with the team. but will not play in games or a bowl. 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, September 7, 2009 
NFL 


Seymour traded to Raiders 
Associated Press 
ALAMEDA, Calif. -The Oakland Raiders took a big step toward improving their strug­gling rim defense by acquiring five-time Pro Bowl defensive lineman Richard Seymour from the New England Patriots on Stmday. 
The move does not come with­out its risks as the Raiders gave up a first-round pick in 2011, which could be in the top 10 based on Oakland's recent histo­ry, to acquire a lineman who turns 30 next month and is in the final year of a contract paying him $3.7 million this season. 
Raiders owner Al Davis wanted immediate help for a defense that has struggled to stop the run in recent seasons. Since going to the Super Bowl following the 2002 season, Oakland has had the worst run defense in the NFL, allowing 141.7 yards per game on the ground and 122 touchdowns rushing. The Raiders have· allowed a 100-yard rusher in more than half of their games the past three years. 
"It shows the commitment of this organization," defensive end Greg Ellis said. "You can't guar­antee we're going to have a great, great season this year. But the commitment is definitely there so players don't have to question that when you're mak­ing those kinds of moves to make something happen and hopefully win right now." 
Seymour has been a stalwart in New England since being drafted sixth overall in 2001. He played on three Super Bowl win­ners with the Patriots, recording 39 career sacks and being select­ed to the Pro Bowl for five straight seasons beginning in 2002. 

"From nearly the day he arrived in 2001, Richard Seymour established himself as one of our premier players for nearly a decade," Patriots coach Bill Belichick said Sunday. "His presence has been felt as a force on the field, a respected man oft' it and a multiyear champion." 
The move is only the latest as the Patriots continue to get younger on defense. 
Linebacker Mike Vrabel was traded to Kansas City in the off­season, safety Rodney Harrison retired, and more recently Tedy Bruschi officially called it a career after 13 seasons. Seymour was the last member of the 2001 Super Bowl championship defense still with New England. 
Earlier this summer, Oakland sent two-time Pro Bowl defensive end Derrick ·Burgess to New England for a pair of mid-round draft picks. The Patriots also acquired receiver Randy Moss from Oakland in 2007 for a fourth-round pick, and the teams have swapped draft picks in recent years. 

"Any transaction we make is with the goal of what is best for our team and, as difficult as it is to part ways with a player of Richard's stature, many factors were taken into account when we considered this trade," Belichick said. 
"As an organization, we feel the trade with Oakland brings sufficient value and is in the long-term interest of the club," he added. "We are extremely grateful for the huge impact Richard's elite level of perform­ance had on our success and we wish him the very best during the rest of his career." 
Seymour goes from a team that has gone 77-19 the past six sea­sons to one that is an NFL-worst 
NFL 

Merriman accused of 
choking girlfriend 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -San Diego Chargers star outside linebacker Shawne Merriman was arrested Sunday and accused of choking and restraining his girlfriend, reali­ty TV star T!la Tequila, as she tried to leave his suburban home. 
Tequila, 27, signed a citizen's arrest warrant, charging Merriman with battery and false imprisonment, San Diego County Sheriff's Lt. Gary Steadman said. 
Deputies responded about 3:45 

a.m. to Merriman's house in Poway, north of San Diego, after a woman called to say she was choked by the player and thrown to the ground when she tried to leave, Sheriff's Department spokesman Jan Caldwell said at a news conference. 
Merriman, 25, was taken into custody and booked into the cen­tral jail at about 8:30 a.m. He was released shortly after 11 a.m. Caldwell said she didn't know ifhe posted bail or was released on his own recognizance. 
Tequila was taken to a hospital. Her condition wa<> not immediately available. 
Caldwell said deputies deter­mined Tequila had been drinking. She said she wasn't sure about Merriman. Caldwell said there were other people at the house, but wasn't sure if any of Merriman's teammates were there. 
Tequila, whose real name is Tila Nguyen, is best known for "A Shot at Love with Tila Tequila," which ran for two seasons on MTv. The bisexual dating show featured men and women vying for Tequila's affections. She has also modeled for Playboy and other men's maga­zines. 
Scott E. Leemon, an attorney for Tequila, said in a statement that neither she nor her representatives would comment publicly on the incident. 
Merriman didn't return two e­mails seeking comment. His agent, Tom Condon, said he hadn't heard about the arrest when contacted by The Associated Press. 
Caldwell said the sheriff's department will turn over the results of its investigation to the DL<>trict Attorney's office, which will determine whether to charge Merriman. 
There had been considerable Twitter chatter between Tequila and Merriman during the la<>t two months. She tweeted several times about going to the Chargers' game Friday night and a party she held afterward at a downtown club, including: 
"Im the Head Cheerleader Prom Queen and (at)shawnemerriman is the Prom King! hahaha! LETS GOOO! LIGHTS OliT! SAN DIEGO I WILl, SEE UTOMORROW!" 
24-72 over that span. The Raiders became the first team to lose at least 11 games in six straight seasons when Seymour and the Patriots beat them 49-26 last December. 
The addition of rookies Myron Pryor and Ron Brace to a defen­sive line that also indudes veter­ans Vince Wilfork. Ty Warren, Jarvis Green and Mike Wright made Seymour expendable. 
"It's the nature of the busi­ness," said veteran running back Kevin Faulk, the longest-serving player on the team after Bruschi's departure. "They have an agenda upstairs, and the coaches decide who comes and goes. You can't do nothing about it." 
Faulk said the team will miss the way Seymour carried himself as a person and a player. 
"He was a quiet leader," sec­ond-year linebacker Jerod Mayo said. "He led by his actions. He'll be dearly missed as a teammate and as a player on the field. But we have players that are ready to step up." 
Seymour will primarily play right defensive end, shifting to tackle in some passing situations. The move gives the Haiders the run-stuffing end they have lacked in recent years and helps strengthen the pass rush up the middle. 
The Raiders had the worst run defense in the NFL in the presea­son, allowing 192 yards per game. They had hoped to have fixed their problems against the run by bringing in coordinator John Marshall, who put a heavy emphasis on fundamentals. 
But after watching the presea­son, the Raiders decided they needed an upgrade in personnel as well and made the move for Seymour. 


Earn Extra Money, Get Involved, Have Fun! 
Officiate for RecSports  
Sport  .lli!.t!;.  Time  
Softball & Baseball  Monday, Aug 31  7pm  
Flag Football  Monday, Sept 7  7pm  
Soccer  Monday, Sept 14  7pm  
Basketball  Monday, Oct 5  7pm  

All Meetings in the RSRC Meeting Room Downstairs 
Monday, September 7, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
U.S. OPEN TENNIS 
Clijsters knocks No. 3 Venus Williatns out of U.S. Open 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Well, she sure answered that question. 
Anyone wondering how seri­ous a threat Kim Clijsters might be at the U.S. Open after a two-year layoff got their answer Sunday, when the 2005 champion at Flushing Meadows toppled none other than No. 3 Venus Williams, 6­0, 0-6. 6-4 to advance to the quarterfinals. 
Moving well, stinging shots with both forehand and back­hand and matching every bit of Williams' power, the Belgian star offered a startling refer­endum on the state of her game. 
It may have also said some­thing about the true state of Williams' left knee, which she hurt in the opening round, but had refused throughout the tournament to use as an excuse. 
"It was unbelievable. I don't know what to say," Clijsters said. "It was such a weird match. especially those first two sets. But after I lost the second at 6-0, I said, let's start over and start a new match." 
Indeed. the match began the way many Sundays do in Queens -with a couple of bagels. It took a grand total of 50 minutes to complete those first two sets, but both players regrouped from that bit of awkwardness and played some of the most compelling, solid tennis of the tournament so far. 
Clijsters grabbed an early break for a 3-1 lead in the third, helped by one of Williams' five double-faults to close it out. Clijsters served 
out the match from there, though it was anything but routine. 
She fell behind 0-30 on her serve at 5-4, but just kept banging away. She got it to 30­40, then hit a shot deep into the corner that Williams couldn't handle. She forced an error at deuce with another deep groundstroke, then skid­ded a service winner off the line on the backhand side for the win. 
Her reaction was one not so much of surprise, as a smile that seemed to say "I told you so." She became the first female wild-card entrant to reach the U.S. Open quarterfi­nals. One promising slice of history: This marked the third meeting between Clijsters and Williams at the U.S. Open, and each previous time, the winner has gone on to take the cham­pionship. 
"I've been working really hard the last seven, eight months and I'm enjoying it," Clijsters said. "It's something that's really important for myself, as long as I can focus on tennis and have fun on the outside as well." 
Clijsters retired in 2007 to start a family and hadn't seen Grand Slam action since that year, but is quickly re-estab­lishing herself as one of the few who can move well enough and hit hard enough to hang with the Williams sisters. 
Mother of an 18-month-old daughter, Jada, Clijsters is try­ing to join Margaret Court and Evonne Goolagong as the third mother to win a Grand Slam singles title. 
Who said motherhood and topflight tennis can't mix? 




Cold Cut Combo 
$5.00 Footlongs Available 
OFF CAMPUS! 
(Including Locations Below) 
eat tresh· 
. !~ 
•sR 23@ Ironwood •sR 93 3 North •oowntown •speedway SR 2 3@ Edison 
•tn dian Rid!le Pia :z:a 
"We have help, so that's great," Clijsters said. "It's fun. To her, it doesn't matter whether I win or lose. She's just happy to see me and that's great." 
Clijsters came into the U.S. Open without enough tourna­ments under her belt to receive a ranking, and now finds herself two wins away from becoming the first unseeded player to reach the finals of the Open since Williams in 1997. 
"I was really glad coming back that a few of the girls who were there when I was playing well are still on top right now," Clijsters said. "And it's great to see some of the newcomers doing well, too. It's fun for me to be part of the change the sport is going through." 
On the men's side, No. 3 Rafael Nadal overcame a 10­minute medical break for an injury to his stomach muscles to defeat 32nd-seeded Nicolas Almagro, 7-5, 6-4, 6-4. 
Nadal missed Wimbledon with knee injuries, and now must deal with injured abs that first cropped up last month in Cincinnati. 
"I don't want to talk about injuries," Nadal said. "Sorry. No, no, I am a little bit tired to talk about injuries. I am here to try my best every day." 
In other men's matches, No. 11 Fernando Gonzalez advanced, as did No. 6 Juan Martin del Potro, while 24th­seeded Juan Carlos Ferrero moved on when ninth-seeded Gilles Simon retired in the fourth set with a right knee injury. 
But the biggest buzz on this 


AP 

Kim Clijsters defeated No. 3 Venus Williams 6-0, 0-6, 6-4 to advance to the quarterfinals of the U.S. Open. 
blustery day in Flushing Clijsters shook up the side of Meadows belonged to Clijsters, the bracket that practically the Belgian, who was clearly had Williams-vs.-Williams the fan favorite at Ashe penned in for the semifinals. Stadium -an honor usually Her next match is against reserved for an American 18th-seeded Li Na of China, going against a foreigner at with a possible meeting with this tournament. Serena after that. 
The Clijsters win injected Before her sister lost, Serena another twist into a tourna-Williams cruised through her ment that is not going to form. fourth-round match, winning No. 2 Serena Williams is the the final 10 games in a 6-2, 6­only top-5 seed remaining. 0 rout over No. 22 Daniela Meanwhile, 70th-ranked Hantuchova. Melanie Oudin, the 17 -year-old "I just want to keep this level from Marietta, Ga., is turning and just stay focused," into a star. Williams said. 
MLB 




Zimmerman comes through 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Many times over the last four years, Ryan Zimmerman was the only rea­son to pay attention to the Washington Nationals . On Sunday, with his team riding its worst losing streak of the season, he made some noise again. 
For the fifth time in his career, Zimmerman ended a game with a home run. There was the familiar scene, his right arm aloft as he circled the bases, waiting to be mobbed at the plate, this time after a two-run shot gave the Nationals a 5-4 win over the Florida Marlins. 
"Zim doing what Zim does," teammate Willie Harris said. "Coming through." 
Zimmerman's homer snapped an eight-game skid for the Nationals, who at this point in the season have mod­est goals -such as avoiding 100 losses. For the Marlins, the loss was an especially tough one -they twice blew a two-run lead, and thus a chance to keep pace in the NL playoff race. They fell five games back of wild card-lead­ing Colorado. 
"This time of year, all of them are tough," Florida man­ager Fredi Gonzalez said, "especially when you have leads in the eighth and ninth inning." 
Zimmerman's homer capped a furious finish to a game that, for the longest time, was look­ing like a sleepy 2-0 shutout in favor of the Marlins. The Nationals tied the game in the bottom of the eighth with the help of a pair of bottom-of-the­order walks and Mike Morse 's two-out, two-run single -a hit that tripled his RBI total for the season -off reliever Kiko Calero. 
"That's the inning I'm more upset about," Gonzalez said. "You've got two outs and we walk a couple of guys and they get a couple of hits." 
In the top of the ninth, the Marlins responded with Nick Johnson 's two-out, two-run single off Mike MacDougal (1­0), who got the win only because his ninth-inning per­formance was less miserable than that of Leo Nunez (4-5). 
Nunez threw only five pitch­es. Willie Harris opened with a first-pitch homer to make the score 4-3. Then came a first­pitch infield single by Cristian Guzman , who hustled to beat the throw in a close play at first. 
Then, with a 1-1 count to Zimmerman, Nunez went to the change-up. 
"He's got a good change-up. He throws it a lot," Zimmerman said. "It's hard to trust yourself and look change­up when a guy throws 94, 95 (mph), but they'd been throw­ing soft stuff to me all day, so I was kind of looking for it. And he left it up." 

The ball landed in the red seats beyond left-center field. 
Hanley Ramirez hit his 1OOth homer for the Marlins, who wasted a solid start by Anibal Sanchez . The right-hander allowed four hits in six sharp innings. 
Ramirez's 20th homer of the season leading off the fourth inning landed some 20 rows back in the left-field bleachers. It was the only run of the game until the seventh. 
Rookie starter J.D. Martin matched his career high by throwing 6 2-3 innings for the Nationals, allowing six hits . 
Florida's Chris Coghlan fin­ished with two hits, giving him a 14-game hitting streak, the longest in the majors this sea­son by a rookie. He jammed his ankle sliding into the catcher's shin guard on a play at the plate in the eighth. but he said he didn't think he would miss any playing time. 
Tigers 5, Rays 3 
Brandon Inge struck out in each of his first three at-bats Sunday. Then, one swing changed everything. 
Ingc hit a grand slam in the ninth inning and the Detroit Tigers picked apart Tampa Bay's bullpen in a 5-3 victory over the Rays that completed a three-game sweep. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 7, 2009 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles drop pair of tournament contests 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's suffered its first two setbacks of the sea­son at Centre College's Tournament in Danville, Ky., falling 3-0 to the hosts Saturday and 4-0 to Transylvania University Sunday. 
The Saint Mary's soccer team (1-2, 0-0) suffered their first loss this season at Centre College's Tournament in Danville, Ky. Saturday evening falling 3-0 to Centre College (2-0), and on Sunday dropped the tournament finale against Transylvania University (2-1). 
Centre College (2-0) scored its first goal when freshman Amy Hebbeler had a one on one situation with Belles sen­ior goal keeper Patty Duffy. Hebbeler scored the goal in the 29th minute, which ended up being the deciding goal as the Belles were shut out for the first time of the season. The goal would be the first of two for Hebbeler, who leads the Colonels with three. 
Duffy also had eight saves in the contest for the Belles. 
"Duffy has a tremendous competitive spirit," Belles coach Ryan Crabbe said before the game. "She has spent many extra hours on her own in order to get better at her position. Having a full season in 2008 and the num­ber of minutes she played should translate into an advantage for her coming into the 2009 season that she did not have last year." 
Junior Corissa Hart and senior Colleen Ferguson both registered shots on goal for the Belles. 
The Belles were dominated on offense in the game with Centre having a 30-3 advan­tage in shots, and a 7-3 advantage in corner kicks in the game. 
Coming off an appearance in the NCAA tournament last season, the Colonels present­ed themselves as a tough opponent for the Belles. 

The Belles were again shut out in their final game of Centre College's Tournament by a score of 4-0. 
Saint Mary's was down early and were not able to recover after Transylvania freshman Ashley Cobanes scored her second goal in as many games. 
The Belles also relinquished a goal to Katie Kelly that was her second of the tournament that put Transylvania up 4-0, which ended up being the final tally. 
Kelly also had an assist on another goal when Sammi Miggliozzi scored, also chip­ping in a goal for Transylvania was Kari Dailey who tallied her first goal of the season off a corner kick from Kate McKelway. 
Despite the Belles being out­shot 23-8 the Belles coach still has strong hopes for his team. 
"I am looking for a good competitive attitude from all of our players, regardless of their role on the field," Crabbe said before the game. "Our energy level when we defend will be important. Finally, we need our attacking players to take greater responsibility in front of goal this year. In 2008 we spent too much time waiting for one player to score all of our goals. This year we have quite a few players capable of con­tributing on the scoresheet." 
Senior Patty Duffy did record 14 saves for the team and four different Belles had four shots on goal in the loss. 
The Belles will next return home to host their own tour­nament and will play No. 7 Otterbein College to open the tournament on Friday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
MLB 

Norris comes back for a win 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Rookie Bud Norris regrouped like a sea­soned veteran after giving up Jimmy Rollins' leadoff homer Sunday. 
The 24-year-old right-han­der struck out six in six effi­cient innings for his first win in a month and Carlos Lee had a two-run single in the Houston Astros' 4-3 win over the Philadelphia Phillies . 
Norris (4-3) allowed two runs and six hits to snap a personal three-game losing streak and earn his first vic­tory since Aug. 12 at Plorida. He had been hit hard since becoming the first rookie in Astros history to win his first three starts. 
"They let you know where you stand a little bit," Norris said of his last three outings. "You kind of gather yourself, get back to the basics, just keep going at it and that's exactly what I did." 
Michael Bourn stole two bases and scored twice for the Astros. Lance Berkman and Miguel Tejada each drove in a run, and Jose Valverde pitched a scoreless ninth for his 21st save in 25 chances. 
The Astros, out of the NL playoff race, have won seven of their last eight home games. 
"They keep playing all the time, they don't quit," man­ager Cecil Cooper said. "They play hard all the time." 
Jimmy Rollins , Ben Francisco and Jayson Werth homered for the Phillies. Cole llamels (8-9) gave up four runs and eight hits over six innings to lose for the fourth time in seven starts. 
Rollins drove Norris' fourth pitch into the Astros' bullpen for his fourth leadoff homer o!' the season and No. 32 for his career. Norris then struck out two of the next four hit­ters. 

"The first batter of the game is always a question mark," Norris said. "But I came back and the rest of the game, I pitched really well." 
Hamels extended his score­less streak to a career-best 21 innings before the Astros got to him in the third. Bourn singled, stole second and scored on Berkman's one-out bloop single to right for the first run allowed by Hamels since Aug. 21. 
The Phillies traded Bourn to the Astros in November 2007 as part of the Brad Lidge deal and are familiar with his abilities in the lead­off spot. 
"With the type of speed he has, I think there's a reason he's been such a huge threat and a big player for their team," Hamels said. 


--------------------------~~-----------------­
Monday, September 7, 2009 
UNC 
continued from page 20 
ting Notre Dame in a 2-0 hole. 
"It would have been a differ­ent game if we had played 10 or 15 minutes and had been in a battle rather than making those mistakes," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "We can't get down two goals to a team like North Carolina and expect to have a good result." 
Both goals stemmed from Notre Dame turning the ball over within scoring-distance of its own goaltender, senior Kelsey Lysander. By halftime, North Carolina's shots had found the back of the net four times. 
"Once [North Carolina] had scored those goals, a combina­tion of nerves and tension made us look like we'd never stepped on the field before with a good team," Waldrum said. 
The Irish did manage 15 shots on goal, compared to North Carolina's 19, but only four Notre Dame shots reached the Tar Heel goaltender, Ashlyn Harris. Besides North Carolina's six goals, five other shots needed to be saved by one of the Irish goalies. 
"We are hoping to get a chance to play them again," Waldrum said. "I have not lost any confidence in my team because we just made those two crucial mistakes that dic­tated the game right there." 
North Carolina netted two more goals in the second half on junior goaltender Nikki Weiss. 
The team is now 1-4 when wearing the green jerseys, hav­ing only won in them the first 
MLB 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
time they were worn. Notre Dame wore the jerseys in its 1­0 triple-overtime victory in the 1995 NCAA National Championship over Portland. 
A standing-room only crowd of 3,007 fans watched the first women's soccer game at Alumni Stadium. Many fans were turned away once the $5.7 million facility began exceeding its capacity. 
"The fans were fantastic. We could not have asked for a bet­ter way to start in a new stadi­um than with those fans and their support," Waldrum said. "It is a shame we laid such an egg for them. Hopefully, they'll give us a chance and come back out and support us because we will have a great year." 
The Irish got back on track with a 3-0 victory over OW­Milwaukee (2-2-2) in the final game of the Classic. 
Sophomore forward Melissa Henderson scored two goals in the first 14 minutes of the match. Freshman forward Tereza Stastny assisted on both of Henderson's goals. 
"We had a really good start," Waldrum said. "The coaching .staff was very curious to see how we would respond today to Friday's fiasco, and I thought we responded very well." 
Junior midfielder Lauren Fowlkes headed in junior for­ward Rose Augustin's corner kick midway through the first half to give the Irish the win­ning 3-0 margin. 
Two Notre Dame forwards, sophomores Melissa Henderson and Courtney Barg, were named to the All­Tournament Team. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer 1 @nd.edu 
page 17 


Xavier 
continued from page 20 

Jamel Nicholas also stepped up for the Irish. Dealy put out 15 kills and nine digs as Nicholas led all players with 46 assists for the day. 
"We probably matched up a little better with Xavier," Brown said. "We were stead­ier with our passing." 
Saturday was not as 
"I think today in the match we ran a much more bal­anced attack, and that will definitely help us down the road," Brown said. 
Both teams stepped up in the second set of the match with 13 tied scores and three lead changes. 
Kaelin led the Irish in only her second start of the sea­son with 13 kills and three digs. Nicholas also put out an impressive performance as she recorded a double-double with 36 assists and 15 digs. 

successful for Freshman
"[The seniors] keep 
Notre Dame as middle blocker
the atmosphere on
it dropped a 3-Hilary Eppink 0 (25-22, 25-the court relaxed, made her first 16, 25-22) career start
which isn't something 
match to the and finished 
you can teach. " 
Lady Vols. The the afternoon match marked with eight kills the first time Debbie Brown and a .438 since an Oct. average. Dealy
Irish coach 
19, 2007, match versus DePaul that no Irish player finished with double-digit kills. 
Phillips led the team with 11 digs, seven kills and three blocks in the loss. Junior libero Angela Puente had 11 digs for Notre Dame and Nicholas put in 29 assists while senior outside hitters Christina Kaelin and Megan Fesl both had six kills. 
But the Irish couldn't keep up with the Lady Vols hitting from the field. They strug­gled to put up a .103 hitting percentage to Tennessee's .200. 
Looking to recover its win­ning record for the weekend, Notre Dame came out strong but was unable to overcome the powerful Michigan team, losing 3-0 (25-19, 31-29, 25­20). 
posted seven kills, nine digs and one ace in the match. 
As they has already showed early on in this season, the Notre Dame seniors have showed their maturity on the court. 
"We have a really good group of seniors," Brown said. "They all have a pretty significant role on the team, and keep the atmosphere on the court relaxed, which isn't something you can teach, it just comes from experience." 
Notre Dame returns to its home court this weekend as they host the Notre Dame/adidas Invitational at the Joyce Center where Wisconsin and New Mexico State will be traveling to take on the Irish. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Reds win, Cards fall in respective series finales 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Once Micah Owings realized he was OK, one of his biggest concerns was making sure his mom knew he was fine. 
Owings walked off the field after getting beaned with the bases loaded in the 12th inning, and the Cincinnati Reds beat the Atlanta Braves 4-2 on Sunday for their sev­enth consecutive win. 
Owings (7-12), who pitched two scoreless innings, was hit on the left side of his batting helmet by an 0-1 fastball from Kawakami. Owings was on his back for several seconds before medical staff from the Reds and Braves helped him sit up and walk to the dugout. 
The scary play came in front of several family members, who came in from Gainesville, Ga., hoping to see Owings get into the game. 
"Yeah, it was nice to have them here even though I'm sure my mom was flipping out from the get-go, but I tried to reassure everybody when I knew that I could see and that everything was fine," Owings said. "I wasn't dizzy or any­thing, but I wanted everyone to know because I knew they would be worrying and pray­ing at the same time." 
According to Cincinnati man­ager Dusty Baker, Owings was bleeding "at the ear" in the dugout. 
"He can't fly for a couple of days," Baker said. "Bot he was in good humor about it. The doctors are in there now stitching him up." 
Joey Votto scored on the play, and Corky Miller followed with a sacrifice fly to make it 4-2. 
Kawakami (7-11), who has started 25 of 27 games, allowed two runs and two hits in two innings. Atlanta has lost five straight, matching its sea­son-worst skid set April14-18. 
Cincinnati trailed 2-1 before Drew Stubbs hit his fifth homer against Mike Gonzalez in the eighth. The Reds have won 12 of 14. 
"Anytime a guy gets hit, it's a scary situation," said Stubbs, who finished with three hits. "It could've been much worse -a concussion that puts him on the DL -but I was ready for the game to end in the ninth." 
The Braves wasted a terrific start by Tim Hudson, who allowed one run and four hits over seven innings in his sec­ond game since returning from elbow surgery. The right-han­der retired the last 14 batters he faced while making his first appearance at Turner Field since beating Washington on July 18, 2008. 
"It was a tough loss today," Hudson said. "I wish we could have pulled this one out. For the most part things are start­ing to zero in for me. My curveball and my split were really good today. Those are pitches I haven't had in a real­ly long time." 
Johnny Cueto also turned in a strong start for Cincinnati, striking out nine while allow­ing one run and three hits over six innings. The right-hander was attempting to win consec­utive starts for the first time since June 25 at Toronto and July 1 against Arizona. 
Jared Burton replaced Cueto in the seventh and former Reds catcher David Ross hit his first pitch for his seventh homer, giving Atlanta a 2-1 lead. 
Owings, also one of Cincinnati's top pinch hitters, wasn't sure how long he would be unable to play. In 169 career at-bats, Owings has eight homers, 30 RBis and a .538 slugging percentage. 
Pirates 6, Cardinals 5 
Thanks to Garrett Jones and a rare failure by the Cardinals' Ryan Franklin , the Pittsburgh Pirates must wait at least a day to set one of the most unwanted records in pro sports. 
Jones hit a game-ending RBI single to cap a two-run rally in the ninth inning against one of the majors' top closers and the Pirates ended a nine-game los­ing streak, beating St. Louis 6­5 Sunday. 
The Pirates won after falling behind 5-4 on Rick Ankiel's pinch-hit homer off Jesse Chavez (1-4) in the top of the ninth. By rallying, they post­poned becoming the first team in any of the four major American pro team sports ­major league baseball, the NFL, NBA or NHL -to have 17 consecutive losing seasons. 
This current mix of prospects and lower-paid play­ers has been responsible for only a handful of the 1,500 losses the Pirates have absorbed since 1993, and Cardinals manager Tony La Russa said this team is playing like it doesn't want the streak to last much longer. 
"We've been there ... They're young and they're hungry, and they're all playing to be here next year," reliever Trever Miller said of the Pirates, who have dealt five everyday play­ers since opening day. 
Not that the Cardinals accepted losing for only the third time in 14 games. Especially the way they lost, with a lead and Franklin on the mound in the ninth. 
Franklin (2-2) gave up sin­gles to Jason Jaramillo , Andrew McCutchen and pinch­hitter Ryan Doumit in a span of four batters, although Jaramillo was forced at second on a failed sacrifice. 
The left-handed Miller came in to face the lefty-hitting Jones with runners on first and second and one out, and the rookie hit a line drive between left fielder Ankiel and center fielder Colby Rasmus for the Pirates' first victory since beating the Phillies 3-2 on Aug. 27. 

Jones, a Pirates find who was previously stuck in Minnesota's farm system, leads NL rookies with 18 homers but wasn't looking to drive the ball. 
"I was trying to take a nice, short swing and hit a line drive and just get a pitch to hit," said Jones, who is hitting .308. "It worked out, I hit it decently and it started tailing away." 
Franklin had converted his previous 13 save opportunities and 37 of 39 overall. 
"He's been out there a lot, I think his stuff was not quite as sharp -he had to locate per­fectly and they stayed on the ball nice," La Russ a said. "We'll be careful in the Milwaukee series (that starts Monday) about how we use him." 
The Cardinals lost for only the sixth time in 28 games since taking control of the NL Central on Aug. 7. They still lead the Cubs by 11 1/2 games. 
"We're looking forward to playing playoff baseball," Miller said. "We just got to get there. That was frustrating right there, you don't ever want to have a hiccup game like that." 
The game began with a mis­play that epitomized all that's gone wrong with a Pirates franchise that, for its first 100 seasons of existence, was one of baseball's most consistent winners. 
,.....-------------­page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 7, 2009 
Clark 
continued from page 20 
was taken down inside the 18-yard box to trigger the foul that knotted up the game. 
"The penalty kick was well deserved because Dike was through and was brought down," said Irish coach Bobby Clark. "Michael (Thomas) stepped up and took the penalty kick." 
The Irish were threatening the Wake Forest goal all game, including quality shots 
at 0-0 until late into the sec­ond half. 
"It was a really competitive game-in the first half," said Clark. "St. John's is a very hard pressing team, which made it difficult for us to establish our game. I thought we played as well as we could have played in the second half. We just didn't convert on the day. I was proud of the way we played. It's tough when you play as well as we did and then take nothing out of it." 
The Irish had a chance to take the lead early in the first 
half when jun­
ior forward 

-from Thomas Steven Perry
"It's tough when you
and senior mid­was taken
play as well as we
fielder Justin down in the 
Morrow that did and then take box attempting 
just could not a header, but
nothing out ofit. " 
find their way Michael into the goal. Thomas was In the 34th Bobby Clark unable to con­minute the Irish coach vert the penalty 

Demon Deacons took the lead on a cross from Wake Forest junior midfielder Corben Bone sent a cross in to sopho­more forward Luke Norman who headed the ball into the 
back of the net. 
Notre Dame kept the pres­sure on with a header that nearly went in from Dike, but the Irish were unable to even the score until the penalty shot. 
"Even right through the overtime I thought we had the mentality to want to win the game," Clark said. "For this early in the season I felt it was a good performance by us." 
The Irish stayed strong and did not allow an early deficit to prevent them from coming back and tying the game. 
"We went down against a top team in the first half, but we then out shot them 10-5 in the second half and that was key," said Clark. "I thought the team showed a lot of character. I felt that we opened well and their goal came against the tun of play. I thought we really took the game to them in the second half. It was a good team per­formance for us." 
The second match saw the Irish match up against the top-ranked team in the nation in St. John's, and although they did not come out with the victory, the Irish battled tough, keeping the score even 
into  a  goal  
against  St.  
John's  goalkeeper  Derby  
Carlllo.  

The Red Raiders held a 7-6 shot advantage in the first half, along with a 5-0 advan­tage in corner kicks. 
St. John's ended the score­less tie in the 68th minute of the second half when Red Raider junior midfielder Sverre Wegge Gundhus nailed a goal from 18 yards out. 
"St. John's is a good team and it just wasn't our day," said Clark. "We had some missed chances and their goalkeeper saved the penalty kick." 
The scored remained 1-0 until the final seconds of the game, when the Irish attempted to even the score by bringing the goalie out to put extra pressure on the St. John's defense. This strategy backfired, however, when St. John's capitalized on the empty net off the foot of sen­ior midfielder Nelson Becerra. 
"It certainly wasn't our ·day," said Clark. 
Notre Dame will next take the field in the eighth annual Hilton Garden Inn Mike Berti.celli Memorial Tournament at Alumni Stadium next weekend against Seattle on Friday and New Mexico on Sunday. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
College 
continued from page 20 

with a dominating 15-8 fifth set. Senior Lorna Slupczynski led the way with 18 kills, 17 digs, and six aces. 
The Belles continued on with a 3-1 victory over Penn State-Altoona, giving them their second victory of the young season. 
The two wins advanced them to the semi-finals on Saturday morning, where they faced DePauw, which fin­ished second in the Southern Collegiate Athletic Conference Championship last year. The Belles dropped three straight sets (25-17, 25-18, 25-17) to the Tigers and were forced to settle with a chance at third place. 
But the Belles put the loss behind them and came out with a dominating three-set win over Hanover. In the match, Junior Danie Brink had 20 assists, six digs, five kills and two aces. Slupczynski added to her stats with a team-leading 12 kills. 

Following the tournament, Slupczynski was named to the All-Tournament Team, adding to her numerous accolades including back-to-hack All­MIAA second team honors. 
The Belles will return to Angela Athletic Facility on Tuesday to take on in-state rival Trine University at 7 
p.m. The match will mark the beginning of their MIAA conference schedule. The Belles split the series 1-1 with Trine last year. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichalski2@nd.edu 

SENIOR PORTRAITS! Sign up for your Notre Dame Graduate Portrait@ www.LaurenStudios.com to ensure your place in the 2010 DOME Yearbook (Use the school password "Dome 2010"to access the Notre Dame Portrait Schedule) Who: Class of 2010 Students When: Pictures taken August 31-September 11 Where: La Fortune 108 Why: To be in your 2010 Notre Dame Dome Yearbook  

Monday, September 7, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Greg Rusedski, -~6; Rosie Perez, 45: Jane Curtin, 
Across 31 Like hereditary 63 Place of 
62; Swoosie Kurtz, 65 

factors research: Abbr. 
What some 

64 With 34-Down, 
Happy Birthday: You may have to give something up in order to start something new. Not
people do in an 33 English 

everyone will agree with you but, if you concentrate on what needs to be done_ you will getonline "room" dramatist positive results. Your heart is in the right place but emotionally you must refrain from rna­
golf's U.S. Open 
champion of

George nipulating or being manipulated. There is too much at stake to let someone else have control 
5 Shoe bottom 1994 and 1997 
over your life. Your numbers are 4, 12, 23, 32_ 35, 40,44
35 Actress Turner 

9 Swift 65 Peru's capital 36 Maize ARIES (March 21-April19): Don't let emotional issues cloud your common sense, regard­
66 "Beetle Bailey"14 Circle of light 

less of the way others act or perform. It's up to you to do the best you can. As long as you are
dog

42 Mountains (Asia/Europe 67 West Pointer,
around the sun clear on what's required, yon will be the one who gets praised.*** 
or moon 

separator) e.g. TAURUS.(April 20-May 20): A private matter conceming someone you are attracted to 15 Bard of 68 Toward the rising may lead to trouble if you do something you wmdd oonnally disregard. Don1t mix business (Shakespeare) 43 What the dish sun and pleasure_ A poor choice will lead to a medley of errors.*** ran away with, in16 Microscopic 69 First-year GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Focus on home, family and the ones you love. Ifyou let your 
"Hey Diddle 

creature college student, work stop yon from enhancing the bond with the people who are intportant in your life. you
Diddle" 

usually will have regrets_ A child or older relative "~ll give you cause for concern. **** 
17 "So be it" 44 Soda can 
CAl.,.CER (June 21-July 22): Don't get emotional if things don't go your way. By taking tlte
18 Nourish feature 
high road and compromising, you will get most of what you "'ant_ Arguing over something 19 Beckett's 48"_the inconsequential will cause damage to a relationship you care about. ** "Waiting for _" ramparts we 
Down 
Gorges 

LEO (July 2.'1-Aog. 22): You need to diversify. Get out and enjoy new pastimes or travel. 
watched ... 2 Small village 
20 Mays The people you meet and the fllllCtions you attend will motivate and inspire you to get back 49 Butter serving 3 Native Alaskans on track and resurrect some of your old drea!llS, hopes and wishes.*****
23 Zinc or 
zirconium 52 0ne step_ 4 South Pacific VIRGO (Aug. 2.'-Sept. 22): Don't let anyone push you into sometlling without doing the time proper research. A dilenuna may need your attention but that doesn't me<Ul you have to make
24 Home of Barack kingdom 
a move witltout all the facts and figures you require.***
Obama's father 53 Zones 5 Official's call 25 Radical 1960s 55 Rock with a with outspread 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You've got the right idea but probably the wrong people in­volved. Look outside your normal group and you will get the perfect fit for something that 
org. crystal inside arms 
can take off and lead to bigger and better opportunities. Don't let someone's obstinacy stand 57 Maze Puzzle by Janet R. Bender in your way_ ***
28 1st to 220th, in 6 Excess Manhattan: Abbr. 60 Tangle 
7 Frederick _, 32 North Carolina 40 Anguish 50 "_ Fideles" SCORPIO t.Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You need to mix things up a little. Get out with other creative 29 Israeli-made gun 62 "Honest to God!" "My Fair Lady" university people_ Getting involved in a networking group will help you fonnulate new ideas and dis­·­
41 Welsh dog 51 German 

cuss plans tltat "~lead to higher income in the future_***
composer 33_-mell 

45 One of two for 54 Courtyards ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 Part of a 34 See 64-Across the Ten SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-~. 21): You can make some strategic alterations at home. Love 
56 Writer T. S.

whodunit that and romance appear to be escalating and can lead to a fabulot" encounter with someone you
Commandments36 Larva successor 

reveals who 58 Singer India._ adore spending time with_ The payback will be enonuous. ***** 37 In_ (stuck in 46 Departure's 
done it 

the same old opposite: Abbr. 59 Vegetarian's no-CAPRICOR."Il (~. 22-Jan. 19): Don't get entangled in someone else's emotional war_ 9 Overcoat sleeve no Avoid meddling even if someone asks you to get involved_ You will end up being tlte one
same old) 47 Any of the Fab 

blamed. Offer suggestious but nothing more. ** 
10 Mine: Fr. 38 Dreamy place Four 60 Dry, as wine 11 Statue's support 61 Gun lobbyists' AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can fmd a solution to a money problem by selling 
39 Arboreal animals 49 Ballerina's 
something you uo longer t5e_ Once you get started going through what you do and do not 
12 Nigerian native with pouches position org. 
need, you "ill be ripe for selling online or having a garage sale_****
13 "Gimme !" (rude order) For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit PISCES (Feb.19-March 20): Set up a home office or a place you can exercise or work on 21 Viscous card, 1-800-814-5554. one of your hobbies. No matter what your need, clearing a space will help you achieve your Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday goals and make you feel better about yourself and your future. *** 
22 Soapmaker's crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.

supply Birthday Baby: You are sensitive. caring and emotional. You are inrnginative, strong-willed 
AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit 
26 Flintstones' pet and channing_ You follow your own path.
nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. 27 Surgery souvenir Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past 30 Zuider puzzles, nytimes_com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 
(former inlet in Share tips: nytimes_com/wordplay. Eugenia's Web sites.-eugenialast.com for confidential consultations, the Netherlands) Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. mvspace.comleugenialastfor Eugenin's blog, astrotulvicecomfor ftm 
Ans: 

A" ITJ-[ I I )" [II I ) 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Saturday's  Jumbles: Answer:  EXACT TACKY ORCHID THORAX What the ballplayer and fisherman had in  
common  -THE CATCH OF THE DAY  




JEFF KNUREK 

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE

SCHAD & fREUDE 
MIKEARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KOCHE j

I I r () 
©2009 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 

i~ffi () 
tEXGONY I

J [) (] 
NEW Jumble if'tlooe .o'w go 1o: www.bit.ly/150kRq 
I ZIFLEZ t

l ( J J I 
by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 


WHAT THE= PILOTS C.Rt=ATt:=O WHt=N THE:Y 5PRAYE:D THE: PIC.NIC. ARE:A. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _______________ State _____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, September 7, 2009 
page 20 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Wrong foot 
Team struggles in first game at Alumni Field 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Writer 
Wearing green jerseys for the fifth time in program his­tory, Notre Dame suffered a humbling defeat Friday night to top-ranked North Carolina. The No. 2 Irish returned to form with a 3-0 victory over OW-Milwaukee Sunday after­noon, finishing third in the Inn at Saint Mary's Classic. 
Notre Dame (3-1) began its residence at Alumni Stadium with a 6-0 loss at the hands of the defending national cham­pion Tar Heels (5-0). North Carolina set the Irish reeling with a goal only 23 seconds after the opening whistle. North Carolina scored again exactly six minutes later, put-
see UNC/page 17 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
SMCtakes 3rd place in Colu1nbus 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI Sporrs Writer 
Belles first-year coach Toni Kuschel led her Saint Mary's squad to a third-place finish in the Capital University Opener Tournament, bringing the team's overall record to 3­2. 
Following their straight-set loss in the season-opener against cross-town rival Bethel on Tuesday, the Belles won three out of four this weekend, with their only loss to the eventual champion DePauw University. 
They started the weekend off with an exciting match against Muskingum where the Belles eventually pulled it out 
see COLLEGE/page 18 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Men's, women's teains both capture first at Valparaiso 
knowing that we would be setting people that we thought needed points. Those efforts set the pace "It really was a great team per­By MOLLY SAMMON 
the pace and got all of our run­experience," Connelly said. "I as the Irish outdistanced the formance, but the real challenges Sporrs Writer 
ners up front with in about the thought they stepped up and University of Chicago, Valparaiso will be later in the season as we first four hundred meters." competed really woll." and Wisconsin Green-Bay. meet some of the top teams in the 
The Irish men's and women's Both Irish men's coach Joseph In the men's racP., 10 of the first The Irish women notched 26 country," junior Spencer Carter teams both opened their season Piane and women's coach Tim 11 finishers at Valparaiso's points, beating Western said. with impressive showings at Connelly used the season-opening Sunset Hills Park were wearing Michigan, University of Chicago The team's next event is the Friday's Valparaiso Crusader meet to test out a few of each Irish blue and gold. Junior and Valparaiso handily. Juniors National Catholic Invitational on Open event, taking home first team's inexperienced but promis­Spencer Carter (19: 16), sopho­Theresa Cattuna (18:25) and Sept. 18th at Notre Dame's Burke place on both sides. ing runners who could turn into more Kelly Lynch (19:20) and Erica Watson (18:36) fmished in Golf Course. 
"Overall, the team ran very key contributors as the season junior Mat Abernethy (19:22) the top two spots, and sophomore well," sophomore Thomas Noel progresses. took home the top three spots for Kari Johnson (19:05) finished Contact Molly Sammon at said. "We went into the race "The kids that we raced were Notre Dame, which totaled 15 fifth. msammon@nd.edu 
MEN'S SOCCER 

ND ties, loses to top teams 
By JARED JEDICK Sporrs Writer 
No. 10 Notre Dame faced two of the powerhouses of college soccer this weekend and came out with mixed results, tying No. 3 Wake Forest 1-1 and losing to No. 1 

St.  John's  2-0  in  
Bloomington, Ind.  
The Irish  were  competing  

in the adidas/IU Credit Union Classic, which pits many of the top teams in the nation against one another and gave Notre Dame an early gauge of where they stand against the best of the best. 
The first game on Friday against Wake Forest saw a long battle that featured a penalty shot goal from senior midfielder Michael Thomas to tie the match in the 77th minute. 
Senior forward Bright Dike 
see CLARK/page 18 


ND VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame finishes 1-2 at Xavier tournament 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI Sporrs Writer 

The Irish were swept by No. 7 Michigan -Notre Dame's second top-1 0 opponent in the past week -to finish their weekend 1-2 at the Xavier Invitational. 
Notre Dame (3-3) was victo­rious Friday in its 3-0 win over Xavier, but fell Saturday to Tennessee. 
"We fell short of what we wanted to do," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "We did­n't execute overall as a team to defe,at Tennessee and Michigan. There were a lot of bright spots, we just need to put some things together." 
Xavier fell 3-1 to Michigan Saturday and 3-0 to Tennessee Sunday. The Wolverines went 3-0 for the weekend after starting ofT with a 3-1 defeat over the Lady Volunteers. 
"They are all different style teams and that showed," Brown said. "We know some of the things we struggled with was our serving. We know where we want to be with that and are taking a step in the right direction. 
"We're also working on our passing because it was some­what erratic. We can get bet­ter in both those areas." 
Senior outside hitter Serenity Phillips and sopho­more libero Frenchy Silva were essential in the Irish win over the Musketeers Friday in the four-set match (25-19, 25­21, 18-25, 25-18). Phillips had 19 kills while hitting at a .444 rate and Silva notched a career-high 23 digs. 
Sophomore outside hitter Kristen Dealy and senior setter 
see XAVIER/ page 17 








