
University President advises students to recognize need for community, reflection and prayer in homily ofopening mass 

By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
University President Fr. John Jenkins stressed the importance of community togetherness during his homi­ly at the annual Opening Mass Tuesday evening at the North Dome of the Joyce Center Arena. 
Students, faculty and com­munity members gathered to kick off the new academic year with praise and worship. 
After the Mass, the congrega­tion was invited to attend the opening day picnic on the Hesburgh Library Quad. 
The multicultural Mass fea­tured a number of different languages with intercessions delivered in seven different languages including Spanish, Swahili, Chinese and French. In addition, senior Alejandra Gutzeit gave the second read­ing of the evening in Spanish. 
In his homily, Fr. Jenkins said that great journeys are never simple, and that it is 
not easy to follow a guide on a long journey. Such a jour­ney is an even harder task, Jenkins said, for this to be done as a group, citing the example of Jesus leading his disciples on their journey of spirituality. 
Jenkins said that Notre Dame is a community on a journey looking for truth. He said that combining academic learning and prayer will lead to truth, but that students must expect challenges along the way. 
"There will be dead ends and detours," Jenkins said. "There will also be new insights and a deeper sense of community. 
In closing, Jenkins encour­aged the audience to individ­ually find time for quiet reflection and prayer, as well as to try to stay together as a community in search of a common grasp of truth. 
University Provost Thomas Burish concluded the Mass with words of welcome. After greeting returning members of the community, his com­ments shifted focus to the freshman class. He recom­mended that they seek to become leaders on campus, encouraging involvement in campus activities. 
Burish echoed Jenkins's message of togetherness, as well as emphasized the importance of leadership on campus. He spoke of how Notre Dame is a place of con­versation and differences, but 
see MASS/page 3 
Students share unusual summers 
By KATIE PERALTA Assistam News Editor 
Campus was a bustle on the first day of class Tuesday with the return of students after the nearly three-month summer vacation. The question was fre­quently asked: "How was your summer?" followed shortly by "What did you do?" Many stu­dents returned home, some pursued internships or and some part-time jobs. 
Others, however, spent their vacations slightly more exotic locations. 
Richard Paulius, a junior, spent his summer traveling 
see SUMMER/page 6 

RecSports offers free 
week of fitness classes 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Students interested in enrolling in RecSports fitness classes this semester can take advantage of the 'Try It! You'll Like It!" trial period, in which all fitness classes are available for free until August 30, Fitness and Instructional Program Coordinator Shellie Dodd-Bell said. 
"This way, they can deter­mine if the class is really the right one for them before they spend the money," Dodd-Bell said. "The participant has the opportunity to check out dif­ferent instructors, time slots and different classes to see what will work best for their schedule and their fitness needs." 
RecSports offers wide vari­ety of fitness classes, including aerobic classes like Cardio Boot Camp, muscle toning classes like Body Sculpt and mind and body classes like Pilates and Yoga, Dodd-Bell said. 
Graduate student Anne McGinness, who tried a yoga class Tuesday and is planning 
see RECSPORTS/page 6 
INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER SMC appoints director page 3 • Students return from abroad page 4 • Freshman kicker earns spot page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, August 26, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Welcome, freshtnen 
Congratulations, freshmen. You've shown up. 
It may not sound like much, but, as they say, showing up is half the battle -and it can mean the world. Just ask any of the hun-Matt Gamber dreds of stu­dents who attended Kevin Sports Editor Healey's memo­rial mass in the Basilica last May. 
Kevin was a fellow man of Sorin College -"the scrappiest Otter I have ever known," his rector, Fr. Jim King, called him. He lost his two and a half-year battle with cancer last spring, after spending nearly two full school years shuf­fling back and forth from his home in Cleveland for treatment to his home here at Notre Dame. He fought harder than any of us could imagine, and as the priest at his funeral said, he was a true Fighting Irishman. 
Kevin loved Notre Dame, and it was clear on that May Sunday in the Basilica that even if not every­one on campus knew him, the people of Notre Dame loved Kevin, too. 
There were plenty of excuses not to give up an hour of time on that beautiful Sunday, the last study day before finals week. Everyone had papers to write and cramming to do, but as Fr. King told us in an email after the mass, "One of the things about ND is that people here realize there are times when it is important to show up, and they rise to the occasion even if it's not very convenient." 
The hour I spent in the Basilica that day reconfirmed for me the true nature of the Notre Dame family. The hundreds of students who showed up to celebrate the short life of someone they hardly knew -and, yet, in so many ways, did know as a brother in Notre Dame -that's the real Notre Dame. 
I thought a lot about Kevin and that memorial mass this summer, especially in the wake of last spring's controversy surrounding the University's decision to allow President Barack Obama to speak at commencement. People across campus and around the country led heated protests that claimed Notre Dame had lost its way as a Catholic institution, and to hear some of them talk, it sounded like our Notre Dame family was being torn apart from the inside out. 
But what makes Notre Dame special -what makes Notre Dame the Notre Dame we all love, and has for the last 165 years-is the students. Students like the ones who showed up at Kevin Healey's mass, filling the Basilica on a day normally reserved for all-nighters in the library. Students, I hope, like you will turn out to be. 
You've shown up, freshmen. Continue to do so, whether it be for tailgates or for mass, at dorm parties or in DeBartolo. 
No matter what anyone says, you -we -are the real Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: SHOULD DRESS UP FOR THE FIRST DAY OF CLASS? 






James Bianco  Javier Soegaard  Joey Kuhn  Kathleen McKiernan  Santiago Garces  Stephanie Klem  
senior Keenan  senior Carroll  junior Keenan  sophomore Howard  senior offcampus  senior Howard  
"No. Your classmates will then have lofty expectations for the rest of the semester which will go unfulfilled."  "No because it's easier for my profs to notice I fell asleep. "  "Only ifyou're trying to hide your true identity."  "Yes, make a good impression on the people who have forgotten what you look like."  "Yes, to bedazzle and bamboozle the freshmen girls. "  "Absolutely, since as the semester progresses you get grosser and ,grosser.  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 
Students, faculty and community members enjoy a picnic in front of the Hesburgh Library Tuesday evening after the annual Opening Mass. 
OFFBEAT 
German Lego giraffe repeat­ed stolen 
BERLIN -Visitors to a tourist attraction in Berlin have been making off with an unusual memento -the 30 em long tail of a Lego giraffe. 
The Lego tail belongs to a six meter tall model that has stood outside the entrance to the Legoland Discovery Center on Potsdamer Platz since 2007. 
"It's a popular souvenir," a spokeswoman for the center said Tuesday. "It's been stolen four times now ..." 
African agency ~lves Simpsons a cultural twist LUANDA -An Angolan 
advertising agency has given Homer Simpson and his fam­ily an African makeover, rais­ing eyebrows among fans of one of America's most cher­ished sitcoms. 
The Simpsons, broadcast in more than 90 countries, have always been portrayed as yellow but the advertising agency, Executive Center in Luanda, decided to turn them brown in a promotional video aired by Africa's digital satellite TV service DSTV in Angola. 
Man shoots self Instead of opossum MOUNT VERNON, Wash. -A northwest 
Washington man is recovering after acciden­tally shooting himself in the leg while hunting an opossum that had been snatching his chickens. 
Larry Tenbrink of Mount Vernon was watching TV when he heard his chickens "car­rying on" late Sunday. He figured the problem was the opossum that had already killed more than a dozen of his chickens over the past few months. 
Information compiled from the Associated 
Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
IJ.I 
:::E: 
!;;: 
IJ.I 
~ 
;
..... 
• •• /6
c( 
(.) 

0 
HIGH 77 HIGH 60 HIGH 69 HIGH 71
..... 
LOW 60 LOW 50 LOW 57 LOW 59 
IN BRIEF 
RecSports will be sponsor a "Try it, You'll Like it" trial period of all of its fitness classes this week at various campus fitness locations. Registration for the classes begins Thursday at 7:30 a.m. 
Shakespeare at Notre Dame presents "The Twelfth Night" tonight at 7:30 p.m. at Decio Mainstage Theatre. Tickets cost between $12 and $35. 
The film "Moon" will be shown Thursday at 6:30 p.m. at the Browning Cinema at The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are available on the at performingarts.nd.edu, or by calling Ticket Office at 57 4­631-2800. 
RecSports will conduct a Swim Lesson Assessment on Friday from 6:00 until 8:00 p.m. at the Rockne pool. Make-up assess­ments are scheduled for Wednesday, September 2 from 
6:00 until 8:00 p.m. 
The film "Summer Hours" will be shown on Friday at 6:30 p.m. in the Browning Cinema at The Debartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are available online at performingarts.nd.edu or by calling 574-631-2800. 
Notre Dame Women's Volleyball will play Denver on Friday at 7:00p.m. at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. For ticket information, call574-631-7356. 
Notre Dame Women's Soccer will play against Loyola-Chicago on Friday at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. For ticket information, call 574-631-7356. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 71 HIGH 
64 
LOW 52 LOW 
51 

Atlanta 89 I 69 Boston 89 I 63 Chicago 73 I 62 Denver 77 I 58 Houston 94 I 72 Los Angeles 88 I 66 Minneapolis 78 I 58 New York 89 I 67 Philadelphia 90 I 69 Phoenix 107 I 84 Seattle 79 I 58 St. Louis 89 I 66 Tampa 91 I 76 Washington 94 I 72 
Wednesday, August 26, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC appoints progra111 director 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's administration and student body welcomed Diane M. Fox, the new Director of Student Success at the College, to her position in June 1 after a nationwide search to fill the post. 
Although new to the College, Fox is not unfamiliar with the area or to working with stu­dents. She worked at Holy Cross College as the Director of Advising for five years and as the Director of the school's College Success Program. Fox worked at Saint Joseph's High School in South Bend as an English teacher and also served as the Communications Coordinator, according to a press release from the College. 
Her experiences in South Bend, especially with Holy Cross Education, add to Fox's appeal and what she offers to the College. 
"Diane really understands the quality Holy Cross educa­tional experience we provide and will only enhance our stu­dents' lives with the resources and talents she offers," Dr. Patricia Fleming, senior vice president and dean of faculty, said in a July press release. 
Fortunately for Fox, she does not have to choose between teaching and advising stu­dents; both aspects of her work experience are part of her job. As the director, she has the responsibility of teach­ing academic strategies cours-es as well as advising all stu­dents in the Student Success Program. 

Fox feels that she is adapting well to Saint Mary's. 
"I am enjoying my new envi­ronment at Saint Mary's College so very much," Fox said. "As a woman, I appreci­ate the opportunity to empow­er the young women of Saint Mary's College. I have also found SMC administrators, staff and faculty to be impres­sive. I have been kindly and warmly welcomed, and I am truly inspired by the genuine care and commitment they feel to and for the young women we serve. I am very blessed and grateful to be here." 
The Office of Student Success, which falls under the Division of Academic Affairs and is designed for first-year students as a means of support during a transition time that can often be difficult. The pro­gram focuses on empower­ment, motivation and the development of key skills strategies needed to succeed in a college career. 
There are currently 33 stu­dents accepted to the Student Success Program. 
Although Fox's primary focus is first-year students, she and the program can prove helpful for all Saint Mary's students. 
"While the successful transi­tion of my first-year students is my major focus, another of my responsibilities is to be available to other students who may want to take advan­tage of the resources of the Office for Student Success," Fox said. "In fact, I welcome the opportunity to do so." 
Fox is conducting eight workshops this semester in the Academic Resource Center room, located across from room 103 in Madeleva Hall. These workshops, which are open to all students, will address various topics includ­ing time management, the learning process, combating forgetfulness, reading, note­taking, studying and testing skills, all of which benefit stu­dents' academic efforts, Fox said. 
All of the workshops will be offered from 12:30 to 1:30 
p.m. The first of these will take place on Tuesday, Sept. 1 and will focus on the learning process and forgetting. Students are welcome to bring their lunches to all of the workshops, but pizza will be available for the first one. 
For more information about the Office of Student Success and the workshops, students may visit Diane Fox in her office located in the Academic Resource Center, in room 103 in Madaleva Hall, or contact her by e-mail or phone. 
Fox has a message for stu­dents as the semester begins: 
"Get off to a good start. Realize that pursuing an edu­cation is why you are here, so make it a priority and act accordingly, now and through­out the semester," Fox said. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
NDSP investigates atte111pted burglary 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) are investigat­ing an attempted burglary after two Notre Dame stu­dents reported a man wear­ing only a blue t-shirt entered their dorm room about 4:30 a.m. Monday morning in a female resi­dence hall. 
The students told NDSP they woke up to find the man rifling through a closet in the room, which had been unlocked, according to an NDSP e-mail. 
Police said the man left the room without incident and did not take anything. 
The man was described as white and college-aged. 
Mass 
continued from page 1 
together the community must seek the truth. 
The annual opening day picnic immediately following the Mass saw a large turnout of students and fac­ulty just as in years past. A variety of barbeque style food, including bratwursts and hamburgers, were served to picnic-goers on Hesburgh Library Quad. 
Oblates of Blues, a jazz band comprised of Notre Dame theology professors, graduates and graduate stu­dents provided musical entertainment from the steps of the OIT building. In addition to music, the audi­ence was entertained by balloon artists, stilt walkers and various other perform­ers. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 


....._.,t~ue.n.., .,.-&OW~~ __.._.... ...911
~ 
~~....··---~~........~...,,... 
,_.~-~-~ 
Uve Music lhtrsdays 7-11 pm Thank you Students and Alwnni for yotr suppot•tl 
cV'OSCANA 

~RDid%..NofSRD.Mili'lln ..~a,.jMIW~hl!Jil~ 
vdlamaerl.oom 57At277.7273 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, August 26, 2009 
Back to life, back to reality 
Students return from study abroad, experience reverse culture shock 

By JOSEPH McMAHON Associate News Editor 
After spending their last semester studying at the foothills of the Andes Mountains, haggling in Istanbul's grand bazaar and hiking through pristine Alpine valleys, Notre Dame students return home to find campus rela­tively unchanged after experi­encing an entirely new world. 
"Culturally, it was different. I had been to Europe before, but actually living there is quite dif­ferent than just visiting and doing the touristy thing 24/7," senior Kathleen Zink, who spent her last semester in Athens, said. "Just seeing trash on the streets, because Notre Dame is such a pristine campus, [was difierent]." 
Senior Colleen Fleshman, who was in Innsbruck, Austria, for a year, said that she experienced extra responsibilities abroad, such as having to cook for her­self or even sometimes a large group of people, but added that these new responsibilities also led to her being treated as an adult and added to the overall experience. 
"It was a surprise to be treated completely as an adult, which is a little different from how we are viewed at ND, but once you got used to that, and to the difficulty of even basic communication, it was fme," she said. 
Some students have a more difficult time while traveling abroad. Senior Nellie Gotebeski contracted a strand of E. Coli while studying in Santiago, Chile, which left her with kidney failure and bedridden in a hospital. Gotebeski said outside of my apartment and seeing a stray dog." 
Fleshman echoes Zink's senti­ment. She added that she was quickly able to assimilate into life at home, though it did not stop her from missing Europe. 
"At first, but it was less culture shock than just shock at how familiar everything was," she said. "After a week or two it felt like I had never been away." 
Senior Nicholas Dan, who also participated in the lnnsbruck program, said everyday things in America, such as driving, needed to be reintegrated into his every­day life after returning home. Dan, however, also said having the dining hall on campus and no longer having to cook every meal did make some things simpler. 
"There's def­
initely a cul­
ture shock, 
she was grateful because you
"!was really happy to 
for the health don't drive 
come back. But as the
insurance that when you're the University summer progressed I abroad and recommended, you have to
really started to miss 
which she said drive every­
Greece and things like 
helped save her where here," an unfath­walking outside my he said. omable sum of "Additionally,
apartment and seeing a 
money. when you
stray dog. '' 
"Luckily I pur­come back to chased the campus you insurance that Kathleen Zink have the din­Notre Dame had ing hall, which
senior 
recommended. It actually cov­ered everything. I was in the hospital for over a month," she said. 
Gotebeski said she was also thankful for the support the University gave her. 
"Fr. [Tim] Scully, [former Executive Vice President of the University and current Director of the Institute for Educational Initiatives], was passing by and he did a Mass for me over there. Just the support from Notre Dame really opened my eyes having been sick," she said. 
Gotebesski said, however, that the illness did not completely ruin her experience. 
"I ended up staying down there and as I was kind of recuperat­ing I was able to travel a bit. It was a lot of fun," she said. 
While some students readjust to life in America quickly, others experience reverse culture shock. Zink was happy to be home at first, but she soon began to miss Greece. 
"The abroad people on campus said we would have a culture shock coming back, but I didn't experience that at all," she said. "I was really happy to come back. But as the summer pro­gressed I really started to miss Greece and things like walking makes prepar­
ing food a lot 
easier." 
Students elect to study abroad for a variety of reasons, both academic and social. Gotebeski said that her program allowed her to experience a new culture while also learning a foreign lan­guage. 
"We had intensive Spanish classes which really helped in developing our Spanish once we got to the University after the pre-program," she said. 
The Chile program, which is integrated with a missionary program, allows students to see not only the country's major cities, but also its rural areas. 
"It was a good chance cultural­ly to see a part of the country that none of us were really used to," Gotebeski said. "We had lim­ited computer access, if any, and some of the houses didn't have bathrooms, so we had to get used to stuff like that." 
Zink said that being in Athens also helped her make new friends from other schools, and that being in a foreign country helped her gain a better perspec­tive. 
"At Notre Dame we're always kind of kept in a bubble. Our program specifically was not just Notre Dame studnnts, but we had students from other univer­sities," she said. "It was quite dif­ferent being with people who are not just into the Notre Dame scene." 
Zink said, however, that learn­ing a new language often proved difficult, and communication with people who didn't speak English was frustrating. Nonetheless, she said that it helped instill her with greater confidence. 
"The language barrier was a lot," she said. "We wern required to take Greek, but just trying to shop for eggs was really difficult because you cannot communi­cate with the person that you're trying to buy from. It was a real­ly harrowing experience, but it was also good because now I don't have any problems going off campus or asking someone for directions because I had to." 
Gotebeski said that going to Chile helped her find friends from Notre Dame that she never would have met on campus. 
"You kind of force yourself as a freshman into a bubble, pretty much only being friends with the people in your dorm," she said. "But I think going abroad expos­es you to an entirely different group of people. I know our group laughed because if we were at Notre Dame none of us would really be friends because we just have such different inter­ests." 
Notre Dame students also par­ticipated in summer programs, which involve spending five to six weeks in select cities around the world. Junior Zach Heuvers stud­ied in Paris, and while he enjoyed his time there, said he wished the program had lasted longer. 
"It was just enough time to see the sights and to get more than you would from just a normal vacation," he said. "With five weeks you just begin to become immersed in the culture, and so more time would allow you to become a true resident rather than a visitor." 
Dan, who also studied in the Notre Dame Paris program in the summer of 2007 before going to lnnsbruck, said that he recom­mended going abroad for a longer period of time. 
"I have gone abroad twice now," he said. "Going to Paris for five weeks was interesting and a good learning experience, but it is more of being a glorified tourist, whereas being in lnnsbruck for the whole semes­ter really got me into the culture of the area I was living in." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
Off -campus fair keeps students entertained 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Student<> were greeted by the sound of music and the smells of free food samples as they con­gregated to pick up their fbotball ticket bookleL<> Tuesday. 
The Community Helations Committee of Student Government, along with the City of South Bend, set up stands of local restauranl<> and businesses on the east side of the football stadium in its one-day Off­Campus Fair. 
The event, whieh is a part of Student Government's efl"orts to foster community relations, also sought to simply entertain stu­dents while they waited in line for ticket<>. 
Student Body President Grant Schmidt said that the fair, which Student Government has held in the past, was a success this year and saw a large turnout. 
"It's a good thing because stu­dents don't have to just awk­wardly stand in line," Schmidt said. 
He added that it was perhaps such a success this year because of Tuesday's agreeable weather. 

The fair featured nine Michiana vendors including Chick-Fil-A and Best Buy. 
Kim Hauflaire of Salon Rouge in Mishawaka handed out hair­cut coupons and free shampoo and conditioner samples to a line of students outside the stadium. 
"It's great to be here," Hauflaire said. "We love to sup­port Notre Dame." 
The fair was also an opportu­nity for area business to gain a report among Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
Nnanna Uzoh of Best Buy said, "Some students didn't know we're right here in the area, which is nice to know. I keep being asked 'Oh, where are you lot~ated?"' 
Sophomore Walker Anderson used the fair as an opportunity to promote his own business, a DJ service called High Velocity, which played music during the four-hour event. 
Although the fair only took place yesterday, students may continue to pick up their football booklets during the rest of the week. 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 
FIDDLER"'S Hemli Pusuc House 
AFamily Friendly Public House In the Heart of Downtown South Bend 
Fish &Chips"' Shepherd's Pie+ Irish Stew"' Bacon &Cabbage Steaks + Seafood+ Chops"' Homemade Desserts "'Sunday Brunch Buffet 
121 North Main Street (between Colfax &Washington) 
(574) 232·2853 • fiddlershearth.com 

CA-rALY-5-r 

ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, August 26, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bosnia residents call for school refonn 
STOLAC -It's shortly after noon, and teenagers who were taught their capital is Zagreb, in neighboring Croatia, are streaming out of Stolac High School. In an hour, their classrooms will be filled with children who have learned that their capi­tal is Sarajevo, Bosnia. 
Fourteen years after Bosnia's 1992-95 war, youngsters from Muslim Bosniak and Roman Catholic Croat families attend the same schools, but are separated from each other and learn from different text­books. 
With the Bosnian Serbs already holed up in their own part of the country, critics say the Balkan nation's school system is one of the worst examples of segregation in Europe -one that's producing a gen­eration ripe for manipulation by national­ists. 
Japan ruling party face voter revolts 
TOKYO -Keiko Saito's son-in-law recently lost his job and can't find another. As she and her husband approach retire­ment, they worry whether their pensions are safe. The economy seems chronically 
incapable of recapturing its glory days. 
For decades, 58-year-old Saito support­ed the Liberal Democrats, a party synony­mous with Japan's rise, its fantastic growth and its postwar peace. 
Now she is angry, ready for change and looking very typical. Polls indicate a strong possibility that elections Saturday will end the Liberal Democrats' 54 years of nearly uninterrupted rule, one of the most successful runs by a political party in the noncommunist world. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
School to open in New York Harbor 
NEW YORK -In 1790, the state of New York set aside Governors Island, off the tip of Manhattan, for the benefit of education. For more than two centuries, however, it was in mili­tary hands, guarding the country's most impor­tant harbor. 
Soon, the original terms of that grant will at last be honored, and it seems fitting that a public school devoted to New York Harbor itself will be the first non-military tenant to occupy the island's red-brick buildings. 
It's been a decade since Murray Fisher first imagined the Urban Assembly New York Harbor School, and six years since it opened in what were supposed to be short-term quarters in land­locked central Brooklyn. Sometime next year it will at last move to a permanent waterfront home here. 
Vt sex offender to face death penalty 
MONTPELIER -Federal prosecutors announced Tuesday they'll seek the death penalty for a convicted sex offender charged with luring his 12-year-old niece to his home with the promise of a pool party before molesting and strangling her. 
Michael Jacques is accused of kidnap­ping and intentionally killing seventh­grader Brooke Bennett, whose body was found buried in a shallow grave near his home in July 2008 a week after she went missing. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Wolf-dog hybrid escapes from pen ADAMS, Ind. -Who's afraid of the big bad pet? 
That's the question in Morgan County, where police and residents are watching for a wolf-dog that has escaped from its owner. 
Sheriff's Department Chief Deputy Bob Downey says the female and a male wolf­dog hybrid escaped Sunday from their pen 
at a home in Green Township, 25 miles southwest of Indianapolis. He says the male was recaptured, but not before attacking a neighbor's dog and killing a cat. 
Kennedy dead at 77 after cancer battle 
Storied politician dies at home after nearly a half century in the U.S. Senate 
Associated Press 
BOSTON Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, the liberal lion of the Senate and haunted bearer of the Camelot torch after two of his brothers fell to assassins' bullets, has died after battling a brain tumor. He was 77. 
For nearly a half-centu­ry in the Senate, Kennedy was a steadfast champion of the working class and the poor, a powerful voice on health care, civil rights, and war and peace. To the American public, though, he was best known as the last surviving son of America's most glam­orous political family, the eulogist of a clan shat­tered again and again by tragedy. 
His family announced his death in a brief state­ment released early Wednesday. 
"We've lost the irre­placeable center of our family and joyous light in our lives, but the inspira­tion of his faith, opti­mism, and perseverance will live on in our hearts forever," the statement said. "We thank everyone who gave him care and Kennedy -known to ous brain tumor in May by surviving more than a support over this last family, friends and foes 2008 and underwent sur­year with his fight against year, and everyone who simply as Ted -ended his gery and a grueling regi-brain cancer. stood with him for so quest for the men of radi­The younger Kennedy many years in his tireless presidency ation and said that gave family
"We've lost the 
march for progress in 1980 with chemothera­members a surprise toward justice, fairness a stirring irreplaceable center py. blessing, as they were and opportunity for all." valedictory ofour family and His death able to spend more time Kennedy was elected to that echoed late Tuesday with the senator and to
joyous light in our
the Senate in 1962, when across the comes just tell him how much he had his brother John was decades: lives, but the weeks after meant to their lives. president, and served "For all inspiration ofhis that of his The younger Kennedy longer than all but two those whose sister said his father's legacy
faith, optimism, and
senators in history. Over cares have Eunice was built largely in the the decades, he put his been our perseverance will Kennedy Senate. imprint on every major concern, the live on in our Shriver on "He has authored more piece of social legislation work goes Aug. 11. pieces of major legisla­
hearts
to clear the Congress. on, the cause In a recent tion than any other
forever.,
His own hopes of reach­endures, the interview United States senator," ing the White House were hope still with The Patrick Kennedy said in damaged perhaps lives and the Associated the interview. "He is the
Kennedy family 
doomed -in 1969 by the dream shall Press, penultimate senator. I
statement
scandal that came to be never die." Kennedy's don't need to exaggerate known as The third­son Rep. when I talk about my Chappaquiddick, an auto longest-serving senator in Patrick Kennedy, D-R.I., father. That's the amazing accident that left a young U.S. history, Kennedy was said his father had defied thing. He breaks all the woman dead. diagnosed with a cancer-the predictions of doctors records himself." 

Snail faces endangered species status 
Associated Press 
SIOUX FALLS, S.D. -A bean­sized snail found in the Black Hills in the 1990s is being studied for possible protection under the Endangered Species Act, which could restrict or prohibit human activity that threatens the snail's survival. 
Any restrictions would apply in the nine states where the Frigid ambersnail has been found: South Dakota, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Missouri, Mississippi, Ohio, and Wisconsin. 
Consultants hired by the U.S. Forest Service to look for rare snails in the Black Hills National Forest in western South Dakota found the ambersnail at a dozen sites in Custer, Pennington and Lawrence counties in a study that was limited by financing, said Kerry Burns, wildlife biologist for the Forest Service in Custer. 
"There's probably other sites out there we just don't know about," he said. "We can't do much for those until we find them." 
The agency's management plan already gives those dozen areas special attention. Designating the snail an endangered species would require more, Burns said. 
The listing "would probably require us to do more surveys for it and do a more complete survey 
before we manage," he said. "It can affect our forest management, you bet." 
Landslides, livestock, logging, human travel by foot or vehicle, road construction and other devel­opment could be considered a threat to the snail in the Black Hills, said Natalie Gates, a Fish and Wildlife Service biologist in Pierre. 
"They can't fly out of there, they can't swim out of the way. They are going to get scrunched and so they are basically small, sedentary and vulnerable," Gates said. 
Human activity that could affect a protected species or its habitat receives closer scrutiny. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, August 26, 2009 
RecSports 
continued from page 1 
to sign up, said that she wouldn't have signed up if there had not been a trial period. "I probably wouldn't have signed up for it otherwise because I had a bad experience last semester where I wasn't motivated by the teacher and I ended up not signing up," she said. "I think it's essential to have the trial peri­od." 
McGinness is 
people and are people of all abilities come ... in a fun, open environment. It's very open and inviting," she said. · 
The trial period, which RecSports has conducted since Fall 2007, not only benefits the students, but also RecSports, Dodd-Bell said. 
"For RecSports, this helps us to get people into the right classes and cut back on the number of refunds given," Dodd-Bell said. 
The classes are offered 
throughout the 
week at differ­
ent time slots. 
more enthusiastic  "I think it's essential  Although the  
about the class she  to have the trial  general fitness  
took Tuesday. "I really enjoyed  period."  schedule has­n't changed,  
it," McGinness said  RecSports  is  
of her trial class.  Anne McGinness  now  offering  
"It was a perfect  Graduate student  more  classes  

mix between being a good introduc­tion class where you ease into things and doing things that are also challenging to you at the same time. It made me think, oh wow, I really do need to take this class," she said. 
Dodd-Bell said the trial class­es are generally very popular. 
"The trial classes are always at capacity, so I always recom­mend people get there early," Dodd-Bell said. 
Instructor Judy Conway agreed and said her Monday night Body Sculpt class was more crowded than her regular classes during the semester. She that said it was also more laid back and relaxed. 
"I think what's really nice about it is it groups all types of people," Conway said. "It's fun because you get to meet a lot of 
like Prenatal 
Yoga and fenc­
ing this year, Dodd-Bell said. 
Dodd-Bell said the fitness classes are always in high demand, with Yoga and Pilates being the most popular. 
"However, we do keep track of participation and class waiting lists to try to accommodate as many people as we safely can. 
Student interested in taking RecSports classes can begin signing up August 2 7 at 7:30 
a.m. using the online registra­tion system, RecRegister. Major credit cards are accepted, Dodd-Bell said. 
If students want to pay with cash or check, they can come to the Rolfs Sports Hecreation Center Front Desk, she said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Su01D1er 
continued from page 1 
throughout Japan with his 18 year-old brother who studied abroad in the central city of Nagoya, Japan last spring. Paulius has family living in the country and said that he tries to visit as much as possible. 
"Since I was little we always visited," Paulius said. "I learned to speak the language partly through my visits." 
Paulius and his brother bought rail passes in the United States and were able to use the bullet train to travel to the cities of Nagoya, Sukuoka and Nagaski, as well as the Kyushu Islands. 
Paulius said that in light of the economic recession, he noticed that a number of his friends were unable to find part-time work or an intern­ship. Traveling eliminated the need to pursue one of the highly sought-after jobs. 
Senior Helen Syski also pur­sued her love of language with a summer vacation. Syski studied with the American 
Councils  Foundation  in  
Moscow,  Russia  for  two  
months this summer.  

"It was even better than I 
had expected," Syski said. "I knew it would be exciting. This program was well-organized and fun." 
Syski received funding from the Nanovic Institute as well as the Russian Department for her program. Although not quite fluent yet, Syski, a Hussian major, admits that the 
experience helped  her  to  
become  conversational  in  
Russian.  

Other students additionally pursued summer opportunities that incorporated their major subject. Junior Amy Dunbar who majors in architecture, traveled to Accra, Ghana to volunteer for Construct LLC, an architecture firm. 
"I wanted to incorporate service and architecture," Dunbar said. 
Dunbar will leave the U.S. again next month to study in Rome, Italy for the academic year. 
Other students took advan­tage of summer programs offered through the University's Center for Social Concerns (CSC). The CSC offers popular programs like the Summer Service Learning Program (SSLP) and the International Summer Service Learning Program (ISSLP). 
SSLP and ISSLP programs put students at the service of impoverished or non-industri­alized communities in need. Both 8-week programs offer students a stipend as well as three Theology credits. 
Junior Kaitlyn Kiger partici­pated in an ISSLP in Mbour, Senegal this summer, working in an orphanage with one other Notre Dame student and several other international vol­unteers. Kiger and the other volunteers were responsible for playing with and feeding over 200 Senegalese children. 
Kiger said that she always wanted to pursue this kind of opportunity. 
"I have always wanted to spend my summer in a devel­oping country," she said. 
Junior Katie Dufner was also able to work with children at an SSLP in the Bronx, New York. Dufner taught reading to fourth through seventh grade girls at the Rosedale Achievement Center. 
Both highly competitive SSLP programs are funded by vari­ous Notre Dame Alumni Clubs, the James F. Andrews Scholarship Fund and other donors. The application dead­line is in early November. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 
Jones 9,539.29 +30.01 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,279 131 1,451 2,291,569,830 
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500 +2.43 

NIKKEI (Tokyo)\1!!" 10)497.36!:!!1\'!tt!!;1l[IIQ! 
FTSE 100 (London) 4,916.80 +20.57 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE CITIGROUP (C) -1.45 -0.07 4.75 FANNIE MAE (FNM) +9.41 +0.16 1.86 BK OF AMERICA (BAC) +2.31 +0.40 17.75 FREDDIE MAC (FRE) +0.49 +0.01 2.06 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -1.26 -0.044 3.45 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.00 0.155 30-YEAR BOND -1.35 -0.058 4.23 5-YEAR NOTE -1.25 -0.031 2.46 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.32 72.05 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.30 946.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.65 78.45 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 93.9950 EURO 1.4283 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0875 BRITISH POUND 1.6317 
IN BRIEF 
Yahoo and MiCJU;Oft face antitrust probe 
WASHINGTON -Yahoo Inc. and Microsoft Corp. hope that by joining forces, they can tilt the balance of power in Internet search away from Coogle Inc. First, however, Yahoo and Microsoft have to convince regulators that their plan won't hurt online advertisers and consumers. 
As the U.S. Justice Department reviews the proposed partnership, approval figures to hinge on this question: Will the online ad market be healthier if Coogle's dominance is challenged by a single, more muscular rival instead of two scrawnier foes? 
The first step toward getting an answer came this month when Microsoft and Yahoo filed paperwork with federal regulators to comply with the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act, an antitrust law governing mergers and alliances between competitors. The Justice Department has until early September to approve the agreement or -as is likely in this case -request additional information. 
European regulators are also expected to review the deal. Microsoft and Yahoo are bracing for the probes to extend into early next year, and the outcome is far from cer­tain. 
Conunission to discuss casino changes 
INDIANAPOLIS -Changes at Indiana horse tracks with casinos will be among the topics dis­cussed by the state Senate Committee on Gaming when it meets Monday at the Statehouse. 
Republican Sen. Luke Kenley of Noblesville says the group will discuss horse-racing issues in the morning and tend to more general gaming topics in the afternoon. Kenley is co-chairman of the panel. 
The discussion is expected to include tax breaks for so-called "racinos" and whether to allow table games along with the slot machines already approved. 
The afternoon talk is expected to include discus­sion of nonsmoking accommodations at casinos and restrictions on alcohol promotions. 
But the plan would allow Obama's signature $400 tax cut for most workers to expire at the end of next year. Even after squeezing the defense and war budgets to levels that are prob­ably unrealistic, the plan would cause a deficit of $523 billion in five years. 
Overseas health care rises inpopularity 
As costs escalate, more insurance companies begin to offer medical treatment abroad 
Associated Press 
Elizabeth Kunz left her dentist's office this spring with a mouth full of prob­lems and no way to pay for them. 
The South Carolina resi­dent went out of her way, literally, to find a solution, which turned out to be in Central America. Her trip to the tropics is part of a health insurance experi­ment for trimming medical costs: overseas care. 
As Washington searches for ways to tame the coun­try's escalating health care costs, more insurers are offering networks of sur­geons and dentists in places like India and Costa Rica, where costs can be as much as 80 percent less than in America. 
Until recently, most Americans traveling abroad for cheaper non­emergency medical care were either uninsured or wealthy. But the profile of medical tourists is chang­ing. Now, they are more likely to be people covered by private insurers, which are looking to keep costs from spiraling out of con­trol. 
The four largest com­mercial U.S. health insur­out of pocket, could make 2010. But Keckley has digit percentage increases ers -with enrollments these trips more inviting. since shaved that projec­for employees through totaling nearly 100 million In the meantime, the tion to about 1.6 million higher premiums, people -have either insurance industry's people. Still, that more deductibles or copays. launched pilot programs embrace of overseas care than doubles the roughly Overseas care can lead offering overseas travel or has had a pleasant side 750,000 Americans who to price breaks of more explored it. Several small­effect at home: some U.S. traveled abroad in 2007, than $40,000, not counting er insurers and brokers care providers are offering the last year for which travel costs, for proce­also have introduced travel price breaks to counter the Deloitte had actual num­dures like knee replace­options for hundreds of foreign competition. bers. ment surgery or heart employers around the This domestic competi­Keckley expects the med­bypasses. Insurers, or country. tion and the slumping ical tourism industry to employers who provide 
Growth has been slow in economy have led to slow­recover, as more health their own insurance, can part because some patients er growth for medical insurers offer the option save between 50 percent and employers have con­tourism over the past year, and as more people wind and 90 percent on major cerns about care quality as patients put off elective up with high-deductible medical claims, said and legal responsibility if procedures that involve big plans. Jonathan Edelheit, presi­something goes wrong. out of pocket costs, said Health care costs for dent of the Florida-based Plus, patients who have Paul Keckley, executive employers who offer insur­Medical Tourism traditional plans with low director of the Deloitte ance to their workers were Association. A lower cost deductibles may have little Center for Health projected to rise 9.2 per­of living and lower prices incentive to take a trip. Solutions. cent this year and another for medical supplies and 
But a growing number of Last year, the center esti­9 percent in 2010, accord­drugs help drive down consumers with high­mated that 6 million ing to the consulting firm care costs overseas com­deductible plans, which Americans would make PricewaterhouseCoopers. pared to American make patients pay more medical tourism trips in That could mean double-providers. 

Back-to-schoolbus cuts worry parents 
Associated Press ured for drop-offs and pickups. ures during the 2008-2009 year. 
It is a dilemma facing thousands "I've seen it happening in 
HOUSTON-As a mother of two, of parents across the country, as Massachusetts, in Ohio, in Indiana. Feleccia Moore-Davis is accustomed cash-strapped school districts from A lot of school districts are looking to the usual back-to-school swirl of California to Florida have cut bus at in varying degrees," said Robin new supplies, new clothes and new routes to chip away at spending. Leeds, industry specialist with the routines. But this year, that final ''I'm still trying to figure out how I National School Transportation flurry of summer is accompanied by will do this," said Moore-Davis, who Association. an unusual worry. has one daughter entering middle Parents and transportation advo­
Moore-Davis does not yet know school and another entering high cates say the proposed cuts will how her children will get to school. school. "My youngest is very con­have wide-ranging repercussions ­
Last month, the financially cerned about who's going to pick affecting everything from parents' pressed Houston-area school district her up. She keeps asking me about work schedules to student atten­her two daughters attend decided to it." dance. Many also worry that the end bus service for students living About 23 percent of school dis­cuts will jeopardize the safety of within two miles of schools. Now tricts surveyed by the American students who may have to cross Moore-Davis is contemplating the Association of School Administrators busy highways or dangerous roads bustling intersections and streets say they are reducing or eliminating to get to class. Deadly school bus without sidewalks the girls would school transportation for the coming crashes are rare, while past studies have to navigate if they walked to school year as part of cost-cutting have shown riding to school in a car, school, and wondering whether her measures. That's up from the 14 walking and bicycling account for own work schedule can be reconfig-percent who considered such meas-hundreds of student deaths a year. 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, August 26, 2009 
Ind. money manager faces trouble 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Authorities say the troubled Indiana money manager who tried to fake his own death in a plane crash to avoid financial ruin had built his investment businesses on the backs of people he knew ­acquaintances, a friend of 10 years and even his own aunt. 
But his clients didn't know he had sold them a nonexistent for­eign currency fund, created false account information and used their money for personal expens­es, investigators say. 
Marcus Schrenker, 38, was sentenced Wednesday to more than four years in federal prison on charges stemming from the Jan. 11 plane crash in Florida. But his legal problems are far from over -he faces 11 felony counts tied to his fmancial deal­ings in Indiana, and each carries a penalty of two to eight years in prison. Indiana authorities have not yet made arrangements to bring Schrenker back to Indiana, but they expect him within the next few weeks. 
Indiana Secretary of State Todd Rokita, whose office has been helping with the investigation, said Schrenker bilked friends and relatives out of about $1 million. 
"It is especially heinous, but unfortunately this is a classic case of what we call affinity fraud -fraud that's committed upon us by those we've come to love and trust," Rokita said. 'They're able to separate us from our money because of that special relationship." 
Officials said Schrenker does not yet have an attorney in the Indiana cases but could be appointed a public defender once he's back in the state for a court appearance. 
A probable cause affidavit says Schrenker's victims include his aunt, Rita Schilling, who trans­ferred $230,000 to one of Schrenker's investment compa­nies in August 2008. Schilling became suspicious of problems with her accounts in 2009 and found that more than $20,000 had been transferred in 2008 to an account belonging to another one of Schrenker's companies ­a move prosecutors say never should have happened. Schilling declined to comment. 
Schrenker is also accused of taking money from a friend of 10 years, Charles Black, who had Schrenker manage his invest­ment accounts starting around 2003. In 2004, Schrenker moved $100,000 out of Black's account without his consent, the affidavit says. When Black and his wife discovered it, they called Schrenker and he moved it to a cash account. 
The affidavit says Schrenker had Black write a check in 2007 as part of a transfer of money into what turned out to be a non­existent fund. The Associated Press was unable to find a phone listing for Black. But he told Indianapolis television station WTHR that he lost "more than six figures" through Schrenker. 
Many of Schrenker's clients weren't initially suspicious because they either knew Schrenker personally or heard about him through trusted col­leagues or friends, prosecutors said. Schrenker's alleged decep­tion was made easier since he had all the trappings of success, said Jeffrey D. Wehmueller, administrative chief deputy for the Hamilton County prosecutor's office. 
Schrenker was an amateur daredevil pilot whose high-flying lifestyle included planes, luxury cars and a 10,000-square-foot home in an upscale suburban Indianapolis neighborhood nick­named "Cocktail Cove," where affluent boaters often socialized. But when the economy started tanking, some investors wanted to stash their money in safer investments and take it out of Schrenker's accounts. 
Schrenker said during his fed­eral sentencing Wednesday in Pensacola, Fla., that his life was out of control and he didn't know what he was doing when he got into his plane Jan. 11. 
His wife had filed for divorce Dec. 30, a day before Indiana police served a search warrant on his home and office. They seized computers, fmancial docu­ments and evidence of recent document shredding, all within days of his losing a $533,000 judgment to an insurance compa­ny. 
He admitted putting his plane on autopilot and pointing it toward the Gulf of Mexico in an attempt to fake his own death, but the plane ran out of fuel and crashed in Florida. Schrenker parachuted into Alabama and was found two days later at a Florida campground, bleeding of a self-inflicted wrist slash. 
New biography of 
John Zahrn published 
Special to the Observer 
Despite his unquestionable influence on science, philos­ophy, theology, higher educa­tion, the Catholic church in general, and the University in particular, Fr. John Augustine Zahm, seems to have attracted the attention of only one very serious biographer, Ralph Weber, a Notre Dame alumnus who wrote his 1956 doctoral dis­sertation on Father Zahm and published it six years later. 
After nearly half a century, Weber has been joined by Fr. 
David  B.  Burrell,  Fr.  
Theodore  M. Hesburgh,  
Professor  Emeritus  of  

Philosophy and Theology at Notre Dame, whose book, "When Faith and Reason Meet: The Legacy of John Zahm, C.S.C.," was recently published by Corby Books. 
It is forgivable to wonder why it has taken so long. The obscurity in which Zahm's name has lingered since his death in 1921 is simply one more fascinating aspect of a fascinating life. 
He arrived at Notre Dame from Huntington, Ind., as a 15-year-old in 1867, when the University was only 10 years older than he was. Though he stumbled in his studies, failing mathematics and German in his sopho­more year, his academic record, no less than his extracurricular performanc­es in debate and public speech, soon took on a radi­ant glow. By the time he was ordained a priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1875, Zahm already was making a name for himself on and beyond the campus. 
He loved literature, partic­ularly Dante, but his superi­ors assigned him to teach (and study) physics and chemistry, a pursuit in which his success had much to do with the transformation of Notre Dame from a sort of trade school into the univer­sity it is today. He argued, wrangled, raised funds for and acquired the age's best laboratory equipment, built a nationally respected sci­ence hall and, both literally and figuratively, electrified the Notre Dame campus in 1881. 
Widely celebrated as a scholar of science and phi­losophy in an age stirred by the theories of Charles Darwin, Zahm wrote and lec­tured persuasively on the compatibility of evolution theory and Christian faith, but not persuasively enough for some curial officials in Rome, who tried, though unsuccessfully, to have his book "Evolution and Dogma" placed on the agreeably bygone Index of Forbidden Books. 
Take a Filtn C~ourse i11 tl1e Browning c~i11ema! 

$
1ner1la 

LLR<J 40545. F'TT 40233. R<.}/T 40505 T R 2:00-3:15 in Bro¥vning C.."in(;.~tna, L)EPA.C' 
Taught in English V\''ith 11() pre-requisites 
Learn the histo;:y o.f'one (~l'the 1vorld's n1ost renowned national cinenuLY. Ana(Fze greatjUnu,· by Pa5..·trone. Ros.'>'ellini, F~ellini, Pasolini, T'f-<.,y_:onti and conternJ-HH'aryfilnunaker.v. l}nderstand the interaction betv.,een Italian hi:s·t(·>ry, fibn history, and national identif_l'· C'la.•;s rneet.•; in Brcnrning C'inenu:J in L)EPAC'. Fuffills universityfine arts requirernent, FTT international.fihn requirernent. and Italian 5~tudies electi·ve,•;. Instructor i.<> an internationally recognized ,.,·cholar specializing in the hi:-..·un:~·v c~f/talian cinenu1. 
Wednesday, August 26, 2009 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ITALY 
Won1en increasingly con1e to povver in vvorld of crin1e 
In one of the most lurid Zaccaria, a sociologist at 
Associated Press 
episodes, in 2002, two car­Naples Federico II University 
NAPLES -They go by such loads of women from rival who is researching women's nicknames as "Fat Cat" and Camorra clans lurched roles in the syndicate. "Tomboy." Their simmering through the streets of Lauro, a Licciardi is widely consid­power struggles once drove town near Naples, first trading ered an able manager, particu­them into the streets, guns insults, and then machine-gun larly valued for her "powers of blazing. They rule their crime fire and pistol shots until two persuasion," Zaccaria said in families with steely determina­grandmothers and a 16-year­an interview. Dangling promis­tion, and also raise the kids old girl were dead. The root of es of cash, she is believed to and stir the pasta. the bloodshed: a turf war have managed to persuade 
Move over, Don Corleone. fueled by the murder of a clan some Camorra mobsters who Godmothers are rising in the boss' cousin. were contemplating becoming ranks of the Camorra, the Some of the Camorra "god­turncoats to stay loyal to the Naples' area crime syndicate. mothers" rank right up there clan, the professor said. 
Women have long played a with the men in commanding For generations, when such strong role in clout and obe­mobsters were arrested, moth­Camorra crime dience, ers and wives would descend families, authorities screaming into Naples' chaotic muscling, 'They are either widows say. streets, throwing insults and sometimes A m o n g sometimes punches at police
(of mob bosses) or wives 
murdering, them is Maria arresting their men. But as
ofhusbands who have 
their way to Licciardi, one investigators increasingly the top. Their been put in prison. They of the victors regard women as significant influence hold the reins.,, of the long-Camorra figures, handcuffs stretches back running blood have been snapping shut as far as the feud between around their wrists, too. 
Gen. Gaetano Maruccia 
1950s when a the Di Lauro "They are ... as cocky as the pregnant for­Commander a n d men" when arrested, said mer beauty Italian paramilitary police Secondigliano Maruccia, the Carabinieri com­queen dubbed Alliance that mander. "pupetta" (lit-left Naples lit­In July, Carabinieri swept up tle doll) shot tered nearly 11 women for drug trafficking dead the man who had daily with bodies a few years in a raid on Naples' Sarno ordered a hit on her husband, back. crime clan. In another blitz, a and allegedly settled into a life "Signora Licciardi is a true mother and her two grown of crime. 'madrina' (godmother). daughters were arrested on 
Now, as the state steps up its absolutely," said Castaldi. "She organized-crime charges, war against the Camorra, was the sister of a boss, and including extortion. rounding up scores of mob­she sat at the table with other The emergence of strong sters, the women are increas­bosses, she made decisions Camorra women has deep ingly taking over the helm with them, she was right at roots in Naples society. from their men. their level." "The Camorra woman fol­
"There is a growing number Authorities are now investi­lows the model of the of women who hold executive gating whether one of those Neapolitan woman" in the roles" in the Camorra, Gen. decisions was an order to exe­matriarchal Neapolitan society, Gaetano Maruccia, command­cute as many as 30 of her said Zaccaria. "She is in er of the Carabinieri paramili­rivals, say investigators, charge of household spending, tary police in the Naples area, speaking on condition of the raising of children." told The Associated Press. anonymity because Italian law These skills can translate 
"They are either widows (of prohibits officials from dis­into setting the interest rates mob bosses) or wives of hus­cussing ongoing probes. for loan-sharking or doling out bands who have been put in Licciardi, a petite woman weekly payments to neighbor­prison. They hold the reins." known by cohorts and enemies hood kids to watch out for 
Mothers, daughters, sisters alike as 'a pic-police raids. and sisters-in-law are "assum­cirella' (the little Raising off­ing ever-more leading roles," one), was arrest­spring means
"She sat at the table 
Stefania Castaldi, a Naples­ed in 2001 after steeping chil­
with other bosses, she
based prosecutor who investi­she was stopped dren in a life gates organized crime, said in while driving her made decisions with of crime and an interview. car near Naples. them, she was right arranging This family dimension of the On the run since marriages of
at their level.,, 
Camorra finds its echo in 1999, Licciardi at sons and mainstream Italian society -a the time figured daughters to family often will entrust its on the list of Stafania Castaldi spin a web of business to a woman relative Italy's top-30 Italian prosecutor new or rather than an outsider. wanted criminals. stronger ties 
Camorra women still per­She is one of a with potential­form the more "traditional" handful of female mobsters ly rival clans. "They're very roles of cutting and repackag­who are considered so top­determined, very good at map­ing cocaine and heroin in their level they are held in Italy's ping out strategy, even sharp­kitchens or tidying up the stiffest prison regime, which er" than their men, Maruccia hideouts of fugitive bosses, but includes isolation and severely said in a telephone interview. others are wielding power on limited contact with the out­Assunta "Pupetta" Maresca the streets. They shake down side world. -who carried out her 1955 merchants in extortion rackets "She's in prison, but she still vendetta with a Smith & and increasingly direct drug commands. Prisons don't rep­Wesson and gave birth to her trafficking worth millions of resent a barrier" for the son in prison -allegedly pur­dollars, Castaldi said. Camorra, said Anna Maria sued a long life of crime after her release from prison in the 1960s. 

Aspiring male Camorristi must undergo a rite of passage -often carrying out a boss' order to kill or maim a rival, investigators say. Zaccaria said no such "requirement" applies to female bosses. Still, "they eliminate their enemies, their rivals, in a merciless way." said Zaccaria. 
Even when the Camorra woman doesn't pack a pistol, they seem to pump their off­spring with pride for bloody deeds which further their crime family's prestige. 
Take Concetta Prestieri, matriarch of a family in the long-powerful Di Lauro clan. A son-turned-informant told investigators how, in 1981, the clan eliminated a rival by "bringing him into a basement, torturing him, killing him and cutting him into pieces," said Castaldi, the Naples prosecu­tor. 
After the killing, the partici­pants gathered around the table in Prestieri's kitchen. 
"All the while, as they recounted the deed, the signo­ra cooked up some spaghetti and served it at the table," Castaldi said. 
After bomb blasts in Sicily in 1992 killed two leading anti­Mafia prosecutors, Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino, Italy stiffened its laws against top mobsters. One measure limited prison visits to family members, and Camorra women have used that to their advantage. 
"Most of the bosses choose to see their wives," said Castaldi. "The women are the ones who most transmit the orders of the clan chieftain. She becomes the continuity between inside the prison and the outside" world, enhancing her prestige. 
Imprisoned mob bosses are known to communicate their orders to visiting family with gestures, code words, even facial expressions. 
Admiration -and perhaps fear -for these godmothers is reflected in their nicknames. One woman, shot in the face in a power struggle, goes by the moniker "a' masculona," or tomboy, while another, wound­ed in the shoulder in a turf war, is known as "Ia gattona," meaning fat she-cat. 
Papa John's founder reunites with sold muscle car 
Associated Press  pizza business. But he still  missed  his  "When I first saw it I still wanted to look it over to make  month. An online search led them to the car blog Jalopnik,  $25,000 for their help tracking it down.  
LOUISVILLE -With the help  beloved Camaro and spent  sure  it  was  the  which has fol- Schnatter says it looks very  
of a  $250,000 reward, the  years searching for it. He cre­ car even though I  lowed  the  much the same as it did when  
founder of the Papa John's  ated a Web site on the search,  knew  it,"  "That kind ofhit me  search  and  he sold it in 1983, but with a  
pizza chain has finally reunit­ed with the muscle car he sold years ago to help keep his  held promotional appearances and eventually offered $250,000 to whoever found it.  Schnatter told The Associated Press. "That kind  emotionally. I was kind ofnumb.,,  tipped off Papa John's. Robinson,  larger motor and fatter tires for drag racing. The car will be displayed at  
family's business afloat.  It turns out he didn't have to  of hit  me  emo­ who  bought  the company headquarters in  
John Schnatter sold the gold­ leave Kentucky, where the  tionally.  I  was  John Schnatter  the  car about  Louisville, replacing a replica  
and-black 1971 Chevrolet Camaro Z28 for $2,800 in 1983. The money helped save  pizza chain is based in Louisville. The car only changed hands twice from the  kind of numb." The original uyers of  Founder Papa John's  five years ago for $4,000, recently deliv- Schnatter commissioned while he searched for his original car.  
his  father's  tavern  in  original buyers, ending up  Schnatter's  car  ered  the  In  honor of the  reunion,  
Jeffersonville, Ind., and he  with  Jeffery  Robinson  in  heard about the search when  Camaro to Schnatter, earning  Papa John's planned to offer  
used the rest to start what  Flatwoods, about 165 miles to  he appeared in a TV interview  the  $250,000 reward.  The  all Camaro owners a free pizza  
would become  a  worldwide  the east.  before  an  NFL  game  this  original  buyers  will  get  at stores on Wednesday.  

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, August 26, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
When worlds collide 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mart Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriariry 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmerz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DESK 
acharnO1 @saintmarys.edu 
In my four days back at Notre Dame, I have witnessed this incredi­ble natural phenomenon occurring all over town. I've seen it in the hous­es south of campus, at the Backer, and the apartments on the East side. 
It's been more stunning than the Perseid meteor shower. It can only truly be described as worlds collid­ing. 
Worlds colliding. Epic. It is a senior class 2000 kids strong, discover­

ing a thousand Jason Coleman new connections between all of their friends. It Man at Large is discovering how small Notre Dame really becomes each progressive year you stay here. 
What do I mean by worlds? I am talking about the friends that you make out of necessity your freshman year: the roommates, the kids nnxt door, Frosh-0 staff. Another world is your dorm friends. the kids you gnt close to through freshman year as you navigate all the dorm parties and try and find out where the swim house actually is. Then it becomes the kids from your major: the ones you have every single class with for about four semesters before you actually start talking and hanging out. After that it is the kids with whom you studied abroad in London, Rome, Uganda, Chile and 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Toledo. Finally, it's your neighbors off campus. These kids you come to know through complete chance, the only real connection being that the apartment manager threw you next to each other. 
So you have all of these worlds, all of these groups of friends. Some of them overlap a bit, others not at all. And then, boom. You head to a party with some of your dorm friends. 1t is being hosted by a kid you worked with at the dining hall, but you heard about it from one of your good travel buddies from London last semester. After you get there, a dozen kids walk in who you didn't even know knew the host, but actually turn out to be really good friends with the next door neighbor whom the host just met. It becomes incredibly com­plex, but equally exciting. 
This whole endeavor, keeping up with all the connections underlying all of these social events, is intense, but also brings out some nostalgia for the last couple of years. Being forced to think back about why you know someone. and wlwre you met, helps to recall all sorts of memorins from your college experiencn and think about all the things that have led you into senior year. For us snniors, its good to think back, and keep on forg­ing gn~at relationships. 
As for sophomores, juniors and, especially freshmen out there, I have to say only this: Don't limit yourself to any one group at Notn~ Dame. For frnshmen, this means eoming to know all or the kids in your dorm, and making good friends. The dorm system works out for a reason: It provides a great slice of the Notre Dame experience that is accessible from day one. However, take this slice, and keep finding more. Find a job and get to know your coworkers. You may never get to know them well, but its great to work on finding new conneetions and friendly faees on campus. Join a club and get to meet other interesting people from other corners of campus. 
For sophomores: Study abroad if you can, it's a great way to make friends that you will get to know really well. Be sure to get out and know the kids in your major classes. They can share the pain of looking for internships and jobs and at the very least give you someone with whom to commiserate. 
As for the juniors: It is still not too late. Get ofT campus and get some new neighbors. Meet people that live in your building or on your block. It is amazing how fast you can become friends with someone just because they live next door. 
As long as you keep on moving out. meeting new people and sharing new f1Xperinnees, Notre Dame will just keep on getting smaller and cozier. 
And as for us seniors, let's get out and enjoy all the friendships we've workPd at for the last three vnars. I'll see you all Thursday at Fevf;. 
Jason Coleman is a senior accounting major at Notre Dame. lle can be contacted at coleman. 70@nd. edu 
The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudents of the Universiry ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the adminisrration of either instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor-in-Chiefjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer [USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription lO The Obsaver is $l20 for one academic year; S6S for one semesler. 
TlK Obscm=r is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send addr.es.s correaion& to~ 
NmfC' Dame, {N 4655(~0779 'The Observer 
Paiodit:al pmragc-paid at Nom: Dame: P.O. Box779 
and. addilinnal mailing ofru;o;. 024 Smn.h Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, lN 46556-.0779 
Till:: Observer is a mtmlx,. of the Asrociated Press.. All reproducrion righls are r==l. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Katie Peralta Michael Bryan QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Sarah Mervosh Meaghan Veselik Irena Zajickova Christoper 
Graphics Masoud "J will not allow yesterday's success
"Reality is the leading cause of
Andrea Archer Scene to lull me into toaay's complacency, 
stress amongst those in touch wlth
Viewpoint Jordan Gamble it., for this is the great foundation of 
failure."
Michelle Maitz 
Jane Wagner Og MandinoU.S. writer U.S. writer 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, August 26, 2009 page 11 
U-WIRE 
Pay-for-performance scheme the downfall of academia? 
It wasn't so long ago that even some who desperately wanted to go to school couldn't. Prejudices against mdividuals of certain genders, races and financial situ­ations dictated the precious opportunity of attending. Things certainly 
Alicia Williams 
have changed. 
Now kids have to be bribed into University of attending school. Utah With the increas­
Daily Utah 
ingly popular pay­for-performance Chronicle programs popping up all over tlie country, American students have gone from appreciation of education to an expectation of cash incentives to learn. 
Programs range from encouraging stu­dent attendance to tard_y control, tutoring and stressing good performance on stan­dardized tests and Advanced Placement exams. They target a wide variety of schools but primarily focus on low­income inner-city areas with predomi­nately low college attendance. One idea is to pay students a monetary award for their hard work, and thereby promotegood habits to create successful college students. 
It's hard to fmd fault in the theory. Other than the possibility that in doing so, we are creating a generation of stu­dents who will expect to be paid for every effort they make toward knowledge, there aren't many negatives. Money in students' pockets instead of money explicitly designated to a college is the newest form of scholarship. Itaoesn't seem to matter if it's the nght thing to do, it only matters that it works. 
According to a New York City program,Rewarding Achievement, or REAClf, which pays students up to $1,000 for high scores on AP exams, the opportunicy to mcrease the low number of olack and Latino college students is worth the exr.eriment. 
It's a different type of scholarship," said Edward Rodnguez, executive direc­tor of REACH. "The global nature of eco­nomic competition is one that req_uires our young people to be committed to their studies so that they can develop the skills to compete and participate in an econom~ that is totally different than yes­teryear.
The sad fact is that these program's proponents believe money is the only way 
Students fear conform.ing, not conform.ing 
In a lot of ways, I had it easy. I never fit in. 
Of course, I sometimes wonder ifthat is a chicken-and-egg sort of thing. Either I never tried very liard because rnever fit in, or I never fit in because I never 
tried very hard. I Monica Sanford suppose It worked out much the University of same in the end. 11.rebraska
One outcome is 1 v' I honestly don't The Daily get a lot of the Nebraskan 
activity going on all over campusthese days. I am baffied by the groups of like-age, like-height, like-weight, like­gendered, like-complexioned coeds in matching T-shirts wandering in tightly bunche<f gaggles around campus. 
I am tempted to scorn them, but that reaction is no better than that of high school bullies who made fun of me yearsago. It's just an attempt to hide insecuri­ties and build up ego by tearing down someone else. 
Disdain for mainstream culture is not what nonconfonnity is about. Both con­formity and nonconformity are about one thing -fear. 
Fear lies at the bottom of every act of both conformity and nonconformity. We conform out offear that we will be rejected by those whose opinions we value. We reject conformity out of fear that we will lose our 'authentic' self ifwe submit to dictates from without. 
When I say it was easy for me because I never fit in, I mean that I learned to let go of the first sort of fear very early. Right now, there are thousands of stu­dents coming to campus for the first time (or second or fifth) who still hold that fear close to their hearts. It's going to be more difficult for them to let go ofit because they've held so tightly for so long.
I am still struggling with the second fear. Yet the more I liave searched for my 'authentic' self, the more I have realized there is no such thing. In seeing that, I have also realized it doesn't really mat­ter. 
My 'authentic' self is a straw woman built up to appease the fear. Rather than searchmg for it in vain, I can just con­centrate on letting go of the fear. 
In doing so, I fm<fan amazing degree of freedom and, ironically, more authen­ticity of thought, speech and action. I am free to like blockbuster movies as well as indie films. I am free to shop at Wal-Mart and Ten Thousand Villages. Yes, I even like the "Twilight" novels. Though that even scares me a little, I won't deny it. 
I no longer see conformity as a horri­ble, soul-sucking thing. There are lots of very good reasons to conform. It builds a shared sense of community and helpspeo2le relate to and care about one another, which is always good. The more we see ourselves in otliers, the better we treat those other l!e.ople. 
In no longer vilttying conformity, I was able to see all the ways I was 'conform­ing' without realizing it. I was simplyconforming to nonconformity. If some­thing was popular, I did the opposite. So in tliat way, I was just as bound by cul­tural dictates. 
Letting go of pride in my own weird­ness also meant letting go of the fear. 
It's surprising how much fear we live with in our day-to-day lives-how dee2ly it is rooted in our every action. We don't even notice it. I bet at least half of those reading this right now are think­ing, "What the hell is she talking about? I'm not afraid of anything!" 
But we are afraid. 
Every time we've agonized over what to wear or changed our outfit six times before going out, every time we've kept our mouth Shut in a class or a meeting even though we completely disagreed, every time we've made fun of this or that passmg cultural fad -we were afraid. 
Sometimes there are very good rea­sons to take care of our appearance, not to shout out in the middle of a lecture or to call stupidity when we see it, but fear will never be among those good reasons. 
The key to letting go of tlie fear, whether It be of reJection or loss of self, is to question everything. By questioning, we discover the good reasons and the bad reasons, sucb as fear, by default. 
College is an awesome place. For many, It is a new start and an opportuni­ty to let go of those misplaced socialJ?at­terns they felt Sqllished into during liigh school. Kids go off to college to 'fmd themselves,' whatever that means, and many return with a new sense of confi­dence. Some change radically, and some simply become stronger in who they were already starting to be. 
I did both. I tend to believe that most people do, and because that is the case, we don't have to be afraid. We're all con­formists and nonconformists. We're all contradictory. We're all afraid. Because of that, we can relate to one another with understanding and compassion.
You don't have to be who they say you should be, and you don't have to be who you really are either. You can just be. 
This column first ran in the Aug. 24 edition ofThe Daily Nebraskan, fhe daily newspaper serving the University of Nebraska. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
to promote that commitment. And so far, they are right. The REACH programbegan offering cash incentives to students at 31 high scliools in New York City two years ago. According to Rodriguez, in 2009, tliose schools mcreased enrollment into AP courses by 25 percent, going from 2,843 students in 2007 to 3,561 in 2009. In addition, 1,385 of those students passed the AP exam-an increase of 20 percent from 2007, said Rodriguez. More dramatically, the number of black and Latino students who passed increased 31 percent.
"It's only an experiment, but we think the trend IS only going to improve," Rodriguez said. "Kids taking AP courses have to put in the work, and so that's why these firiancial incentives are not a g!ve­away. We are focusing kids on somethingthat is important to tliem in a way that means something to them-500 oucks means something to them. It's worth the experiment." 
What exactly happened to people want­ing to learn for the pure value of gaining kriowledge? These programs are func­tioning successfully on the basis that money will motivate, and as such, they have no evidence of how long this theory will last or what the long-term conse­guences will be. Better yet, what will liappen when these students go to college ana have to perform just for tbe grade, just for the degree or just for the ambi­tion of achieving a future career? 
Unfortunately, cash incentives are working, and because they are, school districts all over the nation are jumping on the pay-for-performance bandwagon. Kids are being taught that monetaryawards should be attached to everything they do: homework, tests, grades, atten­dance, learning, creating and achieving.Soon, nothing will be accomplished with­out a rewar<fbeing offered. This could ultimately be the downfall of academia, but desperate times call for desperate measures. Hopefully, kids will still contin­ue to learn for the love of knowledge, and not just learn enough to pass the test and say, "Show me the money." 
This column first ran in the Aug. 25 edition ofThe Daily Utah Chronicle, the daily newspaper serving the University of Utah. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, August 26, 2009 
.\ 
' \ lo,
.·'f.··\ 
.~,};? ·\ .. ~ 
,)~\~~-!,6 '.sifushes boundaries 
;;; j;.,J ~ 
of alien movies 
By MAIJA GUSTIN Scene Wrirer 
When "District 9" made the eover of "Entertainment Weekly" a few weeks ago, the title was: "Why District 9 Will Blow Your Mind." The movie hadn't even come out yet, reviews were barely start­ing to trickle in and the entertainment giant presumptuously named it the must­see movie of the summer. And they were on the money. "District 9," the first fea­ture film from director Neill Blomkamp, wasn't even supposed to be made. One Peter Jackson, famed for turning "The Lord of the Rings" into cinematic gold, watched a short film by Blomkamp, "Alive in Jo'Burg." Jackson hired him to direct a film adaptation of the video game "Halo" Production was moving along well until the stu­
dio backers pulled the 
plete with interviews and plug over reported budg­handheld eamera work. et concerns. But, rather The rest of the movie is than waste Blomkamp's shot on grainy film that talent, Jackson turned ereates a realistic gritti­the project into a full­ness. The film ends up length adaptation of feeling like an expose"Jo'Burg." rather than a piece of fic­
"Jo'Burg," in this case, tion. The overall effect is is short for mesmerizing. The ending Johannesburg. is poignant and bitter­Blomkamp was born and sweet. It also sets up for grew up in South Africa a now inevitable sequel. as apartheid was coming "District 9" is beauti­to a close. It certainly fully erafted and full of had an effect on him, scenic settings and because "District 9" -intense aetion, but the about a group of story is what's earning marooned aliens in rave reviews aeross the Johannesburg forced to eountry. The movie acts live in a ghetto called as soeial commentary District Nine is about South Africa's his­
seething with undertones of racism and prejudice. It's a science­fiction blockbuster with the budget of a romantic comedy and a message that is strong but never preachy. 
The premise is this: The aforemen­

tioned aliens, called by the derogatory name "prawns," are stuck in Johannesburg. Twenty years ago their ship stalled over the South African city, making for some beautiful landscapH shots. They've been stuck there ever since. 
The South Africans hate them and have forced them to live in vindictive humans. District Nine, a makeshift ghetto. They This realism is further enhanced bylive in shacks and scrounge for food, wonderful cinematography. The first 30 specifically cat food. But even in their minutes or so of the film are shot in a 
documentary style, com­
confinement, the people of Johannesburg want them out. Enter Wikus Van De Merwe, brilliantly played by the new South African actor Sharlto Copley, a worker at Multi-National United. He is tasked with evicting the prawns 
from their shacks and moving them to District 10, miles away from Johannesburg. However, after some bad luck with an alien device, things start to go awry for Wikus. Think David Cronenberg's "The Fly" awry. Chaos ensues, man and alien 
tory with raeism and gives a eritique of governments' mishan­dling of delicate situations. "Distriet 9" creates an alien flick for a post-9111 world both paranoid and searching for a solution to the world's problems, and, cliche as it may seem, is still a story of love and friendship. It seems certain now that, along with a sequel, Neill Blomkamp has amazing things up his sleeve and an exciting future in film. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 

must team up to fight the evil.--------------------­humans, and people are 
District 9 
blown to bits -literally. 
Even though "District 9" is about aliens and weapons of 
Produced by: Peter Jackson 
mass destruction, it feels 
Directed by: Neill Blomkamp 
completely real and authen­tic. The prawns are beauti­fully crafted, using both a costumed actor and special effects, and seem totally for­eign yet oddly human. They become sympathetic charac­ters because they seem at times more human than the 

Observer Graphic I ANDREA ARCHER 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, August 26, 2009 
page 13 
This summer I had the distinct pleasure of making This is easily done with the reissue of the my haij to Woodstock, N.Y., expecting some sort of "Woodstock: Music from the Original Soundtrack" Disney World for the kids who grew up in the wrong and the new box set called "Woodstock: 40 Years generation. I was not completely let down. Instead On: Back to Yasgur's Farm." It consists of six discs of themed rides, there were themed head shops, with 77 songs, 38 of which were previously unre­and instead of carts with funnel cake, there were leased. The album is not for the fair-weather 1960s 
overpriced restaurants that bragged  music lover, but has already sold-out twice  
on local and organic food. I did find that there were those lost  Martha Karam  on Amazon.com. The set is produced by Rhino records and costs a $79.98 plus ship­ 
souls I was searching for. Teenagers  ping, but there is a free T-shirt if you buy it  
and young adults singing along to the  from the Rhino site.  
music blaring from the shops, young children as excited as their 30-some­ Scene Writer  When broken down, six discs for around $80 is not unreasonable, but for only $41.99  
thing year old parents to see tie-dye  you can purchase the entire documentary  
and deep yellow textiles. It was proof  itself, now on a DVD with a director's cut  

that Woodstock is not only enjoyed by the baby and bonus features. Unless you have exhausted the boomers. soundtrack, memorized the DVD and cannot wait 
It is time that our generation fully appreciates the for "Taking Woodstock" to come out, the price and history of Woodstock Festival as well as accept the the limited availability of the box set is not worth it. music as our parents, or, in my case grandparents', "Woodstock: Music from the Original Soundtrack" generation did. is a reissue of the original soundtrack from the doc­
umentary plus more previously unreleased tracks. The album includes performances by John B. Sebastian, Canned Heat, Richie Havens, Country Joe & the Fish, Joe Cocker, Santana, Ten Years After, Jefferson Airplane, Santana, Butterfield Blues Band, Jimi Hendrix, Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young, The Who, Joan Baez, Sha-Na-Na and Arlo Guthrie. The distinctiveness of the album is that it1s not a compilation of the artists' stu­dio-produced songs, but actual recordings of the music performed at Woodstock. It is as historically valuable as recorded speeches, but as aesthetically pleasing as music can get. 
Because these are live performances, there is a freedom in what the artists performed. Joe Cocker was able to cover the Beatles' "With a Little Help from My Friends," Jimi Hendrix revolutionized the "Star Spangled Banner," The Who performed a song from their rock opera "Tommy," and Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young covered "Wooden Ships" by Jefferson Airplane, even though Jefferson Airplane performed in the festival also. The album also features "stage announce­ments" and "crowd chants" and an announcement from Max Yasgur himself, the man who owned the farm on which the festival took place, setting the music to a background of the crowd and entire experience itself. 


The music performed at Woodstock may seem inaccessible because it is not current, or whimsical because it can never be reproduced or the artists' music styles evolve, so it is imperative to take the music as is: folksy protest and "rock 'n roll in the rain." 
The songs played at Woodstock were not themati­cally restrained to the late 1960s -songs about love, peace, post-apocalyptic worlds, riding your car out to the country for a weekend and wishing for change can be enjoyed by any generation. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Martha can be reached at mkaram2@nd. edu 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

By GENEVIEVE McCABE 
Scene Writer 
The Notre Dame Shakespeare Festival (NDSF) is an often overlooked and underap­preciated organization on this campus. No doubt it has its loyal fans, but it seems that the vast majority of students are either unaware or uninterested in the acting troupe. And this is certainly a shame. 
The NDSF has worked to bring in actors from many highly regarded theatre groups in cities such as London and New York. By bringing together a host of talent, the NDSF has managed to establish a strong tradition of Shakespeare at Notre Dame, not only making the Bard more accessible to students and the greater South Bend community, but Shakespeare in terms of his influence on the humanities and the liberal arts. 
This year marks the lOth year for the Notre Dame Shakespeare Festival and they are starting it off with a bang. Their first performance of the year is "Twelfth Night." Running through Sunday, it is one of Shakespeare's better-known comedies, and has been the basis for several more current works, including the 2007 film "She's the Man." A tale of confusing love triangles and plenty of cross-dressing, "Twelfth Night" promises to supply entertainment. 
The story line centers on a set of ship­wrecked twins who lose contact with one another. Viola, believing her twin brother Sebastian is dead, disguises herself as a ser­vant boy and falls in love with Duke Orsino, more complicated, the Duke is in love with Lady Olivia, who only has eyes for Viola dressed as a page boy. The plot twists and turns, leaving the audience slightly puzzled at times and offering many laughs and awk­ward situations. The fun along the way cer­tainly makes it worth seeing. 
Anything put on by the NDSF is certain to be a quality performance, so take advantage of this fantastic resource on campus. There is no better time to experience Shakespeare than when it is presented by a talented and capable group such as the NDSF. On top of that, "Twelfth Night" is an excellent way to experience Shakespeare while enjoying your­self and having a few laughs. 
Contact Genevieve McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 
-
..---r~------­
f page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, August 26, 2009 
MLB 
Pirates' late two-run homer puts them ahead of Phillies 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -Andrew McCutchen made up for a defensive gaffe earlier in the ninth inning by hitting a game­ending two-run homer off clos­er Brad Lidge and the Pittsburgh Pirates beat the Philadelphia Phillies 6-4 on Tuesday night. 
In a game in which both closers couldn't hold leads, the Pirates tied it against Lidge (0­
6) on singles by Luis Cruz and pinch-hitter Brandon Moss , and right fielder Jayson Werth 's error for misplaying Moss' hit. McCutchen then won it by hitting Lidge's pitch into the seats in center for his eighth homer. 
The Phillies lost for only the second time in nine games despite two homers by Jimmy Rollins on the first two pitches he saw from Pirates starter Ross Ohlendorf . Steve Pearce hit a two-run shot and Ryan Doumit added a solo drive for the Pirates against Joe Blanton 
Lidge allowed hits to all three batters he faced to blow his ninth save in 33 attempts, the most such failures in the majors. Matt Capps (3-7) won it for the Pirates despite being roughed up in the ninth for the second time in as many games against the Phillies, giving up two runs. 
After Carlos Ruiz and pinch­hitter Ben Francisco doubled to tie it at 3 in the top of the ninth, Shane Victorino hit a line drive that McCutchen looked ready to run down in center. But McCutchen broke in rather than back and couldn't make the catch as the ball sailed over his head for a go-ahead triple. Capps hadn't faced the Phillies since giving up five runs and six hits in one-third inning of an 8­7 loss on July 11 in which he inherited a 7-3 lead in the ninth. 
Despite McCutchen's misplay, the Pirates won their sixth in seven games since losing 12 of 13. 
The Phillies, cheered on by a sizable number in the crowd of 17,049, had won 11 of 13, plus five in a row against the Pirates dating to last season. The Phillies also had won eight of 10 on the road. 
Ohlendorf withstood Rollins' two leadoff home runs to pitch into the seventh inning. 
Rollins got the Phillies off to a 2-0 lead, hitting Ohlendorf's fastball into the right-center seats for his 31st career leadoff homer in the first and a changeup into the right-field 
CLASSIFIEDS 
stands in the third -his 17th of the season. 
Ohlendorf got Rollins on a line drive to center in the fifth, but wasn't allowed to pitch to him following pinch-hitter Eric Bruntlett 's one-out double in the seventh. Joel Hanrahan came on to strike out Rollins and get Victorino on a fly ball to right. 
Blanton took a 2-1 lead into the sixth before walking Doumit with one out. Pearce followed one batter later by hitting his third homer, giving the Pirates their first lead at 3-2. 
Rays 7, Blue Jays 3 
Carlos Pena hit two two-run homers, giving him 200 for his career, James Shields pitched 6 2-3 innings for the win and the Tampa Bay Rays beat the Toronto Blue Jays 7-3 on Tuesday night. 
Pena went 2 for 5 with four RBis in his fourth multihomer game of the season. He has more home runs (37) than sin­gles (35). 
Pena has hit six homers in five games and 11 in 17. He's batting .455 (10 for 22) over his current seven-game hitting streak. 
The Rays, who remained three games behind Boston for the AL wild card, have won eight of 10. 
Toronto (57-67) has lost 10 of 13 and is a season-low 10 games below .500. 
Rays shortstop Jason Bartlett went 3 for 5, raising his aver­age to .346. Bartlett is third in the AL in hitting behind Minnesota's Joe Mauer and Seattle's Ichiro Suzuki . 
Shields (8-1 0), who had lost four of five starts, allowed three runs and eight hits. He walked two and struck out five. 
Randy Choate pitched 2-3 of an inning, Chad Bradford and Brian Shouse each got one out and Dan Wheeler worked the ninth for the Rays, who are 11­3 against the Blue Jays . 
Toronto took the lead in the first when Marco Scutaro sin­gled, stole second and scored when Adam Lind singled through a drawn-in infield. 
Pena put the Rays in front in the second with a two-run drive into the second deck in right off rookie left-bander Brett Cecil (5-3). 
The Rays added four more off Cecil in the third. Pat Burrell hit a two-run single and Pena followed with a second smash even deeper into the second deck in right. 
Cecil lost his second straight start, the first time this season he has dropped consecutive outings. He allowed six runs, five earned, and six hits in 3 1­3 innings, walked three and struck out three. 
Rays outfielder Gabe Gross made it 7-2 with an RBI single off Josh Roenicke in the fifth. 
Toronto rookie Travis Snider cut it to 7-3 with a homer off the center field restaurant on Shields' first pitch of the sev­enth. The homer was Snider's second in three games. 
Snider had the defensive highlight, crashing into the right field wall after making a running catch of Gabe Kapler 's liner in the second. 
Cardinals 1, Astros 0 
Adam Wainwright worked eight innings of three-hit ball to become the National League's first 15-game winner and Albert Pujols ' rare hit off Wandy Rodriguez drove in the lone run in the St. Louis Cardinals' 1-0 victory over the Houston Astros on Tuesday night. 
Brendan Ryan sped home from first on Pujols' one-out double down the third-base line in the first inning for the NL Central leaders. The Cardinals (73-54) have gone 14-3 since Aug. 7 and arc a season-best 19 games above .500. 
Ryan is 11 for 27 during a seven-game hitting streak. 
Wainwright (15-7) matched the Yankees' CC Sabathia for the major league victory lead, and regained the team lead over Chris Carpenter (14-3). He retired 17 straight after Michael Bourn doubled to lead off the game, striking out five and walking none. 
Bourn was stranded at sec­ond when the next three Astros failed to get the ball out of the infield. The Cardinals totaled four outfield putouts during Wainwright's outing. The right­hander worked six or more innings for the 25th straight start, the most since Carpenter did it 28 straight times in 2005. 
Before Tuesday, Pujols was 3 for 25 with no RBis against Rodriguez, and the .120 aver­age was his worst against a left-bander with a minimum of 15 at-bats. Rodriguez' success against Pujols was, in turn, his best against any batter he had faced at least 20 times. 
The Cardinals are 27-3 since July 3 in games started by their top three starters -Wainwright, Carpenter and Joel Pineiro (12­9). They are 10-2 against left­handed starters since the Matt Holliday trade on July 24. 
Rodriguez (12-8) allowed a run and three hits in seven innings, righting himself after the first by retiring 15 straight hitters before Ryan Ludwick's single with one out in the sev­enth. He has allowed one run or fewer in nine of his last 10 starts, going 6-2 with a 2.05 ERA in that span 
In five August starts totaling 35 2-3 innings, Wainwright has walked one with 22 strikeouts. His biggest out came on his 114th pitch, a strikeout of pinch-hitter Jason Michaels with a man on third to end the eighth. 
Ryan Franklin finished for his 33rd save in 35 chances, walk­ing Lance Berkman on four pitches with two outs before Carlos Lee flied out to right. 
Marlins 2, Mets 1 
Sean West pitched six impres­sive innings Tuesday night, lift­ing the Florida Marlins to a 2-1 victory over an injury-battered New York Mets team shaken by the loss of ace Johan Santana for the season. 
West (5-5) gave up six hits and three walks to outpitch Santana's replacement Nelson Figueroa (1-3), for the Marlins, began Tuesday 5 1/2 games behind Colorado for the NL wild card after a 2-4 road trip. 
Ross Gload hit an RBI single in the fifth, and Leo Nunez recorded his 13th save in 17 chances for Florida. 
The only bright spot on a day of bad news for the Mets was Jeff Francoeur , who had two doubles after tearing a ligament in his left thumb over the week­end. 
Santana will undergo season­ending surgery for bone chips in his left elbow, and reliever 
J.J. Putz was also shut down for the season with a slight tear in his right forearm. 
Santana, a two-time Cy Young winner, is only the latest blow to a Mets team that's been shat­tered by injuries. New York has 12 players on the disabled list in a season that now seems lost. 
If that wasn't enough, the announcements came on the same day New York traded reliever Billy Wagner to Boston for two players to be named. The Mets tried to salvage the day with a win, but the game only brought a reminder of how little pop they have left. 
Francoeur lined a double to right field in the fourth that Jeremy Hermida misjudged. Hermida started running in and then quickly backpedaled, fail­ing to even get a glove on a ball that should have been caught. 
Fernando Tatis followed with a single that scored Francoeur to give New York a 1-0 lead. But the Mets gave the run back with mistakes of their own. 
After Hanley Ramirez was hit by a pitch in the bottom of the inning, a fielding error by first baseman Daniel Murphy allowed John Baker to reach safely and Ramirez went to third on Murphy's throwing error. Ramirez would score on a fielder's choice by Dan Uggla to tie the game. 
Before the Marlins took the lead with Gload's RBI single, the Mets loaded the bases in the fifth but couldn't capitalize. West got Francoeur to pop out and struck out Tatis. 
Red Sox 6, White Sox 3 
Jason Bay hit a solo homer to break an eighth-inning tie, and Jacoby Ellsbury had three hits to go with his franchise-record 55th stolen base on Tuesday night to lead the Boston Red Sox to a 6-3 victory over the Chicago White Sox . 
Manny Delcarmen (5-2) got one out to escape a first-and­third jam in the eighth to earn the win. Jonathan Papelbon pitched the ninth for his 30th save. He is the second pitcher, along with Billy Koch , to reach 30 saves in each of his first four seasons. 
Scott Linebrink (3-6) gave up three runs on three hits in one inning. Jayson Nix had two hits, including a solo homer, for Chicago, which lost its third straight and fell to .500 for the first time since July 29. 
Bay homered off Linebrink to give Boston the lead, then Nick Green singled and scored from first on Victor Martinez 's dou­ble. Ellsbury's single scored Martinez to make it 6-3. 
Jon Lester , who gave up just two hits in the first six innings, earned his fifth no-decision in six starts after allowing Chicago to tie the game with a wild pitch on what would have been an inning-ending strikeout. He retired 12 consecutive batters after Nix's homer before run­ning into bad luck in the sev­enth. 
Boston led 2-1 when Paul Konerko singled, Jermaine Dye walked and A.J. Pierzynski moved them up with a sacrifice bunt. Alex Rios hit a medium fly ball to right, and J.D. Drew's strong throw scared Konerko away from trying to tag up and score. 
Lester got Alexei Ramriez to swing at an 0-2 pitch in the dirt, but it got away from catch­er Jason Varitek and rolled to the backstop for a wild pitch that allowed Konerko to trot home easily while Ramirez reached on a dropped third strike. Nix hit a line drive off Mike Lowell 's glove for an RBI single that made it 3-2 and chased Lester. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FoR RENT 
Unfurnished House for rent. 2 bedrm fenced yard 2 car garage. 
1 mile to campus. 219-575-0550 leave a message. 
Garage for storage plus room for rent for football weekends. 1/2 mi. to NO. Call Matt at 574-302-7224. 
Home for rent football weekends. Walk to stadium, sleeps 6-10. 
williamckelly@gmail.com 
Charming,clean 3 brm, 
3 full bath house available for foot­ball weekends. $700 for two nights. 
Call Liane 574-287-2822 or 574­309-4158. 
TICKETS 
Businessman buying season GA tickets. 
574-277-1659. 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES Needed for 2009 Fall Season -The Stanley Clark School, a south side elemen­tary/middle school is located north of Erskine Golf Course on Miami Street. Soccer referees are needed for 5-6th grade and 7-8th grade girls and boys soccer matches. Pay is $37 per game to licensed refer­ees. If interested, please contact Caryn MacKenzie, Athletic Director, at Stanley Clark School at 574-291­4200. 
FoR SALE 
Maintenance-Free Villa, minutes from the Golden Dome! Like new, one owner, very convenient to shopping, dining & the airport! Well constructed featuring cathedral ceil­ings and thoughtful floor plan. If you are looking for a place to call home for a weekend, a month or forever near the shadow of the Golden Dome, please give me a call, I would love to show you this great villa! REMAX100-SUSAN ULLERY, Broker Associate (574)235-3446. 
PERSONAL 
EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRITING ACT, Inc. invites you to participate in an essay-writing study. Limited number of participants so register soon to secure a spot. 
www.act.org/essaystudy 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame s website: http://csap.nd.edu 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information. visit NO s website at: http :1/pregnancysupport@ nd. edu 
Are you looking for a business opportunity with an awesome com­pensation plan and multiple streams of income. Then I want to talk to you! Call Angel Start @ 289­4043 or email angelsings4him7@aol.com 
-

OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, August 26, 2009 CoMPILED FROMTHE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
=====================--------------------------·::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~:::~:::__ : _______________-~----------------------­
==== 
NCAA Football AP Division 1 Preseason Top 25 
team  points  
1  Florida  1498  
2  Texas  1424  
3  Oklahoma  1370  
4  Southern California  1313  
5  Alabama  1156  
6  Ohio St.  1113  
7  Virginia Tech  1054  
8  Mississippi  1047  
9  Oklahoma St.  989  
10  Penn St.  989  
11  LSU  914  
12  California  746  
13  Georgia  714  
14  Boise St.  659  
15  Georgia Tech  593  
16  Oregon  587  
17  TCU  521  
18  Florida St.  307  
19  Utah  289  
20  BYU  267  
21  North Carolina  261  
22  Iowa  229  
23  NOTRE DAME  225  
24  Nebraska  207  
25  Kansas  134  

NCAA Women's Soccer NSCAA Division 1 Preseason Poll 
team previous 
1 North Carolina 1 2 Stanford 4 3 NOTRE DAME 2 4 Portland 5 5 UCLA --3' 6 Florida St. 6 7 Texas A&M 7 8 Southern California 8 9 Virginia 12 10 Florida 10 11 Oklahoma St. 13 12 Penn St. RV 13 San Diego 16 14 West Virginia 14 15 Texas 18 16 Duke 9 17 Illinois 23 18 Georgia NR 19 Minnesota 15 20 Rutgers 21 
NCAA Women's Volleyball AVCA Division 1 Coaches Poll 
team points 
1 Penn St. 1487 2 Texas 1405 3 Nebraska 1345 4 Washington 1330 5 Stanford 1283 6 California 1215 7 Hawaii 1036 8 Florida 1020 8 UCLA 961 10 Illinois 919 11 Minnesota 904 12 Southern California 852 13 Iowa St. 786 14 Oregon 727 15 San Diego 554 
around the dial 
MLB 
Texas at New York Yankees 7 p.m., ESPN2 
Washington at Chicago Cubs 8 p.m., CSNCH 
MLB 

After being examined by Mets medical director Dr. David Altchek, Mets ace Johan Santana will miss the remainder of the 2009 season due to surgery for his throwing arm. Santana became the 12th Mets player on the DL. 
Mets' Santana out for the season 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Johan Santana needs surgery for bone chips in his left elbow and the star pitcher is out for the season, the latest blow to a New York Mets team battered by injuries. 
The team said their 30­year-old ace is expected to be OK for spring train­ing next year. He was examined Tuesday by Mets medical director Dr. 
David Altchek  in  New  
York.  
"It's  not  the  worst,"  

Santana said on a confer­ence call. "Believe me, I'm going to be ready." 
Santana said he had the 
IN BRIEF 
Injured Cowboy:s
employees file lawsuits 
DALLAS -Two Dallas Cowboys employees seriously injured in the collapse of the team's indoor prac­tice facility filed lawsuits Tuesday against the company that designed the structure and others linked to its construction and repair. 
Scouting assistant Rich Behm and special teams coach Joe DeCamillis filed lawsuits against Summit Structures LLC and others involved in building and repairing the steel and fabric facility. The 88,000-square-foot structure col­lapsed in a wind storm May 2 while a practice for recently draft­ed players was being conducted inside. 
Behm, who was paralyzed from the waist down, and DeCamillis, who suffered a broken vertebrae, seek unspecified damages in the suits, which contain similar lan­guage but were filed in separate Dallas courts. 
same operation after the 2003 season and came back with a career-high 20 wins and the first of his two Cy Young Awards for the Minnesota Twins. 
"I know myself," he said. "I've been through this before. I know exactly what it is." 
Mets general manager Omar Minaya said Santana was evaluated around the All-Star break as his stats dipped, adding the injury wors­ened in recent weeks, especially after his last start. The GM said "noth­ing major was there" dur­ing the previous checkup. 
"It's mostly soreness," Minaya said on a confer­ence call. "We all want to see Johan Santana pitch­ing in September. But this is a smart move because we want to see him pitch­ing for the long haul." 
The Mets had feared a major setback to Santana, who has four seasons left on his $137.5 million, six­year contract. Instead, he will have arthroscopic surgery. 
Santana said that had the Mets been in the mid­dle of a pennant race, rather than lagging well below .500, he would've tried to keep pitching. 
"I didn't want to shut it down," he said. That said, "you don't want to go out there and blow it and make it worse." 
Santana went 13-9 with a 3.13 ERA in 25 starts in his second year with the Mets. Strong at the sfart of the season. his num­bers had dropped notice­ably since June --he was 7-2 with a 1.77 ERA and averaged nearly 12 strike­outs per nine innings before then but was 6-7 with a 4.02 ERA and aver­aged 5 V2 strikeouts after. 
Manager Jerry Manuel said Santana complained of elbow soreness after his last outing, and the team decided to shut him down. Santana said his recovery time between starts was mostly affect­ed. 
NHL files bid to keep
Coyotes in Arizona 
PHOENIX -The NHL has filed a bid in U.S. Bankruptcy Court to pur­chase the Phoenix Coyotes and keep the team in Arizona. 
Deputy NHL commissioner Bill Daly said in a news release Tuesday that the league took the action "to maximize the likelihood that the club ultimately will be sold to an accept­able purchaser who is committed to operating the franchise in Glendale." 
The release did not say how much the league was offering to buy the team, which is scheduled to be sold at auction on Sept. 10. 
Daly said that if the bid is success­ful, the league intends to sell the team to a third party outside of the bankruptcy process. 
"We believe this step is necessary at this time in order to best preserve and maximize the value of the club asset for the benefit of the club's creditors and for the community of Glendale," Daly said. 
FlU unhappy Thomas' 
opener coufd be at UNC 
MIAMI -It sounds like a made-for­TV matchup -Isiah Thomas making his coaching debut for FlU in the opening game of the season at defend­ing national champion North Carolina. 
That's what was listed on the Tar Heels' schedule for Nov. 9, released Tuesday by the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
Oh, but there's a catch: It's not the game FlU wanted -and it's a game the Golden Panthers aren't interested in playing. 
FlU athletic director Pete Garcia lashed out against the matchup Tuesday, saying he felt the Golden Panthers were "bullied" by organizers of the Coaches vs. Cancer tournament and that he expected Thomas' debut to be at Ohio State instead. 
Garcia said the school is examining how to get out of the North Carolina matchup but told The Associated Press that FlU remains committed to playing in the tournament. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday. August 26, 2009 
MLB 
Mets' reliever Wagner heading off to Red Sox 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Billy Wagner is on his way to the Boston Red Sox, leaving the New York Mets for the chance to pitch in a pennant race as a setup man for All-Star closer Jonathan Papelbon. 
After a few days of back­and-forth talks about Wagner's future, the depleted Mets trad­ed the left-handed reliever to the Red Sox on Tuesday for two players to be named. It's believed Chris Carter could be one of the players headed to New York, as first reported by the Boston Globe. Since he's on the 40-man roster, he'd have to clear waivers first to be part of the trade. 
The AL wild-card leaders had claimed Wagner on waivers, and the teams worked out a deal that per­suaded Wagner to waive his no-trade clause. Wagner's main motivation, according to agent Bean Stringfellow, was his "overwhelming desire to pitch in a pennant race." 
"He woke up and decided he wanted to join a team in the middle of a pennant race to have a chance to pitch in October and to have a chance to get a ring, which he's never done," Red Sox general man­ager Theo Epstein said. "There were some ups and downs and turns in the deci­sion. but in the end he told us he woke up today and really wanted a chance to win a World Series, and came here for all the right reasons." 
Boston agreed not to pick up his $8 million option for next season, Stringfellow said in an e-mail to The Associated Press. The Red Sox can still offer salary arbitration to Wagner in the offseason, Stringfellow said, meaning they would be entitled to draft picks as compensation if he signs elsewhere. 
"?-The 38-year-old Wagner will join the team in Boston on Thursday. Papelbon has 29 saves in 32 opportunities this season, with a 2.04 ERA and 58 strikeouts in 53 innings. He had been protective of his role and pub­licly lukewarm to the idea of Wagner joining the bullpen, but the 28-year-old righty called Wagner to make him feel welcome and said Tuesday he was not bothered by the acquisition. "We're excited to have him and hopefully he can help us to win a championship," Papelbon said. "I've watched him through the years. The biggest thing is, he pitches with heart. I love guys like that. I love guys that go out there and wear their heart on their sleeves." Red Sox reliever Manny Delcarmen, who might see some of his innings go to Wagner, was also supportive. "Not many pitchers throw near 100 (mph) from the left side," Delcarmen said. "Hopefully he's healthy and I know he can help us. As long as he's healthy and can con­tribute, I think it's great." The Red Sox entered the night seven games behind the New York Yankees in the AL East and 1 1/2 games up on the Texas Rangers in the wild­
card race.
-
''I'm happy for him to get an opportunity with a team that seems headed to the postseason," Mets manager Jerry Manuel said. "He should do well." 
Wagner ranks sixth all-time with 385 career saves, and wants to finish out his career as a closer. He's not likely to get that chance this year with Boston; then again, he hasn't gotten to pitch in the World Series, either. 
"He wanted to be part of a pennant race," Mets general manager Omar Minaya said on a conference call. "We were able to get a couple of 
MLB 
Rangers' Davis promoted 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -The Texas Rangers are turning back to Chris Davis at first base as they prepare to make a push for the playoffs. 
The Rangers placed Andruw Jones on the disabled list Tuesday and recalled Davis from the minors to take over at first down the stretch. 
Jones was put on the 15-day DL, retroactive to Monday, before Texas opened a three-game series against the New York Yankees. The designated hitter­outfielder has a strained left hamstring that's been bothering him for a while. lie is batting .217 with 17 homers and 41 RBis in 74 games. 
Davis, the team's opening-day first baseman, was called up from Triple-A Oklahoma City and immediately inserted into the lineup. Asked what his plans are at first base for the rest of the season, manager Ron Washington said: "Chris Davis." 
That decision puts Hank Blalock on the bench. Blalock took over at first when Davis was sent down, but struggled on defense. 
"He says he'll be ready to help us any way he can, and that's what I was looking for," Washington said. "He's done an admirable job." 
An All-Star third baseman in 2003 and 2004 before injuries stalled his career, Blalock was hitting .238 this year with 23 homers and 57 RBis. His solid power numbers were offset, how­ever, by a paltry .274 on-base percentage and 94 strikeouts in 404 at-bats. 
"This is a situation where the organization has made a deci­sion," Blalock said. "They think we have a better chance to win with other guys in the lineup. As a player, I have to deal with it. 
"Over the course of my career, I've been in difficult situations," he added. "It's how you handle them. I've been told I'm coming off the bench. I'm going to try and keep a positive attitude and help this team make the play­offs." 

Wednesday, August 26, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Marshall practicing vvith Bronco offense 
Associated Press 
DENVER Brandon Marshall may be back in the mix offensively at practice but it remains unclear whether the Broncos' dis­gruntled wideout will make his preseason debut in Denver's game Sunday against Chicago. 
Denver coach Josh McDaniels said Marshall was fully involved in Tuesday's practice, the team's first workout since Saturday's 27­13 loss at Seattle. The prac­tice, which was closed to the media, was cut short about 45 minutes because of bad weather. 
"He did everything that we were doing there, he did our drills," McDaniels said. "We didn't get to finish practice obviously, but it was a nice crisp practice today." 
He said it was too early to say whether Marshall would make his first appearance in the Chicago game, which already features the return of former Broncos quarterback Jay Cutler. 
"We'll find out as we go through the week," McDaniels said. "When the players are ready to play, they'll play." 
McDaniels held Marshall out of the Seattle exhibition, saying the wide receiver was­n't prepared to take the field in a game. Marshall missed the team's exhibition opener against San Francisco with an injury. 
Marshall, who like Cutler clashed with McDaniels and has tried unsuccessfully to force his way out of town, has only practiced a handful of times this offseason. A Pro Bowl receiver with 206 recep­tions the past two seasons, Marshall has sought a new contract and, after the Broncos did not act on his request, asked to be traded. 
He pulled a hamstring on the first weekend of training camp and didn't return until a week ago. But after telling reporters that he still wasn't up to speed on the new play­book, Marshall found himself limited largely to scout team duties last week, imitating the routes that were to be run by Seahawks receivers for the benefit of the Broncos defense. 
Nevertheless, on paper, Marshall may have at least reclaimed his starting status with the Broncos, though that also is unclear. 
On the latest depth chart issued by the team, Marshall is listed as a No. 1 receiver. But he's one of four wideouts listed as starters on a 12­player depth chart. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Hokie QB seeks Vick's advice 
Associated Press 
BLACKSBURG, Va. -To pre­pare for his first season carry­ing Virginia Tech's national title hopes, Tyrod Taylor sought the counsel of another dual-threat quarterback who performed the role for the No. 7 Hokies better than anyone: Michael Vick. 
The two quarterbacks spoke by phone after Vick was released from federal prison earlier this summer. Vick's daz­zling play carried the Hokies to the Sugar Bowl following the 1999 season, where they lost the national championship game 46-29 to Florida State. 
Now, it's Taylor's turn to try and do the same thing. 
"He just told me that this was a big season and just to go out there and have fun," Taylor said of Vick, "don't put too much pressure on myself." 
Besides soliciting some advice from the new Philadelphia Eagles quarter­back, Taylor also did some work at home this summer with his teammates, and attended the Manning Passing Academy in Louisiana, working with Peyton and Eli Manning and other top quarterbacks. 
His preparation also included studying film with his father to remove the hitch from his throwing motion, focusing on deep throws and working on his pocket presence. He also knows he will need to rely on the Hokies' other playmakers once the season begins. 
"I have a lot of guys out there, receivers that can make plays," Taylor said. "It's my job to get the ball to them.... It's just about me trusting the guys and getting the ball out." 
The ability of Taylor to stay healthy also will be critical for the seventh-ranked Hokies. 
The past two years, he shared playing time with Sean Glennon, a situation that allowed Taylor to make plays 
by himself almost without regard for his health. 
Pocket col­lapsing? Taylor took off running, rely­ing on his feet so often that he almost seemed reluc­tant to throw a pass. It was a 
"It's just about me 
history.
trusting the guys and Still, Taylor's passing numbers
getting the ball out." 
will have to be better for the 
Tyrod Taylor 
Hokies to stand Virginia Tech any chance at a quarterback t i t l e 
style that led to numerous big plays for the Hokies, but also led to ankle injuries that forced Glennon in as a replacement. 
With Glennon now trying to make it in the NFL, Taylor is the Hokies' only quarterback with college experience. And with games against No. 5 Alabama, No. 24 Nebraska and Miami in the first month, Taylor will need to be very good from the opener. 
"Tyrod's really embraced the leadership role," said redshirt sophomore Danny Coale, who set a Hokies freshman record last season with 36 catches for 408 yards. 
The Hokies had six passing touchdowns last year; Taylor had just two in 173 tries, and threw seven interceptions while ranking second on the team with 738 yards rushing. 
This season, the loss of tail­back Darren Evans for the sea­son to a knee injury has left the Hokies with questions in their running game, although Ryan Williams and David Wilson are two of the most heralded recruits in school 
Quarterbacks 
coach Mike 
O'Cain said the key boils down to "just confi­dence." 
"It always helps you as a quarterback to be the guy," O'Cain said. "From Day 1, you're the guy. When you are able to go through spring prac­tice as the quarterback, go through the summer as the quarterback, come in in August as the quarterback, it's a tremendous advantage. You just carry yourself in a differ­ent way. 
"He's different in our meet­ings. He's different on the practice field." 

page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, August 26, 2009 
WANT AN INSIDE LOOK AT ND OR SMC? 

THE 
WRITERS WANTED
BSE~ 

News Writers • Sports Writers • Scene Writers 


The Observer is also now hiring Photographers. 
Photographers are paid. Past experience is helpful. Contact Photo Editor Ian Gavlick at igavlick@nd.edu for more information. 

Wednesday, August 26, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Ex-Husker RB found guilty 
Associated Press 
OMAHA, Neb. -Former Nebraska running back Thunder Collins was convicted Monday of first-degree murder and other charges stemming from a September 2008 shoot­ing in Omaha that left one man dead and another seri­ously wounded. 
The Douglas County jury also found the former Cornhuskers player guilty of attempted second-degree mur­der, felony assault and two weapons September within a day of an Omaha shooting that left 38­year-old Timothy Thomas dead and another California man, Marshall Turner, seri­ously wounded. 
Prosecutors said the shoot­ing stemmed from a botched drug deal in which Collins masterminded a plan to rob the men. 
Collins' attorney, Steve Lefler, argued that prosecution witnesses were lying, and said Collins would appeal. 

Alagaban 
said he 
counts. The 29-year-old faces a mandato­ "If I was just any other Joe Blow, I feel I  believes jus­tice was served.  
ry sentence of life  would have beat this  "It's  an  
in prison for the  case.  appropriate,  
first-degree  mur­ just verdict,  
der conviction. He faces up to 170 years on the other  Thunder Collins former Nebraska  especially for a victim who was killed and  
counts,  said  running back  executed basi­ 

Deputy County Attorney John Alagaban. Sentencing is set for Nov. 12. 
As Collins left the court­room, he yelled at the jury of six men and six women, "Are you happy? Are you happy? You know I didn't kill anyone!" 
He later told reporters in a jailhouse interview that he thinks he was convicted because he was a well known figure in the community. 
"If I was just any other Joe Blow, I feel I would have beat this case," he said. 
Collins was arrested last 
cally  on  a  
garage floor,"  
he said.  
Collins  played  for  the  

Cornhuskers from 2000-02. He quit the team midseason say­ing he couldn't afford to keep playing and needed to focus on taking care of a younger brother, whom he moved from Los Angeles to Nebraska to protect him from gangs. His decision to leave followed a four-game suspension for an undisclosed NCAA rules viola­tion. 
He also had a brief stint in 2003 with the Montreal 
Allouettes of the Canadian Football League. 
Originally from Los Angeles, Collins was a junior college All-American in 1998 who was touted by recruiting analysts as the next in a long line of great Nebraska running backs. 
But Collins never lived up to his hype. His best season was in 2001, when he played in 12 games, ran for 647 yards and five touchdowns and caught 19 passes for 189 yards. 
Collins has had several brushes with the law, includ­ing in 2006, when he was sen­tenced to 10 days in jail after he pleaded no contest to obstructing an Omaha police officer. Witnesses said Collins had been involved in a shoot­ing, and police found marijua­na in his pocket. 
In 2003, he was acquitted of assault and burglary charges in Corvallis, Ore., that stemmed from accusations about an alleged confrontation with an ex-girlfriend and an Oregon State football player. 
In 2002, Collins pleaded guilty to disturbing the peace in Lincoln. That was part of an agreement with prosecutors to drop two assault charges con­nected to alleged fights with the same woman in Lincoln. 
Another man is also charged in Thomas' death. Karnell Burton, 21, has pleaded not guilty to first-degree murder and other charges in the slay­ing and is scheduled to stand trial in October. 
NFL 
Owens continues to stand along the Buffalo sidelines 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. ­Terrell Owens still isn't ready to play, and the Buffalo Bills offense has another concern after running back Fred Jackson aggravated a left thumb injury in practice Tuesday. 
Coach Dick Jauron ruled out Owens from playing in Buffalo's preseason game at Pittsburgh on Saturday because the receiv­er is still not fully recovered from a sprained toe. Owens spent 10 minutes working out on his own in practice, the first time he's been on the practice field since taking part in indi­vidual drills on Aug. 17. 
Owens, who will miss his third preseason game, still hasn't been through a full practice since jamming his foot during the Bills starting offense's one and only series against Tennessee in the Hall of Fame game on Aug. 9. 
Jauron said Owens indicated after the workout that it was the best he's felt since getting hurt. 
Wearing a blue shirt and tights, Owens went through a regimen of running and step­ping drills. He showed no sign of a limp and was able to push off both feet. 
Another encouraging sign was how Owens was able to stand and watch the rest of practice, something the player hasn't previously been able to do after experiencing discomfort in his toe. 
Owens declined to talk to reporters as he left the field with about 15 minutes left in practice. 
Jauron considered it too early to say whether Owens might be able to play in the preseason finale against Detroit on Sept. 3. 
Jackson's status is uncertain as the player was having tests after being hurt during a team drill near the end of the two­hour practice. 
The injury is potentially trou­blesome because Jackson is slated as the team's starter while Marshawn Lynch serves a three-game NFL suspension to open the regular season. 
The Bills added insurance this offseason by signing eight-year NFL veteran Dominic Rhodes in free agency. He's followed on the depth chart by Xavier Omon, who had brief playing time as a rookie last year. 
Jackson was hurt during a running play, when he took a pitch to the left. He was hit as he burst through the line of scrimmage, fumbled the ball and fell to the ground in pain. 
With several teammates and trainers looking on, Jackson eventually got up and was hold­ing out his left hand while being escorted to the training facility. Jackson's hand already was heavily taped around the wrist and thumb. 

NoTRE DAME SHAKESPEARE FESTIVAL 
presents its 2009 professional Mainstage production 

.....-----------------------­
--~­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, August 26, 2009 
MLB 
Padres blow lead, then win in 12th 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA-Mat Latos, David Eckstein and the San Diego Padres stopped the Atlanta Braves from improving their playoff hopes. 
Eckstein's 12th-inning double drove in Nick Hundley, and the San Diego Padres recovered after blowing a ninth-inning lead to beat the Atlanta Braves 2-1 on Tuesday night. 
"I was just trying to put the ball in play," Eckstein said. "I was able to find a hole." 
Latos gave up only two hits in seven scoreless innings. 
"We know we have a team that's out of contention, but we still go at them," Latos said. 
The Braves wasted a chance to gain a game on NL East­leading Philadelphia, which lost to Pittsburgh. 
"Anytime you lose a game like this, especially against a team that's at the bottom of their division, it's really tough," said Atlanta's Jair Jurrjens, who gave up one run in 7 2/3 innings. "We lost a game we needed to win." 
Hundley led off the 12th with a double to left field off Kris Medlen (3-4). After Tony Gwynn Jr. struck out, pinch-hit­ter Luis Rodriguez walked. Everth Cabrera, who was 0 for 6, struck out for the third time before Eckstein delivered the go-ahead double to left-center to drive in Hundley from sec­ond. 
"That's a tough one to lose as good as our pitching was," said Braves manager Bobby Cox. "They matched our pitching." 
Joe Thatcher (1-0) pitched 1 1/3 scoreless innings for the win and Edward Mujica earned his second save by retiring the Braves in order in the 12th. 
Adrian Gonzalez's third­inning homer, his 34th, gave San Diego a 1-0 lead that held until the ninth. 
Latos and Luke Gregerson shut out Atlanta through eight innings, but Heath Bell eouldn't hold a 1-0 lead in the ninth. It was Bell's third blown save in 33 chances. 
Bell gave up a one-out single to Brian McCann and walked Garret Anderson before strik­ing out Yunel Escobar. Adam LaRoche hit a two-out single to right, just in front of the reach of a diving Will Venable, to drive in pinch-runner Heid Gorecki from second base with the tying run. 
Latos retired Atlanta's first 13 batters before Anderson's single to right with one out in the fifth. Latos responded by striking out Escobar and LaHoche. 
Latos was 0-2 with a 14.09 ERA in his last two starts. 
"That was the most impor­tant start I've had, after two bad outings," Latus said. 
MLB 
Rangers hold off Yankees in 9th 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Rookie short­stop Elvis Andrus turned Melky Cabrera's liner into a game-ending double play and the Texas Hangers held off the New York Yankees 10-9 on Tuesday night. 
Michael Young and Nelson Cruz homered for the Hangers, who scored seven two-out runs off Joba Chamberlain to over­come an early four-run deficit. 
They took a 10-5 lead into the ninth before New York started storming back against Texas' bullpen. 
Jason Grilli allowed a leadoff single and a walk before he was relieved by closer Frank Francisco. Alex Hodriguez walked. Ilideki Mastui lill!~d an HBl single and slow-footed Jorge Posada knocked in a run with a rare infield single. 
Hobinson Cano's two-run sin­gle eut it to 10-9 and left run­ners at first and second with nobody out. But Nick Swisher popped up a foul bunt attempt for the first out and Cabrera hit a low liner to shortstop that Andrus caught on the lly. 
Then, he beat pinch-runner Jerry Hairston Jr. in a close race back to second base to flndit. 
Josh Hamilton had four hits and Kevin Millwood rebounded from a rocky start, exemplify­ing the gritty pitching that has put the surprising Rangers in contention for their first post­season berth since 1999. 
In a potential playoff preview against the AL East-leading Yankees, Texas took the open­er of a three-game series and remained 1.5 games behind Boston in the wild-card race. 
One day shy of his 21st birth­day, Andrus drove in a career­best three runs from the No. 9 spot. Young, the AL player of the week last week, also had three HB!s. 
Posada and Cano homered for the Yankees, who lost for only the fifth time in 21 games. They still own the best record in the majors at 78-47, but their division lead over the Hed Sox was trimmed to six games. 
Prized prospect Neftali Pflliz replaced Millwood (10-8) in the sixth and shut down the powerful Yankees for two innings with a fastball that consistently registered in the high 90s (mph). 
Coming off a 7-:~ road trip. New York dropped to 41-19 at the new Yankee Stadium, still the best home mark in the big leagues. 
Pitching on eight days' rest, Chamberlain (8-4) again failed to get deep in the game. Unable to put away hitters with two strikes or end innings with two outs. he threw 96 pitches in four innings. 
The 23-year-old right-han­der was dominant in his first three starts after the All-Star break, but then the Yankees began altering his schedule because they want to limit how many innings he throws this season. 
He's having a hard time adjusting. 
After going 3-0 in his first three outings after the break, Chamberlain is 1-2 in his last four with an 8.55 ERA (19 earned runs in 20 innings). 
Millwood won for the second time in nine starts. 
The Yankees put together a two-out rally to take a 4-0 lead in the first. Matsui, coming ofT a huge series in Boston, lined a two-run double. Posada fol­lowed with a two-run homer that barely cleared the short porch in right. 
Chamberlain retired his first two batters in the second before Ivan Rodriguez singled and Davis walked. Andrus then grounded a two-run dou­ble that scooted past Alex Hodriguez down the third-base line. 
Texas rallied again with two outs and nobody on in the fourth, this time scoring five runs by stringing five singles in a row -most of them not hit hard. 
Cano's homer ofT the bottom of the left-field foul screen in the fourth was upheld by umpires after a brief video review. It was Cano's career­high 20th homer and it gave the Yankees six players with 20 home runs for the third time in team history (1961, 2004). 
Cruz hit an opposite-field homer to right off Chad Gaudin in the fifth, making it 8-5. Young added a two-run shot to right-center in the seventh. 

Wednesday, August 26, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Veterans 
continued from page 24 
type players in our lineup," Kubinski said. 
A high school state champi­on, Sandman entered his freshman year with a nagging back injury that kept him out of the line-up at the beginning of the season. Upon his return, though, Sandman posted top-25 finishes in his first three matches, including a second place finish at the Boilermaker Invitational. He ended the season with a 73.40 stroke average, the highest ever for an Irish freshman. Sandman also played a cru­cial role in Notre Dame's Big East Championship, finishing 20th overall and sinking a birdie putt to seal the victory over Louisville in a sudden death playoff. 
Sandman's sophomore sea­son was remarkably consis­tent, recording a 73.91 stroke average and having his score count in 33 of 34 rounds, the best on the team. He finished 1Oth at the Big East Tournament and was named to the all-Big East Conference team. 
In that same season, Fortner played well in his first year. He participated in 10 tournaments, the most of any freshman that season. Along with his solid tourna­ment performances, Fortner was one of two freshmen to shoot a hole-in-one for the Irish that season, doing so with senior Carl Santos­Ocampo in back-to-back tour­naments. He finished the sea­son with a 24th-place finish in the Big East tournament. 
Coming into his junior year as the top golfer for the Irish, Sandman did not disappoint, recording a 73.39 stroke average, the sixth best in school history. In addition to once again being named to the all-Big East Conference team with a seventh place fin­ish at the Big East Tournament, he was also selected for the PING All­Midwest Hegion team and was named the Notre Dame Monogram Club MVP. Sandman finished his junior year by individually qualifying for the NCAA regional tourna­ment, the first Irish golfer ever to do so, and finished in a tie for 65th place. 
Fortner also had a success­ful season in 2007-08, having each of his 30 rounds count for the Irish, including a sec­ond place finish in the Fightin' Irish Gridiron Golf Classic. Along with Sandman, Fortner was named to the all­Big East Conference team, with his fourth place finish at the Big East tournament. 
Poised for an outstanding senior season, Sandman tweaked an old injury and needed season-ending sur­gery, forcing him to watch as the Irish had a somewhat dis­appointing season which was capped off by a fourth place finish at the Big East tourna­ment. 
With the absence of Sandman, Fortner took over as the top player for the Irish. With two top-five finishes and a team-best scoring average of 74.24, Fortner was named to his second-straight all-Big East Conference team, which was decided for the first time by a coaches vote rather than by the leader board at the Big East tournament. 
"!Fortner! has great, great talent to work with," Kubinski said. "[He] is primed for a big year." 
Sandman made the decision to return for a fifth year, and enters the 2009-10 season as the school's career leader in stroke average. He looks to add to his eight top-1 0 finish­es and eight team-leading fin­ishes, the most in school his­tory. 
Fortner also looks to have another outstanding year, and will compete with Sandman for the top spot on the Irish roster while attempting to add to his five career top-five finishes. 
"We are looking forward to a great season this year. We expect to compete at a much higher level and are eager to get started," Kubinski said. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

MLB 
Greinke fans Royals' record 15 in 6-2 vvin 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Zack Greinke struck out a team­record 15 in eight overpower­ing innings and got some rare offensive support, helping the Kansas City Hoyals end a five­game losing streak with a 6-2 win over the Cleveland Indians on Tuesday night. 
Greinke (12-8) passed his career high with 12 strikeouts in the first six innings, then broke Mark Gubicza's 21­year-old team record of 14 by getting Andy Marte in the sev­enth. 
Mike Jacobs drove in two runs and Miguel Olivo hit his career-high 17th homer off Justin Masterson (4-5), giving Greinke more run support than he had in. the previous two games combined. Mitch Maier added to it in the sev­enth inning with his first homer in 302 career at-bats, a two-run shot that put the Royals up 6-1. 
As usual, Greinke was unpredictable, nearly unhit­table at times, blowing high­90s fastballs past hitters, wob­bling their knees with curve­balls up to 30 mph slower. 
The right-hander struck out Shin-Soo Choo in the first inning to surpass his career high of 183 in a season and had this exchange with Matt LaPorta in the third: slow curveball, slower curveball, slider in the dirt -no chance. Greinke kept the mower rolling in the fifth inning by striking out the side in 12 
pitches  - two balls  - includ­ 
ing LaPorta again  on  a  dirt­ 
diving slider.  

Greinke did make a mistake to start off the sixth: a belt­high fastball that Marte hit out for his first homer of the season. He also gave up a run­scoring double to Asdrubal Cabrera in the eighth that cut Kansas City's lead to 6-2. 
Greinke didn't come out for the ninth, replaced by Hobinson Tejeda after allow­ing two runs and five hits on a 117-pitch night that pushed his strikeout total to 197. 
The Royals made sure, for once, not to waste his effort. 
Greinke entered the game with the unfortunate distinc­tion of having the AL's lowest EHA and lowest run support. Eight times in his 25 starts this season the Royals failed to score more than two runs, including four shutouts, eras­ing any hopes of a 20-win sea­son. 
The Hoyals didn't waste any time helping out their ace this time, scoring a run in the first on Jacobs' single. Kansas City added two more in the third on a fielder's choice by Billy Butler and another RBI single by Jacobs to go up 3-0. 

41&• 




page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, August 26, 2009 
an excellent leap to deny the led by senior Haley Ford and goal. junior Julie Scheidler
Offense 
In the 68th minute, stymied the Badger offense continued from page 24 Augustin played a corner all night allowing just eight 
kick onto the head of junior total shots. ed with how we came out in midfielder Lauren Fowlkes' Scheidler even looked to the first half, but we looked who tucked it into the side have gotten an assist in the much better after halftime," netting to put an end to the early going before the Irish coach Randy Waldrum Badgers' chances. Wisconsin goalkeeper turned told UND.com. "You've got to "In the second half, we away junior midfielder give Wisconsin credit, they came out with a different Taylor Knaack's redirection battled hard and their keeper mindset and I think it from just outside the six-yard made some really good saves showed with how quickly we box. in the first half to keep them got those first two goals," In their first game since the in the game." Waldrum said. "Once we got departure of four-time All­
Before the Badgers could on the board, we looked American and two-time catch their breath, junior more composed and sharper Hermann Trophy winner midfielder Rose Augustin fol­with the ball, and our back Kerri Hanks, the Irish did not lowed up with a laser shot four really played well in the skip a beat on offense. Led just out of the reach of the second half." by Henderson, Notre Dame keeper to give the Irish a Lysander turned away the fired off 20 shots and kept commanding two-goal lead. only shot on net from the Wisconsin back on its heels 
However, Wisconsin wasn't Badgers in 72 minutes of for most of the contest. ready to rollover just yet. In play before junior Nikki The Irish will return to the 62nd minute, Badger for­Weiss came in to preserve action Friday when they take ward Erin Jacobsen received the Irish shutout. on Loyola-Chicago at Alumni a pass just short of the The Notre Dame netmin­field. Kickoff is scheduled for penalty area and sent a shot ders have a gritty defensive 7:30p.m. flying towards the upper left squad to thank for the rela­corner before Irish senior tively uneventful evening. Contact Alex Barker at goalie Kelsey Lysander made The Irish's veteran defense abar·ker I @nd.edu 
"Duffy has '"a tremendous season that she did not have competitive spirit," Crabbe last year."
Belles 
said. "She has spent many The Belles will look to extra hours on her own in these two to lead the incom­
continued from page 24 
order to get better at her ing freshman class and get came out strong starting 13 position. Having a full season the team back in contention games for the Belles while in 2008 and the number of for the MIAA title. also appearing in two more, minutes she played should recording 81 saves for the translate into an advantage Contact Katelyn Grabarek at Belles. for her coming into the 2009 kgrabaO I @saintmarys.edu 
MLB 
Tulowitzki gives Rockies 5-4 win 
pre-game practice. "One of the reasons I'm so
Tausch 
excited to get going is continued from page 24 because they're all pulling for each other," he said. 
There will be no more com­In fact, Weis will run the petition during practice, Weis team through a pre-game said, so the kick coverage style week of practice leading team can get used up to to the correct tim-Saturday so ing. the team
"Brian Smith is the 
According to Weis, gets used 
guy who gives us the
freshman line­to the tim­backer Manti Te'o is flexibility to move ing of the ready to play, and week.
people around" 
will see time at the "We're weak side line­treating backer position. He Charlie Weis this week said the linebackers Irish coach like we could see some were play-shuffling, thanks to ing a game junior Brian Smith, but that on Saturday," he said. sophomore Darius Fleming is The team had Monday off, the starting strongside line­then practiced Tuesday. They backer. will practice today and 
"Brian Smith is the guy who Thursday before a pre-game gives us the flexibility to move practice Friday. Saturday, people around," Weis said. they will simulate a real game "He's easily the most flexible, by going through the pre­interchangeable game rituals at of all our line­the same time backers." as usual.
"If there was a little 
Sen.ior punter Weis also
heart monitor set on
Erie Maust has said the cap­earned a schol­me you would have tains, junior arship, Weis seen my heart rate go quarterback said, as well as J i m m y
through the roof" 
the starting job. Clausen, sen­
"It's literally ior safety Kyle the fruit of the Eric Maust McCarthy, sen­labor you've Irish senior ior offensive been putting in lineman Eric not just this sea-Olsen and sen­son but all the seasons ior linebacker Scott Smith, before," Maust said. were doing a good job of han­
"If there was a little heart dling issues and being proac­monitor set on me you would tive. Olsen will play center have seen my heart rate go this year, allowing Chris through the roof," Maust said Stewart and Trevor Robinson of the moment Weis told him. to fill the guard slots. Fifth­
Weis said sophomore quar­year senior Paul Duncan will terback Dayne Crist will pre­play left tackle, and senior pare for each week as though Sam Young will start at right he were the starting quarter­tackle. back to avoid falling into a Weis said junior Matt comfort zone. The coaching Romine has played well in staff will take time with Crist practice and added about 25 to go over the game plan and pounds to his frame. He will film. be the first player to fill in on 
Fifth-year senior quarter­the outside. Senior center Dan back Evan Sharpley has cho­Wenger, who started last sea­sen to run the look team for son, will be the first off the some portions of practice, bench to play inside. Weis said. 
The close-knit nature of the Contact Bill Brink at team has Weis eager to start wbrink@nd.edu 
SALON ROUGE 
www.salonrougeinc.com 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Troy Tulowitzki lined a fastball into center field off James McDonald with one out and the bases loaded in the 1Oth to give the Colorado Rockies a wild, 5-4 win over the Los Angeles Dodgers in the opener of a crucial three-game series Tuesday night. 
Matt Berges (1-0) picked up with win with a perfect 10th as the Rockies, who trailed the Dodgers by 15 1/2 games on June, 3 sliced L.A.'s lead in the NL West to just two games. 
Colorado (72-54), the NL wild-card leader, moved 18 games over .500 for the first time in their history, besting the 90-7 3 mark they had after beating San Diego in the one-game playoff on their way to the 2007 NL pennant. 
McDonald (3-3) walked Ian Stewart leading off the 10th before Carlos Gonzalez, who score Rafael Furcal from third, tying it at 4. 
Loney then reached on a two-base error by third base­man Stewart and the Rockies intentionally walked Casey Blake to load the bases before Russell Martin flied out to center. 
Brad Hawpe and Clint Barmes homered for the Rockies, who got a solid seven innings from Jason Hammel (two earned runs on eight hits) in outdueling Clayton Kershaw, who allowed two runs on four hits in 6 1/3 innings. 
Blake hit a solo shot in the fourth for Los Angeles, his 16th homer giving the Dodgers an early 2-0 lead. Hawpe tied it with a two-run homer, his 18th, in the bot­tom of the inning. 
Barmes' 20th homer came off Ronald Belisario in the seventh, and the Rockies added a run in the eighth on Tulowitzki's RBI double off thrown out trying to steal second moments later. 
Before the game, Dodgers manager Joe Torre said he was worried about Ramirez, his slumping slugger who went 2 for 4 and came up big in the ninth. 
First baseman James Loney returned to the lineup after missing two games with the flu. 
can't swing the bat because Hong-Chih Kuo. Helton was Salon Rouge would like to welcome you back to the of a deep cut in his right thrown out at the plate trying 
Notre Dame campus. We've missed you! As a student 
hand, bunted his way aboard. to score on the play. First baseman James Loney's Coming off a dramatic 14-you receive a 15% discount on hair services Monday error on the play allowed inning win over San 
through Wednesday with your student 10. Or, check
Stewart to go to third. Francisco on Monday night, After Gonzalez took second the Rockies arrived at Coors out our apprentice program. All cuts are $10.00 with base on defensive indiffer­Field a little blurry-eyed to an apprentice stylist and color is 1/2 price! Call to 
ence, Omar Quintanilla face the well-rested Dodgers, 
schedule your appointment today.
struck out and Todd Helton who had Monday off. was intentionally walked to The Rockies also had two 
Clo5e to Campu5 Manicures & f edicure5 
load the bases and bring up new teammates, outfielders 
Specializing in Color & Cub
Tulowitzki. He lined the first Eric Young Jr. and Matt pitch he saw into center, giv­Murton, who were sum­ing Colorado it second moned from Triple-A straight extra-inning win. Colorado Springs because of Visit our new second location! 
With NL saves co-leader injuries to Dexter Fowler Huston Street unavailable, (knee) and Carlos Gonzalez SR. 2;@ Ironwood the Rockies sent Rafael (hand). i ormerly Atria 2 Betancourt to the mound in Young got his first major the ninth to preserve a 4-2 league hit in the sixth when 
57+-258-5080 57+-271-8804­
lead. But he allowed a sacri­he singled to left, to the 
62.0 W. E.di5on Rd. 202.7 South 5end Ave.
fice fly to Matt Kemp before delight of his father, who was Manny Ramirez sliced a two­sitting in the press box after St. Andrew'5 flaza Martin's flaza out, 0-2 pitch from rookie catching a last-minute flight 
•J 5% discount not valid with apprentice program
Matt Daley into right field to to Denver. But his son was 
Wednesday, August 26, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HoRoscoPE EUGENIA LAST 
67 More sick, in dialect 68 Bibliophile's suffix 69 Archie or Veronica 70 Winter Palace figures 71 Canine order 
Down 1 Jewish leader? 2 Roger who 
played the same role seven times 3 Paramount 4 " the races!" 5 Disney World transport 6 Cartoonist Chast 7 Nitrous 8 Steering system component 9 Composed 1 0 1950s political in its. 11 Sound system staples 12 Indigenous Canadian 13 Title before 
Sidious or Maul 18_-wip 22 Steve Martin's 
birthplace 
25 Cherokee, for one 
26 Certain finish 28 Bouncers check them, briefly 30 Cheer for a matador 
31 Candy hold~r 
32 Disappear 
33 Meat-and­ootatoes 

Puzzle by Patrick Blindauer 
34 Three-time  46 Like the 28­ 55 Some apples  
Keanu Reeves character 36 "Arabian Nights" bird 37 Uganda's _ A min 40 By  Down of underage drinkers 48 Gets 100 on a test 49 Learned things 51 Pass  56 W.W. II menace 57_College, north of Albany, N.Y. 58 Lamb piece 61 Loan figs.  
41 Wedding reception hirees 44 Neighbor of  52 Half of Brangelina 53_ Gay (W.W.  63 Committee member, maybe: Abbr.  
Slough  II bomber)  65 Word in a price  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for younq solvers: nytimes.com/learninq/xwords. 
CELEBRfl'lES BOR.'i ON THIS DAY: Jeff Tweedy. 42; Blair tTnda-wood. 45; Billy Ray Cyms, 48, Tim Burton.. 51 
Happ)· Birthday: You should be plannin!! to put a lot of your past !d~as and plans into play now. I!'s <Kiion that will kat! to victory Clwti!<-'S in your clllTCnt part.nct>h1ps and tdation­ships can he cXfli'."ted. lf wmeone doesn't liw up to your expeetations. it's time to mow on at!d to align yourself»,-ith someone who does. Ymu uumbers; are:!. 7.20, 23.29, 33•. W 
ARfK'> (Mnrcii21-Aprill9): CblttK'<-'S m good tbat you are not h<'in,g 11-iveu tire intorma liOil you reqmrc to mm a pmp<T dcnsion. Dou't get angry hm be (JCm~cnt atKI <t~k peru ru::n! questions. Yon need to kno\\' what's best li1r ew.ryotle. * ** 
TAllRlJS tAprii20-May 201: !)on' be fooled by an ll<'tjllaiutau<-, a'<l'l~ tor hdp. hx·us on your home. family and relauonships. A la\'O!'abl<' romantic OC<.'UI'I\"tK'e "·ill lead to a better sitlmlion.*** 
GEl\UNI tMay 21-.lwle 20.1: 'l"onr san-y approach to every1bing you do will he proof enough llmf you know how to illmdk otlrers and act"ompb•h your ~oak An cniDttomd mattt.'T that arises between yoo and a <:<>liCa!!Ue must be kept under c<>ntrol and not made publi<'. if possihk. *** 
CANCER t}UIIl' 2J·Jnly 22J: Yott can make adifference to the l'eople atOlQld you ifyou offer help and sug.)le<~tious. Achan)\e re~anlin~ yout work will lead to a he;thhier and hawier sitrullion.As.'\ess }~mrpa<t rodi!>l'OVet wb:tr you wam :md ru.-ctl in y<mt life. ***** 
LEO (July 2.\-Aug. l2l: Titink before you nmk~ altendions thatnri!!ht upsct SOI!Il'OUC you love. Find om wbat everyone around you wants before yonlllllk(' a decision that c:an dtan!'e the schedules of tlwse youlm'e. A partnerslup may he on shal1· 1/IUUnd. ** 
\'UWO IAug. 2.'\·Scpt. 22): the ymu· ex~>ricnce and your ability to find our dre truth ahm11 what is ~cllmlly happening wi!lun a legal or hnaudal deal tbat may influcnn~ yon fnntre. Y011r rhomughne<-s will pay off **** 
UBRA (Scpl. 2.'\.0cl. 221: Don't 5lop suol't of wbat'$ re{tU.iretl of }~ltl iu <'nkr to advan<.:e. You haw e•'l.'fYtlllng ah!ffil!d for adva.K.-<11~111. Wilh an umtsual twi,t to the "'3Y you :1« aud do tbin~s. yon should he well on your way to stardom. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 2.1--Nov. 21 ): Let y<~lr emotion• lead the way and ycm will ontslune auyone who tries to outdo you. You c~u make some very oriJtinal changes to your etliTC!lt plans at!d surpriSI.' txCI}'Oile with your J!"ttius. Love i~ iulhc 5tat>. *** 
SAOri*I:ARIUS (Nol'. 2Z·lk~. 2U: Hmne. l<lmily a.nd the assets you b~•<e acnnnulaied must be pr•:lt~·te<l. Acb..'lll!C al home may come as a wrpnse hut, as lou~t as you have your side olthiu~' <.:oV«ed, yott will not sulfer the C<ltl<>e'IIIC'ltces of a past poor ckciSIOI!. *** 
CAPRICORN (Jl«. 22·Jllll. 19); Tie up wn~t: of the details tltat MC boldml( back a pro_~1 or plan you have been trying to get off tile grouud Tia"TC is an mterestiu!! opportunity to nnx a link-busiru:sswithpka~nn:. Take yourtin~m•d fmdout when: it all could kad. **** 
AQPARn.JS t.Jan. 20-F~b. 18): Do not deviate h-om your plans bct·auS<: SOIIK.'OIIC is causinp. yon grie[ 'lllis is no! the time to gtw in to temptati(>ll or !!,N involved wttb sotneone who isn't the l1c>t role modeL You mve it to yonr friends and fiunily to avoid pa~tnu>takcs. ** 
PISCES Wtb. 19-Mar<:b 201: Alterations to your home or living arrllllgcmcnts w·ill benefit yo11 iu the lou!! nm. You have to look at tllt' <>vcr.<llpu::hm: au.t stmcltm: your 'h:is.ion> to...,. commndat~ yom plm.as for the. futtu't". AIJ<tssiottalc cucnllnlcr will lead to a beti<T uudcrstaml 
ing. ***** 
Birlhda}' BabJ·: Yon are intense. disciplined, determined and always lookin~ for a way t<) hdp others You always slay tnli: to your own beliefs. 
Across It's found in chambers 5 Moves quickly 
10 It was dropped in the '60s 14 Just watch TV, 
say 15 Historic San Francisco theater, with "the" 16 Dame_ Everage (Barry Humphries character) 17 Olympic boxing gold medalist of 1964 19 It may be down 
at the heel 20 For the nonce 21 Was in a no-win situation? 
23 Under the table 
24 King in "Jesus Christ Superstar" 25 Hero of Super Bowl Ill 27 Run out of gas, say 29 Tooth trouble 
30 47th U.S. vice president 35 Cheri of "Scary Movie" 38 Abrasive soap brand 39 While away, as time 42 Trampled (on) 43 Wipe 45 Oscar winner of 1990 47 Pockets of dough? 50 Light hair color 
51 Singer on day three of 1969's Woodstock 
54 Handy 
59 Scand. land 
60 "No, mein Herr" 
61 Egyptian god with the head of a jackal 62 "'Tis a pity" 
64 School cafeteria fare ... and a hint to this puzzle's theme 
66 Commend, as for outstanding service 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
YE~EK 
I J I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
I I [tCUTtE 
] [J II 
HINSIF 
I I I 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHAT SHE Or:c.!OEO WHEN THE !?it: DOCTOR ASKE:O HER OUT. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: TO [
" I I J" ( J J J 
saturday's  I  Jumbles:  PROBE  BUXOM  (Answers tomorrow) RACIAL BROOCH  
Answer:  What lhe weaver left in his estate  - 
AN "HEIR~ LOOM  

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

..------------------~­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, August 26, 2009 
page 24 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Impressive Irish take out No. 9 Northwestern 1-0 in opener 
Freshman kicker Nick Tausch warms up at practice last friday. Irish coach Charlie Weis recently announced Tausch had won the starting job over incumbent junior Brandon Walker. 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
By JARED ]EDICK Sports Writer 
The Irish capped off an unde­feated exhibition season with a 1­0 win over No. 9 Northwestern on Monday, propelling Notre Dame into the regular season on a win­ning note. 
The Irish, No. 12 in the NSCAA National Rankings defeated Northern Illinois twice in a day­night double-header the week before, 2-1 and 3-0. 
Sparking the Irish against Northwestern was a goal from junior forward Steven Perry with 
22:06 left in the first half. Junior 
fOOTBALL 
Youth movement 
Freshman kicker wins starting spot in opener 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
The Irish have a lot of tal­ented freshmen on this year's team -as proof. a freshman kicker who has cemented a starting spot. 
Nick Tausch will be the field goal kicker and kickoff man, Irish coach Charlie Weis said Monday. He replaces junior Brandon Walker. 
Weis said he tracked every competitive kick during train­ing camp and that Tausch won "rather significantly." He also said Tausch's kicks hang high, meaning they are tough to block on field goals and give the kick coverage ample time to get down the field on kickoffs. 
see TAUSCH/page 22 
SMC SoccER 
Ronayne, Duffy give Belles senior leaders 
By KATELYN GRABAREK Sports Writer 
Senior Bridget Ronayne will lead a large group of return­ing starters for the Belles this season as they look to improve on last season's 2-13­1 record that saw them finish with a 1-8 record in the MIAA. 
"Bridget is a very mature player on the field," head coach Ryan Crabbe said. "She is a good leader and her teammates respect her. Her success playing in the back for us comes from her ability to read the game and make good decisions under pres­sure. She is very good at min­imizing mistakes which is key as a defender." 
The defense that Ronayne has been such an integral 
midfielder Josh Thiermann set up Perry beyond the Northwestern defense and Perry chipped the ball over Northwestern goalkeeper Drew Kotler and into the netting. 
"It was a great goal for Steven Perry," Irish head coach Bobby Clark said. "I thought he looked very spritely in the first half along with Josh Thiermann." 
The goal came eight minutes after senior forward Tamba Samba missed a low shot from beyond the box that ricocheted off the left post. 
The Irish controlled possession early in both halves, but began to slack off in the later moments. 
"I felt we were very good at the first two-thirds of eaeh half," Clark said. "But the final third of each half I felt whichever group we had in got tired. " The Irish eontinued to apply pres­sure in the second half. missing another good scoring opportunity when senior forward Bright Dike's shot went wide after a string of passes from junior midf'ielder Greg Klazura and freshman mid­fielder Dillon Powers. 
The Irish fired 13 shots at the Northwestern goal to the Wildcats' eight, but Notre Dame lost the cor­ner kick battle 2-1. "We had some terrific stuff at times," Clark said. "When we playnd simply and we all just eon-
Henderson leads offense 
nected I was very happy. We have the potential to be a good group." 
On the previous Thursday, the Irish managed a double-header sweep against Northern Illinois in a series of matches meant to gain experience for the players. The first match, which the Irish won 2-1, showcased the younger players on the team, while the later 3-0 victory featured Notre Dame's more seasoned veterans. 
"It was great to have nearly everyone on the roster play at least a half today," Clark said. "You want everyone to get time on the field and we were able to do that. It was especially nice to get a look at the freshmen." 

part of has only allowed one goal or fewer in 24 games in her three previous seasons. 
In 2007 Ronayne started every game for the Belles, recording five points for the Belles in those games while captaining the team to a 7-5 (3-3-2) record that season. 
In 2008 Ronayne started 16 games, scoring three goals, and again captaining the team in Crabbe's first season. 
Fellow senior Patty Duffy will look to help Ronayne on defense for the Belles in her second full season as the goalkeeper. 
Duffy only appeared in one game for the Belles in 2007 playing 76 minutes, while also making five saves for the Belles. 
However, in 2008, Duffy 
see BELLES/page 22 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 
After an outstanding freshman campaign that helped the Irish advance to the national championship game, sophomore forward Melissa Henderson is wast­ing no time picking up right where she left off. 
After a disappointing first half plagued in part by wet eonditions, Henderson netted the team's first goal of the sea­son shortly into the second half of a 3-0 vietory over Wisconsin last friday at Alumni Field. The goal gives the reigning Big East Hookie of the Year a 1·emarkable 18 career goals in her first 28 colle­giate games. 
"I was a little disappoint-
see OFFENSE/page 22 
In the latter match, the Irish were led by two goals from Dike and one from senior midfielder Michael Thomas. The Irish domi­nated most of the time of posses­sion. 
"We really controlled possession in the second game," Clark said. ''I'd say we controlled the ball 70 percent ofthe time." 
The ball control allowed the Irish to dominate every phase of the game. 
Notre Dame will open the regu­lar at home against Michigan on Tuesday, Sept. 1. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
MEN'S GOLF 
Veteran duo leads deep team 
By ERIC PRISTER Sports Writer 
Irish coach Jim Kubinski needs to make a decision that any coach would love to make -who is the top golfer on the Irish squad? Senior Doug Fortner and fifth-year senior Josh Sandman both enter the 2009-10 season looking to be the No. 1 on an Irish team who looks to be much improved this season. 
"Given the experienee [Fortner] gained last season playing No. 1 in our lineup and with the return of [Sandman] as a fifth-year sen­ior, I feel we'll have two No. 1 
see VETERANS/page 21 
I Sophomore forward Melissa Henderson receives a pass in a 5-0 win over Cincinnati on Nov. 8 at Alumni Field. 
A FALL 2009 SPECIAL OBSERVER INSERT 


INSIDE~ 

Local Service Opportunities 
The Center for Social Concerns has partnerships with over 60 local social service and advocacy organizations. Numerous opportunities exist to contribute your time and talents. 

Student Service and Social Action Groups 
Over 50 student groups on campus have a service and social action focus. They offer numerous opportunities for advocacy, education, and local community involvement. 

Community-Based Learning Opportunities 
The Centerworks with departments at Notre · Dame to offer courses and research opportunities in the local community. Many ofthese are facilitated by Community-Based Learning Coordinators (CBLCs). 
··"'". 

Taking education beyond the walls ofthe classroom 

.... A Notre Dame student tutors at the South Bend Juvenile Correction Facility. 
The Center for Social Concerns invites you to pushthe boundaries ofyour classroom into the neighborhoods ofSouth Bend and beyond. Come and enter the lives ofthose who live and study and work there. Indeed, consider the ways thatyou might begin to be a part ofthe world's transformation. 
Through the years, thousands ofstudents have taken part in the numerous opportunities offered through!he Center for Social Concerns and our many partners. Each student has made an impor­tant difference. 
Often this service involvement, andthe learningthat comes through it, transforms you. In turn, this transformation allows each ofyou to be impressive agents oftransformation inothers' lives. This is seen during and long after your time at University ofNotre Dame, Saint Mary's College, and Holy Cross College. 
Jesus called love the greatest ofall commandments-to loye the Lord God with all our hearts and to love our neighbor as our­selves (Mark 12: 28-31). It is not easy but it remains no less our chal­lenge and call. It is the foundation on which we will build the justice we seek and the peace we long for. 
Be a part ofthe transformation to which we are called. Give yourselfaway. One or more ofthe opportunities on these pages could quite po~sibly change you forever. 
God Bless, 

Fr. Bill Lies, C.S.C. Executive Director 
ADDICTIONS 
· ........,.. ,, .. 
Life Treatment Centers 
ADULT LITERACY 
Adult Education at St. Adalbert 
and Casimir Parishes Forever Learning Institute *Literacy Awareness ND (LAND) Literacy Council of St. Joseph County, Inc. South Bend Community School 
Corporation Adult Education 
ADULT-OLDER 
Milton Adult Day Services Real Services, Inc. Sisters of the Holy Cross 
CHILDREN &YOUTH 
Ark Angels, Inc. *Bandlink Big Brothers and Big Sisters 
of St. Joseph County *Big Brothers and Big Sisters Club Boys and Girls Club of St. Joseph County CASA Program of St. Joseph County 
•camp 
Kesem 

•campus 
Girl Scouts *Children's Defense Fund *Circle K *College Mentors for Kids 

• 
Darners Mentoring Kids El Campito, Inc. Freedom 22 Foundation *Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids LaSalle Council, Boys Scouts of America *LEAD-NO *Ms. Wizard Day Program Team *Neighborhood Study Help Program (NSHP) Notre Dame Upward Bound *Operation Smile Student Organization (OSSO) *Pentathlon Coaches of Notre Dame (PCND) Robinson Community Learning Center *Slice of Life ND South Bend Community School Corporation 


Partner Up/Read to a Child South Bend Juvenile Correctional Facility Take Ten *Teamwork for Tomorrow Youth Service Bureau of St. Joseph County, Inc. 
CRIMINAL JUSTICE 
Dismas House of South Bend *Human Rights ND (HRND) Indiana Legal Services, Inc. (ILS) 
CULTIJRAL ISSUES 
Broadway Christian Parish UMC 
*Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics (CASH) 
*Friends of the Orphans 
*Gulf Coast Action League (GCAL) 
*Inspire 
La Casa de Amistad, Inc. 
South Bend Community School Corporation Bilingual Services 
*Taking Education Abroad (T.E.A. at ND) *Timmy Foundation 
DISABILITY SERVICES 
*Best Buddies 
Camp Millhouse 
Chiara Home, Inc. 
Children's Dispensary, Inc. 
Corvilla, Inc. 
LOGAN Community Resources 
•Logan Recreation Club *Perspectives Reins of Life, Inc. Sunshine Clubhouse *Special Friends Club *Super Sibs 
DIVERSITY 
*Sustained Dialogue 
•"<f1 
.,.,_.v: 
ENVIRONMENT 
*ND for Animals *Proponents of Animal Welfare Services (PAWS) 
•students for Environmental Action (SEA) 
HOUSING/HOMELESSNESS 
Catholic Worker House Center for the Homeless *Habitat for Humanity Hope Ministries Our Lady of the Road St. Margaret's House St. Vincent de Paul Society of · 
St. Joseph County, Inc. The Salvation Army 
HUNGER CONCERNS 
Catholic Charities Foodbank of Northern Indiana *Foodshare *World Hunger Coalition 
MEDICAL 
AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist American Cancer Society 
•
American Cancer Society Club American Red Cross of St. Joseph County 

•
American Red Cross Club Center for Hospice and Palliative Care. Inc. *First Aid Services Team (FASD *GiobeMed (GMND) Harbor Light Hospice Healthwin Specialized Care *Helpful Undergraduate Students (HUGS) *Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids Memorial Hospital *National Alliance on Mental lllness (NAMI-ND) Ronald McDonald Houses Charities SaintJoseph Regional Medical Center (SJRMC) SaintJoseph Regional Medical 


Center (SJRMC) Outreach *Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center 
(SJRMC) Outreach Volunteers *Social Justice in American Medicine (SJAM) Women's Care Center 
MULTI-SERVICE GROUPS 
*Arnold Air Society (AAS) · 
• Daughters of Isabella *Experiential Learning Council *Knights of Columbus, Council No. 1447 Near Northwest Neighborhood, Inc. South Bend Community School Corporation 
Bilingual Services Stone Soup Community *Trident Naval Society United Religious Community of St. Joseph County 
PEACE AND JUSTICE ISSUES 
*Africa Faith and Justice Network Little Flower Catholic Church *ND-8: Millennium Development Student Group *Peace Fellowship *Progressive Student Alliance 
WOMEN'S CONCERNS 
*Feminist Voice Hannah's House Home Management Resources *Right to Life S-0-S of Madison Center YWCA of St. Joseph County 
KEY
Local Service 
IJ Federal yvork Study site 
Q,,1 1 lr) On Bus Route
OppOrtUnities 
Preferred method of contact is bold. 
ADULT EDUCATION AT ST. ADALBERT AND ST. CASIMIR PARISHES 
Focus: To provide courses to both educate and empower immigrants in South Bend. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Student VOlUnteers have served as English teachers, new language teachers, childcare providers, and office assistants. Students are welcome to develop additional courses in computers, financial literacy, social justice themes, etc., 
'for which assistance will be offered. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(S): Late afternoon, evening (M-F), morning (S-S) REQUIREMENTs: Car, 18+, background check, one year PLACEMENTS: Up tO 30 CONTACT: Jennifer Betz 
(574) 288-5708 jen.a.betz@gmall.com 
AIDS MINISTRIES/AIDS ASSIST 
Focus: Care coordination for persons living with HIV and community-based HIV testing SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Volunteers provide a range of supportive services to both clients and staff. Short and long term research, companionship, education, and office projects are available. DAYs: Weekdays TIME(S): Daytime PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 coNTACT: Debra M. Stanley 
(574) 288-2887 WuZuWuZu@aol.com www.aidsministries.org 
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY 
Focus: The American Cancer Society is dedicated to eliminating cancer by prevent­ing cancer, saving lives, and diminishing suffering from cancer through research, advocacy, education, and service. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Students can help plan the annual Relay for Life walk held on campus and/or can help with various office tasks throughout the year. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Daytime REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, one semester PLACEMENTS: Up to 15 coNTACT: Paul Szrom 
(574) 257:9789 paul.szrom@cancer.org www.cancer.org 
AMERICAN RED CROSS, ST. JOSEPH COUNTY CHAPTER 

Focus: To provide relief to victims of disaster and help people prevent, prepare for, and respond to emergencies SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Volunteer positions include giving disaster preparedness pre­sentations in schools and the community, working with refugee clients, instructing CPR/ First Aid classes, and working on vari­ous projects throughout the chapter. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Daytime REQUIREMENTS: Car, background check PLACEMENTS: Up to 15 coNTACT: Rebekah Go 
(574) 234-0191 rebekahgo@stjoe-redcross.org www.stjoe-redcross.org 
ARK ANGELS, INC. 
Focus: (LI.T.E.S.) Legacy Invested In TeachingTeen Excellence and Success SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Students serve as life coaches and an on-ramp for youth ad­venture into discovering natural inclinations and unknown strengths. Activities include project development, linking fun with learn­ing, and intervention. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Afternoon, late afternoon, evening (M-F), morning (S-S) REQUIREMENTS: Background check PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 coNTACT: Ron King 
(574) 904-1707 klngronnle@sbcglobal.net 
BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS OF ST. JOSEPH COUNlY 
Focus: One-to-one child mentoring for school-aged children in St. Joseph County SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Spend time With a child weekly to bi-monthly off-campus DAYs: Any TIME(S): Afternoon, late afternoon, evening (M-F) and (S-S) REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, background check, one year PLACEMENTS: 30+ coNTACT: Deborah Burrow 
(574) 232-9958 bbbsstjoe@sbcglobal.net bbbs-sjc.org 
BOYS AND GIRLS CLUB OF ST. JOSEPH COUNlY 

Focus: Provide youth development programs for school-aged youth in an afterschool environment SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Serve as mentors, group leaders, and coaches to the kids. Specialized service projects available in development office. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Afternoon, late afternoon, evening REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, background check PLACEMENTS: 30+ coNTACT: James Cramer 
(574) 232-2048 jcramer@bgcsjc.org www.bgcsjc.org 
BROADWAY CHRISTIAN PARICH UMC ~ 
Focus: We are a church that offers a ministry of peace1justice, and hospitality to those who often stand outside of social norms. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Students may WOrk in the food pantry, volunteer in our morning outreach programs, helps guests with com­puter skills, or use their vocational skills in the work of the church. DAYS: Any TIME(S); Morning (M-F) and (S-S) REQUIREMENTS: Car, Spanish-speaking skills, background check, flexibility PLACEMENTS: Up tO 5 coNTACT: Rev. Nancy Nichols 
(574) 289-0333 bcppastor@sbcglobal.net broadwayum@sbcglobal.net www.broadwayumcsb.org 
For more information visit: Socialconcerns.nd.edu 
CAMP MILLHOUSE 
Focus: To build self-esteem and indepen­dence and enrich the lives of persons with special needs through the unique outdoor activities and natural settings that Camp Millhouse provides SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Student VOlUnteers can help work with campers during our weeks of summer camps. They can also help with mailings, yard work and other service projects. DAYS: Any 
• TIME(S): Morning, afternoon, late after­noon, evening (M-F) and (S-S) REQUIREMENTs: Car PLACEMENTS: Up to 30 coNTACT: Lea Anne Pitcher 
(574) 233-2202 campmlllhouse@aol.com www.campmillhouse.org 
CASA PROGRAM OF ST. JOSEPH COUNlY 
Focus: The focus of the CASA Program of St. Joseph County is to recruit, screen, train, supervise, and support volunteers who ad­vocate for abused and neglected children. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Volunteers are screened and trained by the CASA program, and are appointed by the court to advocate for children who come into the court sys­tem primarily as a result of alleged physical, sexual, emotional abuse and/or neglect. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME!Sl: Daytime REQUIREMENTS: US Citizen, 21+,back­ground check, 3 references, drug screening, 18 months PLACEMENTS: 30+ coNTACT: Brenda Matuszkiewicz 
(574) 235-5372 bmat@jjconllne.org www.sjccasa.org 

CATHOLIC CHARITIES 
Focus: Catholic Charities celebrates the spirit of Jesus and fosters personal dignity by serving the needs of our neighbors. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: AWide array Of opportunities are available, including as­sistance with the Food Pantry, the Immigra­tion department, Counseling, Adoption and Pregnancy, Senior Aides, and RSVP. Also: GED program, Citizenship and ESL classes, budgeting class, and business skills review. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: Car, Spanish-speaking skills, background check PLACEMENTS: Up to 15 CONTACT: JO Fisher . 
(574) 234-3111, Ext. 33 jflsher@ccfwsb.org www.ccfwsb.org 
CATHOLIC WORKER HOUSE 
Focus: We seek to practice the "works of mercy" by offering hospitality to folks on the streets of South Bend. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: We need help prepar­ing dinner, processing donated vegetables, cooking, and cleaning. DAYS: (M-S) TIME(S): Late afternoon, evening (M-SA), vegetable pick-up and processing 1:30-4:00 p.m. (TH) PLACEMENTS: Up tO 30 CONTACT: Margaret Pfeil 
(574) 631-9378 Mpfell1@nd.edu southbendcatholicworker.org 
CENTER FOR HOSPICE AND PALLIATIVE CARE, INC. 
Focus: To improve the quality of living for persons facing the end of their lives SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Assist Staff in Caring for up to seven patients in our Hospice House inpatient facility, i.e., personal care, transferring, preparing meals, answering call lights, and much more. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, US Citizen, background check, TB test, six nights of training, one year commitment, valid driver's license, current auto insurance, confidentiality, OSHA, health statement from physician showing proof of non-com­municable disease. PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 CONTACT: Jackie Boynton 
(574) 243-3100 boyntonj@centerforhosplce.org www.centerforhospice.org 
g RJ2SO 
CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS 
Focus: Our focus is on life-changing servic­es and programs for our 200+ guests (men, women, and children) to assist them as they work to break the cycle of homelessness. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Student VOlunteers assist in almost all programs and services we offer, including adult basic education, our work-place readiness program, front desk, and administrative assistance. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Morning, afternoon, late after­noon, evening (M-F) (S-S) REQUIREMENTS: One semester, able to commit to a regular weekly schedule. PLACEMENTS: 30+ coNTACT: Dr. Peter Lombardo 
(574) 282-8700, Ext. 344 plombardo@cfh.net www.cfh.net 
~S~CIAL 
~CONCERNS 
CHIARA HOME, INC. 
Focus: To provide out-of-home respite care for individuals with special needs SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Interact With OUr guests, cook meals, play games, and read DAYS: Any TIME(S): Afternoon, late afternoon (M-F), morning, afternoon, late afternoon (S-S) REQUIREMENTS: Car, one semester PLACEMENTS: Up tO 5 coNTACT: Brenda Emmerth 
(574) 287-5435 
chlarahome@att.net 
chiarahomerespite.org 
CHILDREN'S DISPENSARY, INC. 
Focus: To provide social educational and recreational-based programs for children with special needs SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Mentor Children With social and cognitive impairments and assist them in various educational and recreation activities DAYS: Any TIME(S): Morning, afternoon, late after­noon, evening (M-F) (S-S) REQUIREMENTS: Background check PLACEMENTS: 30+ coNTACT: April Kwiatkowski 
(574) 234-1169 
info@childrensdispensary.org 
www.childrensdispensary.org 
CORVILLA, INC. 
Focus: To provide homes and care for people with developmental disabilities SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Help With SOCial OUt­ings, parties, and organize several unique fundraising activities DAYS: Any TIME(S): Afternoon, late afternoon, evening (M-F), afternoon, late afternoon (S-S) PLACEMENTS: Up tO 30 coNTACT: Diana M. Dolde 
(574) 289-9779 
ddolde@corvilla.org 
www.corvilla.org 
DISMAS HOUSE OF SOUTH BEND ~~ ~ 
Focus: The mission of Dismas is to facilitate the reconciliation of former prisoners to society and society to former prisoners through development of a sup­portive community. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Students can select 
· from a wide range of activities: prepare an evening meal and dine with residents, be a GED or computer tutor, mentor a new resident, plan a group activity, help main­tain agency web site, prepare a brochure or newsletter, data entry, answer phones, etc. Other opportunities include residency at the house, service-learning through internships or class work and off-campus work study positions. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Morning, afternoon, late after­noon, evening REQUIREMENTS: 18+ PLACEMENTS: 30+ coNTACT: Maria Kaczmarek 
(574) 233-8522 
dlsmassouthbend@sbcglobal.net 
www.dismassouthbend.org 
BE THE 
CHANGE 
EL CAMPITO, INC. 
Focus: E! Campito, Inc. promotes the educational, social, and economic suc­cess of culturally diverse children and families byproviding quality programs and services to those most in need. ~ERVICE ACTIVITIES: Volunteers WOrk directly in the classrooms with children, reading, playing, and helping with special projects. Volunteers may also help with babysitting during parent meetings and with support activities such as garden­ing, spring and fall cleanup, painting, and office support. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTs: Background check, TB test, Spanish-speaking skills are a plus PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 coNTACT: Susan Enamorado 
(574) 232-1024 
elcampito@sbcglobal.net 
FOOD BANK OF NORTHERN INDIANA ~ 
Focus: To work in partnership with the community to feed the hungry, increase awareness of the effects of hunger. and to . lead programs to alleviate hunger SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Sorting food from food drives, packing orders, food pantry. Note that a food bank acquires, ware­houses, and distributes food to member agencies. A food pantry provides food di­rectly to those who are hungry at no cost. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Daytime REQUIREMENTS: 18+ PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 CONTACT: Lisa A. Jaworski 
(574) 232-9986 
ljaworskl@feedingameric:a.org 
www.feedindiana.org 
FOREVER LEARNING INSTITUTE 
Focus: Education of older adults SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Data entry, class assistants DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Morning, afternoon REQUIREMENTs: One semester PLACEMENTS: Up tO 5 coNTACT: Joan Loranger 
(574) 282-1901 
jmloranger@comcast.com 
www.foreverlearninginstitute.org 
FREEDOM 22 FOUNDATION 
Focus: To support families, connect vol­unteers, and build community in Michiana SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Coach middle SChool students in language arts competition DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Morning, afternoon PLACEMENTS: Up to 15 coNTACT: Barbara Asher 
(574) 532-6657 
barb@freedom22.org 
HANNAH'S HOUSE 
Focus: Christian Maternity home for unwed mothers SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Light administrative work, cleaning, yard work, light cooking, childcare, fund raising activities, fun night for girls, giving a baby shower, speaking on a pertinent topic, first Saturday in De­cember help is needed for a holiday event DAYs: Any TIME(S): Morning, afternoon, late after­noon, evening (M-F) (S-S) REQUIREMENTs: If student volunteers will work directly with clients, then a two hour training session is required. If volunteering for other positions, no training is needed. PLACEMENTS: 30+ coNTACT: Karen Delucenay 
(574) 254-5309 
karen@hannahshousemichiana.com www.hannahshousemichiana.com 
HARBOR LIGHT HOSPICE 
Focus: Harbor Light Hospice is a philoso­phy of care that assists patients, families and friends during the final stages of a terminal illness. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Volunteers can provide 1:1 visits to patients, help family members with household chores, or help in the Harbor Light Hospice office. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Morning, afternoon, late after­noon, evening (M-F) (S-S) REQUIREMENTS: TB test, one semester PLACEMENTS: 30+ CONTACT: Judy Com~no 
(800) 662-8889 
judy@hlhln.com 
www.harborlighthospice.com 
HEALTHWIN SPECIALIZED CARE 
Focus: To enhance the quality of lives of the geriatric, terminal, head injured, dementia, and Alzheimer populations SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Entertain and share life experiences with residents; teach a language; help with special events; transfer residents to Mass and Vespers; help with Bingo; teach an art class. We are adding a new program for Notre Dame students this year of adopting a grand­parent. The program requires visiting the adopted gran~ parent on a weekly basis for an hour. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Morning, afternoon, late after­noon, evening (M-W-F) morning, after­noon, late afternoon (TH) and (S-S) REQUIREMENTS: Completed application, TB test (done on-site, no cost to student) PLACEMENTS: 30+ coNTACT: Karen Martindale 
(574) 272-0100, Ext. 288 
kmartlndale@healthwln.org 
HOME MANAGEMENT RESOURCES ~ 
Focus: We help people to improve the quality of their personal and family lives through our Home Management Seminar and personal mentoring. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Students conduct six month and two year follow-up surveys with our graduates; marketing studies, business plans, home visits and bailouts with clients; visit local social service agen­cies and organizations; create spread­sheet overviews of client data. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Daytime REQUIREMENTS: 18+, One semester PLACEMENTS: Up to 5 coNTACT: Gwenyth M. Delee 
(574) 233-3486 
info@hmresources.org 
www. h m resources. org 
HOPE MINISTRIES 
Focus: Hope Ministries supports men, women, and children who are homeless through a variety of Christ-centered pro­grams and services. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Student VOlUnteerS are needed to assist case managers with resident services, events planning, receptionist positions, and administrative assistance. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Daytime REQUIREMENTS: 18+, background check, one semester PLACEMENTs: Up to 15 coNTACT: Beth Morlock 
(574) 235-4150, Ext. 223 
bmorlock@hopesb.org 
www.hopesb.org 
INDIANA LEGAL SERVICES, INC. (ILS) ~ 
Focus: ILS is a poverty law clinic funded to help low-income people in civil cases. SE.RVICE ACTIVITIES: Conduct initial interviews with potential clients and sum­marize the case into written narratives for attorney review DAYs: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Morning, afternoon REQUIREMENTS: 18 +,one semester, excellent writing skills, good interpersonal skills, attention to detail, ability to maintain confidentiality PLACEMENTS: Up tO 5 CONTACT: Heather Mezosi 
(574) 234-8121 
heather.mezosi@ilsl.net 
www.indianajustice.org 
LA CASA DE AMISTAD, INC. 

Focus: We are a youth and community center that provides educational, cultural, and advocacy services. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: We offer after-school programming, GED, ESL, computer, and citizenship classes, and youth develop­ment programs. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Morning, late afternoon REQUIREMENTS: Car, one semester, Spanish-speaking skills PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 coi)ITAcT: Rebecca Ruvalcaba 
(574) 233-2120 
beccaruval@yahoo.com 
www.lacasadeamistad.org 
LASALLE COUNCIL, BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA 
Focus: The focus of the LaSalle Council is to develop character, leadership, and physical and mental fitness in the young 
·men and women in our area. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: As a StUdent VOlUn­teer you will be teaching life skills to the students of the surrounding school districts. DAYs: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Morning, late afternoon REQUIREMENTS: Car, Spanish-speaking skills, 18+, background check, one semester PLACEMENTS: Up to 15 coNTACT: Arne Landsverk 
(574) 289-0337 
alandsverk@lasallecouncllbsa.org 
www.lasallecouncilbsa.org 
LIFE TREATMENT CENTERS, INC. It ~ 
Focus: To strengthen our community through impacting the lives of those men and women afflicted with drug, alcohol, or gambling addiction SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Front desk COOrdi­nator, residential housing aides, de­toxification, landscaping, special projects coordinator, treatment aide specialist DAYS: Any TIME(S): Morning, afternoon, late after­noon, evening (M-F) (S-S) REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, US Citizen,. background check, one semester PLACEMENTS: Up to 15 CONTACT: Julia Shapiro-Newbill 
(574) 233-5433, Ext. 235 
julias@lifetreatmentcenters.org 
www.lifetreatmentcenters.org 
For more information visit: SOCialconcerns.nd.edu 
LITERACY COUNCIL OF ST. JOSEPH COUNlY, INC. 
Focus: We seek to change lives through literacy, one-on-one adult tutoring and early childhood literacy programs. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Volunteer tutorS Or intake and progress assessors for the one­on-one adult tutoring program; program assistants and child care providers for the early literacy program (birth-six years) DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, background check, tutor commitment is minimum of six months PLACEMENTS: Up tO 5 coNTACT: Paula Lambo 
(574) 235-6229 
director@stjoereads.org 
www.stjoereads.org 
LITTLE FLOWER CATHOLIC CHURCH 
Focus: Little Flower Catholic Church is the closest parish to campus. We pledge to seek and promote justice, peace, and equality by continually relating the Gospel message to social concerns. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Notre Dame StU­dents assist the parish in the food pantry and with the children's junior high and high school programs. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Afternoon, late afternoon, evening (M-F) morning (S-S) REQUIREMENTS: Car PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 . coNTACT: Craig Phillips 
(574) 292-2133 
craigmphillips@comcast.net 
www.littleflowerchurch.org 
LOGAN COMMUNITY RESOURCES 
Focus: LOGAN is committed to support­ing people with disabilities in achieving their desired quality of life. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Person Directed Planning is the philosophy guiding LOGAN Services. We offer a range of services to meet the needs and interests of individuals. DAYS: Any TIME!Sl: Morning, afternoon, late afternoon, evening (M-F) afternoon, evenihg (S-S) REQUIREMENTS: Car PLACEMENTS: 30+ coNTACT: Ann Lagomarcino 
(574) 289-4831 
annl@logancenter.org 
www.logancenter.org 
MEMORIAL HOSPITAL 
Focus: Our mantra is to provide an ex­ceptional experience for every patient. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: College Students es­COrt and transport patients. Students can also work with children in our Pediatric department, under the guidance of Child Life therapists. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Morning, afternoon, late after­noon, evening (M-F) (S-S) REQUIREMENTS: 18+, TB test, one semes­ter, orientation session • PLACEMENTS: 30+ coNTACT: Colleen Sweeney 
(574) 647-2809 
csweeney@memorlalsb.org 
www.qualityoflife.org 
MILTON ADULT DAY SERVICES 
Focus: Milton is a therapeutic activities­based program that serves adults who need supervision during the day. Many participants have Alzheimer's disease or dementia. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Student volunteers assist with activities and work one-on-one with clients or small groups of elients for mental or physical exercises. Students are supervised by an activity"therapy coordi­nator and work alongside staff. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(S): Morning, afternoon, late afternoon (M-F) REQUIREMENTS: TB test, one semester PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 coNTACT: Sheila Varda 
(574) 232-2666 
sheila_varda@sbcglobal.net 
www.miltonADS.org 
NEAR NORTHWEST NEIGHBORHOOD, INC. 
Focus: The Near Northwest Neighborhood, Inc. is an organization of citizens dedicat­ed to the preservation and revitalization of the neighborhood. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: The NNN has a number of service opportunities to fit your interests from a one day project, on-going service or an internship. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(Sl: Morning, late afternoon REQUIREMENTS: Car, one semester PLACEMENTS: Up tO 5 coNTACT: Karen C. Ainsley 
(574) 232-9182 
nnndirector@sbcglobal.net 
www.nearnorthwest.org 
NOTRE DAME UPWARD BOUND 
Focus: A college preparatory program for low-income and first-generation students SERVICE ACTIVITrES: Student VOlunteers facilitate workshops and are tutors and mentors for high school students. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: 1§+, background Check, one year PLACEMENTS: Up to 15 coNTACT: Alyssia Coates 
(574) 631-5669 
acoates@nd.edu 
upwardbound.nd.edu 
OUR LADY OFTHE ROAD (An apostolate of the catholic worker community) ~ 
Focus: Practicing the "works of mercy;• with particular emphasis on offering breakfast, laundry, and shower facilities to folks on the streets of South Bend and seeking to re-build webs of relationship in the South Bend community across divi­sions of race, class, and gender SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Preparing and serving breakfast, washing dishes, doing laundry, and cleaning up the facility at closing time DAYS: Weekends (F-SU) TIME(SJ: Morning, 8:00-11:30 a.m. PLACEMENTS: Up to 15 CONTACT: Margaret Pfeil 
(574) 631-9378 
Mpfeil1@nd.edu 
southbendcatholicworker.org 
REAL SERVICES, INC. 
Focus: The ultimate objective of REAL Services is to assist in establishing a community in which the older adults we serve can maintain their independence to the maximum degree possible and find meaning and satisfaction throughout their lives. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Volunteers serve OUr clients in many different ways, includ­ing Meals on Wheels, yard work projects, painting, and friendly visiting. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Late afternoon, evening REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, 
background check PLACEMENTS: Up to 15 coNTACT: Dee Pasternak 
(574) 284-7150 
dpasternak@realservices.org 
www.realservices.org 
REINS OF LIFE, INC. 
Focus: Reins of Life provides equine as­sisted activities and therapies to children and adults with special needs. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: During the lessons, volunteers act as safety monitors! instruc­tors' aides and cheerleaders, and helping the riders perform their riding skills. Some volunteers help feed the horses. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Morning, afternoon, late after­noon, evening (M-F) morning (S-S) REQUIREMENTS: Car, one semester PLACEMENTS: 30+ coNTACT: Christine Flowers 
(574) 232-0853 
ourvolsrock@yahoo.com 
www.reinsoflife.org f 
ROBINSON COMMUNITY LEARNING CENTER 

Focus: The Robinson Community Learn­ing Center facilitates community and Notre Dame partners that strengthen the Northeast Neighborhood of South Bend through relationship building and educational opportunities. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: The Robinson Com­munity Learning Center provides~ one-on­one tutoring with Notre" Dame students for local children in the South Bend area; the violence prevention program Take Ten; and the Youth Justice Project which provides a community-based alternative to prosecu­tion of youth offenders. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(Sl: Afternoorr, late afternoon, evening REQUIREMENTS: Background check PLACEMENTS: 30+ coNTACT: Christy Burgess 
(574) 631-9430 
christyburgess@nd.edu 
rclc.nd.edu 
RONALD MCDONALD HOUSE CHARITIES 
Focus: Providing a "home away from home" for families with hospitalized children SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Currently looking for interns in a variety of fields, such as marketing, busines, and social services. Students are needed as volunteers in the Ronald McDonald Family Room for three hour shifts from 9:00 a.m.-9:00p.m. daily. DAYs: Any TIME(SJ: Morning, afternoon, late after­noon, evening (M-F) (S-S) REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+ background check, TB test, one semseter (internships); one school year (Family Room) PLACEMENTS: Up to 15 CONTACT: Shelley Lesni~wicz 
(574) 647-7868 
slesnlewlcz@rmhcmlchlana.org 
www.rmhcmichiana.org 
SAINT JOSEPH REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER (SJRMC) 
Focus: Full line acute care hospital SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Volunteer advocate in Emergency department (pre-med majors only); read to small children in waiting room of Family Clinic as part of Reach Out and Read program; other op­portunities in outpatient pediatric therapy and in the pharmacy. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: Car, background check, TB test, one semester PLACEMENTS: 30+ coNTACT: Denise Berscheit, CAVS 
(574) 237-7242 
bersched@sjrmc.com 
sjmed.com 
SAINT JOSEPH REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER (SJRMC) OUTREACH 
Focus: Health care for the underserved in our community SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Students, once trained, are able to room patients, provide clerical assistance, stock exam rooms, and in some cases shadow physicians. DAYs: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: Car, background check, TB test, Required to attend two out of three reflections per semester in order to be maintained as an "active" volunteer. PLACEMENTS: Up to 30 coNTACT: Michelle Peters 
(574) 239-5299 
petermic@sjrmc.com 
sjmed.com 
ST. MARGARET'S HOUSE 
Focus: St. Margaret's House is a day center for women who struggle with economic poverty. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Students can help with the reception desk, orienting new guests to SMH, and helping with lunch preparation. This is an all-women facility. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(SJ: Morning, afternoon REQUIREMENTS: Female, 18+, one semester, Spanish-speaking skills are helpful, not essential PLACEMENTS: Up tO 5 CONTACT: Patricia Marvel 
(574) 234-7795 
patsmh@sbcglobal.net www.stmargaretshouse.org 
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL SOCIETY OF ST. JOSEPH COUNlY, INC. 
Focus: The St. Vincent de Paul Society of St. Joseph County is a Catholic lay organization that offers real support such as food, clothing and household neces­sities as well as emotional and spiritual support through one-on-one interactions with those who are suffering. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Volunteers can WOrk in any of five areas: food pantry, assis­tance office, Thrift Store operations, confer­ence services or non-profit administration. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Morning, afternoon REQUIREMENTS: Car, one semester PLACEMENTS: Up to 5 coNTACT: Laura Baker 
(574) 234-6000 
devconsultant@salntvincent-in.org 
www.saintvincent-in.org 
~S®CIAL 
~CONCERNS 
For more information visit: SOCialconcerns.nd.edu 
THE SALVATION ARMY 
Focus: The Salvation Army is focused on both meeting immediate, emergency needs and on growing into a new Kroc Center. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Student VOlUnteers help welcome and assist clients seeking food help, perform surveys, adopt a family at Christmas, or come for specific programs. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Daytime REQUIREMENTS: Background check, one semester PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 CONTACT: Liz Fallon 
(574) 233-9471, Ext. 103 liz_fallon@usc.salvationarmy.org www.sjcarmy.org 
SISTERS OFTHE HOLY CROSS 
Focus: To provide a strong network of volunteer visitation working one-on-one with elderly sisters. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: ASSiSt With read­ing, computers, letter writing, trivia, table games, musicians (especially piano players), activity cart, garden walks, group workshop leaders, decorating and helping with special events. DAYS: Weekdays {M-F) TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: On the SWEEP bus route PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 coNTACT: Lee Ann Moore 
(574) 284-5678 lmoore@cscsisters.org www.oscsisters.org 
S-0-S OF MADISON CENTER 
Focus: Rape crisis intervention and coun­seling for survivors of sexual and domestic violence, as well as their significant others 
' SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Provide SUpport and crisis intervention to victims at hospitals and on the phone through our crisis line DAYS: Any TIME(S): Any DAYS: Any REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, background check, one semester PLACEMENTS: Up to 30 coNTACT: Annie Envall 
(574) 283-1309 anniee@madison.org www.madison.org 
SOUTH BEND COMMUNI1Y SCHOOL CORPORATION ADULT EDUCATION I) 
Focus: SBCSC Adult Education classes are provided throughout St. Joseph County to help students 16 years of age and older strengthen academic, job, and life skills. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Tutor adults WhO need to improve basic academic skills, prepare for the GED Exam, learn English as a second language, and/or gain computer skills DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, one semester PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 coNTACT: Gayle Silver 
(574) 283-7563 gsilver@sbcsc.k12.in.us 
SOUTH BEND COMMUNilY SCHOOL CORPORATION BILINGUAL SERVICES ~ 
Focus: Provide instructional services to Grad'es K-12 English language learners SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Provide tutoring to students in Grades 2-10 in various sub­ject matter areas DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Late afternoon REQUIREMENTS: Car, Spanish-speaking skills, 18+, background check, one semester, commitment to 3-4 times per week for tutoring PLACEMENTS: Up to 15 coNTACT: Bill Barna 
(574) 283-8149 wbarna@sbcsc.k12.1n.us 
SOUTH BEND COMMUNilY SCHOOL ~ CORPORATION PARTNERUP/ READ TO A CHILD 
Focus: ~eading is a fun activity for people of all ages. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Volunteers Will read to the same student once a week for 30 minutes. DAYs: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Morning, afternoon REQUIREMENTS: Car, Spanish-speaking skills, 18+, background check, one semester PLACEMENTS: 30+ coNTACT: Connie Moore 
(574) 283-8182 cmoore4@sbcsc.k12.in www.sbcsc.k12.in.us 

SOUTH BEND JUVENILE CORRECTIONAL FACILilY 
Focus: We are a medium to very-high se­curity juvenile correctional facility for males between the ages of 12 and 18. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: We need VOlUnteers to tutor and mentor boys. Our religious services are also done by volunteers. We are open to other types of programs that volunteers might want to implement, with approval of administration. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Evening (M-F) morning, after­noon, late afternoon, evening (S-S) REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, background check, TB test required, one semester, ori­entation, Spanish-speaking skills helpful PLACEMENTS: 30+ coNTACT: Beverly Williams 
(574)232-8808,Ext.350 bewilliams@ldoc.in.gov www.in.gov/idoc/2651.htm 
STONE SOUP COMMUNilY 
Focus: Our mission is to willingly listen to individuals and families in crisis. We work with people to solve immediate problems, assess long term need and resources and accompany them as they move toward self-sufficiency. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Students WOrk one­on-one with low-income clients who come in with immediate crisis needs. Students use their creative problem-solving skills and make a difference in the lives of those struggling for life's basic needs. It is an opportunity for students to gain experience in case management in the field of social work within a non-profit agency setting. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Morning, evening REQUIREMENTS: 18+, one Semester, Spanish-speaking skills helpful PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 coNTACT: Linda Jung-Zimmerman 
(574) 246-0364 
stone-soup@sbcglobal.net 
SUI'lSHINE CLUBHOUSE 
-~ 
Focus: The Sunshine Clubhouse provides psychosocial rehabilitation for persons with a history of mental illness. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: We can especially utilize volunteers in wellness, education, and basic computer training on Saturdays and some evenings. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Afternoon, evening (M-F) morning (S-S) REQUIREMENTS: 18+, US Citizen, back­ground check, TB test, one semester PLACEMENTS: Up tO 5 coNTACT: Paul Curry 
(574) 283-2325 paulc@sunshineclubhouse.com www.sunshineclubhouse.com 
TAKE TEN 
Focus: A conflict resolution education curriculum that teaches youth to respond to conflict nonviolently. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Student VOlunteerS are trained to work in teams to go to io"C'a'l . schools once per week and implement our curriculum. Students plan and teach the lessons to all grades of children. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Daytime REQUIREMENTs: Background check, one semester PLACEMENTS: 30+ CONTACT: Ellen Kyes 
(574) 631-9424 kyes.1@nd.edu www.rclc.nd.edu/programs 
UNITED RELIGIOUS COMMUNilY OF ST. JOSEPH COUNlY ' ~ 
Focus: We are a consortium of over 125 faith communities joined in an interfaith partnership to build bridges of under­standing, work for constructive change, and help those in crisis with basic needs. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Case management with clients and support services for our programs DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Daytime REQUIREMENTS: 18+, background Check PLACEMENTS: Up to 5 coNTACT: Dr. Bill Wassner 
(574) 282-2397 wjwassner@urcsjc.org urcsjc.org 
WOMEN'S C,D,RE CENTER 
Focus: To help women choose life for their unborn babies, have healthy preg­nancies and to become better parents SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Volunteer COUnseling, assisting clients, answering phone, greet­ing clients, and writing thank you notes DAYS: Weekdays (M-F), weekends (Sa) TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: Car, Spanish-speaking skills, 18+, US citizen, TB test required, one year PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 coNTACT: Ellen Sommer 
(574) 234-0363 ellnsom@aol.com www.womenscarecenter.org 
YOUTH SERVICE BUREAU OF ST. JOSEPH COUNlY, INC. 
Focus: Our focus is to move marginalized children, youth, and families along a path toward crisis reduction and self sufficiency. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Student VOlUnteers can assist staff in street outreach activi­ties, and activities centered at our run­away shelter for teens including recreation, tutoring, and reflection. Students are also needed to assist with research projects, program evaluation, data management, etc. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Morning, afternoon, late after­noon, evening (M-F) afternoon (S-S) REQUIREMENTS: 18+, background check, one semester PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 coNTACT: Bonnie Strycker 
(574) 235-9231 bstrycker@sbcglobal.net www.ysbsjc.org 
YWCA OF ST. JOSEPH COUNlY 
Focus: The YWCA of St. Joseph County is the leading advocate for women and chil­dren in our community providing domestic violence emergency shelter and services, sexual assault recovery services, chemical dependency treatment, and economic and self sufficiency programs. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Students can help with fund-raisers, read to chfldren, work in the shelter· office, or provide · · "· donations· through third:party ft.ind-raisers. They c'an also be trained to be court monitors for protective order court, felony and misdemeanors. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Morning, afternoon, late afternoon, evening (M-F) (S-S) REQUIREMENTS: .Car, 18+, Spanish­speaking skills, background check PLACEMENTS: Up to 5 CONTACT: Linda Baechle 
(574) 233-9491 lbaechle@ywcasjc.org ywcasjc.org 
For more information visit: soclalconcerns.nd.edu 
Student Service and Social Action Groups· 
AFRICA FAITH AND JUSTICE NETWORK 
AFJN is the local chapter of a Washington, 
D.C. based lobby group focused on ac­tion, advocacy, and education concerning issues pertaining to justice and peace cross-nationally on the continent of Africa. coNTACT: Sara Cline 
scline@nd.edu 
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIID CLUB 
. a-
Relay fo·r Life (main event) Daffodil Days (secondary event) CONTACT: Adam lamm 
alamm@nd.edu 
AMERICAN RED CROSS CLUB 
The American Red Cross Club provides 
Red Cross services to the Notre Dame 
community, including blood services, 
safety and lifesaving instruction, health fairs, youth services, and more. 
CONTACT: John Taesung Ku 
tku@nd.edu 
ARNOLD AIR SOCIID (AAS) 
AAS aids members in gaining knowledge and appreciation of aerospace power and assists the community and campus in service intiatives. coNTACT: Mallory Glass 
mglass2@nd.edu 
BANDLINK 
Bandlink seeks to organize and run a band programs where there would otherwise be none, by mentoring local 4th to 8th grade students at Christ the King School, Holy Cross School, or home school. coNTACT: Hal Melia 
hmelia@nd.edu 
BEST BUDDIES 
Best Buddies fosters friendships between 
college students and mildly to moder­
ately physically and/or mentally-disabled 
persons in the local community. 
CONTACT: Courtney Isaak 
cisaak@nd.edu 
BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS CLUB 
Big Brothers/Sisters (BBBS) supplements, enhances, and assists the ND/SMC BBBS volunteers in developing their one­on-one relationships with their Littles; and to promotes cohesion and recognition for the BBBS volunteers. CONTACT: Jamie Gardella 
jgardell@nd.edu 
CAMP KESEM 
Camp Kesem provides a weeklong sum­mer camp experience to children who are coping with a parent's illness or death from cancer in the the hope that they will gain confidence, self-empowerment, and a sense of control over their environment. coNTACT: Emily Stewart 
estewar2@nd.edu 
CAMPUS GIRL SCOUTS 
The Girl Scouts serve the local community, campus, and council, through volunteer­ism and special events, such as the Senior/Cadet Lock-In, sack lunches for Center for the Homeless, and encourage the principles of Girl Scouting through . interaction with younger Girl Scouts. coNTACT: Monica Tarnawski 
mtarnaws@nd.edu 
CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND 
Children's Defense Fund, in association with the National Children's Defense Fund, addresses children's issues through service and advocacy events like "Cam­pus Community Conversations" where representatives from relevant professions, campus organizations, parents in the com­munity, and victimized children participate. coNTACT: Melissa Janisch 
mjanisch@nd.edu 
CIRCLE K 
Circle K exists to meet the personal needs of the individual collegian through leader­ship, service, and friendship, in order that mankind·may realize its potential. coNTACT: Annette Esquibel 
aesquibe@nd.edu 
COLLEGE MENTORS FOR KIDS 
College Mentors for Kids seeks to motivate at-risk children to pursue their dreams that may include a college education by pairing them college student mentors. coNTACT: George Kiamos 
gkiamos@nd.edu 
COMMUNITY ALLIANCE TO SERVE HISPANICS (CASH) 
CASH serves as a liaison between the cam­pus and South Bend Hispanic communities. coNTACT: Kerry Pecho 
kpecho@nd.edu 
DAUGHTERS OF ISABELLA 
Daughters of Isabella encourages unity, friendship, and charity among members by means of spiritual growth, charitable works, and social enrichment. coNTACT: Kate Beth Boris 
cboris@nd.edu 
DOMERS MENTORING KIDS 
DMK seeks to create effective responses to some of the most prevailing challenges to K-12 education today. This includes coordinating tutoring and mentorship opportunities for students and measuring statistical outcomes of student learning. coNTACT: Natalie Bath 
nbath@nd.edu 
EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING COUNCIL 
The Experiential Learning Council brings together student leaders of each of the Center for Social Concerns service-learn­ing seminars to create a forum for ideas, coordinate planning, and share resources. CONTACT: Angelina Baglini 
abaglini@nd.edu 
FEMINIST VOICE 
Raise awareness of, educate the campus on, and advocate for women's issues at Notre Dame, in the United States and abroad coNTACT: Amanda Lewis 
alewis4@nd.edu 
FIRST AID SERVICES TEAM (FAST) 
The main concern of FAST is to operate first aid stations for special events and all other events that request first aid cover­age on the ND and SMC campuses. 
coNTACT: Bonnie Chow 
bchowl@nd.edu 
FOODSHARE 
Foodshare seeks to raise awareness of food waste and its relation to hunger and works to create more positive and constructive attitudes to these issues on the Notre Dame campus through such projects as a food salvage program. coNTACT: Sarah Johnson 
sjohns12@nd.edu 
FRIENDS OFTHE ORPHANS 
Friends of the Orphans seeks to improve lives of orphaned, abandoned, and disad­vantaged children by raising awareness of, and supporting, the Nuestros Pequenos Hermanos (NPH) network of orphanages in Latin America and the Caribbean. coNTACT: Michael Daly 
mdaly5@nd.edu 
GLOBEMED (GMND) 
GMND works with grassroots health orga­
nizations worldwide to mobilize resourses for public health in an effort to create a 
more sustainable and secure world. coNTACT: Courtney Klosterman 
ckloster@nd.edu 
GULF COAST ACTION LEAGUE (GCAL) 
The purpose of GCAL will be to raise 
awareness and interest in the social is­sues, culture, and post-hurricane nee.ds of the Gulf Coast. coNTACT: Shannon Coyne 
scoyne@nd.edu 
HABITAT FOR HUMANITY 
Notre Dame Habitat educates ND stu­dents about social justice, poverty, and housing issues through the construction of a simple, decent house for one South 
Bend family each year. 
coNTACT: Michael Rohman 
mrohman@nd.edu 
HELPFUL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS (HUGS) 
HUGS provides children and infants of 
Memorial and St. Joseph Hospital with a 
nurturing, therapeutic environment, and offers students valuable experience in child medicine and rehabilitation therapy. 
CONTACT: Margaret Zielinski 
mzielins@nd.edu 
HUMAN RIGHTS NO (HRND) 
Human Rights-NO seeks to correct human rights abuses both domestically and abroad through letter writing campaigns and several action days a semester. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is our guiding document. CONTACT: Mary Dwyer 
mdwyer3@nd.edu 
INSPIRE 
Inspire encourages Notre Dame students to philanthropically involve themselves 
in solving current issues on the local, 
national, and international scale. coNTACT: Katy Colby 
kcolby@nd.edu 
IRISH FIGHTING FOR ST. JUDE KIDS 
Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids seeks to 
unite the campus in an effort to raise 
funds for the children of St. Jude Chil­dren's Research Hospital. 
coNTACT: Katie Coyne 
kcoynel@nd.edu 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS, COUNCIL NO. 1447
.. The Knights of Columbus is dedicated to fostering a sense of unity and brother­hood within its members through service work and fraternal events on campus. coNTACT: Dennis Malloy dmalloy@nd.edu 
LEAD-NO 
LEAD-NO fosters a mutually open and effective leadership development network between Notre Dame student leaders and emerging student leaders in the South Bend public schools. coNTACT: Petinella McOsker 
pmcosker@nd.edu 
LITERACY AWARENESS NOTRE DAME (LAND) 
LAND raises literacy awareness on campus and in the community to promote education at all levels, adult and child. coNTACT: Katherine Sample 
ksample@nd.edu 
LOGAN RECREATION CLUB (LRC) 
LRC fosters mutual friendships between ND, SMC, HCC students and people with developmental disabilities in the South Bend community. coNTACT: Danielle Hoehn 
dhoehn@nd.edu 
MS. WIZARD DAY PROGRAM TEAM 
Ms. Wizard Day Program Team organizes and conducts a one-day program at ND in 
January or February of each year. coNTACT: Sarah Corke 
scorke@nd.edu 
NATIONAL ALLIANCE ON MENTAL ILLNESS (NAMI-ND) 
NAMI-ND strives to !)nhance counseling services on campus through education about mental illness and monitoring existing campus health care facilities, staff, and pro­gramming, for adequacy and accountability. coNTACT: Maggie Fahrenbach 
mfahren l@nd.edu 
NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM (NSHP) 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program provides volunteer tutors to local schools and'community centers. coNTACT: Levi Checketts 
lchecket@nd.edu 
ND-8 
ND-8 seeks to raise awareness of the Mil­l~nnium Development Goals and provide opportunities for the campus community to take action towards meeting these goals, through films, panel discussions, and fundraising activities. coNTACT: Coleen Halloran 
challorl@nd.edu 
NO FOR ANIMALS 
ND for Animals seeks to increase aware­ness of the plight of animals in factory farms, the benefits of vegetarianism, and stewardship of the earth, through service at animal shelters and animal activism. coNTACT: Alexa Wagner 
awagner3@nd.edu 
~s®CIAL 
~CONCERNS 
For more information visit: SOCialconcerns.nd.edu 
OPERATION SMILE STUDENT ORGANIZATION (OSSO) 
Operati0n Smile educates students about reconstructive surgery for indigent children worldwide and provides ways to improve the quality of life for the children, families, and communities that share in the Opera­tion Smile experience. coNTACT: Tina Noronha 
tnoronh2@nd.edu 
PEACE FELLOWSHIP 
.. 
ND Peace Fellowship is a prayer, study, and action group. Peace Fellowship also plans lectures, discussions, and performances in collaboration with other campus groups. CONTACT: Alicia QuirOS 
aquiros@nd.edu 
PENTATHLON COACHES OF NOTRE DAME (PCND) 
PCNb supports and coordinate the placement of college coaches into local classrooms where English teachers have requested assistance preparing students for the English Pentathlon program spon­sored by the Freedom 22 Foundation. coNTACT: Stacey Brandt 
sbrandt2@nd.edu 
PERSPECTIVES 
Perspectives provides a social outlet for students with disabilities, and seeks to increase awareness and to facilitate positive relationships between students with disabilities and the rest of the Notre Dame community. CONTACT: Kalen Wilczek 
kwilczek@nd.edu 
PROGRESSIVE STUDENT ALLIANCE 
Progressive Student Alliance is devoted to promoting socially progressive principles, politics, and activism at Notre Dame. coNTACT: Jacqueline Emmanuel 
jemmanue@nd.edu 
PROPONENTS OF ANIMAL WELFARE SERVICES (PAWS) 
PAWS provides service and community awareness to anffnal-related organizations in the Saint Joseph County region. coNTACT: Christina Cardoza 
ccardoza@nd.edu 
RIGHTTO LIFE 
Right to Life promotes and upholds the sanctity of all human life from conception to natural death through prayer, service, and education. It also helps women in crisis pregnancies find alternatives to abortion through service and support, in the spirit of the Catholic Church. CONTACT: John Gerardi 
jgerardi@nd.edu 
SAINT JOSEPH REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER OUTREACH VOLUNTEERS 
SJRMCOV promotes an interest in volunteer medical service in the South Bend commu­nity and increasing volunteer cohesiveness. coNTACT: Tiffany Olier 
tolier@nd.edu 
SLICE OF LIFE ND 
Slice of Life ND seeks to improve aca­demic performance, self-esteem, and self-respect in local school children who face challenges. CONTACT: Courtney Isaak 
cisaak@nd.edu 
SOCIAL JUSTICE IN AMERICAN MEDICINE (SJAM) 
SJAM raises awareness about health disparities in the United States through service, lectures, and awareness initiatives. CONTACT: Meghan Kaler 
mkaler@nd.edu 
-
SPECIAL FRIENDS CLUB 
Special friends unites student volunteers with children who have autism or special needs in the local communities in the hope they will form a unique bond. coNTACT: Lauren Schmitt 
lschmit1@nd.edu 
STUDENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTALAICTION (SEA) 
SEA seeks to educate the campus and surrounding communities about the im­portance of environmental issues, and the social, economic, and personal ramifica­tions of these issues in everyday activities. Activities include education in local schools, a campus environmental awareness week, and efforts to recycle. coNTACT: Jacqueline Mullen 
jmirando@nd.edu 
SUPER SIBS 
Suber Sibs supports area children who have siblings with disabilities, through individual mentoring, encouragement, and support because of their own experiences with siblings with disabilities. coNTACT: Maeve Raphelson 
mraphels@nd.edu 
SUSTAINED DIALOGUE 
In Sustained Dialogue we gather in small groups to discuss various social issues within the Notre Dame community and to think about how they can be addressed. coNTACT: Lauren Demeter 
ldemeter@nd.edu 
TAKING EDUCATION ABROAD (T.E.A. AT ND) 
Taking Education Abroad exists to provide financial support to international non­governmental rural education missions, and to increase awareness among of the importance of education as a form of aid. CONTACT: Luke Ricci 
lricci1@nd.edu 
TEAMWORK FOR TOMORROW 
Teamwork is a mentoring organization that pairs at-risk youth from South Bend with a mentorjtutor from ND/SMC. CONTACT: Michael Gonzalez 
mgonza 12@nd.edu 
TIMMY FOUNDATION 
Timmy Foundation of Notre Dame fosters interest in Ecuador through the coordina­tion of educational awareness projects and an annual medical service trip to Ecuador. CONTACT: Elise Janowak 
ejarowak@nd.edu 
TRIDENT NAVAL SOCIETY 
Trident Naval Society fosters professional­
ism, community, and camaraderie through 
service activities which instill the values and character necessary for the highest 
levels of citizenship and command. CONTACT: Matthew Zak 
mzak@nd.edu 
WORLD HUNGER COALITION 
ND World Hunger Coalition seeks to raise awareness on campus of issues related to hunger in the local community and throughout the world. The WHC organizes a number of educational, spiritual, and service-oriented projects, including the Wednesday Lunch Fast. In addition, the group sponsors aThanksgiving and Easter Basket Drive for the less fortunate in the local community each year. coNTACT: Alison Laycock 
alaycock@nd.edu 
Take a Course in the Local Community 
The Community-Based Learning Coordinators (CBLCs) who work with the Center for Social Concerns are a valuable resource to students and faculty. The CBLCs are available to help students find placements in their agencies that meet both the needs ofthe community-based organization and the student. They are aware ofthe importance offinding ways to con­nect the students' lived experienyes with their academic work. In addi­tion, they are committed to making reflection and analysis a part ofthe students' experience in their organizations. 
For a complete list ofcommunity-based course opportunities, in all col­leges and schools, visit socialconcerns.nd.edu. 

CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS 
Adam Kronk 813 S. Michigan Street South Bend, IN 46601 (574) 282-8700, Ext. 346 akronk@cfh.net www.cfh.net 
AIDS MINISTRIES/AIDS ASSIST 
Debra Stanley 914 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN 46616 (574) 288-2887 debra@imaniunidadinc.org www.aidsministries.org 
LA CASA DE AMISTAD 
Rebecca Ruvalcaba 7 46 South Meade Street South Bend, IN 46619 (574) 233-2120 beccaruval@yahoo.com www.lacasadeamistad.org 
ROBINSON COMMUNITY LEARNING CENTER 
Christy Burgess 921 North Eddy Street South Bend, IN 46617 (574) 631-9425 christyburgess@nd.edu http://www.nd.edu.;-rclc 
SJRMC OUTREACH 
Michelle Peters 234 South Chapin Street South Bend, IN 46601 (574) 239-5299 petermic@sjrmc.com http:/jwww.sjmed.com 
LOGAN CENTER 
NEW!Charles Strauss 2502 East Jefferson Boulevard South Bend, IN 46615 (574) 289-4831 cstrauss@logancenter.org www.logancenter.org 
~·&~CIAL 
~CONCERNS 
For more information visit soclalconcerns.nd.edu 

