the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students, prof react to health care bill 

AP Senate Finance Committee Chairman Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., left, shakes hands with Committee member Sen. Olympia Snowe, R-Maine. 
By ADRIANA PRATT 
News Writer 
The House of Representatives passed a health care bill Saturday night, but when it reaches the Senate, the bill will likely take a long time to be resolved, said David Campbell, professor of political science 
“I don’t think there’s any chance the Senate will pass this bill in its current form. There will definitely be changes made,” Campbell, who specializes in American politics and public policy, said. “We’re not anywhere close to settling this.” 
The bill passed with a vote of 220-215 with the support of only one Republican, U.S. Rep. Joe Cao, R-La. 
Campbell said the policies surrounding health care will change slowly. 
“What [this bill] represents is a classic example of the way policy changes in the United States,” Campbell said. “This is an incremental bill. It’s not a fundamental reworking health care.” 
Congressman Joe Donnelly, D-Ind., of the 2nd District, which includes South Bend, 
see HEALTH/page 4 

Journalists discuss state of media 
Abramson and Shribman explore challenges in the newspaper industry 


By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Journalism’s current challenge isn’t saving print newspapers. The challenge is maintaining high standards in emerging new media forms, visiting journalists said Monday. 
Jill Abramson, managing edi­tor for news at The New York Times, and Executive Editor for The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette David Shribman spoke about the future of journalism in a discus­sion sponsored by the Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy in McKenna Hall. 
“I hope the printed product lasts a long time. I think it has virtue and value,” Shribman said. “But we can do so much more in journalism now. There’s such a richer atmosphere and so many opportunities.” 
Abramson said the Internet has changed the business. Working as a journalist in the late 1980s and early 90s, she said newspapers were “fat and happy.” 
“I don’t think we quite appre­ciated in real time the great tumult and change the profes­sion was about to go through,” she said. “It has not been neces­sarily all negative, but certainly more challenging.” 
The New York Times online reaches a new base of readers and captures about 20 million unique readers every month. 
“The opportunity to reach this much larger audience is quite thrilling, and in terms of quality journalism, it provides opportu-

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 
Jill Abramson and David Shribman discuss the future of jour­
nities to tell stories in completely different and exciting ways,” Abramson said. 
But the problem facing many newspapers is that quality reporting is expensive, Abramson told The Observer in an interview. 
“I think the thread is just find­ing a secure business model that can sustain the work to produce quality journalism. It can be very expensive,” she said. “The Times has an investigative jour­nalism unit in which reporters spend weeks and months and occasionally more than year get­ting an important story.” 
Abramson said The New York Times spends about $4 million maintaining secure bureaus in Iraq and Afghanistan — a price many papers can’t afford to pay. 
Shribman said new, Web-based media offers opportunities to tell stories in a different way. The challenge is paying for it. 
He said The Post-Gazette has been experimenting with differ­ent business models to pay for the paper’s production, namely offering a portion of their Web 
see MEDIA/page 4 


Both campuses give H1N1 shots 
Vaccines being administered to those at highest risk of contracting flu 


By MADELINE BUCKLEY and CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writers 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s College have received a limited number of the H1N1 vaccine for the students, faculty and staff determined to be at high risk for contracting the virus. 
The St. Joseph County Health Department gave Notre Dame about 500 doses of the vaccine Thursday, Director of Health Services Ann Kleva said. University Health Services distributed about 200 of the doses Friday. 
Kleva said the first batch of vaccines was reserved for the groups at highest risk of con-
see H1N1/page 4 


BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 



ND club to hold charity denim sale 

By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
The newly formed Friends of the Orphans (FOTO) club at Notre Dame is sponsoring its first annual Charity Denim fundraiser Tuesday to aid in providing health care to a Honduran orphanage. 
FOTO is a U.S.-based organi­zation that includes regional branches around the country and university clubs. The organization is committed to financially supporting the Nuestros Pequenos Hermanos (NPH) orphanages in Latin America and the Caribbean, but the Notre Dame chapter of FOTO is focusing its efforts on supporting one of nine NPH orphanages in Honduras and, more specifically, the Holy Family Surgery Center in Honduras. 
The event — which will take place from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom — will bring more than 700 pairs of last season’s designer jeans to students to purchase at 40 to 60 percent off the original prices, courtesy of Charity Denim. 
Brand names available include Seven for All Mankind, Joe’s Jeans, Hudson Jeans, True Religion and others. 
see DENIM/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SGA approves sponsorship page 3  Calendar of events 10  Interhall football wraps page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 10, 2009 

INSIDE COLUMN 

A matter of perspective 
As students, we have a lot to com­plain about. We have to wake up in the morning, sometimes as early as 8 a.m., walk up to 15 minutes to class, and then sit there and think. Not only that, but from November to March, we have to make that walk in cold weather. Then we leave class, go back to our tiny rooms, and are forced to do more work or suffer the consequences of Eric Prister subpar grades. Then, when we Sports get a break on the Production weekends, we are Editor forced to watch a football team that can’t even win us a national champi­onship. What’s worse, du Lac won’t allow us to forget about that sorrow without the fear of being brought in front of the disciplinary committee. 

Graduation doesn’t make it any better. We actually have to spend our senior year doing work in order to graduate. We’re forced to listen to the president of the United States speak at our commencement. Then finally, once we escape this place, we can’t even find a job, because the economy is so bad. 
Now wait a minute. Let’s take a step back. Because maybe, just maybe, life isn’t as bad as it seems. 
We wake up in the morning, more than likely sometime after 9 a.m., and for some, after noon. We roll out of bed and walk to a dining hall which prepares all of our meals for us. We go to class and all we have to do is think (and not even that some­times), without any physical strain. We come back to our rooms and can do nearly anything that we want with our time. We can sleep for another three hours, we can watch hours upon hours of SportsCenter or simply stare at our computers with­out anyone telling us not to. And we can stay up all night for no good rea­son if we feel like it. 
True, life could be better. But life could be a whole lot worse too. I’m not saying that we should all aban­don the life that we have and give ourselves to a life much harder than the one that we have, at least for now. And I’m not saying that we’re spoiled and that we shouldn’t have the things that we do. We all deserve to be here. But sometimes, we need to just take a step back and get a dif­ferent view of things. We have it very good here, despite some things that aren’t entirely ideal. I understand the stress that everyone feels. And I understand the frustration that we all feel when work, or rules, or loss­es get in the way of our enjoyment or happiness. But life is very good, so we should enjoy it all — the work along with the convenience and fun. 
It really is all a matter of perspec­tive. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Nov. 9 issue of The Observer, the article “Strong Bodies Fight” misidentified Professor William Donaruma, associate professional specialist in the department of Film, Television and Theater, as the editor of the film. Donaruma is the director, co-producer and co-editor of the film. Also, in the same issue, it was said that Amanda Clark scored in the first half and Erica Iantorno scored the winning goal in the title game vs. Marquette, but the goals were scored by Lauren Fowlkes and Amanda Clark. The Observer regrets these errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO DO YOU  ISS FROM HO E? 






Gunnar Dennis  Maureen Parsons  Jeremiah Herman  Joe Wawrzynski  Margaret Jumonville  Jordan Cowart  
freshman  freshman  senior  freshman  junior  freshman  
Siegfried  LeMans  Dillon  Fisher  Breen-Philips  Knott  
“My family.”  “My twin  “My mom, she  “My dog, Mr.  “My family.”  “My cousin, for  
brother.”  makes the best  Cat.”  sure.”  

chili.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

GRACE KENESEY/The Observer Mark Santrach, a freshman architecture student, works on a painting for class on the grass in front of Crowley Hall Monday. 
OFFBEAT 
Chewing gum thefts on the rise in Connecticut towns 
NEW BRITAIN, Conn. — Police in several Connecticut towns said they’ re dealing with a sticky situation — chew­ing gum thefts. According to authorities, the num­ber of people caught stealing chewing gum has noticeably increased recently. They believe the chewy contraband is end­ing up on the black mar­ket, where it’s harder to trace than some other stolen goods. 
In one of the largest recent cases, a 21-year­
old Stratford man was charged with shoplifting about $800 worth of Orbit chewing gum from stores in Stratford, Bridgeport and Fairfield. 
In West Hartford, police have investigated four gum theft complaints since June, including one in which a 21-year-old Enfield man was charged with stealing $175 in gum from a local super­market. 
um, almost anything.” 
Man finds 60 birds on property, has had enough 
MANNINGTON, W.Va. — It’s not quite Alfred Hitchcock’s “The Birds,” but former Mannington Mayor Frank White says he’s had enough of the winged creatures for a long time. White said his neighbor, City Councilman Jeff Michael, has been providing a reg­ular smorgasbord for birds, with seed, bread and even French fries. 
As a result, White said there are up to 60 birds at a time on his property. He said most of the birds are pigeons, which he calls a nuisance. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Wednesday thursday 

IN BRIEF 
A lecture titled “Leadership in a Corporate Crisis: Johnson & Johnson and Tylenol” will be held in the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. The lecture will begin at 8 a.m. today. 
“Darkness and Light: Death and Beauty in Photography” will be on display in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries in the Snite Museum of Art. The exhibit will open at 10 a.m. today. 
The H1N1 vaccine will be available for highest risk patients today in the Stephan Center. The vaccines will begin to be distributed at noon. Please bring a current Notre Dame identification card. 
The Lunchtime Workshop Series will be held at 12:30 p.m. today in Madeleva Hall. This week the lecture will be titled “Ok, I’ve read, What Am I Supposed To Do Now?” 
The “Multiscale Simulation of Liquids Under Confinement” lecture will be held today in 138 DeBartolo Hall at 3:30 p.m. today. 
“Compañeros del Destino: Transborder Social Lives, Huapango Arribeño and the Discoursing of Citizenship” will be held today at 4 p.m. in 210­214 McKenna Hall today. 
A play titled “Unveiled” will feature playwright Rohina Malik. The play will be held at 7 
p.m. in the Carroll Auditorium in Madeleva Hall today. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
friday saturday 

Atlanta 59 / 58 Boston 62 / 42 Chicago 55 / 39 Denver 63 / 45 Houston 80 / 57 Los Angeles 75 / 55 Minneapolis 59 / 39 New York 63 /46 Philadelphia 65 / 48 Phoenix 90 / 63 Seattle 52 / 42 St. Louis 65 /43 Tampa 82 / 68 Washington 66 / 51 

Tuesday, November 10, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
Fall conference theme 

SGA agrees to sponsor club 
based on Pope’s words 

ThreeCommunicativeDisorderClubmemberstoattendconventionwithfunding 
Special to The Observer 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
Saint Mary ’s Student Government Association (SGA) approved its first sponsorship of the year at its meeting Monday night. 
The Communicative Disorders Club made a pres­entation to the SGA board requesting a sponsorship for three of their members to represent Saint Mary’s and the club at the National American Speech-Language-Hearing Association Convention in New Orleans. The association is the organ­ization through which all speech pathologists and audiologists must be certi­fied, Communicative from the convention helps and SGA is taking the situa-

During his visit to the 

them provide the community tions on an individual basis 
United States in April 2008, 

with the latest techniques in until they iron out all the 
Pope Benedict XVI said that 

the field, Fallet said. 
Saint Mary ’s is 

one of the few undergraduate institutions repre­sented at the con­vention, which sets them apart. 
“It speaks highly of Saint Mary’s and the importance we place on being on the cutting edge of our field,” Fallet said. 
SGA approved the Communicative Disorders Club’s 
sponsorship request and the club will receive 
Disorders Club “It speaks highly of $1,500 to president cover their 
Saint Mary’s and the 
Kendra Fallet convention 
importance we place
said. registration 
The on being on the fees, airfare Communicative and hotel 
cutting edge of our
Disorders Club attends the con­vention annually in order to net­work with other professionals in their field and to keep up on 

feld.” 
Kendra Fallet Communicative Disorders club president 
the latest cut ­ting-edge research in speech pathology and audiology. 
The Saint Mary’s club does a lot of work in the South Bend Community at the Logan Center and the research they bring back 

and not 
“When we’re getting our feet off the ground there are some things we still need to work through.” 
Jenny Hoffman Student Government Association 
president 
issues. 
“the preservation of freedom 
“When 
calls for the cultivation of 
we’ re get ­
virtue, self-discipline, sacri­
ting our feet 
fice for the common good, 
off the 
and a sense of responsibility 
ground 
towards the less fortunate. It 
there are 
also demands the courage to 
some things 
engage in civic life and to 
we still need 
bring one’s deepest beliefs 
to work 
and values to reasoned public 
through, ” 
debate.” 
SGA presi ­
Pope Benedict’s remarks 
dent Jenny 
have been chosen by the 
Hoffman 
University of Notre Dame’s 
explained. 
Center for Ethics and Culture 
The SGA 
as the theme for its 10th 
ex ecuti ve 
annual fall conference, “The 
board set ­
Summons of Freedom: Virtue, 
tled on club 
Sacrifice, and the Common 
fees. 
An SGA goal for sponsor­ships this year is to write checks directly to the sources 
to the club them­

selves. They would like to also avoid reimbursements. However, due to time crunches at the beginning of the year reimbursements cannot always be avoided expand the discussion of fam­ily life outward to include the social, political and spiritual common goods in which the common good of the family is nested. The Holy Father’s remarks make clear certain connections of utmost impor­tance not only to us Americans, but also to any­one trying to sort through the enormous moral and political complexities of our dizzyingly globalized world. We decided to focus the conference on the virtues as those moral and intellectual habits that allow us to achieve, solidify and defend the network of common goods in which we human beings realize our happiness.” 
The conference will feature two keynote lectures, both given in the McKenna Hall auditorium. 
Rev. John J. Raphael, S.S.J., a 1989 Notre Dame alumnus and principal of St. Augustine High School in New Orleans, will give a lecture on “Building a Bridge over Troubled Waters: Inviting African Americans into the Pro-Life Movement,” at 7:30 
p.m. Nov. 12 (Thursday). 
Thomas Hibbs, Distinguished Professor of Ethics & Culture and Dean of the Honors College at Baylor University, will speak on “Divorce as Fracture of the Common Good: Ingmar Bergman and Confession” at 
7:30 p.m. Nov. 13 (Friday). 
allotment amounts at their meeting Monday morning and clubs have been notified on how much they will be receiving, along with expla­nations behind what they were awarded and sponsor­ship and appeal forms. 
In an effort to be transpar­ent, next Monday there will be an open SGA meeting where any club can come and appeal their allotment and SGA will look at the allotment again and render a decision. 
The SGA board hopes that now, after their new proce­dures have been put into place, sponsorships and club allotments will run more Good.” 
The conference, to be held Nov. 12 to 14 (Thursday to Saturday) in McKenna Hall, will bring together scholars from Catholic, other Christian and secular institutions to discuss the state of the family from the perspectives of phi­losophy, theology and reli­gious studies, law, history, the social sciences, literature and the arts. 
“The theme of last year’s conference was ‘Family: Searching for Fairest Love’,” said Elizabeth Kirk, associate director of the center. “As we planned our 2009 conference, we thought it important to 
smoothly in years to come. 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntaylo01@sainmarys.edu 
5 teams, individuals compete in regionals 


Special to The Observer 
Five individuals and five teams of high school students have been selected to compete Friday and Saturday (Nov. 13 and 14) at the University of Notre Dame in the regional round of the Siemens Competition in Math, Science and Technology, the nation’s premier science research com­petition for high school stu­dents. 
The New Jersey-based non­profit Siemens Foundation cre­ated the competition to enhance science and mathe­matics education in America. It is open to individuals and teams of high school students who develop independent research projects in the physi­cal or biological sciences or mathematics. Competitions in six regions across the United States are being held through­out November. Regional schol­arship winners advance to the national competition Dec. 3 to 7 in New York City for a top individual prize of $100,000. Members of the top winning team will share a $100,000 scholarship. 
The Siemens Foundation has partnered with six of America’s leading research universities to assist in judging and hosting the regional competitions throughout the fall: the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Georgia Institute of Technology (Nov. 6 and 7), the University of Texas and Notre Dame (Nov. 13 and 14), and the California Institute of Technology and Carnegie Mellon University (Nov. 20 and 21). 
The Notre Dame regional finalists will present their inde­pendent research projects to a panel of judges composed of Notre Dame faculty. The indi­vidual regional winner will receive an award of $3,000; members of the winning team will share a prize of $6,000. All regional individual and team runners-up will be awarded $1,000 scholarships. 
The public can view student posters at 5:30 p.m. Friday (Nov. 13) in the study lounge of the Jordan Hall of Science. 
The competition keynote address will be delivered by Carolyn Porco, a planetary sci­entist and the leader of the imaging science team on the Cassini mission presently in orbit around Saturn. In late 1999, she was selected by the London Sunday Times as one of 18 scientific leaders of the 21st century. She is director of the Cassini Imaging Central Laboratory for Operations (CICLOPS) within the Space Science Institute. CICLOPS is the center of operations for the imaging experiment on Cassini and the place where images are processed for release to the public. 
Porco’s address, which is free and open to the public, will take place at 8 p.m. Saturday (Nov. 14) in the Sargento Auditorium of the Jordan Hall of Science. 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 10, 2009 
H1N1 
continued from page 1 
tracting H1N1, commonly referred to as swine flu, such as pregnant women, caregivers for children younger than 6 months of age, health care per­sonnel and people under 25 with other health problems. 
The leftover 300 doses of the vaccine will be distributed at Notre Dame Tuesday from 12 
p.m. to 3 p.m. in Stepan Center. 
Director of Women’s Health at Saint Mary’s Catherine DeCleene said the College received 200 doses of the vac­cine Thursday and adminis­tered all of its supply to faculty and students determined to be at high risk Friday. 
Saint Mary’s is hoping to receive more of the vaccine later in the week, DeCleene said. 
“If you can get the vaccine, get it,” she said. “I’m a vaccine believer.” 
According to DeCleene, the College currently has no con­firmed cases of H1N1. 
Kleva said Notre Dame is also expecting to receive more of the vaccine when Health Services administers the remaining 300 doses. 
The vaccines distributed 
Denim 
continued from page 1 
Anthropologie tops will also be sold at discounted prices. 
This is the first Charity Denim event at Notre Dame, but Saint Mary’s College has employed Charity Denim to support its annual Dance Marathon for the past three years. 
“No one at Notre Dame really knew about the Charity Denim event at Saint Mary’s because it wasn’t publicized that well,” Saint Mary’s senior and FOTO vice -president Tricia Daly said. 
Tuesday will still be reserved for the highest risk groups, but Kleva said if the University receives more of the vaccine later in the week, the doses could possibly be made avail­able to all students, faculty and staff under 25 without underly­ing health conditions. 
“We’re hoping that maybe by end of the week, we will have even more doses of the vaccine so we can keep expanding it to include more and more peo­ple,” she said. “But we want to get all the high risk students and faculty first.” 
Between Aug. 2 and Nov. 2, Health Services treated 659 presumed cases of the H1N1 virus. Kleva said it is difficult to predict whether the vaccines will contribute to a decrease in the number of cases on cam­pus. 
“I’ve heard from the state Board of Health that the cases in this area have been peaking, so we’re anticipating that the cases on campus will drop in the near future” she said. “But of course this is a college cam­pus and people will go home and possibly be exposed there.” 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu and Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
is located on-site at an NPH orphanage and it is committed to providing inexpensive sur­geries to orphans who normally would not receive medical care for minor injuries. 
“Health care in Honduras is still in its developing stages, so we want to do anything we can do to provide healthcare for children,” Daly said. “The sys­tem is so congested that orphans are put on the back burner and don’t have opportu­nities to receive health care.” 
The Holy Family Surgery Center can provide a single surgery for just $150, whereas the same surgery could cost thousands of dollars in the 

“I called Charity “Health care in U.S. Thus, sev-Denim about eral surgeries 
Honduras is still in 
having them will be provided 
its developing stages, if FOTO reaches 
come to Notre Dame, and they so we want to do its fundraising were really goal during the 
anything we can do
excited about Charity Denim 
to provide healthcare
bringing the event, Daly said. event here.” for children,” Daly Daly and her 
Charity Denim said. “The system is brother 
is a nonprofit Michael, a jun-
so congested that
organization ior, started 
that buys and orphans are put on FOTO at Notre sells last sea-Dame this year 
the back burner 
son’s designer to help expand 
and don’t have 
jeans at dis-their parents’ counted prices. opportunities to efforts in 
They allot some receive health care.” Honduras that profit from each began 18 years pair of jeans sold ago. Daly said 
Tricia Daly 
directly to FOTO. they wanted to Daly also said senior continue the 
Charity Denim provides the jeans, dressing rooms, mirrors, music and payment processing machines as long as FOTO pub­licizes and obtains a space for the event. 
At the end of the event, Charity Denim will write a check to FOTO so the club will immediately know how much money they raised. 
“FOTO will make about eight to 10 dollars per pair of jeans sold,” Daly said. “Our goal is to raise over $1,000, and we ulti­mately want to see how many surgeries we can provide for children in the orphanage.” 
Funds raised at the event will go directly to the Holy Family Surgery Center in Honduras. The center — founded by Daly’s parents Peter and Lulu Daly — rich service tra­
dition estab­lished by Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. The club hopes to hold annual Charity Denim events in the future. 
“We’re really looking forward to the event because it’s a fun way to raise money for a good cause, and we’re hoping to draw a large crowd,” Daly said. “Our motto for the event is ‘Do good, look good.’” 
The club will charge a $1 entrance fee for the event, and tickets will be sold for a raffle of a free pair of jeans. Charity Denim will provide men’s sizes 28 to 38 and women’s sizes 23 to 32, and there is a return pol­icy on all purchases. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
news reports because of security reasons. 
Media 
“We took this very seriously continued from page 1 and anguished over it for a quite a long period of time,” site for a price. The content she told The Observer. “As that has always been accessi-reporters found out more ble for free still is, he said, about the program, it was but users can subscribe to clear it was legally extremely additional material. dubious so we felt at a cer­“There isn’t a huge demand tain point if a secret illegal for people to program was pay for content being waged in that has been America, peo­
“You sometimes are 
previously ple had the 
under enormous
f r e e , ” right to know Shribman said professional pressure about it.” of charging for Sh rib man
to print something
articles on the said the Post-
and under different
Web. “But Gazette makes there are peo-but just as enormous decisions ple willing to about whether 
personal pressure as 
pay to support to print certain 
a human being”
us and receive stories or premium con-names on a tent.” Jill Abramson case by case 
This model basis, carefully 
Managing News Editor 
has seen some weighing
The New York Times 
“ s t e a d y newsworthi ­growth,” ness and Shribman told ethics. The Observer. “You sometimes are under 
But while online journalism enormous professional pres-has changed the business, sure to print something and both journalist said the stan-under different but just as dards remain high. enormous personal pressure 
Abramson said one of the as a human being,” he said. most difficult ethical deci-Shribman and Abramson sions she has made at The said ethical standards and Times involved publishing a reporting skills apply in all story about a secret govern-aspects of journalism. mental counter-terrorism Abramson said years ago, program. She said the Bush the debate about the future administration asked the edi-of journalism involved pitting tors to exclude the story from blogs against mainstream 
Health 
continued from page 1 
voted in favor of the bill. 
“It is a bill that makes health care more affordable for families and small busi­nesses. Additionally, no feder­al funds or taxpayer funds can be used for abortion,” Donnelly told The Observer Monday. “The bill also reduces the deficit by $110 billion over the next 10 years.” 
Erika Hagstrom, president of the Notre Dame College Republicans, said she believes the exclusion of federal fund­ing for abortion was one of the factors that helped the bill pass in the House. 
Former president of the College Republicans Ed Yap agreed that the legislation restricting federal funding for abortion helped the bill pass. 
“The one pro I see right now is that it doesn’t fund abortion with tax payer dol­lars, but that’s the only pro I see,” Yap said. “This bill will dramatically increase costs and further increase ineffi­ciency.” 
Christopher Rhodenbaugh, co-president of the Notre Dame College Democrats, said the Senate version of the bill might approach the abortion issue differently than the House but he said he thinks abortion is not the only life issue to protect, he said. 
“The health care debate in media. But she said debate is mostly put to rest, as blogs fill a different niche in the media. 
She said The New York Times has blogs discussing different, specific interests. 
“Blogs could be like the cartoons and columns of this era,” Shribman said. 
And Abramson said even newer media forms like Twitter have played a role in news reporting. 
“When the plane went into the Hudson River, the first reports came via Twitter,” she told The Observer. “There is a genuine news value to Twitter.” 
Abramson said journalists have to be ready to adapt to the changing landscape of journalism. 
“I’ve come to the conclu­sion that there’s no genius out there with the answer to the business model problem right now, and how to sustain quality journalism,” she said. “We can’t hide in a foxhole and say we aren’t going to get our hands dirty with this question.” 
While the business of jour­nalism is changing though, Shribman said the basic skills remain the same. 
“It’s a lifetime of learning, a lifetime of being curious and a lifetime of satisfying that curiosity,” he said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
the House was focused on abortion as the life issue, but with more than 38,000 people dying this year without health insurance, the real life issue is whether or not America can figure out a system in which everyone can be insured,” he said. “The gov­
ernment needs  can least afford  
to step in when  it,” he said.  
the free market doesn’t meet  “It is a bill that  Rhodenbaugh said the  
the needs of  makes health care  D e m o c r a t s ’  
the popula-tion.” Rhodenbaugh said he  more affordable for families and small businesses.  health care plan would ensure health insurance for  
approved of the bill’s inclu­sion of the public option, a  Additionally, no federal funds or taxpayer funds can  students no longer on their parents’ plan and uncovered  
g o v e r n m e n t - be used for abortion”  by their  
run health  employers.  
insurance pro­gram. The inclusion  Joe Donnelly Congressman, D-Ind.  H a g s t r o m said she would like to see  
of a public  health reform  
option with an  passed, but not  
opt-out plan,  in the way the  

Yap said he believes the House’s bill will increase the deficit because of the funding necessary for many of the programs. 
“The sort of tax increases that will be necessary to fund this program will negatively impact Americans when they 
House’s bill proposed. 
“I definitely do think [the health care system] is a bro­ken system. I don’t think the way to fix it, though, is to increase the size of the gov­ernment,” she said. 
Health care should not be a for-profit business, Rhodenbaugh said. 
“I fully support the House health care bill as is and I wish it could pass through the Senate as is,” he said. 
which would allow states to individually decline participa­tion in the public option, will be a source of debate in the Senate, he said. 
“The creation of the public option is essential to lowering costs because you need more competition in the system … I wish that [the bill] wouldn’t require an opt-out plan to pass in the Senate because I think that people need a viable alternative to private insurance if insurance is ever going to really reduce their prices,” Rhodenbaugh said. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 


World & Nation 
Tuesday, November 10, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Nobel-winning Russian physicist dies 
MOSCOW — Vitaly Ginzburg, a Nobel Prize­winning Russian physicist and one of the fathers of the Soviet hydrogen bomb, has died in Moscow. He was 93. 
Ginzburg died late Sunday of cardiac arrest, the Russian Academy of Sciences said Monday. 
Ginsburg won the 2003 Nobel Prize in physics with two other scientists for their contribution to theories on superconductivity, the ability of some materials to conduct electricity without resistance. 
In the late 1940s and early 1950s, Ginzburg was a key member of the group working under Igor Tamm that developed the Soviet hydrogen bomb. Ginzburg wrote that he and Andrei Sakharov — considered the father of the Soviet H-bomb — formulated the two ideas that made it possible to build the thermonuclear device. 
Thousands celebrate fall of Berlin wall 
BERLIN — Ulrich Sauff and his wife stared at the mammoth domino pieces marking the path where the Berlin Wall once stood and remi­nisced about life in the barrier’s shadow. 
“It was like a prison,” said Mr. Sauff, 73, who lived on the Western side of the wall. “For us ‘Wessis,’ the few kilometers from our old home to our new home (in the East) was unthinkable.” 
The Sauffs were among those who gathered Monday to celebrate 20 years of unity, marking the day the wall came down. Thousands cheered as 1,000 colorfully decorated dominoes along a mile-long route were toppled to symbol­ize both the moment the wall came crashing down and the resulting fall of communist coun­tries in Eastern Europe. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Gov. calls for gay marriage action 
ALBANY, N.Y. — Gov. David Paterson on Monday urged lawmakers to legalize same-sex marriage in New York, calling it “an issue that touches on the very core of our cit­izenship.” 
His request raises the hopes of gay advo­cates who suffered a major defeat in Maine when voters repealed that state’s same-sex­marriage law last week. 
In New York City, Christine Quinn, the openly gay council speaker, quickly weighed in by offering an impassioned plea for the state Senate to pass a bill legalizing same-sex marriage. 
In a rare midyear address to a joint session of the Legislature, the Democrat singled out his gay marriage proposal in a lengthy agen­da for Tuesday’s extraordinary session that will mostly be devoted to addressing the state’s $3.2 billion budget deficit. 
SupremeCourtreinstatesdeathpenalty 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — The U.S. Supreme Court has reinstated the death penalty against an Ohio man who killed and mutilat­ed a man he met in a gay bar in 1985, rejecting a claim that his lawyers erred dur­ing the sentencing phase of his trial. 
Attorneys for Robert Van Hook had argued that the lawyers who represented him dur­ing the sentencing phase of his trial failed to do an effective job. In its ruling Monday, the high court reversed a ruling by the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati. 
Van Hook killed David Self in Self’s apart­ment in Cincinnati before robbing him and fleeing to Florida, where he was arrested and later confessed. 
LOCAL NEWS 

UPS exec. accused of rape kills self 
ATLANTA — A vice president for shipping giant UPS who was accused of raping a 21-year-old Indiana University student over homecoming weekend has committed suicide in Georgia, police said Monday. 
Mark Samoline, who had been with UPS for 15 years and was involved in providing transporta­tion consulting services to clients of the company's supply chain unit, was found dead in a hotel room Friday in Norcross, an Atlanta suburb. 
The 50-year-old placed a plastic bag over his head and ingested helium that he pumped into the bag from a tank, said Officer Brian Kelly, a Gwinnett County Police Department spokesman. 
BRAZIL 
Short dress expulsion reversed 
University decides not to expel college student for her “immodest” fashion choice 
Associated Press 
SAO PAULO — A Brazilian  
woman whose short, pink  
dress caused a near riot at a  
private college and led to her  
expulsion will be allowed to  
return to class.  
The private Bandeirante  
University backed down  
Monday on its decision to  
expel 20-year-old Geisy  
Arruda following a flood of  
negative reaction in a nation  
where skimpy attire is com­ 
mon. Videos of students ridi­ 
culing her and making cat­ 
calls Oct. 22 made her an  
Internet sensation.  
Just hours after the  
Brazilian government sought  
an explanation from the uni­ 
versity, its dean released a  
note saying he was reversing  
the school’s decision to expel  
Arruda.  
The Education Ministry  
had given the university 10  
days to clarify its reasoning  
for kicking out Arruda, who  
had to put on a professor’s  
white coat and was escorted  
away by police amid a hail of  
insults and curses from  
other students.  
A video of the incident was  
posted on YouTube and  
quickly made headlines  
across Brazil. The universi-AP  
ty’s decision to expel the stu-Student Geisy Arruda poses at her home in Sao Paulo Sunday wearing the same  
dent Sunday prompted com-dress that she was expelled for wearing on campus at Bandeirante University.  
plaints from the national stu­ 
dent union and the country’s  where many bikinis are  Lencioni and the university  n’t offend anybody. I was  
minister in charge of  referred to locally as “dental  said Arruda even raised her  always like that and was  
women’s policy, among oth­ floss” — most college stu­ dress and stopped to pose  never recriminated by any­ 
ers.  dents dress more modestly  for photos the night she  body.”  
Sao Paulo state prosecu­ on campus, commonly in  wore the short dress on  Civil police in the city of  
tors had said they would  jeans and T-shirts.  campus. He said she also  Sao Bernardo do Campo,  
investigate what led to the  The university published  chose the longest way to get  where the university is locat­ 
university’s decision to expel  newspaper advertisements  to class to attract the atten­ ed, said they will investigate  
Arruda, and the student  Sunday saying it expelled  tion of more students.  the students accused of  
later told reporters through  Arruda for disrespecting  In Sunday’s ads, titled  heckling Arruda. The uni- 
her lawyer that she was  “ethical principles, academic  “Educational Responsibility,”  versity said it would tem­ 
going to sue the teaching  dignity and morality.”  the college said it had previ­ porarily suspend some of  
institution in hopes she could  The ads also alleged  ously warned Arruda to  them.  
finish the semester there.  Arruda acted in a provoca­ change her behavior and  Brazil’s national student  
The dean’s note gave no  tive manner incompatible  decided to expel her after  union, the Brazilian BAR  
reasons for why the decision  with the university environ- talking to students, staff and  Association, and several  
was being overturned.  ment.  Arruda herself.  other institutions condemned  
Arruda and her lawyer  University lawyer Decio  Arruda, who was studying  Arruda’s expulsion. Brazil’s  
could not be reached imme- Lencioni told Globo TV that  tourism, said she was dis- minister for women’s policy,  
diately for comment on the  the institution was only fol- heartened by the decision.  Nilcea Freire, told the official  
school’s reversal.  lowing its rules.  “It’s a great injustice,” she  Agencia Brasil news service  
Although Brazil is known  “The problem is not her  told Globo TV. “I always  Sunday that the decision  
for revealing clothing —  clothes; it’s her behavior, her  dressed in a way that makes  showed “intolerance and dis- 
especially in beach cities,  attitude,” he said.  me feel good and that does­ crimination.”  

CHINA 
China executes nine over July ethnic riots 
especially fast for China, where political-with Internet access cut and internation-
Associated Press 
ly sensitive cases are often decided in al direct dialing calls blocked. 
BEIJING — Nine Uighurs have been weeks. The news service said another 20 peo­executed for taking part in ethnic rioting Hundreds of people were rounded up ple were indicted on Monday on charges that left nearly 200 people dead in July, in the wake of the riots, in which related to the deaths of 18 people and the first suspects put to death in the Uighurs attacked members of China’s other crimes committed during the riots. unrest, Chinese state media reported Han ethnic majority on July 5, only to All but two of the prisoners listed in the Monday. face retaliatory attacks two days later. report had Uighur sounding names, with 
The nine were put to death recently Uighurs are a Turkic Muslim ethnic the others appearing to be Han. after a final review of the verdicts by the group linguistically and culturally dis-Overseas Uighur activist Dilxat Raxit Supreme People’s Court as required by tinct from the Han and many resent condemned the executions as motivated law, the official China News Service said, Beijing’s heavy-handed rule in Xinjiang, by politics and the need to appease but gave no specific date or other details. their traditional homeland. Urumqi’s angry Han residents, who 
They had been convicted of murder China blames the rioting on overseas-marched in the thousands through the and other crimes committed during the based groups agitating for broader city in September to demand trials of riots in the western city of Urumqi in rights for Uighurs in Xinjiang. Four those responsible for the July violence China’s worst ethnic violence in decades. months after the violence, Xinjiang and the perpetrators of a bizarre series 
The timing of the executions was not remains smothered in heavy security, of hypodermic needle attacks. 

page 6 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, November 10, 2009 
DNA, ballistics link suspect to shooting 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE — DNA and ballis­tics tests link a suspect shot by detectives last week to the Halloween slaying of a Seattle police officer as well as an attempted hit on law enforce­ment nine days earlier, investi­gators said Monday. 
Seattle Assistant Chief Jim Pugel said DNA belonging to 41-year-old Christopher Monfort was found on an American-flag-style bandanna on the ground where Officer Timothy Brenton was shot and killed and officer-trainee Britt Sweeney was wounded, and the .223 rifle used in the attack was found in Monfort’s apart­ment. 
In addition, investigators found Monfort’s DNA on a small flag found at a city mainte­nance yard where four police vehicles were firebombed on Oct. 22, Pugel said. 
That attack is now being described as an attempted assassination: A fire in a mobile command post was set first, apparently to attract officers, and after they arrived, the cruisers exploded. Two officers who responded almost parked next to the cruisers that explod­ed, but instead drove to a dif­ferent part of the maintenance yard looking for the culprit. 
“They would have been killed or seriously maimed,” Pugel said. “He meant to kill someone then.” 
A public defender working on Monfort’s case, Julie Lawry, did not immediately return a call or email seeking comment. She told The Seattle Times she had thus far not been allowed to see Monfort, who remains in Harborview Medical Center after being shot by police dur­ing his arrest Friday. 
Monfort was taken out of intensive care Monday after­noon. He is in satisfactory con­dition and can respond to ques­tions, hospital spokeswoman Susan Gregg-Hanson said. 
Brenton and Sweeney were shot as they sat in their cruiser on Halloween night in Seattle’s Leschi neighborhood, dis­cussing a traffic stop they had just made. Sweeney was able to return fire and hit the suspect’s vehicle as it drove away, Pugel said. 
Investigators began to focus on Monfort after receiving a tip from a neighbor of his at a Tukwila apartment complex. Monfort had been acting strangely since the shooting, the neighbor reported, and he had placed a tarp over his old Datsun — a car that matched the one police were looking for. 
When detectives tried to question Monfort on Friday, he drew a handgun and clicked the trigger — but nothing hap­pened, Pugel said. 
Monfort took off running, and detectives briefly lost him before seeing him again at the top of a stairway near his apartment. They shot him when he raised his gun again, Pugel said. 
No motive for the shooting has emerged. Based on conver­sations with neighbors, police believe Monfort had recently been fired from his job as a security guard, but they aren’t sure where he worked. He had previously studied law enforce­ment and justice at Highline Community College and the University of Washington. Monfort had previously expressed concern about police brutality, Pugel said. 
Police released photos Monday of the .223 rifle as well as bombs found in Monfort’s apartment. The bombs consist­ed of small propane tanks duct-taped together, with nails and other shrapnel protruding. The fuse to one such bomb rested on the heating element of his kitchen stove in one photo; it would have exploded if he had turned the burner on, Pugel said. 

Big rig plummets off Calif. bridge 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — An acci­dent-plagued stretch of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge saw its first fatality Monday when the driver of a speeding big rig lost control and the truck plummeted 200 feet from the span, authorities said. 
The truck hauling a full load of pears was traveling about 50 mph — 10 mph over the speed limit — when the driver lost control on a westbound S-curve, California Highway Patrol Sgt. Trent Cross said. 
The rig hit a rail and went over the side, landing on Yerba Buena Island. 
“The driver was going way too fast,” Cross said. 
The name of the trucker killed in the crash was not released. 
Authorities said the speed coupled with the shifting load propelled the truck over the side of the bridge. 
Lanes were closed following the pre-dawn crash, backing up traffic during the morning commute. 
The California Department of Transportation plans to replace roadway markers Monday night that were damaged dur­ing the crash, spokesman Bart Ney said. 
The agency also plans to add reflective paint to the railing that motorists can see as they go through the curve, he said. 
There have been about 40 crashes on the S-curve since it opened Sept. 8. The speed limit drops from 50 mph to 40 mph along that stretch of the bridge, but drivers are advised to slow down even more to 35 mph through the curve. 
The S-curve is a temporary detour until construction on a new, seismically safe eastern span of the bridge is complet­ed. 
Cross said speed was respon­sible for most of the crashes that have taken place on the curve, including an overturned big-rig on Oct. 14 that tied up traffic for hours. 
Man confesses to murder 
Roeder makes no apologies for slaying of U.S. abortion provider 
Associated Press 
WICHITA, Kansas — Defiant and unapologetic, a man accused of shooting a Kansas abortion provider confessed to the slaying Monday, telling The Associated Press that he killed the doctor to protect unborn children. 
Scott Roeder, 51, of Kansas City, Missouri, spoke to the AP in a telephone call from jail, saying he plans to argue at his trial that he was justified in shooting Dr. George Tiller. 
“Because of the fact pre­born children’s lives were in imminent danger this was the action I chose. ... I want to make sure that the focus is, of course, obviously on the pre­born children and the neces­sity to defend them,” Roeder said. 
“Defending innocent life — that is what prompted me. I mean, it is pretty simple,” he said. 
Roeder is charged with one count of first-degree murder in Tiller’s death and two counts of aggravated assault for allegedly threatening two ushers who tried to stop him during the May 31 melee in the foyer of the doctor’s Wichita church. Roeder has pleaded not guilty and is scheduled to go to trial in January. 
Tiller family attorney Lee Thompson and groups that support abortion rights decried Roeder as a terrorist who used violence to achieve his political agenda. 
“It is precisely this unrepen­tant domestic terrorism — and those who fund it — that must be stopped or else we will see more clinic violence and people will be killed,” the president of the National Organization for Women, Terry O’Neill, said in a state­ment. 
Thompson has said allowing Roeder to use a so-called necessity defense would “invite chaos and be tanta­mount to anarchy.” Courts have prevented others accused of killing abortion providers from using the same argument. 
“It is my view legally that it is an absurdity and simply reflects he is doing nothing more than trying to get pub­licity,” Thompson said Monday. 
Troy Newman, president of the anti-abortion group Operation Rescue, said Roeder’s statements do not reflect the sentiments of most people who oppose abortion. 
“The pro-life standard has always been to protect the dignity of human life, all human life, from the moment of conception until natural death,” Newman said. 
In his more than 30-minute interview with the AP, Roeder did not apologize for the slay­ing. 
“No, I don’t have any regrets because I have been told so far at least four women have changed their minds, that I know of, and have chosen to have the baby,” Roeder said. “So even if one changed her mind it would be worth it. No, I don’t have any regrets.” 
Asked if he would do it over again, Roeder replied: “We all have a sense of duty and obli­gation to protect innocent life. 
If anybody is in a situation where they can, I think it is their obligation.” 
Tiller, 67, had been the tar­get of relentless protests for most of the 36 years that he performed abortions at his Wichita clinic, where he prac­ticed as one of the few providers of late-term abor­tions in the U.S. He was shot in both arms in 1993 and his clinic was bombed in 1986. 
Roeder’s confession came on the same day several stri­dent abortion opponents released their “Defensive Action Statement 3rd Edition” that proclaims any force that can be used to defend the life of a “born child is legitimate to defend the life of an unborn child.” The state­ment’s 21 signers demand Roeder’s jurors be allowed to consider the “question of when life begins” in deciding whether lethal force was jus­tified. 
Among the signers are Eric Rudolph, James Kopp and Shelley Shannon — all serving prison time for targeting abortion providers. 
One signer, New Jersey anti­abortion activist Joe Provone, said Kopp, Rudolph and Roeder are “worthy of admi­ration, gratitude and respect.” 
“Not everyone possesses their courage or ability as we are all endowed by our God with different gifts and tal­ents,” Provone wrote in an e­mail to AP. “Please rest assured I will continue to protest the killing of the unborn in the way I deem appropriate given my own self-appraisal.” 

The Observer 
Business

Tuesday, November 10, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Camel eyes co. to help smokers quit 
RICHMOND, Va. — Reynolds American Inc., maker of Camel cigarettes and Grizzly smoke­less tobacco, is in talks to buy a Swedish com­pany that helps people stop smoking, a tobac­co expert who said he was briefed by people close to the talks told The Associated Press Monday. 
The second-largest U.S. tobacco company is eyeing Niconovum AB, which sells cigarette replacement products in gum, pouch and spray form outside the U.S., according to David Sweanor, a Canadian law professor and tobacco expert. 
The deal, which could be worth $44.5 mil­lion, could be imminent, he said. 
Sweanor said Reynolds’ interest in Niconovum may be focused on offering smok­ing alternatives rather than products meant to help people stop using nicotine and tobacco. 
“The market’s coming to understand that nicotine products exist on a very broad contin­uum of risk, and cigarettes are at the far risky end of that, and it’s possible to have far less hazardous products that would probably meet the needs for a very significant number of smokers,” Sweanor said. 
Supreme Court questions patent cases 
WASHINGTON — Should techniques for train­ing horses be eligible for a patent? What about a system for choosing a jury or fail-proof method for speed dating? 
Supreme Court justices raised the questions Monday as they struggled to decide what types of inventions should qualify for patent protection. 
In a case that has put software and bioscience companies on edge, the justices debated whether processes or methods of doing business should be eligible for protection. The dispute has raised serious questions about whether software pro­grams, medical procedures, financial transac­tions and other nontangible inventions should be able to obtain patents like those granted to phys­ical devices. And it left the high court grappling with the line between abstract processes and concrete applications. 
Monday’s oral arguments made clear that the justices are skeptical that the business method at the center of the case before them — a process of hedging weather-related risk in energy prices 
— deserves a patent. 
Innocent framed for child porn 
Through new virus, pedophiles use other people’s remote PCs to visit heinous sites 
Associated Press  
SAN FRANCISCO  — Of  
all the sinister things that  
Internet viruses do, this  
might be the worst: They  
can  make  someone  an  
unsuspecting collector of  
child pornography.  
Heinous  pictures  and  
videos can be deposited on  
computers by viruses  —  
the malicious programs  
better known for swiping  
your credit card numbers.  
In this twist, it’s your repu­ 
tation that’s stolen.  
Pedophiles  can  exploit  
virus-infected  PCs  to  
remotely store and view  
their stash without fear  
they’ll  get  caught.  
Pranksters  or  someone  
trying to frame you  can  
tap  viruses  to  make  it  
appear that you surf illegal  
Web sites.  
Whatever the motivation,  
you get child porn on your  
computer  — and might not  
realize it until police knock  
at your door.  
An  Associated  Press  
investigation found cases  
in which innocent people  
have  been  branded  as  
pedophiles after their co­ 
workers  or  loved  ones  
stumbled upon child porn AP  
placed on a PC through a Nathaniel “Ned” Solon talks on the phone-intercom at the Logan County Detention Center  
virus. It can cost victims in Colorado. Solon admits he downloads video games and adult porn, but not child porn.  
hundreds of thousands of  
dollars to prove their inno­ police  and  computer  Fiola and his wife fought  stress of the  case.  They  
cence.  examiners.  the  case,  spending  say  they’ve  talked  to  
Their situations are com- One  case  involved  $250,000  on  legal fees.  dozens of lawyers but can’t  
plicated by the fact that  Michael Fiola,  a  former  They liquidated their sav­ get  one  to sue  the state,  
actual pedophiles often  investigator  with  the  ings, took a second mort­ because of  a  cap  on  the  
blame viruses  — a defense  Massachusetts agency that  gage and sold their car.  amount they can recover.  
rightfully  viewed  with  oversees  workers’  com- An  inspection  for  his  “It ruined my life, my  
skepticism by law enforce­ pensation.  defense revealed the lap­ wife’s life and my family’s  
ment.  In 2007, Fiola’s bosses  top was severely infected.  life,” he says.  
“It’s an  example of the  became suspicious after  It was programmed to visit  The Massachusetts attor­ 
old ‘dog ate my homework’  the Internet bill for his  as many as 40 child porn  ney general’s office, which  
excuse,” says Phil Malone,  state-issued laptop showed  sites  per  minute  — an  charged Fiola, declined  
director of the Cyberlaw  that he used 4 1/2 times  inhuman feat. While Fiola  interview requests.  
Clinic  at  Harvard’s  more  data than his col- and his wife were  out to  At any moment, about 20  
Berkman  Center  for  leagues.  A  technician  dinner one night, someone  million of the estimated 1  
Internet & Society. “The  found child porn in the PC  logged on to the computer  billion Internet-connected  
problem is, sometimes the  folder that stores images  and porn flowed in for an  PCs worldwide are infect- 
dog does eat your home- viewed online.  hour and a half.  ed with viruses that could  
work.”  Fiola  was  fired  and  Prosecutors performed  give hackers full control,  
The AP’s investigation  charged with possession of  another  test  and  con- according to security soft- 
included interviewing peo­ child pornography, which  firmed the defense find- ware  maker  F-Secure  
ple who had been found  carries up to five years in  ings.  The  charge  was  Corp. Computers often get  
with child porn  on  their  prison. He endured death  dropped  — 11  months  infected when people open  
computers.  The  AP  threats, his car tires were  after it was filed.  e-mail attachments from  
reviewed court records  slashed  and  he  was  The Fiolas say they have  unknown sources or visit a  
and spoke to prosecutors,  shunned by friends.  health problems from the  malicious Web page.  

Google buys ad startup for $750 million 
Associated Press ad service DoubleClick for $3.2 bil-been trying to become a bigger play-
lion in March 2008. er in display ads — a format that 
SAN FRANCISCO — Google Inc. is It took a year to close the tends to be favored by big-spending buying mobile advertising network DoubleClick deal, far longer than companies trying to promote their AdMob for $750 million, underscor-Google anticipated, as U.S. antitrust brands. ing the Internet search leader’s regulators took time before deciding With the increasing sophistication determination to ensure its market-the DoubleClick combination would-of handheld computing devices such ing machine reaches the growing n’t stifle competition in the online ad as Apple Inc.’s iPhone and Motorola number of people surfing the Web market. Google expressed confi-Inc.’s just-released Droid, millions of on phones. dence that antitrust regulators people are regularly connecting to 
The all-stock deal announced won’t need as long to vet the AdMob their favorite Internet services when Monday also represents the latest deal because there are still several they are away from their home or sign that Google’s leaders are feel-other mobile ad networks from office computers. ing better about the economy’s which to choose. The trend is opening new opportu­direction, encouraging them to AdMob shares at least one similar-nities for advertisers to peddle their spend more freely after clamping ity with DoubleClick: AdMob’s sys-wares. down through much of this year. tem specializes in delivering more Research firm eMarketer Inc. 
Once it closes within the next few visual messages, known as display expects U.S. mobile advertising to months, the AdMob acquisition advertising. Google makes most of approach $1.6 billion by 2013, up would become Google’s most expen-its money from text-based ads con-from an estimated $416 million this sive purchase since it bought online nected to search requests, but has year. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 8 Tuesday, November 10, 2009 
THE OBSERVER Eucharistic adoration at Notre Dame 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
St. Thomas Aquinas defines peace, in one aspect, as the “tranquility of order.” However you define it, we are not doing too well in achieving peace in domestic and international as well as cultural matters. Maybe we are miss­ing something. Let me suggest a prac­tice that can help. 
When John Paul II instituted Eucharistic adora­tion at St. Peter’s Basilica in 1981, he said, “The 

Charles Rice 
best … way of establishing everlasting peace Right or on the face of the Wrong?earth is through … Perpetual Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament.” Mother Teresa, when asked, “What will convert America and save the world?” replied, “My answer is prayer. What we need is for every parish to come before Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament in holy hours of prayer.” 
What are they talking about? The Catholic tradition holds that, “[i]n the … Eucharist, the body and blood, … soul and divinity, of our Lord Jesus Christ and, therefore, the whole Christ is truly, really and substantially con­tained. This presence is called real, by which is not intended to exclude the other types of presence … but because it is presence in the fullest sense … it is substantial presence by which Christ, God and man, makes himself wholly and entirely present.” (Catechism, no. 1374). 
This conversion of the bread and wine into the body and blood of Christ, promised in the sixth chapter of John’s Gospel and fulfilled at the Last Supper, is called transubstantiation, “a change of the whole substance of the bread into the substance of the body of Christ … and of the whole substance of the wine into the sub­stance of his blood.” Catechism, no. 1376. “Substance,” as Cardinal Avery Dulles put it, “denotes the basic reali­ty of the thing, i.e., what it is in itself.” A change in appearance does not affect the substance of the thing. When the angel Raphael stood before Tobiah, his appearance was that of a “young man,” but his substance was that of an angel (Tobit, 5:5, 12:15). 
“Christ is present,” wrote Cardinal Dulles, “by his dynamic power and action in all the sacraments, but in the Eucharist, His presence is, in addition, substantial. For this reason, the Eucharist may be adored. It is the greatest of all sacraments” (Feb. 15, 2005). 
You are in the real presence of Christ every time you step into a Catholic church where the lighted lamp or candle indicates that the Blessed Sacrament is in the taberna­cle. At any such time one can be with Christ in adoration. The term Eucharistic adoration, however, is usually applied to the exposition of the Sacrament to view. Christ is as fully present in the closed tabernacle as he is in the monstrance during exposi­tion. It helps devotion to be able also to look upon him in the host in which “the whole Christ is truly, really and substantially contained.” 
Eucharistic adoration is a part of Notre Dame, in history as well as practice. “Our great consolation here,” wrote Fr. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., from the wilds of Indiana, “is the Perpetual Adoration in our midst, and the perpetual daily Mass … Upon these two wide spreading wings may we not, each and all, daily rise above the dense and thick fogs of this dreary land of exile? When we die, this dou­ble insurance against forgetfulness will prove to be a rich investment, a precious solace — aye, a source of joy for our last hours, but especially for those whose life is moulded after the Divine precept — always to pray and never to faint.” 
Notre Dame has Eucharistic adora­tion in the Basilica Friday from noon to 4:45 p.m. and in Coleman-Morse, Monday through Thursday from 11 
a.m. to 9 p.m. You don’t have to sign up. Just be there and stay for as long or as short a time as you choose. You can pray, read or just think. You might ask, “What am I going to do for half an hour or 15 minutes, just sitting there? Suppose I fall asleep?” As Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen noted, “That’s the way the Apostles made their first Holy Hour in the Garden.” 
So that should not be a concern. And if you are worried about being bored, it might be useful to reflect on the sev­eral meanings of being there. 
The practice of Eucharistic adora­tion complements the liturgy of the Mass. “One of the most moving moments of the Synod [of Bishops],” wrote Benedict XVI, “came when we gathered in St. Peter’s Basilica, together with a great number of the faithful, for Eucharistic adoration. In this act of prayer, and not just in words, the … Bishops wanted to point out the intrinsic relationship between Eucharistic celebration and Eucharistic adoration. [An] apprecia­tion of this … has been important … in the years following the liturgical renewal desired by the Second Vatican Council. … [A]doration outside Mass prolongs and intensifies … the liturgi­cal celebration … Indeed, ‘only in ado­ration can a profound and genuine reception mature. And it is precisely this personal encounter with the Lord that then strengthens the social mis­sion contained in the Eucharist, which seeks to break down not only the walls that separate the Lord and our­selves, but also and especially the walls that separate us from one another.’” Benedict XVI, Apostolic Exhortation, Sacrament of Love (2007), no. 66, quoting his address, Dec. 22, 2005. 
So why should we consider Eucharistic adoration? One reason is that it works. “People are hungry for God,” said Mother Teresa of Calcutta. “When the Sisters are exhausted, up to their eyes in work; when all seems to go awry, they spend an hour in prayer before the Blessed Sacrament. This practice has never failed to bring fruit; they experience peace and strength.” 
Eucharistic adoration at Notre Dame is essentially a student initiative, with the support and encouragement of Campus Ministry. It is one of the very best things about Notre Dame. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. He may be reached at rice.1@nd.edu, or 574-633-4415. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Ashley Charnley Alex Barker Alicia Smith Douglas Farmer When should Charlie Weis be fired? Tess Civantos Mike Gotimer Graphics Allan Joseph 
Never 
“The only paradise is paradise 

Blair Chemidlin Scene 
Should have been fired yesterday 
lost.” 

Viewpoint Kaitlyn Conway 
After our next loss 
Lauren 
Marcel Proust
After the season 
Brauweiler 
French novelist 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Tuesday, November 10, 2009 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Gameday accomodations 
The visitors that come to Notre Dame for our tradition-filled football weekends range from children play­ing by Stonehenge to old men wear­ing Notre Dame baseball caps and sweaters. They are an important part of our tradition. We hope one day to return with our children, as old men and women in our baseball caps and sweaters. 
Given the diversity of our visitors and the importance of sharing the Notre Dame tradition, I was sur­prised to find that we lack some accommodations for visitors. This was the first time I had to find trans­portation options for a family mem­ber who can’t walk very far or for very long. 
The handicapped parking lot in D2 is far from many on-campus activi­ties. A shuttle takes people from that lot closer to the stadium, but the only way to get from that shuttle to the stadium is to walk. Gameday festivities are an important tradition for alumni, but many are nowhere near the stadium. So how would a person who couldn’t walk well, espe­cially without a wheelchair, travel anywhere on campus from the park­ing lot or shuttle? 
The answer is they probably wouldn’t, which I find sad, especially at a school where fans and students enjoy sharing gameday traditions with their families. This weekend before the game, a family member of mine couldn’t walk to Concert on the Steps. As a proud member of the Band of the Fighting Irish, it would have been important if all of my family could have seen one last Concert on the Steps, not my family minus one. When my brother asked a security officer if he could help get my family member to Bond Hall, he simply answered “I’m sorry, but we don’t provide that.” 
On game weekends, with limited campus access, when one must walk everywhere, how do disabled family and friends share in these special traditions? Even providing scooters or wheelchairs at the visitor center could help the elderly and disabled enjoy the football traditions. At a university like Notre Dame, our answer to that question should not be “Sorry, but we don’t provide that.” 
Andrea Teske 
senior 
Breen-Phillips 
Nov. 8 

Congratulations? 
Congratulations on yet another sig­nature loss, Charlie Weis! All the ingredients were there. The way that you motivated our team to come out flat in Notre Dame Stadium? It’s unbelievable. The lack of physical domination displayed by our team, especially our lines which only out­weighed and not outplayed Navy? It was fascinating to watch. I especial­ly enjoy how you continue to lead our team like the other coaches that earn comparable salaries to you (ex. Urban Meyer, Nick Saban, etc.). It’s historic. Losing to Navy two out of three years? Starting another November meltdown? Isn’t that what we call a return on an investment when the university gave you an extension? 
Maybe you and the team did not want to seize upon the opportunity to really enter the BCS conversation especially when so many factors this weekend seemed to fall in our favor. It’s possible that we really enjoyed playing in Hawaii last year and just wanted to make a return appear­ance. It’s where our players can per­form back flips rather than tackles. Where you can talk a big game rather than actually play in one. On the other hand, Navy seemed really motivated to play us. You can ask about things like “killer instinct” and “desire” when you call your NFL contacts this week. Maybe the Navy players saw you flash your four Super Bowl rings and wanted to play for a winner — albeit the other team. Perhaps, it was just the game plan. After all, who doesn’t enjoy watching highly recruited players chase after guys who will never go to the NFL? 
As you like to say after each and every one of these signature losses, “Where do we go from here fellas?” One proposition is that you learn how to motivate a team by watching Friday Night Lights coach Eric Taylor each week. You both are part of the NBC family and that fictional coach might actually teach you something. Another is to take a hint from the new documentary on Michael Jackson and realize that “this is it” for your head coaching career and simply resign. 
Tae Kang 
grad student off campus Nov. 8 

True support? 
Yesterday I noticed that the yearly pro-life signs had been posted. This year the slogan is “We support women.” My question is: how do you support women? I can’t help but wonder if those who are pro-life con­sider that some young women don’t choose to have abortions, but are forced to by family. Some conceive children after being raped or molest­ed. Others realize that they would be bringing a child into an unhealthy and possibly unsafe environment. I find it offensive that every year we are forced to endure the posters and crosses. What about the students who may have had abortions and are haunted by the experience. 
You say that you support women, but how? Are you going to provide them with the money they need to buy food, diapers, and clothes? Will you ensure that both child and moth­er have health insurance? Can you guarantee housing if her parents choose to turn their backs on her? If the answer is no, then I must dis­agree and say that you don’t support women. It’s insensitive to force stu­dents to see these posters. If the answer is yes, then I will gladly con­cede the validity of your statement that you “support women.” 
Jacquitta Martin 
sophomore McCandless Nov. 9 
Need some respect 
Respect for one’s adversary is certainly admirable, as is consistency in principle. I don’t know for sure, but it’s reasonable to presume that there are men on the Nevada, Washington and even Southern California football teams with military commitments after graduation, who are fully prepared to “make the ultimate sacri­fice for us.” It’s also possible, even probable, given the numbers, that there are players on these “hated” rival teams who have suffered the pain and grief associat­ed with the murder of a close friend or family member. In light of this, to treat teams to a different array of chants and taunts is asinine. Shouting “kill” or “suck it” is always in poor taste, as is “f**k the Pope” or “Rudy sucks” but these swipes are tolerated as the products of fierce loyalty. Although sympathetic concerns like those expressed by Greg Robinson are noble, they were one reason the student sec­tion sounded like s**t against Navy for three quarters. When a rival (be it Navy or the 12 Apostles) comes to our university to try to defeat our football team — and have a fairly easy time of it — we maybe need to reconsider our balance of deco­rum and passion. 
Arthur O. Kostendt 
freshman 
Dillon 
Nov. 9 
Belittling humanities 
I would like to take classes over the summer in order to get my requirements out of the way. I met with my advisor, and he explained that math, science and related classes could not be taken at other universities for credit. However, I could take philosophy, history and theology at other universities. 
Does this seem contrary to the nature of a Catholic university? Science and math­ematics are mostly objective courses. These subjects can be taught similarly at most universities. However, as a Catholic university, philosophy, history and theolo­gy are directed and influenced by Truth, by the Catholic faith. Or, at least, they should be. 
So why can humanities be taken at other schools, while math and sciences cannot be taken? I have heard that argument that this is because math and science are taught better here than at other universities, thus we would not accept credit from other schools. So, are philosophy, history and theology not better here than, or at least different from, other schools? Are they not influenced by the Truth that is inhibited at secular universities? What does this say about our university? As we are being constantly accused of secularization, how is this aiding our Catholic iden­tity? 
Perhaps it is time to reevaluate. While the Catholic identity can be present in all disciplines, it is most obvious in the humanities. Perhaps we should take them more seriously. 
Christopher Damian 
freshman 
Dillon 
Nov. 8 
Coaching change 
I watched in disgust as the football team was hung out to dry this past Saturday. The defense was as ill-prepared as any and the inability to score from within the red zone was baffling. Time after time, I said to my son, “Navy must have 12 men on the field because they seem to have two to three defenders on the receivers.” When it was first and goal at the two, we came away with no points. Navy’s first play after taking over was a 39 yard run by the fullback — another run — and an eventual TD. 
I don’t expect ND to win every game but losing twice to Navy in three years is unacceptable. Losing to Syracuse last year was unacceptable. 
Our coach is a 1978 grad. Maybe he should look at his performance through those eyes. I think the book is called “No Excuses” — so put that in to play and admit that you are not a college head coach. 
alumnus class of 1965 Nov. 9 



page 10 







Observer Graphic I BLAIR CHEMIDLIN 
The Observer 
Scene 
Tuesday, November 10, 2009 
“The Boondock Saints II: All Saints Day” at Browning Cinema, DPAC, 9:30 p.m. 
The sequel to one of students’ favorite cult movies, “The Boondock Saints,” is being shown at a special free screening. Much like the first film, the sequel continues to follow Irish-Catholic brothers as they take revenge and bring justice in Boston after they are framed for a murder. The director, Troy Duffy, and several actors, such as Sean Patrick Flanery, will be present at the screening. Fans should take advantage of an informal discussion with the actors and director about the films in 105 Jordan Hall of Science at 7 p.m. Free tickets will be given out at the DPAC box office starting at noon Tuesday. 
“The Sugar Wife” at DPAC, 7:30 p.m. “The Way We Get By,” 9 p.m. 
The Department of Film, Television and Notre Dame alumnus Gita Pullapilly’s new documen-Theater presents Elizabeth Kuti’s play about a tary film about three senior citizens who greet American couple living in a Quaker community in the 19th troops as they depart for and return from Iraq airs on century. The couple faces moral dilemmas revolv-PBS as the Point of View special. Pullapilly interviews the ing around slavery, poverty and faith. The play is subjects about their experiences with the soldiers, but the sure to make its audience think about how they film also explores issues of aging, loneliness and mortali­would feel if they were in the same situations. Go ty. Support a Notre Dame alumnus by tuning into the spe­to see your classmates assume the roles of these cial, but this film also will open your eyes to two pushed-complicated characters, and stay to watch the aside groups: the elderly and soldiers. Hopefully, viewers compelling story unfold. Tickets are $10, and will be inspired to show more compassion towards “The Sugar Wife” runs from Tuesday to Sunday. strangers. 
“Funny People” at Debartolo 101, 10 p.m.
Baraka Bouts at JACC Fieldhouse, 6 p.m. 
This week’s Student Union Board movie is Judd The Notre Dame Women’s Boxing Club is end­Apatow’s latest film, “Funny People.” Starring Adam ing its 10th season with its annual Baraka Bouts, Sandler and Seth Rogan, this film mixes Apatow’s signa­a charity fight night that allows the nearly 60 ture humor with a dramatic tone, pleasing all types of female boxers a chance to show off their hard audiences. Sandler’s character is diagnosed with a termi­work from training. You will be able to cheer on nal health condition and decides to become a mentor toyour friends and classmates as they pummel each Rogan’s struggling comedian. There will be plenty of other, while at the same time contributing to laughs, but also many touching moments as the charac-Baraka Bouts’ charity, the Holy Cross Missions. 
ters struggle with their life decisions. Tickets are $3, and Tickets are $5 at the door. 
the film runs Thursday through Saturday. 
Asian Allure at Washington Hall, 7:30 p.m. 
Sometimes Notre Dame gets the reputation of Ryan Cabrera at Legends, 10 p.m. not being diverse enough, but this is not really If you are in the mood for a concert, pop singer Ryan the case, especially when students take advan-Cabrera is coming to campus. Cabrera is known for his tage of cultural events like Asian Allure. The hits “On the Way Down” and “Shine On,” as well as his Asian-American Association is putting on a show status as ex-boyfriend of Ashlee Simpson, who he with singing as well as many traditional and appeared with often on her short-lived MTV reality show. modern dances. It is a great opportunity to learn The smaller venue of Legends will combine perfectly with about different cultures in an exciting way. Cabrera’s music to give an intimate and personal feel to Everyone is sure to be entertained with the many the performance. If you were a fan of the Howie Day show musical numbers. Tickets are $7 at Lafortune last year, you will not want to miss Ryan Cabrera. 
Box Office or $10 at the door. The show will also run Saturday night. 
Idan Raichel Project at Leighton Concert Hall, DPAC, 7:30 p.m. 
Israeli music is not instantly recognizable to Americans. Idan Raichel is trying to change this with his band, the Idan Raichel Project. Their music has Hebraic and African rhyme and rhythms that speaks to the origins of humans and culture. This concert will allow students to experience a momentary escape from South Bend to halfway around the world. Maybe Israeli music will be your new favorite, and you can be the cool, trendy friend in your group who lis­tens to Israeli music instead of Lady Gaga. Tickets are $15. 
Snite Museum Exhibits, Now-Dec. 20 
For art lovers, take advantage of the on-campus Snite Museum, which is featuring three new exhibits: Dia de los Muertos (Day of the Dead) Ofrenda Installation Con Ganas (With Heart), Darkness and Light: Death and Beauty in Photography, and Bill Kremer: Sculptural Vessels. The Dia de los Muertos exhibit showcases art by Maria Elena Castro that honors her father and other deceased relatives in celebra­tion of the Mexican holiday. Continuing with the theme of death, the Darkness and Light exhibit is a wide range of photographs that have underlying themes of death and beauty. Come support Notre Dame Professor Bill Kremer, who has had a large influence on ceramics at Notre Dame. These exhibits, as well as the permanent ones, are sure to be thought-provoking. 
Contact Brandy Cerne at bcerne1@nd.edu 
The Observer 
Scene

Tuesday, November 10, 2009 page 11 

By NICK ANDERSON 
Scene Writer 

It’s not a strange coincidence that the penultimate works of any modern artistic form come long before the form itself reaches its peak. The newest form will, without fail, attract the geniuses needed to push the form to its limits, leaving the future carri­ers of the form to merely fill in the blanks. As a general rule, this works: there will never be a better video game than “Zelda: Ocarina of Time,” nor a better movie than “Citizen Kane.” 
In music, this phenomenon is even more pronounced. Rock will never produce a better album than “Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band,” three chords will never produce bet­ter music than the Ramones and a guitar will never produce better music than when in the hands of Jimi Hendrix. The latest album to be included in this pantheon of greatness is Nas’ classic “Illmatic.” 
This is a piece of contention, of course. Rap has yet to convince critics of its legitimacy. The current genera­tion was the first to grow up with hip hop on the radio, in addition to a series of classic albums, soundtracks and groundbreaking movements founded firmly in the culture sur ­rounding this music. Two generations from now, “Illmatic” will enjoy the same raised pedestal as Miles Davis’ “Kind of Blue” and Michael Jackson’s “Thriller.” 
Only 19 when the album began its recording, Nas was rolling with momentum gathered from his guest spots on tracks as well as his per­formances on the streets of Brooklyn. After several failed courtships on the tion, Nas recruited a squad of four native New Yorkers to fill the sound on his album. The efforts of Large Professor, DJ Pete Rock, Q-Tip and DJ Premier laid the groundwork for the album. Jazzy loops over sparse bass were an unfamiliar and revolutionary sonic texture paired perfectly with Nas’ tight dictation and sharpened flow. Samples were snagged from the golden age of rap traced back to its rhythm and blues roots. This bargain­bin-vinyl style permeated the 90’s, fostering rap’s role as the rightful heir to jazz. 

Nas’ story of struggle could be found on any street corner of New York at the end of the Reagan era. Growing up in those troubled days, Nas’ gifts served his music. He dealt in realities, rarely glorifying the drugs and vio­lence of his adolescence, but also not shying away from their dark nature. A self-proclaimed prophet, he seamless­ly mixes despair, crime and violence with bright images of hope for the future. His brash optimism is hopeful, not self-serving. His lyrics are univer­sal, but his voice distinctly of New York in the 90’s. 
Working from the production and inspiration, Nas creates the true greatness of his album. Abandoning both the drawls and growls which dominated rap at the time, Nas found a highly articulate, pointedly enunci­ated flow reminiscent of legends such as Rakim and Eric B. Highly struc­tured verses, overflowing with inter­nal rhyme schemes, brilliant lan ­guage, and vivid imagery. Skilled writing gives Nas’ message an effec­tive medium. 
Sixteen years after its release, “Illmatic” remains a much greater underground success than mainstream mainstay. 


page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 10, 2009 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Oregon reinstates RB Blount 
Associated Press 
Oregon running back LeGarrette Blount, who was suspended for the season after punching a Boise State player in the wake of the season opener, has been allowed to rejoin the Ducks. 
The university requested Blount’s reinstatement, which was approved by Pacific-10 Conference Commissioner Larry Scott on Monday. 
Blount will be able to play for the Ducks (No. 13 BCS, No. 14 AP) on Saturday night when they host Arizona State. He missed eight games. 
Blount issued a statement say­ing he was grateful to Oregon coach Chip Kelly for giving him a second chance. 
“Now it is up to me to prove to people that their lasting impres­sions of me are not what they saw in Boise,” he said. 
Blount punched Byron Hout following the nationally tele­vised opener, bringing the Broncos’ defensive end to his knees. The next day he was sus­pended for the season by Kelly, but he was allowed to keep his scholarship and practice with the team. 
Kelly later said that if Blount met certain academic and behavioral conditions, he would be allowed to return. The earli­est possible date for his rein­statement was last Saturday’s game against Stanford, but the Ducks waited until this week to bring him back. Kelly insisted there was no delay in Blount’s return. 
Kelly would not discuss the special requirements for rein­statement, calling it a private issue. 
Kelly recommended Blount’s return to athletic director Mike Bellotti on Sunday night. It was approved by university President Richard Lariviere before being turned over to the conference for approval. 
“After a thorough review of the situation, I am convinced LeGarrette Blount paid a signifi­cant and appropriate price for the mistakes he made on the field, and that he has learned important life-long lessons,” Scott said. 
Blount and Kelly addressed the team on Monday morning. 
“He just apologized to them again for the incident, and told them he was anxious to rejoin the team,” Kelly said. Blount practiced with the team after­ward. 
Blount said in his statement released by the university that he would not speak to reporters. 
“Until that time, I feel my actions can speak louder than anything I could say. I just want to help my teammates who have been supportive of me,” his statement said. 
Blount rushed for 1,002 yards last season. Redshirt freshman LaMichael James emerged as Oregon’s starter in his absence. 
James has run for 1,043 yards so far this season, becoming the first Oregon freshman to go over 1,000 yards rushing. He has rushed for eight touch­downs. 
Oregon (7-2, 5-1 Pac-10) is coming off a 51-42 loss at Stanford this past Saturday. After Arizona State, the Ducks play at Arizona and return home to face Oregon State in the annual Civil War rivalry game. 
Kelly said James will remain his starter against the Sun Devils. Blount’s participation will depend on how he does in practice this week and whether there are any injuries, the coach added. 
Kelly also said he was uncon­cerned about reaction to Blount’s reinstatement. 
“If I based this program on what public opinion is, I’d have a lot of problems,” he said. 
NFL 

Johnson denies feud with Stafford 
Associated Press 
ALLEN PARK, Mich. — Lions coach Jim Schwartz says there’s no feud between Calvin Johnson and Matt Stafford. 
During Sunday’s game against Seattle, television cameras caught what appeared to be uncomfortable exchanges between the receiv­er and quarterback. 
Stafford threw five intercep­tions in the 32-20 loss. Johnson had two catches for 27 yards after missing the previous two games because of a knee injury. 
“There’s no issue there,” he said. “You always want to be winning games and happy and cheerful, but goodness gra­cious, if you had a camera on every person on every play, you could try to read between the lines on a million things. There are times you need to talk things out, but there’s no issue here with the players, and I don’t understand why people are trying to create one.” 
Stafford didn’t appear dur­ing Detroit’s media availabili­ty, but Johnson was equally adamant that there wasn’t a problem between the pair. 
“I haven’t seen the TV replays, because there’s no reason for me to watch them 
— we’re fine,” he said. “People are blowing this way out of proportion. Trust me, no one is going to be happy during a game like that. If you win, all this goes out the win­dow.” 
Seattle turned the ball over on its first two plays, and the Lions took advantage by build­ing a quick 17-0 lead, only to be outscored 32-3 in the final three periods. 
Detroit had the ball with 35 seconds left and trailing by 5, but Stafford’s fifth intercep­tion was returned for the clinching touchdown. 
“After watching the tape, it’s hard to believe that we had a chance to win that game at the end,” Schwartz said. “That was a game filled with errors on offense, defense and spe­cial teams. Based on the num­ber of errors, it is amazing to me that we even had a chance at the end of the game.” 
The quick start and bad fin­ish had Schwartz confused. 
“Honestly, I don’t know whether to look at it as glass half-full or glass half-empty,” he said. “We took a cross-country trip, played in a loud place under adverse condi­tions and were up 17 -0. There’s positives there. The fact that we were up 17-0 and let it slip away, there aren’t many positives that you can look at there.” 
Linebacker Ernie Sims, who pulled a hamstring, didn’t have any mixed emotions. 
“I’m sick and tired of los­ing,” he said. “We couldn’t have asked for a better start than that, and we still lost. It’s really tough.” 
NFL 
Coach shrugs off WRBoldin’scomments 
hit last week in Arizona’s home 
Associated Press 
loss to Carolina. 
TEMPE, Ariz. — Arizona Boldin didn’t practice last coach Ken Whisenhunt is week until Friday, when he brushing aside wide receiver worked out on a limited basis. Anquan Boldin’s critical com-He had done the same the pre­ments that followed the vious week and played. He said Cardinals’ 41-he felt good 21 victory at after warming Chicago. up in Chicago. 
“Nobody was man
Boldin was “If I had 
limited in prac-enough to come and made the deci­tice by an ankle tell me what the sion, I would injury. He have been play-
situation was.” 
warmed up for ing,” Boldin the game, felt said. “When I good and Anquan Boldin came back in, expected to Cardinals wide receiver all of my stuff 
play, only to find all his gear had been removed from his locker. 
“Nobody was man enough to come and tell me what was the situation,” Boldin said. 
Whisenhunt said he told Boldin shortly after the list of inactive players was submitted. 
The coach gave the players Monday off and said Boldin’s attitude “doesn’t concern me at all.” 
“In fact, that is kind of what you like to see because he wants to play,” Whisenhunt said. “I think we all know how tough and how competitive Anquan is. The fact that he was upset that he didn’t play is what you would expect. I cer­tainly have no issues with that whatsoever.” 
“The fact that 
The three-moved Ali time Pro Bowl [Boldin] was upset Highsmith, a receiver has fixture on spe­
that he didn’t play is 
seemed out of cial teams, to 
what you would
sorts much of the starting the season, an expect.” linebacker spot, attitude that requiring fur-probably stems ther shifting of 
Ken Whisenhunt 
from the team’s the roster. 
Cardinals coach
failure to give him a contract extension, something he has said the Cardinals management had promised to do. 
He said at the start of train­ing camp that he was not going to address the contract issue this season. No one close to the organization has accused Boldin of letting his attitude affect his play. Teammates con­sider him one of the toughest and hardest working players on the roster. 
But, often injured in his career, he has been slowed this season by a high right ankle sprain. The injury occurred in team’s victory over Houston in Game 3, and was aggravated when the ankle took a direct was out of my 
locker, so I did-n’t make the decision. I know I was (ready). It wasn’t the field or anything like that. That’s the best I’ve felt in three weeks.” 
Whisenhunt said his decision not to play Boldin was based largely on the soft field condi­tions. 
“The field was thick and loose, and the footing on it wasn’t great,” the coach said after the game. “We’ve seen guys slipping and falling in other games, and I was afraid he could easily turn his ankle on that field coming out of a break.” 
Whisenhunt said Monday that another reason for Boldin sitting was the absence of line­backer Gerald Hayes with a sore back. That 
“I know what 
Anquan has 
fought through the last two games, and he has gotten a little tired at the end,” the coach said after the game. “We have a tough stretch com­ing up, and a couple of division games. I wanted to make sure he was ready to go.” 
This isn’t the first time the ultra-competitive Boldin has complained publicly about not being on the field. He had a nationally televised shouting match with then-offensive coordinator Todd Haley on the sidelines because he wasn’t in the game as Arizona marched to the winning touchdown against Philadelphia in last season’s NFC championship game. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES 
——————————————— Irish Crossings and Dublin Village 3 and 4 bdr, furnished and unfur­nished. January and June 2010 leases available. www.cespm.info Call 574-968-0112. 
——————————————— 5 bdrm, 2 bath home. 705 ND Ave. $2150/mo. 
Avail. June 2010. 574-276-2333. ——————————————— 3 bdrm home on 1 acre wooded lot. 

Close to ND (1 block). 
$1250/mo. 574-276-2333. 
——————————————— 4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES OF NATURE AND SERENITY. 
9 MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME. 
$1,200 FOR WEEKEND. 
CALL GEORGIA PEACH BED AND BREAKFAST @269-357-6979. 
——————————————— 
2 bdrm, 1.5 bath home, detached garage, finished basement, hard­wood floors, new appliances. 
1334 Corby St., $650/mo. 
Avail. now or for 10-11 school year. 
574-309-6961. 
——————————————— Furnished family home walk to ND. 
4bdrm/2ba. $2K/mo. 
Spring semester. 574-968-7394. ——————————————— 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you . If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1­17819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu 
——————————————— 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu 
——————————————— 
TICKETS 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top $$. 574-251-1570 
——————————————— VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232­0964. 
——————————————— 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK 
$14.25 base-appt., no experience needed, customer sales/service, 574-273-3835. 
—————————————— Part time help needed at UP Mall. 
Must be good with kids and have clean driving record! 
Email resume and days available to: northcoastrr@gmail.com 
——————————————— 

Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 

Tuesday, November 10, 2009 
page 13 

NCAA Football Bowl Championship Series Top 25 
team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Alabama 3 3 Texas 2 4 TCU 6 5 Cincinnati 5 6 Boise State 7 7 Georgia Tech 10 8 LSU 9 9 Southern California 12 10 Iowa 4 11 Ohio State 16 12 Pittsburgh 13 13 Oregon 8 14 Miami (Fla.) 17 15 Houston 15 16 Utah 14 17 Arizona 18 18 Penn State 11 19 Oklahoma State 19 20 Wisconsin 21 21 Virginia Tech 23 22 BYU NR 23 Oregon State NR 24 South Florida 25 25 West Virginia NR 
AVCA Coaches’ Poll Volleyball Division I Top 25 
team  previous  
1  Penn State  1  
2  Texas  2  
3  Hawaii  3  
4  Washington  4  
5  Illinois  5  
6  UCLA  7  
7  Stanford  5  
8  Iowa State  8  
9  Nebraska  10  
10  Florida  9  
11  Kentucky  11  
12  California  13  
13  Minnesota  12  
14  MIchigan  15  
15  Florida State  11  
16  Oregon  16  
17  Southern California  14  
18  Arizona  17  
19  Louisiana State  18  
20  St. Louis  20  
21  Baylor  21  
22  Northern Iowa  20  
23  St. Mary’s (Cal.)  25  
24  NOTRE DAME  NR  
25  San Diego  22  



around the dial 
NCAA Football 
Ohio at Buffalo 
7 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL 
Penguins at Bruins 7 p.m., Versus 
NFL 

Larry Johnson’s release creates buzz 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Given good blocking and a fresh start, Larry Johnson might still be the power-running Pro Bowler who had back-to­back 1,700-yard seasons for Kansas City. 
Are you listening, Seattle? What do you think, Indianapolis? Chicago? Houston? 
Or he might be a declin­ing malcontent who ’ll 
only 
cost money and cause trouble. 

To that, every coach and general manager in the NFL is listening. The Chiefs released Johnson 

on 
Monday, the day he was due back from his 


second suspension in the past 12 months. 
Any team with a falter­ing running game is bound to be tempted by Johnson, despite his bag­gage and his age (he turns 30 on Nov. 19). 
“Any player that’s avail­able, we look at,” said Bears coach Lovie Smith. “That’s been our stan ­dard policy throughout. That’ll be the case with Larry.” 
Houston coach Gary Kubiak agreed. 
“When a name like that comes on the free agent market like today, we’ll 
obviously go back and take a look at him just like any other player,” Kubiak said. “Obviously, he’s been a good player in this league and I’m sure he ’ll get a lot of interest from a lot of peo­ple.” 
Johnson has been high maintenance since the Chiefs drafted him in the first round out of Penn State in 2003. Unhappy because he thought he was going to be taken by the Pittsburgh Steelers, Johnson brooded while playing behind Pro Bowler Priest Holmes. He even prompted then ­coach Dick Vermeil to say it was time for him “to take the diapers off.” 
His last brush with con­troversy came two weeks ago when he posted on his Twitter account a gay slur, insulted followers and questioned the com­petence of head coach Todd Haley. 
He was suspended for two weeks, but Haley said the final decision to cast him aside was not made until early Monday. 
“We decided it was in the best interests of the Kansas City Chiefs organ­ization to move forward at this time,” he said. 
Behind a poor offensive line this year, Johnson has averaged a paltry 2.7 yards for the Chiefs (1-7) and appeared not to have the quickness and pun­ishing power that enabled him to rush for more than 1,700 yards in Pro Bowl seasons in 2005 and ‘06. 
IN BRIEF 
Michigan AD apologizes to students he pushed 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. — Outgoing University of Michigan athletic director Bill Martin says he’s apolo­gized to two student security work­ers who reported he assaulted them during football games. 
The school said Monday it’s closed an investigation of Martin’s actions. 
Michigan student Jackie Turner says Martin pushed her Sept. 12 when she requested his ID as he entered the regents guest area of the press box during Michigan’s game against Notre Dame. 
Eastern Michigan student Arif Khan says Martin grabbed him when he asked for his ID in the same general area Oct. 17 soon after the end of a game against Delaware State. 
Four days later, Martin announced he was retiring next September. 
The students weren’t injured, and neither pressed charges. 
Ovechkin said he joked about injury severity 
ARLINGTON, Va. — Alex Ovechkin says he was joking when he told a reporter over the weekend that he could be out more than a month. 
The Washington Capitals star practiced lightly Monday and said he would actually miss about a week. 
He hasn’t played since leaving a Nov. 1 game against Columbus after he was hurt in a scrum. The Capitals said last week that Ovechkin, whose 14 goals and 23 points lead the team, was week to week with what they called an upper-body problem. 
Ovechkin, who was quoted by Yahoo! on Saturday night as saying he could miss four or five weeks, insisted his left shoulder was not affected by the still unspecified injury, animatedly flexing the joint and telling reporters with a smile, “The shoulder’s fine, see?” 
Taylor arrested in Miami traffic incident 
MIAMI — Former football star Lawrence Taylor has been released on bond following his arrest in a Miami-area traffic accident. 
According to Miami-Dade County jail records, Taylor was charged Sunday with leaving the scene of an accident with property damage, a second-degree misdemeanor. He was released on $500 bond later that night. It was not immediately clear if Taylor has an attorney. 
A Florida Highway Patrol spokesman says Taylor was involved in a hit-and-run crash Sunday in Hialeah. Taylor told investigators he thought he had hit a guard rail. There were no injuries and troopers didn’t conduct a sobriety test. 
Taylor is a former New York Giants linebacker. He was inducted into the NFL Hall of Fame in 1999. He also competed in ABC’s “Dancing With the Stars” this year. 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, November 10, 2009 
NFL 

Saints pleased with hot start 
Associated Press 
METAIRIE, La. — Jabari Greer takes a cautious view 
of the dramatic improve ­ments made by the unbeaten Saints in only one season. 
“It ’s a long season and people like to analyze where you are at a certain point,” Greer said. “But as a com­petitor, you realize it doesn’t matter until it’s over. 
“If we continue to do this, then we have something special. But if we don ’t, we’re going to be the team that could have, you know? That should have.” 
With only half of their 2009 season in the books, the Saints already have matched their win total from 2008, surpassed several key statistical marks from all of last season and put them­selves on pace to improve significantly in other areas. 
The biggest gains have come on defense. Three fumble recoveries in a 30-20 win over Carolina 
on 
Sunday gave New Orleans 24 takeaways this season, or two more than in all of 2008. 

Anthony Hargrove’s score 

on 
a short fumble return was the Saints ’ seventh defensive touchdown this season, compared to none last year. 


The Saints also have 16 interceptions this season after having 15 the year before. 
Greer, a sixth-year corner­back in his first season with the Saints, has been a key contributor to New Orleans’ increase in big plays on defense. He has two inter­ceptions and returned one of them for a touchdown. 
Still, in five previous years in the NFL, Greer agreed that “it would seem unusu­al” for an NFL team to need only half a season to eclipse 16-game totals for things like fumble recoveries and interceptions. 
At the same time, the Saints expected to make substantial gains in those areas, he said, because “it’s something that we stress every day during practice.” 
Coach Sean Payton was quick to note that different personnel and changes on the coaching staff — the Saints have a new defensive coordinator in Gregg Williams — are bound to produce different results. 
“There are a lot of things that we can point to as to why we were 8-8 a year ago, ” Payton said. “The comparison of why we’re playing better football this year, I would say we’re play­ing better defense, we’re rushing the football better, we ’re creating the turnovers. Those are the three things that I don ’t think we did very well a year ago.” 
The gains have been less dramatic with an offense that led the NFL last season, but there is still evidence of improvement. 
The Saints are averaging 
144.6 yards rushing this season, 45 yards more per game than last season. The Saints are averaging 37.9 points per game, or about nine points per game more than last season. 
MLB 
World Series heroes set to enter free agency 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — World Series MVP Hideki Matsui became a free agent Monday along with New York Yankees teammates Johnny Damon, Eric Hinske, Jose Molina and Xavier Nady. 
Matsui and Damon both said after the Yankees’ six-game victory over Philadelphia last week that they would like to stay with New York. The Yankees said it was too early to address how they want to formulate their team for 2010. 
Phillies third baseman Pedro Feliz also filed Monday, as did teammates Matt Stairs, Chan Ho Park and Paul Bako. Feliz’s $5.5 million option was declined by Philadelphia on Sunday. 
Also among the 31 players filing were Minnesota short­stop Orlando Cabrera, Mets outfielder Gary Sheffield and Colorado pitcher Jose Contreras. There are 151 players who have filed since the end of the World Series, and 28 more potentially are eligible to file by the Nov. 19 deadline. 
Boston prevented Victor Martinez from filing by exer­cising a $7.7 million option on the catcher-first baseman. The Red Sox declined a $6 million option on shortstop Alex Gonzalez, who gets a $500,000 buyout and immedi­ately filed. 
Boston also declined a $5 million option on captain Jason Varitek, and the catcher now must decide whether to exercise a $3 million player option. Rather than exercise its $4 million option on Tim Wakefield, the Red Sox agreed to a $5 million, two-year con­tract with 43-year-old knuck­leballer. 

Some of that improvement has to do with the defensive scores, but not all of it. At their current pace, the Saints would finish with about 606 points, surpassing the NFL record 589 scored by the 2007 New England Patriots. 
And the Saints have been much more dominant in the late stages of games. 
In 2008, New Orleans outscored opponents 127­100 in the fourth quarter. So far this season, the Saints have a 91-18 fourth-quarter edge — a big reason New Orleans has been able to secure comeback victories in its past three games, pulling away to win two of those by double digits. 
Only one of the Saints’ vic­tories — a 35-27 win over Atlanta — has come by fewer than 10 points. They’ve won three times by 20 points or more. 
Payton said he is proud of his players for finding vari­ous ways to win games. It has been gratifying for him to see an emphasis placed in certain areas — like take­aways and the running game — followed by signifi­cant improvement in those areas. 
Still, the fourth-year head coach remains concerned by fits of sloppiness and offen­sive turnovers — New Orleans has turned the ball 
over 10 times in its last three games — that have caused his team to fall behind in recent weeks. 
“We have to be more con­sistent,” Payton said. “I do think we can play a lot bet­ter than we played (Sunday). And I’m not just saying that because it’s time to come in here and throw water on a party. ... We have to get some things cleaned up and we have to do that before we sit in here and say it finally cost us a game.” 


Tuesday, November 10, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Tar Heels victorious in opener 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. — Deon Thompson scored 20 points to help No. 6 North Carolina spoil Isiah Thomas’ college coaching debut and beat Florida International 88-72 on Monday night in the 2K Sports Classic. 
Ed Davis added 13 points for the defending national champi­on Tar Heels (1-0), who had lit­tle trouble with the undersized Golden Panthers. North Carolina shot 56 percent and led by double digits much of the way to kick off its centennial season against Thomas, the Hall of Fame player and former NBA coach who took over the long-struggling program in April. 
His debut came on the same day his 86-year-old mother, Mary, had open-heart surgery in Chicago. He spent Sunday with her, then arrived in Chapel Hill early Monday for the Golden Panthers’ shootaround at the Smith Center. He said before the game that he expect­ed to return to Chicago on Tuesday. 
Marvin Roberts had 18 points for the Golden Panthers (0-1), who shot 37 percent. North Carolina led 46-30 at halftime, then pushed the margin to 25 points in the first 5 minutes of the second half to eliminate any chance of a Hollywood-esque story line for Thomas. 
Instead, the game offered a glimpse of what remains from the squad that rolled Michigan State in last season’s NCAA title game. While four starters are gone — including four-year star Tyler Hansbrough and fellow first-round NBA draft picks Ty Lawson and Wayne Ellington — there’s still plenty of talent and, most notably, size on a squad that showed plenty of balance against the Golden Panthers. 
Thompson, the top returning scorer from last season, was 7 of 11 from the field and had 10 rebounds, while frontcourtmate Davis added 11 rebounds and four blocked shots. Fifth-year senior Marcus Ginyard chipped in 12 points, showing off the all-around game North Carolina missed while he was sidelined much of last year with a foot injury. 
Larry Drew II, the sophomore who has to replace Lawson at point guard, had his moments, too, finishing with seven points, six assists and two turnovers in 21 minutes. 
Still, North Carolina looked ragged at times when the game was in hand, committing 26 turnovers to continue what coach Roy Williams said was a consistent theme through the preseason. 
FIU made headlines when it hired Thomas, who was coming off a tumultuous stint with the NBA’s New York Knicks, to guide a program coming off nine straight losing seasons. The game also had its own mild dose of offseason controversy when FIU initially balked at playing North Carolina in the 2K Sports Classic, saying it had expected Thomas’ opener would come at Ohio State instead. 
Thomas got a late start onto the court, barely walking out of the visiting tunnel before the national anthem had started. He walked across the court to the bench and was greeted with a handshake and a hug by Williams — who was on the bench as Dean Smith’s assistant when Thomas led Indiana past North Carolina for the 1981 NCAA championship in his final game as a college player. 
North Carolina offered up its own reminder of the past. The Tar Heels wore throwback uni­forms to honor the 1957 nation­al championship team as part of is yearlong celebration of its 100th season, complete with the unusual sight of some red on the waistband of the shorts and the neckline of the jersey. 
The Classic benefits Coaches vs. Cancer. 
NFL 

Packers need to rebound after loss 
But the Packers might have to 
Associated Press 
face the Cowboys without out-

GREEN BAY, Wis. — Despite side linebacker Aaron two losses to Brett Favre and Kampman and right tackle the division rival Minnesota Mark Tauscher. Vikings in the first half of the Kampman said he sustained a season, at least the Green Bay concussion after taking a blow Packers were beating the teams to the head on the fourth play of they’re supposed to. the game, but wasn’t taken out 
Until now. of the game until the fourth 
Green Bay was reeling quarter. Speaking briefly to Monday after blowing a fourth-reporters Monday afternoon, quarter lead to a previously Kampman said he still wasn’t winless Tampa feeling quite Bay team start-right but just 
ing a rookie “We’re disappointed needed rest. 
quarterback. and we’re 4-4. I’m “I’ve been bet-Now 4-4 at the ter,” Kampman 
very disappointed,
season’s halfway said. 
but that’s our work to 
mark, a team His availability expected to this point” this week make a serious remains unclear. playoffpush now Kampman
Mike McCarthy 
finds itself on the played into the 
Packers coach 
verge of a free fourth 
fall going into Sunday’s home game against Dallas. 
The problems are the same: Too many sacks allowed, not enough pass rush and costly special teams lapses. But as fans holler for change on barstools and sports radio call-in shows across Wisconsin, they probably won’t be happy to hear that Packers coach Mike McCarthy is calmly staying the course. 
McCarthy maintains that the mistakes are correctable and insists the season isn’t a lost cause. 
“We’re disappointed and we’re 4-4,” McCarthy said. “We’re at the halfway point of our season. I’m very disappoint­ed, but that’s our work to this point. I take full responsibility. I’m at the point of this football team. I have all the confidence in this team that we’ll get ready and we’ll move on and win a big game here at home against Dallas.” 
quarter 
before coaches realized he wasn’t OK. Even amid increased awareness about the dangers of head injuries in football, defensive coordinator Dom Capers said coaches trust players to tell them when they’re not feeling right. 
“You have to kind of depend on them, you know,” Capers said. “And most guys that play this game, they think they can just shake it off. It’s part of the game, you know. To a certain degree they can shake it off, it’s no problem. And I think that’s probably the approach that Aaron took until maybe in the second half, he saw that things weren’t right.” 
Tauscher, meanwhile, sprained his left knee — the same knee that sustained a major injury in December. Tauscher tore his left anterior cruciate ligament and was out of football until re-signing with the Packers last month. 
McCarthy said Tauscher has a “slight” chance of playing this week. 
That, plus the back injury that landed center Jason Spitz on injured reserve over the week­end, leaves the Packers to once again shuffle an offensive line that has given up a league-worst 37 sacks — including six on Sunday, all in the second half. 
McCarthy said the Packers aren’t about to change they way their linemen are coached. Or, for that matter, who’s doing the coaching. 
“We don’t need wholesale change,” McCarthy said. “We may need to adjust some things and that will be our focus. But as far as going outside the building, I’m not going to sit here and tell you that I have all the answers, but I’m very confi­dent in the issues that we’ve had in pass protection, that they are correctable.” 
And the blame for the Packers’ sack total goes beyond the line. Quarterback Aaron Rodgers still needs to get rid of the ball more quickly in certain situations, and McCarthy hinted that the wide receivers weren’t getting open on Sunday. 
The Green Bay defense, meanwhile, continued to stop the run but didn’t get enough pressure on rookie Josh Freeman and struggled in the fourth quarter. 
But for the second week in a row, the Packers’ biggest prob­lems were poorly timed lapses on special teams. 
A week after giving up two long kickoff returns to Minnesota’s Percy Harvin, the Packers gave up a 83-yarder to Tampa Bay’s Clifton Smith to set up an early fourth-quarter touchdown and swing the game’s momentum in Tampa’s favor. 
NBA 
Jazz earn first win in New York since ‘04 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Carlos Boozer and Andrei Kirilenko each scored 23 points, and the Utah Jazz won in New York for the first time in more than five years by beating the Knicks 95-93 on Monday night. 
Mehmet Okur had the go-ahead basket with 1:16 to play and finished with 18 points and 12 rebounds for the Jazz, who opened a difficult four-game road trip by winning at Madison Square Garden for the first time since Feb. 20, 2004. 
Deron Williams was limited to five points but had 16 assists. Utah, which earned its first road victory of the sea­son, visits Boston next and wraps up the trip Saturday night at Cleveland. 
Rookie Toney Douglas scored a season-high 21 points for the Knicks, who nearly dug their way out of another huge deficit with a big fourth-quarter rally. But he missed just before the buzzer, sending New York (1-7) to its fourth straight loss. 
Wilson Chandler scored 17 points, and Larry Hughes and David Lee each had 12 for the Knicks. 
The Jazz led by 21 points early in the second half but the Knicks rallied with an effective zone defense, taking advantage of Utah’s perimeter shooting woes while top out­side threat Kyle Korver (left knee surgery) remains side­lined. 
Utah was still ahead by 11 with under 8 minutes to play before Al Harrington and Danilo Gallinari drilled con­secutive 3-pointers to start a 10-0 run that cut it to 84-83 on Harrington’s dunk with 
6:21 remaining. 
Consecutive layups by Douglas tied it at 93 with 1:36 left and the Knicks forced another miss, but the rebound went right to Okur for a tip-in and the lead for good. 
The Knicks missed with three more chances to tie, the final one Douglas’ tough attempt in the closing sec­onds. 
Utah benefits from every New York loss, so Monday was a win-win proposition. 
The Jazz own New York’s first-round pick in 2010, which seems destined to be a high lottery selection with the Knicks’ woeful start. The pick was originally sent to Phoenix in the Stephon Marbury deal in 2004 and later moved to Utah by the Suns in a trade for Tom Gugliotta. 
New York was headed toward another big first-quar­ter deficit when Utah raced to a 22-10 lead, but the Knicks locked down defensively, hold­ing the Jazz to three points the final 5 minutes and cut­ting it to 25-18. 
Utah opened another dou­ble-digit lead about 3½ min­utes into the second, then fin­ished the half with an 11-3 burst to make it 48-31. The Knicks missed all 10 3-point attempts in their lowest-scor­ing half of the season, hearing some loud boos in the final minutes. 
Kirilenko hit one of his five 3-pointers to push it to 52-31 
1:10 into the second half and the Jazz led by double digits for nearly the entire third quarter, bringing a 78-64 advantage into the final 12 minutes. 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, November 10, 2009 
MLB 

Baseball GMs head to Chicagoforbriefmeeting 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Instead of sway­ing palm trees, the roar of 747s greeted baseball’s general managers Monday as they began gathering for their annual meeting. 
They came to a hotel near O’Hare International Airport to swap stories and perhaps play­ers, and to start discussions with agents. 
Increasing the use of instant replay could be a topic when the formal meetings start Tuesday, especially after a series of missed calls in the postseason. 
“How far would I go with it? A lot further than most,” ings last only until midday Wednesday, the general man­agers might not be able to hold as many discussions as they did during past sessions. 
“Surprisingly, there have been more conversations throughout the playoffs and the World Series than I can remember,” Williams said last week after his team acquired third baseman Mark Teahen in a trade with the Kansas City Royals. 
“And to be able to do some­thing prior to the general man­agers’ meeting and have sub­stantial talks on major things prior to that is surprising, but certainly welcome to me. We’ve done our groundwork 

Chicago White Sox GM Ken Williams said. “I  “Surprisingly, there have been more  quite some time ago.” The New York  
think the game  conversations  Mets, who slid  
has changed with the use of technology. I think we should  throughout the World Series and playoffs than I can remember.”  to 70-92 during an injury-filled season, could be active, gen- 
bring  it  up  to  eral  manager  
date.” Video reviews, which began in  Ken Williams White Sox general manager  Omar Minaya said. They had an opening-day  

2008, currently are limited to determining whether potential home runs are fair or foul or whether the ball cleared a fence. 
“I have been on record as using as much technology as possible for the betterment of our game and to protect the umpires, too,” Yankees general manager Brian Cashman said Monday. 
Cashman is comfortable com­missioner Bud Selig will pro­tect the game and “make sure that whatever gets implement­ed is done in the proper way, and if it gets done slowly over time and we’re better for it, so be it.” 
Just last Wednesday, the Yankees beat the Phillies for their 27th World Series title. Now it’s time to move on to next season, though Cashman doesn’t expect much to happen during these sessions. 
“Friday was the parade. Saturday and Sunday was quiet time, and today felt like a full day of traveling, even though Chicago is not far,” Cashman said. “We’ll be in catch-up mode. The last thing you want to do is do something quick. I really want to make sure I take our time, sit down, and have our discussions with all personnel. I have my own ideas of what I think would be best.” 
More deals are expected around the winter meetings, to be held in Indianapolis from Dec. 7-10. World Series MVP Hideki Matsui and left fielder Johnny Damon became free agents Monday and 37-year­old left-hander Andy Pettitte also is eligible for file. 
New York’s biggest rival in the AL East, the Boston Red Sox, were busy Monday. They exercised their $7.7 million option on Victor Martinez and declined options on Jason Varitek and Alex Gonzalez — although Varitek can exercise a $3 million player option. 
Boston also agreed to a $5 million, two-year contract with 43-year-old knuckleballer Tim Wakefield. 
Since this year’s GMs meet-payroll of near­
ly $136 million this season, second only to the Yankees’ $201 million. 
“We have to find a way to be able to slug more and I think pitching is another area we have to look at,” Minaya said. “I think we are going to identi­fy some of the players we like, and once we identify those players, then we are able to sit down with the agents. ... We are also going to have to explore some trades. If the opportunity is there and we have a player we like, we are going to pursue that player.” 
The Cubs, who had the third-highest opening-day payroll at $135 million, already have had a relatively eventful offseason. 
Tom Ricketts and his family took over as owners and said they would do everything they could to bring a World Series title to a franchise that hasn’t won one since 1908. 
But the Cubs’ pitching staff took a blow one month after the season ended when left-hander Ted Lilly, one of the team’s most consistent starters for three years, had surgery on his pitching shoulder. Lilly probably won’t start throwing for four months and almost certainly will miss the start of the season. 
Cubs GM Jim Hendry said there were no immediate plans to look for another starter. But he could trade mercurial out­fielder Milton Bradley, sus­pended for the final two weeks of his first season with the Cubs after he criticized the club. 
“Like I said all along, he’s on our roster and until he’s not on the roster that’s how you have to look at it,” Hendry said. “A lot of people have had worse exits than that at the end of the year and they returned. The goal will be the best you can to put a good club on the field by spring training. Until people aren’t here, then as a GM approach it like they are here.” 
Bradley still is owed $21 mil­lion on the final two years of his deal. Hendry hasn’t spoken with Bradley but has talked quite a bit to his agent. 
SMC SWIMMING 
Bellesseekconferencerespect 
By BOBBY GRAHAM 
Sports Writer 
Coming off of a tough year, the Belles are looking to prove that they belong with the top teams in the MIAA. 
Under the leadership of sec-ond-year coach Alicia Dombkowski, the Belles are in search of a new look and feel as they begin their trek down the road to the MIAA Championships. 
As is the case in college sports, nothing gives a team a more refreshing feel than the emergence of freshmen. This year’s squad features 11 fresh­men out of a total of 21 swim­mers and divers. 
This year’s crop hail from as close as South Bend to as far away as California. These newcomers should also be able to be competitive in a wide array of events, from sprints to distance and from freestyle to backstroke. 
The Belles have had only one MIAA meet this far, a 180-107 loss to Kalamazoo, but they should take relief in the fact that two freshmen were among the team’s contributors. 
Ellie Watson, a distance swimmer from Grand Rapids, Mich., came in first place in the 500-and 1000-yard freestyle. Her teammate, Katie Griffin, a Bristol, Ind. native, finished atop the 100-yard backstroke and butterfly events. 
The Belles (0-1) have not started the season off the way they would have liked, but if the freshmen continue to per­form and grow at the rate they have, the MIAA may be in for a power transfer. Perennial pow­erhouses Calvin, Hope and Kalamazoo might need to look out for a Saint Mary’s that could be nipping at their heels all year long. 
Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Turner leads OSU with triple double 
belonged to Dennis Hopson, who had 27 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in a 1986 victory over Ohio University. 
Turner had 12 points, 12 rebounds and eight assists in the opening half as Ohio State breezed to a 56-28 lead. Diebler had 16 points and Buford hit a 3-pointer at the buzzer for 11. 
The Braves fell behind 8-0 before Byrd, who had 12 points on 3-pointers in the opening half, ended the drought. They got as close as 25-15 midway through the half before the Buckeyes went on a 19-0 run with Diebler scoring eight points. 
Buckeyes (1-0), who host a sec­ond-round game on Thursday night against James Madison. 
Jonathan Boyd scored 20 points for the Braves (0-1), who are coached by former NBA star Larry Smith and are coming off a 6-25 season. Alcorn State was ranked 342nd of the 343 teams in Division I in the Rating Percentage Index. 
Ohio State, which will meet No. 6 North Carolina in the semifinals next week at Madison Square Garden, has all five starters back from a 22-11 team that lost in the first round of the NCAA tournament to Siena. 
The only previously recorded triple-double at Ohio State 

Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — Evan Turner recorded only the sec­ond triple-double ever for Ohio State with 14 points, 17 rebounds and 10 assists in the 16th-ranked Buckeyes’ 100-60 victory over Alcorn State on Monday night in the 2K Sports Classic. 
Turner needed one assist for 10 but his teammates missed three straight shots. A bounce pass to Jon Diebler, who had 22 points, led to a 3-pointer with just over 7 minutes left for the triple-double. 
William Buford added 19 points, Jeremie Simmons 12 and Walter Offutt 11 for the 

Tuesday, November 10, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
the team would score. “We were really upset with 
Ducks 

the outcome, but overall for continued from page 20 the season, we are proud that we made the playoffs and had Jeffries on a 40-yard bomb a successful year,” Pillai said. and later scampered 10 yards Despite the loss, Pillai suc­for another touchdown. The cessfully spread the ball out Ducks’ second touchdown of among multiple receivers: the day put them up 13-0 and junior Emily Meyer, freshman seemed to deflate Cavanaugh. Erica Chenard, freshman However, the Chaos came Kelsey Eckenrode and junior out firing after halftime. On Kristin Mannion, for touch-fourth-and-goal, Chaos soph-downs and extra point omore quarterback Rebecca attempts. Pillai’s cannon in Cink rolled left and lofted a combination with her talent-pass to junior receiver Holly ed receiving corps led the Hinz. Hinz managed to get Pyros to stick primarily to the one foot in the end zone for aerial attack against the Wild the score, cutting Howard’s Women. The pressure of lead to 13-6. Walsh’s defensive line and “I was lucky to get that foot the success of its secondary in bounds,” Hinz said. impeded the effectiveness of 
Momentum seemed to have this attack. shifted the Chaos ’ way as Walsh focused on its rush-they stuffed Howard on their ing attack against the Pyros next two offensive posses-and found multiple holes in sions, but the Ducks kept their defense. Junior quarter-answering with defense stops back Amy Langnecker spread of their own. the ball between junior 
“I can’t say enough about Lindsay Schanzer and Smith our defense,” Robinson said. when the Wild Women took to 
Cavanaugh had one last the air. Senior captain Molly chance after Bishop was McCarthy attributes the intercepted as the Ducks effectiveness of the team’s were about to score. The attacks on both side of the Howard defense just proved ball to the strong team unity. 
with seconds remaining on Pasquerilla West Sunday with than the score showed.” 

to be too much for the Chaos. “Walsh football is about 
the clock, stopping a threat-a berth to the Stadium on the For McGlinn the loss ends 

The Ducks advance to play competition, community and 
ening late-game drive by the line. an otherwise solid season 

Walsh next weekend. a commitment to fun and 
Finest (3 -2-2). Freshman that included much hard 
Wild Women love,” McCarthy 
Sarah Topp performed bril-Pasquerilla West 19, work and preparation, but 

Walsh 25, said. 
liantly at linebacker, break-McGlinn 0 there is hope for the future. 

Pasquerilla East 20 She also expressed hope for 
ing up numerous passing McGlinn’s underdog hopes “We played our hearts out,” 

Walsh held off Pasquerilla the future of Walsh in the 
attempts from the opposing were squashed in style by Dore said. “We had a good 

East 25-20 in a thrilling bat-rest of the playoffs. 
offense. Pasquerilla West Sunday, as team this year. We had a lot 

tle of two evenly matched “This is the beginning of a 
Farley’s defense came alive the Purple Weasels (7 -0) of youth and most of us were 

teams. hopeful journey to the 
in the second half, forcing a rolled to a 19-0 victory and just learning to play the 

The Pyros senior quarter-Stadium,” she said. 
turnover on downs followed the second round of the play-game. It looks good for next 
back Tara Pillai threw an 
by two consecutive sacks by offs. year.” 

interception on her own 15-Pangborn 7, Farley 6 
sophomore Elise Jordan on Pasquerilla West used a For the Purple Weasels, this 

yard line with less than two Pangborn (5-2) extended its 
Pangborn’s second posses-balanced offensive attack win is yet another in an 

minutes left and provided the winning streak into a fifth 
sion. The Finest capitalized that showcased both the run-undefeated season, but they 

Wild Women with an oppor-game as it outlasted Farley 7­
on an interception by senior ning and passing games. The are not done yet. 

tunity to score a game-win-6 Sunday, moving into the 
Caity Shepherd, with sopho-three scoring drives covered “It’s another step,” Cooper 

ning touchdown. Walsh ’s semifinal round of the play-
more quarterback Megan 74, 65 and 55 yards. said. “We are taking it one 

quarterback junior Amy offs. 
Bastedo lofting a pass to wide McGlinn (3-3-1) also moved game at a time. We are defi-

Langnecker threw a four-Junior Gabby Tate had an 
open junior Molly Casanova the ball effectively but simply nitely happy with the win, 

yard pass to senior Sierra outstanding performance at 
who then ran down the field failed to convert on several but we’re not done. Our goals 

Smith. This would be the quarterback, running for the 
for the touchdown. The trips to the red zone. are to get to the Stadium and 

final score of the game as the majority of the teams’ cumu-
Pangborn defense denied the “Our red zone offense was win a championship.” 

Wild Women (6-1) managed lative yardage including the 
extra point attempt. the main factor in the loss,” Although the Purple 

to top the Pyros (3-3) in the decisive extra point. Senior 
Farley freshman Claire Shamrocks senior captain Weasels won big, there is still 

last minute. Meghan Bescher, a force on 
Pursley had a notable per-and defensive lineman Emily work that needs to be done in 

The game was a back and the Pangborn offense, caught 
formance on offense, consis-Dore said. “We just couldn’t preparation for next week. 

forth offensive battle includ-the winning touchdown pass. 
tently giving the Finest good punch it in.” “We need to figure out how 

ing two interceptions for “I think it was really nerve-
field position by dodging and The Shamrocks also ran much we want to pressure 

each team. Pyros sophomore wracking at the end but our 
running over defenders on into trouble in the second the quarterback, ” Cooper 

Nneka Ekechukwa intercept-defense pulled through for 
her punt returns. half when their offense said. “We need to know 

ed a pass on Walsh’s 30-yard us,” sophomore captain Julie 
“We had some chances but became one -dimensional, whether we are going to rush 

line and ran it back for a Cooney said. 
at the end we weren’t able to relying strictly on the passing a lot or put more people back 

touchdown. This play put Senior Caitlin Furey sealed 
capitalize on it, ” Bastedo game to move the ball. When in the secondary. It’s a new 

Pasquerilla East up by seven the Phoxes’ win with an 
said. “It was a good game, the Purple Weasels recog -approach for each team.” 

and was the last points that interception in the end zone 
Pangborn played very well.” nized this, they dropped all The next step in Pasquerilla 
Though one team’s season but one defender into cover-West’s quest for a champi­
ends, another continues on as age and blanketed McGlinn’s onship is a showdown with 
the Phoxes hope to build on receivers. Pangborn Sunday. 
their recent success in their Pasquerilla West senior 
quest for the championship. captain Cynthia Cooper said Contact Colin King at 
“We put it all out on the she was truly impressed by cking6@nd.edu, Kaitlyn 
field,” Pangborn senior Tricia McGlinn. Murphy at kmurph28@nd.edu, 
Wilbur said. “We’re excited “On paper, the score makes Kevin Baldwin at 
for the next round.” it look like a big win,” Cooper kbaldwi2@nd.edu and Matthew 
Pangborn will face said. “It was much closer Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 



Freshmen 
continued from page 20 
years,” Holden said. “I’m happy with how I have per­formed in the first few meets of the season, but I’m definite­ly excited to see how else I can improve in my events.” 
Holden, a backstroke com­petitor from Mount Kisco, N.Y., has led the Irish in both the 100 and 200-yard backstroke competitions, finishing in sec­ond place in both races against Michigan before winning her first individual race against Purdue in the 200-yard back­stroke. She has also con­tributed to multiple team com­petitions, achieving first-place honors as a part of the 200 and 400-yard medley relay teams. 
“All the girls have been very supportive and helpful in these first few months,” Holden said. “It’s easy to think of swimming as an individual sport, but the senior class, especially our captains Megan Farrell and Ashlee Edgell, have done a great job of making team the priority.” 
Johnson did not participate in the Dennis Stark relays, but came out strong in his first meet, winning the 100-yard breaststroke against Oakland, a race in which he has record­ed a second and a third-place finish as well. His times for the 100-yard breaststroke have been the best on the team, and it is this race that has Johnson’s attention. 
“Right now I’ve focused in on the team’s 100-yard breast­stroke record,” Johnson said. “I was pretty surprised at some of my early season times just because we had been training so intensely, and I did-n’t think I was in shape to race that fast. I’d say the success comes from the adrenaline and the want to make an impact right away for the team.” 
In addition to the individual success, both Johnson and Holden are focused first and foremost on helping their teams reach a collective goal — a Big East championship — a goal which, with their help, is achievable. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, November 10, 2009 
together,” Fitzgerald said. “An early turnover put us down 
Griffns 

but we stayed with it and ran continued from page 20 good routes.” The second touchdown and you still have to go out strike came late in the second 
on the field and play the quarter. The Juggerknotts had games.” the ball at the Vermin 30-yard 
After a scoreless first quar-line on fourth-and-15. ter, the Gentlemen (3-2) got on Fitzgerald threw a bullet to the board with a phenomenal Skorup in the back of the end 100-yard punt return by jun-zone and the wide receiver ior wide receiver Sean Reed. made a highlight reel grab to Reed drew a taunting penalty put the Juggerknotts up by as he ran untouched into the two scores. end zone, which resulted in a “I just managed to get blocked extra point but St. open,” Skorup said. “The sec­Edward’s went up 6-0. ond play was a short pass and 
Stanford (4-1) responded at he got it right to me. It was the end of the half after a crit-fourth and long and he made ical fumble recovery led to a a perfect pass and I managed halfback pass hauled in by to get open in the corner of sophomore wide receiver Pat the end zone.” Kelly, and after junior quar-The defense shut out the terback Tony Rizzo converted Vermin and allowed the a two -point conversion Juggerknotts to control the Stanford went into the half pace of the game as Carroll leading 8-6. was unable to sustain any 
St Edward’s started the sec-long drives. ond half quickly, riding the “The defense was great,” legs of freshman running back Fitzgerald said. “It was the Rob Dillard and the talented second shutout in a row. They receiving corps led by Reed got pushed down the field a into the end zone. couple times but they got 
“We utilized our running timely turnovers.” game and our great receiving As Knott prepares for the game to beat the top seed second round of the playoffs, scrambled to the 10-yard line, ease, but shot themselves in down by junior Jon Beckerle today,” Schoenhut said. “In my they don’t anticipate any setting up his touchdown pass the foot with key turnovers. put Sorin on the board, but 
opinion, the best three changes to their style of play. with a 1:45 remaining. Rather Miller fumbled on a quarter-the blocked kick for the extra receivers in all of Interhall “We’re going to do the same than kick the field goal, the back keeper just short of the point gave Siegfried an adren­line up for St. Edward’s Hall.” thing we’ve been doing,” Manorites chose to go for the touchdown. In the second aline rush that would last the 
With the score 12-8 after Skorup said. “We’re going to win. half, Herbert lost the ball on entire game. another missed extra point, work hard in practice and “We had momentum going the Dillon two-yard line, giv-A Siegfried fumble recov­the Gentlemen defense went we’re not done until we get to our way and figured we ing Morrissey an easy touch-ered by Sorin sophomore Matt to work, forcing Stanford into Notre Dame Stadium.” should finish then and hope down to stay in the game. Pepe again gave the Otters a a number of punts and missed The season ends for the our defense gets the stop,” “We outplayed them up and chance for offensive move-opportunities, though Stanford Vermin, but it was one of their Deveny said. “We chose to live down the field,” Miller said. ment, but the Siegfried returned the favor and best in recent years and is a like lions and not lambs.” “Turnovers were killers and defense showed its strength recording two interceptions of reason for Carroll to expect Morrissey made the right we had a couple calls that did-and forced a punt. its own. big things from next year’s decision, converting with a n’t go our way. We felt like we Sorin’s first possession of 
“It was really our power-team. well -thrown slant route. had the better group of guys the second half quickly ended house defense and their abili-“We made too many mis -However, the Big Red didn’t go and the better athletes, but it with an interception by ty to mix up the game that got takes, and you just can’t win down easy. Senior quarter-didn’t really work out.” Siegfried sophomore Will us this win,” Schoenhut said. that way,” junior captain Nick back Jason Miller led Dillon’s With the victory, Morrissey Gesicki. 
Stanford appeared to be on Ruof said. “It’s a tough loss two-minute drill, reaching the advanced and will play St. “I just wanted to do every-their way to victory after but we had a great season. We Morrissey 15 -yard line. Edward’s Sunday. thing I could today, especially Rizzo led the Griffins on a won more games than last Unfortunately for the Big Red, defensively stopping them, to critical fourth quarter drive year, so it was a positive.” an offensive pass interference Siegfried 10, Sorin 6 pull out a win,” Gesicki said. and another two point conver-Freshman Keith Marrero call pushed the ball back to After an undefeated regular On fourth down with only a sion put them up 16-12 with made the play of the game for the 31-yard line with less than season, Sorin’s winning streak few yards to go, the Ramblers minutes left in the game. But the Vermin with a first-quar-10 seconds remaining. The finally came to an end. decided to risk it, coming out the upset-minded Gentlemen ter interception. Big Red’s 48-yard field goal Siegfried (3-1-1) stepped up, powerfully and moving in used big runs by Dillard to get “The defense shifted over attempt had the distance, but not only beating the Otters (3-toward field goal range. A down to the goal line with 30 and I happened to be in the went wide left. 1-1), but also becoming the successful field goal by fresh-seconds left in the game, set-right place at the right time,” “When you play as bad as first team to score a single man Steve Wandor settled the ting up DeMott’s touchdown Marrero said. we did the first three quar-point against the Sorin score at 10-6, where it reception. The freshman contributes on ters, I guess it was only a mat-defense in the 10-6 victory. remained until the end of the 
The victorious and ener-both sides of the ball and is ter of time before we put it all The Siegfried offense shone game. gized St. Edward’s team will sure to be a crucial player in together,” Deveny said. through early in the game Another interception by now face Morrissey, with the future seasons for the Vermin. Prior to the final five min-with a string of first downs on Gesicki gave the Ramblers the winner one game away from Knott will play Siegfried utes, Dillon controlled the its first possession, ending ball, allowing them to take a the championship in the Sunday at Riehle Field as the game offensively and defen-with a touchdown when fresh-knee and end the game. Stadium. journey to Notre Dame sively. The Big Red defense man David Whitmore broke “It was a lot of fun. 
Stadium continues. was their usual stingy self, through the defense for a run Everyone was pretty excited Knott 21, Carroll 0 limiting the Morrissey offense into the end zone. The extra because these are the play-
Led by an aerial assault that Morrissey 15, Dillon 14 to mostly three-and-out pos-point gave the Ramblers a 7-0 offs, and it’s like it’s a whole included three touchdown After struggling through the sessions. Special teams were lead, putting Sorin behind for new season. That’s a pretty strikes from senior quarter-first three quarters of play, also a key factor as freshman the first time this year. nice way to end the game,” back Aidan Fitzgerald, Knott resilient and opportunistic David Murray blocked a punt, “It’s about time we all came Gesicki said. (4-0-1) moved to the second Morrissey (4-1) came back in which was returned for a together,” Siegfried coach P.J. Siegfried will take on Knott round of the playoffs with a epic fashion to earn a 15-14 touchdown. Zimmer said. in the semifinals of the men’s 21-0 win over Carroll (2-1-2). victory over Dillon (3 -2). The Manor defense had a A long throw from Sorin 
Fitzgerald found senior Jeff Down by a touchdown with difficult time stopping the senior quarterback Casey Contact Chris Allen at Skorup in the end zone twice time running out, Morrisey Dillon option attack, led by McGushin to freshman receiv-Callen10@nd.edu, Andrew and junior Connor Smith as senior quarterback Danny Miller, freshman running back er Ryan Robinson gave the Owens at aowens2@nd.edu, well. Deveny completed a 40-yard Terry Howard and sophomore Otters a huge swing of Barrick Bollman at 
“We’ve been working hard bomb into Big Red territory. fullback Eric Herbert. momentum and plenty of hope jbollman@nd.edu and Megan all year and things just came On the next play, Deveny Dillon moved the ball with to score some points. A touch-Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 

that though because it means way to a runner-up finish. good Ohio State or Florida we get at least “I think team, which is comparable to 
NCAAs 
three games at we had a last year where we caught a home and only f a v o r a b l e one-loss Minnesota team.” 

continued from page 20 “I thought all along we 
one on the road. draw and Last year, the Irish carried 

face No. 1 Florida State if As you know, had a good outside shot we got an undefeated record into the both teams advance to the anything is pos-at getting one of those top about what national title game but North region final. sible in sports, we antici -Carolina pulled off a 2-1 vic­
four seeds, but we could 

Irish coach Randy Waldrum so we could pated with tory over Notre Dame to spoil 
have dropped anywhere 

said he was pleased with his have four games IUPUI com-its title hopes. team’s seeding in the at home as from four to six.” ing in,” he The Irish will begin their Tournament. well.” said. “After run for their first National 
“I thought all along we had L o o k i n g that, if you Championship since 2004 
Randy Waldrum 

a good outside shot at getting ahead, Waldrum can get when they face IUPUI Friday 
Irish coach

one of those top four seeds, said he sees a through that at Alumni Stadium. but we could have dropped similar road to first week ­anywhere from four to six,” the College Cup end you’re Contact Mike Gotimer at Waldrum said. “I’m okay with that year’s squad faced on its probably going to face a very mgotimer@nd.edu 


Tuesday, November 10, 2009 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Tuesday, November 10, 2009 page 20 
FENCING 

Highly-touted underclassmen lead Irish towards title 
we don’t know who will come to However, the Irish will need to Four.” seven years. 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
support them next year,” Irish rely on more than just sheer talent Although this year’s squad fea-“They are positioning them-
Sports Writer 
coach Janusz Bednarski said. “We to compete with the top fencing tures 14 freshmen, five on the selves well for the national team, 
know that we have a core team programs in the country, namely men’s side and nine on the but we are ready to compete now 

After yet another impressive that is very strong and very defending champion Penn State women’s, Bednarski is confident in with the best collegiate teams in performance by the Irish at the young.” and two-time national champion his team’s ability to compete at a the nation,” Bednarski said. “We USFA NAC Juniors last weekend, Hurley and Meinhardt are quick-Ohio State. Experience will likely high level. are probably not the number one the talented cast of underclassmen ly emerging as two of the best indi-play a deciding factor in tourna-“They are adjusting very quickly team, but we will challenge any-is once again emerging as the vidual fighters in their respective ment play. to the different type of competition, one who tries to fence against us. backbone of a promising young weapons in all of collegiate fenc-“It’s very hard for coaches to the different type of bouts because What the end result will be I don’t team. Led by sophomores ing. Heading into play last week-predict,” Bednarski said. “I’ve definitely it’s a different system,” know. I can’t promise. But I know Courtney Hurley and Gerek end, Hurley was the third-ranked been in this business for so long. Bednarski said. only that our kids are ready to Meinhardt, the team features some junior women’s epeeist in the There are so many factors we As the individual fencing season fence.” of the nation’s elite fencers in the world, while Meinhardt was the can’t control, especially on such a wraps up in the fall, the Irish pre­junior category. first-ranked men’s foilist in the young team. But anything can pare for the long journey to their Contact Chris Masoud at 
“Each year is different because country. happen if we make it to the Bloody third NCAA Championship in cmasoud@nd.edu 

INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Survive and advance 
Gentlemen knock off 


Ducks hold off festy, defending champions 
upset-minded Chaos 
By CHRIS ALLEN, ANDREW 

By COLIN KING, KAITLYN OWENS, BARRICK 
MURPHY, KEVIN BALDWIN BOLLMAN and MEGAN 
and MATTHEW ROBISON FINNERAN 
Sports Writers Sports Writers 
Top-seeded Howard (7-0) Stanford’s quest to regain 
survived a furious second-the title that was theirs in 
half comeback from 2007 came to an abrupt end 
Cavanaugh (3 -4), winning Sunday. 
13 -6 in the first round of St. Edward’s upset the top-
playoffs Sunday. seeded Griffins on a last-sec-
The Ducks got off to a ond touchdown catch by sen-
quick start as junior quarter­ior wide receiver Joe DeMott 
back Kayla Bishop found jun-to give the Gentlemen an 18­
ior receiver Kaitlin Robinson 16 win. 
in the corner of the end zone St. Edward’s junior coach 
for a 7-0 lead. Fritz Schoenhut downplayed 
“We ’ve been practicing the importance of the seeds in 
really hard getting ready for this matchup of what 
the playoffs,” Robinson said. appeared to be evenly 
“We spent a lot of time on matched clubs. 
that play in particular and it “We worked hard in prac­
worked to perfection.” tice all week and the guys 
Bishop wasn’t done making were ready to play,” 
plays. On Howard’s next pos-Schoenhut said. “Numbers 
session she connected with are just numbers at this point MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer IAN GAVLICK/The Observer sophomore receiver Kristyn 
A Stanford ball carrier eludes a St. Ed’s defend-Pangborn junior Gabby Tate carries the ball see GRIFFINS/page 18 er in the Gentlemen’s 18-16 victory Nov. 8. during the Phoxes narrow 7-6 win Nov. 8. see DUCKS/page 17 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

NDlandsNo.2seedinNCAAs 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
No. 4/5 Notre Dame earned a No. 2 seed in the 2009 NCAA Women’s Soccer Championship, meaning that the Irish could host up to four more games in Alumni Stadium during its inaugural season. 
The Irish (17-3-1) enter the NCAA Tournament fresh off their second consecutive Big East championship and 11th title overall. 
As a No. 2 seed in the NCAA Tournament, the Irish are guaranteed to host at least three home games and would only travel if they were to 
see NCAAS/page 18 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Junior Erica Iantorno celebrates with sophomore Ellen Jantsch after a goal in the Irish’s 5-0 victory over South Florida on Nov. 1. 
ND SWIMMING 
Freshmen adapting well to competition 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
As the Irish look to form their identity in the early part of the season, freshmen Kim Holden and Christopher Johnson have made strides towards becoming part of that identity. 
While Holden began varsity competition in the Dennis Stark relays, swimming on multiple relay teams, includ­ing the Irish 200 medley relay team which finished in first, Johnson swam in his first event against Oakland and took first place in the 100-yard breaststroke. 
The transition from high school competition was diffi­cult for both freshmen. 
“Coming from a high school where I was the fastest swimmer to a great team that is full of great swimmers can be tough mentally,” Johnson said. 
Despite the transition, both Johnson and Holden stepped into their roles quickly and made an immediate impact, posting the top team score in their best events. 
“I was surprised by how quickly I adjusted to the pro­gram here after being on the same club team for nearly 10 
see FRESHMEN/page 17 






