the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


‘The only rules of the game’ 
Hesburgh reflects on student activism, 15-min. rule on 40th anniversary of ‘Notre Dame 10’ 
By JENN METZ 
News Writer 
Editor’s note: This is the second installment in a four-part series commemorating the 40th anniversary of the Notre Dame 10 and exploring the history of student activism on campus. The first part introduced the Notre Dame 10 and their protest efforts. 
In the fall of 1969, then-University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh’s office door was always open, it seems. 
Reflecting on the time of what he calls “the student revolution” in his new office in the Library named for him, Hesburgh described the protest fervor that swept across a nation at war in a foreign land and turned col­lege campuses into battle­fields. 
Several of those students came to him to “talk about the problems of the day,” he said — at times in the middle of the night. 
During the Vietnam War, Hesburgh said, about 250 col­lege and university presidents left or were asked to leave office, one even suffering a heart attack while being con­fronted by students. Campuses transformed from reflective sanctuaries of 
see HESBURGH/page 6 




Former presidential candidate Huckabee hosts book signing 

By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Mike Huckabee’s appearance at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore yesterday afternoon to sign copies of his newest book, “A Simple Christmas,” marked the first time a politi­cian has appeared at the Bookstore for a book signing, Kristin Blitch, marketing man­ager at the bookstore, said. 
Notre Dame, Huckabee said, is the only college or university on his current book tour. 
Huckabee, who served as gov­ernor of Arkansas from 1996 until 2006 and ran in the Republican Party primaries for the 2008 presidential election, said being on book tour allows him to have friendly conversa­tions with people across the country. 
“In a campaign the unfortu­nate fact is that you spend about 75 percent of your time defend­ing yourself against the attacks of your opponents and a little bit of time actually articulating your opinions on policy,” he said. “And so the good thing about a book tour is people come out to a book signing because they want to read your book and most folks are very pleasant.” 
While he enjoys his book tour, Huckabee also said he is “not ruling anything out” in regards to running for the presidency in 2012. 
“Well it is, I think, too far off. I’m going to wait until after the midterm elections next year and see where things stand,” he said. “… I’ve got so much going on between doing the Fox News show on the weekends and my commentaries three times a day five times a week on about 500 stations a day, my writing, speaking … it’s hard to even find the time to think about it right now.” 
When asked about the current state of the Republican Party, Huckabee said its leaders “are finding their sea legs again to get back on track” by realizing that something must be done to fix national debt and spending. 
“I’m more worried about the direction of the country than the Party,” he said. “The Party will eventually right itself and kind of find its way, but the one thing I am encouraged by is that 
see HUCKABEE/page 4 



OITurgesFacebookawareness 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
Social networking through Web sites such as Facebook has become a popular way to com­municate with friends, and it is no longer just college students who are taking advantage of the services offered by these sites. 
The explosion of online social networking, however, has also exposed users to new identity theft risks, Director of Information Security Gary Dobbins said. 
“There are a lot of people who would like to find out what your password is, find out more about you in order to use those things to impersonate you,” he said. “There are a dozen differ­ent things you should be aware of when using social networking tools like Facebook.” 
To help combat the risks posed by social networking, the Office of Information Technology (OIT) has launched a new cam­paign that encourages Notre Dame faculty, staff and students to not “be a victim of social net­working,” OIT organizational communications analyst Lenette Votava said. 
“We’re going to have posters going up with social network precautions people can take so that they stay safe and they are aware of what can happen to them,” she said. 
Votava said one of the sim­plest ways to reduce one’s risk is to limit the personal informa­tion one posts on the Web site. 
see OIT/page 9 


Severalitemsstolenfrom men’s residence hall 
Observer Staff Report 
Several items were stolen from rooms in a men’s resi­dence hall on campus early Sunday morning, according to Dave Chapman, assistant director for Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP). 
Chapman said three rooms in the residence hall were targeted. No force was used as the rooms were unlocked. 
Chapman did not disclose the residence hall. 
NDSP is also investigating a case of indecent exposure in which a man exposed himself to three women walking on Saint Mary’s Rd. at about 5:15 p.m. Saturday. 
The witnesses told police the man was on a bicycle and about 40 to 50 years old. 
Chapman said NDSP does not have new information on either case. 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER COR elects The Shirt president page 3  Weekend calendar page 13  Weiss leads women’s soccer in Tournament page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, November 18, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Faking it 

There is a lot of faking at Notre Dame. 
Here at Notre Dame, you can fake understanding your philosophy professor. 
Here at Notre Dame, you can fake that you don’t mind the snow or the cold. You can fake obeying parietals, and you can fake agreeing with our sometimes unnaturally inflated football ranking. 
Here at Notre Dame, you can even fake going to Notre Dame. 


Gary Stearley Molly Sammon came to South Bend before the fall semes-Sports ter as a student at Writer Notre Dame’s law school. He moved into a house south of campus earlier this semester and found himself a pair of roommates to live with. He bought thou­sands of dollars worth of textbooks. He walked around on campus. He had the pass codes for different campus buildings. 
According to his roommates, he did homework in his room, studied court cases and wrote papers. He made himself an ID card. He made friends with a pro­fessor who called him by name on cam­pus in front of witnesses. Gary Stearley was an excellent faker. 
His roommates found out their tenant’s actual identity when the three of them were sitting in the living room of their house, watching the South Bend local news. The report on television revealed Stearley’s story to the unsuspecting own­ers. 
Stearley told them he would turn him­self in the next morning, but when they returned, Stearley had grabbed a few of his belongings and snuck out of the house just as Leonardo DiCaprio’s character in “Catch Me If you Can” might have done. 
Among his leftover possessions, they found ID cards from other colleges where it was most likely that Stearley had com­mitted similar acts. Further investigation of Stearley’s story led to the discovery that he had been in legal trouble before for faking being a physician’s assistant in Jacksonville, Florida. 
My first thoughts after reflecting on Stearley’s story were in praise of him. I do not feel as though I have ever wanted anything as badly as Stearley wanted to be a Notre Dame law student. I certainly am not dedicated enough to any cause to find the time that he found to make him­self a fake ID card, make himself do fake law school homework and make friends on campus. 
It’s almost invigorating to come across the story of a young man that wants something so badly. Though his persist­ence is commendable, it would be naïve not to see the problems that Stearley’s story brings to campus security. 
His actions show exactly how easy it is to by-pass the different forms of security we have. Though he was not a threat to campus in particular, his experience demonstrates how easy it might be for someone who is potentially dangerous to learn building pass codes and take advan­tage of lax security on campus. 
Aside from the problems his talent for faking presents, he made my completely legitimate spot at Notre Dame seem a lit­tle more special and a little more valu­able. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT MUS C AN WOULD YOU L KE TO COME TO NOTRE DAME? 








Mike Perez  Beto Elizondo  Alex Kimball  Caroline Bates  Cara Nozykowski  Ben Ryan  
senior  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  junior  
Morrissey  Fisher  Dillon  Lewis  Holy Cross  O’Neill  
“Kanye. He’s a  “Nickelback  “Taylor Swift.  “Taylor Swift.  “Wilco because  “John Mayer  
controversial  because I just  Maybe she can  Maybe she can  they are  because maybe  
artist and it  think it’d be  sign the posters  sign the posters  awesome. Have  he’ll bring  
would be a  pretty cool.”  in my room.”  in Alex’s room.”  you heard their  Jennifer  
pretty sick  music?”  Aniston.”  

concert.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LA/The Observer A hawk is spotted killing and eating a squirrel in a tree on North Quad Tuesday afternoon. 
OFFBEAT 

Would-be ninja impaled on fence 
SEATTLE — Seattle police say a man who thought he was ninja was impaled on a metal fence when he tried to leap over it. An officer who was looking for an assault victim nearby Monday night heard the man screaming for help. Police supported him to prevent further injuries until medics arrived and took him to a hospital, where he was in serious con­dition in intensive care on Tuesday. 
Police spokeswoman Renee Witt wrote in a department Web site posting that officers thought the man might have been involved in the reported assault, but he insisted he was just a ninja trying to clear a 4-to 5-foot­tall fence. 
Witt says the man was “overconfident in his abili­ties,” and that alcohol likely played a role. 
Alleged door-to-door pot seller picks wrong home 
BROWNSVILLE, Texas — A 19-year-old man was jailed on a drug charge after he allegedly went door-to­door trying to sell marijuana. A Brownsville police spokesman said Anthony Carrazco’s alleged scheme went awry when he knocked on a police officer’s apart­ment door. 
Spokesman Jimmy Manrrique said the episode happened Thursday down­town near the University of Texas-Texas Southmost College campus. He said Carrazco appeared to be intoxicated and allegedly had three ounces of marijua­na with him that he tried to sell door-to-door. Finally, Manrrique knocked the off-duty police officer’s door. The officer “said he would be right back and went to get his badge and handcuffs.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday 

IN BRIEF 
H1N1 flu vaccines will be available to high risk groups, including all students under 24, today from 11 a.m. to 3 
p.m. in the Stepan Center. 
Johanna Fernandez, profes­sor of history at Baruch College, will deliver a lecture today called “The Young Lords and the Social and Structural Roots of Sixties Radicalism” from 4:30 to 6 
p.m. in room 210-214 in McKenna Hall. The event is sponsored by the Institute for Latino Studies. 
A performance of Dance: Flamenco Vivo! will take place tonight and Thursday at 7 at the Decio Mainstage Theater of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets can be purchased online at performingarts.nd.edu 
The film “Still Walking” will be shown Thursday at 6:30 
p.m. 
at the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets can be purchased online at performingarts.nd.edu 

The Notre Dame men’s soc­cer team will play Wisconsin-Green Bay Thursday at 7:30 

p.m. 
at Alumni Field. For ticket information, call 631-7356. 


The Notre Dame men’s bas­ketball team will play Long Beach State Thursday at 
7:30 p.m. at the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center. For ticket information, call 631-7356. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Gameday Sunday 


Atlanta 61 / 39 Boston 54 / 34 Chicago 50 / 42 Denver 54 / 30 Houston 72 / 52 Los Angeles 66 / 48 Minneapolis 50 / 40 New York 56 / 45 Philadelphia 59 / 46 Phoenix 78 / 51 Seattle 47 / 45 St. Louis 45 / 40 Tampa 80 / 60 Washington 61 / 50 
Wednesday, November 18, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 



The Shirt Project elects president 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
News Writer 
With football season almost over, preparations are already underway for the 2010 Shirt Project, with the nomination and selection of junior Christian Gigante for the posi­tion of the president. 
President of The Shirt 2009, senior Matthew Barloh, asked the Council of Representatives (COR) to approve his nomina­tion of Gigante for the respon­sibility of planning the largest student-run fundraiser at the University. COR voted unani­mously in approval. 
“I am here to do great things and I am very passionate about the Project,” Gigante said. 
Gigante served as the Director of Special Projects for The Shirt 2009, gaining valu­able experience of the day-to­day operations of the project and the challenges of designing a shirt that will appeal to stu­dents, alumni and fans, Barloh said. 
One of the main difficulties facing Gigante as president of The Shirt 2010 is to create a shirt with greater appeal to the student body. 
“Our goal is to create some­thing that we know everybody in the student body will love and wear,” Gigante said. “We’re always going to have critics though.” 
In addition, The Shirt has to appeal to alumni and the Notre Dame fan base throughout the country, since it is the largest fundraiser for the student body. 

“The Shirt 2009 was one of the most appealing to alumni,” Gigante said. 
In order to improve the mar­keting for The Shirt, however, The Shirt Committee hopes to appeal to more Notre Dame alumni clubs, urging the presi­dents to buy shirts at a lower cost so that their community can understand and be a part of the Project, Gigante said. 
The Shirt Project, which raises money for the Notre Dame student body, helps stu­dents suffering from serious illnesses or in need financial support. 
In other COR news: 
 COR discussed possible revisions to the IRISHLINK list­serv, the means by which vari­ous campus organizations, aca­demic offices and student groups publicize information to the student body e-mail system. 
In response to complaints about a barrage of e-mails sent to the student body at midnight each night from varying sources, COR is planning changes to the system in order to create policies for who can send e-emails, what merits an e-mail sent to the entire student body and how best to publicize campus information. 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 


Club fights to improve working conditions 



By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Human rights violations against farm workers in Florida are the focus an on-campus Latino student activist club MEChA’s upcom­ing Education Night as part of a Week of Action for better working conditions and fair food policies. 
MEChA, the Movimiento Estundiantil Chicano de Aztlán, strives to raise awareness of social and cul­tural issues in the community as well as human rights, through Nov. 25 is designated as a Week of Action for protests against major national supermarkets. In 
order to compliment the CIW’s pressure on Publix, a southern grocery store, MECHA’s Social Action Committee will host an Education Night this Thursday in order to provide information about the CIW and the human rights viola­tions in Immokalee. 
Guadalupe Gomez, a Notre Dame graduate, said the Education Night is “a chance to educate people in the com­
munity about what is going 
particularly for “We work for a on and how Latinos, they can get 
greater appreciation
according to involved.” 
MEChA’s Web of our rights as we Another Notre site. try to bring them to Dame alumna 
The club ’s and MEChA 
others as well.” 
Social Action activist Melanie Committee is Gonzales will 
Rocío Aguiñaga 
spearheading also attend the 
senior co-president
work with the event and dis-
MEChA
Coalition of Immokalee Workers (CIW), an organization founded by immigrants in Immokalee, Fla., in order to bring about a change in their poor work­ing conditions in the fields. 
The Campaign for Fair Food, a major CIW project, is a boycott against fast-food giants and the corporate food industry. The Immokalee workers have encountered success by forging contracts with some of the nation ’s largest fast food producers, including McDonald’s, Taco Bell and Subway, to take responsibility for the workers who provide the produce used by their restaurants, according to the CIW Web site. 
“The CIW has three main demands in the Campaign for Fair Food and their work right now,” MEChA member senior Nicole Medina said. “They are fighting for fair working conditions, a place at the table, meaning a say in what happens to them and, finally, a penny more per pound of tomatoes picked.” 
The CIW reports that 10 


to 12 hours of “If we can focus our my heritage, ” work yields he said. 
efforts on getting this
only 45 cents “MEChA is my 
campus more aware, 
for every 32 way of focusing pounds of then we will have my energy and 
tomatoes already won part of my passion 
picked by about that sub-
the battle.” 
these Florida ject into some-workers. This thing good for means that the communi ­
Nicole Medina 
over 2.5 tons senior ty.” 
cuss her experi­
ences with the 
workers in Immokalee and the opportu­nities for change. Guests can then sign delegation letters to Kroger managers that will show consumer dissatisfac­tion with the store’s policies. 
Notre Dame representatives also said they hope to be present at the additional protests on Kroger in Lakeland, Fla., in December. 
Medina said MEChA is one strongly rooted in community and works to bring equality to all people. The club strives to spread awareness through the Notre Dame community about human rights viola­tions that affect not only Latino Americans but also all Americans. 
“If we can focus our efforts on getting this campus more aware, then we will have already won part of the bat­tle,” she said. 
Freshman Victor Cruz recently joined the club and has been involved in the Social Action Committee and the Week of Action planning. 
“I grew up with parents 
who instilled in 
me a pride in 
of tomatoes are required to earn the equivalent of the minimum hourly wage for 10 hours. This rate has not changed significantly in over 30 years, and the working conditions of the farmers from Immokalee are compar­ative to modern-day slavery, according to the CIW Web site. 
“A lot of people just do not know what is going on and understand whose back bears the burden of the things that we take for grant­ed, ” co -president senior Rocío Aguiñaga said. “We work for a greater apprecia­tion of our rights as we try to The 
b r i n g  t h e m  t o  o t h e r s  a s  
well.”  
T h e  w e e k  o f  N o v.  1 8  

University offers a Migrant Experiences Seminar involving immersion into the Immokalee commu­nity and first-hand experi­ences with the difficult lives of these laborers. According to the Center for Social Concerns ’ Web site, the course introduces students to the difficulties and social issues surrounding migrant farm labor. A trip to Immokalee over semester break is a central component of the seminar. 
MEChA’s Education Night will be tomorrow from 7 to 
8:30 p.m. in DeBartolo room 140. 

Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 18, 2009 


Book fair to benefit SMC education center 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
The Learning Tree, a resource education center for students at Saint Mary’s, will be co-hosting a book fair with Usborne Books, an educational materials supplier, Thursday and Friday from 11 
a.m. to 7 p.m. in the Student Center Atrium. 
Usborne will be giving 50 per­cent of all the proceeds of the fair to the Learning Tree in the form of learning material, including textbooks and educational pack­ets. 
The fair will offer educational materials ranging from preschool to high school. Jayne Fogle, direc­tor of the Learning Tree, said there will be items like chapter books, activity books, learning activities, puzzles, phonics flash cards and many other materials that cover topics from geography and language to science and social studies. 
Fogle said they are books for College education majors, “but more than that, they could be used for gifts.” 
She said the fair was planned for around this time of the year so students could buy Christmas gifts for their siblings and friends. The items also could be useful to edu­cation majors who are looking for materials for their classes. 
Prices of items start at around $4, and Fogle said given the high quality of the books, the prices are reasonable. 
Fogle said Karen Richards, a consultant for Usborne, is certain there will be a book at the fair for all who attend. Richards said she plans to bring hundreds of books to the campus. 
The fair has been held success­fully at other colleges and schools around the community including Indiana University South Bend, and the company has been look­ing forward to bringing it to Saint Mary’s. 
The Learning Tree, located in Madeleva Hall, has been a resource at Saint Mary’s since 2001 and serves the South Bend community as well as students at the College, Fogle said. 
The center supplies services and materials at reasonable costs, she said. Services include lami­nating and poster making. 
The Learning Tree also is unique, Fogle said, because it has learning games available for sale ranging from $1.50 to $2.50. The accompanying packets allow the student, parent or teacher to put the game together on their own. 
The Learning Tree is open to the public from noon to 5 p.m. Tuesday and Wednesday. Fogle said she is also available to stu­dents in the Saint Mary’s commu­nity as needed. 
Fogle said she works with South Bend area schools, parents who home school and education majors from not only Saint Mary’s but other colleges. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

Huckabee 
continued from page 1 

Republicans realize that the vast debt and record spending that’s going on now is the wrong thing.” 
Huckabee said in regards to health care reform, the leader­ship of the Democratic Party, on the other hand, has been irresponsible. 
“I think the Democratic lead­ership has been recklessly irre­sponsible in pushing something that is not only a policy that the American people don’t truly support, but worse, that would have a devastating impact on jobs and the econo­my,” he said. 
Between traveling on the book tour and giving speeches, Huckabee said he interacts with thousands of people every week and has gotten a sense of the “great deal of angst” among Americans. 
“And the one thing that becomes very evident is that people are genuinely con­cerned about the loss of jobs, the fact that the people of Congress seem to be totally immune to any semblance of reality when it comes to their policies and what they’re push­ing,” he said. “Small business owners in particular are extremely concerned because they see the free enterprise system under assault.” 
“A Simple Christmas” in part addresses these feelings, Huckabee said, because it tells some of his favorite Christmas stories to remind Americans, as they enter the holiday sea­son during a difficult economic climate, that the best holidays can be the simplest ones. 
“I hope it will be a book that will encourage people, particu­larly those who are struggling right now,” he said. “I think sometimes people forget that Christmas is not about the what — the what I give, what I get, what I eat, what I wear — it’s about the who and the rela­tionships of our lives. The sto­ries I tell in this book will cause people to really reflect on their own lives, their own stories and experiences. 
“It’s different — it’s not a political book. It’s a book that’s kind of outside my norm. It’s my seventh book, but it’s prob­ably my very favorite of all.” 
Although he said he is not ready to release details about it, he is also already starting an eighth book. 
“I don’t know if it will come out next year, or in 2011,” he said. “This is two years in a row I’ve missed the opening day of duck [hunting] season and half of deer season because I was on book tour. And so no matter what the publisher wants, next year I plan to be in the woods a whole lot more than on the bus.” 
Huckabee said the decision to make Notre Dame a stop on his book tour most likely came from a recommendation from his publisher. 
The Bookstore began plan­ning for Huckabee’s visit at the beginning of September, Blitch said. 
“They contacted us, so it was really an honor,” she said. 
Blitch said because they trav­el to so many cities, Huckabee’s staff sent specific instructions and procedures for the Bookstore to follow during his visit. 
Huckabee’s visit to Notre Dame was one of three book tour appearances yesterday, Blitch said. From South Bend, Huckabee traveled to Grand Rapids, Mich. and Naperville, Ill. 
People began waiting in line for the book signing one hour before Huckabee arrived, she said. 
First year law student Claire Leatherwood was one of many people who stood in line to meet Huckabee and have books signed. 
She said she was there for a friend who could not come due to class, but wanted a copy of the book for his father and grandmother. 
“I also really like Mike Huckabee,” she said. “I was pretty pumped, he was nice to us, joking with us about law school and the first year being tough.” 
Blitch said one interesting thing she learned during Huckabee’s visit is that he can sign more than of 600 books an hour. 
Even when there was a lull in the line, Huckabee continued to sign the stacks of books that his staff put in front of him, but he also took time to shake hands and chat with the people who waited to meet him. 
“I’m glad we’re here,” Huckabee said. “I love this campus, it’s absolutely magnifi­cent and one of the greatest American treasures in the world of academics.” 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 


World & Nation 
Wednesday, November 18, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Putin appears on hip hop TV 
MOSCOW — Putin in da house? He’s tracked Siberian tigers wearing military camouflage, sat in the cockpit of a fighter jet, and shown off black-belt judo moves. Now Vladimir Putin is adding another groove to his tough guy persona: hip hop idol. 
Since the Russian leader popped up last week on a music TV show surrounded by rappers, some in the Kremlin elite are fol­lowing his lead. On Tuesday, lawmakers and musicians staged a “rap battle for justice” that included a freestyle message urging President Dmitry Medvedev to fight corrup­tion and other problems faced by everyday Russians. 
90-year-old charged with Nazi crimes 
BERLIN — A former SS sergeant who worked unnoticed for decades as a train-sta­tion manager was charged with 58 counts of murder Tuesday after a student doing undergraduate research uncovered his alleged involvement in a massacre of Jewish forced laborers. 
University of Vienna student Andreas Forster was working on a project about the slaying in a forest near the Austrian village of Deutsch Schuetzen when he stumbled across Adolf Storms’ name in witness testi­mony. 
Forster then obtained files from federal archives in Berlin that enabled him to link the former sergeant to the massacre, his professor Walter Manoschek told The Associated Press. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Astronauts check for damage 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. — Space shuttle Atlantis’ astronauts scoured their ship Tuesday for any signs of launch damage while pursuing the International Space Station. 
Atlantis and its crew of six will hook up with the space station Wednesday. 
The shuttle gradually was gaining on the station, and the two craft were on opposite sides of Earth at midday Tuesday, not quite 24 hours into the chase. 
“You’ve got 8,000 miles of rock between you and it,” Mission Control informed shuttle commander Charles Hobaugh. 
“I’m seeing somebody out in front, must not be them,” Hobaugh joked. 
Santas wish for swine flu vaccine 
CONCORD, N.H. — Forget cookies and milk. Santa wants the swine flu vaccine. 
Many of the nation’s Santas want to be given priority for the vaccine and not just because of those runny-nosed kids. There’s also the not-so-little matter of that round belly. Research has suggested obesity could be a risk factor. 
Swine flu has become such a concern that the Amalgamated Order of Real Bearded Santas featured a seminar on the illness at a recent conference in Philadelphia. The group also urged its members to use hand sanitizer and take vitamins to boost their immune systems. 
The president of the organization said he also hopes parents will keep sick kids away. 
“We don’t want any child to go without see­ing Santa, but it’s not worth bringing your child to the mall, infecting the Santa and infecting the other children,” Nicholas Trolli said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Lawmakers get legislative headstart 
INDIANAPOLIS — Indiana lawmakers will get a jump start on the upcoming legislative session by holding committee meetings a month early, giving themselves more time to examine issues including property taxes, unemployment insur­ance and ethics. 
The House and Senate both met Tuesday for a largely ceremonial organization day, but leaders also assigned several bills to committees so they could be discussed during December meetings before the session starts Jan. 5. Legislative lead­ers said the early meetings — dates of which have not yet been set — will give them more time to sort out complicated issues. 
CZECH REPUBLIC 
Manyrememberfallofcommunism 
Thousands of Czechs gather to relive and commemorate their nation’s triumph 
Associated Press 

PRAGUE — Thousands marched through the Czech capital Tuesday in com­memoration of a student protest 20 years ago that grew into the human tidal wave sweeping away the communist regime in what was then Czechoslovakia. 
Today, the Czech Republic and Slovakia are European Union and NATO members. While the world recession has left its mark, their economies are among the strongest of the continent’s former communist nations, and their democracies among the most resilient. Pragmatic Czechs in partic­ular have moved into the European mainstream, with most citizens spending little time on any normal day looking back on their Velvet Revolution. 
But Tuesday was no nor­mal day for the several thousand Czechs gathered to relive the hours that led to their nation’s democratic triumph. 
Nov. 17, 1989, began with fiery speeches at a univer­sity campus in Prague, inspiring thousands of stu­dents to march downtown toward Wenceslas Square. As darkness fell, police cracked down hard, beat­ing demonstrators with truncheons and injuring hundreds in the melee. 
Unbowed, the crowds mush­roomed in the ensuing days, with demonstrators chanting: “You have lost already!” 
They were right. Following the collapse of the Berlin Wall and communism in the region, by Dec. 10, Czechoslovakia had a new government. On Dec. 29, Vaclav Havel, a dissi­dent playwright who had spent several years in prison, was elected the country’s first democratic president in a half century by a parliament still dominated by communist hard-liners. 
For many retracing the march, it was a joyful return to a time when repression proved no match for people power, which in a string of protests brought down the Iron Curtain across East Europe. 

“I came here with hope,” said Renata Krbcova, 45, who studied at the Faculty of Arts of Charles University in 1989 and joined the ranks of those that rolled through the capital. 
“It was a wonderful feel­ing, after all we hoped that something had to happen,” she said. 
Krbcova, who teaches Italian and Italian litera­ture at a Prague high school, said she came again to celebrate. 
“Not everything is per­fect,” she said. “But overall, it is on the right track.” 
On Tuesday, Havel, President Vaclav Klaus and Prime Minister Jan Fischer joined hundreds of people laying flowers and lighting candles at a monument marking the site of the bru­tal clash. 
“The demonstration, the march set the history into motion,” said Havel, who was applauded by the sur­rounding crowd. 
Earlier Tuesday he praised the memory of those who helped over­throw the repressive regime, naming dozens including his late wife Olga. 
“We often tend to forget our fellow colleagues, friends, and the open-minded people in everyday life,” Havel told the Czech Senate. 
Prominent outsiders joined in the praise. 
“I congratulate the Czech Republic and Slovakia on 20 years of democracy and reaffirm the commitment of the United States to our strong alliance,” Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said in a statement. 
Czechs remain relative­ly optimistic, 20 years on. 
A Pew Global Attitudes Project survey, conducted among respondents of nine post-communist countries, has only Czechs and Poles feeling they are better off now than back then. The Aug. 27 survey had a per­centage of error between plus or minus 3.5 and 5 percentage points, depend­ing on the country. 
VIETNAM 

Internet users fear Facebook blackout 
Associated Press 

HANOI — Vietnam’s growing legions of Facebook users fear that the coun­try’s communist government might be blocking the popular social network­ing Web site, which has become diffi­cult to access over the past few weeks. 
Facebook has more than 1 million users in Vietnam, and the number has been growing quickly since the com­pany recently added a Vietnamese language version of the site. 
Over the last week, access to Facebook has been intermittent in the country, whose government tightly controls the flow of information. The severity of the problem appears to depend on which Internet serv­ice provider a customer uses. 
Access to other popular Web sites appears to be uninterrupted in Vietnam, a nation of 86 million with 22 million Internet users. 
Government officials and managers at several of Vietnam’s state-con­trolled Internet service providers did not respond to a request for com­ment. 
But technicians at two of Vietnam’s largest Internet service providers said they had been swamped with calls from customers complaining they could not access Facebook during the last week. 
A technician at Vietnam Data Corp. said government officials had ordered his firm to block access to Facebook and that VDC instituted a block on the site Nov. 
11. He declined to give his name because he was not authorized to speak to the media. 
However, Vu Hoang Lien, the firm’s top executive, said he was unaware of any such order. 
“I don’t know anything about that,” he said. 
Word of the access problems has not yet filtered back to Facebook’s headquarters in Palo Alto, Calif., said Debbie Frost, a company spokes­woman. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 18, 2009 
around the country and it order and you’re not allowed became a kind of turning to continue,” Hesburgh told 
Hesburgh 

point in the student revolu-the group. 


continued from page 1 tion,” he said. “People 
became more civilized, order learning to institutions returned to the campus.” wrought with turmoil. The order was short-lived, 
“The whole country, it and Hesburgh’s 15 -minute seemed, was up for grabs,” rule was enacted nine months Hesburgh said, “and I later, when the now-famous thought it was high time that Notre Dame 10, on campus someone set down what the today for the 40th anniver­rules of the game were.” sary of their demonstration, 
The game: protesting the protested against the Dow 
Wa r, t h e p r o - C h e m i c a l ,  
d u c t i o n o f  C o . , t h e  
napalm, a mix­ture of gasoline and thickening agen ts used in  “Every student at Notre Dame is free to protest anything they don’t like  p r o d u c e r s of napalm, a n d t h e C e n t r a l  
i n c e n d i a r y  — either at the  Intelligence  
bombs, and the draft on college campuses.  University or in the world generally or in our  A g e n c y ( C I A ) r e c r u i t i n g  
C o l l e g e s a n d u n i v e r s i t i e s  country especially.”  s t u d e n t s for jobs on  
across the coun­try, along with l a w e n f o r c e - Fr. Theodore Hesburgh University President  campus. “ P r o t e s t i s a l w a y s  
ment, struggled  Emeritus  l e g i t i m a t e  
to find peaceful  at a univer­ 
alternatives to  s i t y  

student-led riots and demon-because you have differences strations, at times tragically of opinion. It was perfectly failing to settle the crowds. obvious that most students in 
Hesburgh, in a letter writ-those days were against the ten Feb. 17, 1969, outlined a Vietnam War,” Hesburgh said. set of criteria for disruptive The leaders of the Notre protests called the 15-minute Dame 10 were some of those rule. who knocked on Hesburgh’s 
The letter, sent to faculty door in the middle of the and students, focused on the night, at about 2 a.m. rights of the established The group said they had Notre Dame community. It been walking up and down said: “We cannot allow a campus with small minority to impose signs, but their 
The 15 -minute rule, Hesburgh ’s stand against campus unrest, “changed the whole mood in the country,” he said. “It was kind of a his­torical moment for higher education in America and Notre Dame became a kind of symbol of getting out of that disorder and getting back into order again so the stu­dents could do what they come here to do, namely to study and get a degree.” 
Forty years later, the game has changed. 
Wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as social and moral debates have sparked students to protest and demonstrate in recent years, but not in the same way as their predecessors of the 1960s. 
“I think students ought to be interested and involved in the great issues of our time — and these are great issues. It’s perfectly right that stu­dents should have a point of view on these issues, should be able to express that, should be able to have meet­ings to discuss it, and even to come up with some solutions if they can,” he said. “That’s a legitimate part of University life and no one is against that.” 
Student activism these days, Hesburgh said, can be most effective at an 
academic,

“The only rules of the 
their will on the majority who efforts were not rather than a have spoken regarding the having any effect: game were that destructive University’s style of life.” students were [protests] had to be level. 
“The letter I wrote, in still being inter-“The only 
done in a civilized
rather general terms,” viewed for jobs thing is that Hesburgh said, “took on the with Dow-CIA. fashion.” we have to do national crisis and then said That’s when this in an what are we going to do at they went to see intelligent, 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh 
Notre Dame? I said let’s be the University orderly way, 
University President 
clear about a few basic president. not by 
Emeritus 
destroyi ngthings: Every student at Notre Dame is free to protest any­thing they don’t like — either at the University or in the world generally or in our country especially. 
“The only rules of the game were that this had to be done in a civilized fashion, that universities are places of civil discussion, not rioting and destroying property,” he said. 
The letter, Hesburgh said, was printed in full in the New York Times, The Washington Post and the Wall Street Journal. 
“In a way that word went 
“I said, ‘Well, that’s their privi­lege.’ Your privilege is to protest and carry signs if you want, but don’t impede their rights either,” Hesburgh said. 
The group warned Hesburgh they would “put it to the test,” he said, leading to the demonstration in the Main Building and their even­tual suspensions. 
“You know the rule, that if you’re disturbing the com­mon, ordinary life at Notre Dame and preventing other students from doing what they want to do, you’re out of 


property or creating disorder in the University, which needs a cer­tain amount of peace to go on with its work,” he said. 
One of his proudest moments came during last year’s Commencement, when the student body banded together in the face of out­siders ’ disruptions that threatened the University community. 
“They stood firm in their principles, they stood up for what was right, and when things looked a little dicey … they stood up as one person, men and women graduates, and they put their fists in the air and they shouted, ‘We are Notre Dame,’” Hesburgh said. “That was a proud moment for the whole university, and it brought tears to my eyes.” 
Hesburgh will concelebrate a Mass with Fr. Emmanuel Charles McCarthy, lawyer and advocate of the Notre Dame 10 this afternoon. Several members of the Notre Dame 10, along with McCarthy, will present at a panel titled “Being a Christian in a Catholic University in times of war: has 40 years changed the conversation?” at 7:30 
p.m. in Geddes Hall. 
The third installment in the series will recap the Notre Dame 10’s 40th anniversary events on campus. The fourth will feature current and recent Notre Dame students sharing their views on the issues that sparked their activism. Both installments will run in Thursday’s edi­tion. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu
SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Business
Wednesday, November 18, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Wal-Mart unveils holiday sales 
NEW YORK — Wal-Mart Stores Inc. on Tuesday unveiled weekly savings starting this Saturday on popular toys and video games that it is pitching as comparable to the sales blitz the day after Thanksgiving. 
Wal-Mart and other retailers including Sears have started to hawk deep sales usually reserved for the big sales day known as “Black Friday” in hopes of attracting more shoppers early. 
Walmart said Tuesday that some of the toys that will be discounted starting this Saturday through Nov. 27 are EZ Bake Oven, Disney Princess Scooter and Nerf N-Strike Vulcan. The discounts are up to 60 percent. 
Customers purchasing certain gaming pack­ages such as “Band Hero” and “DJ Hero” will receive a $40 Walmart gift card while supplies last. 
Walmart is also offering a 26-inch Vizio LCD HDTV TV for $248, down from $347. 
Coca-Cola annouces new look 
ATLANTA — Coca-Cola Co. is unveiling new packaging for half of its worldwide juice vol­ume that borrows from staple brand Minute Maid to create a more uniform look highlight­ing fruit and nature to appeal to consumers worldwide focusing more on health. 
The world’s largest soft drink and juice maker introduced the new packaging to investors and analysts at a meeting Tuesday in its hometown of Atlanta. Consumers around the world are switching to juices and teas for health reasons, leaving soft drink sales falling. 
Coca-Cola has been growing its juice offer­ings, including launching the all-natural Simply brand in the U.S., and is now going to create a single identity for at least half of them around the world. Simply will not be included, but key international brands such as Del Valle, Andina and Cappy are. 
The changes are already starting to show up in the market place, including some Minute Maid products, and the transformation will be complete by the end of next year. The new packaging includes Minute Maid’s well-known black-and-white logo and mixes in larger images of fruit and leaves. Other brands will have similar looks while maintaining their brand names. 
$1 promotion sparks disagreement 
Burger King franchisees spar with management over cheeseburger decision 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO — Burger King Corp.’s franchisees are tak­ing aim at the fast-food chain’s management, com­plaining to the restaurant’s board about a series of decisions they say are “ill­conceived” and put the burger joint’s business in “deep trouble.” 
In a letter to Burger King’s board, a group rep­resenting hundreds of franchisees blasted man­agement for its $1 double cheeseburger promotion forced on them after they twice voted against it. 
They also criticized an earlier corporate deci­sion to take back mil ­lions of rebate money distributed to franchise owners from soft drink companies. 
Franchise owners oper­ate 90 percent of the com­pany’s 12,000 locations, making Burger King one of the nation’s most heavily franchised restaurant chains. 
While disputes between owners and restaurants aren’t unusual, the sheer size of Burger King’s fran­chise base could pose a heady challenge for the chain as the battle contin­ues to brew. 
“If this continues to fes-‘no longer trust or have nation’s No. 2 burger chain burger typically costs fran­ter, I think this could be a confidence in the present earlier this month over the chisees at least $1.10. serious problem,” said management.’ $1 double cheeseburger The latest litigation Morningstar restaurant The letter was addressed promotion, saying the comes months after the analyst R.J. Hottovy. to nine board members Miami company couldn’t franchise group sued the 
The letter, obtained by including Chairman and mandate maximum menu company to stop it from The Associated Press and CEO John Chidsey. prices. Restaurant owners taking a share of multimil­dated Nov. 11, shows just Burger King spokes-contend that the offer, lion-dollar rebates from how frustrated the tone woman Denise Wilson said which was launched in soft drinker makers. The has become. the franchisee association October, forces them to sell money was paid to fran­
“We feel this is a very is mischaracterizing the $1 the product at a loss. chise owners who used sad time for the Burger double cheeseburger offer. The company said its Coca-Cola and Dr Pepper King brand,” according to “BKC takes great pride in actions were allowed. sodas. the letter from the National our franchise system and Burger King, which is In legal filings, the NFA Franchisee Association the actions we have taken locked in a heated battle said that decision could dated the same day the to enhance our competitive to attract customers, has take away $25 million in group sued the restaurant position,” she said in a seen increased cus -franchisee revenue in 2010 chain. “You should be ask-statement Tuesday tomers because of the and up to $40 million a ing yourselves why is this evening. “We remain com-deal, according to ana-year by 2012. happening and why is it mitted to making the right lysts. Burger King told fran­happening now? During decisions and constructive-While the quarter-chisees the money would the meetings held around ly engaging our fran-pounder may be popular be used to pay for more our system over the last chisees to strengthen the with diners, it’s a thorn in advertising, according to few weeks, many fran-brand and move our busi-the side of franchisees. the filings made in U.S. chisees in public forums ness forward.” While costs vary by loca-District Court in Southern have verbalized that they Franchisees sued the tion, the $1 double cheese-California. 

Airlines to bump fares, add surcharges 
Associated Press handling fees and surcharges on whether the new, higher surcharges 
heavy travel days. Airlines have also would stick. Airlines often roll back 
DALLAS — Call them surcharges or been cutting unprofitable flights, fare increases if competitors don’t call them fare increases, but either which saves money and reduces the match them. way it looks like you’ll pay more to supply of seats on America’s jetlin-Continental had not matched the travel next spring or summer. ers. moves, spokeswoman Julie King said. 
US Airways said Tuesday it will add a “The number of seats they’ve cut is American Airlines spokesman Tim 5 percent surcharge to all U.S. flights allowing them to do crazy things,” Smith said the surcharges “seem to on or after May 8. Spokeswoman said Tom Parsons, CEO of discount be all over the map. It’s varying Valerie Wunder says the surcharge will travel site Bestfares.com. “They widely by airline and market.” protect the airline in case fuel prices or added bag fees and nobody blinked. Smith said American had raised other costs increase. They’ve got $150 (itinerary) change surcharges to $30 for some Florida 
Separately, Delta, Northwest and fees, and now the surcharges.” destinations in the spring, and $50 United confirmed that they bumped Parsons said consumers should only for flights leaving Miami, Fort the surcharge on some busy days expect higher prices next year, Lauderdale and West Palm Beach on next March and April to $30 each whether they’re called fares or sur-Feb. 8, the day after the Super Bowl way from $20 — and to $50 on the charges. in Miami. day after the Super Bowl. “There were a lot of bargains in The airlines have enacted several 
Most major U.S. airlines have been 2009, but it looks like that’s not going broad fare increases this year, as losing money this year, and they’re to happen in 2010,” he said. well as $20 surcharges on peak days scrambling to add revenue with bag-It wasn’t clear Tuesday afternoon around Thanksgiving and Christmas. 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, November 18 , 2009 Wednesday, November 18, 2009 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
OIT 
continued from page 1 
“We just found that people were … putting a lot of their information up on Facebook and [other sites],” she said. “A lot of people like to steal oth­ers’ identities and this is how they get a lot of their informa­tion.” 
Votava said social network users need to be aware that pictures and other content posted to a Web site like Facebook are public. 
“If you go out and party hardy one night, do you neces­sarily want people who you are going to be interviewing with the next day or the next week viewing those pictures?” she said. 
Dobbins said social net­works are very public, and it is important to take advantage of privacy setting to restrict what the world can see. 
“The mistake a lot of people make is that only their friends are going to bother looking at their stuff online, so they put everything up there about themselves as if they were telling only their friends,” he said. “Unless they take advan­tage of the privacy settings, it’s not just their friends who will look at that stuff.” 

Dobbins also said it is important to remember that some applications such as Facebook games could allow potential identity thieves to access sensitive information. 
“Every one of those games that you join on Facebook … we have no idea who wrote that application and now knows everything your friends know about you,” he said. “Do you really want to give a com­plete stranger knowledge of things you would only share with your friends?” 
Dobbins did not recommend students stop using social net­working sites, which he called “a great tool.” 
“It’s a great medium for interacting, especially when you’re in a place where you cannot reach everybody, but do it carefully,” he said. 
Votava said she hopes the awareness campaign will achieve a “reduction in people coming to us reporting that they had some type of problem or that someone is using their personal information.” 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
Senate considers long-term insurance 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Senate health care legislation expected this week is likely to include a new long-term care insurance pro­gram to help the elderly and the disabled avoid going into nursing homes, Democratic officials say. 
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., is expected to incor­porate the voluntary program in legislation to be unveiled as early as Wednesday, said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because a final deci­sion has not been made. 
Known as the Community Living Assistance Services and Supports Act, or CLASS Act, the program was a top priority for the late Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass. It would begin to close a gap in the social safety net that’s received lit­tle attention in the health care debate. 
Fiscal conservatives and govern­ment economists have questioned whether the program would be financially sustainable over the long run, and insurance compa­nies are lobbying to strip it from the health care bill. 
Nonetheless, the House included the program in its health care leg­islation, with the approval of the Obama administration. In the Senate, the Health Committee bill had included it, but the Finance Committee omitted it. The approach Reid is considering in a combined bill would address the objections of fiscal conservatives by stipulating that premiums from the program could not be counted in offsetting the cost of the broad­er health care bill. Reid’s office had no comment on Tuesday. 
The cost of nursing homes aver­ages $70,000 a year, and a home care attendant runs about $29 an hour. Medicare only covers tempo­rary nursing home stays. Middle-class households have to exhaust their savings before an elder can qualify for nursing home coverage through Medicaid. 
Under the proposed program, people would pay a modest monthly premium during their working years. If they become dis­abled, they would get a cash bene­fit of at least $50 a day that could be used to pay a home care atten­dant, buy supplies and equipment, make home improvements such as adding bathroom railings, or defray the costs of nursing home care. 
The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the program would be fiscally solvent over a 75-year­period with the income from pre­miums, and no taxpayer financ­ing. That assumes an initial monthly premium averaging $123, and a $75 daily benefit. People would sign up for the pro­gram at work through a payroll deduction. They would have to pay premiums for five years before they could qualify for bene­fits. Both the premiums and bene­fits would be adjusted annually. 
“This is primarily a product for baby boomers, and people who are still working,” said James Firman, president of the National Council on Aging, and a supporter of the program. “If we don’t do this now, I don’t think boomers are going to get another chance.” 
Supporters say the government benefit would provide a founda­tion upon which private insurance companies could build by selling supplemental long-term care cov­erage. But the industry says a new program would only create confu­sion for consumers. 
Critics’ concerns got validation recently from a report by Medicare economists who are expert in long-range cost esti­mates. In a report issued last weekend, they said a voluntary insurance program is likely to attract people who expect they’ll need the coverage. Without tax­payer subsidies, premiums would keep going up, discouraging healthy people from signing up and triggering an “insurance death spiral.” 
“Individuals with health prob­lems or who anticipate a greater risk of functional limitation would be more likely to participate than those in better-than-average health,” the report said. “There is a significant risk that the problem ... would make the CLASS pro­gram unsustainable.” 

Va. inmate executed by electric chair 
Associated Press 
JARRATT, Va. — A former Army counterintelligence worker was executed by electric chair Tuesday for killing a Virginia couple, becoming the first U.S. inmate to die by electrocution in over a year. 
Larry Bill Elliott, 60, of Hanover, Md., was pronounced dead at 
9:08 p.m. at Greensville Correctional Center. He was con­victed of the January 2001 shoot­ing deaths of 25-year-old Dana Thrall and 30-year-old Robert Finch. 
Prosecutors said Elliott killed the couple to win the love of for­mer stripper and escort Rebecca Gragg, who was involved in a bit­ter custody dispute with Finch. 
Elliott said in the death cham­ber that he had prepared a final statement for his attorneys to read after the execution. In the three-page typed statement, Elliott maintained his innocence, saying he hoped groups that oppose the death penalty will use his case “as a launching pad for the elimination of the death penal­ty.” 
“The very system that I spent a lifetime defending has failed me,” the statement said. 
Elliott was brought into the death chamber at 8:55 p.m., tak­ing several glances at the oak chair before he was turned around and backed up to it and seated. Despondent, Elliott looked forward or watched members of the execution team as they strapped him tightly into the chair and attached metal clamps with sea sponge soaked in a brine solu­tion to his right calf and head, both of which had been shaved. 
The team attached electric cables from the floor to the metal clamps and placed a brown strap across much of his face that was tied to the back of the chair to support his head. 
When the operator in a room off to the side pushed the “execute” button, Elliott’s body tensed as he received several bursts of electric­ity. Several minutes later, a doctor checked for a heartbeat and pro­nounced him dead. 
Virginia Gov. Timothy M. Kaine declined to stop the execution ear­lier in the day, while the U.S. Supreme Court refused to inter­vene on Monday. 
Two separate juries convicted Elliott of the killings. A 2002 ver­dict was set aside because a juror discussed the case outside of the court. He was convicted again a year later. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Wednesday, November 18, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
Looking back, looking ahead 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Katie Peralta Douglas Farmer Sarah Mervosh Chris Masoud What are you looking forward to most Caitlin Housley Chris Michalski in the next two weeks? 
“Make three correct guesses

Graphics Viewpoint 
Thanksgiving 
consecutively and

Sofia Iturbe Lianna 
you will establish a

New Moon Scene Brauweiler 
reputation as an expert.” 

Last home football game 
Jordan Gamble Other 
Laurence J. Peter 
U.S. comedian

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Coach suggestions 
Dear Mr. Swarbrick, 
What should you be looking for on our next coach’s résumé? Because let’s face it: Charlie should be fired later this week, season or year. He has the same win­ning percentage as Ty Willingham and Bob Davie, and has gone 0-5 against USC. How could he not be fired (and 15 million little reasons don’t count)? How about two for two in games against USC in the Coliseum. Charlie hasn’t come within 30 points, let alone getting a victory in his two trips to Southern California. 
If you are one of those people who say we can’t recruit the same caliber ath­lete because of academic standards, you’ll be shocked to know which team boasts this accolade. It’s the Stanford Cardinal. Jim Harbaugh has taken lesser athletes and gone to the Coliseum and outcoached Pete Carroll twice. Yes, he went to Michigan. Yes he is 16-18 in three years at Stanford. But he is turning around a program that was irrelevant in the Pac-10 and college football in gen­eral into a team that can beat anyone in the nation. He has shown his ability to win big games by beating Oregon and USC in back-to-back weeks. Charlie does­n’t have a victory in his five seasons that compares to those great upsets. 
So, Mr. Swarbrick, I have a suggestion for you. In two weeks, let Jim Harbaugh make your coaching search easy. If he can beat Charlie, even without the three flashy Super Bowl rings to show recruits, I propose you offer him the job imme­diately. And then, just maybe, he can lead us to a 34-point victory in the Coliseum next year. I’ll even be happy with a three-point victory. Wouldn’t that be a nice change? 
Go Irish. Beat UConn. 
P.S. If Jim Harbaugh should turn you down, Brian Kelly wouldn’t be a bad choice, either. 
David VanEgmond 
senior off campus Nov. 17 
trated within your major, meaning that if you have a smaller major, pretty much every class from here until you graduate is going to be with the exact same people. This can be great, provided you are close with people in your major. If not, you have to learn to get close with them because they aren’t going anywhere. Plus, for some reason, South Dining Hall has a newfound obsession with putting butternut squash in every dish. I’m not really sure where that came from. 
That’s not to say that this year is worse, necessarily. Knowing people off campus is tremendously helpful and I can finally say I feel truly at home here, after spending two years shuffling around and finding my place. In many ways, I’m more com­fortable than I’ve ever been. 
But this whole experience is a good thing. We are at a time in our lives where things are going to change extremely quickly. Faster than what we are ready for, I would imagine. Long gone are the days where you see the same people at school in the same town, living in the same house year after year after year. In a year and a half, we are going to leave this place and scatter all over the country (and all over the world) doing what­ever it is that we do, and this whole process of radical change will happen all over again. And this time, maybe I’ll be ready for it. 
Andy Ziccarelli is a junior majoring in civil engineering. He can be reached at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

A funny thing happened when I came back from summer vacation and moved into the dorm this fall: things changed. Maybe it was foolish on my part to expect to return to campus and sim­ply pick up right Andy Ziccarelli where everything left off last May, Moment of but I did exactly Inertia that. And, much to my surprise, this semester has been a completely new and unexpect­ed experience. As anyone in the Class of 2011 will tell you, junior year is very different. 
The backbone of my underclassman experience here was my dorm hall­way, as I am sure it was with most people. My roommates and I were blessed by being put in a hallway almost exclusively populated by freshmen, and we had the benefit of an abnormally large triple in our hallway, which was usually reserved for visiting priests (dorm overcrowd­ing pays off every once in a while). It had a separate bedroom, a huge liv­ing room and a private bathroom. How my three friends that lived there hit the ResLife jackpot, I will never know, but it didn’t take long before our entire hallway essentially turned their room into our section lounge. It turned out to be the perfect thing for still-unsure, tenuous freshmen: a place to watch TV, debate about sports or play Mario Kart (hours and hours of Mario Kart), all in the com­pany of other tenuous freshman. If homework ever got done early (or it didn’t exist), you just had to walk down to “The Palace” and there was sure to be at least five other guys there (whether or not the kids who actually lived there were present), ready to hang out or play some Kart. 
As sophomores, our whole group was able to divide into three quads and a handful of doubles and singles and, miraculously, we all ended up in the same hallway again. So instead of one huge lounge, we had a few small­er lounges in each quad common room, but all of your close friends were still within a 10-second walk. We all ate together. We played sec­tion football together. FIFA replaced Mario Kart as the video game of choice, but we set up a league in which literally every person played. 
Then came this year. Sure, some things are still the same as they always have been. The football team is still disappointing, I still have a ton of homework and Alumni still sucks. The Dome still shines on a sunny day, South Quad is still a huge wind tun­nel and parietals still exist. 
However, due to study abroad and the temptation of bigger rooms scat­tered across Dillon, we no longer have a hallway to call our own. You always tell yourself that your close friends are just a short walk across the dorm, away and up some stairs, but that is a lot easier said than done. Community has been replaced by a sense of independence. 
However, this year goes beyond just that. Study abroad has taken friends from everybody this semester, it will take even more next semester (and in some cases, people are gone for both). Some juniors have already moved off campus. Rather than tak­ing a bunch of general electives or introductory college requirements, junior year is the year that you really start to take classes that are concen-
Go ahead and ‘kill’ 
I would like to add my support to Lizzie Laughman’s letter in which she encouraged the stu­dent body to put competition aside for the UConn game (“Be class, respectful,” Nov. 16). She’s right — even though we just lost to Navy for the second time in three years, our main concern should be not to hurt the opposing team’s feelings. Maybe we will win the coveted College Football Bowl Subdivision award for “Classiest Football Team” or “Nicest Student Body.” We can put that trophy right next to the Jeweled Shillelagh and all of the BCS tro­phies we’ve won recently. 
Go Irish, Beat Huskies (but not too badly)! 
Mike Sullivan 
senior Zahm Hall Nov. 16 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, November 18, 2009 page 11 
The Notre Dame 10 
Today is the 40th anniversary of an important event in the life of Notre Dame. On Nov. 18, 1969, 10 students were sus­pended under the famous “15-minute rule” after a demonstration protesting the presence of 
Mark Mahoney 
recruiters from Dow Chemical and the and CIA. The 15-minute John Eckenrode rule, announced by 
Guest
Fr. Hesburgh earlier 

Colu nists
that year, was viewed nationally as a get-tough response to student protests. “Disruptive” students were to be given 15 minutes to “cease and desist.” If they failed to disperse, they would be suspended. If they remained five minutes longer, they would be expelled and subject to arrest. 
This was at the height of the United States’ involvement in Vietnam. Dow was the maker of napalm used against civilian as well as military targets. The CIA had been involved in the efforts to overthrow Salvador Allende, as well as deeply involved in the Vietnam War. 
Prior to the protest, the Student Senate had passed a resolution requiring any recruiting agency to submit to an open forum to discuss its practices, so long as a sufficient number of students petitioned for such a forum. Despite a petition for such an open forum presented to the administration, they refused to make arrangements for such a dialogue between recruiters and students, thus setting the stage for the Nov. 18 action. The demon­stration stemmed from the belief that stu­dents had a right to ask whether they were being recruited for jobs that were consis­tent with the teachings of Jesus, the Catholic Church or their personal con­sciences. 
Following the suspensions, weeks of events in sympathy for the Notre Dame 10 took place. Several faculty came to the assistance of the students. A written “defense” was presented at an appeals hearing where the students presented their legal and moral position. The judici­ary board overseeing that meeting recom­mended that lesser punishments be imposed, a conclusion rejected by the uni­versity. Most of the suspended students returned to complete their degrees, but three did not. 
Although this action was modest in mag­nitude to subsequent antiwar events, such as the Strike in the spring of 1970 that brought many campuses to a halt follow­ing the invasion of Cambodia and the shootings of students at Jackson State and Kent State, the Dow-CIA Protest and its aftermath raised unique issues for Notre Dame in its role as a Catholic University with ties to military and industrial entities that were implicated in the conduct of the war. 
Today at 7:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns in Geddes Hall, as two members of the Notre Dame 10, we will join two former Notre Dame faculty mem­bers, Dr. Carl Estabrook and Fr. Emmanuel Charles McCarthy, for an open forum to discuss the events of 1969. We hope to reflect with the audience on the relevance of these issues to Notre Dame today and the challenges inherent in main­taining Christian moral positions within a university during times of continuing war and violence. 
Mark Mahoney is a 1971 Notre Dame graduate. John Eckenrode is a 1972 Notre Dame graduate. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Remember the good 
On Nov. 21, the seniors will play their last football game at Notre Dame Stadium. A lot will be made of it, and hopefully they will bounce back from the last cou­ple of weeks and win their last home game. 
But Saturday is also likely the last game at Notre Dame Stadium for another person: Coach Weis. During the last five years, Coach Weis has worked tirelessly at his job, but for whatever reason, he never reached the goals set; not only by the students, alumni and admin­istration, but by himself. After five years, it is time to make a change in leadership of the football team. 
However, his failure in reaching these goals was not for want of trying. Davie and Willingham may have had the same winning percentage as Coach Weis, but they left the program in shambles. When Coach Weis came on board, he had to completely rebuild the pro­gram. Coach Weis has done much to fix those prob­lems, and once again proved that you can recruit elite football players to Notre Dame. 
But more than that, Coach Weis has shown what it is to be a Notre Dame alumnus. From “Pass Right” in 2005, to walking to the USC locker room with his son to offer congratulations after a heartbreaking loss, to establishing Hannah and Friends in South Bend, to befriending a Boston College player suffering from cancer, Coach Weis has shown the rest of us how to act as Notre Dame men and women. 
At the game on Saturday — for some of you, your last as students — let us remember how much Coach Weis cared about the players, the students and the University. Let us remember how tirelessly he worked at his dream job. And let us remember he did things the right way. 
Saturday is not a day to vilify or boo Coach Weis; his time is likely up regardless of the outcome. Let’s sing the Alma Mater one last time with our Coach and wish him the best. 
James Liebscher 
law student off campus Nov. 3 
The actual facts 
The statement “You cannot be pro-life and pro-choice at the same time” (“The facts,” Anne Barbera, Nov. 17) is not a fact. There is no well-constructed fence that divides the abortion debate. 
The term “choice” has more complexities than the traditional abortion debate acknowledges. A pregnant woman who opposes abortion chooses to carry her child to term; thus, she is making a choice. In a world where the existence of available options (one being abortion) generates the necessity of choice, she made a conscious decision to give birth. Traditionally, this woman is “pro-life.” Other “pro-life” advocates would support her decision. However, the “pro-life” side of the “fence” normally fails to recognize that they are supporting the woman’s decision to choose life. The fact that choosing life is excluded from the pro-choice spectrum shows that the fence analogy is flawed. 
Maintaining a moral stance on an issue does not mean that you cannot respect other opinions. One can genuinely believe in the Catholic faith while respect­ing another’s right to choose a different religion. A woman can maintain the position that she would never choose to abort a child, yet respect another woman’s belief that abortion should be permissible in certain circumstances. Wouldn’t that traditionally make her both pro-life and pro-choice? No one knows the truth. It is not our place to judge and label one another. 
The real fact is that we will never live in a world where there is complete consensus on complex moral debates. The best that individuals with differing views on abortion can do is to work together to find com­mon ground in the matter, such as focusing on efforts to reduce unwanted pregnancies that create the need for abortion in the first place. Furthermore, we should stop seeking to divide the issue into such black and white labels; the search for truth in morality should not be treated as a civil war within humanity. It is not that simple. 
James Petrocelli 
senior off campus Nov. 17 
True justice for terrorists 
Christie Pesavento’s Nov. 17 column “Taking terrorists at their word” is another absurd lash by the right wing in an attempt to smear the Obama administration. To sug­gest that the Obama administration is not taking the threat of terrorism seriously is an enormous misunder­standing of the Obama administration’s commitment to the principles this nation was founded upon. 
My father, Thomas Anthony Durkin, has been working with the American Civil Liberties Union as civilian council for one of the five co-conspirators of the 9/11 terror plot currently held at Guantanamo Bay. He has been appoint­ed to Ramzi Binalshibh, famously known as one of the alleged 20 highjackers. This man has endured years of torture and it has yet to be determined if he is competent to stand trial. Since Pesavento objects to Attorney General Holder’s decision to try these men in federal court, I assume she believes that these men must be tried in the farce of a legal system convened under George Bush called the “Military Commissions.” In this military court, defendants are prohibited from seeing the evidence incriminating them. Any sort of evidence brought about through torture and hearsay is legitimate. And prior to 2008, defendants did not have the right to habeas corpus, meaning our government was able to hold what they call “unlawful alien combatants” for as long as they please without offering any explanation. Luckily, we live in a country which has an established judiciary system. 
Obama and Holder’s decision to bring these defendants to a federal court is a testament to the administration’s commitment to the Constitution and human rights. So what if these five men are tried in a federal court? The Justice Department has enough evidence to convict these men, and justice will be served. By electing to try these men in a federal court, the U.S. continues to improve its international legitimacy that was severely damaged under the Bush administration. Finally, I admire my father and others for standing up to the Constitutional and human rights abuses of the Bush administration, and ensuring that legitimate justice is brought to these terror­ists. 
Anthony Matthew Durkin 
senior off campus Nov. 17 

Party at my place 
Seriously. You are all invited. Although it will not be a typical Notre Dame party, it will be a good time. 
Too often in life the quirky, unique and most interesting aspects of individuals are suppressed due to social expectations. This is often true at Notre Dame despite our school’s appeal. Some people natural­ly thrive in our environment, but what about those whose perspectives do not quite fit? Many are either forced to wear masks, concealing their fascinating quali­ties, or regretfully choose not to share all that is spectacular about themselves. There is so much we could all gain if this were not the case. 
At least for one night, let’s create an atmosphere that fosters sincere sister­hood and brotherhood, appreciation for differences and an attempt to understand each other. Without exception, everyone is invited. 
“Everyone” includes the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning students, those out and those not; you are all invited. It includes pretty girls that guys are too afraid to talk to, as well as every pretty girl who doesn’t see her beauty yet. In other words, all Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame girls are invited. All guys are invited, too, and you don’t even have to pay! Artists, athletes, musi­cians, engineers, dancers, social activists, writers — all invited. Everyone is invited. We are all beautiful people and there is a place for each person on Friday. 
Whether you come in a group or by yourself, I’m excited to meet you! Take a chance, because there will be no expecta­tions about who you are supposed to be. 
There will not be any beer, by the way. It’s a tea party. We will boil as much water as is needed, and it’s all on me. Also, please feel free to bring more teabags or snacks. See you Friday, Nov. 20 between 8 p.m. and midnight in 259 O’Neill. 
John Villecco 
junior O’Neill Hall Nov. 17 
The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Wednesday, November 18, 2009 

By TATIANA SPRAGIN 
Scene Writer 

Sponsored by International Services and Activities (ISSA) and the Office of International Studies (OIS), Notre Dame is dedicating this week, International Education Week, to events that promote or will advise students on issues of interna­tional relevance. Since Saturday, a variety of events have been held on campus, and the schedule continues until Friday. 
The paper tents on the South Dining Hall tables that advertise for this week carry, on the front, the smiling faces of three girls each from a different corner of the world and, on the back, the weekl schedule. The first event held last 
weekend, was the “One World Film Festival,” where five widely acclaimed international movies were screened at the Hesburgh Library. The point of the film festival was to use cinema to display a reality that is often overlooked, such as that of children growing up in the streets of Bombay or in a Brazilian slum. Some of the movies played were the widely acclaimed Brazilian movie “City of God,” and the Oscar-winning Chinese documen­tary “The Blood of Yingzhou District.” 
The rest of the week’s events seem to be geared to the international student popu­lation, with a couple workshops for those students planning on studying abroad. A workshop that takes place three times this week is the Tax Assistance Program, directed at helping international students with advising on federal and state tax returns (this same event will held again today, from 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. at the Fischer and O’Hara-Grace Community Room and noon Thursday in the Montgomery Auditorium in LaFortune). 


Otherwise, there is also the “Dia de los Muertos Ofrenda” exhibition at the Snite Museum of Art, which focuses on the artist’s displays of traditional “ofrendas” (memorial altar, offerings) for All Souls Day in Mexico, incorporating elements of her late father’s life and memories, to whom she dedicated this exhibit. 
The One World Film Festival and the Ten Thousand Village Sale (Monday-Friday, from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. in O’Shaugnessy) provides insight into the working reality of artisans. The Ten Thousand Village sale boasts a variety of beautiful hand­made prod­ucts 
crafted by artisans in 38 countries who, without this organization, would’ve most likely Still coming up this week is the Study and Travel Abroad discussion with Notre Dame senior Andy Steves at the Montgomery Auditorium in LaFortune (Thursday from 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.), where Steves will talk about his experi­ence and advise when it comes to traveling in Europe. Also, for international under­graduate students there will be an ice cream social on the same day, from 7 p.m. until 8 p.m., to meet new people who share a diverse background. Finally, on Friday there will be another workshop about safety when studying abroad (10 
a.m. to 11 a.m. in the Notre Dame room in LaFortune). 
For the full program, please visit issa.nd.edu/news-and-events 
Contact Tatiana Spragin at tspragin@nd.edu 
The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, November 18, 2009 page 13 
“The Hurt Locker” @ 10 p.m. in DeBartolo 101 
This jarring movie follows the story of a group of soldiers in Iraq in 2004. As part of an Explosive Ordinance Disposal team, they dis­arm bombs. Sergeant First Class William James (Jeremy Renner) becomes the new team leader after the death of his predecessor, quickly proving himself to be a reckless and emotional leader. James befriends a local Iraqi boy, Beckham, who is soon killed by a body bomb. James is forced to deal with the loss of a friend as well as the continuing challenge of living in Iraq. The Hurt Locker is also showing Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. 
“Flamenco Vivo!” @ 8 p.m. in DPAC 
This colorful, masterful perform­ance promises to be an exciting show. Led by Flamenco master Carlota Santana, the show “El Corazon del Flamenco” is an expressive look at various Flamenco style dances from throughout Spain. Through enter­taining music, impeccable foot­work and amazing costumes, Flamenco Vivo! exposes the audi­ence to a wide array of Flamenco styles, all steeped in rich history and tradition. The New York Times calls it “an infectiously joyful cele­bration of music and dance.” Tickets are $36 for the general public, $25 for faculty/staff and seniors and $15 for all students. 
That’s So College Nightclub @ midnight at Legends 
It’s “That’s So College Night” at Legends! And what better way to warm up after a cold day of football than a Legends dance party? We all know Notre Dame students love an excuse to dance and this is the perfect opportunity to get your groove on. The music is sure to be all those songs you love to dance to. Therefore, one can only expect this to be a bigger, bet­ter version of a dorm party with an actual DJ instead of an iPod playlist. Starting at mid­night, come over to Legends and enjoy great music and a great atmosphere with friends. 
Stefon Harris @ 2 p.m. in DPAC 
Stefon Harris has been herald­ed as “one of the most important young artists in jazz” by the Los Angeles Times. He received his bachelor’s and master’s degrees from the Manhattan School of Music in New York and has been cultivating an impressive career since graduation. Considered an energetic and dynamic per ­former, Harris has been breath­ing a fresh life into jazz perform­ance through his impressive mas­tery of the vibraphone as well as his skills as a composer. Tickets for the event are $32 for the gen­eral public, $22 for faculty/staff and seniors and $15 for all stu­dents. 
Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 

Movie Rewind 
“Ocean’s Eleven” has a high rewatch value 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Scene Writer 

“Cause the house always wins. Play long enough, you never change the stakes, the house takes you. Unless, when that perfect hand comes along, you bet and you bet big, then you take the house.” 
Steven Soderbergh certainly had a near perfect hand and beat the house when he chose to direct the 2001 remake of a 1960 Rat Pack film, “Ocean’s Eleven.” 
This movie takes place in Las Vegas, where pro­fessional thief Danny Ocean (George Clooney), just after being released from jail, sets out to rob three casinos with the help of 10 carefully chosen accomplices, including his right hand man, Rusty (Brad Pitt). 
The 2001 version first and foremost does an excellent job of creating a unique situation by portraying as likable those that would normally be considered the “bad guys” and making even more unlikable those characters that would nor­mally be the victim. The star-studded cast cer­tainly helps achieve this goal, creating likable personas for the thieves and vise versa. 
Clooney and Pitt headline the incredible cast, and their characters — Ocean and Rusty — give 
the feeling that these two have known and In the end, it is not simply one aspect that worked with each other for so long that they act makes “Ocean’s Eleven” an enjoyable movie many 
with one brain. This makes the dia­logue witty but also relatable, since most viewers have a person with which they communicate in this way. The supporting cast of characters, including those played by Bernie Mac and Don Cheadle, are each very likeable in their own right, and add to the overall vivacity of the group. 
The owner of the casino — Terry Benedict — is played by Andy Garcia, who does an equally good job of making his character unlik­able. Benedict is selfish and chilling, looking out only for what is good for himself and his casinos. He stands alone in the film as the only antago­nist, and his very nature makes the viewers want him to come out losing in the end. 
It is an indefnable quality that shines through, however, which makes “Ocean’s Eleven” such a quality movie-watching experience and which should earn it a second viewing. Or a 50th. 
times over. It has excellent re ­watch value, particularly because of the intricate plot and the witty dialogue. In fact, the movie gets better each time one watches it, in part because it has layers that are missed the first time. Each time someone watches it, he or she is likely to pick up some new aspect to the plot or a humorous line that he missed, adding to the experi­ence. 
It is difficult to explain exactly why the movie succeeds (which is saying something coming from a writer who has seen the movie more than 50 times). Yes, the dia­logue is witty and quick. True, the actors are stars and live up to their stardom. And of course, the plot is 

The movie itself has an air of coolness through­out, from the flashy scenery to the clothes worn by all of the characters to music chosen by the director. It makes the viewer to want to be a part of the robbery. There is something appealing about using intelligence to outsmart someone, and “Ocean’s Eleven” brings that out remarkably. 
interesting and intense at points. It is an indefin­able quality that shines through, however, which makes “Ocean’s Eleven” such a quality movie-watching experience and which should earn it a second viewing. Or a 50th. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 18, 2009 
MLB 

Royals’ Greinke wins AL Cy Young Award 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — When the phone rang, Zack Greinke let it go — he didn’t recognize the number. Only after listening to the voice mail did he call back and find out he’d won the American League Cy Young Award. 
The Kansas City Royals ace easily beat out Felix Hernandez for the honor Tuesday after a spectacular season short on wins but long on domination. Winning left the extremely shy Greinke with mixed emotions. 
“Back in Orlando, I haven’t really got a whole lot of attention from people, which has been nice,” he said. “So I hope it does­n’t get that way, where everyone is like, ‘Oh, hey, Zack, hi.’” 
He’d prefer to remain anony­mous when he’s not on the mound. He’s not looking forward to being introduced at banquets as “Cy Young Award winner Zack Greinke” for the rest of his life. 
“In that way, it’s kind of like a negative for me,” he said. 
It’s been quite a turnaround for Greinke, who led the AL in losses in 2005 and quit baseball for six weeks the following year after being diagnosed with a social anxiety disorder. 
Greinke went 16-8 with a major league-low 2.16 ERA this season and received 25 of 28 first-place votes and three sec­onds for 134 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers’ Association of America. 
Hernandez, 19-5 with a 2.49 ERA for the Seattle Mariners, drew two firsts, 23 seconds and one third for 80 points. 
“I thought it was going to be real close between the two of us,” Greinke said. 
Detroit’s Justin Verlander was third with the remaining first-place vote and 14 points, followed by the Yankees’ CC Sabathia (13) and Toronto’s Roy Halladay (11). 
“Greinke deserved it. Before the season was over, I said my vote was for him,” Hernandez said in Venezuela. 
“This has taught me that I need to be perfect, I will prepare myself to be stronger next sea­son. I will need a superb year because just a good one, it’s not enough,” he said. 
The NL winner will be announced Thursday. 
Despite what he’s overcome, Greinke doesn’t view himself as a role model. 
“I really don’t like having a bunch of attention, so even if I did see myself in that light, I don’t do anything about it,” he said. “I’m real uncomfortable doing stuff like that, to be around people and doing stuff like that,” he said. 
He fidgeted a bit and spoke softly during a series of telephone conference calls and a video linkup from a studio in Orlando, Fla. 
Even before winning, this was sure to be a big week for Greinke. He is getting married on Saturday to high school girlfriend Emily Kuchar, a former Dallas Cowboys cheerleader, and then is heading to Hawaii for a three-week honeymoon. 
The 26-year-old right-hander was the sixth overall pick in the 2002 amateur draft. He made his major league debut in 2004 and got hit hard the next year. After leaving spring training in February 2006 to combat his anxiety, he worked his way back to the majors by late September. 
Greinke was 7-7 the following year and 13-10 in 2008 before his breakout season. Greinke’s ERA was the lowest in the AL since Pedro Martinez’s 1.74 ERA in 2000 and his 242 strikeouts were second in the league behind Verlander. 
After speaking with a pair of pitchers on opposing teams — he wouldn’t identify them — he credited an improved mental approach in which he put all his focus on each individual pitch he was throwing. 


But he did think he had the best season. He said he had spo­ken with teammate Brian Bannister about his FIP — a new-age statistic called Fielding Independent Pitching, which is supposed to factor out defensive differences. 
He allowed just 11 home runs this year — nine solo and two with one man on, according to STATS LLC. His victory total matched that of Arizona’s Brandon Webb three years ago for the fewest by a starting pitch­er to win a Cy Young Award in a non-shortened season and was the fewest by an AL starter to win in a full-length season. 
Steve Carlton was the only Cy Young Award winner who pitched for a club that was worse. The Hall of Fame lefty was 27-10 with a 1.97 ERA for the 1972 Philadelphia Phillies, who went 59-97. 
Kansas City, which tied for last place in the AL Central at 65-97, scored just 13 runs in his eight losses and 21 runs in his nine no-decisions. He failed to get a victo­ry in six starts in which he allowed one run or none. 
Greinke, who agreed to a $38 million, four-year contract last winter, received a $100,000 bonus for winning. 
The first-place votes for Hernandez came from Chris Assenheimer of The Chronicle-Telegram in Elyria, Ohio, and Mark Feinsand of the Daily News in New York. Verlander’s first-place vote was cast by Steve Kornacki of Booth Newspapers in Michigan. 
NBA 

Durant scores 32 as Thunder roll past Heat, move to 6-5 
Green added 13 for the Thunder, Game 7 of last season’s Eastern clock running down. He swished Oklahoma City. 
Associated Press 

who’ve won three straight on the Conference opening-round it anyway, putting Oklahoma City Oklahoma City trailed 16-11 
MIAMI — Kevin Durant scored road. series. up 87-72. midway through the opening 32 points, Russell Westbrook Dwyane Wade finished with 22 The Thunder got off to a 6-32 Miami made a run, with Cook quarter. Without warning, every-had 24 and the Oklahoma City points on 6 of 19 shooting and start last year. This season, scoring five quick points and thing quickly turned its way. Thunder added to their surpris-Daequan Cook scored 14 of his they’re 6-5. Wade hitting a 3-pointer to get A 20-1 run over an 8-minute ing start by beating the Miami 17 in the fourth quarter for Westbrook’s 3-pointer with the Heat within nine, but Durant stretch set the tone. Durant Heat 100-87 on Tuesday night. Miami. Jermaine O’Neal had 19 6:40 left might have been the answered with a turnaround scored 10 points (plus had two 
An early 20-1 run put the points and 10 rebounds for the biggest blow, considering it came jumper and the Thunder weren’t assists), Miami missed 10 Thunder in control, and a 14-2 Heat, who visit Atlanta after he lost the dribble, while seriously threatened again. straight shots and a sequence at burst in the third quarter helped Wednesday for the first time being closely guarded by Mario Nick Collison and Nenad Krstic the end of the first quarter fur-seal it for Oklahoma City. Jeff since the Hawks beat Miami in Chalmers and with the shot each finished with 10 points for ther soured the Heat mood. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES PART TIME WORK $14.25 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do OF NATURE AND SERENITY. 9 base-appt., no experience needed, not go it alone. Notre Dame has MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME. customer sales/service, 574-273-many resources in place to assist
FOR SALE PERSONAL 
$1,200 FOR WEEKEND. CALL 3835. you. If you or someone you love Custom Irish Tie Dye. Alum busi-GEORGIA PEACH BED AND WANTED needs confidential support or assis­ness,free campus delivery BREAKFAST @269-357-6979. If you or someone you care about tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at www.swirlysensations.com Call ——————————————— PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-has been sexually assaulted, we 1-17819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For 
TICKETS

Kate Melody at 574-271-7223 Irish Crossings and Dublin Village 3 appt., no experience needed, can help. For more information, visit more information, visit ND's website ——————————————— and 4 bdr, furnished and unfur-customer sales/service, 574-273-Notre Dame's website: at: 1999 Chevy Cavalier. Call Dennis nished. January and June 2010 3835. http://csap.nd.edu http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Gaydos at 574-273-8683. leases available. www.cespm.info HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Call 574-968-0112. ——————————————— pay top $$. 574-251-1570 Considering Adoption? ND Alums Thinking about changing your legal ——————————————— CHILDCARE Needed for Catholic Hoping to Adopt. If you are an name? If you feel your parents have 522 Napoleon Street: 1-2 student family, 8-10 hours per week, in ——————————————— expectant mother searching for a made a mistake in your christening,
FOR RENT 

Nice ktchn,bath,2bdrm,storage Granger, $8 per hour. Must have family, please see our website at then take the opportunity to fix your Ivy Residential condo available Washer/dryer. 5 blks W. off own transport. VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro-name before it gets out of hand. Dec.09-May 2010. Call 607-221-ND Ave. $580/mo+utl (219)629-althoffamy@yahoo.com or 574-271-FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232-file.net. Don’t count yourself out of a job 5843. William Benedict 5483 0383. 0964. interview before you even show up. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Wednesday, November 18, 2009 
page 15 

NCAA Men’s Soccer NSCAA Division I Rankings 
team previous 
1 Akron 1 2 Wake Forest 3 3 Virginia 6 4 North Carolina 2 5 Monmouth 8 6 Louisville 7 7 Maryland 5 8 UCLA 10 9 Harvard 11 10 UC Santa Barbara 4 11 Tulsa 12 12 Connecticut 9 13 Ohio State 25 14 St. John’s (N.Y.) 24 15 North Carolina State 20 16 South Florida 13 17 UC Irvine RV 18 UNC Wilmington 22 19 San Diego 14 20 Duke 15 21 Northwestern 16 22 Butler 23 23 St. Louis RV 24 Drake RV 25 Charlotte 18 
NCAA Women’s Soccer NSCAA Division I Rankings 
team  previous  
1  Stanford  1  
2  Portland  2  
3  UCLA  3  
4  North Carolina  5  
5  NOTRE DAME  4  
6  Florida State  6  
7  Boston College  7  
8  South Carolina  15  
9  Florida  8  
10  LSU  13  
11  Santa Clara  14  
12  Rutgers  12  
13  UCF  9  
14  Wake Forest  10  
15  Ohio State  11  
16  Penn State  22  
17  Virginia Tech  19  
18  Washington State  18  
19  Maryland  16  
20  BYU  17  
21  Southern California  21  
22  Texas A&M  20  
23  Dayton  24  
24  Purdue  23  
25  Marquette  RV  



around the dial 
NBA 
Cavaliers at Wizards 7 p.m., ESPN 
Spurs at Mavericks 
9:30 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Bills fire head coach Dick Jauron 
Associated Press 

ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. — Dick Jauron was fired by the Buffalo Bills on Tuesday, when the coach ran out of time to build a contender or come up with a way to fix an 
offense 
that sputtered even with the addition of Terrell Owens. 

Bills owner Ralph Wilson announced Jauron’s dismissal, saying he made the decision “for the best interest of his team.” The move came two days after the Bills (3­

6) 
fell further out of con­tention following a 41-17 loss at Tennessee. 


A replacement coach has yet to be hired as the Bills prepare to play at Jacksonville on Sunday. Jauron’s successor is expected to come from the current staff and be hired on an interim basis only. Candidates include assis­tant head coach Bobby April and defensive coor­dinator Perry Fewell. 
The Bills are averaging just over 15 points from an offense that acquired Owens this offseason but remains unsettled at quar­terback. The defense is riddled with injuries, and has allowed an NFL-worst 173 yards rushing a game. 
Jauron leaves with a 24­33 record over three-plus seasons, and went 5-14 in his past 19. 
“I really don’t have any­thing to say,” was all Jauron would say when reached on his cell phone by The Associated Press. 
Buffalo, which has not made the playoffs since 1999, has now gone through four coaches since the end of the 2000 season, when Wade Phillips was dismissed. Gregg Williams was not rehired after his three-year contract expired, while Mike Mularkey abruptly resigned after a front-office shakeup fol­lowing the 2005 season. 
Jauron was hired by for­mer general manager Marv Levy, who took over the post following Tom Donahoe’s dismissal. Jauron has been on the hot seat ever since last season, after he led the Bills to their third consec­utive 7-9 finish. 
Expressing a need for continuity, Wilson elected to retain Jauron. The Hall of Fame owner, however, noted that he was aware of Bills fans’ dissatisfac­tion with the team, and warned that he wasn’t going to be “complacent” in seeking improvements, particularly on offense. 
Those improvements haven’t come even after the team made a big splash in free agency by signing Owens to a one-year $6.5 million contract in March, days after the receiver was released by Dallas. 
IN BRIEF 

Pitt ’s Dixon wins USA Coach of the Year 
PITTSBURGH — Jamie Dixon of Pitt has been chosen as USA Basketball’s national coach of the year for guiding the United States’ first FIBA under-19 world champi­onship team since 1991. 
Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski won or shared the award the previous three years, with Anne Donovan in 2007 and 2008. 
Dixon’s team went 9-0 during the July 2-12 tournament in Auckland, New Zealand. The United States averaged 88.2 points and had an average winning margin of 22.2 points, yet no player averaged more than 10.8 points. 
Dixon’s Pitt team went 31-5, earned the school’s first No. 1 ranking in the AP poll and advanced to the NCAA round of eight. He was chosen as the Naismith national coach of the year for that season. 
Edwards pleads not guilty tomisdemeanor charges 
CLEVELAND — Former Cleveland Browns wide receiver Braylon Edwards has pleaded not guilty to a misdemeanor assault charge after he was accused of punching a man out­side a downtown nightclub last month. 
Edwards was arraigned in Cleveland Municipal Court on Tuesday. The 26­year-old was traded to the New York Jets two days after he was accused of punching a friend of NBA star LeBron James on Oct. 5. 
James called Edwards’ actions “childish.” 
Edwards waived his right to a speedy trial and was scheduled for a Dec. 12 court hearing. His attorney hasn’t returned a request for comment. 
While with Cleveland, Edwards dropped passes, criticized the team’s play-calling, argued with teammates and famously took a helicopter to a college football game in 2006 despite being told not to go. 
Magic’s Nelson to have arthroscopic knee surgery 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Orlando Magic point guard Jameer Nelson needs sur­gery again. 
The All-Star will have arthroscopic surgery Wednesday on torn cartilage in his left knee, the team said. He is expected to miss four to six weeks. 
Nelson was injured in the fourth quarter of Monday night’s win against Charlotte. But he finished the game on the court and showed no signs of injury. 
“I feel pretty good,” Nelson said after the game. “My energy level just physi­cally wasn’t there, but mentally ... I think that’s one of the parts of my game that adds toughness to this team.” 
This is the second straight season he has been sidelined. 
Nelson injured his right shoulder in February and had surgery. In a sur­prise move, he returned for the NBA finals, struggling to regain his form as Orlando lost to the Los Angeles Lakers in five games. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 18, 2009 
NFL 

Westbrook’s return uncertain after concussions 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Brian Westbrook has always come back from a long list of injuries throughout his career. 
Now another concussion could stop him cold. 
Westbrook’s status is uncer­tain after the former All-Pro running back sustained his second concussion in three weeks in Philadelphia’s 31-23 loss at San Diego on Sunday. 
Westbrook was playing his first game after sitting out two because of a concussion suf­fered Oct. 26. He was injured in the third quarter on a screen play in which he was caught between a block by Eagles receiver Jason Avant and Chargers safety Eric Weddle. 
Eagles coach Andy Reid said the team will take precautions with Westbrook and it’s too early to tell when Westbrook will return, if at all. 
“Football right now for Brian Westbrook is not the important thing,” Reid said Monday. “It’s making sure that we get him analyzed, tested and taken care of and then we’ll go from there. Not that we didn’t do that before. 
“We took every precaution­ary measure that we could before and it happened again. Obviously we’re going to check with experts and make sure that we listen to them like we did before. The No. 1 thing is Brian’s health. You can put football aside and make sure that he’s taken care of here.” 
Westbrook wasn’t available to reporters on Monday. His agent, Todd France, didn’t immediately return a phone message. 
The 30-year-old Westbrook sustained his first career con­cussion when he hit his head on a defender’s knee during a and we went with it.” 
Reid wasn’t sure if a second concussion is more serious. Westbrook didn’t lose con­sciousness on this one. 
“I’ve heard a couple differ­ent things on that,” he said. “Obviously it’s not a good thing for a second one to hap­pen. I don’t know the medical terms of it. I’ve heard them determine it by if it was a mild hit as compared to a severe hit. 

Monday night “Football right now It wasn’t a mild win at hit I would say.” 
for Brian Westbrook 
Washington last The eight-month. is not the important year veteran Westbrook thing.” has been limit-briefly lost con-ed this season sciousness but by ankle and 
Andy Reid
walked off the knee injuries field under his Eagles coach and the concus­
own power. 
He sat out Philadelphia’s victory against the New York Giants on Nov. 1 and was cleared to play against Dallas last week, but was held out for precaution­ary reasons after experiencing headaches. Westbrook had no problems leading up to the game against the Chargers. 
“We left it up to the doc­tors,” Reid said. “There’s a chance he could have played the week before and we held him out of that one according to tests and symptoms. He was symptom-free and tests came back normal and so on, so I did what the experts said. They felt comfortable with it sions. 
Westbrook has carried the ball 47 times for 225 yards, an average of 4.8 yards per carry, and has scored one touchdown. He has also caught 19 passes for 156 yards and a TD. 
Westbrook has never played a full season, having missed 16 games for a variety of injuries to his knees, ankles, ribs and triceps. 
Before last season, Westbrook signed a three-year contract worth $21 million, including $13 million guaran­teed the first two years. The Eagles have the option of not renewing his contract for 2010. 



Wednesday, November 18, 2009 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NHL 

Ovechkin shines in return, tops Rangers 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Matt Bradley bounced back from having his face bloodied in a first-period fight to net the winning goal with 4:51 left, and Alex Ovechkin also scored in his return from injury to lift the Washington Capitals to a 4-2 victory over the New York Rangers on Tuesday night. 
Bradley went to the dressing room with 9:21 left in the opening period after taking several hard blows to the face from New York’s Aaron Voros. Those injuries didn’t bother him a bit when he knocked the puck away from Wade Redden and raced up ice on a break. Matt Gilroy couldn’t catch him from behind, and Bradley beat goalie Henrik Lundqvist with a rising shot to the glove side for his fourth of the season. 
Ovechkin missed six games because of an upper body injury, believed to be a strained left shoulder, but came back with a flourish. He netted his NHL-leading 15th goal, in only 15 games, while New York’s Sean Avery sat in the penalty box. That erased the Rangers’ 1-0 advantage in the first period. 
Capitals coach Bruce Boudreau earned his 100th NHL victory. 
Marian Gaborik scored both goals for the Rangers and moved into a tie with Ovechkin with his 15th, Gaborik gave New York a 1-0 lead just 1:16 in and then made it 2-2 at 8:23 of the third with a power-play goal against Washington backup goalie Semyon Varlamov. 
Brooks Laich pushed the Capitals in front 2-1 when he got to a rebound of defense-man Mike Green’s shot in the crease and knocked it past Lundqvist and into the net with 4:16 remaining in the second. Green also earned the primary assist on Ovechkin’s goal. 
Brian Pothier scored an empty-netter with 16.7 sec­onds left to make it 4-2. 
The Rangers were fortunate to be trailing by only a goal heading into the third period as they were outshot 21-11 through 40 minutes. New York finished with 20 shots, tying its season low. 
New York netted the equal­izer when Gaborik scored from the goal line to Varlamov’s right, snapping in a shot from a difficult angle after the puck bounced to him. The Rangers converted on the second of back-to-back penal­ties. 
NBA 

Knicks considering Iverson 
Associated Press 

GREENBURGH, N.Y. — The New York Knicks passed on a chance to sign Allen Iverson last summer. A few months and only one victory later, they have to decide if he’s worth reconsider­ing. 
Iverson is on the market again after the Memphis Grizzlies waived him Tuesday night. And while the Knicks weren’t interested in the offsea­son, they won’t rule the former scoring champion out yet. 
“We had our little group from last year we wanted to keep together and that was the deci­sion in the summertime, not to disrupt what we had,” coach Mike D’Antoni said Tuesday. “Now, basketball’s fluid and things change every second.” 
D’Antoni and team president Donnie Walsh both praised Iverson’s abilities, but said the organization still had to discuss whether it’s worth bringing him to a 1-9 team that is off to the worst 10-game start in fran­chise history. 
Walsh wouldn’t say much more, because Iverson hadn’t even been waived yet by the time the Knicks finished prac­tice. That happened Tuesday night, making Iverson eligible to be signed 48 hours after that. 
“I’ve always had a lot of admi­ration for him because I had to play against him every year 
AP The same day Iverson was released from the Grizzlies, the New York Knicks expressed interest in the veteran guard. 
when I was in Indiana and I have a lot of respect for his career,” Walsh said. “He’s a small man who did everything he could to win games and took a lot of hard knocks and always got up.” 
But the Iverson of today would give any team pause. He’s been hurt and unhappy over the last two seasons, with the Grizzlies the only team to make him an offer last summer after his turbulent stay in Detroit. 
Things were even worse in Memphis. Iverson played only three games, voicing his dis­pleasure about coming off the bench, just as he’d done in Detroit, before leaving the team to attend to personal matters. 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 18, 2009 
NFL 

RB Johnson agrees to deal with Bengals 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI — Larry Johnson might have his career up -and -running sooner than expected. 
The running back who was banished from Kansas City for bad behavior signed on for a backup role with the Cincinnati Bengals on Tuesday, giving the AFC North leaders depth for the rest of this season. He might not be watching for long. 
A day after coach Marvin Lewis referred to Johnson as an insurance policy in case of injury, he said it’s possible the running back could play in some form Sunday in Oakland if starter Cedric Benson is still limited by a strained hip. 
“I’m not saying that it can’t happen, I’m not saying that it will happen, but stay tuned,” Lewis said, with Johnson sitting 

by his side. “You have to earn with roughly 
“He ’d like to your stripes, literally, half a season play, I know to go. His 
in the situation I’m
that. And we’ll b a c k u p , see what hap-in.” Bernard Scott, pens as we go is a rookie cho­through the sen in the sixth 
Larry Johnson 
week, as I said round from 
Bengals RB
earlier Abilene
, regarding Cedric with his injury.” 
Johnson has his own goal for getting on the field: Dec. 27, when the Bengals play the Chiefs at Paul Brown Stadium. That could set up the second get-even game for a Bengals running back this season. Benson was carrying a grudge when he ran for a career-high 189 yards against his former Bears team on Oct. 25. 
Johnson is toting one, too. 
“I’d be lying if I said I ain’t looking at that game as a game I want to definitely play in, but we take it a game at a time, one situa­tion at a time, ” Johnson said. “I’m just trying to get on the field as of right now. If that happens, it’d be the best Christmas gift I can get.” 
The Bengals waived defen­sive tackle Orien Harris to 
open a roster spot for Johnson, who knew he’d be listed fourth on the depth chart to start. 
“I have to work my way back up, ” Johnson said. “You have to earn your stripes, literally, in the situ­ation I’m in.” 
The signing came eight days after the Chiefs let him go as he was set to return from his second suspension in the past 12 months. The Bengals are taking little financial risk by bringing Johnson in for the rest of the season — he could be released if he becomes a problem. 
“He knows what’s at stake and at risk,” Lewis said. “He gets an opportunity to start anew, just like anyone would. He has paid a price for what’s gone on, things he’s said and done, and it came to a finality in Kansas City. And now it ’s a new start.” 
He got a second chance in Cincinnati, which has a his­tory of providing them for troubled players. Owner Mike Brown brought Chris Henry back to the team before the 2008 season — over Lewis’ disagreement — and the receiver has stayed 
out of trouble since then. Henry is out for the rest of the season with a broken left arm. 
When injuries decimated their group of running backs last season, the Bengals signed Benson to a one-year deal despite his two alcohol-related arrests in Texas. The cases were dropped when grand juries declined to indict, and the Bengals offered a deal. 
Benson has revitalized his career in Cincinnati — he ranks sixth in the league in rushing with 859 yards and leads the NFL with 205 car­
ries, only nine shy of his career high 
Christian. 
Benson couldn’t finish an 18-12 win at Pittsburgh on Sunday because of his hip injury, which gave the Bengals pause. The win left Cincinnati (7 -2) in first place in the AFC North by a game, in position to make its second playoff appear­ance in the last 19 years. 
Lewis has assured Benson he will remain the top run­ning back. During an inter­view Tuesday with Sirius XM Radio, Benson sounded open to it. 
“Yeah, I mean, well, you know, it ’s good for him, ” Benson said. “I was once in that position, and he’s get­ting his opportunity again. In all aspects we definitely plan on it to be a contribu­tion to the team. If he can help the team in a positive way, then I’m all for that.” 
Johnson turns 30 on Thursday, and his produc­tion has declined in recent years. The Chiefs let him go following several controver­sies. 
He was benched for three games in 2008 by former Chiefs coach Herm Edwards for violating team rules, and the NFL added a game. He later was sentenced to two years ’ probation after pleading guilty to disturbing the peace at a Kansas City night spot. 
Three weeks ago, he post­ed a gay slur on his Twitter account and questioned the competence of coach Todd Haley, drawing a two-week suspension. The Chiefs decided to cut ties with him rather than let him return. 
“It was just a relationship that was souring,” Johnson said. “And in Kansas City being in kind of a small market, and knowing every little thing I was going to say was going to be blown up to mythical proportions.” 
NHL 

40-year-oldShanahanretiring 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — Brendan Shanahan is retiring from the NHL after 21 seasons and an almost certain Hall of Fame career. 
The 40-year-old forward announced Tuesday that he wouldn’t play again. After going through training camp with the New Jersey Devils, the team he spent his final season with, he and the club mutually parted unexpectedly shortly before opening night of the season. 
“I would like to thank my family and all of the friends who have helped me achieve and maintain my childhood dream of playing in the National Hockey League,” Shanahan said in a statement released by the NHL. “While I always dreamed of playing in the NHL, I can’t honestly say that I would have ever imag­ined that I’d be this fortunate and blessed. I would like to sincerely thank everyone who has helped me fulfill this dream.” 
Shanahan, who scored 656 career goals, decided to leave the Devils in October one day after he was told there was no spot for him on New Jersey’s top three lines. 
He has not played this sea­son. 
Shanahan ranks 11th on the league’s career goals list and is the only player with 600 goals and 2,000 penalty minutes. The eight-time All-Star also played for St. Louis, Hartford, Detroit and the New York Rangers. He won three Stanley Cup titles with Detroit. 
“He’s the best,” said Rangers forward Sean Avery, a team­mate of Shanahan’s with New York and Detroit. 

Now that his playing days are done, Shanahan could be a fit for the NHL Players’ Association, which is in a state of flux following the firing of executive director Paul Kelly and the resignations of several union officials. 
Kelly was dismissed during a meeting in August, and his interim replacement Ian Penny is also gone along with the eight-member advisory board. Interim ombudsman Buzz Hargrove stepped down last week, citing the inability to perform his duties as the rea­son. Donald Fehr, the outgoing executive director of the Major League Baseball Players Association, has been appoint­ed to assist the NHLPA in its search for an executive direc­tor. 
Shanahan conducted a sum­mit during the NHL’s 2004-05 lockout, and that gathering of people from all aspects of hockey produced several sug­gestions that led to rules changes after a new collective bargaining agreement was reached. 


Wednesday, November 18, 2009 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Michigan State outlasts Gonzaga in fnal seconds 
Kansas holds on against Memphis thanks to Aldrich’s double-double; Georgetown beats Temple in old-fashioned match-up 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. — Michigan State’s winning streak at home against nonconference teams was in jeopardy. 
The second-ranked Spartans — and their fans — refused to let it end against Gonzaga. 
Durrell Summers hit a go-ahead 3-pointer with a few min­utes left, made two at the line in the final seconds and finished with 21 points and a career-high 11 rebounds to help No. 2 Michigan State rally for a 75-71 win over the Bulldogs on Tuesday night. 
“It was the kind of game we needed, especially this early in the year,’’ Summers said. 
The Spartans (2-0) won their 41st straight game at home against a nonconference team, extending a streak that started after a loss to Duke on Dec. 3, 2003. 
“There’s no question the crowd won that game for us,’’ Michigan State coach Tom Izzo said. “If you were down there, you could hear it.’’ 
Robert Sacre matched a career high with 17 points for the Bulldogs (1-1) despite playing just 19 minutes. 
“He was really making a differ­ence in there, then his minutes got limited because of the fouls,’’ Gonzaga coach Mark Few said. ‘’That hurt us.’’ 
Gonzaga freshman Elias Harris scored 17, Matt Bouldin had 15 points and Steven Gray added 13. 
Kalin Lucas made a layup with 39 seconds left to give Michigan State a three-point lead and fin­ished with 19 points. 
Raymar Morgan scored 16 off the bench despite playing on a sprained left ankle and injuring his right ankle in the first half. 
“I am really proud of Ray,’’ Izzo said. 

Michigan State scored first, then trailed Gonzaga for much of the game. 
The Bulldogs led by 13 midway through the first half and were ahead 35-30 at halftime. 
They built another double-digit lead early in the second half, but were hurt by the 7-foot Sacre getting called for a third foul and 7-5 reserve Will Foster getting a fourth foul shortly after halftime. 
Michigan State freshman Derrick Nix made a putback with 
11:52 left in the game to put the home team ahead for the first time since the opening minute. 
The Bulldogs, though, refused to wilt in the raucous Breslin Center despite having one of their youngest teams since becom­tough schedule with games against Wake Forest, Arizona or Wisconsin, Duke, Oklahoma and Illinois before starting West Coast Conference play. 
Few said he had mixed emo­tions about Tuesday’s game because the Bulldogs had a shot at pulling off an upset — which would’ve perhaps been one of the school’s biggest wins in the regular season — but he went home proud. 
“There’s a lot of positives we can take out of this, certainly how we competed,’’ Few said. 
Kansas 57, Memphis 55 
Cole Aldrich had 18 points, 11 rebounds and blocked five shots, 
helping top-
ranked Kansas 

ing one of the nation’s stronger programs.  “There’s no question the crowd  overcome a sloppy night to hold off Memphis in a  
‘’It’s a terrific col­lege basketball atmosphere,’’ Few  won that game for us.”  rematch of the 2008 national c h a m p i o n s h i p  
said.  “Before  game Tuesday.  
Thanksgiving, it felt  Tom Izzo  Kansas (2-0) led  
like a would  game that clinch a  Spartans coach  most of the night despite 21  
c h a m p i o n s h i p  turnovers,  but  

game in a league with the ener-could never shake the scrappy gy. and supposedly overmatched 
“We played here (in 1997) Tigers. when I was an assistant with Dan Memphis (1-1) closed within (Monson) and this place has real-three on Doneal Mack ‘s 3-point­ly grown.’’ er with a minute left, then cut the 
Sacre made a shot midway lead to 56-55 on Elliot Williams ‘ through the second half to put long 3 with 16.7 seconds left. Gonzaga ahead by seven and a Sherron Collins hit 1 of 2 free fadeaway with 4:42 to go for a throws at the other end to give 65-61 lead. Memphis a final chance, but 
The Spartans made enough Williams’ contested 3-pointer shots and stops in the final min-clanged off the back iron. utes in a game that will get them Collins scored 12 points while ready to play Florida, North struggling with leg cramps and Carolina and Texas before the former Memphis recruit Xavier Big Ten season. Henry added 11. 
“It’s a big win for us because Memphis wasn’t supposed to we didn’t play real well,’’ Izzo have much of a chance against said. ‘’Gonzaga took it to us for at the depth and talent of Kansas, least 30 minutes. I have a lot of and had a miserable night from respect for Mark and their pro-3-point range, hitting 6 of 25. gram. The Tigers hung around with 
“They punched us in the scrappy defense, keeping the mouth, picked us off the ground score low and the Jayhawks and punched us again early — within reach far longer than any-and I thought we were ready to one expected against the nation’s play,’’ Izzo added. top-ranked team. 
Gonzaga, hoping to reload Williams had 21 points to lead instead of rebuild, also faces a Memphis, 0-9 all-time against No. 1 teams. 

The last time these teams played, it turned into one of the greatest games in Final Four his­tory. 
That was 18 months ago. These aren’t the same teams. Not even close. 
Collins is the only major con­tributor left. Aldrich, despite out­playing North Carolina’s Tyler Hansbrough in the semifinals, logged four minutes in the final. The rest of the Jayhawks were either buried on the bench or watched it on TV. 
Memphis’ Pierre Henderson-Niles, Willie Kemp and Mack played a combined seven min­utes in the title game. None of the other Tigers were even on the roster. 
Different teams, certainly a dif­ferent feel. 
The Tigers came out jittery, shooting airballs and wild 3­pointers that caromed high off the glass, getting their pockets picked from behind. 
Kansas played out of control out of the gate, forcing up shots, turning it over on poor post entry passes and weak dribbles into the lane. 
At the 15:55 mark, Kansas led 4-2. 
Fed up with the foolishness, Kansas coach Bill Self yelled out to Collins: ‘’1 game, get the ball to the big fella.’’ The Jayhawks did and Aldrich hit a layup, then a rebound slam before sitting out the final 1:34 after picking up his second foul. 
Kansas went right back to the big fella in the second half. 
Tyshawn Taylor found Aldrich on an alley-oop to open the half and Collins set up another dunk on an over-the-top pass to the post. That seemed to jump start the Jayhawks, who finally pushed their lead to double dig­its, 38-28 on Henry’s fastbreak layup. 
Aldrich added a dunk on a dish from Collins to put Kansas up 52­45 with just under 3 minutes left. He finished 7 for 10 from the field after taking just five shots against Hofstra on Friday. 
Georgetown 46, Temple 45 
Whether the games were ugly or pretty, Georgetown found all sorts of ways to lose the close ones last season — enough to sink the Hoyas down to the NIT. 
This year’s home opener on Tuesday afternoon was as unwatchable as could be. Georgetown had more fouls (18) and turnovers (16) than made baskets (15), yet the No. 19 Hoyas escaped with a win over Temple when Greg Monroe scored the winning basket with 
6.5 seconds to play. 
“The growth of this team, I think we’re definitely not going to lose these games this year,’’ said Monroe, who drove around Lavoy Allen for the decisive layup. ‘’I think everybody’s really focused, and everybody under­stands what they need to do per­sonally and what we need to do as a team to win games like this.’’ 
Chris Wright scored 15 points, and Monroe had 11 points and nine rebounds for the Hoyas (2­0), who blew a 12-point second-half lead, shot 36 percent from the field and 3 for 18 from 3­point range. 
Allen had 12 points and 14 rebounds for the Owls (1-1), who recovered from an abysmal first half and almost pulled off the upset. Temple was left to rue a 6­for-13 performance from the free throw line, and Ramone Moore ‘s miss on the front end of a 1-and­1 with a one-point lead and 23 seconds to play gave Monroe and the Hoyas the chance to win it. 
“We had a great opportunity to win the game; we just didn’t close it out,’’ Temple coach Fran Dunphy said. ‘’We shot poorly down the stretch at the foul line, and we weren’t able to get a shot off on that last possession.’’ 
After Monroe scored, the Owls had their own final chance to regain the lead, but Luis Guzman was tied up for a jump ball while driving to the basket with 1.3 seconds remaining. 
The momentum was all with them,’’ Georgetown coach John Thompson III said. ‘’And for us to be able to maintain our poise, our composure, and whether it was ugly or not, to make the plays, get the rebounds at both ends of the floor to win the game, that was good. It was ugly — don’t get me wrong. They do a good job of making the game ugly.’’ 
The loss ended Tempe’s streak of 68 straight wins when holding opponents to under 50 points, but for a while it seemed neither team would score as much as 30. This was the 4 p.m. game in ESPN’s 24-hour Tip-Off Marathon, but it was more suited for the 6 a.m., should’ve-stayed­in-bed snoozer. 
The halftime score was 19-13, with Georgetown leading by default. 
Here are more ugly facts from one of the worst halves of basket­ball ever seen at the Verizon Center: 
• 
There were more combined fouls (14) and turnovers (13) than made baskets (12). 

• 
Both teams shot 1 for 10 from 3-point range. 

• 
Ryan Brooks , who scored 23 points in Temple’s season-opening win over Delaware, was 0 for 6 with two turnovers. He finished the game 2 for 14. Monroe, the Big East rookie of the year last season, was 1 for 5 with three turnovers in the half. 

• 
Temple shot 19 percent (5 for 26), Georgetown a relatively robust 30 percent (7 for 23). During one painful stretch, the teams combined to miss 11 straight shots. 


The Hoyas appeared to get their act together at the start of the second half, opening with an 8-2 run, but Allen and Moore started playing as if they were ready to lead the Owls to a third straight Atlantic 10 title. A 24-6 run gave Temple a six-point lead, but Monroe converted a pair of three-point plays in a 9-0 spurt that put Georgetown back in front. 
Craig Williams ‘ 3-pointer tied the score at 42 with 4:53 to play. The Hoyas didn’t lead again until Monroe’s game-winner. 
The final score brought back memories of low-scoring Ivy League games when Thompson was at Princeton and Dunphy was at Pennsylvania, a point made to Thompson by one of the assistant coaches after the game ended. 
But Thompson’s Princeton teams made 46-point games look much more elegant. 
“It’s like Princeton because I was sitting on one bench, and Fran was sitting on the other bench,’’ Thompson said. “Every other way, it’s not like Penn and Princeton.’’ 

page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, November 18, 2009 Wednesday, November 18, 2009 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
working to get open looks tonight. We were able to get out and score off our defense.” 
The Belles’ defense was a force to be reckoned with as well with 26 steals, almost three times as many as their opponents managed. This total is also well above last season’s average of 11.6 steals per game. 
“I think we had a very solid defensive effort tonight which resulted in the 26 steals,” Henley said. “We need to do a better job of converting those steals into points.” 
With a total of 26 points coming from the free throw line, the Belles dominated the free throw battle as well. Their 30 attempts more than tripled the Ravens’, who went 5-9 on the game. The one cat­egory where the Ravens ended on top was in offensive rebounds, where they pulled down 15 boards, resulting in eight second-chance points. These second-chance points concerned Henley. 

“We need to work on boxing out better and not giving up the offensive boards,” she said. 
The Belles lost four seniors last year, but the returning players filled in nicely. With the two top scorers from last year, Nicole Beier and Erin Newsom, gone, the Belles will need to find new players for production on offense. 
Sophomore Patsy Mahoney, who had significant playing time last year, stepped up in the season opener with 18 points and five rebounds. Katie Sullivan followed that effort with 12 points of her own over a total of 23 minutes played, which is an increase from last year. The Belles showed their depth as well against the Ravens, posting 27 bench points. Sophomore for­ward Jessica Centa led the way off the bench with 12 points. 
The Belles will play next at the Bluffton University Tournament this weekend. Their first game is Friday against Wheaton at 5 p.m. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 
NFL 

Polamalu only out one game 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — The Pittsburgh Steelers apparently won’t be without injured safety Troy Polamalu for more than one game. 
The sigh of relief began in coach Mike Tomlin’s office and no doubt spread throughout the Steelers’ practice building. 
Polamalu hasn’t been ruled out of Sunday’s game at Kansas City despite injuring his left knee for the second time this season. However, it seems more likely he will miss one game and attempt to return for an AFC North game at Baltimore on Nov. 29. 
Polamalu is “questionable at best” for the Chiefs (2-7), according to Tomlin. 
Questionable is a lot better than out, which is what the Steelers (6-3) feared their defensive star would be after he strained a posterior cruciate ligament tackling running back Cedric Benson early in Cincinnati’s 18-12 victory on Sunday. 
“He is in a great frame of mind. He feels really good, but we’re going to follow the expert advice that we get from our medical staff in terms of how we proceed,” Tomlin said Tuesday. “In the short term, we’re going to take it day to day. But (it’s) really encourag­ing, more encouraging, I think, than was initially anticipated.” 
Polamalu, a five-time Pro Bowl player, missed the Steelers’ second through fifth games with a medial collateral ligament sprain, and he played less than a half in their opener against Tennessee. The Steelers (6-3) lost two of the four he missed, and all three of their losses occurred when Polamalu was out or played only a single series. 
The latest injury is not as bad as initially feared, Tomlin said, because it did not affect the previously injured ligament. 
“It happens to be the same knee,” Tomlin said. “There is no setback in regards to his MCL. This is a PCL strain. We’ll let it run its course and see how he feels. ... Everyone’s initial response was it was a re-injury and that appears not to be the case. It’s the same knee, but it’s not a re-injury. It doesn’t appear to be as significant as the MCL.” 
The ligaments that Polamalu injured are two of the four that connect the bones of the knee joint. 
The medial collateral liga­ment is located on the inner side of the knee and stabilizes the knee’s motion from side to side. The posterior cruciate lig­ament is inside the knee joint and teams with the anterior cruciate ligament to secure the knee. Those two cross in the middle of the knee and control the joint’s forward and back­ward motion. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Kansas investigates controversy around football team 
Mangino, the national coach of “I haven’t lost the team, not as No. 16 before senior quarter-bore no relation to the team’s 
Associated Press 

the year in 2007, was not pres-one bit. I may have lost some back Todd Reesing and the rest record. 
LAWRENCE, Kan. — The ent. people around here but it’s not of the team went into a tailspin. “I don’t think this has any-University of Kansas said Mangino said he met with players,” he said at his weekly Going into their game at No. 3 thing to do with the recent per-Tuesday it is investigating what Perkins for “10 or 15 minutes” news conference. Texas on Saturday, they are just formance and the number of it calls a personnel matter con-on Tuesday after Perkins issued Mangino inherited a program 5-5 overall and 1-5 in the Big games we’ve won,” he said. cerning football coach Mark a brief statement confirming in shambles in 2002 and 12 and in danger of not becom-Perkins issued a statement Mangino, whose team is mired the internal review was under coached the Jayhawks to their ing bowl eligible. and was not available to the in a five-game losing streak that way. greatest season ever in 2007, a Neither Mangino nor Perkins media. threatens to ruin the season. Mangino insisted he has not 12-1 record and Orange Bowl nor any of the Kansas players “I can confirm an internal 
Athletic director Lew Perkins lost the support of his players victory over Virginia Tech. They would disclose the specifics of review is under way,” he said. met with the entire football but suggested that may not be won their first five games this the investigation. Mangino said “It involves a personnel matter, team Monday night and true of others on campus. year and were ranked as high it had to do with the disappoint-and as a result, is confidential. 
ing season. It would be inappropriate for 
“You lose a few games in a me to provide further informa­row, those type of things sur-tion right now.” face. It’s not uncommon,” he In eight seasons at Kansas, said. “I don’t take it lightly, but where football has historically I’m focused on Texas and I’m struggled, Mangino is 50-46 very comfortable the way we overall and 23-39 in the Big 12. manage and run the football He needs only two more victo­program here. This is what ries to tie A.R. Kennedy’s school comes when things aren’t going record of 52 victories from well. You’re going to find dis-1904-10. gruntled people.” Reesing, the Jayhawks’ career 
Asked if Mangino had lost the passing leader and acknowl­support of his team, or at least edged team leader, said Perkins parts of it, Reesing said told the team he would appoint emphatically, “No. Not at all.” an unbiased person to look into 
Reesing said the situation the matter. 




page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 18, 2009 
McGraw 
continued from page 24 
have three very good players this year.” 
The three players are for­ward Natalie Achonwa of Guelph, Ontario, forward Ariel Braker of Grosse Pointe Woods, Mich. and guard Kayla McBride of Erie, Penn. 
McBride is a two-time all-state selection and has also been selected twice by The Sporting News as an honor­able mention preseason All-American. She is ranked 20th by ESPN Hoopgurlz and fourth among shooting guards. 
“[McBride] is really strong, reminds me of [senior guard ter winner for her high school team, which has won a state championship and two regional titles during her time. She holds eight school records in categories that include steals, rebounds and free throws. 
“[Braker] is going to help us in the press, ” McGraw said. “She can rebound. She can run.” 
The class adds a size ele­ment lacking from this year’s squad; Achonwa is 6-foot-3 and Braker is 6-foot-1. 
Currently, Notre Dame has six players of six feet or more 
on its roster; however, injuries have diminished the size advantage. The Irish have started a roster of one forward and four guards in 
each of their first two 
Waldrum 
continued from page 24 

took us a while to establish that. Once we got that set­tled, it really cleared up our goalkeeping situation. The key for us was to get our back line and goalkeeper in sync.” 
Weiss has been spectacular in net for the Irish since tak­ing over as the regular starter. She has made 14 starts this season, posting a 12-1-1 record with a 0.55 goals against average. Weiss has recorded sevens shutouts this season, including her first career solo shutout against Pittsburgh in a 0-0 tie on Oct. 4. 
“[Weiss] has a very strong 
physical presence and good 
Lindsay] “We were really games. 
height which is a bonus in a
Schrader, ” “You’re going 
fortunate to be able 
goalkeeper,” Waldrum said. 
McGraw said. to see us have a 
“She can shoot to get [Natalie much bigger 
“She has always been capa­
3s. She’s got a Achonwa].” team; we ’re 
ble [of being a very good 
player], but in the past some 
competiti ve going to be able 
edge.” to press and 
mental lapses got in her way. 
Muffet McGraw 
Achonwa will trap a little bit 
She worked really hard in the 
be Notre Irish coach more. We ’re 
preseason and now she is 
Dame ’s first international player. The Irish began recruiting her after seeing her play for Canada in the 2009 Under-19 World Championships. 
The United States played Canada in the semifinal round of the tournament, which was held in Argentina. Irish coaches were there to watch current freshman Skylar Diggins, who played for the U.S. team. 
“A lot of people were down there to see Skylar and came back recruiting Natalie, ” McGraw said. “We were real­ly fortunate to be able to get her.” 
Achonwa is now part of Canada ’s senior national team and helped lead her team to a berth in the 2010 World Championship in the Czech Republic. 
“She did some great things for [Canada],” McGraw said. “We’re hoping she does some great things for us.” 
Braker is a three-year let-


Weis 
continued from page 24 
Weis said he met with the captains — fifth-year senior safety Kyle McCarthy, senior 
center Eric Olsen, senior linebacker Scott Smith and jun­ior quarterback Jimmy Clausen 
— and then his leadership com­mittee Monday. 
“I said, ‘Fellas, this is going to be your week, it’s not 
going to be my week,’” Weis said. “I said, ‘I’ll coach foot­ball.’ I said, ‘When it comes to talking to the team I want the leaders of the team, the sen­ior leaders of the team to be the ones that are expressing their voices this week.’” 
Weis did express his voice on another subject, however. As he does — and most head coaches do, for that matter — 
going to be a 
much faster team,” McGraw said. “It’s going to be a whole new look from this year with a very guard-oriented team.” 
Although the size is differ­
ent, the will keep its basics intact. 
“We like to run; we like to press,” McGraw said. “We’re trying to recruit people who can really defend, get out there and defend the 3-point line.” 
McGraw said the offense would also benefit from the versatility of the new players. 
“We can score in a lot of different ways, ” she said. “Everybody can play in the perimeter and the post.” 
The current season has shaped up well for the Irish, and McGraw said 2010 looks like it should as well. 
“We’re really pleased with where we’re heading,” she said. 
Contact Laura Myers at 
lmyers2@nd.edu 
team 
every week, Weis sent in sev­eral questionably called plays to the Big East for review. Atop the list this week was Notre Dame’s final offensive play, when an apparent Clausen incompletion was overturned by the replay offi­

“If I had the answer, we would have answered it a long time ago.” 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 
cial and ruled a fumble, secur­ing the victory for Pittsburgh. 
“I watched it a whole bunch of times and I really think that if they would have called the play a fumble on the field, I could 
see them not having enough information to overrule it,” Weis said. “But the fact that they called the play an incom­plete pass on the field, I believe the same thing. I believe that there was no evi­dence to change the call that’s on the field. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
“Kelsey is a great goalkeep-they could handle the pres-er, person and leader,” Weiss sure of a close game and that said. “She just comes out they weren’t going to give up every day and makes us bet-goals in those situations. And ter and she really pushes us that’s exactly what Nikki did. to our fullest potential.” She has shown us that she is 
Lysander started every more than capable of being game last season for the Irish that person.” en route to a 26-1 record. After two dominating wins 
Waldrum acknowledged in the opening rounds of the that the decision to play one NCAA Tournament, Weiss goalie over the other has and the rest of the Irish find been very tough. themselves just three wins 
“It hasn’t been easy decid-away from the team’s eighth 
in g  b e t wee n  appearance in  
th e s e g oa l -k e e p e r s, ” he  “We have to stick  the College Cup finals. Despite  
s aid.  “ T h e y  with the hot  the youth of the  
each have had periods where o ne h as bee n  goalkeeper which has been Nikki.”  t e am , We i s s sa id s he b e lie ves t he  
better than the  am ou n t  o f  
o t h e r. R i g ht now, they both a re l ook i n g  Randy Waldrum Irish coach  e x p e r i e n c e am on g th e m will prove vital  
really good but  as  they contin­ 

we have to stick with the hot ue to advance deeper into the goalkeeper which has been tournament. Nikki.” “Experience is definitely a 
The amount of one-goal very important factor at this games the Irish have been time of the year,” Weiss said. involved in this season has “Our seniors really do a good really made the goalkeeper job conveying that message position that much more and this is the time of year important. where we have to take our 
“We had a stretch where stand as the Notre Dame we were winning a lot of women’s soccer team.” close games,” Waldrum said “We needed someone to step Contact Alex Barker at in and show the team that abarker@nd.edu 

playing with much more con­sistency.” 
Weiss said practicing along­side the veteran Lysander has been a real asset is her development as a player. 
Hurley 
continued from page 24 

with the top teams in the country. His focus and con­cern have shifted instead to the depth of the bench. 
“Our attention will be turned not to the top fencers who already feel that they are pretty strong by winning medals in world cups or in national competitions,” Bednarski said. “But we will look for those who will be challengers in the future, who will be trying to get the top position on the team and at this moment are freshmen and sophomores.” 
An encouraging sign thus far may be the outstanding said. “Usually it’s hard for her showing of two freshmen on to mobilize all [her] power at the national stage. Competing the beginning of the season in the women’s sabre, Abigail because she likes to prepare 
Nichols and Lian Osler have already claimed gold medals in indi­vidual tourna­ments. 
However, raw talent can only take a young squad like the Irish so far. 
“We will look for those who will be challengers in the future.” 
Janusz Bednarski Irish coach 
longer. But I believe the women’s foilists and men’s foilists should show pretty strong perform­ances.” 
If the Irish continue their current trend of winning gold 
Senior Kelley Hurley adds a dynamic factor to the team, bringing much-needed depth and experience to the women’s epee. 
“We hope that Kelley Hurley will fence strong,” Bednarski medals in national events, their national ranking should be very favorable once colle­giate play begins in January. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  
36  37  38  39  40  
41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  
48  49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  56  57  58  
59  60  61  
62  63  64  
65  66  67  

Wednesday, November 18, 2009 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
65 Plow man 
66 In accordance with 
67 Fillers of libraryshelves 
Down 
1 Duds 2 Banned apple spray 3 Dress not for the 
self-conscious 4 Butcher's stock 5 Non-pro?6 Bathes 7 Standard of perfection 
8 Passion 
9 Became engaged10 Blow the whistle 
on 
11 Thickset 
12 Trunk 
13 Shorten the 
sleeves on, e.g.
21 Get an eyeful
22 Univac's 
predecessor
25 Massachusetts getaway, with
“the” 
26 Piece of music 
27 Scepter toppers 
28 “My mama done ___ me” 
29 Italian diminutive ending
30 Tue. plus two
32 Wood-smoothingtool 
33 Founder and first queen ofCarthage
34 Reply to theLittle Red Hen 

WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

Puzzle by Richard Silvestri  
35 In a bit 37 Arrestable offense 38 Endless years39 What summers do 40 Nervous mannerism 44 Sarah Jessica of “Sex and the City”45 Tartan pattern  46 Wild ass 47 Paper size:Abbr. 48 Biting 49 Perform verywell 50 Coffee groundsand orangepeels, typically 51 On the double  53 Tap trouble 54 Dry run 55 Sondheim's “___the Woods” 56 Fill by force 57 Washingtonchopping downthe cherry tree, e.g. 58 Part of B.P.O.E.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Across 
1 Gallows-shapedletter 
6 1975 musical with the song“Believe in Yourself,” with“The” 
9 Perle who inspired “Call MeMadam” 
14 Not native 
15 Stand buy 
16 Sing the praises
of 
17 Attacked 
18 The Caribbean,
for one 19 Alternative to 
Rover or Rex 
20 
23 Wriggly fish 
24 Wise old Greek 
25 
30 Subject of some 
tables 
31 Cook's wear 
32 “Now I get it!” 
33 Essence of a person, one might say 
36 What this puzzle's four missing cluesspell, in order 
41 Slalom section 
42 “Frasier” role 
43 Inflicted upon 
44 Analgesic's
target 
46 
48 Teeming 

51 Atom ___, 1960s 
cartoon superhero 
52 
59 Hazardous 
60 Tease mercilessly, with“on” 
61 Sign up 
62 “___ inside” (slogan) 
63 Sculptingmedium 64 Desolate 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

COLIN HOFMAN, JAY WADE AND LAUREN ROSEMEYER 
THE MOBILE PARTY 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Wednesday, November 18, 2009 page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Weis will look to seniors to spark Irish for Connecticut 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame’s 27-22 loss at Pittsburgh Saturday repre­sented the second straight game, and fourth overall this season, in which a furious fourth-quarter Irish rally fell short. And while Irish coach Charlie Weis said at his Tuesday press conference he continues to be proud of the fight his team has displayed throughout a tumultuous 6-4 season, he acknowledged the crippling effects of too many slow starts this season. 
“We’ve just put ourselves in that position too many times this year, where it’s coming down to that last drive one way or another,” Weis said, noting that the Irish are 4-4 in those close, coin-flip type games. “And the odds would tell you [that’s how] it would end up playing out if that’s where you are in each game.” 
Asked what the reason behind his team’s consistently sluggish starts, Weis said it was a fair question — but one he couldn’t answer. 
“If I had that answer, we would have answered it a long time ago,” Weis said. “But I can tell you that the same question you are posing to me was the same question I posed to them in the locker room after the game. And we’ve tried about every mode. We’ve tried no huddle. We’ve tried blitzing on every down. We’ve tried not blitzing. We tried change of personnel. I mean, you keep on fighting to try to find the answer, and we’ll try to do that again this week.” 
Weis said his strategy for getting the team back on track for Saturday’s Senior Day game against Connecticut would be to let his veteran players do most of the talking during and after practice this week. 
After what Weis called a “very quiet” plane ride home from Pittsburgh Saturday night, he said he talked to the entire team and then his 33 fourth-and fifth-year players on Sunday before game plan­ning into the night with his coaching staff. 
see WEIS/page 22 


ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Wise Weiss 
Junior keeper steps up in 3 postseason games 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
Just one year removed from a campaign in which she did not make a single start, junior goalkeeper Nikki Weiss now finds herself anchoring a strong Irish defense and just two wins away from leading Notre Dame to its fourth con­secutive NCAA College Cup appearance. 
The Redding, Conn. native passed senior Kelsey Lysander for the starting posi­tion earlier in the season after the Irish stumbled out of the gates, losing three of their first six matches despite boasting a No. 2 preseason ranking. 

“When we were struggling to find the right lineup early in the season, injuries really compounded our problems,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “Early on we just didn’t have a solid back line and it DAN JACOBS/The Observer 
Junior goaltender Nikki Weiss makes a save against Central Michigan in Notre Dame’s 6-1 see WALDRUM/page 22 victory in the second round of the NCAA Tournament on Nov. 15. 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Three recruits sign with ND 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish have a bright 2009 -10 season ahead of them, and coach Muffet McGraw is making sure that continues in future seasons. 
McGraw announced at a press conference Friday that three top recruits signed National Letters of Intent to play basketball at Notre Dame. 
The women make up the No. 10 recruiting class in the country. 
“I’m very excited about the class we’re signing this year,” McGraw said. “I think we addressed our needs. We 
see MCGRAW/page 22 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles open with big victory 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s legitimized its spot at third in the pre-season MIAA poll with a convincing 72­33 win over non-conference foe Anderson University Tuesday. 
The margin of victory was the largest for the Belles since 2007 and the total points allowed was the least since Dec. 3, 2003, when they gave up 26 against Andrews University. The Belles controlled this game on both offense and defense and led the Ravens in all statistical cate­gories. In particular, the Belles shot an impressive 21-53 from the field including 4-for-9 from behind the arc. Overall, fourth-year Belles coach Jenn Henley said she was pleased with the Belles’ performance. 
“I thought we played well for our first game,” Henley said. “We really did a nice job of 
see BELLES/page 21 
FENCING 
Youngsters show true individual promise 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Divided by individual and intercollegiate competitions, the demanding fencing sea­son can take its toll on a young team. But as the Irish wrap up the season of indi­vidual bouts, a growing list of accomplishments from a number of players provides some encouragement. 
“We have a couple of kids who are making great progress,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. “We had a strong showing of our top fencers last week. We hope that our secondary fencers, those who are not number one, will also fence strongly.” 
The Irish feature two of the nation’s most promising fencers in the junior category in sophomores Courtney Hurley and Gerek Meinhardt. Competing in the epee and foil divisions respectively, Hurley and Meinhardt each finished the USFA North American Cup with a pair of gold medals, raising their individual international rankings even further. 
Bednarski said that he is confident in his whole start­ing cast, which he believes has the talent to match up 
see HURLEY/page 22 





