the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Transpo sets route for weekend bus 
Office of Business Operations signs contract; service set to begin weekend of Dec. 4 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
The University signed a contract with Transpo Thursday, making the pro­posed route 7A official, stu­dent body president Grant Schmidt said. 
The Office of Business Operations handled the con­tract, he said. 
The route will run about every 18 minutes from Library Circle to South Street Station, passing sever­al student bars and neigh­borhoods. Schmidt said the student government initia­
see TRANSPO/page 6 



Eddy Street Commons continues expanding 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
Despite the troubled econo­my and tight financial times, the development of Eddy Street Commons (ESC) has been proceeding well with approximately 70 percent of the 88,000 square feet of retail space committed, direc­tor of asset management and real estate development Gregory Hakanen said. 
“Tenants will be building out their space and opening 
over the next three to six months,” he said. “This is a remarkable achievement in the current economy. Interest in the remaining space is strong.” 
Hakanen said the comple­tion of the project is “a func­tion of market demand for the various products.” 
“The retail and office space will likely be absorbed within a year or so, as will the rental apartments,” he said. “ESC is going remarkably well given the difficult economy. ESC is a multi -phased, mixed -use project.” 
Hakanen said students can expect to see the opening of Anytime Fitness, a 24-hour fitness concept, Nicholas J Salon and Spa, Old National Bank, two sit-down popular-
see EDDY/page 6 




Asian Allure to host annual show 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Live from Asia, it’s Saturday night! 
This year’s Asian Allure is based on Saturday Night Live (SNL) with an Asian twist, Holy Cross College senior Anthony Suh, the executive producer and director of the show, said. 
The Asian American Association is hoping to bring a greater understanding of Asian culture to the Notre Dame community with its sig­nature event, Asian Allure Live, which takes place Friday and Saturday in Washington Hall, senior Kristine Yuen, president of the Asian American Association said. 
Suh said the “Live” theme this year is associated with SNL and was intentionally chosen to move away from the themes of past shows, which were more focused on Asian identity at Notre Dame. 
“We picked a familiar theme so that the audience can relate more to the show,” he said. “We’re doing comedy this year, which is new for us but we wanted to make the audi­ence laugh.” 

see ALLURE/page 4 

Theology professor advises at Vatican 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
Notre Dame Theologian Fr. Daniel Groody said he was “moved to learn about the ways the Church is trying to create solu­tions for migrants” when he par­ticipated in a congress on the sub­ject this past week at the Vatican. 
Groody was selected as one of six expert aca­demics from different parts of the world to par­ticipate at the “World Congress on the Pastoral Care of Migrants and Refugees in the era of Globalization” at the Vatican. He said his work directly fit into the subject of the invitation-only conference. 
“I did not seek this appointment but was asked in the spring if I would come to the Congress as a scholar who has been teaching, researching, writing and doing films about the topics of theology, international migration and glob­alization, which made my work a natural fit for this Congress,” he said. 

see VATICAN/page 8 

Right to Life meets with admin. 
College officials say SMC has support services for pregnant women 



By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Right to Life Club Vice President Anne Maguire met with Karen Johnson, vice presi­dent of Student Affairs, and Cathe DeCleene, director of Women’s Health, Monday to dis­cuss services Saint Mary’s College provides for students who are currently pregnant or who have had abortions. 
The goal of the meeting was to make sure Maguire knows Saint Mary’s does provide sup­port for pregnant students, Johnson said. 
Maguire said she believes the meeting was successful. 
see LIFE/page 8 

JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Center hosts conference page 3  ‘The way we get by’ page 12  Basketball seasons begin page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, November 13, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 


My favorite things 
Oct. 8, Scene featured a section on the Best of YouTube. I know I am not a Scene writer, but I think it’s about time to update that list. I cannot take credit for a lot of these. I have described the Katie Peralta videos in no par­ticular order. 
Assistant 
After a thorough 

News Editor 
stalking of my two sisters’ wall-to-wall, as well as recommenda­tions from some like-minded friends, here ‘tis: 
Snoop Dogg on the Martha Stewart Show. The savvy domesti­cator welcomes the perma-high thug to her daytime talk show and the two cook the most classically all-American comfort food — mashed potatoes. Snoop dazzles Martha with his linguistic stylings. Watch the rest to see Snoop’s secret ingredient. Try it at home! 
Lil Wayne interview with Katie Couric. (Do you see some kind of pattern here?) Weezy explains the origins of his name, his connection with New Orleans and the Hurricane Katrina disaster and his drug of choice. “I’m a gangsta, Miss Katie,” pretty much sums up a lot about the multifaceted rap­per. Did you know that Wayne not only likes to bowl but he was also a straight-A student? Innovator. 
Dance Fail. This video is the sole testament to why foreign white girl break dancing is not only weird, but exceedingly entertaining as well. I am not going to ruin the video for you, but watch the whole thing, even if it is uncomfortable (which it is). 
Scarlet Takes a Tumble. Admittedly a little older, but this is absolutely worth the time. Like Dance Fail, this video is uncom­fortable and odd, but when you know something big and funny is about to happen, you are just inex­plicably drawn in. Watch it in its entirety for the full effect. 
Cat Betrayal. This little gem reflects pretty well the boy-girl drama we see everyday. Even if you hate cats I think you will appreciate this. 
Dane Cook on growing up Catholic. I think we can all take a good laugh away from this little humdinger. Cook hits home on a lot of the Catholic-isms we have grown up with but never really thought twice about. Totally hilarious. Makes me want to go to church. 
Pierre Escargot from All That. As many seasons as you can stand to watch, please watch. Keenan Thompson. Come on. We are TV children of the 90s. This video had my roommates and me in hysterics and talking in hearty French accents for weeks. A real throw­back, but also a little something we can all still appreciate. 
I don’t want to be responsible for a campus-wide slippage of grades on account of the brilliance I have described above. I am not entirely sure why this list has not updated since now. Enjoy. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Nov. 6 issue ofThe Observer, the article titled “Bengal Bouts film highlights Missions” incorrectly identified Mark Weber as the producer of the film “Strong Bodies Fight.” Weber is the co-producer of the film. In the Nov. 12 issue, an article misreported the distributor of “Boondock Saints II: All Saints Day” as Sony.The distributor is Apparition.The Observer regrets these errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT DO YOU T INK WILL  APPEN AT SATURDAY’S GAME? 






Winny Hu  Reid Cloon  Mariah Boyd  Matthew Sushinsky  Mary Beauclair  Peter Baxter  
sophomore McGlinn  freshman O’Neill  freshman Lewis  sophomore Alumni  senior Farley  freshman Siegfried  
“We’re gonna win!”  “It’s going to be a high scoring game,but in the end, I doubt we’ll win.”  “It’s going to be close but with good coaching we should pull through with a win.”  “We’ll dominate.”  “The defense will be able to actually stop the ball.”  “The teams might get confused because our colors are pretty similar.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Boxers wait to be announced for their matches at the 12th annual Baraka Bouts fight on Thursday night. Ninety girls competed in the fights which took place at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
OFFBEAT 
Principal bans students from saying “meep” 
DANVERS, Mass. — Who knew “Meep!” was a four-letter word? The utterance favored by bungling lab assistant Beaker of “The Muppet Show” has been banned at Danvers High School in Massachusetts after students said it to repeatedly interrupt school. 
Principal Thomas Murray said the word was part of a disruption planned using Facebook. 
The Salem News reports that parents recently got an automated call about “Meep!” from Murray. He warned them that students who said or displayed the word at school could be suspended. 
Murray says the warning was needed because stu­dents didn’t heed his “rea­sonable request” to stop the meeping. 
Danvers High sophomore Melanie Crane says it does­n’t mean anything in par­ticular. 
Tenn. man found in ditch with moonshine and rifle 
ATHENS, Tenn. — When Ricky Butler went to sleep on a rural, East Tennessee roadside, he didn’t have to worry about comfort but apparently he was feeling insecure. McMinn County deputies found the 31-year­old Decatur man sleeping on his back in a roadside ditch, with a loaded rifle on his chest and an almost empty jar of moonshine in the bib of his overalls. 
Butler told deputies who woke him up Sunday that he didn’t know where he was. He also told them the jar had been full. 
Deputies said Butler also had a machete and hand-rolled cigarettes believed to be marijuana. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight saturday sunday 

IN BRIEF 
The H1N1 vaccine will be available for the highest risk patients today in the Stepan Center. The vaccines will begin being distributed at 11 a.m. until 4 p.m. Please bring a current Notre Dame identification card. 
Advanced students from the Department of Music will give a short concert titled Bach’s Lunch: A Noontime Concert at 
12:10 p.m. today in the Penote Performers’ Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Admission is free but tickets are required. Call 574­631-2800 for reservations. 
The film “Rape of Europa” will be screening in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 6:30 p.m. tonight. Tickets are $5 for faculty and staff and $3 for students. Purchase tickets online at per­formingarts.nd.edu or call the ticket office at 574-631-2800. 
The Fall 2009 Concert Bands will be performed by the University’s Symphonic Band and Symphonic Winds on Sunday Nov. 15 at 3 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Admission is free but tickets are required. Call 574­631-2800 for reservations. 
A lecture titled “The Mayor From Hell” will be given by John Fetterman, mayor of Braddock, Pa., on Monday Nov. 
16. The lecture will take place from 8 to 9 p.m. in McKenna Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
monday tuesday 

Atlanta 71 / 43 Boston 52 / 48 Chicago 59 / 47 Denver 46 / 35 Houston 78 / 61 Los Angeles 67 / 47 Minneapolis 51 / 38 New York 52 / 51 Philadelphia 53 / 52 Phoenix 73 / 55 Seattle 46 / 34 St. Louis 63 / 46 Tampa 73 / 56 Washington 53 / 52 

Friday, November 13, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Center for Ethics and Culture to host conference 
Tenth annual set of talks to examine values of family, art; organizers encourage students to attend, network 
By TESS CIVANTOS News Writer  which inspired this year’s confer­ence. “Freedom is not just a call; we  Sarah Byers, an assistant philoso­phy professor at Boston College and this year’s Myser Fellow at the  chance for students to network with well-known professors and speakers.  year-old travels little. “I was campaigning hard for Alice to come,” Wales said. “I read  
have to act on it,” Wales said. “It  Center for Ethics and Culture,  “It’s a great place for connec­ her ‘Privilege of Being a Woman’  
The Center for Ethics and  takes virtue to answer that call  said. “From established and even  tions,” Wales said. “You meet pro- in college and it changed every­ 
Culture’s 10th annual fall confer- and it takes sacrifice to carry it  famous intellectuals down to  fessors and students from around  thing. Alice joked to me, ‘I’ll be at  
ence is not just a chance to learn,  out. All of us, all of the disciplines  u n d e r g r a d s ,  the country. People  the conference if I’m alive.’”  
network  and  make  friends.  are working towards the common  everyone is shar­ find  out  about  The community that emerges  
According to past participants, the conference may even change your life.  good.” The conference theme is broad, allowing for papers  ing meals and convers atio n . Everyone is  “I hope that people will be challenged by  scholarships and fellowship opportu­nities over dinner,  from the conference continues to grow as past participants return again and again.  
“The confer­ence is my favorite aca­ “[The conference] is so charged with  from a range of dis­ciplines. “This may be our  inspired by the same ideas and is eager to share  the papers they hear.”  in conversation. You meet like-minded people and  “Faculty keep coming back and bringing their students, who then come back on their own,” Keys  
demic event of the year,”  excitement.”  broadest confer­ence so far,” Wales  them.” Why  is  this  Kathryn Wales  the opportunities that come from the  said. Wales offered advice to students  
Kathryn Wales, programs coor­dinator for the Center, said.  Kathryn Wales Programs Coordinator Center for Ethics and  said. “It’s the 10th anniversary so we wanted to do some­thing fundamental.  conference espe­cially welcom­ing? Partly, it is  Programs Coordinator Center for Ethics and Culture  conference are remarkable.” The true purpose of the conference,  attending the conference for the first time: plan ahead. “The hardest thing about our conference is that you have to  
“It’s so charged with excitement.  Culture  We’ve done confer­ences about the  because of the values which conference partici­ though, is changing the world through changing indi­ choose between nine, 10 or even 11 concurrent sessions,” she said.  
People come out  arts, the family —  pants share, she said.  vidual hearts and minds, she said.  “Unless you plan ahead, you won’t  
of those little rooms in McKenna  this year it’s about what it takes to  “People who identify themselves  “I hope that people will be chal­ be able to decide because they’re  
Hall almost glowing.”  produce good art and good fami­ as belonging to this ‘culture’ are  lenged by the papers they hear,”  all so good.”  
The conference, titled “The  lies.”  spread out across North America,”  Wales said, “that they will be  Byers and Keys offered simple  
Summons of Freedom: Virtue,  Family is an important part of  Byers said. “When they come  inspired to act, that their personal  advice to students: “Come to the  
Sacrifice and the Common Good,”  the Center, since the warm, friend- together at this conference, it’s  lives will be changed.”  conference!”  
is named for Pope Benedict XVI’s  ly environment makes this confer- like a family reunion.”  Several well-known thinkers will  “You could challenge your mind,  
words at the White House during  ence stand out. Students and pro- That shared culture is “the cul­ speak at the conference, including  make some new friends and it  
his most recent visit to the United  fessors share meals and coffee  ture of life,” which means that  Alice von Hildebrand, Michael  could even change your life,” Keys  
States.  breaks designed to promote dis­ “every human person has value  Novak, Lucy Beckett and Notre  said.  
He said: “Freedom is not only a  cussion.  and dignity,” Byers said.  Dame’s own Alasdair MacIntyre.  
gift, but also a summons to per­ “What makes this conference  One advantage of the confer- Von Hildebrand’s appearance is  Contact Tess Civantos at  
sonal responsibility,” an idea  special is the family atmosphere,”  ence’s family environment is the  special and rare, as the frail 87­ tcivanto@nd.edu  


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 13, 2009 

Allure 
continued from page 1 
Suh said the show copies famous SNL skits but with an Asian theme, all in an attempt to make the show more about contemporary culture views. 
Asian Allure is a night of song, dance, performance pieces and cultural signifi­cance, she said. 
“It’s a time for the Asian American cultures on campus to celebrate their culture but it’s also a way to educate other students,” Yuen said. “It’s more or less a talent show but it shows people who we are in a simplistic manner.” 
The production incorporates all of the various Asian clubs and organizations on campus. There are 200 students work­ing on the show, which fea­tures 16 different performanc­es from the different clubs, Yuen said. 
“Asian Allure is a significant piece of the Notre Dame com­munity because it demon­strates both the beauty of sev­eral Asian American nationali­ties represented on campus and the talent of many Notre Dame students,” senior Christian Chan, a performer in the show said. “The show allows us to share how proud we are of our roots and the culture that we share.” 
The event is in its 13th year at Notre Dame and has evolved since its debut over a decade ago. 
“When Asian Allure first debuted it was originally a fashion show,” Suh said. “Since then it has evolved into a display of culture that shows the Notre Dame community the diversity that exists on campus.” 
Chan said Asian Allure is a great way to show the diversi­ty that exists at Notre Dame. 
“As the University hopes to embody an atmosphere of diversity, this is one step in opening the community to other cultures with an enjoy­able and exciting twist,” he said. 
Originally, the show was more about the traditions of the various Asian cultures that it featured. But Yuen and Suh said they are trying to make the show feature more modern aspects of the respective cul­tures that are being represent­ed. 
“Tradition is always very important to us,” Suh said. “It’s a key to who we are but we want to show other sides of ourselves too.” 
Yuen said the incorporation of a more modern view had a lot to do with the nature of the audience. 
“It’s always important to see the modern aspects of any cul­ture,” she said. “We are aware of the traditional and we adapt it into a modern stance for the audience. We want the audi­ence see a balance between ‘Asianess’ and ‘Americaness.’” 
But not only Asian students are involved in Asian Allure or the Asian student clubs. The show made a point to show a large range of diversity, Suh said. Within the show there are white, black and Hispanic performers. These participants are also very active in the Asian American Association. 

“This is not an exclusive event and our clubs are not exclusive,” Yuen said. “Asian Allure gives people the oppor­tunity for people to learn about very diverse groups here on campus, so we incor­porate other people as well.” 
Yuen said that the underly­ing mission of Asian Allure is to encourage all students to celebrate their different cul­tures. 
“We want to encourage awareness of cultures through entertaining people rather than a classroom setting,” she said. “You should always take the opportunity to celebrate who you are.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 


Saint Mary’s College professor writes play set in Ireland 
1942 depicting the Mahan “I was somewhat relieved a musical. Her previous plays been talented, creative and 

By HILLARY BENGTSSON 
family’s struggles to rebuild that it didn’t win,” Baxter have been performed at the kind.” 
Sports Writer 
relationships after a death. said. “I knew I needed more Saint Mary’s Fine Arts Camp T h e p r o d u c t i o n o f Baxter first drafted time to consider what, pre-and Summer Academy. “Confessions of the Chaff” 

Saint Mary’s College pro-“Confessions” in 1995 while cisely, I wanted this play to “I’d like to commend the will run Friday and Saturday fessor and playwright Susan living in Colorado in do.” SMC Theatre Department. It at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday at Brabant Baxter ’s play, response to a sex -abuse “Confessions” supports the is like no other artistic com-2:30 p.m. in Saint Mary ’s “Confessions of the Chaff,” scandal within her local dio-Catholic Church and its cler-munity I have ever seen. Little Theatre. The admission directed by Professor Mark cese. gy and religious leaders, Mark Abram-Copenhaver is is $5 for students. Tickets Abram-Copenhaver will open Baxter submitted the play although Baxter said it is not an incredibly gifted direc-can be purchased at the box as the latest production of to several playwriting a play for children. tor, ” Baxter said. “As a office. the Saint Mary ’s College groups. It ultimately came in She has written many one-result, the play has grown Little Theatre. second place in a national act and full-length plays, in far beyond what it was ini-Contact Hillary Bengtsson at 
The play is set in Ireland in play competition. addition to collaborating on tially. The students have hbengt01@saintmarys.edu 




World & Nation 
Friday, November 13, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Journalist freed in Afghanistan 
OSLO — A Norwegian freelance journalist kidnapped a week ago in eastern Afghanistan has been released along with his Afghan interpreter, the Foreign Ministry said Thursday. 
Journalist Paal Refsdal and an unnamed interpreter were freed Wednesday night after being abducted Nov. 5 near the border with Pakistan, Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Stoere said. 
It is still unclear who abducted Refsdal and demanded $500,000 for his release, Stoere told journalists Thursday evening, adding that to his knowledge the demand was never met. 

Bishops issue statement to gov’t. 
MEXICO CITY — Mexico’s Roman Catholic bishops said Thursday that government offi­cials must do a better job stamping out cor­ruption to stop drug violence, and the clergy also has a role to play. 
A Mexican Council of Bishops statement read to reporters stopped short of making specific recommendations but condemned anyone who sells, transports or uses drugs. It described trafficking as a dirty business that seduces people by promising well-being, while bringing only violence and death. 
“Enough already! Stop harming yourselves and stop causing so much damage and pain to our young people, our families and our homeland,” said Monsignor Miguel Angel Alba, bishop of La Paz, reading from the statement. 
NATIONAL NEWS 


Police challenged by tragedy 
CLEVELAND — The discovery of 11 victims of an alleged serial killer, most of them poor, drug-addicted black women, has prompted calls for Cleveland police to respond faster and devote more resources to missing-per­sons cases. 
Police, however, say they already have a comprehensive system for finding the lost and can’t be held accountable for people they don’t know are missing. Confounding the current tragedy, only three of the victims had been reported missing. 
The case has raised anew the issues of how and how fast police should react when adults are reported missing — especially departments stretched thin by slashed budg­ets and stymied by the likelihood that many people go missing voluntarily and have not met foul play. 

Colo. balloon parents plead guilty 
FORT COLLINS, Colo. — The parents accused of pulling a spectacular hoax by reporting that their 6-year-old son had floated away aboard a helium bal­loon have agreed to plead guilty in a deal that could send them both to jail but protect the wife from deportation. 
Richard Heene will plead guilty to attempting to influence a public ser­vant, a felony, said his attorney, David Lane. Heene’s wife, Mayumi, a Japanese citizen who could be deported if con­victed of more serious charges, will plead guilty to a lesser charge of false reporting to authorities, a misde ­meanor. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Ind. drag racer sentenced 
BLOOMFIELD — A 19-year-old man who authorities say was drag racing before a May crash that killed his fiancee and a motorcy­clist has been sentenced to 14 years in prison. 
Preston Williams of Bloomington pleaded guilty Thursday in Greene Circuit Court to two counts of reckless homicide. Judge Erik Allen sentenced Williams to seven years’ imprisonment on each count, with two years suspended from each one. 
The sentences are to be served consecutive­ly, but with two days’ credit for each one served on good behavior, Williams could be released in five years. 
WEST BANK 
Palestinian election postponed 
Commission: Abbas to remain in office indefinitely; Hamas opposition causes delay 
Associated Press 
RAMALLAH — Palestinian  
President Mahmoud Abbas,  
who last week said he did- 
n’t want to run for re-elec­ 
tion, may get to stay in  
office without a single bal­ 
lot being cast.  
The Palestinian Election  
Commission ruled  
Thursday that January’s  
scheduled vote should be  
put off because of opposi­ 
tion from the Islamic mili­ 
tant group Hamas, which  
controls the Gaza Strip and  
is a rival of Abbas’ Fatah  
faction.  
Abbas raised internation­ 
al concern last week when  
he declined to run for  
another term, suggesting  
he was frustrated over a  
10-month stalemate in  
Israel-Palestinian peace­ 
making. His departure  
would have thrown peace  
efforts into turmoil.  
Now it appears Abbas  
may have been signaling  
his need for more backing  
from the U.S. against Israel  
since Hamas’ rejection of a  
vote was likely.  
The Palestinian Election  
Commission blamed Gaza’s  
Hamas rulers for forcing  
the postponement. AP  
Hamas overran Gaza in Hanna Nasser, chairman of the Palestinian election commission, speaks at a Thursday  
2007, expelling Fatah press conference in Ramallah. The election, scheduled for January, has been postponed.  
forces loyal to Abbas.  
Hamas leaders oppose an  Netanyahu’s pledge not to  resources they want for a  did not set a new date,  
election organized by  build new settlements —  state and leading Israel to  meaning the election is  
Fatah, and without Gaza a  though limited construction  maintain hundreds of road- postponed indefinitely.  
complete election cannot be  in existing ones would con- blocks throughout the West  Recent Palestinian polls  
held.  tinue.  Bank, which stifles their  showed Hamas and Fatah  
Abbas has insisted that  Secretary of State Hillary  economy and society.  in a close race in both par- 
talks with Israel cannot  Clinton, who carefully  All this has left Abbas,  liamentary and presidential  
resume until Israel halts all  rejected Abbas’ demand  already weakened by his  elections — another possi­ 
construction in its West  during a visit to the region  loss of Gaza and his lack of  ble Fatah motivation for  
Bank settlements. Israeli  two weeks ago, called the  popular support, in a diffi­ postponing the vote.  
Prime Minister Benjamin  no new settlement pledge  cult position. If he sticks to  Abbas, who was elected  
Netanyahu, whose hardline  an “unprecedented conces­ his position that settlement  in 2005 after the death of  
Cabinet would not approve  sion” on the part of  construction must stop  legendary Palestinian  
such a freeze, countered  Netanyahu, though Israel  before negotiations resume,  leader Yasser Arafat, has  
that the issue should be  originally made that com- talks may remain frozen  not announced whether he  
dealt with in the negotia­ mitment in 2002.  because of Israel’s position.  will accept the recommen­ 
tions.  Later, Clinton said the  But if he bends on that  dation of the commission.  
Talks broke off in  settlement issue would be  key issue to allow renewal  Fatah insiders say he may  
January with no agreement  resolved automatically if  of talks, he will be attacked  leave that up to the umbrel­ 
on basic issues.  the two sides could agree  by Hamas, a radical Islamic  la group PLO.  
President Barack  on borders, then repeating  movement that does not  Announcing its decision  
Obama’s administration is  U.S. opposition to all Israeli  recognize Israel and dis- on Thursday, the election  
perceived by Palestinians  settlements.  misses peace accords with  commission said it has  
as switching sides, first  Palestinians consider the  the Jewish state as capitu­ closed its offices in Gaza,  
demanding a construction  settlements a huge impedi­ lation to occupiers.  meaning an indefinite  
freeze, then praising  ment, taking up land and  The election commission  delay.  

House bill includes abortion restrictions 
health care bill. Crane, policy director for NARAL 
Associated Press 
The measure would prohibit the Pro-Choice America. 
NEW YORK — Millions of proposed new government-run The amendment’s proponents says American women will face tough insurance plan from covering abor-its goal is simply to ensure that a choices about abortion coverage if tions except in cases of rape, incest long-standing ban on using federal restrictions in the House health care or to save a mother’s life, and bars dollars for elective abortions is bill become law, both sides in the any health plan receiving federal extended to coverage plans arising abortion debate agree. subsidies in a new insurance mar-from new health care legislation. 
Divisions over abortion are a ketplace from offering abortion cov-Rep. Bart Stupak, D-Mich., an major obstacle in President Barack erage. If women wanted to purchase abortion foe, insisted the amend­Obama’s push for health care over-abortion coverage through such ment is not a dramatic change in haul, with both sides arguing over plans, they’d have to buy it separate-current law, offered to negotiate if how to apply current law that bars ly, as a so-called rider on their poli-his critics could convince him other-taxpayer dollars for abortions in a cy. wise, and said it leaves ample alter-totally new landscape. Under pres-“It forces insurance companies and natives for women to obtain cover-sure from the Catholic Church and women to navigate a series of chutes age if they use their own money and abortion foes, the House added and ladders to get abortion coverage are willing to buy a separate, add-on tough restrictions to its version of a at the end of the day,” said Donna plan. 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 13, 2009 
Transpo 
continued from page 1 
tive is meant to give students a safe form of transportation off campus on the weekends. 
The bus is currently sched­uled to run starting Dec. 4. 
Although the route has been drawn up by Transpo, Schmidt said the times and stops could still be changed. 
“We will see how things go on the first thing and make changes accordingly if neces­sary,” he said. 
The route has eight stops. The bus starts at Library Circle and then stops at Notre Dame Ave. and Howard Street, Jefferson Street and Notre Dame Ave., Main Street and Colfax Ave. and then South Street Station. 
After South Street Station, the bus stops at Michigan St. and Colfax, Jefferson St. and Notre Dame Ave., Howard Street and Notre Dame Ave. and then back to Library Circle. 
This route takes students near the apartments east of campus, the Linebacker Lounge, Corby’s Irish Pub and the Blarney Stone, com­monly referred to as Finnegan ’s. Schmidt said Transpo is looking into tak­ing the route through Eddy Street Commons, but they have to determine if the buses can fit down the street. 
Transpo could make small changes to the route as well, he said. 
“I have been talking with South Bend police, owners of restaurants and bars and landlords, ” Schmidt said. “This has really been a team effort.” 
Schmidt said he hopes to print out a more student ­friendly Transpo schedule on cards. The current schedule was created by Transpo and does not indicate which stops are near which bars and neighborhoods. 
Student government and the Office of Student Affairs funded the new route 7A. One bus will run from 9:40 
p.m. to about 3:15 a.m. every Friday and Saturday night. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

Eddy 
continued from page 1 
ly-priced restaurants includ­ing Kildare’s, an Irish ­themed restaurant/pub, a New-York style deli that will serve breakfast, a phone store and possibly either a small -format grocer or a drug store. 
Hakanen said in addition to the retail space, the University has leased the top two floors of the office build­ing located on the southwest corner of Eddy St. and Angela Blvd. 
Eddy Street Commons is being developed by the Kite Realty Group, a publicly ­traded real estate investment trust located in Indianapolis. Hakanen said it is Kite ’s responsibility to fill the space in the new develop­ment. 
“As developer, it is Kite’s responsibility to build, lease and sell the commercial and residential space in [Eddy Street Commons] the University has no responsi­bility or liability for any part of [Eddy Street Commons],” he said. 
Kite, in turn, has three partners that they are work­ing with — Buckingham Companies, which is working to develop The Foundry rental apartments, White Lodging, which is developing the hotels and Highline Construction, which is devel­oping the for-sale residences. 
“We have been very pleased with Kite Realty Group as the developer, and their ability to execute the project in an extremely chal­lenging economic environ­ment,” Hakanen said. 

Several new outlets have already begun operations in Eddy Street Commons, including Chipotle, Five Guys Burgers and the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
“By all outward appear­ances business has been good, but we’re still in the ramp -up period in which businesses are opening on a rolling basis, and people are still finding their way to [Eddy Street Commons],” Hakanen said. 
In addition to the new busi­nesses, Hakanen said the first tenants moved in on Aug. 15 to the Foundry West on the northwest corner of Napoleon and Eddy Sts., while the Foundry South on northeast corner of Eddy and Napoleon Sts. will open in December and the Foundry North on the southeast cor­ner of Eddy St. and Angela Blvd. will open in June. 
“Reviews I’ve heard have been highly positive in terms of the quality of the units and the amenities offered,” Hakanen said. “Tenants are a mix of working adults, retirees, alumni, grad stu­dents, with a small under­graduate population.” 
Hakanen also said the first for-sale residential units, called Champion’s Way City Homes, will be delivered later this year. 
However, Hakanen said while the construction on the commercial and residential properties will be finished soon, the construction on the hotels and some of the for-sale homes will take a good deal longer. 
“Construction of the com­mercial buildings along Eddy St. is nearing completion, with interior buildouts for apartments and commercial [office and retail] tenants still ongoing, ” he said. “Construction of the hotels will stretch out for several years, as will construction of the for-sale residences.” 
Hakanen said the limited-service Fairfield Inn & Suites hotel would most likely be opened in time for the 2010 football season, while the full -service Marriott “has been delayed due to market conditions, and will be com­menced when conditions improve.” 
Nonetheless, Hakanen said 
overall the University is “extremely pleased with ESC so far.” 
“The buildings are high-quality in design and con­struction, with the tradition­al architecture harmonizing with its surroundings with­out mimicking campus archi­tecture,” he said. “While there is no question that the economy has slowed the project to some extent, we are thrilled with the progress to date and look forward to continued devel­opment.” 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 


Research explores neuronregeneration 
Special to The Observer 
To the naked eye, humans may not appear to have much in common with the zebrafish, a small tropical freshwater species belonging to the min­now family. 
But a Notre Dame biologist is taking a much closer look at the two species and finding potential for treating a number of diseases and conditions. 
Research by David Hyde, the Rev. Howard J. Kenna, C.S.C., Memorial Director of Notre Dame’s Center for Zebrafish Research, uses adult stem cells in zebrafish to study how neu­rons regenerate. The work holds promise for treatments for such human problems as glaucoma and macular degen­eration in the eyes, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s in the brain, and even spinal cord injuries. 
“We are actively engaged in using adult neuronal stem cells to examine the processes involved in regenerating neu­rons,” Hyde explains. “We’re doing this in the central nerv­ous system where these stem cells already reside. We’re working on zebrafish because it’s much easier to manipulate the organism and the regener­ation response is very robust. These adult neuronal stem cells also exist in the human nervous system, but they do not generate significant regen­eration responses.” 
Zebrafish eyes, the size of a large pinhead, have an advanced visual system similar to the human eye, with differ­ent types of neurons located in different layers — photorecep­tor cells in the outer layer of the retina, ganglion neurons in the inner layer, and different classes of neurons in specific layers between. Hyde’s research focuses on cells in the retina, part of the central nerv­ous system, but the cells also are in the brain. He came to Notre Dame more than 20 years ago and has been involved in the project for more than 13 years. 
The research has shown that zebrafish repair retinal degen­eration within just four weeks. The regeneration apparently occurs because something is signaling the adult stem cells and radial glial cells to prolif­erate, divide and differentiate at an enormous rate. Furthermore, the regeneration replaces precisely the right kinds of lost photoreceptors in the area of the retina where they were lost. That’s impor­tant, because growth of inap­propriate cells could further damage the organism. 


The Observer 
Business

Friday, November 13, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Arizona grocery workers to strike 
PHOENIX — Thousands of union workers across Arizona are poised to go on strike Friday after months of failed negotiations with two major grocery chains. 
The union gave grocery giants Safeway Inc. and Fry’s, owned by Cincinnati-based Kroger Co., until 6 p.m. Friday to come up with a new contract offer. The stores have been hiring thousands of temporary workers eager for jobs amid the nation’s economic meltdown, and they’re defending the contract they offered employees, making a strike more probable by the hour. 
The stakes for about 25,000 workers and their employers are high. 
If they strike, union members would get just $100 a week in strike pay. And with Arizona among the nation’s most competitive grocery regions, the companies could lose coveted market share if they don’t settle. 
Arizona is a right-to-work state, meaning workers can cross picket lines. The companies also could decide to lock out all their employ­ees, and nonunion members would not get any income if that happens. 
Buffet, Gates say worst is over 
NEW YORK — Capitalism is still alive and well, say the world’s two richest men, despite lingering shocks from the longest, deepest recession since the Great Depression. 
“The financial panic is behind us,” said famed investor Warren Buffett, who recently made what he called an “all-in wager” on the 
U.S. economy by acquiring railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe. “The bottom has come in stocks. Don’t pass on something that’s attrac­tive today.” 
Sitting facing each other in an auditorium filled with nearly 1,000 cheering people at a CNBC-sponsored event at Columbia University in New York, the CEO of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and Microsoft founder Bill Gates fielded questions from Columbia Business School stu­dents on the recession, investing and what’s the next Microsoft. 
There were at first reassurances that the 
U.S. economy had not collapsed since the last time the two sat in front of a student audience, in Nebraska in 2005. 
Markethurtbydecreasedenergyuse 
Major stock indexes, including Dow Jones, drop by one percent from 13-month highs 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — A jump in the nation’s energy invento­ries sent stocks falling Thursday as investors wor­ried that demand for oil and gasoline is falling because of the struggling economy. 
Major stock indexes slid about 1 percent from 13­month highs, including the Dow Jones industrial aver­age, which fell 94 points after six days of gains. The inventory report from the government pushed crude oil down 3 percent, below $77 a barrel. A gain in the dollar also weighed on prices for commodities including oil by making them more expensive for overseas buyers. 
A drop in energy compa­ny stocks upended an early advance led by technology shares, which rose after 3Com Corp. agreed to a $2.7 billion takeover by Hewlett-Packard Co. and as Intel Corp. said it would pay $1.25 billion to Advanced Micro Devices Inc. to settle legal disputes. 
But stocks could get a boost Friday from The Walt Disney Co., which said after the closing bell that its quarterly profit jumped 18 percent on better results at its movie studio. 
The disappointing report stores open at least a year market wants to do a little where consolidated volume on energy usage overshad-are an important indicator consolidating here,” he came to 4.2 billion shares owed more upbeat news of a retailer’s strength. said. compared with 4.3 billion about the economy. The The mammoth company The Dow fell 93.79, or 0.9 Wednesday. Labor Department said new is seen as a key indicator of percent, to 10,197.47. It Tom Nyheim, portfolio claims for unemployment consumer spending trends. was the biggest drop since manager at Christiana insurance fell last week to a Investors have worried for Oct. 30 and only the second Bank & Trust Co. in seasonally adjusted 502,000 months that consumers are time this month it fell. The Greenville, Del., said the from an upwardly revised so strained by unemploy-Dow had risen 519 points, drop in oil wasn’t likely to 514,000 the previous week. ment and lower home or 5.3 percent, in the prior continue because demand That’s the fewest claims prices that they won’t spend six days — its longest would outstrip supply as since early January and more and help propel a stretch of gains since late economies in Asia and else-better than economists had recovery in the economy. August. where recover ahead of the forecast. Frank Ingarra Jr., co-The broader S&P 500 U.S. 
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. portfolio manager at index fell 11.27, or 1 per-Nyheim said the market’s reported third-quarter Hennessy Funds in cent, to 1,087.24, after two drop indicated a healthy earnings that beat analysts’ Stamford, Conn., said days of gains. The Nasdaq caution among traders after expectations, though sales stocks had been due for a fell 17.88, or 0.8 percent, to an eight-month advance at stores open at least a break after steep gains in 2,149.02. that has pushed the S&P year dropped during the the past week. The Dow The Russell 2000 index of 500 index up 60.7 percent. quarter. The nation’s and the S&P 500 index smaller companies fell Nyheim predicts that biggest retailer said sales at closed at their highest levels 12.39, or 2.1 percent, to investors satisfied with their existing stores would range since October 2008 on 580.32. gains for the year might from a drop of 1 percent to Wednesday. Four stocks fell for every avoid placing big bets in a gain of 1 percent in its “There is very light vol-one that rose on the New November and December to fourth quarter. Sales at ume so it looks like the York Stock Exchange, safeguard their returns. 

Calif. environmentalists sue developers 
Associated Press the Center for Biological Diversity, the ment. 
lead plaintiff in the lawsuit. “We feel that the record will show 
LOS ANGELES — A coalition of envi-Kern County supervisors last month that the county made a well-reasoned ronmentalists filed a lawsuit Thursday unanimously approved the Tejon decision and that the courts will find in to stop the development of a 5,000-Mountain Village project, which our favor,” he said. acre gated resort community on the includes 3,500 homes, two golf cours-A phone message left with Kern sprawling Tejon Ranch property some es and a resort hotel in the Tehachapi County spokesman Allan Krauter was 60 miles north of Los Angeles. Mountains. not immediately returned. 
The lawsuit filed in Kern County The project is the smaller of two Other plaintiffs in the lawsuit include Superior Court argues that county offi-developments planned for the Tejon the Center on Race, Poverty and the cials ignored its potential impact on Ranch Co.’s 270,000-acre property, the Environment and the Wishtoyo the California condor while discount-largest piece of privately held land in Foundation, a Chumash Indian envi­ing flaws in the project’s water-use the state. A separate 23,000-home ronmental group. plan and air pollution problems from project known as Centennial is cur-Tejon Ranch made a deal last year increased traffic in the now undevel-rently undergoing environmental with several other environmental oped area. review. groups, including the Sierra Club, to 
“All of California will suffer if this Tejon Mountain Village LLC preserve a 240,000-acre, or 375­project gets built — more water will be spokesman David Crowder said county square-mile, swath of wilderness in stolen, the bird that graces our quar-officials were right to approve the exchange for the groups not opposing ter will be doomed, our air will get project that met high standards for development on other parts of the dirtier,” said Adam Keats, a director at conservation and sustainable develop-ranch. 

page 8 The Observer  NEWS Friday, November 13, 2009 
Vatican 
continued from page 1 
With his main area of research in utilizing theology as a guide to globalization and migration, Groody used his work with many different people over his career to guide his participation in the Congress. 
“I have been working with migrants in the deserts, mountains and canals of the U.S.-Mexican border, as well as in various parish ministries throughout the United States,” he said. “More recently I have been working with immi­grants at the borders between Spain-Morocco, Malta-Libya and Slovakia-Ukraine.” 
Groody said he used the input from these people in three differ­ent ways: their outer journey, inner journey and human journey. 
“As I spend time listening to the stories of migrants, I look at first the response of the Church to migrants their outer journey, sec­ond the spirituality of these migrants their inner journey, third a theology of migration the human journey or how theology gives us a way of understanding who we are before God as a pilgrim people and how we can understand God’s movement to us in Jesus as a divine migration,” he said. 
Groody said his responsibilities in Rome consist of drafting a final document released by the Congress. 
He said the process has been tedious and he has spent a large amount of time working on the document. 
“This process involves a lot of lis­tening, analysis, reflecting and writing. I go to bed late and get up early, trying to take the insights of people working with migrants in various parts of the world, and then collaborating with five other people in putting together the final version,” he said. 
In addition to his duties in par­taking in the conference discus­sions, Groody said he is the only theologian who was formally invit­ed to participate on the committee for the final document because the other scholars at the Congress spe­cialized mainly in social sciences. 
On Monday, the Pope received the group in the Clementina Room of the Vatican. Groody said this experience was touching and said the Pope was very concerned over the issue of treating migrants with fairness. 
“If the migrants I have met over the years at the U.S. and European borders were there with me, my visit would have been complete,” he said. “We were there to raise their status, not ours. But I know that they would have been pleased to know that the Pope made their concerns an important concern in his work.” 
Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 
Life 
continued from page 1 
“The meeting was a positive discussion addressing the needs of the students and provided positive communication between the staff and stu­dents,” Maguire said. “I will continue my work to ensure my classmates are also aware of the services Saint Mary’s pro­vides. There is always more to be done, but this is a productive step in the right direction.” 
The Counseling Center, the Health Center and Campus Ministry all offer support to pregnant students or students who have had abortions, Johnson said. 
Students generally visit the College’s Health Center for information on support for pregnant women, Johnson said. 
Women can receive pregnan­cy tests in the Health Center and the staff can assist preg­nant students with their needs. Although the Health Center is unable to provide pre-natal care due to lack of necessary equipment, the staff is able to assist pregnant students in finding a doctor, Johnson said. 
Expectant mothers are able to stay in the residence halls until they deliver the baby, Johnson said. Students are not allowed to live in residence halls with their babies. 
As for classes, pregnant stu­dents can work with Susan Vanek, associate dean and advising director of First Year Studies, to adjust their class schedules or exams if there is a conflict, Johnson said. 
According to Johnson, staff 
members from the Health Center, the Counseli ng 
Center  and  
C  a  m  p  u  s  
Ministry  are  

available to talk and listen to stu­dents. Staff members can also provide support if need­ed when stu­dents tell their parents of their situation. 
After learning of the support opportunities on 
“My concern is that students may not be able to fnd information on where they can go for support in crisis or unplanned pregnancy on campus.” 
Anne Maguire vice president Right to Life Club 
campus, Maguire said she turned her attention to the advertisement of the support. 
“My concern is that students may not be able to find infor­mation on where they can go for support in crisis or unplanned pregnancy on cam­pus,” Maguire said. “Students should be informed that they have a personal support system right here on campus, not only through their peers but also with the support of profession­ally trained staff.” 
During the meeting, Maguire said she suggested the College work to make the services offered to pregnant students more clear. 
The College plans to clarify the services offered to make 
sure students who are preg­nant know they are not alone and can be taken care of at Saint Mary’s, Johnson said. She said she hopes to accom­plish this by updating the College Web site to give students easier access to the options they have on cam­pus. 
“We [Right to Life] will contin­
ue to advocate and encourage everyone on campus to step up and play their role in helping pregnant as well as post-abortive women on campus,” Maguire said. “However, now we can help inform students of where they can go and how they can continue with their pregnancy and education.” 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 

Man sentenced to life for murder of TV personality 
gram and had a bit part in “You protected someone who into a brick wall several cessful lives and said Vance’s 
Associated Press 
the President George W. Bush should have never been pro-times until he nearly passed situation was a result of his 

LITTLE ROCK — A jury sen-biopic “W.” She died Oct. 25, tected.” out. own choices. tenced a man to life in prison 2008, five days after a brutal Vance, who had appeared She also told jurors she “Do I like it? No,” Jegley Thursday for the beating assault that crushed her face uncomfortable during much would buy drugs with money said after the sentence was death of a popular Arkansas and left her gasping for air. of his mother’s testimony, her children received from read. “But they can consider television personality, sparing Vance ’s mother testified showed no emotion as the Social Security after their all of them. That’s the law.” him the death penalty after Thursday that she was abu-sentence was read. fathers died and that she had Defense lawyer Katherine hearing testimony about his sive, and a doctor said Vance Jacqueline Vance Burnett spent time in prison for bur-Streett had urged jurors — rocky upbringing by an abu-showed signs of paranoia. had told jurors she was an glary, forgery and theft. who had convicted Vance a sive, drug-addicted mother. Pressly ’s mother, Patti abusive mother who had a Burnett said she has since day earlier of capital murder, 
Jurors deliberated less than Cannady, told jurors number of crack-fueled run-gone through rehab and she rape, burglary and theft of three hours before recom-Wednesday what it was like ins with the law. apologized to Vance from the property — to have the mending that Curtis Lavelle to lose an only child. Burnett said she worked as witness stand for throwing “courage” to not impose the Vance, 29, be sentenced to After the verdict was read, a prostitute to earn money him against the wall. He death penalty. life in prison without parole Cannady mouthed “It’s OK” to for drugs and once snapped mumbled something, then “The decision you’re about for the death of Anne Pressly. prosecutor Larry Jegley, nod-after a “date” fell through. said “I love you, momma.” to make may speak as much They also handed down a life ded, and tucked her hands She said Vance had been left During closing arguments, about you as it does about sentence for rape, 20 years over her heart. But as she left in charge of a younger broth-prosecutor Larry Jegley Curtis Vance,” Streett said. If for burglary and 10 years for the courtroom, Cannady er and that when she called Vance’s upbringing “an mitigation in this case ... has theft. stopped and turned at the returned, the brother was American tragedy,” but he any meaning to you in a sig-
Pressly, 26, was an anchor door. She leaned toward the smearing feces on a wall. noted that siblings and other nificant way, you do not have on KATV’s “Daybreak” pro-defense attorneys and said, Burnett said she threw Vance family members have led suc-to kill him,” Streett said. 

Friday, November 13, 2009 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Miracle dog to be euthanized 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Oreo was called a miracle dog when she was thrown off the roof of a six-story Brooklyn building this summer and survived. 
But nearly four months later, the 1-year-old brown-and-white pit bull mix growled and lunged at people gathered in a play­room to see her, then turned and lunged at a female handler who had pulled back furiously on the 62-pound dog’s heavy leash. 
After months of working to rehabilitate Oreo, the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals said it had determined she is too danger­ous to ever be placed in a home or even to live among other dogs. 
The organization said it plans to euthanize her Friday. 
“Everything we’ve tried to do for her has not worked,” said Ed Sayres, the president and CEO of ASPCA. “And she has gotten more aggressive.” 
Sayres, a longtime proponent of “no-kill” shelters, said it’s rare for the organization to euthanize an animal. He said 94 percent of the nearly 4,000 ani­mals the organization takes in each year are placed in adop­tive homes and the rest are euthanized because of medical or behavioral reasons. 
“The measure of our success around here is lives saved,” he said. 

Indeed, it was anybody’s guess whether Oreo could be saved when she arrived at the ASPCA’s Bergh Memorial Animal Hospital. 
The organization said it received a complaint on June 18 that a dog had been beaten on the third floor of a housing proj­ect on West Ninth Street in Brooklyn, and then a second call saying that the same dog had been thrown from a roof. She was found with two broken legs and a fractured rib. 
Fabian Henderson, a 19-year­old who lived at the complex in the borough’s Red Hook section, was arrested in July on felony charges, according to the ASPCA. 
He pleaded guilty Oct. 20 to aggravated cruelty to animals and was released on his own recognizance pending sentenc­ing on Dec. 1, court records show. 
There was no phone listing for Henderson at the Brooklyn building. His lawyer could not immediately be reached for comment. 
After Oreo was brought to the ASPCA, surgeons reassembled the dog’s front legs and she recuperated well enough to walk. But during a behavioral evaluation in July, she began to display aggression “with little provocation and little warning." 

Fort Hood suspect charged 
Associated Press 
FORT HOOD — An Army psychiatrist was charged with 13 counts of premeditat­ed murder in the Fort Hood massacre as he lay in a hos­pital bed Thursday, while President Barack Obama ordered a review to deter­mine if the government fum­bled warning signs of the man’s contacts with a radical Islamic cleric. 
Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan could face the death penalty if convicted. 
Army officials said they believe Hasan acted alone when he jumped on a table with two handguns last week, shouted “Allahu akbar” and opened fire. The dead includ­ed at least three other men­tal health professionals; 29 were injured. 
Additional charges were possible, said Chris Grey, spokesman for the Army Criminal Investigation Command. It had not been decided whether to charge Hasan with the death of the unborn child of a pregnant soldier who died, officials told The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak about the case publicly. 
Meanwhile, Obama ordered a review of all intelligence related to Hasan to deter­mine whether it was properly shared and acted upon with­in the government. John Brennan, assistant to the president for homeland secu­rity and counterterrorism, will oversee the review. The first results are due Nov. 30. Obama also ordered the preservation of the intelli­gence. 
Members of Congress are pressing for a full investiga­tion into why Hasan was not detected and stopped. A Senate hearing on Hasan is scheduled for next week. 
Rep. Peter Hoekstra, the top Republican on the House Intelligence Committee, and others have called for a full examination of what agencies knew about Hasan’s contacts with a radical imam and oth­ers of concern to the U.S., 
and what they did with the information. Hoekstra con­firmed this week that the 
U.S. 
government knew of about 10 to 20 e-mails between Hasan and a radical imam, beginning in December 2008. 

A joint terrorism task force overseen by the FBI learned late last year of Hasan’s repeated contact with a radi­cal Muslim cleric who encouraged Muslims to kill 

U.S. 
troops in Iraq. The FBI said the task force did not refer early information about Hasan to superiors because it concluded he wasn’t linked to terrorism. 


Hasan was charged in the hospital without his lawyers present, said John Galligan, his civilian attorney. 
“What I find disturbing is that my client is in ICU, and he’s 150 miles south of his defense counsel, and he’s being served with the charges, ” he told The Associated Press. “Given his status as a patient, I’m trou­bled by this procedure and that I’m not there. I’m in the dark, and that shouldn’t be the case. I am mad.” 
Months before the shoot­ings, doctors and staff over­seeing Hasan ’s training reported viewing him at times as belligerent, defen­sive and argumentative in his frequent discussions of his Muslim faith, according to a military official familiar with several group discussions about Hasan. The official was not authorized to speak pub­licly about the meetings and spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Hasan was characterized as a mediocre student and lazy worker, which concerned the doctors and staff at Walter Reed Army Medical Center and the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, a military medical school in Bethesda, Md., the official said. 
Even outside the military, Hasan’s behavior drew atten­tion. Golam Akhter, a civil engineer from Bethesda, Md., said Thursday that he had spoken with Hasan about 10 times at the Muslim Community Center in Silver Spring before Hasan left for Texas last summer. 
“He used to not believe that 9/11 was solely the work of Middle East people,” Akhter said. “His main thing was, ‘America is killing Muslims in the Middle East.’ That made him very, very upset.” 
Akhter said he sensed that Hasan was “a troubled man” and feels guilty for not alert­ing others. 
“I tried to convince him to try to be a moderate Muslim,” Akhter said. 
Hasan repeatedly referred to his strong religious views in discussions with class ­mates at Walter Reed, his superiors and even in his research work, the military official said. His behavior, while at times perceived as intense and combative, was not unlike the zeal of others with strong religious views. 
But some doctors and staff were concerned that their unfamiliarity with the Muslim faith would lead them to unfairly single out Hasan’s behavior, the official said. 
Some questioned Hasan’s sympathies as an Army psy­chiatrist, whether he would be more aligned with Muslims fighting U.S. troops. There also was some concern about whether he should continue to serve in the mili­tary, the official said. 
But they saw no signs of mental problems, no risk fac­tors that would predict vio­lent behavior. And the group discussed other factors that suggested Hasan would con­tinue to thrive in the military, factors that mitigated their concerns, the official said. 
Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Thursday he was appalled at news leaks about the investigation into last week’s deadly shootings at Fort Hood. 
“Frankly if I found out with high confidence anybody who ’s leaking on the Department of Defense, who that was, that would proba­bly be a career-ender,” he told reporters traveling with 
h i m  t o  O s h k o s h ,  W i s .  
“ E v e r y b o d y o u g h t  t o  s h u t  
up.”  



Coast feels remnants of Ida 
Associated Press 
NORFOLK — A drenching, wind-driven rain lashed much of the Atlantic seaboard Thursday, flooding streets, closing schools, roads and bridges and causing at least five deaths. 
The torrential rains and winds gusting more than 30 mph were the work of late-season Tropical Storm Ida, which quickly weak­ened once it made landfall on the 
U.S. Gulf Coast on Tuesday but still soaked a swath of the Southeast. 
Virginia Gov. Timothy Kaine declared a state of emergency and officials urged people in some areas to stay home. Rain and resulting floods were predicted to continue at least through Friday, especially along the state’s south­eastern coast and particularly in Norfolk, a coastal city of a quarter-million people. 
Officials in this city on Chesapeake Bay were watching the incoming tide closely, as winds pushed water inland and threat­ened to cause more flooding late Thursday or early Friday. Heeding Kaine’s advice, many residents weathered the storm at home. Many roads were inches or feet under water. 
“It’s miserable but no life or limb in danger,” said Bob Batcher, a spokesman for Norfolk’s emer­gency services. 
About 70 people showed up at three shelters opened for the storm. 
Some hardy residents ventured out in the stinging rain, leaning into gusting winds as they walked. The few restaurants that were open were empty or, like Granby Street Pizza, busy with takeout. 
“We do very well in the rain. We do a lot of deliveries,” said owner Peter Freda as hot pies were stacked on the counter for deliv­ery. 
A few blocks down abandoned Granby Street, normally a busy stretch of bars and restaurants, Glenn Goodman, 48, found a sports bar that appeared to be open, only to have a server lock up as he reached for the door. The city resident eats out each night, and this was his third or fourth stop. 
“If you know what roads to take, it’s not that bad. You just don’t try to drive through big puddles,” he said. 
Three motorists died in weath­er-related crashes in central and eastern Virginia, said Corrine Geller, state police spokeswoman. In New York City, a 36-year-old man surfing at a beach died after getting caught in pounding surf churned up by the storm. In North Carolina, an elderly man standing in his yard was killed when a pine tree was snapped off by strong winds and fell on him, the fire department said. Some motorists in Virginia were rescued from their cars after getting stuck in high water. Flooding closed sever­al area streets, bridges and a major tunnel as winds worsened high tides that were already 6 to 7 feet above normal in the state. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 10 Friday, November 13, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
The Independent, Daily Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
Is Notre Dame’s cutting edge 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Madeline Buckley Laura Myers Molly Madden Meaghan Veselik Megan Doyle Allan Joseph Graphics Andrew Owens Jaclyn Espinoza Viewpoint Scene Michelle Maitz Adriana Pratt 
breaking the bubble? 
said that college campuses are on the cutting 
As far as movies go, Notre Dame seems to have a edge, and are great for predicting the next big comparable quality of taste as any other campus. thing. Frequently, publicists will try to gauge the Though maybe we specialize in Irish gangster success of their product by testing it on universi-movies — whoever decided to screen “Boondock ty campuses. College students’ tastes tend to set Saints II” at Notre Dame couldn’t have picked a the taste of wider demographics, and that’s more receptive audience, considering students exactly what happened Notre Dame over the have the poster in nearly every dorm room and 
In the last week alone, Notre Dame has had three sneak movie premieres. First, Universal’s “The Fourth Kind,” next, the Bengal Bouts brainchild “Strong Bodies Fight,” and most recently, a screening of the limitedly released “Boondock Saints II: All Saints Day.” This type of media attention on cam­pus is unprecedented until recently. 
In a recent interview with The Observer, the executive director of mtvU (the MTV University branch), 
the average Notre Dame student knows about two rap songs 
— “I’m on a Boat” and “Get Low.” One of those songs was popular more than five years ago and the other isn’t even a real rap song. 
When it comes to fashion, the Fighting Irish might want to avoid taking credit for starting the Ugg boot, North Face combo trend. Otherwise, not too much can be said of the 
Notre Dame as a birth place for style stardom. 
course of the last week and the many movie screenings. 
So why hasn’t Notre Dame seen attention from publicists earlier? Have we not been on the cutting edge? Or has media simply overlooked Notre Dame instead being distracted by state universities with Greek systems? 
The best test may be an examination of what trends owe credit to Notre Dame’s students. What did we know before anyone else did? Clearly things like jigging or odd social ritu­als like those of Frosh-O are so specific to Notre Dame cam­pus culture that it’s unlikely to spread past Notre Dame Ave. But then again, many acts that come to Legend’s either are at the very upswing of their career trajectories. Sara Bareilles, Plain White T’s, Gavin DeGraw and Matt and Kim all came to Notre Dame’s resident night club recently. 
Months later they all gained national acclaim and in some cases radio play if not huge popularity in indie circles. While Notre Dame may be ahead of the game when it comes to indie pop-rock, it’s unlikely that our student body will have too much of an effect on areas of the music industry. Let’s face it, the theme music plays during pregame tailgates. 
It’s likely that publicists for national media outlets will con­tinue to have their eyes on Notre Dame, particularly when it comes to our strengths and assets in film and some musical genres. This no doubt has great perks for Notre Dame’s undergrads. With the carrot of “free” hanging in front of us, few college students can resist sampling new music or movies. And with our campus culture so firmly set in its ways, it’s unlikely that the undergraduate scene will be commercial­ized any more than it already is. So it seems safe to say there will be more cutting edge cultural trends being ushered into our happy bubble. And while many students strive to reach out of the bubble to stay ahead of the curve in fashion, film, art and music, it’s unlikely that there are enough of them to put the entire campus at the height of hip. While Notre Dame’s has had a little taste of what it’s like to be on the cut­ting edge, it seem that our efforts are a bit too dull to truly break the bubble or have any marked consequence on cam­pus culture. 
A Notre Dame short story 
Part 8 by Rosemary Kelly forward, intrigued, fearful, and met the had been eliminated by the councilman. 
Frederick gasped aloud and then stifled water with the edge of his bare toe. They were soon at the base of the his reaction quickly. He could see the Nothing, and yet ... without warning he mountain, where Frederick knew he must mountain clearly, but it was imperative was totally consumed by a fierce joy, a gain possession of the Stone. Just before this councilman remain unaware, that he raging passion for life. He desired to his climb, the Undesirable warned him of did not discover his secret. For, Frederick plunge directly into the river, to express the great beast within. As he climbed, had seen the Other World. He had spoken his rapture, to expend himself completely Frederick remembered everything. He to an Undesirable, and was now con-without cause. Frederick raised his arms, knew what he had to do: he had to con­vinced that his entire Mieux Training had poised to vault from the bank, but sud-quer the great beast, ManBearPig, and been based in untruths. The council had denly out of the brush behind burst the take the stone far away from the council-hidden this from all of them, and it was councilman with a contingent of soldiers. man. The survival of Imaginationland, still hiding things … “Seize the boy!” the man yelled. “He has Notre Dame and Al Gore depended on it! 
The man suddenly spoke. “Why don’t Disobeyed!” Frederick dived. we stop for the night, lad? Right, then I’ll Want to write the next paragraph to gather some kindle and you get the Part 9 by Douglas Schuda the story? Submit your paragraph to water.” He left the clearing quickly, his Bewildered and exhausted, Frederick NDLFshortstory@gmail.com before 4 jacket flapping behind him. washed ashore. To his astonishment, he p.m. Limit of 200 words. Title it Part 
After a minute Frederick tore his gaze found himself at the feet of the Eight. This story will continue until Nov. from the heavenly peak and wandered Undesirable he had met so long ago, 16. If your paragraph is selected, it will from the clearing, following the sounds of whose kind eyes now burned with fear. be published in Viewpoint and you will water nearby. A river suddenly opened “Come, Frederick! We must go! We’re get to read it at the NDLF panel discus-itself up before him and he sat on the running out of time!” As he ran, sion Nov. 19. The visiting authors will bank, tossing stones into the water while Frederick soon found that the river had write the ending paragraphs. Take he mused. He didn't noticed anything mysteriously given him a renewed vigor, advantage of the opportunity to write a strange until a small clattering sound and as he bounded after the Undesirable, story along with three New York Times drew his attention downward, and he saw he learned that his déjà vu had not mere-bestselling authors. the very stone that he had thrown ly been fantasy … Nov. 17: Frank Delaney 7 p.m. Coleman moments before suddenly sitting again at The Undesirable proclaimed that Morse Student Lounge. Author of his feet. Confused, he held it in his palm. Frederick was in the mythical region bestselling novel “Ireland.” It was indeed the same stone. Hurriedly, known as Imaginationland, and it was in Nov. 18: Tom Coyne 9 p.m. Eck Visitor’s he rose, just as a second stone was grave peril! The walls he broke through Center Auditorium. Author of bestselling deposited gently near him. Another fol-must have been its sacred gate! Frederick novel “A Course Called Ireland: A Long lowed, then another. He looked out over learned of the Stone of Imaginationing, Walk in Search of a Country, a Pint, and the water and was shocked to see the and how the councilman planned to use it the Next Tee.” stones he had tossed reappearing on the to invade Notre Dame through the secret Nov. 19: Emily Giffin 7p.m. Geddes Hall water and being borne back towards him. tunnels. Aragorn McCloud was not merely Andrew Auditorium. Author of bestselling What was happening? The river looked a dream: he was the only Creator to enter novels “Something Borrowed” and normal; did he dare touch it? He crept Imaginationland before Frederick, and he “Something Blue.” 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A man cannot be comfortable without his own approval.” 
Mark Twain 
U.S. author 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Friday, November 13, 2009 page 11 
Dr. Solomon’s hopes for Notre Dame 

In this column, “The Notre Dame They Know,” I will interview individuals who have been influenced by the University of Notre Dame. 
I will seek to discover the unique role that Notre Dame has played in their life and vocational journey. 
It is hoped that this column will inculcate a deeper, more honest and more profound love for Our Lady and Her University. 
The lead-gray sky hangs heavy over the Golden Dome on an autumn afternoon as students, bundled up against the creeping cold, scurry across campus to class. Passing north of the Hesburgh Library and turn-Thomas Bounds ing left, one stands at the foot of the window-clad The Notre Dame brown brick behe-They Know moth of Flanner Hall 
Ten floors up in an office adorned with pictures of Popes, politicians and philoso­phers, Professor David Solomon, a jovial man in sport coat and tie with dark pep­pered hair combed atop a round face, reclines in a black chair. With arms pulled back, fingers laced behind his head, Solomon, seated beneath an icon of the Madonna and Child, begins his story. 
“I was born into a southern Baptist fami­ly and was educated at Baylor, the great Baptist University. I came here in 1968 … I was the third non-Catholic ever hired in the Notre Dame Philosophy department. 
“As a young man trying to be an intellec­tual, I was — like any Protestant — amazed at what the Catholic intellectual and artistic tradition had to offer … Beethoven, Mozart, Dante … virtually every bit of English liter­ature that I loved was inspired by Catholic ideas … I was astounded from the very beginning that Catholics were so resistant to their own tradition. At the same, I loved the intellectual seriousness of the University… it was exciting. 
“Over time, I became worried about the direction in which Notre Dame was mov­ing, especially in hiring and in faculty com­position. I thought Notre Dame’s destiny should be as a distinctive University … the best University of its kind, and I was struck by Notre Dame’s tendency to follow the models of other Universities that had other reasons for existing. 
“By the time I was mid-way through my career here, the majority of the philosophy faculty was non-Catholic, and, even among the Catholics, there were very few whose philosophical interests were formed by the Catholic Intellectual Tradition.” 
Discouraged by these trends, Solomon worked to reinvigorate Catholic culture on campus, serving as director of Undergraduate Studies in Philosophy and founding director of the Arts & Sciences (Glynn Family) Honors Program. After these efforts, Solomon founded the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture. 
“We are unique among most ethics cen­ters in that we operate out of the Catholic Intellectual Tradition. I think we’ve had an impact on campus. We’re hosting our 10th fall conference next week (Nov. 11-13) … and it has received an enormous amount of interest on campus and beyond.” 
Solomon shared his thoughts on several of the influential figures in Notre Dame’s recent history. 
“Fr. Hesburgh has been the most impor­tant person for Notre Dame in the last half-century. He was a great public figure, and had a very expansive vision of Notre Dame … He famously stated that ‘He wanted Notre Dame to be a great Catholic universi­ty, but you can’t be a great Catholic univer­sity until you become a great university.’ And he signaled at that time giving priority to moving up in the ranks according to sec­ular criteria. I think the question is whether he unleashed forces that are going to undermine Catholic character. 
“Ralph McInerny represents the very best of the neo-Thomist tradition that formed the framework for Notre Dame Philosophy … He wrote a paper a few years ago called “The Road not Taken,” which argued that Notre Dame had had an opportunity to reinvigorate this rich Catholic tradition, but instead turned away from it … McInerny has been a voice in the wilderness … I hope he’ll be around for awhile. 
“Alasdair MacIntyre is the leading Catholic philosopher in the world … His work “After Virtue” is the most important work in moral philosophy in the last half of the twentieth century. His most recent book “God, Philosophy, Universities” is a vision of what a Catholic University should be, and I think it is a stinging indictment of what Notre Dame has become … The thesis of the book is that it is impossible to be both a Catholic University and a modern research University as it is conceived. 
“Fr. Jenkins was a student of mine … We have been close friends for many years. I had great hopes for his presidency and his Inaugural Address was stupendous. I’ve been somewhat disappointed in what’s happened to Notre Dame during his first term … I had deep disagreements with him both about his treatment of “The Vagina Monologues” and his invitation to the presi­dent, but I still have high hopes. Among other things, he has the potential to be the finest scholar Notre Dame has ever had as president.” 
Asked about his greatest concerns and hopes for Notre Dame, Solomon observes, “I think the University has been remark­able for the lack of real discussion about the substantive goals we are trying to achieve educationally. As an institution, we have settled for clichés about excellence and the like, which are constantly being preeminent without any content. We do not have a unifying vision, or a forum in which this can be discussed. 
“I am most hopeful about the students who, in spite of the mistakes we’ve made, have improved enormously. There’re signs that the culture is so shallow and empty that some of the brightest and most talent­ed young people are turning to more tradi­tional models for their lives and for belief. It makes it possible to imagine we may be able to reinvigorate some of these more classical conceptions of the world and of human life that animated the tradition that founded this university.” 
In conclusion, Solomon observes, “Notre Dame is the only university that has an opportunity to be both a great university and to carry on the best parts of the Catholic Intellectual Tradition. How can you not love the University, giving every­thing that it stands for?” 
Tom is senior majoring in Math and Philosophy. He can be contacted at tbounds@nd.edu 
Professor Solomon is W.P. and H.B. White Director of the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture and an Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University of Notre Dame. He recommends that you read “God, Philosophy, Universities” by Alasdair MacIntyre. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Notre Dame spirit 
As a member of the Class of 1989, I was able to wit­ness the transformation of a football program under the leadership of Lou Holtz. The intensity and end­less work ethic of my classmates was instilled by a man who simply knew how to motivate young men and guide them to achieve their ultimate potential. After six straight years in the national championship hunt (‘88, ‘93), Notre Dame has not been able to regain its consistent championship swagger. It was a shame when Lou was forced to leave the University he cared for so deeply, and it has been amazing observing the University’s misguided judgment in efforts to replace him. 
Whatever decisions are ultimately made about Charlie Weis, we need to support the young men who enrolled at Notre Dame to be champions. The cur­rent group of players is the most talented roster to play at Notre Dame during the past decade, and they exude the Notre Dame spirit with their heart and competitiveness. I have confidence in them and I will cheer mightily for their success as this season comes to a close. 
The University of Notre Dame is exemplified by the character and social contributions of its students, alumni, educators and administrators. Notre Dame continues to be a place that I think of as home and its spirituality resonates with all who visit her. However, the Notre Dame Spirit shines a bit brighter when our football team represents her in a winning tradition. To the football team: Believe and go beat up on Pitt this Saturday! 
David DeVoe 
alumnus 
Class of ‘89 
Nov. 12 


Party in the P.R.T. 
Recently I took a page out of the playbook of some of my former Spanish teachers by using pop music in an attempt to have a fun activity while teaching my stu­dents English. Without giving two thoughts to the apa­thy that the 16-year-old version of myself had towards listening to Juanes hits like “A Dios le Pido” and “Es Por Ti,” I quickly began the process of making hand­outs of lyrics with blanks that my students would fill in with words such as “somewhere,” “run,” “prince,” “princess,” and “story” as I played the song on my laptop. 
Last week, I played Taylor Swift’s “Love Story” in each of the four English classes I teach here in China. The students started off not being able to fill in many blanks, but usually by the third or fourth time through the song the blanks were filled with words that were at least close to being correct (although every student strangely thought that “summer air” was “some air”). After going over the answers and writing the words on the board, some of the students even started to quietly sing along as if they were at a party in a girl’s dorm. 
Over the course of three days I heard the lyrics to “Love Story” more times than Grant Schmidt has heard complaints about the lack of benches at Main Circle. Wondering if this was actually a worthwhile education­al activity (while knowing that the benches are a com­plete waste of money), I asked my oldest students if they could tell me what the song was actually about. In an attempt to explain a critical line I knelt to the ground and pretended to pull out a ring (something I hopefully won’t do until I am at least 35 years old) and I came to a sudden and unexpected realization: Taylor Swift has no idea what she is talking about. 
I’m sure she didn’t anticipate her song being used in elaborate marriage proposals by Notre Dame Students, but my problem with “Love Story” is that Ms. Swift can’t possibly know enough about wedding proposals to write a song that has one as its climactic key change. Shouldn’t we demand at least a smidgen of sincerity from the artists and songs that we listen to while getting drunk at The Backer, Finny’s or the base­ment of a hostel in Xi’An? 
I actually believe that John Denver thinks something about West Virginia is almost heaven and that Garth Brooks actually could have spent last night in the arms of a girl in Louisiana. I think Asher Roth really loves college and that the Black Eyed Peas feel that tonight is going to be a good night. I even think that Miley Cyrus puts her hands up when they play her song and the butterflies fly away, but I do question whether or not Journey stopped believing when Steve Perry left the band. 

Anyways, despite the widely held belief that this has been a great week for Ms. Swift with her excellent job hosting SNL (not that I actually watched) and her apparently historic wins at some sort of Kanye West-less awards show, I can’t help but think that her suc­cess has been built on a throne of lies. Of course she is a beautifully talented singer, but winning awards for songs that aren’t truthful is like winning football games with a collection of JUCO talent. These are just things that the Notre Dame community should never endorse. 
Because of this, I believe that we should think twice about purchasing Ms. Swift’s music (even though I per­sonally possess both of her albums) and we should continue to look towards her close friend (at least in the world of “Hannah Montana: The Movie”) Miley Cyrus to create honest drinking songs that we can cherish. 
“Party in the USA” is one such song. Not only does Ms. Cyrus sing about how nervous she was when she got to L.A., but she also made it clear that she sees Britney Spears as somebody to look up to. This might be troubling to my aunt whose young daughters have both Miley Cyrus and Hannah Montana dolls, but it excites me greatly knowing how many ridiculous US Weekly stories are ahead in the life of my favorite 16­year-old singer that has her own Fathead. 
The irony in all this, if we have learned anything from Ms. Spears, is that by the time Ms. Cyrus (and Ms. Swift as well) actually reach the age when they can legally hear the DJ drop their favorite tunes at a bar like Finny’s or The Backer they will probably have spi­raled off the deep end of their careers with drug addic­tions, bizarre marriages, custody battles, and shaved heads. 
So I guess all I’m saying is let’s enjoy them while we can. 
Bob Kessler is a 2009 graduate currently teaching English in China. He writes Things Notre Dame Students Like, and you can read more of his work including his thoughts on Jon Gruden at http://www.the17thgrade.com 
He can be contacted at bob020787@gmail.com The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 
Scene

page 12 Friday, November 13, 2009 

Courtney Eckerle: How did this idea for a documen tary start? 
Gita Pullapilly: I met [director] Aron Gaudet while I was working in news, and this was before I knew that anyone could just pick up a piece of equipment. We thought a documentary was our best option, coming from a news background. He took me home in December of 2004 to meet his mom, and we were looking and looking for sto ries and couldn’t find any thing. Aron’s mother was going out to greet troops at three in the morning, and we went with her. It was the first time I met WWII veteran Bill Knight. He had been diag nosed with prostate cancer that day, and he was still at the airport greeting troops. Aron and I looked at each other and said, “Yes, this is going to be a good story.” We realized the challenges, but five years later ... here we are.” 
CE: Why are these three charac ters so compelling? 

GP: They were so open and honest, right from the very start. If they were happy, sad, if something was happen ing, you would go on this journey with them. We wanted that tone. If something was happening in their lives we wanted to go on that journey with them. When you watch the film, you are discovering things as we are. 
CE: What significance does the title have? GP: When we were making this film the title was the most important to us, because we knew it would either 

“The Way We Get By” is a documentary directed by Aron Gaudet, a Notre Dame alumnus. The film gives a close up view of the lives of three senior citi zens who have dedicated their time to showing appreciation and support for the American armed forces. These three volunteers, along with many others, are on call around the clock to show up at the airport in Bangor, Maine to greet troops return ing from service in Iraq or Afghanistan. Fittingly, the film debuted on Veterans Day on the PBS series “Point of View.” 
Although it falls into the documen tary genre, “The Way We Get By” is filled with extraordinary pathos, packing a dramatic punch that most fictional movies can only hope for. Instead of pushing a political agenda, the film focuses its attention on the everyday struggles and triumphs of three troop greeters named Bill, Jerry and Joan. 
Joan Gaudet, mother of director Aron Gaudet, pro vided Aron with the ini tial inspira tion to make the film. At age 75 and appeal to people or it wouldn’t. It’s about everyday life. “The Way We Get By” is really about ... the way we all get by. The way we overcome difficult obstacles in our life. We see it as a very universal film. People who watch it have a very deep, personal connection with all three of our subjects. So they come out of theater inspired to do something for their community. 


CE: You majored in finance at Notre Dame how did you find your way into filmmak ing? 
GP: I graduated with a finance degree, and my first job was financial analyst for General Mills. I quickly real ized I did not want to work in the corporate world. I was looking for other opportunities, and I had done some work for The 
Observer and The South Bend Tribune in school. I went to grad school at Northwestern and did jour nalism there. I loved the sto rytelling aspect, and I loved the avenues video had. It’s compelling to see how the visuals could tell a story, and that’s how I got into televi 
sion news my first job was in Green Bay with a CBS station. 
I love being able to tell stories, but when you’re in a newsroom your stories are really short so you really can’t get to the heart of the story. 
CE: How important is the idea of growing older in this film? 
GP: One thing we realized about this film is senior citi zens are pushed aside in our society. They have so many skills and talents, and they’re just forgotten. We think that because they are past a certain age they have lost their purpose, but in fact they have more purpose than 
with eight grown children, Joan continues to spread her maternal love to the soldiers who defend our country every day. She sleeps in a chair by the phone and sometimes is called to the airport at 3 
a.m. to give a warm smile to the soldiers as they step off the plane. Over the course of the film, though, Joan must also reconcile her duty with her fear for the lives of two of her grandchildren who are going to serve in Iraq. 
Jerry Mundy is a congenial 73 year old ex Marine who lives alone with his dog, Mr. Flannigan. When the troops arrive at the airport, Jerry jokes with them and offers them cell phones so they can call their friends and families. He feels joy along with the soldiers as they come back into their familiar country, but he also must face loneliness and unexpl ained heart prob lems. 
The most moving story is 
that of Bill Knight, an 86 year old WWII 
veter most of us. There are people who have had amazing careers and are still waiting to share their stories and wisdom. 
CE: What are some of the ideas you hope people come away with after seeing the film? 
GP: I think the film affects people in a lot of different ways because there are layers supporting the troops and seeing that seniors have a purpose in their lives. Anyone can do anything in a short amount of time and have a huge impact. The story takes place in Bangor, Maine. It is seeing how in this small community, people aren’t worrying about the politics and are seeing that these humans beings are sent off with respect and come home with respect. 
CE: What shape does the “hero” take in this film? 
GP: A lot of it is showing that ordinary people can do such ordinary things and have a huge impact on people. Our tag line is: “Sometimes all it takes is a handshake to change a life.” And we really believe that. You don’t have to be a superhero to do that. You can be an ordinary 87 year old WWII veteran and know that you’re doing something to change someone’s life every day, and dedi cated to something. Bill [cast member William Knight] struggles with finding purpose in his life. He finds this purpose and realizes that he is helping them do some thing, and making a difference. For Bill, this film has come full circle for him and he realizes that he does have meaning in his life, he does have a purpose. In all the theaters we’ve been to where he comes, he gets a standing ovation. 
CE: What makes this film so special? 
GP: At the heart of it, it’s all about that human connec tion. We all know what it’s like when we’re coming home and someone’s waiting there, and we all know what it’s like when you come back and no one is waiting there. Multiply that with a life and death situation, like heading off to war, or coming back after being in a war zone for the first time or even the sixth time. 

an. Bill knows he is getting too old to take care of himself. His house is a cluttered mess with cats run ning around all over the place, and he can barely make ends meet to pay his heating bill. He has also just found out that he has prostate cancer. Despite 
or perhaps because of all of this, Bill shows up at the airport for every flight to tell the arriving or departing troops how much they mean to their country. 
“The Way We Get By” is a grippingly real, human film. It approaches the great abyss and does not back down but instead stares straight into it, searching for a bottom. As one would expect from a documentary about war and old age, death always seems to be just around the corner. But in the midst of all the darkness, the people in the film find new reason to live. As Bill puts it in the movie, “My life don’t mean a helluva lot to me, but if I can make it mean something to somebody else … that’s my endeavor.” Both the seniors and the soldiers find meaning in self giving service to others. To see how these two often forgotten groups of society lean on each other is incredibly moving and inspirational. 
“The Way We Get By” has already won numerous awards, including the SXSW Film Festival’s Special Jury Award for 2009. To find more information on the film or watch the trailer, visit http://www.the waywegetbymovie.com 
Additionally, the makers of the movie have creat ed a new, interactive Web site called “Returning Home” where anybody can post photos, videos, audio or written content showing support for U.S. troops. Please do not hesitate to visit the site (http://www.returninghomeproject.org) and show your appreciation for those who work to keep our country safe. 



JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene

Friday, November 13, 2009 page 13 


If you could write a letter to your younger self, what age would you pick, and what would you say? It was by asking this question that Ellyn Spragins published her two New York Times bestsellers, books composed of a collection of highly inspirational and touching letters written by today’s most successful, respected women, advising and motivating their younger selves to get through whatever difficulty or challenges they would face. 
The thought first came to Spragins when she realized that countless times she wished she could just ask her mom, “What would you do?” Joyce Spragins, her mother, passed away 20 years ago in an airplane crash. She was 60, and Ellyn 32. Twenty years have gone by and like any child who loses their mother, Ellyn wished she could still talk to her, ask her for advice and learn from the many things her mother still had to teach her about life. 
In an extraordinary move, Spragins managed to reverse a tragic situation and turn it into something positive. Determined not to waste this desire to learn from someone who had still so much to teach, Spragins decided to seek this knowledge elsewhere. The results are two beau tiful books that relate intimate details of the lives of some of today’s most successful women and what they would tell their younger selves from the future, which turned out to be not so bad after all. 
The structure is the same: For each woman interviewed there is first a brief summary of their meeting and details of the woman’s life and achievements. A letter the guest writes to her younger self is also included. 
In both books the first half, though very com prehensive and an essential prelude to the letter, is generally poorly written. In many cases, this introduction could have presented the women in a more refined light and added a level of sophis tication to the read. 
The actual letters in the second half of the book are generally incredibly inspiring and espe cially intimate. Though aimed at different age groups, the letters in “What I Know Now: Letters To My Younger Self” and “If I’d Known Then” are both very personal and very applicable to just about anyone it’s advice given by successful people to people looking for the path towards success, all with the loving touch of many people from different backgrounds and with different interests, who went through similar situations and came out stronger on the other side. 
If anything, the books will leave you thinking about your life and how some of these women went through what you may be going through now and what they would tell you, given the challenges you may be facing. 
Some letters are in fact more insightful and helpful than others, and some are quite superfi cial, a rather disappointing factor. PETA founder Ingrid Newkirk’s and actress Jessica Alba’s let ters are, for instance, especially upsetting. Instead of discussing the challenges they faced and providing helpful insight into why to do something or comfort about something particu larly difficult, some letters are just empty state ments that, instead of being comforting, are shallow and probably not very helpful to a young girl in a similar situation. 
In some cases, Spragins could have done a bet ter job at guiding the women in how to write their letters, or in editing them out. Yet, those cases are the minorities, unfortunate mishaps in a book created from a spectacular idea, filled with incredible words of wisdom written by incredible women. 
Though not particularly mind boggling or a masterpiece of literature, both books are delight ful, easy to read and very heart warming. “What I know Now: Letters to My Younger Self” and “If I’d Known Then” are worthwhile and important reads for women of any age. 



“Tea and coffee, such bitter little drinks …” This is one memorable line taken from Elizabeth Kuti’s “The Sugar Wife,” which is currently playing at DeBartolo Performing Arts Center’s Decio Mainstage Theatre. 
Kuti was born in England in 1969 but moved to Ireland in 1993 where she studied at Trinity College Dublin and wrote a doctoral thesis on 18th century women playwrights. After she graduated, she worked in Dublin as an actress and playwright. Her literary accomplishments include the 1999 completion of Frances Sheridan’s 18th century comedy “A Trip to Bath” (re-titled as “The Whisperers”) for the company Rough Magic, “Treehouses” published in 2000 and per­formed at the Peacock, Dublin. In 2005, she published “The Sugar Wife,” for which she won the 2006 Susan Smith Blackburn Prize, an award for English-language women playwrights. 
Set in Dublin’s Quaker culture in 1850, “The Sugar Wife” is a bittersweet examination of sexual politics and political morality. Margie Janiczek plays the lead role of Hannah, a well-to-do charitable Quaker woman who is often torn between her humanitarian work with the city’s poor and her successful husband Samuel, played by Bobby Hannum, and his business managing oriental teahouses. One of her many charitable efforts involves visiting the character of Martha, (portrayed by Ashley Fox), a pitiful, bitter and depressed sickly poor woman. Fox does a wonderful job of portraying her character in a way that shows all of her degrading qualities along with her sense of humor. 
Hannah constantly struggles with her desperate need to help others in doing charitable work for the society’s poor and after finding that she is unable to help every­one she wants, she ironically drags down herself and the people surrounding her with her despair. Samuel attempts to follow along with Hannah’s lofty ideals but it becomes more apparent throughout the course of the play that he tends to break away from Quaker customs. Janiczek and Hannum fill their roles well and make it clear to the audience that although their characters get along well on the surface, there is no real love between them. 
Things go further awry when they receive a visit from two new houseguests, a pretentious English philanthro­pist named Alfred (John Maltese) and a slave he bought and freed named Sarah (Stephanie Elise Newsome). Hannah’s willingness to take them in is meant to be reflective of her abolitionist and philanthropic efforts. Both characters are scarred by the horrors they’ve seen and experienced in America’s Deep South, and they relay these personal experiences to Hannah and Samuel. At this point, Hannah comes to realize the naïveté of her efforts, as the wealth that supports her abolitionist efforts also come from tea and sugar, prod­ucts of imperialism and globally dependent on the labor of enslaved Africans. 
Newsome and Maltese both deliver very convincing portrayals of their characters. Newsome interjects the beautifully yet horrifically convincing scenes with breathtaking monologues from the viewpoint of Sarah, who tells of her horrific experiences in slavery. The sto­ries she tells are enough to turn someone’s stomach, but Newsome tells them with a passion and clarity that draws the audience in to truly empathize with Sarah’s strong-willed character. Maltese also does well at por­traying the development of the relationship between the characters of Hannah and Alfred. 

Overall, the play is well-acted and has excellent light­ing and sound effects. The soundtrack to the play con­sists of a classical sounding Celtic mix with violins simi­lar in sound to those in the closing scenes of “Titanic.” If 1850s Dublin Quaker society is your thing, this is def­initely the play for you. Even if it’s not, Kuti makes the characters in “The Sugar Wife” very relatable to mod­ern society.  
“The Sugar Wife” will be playing Friday and Saturday evening at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday afternoon at 2:30 p.m. 


page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, November 13, 2009 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Three Vols frosh charged in robbery 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. — Three freshmen Tennessee football players, including highly touted wide receiver recruit Nu’Keese Richardson and starting safety Janzen Jackson, were charged with attempted armed robbery Thursday morning. 
Richardson, 18, and Jackson, 18, along with defensive back Mike Edwards, 18, and com­panion Marie Montmarquet, 22, were each charged with three counts of attempted armed robbery in connection with an incident at a gas sta­tion in an area known as “The Strip” at the edge of Tennessee’s campus. 
Richardson and Edwards were being held Thursday afternoon on bonds of $19,500, and Jackson was released on his own recognizance. 
“Mr. Jackson vehemently asserts his innocence, and we hope that this will become apparent in the next 24 to 48 hours,” Jackson’s attorney Don Bosch said in a statement. It was not immediately known if Richardson and Edwards had attorneys. 
The three players are the first arrested during the tenure of first-year coach Lane Kiffin, who on a Wednesday telecon­ference touted his team’s clean record. Kiffin’s predecessor, Phillip Fulmer, was often criti­cized for being too lax on a number of his players who had discipline problems. 
“At this time we are current­ly evaluating the circumstances surrounding an incident involv­ing Mike Edwards, Janzen Jackson and Nu’Keese Richardson,” athletic director Mike Hamilton said. “Any deci­sions or comments regarding their status will not be made until the evaluations are com­plete.” 
The three victims told police they were sitting in their parked vehicle just before 2 
a.m. Thursday at a gas station near Tennessee’s campus when two males dressed in hooded jackets, one brandishing a handgun, approached and demanded, “Give us everything you’ve got.” 
“The victims stated that they all presented their wallets to the suspects and showed them that they did not have money,” the police report said. “The victims stated that a third black male then approached and told the other two black males, “We’ve got to go.” 
The three suspects were seen leaving in a Toyota Prius, and police pulled over a vehicle matching the description near­by. Police spotted a pellet gun and hooded jackets and later found drug paraphernalia and a bag of what appeared to be marijuana. 
Police say Montmarquet told them the drug paraphernalia and substance belonged to her and she was charged with sim­ple possession. 
The victims identified Richardson and Edwards as the men who approached their vehicle. 
The incident happened at a gas station operated by Pilot, a company founded by former Tennessee football player and longtime booster Jim Haslam. Tennessee’s outdoor football practice field is named Haslam Field in his honor. 
Richardson, a highly touted recruit from Pahokee, Fla., originally committed to Florida but switched to Tennessee after being recruited by coach Lane Kiffin. Kiffin joked in a February recruiting celebra­tion that Florida coach Urban Meyer cheated in trying to keep Richardson as a Gator, earning Kiffin a reprimand from the Southeastern Conference. 
Richardson had told Kiffin recently he was frustrated with his lack of production but scored his first touchdown in a 56-28 win over Memphis on Saturday. He’s had six catches this season for 58 yards and served as a punt return spe­cialist. 
Edwards, a Cleveland, Ohio, native has played in eight games this season and regis­tered five tackles. 
Jackson, a Lake Charles, La., native, has started seven games this season, logging 33 tackles and a forced fumble. He was suspended for the Memphis game, a week after he was named SEC freshman of the week for a strong perform­ance against South Carolina. 
Neither Jackson nor Kiffin would say why he was sus­pended, but Jackson said after Wednesday afternoon’s prac­tice that losing playing time would discourage him from making poor decisions off the playing field. 
“It kind of felt like being injured and watching your team play ... it kind of had the same feeling, but to know it was my fault, so it kind of feels a little bit worse,” Jackson said. “It’s in the past now, and I’m back to work.” 
NHL 
Thrashers take down Rangers 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Ilya Kovalchuk had a goal and two assists in his first game back from a foot injury and Rich Peverley scored once and set up two goals in the Atlanta Thrashers’ 5-3 victo­ry over the New York Rangers on Thursday night. 
Atlanta got a big boost from Kovalchuk, who had missed six games and had been ruled out of this one as late as Wednesday. But the team captain got on the team flight, took part in Thursday morning’s skate, and was fine following pregame warmups. 
He helped set up Peverley’s power-play goal in the sec­ond period and then scored to put Atlanta back in front after the Rangers tied it a second time. 
Thrashers rookie Evander Kane, who was questionable because of a foot injury, felt well enough to play and chipped in with a goal and assist. Johan Hedberg stopped 33 shots while play­ing in his third straight for Atlanta, which won for the fourth time in six games. Colby Armstrong also scored, and Maxim Afinogenov sealed it with an empty-net­ter — off a pass from Kovalchuk — with under 13 seconds left. 
New York, missing injured captain Chris Drury (concus­sion) and fellow forward Brandon Dubinsky (broken hand), erased a one-goal hole in the first and another in the second when the Thrashers controlled play. But penalties again cost the Rangers, who returned home from a 1-2 Western Canada road trip and lost for the eighth time in 11 games (3­7-1) 
Artem Anisimov and Marian Gaborik erased one-goal deficits for the Rangers, and Henrik Lundqvist came back from a two-game absence (injured leg) to make 22 saves. Brian Boyle brought New York within 4-3 when he slammed in a rebound of Ales Kotalik’s shot 6:18 into the third. 
The Rangers couldn’t get even again in the final frame despite two power-play chances and a 18-5 shots advantage. Kotalik ripped a drive from the blue line that was deflected in front before hitting off the goal post with 
8:47 remaining. 
Atlanta dominated the sec­ond period, scoring three times on 12 shots and taking advantage of both power plays. The Thrashers played for the first time since Sunday. New York had been off since losing at Calgary on Saturday when Drury and Dubinsky were injured. 
After Gaborik got the Rangers into their second tie, Kovalchuk put Atlanta back in front 3-2 with 2:19 left in the second. Kovalchuk, who earlier in the period assisted on Peverley’s go-ahead, power-play goal, netted his 10th of the season as Boyle served a tripping penalty he disputed as he entered and left the box. 
Kovalchuk zipped a shot from the left circle that sailed over Lundqvist’s glove. Kane made it 4-2 just 25 sec­onds later with the fourth goal of his rookie season. 
Gaborik had lifted New York into a 2-2 tie with 4:32 remaining in the period, scoring his 13th goal in 17 games when his drive from the top of the circle beat Hedberg under his left arm and over his pad. The goal was set up when Atlanta’s Colby Armstrong was caught tripping Anisimov 34 seconds earlier. 
Armstrong got things going just 19 seconds into the game when he took a pass in the crease from Kane and directed it past Lundqvist. That broke a Thrashers string of seven straight goals scored by defensemen. Anisimov tied it 3:49 later when he got to a rebound of Gaborik’s shot and put the puck past Hedberg. 
Flyers 5, Senators 1 
Ray Emery admitted that it was a special night — and that he was relieved when it was over. 
Emery made 22 saves in his first start against his for­mer team, and Danny Briere scored two goals to help the Philadelphia Flyers beat the Ottawa Senators on Thursday night for their fifth straight victory. 
“These are fun ones to play. Definitely nerves are going,’’ Emery said. “It’s a little bit special, a different situation but it’s two good teams and a little personal story for myself. I’m just happy that we won.’’ 
Blair Betts, James Van Riemsdyk and Darroll Powe also scored for the Flyers. Jeff Carter, Kimmo Timonen, and Chris Pronger each added two assists. 
Mike Fisher scored for Ottawa. The Senators have lost two straight and four of their last six games. 
Emery was with Ottawa for five seasons (three as a regu­lar), but was cut loose after the 2007-08 season, the year after he led the Senators to the Stanley Cup finals. He played in Russia last season. 
“I’ve never really played on a bad team,’’ said Emery, 10­3-1 this season. “With this team I know we are going to get our goals and I just have to do my part and play solid.’’ 
Briere said that the Flyers realized that it would be a special night for Emery to face his former team for the first time. 
“Definitely we’re happy for him,’’ Briere said. “He’s been playing well and he’s been a great teammate for us so far this year.’’ 
Flyers coach John Stevens said that he senses that the team believes in their new goaltender. 
“I really think there is a fondness or affection, and when he gets in a situation like he did tonight, I think there’s a little more urgency in their play, Stevens said. 
“Everyone’s happy to see him (Emery) back in the league,’’ Senators captain Daniel Alfredsson said about his former teammate. “He played OK. We weren’t able to test him too much when we needed a couple of goals in the third period.’’ 
Ottawa’s Pascal Leclaire also stopped 22 shots. 
Betts, who signed as a free agent before the season and later missed seven games with a shoulder injury, scored his first goal to put Philadelphia ahead on a power play at 9:34 of the second period. He poked the puck into the net after a dump-in by Claude Giroux took a strange bounce off the boards. 
Ottawa tied it on a power play at 14:49 on Mike Fisher’s one-timer off a backhand, cross-ice pass from Alex Kovalev. 
Van Riemsdyk, who went into the game tied for the NHL rookie points lead, made it 2-1 on another power play at 16:23, scoring from inside the left circle. 
Briere increased the lead with a spectacular rebound goal at 6:56 of the third peri­od, batting Carter’s shot out of the air. Powe made it 4-1 with a wrist shot at 11:47, and Briere scored on a slap shot 1:52 later. 
Ottawa coach Cory Clouston said that he thought the Senators ‘’played very well’’ for the first 40 min­utes. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Furnished family home walk to ND. 3 bdrm home on 1 acre wooded lot. 4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 4bdrm/2ba. $2K/mo. Close to ND (1 block). $1250/mo. OF NATURE AND SERENITY. 9 not go it alone. Notre Dame has

WANTED TICKETS Spring semester. 574-968-7394. MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME. many resources in place to assist ——————————————— 574-276-2333. $1,200 FOR WEEKEND. CALL you. If you or someone you love Game weekends &amp; summer ——————————————— GEORGIA PEACH BED AND needs confidential support or assis-
Part time help needed at UP Mall. lake cottages available. 20 miles 5 bdrm, 2 bath home. 705 ND Ave. BREAKFAST @269-357-6979. tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at Must be good with kids and have north of ND. $2150/mo. Avail. June 2010. 1-17819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For clean driving record! Email resume Pat at 574-292-0824. more information, visit ND's website and days available to: northcoas-——————————————— 574-276-2333. at:http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu
PERSONAL 

trr@gmail.com 2 bdrm, 1.5 bath home, detached ——————————————— ——————————————— 
——————————————— garage, finished basement, hard-522 Napoleon Street: 1-2 student Considering Adoption? ND Alums wood floors, new appliances. 1334 Nice ktchn,bath,2bdrm,storage If you or someone you care about Hoping to Adopt. If you are an Corby St., $650/mo. Avail. now or Washer/dryer. 5 blks W. off ND Ave. has been sexually assaulted, we expectant mother searching for a
FOR RENT 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-for 10-11 school year. $580/mo+utl can help. For more information, visit family, please see our website at appt., no experience needed, cus-Notre Dame's website: http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro­tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835. andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES 574-309-6961. (219)629-5483 http://csap.nd.edu file.net. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232­0964. ——————————————— 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top $$. 574-251-1570 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Friday, November 13, 2009 
page 15 

NCAA Women’s Soccer NSCAA Division I Rankings 
team previous 
1 Stanford 1 2 Portland 2 3 UCLA 3 4 North Carolina 5 5 NOTRE DAME 4 6 Florida State 6 7 Boston College 7 8 South Carolina 15 9 Florida 8 10 Louisiana State 13 11 Santa Clara 14 12 Rutgers 12 13 Central Florida 19 14 Wake Forest 10 15 Ohio State 11 16 Penn State 22 17 Virginia Tech 19 18 Washington State 18 19 Maryland 16 20 Brigham Young 17 21 Southern California 21 22 Texas A&M 20 23 Dayton 24 24 Purdue 23 25 Marquette RV 
Division I Women’s Basketball Preseason AP Poll 
team  points  
1  Connecticut (40)  1000  
2  Stanford  951  
3  Ohio State  862  
4  NOTRE DAME  799  
5  North Carolina  798  
6  Duke  772  
7  Baylor  744  
8  Tenessee  676  
9  LSU  600  
10  Michigan State  521  
11  Xavier  492  
12  Texas  487  
13  Oklahoma  444  
14  Virginia  394  
15  Florida State  385  
16  Arizona State  317  
17  DePaul  301  
18  California  294  
19  Georgia Tech  262  
20  Kansas  241  
21  Georgia  201  
22  Vanderbilt  165  
23  Louisville  156  
24  Middle Tenn. State  143  
25  Rutgers  138  



around the dial 
NCAA Football 
West Virginia at Cincinnati 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 
Lakers at Nuggets 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 

Riggleman is Nationals’ new skipper 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Jim Riggleman opened his first news conference in 10 years as a full-fledged, full-time, full-titled major league manager — no “interim” tag to be found — by saying he didn’t want to list the people he needs to thank, lest he forget some­one. 
And then, not surprising­ly, the man who will man­age the Washington Nationals in 2010 proceed­ed to list those people: his family; the team’s owners; president Stan Kasten, GM Mike Rizzo and their staffs; current players; players he worked with in the minors; Whitey Herzog, who brought Riggleman to the majors as a coach years ago. 
On and on. Clearly, Riggleman is grateful to be a skipper in the majors once again. 
“My feeling was, if there was some divine interven­tion that came upon me that said, ‘You will never man­age again,’ then I would have got out” of baseball, Riggleman said Thursday, when the Nationals officially announced he would remain in their dugout. “I wanted to stay in the game, because I still wanted to manage. So if I would have strongly doubted it would ever happen, I would not have continued. And you had to wonder as the years 
IN BRIEF 
Lewis says Mangini is 
overworking Browns 
BEREA, Ohio — Cleveland Browns running back Jamal Lewis said he’s frustrated by another losing season and believes coach Eric Mangini is pushing his players too hard. 
Lewis, who intends to retire after this season, said Thursday that he doesn’t want to be a “babysitter” to Cleveland’s younger players. He wants to win and expressed disap­pointment that two-and three-hour practices aren’t translating into wins for the team, which has a 1-7 record. 
“There’s talent all over this locker room, young and old,” he said before practice. “There’s talent everywhere, but that talent has got to be ready for Sunday, it’s got to be fresh for Sunday. You can work all day, but if you’re going to work like that, you’re probably not going to get what you want out of your players.” 
went by.” 
Neither the Nationals nor Riggleman’s agent — who said he had to sign a nondisclosure agreement — would say anything about the terms of the deal. 
Still, next season will mark his first since 1999 with a managing job in spring training. That was his final year with the Chicago Cubs, one of three other clubs he’s managed. 
“Now he’s got his whole opportunity to kind of start from Day 1 and be like, ‘OK, this is how it’s going to be,’” Nationals pitcher John Lannan said. 
Riggleman was promoted from bench coach to interim manager midway through last season, replacing the fired Manny Acta in July. The Nationals were 26-61 
(a .299 winning percentage) at the time and went 33-42 (.440) under Riggleman. While they finished with a majors-worst record of 59­103, there was a sense that his pregame fielding drills and postgame clubhouse talks were helping the young players on a rebuild­ing team. 
“We turned to Jim Riggleman for some stabili­ty to right this ship, and he did what I thought was a masterful job in very trying circumstances,” Rizzo said. “He gave us a sense of bal­ance not only in the dugout, but also in the clubhouse. We went back to the roots of the game.” 
Roger Clemens files motion to dismiss lawsuit 
NEW YORK — Lawyers for Roger Clemens filed a motion in Brooklyn federal court to dismiss a defama­tion lawsuit by the pitcher’s for­mer trainer, claiming statements that accused Brian McNamee of trying to shake down Clemens were not serious. 
Joe Roden, one of the attorneys representing Clemens, said the seven-time Cy Young award win­ner, lawyer Rusty Hardin and oth­ers were not serious when they questioned McNamee ’s mental state and accused him of manufac­turing evidence, the New York Daily News reported Thursday. 
“They are part of the public bat­tle of words between the two camps, and in no way suggest to the average reader that McNamee is actually mentally unfit,” wrote Roden, a lawyer with Hardin’s firm. 
Falcons’ Smith fined for incident vs . Redskins 
FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga. — Two people familiar with the situation say Atlanta Falcons coach Mike Smith has been fined $15,000 by the NFL for a sideline scuffle, while Washington cornerback DeAngelo Hall avoided any pun­ishment. 
The people spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because the league has not officially commented on the situation. The NFL also fined Redskins safety LaRon Landry $7,500, Washington defensive tackle Albert Haynesworth $5,000 and Falcons director of athletic performance Jeff Fish $2,500. Hall was not fined. 
Smith acknowledged that he was fined when he came off the field after a Falcons practice on Thursday, though he didn’t dis­cuss the amount. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, November 13, 2009 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish looking for magic two 
Notre Dame hoping to end conference play as only undefeated team 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Perfection is hardly common­place in the world of sports, especially in a conference as demanding as the Big East. But as the Irish play host to Georgetown and South Florida this weekend, the magic num­ber for an unbeaten confer­ence record is down to two. 
“The seniors have definitely led us to this position, but I think that it’s 
team is really looking forward to it.” 
The first obstacle to achiev­ing those goals comes in the form of a Georgetown team that has plummeted to the bot­tom of the conference. The Hoyas (13-15, 3-9) have fallen to the Irish in 10 straight meetings, but head into this Friday’s match coming off the heels of a big upset win over Cincinnati. Yet Brown said she is confident in her team’s abili­ty to stay focused against a 
lesser team. 
game for the seniors. 
“It’s our senior day,” Brown said. “They’re a very close class, they have great cama­raderie, and they’re very, very committed to making this be just a great season. It’s just a tremendous class, a tremen­dous group.” 
Seniors Serinity Phillips, Christina Kaelin and Jamel Nicholas have all garnered Big East Player of the Week honors this season, but each senior has contributed to Notre Dame’s success. 


something that “Throughout “To say that any of them that 
“We have two pretty 
everyone on this the season we don’t play in the matches as team has really big goals that we learned more much as the others aren’t as been striving for hope to come to and more about important is entirely false,” and working ourselves, and I Brown said. “They all bring 
fruition this
towards,” Irish think we’ve special things to the team. I
weekend.” 
coach Debbie been able to think the attitude of all of them Brown said. make pretty is great, and they all lead in Having already Debbie Brown sig nifi cant different ways.” clinched the No. improvements Purcell Pavilion will host the 
Irish coach
1 seed for the conference tour­nament with a victory over Syracuse and a Cincinnati loss last weekend, Notre Dame (18­4, 12-0 Big East) is one win away from their 11th Big East title, its first since 2005. 
“We have two pretty big goals that we hope to come to fruition this weekend, and one is we want to win outright the regular season, but the second one is going undefeated,” Brown said. “I think the moti­vation is going to be really high this weekend, and the in areas that 
maybe earlier in the season we didn’t feel were as strong as they needed to be,” Brown said. “I think the focus of the team and intensity has been really good.” 
Whatever the outcome on Friday may be, the Irish should have no trouble finding focus and motivation for Sunday’s match against South Florida (16-7, 8-4). The Bulls currently rank fourth in the conference standings, but more important­ly, the meeting marks the last regular season conference final leg of the Irish’s journey to perfection, as the Irish take the court at 7 p.m. on Friday against Georgetown and at 2 
p.m. on Sunday against South Florida. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Runners compete for NCAA berth 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men’s and women’s cross country sea­sons are getting down to the wire as they travel to the University of Indiana in Bloomington Saturday for the NCAA Great Lakes Regional meet with hopes of qualifying for the NCAA championships. 
“Our team has been working incredibly hard this entire season,” sophomore runner Rachel Velarde said. “We are all ready to go out there and prove that we deserve to be at nationals. We all know what we have to do this weekend, and we are all excited to go out and race our best.” 
To qualify for the national event, the team as a whole needs to finish in the top two finishers, or they have to run comparatively better than the other third or fourth place teams in other regional com­petitions around the country for the chance of receiving a bid to continue their season at the national meet. 
“It does not matter what you run like in the beginning of the season,” men’s coach Joe Piane said. “Without doing well at this meet, there is no chance of getting to the national meet.” 
In their last meet, the men’s team finished sixth out of 14 teams, and the women placed sixth out of 16 total teams at the Big East Conference meet. Though these results seem to suggest that the Irish will have a difficult time qualifying for the NCAA national meet, the Big East boasts one of the toughest conferences for cross country this season, and many of those teams who beat the Irish in the conference event will be competing in a differ­ent regional this weekend. 
The Irish have had two weeks off to prepare them­selves physically and mentally for the challenge that Saturday presents. 
“We have been working on a little bit of speed work,” Piane said. “At this point in the sea­son, you have to be working on speed work.” 
Top runners to watch for the men include senior Jake Walker, juniors Dan Jackson and Ryan Jacobs and sopho­more Jonathan Shawel. On the women’s side, the runners who are projected to be the first to cross the finish line for the Irish are senior Lindsay Ferguson, followed closely by senior Beth Tacl, Velarde and one of the newest members of the team, freshman Jessica Rydberg. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


Friday, November 13, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles prepared to race at Regionals 


By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will take on the rest of the Midwest this weekend as they compete in the NCAA Division III Great Lakes Regional. 
The Belles finished 17th last season in this race with a total of 481 points. The race will feature 40 schools that contain 550 of the best runners from Indiana, Ohio and Michigan. 
No. 1 Calvin College, an MIAA school that the Belles have faced three times already this season, is the favorite to win this year’s regional. The Knights have won 13 regionals since 1992 and are currently two-time defending champs. 
Other ranked schools in the field include No. 12 DePauw University, No. 13 Case Western and No. 22 Oberlin College. Baldwin-Wallace and Manchester College also received an invite by winning their respective conferences. The top runner in the field is Denison’s Katie Navarre, who finished ninth nationally last year. 
The Belles are coming off a successful meet in which they matched a program -best fourth place finish in the MIAA Championships for the third year in a row. The Belles were just eight points out of third place behind the Adrian Bulldogs. Ahead of both were Hope College and winner Calvin College. Freshman Julia Kenney led the way for the Belles, post­ing the best time for the third meet in a row. Kenney has placed first for her team in every 6000-meter race so far this season, and the Great Lakes regional will be of the same length. 
Also posting low times this year is senior co -captain Megan McClowery, a consis­tent contributor for the team. McClowery has been either first or second for the Belles in every race except for the MIAA Championships, where she stumbled and fell to third on the team. 
The Regional will be hosted by Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology and will be run on the LaVern Gibson Cross Country Course. The women’s race will begin at 11 a.m. and the men’s will follow at noon. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal@nd.edu 


SMC SWIMMING 
Saint Mary’s heads to Purdue for dual meet 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Following a tough loss to Kalamazoo College last Friday, the Belles look to get into the winning column for the first time this season as they take on Carthage and Purdue. 
“The first meet we swam against Kalamazoo, which is a pretty good team,” Belles coach Alicia Dombkowski said. “Carthage is pretty good team, and we’re 104-101 last week. Furthermore, the Lady Reds feature Amanda Croix, the recently named NCAA Division III National Swimmer of the Week. 
“The biggest challenge is Carthage is a really good team, so just being able to stay competitive with them is going to be the biggest challenge,” Dombkowski said. 
Although the Belles fell to Kalamazoo in the season 
o p e n e r, Dombkowski believes the 
swimming “They are young,so match featured 
against Purdue some very 
they’re going to be
as well. I think encouraging we should do around for a while.” signs. pretty well Watson a g a i n s t claimed first in 
Alicia Dombkowski 
Carthage, there the 1,000-and 
Belles coach
will be some good races.” 
Led by fresh­men Katie Griffin and Ellie Watson and sophomore Audrey Dairyple, the Belles have aspirations of finishing in the top half of the MIAA. 
“They are young, so they’re going to be around for a while,” Dombkowski said. “All three of them are very good swimmers. Audrey qualified for nationals last year, the first swimmer from Saint Mary’s to qualify. Griffin is very close to two school records, and Ellie is very good as well, so they bring a lot of upfront talent to the team.” 
But standing in their way is Carthage, a good team coming off a big win over Lake Forest 500-yard 
freestyle 
events, while 
Griffin led the way in the 100 backstroke and the 100 butterfly. Dalrymple rounded out the winning cast by earning top honors in the 200 breaststroke and the 200 IM. 
“It’s a very young team, but Saint Mary’s has never been fourth in the conference, so hopefully we’ll be shooting for fourth in the conference meet,” Dombkowski said.” 
With realistic goals in mind, the Belles will send their best in the hopes of qualifying mul­tiple swimmers for national competition. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, November 13, 2009 
MEN’S INTERHALL 

Steds hoping for second upset vs. Morissey 
Rivals Siegfriend and Knott face off for second time this season as Juggs look for first title in a decade 
By KAITLYN MURPHY and 
JOHN HELMS 
Sports Writers 
No. 8-seed St. Edward’s (3-2) will look for its second upset of the playoffs when it takes on No. 5­seed Morrissey (4-1) Sunday. Both teams used last-minute touch­downs to advance into the semifi­nals and are now one victory away from the Stadium. 
Last weekend, the Gentlemen beat top-seeded Stanford 18-16 after senior wide receiver Joe DeMott pulled in a touchdown pass with less than a minute left in the game. St. Edward’s hopes to continue its Cinderella run with a victory over Morrissey despite the slim odds, said senior captain Andy Nester. 
“Believe,” he said. “We can do this.” 
Nester also said certain signs of commitment to Gentlemen football have unified his team. 
The recent work of freshman cornerback Zach Siefring high­lights the strong St. Edward’s defense that hopes to silence a strong Morrissey offense. 
Morrissey junior captain Phil Yuhas said his squad is more than ready to respond to a strong Gentlemen defense with a strong defensive performance of its own. 
“We’ve had great practices this week,” he said. “We plan to switch our defense up to counteract their passing game. They said that they have the best three receivers in the league, and we rolled our eyes at that a little bit.” 
Morrissey plans on coming out strong and feeding off their close win last week. Morrissey scored a touchdown with slightly more than minute remaining, and instead of kicking the extra point to tie the game, the Manorites attempted a two-point conversion for the win. The successful play gave Morrissey a 15-14 victory over the No. 4-seed Dillon. 
“We didn’t play our best, but we showed a lot of heart and never gave up,” Yuhas said. 
Morrissey will look to use its heart to end St. Edward’s Cinderella run Sunday at 1 p.m. at LaBar Fields. 
Siegfried vs. Knott 
With a trip to the Stadium on the line, rival dorms Siegfried (3­1-1) and Knott (4-0-1) will meet head-to-head Sunday for the sec­ond time this season. 
The two teams play in the same division, so they are already famil­iar with each other’s style of play. They met in the second week of the season, finishing with a 6-6 tie in a game both teams thought they could have won. 
“I guess it’s a double-edged sword really,” Knott senior captain Aidan Fitzgerald said. “We know that they’re a really good team and what their strengths are, which makes it a little easier knowing what to expect on Sunday. But, they know what we have too.” 
Siegfried senior captain Dex 

Purple Weasels take on Phoxes 
By ALLAN JOSEPH and 
BARRICK BOLLMAN 
Sports Writers 
Pasquerilla West (7-0) and Pangborn (5-2) square off Sunday in a rematch of one of the season’s most tightly contested games, but this time a trip to Notre Dame Stadium is on the line. Early in the season, the Purple Weasels defeated the Phoxes 6-0. In that game, a last-minute touchdown by junior quarterback Simone Bigi won the game in a downpour on a muddy Riehle Field. 
“That was our most emotional, highly fought win of the regular sea­son,” Pasquerilla West senior captain Cynthia Curley said. “It was a defen­sive battle and dramatic win.” 
The Purple Weasels have been dominant in all of their other games this season, but this was a battle that could have gone either way thanks in part to the conditions. That clash left them with a sense of appreciation for Pangborn’s squad. 
“We know they’re a very, very good team, and very capable,” Curley said. 
The Phoxes’ main threat is junior quarterback Gabby Tate, whom Curley described as “pretty fero­cious” but added that Pasquerilla West is not intimidated. To contain Tate, the Purple Weasels will look to the defensive line led by senior Lindsey McMahon for a pass rush and then to its secondary for strong pass defense. On the offensive side of the ball, Curley said that her team will utilize its balanced attack and spread the ball between its receivers and backs. 
Pangborn, in addition to relying on Tate, will hope that its receiving corps can provide open targets for passes. They will also continue to use the running game for balance on the offensive side of the ball, while look­ing to its defense, led by senior Kaitlin Furrey, to stop the Purple Weasels’ multi-pronged attack. For the Phoxes, this game has brought about a lot of anticipation. 
“I wish we could say that we treat every game the same,” Tate said. “But everyone is so excited for this one.” 
The heartbreaking style in which the Phoxes lost to Pasquerilla West has added fuel to the fire. 
“I wouldn’t call it revenge,” Tate said. “But I think out of anyone, we’re most excited to play them.” 
The semifinal matchup holds spe­cial meaning for Tate, who has longed to play football in the Stadium since she visited campus during her senior year of high school and now stands only one win away from real­izing that dream. The Purple Weasel powerhouse stands in the Phoxes’ way, and Curley expects nothing less than the best. 
“We will be very disappointed if we don’t come out with a win and go to the Stadium,” she said. In this semifi­nal matchup, however, only one thing is for sure. 
“It’s going to be an exciting fight Sunday,” Tate said. 
Pasquerilla West looks to continue what Curley calls its “flawless sea­son” and Pangborn tries to score an emotional victory when the teams meet on Sunday at 1 p.m. at LaBar Fields. 
Howard vs. Walsh 
Undefeated Howard (6-0) faces its newest challenge Sunday when it takes on Walsh (5-1) with an elusive trip to the Stadium at stake in a semi­final matchup. 
The Ducks have dominated the competition all season, relying on a mantra of “Offense wins games, but defense wins championships.” Howard’s stingy defense is led by sophomore safety Caroline Walsh. A key reason that the Ducks have field­ed such a strong defense is great flag pulling skills. 
On offense, Howard likes to throw the ball around, as junior quarter­back Kayla Bishop hits junior wide receiver Kaitlin Robinson, and sopho­more wide receivers Jenny Gassner and Kristyn Jeffries. 
Walsh hopes to upset Howard by playing with a lot of heart and putting forth a committed team effort. On offense, the Wild Women are led by junior quarterback Amy Langnecker, junior wide receiver Amy Schnazer and sophomore lineman Meg Kowieski. Senior Jen Valencia and junior Carolyn Leary anchor the Walsh defense. 
Although Howard is undefeated, the Wild Women are not intimidated. Walsh senior captain Meghan Hadley said that since Howard played in a different division and the two never played, the better team won’t be known until after the game on Sunday. 
“I think that people are underesti­mating our team and assuming that it’s going to be Howard against Pasquerilla West in the Stadium,” Hadley said. “But we’re not letting it get to us. On the contrary, we’re feeding off of it. It’s igniting our spirit and driving us to excellence. We’re not taking anything for granted.” 
Although Howard has made an undefeated run this season, the Ducks are making their first ever-semifinal appearance. One might assume that this is a disadvantage, but Howard doesn’t seem to think so. 
“We’ve made it further than Howard has in its entire history, so we already have a successful team and season,” Bishop said. “We’d love to finish this season with a perfect record and a championship victory, but the pressure isn’t as big for us because we’ve never been here before.” 
Both teams expect a strong show of support as they make their final push for the Stadium Sunday at 2 
p.m. at LaBar Fields. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu and Barrick Bollman at jbollman@nd.edu 
Cure echoed Fitzgerald’s thoughts. 
“We have an idea what they will run against us,” Cure said. “On the other hand, they have seen what we are going to give them too, so I think any advantage is basically evened out by that fact.” 
The fact that Siegfried and Knott are rivals adds yet another dimen­sion to the game. 
“We always want to beat Knott and they want to beat us,” Cure said. “Add to that the fact that it is the semifinals, and I think both teams will come out very motivat­ed.” 
Both teams are carrying momentum from big playoff wins a week ago. Siegfried upset Sorin and scored the first points of the season on the Otters defense in a 10-6 victory. The Ramblers did not celebrate too long, and instead shifted their focus to the upcoming game. 
“We are preparing with great intensity and focus,” Cure said. 
Knott, on the other hand, domi­nated Carroll in the quarterfinals, shutting them out 21-0. However, the Juggerknotts know Siegfried presents a whole new challenge. 
“In order to win, I think we have to stay focused, and continue to play hard-nosed, team football,” Fitzgerald said. 
Siegfried also isn’t taking any­thing for granted. The defending champions are approaching this game with great caution. 
“Knott has been a force this year, and it is certainly going to be a challenge,” Cure said. 
If Siegfried wins, it will give them a chance to defend their title from last year. Knott, on the other hand, is looking for its first title of the decade when the two meet Sunday at 2 p.m. at LaBar Fields. 
Contact Kaitlyn Murphy at kmurph28@nd.edu, and John Helms at jhelms2@nd.edu 



Friday, November 13, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

Squad to travel to Pitt for meet 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame travels to Pittsburgh for its first Big East conference meet of the season against one of the conference’s toughest teams. 
“Pittsburgh is an excellent competitor,” Irish coach Tim hosts of this year’s champi­onships might give them the competitive advantage they need to win. 
“We are trying to treat this meet as a warm-up for the Big East Conference meet in as many ways as possible,” senior sprinter Patrick Lloyd said. “If we get used to swimming fast there this weekend, it will make 
Welsh said. “Our meets have been very intense, very competitive, and often, in the last five years or so won on the final event, and yet the level of sports­manship and integrity has been extremely high.” 
Friday’s meet will give a big hint to the mem­

“We are trying to treat this meet as a warm-up for the Big East Conference meet in as many ways as possible.” 
Patrick Lloyd senior sprinter 
bers of the Big East conference as to how the seasons are shap­ing up for both the Irish and Pittsburgh, as each boasts good performances in recent confer­ence championships. The Irish, who are currently 3-1 in dual meets this season, have won the conference event three times in the last four seasons, but the advantage the Panthers have as swimming fast at the Big East Championships that much easi­er.” 
In the 2008­09 season, the Irish beat Pittsburgh 152­148 when a final relay became the deciding factor in one of Notre Dame’s closest 
meets. The close competition between these two well-respect­ed Big East swimming pro­grams means that simply win­ning each event will not be enough to claim a victory this Friday. 
“Every race can determine the outcome of the meet, and that race is not just for first place,” Lloyd said. “We need the points for second, third and fourth places to do as well as we can.” 
The Irish have won the last five times in dual meets against Pittsburgh, but the Panthers hope to break that winning streak with a program that has changed since they competed against Notre Dame last year. 
“Pittsburgh has improved a lot since last season. We are looking forward to seeing them and meeting the challenge,” Welsh said. 
Aside from preparing them­selves for the challenges of doing well in the conference, this event will also provide good preparation for the men’s final meet of the semester, which is quickly approaching. 
“This is our last dual meet competition this semester, so it is our last chance to get ready for the Ohio State Invitational which will end our semester,” Welsh said. 
Pittsburgh will also be attend­ing the Ohio State Invitational in mid-December. 
The meet will begin at 4:30 
p.m. today at the Pittsburgh Panthers’ Trees Pool. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Bouts 
continued from page 21 
with never-ending energy. 
The third round continued the theme from the second round, with Lin battling but unable to throw or land as many punches as Lyons. Lin was unable to keep up with Lyons and her fury of punches. 
Lyons took the fight in a unani­mous decision. 
Maureen “Mongrel” Koegel def. Keaton van Beveren 
Koegel began the match with a strong performance, landing numerous shots to the face of van Beveren. She wasted no time in establishing dominance in the ring. The senior returned with some solid shots of her own, forc­ing her opponent to back off a bit. 
Koegel came up big in the sec­ond round. Van Beveran was briefly knocked off balance but managed to regain her footing and finish the round standing. Van Beveren launched a counter offensive in the third round, throwing numerous punches in her opponent’s direction but to no avail as the quick Koegel was able to evade her fists. 
Koegel was victorious by unani­mous decision. 
Kara “There is No Fear In” Scheer def. Alyssa “Don’t Hit A” Manlowe 
The second match of the evening got off to a slow start as little contact was made between the two competitors in a standoff-like first round. 
Scheer struck first in the second round with a high jab at Manlowe, who then swung back and buried a couple solid head-shots through the gloves of the Lewis sophomore. 
At the start of the third round Manlowe came out aggressive, causing Scheer to backpeddle against a barrage of quick jabs to the head and torso. Scheer turned the tide of the match by delivering a powerful counterpunch to the face of her opponent and taking the offensive. 
Sheer was victorious by split decision. 
Kayla “Sunshine” Bishop def. Margot “Da Beast” DeBot 
As soon as the starting bell tolled, DeBot unleashed a flurry of powerful combination hits to which Bishop fired back in an equally rapid manner, using her long reach to score some crucial head shots. 
Starting the second round, DeBot aimed high but Bishop was able to absorb the blows and repel the attack. 
After a much needed intermis­sion, DeBot remained in control of the fight driving Bishop into the ropes, but the junior from Howard refused to back down and fired a devastating strike to the head of her opponent and used her quick feet to immobilize her. 
Bishop won by split decision. 
Dina “Warrior Princess” Montemarano def. Michelle “Al Capone” Perone 
Montemarano established the early lead, connecting a couple of clutch headshots in between a peppering of body hits on Perone. 
The sophomore from Lyons kept up the intensity into the sec­ond round capitalizing on a counter-punch during a brief opportunity where Perone’s face was unguarded as she aimed a fist at Montemarano. 
The third round became a bat­tle of attrition, with both fighters playing conservatively and taking few risky maneuvers as the clock winded down. 
Montemarano was victorious by a unanimous decision. 
Andrea “The Gondoleer” Seneviratne def. Colleen “Don’t Stop the Music” Cusick 
Both fighters gave a good show­ing in this matchup. After a slow start, Seneviratne dominated Cusick for most of the fight. 
Cusick got the first hit in, but it was not long before Seneviratne was able to turn the tide with her lightning quick movements. 
The senior wasted no time building her lead in the second round and Cusick was briefly pushed to the ropes before she skillfully parried Seneviratne’s strikes. 
Seneviratne closed in on her opponent in the third round, swarming her with hits to the left and to the right that the sopho­more could not easily withstand. 
Seneviratne was victorious by unanimous decision. 
Courtney “The Culprit” Currier def. Caitlin “The Other Culprit” Connolly 
Energy emanated from the ring after this thrilling matchup between two high-intensity fight­ers. Connolly came out with fists of fury, using rapid combination attacks on Currier that forced her to take defensive maneuvering throughout the first round. 
Currier mounted a comeback against the sophomore from Lewis, firing several high jabs to keep her opponent in check. Connolly responded quickly, asserting herself with well placed offensive strikes and pursuing Currier as she pulled away in defense. 
Seconds into the final round, Connolly was pushed to the ropes by an impetuous Currier. Unable to continue to block incoming punches, she began to flail des­perately at her opponent. Her bal­ance was unsteady as she escaped the barrage but remained on her feet until the end. 
Currier was victorious by unan­imous decision. 
Margaret “The Shah” Azhar def. Kelly “Jack Knife” Nikodem 
Things didn’t start to heat up until the third round of this bout. The first two were defined largely by a few brief exchanges of short hits, as if waging a psychological battle or one of endurance, each saving her energy for later. 
The tension reached its break­ing point early in the third round with some strong jabs back and forth until Azhar laid a hard right hook on Nikodem, turning the momentum in her direction. She used her speed and footwork to seal the win. 
Azhar was victorious by unani­mous decision. 
Caitlin “Cata” Pulte def. Tiffany “The Terrorizer” Tran 
Caitin Pulte had the upper hand for the majority of this match. 
About a minute into the first round, Tran had been backed into a corner but waged a hard-fought defensive struggle as Pulte aimed a large portion of punches towards her head. 
Both sides took the second round to recuperate for the third. Aside from a minor exchange in the beginning, there was minimal contact during this standoff. 
Pulte came out firing from all directions in the concluding round, inflicting some decisive blows to her opponent’s torso and driving her back to the ropes. 
Pulte was victorious by unani­mous decision. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu, Kaitlyn Murphy at kmurph28@nd.edu, Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu, Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu and Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 


page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, November 13, 2009 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Squad to begin title hunt at home 
Irish to face IUPUI, winner will face Central Michigan or Purdue 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
No. 5 Notre Dame begins its quest for its third national title when it hosts IUPUI in the first round of the NCAA Championships today at Alumni Stadium. This is the 16th consecutive season the Irish have hosted first and sec­ond round matches in the NCAA tournament. 
Since dropping three of four matches in the early part of the season, the Irish (17-3-1) have caught fire, putting together a 15-game unbeaten streak after rolling through the Big East schedule. Last weekend, the Irish capped off the conference slate with two one-goal victories over St. John’s and Marquette in the Big East Championships to capture their 11th conference title. 
Cards 
continued from page 24 
Despite the decisive scoring advantage, Clark is hesitant to call that victory a command­ing performance. 
“To be fair, the four goals did flatter us a bit,” Clark said. “They had to press for­ward after the second goal and that opened up spaces in the back for us. It certainly wasn’t a 4-0 game, but it was a very good result for us.” 
Since that loss to the Irish, Louisville has rattled off an 8­1-2 record en route to win­ning the Big East Red Division regular season title. Like Notre Dame, the Cardinals’ quarterfinal match was decid­ed by penalty kicks, beating DePaul 3-2 in PKs after draw­ing 1-1 in regular time. 
Louisville is led offensively by sophomore forward Colin Rolfe, who has tallied 10 goals and two assists on the season. 
The matchup to watch, how­ever, will be between the high-powered Irish offense, led by senior forward Bright Dike, and the sophomore Cardinals goalkeeper Andre Boudreaux. 
Boudreaux carries a 0.64 goals against average and 12 shutouts, both school records, while Dike, who was named the Big East Offensive Player of the Year this week, leads the conference with 23 points on 10 goals and three assists. 
“Louisville is always a hard game,” Clark said. “The score last time … could have very well been a one-goal game. There is no way we can underestimate them.” 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
Jackson 
continued from page 24 
range. Our goals against is as good as there is in the league. We just aren’t being productive in five -on -five right now.” 
The Irish lead the CCHA in special teams play, has the fifth fewest power play min­utes, and is tied for second in scoring defense, but ranks ninth in scoring offense at 
2.3 goals per game. Nonetheless, Jackson remains optimistic, drawing comparisons to one of his best squads. 
“It reminds me of two years ago when we went to the Frozen Four,” he said. “That year, January or February, we had a real bear of a time scoring goals. It starts with a little thing, great goaltending 
or not capitalizing on the power play, and all of a sud­den it turns into more than that just on a psychological perspective.” 
Jackson said he is confident the Irish will find their offen­sive touch before too long, just as the Frozen Four team did. 
“We have too much offen­sive ability to stay like this,” he said. “I would be extreme­ly surprised and disappointed if things didn’t start changing from an offensive perspec­tive.” 
Thang said he hopes the team proves Jackson correct quickly, as reestablishing an intimidating presence at home would be a huge lift for the team, and he said he thinks this weekend could be the one to make it happen. 
“It ’ll be huge for us to establish ourselves early on, especially at home,” Thang said. “We haven’t really had that dominating presence we’ve had in the past couple years, and we haven’t put two wins together back-to­back in a weekend. We are really looking forward to doing that, hopefully this weekend, but [Northern Michigan] is a tough team.” 
The Irish will look to end their offensive troubles and sweep the Wildcats (2-5-1, 1­3-0-0) Saturday at 5:05 p.m. and Sunday at 4:05 p.m. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

No. 2-seed Notre Dame brings an NCAA tournament home record of 39-3-0 into this contest against an IUPUI squad making its first ever playoff appearance after cap­turing the Summit League Championship. 
Despite the teams’ close proximity, the Irish and the Jaguars have never faced each other. 
While Notre Dame fields a young team due to several injuries among the upper­classmen, it is not a roster that lacks in postseason expe­rience. Last season, the Irish almost completed a perfect season before falling 2-1 to North Carolina in finals of the NCAA championship. 
Leading the Irish’s run this season is sophomore forward Melissa Henderson. Despite being hampered by injury for much of the season, Henderson leads the team with 11 goals and four assists. 
Right behind her is junior forward Lauren Fowlkes, who has 10 goal and three assists on the season. Fowlkes took home Big East Co-Offensive Player of the Year honors for her efforts. 
The defense has been equal­ly impressive. The Irish haven’t given up more than one goal since their 3-2 over­time victory at West Virginia on Oct. 2. 
Junior goalkeeper Nikki Weiss has been a major factor in that streak, posting a 9-0-1 (seven shutouts) record over the past ten contests. Weiss’ 
0.53 goals against average and 29 saves are both team bests. 
Kickoff between the Irish and the Jaguars is scheduled for 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 



Friday, November 13, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
there was not a clear leader Sutton was able to ward off fatigue the defensive against the ropes on a advantage. Bonnette landed the 
through the first half of the match, to control the round and set herself number of occasions. Norton first big blow in the second round, 
Baraka 

Miller finished with the edge. up for the victory. attempted to re-establish herself putting Kim on the ground with a continued from page 24 Miller’s ferocious play continued Sutton won in a split decision. with a few uppercuts, but Neville thunderous right hook. 
in the second round with a series of refused to let up as she secured a The fight continued as both fight-round strong with some late punch-relentless punches to Hamann. The Rockin’ Robin Brown def. Sara unanimous victory with multiple ers threw furious combinations of es on Chiapetta that allowed her to freshman was unable to recover, “The Hurricane” Harker punches in the last 30 seconds of punches until the last bell, with keep the momentum. forcing the referee to put an end to Although Harker came out the match. Bonnette’s second round knock-
In the third round, the intensity the match 30 seconds in the round. stronger in the first round and had down of Kim making the difference. picked up as both sides were able Brown running all around the ring, Caitlin “Built Tough” Ford def. to get some early punches in. Erica “The Boogeyman” Ramirez Brown was not fazed. Brown had a Michelle “Hungry Hungry” Hopke Tanya “Booty, Booty, Booty, Although Chiapetta had some def. Emma “Irish Eyes” O’Brien strong finish to the round and car-Ford’s experience showed early Rockin’ Everywhere” Barrios def. strong punches in the final round, it In the first round, Ramirez came ried the momentum the rest of the in the first round as she came out Erin “Third Degree” Byrne was not enough for her to win, and out as the more aggressive of the way. strong and put Hopke on the defen-The strength of Lyons junior Marszalek was the victor in a unan-two, but there was no clear-cut The second round slowed down sive for most of the match. Ford, a Barrios, overcame the speed of the imous decision. leader because of the even play after the initial flurry of punches, senior, countered many of Hopke’s Welsh Family sophomore, Byrne, in 
between the fighters. but it was obvious that Brown had offensive attempts to the body with this split decision. Kate “I’ll” Weber “Grill You” def. O’Brien dictated the pace of the put herself in position to win with a right and left hooks to the head. Barrios defended her face from Michelle “Oscar Meyer” Maloney second round with a quick start strong third round. Hopke, a sophomore, stayed the onslaught of punches Byrne 
Because of her aggressive and and some strong punches on Brown was relentless in the third strong throughout the match and threw while working her opponent relentless fighting, Weber won her Ramirez. The second half of the round, cornering Harker and pep-trading punches in the third round with powerful right hooks. Both match against Maloney in a split round was more evenly matched pering her punches. By the end of as Ford began to slow down due to girls landed numerous punches but decision. and was not quite as intense as the the third round, Brown was clearly fatigue. But it was too little too late Barrios used a size advantage to 
Weber took the advantage from first half. the stronger fighter and she won by as Ford took home a unanimous hold her ground and strike enough get-go with a quick start. Although Both fighters came out with some unanimous decision. decision. decisive blows to prevail. the middle of the round was evenly urgency in the third round. matched, Weber finished strong Although O’Brien got some early Kimberly “Bo-Slice” Bugos def. Laura “Gideon” McCarty def. Becky “Mud Run” Anderson def. with some late punches on punches in, Ramirez kept her com-Kerry “The Sheltie Pony” Olinger Meghan “Mug” Sweeney Gillian “I’m” Allsup “In Your Maloney. posure and had a strong finish to In the first round, Olinger came The beginning of the first round Business” 
Weber did not miss a beat in the the round. out swinging and landed a number between the two juniors was slow The fight between Anderson, a second round, as she continued to Ramirez won in a split decision. of early punches. As the round pro-until McCarty began dominating law student, and Allsup, a McGlinn keep the advantage because of her gressed, Bugos settled down and with strong jabs and well-timed junior, was a slow, strategic battle aggressive behavior. Although Julia “You Got Nuttin’” Sutton def. established a rhythm for the rest of hits. with Anderson prevailing in a split Maloney put up a strong fight, it Jackie “Chilosa” Covarrubias the match. The last two rounds of the match decision. was clear that the match was There was an intense start to the The senior, Bugos, landed many saw very solid technique from The two fighters conserved their Weber’s to lose in the third round. match as both fighters showed punches to the head of the sopho-McCarty as she refused to give an energy early on in the bout, picking 
Weber fought off any fatigue in some early emotion and energy. more, Olinger, in the second round. inch. Sweeney came battling back their spots wisely. Anderson coun­the final round to prove herself as The first round was evenly fought In the third, fatigue took over as in the last 30 seconds of the third tered the longer reach of Allsup the stronger fighter. Although and there was neither fighter had both boxers failed to maintain a round, but it was not enough to with well timed flurries of punches Maloney had some bright spots in separated herself from the other. consistent barrage leaving Bugos change the results of the match, as towards the ends of the three the round, Weber hung on to nab Covarrubias had a slightly with the victory by unanimous deci-McCarty claimed a unanimous rounds, which ended up being the win. stronger second round than Sutton. sion. decision. enough to score her the close victo-
She came out and got some early ry. Lauren “Killer” Miller def. Maddie punches in and set the pace and Rebecca “The Claw” Neville def. Kaitlin “Brick” Kleiber def. Kaitlyn “Jammin’” Hamann intensity for the round. Sutton set Cara “Boomer” Norton “The Hitman” Howard Caitlin “Rally in the” Alli def. 
Miller defeated Hamann in the herself up for a comeback in the The first round saw an evenly In perhaps the most even match Priscilla Do “n’t Even Go There” only match of the first hour that third round because of her poise matched fight in which neither of the night, these two sophomores Sophomore Caitlin Alli looked was ended early by the referee. and composure. competitor was able to establish relied on their long limbs and quick more like Muhammad Ali in this 
This match had the quickest start Once again, both fighters came control. movement, as the victor of the bout, masterfully dominating her to it, as the freshman Hamann did out with a sense of urgency in the In the second round, Neville, a match became whoever could out-senior opponent in this one-sided not look fazed by her first appear-third round as neither had a large senior, began to step up her pres-last the other. win by unanimous decision. ance in the Baraka Bouts. Although lead over the other heading in. sure and forced Norton, a junior, on In the second round, Howard and Alli displayed an unmatched 
Kleiber began to tire and lose form. combination of power and control, The round was filled with wild having her way from bell to bell. punches and limited body contact. The referee stopped the fight to In the third round, Kleiber came check on Do multiple times, and out swinging and resolved to finish while Do always recovered, it was the match strong. clear that this was all Alli’s fight. 
Kleiber’s final efforts gave her the victory in a split decision. Madison “Mad Dog” Prieto def. 
Rachel “No Dice” Davidson Grace “Break Your Face” Shrader A painful ankle injury to def. Rina “Hella” Ventrella Davidson caused the referee to stop 
The two extremely different box-the fight and give the senior Prieto ing styles of the competitors made the win in the third round. for an interesting match. As Prieto’s significant size advantage Ventrella, a sophomore, focused on helped her keep Davidson on the quick, low punches to the body, run, which ultimately led to Schrader, also a sophomore, estab-Davidson’s injury as she fled lished her dominance with jabs to Prieto’s punches. the head. Medics attended to Davidson, but 
Shrader proved the accuracy of she could not continue. her nickname as Ventrella’s nose bled multiple times throughout the Cailey “Lights Out” Ryckman def. match. Shrader’s endurance was Karen “Golden Thunder” Riedl crucial, as she controlled the match The bout between the two during the third round. Her McGlinn juniors began on relatively onslaught was too much for equal footing, as Ryckman and Ventrella as Shrader claimed a Riedl traded jabs early in the first unanimous victory in the bout. round. But as the round wore on, 
Ryckman began to attack more and Jasmine “She Sells Sea” Shells more. def. Katelan “Death By” Doyle In the second round, Riedl man-
Youth triumphed over experience aged just a few early before as Shells, the freshman from Ryckman took the offensive again. Cavanaugh, defeated Doyle, the law In the third round, Ryckman student, by split decision in this began to overpower Riedl with her hard hitting slugfest. right hand, but Riedl refused to go 
Doyle used her long reach to down easily and fought hard until keep the more powerful Shells at the end of the match. bay in the early rounds, but Shells Ryckman won by unanimous landed several headshots to even decision. the action. 
Shells separated herself in the Claire “In the” Lyons “Den” def. third round, dodging several big Jing “Jingle Bell Rock” Lin punches from Doyle and landing The last contest of the evening decisive blows on her way to the got off to a quick start, with the victory. fighters trading a fast and furious 
series of punches as the bell sound-Brooke “Sting Like a Bee” ed. Lyons first gained the upper Bonnette def. Viv “Float Like A hand near the end of the first round Butterfly” Kim when she landed a series on the 
The punches were fast and furi-senior from Breen-Phillips. ous in this battle of junior New In the second round, Lin began to Jersey natives, as the McGlinn resi-fight more patiently, picking spots dent Bonnette overcame Kim from for punches and attacking the Pangborn in a split decision. sophomore’s body, but Lyons con-
Both fighters came out in the tinued to throw punch after punch fight with a lot of energy, and nei­ther fighter had a noticeable see BOUTS/page 19 


page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, November 13, 2009 
this year,” Brey said. “We’re going to have to use it, we’re 
Starters 

continued from page 24 
replace three starters — Kyle McAlarney, Zach Hillesland and Ryan Ayers — and the combinations of players are coming together. Senior guard Ben Hansbrough, a transfer from Mississippi State who sat 
out last year due to NCAA transfer rules, has started opposite Jackson in the back-court. Hansbrough had 14 points and six assists in Notre Dame’s 75 -54 win over Quincy Friday. 
ed against Quincy and had 11 points and four rebounds. Notre Dame made 73 percent of its free throws and 11-of-12 in the first half. 
“I like the fact that the foul line has become a good weapon for us,” Brey said. 
The 3-point line, however, has not materialized as a viable weapon thus far. Notre Dame took 33 3-point shots against Quincy but made only eight. Hansbrough said after Friday’s game that the team had open looks and was tak­ing good shots, but they just weren’t falling yet. 
“I think it’s a fine line whereas how we use the line going to have to shoot it from out there. They’re going to jam defenses in on Luke [Harangody].” 
Referring to Harangody’s role in Saturday’s game, Brey said North Florida’s defense would dictate his involvement. 
“This team actually doubles the low post, block to block,” Brey said. “We refer to it as clamping the post.” 
North Florida finished last season 8-22 and was 2-14 on the road. Senior guard and 

“I think I’m learning
“I think I’m learning more more about our about our iden­
identity but I don’t 
tity but I don’t 

have it down yet.
have it down yet,” Brey said. You’re still trying to 
“You’re still try-fgure out who you
ing to figure out 

are offensively and
who you are offensively and who you are who you are completely compl etely 
defensively.” 
defensively.” 

Junior for­ward Tyrone Mike Brey Nash also start-Irish Coach leading scorer Eni Kuka, who averaged 13.2 points per game last sea­son, returns, but the Ospreys lost Cortez Riley’s 10 points and 3.8 assists per game. 
Brey and first-year coach Matthew Driscoll traded exhibition game tapes to have something to gameplan with. 
“They have 
bodies and they have athletic ability,” Brey said. “A little bit like our last exhibition, a team that likes to put it on the floor after a couple of passes and take you off the dribble.” The game starts at 2 p.m. 
Note: 
• Freshman forward Tom Knight twisted his ankle in practice Monday and is ques­tionable for Saturday’s game, Brey said. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Opener 
continued from page 24 
openers. 
“They’re going to get the jit­ters out Friday,” McGraw said. “Meanwhile we’re going to have the jitters. It’s going to take a while for us to relax a little bit and kind of get into our game plan.” 
McGraw said the veteran presence on the team should ease the nerves, however. She will keep the same starting 

“They’re all playing 
lineup from the said. 97-53 win over well.We’ve got Arkansas-Indianapolis, Pine Bluff 
probably eight people
which includes returns its lead-
that are playing
senior guards ing scorer from Ashley Barlow, really well right now. 2008 in guard Melissa It’s actually tough to LaQuisa Slaton. Lechlitner and She scored 21 
pick a starting
L i n d s a y points in aNov. Shrader, sopho-lineup.” 7 exhibition more guard game against Natalie Novosel the Arkansas 
Muffet McGraw 
and junior for-Stars. The 
Irish Coach
ward Becca Bruszewski. 
“I’m going with the veter­an team,” McGraw said. “They’re all playing well. We’ve got probably eight peo­ple that are playing really well right now. It’s actually tough to pick a starting line­up.” 
Players on the bench should play a significant role in the game as well. Freshman guard Skylar Diggins came off the bench to lead the team in scoring with 17 points against Indianapolis and should see plenty of playing time Sunday, McGraw said. 
“We’d better outscore our opponents every single game with our bench because we have 10 people that are able to help us,” McGraw said. “We’re going to wear them down and we’re going to be able to run more, we’re going to be fresher at the end of the game.” 
Sophomore forward Erica Solomon, who also scored 17 points off the bench against Indianapolis, is questionable for the game after rolling her ankle in prac­tice, McGraw 
Golden Lions had a losing record in 2008, 
b u t  M c Gr aw  
said the Irish  are  still  con­ 
cerned.  

“There’s a lot of apprehen­sion because this team has a new coach, so we can’t look at the film and say they ran this, they defend this way,” she said. “It’s a whole new sys­tem, a whole new philosophy.” 
The Irish will tip off the 2009 season Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

Friday, November 13, 2009 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 

HOROSCOPE FRIDAYS WITH FRAN 2.0 
Aries-It’s been far too long since the last Viewpoint War. Topics to consider: your impending unplanned abortion, the hookup culture, the lack of a hookup culture, the mediocrity of the hookup cul­ture, the Catholic Church’s teaching on the hookup culture and Saint Mary’s. 
Taurus-Would you like us to assign someone to butter your muffin? Verdict: Jason, why are you such a skeeze? 
Gemini-OMG OMG NeW mOoN cOmEs OuT nExT wEeK!!!!! jAcOb’S a HoTtIe xoxoxoxo <3 
Cancer-Careful what you say…you might be Overheard at ND. Verdict: Fran misses Juicy Campus 
Leo-Evacuate the dance floor. No, really. Verdict: Cascada wasn’t joking 
Virgo-A man with a large FUPA will appear when you least expect it. Verdict: Damn, check out those mom jeans. 
Libra-Miss ND pageant next week! Verdict: seri­ously guys…Viewpoint War. 
Scorpio-The person sitting next to you has beauti­ful eyes. Go ahead, look. Wait! Wait! Don’t make it awkward. 
Sagittarius-Text your favorite word that sounds inappropriate but isn’t to 484-678-7280 
Capricorn-Fran’s kind of over this. 
Aquarius-See Gemini. 
Pisces-See you at TC this weekend, kids. 


JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
COLIN HOFMAN, JAY WADE and LAUREN ROSEMEYER 
THE MOBILE PARTY 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Friday, November 13, 2009 page 24 
ND BASKETBALL 
Ready to Go 

Men to open season with North Florida  
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer  
Much like a student relishes free time to get work done, Irish coach Mike Brey said he was using the final three days before Notre Dame’s regular-season opener against North Florida Saturday to work on “us. “Tempo offensively, under­standing when we’re in the half court to slow down a lit­tle bit,” Brey said when asked what about “us” he wanted to work on. Notre Dame’s ball move-ment has pleased Brey so far. “After two passes we get a pretty good shot, after five, can we get a great one?” he said. The Irish have won their first two exhibition games at the Purcell Pavilion in the J o y ce C e n t e r. B rey h a d t o see STARTERS/page 22  VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer Senior guard Ben Hansbrough dribbles Nov. 6 during Notre Dame’s exhibition against Quincy.  PAT COVENEY/The Observer Junior forward Becca Bruszewski takes a shot Nov. 3 in a win over Indianapolis.  see OPENER/page 22  


HOCKEY 

Irish look for first sweep against Northern Michigan 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Writer  and then traveling to Boston to top Boston University four days later 3-0.  p l e a s e d w i t h m o s t o f t h e results thus far this season, having yet to score more than  definitely do that.” After an overall slow start to the season, Notre Dame  were at full strength. “If you look at the statistics within our league, we are in  
“It’s always tough when you  three goals in any game.  has brought most of its game  the top three or four in every  
A f t e r  b e a t i n g  N o r t h e r n  play the same team twice in a  “I don’t think anybody in  t o g e t h e r,  b u t  h a s  n o t  y e t  statistic in the league with  
Michigan five times last  sea- row, to  come  out there and  the locker room is happy with  begun scoring  as  the team is  o n e  e x c e p t i o n ,  a n d  t h a t  
son, No. 8 Notre Dame looks  a d j u s t  t h e  s e c o n d  n i g h t , ”  a l m o s t  a  . 5 0 0  s e a s o n  s o  used  to.  The biggest road-exception is glaring,” Irish  
t o  e a r n  i t s  f i r s t  w e e k e n d  I r i s h  s e n i o r  c a p t a i n R y a n  f a r … [ A s w e e p] w o u l d g i v e  block to reeling off multiple  coach Jeff Jackson said. “It is  
sweep of the  season  against  Thang said. “I think mentally  everybody confidence, in the  wins this  season  has been  a  five-on-five scoring. Our spe­ 
the Wildcats this weekend.  to  our  team, to get  a  sweep  locker room, the coaches and  lack of even-strength goals  c i a l  t e a m s  a r e  b o t h d o i n g  
Notre Dame (5-4-1, 2-1-1-0  this weekend would be huge.  even  the support staff,” he  for the Irish. Notre Dame has  well. Our penalties  are  com- 
CCHA) has only won two con- It could almost turn this sea- said. “Everyone needs that  scored 23 goals through 10  ing back down  to  a  normal  
secutive games once this sea­ son around for us.”  l i t t l e  e xtr a  b oos t o f c o nf i - g a m e s ,  b u t  o n l y  1 0  g o a l s  
son, beating Providence 2-0  Thang said the team is not  dence, and six points would  have  come  while both teams  see JACKSON/page 20  


BARAKA BOUTS 

Boxers fght for East Africa 
By ANDREW OWENS, 
KAITLYN MURPHY, CHRIS 
ALLEN, ALLAN JOSEPH and 
KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writers 
Kelly “Third Time’s a Charm” Marszalek def. Emily “Ch-Ch-Ch-Chia” Chiapetta 
Marszalek gained control at the beginning of the match and kept it until the final bell sounded. Both fighters got some punches in early, and Marszalek had a slight advan­tage through the first round. 
In the second round, Chiapetta came out aggressively and attempted to take control of the match. Marszalek, however, kept her composure and finished the 
see BARAKA/page 21 

MEN’S SOCCER 
League championship awaits in Morgantown 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
No. 25 Notre Dame travels to Morgantown, W. Va., today to take on No. 7 Louisville in the Big East Tournament semifinals at 
5:30 p.m. in Dick Dlesk Soccer Stadium. The winner will play in the Big East Championship against the victor of today’s St. John’s/Providence semifinal match. 
“It’s a great game for us to try and prepare for the NCAA [tournament],” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “Hopefully, we can get a win and get to the final. This is our third straight trip to the Final Four of the Big East tournament, but we’ve yet to win it in that time. Louisville (13-2-3, 8-2-1) is a difficult hurdle for us to try and win the championship.” 
The No. 2-seed Irish (10-7­2, 8-3-0 Big East) are hoping to replicate the results of their September victory over the No.1-seed Cardinals. Although Louisville has only surrendered 12 goals all sea­son, four of those goals came in the second half of Notre Dame’s 4-0 blowout victory over the Cardinals. 
see CARDS/page 20 




