the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Seniors disappointed after another loss 
Defeat at hands of UConn only part of four lackluster years 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
As spectators filed out of Notre Dame Stadium following the Fighting Irish’s double-overtime 33-30 loss to the Connecticut Huskies, Notre Dame’s senior class stayed in their seats, waiting for the chance to step onto the football field and exit through the tunnel. 
Most seniors, like Michelle Maloney, had conflicting emotions about this opportunity to say goodbye to their time in the stu­dent section. 
“Going onto the field was a real­ly cool experience but definitely bittersweet as well,” Michelle Maloney said. “It just reminded 
TOM LA/The Observer 
Fans look on dejectedly as the UConn Huskies overtake the Irish in the second overtime period. The loss see SENIORS/page 6 was the second in a row to a Big East team on Senior Day and was a sour ending for the Class of 2010. 



Ivy Quad offers new housing opportunity 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
The new off-campus resi­dence complex known as Ivy Quad doesn’t just offer its resi­dents a warm community and control over their home design. It gives them the chance to live in one of the region’s first truly “green” multi-family homes. 
“No other residential projects around the campus are seeking to obtain this level of sustain­ability,” Shawn O’Brien, one of the project’s architects, said. 
O’Brien and his firm, Phase 2 Architects, designed the 10 buildings that will eventually stand on Ivy Quad. Only one building is completed and occu­pied but others are under con­struction. 
Ivy Quad is also in the process of becoming “LEED certified.” LEED, or Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, con­firms that a building uses resources efficiently and sus­tainably. 
“These units are 40 percent more efficient than the standard 
see IVY/page 6 



Army ROTC hosts Warrior Night 
By JIM FERLMANN 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Army ROTC battalion hosted Warrior Night 
— an event that pitted the four platoons that comprise the bat­talion against each other in con­tests such as sumo wrestling and tug-of-war — Friday at the Moreau Seminary gym. 
Each platoon sported distinc­tive war paint such as cat-whiskers or mustaches. 
“I’m not really sure when Warrior Night began, but we’ve been doing it long enough that it’s a valued battalion tradition,” Cadet-Captain Kailyn Van Beckum said. “Warrior Night is a social tradition for the battalion to bond internally, build spirit­de-corps, and learn about the history of the battalion. My favorite part of Warrior Night is the mixing of the Grog, and how each ingredient means some­thing to the history of the battal­ion.” 
“The Grog” is a large drink that is mixed from different things each year. Each ingredi­ent of the Grog has some kind of symbolism to the history of the battalion. This year’s Grog included, among many other things, blue Gatorade represent­ing the blue uniforms of the mid­19th century ROTC division, 
see ROTC/page 4 


SMC senior works to support pro-life cause 
Though the club brings aware­ness to life issues, she said the summer internship was an oppor­tunity to “really do something.” 
The pregnancy centers where Lape interned are pro-life and pro-abstinence. They offer support for women who are pregnant by providing emotional and medical services. 
As an intern, Lape’s time during her six-day workweek was divided between counseling at the crisis training centers and sidewalk counseling. 
To her surprise, the sidewalk counseling was the part of the 
see LAPE/page 6 


By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Senior Grace Lape, co-president of the Saint Mary’s Right to Life Club, is an advocate for demon­strating support for pregnant women — a cause she witnessed firsthand this summer as an intern with the Expectant Mother Care Frontline Pregnancy Centers in New York City. 
Lape said the pro-life cause has been something she was interest­ed in, and when she reached Saint Mary’s, she joined Right to Life. Halfway through her first year, Lape became vice-president. 

Students travel to SOAprotest 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
Several Notre Dame students traveled to Fort Benning, Ga., this weekend to participate in watch­dog group School of the Americas Watch’s “Mass Mobilization to Shut Down the School of the Americas” protest. 
The School of the Americas (SAO) was a United States Army training facility that was founded in 1946 for Spanish-speaking cadets and officers from Latin American nations. 
Many graduates of the school were suspected of human rights violations, which ultimately lead to the renaming of the school to its current name, the Western 
see SOA/page 4 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER ND alumna speaks about MTV job page 4  ‘New Moon’ review page 12  Irish Insider analysis pullout  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, November 23, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Thank you, Mr. Bueller 
John Hughes was an 80s movies genius, and through his films he has taught me so many life les­sons. 
The first time I watched “The Breakfast Club,” I realized that Caitlin Housley everyone has a different life News Writer story, so I should never judge any­one by a first impression. Thanks to “Sixteen Candles,” I learned that every girl has the potential to get her ideal Jake Ryan, and after watching “Pretty in Pink” I appre­ciate that love can form between people no matter what their social status is. 
However, the movie that has always been most appealing to me as a student is none other than “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off” ... any­one? Anyone? 
I always picture the stress load I have and the sheer amount of work I have left to do and I long to just say, “Hey, I’m calling in sick today,” and then escape to Chicago where I can spend the day driving one fabulous car, eating in restau­rants way too expensive for my budget, and singing Danke Schoen on a parade float. 
In reality, however, I’m as timid as Ferris’ best friend Cameron — the worrier who always thinks about the consequences instead of living in the moment. It’s so easy for me to give up on spending a night with friends in order to study endlessly for something that could just have easily been done in one or two hours. 
So, each time I watch “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off,” I try to learn a little more each time. Thanks to him, I know the perfect way to fake clammy hands, I know how to take miles off a car and create the perfect prank call. Most impor­tantly, I have learned that, as Ferris says, life moves pretty fast, if I don’t stop and look around once and a while, I could miss it. 
This is a lesson from which we all can learn. Our lives as students are stressful, but we need to remember to take some time for ourselves every once and a while. OK, so maybe we can’t just blow off school all together (especially with finals quickly approaching), but we can take a break from our busy schedule to spend a few hours visiting with friends, watch­ing movies, playing board games or even “Sporcle”-ing. 
School shouldn’t just be about studying and stress. It should be a time for us to grow, to form lasting friendships and experience new things. 
The question shouldn’t be what are we going to do in life; it should be what aren’t we going to do in life. We need to take time to expe­rience as much of college life as we can. Gradually, thanks to Ferris, I’m learning to call in sick for at least an hour or two daily. Ferris Bueller, you truly are my hero. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE STRAN EST THING YOU’VE EVER  OTTEN IN TROUBLE FOR? 





“When I was  “When Trevor  “For taking my  “Playing beer  “For throwing a  
little I used to  Dorn and I tried  shoe back from  pong right  sticky  
pick flowers from  to steal the  a kid and  above our  marshmallow  
my neighbor’s  Fisher F with  throwing it at  rector’s room.”  into a girl’s  
yard and I would  an elaborate  him.”  hair.”  
have to apologize  system of  
for it.”  pullies.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 
Man straps lizards to chest to beat customs, arrested 
LOS ANGELES — Federal officials say they arrested a man who strapped 15 live lizards to his chest to get 
through customs  at  Los  
Angeles  Internati onal  
Airport.  

The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service said Friday that 40­year-old Michael Plank of Lomita, Calif., was returning from Australia when U.S. Customs agents found two geckos, two monitor lizards and 11 skinks — another type of lizard — fastened to his body Tuesday. 
Plank has been released on $10,000 bond and will be arraigned in federal court on Dec. 21. 
Authorities say the lizards’ value totals more than $8,500. All Australian rep­tiles are strictly regulated and Plank did not have a permit for them. 
Police: Ohio robbery suspect may have eaten evidence 
STREETSBORO, Ohio — Police say a bank robbery suspect in Ohio may have eaten evidence when he gobbled a piece of paper while handcuffed and lying across the hood of a police cruiser. 
A police video camera cap­tured the 35-year-old John Ford of Cleveland grabbing the paper with his mouth as police emptied his pockets. 
Ford was arrested follow­ing a report of a bank rob­bery in Streetsboro just south of Cleveland on Thursday. 
Police say a man walked into the bank and handed a teller a note that demanded money. 
Police say they found money in a bag in Ford’s car, which fit the description of the bank robber’s vehicle, along with a bank die pack that had exploded. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Tuesday Wednesday 
IN BRIEF 
Registration begins today for “Family Skate Night” on December 11th via RecRegister at 7:30 a.m. The event is open to faculty, staff and their families. 
A lecture, “European Pathways from September 11th: What Trajectory and Role for Public Opinion?”, will be held Tuesday at the Hesburgh Center, room C-103, starting at 12:30 p.m. Tony Messina, associate professor of Political Science at Notre Dame, will lecture. 
A lecture, “An Integrative Biology Approach to Reverse Engineering Living Systems,” will be held Tuesday at 101 Jordan Hall of Science starting at 4 p.m. Eric E. Schadt, Chief Scientific Officer at Pacific Biosciences, will lecture. 
A blood drive will be held Tuesday from 11 a.m. to 4 
p.m. at the Stadium, Gate D. It is sponsored by the South Bend Medical Foundation and donors will receive specially designed “Domer Donor” t-shirts. No appointment is nec­essary. 
An exhibit, “Darkness and Light: Death and Beauty in Photography,” continues at the Snite Museum of Art. The museum is open from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and admission is free, donations accepted. The exhibit features images from the museum’s permanent col­lection and examines aspects of death and beauty, ranging from 1844 to the present. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Thursday Friday 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 

HIGH 

CORRECTIONS 
55 HIGH 42 HIGH 55 HIGH 45 HIGH 40 HIGH 41 
The Observer regards itself as a professional 
publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so 
we can correct our error. 
Atlanta 55 / 45 Boston 51 / 45 Chicago 55 / 43 Denver 40 / 26 Houston 76 / 58 Los Angeles 73 / 49 Minneapolis 51 / 43 
New York 50 / 49 Philadelphia 50 / 48 Phoenix 75 / 48 Seattle 49 / 44 St. Louis 63 / 45 Tampa 78 / 62 Washington 52 / 48 
Monday, November 23, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Hunger banquet brings issues home 
ND-8 sponsors dinner to emphasize global income disparity 
By JILLIAN STINCHCOMB 
News Writer 
To help students conceptual­ize the hardships that come with being born in one of the world’s poorest countries, ND­8, GreeND and Students for Environmental Action (SEA) will be hosting the third annu­al Hunger Banquet in the Coleman-Morse Center lounge 
at 6:30 p.m. 
Senior Christina Hannon, who is member of ND­8, said the ban­quet is “an experience that gets people to interact with world hunger.” 
“With ND-8 we’re commit­ted to these issues of inter­
national poverty, hunger, sus­tainability and global partner­ship. The banquet is a great vent to get people to think about these issues of hunger,” she said. 
Hannon said students, as they arrive, are given a chance to spin a wheel, which will assign them to a group which represents an income level of the world population. 
The spin of a wheel will determine what and how the students will be eating — 50 percent will be given a meal of said. “Students bring diverse experiences with service and the hunger banquet is a great opportunity to learn from one another. It’s not just a work­shop; it’s personal. 
GreeND and SEA are co-hosting the event this year because there is an emphasis on climate change and sus­tainability, Hannon said. 
“Global warming and a lack of sustainability are interfer­ing and perpetuating global hunger,” she said. “Global hunger, climate change and sustainability are interrelated issues.” 
Students can pre-register for the banquet online in order to help ND-8 have a more accu­rate assessment of who is coming to the event, but it is not necessary to register. 
“Students who just show up to the event are also wel­come,” Hannon said. 
To enhance the experience of the banquet, ND-8 suggests fasting for up to 24 hours before the event. The group also requests that students use one or two Grab-N-Go meals and bring them to the banquet to donate to a local food pantry. 
“At Notre Dame we truly do have all these opportunities at our fingertips, and it’s impor­tant to just become aware,” Hannon said. 
Contact Jillian Stinchcomb at jsthinchc@nd.edu 
Dance Marathon sponsors spinoff 
Dance Marathon members also 
By MEGAN LONEY 
suggested ways to recruit students 
News Writer 
and promote the event, including creating Facebook groups, having 
Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon morning announcements and hav­hosted a conference with represen-ing a presentation at an all-school tatives from Marian High School assembly at the high school. and Robyn Wood, Saint Mary’s Riley Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon Hospital adviser, Sunday afternoon used their experiences with past as a learning experience for Saint Dance Marathons as a foundation 
Mary’s associat­ed “mini-marathon.” 
A mini-marathon is a dance marathon hosted by a high school that is supported by a college. Currently, Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon has one mini-marathon con­nection with Mishawaka 
“I think with the work we did today that they are on the right track to having a very fun and successful Marathon this coming spring.” 
Kelly Deranek president Dance Marathon 
for ideas for events the night of the mini-marathon. 
Members of Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon suggested popu­lar events from the past for Marian H.S. to incorporate in their Dance Marathon, includ­ing games like “Singled Out” and “Fear Factor,” as 
Marian H.S., although the club is looking to establish mini-marathons with other local high schools that are interested, Dance Marathon president Kelly Deranek said. 
At the conference, Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon committee mem­bers presented ideas and resources for funding and recruiting for their mini-marathon counterparts. Some of the ideas that were suggested included selling coupon booklets, having class competitions at the high school and selling apparel at the school. 
well as corn hole, refreshments and a D.J. 
“We were able to come up with a lot of great ideas for the upcoming year and build a good relationship with the girls in charge of the event from Marian High School,” Deranek said. “I think with the work we did today that they are on the right track to having a very fun and suc­cessful Marathon this coming spring.” 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 
rice while sitting on the ground, 35 percent will be given a meal of rice and beans while sitting on chairs and 15 percent will be given a full meal of meat and vegetables while sitting at tables with sil­verware. 
“There are parallels between the experience at this event and what goes on in the world,” Hannon said. “The biggest difference is that in 
“At Notre Dame we truly do have all these opportunities at our fingertips, and it’s important to just become aware.” 
Christina Hannon ND-8 member 
the past, stu ­dents from the upper 15 per ­cent have shared their food with the lower income level groups, but that simply isn’t possible on the global scale.” 
Hannon said the emphasis is on the format, 
with each student assigned to their meal by chance. The three tiers represent the lower, middle and upper levels of income. 
To deepen the personal aspect of the banquet, Hannon said, each student will be given an “identity card” appropriate to their income level group. Each identity card has the name, age, family, liv­ing situation, income level and job of the fictionalized person. 
“We want it to be fun, inter­esting and interactive,” she 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 23, 2009 
ND alumna speaks about Rock Band 

By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The role of smart marketing decisions in the rise of the Rock Band video game phenomena was emphasized by Notre Dame alumna Christina Glorioso during her lecture at the Mendoza College of Business Friday. 
Glorioso, now VP of Marketing Partnerships for MTV Networks, has worked with Clear Channel and SFX sports before moving to Viacom and ultimately ending up at MTV Networks Music and Logo Group. 
Glorioso spoke primarily about her day-to-day work in the pro­motion and marketing of the Rock Band franchise, one of MTV’s most recent and successful branding ventures, largely over­seen by Glorioso. 
MTV’s part in the Guitar Hero franchise was initially limited to a promotional role, as the game was produced by a small devel­oper, Harmonix Music and pub­lished by Red Octane. But Glorioso said once Guitar Hero was sold to ActiVision, a major games developer, MTV saw an opportunity to take a more active role in the budding music-based video game industry. 
Glorioso said MTV Games’ strategy was to expand upon the Guitar Hero concept by creating a full band platform, which emphasized staying true to the music. 
“We created Rock Band to be more authentic, even if you’re playing on plastic instruments,” she said. “We’re re-engaging people with music.” 
Within 15 months, the Rock Band franchise had made $1 bil­lion in revenue. 
“It took MTV 18 years to become a billion-dollar company. Rock Band did it in 15 months. That is astounding,” she said. 
A large part of MTV’s market­ing strategy is to utilize its exist­ing TV presence to publicize Rock Band. 
“We use our networks in the United States to promote our game,” she said. 
Glorioso said one of the major television promotions, an animat­ed commercial based on the album cover of the Beatles’ “Abbey Road,” proved a great success in promoting “The Beatles: Rock Band,” which sold over 600,000 copies in its first month. 
In addition to commercials, MTV marketed the game by scheduling frequent Beatles-related programming on its vari­ous stations, which include MTV and its affiliates, VH1, BET, CMT, Logo and Nickelodeon. 
The Beatles: Rock Band’s huge sales make up only a fraction of the franchise’s total sales, which have surpassed 30 million units in North America alone. 
Despite Rock Band’s massive sales figures, Glorioso and MTV Games have even greater aspira­tions for the franchise. According to Glorioso, various new markets have been explored through the various Rock Band add-ons meant to appeal to niche groups such as country and heavy metal fans (with genre-based “Track Packs”, bar crowds (with “Rock Band: Bar Night”) and families with children (with “Lego Rock Band”). 
In staying true to its emphasis on the music, the Rock Band marketing strategy is now becoming more and more cen­tered on the sale of additional music titles to players to be used in the game. 
“The new experience in our game is the music,” Glorioso said. “We make a lot of money in song sales.” 
Glorioso said MTV Games’ lat­est Rock Band venture, Rock Band Network, is set to revolu­tionize the music-based video game industry in the first quarter of 2010. The Network will allow artists, signed or unsigned, to code, submit and sell their own original music online to be used within the Rock Band games. 
Glorioso, who co-founded iNDustry Alliance, the University’s networking group for alumni in the entertainment industry, emphasized the impor­tance of networking and making connections in the entertainment world, and offering assistance to those looking to do so, specifying one condition. 
“I only ask that once you grad­uate and get a job that you come back and do the same,” she said. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
SOA 
continued from page 1 
Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation (WHIN­SEC). 
According to the SOA Watch’s Web site, the organization was founded in 1990 after soldiers trained at the School of the Americas killed six Jesuit priests along with two other people in El Salvador. 
Notre Dame senior Alicia Quiros, who attended the protest, said she disagreed with the mission of WHINSEC. 
“In general we go because we don’t agree with the fact that our country and our tax dollars are going to … the training of torture tactics and wars,” she said. 
With the recent military coup in Honduras over the summer, Quiros said their attendance at the protests is even more important. 
“We’re going down (to Georgia) and making our state­ment and position clear in this matter,” she said. “The military coup that happened in Honduras was played out by military people from the school.” 
According to the WHINSEC Web site, they are “In support of the mandate from Congress, we have formulated and imple­mented a democracy, ethics, and human rights training pro­gram that is the most thorough offered by any military educa­tional institution in this hemi­sphere.” 
Quiros said she doesn’t believe those claims. 
“Even though (WHINSEC) claim they’re teaching human rights, we know their not really doing that,” she said. 
Quiros said she became involved in the protests as a freshman after coming to the school with an interest in social justice. 
“I became interested in the politics of Latin America and I met a group of people who talked a lot about this school training students to go back to their countries,” she said.” 
While she only became involved as a Notre Dame stu­dent, she said many of the peo­ple she’s met at Notre Dame who are involved in the protests have been involved with the project for a long time. 
“Most people would go with their high schools, the people who came to Notre Dame shared with those of us who had never heard that side of it,” Quiros said. 
The group had multiple meet­ings before they left campus on Friday morning to drive to Georgia for the protest. 
“We all got together in a cou­ple of different meetings and group discussions where we would talk about what the his­tory is, presence in our country and Latin America, and what they are doing today,” she said. 
Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 
instant coffee powder symboliz­ing gunpowder, Red Hot candy symbolizing the anti-military sentiment of the 1960s and sweat wrung from T-shirts sym­bolizing all the hard work of the battalion over the years. 
“This wasn’t bad Grog by our standards,” junior Anthony Conklin said. “Drinking from the Grog is meant as a punishment for platoons on Warrior Night. Last year we had fish oil in the 
Warrior Night is the culmina­tion of Warrior Week, in which the battalion participated in var­ious military exercises including a physical training tests, a 6­mile run with full rucksacks, obstacle courses and grenade training. 
At the end of Warrior Night each platoon that scored the highest in a particular activity that week was awarded with a pennant for their platoon flag. This year, Platoon A-2 was the overall winner of Warrior Week. 
Contact Jim Ferlmann at jferlman@nd.edu 
Grog. You could sure taste that.” 
Another important aspect of Warrior Night is the humorous skits put on by the different classes making fun of them­selves and the other military branches. Normally the skits are put on by members of each pla­toon done in ascending order of seniority. This year, the sopho­more ROTC class filmed a series of skits beforehand. The skits were so good the junior and senior divisions admitted that they couldn’t match the sopho­more skits, and gladly accepted drinking the Grog for being out­done. 

World & Nation 
Monday, November 23, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Egyptian media stokes soccer anger 
CAIRO — Angry soccer fans rampaged through a posh diplomatic neighborhood in Cairo over the weekend, smashing shop win­dows and shouting obscenities in a frenzy fed by venomous headlines that portrayed Algerians as barbaric terrorists with a history of violence. 
Egyptians were infuriated by media reports alleging their fans were brutalized by their Algerian rivals after Algeria won a playoff match Wednesday in Khartoum, Sudan, to qual­ify for the 2010 World Cup. 
Egypt’s government — often bemoaned by its people as repressive and indifferent to their suf­fering under searing poverty — appears to have seized on the furor to demonstrate some unity with its citizens. Instead of the usual crackdown on demonstrations, authorities allowed crowds to surge into the streets near the Algerian Embassy and vent their anger in riots overnight between Thursday and Friday. 
Iraq PM attacks Baathists before vote 
BAGHDAD — A stepped-up campaign by Iraq’s prime minister against Saddam Hussein loyalists is alienating Sunni Muslims and stok­ing tensions between them and the majority Shiites ahead of key national elections. 
In its latest anti-Baathist attack, Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki’s Shiite-dominated government put three men on state television Sunday to confess their alleged role in planning suicide attacks in Baghdad last month. The three, all in detention and dressed in orange prison jumpsuits, said the bombings were ordered by Saddam’s Baath Party. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
NY Transit stabbing victim identified 
NEW YORK — A subway passenger stabbed to death in front of horrified straphangers has been identified as 36-year-old Dwight Johnson of Brooklyn. 
Authorities say some 30 passengers watched as Gerardo Sanchez of the Bronx stabbed Johnson at around 2 a.m. Saturday in an argu­ment over a seat. 
Police say the passengers were trapped with the knife-wielding attacker and his victim until the train arrived at the station at Seventh Avenue and 53rd Street. 
Police say Sanchez was standing over the bloodied victim when the train doors opened. Johnson was pronounced dead when the train arrived at the station. 
Sanchez, who’s 37, was arrested on charges of murder and weapons possession. He had not been arraigned on the charges as of Sunday afternoon. 
UC Santa Cruz protest ends calmly 
SANTA CRUZ, Calif. — Officials at the University of California, Santa Cruz say dozens of protesters who were occupying the universi­ty’s main administrative building have ended their protest. 
Campus spokesman Jim Burns says the nearly 70 or so protesters who had occupied the uni­versity’s Kerr Hall since Thursday in a demon­stration over fee hikes walked out of the build­ing around 8 a.m. Sunday. 
No arrests were made, but Burns says the stu­dents who took part in the protest are facing criminal charges or student judicial sanctions. 
During the demonstration, protesters knocked over furniture, scattered refuse about and dam­aged some electronic conferencing equipment. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indy woman hits boyfriend with SUV 
INDIANAPOLIS — Police are looking for an Indianapolis woman who witnesses say ran over her boyfriend twice with his own sport utility vehicle during an argument. 
Police spokesman Sgt. Paul Thompson says the 24-year-old woman was behind the wheel of the SUV arguing with her boyfriend and another woman Sunday when the woman in the SUV hit the gas and pinned the man between it and another vehicle. 
Police say the woman returned moments later and struck 25-year-old Michael Powell a second time before fleeing again. 
Sen. Democrats disagree over bill 
Moderate and liberal Party members dispute controversial health care legisla-
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Moderate Senate Democrats threatened Sunday to scuttle health­care legislation if their demands aren’t met, while more liberal members warned their party leaders not to bend. 
The dispute among Democrats foretells of a rowdy floor debate next month on legislation that would extend health care coverage to roughly 31 mil­lion Americans. Republicans have already made clear they aren’t sup­porting the bill. 
Final passage is in jeop­ardy, even after the cham­ber’s historic 60-39 vote Saturday night to begin debate. 
“I don’t want a big-gov­ernment, Washington-run operation that would undermine the ... private insurance that 200 million Americans now have,” said Sen. Ben Nelson, a conser­vative Nebraska Democrat. 
Nelson and three other moderates — Democratic Sens. Mary Landrieu of Louisiana and Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas and Connecticut independent Joe Lieberman — agreed to open debate despite expressing reservations on becomes too watered down. force. The insurance indus-year so that President the measure. Each of them Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-try would come under sig-Barack Obama and law-has warned that they might Ohio, said he didn’t think nificant new regulation makers can shift their not support the final bill. rank-and-file Democrats under the bill, which would attention to the economy 
One major sticking point would feel compelled to go first ease and then ban the and improving employment is a provision that would that far. At the same time, practice of denying cover-rates. allow Americans to buy a Brown warned Democratic age on the basis of pre-Such a timeline also federal-run insurance plan leaders not to make too existing medical conditions. would enable Obama to if their state allows it. many concessions. Congressional budget claim victory on a major Moderates say they worry “I don’t want four analysts put the legisla-domestic priority when he the so-called public option Democratic senators dictat-tion’s cost at $979 billion delivers his State of the will become a huge and ing to the other 56 of us over a decade and say it Union speech in January. costly entitlement program and to the rest of the coun-would reduce deficits over But with one-third of and that other require-try — when the public the same period while Senate seats up for election ments in the bill could crip-option has this much sup-extending coverage to 94 in 2010, politics will factor ple businesses. port — that (a public option percent of the eligible pop-heavily into the outcome of 
“I don’t want to fix the is) not going to be in it,” ulation. the debate on health care. problems in our health care said Brown. The House approved its Sen. Michael Bennet, a system in a way that cre-The Senate bill would version of the bill earlier junior Democrat who will ates more of an economic require most Americans to this month on a near party-be seeking his first full crisis,” said Lieberman. carry insurance and pro-line vote of 220-215. term next year in Colorado, 
The sway held by such a vide subsidies to those who Sen. Dick Durbin of where many districts lean small group of senators has couldn’t afford it. Large Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat conservative, said he would annoyed their more liberal companies could incur in the Senate, said the support the health care colleagues, who could vote costs if they did not provide health care bill must be overhaul even if doing so against a final bill if it coverage to their work passed by the end of the means losing his seat. 

INDIA 
One year later, Mumbai still vulnerable 
attacking hotels, a train station and New Delhi. “The only institutions that 
Associated Press 
other targets, paralyzing India’s finan-can protect against terrorism are state 
MUMBAI — The walls that the rock-cial capital and shocking the country. institutions. They are failing to do so. ets blew out have not been repaired, While Mumbai’s large hotels and As a result private institutions are and the plaster is a dense scattershot important business centers have paid being forced to spend large amounts of of bullet holes. Dozens of holes, blasted richly to improve their own security, money on largely ineffective security.” by grenades, pockmark the linoleum many worry that the city as a whole He blames the failure to beef up floors. remains vulnerable to another assault national security on weak-willed politi-
One year after the terror attack that from Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Pakistan-cians, some of whom are corrupt and left 166 people dead, the Chabad based group blamed for the attack, or benefit from lax policing. Despite cru-House — a once-popular site with other assailants. While India is trying cial steps the national government has Jewish travelers where six foreigners the lone surviving gunman, Ajmal taken to coordinate intelligence gath­were killed — remains scarred, still, Kasab, Lashkar-e-Taiba’s leaders ering, deterrence on the ground has and quiet. remain free in Pakistan. not increased, he said. Since last year’s 
In part, that silence is a symptom of “Nothing has changed to alter the attacks, authorities have neutralized how much remains unchanged since vulnerabilities of Mumbai,” said Ajai 13 Islamist terror cells in India, right 10 militants with assault rifles fanned Sahni, executive director of the in line with the average since 1998, he out across Mumbai last Nov. 26, Institute for Conflict Management in said. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 23, 2009 
from her telling me that she changed her mind, that talking to 
Lape 
Seniors
me helped change her mind.” 
The idea she had made a differ-
continued from page 1 
continued from page 1 
ence in a woman’s life through her 
counseling is humbling, Lape said. internship she loved the most, “It’s humbling to be able to 
me of how we’re going to be Lape said. affect someone by doing such a 
doing a lot of things for the last “I talked to women and their small thing,” she said. “It’s the 
time from now on.” husbands or boyfriends outside of women themselves who actually 
To other seniors, getting to the local abortion clinic. I would do all the work.” 
stand on the field was meaning-give post-abortive resources to the Her summer internship made 
less without a win to celebrate. women or their significant others, Lape realize and appreciate the 
“After a loss on Senior Day and so that they could seek out people effects of letting pregnant women 
the terrible season we had I really who could understand what had know they do have someone to 
just wanted to leave,” senior Tom happened to them. Sometimes, my talk to and somewhere to turn for 
Caruso said. “It was a nice ges­job was making sure the women support. 
ture but it really lacked meaning had a ride home after they left the “You hear it all the time,” Lape 
without the win.” clinic. My job really depended on said. “I saw that women don’t 
The Class of 2010 has had a the women and what they need-want abortions. Women are forced 
tough four years football-wise, ed,” Lape said. to get abortions due to situations. 
beginning with a 9-3 season Lape said her sidewalk counsel-If you support these women, you 
freshman year that culminated in ing experiences were “life chang-can save the life of the child, but 
a 41-14 loss to LSU in the Allstate ing.” Being in close proximity to also of the mother.” 
Sugar Bowl, giving Notre Dame a the abortion clinic, and being able This is the message that has 
record 9 consecutive bowl losses. their roster. She added the loss Although their four years of to influence women who were translated into the current Right to 
The Irish followed that loss up does not reflect well on head football have been rocky, Notre planning to have abortions change Life campaign that is represented 
with a dismal 3-9 season in 2007. coach Charlie Weis’s job security. Dame’s seniors are still finding their minds, made an impact on by cutouts of pregnant women on 
Last year, Notre Dame finished 6-“Considering the level of talent things to miss about it. For her, she said. Saint Mary’s campus with signs 
6 and snapped their bowl-losing we have on our team, I absolutely Caruso, it is a connection with the “Often times, you feel distant that state “Pregnant? We support 
streak with a 49-21 rout of the think we should have won the football team that he said only form the cause you support you.” 
Hawaii Rainbow Warriors in the game,” Maloney said. “It seems comes with being a student. because you are unable to experi-“In terms of supporting preg-
Sheraton Hawaii Bowl. pretty clear that Weis needs to “I’ll miss having that tie with ence it first hand, but I was able to nant women, being a supportive 
The Hawaii Bowl victory led go.” the team that you don’t have as have such a direct contact with friend and classmate to a preg­
many students to believe this sea-Even though this season has an alumnus,” he said. “Being this the situation,” Lape said. “That nant peer can make a difference 
son would go a great deal better mostly been disappointing, sen-emotionally tied to the team is made the cause become that in their lives. There are so many 
than it actually has. iors have found positive aspects something I wish wasn’t coming much more meaningful to me, and things you can do. 
Senior Keith Ruehlmann said despite the mounting losses. For to an end.” much more real.” Abortion is everywhere; our 
that his expectations for this sea-senior Jessica McCarthy, it was Ruehlmann will miss the Lape said she often did not ability to do something about it is 
son were much higher than what Saturday’s halftime marshmallow atmosphere on Friday afternoons know the final decisions of many just as present,” Lape said. 
he has witnessed so far. fight. when visitors are arriving on of the women she counseled. Lape acknowledges her idea of 
“I came into this season expect-“The best part was definitely campus. “Sometimes you don’t know if pro-life may differ from the norm. 
ing a 10-2 season. Instead we’re the marshmallow fight,” “I love walking around campus you’ve saved a life or not,” she “For me, my concept has 
probably going to finish 6-6,” McCarthy said “Although I do on Fridays of football weekends,” said. “You can’t keep track.” become maybe more different 
Ruehlmann said. “To say I’m dis-wish that someone had warned he said. “I’m going to miss that. However, Lape said sometimes than other peoples,” Lape said. 
appointed is an understatement.” us about the way they would stick To see so many alumni and fans the women would stay in touch. “When I think about the pro-life 
Ruehlmann said the reason to the concrete afterwards.” already walking around campus “There was one 16-year-old girl movement, I think about the well-
Notre Dame lost is because of the Maloney’s favorite memory is of always reminds me just how that I stopped. I literally caught being of the mother and the well-
problems that have plagued the the 2006 comeback win at amazing this place is.” her between the sidewalk and the being of the child as two sides of 
team all season — poor defensive Michigan State, where the Irish gate [to the abortion clinic], and I the same coin.” 
play. overcame a 16-point fourth-quar-Contact Irena Zajickova at got her to step away,” she said. Lape is glad for all of the atten­
“Our defense is porous at best ter deficit to stun the Spartans izajicko@nd.edu “She reminded me of my little sis-tion — positive and negative — 
and we cannot tackle,” he said. and win 40-37. ter; I knew the abortion would people have been paying to the 
“I’m scared to think what “One of my favorite football have destroyed her.” current Right to Life campaign. 
[Stanford running back] Toby memories was the comeback at Some of the girls she has coun-“I think it is great people are 
Gerhart is going to do to us next Michigan State freshman year,” seled continue to send her texts talking about it,” Lape said. “A lot 
week.” Maloney said. “I wasn’t at the with updates. There is one text of people approach pro-life from 
Maloney said she thought the game, but after we won, every-that Lape will never forget, she the same angle. One of the best 
Irish should have won the game one here on campus sprinted to said. things we can do is to challenge 
because of the talent they have on Stonehenge and jumped in.” 
“I always remember her as what the pro-life movement is being really tragic,” she said. “She really about and how we can live told me that she was set on her out these pro-life values.” decision, and she was going to get the abortion. After two months of Contact Megan Loney at not talking to her, I received a text mloney01@saintmarys.edu 
that’s exactly what we want to 
Ivy 
see happen.” Ivy Quad is appropriately 
continued from page 1 
named. It is built around an actu­
al quadrangle of grass and is home,” O’Brien said. “That leads located where Ivy Rd. used to run to a sizable cost savings and before Twyckenham Dr. was peace of mind knowing you’re expanded. living in a healthier environ-“The quad-based living envi­ment.” ronment will attract alums want-
The location of Ivy Quad, which ing to re-live their college days,” is across the street from the O’Brien said. “The building style Notre Dame campus and within is collegiate gothic, so it imitates walking distance to local restau-buildings on campus.” rants and Martin’s Supermarket, Although the architecture makes it easier for residents to resembles campus, Ivy Quad reduce their carbon footprints. homes are certainly not dorms. 
Since Ivy Quad is still being “These are definitely homes built, residents have a unique with granite countertops, stain-opportunity to direct the planning less steel appliances and hard-and building of their future wood floors,” O’Brien said. homes. “They’re very amenable to alum­
“We aren’t locked in to our ni visiting, with kitchens meant design. We work with owners to for entertaining.” determine best for them,” Julie Schwartz, a Notre Dame alum-Schwartz, a partner in the pro-nus, said Ivy Quad reminds her of ject’s development, said. her experiences as a student. 
She said builders combined two “You’re not disconnected from units in the first building after campus,” she said. “It’s just one owner requested it. across the street.” 
Ivy Quad is open to undergrad-The closeness to campus and uates, graduate students, alumni the environmentally conscious and professors. construction may be Ivy Quad’s 
“Ivy Quad is open to anyone biggest assets as it expands and that would choose to purchase a seeks more residents. unit and live there,” O’Brien said. “My overwhelming thought 
That openness is part of the when I’m there is, ‘This is just community that is developing in right,’” Schwartz said. “It’s still a Ivy Quad, Schwartz said. home but you’re right in the mid­
“A real mission of ours was to dle of all the action.” build a little community,” Schwartz said. “Already our resi-Contact Tess Civantos at dents all know each other and tcivanto@nd.edu 



The Observer 
Business
Monday, November 23, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
AAA: Holiday travel slightly up 
WASHINGTON — The number of Americans traveling away from home for Thanksgiving will be up only slightly this year from 2008, according to a report from the AAA auto club. 
The group, which surveyed 1,350 households, said there will be about 33.2 million people trav­eling by car this year — a 2.1 percent increase from last year. 
But there will be a 6.7 percent decrease in the number of air travelers, totaling 2.3 million this year, continuing a decade-long decline of Thanksgiving air travel. 
In the report released Wednesday, AAA officials said the expected increase reflects improved con­sumer confidence from a year ago, when Thanksgiving travel dropped 25 percent follow­ing the country’s housing and economic prob­lems. Americans may feel more financially secure and be more willing to travel, the report says. 
“The economy is still very clearly weighing heavily on the minds of Thanksgiving travelers this year, and that’s evidenced by the very small increase that we expect to see in total travel,” said Geoff Sundstrom, a spokesman for AAA’s national office in Heathrow, Fla. 
However, the slight increase suggests the econ­omy has slightly stabilized, he said. 
NY saves money, cuts energy use 
ALBANY, N.Y. — Turning off lights, turning down the heat and buying with an eye toward energy efficiency is saving New York more than $3.1 million so far this fiscal year. 
The energy efficiency program for state offices was aimed at promoting the idea publicly. But the payoff halfway through the fiscal year is also a boost for the cash-strapped state. 
State General Services Commissioner John Egan says the savings include a new natural gas contract and retrofitting more state buildings to be more energy efficient. 
Halfway through the fiscal year, Egan says the state’s energy bill is down 5.15 percent com­pared to the first half of last year and down more than 13 percent from 2007. 
The strategies used in more than 50 state buildings include: 
u Setting building temperatures to 70 degrees during the winter and 76 degrees in the sum­mer. 
u Reducing the light levels in offices. 
Rising taxes could hinder hiring 
Employers unable to afford increasing unemployment fees, health care costs 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — As if small businesses needed another reason not to hire, consider their latest finan­cial burden: The cost of ris­ing unemployment itself. 
Employers already are squeezed by tight credit, ris­ing health care costs, wary consumers and a higher minimum wage. Now, the surging jobless rate is imposing another cost. It’s forcing higher state taxes on companies to pay for unem­ployment insurance claims. 
Some employers say the extra costs make them less likely to hire. That could be a worrisome sign for the economic recovery, because small businesses create about 60 percent of new jobs. Other employers say they’ll cut or freeze pay. 
u Chuck Ferrar, who owns a liquor store in Annapolis, Md., expects to pay $9,000 in unemployment taxes next year, up from $3,000 this year. Health care costs for his employees will rise by $8,000, or 17.5 percent. “When you start adding this up, it turns into real money,” he said. “If I lose an employee through attrition, I will not replace him. You can’t afford to do it.” 
u Sam Schlosser, owner of Plymouth Foundry Inc. in Plymouth, Ind., said his of Chicago economics pro-the last fiscal year fell $42 $90 per employee to more unemployment tax bill could fessor, said his studies show billion short of what’s need-than $1,000. And double next year. Revenue that higher unemployment ed for unemployment aid. Maryland’s minimum tax at the family-owned compa-taxes usually lead to lower Most of the tax increases will more than triple from ny, which makes iron cast-pay for employees. are being triggered by laws $51 per employee to $187. ings for machine parts, has Behind the trend are requiring higher taxes to Its maximum will jump fallen about 50 percent, he widespread layoffs. The make up for a decline in from $765 to nearly $1,150. said. In case of higher taxes, number of people claiming state funds to pay for bene-Federal law requires his company may have to jobless aid has tripled since fits. In some cases, cuts in states to build up unemploy­consider layoffs, he said. the recession began. The jobless aid are required, ment insurance trust funds 
u Marjorie Feldman-demand has drained the too. in good times so they can Wood, president of Al’s funds that many states use Florida’s minimum unem-pay benefits during down-Beverages in East Windsor, to pay jobless claims. Nearly ployment tax, for instance, turns. The idea is to avoid Conn., which makes soda half the states are borrow-will skyrocket next year to having to raise taxes or cut fountain syrup, said higher ing from the federal govern-$100.30 per employee from benefits in a recession. taxes would make pay rais-ment. $8.40. The maximum will But the severity of this es less likely. Connecticut is Now the bills are coming rise to $459 per worker recession has bankrupted borrowing from the federal due. States reset their from $378. Like most states, many states’ trust funds and government, and employers unemployment insurance Florida taxes companies forced them to borrow from fear the state will have to taxes at the end of each more if they’ve recently laid the federal government. raise taxes soon to repay year, and 33 states will raise off workers who draw bene-States eventually must pay the loan. “There’s only so them next year, according to fits. back the loans. Otherwise, much money at the end of the National Association of Hawaii will raise its aver-the federal government can the day,” she said. State Workforce Agencies. age unemployment tax 10-raise taxes on their busi-
Bruce Meyer, a University The states’ tax revenue in fold next year, from about nesses. 

‘New Moon’ takes bite out of box office 
Associated Press of distribution for Summit. with final numbers expected to come “New Moon” placed third on the in slightly behind the $260 million 
LOS ANGELES — The vampire all-time domestic chart behind last the industry rang up over the week-romance “The Twilight Saga: New year’s $158.4 million opening week-end of July 18, 2008, when “The Moon” sucked up $140.7 million in end for the Batman blockbuster “The Dark Knight” opened. its first three days and pulled in a Dark Knight” and 2007’s $151.1 mil-Compared to the same weekend total of $258.8 million worldwide, lion haul for “Spider-Man 3.” last year, business was up 59 per-according to studio estimates Among the top-10 all-time open-cent. Sunday. ings, “New Moon” is the only one Overseas, “New Moon” debuted in 
The No. 1 domestic debut for that came outside of Hollywood’s 25 countries and took in $118.1 mil-Summit Entertainment’s “New Moon” busiest time, the summer season. lion. was more than twice the $69.6 mil-The movie adaptation of Meyer’s next “New Moon” continues the story of lion haul over the same weekend last “Twilight” chapter, “Eclipse,” arrives teen romance between a school girl year for “Twilight,” the first in the in the heart of summer, next June 30. and a vampire (Kristen Stewart and franchise based on Stephenie Meyer’s On Friday, “New Moon” set an all-Robert Pattinson), with the sequel novels. time domestic high for opening day adding a love triangle with a were­
“Obviously, with the success of with $72.7 million, topping the previ-wolf (Taylor Lautner). ‘Twilight’ itself, sequels being what ous record of $67.2 million by last Meyer’s books have been a phe­they are will generate X-number of year’s “The Dark Knight. nomenon among women and girls. dollars more, particularly if it’s a sat-Overall, Hollywood had its second-Females made up 80 percent of the isfying sequel,” said Richie Fay, head biggest non-holiday weekend ever, audience for “New Moon.” 
page 8 The Observer  NEWS Monday, November 23, 2009 
ROMANIA 
Pres. election goes to runoff 
Iraqi refugees head to Mich. despite economy 

Associated Press 
BUCHAREST — A presiden­tial election aimed at helping Romania emerge from a politi­cal and economic crisis failed to produce a winner on Sunday, and the top two candidates will compete in a runoff next month, according to two exit polls. 
If the exit polls are confirmed by official results on Monday, centrist President Traian Basescu, 58, will face socialist former Foreign Minister Mircea Geoana, 51, in the runoff on Dec. 6. 
One exit poll said Basescu won 34.1 percent of the votes, compared to 30.9 percent for Geoana. The other said Basescu won 32.8 percent, compared to 
31.7 percent for Geoana. Conservative opposition leader Crin Antonescu polled about 21 percent, finishing third in an election featuring a dozen can­didates 
Romania’s government col­lapsed last month amid squab­bling between the two-party coalition, and the International Monetary Fund has delayed access to a euro1.5 billion ($2 billion) IMF bailout loan while the country struggles to set up a new government. 
A president is key to reviving the government because he nominates a prime minister, whom Parliament must then approve and who would be responsible for forming a new coalition. 
Reports of possible fraud in Sunday’s election emerged as far more people than normal cast ballots at 3,500 special vot­ing centers that were set up for Romanians who need to vote outside their area of residence because they are traveling. 
The Electoral Committee said more than 430,000 people voted at such locations, and witnesses claimed some were being bused there after already having cast ballots elsewhere. For instance, Economy Minister Adriean Videanu called for a halt to “electoral tourism” in Moara Vlasie, near Bucharest, saying election authorities there were overwhelmed. 
Basescu and Geoana called the election one of the most important votes in Romania since 1989 and the fall of com­munism. 
Basescu, who is running for a second five-year term as presi­dent, said the exit polls appeared to indicate that con­servatives were growing in power in Romania. 
Geoana, who heads the left-leaning Social Democrats and is the leader of the Senate, said: “We worked hard to get here. We will work even harder in the next two weeks, and on Dec. 6 we will win together.” 
More than 18 million Romanians were eligible to vote Sunday, and about 50 percent of registered voters cast ballots, according to the Electoral Committee. 
Basescu, who no longer belongs to a political party because of constitutional requirements, has lost some public support because of his stormy relationship with Parliament and the country’s deep economic crisis. Geoana favors a broad coalition govern­ment, while Basescu wants to form a government from the Democratic Liberal party he used to lead. 
DENMARK 
Climate summit to host 65 leaders 
Associated Press 
COPENHAGEN — Sixty-five world leaders have said they will attend the Copenhagen cli­mate summit in December, and several more have responded positively to invitations, Danish officials said Sunday. 
But the world’s top three car­bon polluters — the United States, China and India — have not indicated whether their leaders will attend the meeting, and that could have a big impact on its chances of reaching a deal. 
The nations that plan to send their leaders to Copenhagen include Australia, Brazil, France, Germany, Indonesia, Japan, Spain and the United Kingdom, a Danish official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because he is not an official spokesman. 
At a party convention in Odense, Denmark, Danish Prime Minister Lars Lokke Rasmussen said Sunday he was encouraged by the fact that “more than 60” leaders had confirmed their par­ticipation. 
“This shows that heads of sate and government are ready to fly in, realizing that the political momentum is pointing towards Copenhagen as the place ... to address the outstanding issues so we can conclude an ambi­tious deal,” he said. “To cut through the outstanding issues and make an ambitious deal, then the active involvement of heads of state and government is crucial.” 
Loekke Rasmussen — the host and chairman of the climate talks — last week sent out for­mal invitations to world leaders in 191 countries to attend the Dec. 7-18 U.N. climate summit in Copenhagen. 
The conference had originally been intended to produce a new global climate-change treaty on limiting emissions of greenhouse gases that would replace the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. However, hopes for a legally binding agreement have dimmed lately, with leaders saying the summit is more likely to produce a tem­plate for future action to cut emissions blamed for global warming. 
President Barack Obama, China’s Hu Jintao, and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India have not publicly said if they will attend the summit, although U.S. climate delegate Jane Lubchenco has said Obama is “actively considering” that. 
However, Obama’s advisers say he is working in private to push toward a solution that would yield a binding agree­ment at a meeting in Mexico next year. Obama raised such issues during a meeting with Rasmussen on the sidelines of the recent Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Singapore. 
British Prime Minister Gordon Brown, who is among those heading to Copenhagen, said Sunday in a letter to Rasmussen that the meeting needs national leaders “to make the final deci­sions necessary to achieve agreement.” 
“I am extremely encouraged that so many heads of state and government have now publicly confirmed their intention to go. This is an important signal and I shall continue to encourage oth­ers to do so,” Brown wrote. 
Britain has pushed other nations hard in recent months to commit to a legally binding treaty at the summit, although Brown has acknowledged that a pact may not be sealed until 2010. 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — The U.S. govern­ment resettled Mazen Alsaqa in Massachusetts in February. Within a month, the Iraqi refugee moved to Michigan. 
It wasn’t that Alsaqa disliked Massachusetts. But he never thought twice about staying. Even though the U.S. govern­ment tried to keep him away from the Detroit area and its soaring unemployment, that was the only place Alsaqa want­ed to live. 
Tens of thousands have fled Michigan’s troubled economy in recent years, yet Iraqi refugees continue to move there despite a U.S. government policy trying to limit refugee resettlement in the Detroit area. Family ties and cultural support from the region’s large Middle Eastern community appear no match for the U.S. effort, which tries to place refugees in cities where they stand a better chance of financial success. 
“What the government gives you as a support is not a great deal. ... If you’d like to live decently, you should have a live connection — that’s your family here in Michigan,” said Alsaqa, 34, who lives in suburban Birmingham with family. 
Southeastern Michigan has one of the country’s largest Middle Eastern populations — about 300,000 can trace their roots back to the region — and has long been a top destination for Arab immigrants to the U.S. 
Kabobs are easier to come by than Big Macs in some areas of the Detroit suburb of Dearborn that more closely resemble a Middle Eastern city than a Midwestern one. Arabic signs are common on storefronts, headscarves are worn by many women and at some fast food joints in the city, the meat is halal — meaning it is prepared according to Islamic law. 
But as Michigan’s auto indus­try crumbled and thousands were laid off, the State Department decided in June 2008 to limit the number of Iraqi refugees it sent to the area to only those with a close family member such as a parent or sibling. 
The policy came as the U.S. government began increasing the overall number of Iraqis it granted refugee status. Between July 2008 to September, the U.S. resettled only 3,400 Iraqis in the Detroit area — about 13 percent of the total number of Iraqi refugees that came to the U.S. 
But that hasn’t stopped Iraqis from coming to Michigan. 
At least 460 Iraqi refugees have come on their own to Michigan since July 2008 after first being told to resettle some­where else, according to Lutheran Social Services of Michigan, one of the state’s pri­mary refugee agencies and the only one that collects such data in Michigan on what is known as secondary migration. 
“Whether the economy is good or bad you’re still going to have secondary migration to Detroit because of historical and cultural significance,” said Elizabeth Campbell, senior advocate of the Washington-based advocacy group Refugees International. 
That was the case with Alsaqa. It was a relative in the Detroit area who helped him land jobs teaching nursing stu­dents and tutoring. 
“Without these connections, I couldn’t figure out how I could do it,” said Alsaqa, who is studying to get his medical doc­tor rectification. 
The same was true for Rawaa Bahoo and Sinan Shamsulddin. Both Iraqi refugees never intended to stay where the U.S. government relocated them in July 2008. Bahoo, 29, said she stayed just a few days in Atlanta before heading to Michigan, where relatives could help her overcome her lan­guage barrier. An uncle and other relatives in Michigan helped Shamsulddin, 21, get a job assisting cooks in a Detroit-area restaurant — the main reason why he left Vermont after about a week. 
“There’s a lot of (people from my) community here,” Shamsulddin said in Arabic through an interpreter. 
When Iraqis are granted refugee status to the U.S., they are “strongly advised” against secondary migration, said Jamal Al-Fakhouri, a cultural orientation coordinator in Jordan for the International Organization for Migration, which works with the State Department on resettling refugees. 
“They are told about national unemployment numbers and rates and about the regional ones, and the fact that finding jobs these days is highly com­petitive especially in areas such as Detroit as a result of layoffs in the auto industry,” he said in an e-mail. 
The State Department says its policy has relieved pressure on community and social services groups in Michigan. But Al Horn, Michigan’s director of refugee services, said while it initially cut back on the number of Iraqis coming to the state, many eventually made their way to the Detroit area, putting a strain on some local agencies. 
The State Department gives resettlement agencies $900 for each arriving refugee, with much of the money going to immediate needs such as rent and food. But the money doesn’t follow refugees if they pack up and leave the city the govern­ment resettled them in. 
“Just getting a job may not be the end-all — they may need a period of time to be with friends and familiar settings in their adjustment to the United States,” Horn said. 
But even with relatives near­by, life in the Detroit region hasn’t been easy. 
The U.S. government picked Tucson, Ariz., as the home for Ahmad Mahmoud and his brother. But they left within two weeks of arriving for the Detroit area earlier this year because Tucson lacked any resemblance to the streets of Iraq. 
Once in Michigan, Mahmoud, 22, started looking for work and taking classes toward his goal of earning a Ph.D. in engineer­ing. His brother, though, felt there were no good job oppor­tunities and returned to Iraq. 
“When he left, I felt home­sick,” said Mahmoud, who shares a rented condo in the Detroit suburb of Bloomfield Hills with a friend from his mosque. 
Now, Mahmoud struggles to pay his bills with his $7-an­hour job at a supermarket. Still, he doesn’t plan to follow his brother. 
Monday, November 23, 2009 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Sen. Schumer to review frequent flier complaints 
Associated Press 
ALBANY, N.Y. — U.S. Sen. Charles Schumer is calling for a federal review of complaints by consumers that they are losing millions of frequent flier miles without notice in confusing agreements. 
He wants to establish indus­try rules for frequent flier programs that are billed as a free benefit to help attract and retain customers. There are few restrictions now on how airlines can manage and redeem the miles. 
Schumer says he suspects consumers are actually paying for frequent frier programs through air fare and fees. If so, he said rules are needed to protect consumers. He’s ask­ing the Department of Transportation to review the complaints. 
“As the holiday travel sea­son approaches, we cannot let airlines and credit card com­panies continue to fly off with hard-earned frequent flier miles,” Schumer said in an announcement scheduled for Sunday. “When a consumer accumulates valuable frequent flier miles, they should not have to constantly worry that they are going to expire with little or no notification from the airline.” 
InsideFlyer magazine finds the lack of consumer protec­tions on frequent flier miles a common concern. Complaints include miles expiring without clear notice and a frequent change in the value of the miles, according to magazine spokeswoman Michelle O’Neill. 
Other complaints include confusion over how many miles can be accumulated for certain trips, O’Neill said. 
Ten trillion unused frequent-flier miles worth $165 billion are in circulation now, Schumer said. But 20 percent of them may never be redeemed, he said. 
Frequent flier model pro­grams began 20 years ago, most with no expiration dates for the benefits. In the last decade, airlines have created three-year windows for con-
sum er s  t o  use  t h e  mi les,  
Schumer said.  
The  Ai r  Tra n s p o rt  

Association, a trade group for airlines, said each air carrier tailors its frequent flier miles programs as they see fit, often based on consumer interest. The group has seen reports of consumer complaints but doesn’t track them. The sys­tem hasn’t been targeted by regulators, they point out. The group says frequent flyer pro­grams remain popular with consumers and airlines try to make their programs as lucra­tive and consumer friendly as possible to attract and retain customers. 
Chicago loses Oprah, money 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Step outside Oprah Winfrey’s Harpo Studios and into the near west side neighborhood that’s been home to her television talk show for two decades, and it’s easy to get a sense of what she’s meant to Chicago. 
“I used to live across the street from Harpo and when I moved there it was me and cross-dressing crack addicts and Harpo. And now it’s strollers and little white dogs all over,” said Paul O’Connor, whose job has been to sell the city to businesses looking to relocate and those wondering why they should stay. 
Along with the upscale con­dominiums and pricey restau­rants that replaced the run­down apartments, abandoned warehouses and vacant store­fronts, it’s a sentiment that helps explain just how nervous people in Chicago are about Winfrey’s announcement that next season, the 25th, will be the last for “The Oprah Winfrey Show.” 
“Chicago’s going to find out that she’s a real engine to hotel rooms, flowers, limo drivers, you name it,” said Joel Nickson, who owns Wishbone restaurant just down the street. “Even when she’s not doing the show, we see people all the time tak­ing cabs out here, taking pic­tures in front of the place.” 
Media analysts will discuss the millions of viewers world­wide who have eagerly watched Winfrey’s show, tuned in others she told them to watch and read books she told them to read. The story in Chicago will be what she’s meant to Chicago. 
It’s a story that starts in the neighborhood that people visit­ed just to see her show — then they’d go off to explore the rest of the city. It’s from the neigh­borhood that Winfrey bragged about Chicago, reminding all those who knew she could take her show just about anywhere that she wanted to be right here. 
“Isn’t this the most fabulous city in the world?” Winfrey yelled to more than 20,000 fans who crowded Chicago’s Magnificent Mile in September for the taping of this season’s premiere. 
Without Winfrey, some won­der. 
“What’s this town going to come to?” asked Ann Coddington, 41, of Richmond, Ind., who was at Harpo Studios to see the show Friday morn­ing. “You think of Chicago, you think of Oprah.” 
Winfrey hasn’t said she’s leaving Chicago, but there are indications it’s possible. She is widely expected to start up a new talk show on OWN: The Oprah Winfrey Network, which is set to debut in January 2011. OWN hired “Oprah” co-execu­tive producer Lisa Erspamer this month as its chief creative officer. She is expected to move from Chicago to Los Angeles in January. 
Nobody suggests Harpo Studios’ neighborhood will revert to the pre-Winfrey years, when it was all but impossible to catch a cab and there was no place to order a latte much less a nice meal. But the studio stands as a reminder of what has been, and what could be lost. 
It was here that celebrities came from all over the world when they had something to say — from Tom Cruise’s decla­ration of love for Katie Holmes, memorably accompanied by a jump on her couch, to Sarah Palin’s appearance on the show to kick off her book tour. 
“It’s our little piece of Hollywood, our big piece of it,” said Bob O’Neill, the president of the Grant Park Conservancy. 
Winfrey did more than set up shop in Chicago: She gave other companies reason to do so. 
“She is part of the cultural infrastructure which provides a rich intellectual and cultural life to the city and that is absolutely critical for corporate decision making,” said O’Connor, who now works for the Chicago Metropolis 2020 civic group after leaving World Business Chicago, a not-for­profit economic development corporation that worked to attract and keep businesses in Chicago. 
Once the businesses are here, Winfrey has even been part of the effort to persuade employ­ees who might be reluctant to pack up and move their fami­lies. 

The Observer 
Viewpoint 
page 10 Monday, November 23, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY’S STAFF 
News Viewpoint 
Joseph McMahon Lianna Amanda Gray Brauweiler 
Graphics Sports 
Mary Cecilia Laura Myers Mitsch Alex Barker Scene Chris Masoud 
Maija Gustin Allan Joseph Jordan Gamble 
Giving thanks and time 
Every Thanksgiving, we give thanks for all the good that has happened in our lives. At times when the economy turns down and there may seem to be less to be thankful for, we have a won­derful opportunity to search for the posi­tives in apparently negative situations. Perhaps we can even use this opportunity to shift our habits this holiday season toward sharing a piece of our personal worth Jackie with our friends 

Mirandola 
and families 
Mullen
instead of part of our consumer Freckled worth. Thoughts 
In fact, rather than continue along this vein in vague writer-speak, I’m going to make this column direct: Don’t go shopping the day after Thanksgiving. 
According to numbers from the 2000 
U.S. Census, the top three jobs with the largest projected growth from 1999 to 2008 were systems analysts, retail salespersons and cashiers. Cashiers. We buy so much that the third largest growing (and also largest employing) job is one for someone who gets paid to take your money, which simultaneously just raised the price of whatever you just bought to pay that employee. 
So why do we continue to support the growth of a sector whose purpose is to clothe us in a way that leaves us “need­ing” new clothes every season, every year, often by delivering poor-quality clothes manufactured in bulk by small children or grossly underpaid adults in nations where the residents feel they have no other option than to work for oppressive foreign companies? 
We have to dig to the root of the issue. It lies, unfortunately, primarily in our insatiable appetite for more. More money, more items, more clothing, more food, more everything. From the 1980s to about 2008, we were unac­countable for many of our actions, con­tent that ever-growing economies and consumer cultures could sustain us for as far as we could see into the future. Actually, maybe that was true and we just weren’t looking far enough. 
Now that we have experienced a sobering reality check as to our mone­tary infallibility, it’s time we realign our values to reflect the fragility of our eco­nomic selves. Can we shift the focus away from money? Or at least away from monetary appeals to our loved ones? 
Making money is important, undoubtedly. Money makes the world go round, as the often-used, guilt-rid­ding cliché reminds us. But if you make less money, you have less money to spend on things that you don’t really need. Lower salaries are never good, but perhaps not having a job that makes one part of the “labor force” and instead focusing on pursuing prac­tical crafts — gardening as a supple­mentary form of food supplies, keeping up a home or contributing to the atmosphere of a local community — could help attribute to one’s sense of accomplishment while valuing a skill over money. 
I’m not advocating moving to com­munes and abandoning the use of the 
U.S. dollar. Rather, I’m trying to reach the more subtle point that we can value things within our lives, and yes, within our economy, without placing a monetary value on them. Bringing homemade food and wine, rather than something bought in the retail sector, to family over the holidays means you spent less, and spent the time you would have otherwise been shopping in the store cooking at home with family. 
Instead of chiding for cheapness, encourage your loved ones not to buy a present. In lieu of a present, make a card, write a song, paint a picture or bake a cake for (or better yet, with) them. Take the stressful time you would spend in the stores and spend it at home, knowing that even that gift of time is one of the most valuable pres­ents you could ever offer your loved ones. 
Don’t go shopping the day after Thanksgiving. Find better ways to reach out to your loved ones by sharing yourself instead of waiting in long lines at the store. Shifting the retail business to another sector might not be that bad of a change for our society; if we always argue against societal change on the account of jobs, how are we ever going to progress and solve prob­lems as a nation, as a culture, as a global and material-driven world? 
Although tough economic times might seem like occasions for less giv­ing of thanks than usual, perhaps they are occasions for even greater celebra­tion of what is important to us. Happy Thanksgiving, everyone. Enjoy it. 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a senior history and German major. She can be reached at jmirando@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Organization can never be asubstitute for initiative and for judgment.” 
Louis D. Brandeis 
U.S. Supreme Court Justice 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The test of a vocation is the love of the drudgery it involves.” 
Logan Pearsall Smith
U.S. author 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
Monday, November 23, 2009 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Non-Americans deserve real justice, too 
Dear Mark Easley, 
American Civil Liberties may be reserved for Americans, yet the values of human rights and common human decency have no limitations. 
I could not agree with you more in your assertions that these terrorists are not Americans and that any terrorist’s action is abhorrent and should be pun­ished to the fullest extent (“Terrorists are not Americans,” Nov. 19). However, I am rather alarmed at the retaliatory action you advocate. What you fail to comprehend is that acting to punish them without a trial is akin to what they have done in that there exists no basis or justification for the action. If you do not condone baseless and hateful attacks on America, then you cannot in the same breath support punishing these individu­als without some kind of trial or basis on which to punish them. Not only does swiftly carrying out your version of “jus­tice” violate numerous international laws, that very same action is exactly the kind of reaction the terrorists are seek­ing. By refusing to treat them with the decency that a normal citizen would be granted, you create sympathy for their cause and add to the proliferation of mil­itant extremism throughout the world. In fact giving these “evil men” a fair trial through our judicial system is the best course of action. Not only does it bring legitimacy to our claims against them, it shows that even amidst the terrible pain and destruction that they brought upon our country, we are steadfast and refuse to abandon the values upon which this great nation was founded — those same values that are taught to us here at Notre Dame. 
In closing, Gandhi once said, “An eye for an eye makes the whole world blind.” Should we take your course of action, a blind world may be the best outcome possible. 
Ian Montijo 
freshman Stanford Hall Nov. 20 
Travesty against tradition 
“Divided We Stand.” This was the title of Scholastic Magazine’s Sept. 17 cover story. This article has (as have some of the Viewpoint articles over the last year) characterized our alumni as out­dated and out of touch with the University. They propose that as current undergrads, now is our time and our opinions should matter more than theirs. We are here now, so we know better than they, the alumni. 
However, this seems inconsistent with a university that prides itself on tradition. 
Perhaps we forget who started our traditions. Who wrote our fight song? Who invented our cheers? Who started the hundreds of clubs and organizations we participate in? Who built our ath­letic program? Our band program? Our academics? 
It is pure arrogance to think that just because we are here now only our opinions matter. 
Who paid for the dorms we live in? Our hall of science? Our performing arts center? 
Alumni have built the foundations of this universi­ty, but many here would like to say that these foun­dations should not affect how we further build in the future. Divided we stand. However, “if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand” (Mark 3:25). If we divorce our University from its foundations, and the cornerstone in partic­ular, how can it stand? 
Perhaps our alumni are the true voice of the University, reminding us of who we are and where we came from. Perhaps the alumni are not out of touch with the University. Perhaps we are out of touch with the University’s foundations. And if so, what a travesty against tradition. 
Sincerely, 
Christopher Damian 
freshman Dillon Hall Nov. 18 
LSU 
Escapism raises concerns 
We are a nation of escapists. 
Escapism is the avoidance of reality by absorption of and the obsession with media (like entertainment) or possibly substances. 
My question is: What is so wrong with the lives of so many people 
Matthew 
that there is a need to “escape” the reality in Lousteau which they live? 
The Daily 
J.K. Rowling is worth 
Reveille
about $1 billion. How did she acquire such fortune? She wrote books about a teen wizard destined to save the world. 
How did Paris Hilton acquire a net worth of about $7 million (excluding daddy’s gratuitous wealth)? I don’t actually know, but I think it’s just a result of her “popularity” and appear­ances on “reality” TV. 
Online games like World of Warcraft (WoW) and Habbo Hotel have upward of 7 million sub­scribers. 
So what? Well, it’s high time we as a society examined the success of some of these indus­tries. 
In WoW, players run around as various races of characters like gnomes or night elves fight­ing other mythical creatures. The game has become “real” for a large number of users. I’ve heard of users with strong characters and lots of virtual money selling their accounts for thousands of dollars. I want to emphasize the fact that, without access to a computer, the account is as useful as Paris Hilton’s intellect. 
Millions of people are spending billions of dollars to “escape” reality in other ways. The financial success pornography enjoys is very hazy, but it’s estimated between $2 billion and $4 billion. That’s a lot of money spent to watch other people have sexual experiences. 
The total revenue of NFL, NBA and MLB is approximately $15.4 billion. Once again, a ridiculous amount of money spent to watch other people do things. 
From what does this willingness to pay for entertainment spring? Is it centered on an aspiration but inability to participate in sex, spell-casting, gnome killing or slam dunking? 

I played football in sixth grade and my team was undefeated. I quit the next year because I didn’t feel like exercising so much. I like foot­ball, but I invest little of anything in it. 
I enjoy watching sports matches as much as and maybe more than the average sports fan, but I’ve attended one professional sporting event in my entire life. I spent my first two years at LSU in our terrific band, so I didn’t have to pay for student tickets. This year I don’t have tickets, and on Saturdays I enjoy a trip to campus to see friends then relax in my apartment for kickoff. 
That said, I can sincerely say my observation of sports or participation in media like video games or movies is strictly for entertainment. My life is currently centered on my occupations as a student. 
A trip down Bob Petit Boulevard on a Friday morning reveals wise choices of some Tiger Land participants. There are quite a number of abandoned cars parked in the parking lots of the various bars, and it shows people made semi-conscious decisions not to drive drunk. Good job, but why be so drunk? 
Yes, I’ve had alcohol before. Yes, I’ve been inebriated enough to vomit before. Why? Without thought my initial answer is: “It’s fun.” But after thinking, I can’t think of a viable rea­son to be that intoxicated. A beer or two to lighten the mood is pleasant and tasty, but why do “beverages” that violate the palette like Natty Light or Everclear even exist? Just to get drunk. 
School is hard, but it’s not like a terminal ill­ness. Existing in this reality is not that bad, I promise. Play football yourself or soberly shoot the bull with friends. 
You probably won’t kill brain cells or get so emotionally caught up in a game that you punch somebody in the real world. 
This column first appeared in the Nov. 19 edition of The Daily Reveille, the daily newspa­per serving Louisiana State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Can’t teach heart 
With respect to our football team, although they are incredible athletes, you guys have no heart. I expect that every student on this campus — most of whom know next to nothing about football — will be reaming head coach Charlie Weis for the loss of the football team to the University of Connecticut. 
The thing that none of you students realize is that Coach Weis showed no shortcomings in leading our team. Although our defense lacked preparation, that is not why we lost. We lost because our Fighting Irish lack heart. Heart is not something you can teach, it is some­thing that can be instilled not by words, and rarely by actions; it is something that grows among the team. 
Students and fans, our team does not lose because of Coach Weis, it loses because of a lack of heart. 
Oliver Chmell 
sophomore Morrissey Manor Nov. 21 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 
Scene
page 12 Monday, November 23, 2009 

By JESS SHAFFER 
Scene Editor 
Thursday at midnight, “Twilight” fans of all ages flocked to theaters to be the first to see their favorite vampires and werewolves, and the mortal high school girl they fight for, back on the big screen. 
“New Moon,” the second chapter of the “Twilight Saga,” takes on the love triangle of Bella (Kristen Stewart), a high school senior stuck in the middle of dangerous, emotionally deep, and perpetually shirtless, immortal monsters with hot bodies. 
Left by her alleged soul mate, Edward Cullen (Robert Pattinson), resident small town vampire, Bella fights off depression and tries to pick up the pieces of her life. Conveniently, her friend Jacob Black (Taylor Lautner) is more than happy to help, hoping to get a shot at Bella’s romantic affections. Less conveniently, Jacob turns out to be a werewolf, who’s a sworn enemy of Bella’s absent ex and all vampires for that matter. Let the drama of high school love found and lost ensue; but perhaps less pre­dictably, the supernatural takes the classic teenage love story to strange extremes and fantastical ends. 
For most viewers who went to go see “New Moon” on opening weekend, the plot of the film was all too familiar. Undoubtedly, those who were first in line to see “New Moon” were most likely part of the many millions of Stephanie Meyer’s book fan base. Whether they lined up in “Team Edward” or “Team Jacob” tees or they carried copies of “New Moon” to the theatre with them for com­parison reasons, audiences clearly were not going to be taken by surprised by any of “New Moon’s” plot points. Instead, most were looking to see the story of the werewolf or vampire of their dreams brought to life on the big screen. 
The fans could look for several improvements on the film saga, which is now under the direction of Chris Weitz. Leaving behind the obnoxious shifting camera work of Catherine Hardwicke’s “Twilight,” “New Moon” drops the hazy, blue tint that characterized the touch of the series’ previous director. But clear and vivid frames are not Weitz’s only improvement. It seems that other aspects of the series have also lost their cheesy, overly dramatic undertones. Opting for minimalism, Weitz’s special effects of superhuman vampire strength and speed and werewolf shape shifting are less detailed by lacking computer effects and instead are gladly left up to the imagination. Additionally, drastic improvements were made to wardrobe, over the top makeup, and Pattinson’s inability to fake an American accent in the first film. 
While Stewart’s Bella spends most of the film in a depressed walking emotional coma, this seems to suit Stewart’s minimal acting capabilities. Fortunately, since “Twilight,” Stewart has cut down on excessive lip biting and instead sticks to an appropriately blank, dejected expression, oddly akin to her resting face. Despite Bella’s emotional trauma, the film is thankfully littered with humorous one-liners that are undeniably lame but some­how manage to keep the film from becoming a painstaking emotional drain. 
The film is also kept afloat by three other factors—a hip indie soundtrack, a relatively likeable cast of minor char­acters and shirtless male hotties. It seems that Weitz pre­dicted that anytime the plot slows or gets particularly pathetic, the foolproof complement is for an attractive male lead to lose his shirt. Based off the sighs and screams emitted from theatres this weekend, Weitz guessed right. And when the abs of Pattinson or Lautner were absent, glimpses into the personalities of minor characters like Alice or Jessica, who were mostly neglected in the first film, provided a happy distraction. 
Though much of “New Moon” seems to deal in dream-scape, and Bella’s nightmares and hallucinations, the film’s take on the subconscious is nothing remarkable. Floating apparitions of Edward that Bella sees in her ex-boyfriend’s absence intermittently appear throughout the film, but are less than impressive if not readily available to criticism. 
Still, on the whole, while the supernatural and the subcon­scious may be nothing special in the filming of the “Twilight Saga,” the film does an average handling of a fantastic subject material that is admittedly difficult to bring to the screen. 
On the whole, “New Moon” provides a satisfactory fix for Twilight fans, who drool over Edward and Jacob and can’t wait to see Bella’s story brought to the accessibility of the big screen. Objectively, outside of its remarkably enthusias­tic fan base, the “Twilight Saga” has little new to offer dra­matically, theatrically or mythologically. For the average viewer, who had never heard of Bella Swan, Jacob Black and Edward Cullen, “New Moon” would seem an absurd, B-list Lifetime movie take on a romance novel. But seeing as Bella Swan, Jacob Black and Edward Cullen are unar­guably sitting at the metaphorical “cool kids table” of liter­ature along with the likes of Harry Potter, it’s unlikely that anyone with a pulse can go without hearing the names of these characters at one point or another. Under that condi­tion of unfathomable popularity, “New Moon” provides a welcome, highly anticipated film complement to a much obsessed-over book. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd.edu 


By ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
It’s the cinematic phenomenon that’s had teenagers across the nation talking for months. Stephenie Meyer’s creation of a secret world of mythical beings hidden amidst present-day society has spawned a pop-cultural revolution, with vampire-themed movies, music and TV series pop­ping up everywhere. And the books and movies are not the only aspects of the series in high demand right now. The movie soundtrack is a vital part of the franchise as well. The “New Moon” soundtrack was scheduled for release Oct. 20, but the release date was moved up to Oct. 16, due to fans’ “overwhelming and unprecedented demand,” according to Summit Entertainment. 
Meyer’s personal music tastes certainly play into the movie soundtrack itself. The famed author of the “Twilight” series mentioned her own diverse music inter­ests in a recent MTV interview, listing albums such as Animail Collective’s “Merriweather Post Pavilion,” Silversun Pickups’ “Swoon” and White Rabbits’ “It’s Frightening.” 
The stellar soundtrack is certainly tied to the movie’s plot and character development, but after just one listen, it’s clear that it could stand on its own as an eclectic indie rock album. It’s an excellent mix of original songs exclusively recorded for the soundtrack from popular alternative rock bands like the Killers, Muse and OK Go and such lesser-known indie rock artists as Band of Skulls and Hurricane Bells. 
The album begins with a lead single from the endearing­ly emotional Washington State-based indie rock band Death Cab for Cutie, entitled “Meet Me on the Equinox.” 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH | Observer Graphic 
According to MTV, where the single debuted during the 2009 Video Music Awards, bassist Nick Harmer claims that the band the song “to reflect the celestial themes and motifs that run throughout the ‘Twilight’ series and we wanted to capture that desperate feeling of endings and beginnings that so strongly affect the main characters.” 
Next is an upbeat track from lesser-known British alt rock band Band of Skulls, entitled “Friends,” that captures the value of adolescent main character Bella’s friendship with the Cullen family as a consequence of her relationship with Edward, with the chorus’ lyrics, “I need love / Cause only true is true / I need every wakin’ hour with you / And my friends cause they’re so beautiful …” The minimalist electronic sound of Radiohead lead singer Thom Yorke’s “Hearing Damage” also provides insightful lyrics that truly portrays Bella’s view of Edward, “And you can do no wrong / In my eyes, in my eyes.” 
The Killers’ “White Demon Love Song” begins with a graceful piano riff and quickly leads into Brandon Flower’s distinctive low-pitched falsetto vocals. The breathy rasp of Anya Marina’s “Satellite Heart” gives a sense of security yet is an obvious attack at Edward’s character, with the lyrics, “So pretty, so smart / Such a waste of a young heart / What a pity, what a sham / What’s the matter with you, man?” 
“I Belong to You (New Moon Remix)” by Muse, reportedly one of Meyer’s favorite bands, provides the typically angsty, yet orchestral sound for which the English alt rock band is known, with its falsetto and vibrato lead vocals. Bon Iver & St. Vincent’s “Roslyn” contains singer-songwriter Justin Vernon’s distinctive high-pitched lead vocals and provides insight with the lyrics, “Up with your turret / Aren’t we just terrified? / Shale, screen your worry / From what you won’t ever find.” 
The Editors’ “No Sound But The Wind” has the same orchestral piano sound and deep, low lead vocals as The National and contains the level of emotion necessary to portray Bella’s adolescent heartache, seen throughout the sequel. The soft musings of soundtrack producer Alexandre Desplat on piano with “New Moon (The Meadow)” gives a sense of finality to the album and to the movie itself. It’s a very classical-sounding orchestral arrangement but in spite of the lack of lyrics, the shifts in dynamics throughout appropriately parallel a change in emotion. 
Overall, the soundtrack is a well-produced eclectic mix of indie and alt rock songs that not only sound fantastic but also help to portray the movie’s themes and further the character and plot development. 
Contact Alex Kilpatrick at ackilpat@hotmail.com 

The Observer 
Scene
Monday, November 23, 2009 page 13 

Observer Graphic | MARY CECILIA MITSCH 
page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, November 23, 2009 
NFL 
Chiefs pull out victory over Steelers 27-24 in OT 
22-yard field goal by Succop with 8:28 left in OT seals victory; QB Roethlisberger leaves with concussion 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — When the last player drafted in 2009 trotted onto the field, the best team of 2008 was doomed. 
A few minutes after Ben Roethlisberger wobbled off the field Sunday with a possible concussion, Ryan Succop kicked a 22-yard field goal with 8:28 left in overtime and the Kansas City Chiefs snapped a team-record 10-game home losing streak with a victory over the stunned Pittsburgh Steelers. 
Chris Chambers’ 61-yard catch-and-run set up Succop, and “Mr. Irrelevant” booted through the game-winner for the Chiefs (3-7), 
Taylor dropped a possible interception. 
“This job is not for the faint of heart,” said a beaming Todd Haley, the Chiefs’ rookie coach. 
Matt Cassel had a horrendous first half, passing for only 35 yards on four completions. But he came through in the final two quarters and overtime, fin­ishing with 248 yards and two touchdowns. 
“I’ve got to hand it to [Cassel], the kid’s a fighter,” said Haley, who grew up accompanying his father to Steelers training camp, where the elder Haley worked as a personnel execu­tive. Haley lost to Pittsburgh in last year’s Super Bowl when he 
was Arizona’s 
whose stadium was crammed with tens of  “I think we lost the momentum in the  offensive coordi­nator. “It’s nice to get  
thousands of t o w e l -w a v i n g fans of the Steelers (6-4).  third quarter with all the turnovers and stuff like that.”  a little reward against a team like that. I thought the guys  
Roethlisberger  really  showed  
had thrown for 398 yards and three touch- Hines Ward Steelers receiver  heart and guts,” he said. The Chiefs  
downs when he  faced third down  

apparently took a knee to the when Cassel connected with helmet while being sacked by Chambers, who was signed Derrick Johnson and gave way three weeks ago off waivers to Charlie Batch. Coach Mike from San Diego. He went 61 Tomlin said he was not certain yards before he was pushed out how severe the injury might be. of bounds at the 4. 
“He took a blow, needless to Succop, the final player draft-say, it was a concussion-orient-ed in April, came in and ed thing so I doubt he was clinched the Chiefs’ first home going to come back into the victory in more than a year. football game,” Tomlin said. “I Succop also had a 27-yarder don’t have a lot of information that tied it 17-all in the final in terms of where he is or his seconds of the third quar­level of availability. We will ter. have more information as we It was the second loss in a proceed.” row for the Steelers, who have 
Just before Chambers’ big fallen twice to division rival play, Steelers cornerback Ike Cincinnati and were without injured Pro Bowl safety Troy Polamalu. Defensive end Chris Kemoeatu also went out with a knee injury. 

In regulation, the Steelers (6­
4) had the ball for almost 19 minutes longer than the Chiefs (3-7) and outgained them 463­
206. The Chiefs stayed in it with Jamaal Charles’ 97-yard return of the opening kickoff and Andy Studebaker’s 94-yard return of an interception. 
“I think we lost the momen­tum in the third quarter with all the turnovers and stuff like that,” said Steelers wide receiv­er Hines Ward, who had 10 catches for 128 yards, includ­ing an 8-yard touchdown. “When you let a team hang around like that, you give them a chance. When you give them hope, they thrive off the crowd noise. They took it into over­time and did what they had to do.” 
Studebaker, making his first NFL start, picked off Roethlisberger’s pass 2 yards deep in the end zone in the third quarter and motored to the Steelers 8 before running back Rashard Mendenhall dragged him down. 
“Once I picked it off, 100 yards looked like a long way,” he said. “It was a fun play.” 
But Cassel was sacked twice in the next three plays, and the Chiefs had to settle for Succop's 27-yarder. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Forcier commits fve turnovers, Ohio State rolls by Michigan 
record nine-loss season in Rich Terrelle Pryor wasn’t spectac-desperately needed the feel-and that TD catch. 
Associated Press 
Rodriguez’s debut year with ular, but didn’t make many good victory to take some heat Forcier was 23 of 38 for 226 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. — Tate college football’s winningest mistakes and made a key throw off him — especially with an yards and a touchdown to Forcier threw four intercep-program. after Michigan pulled within NCAA investigation looming Vincent Smith that made it 14­tions and fumbled in his end Michigan has endured con-four points. He perfectly lofted over his program. 10 with 10:05 left in the third zone, and No. 9 Ohio State took secutive losing years for the a screen pass to Dan Heron, Jim Tressel, meanwhile, quarter. He had not thrown advantage to beat Michigan 21-first time since the 1962-63 whose 12-yard touchdown gave extended Ohio State’s longest more than one interception in a 10 Saturday for its sixth seasons. the Buckeyes a 21-10 lead. winning streak in the suddenly game this season until throwing straight win in the series. Forcier’s first turnover came That proved to be enough to lopsided series and matched four against the Buckeyes. 
The Buckeyes (10-2, 7-1) on his first drive, a fumble that beat Michigan, which played the best run in the rivalry since Michigan’s Roy Roundtree clinched an outright Big Ten Cameron Heyward recovered to perhaps one of its best games Michigan won six in a row in caught nine passes for 116 championship and will play in give Ohio State a 7-0 lead. The of the season but still had noth-the 1920s. yards. the Rose Bowl with a five-game freshman threw three intercep-ing to show for it. Pryor finished 9 of 17 for 67 Ohio State’s Kurt Coleman winning streak. tions in the fourth quarter, Rodriguez said earlier in the yards with a TD and an inter-made two interceptions, the 
The Wolverines started the ruining Michigan’s chances to week the Wolverines would not ception, off a deflection. He second coming after a video season 4-0 and ended it 5-7. come back in a game it trailed be “doomed” if they were shut also ran for 74 yards, while review at the Buckeyes 6 early The flop came after a school-14-10 in the third. out of the bowl picture. But he Herron had 96 yards rushing in the fourth quarter. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES  PART TIME WORK $14.25 base- If you or someone you care about  Rob: How many times does it take  
FOR RENT  ———————————————  appt., no experience needed, cus­tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835.  PERSONAL  has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit  the chicken to cross the road? Mike: What kind of question is that?  
———————————————­WANTED  PART TIME WORK $14.25 base- Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu  It’s not about how many times the chicken crosses the road, it’s a  
522 Napoleon Street: 1-2 student  appt., no experience needed, cus- UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  question of why.  
Nice ktchn,bath,2bdrm,storage  tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835.  not go it alone. Notre Dame has  Rob: Ah, so you’re from the school  
Washer/dryer. 5 blks W. off ND Ave.  many resources in place to assist  Considering Adoption? ND Alums  of Aristotelian thought. You are  
$580/mo+utl (219)629-5483  CHILDCARE Needed for Catholic  you. If you or someone you love  Hoping to Adopt. If you are an  more concerned with the why then  
Irish Crossings and Dublin Village 3  family, 8-10 hours per week, in Granger, $8 per hour. Must have  NOTICES  needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at  expectant mother searching for a family, please see our website at  the facts. See, I’m from the Pythagorean school of thought. I  
and 4 bdr, furnished and unfur­ own transport.  1-17819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For  http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro­ look at the facts first, then I deter­ 
nished. January and June 2010  althoffamy@yahoo.com or 574-271­ more information, visit ND's website  file.net.  mine the reasoning behing them.  
leases available. www.cespm.info  0383.  ALTERATIONS. Call 574-675-9214  at:  Mike: Never talk to me again.  
Call 574-968-0112.  (9-5) Michele.  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Around t eNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Monday, November 23, 2009 
page 15 
NCAA Football AP Top 25 
team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Alabama 2 3 Texas 3 4 TCU 4 5 Cincinnati 5 6 Boise State 6 7 Georgia Tech 7 8 Pittsburgh 8 9 Ohio State 9 10 Oregon 11 11 Oklahoma State 12 12 Penn State 13 13 Iowa 15 14 Virginia Tech 16 15 Clemson 18 16 Oregon State 20 17 LSU 10 18 Brigham Young 19 19 Miami (Fla.) 21 20 Mississippi NR 21 California NR 22 Utah 23 23 North Carolina NR 24 Southern California 22 25 Houston 24 
NCAA Football BCS Top 25 
team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Alabama 2 3 Texas 3 4 TCU 4 5 Cincinnati 5 6 Boise State 6 7 Georgia Tech 7 8 Oregon 11 9 Pittsburgh 9 10 Ohio State 10 11 Iowa 13 12 Oklahoma State 12 13 Penn State 14 14 Virginia Tech 15 15LSU 8 16 Oregon State 19 17 Miami (Fla.) 20 18 Clemson 23 19 Brigham Young 22 20 Southern California 18 21 Utah 21 22 California 25 23 Houston 24 24 North Carolina NR 25 Mississippi NR 



around the dial 
NFL 
Titans at Texans 
8:30p.m., ESPN 
NCAABasketball 
Texas vs. Iowa 
10 p.m., ESPN2 
NASCAR 

Johnson wins fourth straight championship 
Associated Press 
HOMESTEAD, Fla. — All Jimmie Johnson ever want­ed was a chance to race with the best in NASCAR. Maybe even win a race or two. 
Never did he expect to be a champion. 
Especially four times over. 
Johnson bulldozed his way into the record books by becoming the first driver in NASCAR history to win four consecutive championships, finishing fifth in Sunday’s season-finale at Homestead-Miami Speedway. He joins Richard Petty (7), Dale Earnhardt (7) and teammate Jeff Gordon (4) as the only drivers to win more than three titles. 
“To do something that’s never been done in the sport, and love the sport like I do and respect it like I do and the greats — Petty, Earnhardt, Gordon — to do something they have never done is so awesome,” Johnson said. “And to win four championships in eight years, what this team has done — this is unbeliev­able.” 
Yes, it is. 
Johnson now stands atop NASCAR as a one-man dynasty, much like Tiger Woods, Roger Federer and Lance Armstrong in their sports. 
Only Johnson hasn’t been feted under a blizzard of confetti by himself. His mighty Hendrick Motor-sports team rules NASCAR the way UCLA once domi­nated the hardwood or Michael Jordan’s Chicago Bulls reigned supreme. 
Johnson’s title gave a record 12th overall champi­onship to team owner Rick Hendrick, who was in North Carolina with a niece who’s awaiting an emergency liver transplant. In his absence, the team took the top three spots in the final standings. Mark Martin wound up with his fifth runner-up finish in the standings, while Gordon was third. 
“I feel really, really blessed to have had a chance,” Martin said. 
There’s seemingly plenty of chances left for Johnson’s tag-team with crew chief Chad Knaus to keep the No. 48 in the title hunt for another decade. 
The 34-year-old Califor­nian on Friday signed a five-year contract extension to drive for Hendrick through 2015, and Knaus has insist­ed the No. 48 team can keep this pace for the next sever­al years. 
“He’s not done yet,” team­mate Martin said. 
No, he is not. 
Johnson never let up in pursuit of the championship, even though he needed only to finish 25th or better to get it Sunday. But he pushed for all 400 miles and even threatened to try to run down the leaders to better his eventual fifth-place fin­ish. 
IN BRIEF 
Larry Bird, Magic Johnson, lead Hall of Fame class 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Larry Bird and Magic Johnson have been linked since their epic 1979 NCAA title game. Now they’re going into college basketball’s hall of fame together. 
Bird and Johnson were inducted into the National Collegiate Hall of Fame on Sunday in Kansas City. The honor comes 30 years after Johnson’s Michigan State team beat Bird and Indiana State in a game that reshaped college basketball. 
Johnson will be joined by his coach, Jud Heathcote, and late Oklahoma star Wayman Tisdale will be represented by his wife. 
Travis Grant, college basketball’s career scoring leader, longtime coach Gene Bartow, former NCAA executive director Walter Byers and USA Basketball executive director Bill Wall also will be inducted. 
Holmgren interested in helping struggling Browns 
CLEVELAND — Former Seattle and Green Bay coach Mike Holmgren is interested in working for the struggling Cleveland Browns. 
Holmgren said on his weekly radio show on Seattle’s KJR that he has not yet spoken to Browns owner Randy Lerner, who is look­ing for a “serious, credible leader” football authority to run his struggling team. However, Holmgren did indicate he would welcome the chance to take on a rebuilding project like the 1-8 Browns. 
“It takes a tremendous amount of energy, but there is a certain appeal there,” the 61 -year-old Holmgren. “There’s something in my personality, too, that taking on those types of projects, that kind of gets me going. But there’s a lot of work to do. 
Ku Klux Klan members protest at Ole Miss game 
OXFORD, Miss. — About a dozen hooded Ku Klux Klan members ral­lied briefly at the University of Mississippi before Saturday’s football game with No. 10 LSU. 
The members of the Mississippi White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan spent about 10 minutes waving flags, displaying Nazi-style salutes and occasionally gesturing at a group of about 250 hecklers that included young children. They were protesting the school’s decision to drop a pep song that included “Dixie.” 
Some fans had been ending the song by chanting, “The South will rise again.” Chancellor Dan Jones asked the band to stop playing the song after fans ignored a request to drop the chant. 
The Klan said it was protesting over lost Southern symbolism at Ole Miss, which has been rocked by racial strife before. 
page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 23, 2009 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Oregon tops Arizona, Rose Bowl now in sight 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. — Oregon quarterback Jeremiah Masoli watched as red-clad Arizona students ringed the sidelines as time ticked down, ready to rush the field. 
“I saw it and I actually smirked,” Masoli said. “It was kind of funny. I wasn’t really worried about it.” 
The Ducks’ gifted quarter­back ruined the celebration in Arizona Stadium and started another one in Eugene. 
Masoli tied it with a touch­down pass to Ed Dickson with six seconds left, then won it with a 1-yard run in the second overtime as No. 11 Oregon defeated Arizona 44-41 on Saturday night and took a big step toward the Pac-10 title. 
The Ducks (9-2, 7-1 Pac-10) will earn a Pac-10 title and Rose Bowl berth with a victory over No. 20 Oregon State in a winner-take-all Civil War on Dec. 3 in Eugene. 
Masoli threw for three scores and ran for three more as the Ducks rallied from a 24-14 deficit early in the fourth quar­ter. 
“Our guys didn’t flinch,” Oregon coach Chip Kelly said. 
Nick Foles threw four TD passes for Arizona (6-4, 4-3), which was eliminated from Rose Bowl contention. 
“That was a real tough loss, especially for the kids,” said Arizona coach Mike Stoops, whose team lost for the first time at home. “We did really well tonight with getting Oregon out of their comfort zone. They’ve got a very good quar­terback, and that is definitely what makes the difference.” 
Facing relentless pressure from the Wildcats, Masoli strug­gled at times, fumbling twice and throwing an interception that led to Arizona’s first score. 
But Masoli was there when the Ducks needed him most. He was unstoppable late in the game, then took over in over­time. 
After Masoli hit Jeff Maehl for a 4-yard score on Oregon’s first overtime possession, Foles hit Juron Criner with a 3-yard strike to tie it at 38-38. 
In the second OT, Oregon forced Arizona to settle for a 41-yard field goal by Alex Zendejas. 
A touchdown would win it for Oregon, and Masoli quickly pro­duced it. 
He hit Dickson for 22 yards, and three plays later Masoli bulled over from a yard out. 
“I was just resolved,” Masoli said. “I’m just really happy with the result and really proud of our guys.” 
NBA 
Knicks fall to Celtics in OT 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Kevin Garnett made a jumper to beat the overtime buzzer, giving the Boston Celtics a 107-105 vic­tory over the New York Knicks on Sunday. 
Paul Pierce scored a season-high 33 points, and had all of Boston’s points in overtime until the final shot. Two Knicks followed Pierce on the final play, leaving Garnett wide open from the top of the key for his 19-footer. 
Garnett and Ray Allen had miserable shooting nights, but Rajon Rondo finished with 14 points, 10 assists and nine rebounds as Boston won for the second time in five games. 
Reserve Al Harrington scored 30 points and David Lee had 22 points and 15 rebounds for the Knicks, who had won their previous two games. 
The Celtics opened a big lead and blew all of it in a see­saw third quarter, then rallied to force overtime and improve to 17-4 against the Knicks since the 2004-05 season. 
Pierce opened overtime with a 3-pointer and his jumper later made it a four-point game, but Lee’s dunk tied it again with 9.3 seconds left, setting up Garnett’s winning shot. 
The Celtics, whom coach Doc Rivers said had been playing “awful” recently, needed a big afternoon from Pierce while his remaining Big Three teammates struggled. Garnett was 4 of 15 for 10 points, while Allen was 3 of 13 for his 13 points. 
Both made big shots late in regulation, though, and Kendrick Perkins chipped in with 16 points and 13 rebounds. 
Nate Robinson rebounded from a poor decision Saturday with a strong game Sunday, scoring 19 points off the bench. The Knicks fell to 3-10 in the opener of consecutive games against the last two NBA champions. They start a 
three-game  trip  Tuesday  
against  the  Los  Angeles  
Lakers.  

Perkins had two baskets and Pierce made a 3-pointer, forc­ing the Knicks to call timeout early in the third quarter. Rondo then stole the inbounds pass when they returned, set­ting up Pierce’s free throws that capped a 11-0 run out of halftime and made it 67-53. 
The Knicks had more passes into the seats (2) than baskets 
(1) in the first four minutes of the period, then suddenly turned it around as quickly as they’d fallen apart. 
Harrington made three 3­pointers in a 20-6 surge that tied it at 75, Robinson made a 3 to snap a 77-all tie, and Harrington’s follow shot made it 82-77 heading to the fourth. 
New York led for nearly the entire period before Allen’s 3­pointer gave Boston a 96-94 advantage with 2:47 left. Lee tied it again with 1:19 to play, but Garnett knocked down a jumper 12 seconds later. 
The Knicks got the ball back following a couple of question­able calls and no-calls and tied it on Harrington’s free throws with 4.7 seconds remaining. Rondo missed a 3­pointer as time expired. 
Eddy Curry had six points in his first home game since March 2008. He received a decent ovation when he checked in with 3:32 left in the first quarter, then depart­ed the game after shoving Rondo down and getting whis­tled for a flagrant foul with 
5:21 remaining in the fourth. 
Pierce scored 14 points in the first quarter, making all three 3-point attempts, as the Celtics built a 30-22 lead. Boston led 56-53 at halftime following a lengthy second period in which 15 fouls were called. 
Robinson had only 11 points in three games since his return from sprained right ankle, going scoreless Saturday while playing just six minutes. His shot into the wrong basket just after the first-quarter buzzer, frequent­ly replayed Saturday night, angered Mike D’Antoni, but the Knicks coach insisted Robinson hadn’t been benched and that they were past it. 

Monday, November 23, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NHL 
Maple Leafs top Caps in shootout 
Associated Press 
TORONTO — Phil Kessel, Niklas Hagman and a couple of good bounces helped pull the Toronto Maple Leafs out of another extended winless slide. 
The Toronto forwards scored shootout goals in a 2-1 victory over the Washington Capitals on Saturday night, giving the Maple Leafs their first victory in six games. 
It’s the first time Toronto has won a game in extra time all season. 
Hagman also scored in reg­ulation for the Maple Leafs (4-11-6). 
Alex Ovechkin replied for Washington (13-5-5) with his 16th of the season. 
The Maple Leafs were for­tunate to be facing a team that was not only playing for the second straight night, but also missing seven players due to injury. 
Toronto also got some badly needed bounces. 
Capitals forward Eric Fehr had his stick break during his shootout attempt, Washington hit a couple posts late in the third period, and Hagman’s goal beat Semyon Varlamov after a couple quick redirec­tions. 
No stat better highlights the gap between teams at the top and bottom of the conference than one that came to light after Ovechkin opened the scoring at 17:11 of the first period. The goal gave the Caps the lead — something they’ve held at some point in all 23 games this season — and marked the 18th time in 21 games the Leafs have sur­rendered the first goal. 
Ovechkin’s goal was classic No. 8. He took a nifty pass from streaking defenseman Mike Green and beat Vesa Toskala with the kind of quick, hard shot that only a handful of players in the world would be capable of unleashing. 
The Maple Leafs were actu­ally unfortunate to find them­selves trailing after carrying much of the play, highlighted by a pair of solid penalty kills. 
Toronto fought back to tie it with the kind of goal a team hard on its luck needs. Hagman was skating hard to the goal when Jason Blake’s shot banked off a Caps defender and hit Hagman before getting past Varlamov at 16:49 of the second period. 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Alabama rolls, stays unbeaten 
Associated Press 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. — No. 2 Alabama was still celebrating Mark Ingram’s second long touchdown run when coach Nick Saban told his star tail­back to take the rest of the day off. 
Ingram ran for 102 yards and TDs of 25 and 40 yards in the first 20 minutes, then happily yielded the stage while the Crimson Tide breezed to a 45-0 win over Chattanooga on Saturday. 
“Just get in, get a good day’s work, execute and have some success. Then let the other people get the playing time they deserve,” Ingram said. 
Yes, the Tide (11-0) did make it seem just that easy. 
Alabama raced to a 35-0 halftime lead and showed no signs of a letdown ahead of games with rival Auburn and No. 1 Florida. That enabled the starters to take a break in the second half against the Mocs (6-5), although Ingram and the Tide still managed a few highlight-reel plays. 
Javier Arenas set the SEC career record with his sev­enth punt return for a touch­down, sprinting 66 yards down the right sideline in the second quarter. He also had an interception. 
Julio Jones caught a 44­yard pass and scored on a 19­yarder from Greg McElroy. 
The stats were perhaps even more lopsided than the final score. The Tide had a 422-84 advantage in total yards, gained 313 on the ground and had five players with at least 60 yards rush­ing. They also had 26 first downs while holding Chattanooga to five. 
It only seemed like a pres-sure-free game. Saban warned his team of the reper­cussions of a huge upset, even beyond their national title hopes. 

“I told the players if we had lost this game today, there would be nothing else that would tarnish what you’ve accomplished more than that. You would someday be an NFL player in a Mercedes-Benz and roll your window down to talk to a pretty girl and she’d say, ‘You lost to Chattanooga when you played at Alabama,’“ Saban said. “Nobody would ever forget that one.” 
Instead, it’ll be forgotten quickly with the Iron Bowl awaiting six days later. 
This was the sixth time the Tide’s defense had held an opponent to seven points or less this season, but the first shutout since last year’s 36-0 win over Auburn. 
“We played a good football team and I don’t know if there was much we could have done to be better than this,” said first-year Mocs coach Russ Huesman, who led a turnaround after a 1-11 sea­son. 
Ingram managed his sixth 100-yard effort of the last seven games despite carrying only 11 times. The Heisman Trophy candidate broke three tackles and had two defend­ers draped across his back at the end of the 25-yard touch­down run in the first quarter. 
Then, Ingram zigzagged 40 yards for another score 5 minutes into the second quar­ter on his final carry. Then he headed to the sidelines and Saban told him he “was pretty much done.” 
“I’m sure we could have left him in today and he could have had a huge day,” Saban said. “He gained 100 yards. That’s a good day’s work when you come out with 10 minutes to go in the second quarter.” 
McElroy was 6-of-11 pass­ing for 80 yards, including that 19-yard touchdown pass to Jones, before giving way to backup Star Jackson in the second half. Jones caught three passes for 65 yards, all in the first half. 
After that, Alabama attempted only five passes, content to control the ball against the Southern Conference team and let the clock wind toward bigger games. It was the finale at Bryant-Denny Stadium for 27 Alabama seniors. 
“Just about every senior on our team got to play in the game,” Saban said. “It was good that the players came out and played Alabama foot­ball so those guys got a chance to play.” 
Arenas wasn’t the only Bama special teamer in record territory. Leigh Tiffin kicked a 41-yard field goal, tying the school records for kicks made in a season (25) and career (78). 
Arenas sat out the second half and only got halfway to his ideal final home perform­ance of scoring “a couple of touchdowns” that he stated early in the week. 
“I’ll settle for one,” Arenas said. 
He is 37 yards shy of the Lee Nalley of Vanderbilt’s SEC career punt return record of 1,695 yards, and 103 yards from the NCAA mark set by Texas Tech’s Wes Welker. 
Trent Richardson and Roy Upchurch also rushed for touchdowns. 
Chattanooga twice drove into Alabama territory in the first half, both times failing to convert on fourth-and-long. The first ended with four straight incompletions from the 38, and the second on an interception from the 22. 
“I didn’t feel like bragging about kicking a field goal and having three points on the board,” Huesman said. “You kick field goals to put yourself in position to win games. You don’t kick field goals just because you’re at Alabama trying to put three points on the board.” 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 23, 2009 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Seniors look to make statement in final race 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The women of the Notre Dame cross country team and senior Jake Walker from the men’s team have one final chance to race this season against the nation’s fastest col­legiate runners at the NCAA national meet Monday at Indiana State University. 
“It’s an honor to be here com­peting against some of the best individuals and teams,” sopho­more Rachel Velarde said. “We’ve put in all the miles, workouts, and strength training we can and just have to show all of our hard work tomorrow.” 
After receiving an at-large bid to nationals in 2008, the women finished in 29th place and are hoping to improve that place­ment in this season’s final meet against the nation’s top 31 teams. 
“Last year, we were just really excited to be here, but this year we mean business,” senior Beth Tacl said. “We aren’t here just to participate, but want to re­establish Notre Dame as one of the better teams in the coun­try.” 
A first-place finish for the No. 24 Irish women is unlikely, but the team’s goals this weekend are simply focused on overall improvement for each of the seven women competing. 
“We need to focus more on ourselves, rather than any 
ND FENCING 
Juniors lead Irish to victory at Penn State 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Individual-based fencing tournaments generally do not produce the same excitement seen in regular season inter­collegiate invitation. But fol­lowing an impressive perform­ance at this year’s Penn State Open, Notre Dame is generat­ing momentum that can only serve the team well in the future. 
Several of the Irish returned from State College, Penn., with hardware, as the team accu­mulated two gold medals, one silver medal and one bronze medal. 
“It’s one of the better per­formances in tournament play in, let’s say, 10 years,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. 
The Irish entered the tourna­ment lacking two of the most highly touted fencers in the country in sophomores Courtney Hurley and Gerek Meinhardt. Hurley traveled overseas to compete for an international cup, while Meinhardt fell victim to the flu just before Saturday’s action. 
The sabre proved to be the strongest weapon for the short­handed Irish this weekend, as two of the squad’s more experi­enced fencers carried home the gold. Junior Avery Zuck beat out Aleksander Ochocki and Daniel Bak of Penn State in the men’s sabre, while junior Sarah Borrmann edged Caroline Vloka of Harvard in the women’s. 
Borrmann, the 2008 NCAA champion in women’s sabre, entered the tournament seeded fourth but managed to over­come the odds to improve upon her fifth-place finish last year. 
Junior Eileen Hassett also finished in the top eight, falling to Vloka in the quarterfinals. 
“We are competing individu­ally in the fall semester to build up our position,” Bednarski said. “It was important to show that we still have ambitions to fence against other colleges.” 
The foil also proved to be a source of strength for the Irish and is a weapon in which Bednarski believes his squad features the most depth. Junior Hayley Reese fell to Doris Willette of Penn State in a rematch of last year’s champi­onship, securing the silver medal in the women’s foil. In the men’s, sophomore Enzo Castellani secured the bronze, defeating Nathaniel Botwinick of Yale. 
“Making it to the final 16 is very difficult,” Bednarski said. “It’s a very good performance in one of the toughest individ­ual tournaments in the coun­try.” 
Medaling without two of their top fencers, the Irish at full strength look to be a leading contender for the national title when intercollegiate fencing commences in the spring. 
other team,” women’s coach Tim Connelly said. “We’re not a team that’s going to have a chance to win the whole thing, so the thing we have to do is focus on ourselves more than saying we need to beat certain teams.” 
Since their first place finish at the Great Lakes Regional last weekend, the Irish have been making sure they are physically prepared for Monday’s event. 
“Our big focus in practice was to make sure that we had recovered from the race last week where we raced on a real­ly tough course,” Connelly said. “We took a couple of days to do some easy runs and more stretching. At this point, they’re not going to get any more fit, but I wanted to make sure they were feeling sharp.” 
The runners have been at Indiana State since Friday and ran the course to get a feel for how Monday will go. 
“The kids need to just be con­fident that they’re ready to run well,” Connelly said. “When they get in that point in the race when things begin to hurt, they need to feel like they’re capable of doing it.” 
Though the Notre Dame men did not qualify for Monday’s meet, senior Jake Walker earned the ability to participate as an individual competitor based on his ninth place finish at the Great Lakes Regional meet last weekend. 
“Walker has had steady improvement since the Notre Dame Invitational, and he will represent us well,” men’s coach Joe Piane said. 
Walker placed 76th at last year’s national championship meet and is hoping to improve on that place in order to be awarded All-American status in his final year as a collegiate runner. 
“[Walker] has had two of the best weeks of training in the weeks prior to the regional meet and this week,” Piane said. “He’s as ready as he’s ever going to be.” 
The men’s race begins at 
12:08 p.m. and the women’s begins at 12:58 p.m. at Indiana State’s home course in Terre Haute, Ind. 
MLB 
McNabb, Eagles edge Bears 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Donovan McNabb and the Philadelphia Eagles found a way to pull out a close win. They also hurt the Chicago Bears in the process. 
McNabb threw for 244 yards against his hometown team, LeSean McCoy scored the go-ahead touchdown on a 10-yard run following Antonio Dixon’s block of a field goal attempt, and Philadelphia came away with a 24-20 victory over struggling Chicago on Sunday night after back-to-back close losses. 
The Bears were leading 20-17 when Dixon blocked a 48-yard field goal by Robbie Gould with 11 minutes left. McNabb then led the Eagles (6-4) on a 62-yard touchdown drive that McCoy capped with a neat 10-yard run, sending Chicago to its fifth loss in six games and delivering anoth­er big hit to its playoff hopes. 
Barring a big run, the Bears (4-6) will miss the postseason for the third straight season — cer­tainly not what they expected when they made that big offsea­son trade with Denver for Jay Cutler. 
The Bears had high hopes after that deal, but after a 3-1 start, all the optimism is gone. 
Cutler, who came into the game with a league-leading 17 interceptions, did not get picked off until the final minute. Tracy White tipped a pass, Sean Jones came away with the ball near midfield, and that sealed the win. 
It also allowed the Eagles to exhale after they fell 31-23 to San Diego and 20-16 to Dallas the previous two weeks, putting them in what McNabb said was a must-win situation. 

The veteran quarterback was 23 of 32, and DeSean Jackson caught eight of those passes for 107 yards to lead Philadelphia to the win even though star run­ning back Brian Westbrook missed the game with a concus­sion. 
McNabb’s effort included a 48­yard touchdown pass to Jackson over the middle to give Philadelphia a 17-12 lead with just under six minutes left in the third. 



Monday, November 23, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Individuals shine at unscored meet 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
The Irish swam well and gained confidence over the week­end in the Hoosierland Invite, an unscored meet that gives an opportunity for teams to look at their individual performances. Notre Dame won 11 out of the meet’s 21 events and posting two NCAA B-cut times. 
“Top to bottom, I’m just pleased with the program,” Irish coach Brian Barnes said. “We came out here with the intention to really have fun, and that’s what hap­pened. We came out of this meet with some NCAA ‘B’ times, so it’s just a confident moment. Our team is gaining confidence and we’re improving and it’s a lot of fun.” 
Junior Katie Casey and fresh­man Kim Holden each posted times on the final day of the meet. Casey posted her time in the 200­yard butterfly, a race in which she finished second with a time of 1:59.46, and Holden was victori­ous in 200-yard backstroke, post­ing her B-cut time of 1:57.98. 
The Irish entered the meet with the goal of improving individually, and did just that, as most of the swimmers improved or stayed consistent with their times so far this season. 
“We went in there with good energy and great attitude and great teamwork,” Barnes said. “Really it’s about individual per­formance and individual improvement and monitoring our own improvement within our own team. As a result, we kind of gained some momentum and had a pretty good weekend.” 
The Irish got off to a good start on the first day of the three-day meet, winning four of the six events on day one. Junior Amywren Miller and senior Ashlee Edgell posted individual victories in the 50-yard freestyle and the 200-yard individual med­ley, respectively, while both the Irish 200-yard freestyle relay and 400-yard medley relay teams also achieved the top spots. 
Notre Dame went on to win three out of the seven events on the second day of the meet, earn­ing two individual victories and one from the 200-yard medley relay team, which won its event by a full second. Junior Samantha Maxwell won the 100­yard breaststroke while Holden, Casey and junior Kellyn Kuhlke finished in the top three spots in 100-yard butterfly. 
Maxwell was victorious again on the third day, winning the 200-yard breaststroke by two seconds, while Miller, along with junior Delia Cronin and senior Megan Farrell, led a one-two­three finish in the 100-yard freestyle. It was Casey and Holden who stole the show on the final day, however, by posting their NCAA B-cut performances. 
“I just think the girls are realiz­ing that this is November, and we peak in February and March,” Barnes said. “If they’re seeing this kind of improvement now, I really believe they’re hungry for more. I think they have a glimpse of the potential of this team.” 
The Irish next head to Hawaii after Christmas for a winter training trip before competing again on Jan. 9 in a dual meet against Northwestern, which will take place in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
“I was really happy with our senior class and their leader­ship,” Barnes said. “If this team stays motivated and stays confi­dent and comes into it and works hard, I should get out of their way and allow them to be successful.” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish extinguish Flames with ease 


By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Senior Luke Harangody had a season-high 32 points including all ten free throws he attempted to lead Notre Dame over Liberty 91-72 Sunday night at Purcell Pavilion. 
The Flames kept the game close early, and trailed by only nine points at halftime. The Irish offense ran through Harangody, who had 20 in the first period and was able to draw contact and fouls underneath. 
Harangody was 10-for-14 from the field in the game. 
“The thing about Tory [Jackson] and Luke is they’re great role models for the young guys in our program,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “They play every game the same way, and every practice the same way, and some of our less expe­rienced guys can learn a lot from that.” 
Notre Dame made only six three-pointers in the game, using their size advantage in the post to get to the line and score. Tyrone Nash also had his best offensive performance of the young season, scoring 12 points. 
Brey said that he was pleased with Nash’s scoring effort, but wanted to see more. 
Senior guard Tory Jackson scored nine and junior forward Tim Abromaitis scored 12 off the bench for the Irish, who also out-rebounded the Flames 36­21. 
“I’m really happy with Tim where he’s at,” Brey said. “I told him the other day its like we have six starters, he’s really confident and he should be.” 
The Irish put together a 9-0 run to begin pulling away early in the second half, led by three straight buckets by Harangody. Liberty then trailed 56-40 and the Notre Dame lead was never seriously threatened. 
The Notre Dame lead then rose as high as 28, as two Tory Jackson free throws made the score 77-49. 
Senior guard Jonathan Peoples had eight points and three assists, and junior Ben Hansbrough had a relatively quiet day with six points while dealing with a lingering ankle injury. 
Liberty had five players score in double figures but none tally­ing any higher than 13 points. Forward Patrick Konan had 10 points for the Flames and did not miss a shot from the floor, 
but  fouled  out  guarding  
Harangody.  
The  Irish  had  just  ten  

turnovers despite a deep rota­tion and aggressive defense. 
“When you play a lot of differ­ent guys, and a lot of guys are touching it like that, its good [to have just ten turnovers],” Brey said. “A lot of different guys had the ball in their hands tonight and we only had ten.” 
Brey said ultimately his team’s success will depend on their performance on the defensive end. 
“We’re going to score the ball and we’re good with the ball; can we get back and defend it and keep the penetration out of our paint?” Brey said. “When we slow that down a bit, we’ve got a chance every night.” 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
NBA 
Kobe, Lakers rout Thunder 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — More than two decades ago, after Larry Bird made a shot from behind the backboard that didn’t count in a preseason game, the NBA changed the rule on plays like that. Kobe Bryant was glad they did. 
Bryant duplicated Bird’s memo­rable shot and finished with 26 points, leading the Los Angeles Lakers to a 101-85 rout of the Oklahoma City Thunder on Sunday night and adding yet another clip to his a 14-year NBA highlight reel. 
“You see him do things just fool­ing around with all kinds of shots in practice that you won’t normal­ly see,” teammate Lamar Odom said. “But you expect the impossi­ble, because he’s not scared to take any shot from anywhere on the court. So that's why that’s the result. It’s never a bad shot to him. That’s his mentality. He’s not afraid to shoot it. He understands touch, getting the ball up and staying focused. His concentration is incredible.” 
Bryant thrilled the sellout crowd late in the first quarter when he drove the baseline against rookie guard James Harden, ran out of room and made a desperation fadeaway jumper over the top of the back­board while hanging in the air as his momentum carried him out of bounds near the Lakers’ bench. 
“I was aware that the rule was changed and that you could do that,” said the 11-time All-Star and 2008 MVP, acknowledging that even he was amazed when it went in. “It was just lucky. We had a rabbit’s foot on. I thought I was going to get a three-point play. It seemed like an obvious call to me 
— when the guy just hip-checks you to try to push you out of bounds. I just tried to get enough height on it so that it cleared the board. It was like a putt.” 
The defending NBA champions, who squeaked out a 101-98 over­time win at Oklahoma City on Nov. 3, had this one in control throughout with help from Andrew Bynum’s 25 points and nine rebounds. Bryant also had seven assists and six rebounds. The Lakers forced 19 turnovers and converted them into 25 points. 
“We played against the best team in basketball,” Thunder coach Scott Brooks said. “We did-n’t handle their physical tough­ness. They got into us, we set the offense too far out and turned the ball over. They capitalized on every mistake, and that's what they do. Anytime you play the Lakers, it’s a humbling position to be in.” 
Pau Gasol, playing his second game since coming back from a right hamstring strain, had 15 points, sev.en rebounds and six assists after getting 24 points and 13 boards in Thursday’s 108-93 win against Chicago. The Lakers have won 11 straight against the Thunder-Seattle SuperSonics franchise, and are 9-0 this season when scoring 100 or more points. 
page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 23, 2009 
Rest 
continued from page 24 
not quite at full strength, McGraw said. 
“We have not recovered yet,” 
Half 
continued from page 24 
where we lost and we won,” Clark said. “It was as well as we have played all year. In the sec­ond half, their goalkeeper had to make 10 saves. I am very proud of the way the players played.” 
This dominant statistical per­formance was a result of the Irish keeping the ball in the Northwestern half of the field for most of the second half. The trouble was that when the Wildcats broke out of their defensive half, they made the most of their chances. 
Eight minutes into the second half, the Wildcats began to add cushion to their lead. They countered an Irish attack and got the ball into a good position to cross. The goal again came off the boot of Hillgard, with sopho­more midfielder Peter O’Neill and junior forward Matt Eliason assisting. That goal put Northwestern up 2-0. 
The Irish still kept up the pres­sure, but a second counterattack led to another Northwestern goal in the 67th minute. The ball was again fed across in front of the goal, catching Quinn out of position, and Wildcat junior mid­fielder Piero Bellizzi was able to tap the ball into the open net, putting Northwestern up 3-0. 
Although the game was no longer in doubt, the Irish were she said. “We practiced OK on Friday and we practiced OK on Saturday but not quite to the level that we’d been working. I didn’t feel like there was great intensity and I think that showed tonight.” 
The Irish will have some time 
able to finally break through in the 83rd minute when a loose ball sent into the front of the goal was finished by senior defenseman John Schaefer to crystallize the final tally at 3-1. 
The Irish were disappointed at losing for the second year in a row, but Clark is said he is proud of the way his team played and believes they got a good shot at winning. 
“You get your shot at it, and you have to take it,” Clark said. “In the end, the thing that really counts is the final score.” 
Northwestern has become somewhat of a postseason nemesis for the Irish, as they have lost in the NCAA tourna­ment to them for two consecu­tive years. 
“We always beat them in the preseason friendlies, but that doesn’t count,” Clark said. “It was one of those games we have lost all year where we thought we could win but weren’t able to do it.” 
According to Clark, the Irish are eager to get another crack at Northwestern next year, as they have tentatively scheduled a regular season matchup against them. 
Clark said he believes that the team had a successful season and the players played up to their potential. 
“I really like this team,” Clark said. “They are a good group. You never really reach your goal unless you win it all, but we to rest before they take action again. They will travel to the 
U.S. Virgin Islands for the Paradise Jam beginning Thursday. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
played to our potential. My way of evaluating the year is, if you make it to the playoffs it is a good year, if you make it to the final four it is a really good year, and if you make it to the cham­pionship it is a great year. We had a pretty good season.” 
Despite the fact that the team will lose many of its 11 seniors, including Big East Player of the Year Bright Dike, Clark believes the team will be ready to com­pete again next year. 
“The great thing about coach­ing college sports is that you graduate players and have to find replacements,” Clark said. “We have a strong nucleus of returning players, but it is no use making decisions right now.” 
Clark believes that the Notre Dame players did not disappoint anybody and that they should be proud of the way they played. 
“They certainly did not let me down, and they did not let them­selves down,” Clark said. “There is always disappointment when you lose, but I am very proud of the way these players played.” 
Clark also wanted to thank the fans for what he said was the best year of fan support in his tenure at Notre Dame. 
“It was the best student sup­port I have ever seen all year,” Clark said. “It was a really fun year.” 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Irish fall to Cardinals in Big East Tourney 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s moved its record to 2-1 this weekend as it traveled to the Bluffton University Tip-Off Tournament, losing Friday to Wheaton College and defeating Oberlin in the consolation final Saturday. 
“We struggled our first game because we could not hold our lead during crucial possessions,” sophomore forward Kelley Murphy said. “However, we improved as a team the next game by our aggressive defense, and smart offensive conversions by attacking them with our inside game.” 
Friday saw the Belles fight the Thunder up until the last minute, when Wheaton went on a 5-0 scoring run to win the game 78­
73. The two teams traded the lead 13 times and were tied on 12 occa­sions. 
Four different Belles players scored in double digits. Sophomore forward Jessica Centa led Saint Mary’s with 14 points. Sophomore guards Maggie Ronan and Patsy Mahoney each put in 12 points, while Murphy added 11. Senior forward Anna Kammrath led the Belles for rebounds with nine, fol­lowed by Murphy with eight. Junior guard Liz Wade led in assists with six. 
Saint Mary’s and Wheaton were tied at 42 at halftime, but the Belles were able to hold onto the lead for most of the second half before the Thunder tied it again with 2:57 left with a three-pointer. Kammrath took back the lead at 
2:30 with a layup, but it wasn’t enough to hold onto for a win. The Thunder outscored the Belles by seven points in the final 1:37 of the game. 
“We hope to continue improving our defense and communication in every game and every practice,” Murphy said. 
Saturday afternoon saw a change in pace for the Belles as they defeated Oberlin 74-37. Taking control early in the game with a 10-0 run, Saint Mary’s never looked back. The Yeowomen gained on the Belles within five points, but fell behind as the Belles pushed their lead to 37-16 at the half. Saint Mary’s outscored Oberlin 54-8 in the paint and 37-9 off turnovers as they shot over 40 percent from the floor. 
Murphy led the Belles with a career-high 19 points and 10 rebounds for her first double-dou­ble. She was also named to the All-Tournament Team for her per­formance throughout the week­end. Kammrath had eight points and a game-high 13 rebounds to add to the Belles win. 
Every member of the Belles team scored in the win. 
Up next for Saint Mary’s is North Central College in Naperville, Ill. The Belles will take on the Cardinals at 6 p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 

Monday, November 23, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
Waldrum 
continued from page 24 
chances,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said of the goal. “I thought Henderson did that at the right time for us tonight.” 
The Beavers dominated play in the first half, keeping up constant pressure on the Irish end, but failing to breakthrough with a go ­ahead goal. 
“I think in the first half they were clearly the better team,” Waldrum said. “They dominated play because we really struggled to match up in the middle.” 
The Irish came out in the second half determined to bounce back. 
“We knew we had to pick up our strength and determi­nation,” Augustin said. “If we didn’t come out better in the second half, we weren ’t going to win.” 
After a few personnel changes, Notre Dame flipped the momentum by forcing the issue on offense. Henderson had a field day down the right side, creating a number of chances, including a set up of the game-winner. 
“Henderson was a handful for them on both sides,” Waldrum said. “Her pace was just too much for them to handle. She was the play­er of the match for us tonight.” 
Irish goalkeeper Nikki Weiss was solid again in net, turning away four shots including one from close range with just minutes remaining to conserve her first career solo shutout in the NCAA tournament. 
“I thought we did a better job controlling the game after the goal,” Waldrum said. “They threw everything at us trying to get a goal and we dodged some bullets at the end.” 
The final opportunity of the game for Oregon State came 
off a free -kick from near midfield that ricocheted around the penalty area before finding its way to an open Beaver player. With the defense closing in, the shot was hurried and didn’t have enough power to sneak by Weiss, who tracked it the whole way. 
With the win, the Irish advance to face top-seeded Florida State in the regional final Nov. 27 in Tallahassee, Fla. The Seminoles knocked off a feisty Texas A&M squad 2-1 in double overtime Friday night. 
Next weekend’s matchup with the Seminoles will mark the fourth consecutive year the two teams have met in the NCAA tournament. The Irish are 2-1 in those match­es, including last year’s 2-0 victory in the quarterfinals. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish fall to Cardinals at tourney 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Top-seeded Notre Dame fell for the fifth time in as many years this weekend to fourth-seeded Louisville in the semifinals of the Big East Tournament after sweep­ing Seton Hall Friday. The Irish’s loss snapped their 15-game win­ning streak and ended their unde­feated conference season. 
In the quarterfinals, Notre Dame defeated Seton Hall 3-0 (25-15, 25-15, 25-19) for their 11th sweep of the season. Senior outside hitters Christina Kaelin and Serinity Phillips each record­ed 12 kills in the win, while seven other Irish players recorded kills as well. 
Kaelin recorded three digs and two blocks, while Phillips put in five digs and five blocks. Junior Kelly Sciacca and sophomore Kristen Dealy each recorded seven kills. Sciacca also had three solo blocks. Dealy played the first match of her career without an error as she added in a team-high 11 digs and two aces. Senior set­ter Jamel Nicholas had a match-high 40 assists. 
The Irish hit at a .333 average, holding the Pirates to an average of .094 and ending their first championship appearance since 1994. 
Saturday saw the Irish fall 3-2 (24-26, 25-16, 18-25, 25-16, 15­
13) in the semifinals, the first match of the tournament that went into five sets. 
Dealy led the team with 23 kills, and Louisville native Kaelin added 
17. Sophomore libero Frenchy Silva had 17 kills as well. Phillips put in 10 kills and six digs, while Sciacca had nine kills and Nicholas had 54 kills and 14 digs. 
Big East Freshman of the Year Lola Arslanbekova posted 21 kill and 16 digs for Louisville. 
Louisville led early in the first set, but an ace from junior outside hitter Stephanie Slatt, an Irish scoring rally, and an error from the Cardinals at set point gave Notre Dame the first set. 
The Cardinals dominated the second set from start to finish, building off a 5-1 one and never looking back. They took advan­tage at 17-8, and continued their hitting success to take the second set 25-16. The Irish hit at an only .031 percentage in the set. 
The third set saw the Irish take back the court, started off by a pair of digs from Silva at 6-5 to give them another point. The Irish hit .342 in the third. 
Arslanbekova gave Louisville the lead at 10-5 in the fourth set with three quick kills, later adding four more. Sciacca had a kill at 15-13 and was as close as Notre Dame got to a win. Louisville closed the frame with a 10-3 scor­ing run. 
In the final set, the two teams traded points seven times, but the Irish weren’t able to come out on top as Louisville took the win. 
Notre Dame will next face Florida Saturday, Nov. 28, in Florida before the NCAA champi­onships. 
Note: 
 Irish coach Debbie Brown was named Big East Coach of the Year at the Big East awards ban­quet held Friday. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 23, 2009 
Howard 
continued from page 24 
wide receiver Laura Coletti jumped above the crowd and pulled in Bishop’s pass for an early 7-0 lead. 
“I come from a basketball background, which is all about having good hands,” Coletti said. “That’s what I needed on that play. I just wanted to con­tribute in whatever situation [coach Kyle Carter] put me in. On that play I just did what I was told.” 
The Howard defense built upon the team’s momentum as it stuffed Pasquerilla West (8-1) junior quarterback Simone Bigi on an attempted fourth down run, giving the ball back to Bishop and the Ducks’ offense. 
Bishop wasted no time adding to her team’s early lead, hitting sophomore wide receiv­er Jenny Gassner on a deep corner route to put Howard in front 13-0 after a missed con­version. 
“Getting the big lead early changed everything,” Bishop said. “It was important because we didn’t score in the second half so it became more about maintaining our lead with our defense.” 
As the first half winded down, the Purple Weasels showed some fight, executing a two-minute drill that went the length of the field as Bigi hit junior wide receiver Mary Forr for a touchdown with 12 sec­onds left in the half to make the 

Siegfried 
continued from page 24 
open on a wild touchdown in the Ramblers favor. Meinert threw a quick pass to his left that was twice deflected by St. Edward’s defenders before a Siegfried receiver tracked it down and scampered away from the defense for a long touchdown, giving the Ramblers a 20-0 lead. The unexpected pass’s success only epitomized Siegfried’s running strength. 
“The running game has been our identity all season,” Siegfried senior captain Dex Cure said. “We wanted to dance with the girl we came with.” 
Before the first half ended, the Gentlemen managed a score, only to have Meinert respond on the next play with a long touchdown run of his own for a 29-6 halftime lead. 
The second half was more of the same, with St. Edward’s continuing to struggle to move the ball through the air and Siegfried pounding the ball with the run and gashing the Gentleman defense for long runs. 
“We figured that what we’ve been best at all season is the no-huddle pass,” St. Edward’s junior wide receiver Sean Reed said. “We didn’t want to deviate from that too much.” 
Though St. Edward’s contin­ued to fight, most of their drives ended in punts or inter-score 13-7. 
The second half was a defen­sive effort, as Pasquerilla West tirelessly attempted to get the second touchdown it desperate­ly needed against the stout Howard defense. Bigi and her receiving corps had a hard time getting past the Howard secondary, led by two-way stars Bishop and Robinson. The Purple Weasels’ offensive line also gave up a number of sacks in addition to committing a false start penalty on a key drive. 
When four last Hail Mary passes dropped to the ground, the Ducks completed the biggest victory in hall history and the “team of destiny” cele­brated at midfield of Notre Dame Stadium. 
“It’s inexplicable, how amaz­ing this is,” Carter said. “I woke up four years ago one day, and Howard needed a football coach for a game. They were literally the worst team in the league. Since then it’s been about getting a new set of freshmen, and teaching them how we play offense and how we play defense. We’re building a program and this year we finally had all the pieces in place. It’s amazing.” 
After hoisting the trophy, Howard’s leader, a junior, offered her plans for next year. 
“Win again, of course,” Bishop said. “We’re going to try and come out and have another unbeaten season.” 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
ceptions. The Gentlemen did not help themselves with multi­ple dropped passes. They held nothing back, running multiple trick plays, including a double pass. 
The Ramblers, however, con­tinued to pile on points with multiple runners, including Meinert, sophomore Mike Isaacs and Cure. When the game finally ended, the score­board read 41-12 in favor of the defending champions. The Rambler cheering section rushed the field, celebrating their second interhall football championship in as many years. 
“I’m just very proud of this team,” Cure said. “I’m proud of the way we played throughout the season.” 
The Ramblers also look poised to compete for a “three­peat” next season, losing only five seniors from this year’s team. 
St. Edward’s can only ponder what could have been, especial­ly if star freshman inside line­backer Rob Dillard had not been hurt and had been able to help stop the run. The Gentlemen only lose four play­ers to graduation and look for­ward to competing for a title next year. 
This year, however, the cham­pionship belongs to Siegfried, who will savor the moment. 
“This is a dream come true,” Cure said. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
HOCKEY 
Irish take two wins from Spartans 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
No. 14 Notre Dame improved on a 1-1 shoot out victory at Michigan State Thursday night with a 4-1 rout of the No. 6 Spartans Sunday. 
The Irish (6-5-3, 3-2-3-2 CCHA) gained five points in the conference standings over the weekend, the most in a weekend this year. 
“It’s the first time we’ve gotten five points in a weekend,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “So that is a positive step for us.” 
Thursday’s shoot out was Notre Dame’s third on the sea­son, and second in a row. Ohio State topped the Irish in a shoot out on Halloween, earning an extra point in the CCHA stand­ings, and the Irish gained a point in the same manner by beating Northern Michigan in a shoot out Nov. 15. 
“The shoot out points are cer­tainly beneficial in the confer­ence,” Jackson said. “That is what we are playing for right now, getting as many points in the conference as we can.” 
Freshman goalie Mike Johnson kept the game tied at one despite facing 12 shots in the final 25 minutes of play as Notre Dame committed two major penalties in the third peri­od, earning five minutes of penalty box apiece. 
“Our penalty killers and Mike played extremely well for us to preserve the tie going into over­time,” Jackson said. “The tough thing is that we have been trying to encourage our team to play more physical. … We can’t make those penalties but we do have to stay aggressive.” 
Freshman Kyle Palmieri scored the Irish goal during the second period off of an assist from junior Ian Cole. Johnson made 23 saves on 24 Spartan shots. 
On Sunday Notre Dame did not risk a shoot out. The four-goal offensive outburst set a new season high for goals in one game. 
“I think we played with more urgency in these last two games,” Jackson said of the offensive surge. “We played extremely well in Munn Arena [in East Lansing, Mich.] Thursday night for the first two periods, and then [Sunday] was probably our best 60-minute performance of the season.” 
Three of the Irish goals were in even-strength play, a scenario where Notre Dame has strug­gled to score in all season. Junior Calle Ridderwall and Palmieri both got the Irish on the board in the first period, and freshman Riley Sheahan added another goal in the second. Senior Kevin Deeth sealed the win with a goal on an empty net in the final minute. 
Junior netminder Brad Phillips started for Notre Dame Sunday, and held the Spartans (9-2-3, 6­1-2-0) to one goal on 28 shots. 
“[Phillips] played well last week against Northern Michigan which allowed us to get that shoot out victory,” Jackson said. “Because of that he deserved to come back out.” 
In splitting starts between Johnson and Phillips this week­end, Jackson continued a trend of not clearly picking one as his go-to guy this season. 
“As long as they are both play­ing well [I’ll keep using two dif­ferent goalies],” Jackson said. “If somebody emerges as the go-to guy you’ll know it when it hap­pens.” 
The game was played in Fort Wayne, Ind., as the Irish wanted to get some playing time in at the site of this year’s NCAA Regional, Jackson said. 
“It was a good opportunity for us to play in the venue that is hosting the NCAA Regional this year,” he said. “As the host insti­tution, I’m hoping we’re there. We have a lot of work to do before we get there.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


Monday, November 23, 2009 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
COLIN HOFMAN, JAY WADE and LAUREN ROSEMEYER 
THE MOBILE PARTY 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 
Monday, November 23, 2009 page 24 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Champs crowned 

when the game broke wide SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer body into traffic. Freshman 
Siegfried players run out of the tunnel before Howard players celebrate with the championship see SIEGFRIED/page 22 their 41-12 victory over St. Ed’s Sunday. trophy after beating Pasquerilla West 13-7 Sunday. see HOWARD/page 22 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Defense shines as Notre Dame dismantles Iona 80-45 
what we wanted to do.” of freshman guard Skylar percent shooting. Cook led with 12 points while 
By LAURA MYERS 
Senior forward Becca Diggins, who scored 17 points “I thought we were a little forward Anna McClean followed 
Sports Writer 
Bruszewski set the pace early off the bench. She also grabbed complacent,” McGraw said. “We with 10. McGraw said she was as the Irish got off to an 11-2 four rebounds. weren’t as sharp as we needed especially pleased with Notre Irish coach Muffet McGraw lead to start the game. She fin-The Irish never relinquished to be. I thought we were a little Dame’s containment of has preached defense to her ished with 14 points and three their early lead and did not let lackadaisical.” McClean, who averaged a dou­team all season. rebounds. the Gaels within six for the rest Senior guard Ashley Barlow ble-double in her first three 
On Sunday, it showed. “I thought Becca got us off to of the game while continuing to and sophomore guard Natalie games. 
No. 5/6 Notre Dame (3-0) had a great start in the beginning of widen their lead. Novosel each had five steals on “[McClean] is a great player,” 21 steals and forced 33 total the game,” McGraw said. “She However, this was due more the afternoon as the Irish McGraw said. turnovers Sunday as it cruised came out ready. ... I thought to Notre Dame’s defensive pres-placed continued pressure on After a physically punishing to an 80-45 win over Iona (2-2). Becca was the key defender in sure on Iona than on actual the Gaels. Notre Dame scored 68-67 win Thursday against 
“I was pretty pleased with a that game.” offensive success. The Irish 34 points off of turnovers, in Michigan State, the Irish were lot of what we did defensively,” Bruszewski’s point total was made just 42.4 percent of their comparison to Iona’s 10. McGraw said. “I thought we did second on the team behind that shots, but held the Gaels to 35.7 For the Gaels, guard Thazina see REST/page 20 

WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Augustin helps Irish advance 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame offense couldn’t get much going Friday night against a tough Oregon State defense, but junior Rose Augustin’s blast in the 62nd minute was all they would need. 
Sophomore Melissa Henderson slid a pass into the penalty box that found a wide -open Augustin who calmly one-touched a shot past the Beavers keeper, giv­ing the No. 5/6 Irish (20-3-1) a 1-0 victory over the Beavers (14-8-1) at Alumni Stadium. 
“In games like these, you either play afraid of losing or someone has to step up to the plate and take all the 
see WALDRUM/page 21 

MEN’S SOCCER 
Northwestern foils playoff hopes again 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
Despite a dominating statisti­cal second half and a myriad of scoring opportunities, Notre Dame lost to Northwestern 3-1 Sunday in a repeat of last year’s NCAA tournament loss to the Wildcats. The loss marks the end of the Irish’s season and the beginning of preparations for next year. 
“It was just [The Wildcats’] day,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “They certainly made the most of their chances.” 
Notre Dame (11-8-4) fell behind Northwestern (11-4-4) early and was never able to dig itself out of that hole. 
The Irish outshot the Wildcats 21-8 and held a 10-2 advantage in corner kicks. 
In the 18th minute, a corner was sent into the box that got caught up in the mass of play­ers in the box. Wildcat mid­fielder Jack Hillgard emerged with the ball and sent it into the back of the net past senior goalkeeper Andrew Quinn. The score remained 1-0 throughout the first half. 
“It was 1-0 at the end of the half, and I felt good,” Clark said. “We were playing well at that point and we started the second half off well too.” 
And that second half was a dominant performance by the Irish as they outshot their opponents 17 to five and took 10 corner kicks to the Wildcats’ zero. 
“It was one of those games 
see HALF/page 20 





