the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Campus shocked after Navy’s upset 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
For the second straight time the Notre Dame football team lost at home to Navy, and stu­dents predictably took the loss hard, especially with the possi­bility of an at-large BCS bid all but evaporating. 
“It was possibly one of the most depressing games I have ever seen,” senior Alex Tomala said. 
Graduate student David Moors said he — like many stu­dents — was not expecting such a close game, or a Notre Dame loss. 
“I thought we could run the table,” he said. 
While this was not the first home loss for the Irish this year, students were shocked a ranked Notre Dame team fell to unranked Navy. 
“It’s harder losing to a team that you are closer to in skill as opposed to the USC game,” freshman Jaimie Morrison said. 
Other students said they felt disappointment that a seeming­ly overmatched Navy team was able to defeat Notre Dame. 
“I was really excited for my first Navy game at home but 
see LOSS/page 6 



GreeND stands still to advocate change 
By JILLIAN STICHCOMB 
News Writer 
While most students were beginning to tail ­gate for the Navy game, members of GreeND gath­ered by Stonehenge early Saturday morning for a “Climate Change Flash Mob, ” where students posed in various posi ­tions for five minutes to help raise awareness about environmental issues. 
“The goal of the event was to make people more 
see GREEND/page 3 



Mendoza business competition offers $40K 
By CASEY KENNY 
News Writer 
The Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies at the Mendoza College of Business has invited students to submit business plans and compete for a total of $40,000 in prize money as part of its annual Business Plan Competition. 
“The Business Plan Competition is one of Mendoza’s biggest events of the year,” Karen Slaggert, the Gigot Center program manager, said. “It is a great educational opportunity to test entrepreneurial skills and have some fun.” 
The Competition features two categories, according to the Gigot Center’s Web site. The McCloskey Business Plan Competition “focuses on ven­tures that have not yet been launched or are in the earli­est stages of launch,” while the Social Venture Plan Competition “fosters a spirit 
of collaboration between business and social ventures 
— business plans with a social and/or environmental mission/purpose.” 
These two categories of the Competition are in their 
see MENDOZA/page 6 


Former ACE interns tacklenewchallenges 
By NORA KENNEY 
News Writer 

Last year, as seniors, five Notre Dame students worked as interns for the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) program, appear­ing at recruitment events and communicating with peers about the program. 
This year, they are each still part of the ACE program — but their job descriptions, and every­day lives, have taken on some big changes. 
The mission of the ACE program is to offer college graduates the opportunity to serve as full-time teachers in under-resourced Catholic schools across the United States. So this year, rather than waking up to go to class and stop by the ACE office to work, the for­mer interns wake up to face a classroom full of students. 
“Living ACE’s mission of bring­ing energy and life to an under-resourced Catholic school has been full of difficulty, heartache, and joy,” Kevin Veselik, who is teaching fifth grade in Harlingen, Tex., said. “It has been one of the most challenging and one of the best experiences of my life.” 
Julie Garcia, who is teaching second grade in Prairie Village, Kan., said being a teacher is 

see ACE/page 3 


Navy formal returns after hiatus 
SGA sponsors dance for Belles and Midshipmen after game 



By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
For the first time since 2002, the women of Saint Mary’s hosted the men of the Naval Academy at a Student Government Association (SGA) sponsored Navy—Saint Mary’s formal. 
The dance was originally held in order to allow the Saint Mary’s students to meet new people, however, the ball became a tradition after sever­al consecutive years. 
The Navy—Saint Mary’s for­mal was traditionally held each year when Navy came to Notre Dame to play football and was 
see DANCE/page 6 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC sees growth in music major page 3  Insider analysis pullout  Interview with director of ‘Strong Bodies Fight’ page 13  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, November 9, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Postponing panic 
Throughout the course of the past few weeks, I’ve found that I have become more and more tense. I have no time to relax, and I can often be seen running around campus like a chicken with it’s head cut off. My lack of time for stems from my overindul­gence in a variety of activities that keep me bouncing back and forth around campus like an erratic ping-pong ball. Not to mention the fact that I have 

Alicia Smith 
18 credit hours on 
News
top of all that. 

Production
Homework, there­fore, takes a back-Editor seat. The stack of homework that I am behind on is begin­ning to resemble the Sears Tower. As my books keep piling in the corner of my room, I am scurrying from one event to the next, in hopes that maybe around midnight I can finally catch my breath. 
Well midnight comes and goes and here I am in the wee hours of the morn­ing trying to catch up on that never-end­ing accumulation of homework. And finally, I hit the point where I just don’t care anymore. That’s when the procras­tination starts. 
I begin by logging onto my computer. It starts out innocently enough. I open a book and Microsoft Word and start to type my homework, the keys clacking rhythmically. My mind begins to form a beat to the keyboard, and I open iTunes. It all goes downhill from there. 
After iTunes is open, I begin to surf the web. I check out Facebook, stalk a few people whose lives I find particularly interesting, and read everyone’s status updates. I check my e-mail multiple times, and then I turn to Google. There I surf the gaming Web sites in hope to find a new addiction to satisfy my craving for a little fun. After playing a few rounds of Yahtzee, Bloons Tower Defense Four or some other game online, I move to another Web site, a new personal favorite, Sporcle. 
I open a few quizzes and play for a while, until I find one that leads me to my next endeavor. For instance, last week I found a Sporcle quiz that was about The Oregon Trail, a popular video game when I was about 12. My interest peaks, and I rapidly return to Google in hopes that someone out there has posted this fabulous game online for free. I find it, and begin to play. After investing over an hour of my time and traveling over halfway across America, I discover that all of my companions and I have gotten stuck in a snowstorm and I’ve become a cannibal and then die of starvation. Game over. 
After the frustrations have ensued, I return to my homework. The relaxation is over. Though I’m putting off my home­work by wasting time online, I’ve found that the small amount of time I spend doing something completely worthless has saved my sanity. Without my pro­crastination, my tension would consume me, and I’d find myself in a state of total and complete panic. Instead, I’m post­poning my worries until tomorrow, when I’ll catch up on that homework because, after all, I can always do it later. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT DID YOU T INK ABOUT T E LOSS AGAINST NAVY? 






Brian Solaba  Gabi Hernandez  Kate Buczek  Lisa Hartung  Josh Renberg  Joan Gary  
sophomore  freshman  freshman  sophomore  sophomore  freshman  
Keenan  McGlinn  Pangborn  Welsh Family  Duncan  McGlinn  
“It was a huge  “It was sad. I  “It was  “I thought it  “At least we  “Ouch!”  
let-down. I  felt bad for all  disappointing,  was really  didn’t lose  
thought we  the parents who  but a good  depressing and  against  
were going to  came, but it was  effort.”  the players  Syracuse.”  
come back in  a beautiful  were really  
the end.”  day.”  uninspiring.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

GRACE KENESEY/The Observer Leprechaun Dan Collins runs on the side line and raises spirits at the Notre Dame versus Navy home game on Saturday. Navy went on to beat Notre Dame. 
OFFBEAT 
Woman passes written driving test on 950th try 
SEOUL, South Korea — A woman in South Korea who tried to pass the written exam for a driver’s license with near-daily attempts since April 2005 has finally succeeded on her 950th time. The aspiring driver spent more than 5 million won ($4,200) in application fees, but until now had failed to score the mini­mum 60 out of a possible 100 points needed to get behind the wheel for a driving test. 
Cha Sa-soon, 68, finally passed the written exam with a score of 60 on Wednesday, said Choi Young-chul, a police official at the drivers’ license agency in Jeonju, 130 miles (210 kilometers) south of Seoul. 
Ore. man charged with DUI after intoxicated 911 call 
SALEM, Ore. — Oregon police have charged a man with drunken driving after he called 911 to report his marijuana as stolen but the dispatcher couldn’t under­stand him because he was vomiting while on the road. 
Marion County sheriff’s deputies say 21-year-old Calvin Hoover, of Salem, told dispatchers early Tuesday that someone had broken into his truck and stolen cash, a jacket and a small amount of marijuana while he was at a tavern in Salem. 
He then called 911 again to complain that deputies had not arrived, but the dis­patcher had trouble under­standing Hoover because he was driving and stopping several times to vomit. 
He was arrested on charges of driving under the influence of intoxicants. 
The sheriff’s office says it has no record of an attorney for Hoover. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Tuesday Wednesday 

IN BRIEF 
The play, The Sugar Wife, will be performed from Nov. 10 to 15 in the Decio Mainstage Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, start­ing at 7:30 p.m. Tickets can be purchased at performingarts.nd.edu or 574­631-2800. 
A lecture, “Nuclear Disarmament, Terrorism and Global Security,” will take place Tuesday from 4:15 p.m. to 5:45 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The lec­ture is free and will feature retired Army Major General William Burns. 
A seminar, “Atomic Obsession,” will take place November 12 from 4 to 6 p.m. in 119 O’Shaughnessy Hall. The lecture is free and will 
feature  Professor  John  
Mueller,  the  Woody Hayes  
Chair  of  National  Security  

Studies, Mershon Center, at Ohio State University. 
Baraka Bouts 2009 will be held Nov. 12 starting at 6 p.m. at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse, Gate 3. The entrance fee is $5 at the door and all proceeds benefit the Holy Cross Missions in East Africa. 
A Veteran’s Day ceremony will be held Nov. 11 at 5 p.m. at Clarke Memorial Fountain. The ceremony follows a 24­hour vigil at the fountain beginning 5 p.m. on November 
10. Retired U.S. Air Force Colonel Howard Hanson will speak. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Thursday Friday 

Atlanta 68 / 57 Boston 67 / 48 Chicago 63 / 49 Denver 56 / 40 Houston 76 / 58 Los Angeles 75 / 52 Minneapolis 57 / 35 New York 68 / 52 Philadelphia 70 / 50 Phoenix 87 / 60 Seattle 51 / 45 St. Louis 73 / 52 Tampa 85 / 71 Washington 72 / 54 

Monday, November 9, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ACE 
continued from page 1 
extremely demanding but rewarding. 
“All teaching is service,” she said. “You can see that every­day. What I do makes a really big impact on the lives of my students.” 
Geoffrey Mooney, who is teaching geometry, morality and scripture to high school sophomores and juniors in Pensacola, Fla., said some of his experiences have also been challenging — and some have been downright humorous. 
His funniest experience was being mistaken for a freshmen or sophomore at the high school by the parents of a stu­dent. Yet Mooney laughs it off, and also said his students have benefited from having a young teacher.  

“They like the fact that they have someone they can relate with, who know what it’s like to be their age,” he said. “They appreciate having someone who can share that with them.” 
In fact, Mooney has been surprised by how much respect he has been given as a new teacher.  
“What’s been really unique at my school is that they show us a lot of respect,” he said. “They really respect what I’m doing.” 
Because of all of these expe­riences, Mooney said his life as a teacher in the ACE program is “a combination of crazy and fun.” 
Another aspect of being a teacher in the ACE program is communal living. ACE teach­ers live in houses with the other ACE teachers at their site. Jessica Stouffer, who teaches math at the high school level in Montgomery, Ala., said she enjoys communi­ty life because the other teach­ers in the house are able to share advice for teaching. 
Finally, ACE teachers like Laura Wilczek, who teaches sixth through eighth grade lit­erature, overwhelmingly said their faith is a major compo­nent of their new lives. 
“After a long day of teaching, coaching, grading and plan­ning lessons, I find one of the best ways to center myself is through prayer,” Wilczek said. “Each week, my community members gather for prayer in the evening. It is a wonderful time to reflect upon all the blessings in our life, as well as pray for each other during dif­ficult times.” 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 


Kevin Veselik, current ACE 16 teacher and 2008-2009 ACE Intern, is held up by his ACE Brownsville community members as they show their Texas pride. 





SMC sees increase in music majors 
By MEGHAN PRICE 
News Writer 
With the number of students choosing to study music increas­ing nationwide over the past four years, Saint Mary’s music depart­ment has also seen an increase in number of students choosing music as their major, music pro­fessor Dr. Jeffrey Jacob said. 
“Nearly half of our current music majors are freshman,” Jacob said. 
Jacob, who is a 
“The faculty members have been working for the past five years to make the requirements for a music major more compati­ble with other majors,” Jacob said. “As a result Saint Mary’s has become a leader in Liberal Arts colleges, encouraging and making it possible to double major.” 
First year Erin Brown, who is in the music education program, said she is not worried about her career. Brown said she has known she wanted to teach music for a long time and she is certain 
graduate of Julliard “No matter what their she will find a and has been job. 
major is, in this
teaching at the col-“No matter 
economy, everyone is
lege for 30 years, what their said despite the probably a little major is, in this today’s economy economy, every-
worried about finding
and the difficulty one is probably 
a job.” 
graduates are hav-a little worried ing, there are 17 about finding a freshmen joining Erin Brown job,” Brown the music depart-said. “But as 
Saint Mary’s frst year 
ment. 
Jacob said this is nearly double the average of eight new students the department is accustomed to seeing. 
Jacob said the nationwide shift is an unexplained mystery to experts. Professionals in the field are unsure of why so many under­graduate students are taking a path that before had not been viewed as a secure career choice. 
Jacob said one possibility is stu­dents applying to graduate school are attempting to diversify their resumes. 
“Today, variety on a students resume is more important then ever,” he said. 
Jacob said another possibility was more and more students are choosing to double major. 


GreeND 
continued from page 1 
aware of how important cli­mate change and energy independence is for America,” event coordinator and junior Claire Brosnihan said. 
The group posed in front 
of LaFortune Student Center, on South Quad and next to the Hesburgh Library. Students collected petition signa­tures from 
“What’s needed is a 
interested welcomed dis­passers-by. The solution that works cussion, oth ­petitions are ers had 
for the common good.
going to be already made 
Notre Dame’s voice is 
sent to each up their mind, signer’s respec-needed and can but it was a tive U.S. great event.” 
contribute to this 
Senator to urge Patrick
debate.” 
the legislators McCormick, to support who manages environmental Patrick McCormick policy for initiatives. GreeND, said 
policy manager
“Climate another goal 
GreeND
change affects most those who have contributed least to the issue. It is a human solidari­ty issue,” Brosnihan said. “This is the greatest social justice issue of our time.” 
Brosnihan said the group was able to collect over 500 signatures. 
“It went really well,” she said. 
Colleen Kelly, senior and president of GreeND, said much of the event’s success was due to Brosnihan ’s leadership and the efforts of the students involved. 
long as there 
are schools, there will be music in schools and there will be a need for music teachers.” 
Jacob said he also is not worried about his students trying to find jobs after graduating. He said that program alumnae go into many different fields but they all do well, whether they continue in music or not, and he is confident that the Saint Mary’s music students will continue to succeed. 
“Our graduates go into a variety of vocations,” Jacob said. “But they all find a good job within a year or two of leaving Saint Mary’s.” 
Contact Meghan Price at mprice02@saintmarys.edu 
“GreeND is lucky to have a good network of people to rely on,” she said. “My goal was to see a great student leader [Brosnihan] run with an idea she had.” 
Kelly said meeting people and hearing their views on environmental issues was definitely one of the high­lights of the event. 
“It’s always interesting to converse with different peo­ple because it’s such a com­plex issue and everyone comes at it from different angles, ” she said. “Some 
for the event 
alongside raising awareness was to “bring Notre Dame students together to be part of an issue that ’s greater than themselves.” 
“Climate change has been called the ultimate collec­tive action problem, ” he said. “What’s needed is a solution that works for the common good. Notre Dame’s voice is needed and can con­tribute to this debate.” 


Contact Jillian Stinchcomb at jstinchc@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISMENT Monday, November 9, 2009 



World & Nation 
Monday, November 9, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Brazil student expelled for mini-dress 
SAO PAULO — A Brazilian university has expelled a woman who was heckled by hun­dreds of fellow students for wearing a short, pink dress to class — publicly accusing her Sunday of immorality. 
The private Bandeirante University in Sao Bernardo do Campo, outside Sao Paulo, said 20-year-old Geisy Arruda disrespected “ethical principles, academic dignity and morality.” 
Bandeirante University published newspa­per advertisements Sunday accusing Arruda of attending class with “inadequate clothing” and having a provocative attitude that was “incom­patible with the university environment.” 

Karzai pledges to end corruption 
KABUL — The embattled Afghan president pledged Sunday that there would be no place for corrupt officials in his new administration — a demand made by Washington and its interna­tional partners as they ponder sending more troops to confront the Taliban and shore up his government. 
Also Sunday, NATO reported three more coalition soldiers — one American and two Britons — died in combat with the Taliban in western and southern areas. The latest losses pushed Britain’s combat death toll in the eight-year Afghan war to 201. 
NATO forces said they were still searching for two American paratroopers who disappeared Wednesday while trying to recover airdropped supplies that had fallen into a river. Afghan police said the two Americans were swept away by the current and may have drowned. 
NATIONAL NEWS 


Ft. Hood shooter tied to 9/11 hijackers 
WASHINGTON — The alleged Fort Hood shooter apparently attended the same Virginia mosque as two Sept. 11 hijackers in 2001, at a time when a radical imam preached there. 
Whether the Fort Hood shooter associated with the hijackers is something the FBI will probably look into, according to a law enforcement official who spoke on condition of anonymity because the investigation is ongoing. 
The family of Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan, the Army psychiatrist who killed 13 and wound­ed 29 at the Texas military base, held his mother’s funeral at the Dar al Hijrah Islamic Center in Falls Church, Va., on May 31, 2001, according to her obituary in the Roanoke Times newspaper. 

U.S.-Indian culture clashes in Utah 
BOUNTIFUL — To 12-year-old Suzannah Pabla, piercing her nose was a way to connect with her roots in India. To Suzannah’s school, it was a dress-code violation worthy of a sus­pension. 
To other Indians, the incident was emblem­atic of how it can still be difficult for the American melting pot to absorb certain aspects of their cultural and religious tradi­tions. 
Suzannah was briefly suspended last month from her public school in Bountiful, Utah, for violating a body-piercing ban. School officials 
— who noted that nose piercing is an Indian cultural choice, not a religious requirement — compromised and said she could wear a clear, unobtrusive stud in her nose, and Suzannah returned to her seventh-grade class. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Lake County retirement plan draws few 
CROWN POINT — Fewer than 20 full-time Lake County employees have applied for an early retirement package despite the county’s threat to eliminate 150 full-time government jobs by the end of the year. 
“Some employees in their 80s have told me they can’t afford to retire,” said Diane Young, the county’s insurance coordinator. “If you can’t afford to retire when you are 85, when can you?” 
Lake County Council President Larry Blanchard said the early retirement program was an effort to reduce county health care costs and reduce staff amid state-mandated property tax caps and declining revenues because of the recession. 


U.S. may expand drug treatment 
America redirects its attack on drugs in response to theraputic needs and the economic crisis 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Based on the rhetoric, America’s war on drugs seems poised to shift into a more enlightened phase where treatment of addicts gains favor over imprisonment of low-level offenders. Questions abound, however, about the nation’s readiness to turn the talk into reality. 
The economic case for expanding treatment, espe­cially amid a recession, seems clear. Study after study concludes that treating addicts, even in lengthy resi­dential programs, costs markedly less than incarcer­ating them, so budget-strapped states could save millions. 
The unmet need for more treatment also is vast. According to federal data, 
7.6 million Americans need­ed treatment for illicit drug use in 2008, and only 1.2 million — or 16 percent — received it. 
But the prospect of savings on prison and court costs hasn’t produced a surge of new fiscal support for treat­ment. California’s latest cri­sis budget, for example, strips all but a small fraction of state funding away from a successful diversion and treatment program that vot­ers approved in 2000. plete it successfully — that ment” involving emotional n’t have to go to some 
“It’s easy to talk a good means we’re losing half,” group encounters — and are squalid little place across the game about more treatment said Raquel Jeffers, director unaware of a new wave of railroad tracks.” and helping people,” said of New Jersey’s Division of medications and other ther-By federal count, there are Scott Burns, executive direc-Addiction Services. “We can apies that haven’t gained more than 13,640 treatment tor of the National District do better.” wide use despite proven programs nationwide, rang-Attorneys Association. “But The appointment of treat-effectiveness ing from world-class to dubi­it smashes head on into real-ment expert Tom McLellan “For the first time, it can ous and mostly operating ity when they don’t put their as deputy director of the truly be said that we know apart from the mainstream money where their mouth White House Office of what to do — we know the health-care industry. is.” National Drug Control Policy things that work,” he said. Dr. H. Westley Clark, direc-
Money aside, the treat-in April was seen as part of “But do we have the eco-tor of the federal Center for ment field faces multiple a shift of priorities for the nomic and political willing-Substance Abuse Treatment, challenges. At many pro-drug czar’s office. ness to put them into place? said his agency wants states grams, counselors — often McLellan said he sees If we do, we’ll see results.” to develop better measure-former addicts themselves greater openness to expand-McLellan, insisting he’s not ments of programs’ per­
— are low-paid and ing treatment but also deep “a wild-eyed liberal,” said formance. turnover is high. Many misunderstanding or igno-expanding treatment would-“The data shows treat-states have yet to impose rance about scientific n’t negate the war on drugs. ment saves money — $1 effective systems for evaluat-advances in the field and the “Law enforcement is nec-spent to $4 or $7 saved,” ing programs, a crucial issue need to integrate it into the essary, but it’s not suffi-Clark said. “If you’re an in a field where success is health care system. cient,” he said. “You need altruist, making treatment relative and relapses Most Americans, he sug-effective preventive services, available is a good thing. If inevitable. gested, have an image of addiction and mental health you’re a narcissist, it’s a 
“Fifty percent of clients drug treatment formed from services integrated with the good thing — you’d pay less who enter treatment com-the movies — “cartoon treat-rest of medicine. You should-in taxes.” 

GERMANY 


Berlin celebrates 20 years after wall’s fall 
from 1961 to 1989; candle lightings visited, nearly a third of them to West 
Associated Press 
and 1,000 towering plastic foam Berlin, the rest through gates open-
BERLIN — With concerts and dominoes to be placed along the ing up along the rest of the fenced, memorials on Monday, Germans will wall’s route and tipped over. mined frontier that cut their country celebrate the day the Berlin Wall On Nov. 9, 1989, East Germans in two. came crashing down 20 years ago. came in droves, riding their sputter-Sections of the nearly 155 kilome-
On that cold night, they danced ing Trabants, motorcycles and rickety ters (100 miles) of wall were pulled atop the wall, arms raised in victory, bicycles. Hundreds, then thousands, down and knocked over. Tourists hands clasped in friendship and giddy then hundreds of thousands crossed chiseled off chunks to keep as sou-hope. Years of separation and anxiety over the following days. venirs. Tearful families reunited. melted into the unbelievable reality of Stores in West Berlin stayed open Bars gave out free drinks. Strangers freedom and a future without border late and banks gave out 100 kissed and toasted each other with guards, secret police, informers and Deutschemarks in “welcome money,” champagne. rigid communist control. then worth about $50, to each East Klaus-Hubert Fugger, a student at 
Germans are celebrating with con-German visitor. the Free University in West Berlin, certs boasting Beethoven and Bon The party lasted four days and by was having drinks at a pub when Jovi; a memorial service for the 136 Nov. 12 more than 3 million of East people began coming “who looked a people killed trying to cross over Germany’s 16.6 million people had bit different.” 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 9, 2009 
Students said they enjoyed the dance, and look forward 

Dance 
to attending in the future. 
continued from page 1 
sponsored by the junior class, Meghan Helmle, junior class president, said. 
“This dance is a way for Saint Mary’s to reconnect with the Naval Academy,” she said. “It is also a way to give 

back to our “This dance is a way were very 
student body. enthusiastic 
for Saint Mary’s to 
Helmle said about being at she started reconnect with the Saint Mary’s, working with Naval Academy.” which made it the Naval even more spe-Academy back cial.” 
Meghan Helmle
in September to Korbonits said reinstate the junior class president the atmosphere dance. was conducive 
“We are able to a pleasant to host this event and not evening. charge students an entry “They played a lot of the fee,” she said. “This is meant classic old songs that people to be a fun activity for the like to dance to as well as the whole student body to enjoy.” new popular songs,” she said. 
“The lights were pretty. I liked the decorations too. The centerpieces at the tables were well done.” 
Helmle said she hoped the dance would be something both the students of Saint Mary’s and Navy could enjoy. 
“It is really great that we were given this opportunity to continue a tradition here at Saint Mary’s. I think over all the planning and prepara­tions that have gone into this event will be worth it in the end,” Helmle said. 
Korbonits said the dance received rave reviews from both the Belles and the Midshipmen. 
“I enjoyed the dance a lot. The Navy boys were very gen­tlemanly and a lot of fun to talk to. One of the guys I met said it was the most fun he’s had all year,” she said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

‘The Navy boys were great dancers. A lot of them were really willing to ask girls to dance. They were also very polite,” first year Sarah Korbonits said. “I would defi­nitely go again. I think Saint Mary’s should make this a tradition. The boys that came 
year’s McCloskey category “Response is a faith-based with his venture, Weekend organization that focuses on 



Mendoza 
Student Adventures in responding to the call of Europe, which offers week-Christ both at home and 
continued from page 1 

end tour packages to abroad — we plan to support 10th and ninth years, respec-American students studying our orphanage in Uganda tively. in Europe. through touring with music 
“The competition has seen “The Competition has given and Ugandan -made crafts many great submissions me the opportunity to meet here in the states, and by develop to be quite success-with advisors, flush out my providing financial services ful,” Slaggert said. “Better idea and develop it to the to the Ugandan community,” World Books is a great exam-point of actually pursuing it she said. ple of this — it started as a after I graduate this May,” Response Inc.’s team com-social venture submission Steves said. “It has really position represents the vari­and has developed into some-opened my eyes ety found in the thing of great impact.” to the business competition . 
The Business Plan world.” “The Competition has The team con-Competition is open to any-Many teams sists of two 
given me the 

one, but each team must have hope to make Notre Dame 
opportunity to meet

at least one member who is an impact in seniors, a 2007 either a full-time Notre Dame the world with with advisors, flush Notre Dame student or an alumnus. their proposed out my idea and graduate, a 
In an attempt to draw ventures. senior at 
develop it to the point

entrepreneurs from a broad “We are Bethel College range of backgrounds and entering the of actually pursuing and a junior at facilitate networking, the Social Venture it after I graduate Indiana Gigot Center recently created Com petitio n University ­
this May.” 

TeamMatch on Facebook to with our ven -P u r d u e enable potential competitors ture, Response, University Fort to post and find team mem-Inc., because Andy Steves Wayne, with bers with desired skills and we believe we backgrounds in 
senior 

interests. can make a dif-film, theology, 
“We really want to get the ference in the economics, word out about the competi-lives of orphans in Uganda public health, music, and tion because some of the best and students here in the ministry experience. ideas come from outside of states,” senior Michelle The deadline for submis-Mendoza — from engineers, Carlise, team leader of sions to the Competition is liberal arts students and oth-Response, Inc., said. today. Details can be found at ers,” Slaggert said. Carlise said Response www.nd.edu/~entrep/ 
Senior Andy Steves, an would focus on addressing industrial design and Italian the needs of orphans in Contact Casey Kenny at double major, is entering this Uganda through business. ckenny@nd.edu 

several minutes after being hit 


Loss 

by a Navy defender. “There was a moment of continued from page 1 shock when he didn’t get up 
right away but when he came ended up really disappointed,” back I was confident that he freshman Ashley Okonta said. was fine,” Boers said. “I expected a blowout.” Other students felt Clausen’s 
Freshman Louise Fauth said play in the game, including the the team’s failure to fulfill their hard hit he took, was one of the high expectations was shock-bright spots in an otherwise 
ing.  long day.  
“I thought that we were supposed  “The whole game I  “I really respect him for  
to kill them so it was kind of a shock that we  was like, ‘What just happened?’”  going for it. Most quarter­backs would- 
lost,” she said.  n’t. I respect  
S t  u  d  e  n  t  s  Sam Boers  him more this  
seemed  to  be  freshman  year because  
especially disap­ he takes more  
pointed at the bad  risks,” sopho­ 

luck that Notre Dame seemed more Daniel DeMars said. to experience throughout the DeMars also said a bright game. spot for the Irish was the con­
“The whole game I was like tinued trend of strong play late ‘What just happened?’” fresh-in the game. man Sam Boers said. “We picked it up in the fourth 
Especially nerve-wracking to quarter as usual,” he said. “We the student body was quarter-just didn’t keep it up for the back Jimmy Clausen’s failed first three.” attempt at a rush into the end zone that resulted in him Contact Sam Stryker at remaining on the ground for sstryke1@nd.edu 

The Observer 




Business

Monday, November 9, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Sony offers ‘Cloudy’ early for users 
LOS ANGELES — In a bid to sell living room electronics and spur buzz for “Cloudy with A Chance of Meatballs,” Sony Corp. is offering the movie for free to U.S. buyers of its Internet-connected TVs and Blu-ray players starting Monday. 
People who buy that equipment will be able to watch the movie in any 24-hour window from Dec. 8 until it is released on DVD and Blu-ray disc on Jan. 5. 
Sony’s move highlights the way that movies are increasingly becoming available on TVs that connect directly to the Internet as the entertainment industry strives to come up with new business models. 
Amazon.com Inc. and Blockbuster Inc. offer movies for rental or purchase on certain Internet-connected TVs, while Netflix Inc. will make its streaming catalog available to its subscribers with Sony Bravia TVs. 
Those services, however, don’t provide the early-release jump Sony is trying with “Cloudy with A Chance of Meatballs,” which comes from the Sony Pictures movie studio. 

Fry’s, Safeway prep for strike 
PHOENIX — In less than a week, unionized workers at two Arizona grocery store chains may be walking a picket line instead of stocking shelves and cutting meat. 
Fry’s Food Stores has begun advertising for thousands of temporary workers in the event its estimated 13,000 hourly workers strike. 
Fry’s recruitment ads began running Saturday and offer a starting wage of $9.50 per hour. Safeway spokeswoman Cathy Kloos said the chain is preparing to do the same. 
The United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local 99 has threatened to call a strike if the companies and the union fail to reach a con­tract deal by 6 p.m. Friday. 
The union represents most hourly workers at the two grocery chains, including clerks, stock­ers, meat cutters, produce workers and baggers. 
The workers typically make between $7.20 and $12.05 per hour and can expect to receive $100 per week in strike pay if they walk out. 
Health care benefits are the main issue between the chains and the union. 
The companies have traditionally paid for their employees’ health insurance and now want them to shoulder more of the cost. 


Holiday airfares climbing steeply 
Travel becomes more expensive this year especially as Christmas nears 
Associated Press 
If holiday travelers on the same plane compare what they paid to fly, they're likely to find quite a spread, depending on when they bought their tickets. 
Fares for travel around the holidays have been ris­ing since late summer. Christmas fares are now running 4 percent below a year ago, and the gap is likely to disappear soon. 
Contrast that with a year ago, when the airlines essentially put the holiday travel season on sale. With the recession in full force, airlines used discounting to fill seats. 
People who waited to book holiday fares last year saved money. This year, holding off could cost you. 
Most carriers pushed through a $10 fare increase at the end of October. For the holidays, the big airlines added a $20 surcharge each way on popular travel days closest to Christmas and New Year's. 
Tom Parsons of BestFares.com compared holiday fares purchased on July 1 with the same itiner­ary booked on Nov 2. Several had risen 50 per­cent or more. Los Angeles to Fort Lauderdale, Fla., thinks Christmas fares will left in frequent flier miles." bags for free. JetBlue had more than doubled to soon be at last year's lev-Some other things to con-Airways allows one. Virgin $528. els. sider this holiday travel America added a fee of $20 
Airlines have been Given the upward trend season: per bag this fall. shrinking to match a in fares, Grus says book — Some fees are higher. — Airlines have reduced decrease in travel. With the now. Check on fares several During the last year, air-the amount of flying they're supply of seats more in line times a day. Sometimes lines began charging $5 doing. That could make it with demand, carriers have seats become available at a more each way if you pay tougher to buy a seat on been able to raise fares lower price. your baggage fee at the air-the flight you want. close to where they were Of course, the cheapest port instead of online. For — Consider a change in last holiday season. ticket is purchased with a family of four traveling plans. If you want your 
Average Thanksgiving frequent flier miles. with one bag each, that own personal airfare sale, fares are up 2 percent to Airlines only make some would add up to an addi-pay attention to which days $351, according to Bing seats on each flight avail-tional $40 for a roundtrip, you fly. A popular Travel, the fare-watching able for purchase with fre-on top of the base baggage Thanksgiving itinerary is to Web site owned by quent flier miles. Some are fee. fly on Wednesday before Microsoft. The average still available, but Randy Most airlines now charge the holiday and return on Christmas fare is around Petersen, editor of $15 to $20 to check your Sunday. Grus said fares run $370 roundtrip, slightly InsideFlyer magazine, said first bag and $25 to $30 for about 25 percent cheaper if below a year ago. they're getting scarce the second. During the last you fly on Tuesday and 
Thanksgiving fares "are because most holiday trav-year, airlines began charg-return Saturday. Flying on up quite a bit even from elers started booking those ing $5 more each way if Thanksgiving Day and where they were at the as early as August. you pay your baggage fee returning on Monday can beginning of October," said "As we get closer, there at the airport instead of save fliers about 30 percent Joel Grus, who tracks fares are good airfare deals," he online. cheaper on average, he for Bing Travel. He also said, "but there's not a lot Southwest still allows two said. 



Philadelphia transit strike continues 
Associated Press 
contract.” was managed by SEPTA,” Horwitz 
PHILADELPHIA — Commuters in “We feel badly for our riders,” he said. the City of Brotherly Love have been said Sunday. “They’re being unneces-Brown told reporters Saturday night told to gear up to begin a second week sarily hurt in many ways across the that if the agency did not agree to an of finding other ways to work follow-five-county area. There are countless audit “then I guess we’re going to be ing the collapse of a proposed deal to thousands of people who are suffer-here for a while.” end a six-day-old strike by about ing, and it’s unnecessary.” The health care language has taken 5,000 bus drivers, subway and trolley Jamie Horwitz, spokesman for the on new urgency following the U.S. conductors and mechanics. Transport Workers Local 234, said the House’s approval of a health care 
The largest union representing two sides had reached agreement on reform bill late Saturday, Horwitz workers of the Southeastern monetary and pension issues, but dif-said. The provision could lead to Pennsylvania Transportation ferences remained on the health another strike or another lengthy Authority wants an independent reform provision and union president round of negotiation before the five-forensic audit of pension funds. The Willie Brown’s call for an audit. year agreement runs its course, he union is also rejecting language that “Like riders, we want a resolution to said. could reopen the contract if SEPTA’s this,” Horwitz said Sunday. “We also “That’s not acceptable to the union costs increase due to national health have a responsibility to our mem-and we would like to see a contract care reform. bers.” that is binding for the length of the 
SEPTA spokesman Richard Maloney Pensions have been the major issue agreement,” he said. said the ball is in the union’s court “to in the strike and “there are many Both sides said no new meetings come back to the table and sign the questions about the way the pension were scheduled. 

page 8 The Observer  NEWS Monday, November 9, 2009 

China premier pledges funds and aid to Africa 
Associated Press 
SHARM EL-SHEIK, Egypt — China’s premier on Sunday pledged $10 billion in low interest loans to African nations over the next three years and said Beijing would cancel the government debts of some of the poorest of those countries. 
The announcement by Wen Jiabao looked to deflect criticism that China’s investments in the continent were motivated purely by greed. China is one of the largest investors in Africa, along with the United States and Europe. 
At a two-day China-Africa sum­mit, Wen Jiabao also said China would build 100 new clean ener­gy projects for Africa over the same period as part of an effort to help the continent deal with cli­mate change issues. 
“We will help Africa build up financing capacity,” Wen said at the start of the two-day Forum on China-Africa Cooperation summit. “We will provide $10 billion in concessional loans to African countries.” 
Concessional loans are ones that offer generous terms — bet­ter than market rates — to poorer countries. 
China’s inroads into Africa have come at a price for Beijing. The country has been accused by some in the West of ignoring Africa’s needs and the dismal rights records of some of its coun­tries while looking only to sate its hunger for the fuel it needs to drive its bustling economy. 
China has, for example, been a key force in developing Sudan’s vital oil sector even as the Arab-dominated government in Khartoum is accused of atrocities in the Darfur region. More recent­ly, a $7 billion mining deal was signed between a little known Chinese company and Guinea’s government — an agreement that came weeks after soldiers there opened fire on demonstrators and raped women in the streets. 
But Wen said while many in the world have only now begun to take note of China’s role in Africa, it was a relationship that dates back five decades and included helping the countries throw off the yoke of colonialism. 
“The Chinese people cherish sincere friendship toward the African people, and China’s sup­port to Africa’s development is concrete and real,” Wen said at a forum that attracted leaders such as Sudan’s Omar el-Bashir and Zimbabwe’s Robert Mugabe — heads of state out-of-favor with the West. 
“Whatever change that may take place in the world, our friendship with African people will not change,” Wen said. “Our commitment to deepening mutu­ally beneficial cooperation ... will not change, and our policy of sup­porting Africa’s economic and social development will not change.” 
Wen said that as part of its sup­port for Africa and growing trade ties with China, Beijing would take eight new measures over the next three years, including help­ing Africa build up its financing capacity. 
Along with the loans — double the amount pledged two years earlier at a similar summit in Beijing — Wen also said that for the most heavily indebted and least developed African nations, China would cancel their debts associated with interest free gov­ernment loans set to mature at the end of this year. 
The caveat was that the debt forgiveness was restricted to those nations that have diplomat­ic relations with China — a condi­tion likely to rankle critics who argue that China has made its support conditional on countries backing it fully, including by renouncing ties with Taiwan. The overwhelming majority of African nations have diplomatic ties with China. 


Chavez orders troops to prepare for conflict 
Associated Press 
CARACAS, Venezuela — President Hugo Chavez on Sunday ordered Venezuela’s mili­tary to prepare for a possible armed conflict with Colombia, saying his country’s soldiers should be ready if the United States attempts to provoke a war between the South American neighbors. 
Chavez said Venezuela could end up going to war with Colombia as tensions between them rise, and he warned that if a conflict broke out “it could extend throughout the whole con­tinent.” 
“The best way to avoid war is preparing for it,” Chavez told mil­itary officers during his weekly television and radio program. Venezuela’s socialist leader has also cited a recent deal between Bogota and Washington giving 
U.S. 
troops greater access to mili­tary bases as a threat to regional stability. 

There was no immediate reac­tion from either the Colombian or 

U.S. 
government, but in the past they have denied intentions to start a war with Venezuela and 


said the base deal is needed to fight the war on drugs and insur­gents in Colombia, which is a major cocaine producer strug­gling with a decades-old internal conflict. 
Tensions along the Venezuela-Colombia border have been exac­erbated in recent weeks by a series of shootings and slayings. 
Four men on motorcycles shot and killed two Venezuelan National Guard troops at a check­point near the border in Venezuela’s western Tachira state last week, prompting Chavez’s government to temporarily close some border crossings. 
And last month, Venezuelan authorities arrested at least 10 people in Tachira alleging involvement in paramilitary groups. The bullet-ridden bodies of 11 men, nine of them Colombians, were also found last month in Tachira after being abducted from a soccer field. 
The violence prompted Venezuela to send 15,000 soldiers to the border with Colombia on Thursday. Officials said the buildup was necessary to increase security along the bor­der. 



Hurricane Ida aims for Gulf 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — Hurricane Ida, the first Atlantic hurricane to target the United States this year, plodded Sunday toward the Gulf Coast with 100 mph winds, bringing the threat of flooding and storm surges. 
A hurricane watch extended over more than 200 miles of coastline across southeastern Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and the Florida Panhandle. Louisiana’s gover­nor declared a state of emer­gency. 
Authorities said Ida could make landfall as early as Tuesday morning, although it was forecast to weaken by then. Officials and residents kept a close eye on the Category 2 hurricane as it approached, though there were no immediate plans for evacua­tions. 
At 1 p.m. EST, Ida was locat­ed 510 miles south-southeast of the mouth of the Mississippi River and moving northwest near 10 mph. The latest fore­cast from the National Hurricane Center shows Ida brushing near Louisiana and Mississippi, then making land­fall near Alabama before con­tinuing across north Florida. 
Yet many residents took the forecast in stride. 
“Even though we’re telling everybody to be prepared, my gut tells me it probably won’t be that bad,” said Steve Arndt, director of Bay Point Marina Co. in Panama City, Fla. 
In Louisiana, Gov. Bobby Jindal had declared a state of emergency as a precaution, and the National Guard was on high alert if assistance was needed. New Orleans wasn’t included in the hurricane watch. 
But officials were encourag­ing residents to prepare for potential gusts of 60 mph by removing any tree limbs that could damage their homes and securing or bringing in any trash cans, grills, potted plants or patio furniture. 
Nearly 1,400 Louisiana resi­dents are still living in federally issued trailers and mobile homes after hurricanes Katrina and Rita; nearly 360 units remained in Mississippi. 
“FEMA stresses that those in temporary (housing) units should not take chances,” Federal Emergency Management Agency spokesman Andrew Thomas said. “Leave the unit behind and evacuate to a permanent structure that will better with­stand tropical weather systems and the associated winds.” 
Mississippi authorities warned residents to be vigilant. Authorities were monitoring conditions to see whether any evacuations of lower-lying areas or school closures would be necessary. 
“It is likely we will at least be hit with strong winds and some flooding in our coastal coun­ties,” said Jeff Rent, a spokesman for the Mississippi Emergency Management Agency. Officials “do not want 
anybody  to be caught  off  
guard.”  
Mississippi  Emergency  

Management Agency Director Mike Womack said forecasts called for tides of 4-7 feet above normal and rainfall totals of 5-7 inches within 24 hours, which could mean flood­ing along the coasts and along rivers. 
Alabama emergency man­agement officials did not imme­diately respond to phone mes­sages. 
In the Florida Panhandle, residents in Bay County and Panama City were being advised to secure boats and prepare for storm surges that could reach 2-3 feet. Heavy rain, wind and possible flood­ing was also expected. 
“You really don’t know until it gets close how you’re going to be affected by it,” said Brad Monroe, Bay County’s deputy chief of emergency services. 
Ida wasn’t expected to pack the wallop seen in 2008 when hurricanes Gustav and Ike pelt­ed the Gulf Coast back-to-back. There have been nine named storms this season, which ends Dec. 1. Ida is only the third hurricane to form, and neither of the others threatened land. 
Ida wasn’t expected to direct­ly threaten New Orleans, where unflappable fans at the Saints football game seemed unaware a storm was approaching. 
“We’re used to tropical storms,” said David Clements of Chalmette, La. “That’s why we have a dome.” 
Earlier Sunday, Ida’s wind and rain whipped palm trees in the Mexican resort city of Cancun. Fishermen tied their boats down, though tourists seemed to regard it as a minor setback. 
“It’s not what we expected,” said Kathleen Weisser, a nurse from Fernley, Nev. “We wanted sun. Instead we have liquid sunshine.” 
Ron Kaczorowski, of Chicago, said his daughter was forced to move her beach wedding inside because of the storm. He said he had tried to reassure his disappointed daughter that the nasty weather would make her wedding stand out. 
“I told her, ‘How many people get married in a hurricane?’” 


Monday, November 9, 2009 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Suspect identified in Seattle police shooting 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE — Police described a suspect in the shooting death of a Seattle policeman as a “lone domestic terrorist” and said he was also suspected of firebomb­ing four police vehicles. 
At a news conference, Seattle Assistant Police Chief Jim Pugel identified 41-year-old Christopher Monfort as the man shot by police on Friday as he was sought in connection with the Halloween killing of officer Timothy Brenton. Pugel also said investigators found improvised explosive devices at Monfort’s apartment. 
“This man, from everything we can tell is a lone domestic terror­ist,” Pugel said. “At this moment we cannot find any ties to anyone else.” 
Police evacuated part of Monfort’s apartment complex Saturday evening after finding what was described as a “poten­tial hazard,” Seattle’s KING 5 News reported. Police didn’t elab­orate on the evacuation but allowed residents to return to their homes after about an hour. 
Brenton was sitting in a car Oct. 31 with rookie Officer Britt Sweeney following a traffic stop when shots were fired. Sweeney was grazed in the neck. 
Detectives have asked the King County prosecutor’s office for for­mal charges in the case. 
On Sunday morning, Monfort was still in serious condition in the intensive care unit at Harborview Medical Center, said hospital spokeswoman Susan Gregg-Hanson. He underwent hours of surgery Friday night and arrived at the hospital in critical condition with “multiple injuries.” 
Pugel said police believe Monfort is connected to the Oct. 22 firebombings of three Seattle police cruisers and a mobile com­mand post at a nearby city garage. Investigators reportedly found a note threatening to kill officers and fliers protesting police brutality at the arson scene. 
The Seattle Times reported that an American flag found at the maintenance yard and a similar one found near the shooting scene gave investigators a key link between the two crimes even before Monfort was identified as the suspect. The Times attributed the information to unnamed law-enforcement sources. 
On Friday, police detectives were pursuing a tip from a resi­dent who said a car at an apart­ment complex in suburban Tukwila matched the description of a vehicle seen nearby when Brenton was killed. 
While officers examined the car, which was covered by a tarp, tel­evision footage showed dozens of cruisers surrounding the building. 
Pugel said detectives were walking to speak with other law enforcement conducting surveil­lance when Monfort left his apart­ment and approached three detectives. 



The Observer 




Viewpoint 

page 10 Monday, November 9, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 



The great mystery 
A few weeks ago, I met with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission with a group of fellow Notre Dame stu­dents. For those of you who may not know, FERC is an executive agency that oversees inter­state energy trans­port, be it in the form of electricity, natural gas, oil pipelines or hydroelectric power. 
The meeting was interesting and the bureaucrat with whom we spoke Jackie knowledgeable. I 

Mirandola 
would have left the 
Mullen
hour feeling intel­lectually satisfied, Freckled perhaps compla-Thoughts cently, were it not for the final question she entertained: 
Student: “How do you know exactly what the generated electricity is used for?” 
Her answer? 
“Well that’s the great mystery, isn’t it?” 
What? The commission responsible for regulating energy flow doesn’t know where electricity goes? 
Her answer was not intended to leave such an esoteric takeaway. She was referring to the notion known among electrical professions that elec­tron flow moves water-like along the path of least resistance. Because of this “fluidity” of electrons, it is impossible to track one electron as having been made in this particular generating plant and reaching its end destination at that exact streetlight. 
Yet, her large-scale response couldn’t help but lead me to a similarly capa­cious framing of the situation. Since when are we so big, so complex, that we don’t fully understand the functions of a system that we ourselves have cre­ated and made essential for modern human life? How can we create path­ways that are too complex to track action, too tangled to trace movement and instead require faith in a “great mystery” that everything will turn out okay? 
Hold up. Is this article about our electricity or our economy? 
It could be either. We are huge. Our economic markets are huge, our per­sonal and national spheres of influence are titanic, our resource use is colos­sal. Our nation’s economic and political systems sit lost in their own obesity epidemic, so complex that even the very commodity we rely on for heat, cold, light and food storage remains a mystery to those in charge of regulat­ing it. 
It’s a lot like gaining weight, this acquisition of national bulk. Mass accrues so gradually that only ten years down the line do you look down and realize your gut has expanded to the point where you can’t even see your feet anymore. You know they still exist down there, you can usually feel them, but it sure takes some effort to take care of them. 
If stimulus money really is impossible to track, if certain companies truly are “too big to fail,” then why is the solu­tion to throw more money at them, hoping some morals will stick? Parents anywhere will tell you that handing out money to a child doesn’t improve his/her/a national conglomerate’s char­acter. 
Being large, advanced and far-reach­ing obviously does afford some bene­fits. In America, we feel limitless in our pursuits, we have access to mass amounts of information and we don’t struggle with the basic necessities of life in the same way that so many other countries do. Yet, how do we reconcile this ease with the waste of our huge lifestyles? More importantly, how do we tame the Frankensteins of our mas­sive culture? 
Most huge civilizations of the world grew and grew because of their suc­cesses, but too much success has his­torically tended to lead to epic failure. Rome couldn’t control its expansive northern territories from centers in the south and Britain eventually couldn’t keep its colonies in line with only a Navy. Our ingenuity advances us, but also creates capable monsters, systems that we administer but cannot track. 
I’m not sure if I’m advocating for secession, ruralism, Amish lifestyles or the apocalypse. Maybe all four, but probably none. What I do know is that we need to slow down and scale back. How can we retain and check up on the “great mysteries” of our inventions if they stay so great and mysterious? 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a senior history and German major. She uses electricity. You can contact her at jmirando@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Joseph McMahon Douglas Farmer 
Amanda Gray Eric Prister When should Charlie Weis be fired? Carly Landon Chris Michalski 

Graphics Viewpoint 
Never 
“If you must play, decide upon

Mary Cecilia Lianna 
three things at the start:
Should have been fired yesterday Mitsch Brauweiler 

the rules of the game, the stakes
After our next loss 
and the quitting time.” 


Scene 
After the season Maija Gustin 
Chinese Proverb 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 

Monday, November 9, 2009 page 11 
We need a college coach 

I just wanted to vent a little — no big deal. I am not a die-hard fan but I do get upset when we throw away chances to win. I will feel better just putting it down on paper, so to speak. And I realize, too, that there are many, many other facets of Notre Stephen Pladna Dame than football, but being in the Guest limelight, it gets a lot Columnist of press. 
Let me preface my remarks by saying that those coaches I will mention I believe to be good, honest people. But I like to make the comparison to Jimmy Carter: he was a nice guy, too. But all three of them were sadly not good at the job they were ulti­mately given. As an outsider, non-player with a useless opinion, I see how all these people had wonderful skills at one level, that did not transport to the college level. 
I am a Notre Dame alum that has seen the Ara years and those since. I have just finished over half the new book “Resurrection,” if for no other reason than it has quite a lot of history of what went on before. The parallels to now are scary. 
I have seen great years, good years and purely dismal years. Winning and losing are all part of the experience, and I can live with both. I have seen some great chances taken by the University in coaching deci­sions (I, for one, really thought Gerry Faust would be very successful — his high school record was stellar). I have seen the pro­gram go through radical shifts and changes in the philosophy of how the team should be built and perform (most turned out adversely). And I have seen (though I was very nervous) the seemingly better chance taken with the advent of Charlie Weis — another coach with purely stellar creden­tials from a different level of football. 
I have seen sad things, too. I saw the uni­versity tarnish itself permanently by the early dismissal of Tyrone Willingham. I have seen the proven ways of recruiting and team building — those that brought Notre Dame success — thrown out for something supposedly better (these were where the dismal years came in). And over the last couple of years, I have watched our team consistently shoot itself in the foot many times over. 
So here we are. The last four years have been very, very rocky. The team does not seem to be able to stabilize on either the side of mediocrity or the side of excellence. 
We have a defense that one minute is stopping teams on the one-foot line for three plays, and the next is allowing totally uncovered receivers to romp into the end zone. (Let me say that I think the defense has shown gargantuan glimmers of great­ness, saving at least three games so far in the waning minutes when the offense spent all day putting hardly any points on the board.) I don't know if game stress or what keeps them so variable, but if we have any­one to thank for the wins we do have, it is the defense. 
I could accept all this if I thought those directing things knew what they were doing, but it sure looks to me like the play­ers are being given lousy choices in plays. 
When I see a player that is near the top of the heap in offense, when I see a team that amasses huge amounts of gains (but only between the two 20-yard lines) I am aghast. Notre Dame has unfortunately been totally inept in scoring when they are inside the 20-yard line and have a first down — even inside the ten. I know the real estate gets smaller down there, but come on. We have some fantastic performers and for some crazy reason they cannot play the same when close to the goal. I don’t blame the players, I blame the play calling. What good is the 350 to more than 400 yards of offense per game if it is only gotten running back and forth but not scoring? 
We need to go back to our roots. We need a proven college coach like Ara (he had a known, proven record at Northwestern). Heck, most of the coaches since Ara were very good. If you realize that no one can win all the time forever, then it is clear that Notre Dame has shown the ability to find a coach to put us back where we used to be (not winning every year, but certainly among the elite groups). But all the good ones were proven college coaches — not from high school and not from the pros. 
I am done now, for what it’s worth. The scary part is that after the Navy game, Coach Weis made the statement that the outcome of this game would not affect the way he coaches. In reading the “Resurrection” book, this is what Devore and Kuharich said. The parallel I see between Kuharich and Coach Weis is inter­esting — too close for comfort if you ask me. 
When anyone stops learning from their mistakes, they cease to function effectively. Charlie may be trying to prove something that just will not come to pass — just because you want it does not make it hap­pen. You cannot be good at everything in every way (“render unto Caesar”). Notre Dame needs an offensive coordinator really, really badly. 
Stephen Pladna is a 1974 graduate. He can be contacted at pladn001@mc.duke.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



A Notre Dame short story 

Part 5 by Felicia Aguirre 

He snapped out of his memory just in time to answer the first question. A short, bald man with yellow teeth leaned for­ward in his seat, strumming his fingers against the podium in front of him. 
“Do you know why you are here, Frederick M. Stevens?” he asked, and his hairy eyebrows bunched inquisitively on his forehead. Frederick took a deep breath and stared at the floor, deep in thought. Those days of working at the Toys-R-Us in Humptulips were long ago, and Frederick vaguely remembered how the events unfolded. He recalled Larry Seretty diving on the floor over the display of Easy-Bake ovens screaming, “Do a barrel roll!” Michael Piles slid down aisle eight on a Razor Scooter, and knocked Mark Evans to the floor. 
The whole scenario ended in one giant fit of giggles, as the madman made his escape. Blinking back tears of laughter, Frederick saw the madman grab a grey stone out of the pet rock collection and run out of the store. The stone was not particularly unique. In fact, Frederick thought Larry had stolen it from the park­ing lot outside, and placed it in the bin as a joke. 
They may know that he had committed the crime, but they had no way of antici­pating that he had met a previous victim. If only he had taken the madman serious­ly. 

Part 6 by Nicholas Brandt 
A man in a beige-tinted jacket approached him from his council pedestal. He sloshed through the jagged debris and mumbled grumblings to himself. He was squinting his green-brown eyes. 
“So why you done torn down this here wall?” 
Frederick looked at the man. The follow­ing words were the only things that man­aged to escape his breath: “I … I couldn’t … get out.” The overwhelming feeling of hollow success began to engulf him. 
The man raised an eyelid. Putting his hands on his hips, he let out a feeble chuckle. 
“Heh! Couldn’t get out? Why, that’s about the funniest thing I ever heard,” he said. 
He offered Frederick his hand. As he got to his feet he noticed that the man’s other hand wasn’t moving and hadn’t been since he arrived. It just dangled by his side. Looked like more of a hindrance to him than an aesthetic advantage. They carried on, climbing through rubble. First his bricks, then more bricks, then shards of what looked like formerly wooden planks, then tall grass, then thick mud. The going was tough, but the tough got going, so they say. They finally came to a point of solid ground. 
It was then that they saw the mountain. 


Write Part Seven! 
Want to write the next paragraph to the story? Submit your paragraph 
to NDLFshortstory@gmail.com before 4 p.m. Limit of 200 words. Title it Part Seven. This story will continue until Nov. 16. If your paragraph is selected, it will be published in Viewpoint and you will get to read it at the NDLF panel discussion Nov. 19. The visiting authors will write the ending paragraphs. Take advantage of the opportunity to write a story along with three New York Times bestselling authors! 



LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Cell phones distracting 
My wife and I attended the  completely off during any event.  In our world today, there is probably a little  necessary to even imply killing them, albeit in  
excellent Notre Dame Symphony  We all pay good money to enjoy  too much political correctness. People need to  jest?  
Orchestra Concert Nov. 5 and  the wonderful events available  stop getting so annoyed over the most innocu- Furthermore, I do hope that the band  
found ourselves constantly dis- for the Notre Dame and South  ous of comments and grow up. Yet there are  refrains from using the “kill” cheer for our  
tracted by the frequent audience  Bend community. Common sense  times in which a little more tact is called for. I  final game versus Connecticut. Again, under  
use of cell phones for texting and  and simple etiquette should dic­ could not help but be uncomfortable during  normal circumstances it is of course an inno­ 
e-mailing during the actual con­ tate that all electronic devices be  the Navy game when the band struck up the  cent cheer, but with the events surrounding  
cert. The glow of cell phones was  turned completely off. We both  Imperial Death March and the student section  the tragic murder of Connecticut defensive  
all around us. I could not for the  found the use of these devices  chanted, in unison, “Kill.” Under most circum­ back Jasper Howard, having a student section  
life of me understand why peo­ quite rude and distracting; not  stances (USC, Washington, Nevada, etc.) I have  full of people chanting “kill” while engaged in  
ple could not wait until the con- only for us but the rest of the  no problem with this cheer. Nobody is actually  a stabbing motion just seems to go a bit far.  
cert was over to use their cell  audience. Turn them off, but if  suggesting that we end the lives of anybody on  Frankly, we’d look like a bunch of tools.  
phones.  you cannot, leave. Thank you.  the opposing team and the members of that  
I would urge the DeBartolo  team are not in any danger — it’s just a cheer.  Greg Robinson  
Center for Performing Arts to  Jeffrey Bernel  But in such a friendly rivalry, where we are  senior  
adopt a strict policy of insisting  faculty  playing a team full of men who are prepared  off campus  
that all cell phones be turned  Nov. 7  to make the ultimate sacrifice for us, is it really  Nov. 7  


Show some respect 
The Observer 
Sc n 

page 12 Monday, November 9, 2009 

By MAIJA GUSTIN, JORDAN GAMBLE, ADRIANA PRATT, COURNTNEY ECKERLE, MATT BROWN, NICK ANDERSON, JESS SHAFFER and MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writers 

With the upcoming release — and preview screen­ing here at Notre Dame — of “The Boondock Saints II: All Saints Day” fast approaching, all the excite­ment on campus begs a ques­tion: Why does Notre Dame love cult clas­sic “Boondock Saints” so much? 
In lieu of exten­sive research and a definitive answer to this question, here instead is a glimpse at some of Notre Dame ’s own cult classics. Not all are Irish, and not all gar­ner the respect and adoration that “Boondock Saints” does. But Domers love them any ­ways. 
From hilarious musi­cals to anar­chical action flicks, Notre Dame loves to spend those months without football watching these movies, over and over again, getting them the coveted dis ­tinction of being Notre Dame Cult Classics. 
The Departed 

Just like “Boondock Saints,” Martin Scorsese’s 2006 Oscar-winner “The Departed” has Boston, crooked cops, the Mafia and obscene violence. Unlike “Boondock Saints,” however, it is a legitimately “good” film (hence the “Best Picture” award) and it has Notre Dame shout-outs galore. Martin Sheen (who has a history of characters with Domer connections) plays a Catholic police detective who brags (okay, mentions) that his son goes to Notre Dame. And don’t forget Jack Nicholson’s memorable final appearance in an Irish t-shirt. 
She’s the Man 

For three not-very-good reasons, the women of Notre Dame seem to love “She’s the Man:” It’s quotable, it’s ridiculously good fun and Channing Tatum spends half his screen time shirtless. Plus, for all of the pseudo-intellectual movie critics on campus, “She’s the Man” is an adaptation of William Shakespeare’s cross-dressing comedy, “Twelfth Night.” Let the aca­demic discussion commence. 
Wedding Crashers 

There is something terribly charming about lying playboys who find clever ways to get as many girls as possible, as long as they’re hilarious. Honestly, who wouldn’t be entertained by Vince Vaughn and Owen Wilson’s antics as they searched for the best ways to have a good time? The rules of their game are plastered over dorm walls for good reason. “Wedding Crashers” combines humor with fantastic characterization and traipses its audience down the aisle, dropping them off at the altar of two comedic geniuses. 
Mean Girls 
Whether it’s torturing your friends with a sweatpants comment or a well placed, “You can’t sit with us!” there is a little Regina George in all of us. “Mean Girls” has become everything from a Friday movie night regular to a wake up call on how ridiculous girl behavior really is. Unlike most high school movies, it actually comes eerily close to the real thing — girls can be vicious. “Mean Girls” is a classic because it shows how close bonds can come out of it, maybe over a good conversation or even falling backwards into a group of your peers during a trust exercise. Just don’t say that you’re sorry because people are jealous of you, and you can’t help it that you’re really popular. And guess what — Regina was right. Fetch never happened. 
Sweet Home Alabama 
If “Sweet Home Alabama” isn’t sweeping the campus, well, it should be. Reese Witherspoon is any man’s dream — a smart, fiery, strong-willed woman that isn’t too hard on the eyes, if I do say so myself. Plus for all you ladies out there, word is that Josh Lucas ain’t too bad either; the man makes glass from lightning. While it’s nothing really new on the romantic comedy scene, you can’t go wrong with your basic big-time-city-girl coming back to town and having to choose between old and new. Come for the love, stay for the Civil War reenactors. 
V for Vendetta 
A powerful, faceless theocracy slowly wrestling away the rights of its sub­jects in the name of God and country. A young woman lost and confused in an oppressive society. A masked, mysterious, intelligent man fighting for long forgotten freedom. Somewhere in these dark images is an idea that Notre Dame relates to. From the elegant, alliterative soliloquies to the hell­ishly brutal violence, it’s a film of great performances, beautiful and dis­turbing images and stirring moments. But behind these, it’s a film of ideas, and ideas are bulletproof. 
High School Musical 
At first you may seem skeptical that this is a Notre Dame Cult Classic; it is a musical set in high school and aren’t we non-musical col­lege students? Well let’s note the evidence that this Disney tril­ogy is indeed a cult classic here on campus. On average, one in four Notre Dame girls owns at least one copy of “High School Musical.” Then there’s the sheer exis­tence of “High School Musical”-themed par­ties. And, though there is only one confirmed case, the presence of Zac Efron’s face on throw pillows on 
futons in common rooms. These three factors alone are 
enough to establish this High Schooling Romp as a Classic. If you’re 
still skeptical, walk into a room full of people and yell 
“What team?!” If anyone answers “Wildcats,” then this choice as a cult classic is clearly justi­fied. 
Rudy
Does this even need an expl ana­tion? “Rudy ” is the quin­tessen­tial under ­dog story. It is the true story 
of a young man from a small, working-class town who dreams of playing football at the University of Notre 
Dame. No one believes in him, not even his father or his brothers, except his friend Pete. But he proves everyone wrong and wins the hearts and respect of many along the way. The story is heartwarming and inspiring and has a great soundtrack. Oh yeah, did I mention it takes place at Notre Dame? 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu, Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu, Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu, Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu, Matt Brown at mbrown14@nd.edu, Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu, Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd.edu and Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Monday, November 9, 2009 observer Navy 23, Notre Dame 21 
Home invasion 

Navy edges Irish for second straight win in Notre Dame Stadium 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Jimmy Clausen set career-highs in pass attempts (51), completions (37) and passing yards (452), and a new school record of completions, Golden Tate made nine catches for 132 yards and a touchdown and Michael Floyd returned to the field for Notre Dame. 
The numbers appear to be from a Notre Dame rout, but the Irish were unable to come back against Navy Saturday, falling 23 -21. Notre Dame was in contention for a BCS berth heading into Saturday’s match-up, but Navy’s victory effectively ended that hope. The Irish also fell to 6-3 as the Midshipmen moved to 7-3. 
“I think it came down to red-zone production for us,” Irish coach Charlie Weis said Saturday afternoon, and he was right. Notre Dame scored 
on only two of their six chances in the red zone. 

As in the Irish style this season, Notre Dame worked on making a comeback with less than a minute left. After the Irish recovered an onside kick, Clausen found Tate for a 31-yard touchdown pass to make the score 23-21 with 24 seconds left in the game. The following onside kick went out of bounds, however, and Navy left South Bend with their second straight win at rank as the fourth highest in Notre Dame Stadium. a single game in Notre Dame 
Navy quarterback Ricky history and are the most by Dobbs passed for 56 yards an Irish signal caller since and rushed for 102 in the Brady Quinn threw for 467 game, second to fullback against BYU in 2005. Vince Murray’s 158. Going As good as the Clausen ­into the game, Weis knew orchestrated offense was, Murray would be Navy’s athreat. triple­
“Well, I think option the first thing you “[Murray] had too offense have to do is stop ruled the
many yards, some of 
the fullback,” field.
them easy yards, and
Weis said. “That’s “ T h e i r where the whole he had a couple of big offense did defense starts, great today
runs.” 
with stopping the and execut­fullback. He had ed their too many yards, Charlie Weis game plan,” some of them Irish head coach Clausen easy yards, and said. “I give he had a couple a lot of of big runs.” credit to 
Where Notre Dame did their coach, their defense and outdo Navy was in game stats, all their players.” including going the entire Tate also put up strong game without once punting. numbers in the game, most 
On top of Clausen’s impres-coming out of the second half sive career highs in attempts, where he had eight catches completions and passing and 127 of his 132 yards. yards, he had one intercep-Michael Floyd, playing in tion and threw for two touch-his first game since breaking downs. His 452 passing yards his clavicle against Michigan State on Sept. 19, had 10 receptions for 141 yards and a touchdown, tying his career high in receptions. 

Leading the Irish defense Saturday was Brian Smith with 10 tackles, followed by Sergio Brown and Kyle McCarthy with nine and Ian Williams with behind 7-0. The Midshipmen began the second quarter with another touchdown on Murray’s 25-yard run to make it 14-0 at halftime. 
The Irish finally got on the board with 5:03 left in the third quarter after junior halfback Robert Hughes made it over 
eight. Not r e Da me  “You can’t be worrying  t h e f o r  g o a l l i n e a t o u c h - 
could not cross  about two or three  d  o  w  n  .  
t h e 5 0 -y a r d line on its first  games down the line.”  However, Navy r e s p o n d e d  
p o s s e s s i o n w h e n s e n i o r  Charlie Weis  w i t h t h e i r  o n e o f o w n  
wide receiver  Irish head coach  w h e n  D o b b s  
R o b b y  P a r r i s  t h r e w  a  5 2 - 
f u m b l e d  a  y a r d  p a s s  t o  
reception that  j u n i o r  w i d e  
was  recovered  receiver Greg  

by Navy. From there, Dobbs Jones to increase their lead to marched the Midshipmen 21-7. down the field to score and Sophomore cornerback Navy led 7-0. Robert Blanton apparently 
Despite moving the ball thought Jones was an ineligile well, Notre Dame failed to receiver, and as a result score in the first half. Jones was wide open on the Freshman kicker Nick Tausch play. attempted a field goal from The Irish finally started to the Navy 24 and missed wide rack up points late in the left, leaving Notre Dame still fourth quarter. Floyd caught a 12-yard touchdown pass with 
4:46 left to make it 21-14. After a key defensive stop that forced a Navy punt, the Irish started a new drive at their own 13-yard line with time running out. Their suc­cess was cut short, however, when Navy sacked Clausen twice, the second time for a safety with a minute left in the game. 
Weis felt along the same lines as his players in terms of correcting mistakes and looking ahead. Not only is he prepared to fix his team’s mistakes from Saturday, but Weis is also ready to look to next week. 
“Right now that’s the only thing you are chasing,” he said. “You can’t be worrying about two or three games down the line, you’ve got to worry about Pittsburgh at 8 Saturday night.” 
Ranked Notre Dame teams had defeated unranked Navy teams 41 straight times, a streak dating back to 1936. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 

player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
Vince Murray 2 of 6 Craig Schaefer’s sack of Jimmy 
“People make mistakes. I mean, this

Navy fullback Clausen in the end zone 
game was a mistake.” 

The number of red zone Murray gashed the Irish defense for opportunites the Notre Dame The safety put Navy ahead 23-14 
Ian Williams 158 yards and a touchdown, averaging offense scored on thanks to with 1:00 left and ended any serious Irish defensive tackle 
11.3 yards per carry. turnovers and failed conversions. hope on a Notre Dame comeback. 



page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 9, 2009 
report card 
B B B+ C­
C+ C­D­
F 

quarterbacks: Jimmy Clausen threw for a career-high 452 yards, but couldn’t lead the Irish offense into the end zone often enough and had a critical fumble. 
running backs: Notre Dame rarely ran the ball against the Midshipmen but Theo Riddick was impressive in his five carries. Robert Hughes never got going on the ground but had 59 receiving yards. 
receivers: Golden Tate and Michael Floyd each had more than 100 yards and did their jobs against the Navy corners, although Floyd looked a little rusty at times. Robby Parris’ fumble was a huge momentum shift. 
offensive line: Against a much smaller Navy defense the line of scrimmage was not controlled, and the two sacks of Clausen came on the most critical plays of the game. 
defensive line: Vince Murray and Ricky Dobbs gashed the Notre Dame defense early, in particular up the middle. The unit improved as the game went on but struggled early. 
linebackers: Brian Smith had a career-high 10 tackles and Harrison Smith had a nice game at linebacker. There seemed to be missed assignments defending the option and Navy had 348 yards rushing. 
defensive backs: This unit struggled help­
ing out in run support, although Sergio 
Brown had nine tackles (but several 
misses). Greg Jones was uncovered on 
his huge touchdown catch. 
special teams: Nick Tausch missed both 
field goal attempts after making his last 
14. John Goodman was solid returning punts and Theo Riddick had some nice moves on kickoff return duty. 
coaching: Losing to Navy twice at home is simply unacceptable, and much of the blame for the red zone failures has to go to play-calling. Turnovers, miscommuni­cation and penalties are all signs of a poorly coached team. 
overall: A disastrous perform­
ance for a team that should have soundly beaten Navy. 
1.96 

adding up the numbers 
Years since an unranked Navy team had defeat­ed a ranked Notre Dame team, a streak of 41 
73 
consecutive games. 

Number of times the Irish failed to score a point4 while in the red zone against the Midshipmen. 
Completions for Jimmy Clausen out of 51 attempts, the most in Notre Dame 
37 
history. 

2 
Field goals missed by Nick Tausch after the fresh­man kicker had converted a school record 14 straight. 
Passes without an interception for Clausen until Navy linebacker Ram Vela’s pick in the 
160
fourth quarter. 

5 
Consecutive games with a touchdown recep­tion for receiver Golden Tate. 
Yards for sophomore receiver Michael Floyd in his first game back since breaking his clav­
141 
icle against Michigan State. 

0 
Number of punts for Notre Dame in the game despite scoring just 21 points. 

Irish caught looking ahead 
The players won’t say it. The coaches won’t say it. Nobody with­in with the Notre Dame football program is admitting it, but to anyone who follows sports, it’s fairly obvious what happened to Notre Dame on Saturday. 
The Irish fell into the proto­typical trap game. 
Next week­end’s show­down in Pittsburgh was Sam Werner supposed to be the make-or-Associate break game. It 

Sports Editor 
was all set up perfectly to be two top 20 teams nationally broad­cast in primetime. 
Except the Irish forgot about that pesky little Navy team that always plays Notre Dame tough. Who could really blame them? Navy had only beaten Notre Dame once in the past 45 years. 
Except that one time was two years ago, and many of the players on Notre Dame’s roster played in that game. This team, more than any Irish squad of the past half-century, should not have underes­timated what Navy was capable of. 
The quotes from after the game were eerily reminiscent of the interviews after the loss to Syracuse last season, when the usually fiery Golden Tate said he felt the attitude was “Eh.” 
“I think it did feel a little flat,” Tate said after Saturday’s loss. “I'm not sure why. I definitely did feel it, but I'm not sure why we felt that way, why I felt that way.” 
The worst part of Saturday’s loss, though, isn’t that it was the second loss to Navy in the past three years, or the fact that this year’s junior and senior classes will never see a win against Navy in Notre Dame Stadium during their time as a student. 
No, the worst part was that, even though the loss was unexpected, it was hardly shocking. 
The Irish had been talking a tightrope all season, and so far had come out on the winning end more often than not. 
Saturday, though, all the woes that had haunted the Irish all sea­son showed up once again. 
First, the red zone production was abysmal. Including Saturday’s game, the Irish have scored touch­downs on only 51 percent of their trips inside the opponent’s 20-yard line. On Saturday alone, Notre Dame found points on only two of the six red zone chances. 
Next, the run defense, and defense in general, was gashed repeatedly. The Midshipmen rushed for a staggering 348 yards against Notre Dame. A run defense that looked to have improved over the past few weeks regressed back to early-season form. 
It would be one thing if the Irish were burned by Navy quarterback Ricky Dobbs or one of the Midshipmen’s speedy tailbacks, but the play that seemed to give the Irish fits was a simple dive play to the fullback. Vince Murray led the Midshipmen in rushing, with 158 yards on only 14 carries, almost all of them right up the middle. 
Poor tackling, another bugaboo for the Irish all season, showed up in spades Saturday. How many times did a Navy player appear to be stopped, only to rattle off a few more yards after initial contact. 
Against Navy’s triple option, it appeared that Notre Dame’s strug­gling pass defense would get a break, and the Midshipmen did pass only three times all day. On one of those passes, though, the Irish got burned for a 52-yard touchdown pass where it appeared the Irish simply neglected to cover the Navy receiver. 
On the other side of the ball, the offensive line play was suspect as well. It’s one thing to give up pres­sure when USC is rushing only four defensive linemen, but to give up consecutive sacks — and one safety — to a Navy line that weighs in at an average of just 
262.3 pounds is simply unaccept­able for a team with legitimate BCS aspirations. 
Despite all of this, Notre Dame still had a chance to win. I’ll admit that when the Irish regained pos­session in the waning minutes down only seven, I thought that Jimmy Clausen would lead yet another fourth quarter comeback. 
It wasn’t to be, though, and the loss obviously raises more ques­tions about Charlie Weis’ job secu­rity. In all likelihood, those ques­tions won’t be answered until the end of the season. 
One thing is certain, though. The Irish won’t be getting distracted by any BCS talk for the rest of this season. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


Monday, November 9, 2009 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Offense fails to convert in red zone 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer Junior quarterback Jimmy Clausen waits for the snap near the Navy end zone during Saturday’s 23-21 loss to the MIdshipmen. Notre Dame scored on just two of their six trips into the red zone, which included an interception and a fumble. 
position to score was not the By ALEX BARKER issue; it was scoring that Sports Writer was the issue,” he said. 
With the offense sputtering 
With the return of Michael and the defense unable to Floyd to the lineup after sit-make stops for much of the ting out the last five games game, it seemed as though because a broken collar-things couldn’t possibly get bone, Notre Dame’s offense worse the Irish. They did. looked, at times, unstop-After hitting a Notre Dame Jimmy Clausen’s pass fell incomplete in the end zone. 
pable. But  record 14  
once again,  c on secu t i v e  
the Irish offense just couldn’t get it  “Getting the ball down into position to score  field goals, kicker Nick T a u s c h  
done when it m a t t e r e d most. J i m m y  was not the issue; it was scoring that was the issue.”  missed his only two a t t e m p t s against the  
Clausen and  Midshipmen,  
company were a horrific 2-for-6 inside  Charlie Weis Irish head coach  tries from 30 and 41 yards.  
the red zone  This would  
against Navy,  come back to  

“We had missed a couple field goals in the game, and sometimes that taints you,” Weis said of the decision. “I thought that the possessions in the game, especially they were up two scores, but the two scores were touch­downs, I think the posses­sions in the game and the time of possession was going to warrant that we were going to need some points.” 
What really cost the Irish down the stretch were uncharacteristic turnovers that cost them valuable scoring opportunities. 
Down by two touchdowns late in the third quarter, the Irish were threatening to close the gap as they made their way down to Navy’s nine-yard line. But instead of sliding down or getting out of bounds to avoid con­tact as he has done all sea­son, Clausen got impatient, taking on a Navy defender inside the two-yard line and fumbling the ball after tak­ing a huge hit. 
“I just got hit. A guy made a good play, and I fumbled the ball,” Clausen said of the play. 
On the next possession, the Irish once again drove deep into Navy territory before turning the ball over. Clausen’s pass, intended for Floyd, who wasn’t expecting it, ricocheted off of Floyd’s back into the arms of Midshipmen linebacker Ram Vela. 
“Yeah, we were trying to get a double cadence and we just miscommunicated,” Clausen said. “He was block­ing the screen, and I was just trying to throw a slant, and it went off his back and a guy made a good play on it.” 
As good as Notre Dame’s offense is outside of the red zone, it won’t matter if its woes in the red zone contin­ue. Next week doesn’t figure to be any easier as the Irish travel to take on a Pittsburgh defense that is allowing just 17 points per game. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

Notes: Rudolph’s injury status unknown 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
uSophomore 
tight end Kyle Rudolph left Saturday’s game in the second half with what trainers initially thought was a broken collarbone. Irish coach Charlie Weis said Sunday that initial x-rays came back nega­tive and the medical staff was still evaluating him. 

“They x-rayed him and that came back negative,” Weis said. “He went out and walked out of the locker room with a sling, but I don’t know what the status of that is yet.” 

uWeis 
also said Sunday that sophomore quarterback Dayne Crist’s surgery on his ACL went very well Friday. 



“It went very, very well, bet­ter than we would have expect­ed. Usually when you get an ACL there’s a lot of residual damage along with that, and it was as clean as could be. There was no cartilage, no other ligaments, no bone,” Weis said. “It only took about an hour to fix, and the progno­sis is very good, probably a time frame faster than we nor­mally would have expected based off of how little damage there was.” 
uClausen’s 37 completions against the Midshipmen easily beat the previous record of 33, set by Joe Theismann against USC in 1970 and Brady Quinn against Michigan State in 2005. The junior’s 452 passing yards were the most since Quinn threw for 467 against BYU in 2005. 
uThe 
loss dropped Weis’s record against teams with win­ning records to 8-19. Weis is also just 1-13 against teams ranked the in the top 25. 

uIrish 
defensive players had different reactions to giving up 348 yards on the ground to Navy. “They out-schemed us, they just played harder,” said junior defensive tackle Ian Williams. “I played my heart out, but I guess they just had a better scheme than we did.” 


Senior safety Kyle McCarthy indicated the failure was more in execution than the scheme. 
“We have drilled all week that we have to take care of the fullback. That was a big part of our game plan and I guess we just didn’t execute it,” McCarthy said. “We made any adjustments that we felt we needed, and Navy just beat us; there is really no excuse.” 
Weis sided with McCarthy when asked about the question Sunday. 
“I did hear quite contrasting answers to the same question. I think that question was pre­sented to Ian, it was also pre­sented to Kyle McCarthy, and from what I understand, Kyle McCarthy’s answer was quite different, where he said it had nothing to do with the scheme,” Weis said. “So there’s a reason why one guy is a cap­tain and one guy is not.” 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Navy  7  7  7  2  23  
Notre Dame  0  0  7  14  21  
First quarter  

Navy 7, Notre Dame 0 
Ricky Dobbs 1-yd run (Joe Buckley kick) with 
7:15 remaining. Drive: 12 plays, 51 yards, 6:08 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Navy 14, Notre Dame 0 
Vince Murray 25-yd run (Buckley kick) with 
14:56 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 76 yards, 2:54 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Navy 14, Notre Dame 7 
Robert Hughes 1-yd run (Nick Tausch kick) with 
5:03 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 80 yards, 3:57 elapsed. 
Navy 21, Notre Dame 7 
Greg Jones 52-yd pass from Dobbs (Buckley kick) with 3:29 remaining. Drive: 3 plays, 72 yards,1:34 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Navy 21, Notre Dame 14 
Michael Floyd 12-yd pass from Jimmy Clausen (Tausch kick) with 4:46 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 90 yards, 1:48 elapsed. 
Navy 23, Notre Dame 14 
Clausen tackled by Craig Schaefer in end zone for a safety 
Navy 23, Notre Dame 21 
Golden Tate 31-yd pass from Clausen (Tausch kick) with 0:24 remaining. Drive: 3 plays, 66 yards, 0:36 elapsed. 
statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

return yards 

time of possession 

passing  
Clausen  37-51-452 Dobbs  2-3-56  
rushing  
Riddick Hughes Floyd Tate  5-35 Murray 7-22 Dobbs 1-8 Teich 2-3 Greene  14-158 31-102 5-52 5-36  
receiving  
Floyd Tate Hughes Parris Ragone  10-141 Jones 9-132 Greene 6-59 5-28 2-33  1-52 1-4  


including two turnovers and two missed field goals. 
In his postgame press con­ference, Irish coach Charlie Weis acknowledged that his team’s poor performance down near the goal line was the difference between win­ning and losing. 
“Getting the ball down into haunt the Irish. After failing to convert on three plays from inside the five-yard line, Weis was faced with a tough choice on fourth-and­goal down 14-0 early in the second quarter. He elected to go for it and the Irish turned the ball over on downs after quarterback 

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 9, 2009 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 


Too little too late 
Notre Dame had no trouble moving the ball against the Midshipmen, never even punting. But as soon as the Irish were near the Navy end zone, everything that could go wrong did go wrong. A failed fourth-down attempt, a fumble at the two-yard line, two missed field goals and an interception off the back of Michael Floyd all dismantled Notre Dame drives that looked as if they would result in scores. The Midshipmen rushed for 348 yards, gashing the Irish up the middle and often pitching to uncovered backs. Despite numerous miscues, Notre Dame still had a chance to force overtime in the closing minutes. This time, however, there was no dramatic comeback, as Clausen was sacked on third and fourth downs to preserve the Navy win. A late onside kick recovery and touchdown pass from Jimmy Clausen to Golden Tate gave a glimmer of hope, but with the loss Notre Dame’s BCS chances went down the drain. 
For more photos, check out the photo gallery at ndsmcobserver.com 




COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer 

Clockwise from top: Sophomore defensive tackle Ethan Johnson leaps in effort to block a Navy field goal, freshman running back Theo Riddick races downfield, junior defensive tackle Ian Williams is upended trying to block a punt, sophomore wide receiver Michael Floyd runs after a reception, senior receiver Robby Parris fumbles. 
The Observer 
Sc n 

Monday, November 9, 2009 page 13 

By ADRIANA PRATT 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Thursday afternoon, Mark Weber, producer, direc­tor and editor of “Strong Bodies Fight,” sat down at Decio Café for an in-depth interview and look at his documentary. “Strong Bodies Fight” trails the jour­ney of five Bengal Bouts boxers who traveled to Bangladesh in May of 2008 to witness the results of the Bengal Bouts’ efforts. “Strong Bodies Fight” coincided with Weber’s senior thesis as a PLS and Film major and the version aired Friday was a “rough cut.” The film was also edited by William Donaruma, produced by Patrick Ryan and Tom Suddes and shot by John Klein. 
Observer: Why was it important to travel to Bangladesh to make this film? 
Weber: The impact of Bengal Bouts has always been there but it’s been in Bangladesh. Our goal from the beginning was to really transform this con­nection from just a check that we send over every year to a relationship and really foster a sense of solidarity with the people of Bangladesh. ... You could hear the children’s voices, you could reach out and touch their hands. That experience, I think, has already and will continue to change the Bengal Bouts not in the sense of the impact that we make over there, but really on the impact that we make over here on the Notre Dame students. 
Observer: Do you think this gives the boxers a deeper incentive to look at why they’re doing what they’re doing? 
Weber: Yeah, I think it makes it more fulfilling. For years all we could do is throw out stats and sometimes pictures of poverty and that was really the focus, too. That’s another major shift we see in the film. Our expectations of Bangladesh and what the country was like in general were very bleak. They were what you see in the media of starving children and despair and hopelessness. But what we found when we went over there is that there is extreme poverty, but there’s not despair. There’s hope, there’s strength, there’s joy. ... I think by we should make a film about it.’ … I didn’t know what my capabilities were, I just had a camera … The success of the project was taking the idea and surrounding the idea with a team that was really talented and passionate about the project. … Some of the footage we got is just priceless stuff. All our music was done by a local guy, Gene Ort (and) his company. 

percentage of all the going back to the Notre Dame 
Our goal is definitely to submit this to film festivals and to talk to TV net­works and to sell it on DVD. The goal to many people see the work as possible. The reason for that is that, from our experience and from feed­back that we’ve already gotten, this is a story so unique, so inspiring, that by showing it to people we can help inspire people to do good in the world and also share this understanding that it’s not just 
about aiding other people but empow­ering them. 
Observer: What is a you faced were making 
Weber: There was a major technical challenge of shooting in Bangladesh. Having those big cameras, we would go to places and not have power or power would go off for hours at a time. And when you’re shooting in HD it’s not like you have limitless tapes. You have to download to computers and then wipe those tapes and start over. The major technical challenge was keeping our equipment powered and downloading our footage before we had to do another shoot. 

We were on car rides on bumpy dirt roads for five hours. … There were times when we’d be going on a road that would go through water and we had to take out all of the equipment, otherwise the car would sink. So we’d have to take out all our equip­ment, walk across this bridge, and then put it back in. Sometimes we had to do that a couple times on the way to our destinations. 
Observer: What are your career goals? Are you looking to make more documentaries in the future? 
Weber: I would define myself currently as an entrepreneur filmmaker. I have no idea where that’s going to lead me, but those are my passions. I’m project-oriented, I would love to work for myself someday, whether it be in a film company or some other company. Being an entrepreneur and being a film producer are very similar. It’s kind of like the day-in and day-out of boxing practice. You don’t know exactly how everything is going to work out in a tournament or where you’re going to go. You gotta love the day in and day out. You might step into that tournament and fight for six minutes and lose and not play the rest of the tournament, so you have to love the day-in and day-out. That’s what I love about filmmaking. Even if this film isn’t successful, we’ve created something really awesome and some­thing that we’re really proud of. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, November 9, 2009 
NFL 

Benson passes century mark in Bengals’ win 
Cincinnati remains undefeated against AFC North opponents; Colts escape Texans after missed field goal 
yards and a touchdown.
Associated Press 
Up 17-0 at halftime, it was a mat-

CINCINNATI — Done with all the ter of holding on. The Bengals did, drama, the Bengals are grinding with a lot of help from the self-their way into the playoff conversa-destructive Ravens, who had 80 tion. yards in penalties and missed a 
Cedric Benson topped 100 yards field goal. Their last chance slipped again on Sunday, and the Bengals away when Flacco was sacked on scored on their first three posses-three consecutive plays. sions, setting up a 17-7 victory over Last season, the Ravens went 11­Baltimore that kept surprising 5 and made the playoffs as a wild Cincinnati atop the AFC North and card, losing to Pittsburgh in the undefeated against division foes. AFC title game. By losing four of 
With a win next Sunday in their last five, they’ve made them-Pittsburgh, the Bengals (6-2) would selves a long shot to win the divi­be in position to make the playoffs sion. for only the second time in the past ‘None of us played well,’ defen­19 years. They won the division in sive end Trevor Pryce said. ‘‘They 2005 with a team that still had a lot had (solid) techniques and played to learn. physical. And they are a physical 
‘We’re much more mature,’ said team — don’t let anybody tell you quarterback Carson Palmer, who they aren’t.’ improved to 8-3 career against the Cincinnati scored on its first three Ravens. ‘We’re a better team. We possessions — touchdown, touch-were a good team back then; we down, field goal — against a were kind of young and dumb. This defense that has struggled against team has more guys that under-the run lately, a surprising change. stand how rare this opportunity is.’ The Ravens hadn’t allowed a 100­
Cincinnati would be in control of yard rusher for 39 consecutive the division with a win at games, a streak that Benson broke Pittsburgh (5-2), which plays by piling up 120 in that win at Denver on Monday night. The Baltimore. Bengals are 4-0 in division games, Now, the Ravens have allowed a including a two-game sweep of the 100-yard rusher in three of the last Ravens (4-4). four games. They’ve also hurt 
‘‘That’s pretty cool,’’ receiver themselves on big plays -two pass Chad Ochocinco said. ‘I like being interference penalties extended in the driver’s seat. Today was a Cincinnati’s second touchdown The implications of Sunday’s vic-The biggest impact: Indy holds a Things got really weird late in the statement game. I want every drive. tory are monumental. commanding 3 1/2-game lead in first half. gametobeastatementgame.’ That’snotall. Indyis the fourthteam in league the AFC South over second-place Houston lost one scoring chance 
The Ravens have frittered away Ray Rice’s 1-yard touchdown run history with 17 straight regular-Houston (5-4) and is 3-0 against its when a replay reversal ruled Ryan every advantage they gained by cut it to 17-7 early in the fourth season wins. New England did it division rivals. The Texans (5-4) Moats had fumbled at the Colts 1. starting the season 3-0. There’s quarter, and the Ravens got their twice — winning a record 21 dropped to 1-14 all time against the Further review gave the Colts a been a lot of self-destruction chance to make it close when Ed straight from 2006-08 and 18 in a Colts, including 0-8 in Indianapolis. touchback instead of putting the involved — dropped passes, missed Reed stripped Chad Ochocinco row from 2003-04. Chicago won 17 But this loss was easily the most ball at the Indy 1. kicks and penalties galore. after a catch at midfield. Steve straight from 1933-34. frustrating of the series. And then on the final play, 
‘We’re not in a great spot,’ said Hauschka hooked a 38-yard field Next week, the Patriots come to After shrugging off the Colts early Brown’s 56-yard field goal attempt Joe Flacco, who was frustrated all goal try with 6:12 left. town with a chance to prevent Indy run and fighting back to take the was blocked. One problem: the afternoon and threw a pair of inter-In the past, the Bengals would from matching its original record. lead, the Texans had two chances Colts called timeout to put a return­ceptions. ‘We’re in a tough spot.’ have been the ones self-destruct-There were plenty of accolades to to win it or force overtime. Both er underneath the goal post, and 
They’ve been at their worst ing. go around for the Colts on Sunday, failed. Matt Schaub, under pres-when Brown got a second chance, against the Bengals, who took ‘They’re not like last year, that’s too. sure from Gary Brackett, was inter-he knocked it through to make it advantage of three Ravens penal-clear,’ Rice said. Jim Caldwell became the NFL’s cepted by Clint Session in Colts ter-13-3. ties to pull off a last-minute touch-first rookie coach to start 8-0 since ritory with 2:13 to go. “Every decision that is made is down in Baltimore on Oct. 11, a 17-Colts 20, Texans 17 PotsyClarkin1930. Then after forcing arare three-mine,’ Caldwell said. ‘’You wantto 14 victory that gained national The Colts have no problems with Manning, the three-time MVP, and-out, Matt Schaub moved know if I wish I had it back? That’s notice. By sweeping the series, close games — as long as they keep tied Hall of Famer Fran Tarkenton Houston into scoring position again just the way it goes sometimes.’ Cincinnati suggested it has staying winning them. for fourth in career victories (125) only to see Brown push his field Houston pulled a page out of the power. Peyton Manning delivered anoth-and became the first player in goal attempt to the left, leaving Colts’ playbook in the second half. 
‘We’re not surprised, we’re really er milestone performance, Joseph league history to throw for 40,000 some teammates sprawled on the The Texans held the ball for all not,’’ safety Chris Crocker said. Addai produced a second straight yards in one decade. Tight end field in disbelief. but three plays in the third quarter, ‘‘Everyone on the outside is, ‘Oh, winning score, and the Colts found Dallas Clark caught 14 passes, the “I missed the kick,’ Brown said. getting a 1-yard TD pass from the Bengals got another one, but another unconventional way to win third-highest single-game total by “I was going through my routine, Schaub to Moats, who replaced the they’ll fall apart any time. ’ when Houston’s Kris Brown missed an NFL tight end, and with eight and I felt good walking on the field. fumble-prone Steve Slaton in the 
They were solid throughout on a 42-yard field goal as time receptions, Reggie Wayne moved I take a lot of pride in kicking, espe-starting lineup, and a 1-yard run Sunday. expired, keeping Indy’s winning past Hall of Famer Raymond Berry cially in these situations. To have from Slaton to take the lead on the 
Benson was coming off the best streak intact. and into second on the Colts’ career that happen is very disappointing.’ first playof the fourth quarter. game of his career: 189 yards “I think that’s the mark of a great reception list. It was a strange day indeed. Manning responded by moving against his former Bears team, a football team,’ center Jeff Saturday A week after rallying the Colts Though Indy dominated early, the Colts 61 yards in eight plays, dominating performance that sent said, referring to the close calls. with a fourth-quarter TD pass, running 37 of the game’s first 44 handing off to Addai for his 2-yard Cincinnati into its bye on an upbeat “We’ve won eight games so far, and Addai caught a touchdown pass, plays, the Colts couldn’t finish score with 7:11 to go. Manning was note. Refreshed by a weekend off, we’re ahead in our division, which then ran 2 yards for the winning drives and never led by more than 34 of 50 for 318 yards — his sev­he was atit again, runningfor 117 isreallyourmainfocusandgoal.’ scorewith7:11togo. 13-0. enth300-yardgamethisseason. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit

CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES ——————————————— Irish Crossings and Dublin Village 3 and 4 bdr, furnished and unfur­nished. January and June 2010 leases available. www.cespm.info Call 574-968-0112. ——————————————— 5 bdrm, 2 bath home. 705 ND Ave. $2150/mo. Avail. June 2010. 574­276-2333. ——————————————— 3 bdrm home on 1 acre wooded lot. Close to ND (1 block). $1250/mo. 574-276-2333. ——————————————— 4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES OF NATURE AND SERENITY. 9 MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME. $1,200 FOR WEEKEND. CALL GEORGIA PEACH BED AND BREAKFAST @269-357-6979. 

——————————————— 2 bdrm, 1.5 bath home, detached garage, finished basement, hard­wood floors, new appliances. 1334 Corby St., $650/mo. Avail. now or for 10-11 school year. 574-309­6961. 
——————————————— Furnished family home walk to ND. 4bdrm/2ba. $2K/mo. Spring semes­ter. 574-968-7394. ——————————————— 
TICKETS 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top $$. 574-251-1570 ——————————————— VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232­0964. 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu ——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-17819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt., no experience needed, cus­tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835. 
——————————————— Part time help needed at UP Mall. Must be good with kids and have clean driving record! Email resume and days available to: northcoas­trr@gmail.com ——————————————— It means that I, like God, do not play with dice and I don't believe in coincidences. ——————————————— We are being buried beneath the avalanche of your inadequacies, Mr. Creedy! ——————————————— No, what you have are bullets, and the hope that when your guns are empty I'm no longer be standing, because if I am you'll all be dead before you've reloaded. ——————————————— There are of course those who do not want us to speak. I suspect even now, orders are being shouted into telephones, and men with guns will soon be on their way. Why? Because while the truncheon may be used in lieu of conversation, words will always retain their power. Words offer the means to meaning, and for those who will listen, the enunciation of truth. ——————————————— But if you see what I see, if you feel as I feel, and if you would seek as I seek, then I ask you to stand beside me 1 year from tonight, out­side the gates of Parliament, and together we shall give them a 5th of Nov. that shall never be forgot. ——————————————— 

Around th Nation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Monday, November 9, 2009 
page 15 

NCAA Football AP Top 25 
team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Texas 2 3 Alabama 3 4 TCU 6 5 Cincinnati 4 6 Boise State 5 7 Georgia Tech 10 8 Pittsburgh 14 9 LSU 9 10 Ohio State 15 11 Southern California 12 12 Miami (Fla.) 16 13 Houston 13 14 Oregon 7 15 Iowa 8 16 Utah 17 17 Oklahoma State 18 18 Arizona 21 19 Penn State 11 20 Virginia Tech 22 21 Wisconsin 24 22 BYU 25 23 South Florida NR 24 Clemson NR 25 Stanford NR 
NCAA Football USA Today Top 25 Coaches’ Poll 
team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Texas 2 3 Alabama 3 4 TCU 4 5 Cincinnati 7 6 Boise State 5 7 Georgia Tech 11 8 Ohio State 12 9 Pittsburgh 14 10 Southern California 13 11LSU 9 12 Houston 15 13 Iowa 6 14 Utah 16 15 Miami (Fla.) 17 16 Oregon 8 17 Penn State 10 18 Oklahoma State 18 19 Arizona 19 20 Wisconsin 22 21 Virginia Tech 24 22 BYU 25 23 West Virginia NR 24 South Florida NR 25 Auburn NR 


around the dial 
NHL 

Kings at Blackhawks 8 p.m., Versus 
NFL 
Steelers at Broncos 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Oklahoma out, Stanford in the top 25 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Over the past decade, Oklahoma has rarely been out of the AP Top 25 and Stanford has rarely been in. 
On Sunday, the Sooners and Cardinal sort of swapped places. 
Oklahoma dropped out of the college football poll for the first time since 2005, and No. 25 Stanford moved into the rankings for the first time since 2001. 
The first six spots were held by major college foot­ball’s six unbeaten teams, with Florida, Texas and Alabama making up the top three for the second con­secutive week. Florida received 39 first-place votes, Texas received 10 and Alabama 11. 
TCU moved up two spots to No. 4, bumping No. 5 Cincinnati and No. 6 Boise State back a spot. 
The Horned Frogs have their highest ranking since Oct. 15, 1956, when they were also No. 4. 
The top six in the BCS standings were the same as the AP Top 25, except Alabama was second in the BCS standings and Texas was in third. 
Oklahoma had managed to stay in the rankings this season while losing three close games without star quarterback Sam Bradford, but Saturday’s 10-3 loss at Nebraska dropped the Sooners to 5-4 and out of the media poll. 
Since 2000, the ‘05 sea­son had been the only one in which Oklahoma spent any time unranked. The Sooners lost two games early and were out of the rankings from mid-September until the final poll. Oklahoma won its bowl game and finished 8-4 that season. 
Notre Dame and California also dropped out after losses. 
The rest of the top 10 is Georgia Tech at No. 7, fol­lowed by Pittsburgh, LSU and Ohio State. 
Iowa dropped seven spots to No. 15 after losing for the first time this season, a 17-10 upset at home by Northwestern. The Hawkeyes fell out of the national championship race but are still in control of their Big Ten title hopes. Iowa and Ohio State play in Columbus on Saturday with a trip to the Rose Bowl on the line. 
Stanford (6-3) moved into the rankings after knocking off Oregon 51-42 to become bowl eligible. 
“We were confident. There was definitely no fear going into this game,” Stanford running back Toby Gerhart said. 
The Cardinal finished the 2001 season ranked, but haven’t been since. That was also the last season Stanford played in a bowl. 
Oregon fell seven spots to No. 14. 
IN BRIEF 
Bengals ’ Chris Henry breaks left forearm 
CINCINNATI — Bengals receiver Chris Henry wasn’t sure whether he’d play again this season after he broke his arm during a 17-7 victory over the Baltimore Ravens on Sunday. 
Henry broke his left forearm just above the wrist when he was tackled by cornerback Fabian Washington after a 10-yard reception. Henry’s back hit the ground and Washington landed on top of him. A replay showed the forearm bowing slightly. 
He knew immediately that the injury was severe. 
“I was about to get up and I felt my arm (hurt),” Henry said. “Then I noticed it was broken.” 
The medical staff put an inflatable cast on the arm and called for a cart to take him for an exam. Henry said he won’t know his status for the rest of the season until he sees a special­ist on Monday. 
Falcons’ Hall plans to file complaint to Goodell 
ATLANTA — Redskins cornerback DeAngelo Hall says Atlanta coach Mike Smith cursed at him and a Falcons assis­tant tried to “get some licks in” during a sideline melee Sunday. 
Hall said he plans to file a complaint with NFL commissioner Roger Goodell that Smith “cussed me out” and Falcons director of athletic performance Jeff Fish and others “put their hands on me.” 
Hall said he was trying to pull team­mate LaRon Landry away from the Atlanta sideline after Landry was called for a late hit on Falcons quarterback Matt Ryan. Hall and Landry immediately were surrounded by Falcons players and staff members. 
Other Washington players joined in, but much of the attention was on Hall, the former Falcons player who had talked all week of being bitter at the way he was treated when traded after the 2007 season. He played in Atlanta for four years and made the Pro Bowl twice. 
Peyton Manning reaches 40,000 yards for the decade 
INDIANAPOLIS — Peyton Manning is the first NFL quarter­back to pass for 40,000 yards in any decade. 
Manning needed 19 yards to reach the milestone. He did it on a 5-yard completion to Pierre Garcon in the first quarter of Sunday’s game against the Houston Texans. 
That could be the first of many accomplishments for Manning on Sunday. If the Colts win, Manning will tie Fran Tarkenton for fourth place on the career wins list for quarterbacks with 125. He also needs four touchdown passes to become the first in league history to throw for 300 in a decade. 
Among his accomplishments this season, Manning became the fastest quarterback to 4,000 com­pletions and passed Tarkenton for third place on the career touch­downs list. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 9, 2009 
NFL 

Bucs upset Packers for first victory of season 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. — Wearing one of those ghastly creamsicle jer­seys that are an ugly reminder of Tampa Bay’s past, rookie Josh Freeman gave the struggling Buccaneers plenty of reasons to be optimistic about the future. 
The third quarterback select­ed in this year’s NFL draft led the previously winless Bucs to a 38-28 victory over the Green Bay Packers in his first start Sunday, ending the league’s longest losing streak at 11 games. 
Playing with poise that belied his inexperience, Freeman passed for 205 yards and three touchdowns, including a 7-yard throw to Sammie Stroughter on fourth-and-4 for the go-ahead TD with under 5 minutes to play. 
“I felt really relaxed,’’ said Freeman, the 17th pick in the draft and the third quarterback taken behind Matthew Stafford and Mark Sanchez . 
“I didn’t get too high or two low,’’ the 21-year-old said. “I can’t say I did anything spectac­ular. I just played within myself, and when we had opportunities I took them.’’ 
Freeman became the youngest quarterback to open a game for the Bucs, who have had 10 dif­ferent players start at the posi­tion since winning the Super Bowl seven seasons ago. He’s the third this year. 
“That’s a great start to how we want to be, how we want to work, how we want to play,’’ said the 33-year-old Morris, who has known Freeman since the rookie was a freshman at Kansas State and Morris was the defensive coordinator there. 
“However you do it, it’s impressive. His age really does­n’t matter at this point. ... He’s got to lead us to where we’ve got to go.’’ 
Freeman completed 14 of 31 passes with just one intercep­tion. A critical second pick by Green Bay’s A.J. Hawk was wiped out by an illegal contact penalty against Hawk during Tampa Bay’s go-ahead drive. 
Three plays later, Freeman threw 29 yards to Michael Clayton to set up his second TD pass of the day. 
“He kept his composure and made plays,’’ Packers linebacker Nick Barnett said. 
The Bucs (1-7) are the last team in the NFL to win this sea­son, ending a skid that was the franchise’s longest since 1976­77 when they dropped an NFL-record 26 in a row wearing the uniforms the team donned against the Packers. 
Aaron Rodgers threw for 266 yards and two touchdowns for Green Bay (4-4). The league’s top-rated passer also threw three interceptions and had one returned for a TD that put the game out of reach in the final minute. 
Rodgers was also sacked six times, hiking Green Bay’s NFL-worst total to 37 in eight games. 
“It’s pretty frustrating,’’ Rodgers said. “I think our offense and special teams put our defense in a tough position.’’ 
In addition to wearing retro uniforms, the Bucs made Hall of Famer Lee Roy Selmon the first inductee into the Ring of Honor at Raymond James Stadium. They trailed 21-17 during the halftime ceremony, but Freeman refused to let them lose. 
The rookie threw second-half TD passes to Kellen Winslow and Stroughter, a seventh-round draft pick who was wide open in the right corner of the end zone with 4:14 remaining in the fourth quarter. 
Freeman’s 2-point conversion pass to Clayton put the Bucs up 31-28. The defense, which had all of its sacks after halftime, ensured victory when Tanard Jackson picked off Rodgers and 
— instead of going to the ground with under a minute left — weaved 35 yards to a clinching TD. 
Rodgers threw a 74-yard TD pass to James Jones on Green Bay’s second play from scrim­mage, then led an 11-play, 69­yard march that Ryan Grant fin­ished with a 3-yard run that made it 14-7 late in the opening quarter. 
Cornerback Elbert Mack, beaten badly on Jones’ long touchdown, returned one of Tampa Bay’s interceptions 36 Ronde Barber scooped up and yards to the Packers 8 to set up ran 31 yards for his 14th career Freeman’s first pro TD pass, a touchdown. Freeman led a 74­6-yarder to Derrick Ward . yard field goal drive just before 
Trailing 14-7, Tampa Bay’s the half, trimming Tampa Bay’s Geno Hayes blocked a punt that deficit to 21-17. 



Monday, November 9, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NFL 

Warner throws five touchdowns in victory 
Cardinals’ quarterback ties career high in win over Bears; Sims-Walker, Jacksonville hold off Kansas City to remain .500 
yards, Beanie Wells added 72 
Associated Press 
rushing and the Cardinals’ 

CHICAGO — From five inter-offense racked up 438 yards ceptions to five touchdown even though Arizona was miss-passes, Kurt Warner’s one-ing wide receiver Anquan week turnaround couldn’t Boldin. have been more emphatic. Nor He missed the game with a could the beating the Arizona sprained right ankle, although Cardinals put on the Chicago he said it was fine. Bears. ‘‘I’d felt better if somebody 
Warner tied a career high by had been man enough and throwing for five touchdowns walked up to me and told me after getting picked off five what the situation was,’’ times the previous week, Larry Boldin said. Fitzgerald added 123 yards Despite missing one of their receiving, and the Cardinals top receivers, the Cardinals (5­easily handled the Bears 41-21 3) improved to 4-0 on the on Sunday. road. 
Warner was at his best after And they didn’t have to con-a miserable performance in a tend with Chicago’s Tommie 34-21 loss to Carolina. He han-Harris. The three-time Pro dled a team that had a chance Bowl defensive tackle slugged to sign him as a backup four offensive guard Deuce Lutui in years ago, matching the record the head as they were on the for TD passes by a Bears oppo-ground on the game’s first pos­nent without getting intercept-session, resulting in his ejec­ed. tion, and the Bears quickly 
‘‘So much of this business is unraveled. how you respond and how you Particularly troubling to come back,’’ Warner said. ‘‘I coach Lovie Smith was Harris’ always want my teammates to hit. know that I’m going to be ‘‘I know the result,’’ Smith there every week battling with said. ‘‘There’s nothing Tommie them. And if I have a bad can really tell me.’’ week, hopefully they can pick Lutui said he was ‘‘really me up. If not, I’ll try to do my shocked’’ by the hit and called best the next.’’ it ‘‘such a surprise that it hap-
Two of his touchdowns went pened.’’ touchdown pass to Mike Sims-tude to the game,’’ Jaguars with three catches for 70 to Fitzgerald, who had his way Harris did not make himself Walker, and the Jaguars linebacker Clint Ingram said. yards. ‘‘We can build on this.’’ with Charles Tillman before available to reporters after the rebounded from a lopsided ‘‘It’s not a time for us to start Cassel completed 23 of 39 the cornerback left with a game. loss at Tennessee with a victo-beating ourselves on the chest passes, but was sacked three shoulder injury in the second Cutler passed for 369 yards ry against Kansas City on and patting ourselves on the times. Bowe and Lance Long quarter. while completing 29 of 47 Sunday. back. It’s one game. It’s good each finished with 74 yards 
‘‘Kurt played just phenome-passes and was sacked four Up and down all season, the that we won it, but we’ve still receiving. nal again,’’ said Fitzgerald, times. Jaguars (4-4) responded in got a lot of work to do and a The Jaguars, though, refused who has family in Chicago and The Bears have little time to similar fashion following loss-lot of corrections to make and to give the Chiefs much credit spent summers here as a child. regroup, with a Thursday es to Arizona and Seattle. a lot of stuff to clean up.’’ for the comeback. ‘‘He was making the right night game at San Francisco. ‘‘There’s only so much Indeed. With left tackle ‘‘They were throwing the reads and getting the ball to Things weren’t looking good bouncing back you can do Branden Albert and center ball up, and a couple of the guys who were open. for the Bears after Harris got before there’s no more bounc-Rudy Niswanger back in the receivers made some plays,’’ When we’re clicking like that, tossed for slugging Lutui near ing to do,’’ cornerback lineup, Matt Cassel threw for Mathis said. ‘‘It wasn’t like it’s hard to stop us.’’ the face after they ended up Rashean Mathis said. ‘‘It’s 262 yards and two scores — they were picking us apart or 
Warner was 22 of 31 for 261 on the ground following a run something to hang your hat both to newcomer Chris anything. It was just throwing yards and threw touchdown play. They only got worse from on, to know that we’re going to Chambers. Hail Marys down the field and passes on the first four posses-there. fight, but at the same time we Claimed off waivers Tuesday they made some great grabs. sions as the Cardinals surged His 11-yard touchdown pass have to learn to be consistent.’’ from San Diego, Chambers That’s nothing for us to be ahead 34-7 after three quar-to Fitzgerald capped the open-Consistency hasn’t been caught a 54-yard TD pass with concerned about. When we ters. ing drive, giving the Cardinals Jacksonville’s forte. Coach 2:32 to play. Placekicker Ryan had to get after them and put 
The Bears (4-4) got within a 7-0 lead. The Bears quickly Jack Del Rio ripped his team’s Succop recovered an onside the game away, we did.’’ 34-21 after Zackary Bowman tied it thanks to two long pass-defensive effort following a 30-kick after it bounced off Until Cassel and Chambers returned an interception by es by Cutler — a 42-yarder to 13 loss at the Titans last week, Atiyyah Ellison, Cassel hooked connected late, punter Dustin backup Matt Leinart 39 yards Devin Hester and a 33-yard calling it ‘‘insulting, ugly and up with Dwayne Bowe for 36 Colquitt had the team’s three to the Arizona 28, setting up a touchdown to Olsen — but the embarrassing.’’ He considered yards and then found top highlights. He had a 70­20-yard touchdown pass from Cardinals wasted no time bust-putting his players through Chambers near the sideline for yard punt, a 59-yarder, and Jay Cutler to Greg Olsen with ing open this game. live tackling drills this week, a 5-yard score. tackled Mathis by the dread­
9:04 left. That prompted the Arizona responded with a but settled for an intense, full-The Chiefs made the 2-point locks after he returned a failed Cardinals to put Warner back 74-yard drive Warner finished pads practice. conversion, cutting the lead to 56-yard field goal on the final in the game. with a 6-yard pass to Ben He also switched back to a 4-24-21 with a little more than a play of the first half. 
Olsen had five catches for 71 Patrick that made it 14-7. 3 defensive scheme. minute to play. ‘‘Unfortunately, we weren’t yards and three touchdowns. It worked, at least against But Jaguars fullback Greg able to get into a rhythm early Otherwise, it was a rough Jaguars 24, Chiefs 21 Kansas City (1-7). Playing Jones recovered the ensuing on,’’ said Cassel, who passed afternoon for Chicago, which The Jacksonville Jaguars are without suspended running onside kick, and Maurice for 135 yards on his final two is in danger of missing the getting good at bouncing back back Larry Johnson, the Chiefs Jones-Drew sealed the victory TD drives. ‘‘The guys made playoffs for the third straight from embarrassing losses. managed little offense until with a first-down run. some big plays. Unfortunately, year. David Garrard threw for 264 late in the fourth quarter. ‘‘I’m glad we didn’t quit,’’ it wasn’t enough at the end. 
Tim Hightower ran for 77 yards, including a 61-yard ‘‘We brought a different atti-said Chambers, who finished We have to just start early.’’ 



page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 9, 2009 
NFL 

Saints remain undefeated 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — Drew Brees and the Saints’ prolific offense never had to play from behind in their first five games. 
Mastering the comeback in their last three has gotten New Orleans off to its best start in the franchise’s 43-year history. 
New Orleans moved to 8-0 on Sunday when Brees overcame two early turnovers to pass for 330 yards and a touchdown in a 30-20 victory over the Carolina Panthers. 
‘‘That’s great. I mean, 1967 until now and we’re the only (Saints) team to have done that,’’ Brees said. ‘‘That’s really special. I feel like we’ve got a special group of guys, a special team, and certainly we’re not satisfied with just being 8-0. We have what it takes to just continue to win.’’ 
Starting with a favorable schedule during the next two weeks. The Saints play at St. Louis and Tampa Bay, who are a combined 2-14 this season, meaning New Orleans has a real­istic chance to be 10-0 when New England — the only team to fin­ish a regular season 16-0 — comes to the Louisiana Superdome the Monday night after Thanksgiving. 
Before this season, the only 7-0 team New Orleans ever had was in 1991, a squad coached by Jim Mora and known for its defense. 
The defense on the 2009 Saints gives up its share of yards, but has continued to make big plays at the right time. 
While the Saints did not inter­cept a pass for the first time all season, their defense forced three turnovers on fumbles. The last produced New Orleans’ sev­enth defensive touchdown of the season on Anthony Hargrove’s strip, recovery and 1-yard return late in the fourth quarter. 
Hargrove might have been down before advancing the ball, but the play started before the two-minute warning and Carolina had no timeouts, pre­venting a challenge. 
DeAngelo Williams rushed for 149 yards and two TDs, and Carolina gained 182 yards on the ground. But it was Williams’ fum­ble at his 1 that led to the clinch­ing TD. 
It was Carolina’s (3-5) first lost in Louisiana since 2001 and quarterback Jake Delhomme’s first loss in the Louisiana Superdome. The Panthers blew a 17-3 lead as the Saints improved to 5-0 at home this season. 
‘‘I’m encouraged with the fact that we’ve been able to win a few of these games and we haven’t played our best football,’’ Saints coach Sean Payton said. ‘‘I don’t know we’re paying a lot of atten­tion to where this (record) at the halfway point compares to past teams. There hadn’t been a real rich history here in regards to successful football.’’ 
The Saints have never been to a Super Bowl and have only been to the playoffs six times. The way they’re closing out games now, there’s no telling how far they could go. New Orleans is outscor­ing opponents 91-18 in the fourth quarter. 
‘‘The more that you win games like this, the more confidence that you gain, the more that you feel like no matter what situation that you’re in, you’re going to be able to win the game,’’ Brees said. ‘‘No matter what the deficit, no matter how bad things might have gone, you just feel like you’re going to come back and you’re going to do it.’’ 
After failing to score a touch­down in the first half for the first time all season, the Saints need­ed four plays to produce Pierre Thomas’ 10-yard TD run to cut Carolina’s lead to 17-13 to open the third quarter. Devery Henderson’s 63-yard gain on a short slant highlighted the drive. 
Carolina responded with a 19­play drive but had to settle for John Kasay’s 25-yard field goal. Delhomme’s third-down pass bounced off Williams’ shoulder pads at the goal line. 
‘‘It was very disappointing. We came very close to getting the touchdown with that pass to DeAngelo,’’ Delhomme said. ‘‘That would have been huge, making it 24-13.’’ 
Instead, New Orleans tied it at 20 on Robert Meachem’s leaping catch and run for a 54-yard score. 
On their next possession, the Saints started at their 2 and drove 76 yards in 13 plays to go ahead 23-20 on John Carney ‘s 40-yard field goal with 4:36 left. 
Will Smith , who had two sacks, stripped Delhomme on fourth down, and Hargrove recovered to end Carolina’s next series. Four plays later, Saints rookie Malcolm Jenkins dove to stop Thomas Morstead ‘s punt from going into the end zone, setting up Hargrove’s second fumble recov­ery in less than a minute. 
Before that stretch, Hargove, suspended all of 2008 for NFL substance abuse violations, had-n’t had a fumble recovery since 2005. 
Carolina led 14-0 on Williams’ TD runs of 66 and 7 yards, both of which came before the Saints made a first down. 
The second TD came after Brees was sacked and stripped by Tyler Brayton, and Jon Beason recovered on the Saints 11. The Panthers went up 17-3 on Kasay’s 32-yard field goal, set up by Chris Gamble ‘s interception. 
Patriots 27, Dolphins 17 
The Miami Dolphins had just spent more than 10 minutes marching to a wildcat touchdown when Randy Moss used one stiff-arm to wipe out their lead. 
Moss sped to a 71-yard touch­down after grabbing a short pass over the middle and shoving rookie cornerback Vontae Davis out of his way as the New England Patriots tightened their grip on the AFC East with a win Sunday. 
‘‘That’s like getting stabbed in the heart right there,’’ Patriots guard Logan Mankins said. ‘‘You grind it out for like 10 minutes and finally score, and then in like a minute and a half we come right back.’’ 
The touchdown — and a 2­point conversion connection between Tom Brady and Moss — put the Patriots ahead 24-17 with 
3:15 left in the third quarter, and the Dolphins failed to get inside the New England 40-yard line after that. 
‘‘It was tough for us. The offense had just come off of a great drive,’’ Miami linebacker Jason Taylor said, ‘‘but Randy Moss made a play ... what he’s done for a million years.’’ 
He did it twice Sunday. 
On the Patriots’ second posses­sion, Moss made a one-handed catch against Davis for a 36-yard gain to the 1-yard line. Laurence Maroney ran for the touchdown on the next play, putting New England ahead 7-3. 
‘‘That’s Randy Moss,’’ said Davis, who also intercepted Brady’s pass toward Moss on the Patriots’ first series. ‘‘He’s going to make his plays and I just tried to limit him the best I could.’’ 




Monday, November 9, 2009 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
ND SWIMMING 

Irish fall to Boilermakers 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Both the Irish men’s and women’s swimming and div­ing teams fell to Purdue Friday at Purdue’s Boilermaker Aquatic Center, but first-place performances from both teams showed the season has plenty of poten­tial. 
“In terms of progress, we have made much of it in working towards our end goal,” men’s coach Tim Welsh said. “After analyzing where we were last year, in comparison to where we are this year, we are moving for­ward.” 
The men were defeated, 195-105, with a large portion of the points they lost from a false start penalty of 0.01 seconds during one of the relay events. Purdue’s elec­tronic system for measuring the time that swimmers leave the side of the pool caught the error, and the mistake is an area that Welsh hopes to correct in practices this week before the Irish meet up with Big East rival Pittsburgh this weekend. 

Notable performances by male Irish swimmers include senior John Lytle’s first-place finishes in both the 100 ­meter freestyle (45.75) and 200-meter freestyle (1:40.32) events, and sophomore Petar Petrovic’s wins in both the 100-meter backstroke 
(50.33) and 200-meter back­stroke (1:51.27) events. 
“[Purdue is] superb and have been much higher ranked than us,” Welsh said. “They might be the fastest team we will see in a dual meet this whole season, and the fastest team we will see until the Ohio State Invitational.” 
The women were defeated 179-121. 
“[Purdue] proved that they are a very strong team with a great deal of depth, espe­cially in the freestyle events,” senior captain Megan Farrell said. “The girls raced very well on Friday and have definitely made some big time drops in the past year.” 
Junior Katie Casey took first in both the 100 and 200­meter butterfly events, and junior Samantha Maxwell finished first in the 100 and 200 -meter breaststroke events. Freshman Kim Holden also earned a top fin­ish for the Irish in the 200­meter backstroke competi­tion. 
“Race plans and strategies were tested at this meet, and now we can critique our strategies and make adjust­ments to stroke technique before we compete again,” Farrell said. 
Next up for the Irish men is a dual meet at Pittsburgh Friday, and the women will attend the Hoosierland Invitational in Bloomington, Ind. on Nov. 20. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 

ND places fve on Tourney team 
By KATELYN GRABERAK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame finished up its final fall matches Sunday in Virginia, placing five of their players on the All-Tournament team at the William and Mary Invitational. 
The Irish were able to post a 21-4 mark in singles play against players from William and Mary, Maryland and the College of Charleston. 
Three of Notre Dame’s sin­gles players, junior David Anderson, sophomore Niall Fitzgerald and freshman Blas Moros, finished with 4-0 records in singles players. 
“I have seen great strides in Blas Moros and his ability to compact the load in his fore­hand, as well as his attacking game,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “David Anderson has overcome a painful back issue and is regaining his abili­ty to serve big.” 

Anderson, Moros, Michael Moore, Dan Stahl and Sam Keeton all made the All-Tournament team for the Irish. 
This was Fitzgerald’s only appearance of the fall season for the Irish and he was able to come out on the winning end, playing in Flight One sin­gles and defeating Sergio Wyss of Maryland by a score of 6-4, 6-4 Sunday to round out his tournament play. 
Anderson defeated Wyss Saturday only dropping four games total in the match. 
Keeton dropped his match to John Collins of Maryland Saturday, winning only three games, but rebounded to defeat Kyle Parker of the College of Charleston Sunday by a score of 6-3, 6-2. 

Moore fought hard against William and Mary’s No. 61 Keziel Juneau but dropped the match 10-3 in the third-set super tie breaker on the final day of play. 
Stahl and Ftizgerald teamed up in doubles for the Irish on the weekend, playing in the No. 1 doubles flight and post­ing a 4-0 record in the tourna­ment. 
Bayliss said the Irish doubles play has been spotty this fall and it is an area the team will try to address before the spring season. 
“We will go into our NCAA mandated ‘offseason,’ so all of what we do outside of strength and conditioning work will be either individual skill instruc­tion or any competitive things that are purely team initiated,” Bayliss said. “My hope is that some of the changes we have made in our players’ games will become more comfortable over time. We will need to hit the ground running when we come back in January, as we host Virginia that first week­end. They were number one most of last year. Most of the guys in key playing positions will be underclassmen and we need to see some maturity from them by January.” 
The Irish are now finished with their fall season until they host William and Mary on Jan. 22 to open their spring season. 
Contact Katelyn Graberak at 
kgraba01@saintmarys.edu 
NFL 
Austin uses one catch to burn Philadelphia 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Miles Austin punctuated his touch­down catch by emphatically fir­ing the ball into the stands. 
Take that, Philadelphia. 
Tony Romo threw a 49-yard TD pass to Austin midway through the fourth quarter and the Dallas Cowboys beat the Eagles 20-16 Sunday night in the 100th meeting between the division rivals. 
On the final day of the 2008 regular season, the Eagles dom­inated Dallas 44-6 in a do-or­die game for both teams. Philadelphia earned a wild-card berth with that victory, won two playoff contests on the road and advanced to the NFC champi­onship game, losing at Arizona. 
The Cowboys (6-2) spent the whole offseason thinking about that horrendous ending. They got their revenge and took over sole possession of first place in the NFC East with their fourth straight victory. 
“Our last loss against them really motivated us to come out and play good,’’ Cowboys line­backer DeMarcus Ware said. 
The Eagles fell to 5-3 and the New York Giants are 5-4 after a 5-0 start. 
Romo finished 21 of 34 for 307 yards, one TD and one interception. 
“We executed,’’ Romo said. “I think the coaches put together a good plan. You just have to keep fighting and getting bet­ter.’’ 
Donovan McNabb was shaky after a strong performance in a 40-17 rout of the Giants last week. McNabb threw for 227 yards, one TD and was inter­cepted twice for the first time this season. 
“We have to eliminate mis­takes,’’ McNabb said. 
The Cowboys began their go-ahead drive after stopping McNabb on fourth-and-inches at their 45. The Eagles chal­lenged, but a replay upheld the original spot. 
On third-and-14, Romo fooled Sheldon Brown with a pump-fake and hit a wide-open Austin down the left sideline to give Dallas a 20-13 lead. 
“I gave them a little pump,’’ Romo said. “I thought they’d been jumping it a little and they went for it.’’ 
Austin leads the Cowboys with seven TD catches, three fewer than Terrell Owens had last season. Unlike T.O., Austin only gives defenses headaches instead of his QB. 
“I made sure I caught it first,’’ Austin said of his only reception in the game. “A bunch of the guys were making fun of me because I took so long to see it in my hands.’’ 
David Akers kicked a 52-yard field goal to cut it to 20-16, but the Eagles never got the ball back. The Cowboys maintained possession the final 4:27. 
“I thought we could hold them, get the ball back and win the game,’’ Eagles coach Andy Reid said. 
Trailing 10-6, the Eagles seemingly went ahead when Ellis Hobbs returned the sec­ond-half kickoff 96 yards for a score. But a holding call on Moise Fokou nullified the TD. 
No matter, McNabb drove Philadelphia 77 yards for the go-ahead score. 
LeSean McCoy turned a short pass into a 45-yard gain. One play later, McNabb escaped the rush and found Brent Celek in the corner of the end zone to put Philadelphia ahead 13-10. 
On Dallas’ ensuing posses­sion, Brown intercepted Romo’s off-target pass to Jason Witten and returned it 54 yards. An illegal block by Fokou negated the return to the Cowboys 35, and the Eagles’ drive stalled near midfield after starting at their 12. 
Mike Jenkins intercepted McNabb to set up Nick Folk ‘s tying 33-yard field goal 8 sec­onds into the fourth quarter. 
Gerald Sensabaugh ‘s inter­ception on Philadelphia’s first possession ended McNabb’s streak of 118 straight passes without a pick. McNabb’s pass on third-and-5 to a wide-open Jeremy Maclin hit him in the hands and bounced to Sensabaugh. 
Six plays later, Tashard Choice ran in from the 2 after taking a shotgun snap with Romo lined up wide to the right. Romo completed two third-down passes to keep the drive going, including a 21-yard gain to Kevin Ogletree on third­and-9. 
Romo tossed a 64-yard catch-and-run pass to Patrick Crayton late in the second quarter to set up Folk’s 22-yard field goal that made it 10-6. Tracy White made a diving, TD-saving tackle to trip up Crayton. 
Akers kicked a 45-yard field goal early in the second quarter to put the Eagles on the board. He nailed a 48-yarder late in the quarter to cut it to 7-6. 
The Eagles played without star running back Brian Westbrook for the second straight game because of a con­cussion and strongside line­backer Chris Gocong sat out with hamstring and quad injuries. Fokou, a seventh-round pick, made his first start in Gocong’s place. 
Westbrook was expected to play, but he started experienc­ing symptoms of a mild headache on Friday. Westbrook then underwent more tests and the Eagles held him out as a precaution. McCoy started for Westbrook. 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 9, 2009 
Quincy 
continued from page 24 
The 33 3-pointers the Irish took were a lot, Hansbrough said, but most of them were open looks. 
“I would say 80 percent of those are just from penetrat­ing and kicking, wide open looks,” he said. “You can’t tell them to turn it down.” 
Harangody decided to heave it up often Friday night, and his third 3-pointer gave Notre Dame a 52 -31 lead with 
14:12 left. 
The Hawks pulled within 16 with help from Burke’s 3­pointer, but Hansbrough scored four points in less than a minute and helped push the Irish ahead by 21 with 6:15 left. 
Alaska 
continued from page 24 
made the difference in the game, especially in the third period to hold our lead. The goals that he gave up — the first was kind of a fluky bounce, almost an impossible shot to stop. The second goal could have probably been defended better by our defense. He was probably a little out of position, but the defense should been tighter.” 
Christiaan Minella, Ryan Thang and Kyle Lawson notched power play goals in Friday’s victory, with Lawson scoring the game-winner with less than three minutes to play in the second period. 
The power play has been the saving grace for Notre Dame’s inconsistent even-strength offense, Jackson said. 
Of Notre Dame’s 23 goals this season, only 10 have come at even strength. The Irish have notched 12 power play goals and one shorthanded goal. 
“The good thing for us is we’re having two different units being productive,” Jackson said. “That’s what we’ve been striving for over the last three or four years, to have more than just one unit. There’s cer­tain nights that a top unit just gets shut down, and right now, having two playing well is really helping us.” 
The power play was blanked Saturday, as junior center Ben Ryan’s second-period goal was the only Irish tally. Ryan extended his career-best point streak to seven in the loss. 
Wi t h 4 : 2 0 r e m a i n i n g ,  P a n A m  e r i c a n Z o n a l g o l d i n t h e Z o n a l  
Jackson found junior forward  C h a m p i o n Gold  s h i p s i n E l C h a m p i o n s h i p s i n E l  
Carleton Scott for a transition  Salvador.  Salvador.  
alley-oop that revitalized the Joyce Center and gave Notre  continued from page 24 “Experiengames sho ce in the Olympic A n o t h e r s o p h o m o r e , ws two things,” Radmila Sarkisova, reached  
Dame a 69-47 lead.  day of first-class bouts, the B e d n a r s k i  s a i d . “ F i r s t , i t the finals in the women’s foil  
F r e s h m a n f o r w a r d J a c k  Irish overcame the odds yet shows that  you are a good b e f o r e f i n i s h i n g s e v e n t h  
Cooley threw back a layup  again. defender w ho can play at the overall.  
that went in as time expired,  “A gold medal is always highest leve l of professional “We are competing individ­ 
capping the success of the  v e r y h a r d t o g e t , ” I r i s h fencing . S  eco n d , it sho ws ually in the fall semester to  
night for Notre Dame.  c o a c h J a n u s z B e d n a r s k i that you ca n fight on the big b u i l d u p o u r p o s i t i o n , ”  
Harangody said the Irish  said. “We had more than 150 stage in fro nt of all the cam-B e d n a r s k i s a i d . “ I t w a s  
looked like a completely dif­ of the best fencers from all eras. This w ill bring calm to important to show that we  
ferent team than the one that  o v e r t h e c o n t i n e n t i n t h e a young tea m that can easily still have ambitions to fence  
showed up on Nov. 1, but the  junior age category coming get nervous .” against other colleges. This  
team knows they still have  to fight, so it’s very hard to Sophomor e Enzo Castellani competition is national team  
work to do before the season  get to the finals. But gold a l s o m a d e  i t t o t h e f i n a l tryouts for all fencers, so it’s  
starts.  me d al, you h av e to pro ve e i g h t i n t  h e f o i l b e f o r e even stronger than the NCAA  
“I still think we’re a better  that you are the best at that falling to M einhardt in the Tournament.”  
b a l l m o v e m e n t t e a m t h a n  time, and two gold medals semifinals,  finishing with a The Irish will know their  
we’ve shown,” Hansbrough  means a lot for us.” bronze med al. collegiate ranking following  
said.  Meinhardt, the youngest Hurley co ntinued her dom­the current season of indi­ 
“Absolutely.”  male U.S. Olympian in the inance of ju nior competition vidual bouts. Until then, they  
Beijing Olympics, is used to in the epee , adding another will have to settle for medal- 
Contact Bill Brink at  p l a y i n g i n f r o n t o f a b i g gold medal  to a growing list ing in international competi­ 
wbrink@nd.edu  crowd against the best in the of accompli shments. tion.  

“I’m hoping we bust out of this,” Jackson said. “We have too many players who have the potential to score goals, and unfortunately we’re just not ful­filling that right now. Some guys have started off okay, and it’s just a matter of getting other guys who have a history of being productive, to get them going and shooting the puck with a little more confidence.” 
The uncertainty surrounding Notre Dame is not limited to the Irish offense. The Irish are still searching for the answer to their goaltending question, as Jackson said Johnson played well this weekend. Both Johnson and junior Brad Phillips, who was expected to be Notre Dame’s No. 1 goal­tender, have the tools but need to show more consistency to earn the top spot, Jackson said. 
“I still think as time progress­es, Brad is going to get better. I want to see him grow,” Jackson said. “I want to go into the sec­ond half of the season with a pretty good idea who our starter’s going to be. And maybe it’ll be two guys.” 
For now, though, Johnson has played his way into the conver­sation — and into the net. 
“We have to recognize, he’s a freshman, too,” Jackson said. “ I’m gaining a lot of confidence in him right now. I like his char­acter and I like how he com­petes. He’s really put himself in the mix to be the number one guy, and it’s just a matter of whether Brad can get his confi­dence back up to a high enough level.” 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Krisik takes frst place at WMU singles event 
Observer Staff Report 
In the final weekend of fall competition, senior Kali Krisik took home the singles champi­onship at the Western Michigan Invitational after defeating Louisville’s Mandy Brown, 6-3, 6-4, Sunday in Kalamazoo, Mich. 
Krisik completed an undefeat­ed weekend in singles competi­tion, dropping just one set on her way to capturing the title. 
Junior Kristen Rafael was the only other Irish athlete to com­pete at Western Michigan this weekend, falling in the third round of singles competition at the hands of Louisville’s Sarah Miller, 6-2, 7-5 (5). 
In doubles competition, the duo knocked off opponents from Louisville in the first round before losing to Western Michigan’s Emily Dudzik and Jill Pastunink, 8-6. 
At the ITA National Indoor Championships, sophomore Kristy Frilling fell to No. 16 Venise Chan, 7-5, 6-3, in the sec­ond round Friday. 
This weekend concludes the fall schedule for the Irish who will resume play when they take on Iowa on Jan. 23. 
world. Earlier this year Meinhardt earned a silver medal at the 2009 Senior 
Hurley earned a medal on the international stage earli­er this year, taking home the 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish take two to reach 12 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame remained undefeated in conference play by beating Marquette Friday and Syracuse Sunday, running the team’s winning streak to 12 straight confer­ence matches. 
“We‘re pleased with the character of the team and coming back strong after losing the first set [in both matches],” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “We played much better in the second, third and fourth sets and came back to win.” 
Notre Dame (18-4, 12 -0 Big East) battled Marquette (16-12, 5-8) through 30 ties and 13 lead changes to win the match 3-1 (21-25, 2-18, 26-24, 25-13) in Milwaukee. 
“Marquette played really well and set it up well in the first set, ” Brown said. “I think we bring out the best in them, but were able to wear them down.” 
Notre Dame’s blocking and kills have given them an advantage throughout the season, and once again aided in closing out Marquette. Senior outside hitter Serinity Phillips and freshman middle blocker Hilary Eppink each had eight blocks. Sophomore libero Frenchy Silva led all players with 21 digs while sopho­more outside hitter Kristen Dealy added 15 and senior setter Jamel Nicholas 12. 
Notre Dame was held to a season-low 15 points in the first set of its match at Syracuse Sunday, but the Irish rallied to sweep the Orange (19-10, 8-5) in the remaining sets for a 3-1 vic­tory (15-25, 25-21, 25-17, 25-19) and hold onto their title as the lone undefeated team in the Big East confer­ence. 
“Syracuse played well in the first set and we didn’t,” Brown said. “But we were able to come back and get in a better rhythm.” 
The Orange led the first set from the start, leading the Irish 8-4 until a kill from Sciacca helped bring it to 9­7, but it wasn’t enough to match Syracuse’s leading blocker Sarah Morton. Morton, who also leads the nation in rejections, finished the day with 10 kills and 12 blocks, and only eight errors on 24 swings. 
Sciacca’s kills once again gave the Irish the jump they needed in the beginning of the second set to take the lead. 
After four lead changes, Kaelin helped close the set with a kill as part of a 5-0 Irish streak. 
Late kills from Dealy secured the third set for Notre Dame, and she also started the fourth set off strong with a kill and an ace. Syracuse led at 21-18, but successful kills from Kaelin closed out the match in Notre Dame’s favor. 
“In both situations, it was a strong team effort,” Brown said. “We had people come off the bench in both match­es and have them do what we needed them to do. This year we’re a lot more expe­rienced, poised, and confi­dent. It was just determina­tion and consistent playing to win.” 
The Irish return home to finish the regular season before the Big East champi­
onship on Nov. 20 -22 at Louisville. 
They will take on Georgetown at 7 p.m. Friday and South Florida at 2 p.m. Sunday at Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center. 
“We still have another weekend in front of us, and have two more matches before [the Big East tourna­ment] and we know that’ll be a challenge as well,” Brown said. “We set out a goal as a team to be undefeated in the regular season and are real­ly motivated as well.” 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 


Monday, November 9, 2009 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
The Siemens Competition in Math, Science and Technology is coming to the University of Notre Dame! 
The Siemens Foundation takes great pleasure in inviting you to the following events: 
Reception and Viewing of Student Research Projects: 
(refreshments will be served) 
DATE: Friday, November 13, 2009 TIME: 5:30 pm – 6:30pm LOCATION: University of Notre Dame 
Jordan Hall of Science,  StudentLounge 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Student OralPresentations: 
DATE: Saturday, November 14, 2009 TIME: 8:00 am– 1:00pm LOCATION: University of Notre Dame 
Jordan Hall of Science,  SargentoAuditorium 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
We look forward to seeing you! 

The Siemens Competition in Math, Science and Technology is the nation’s premiere math and science research competition for high school students. The Siemens Foundation provides nearly $7 million in college scholarships and awards each year for talented high school students in the United States. By supporting outstanding students today, and recognizing the teachers and schools that inspire their excellence, the Foundation helps nurture tomorrow’s scientists and engineers. 
www.siemens-foundation.org 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 9, 2009 
Irish gain a 21-9 advantage in 
Notre Dame struck first and of those top four seeds, which shots and a 10-3 advantage in 
last in the game, as senior mid-would mean we’d be at home all 

NCAABulls 
corner kicks. 

fielder Amanda Clark gave the the way through to the Final continued from page 24 “For all our huffing and puffing, 
continued from page 24 Irish a 1-0 lead in the first half, Four,” he said. “I think it’ll be and 21 shots, their goalie only had 

and junior forward Erica close. We could fit anywhere in Clark said. “We’ll get Louisville to make two saves,” Clark said. 
Sophomore defender Jessica Iantorno scored the game win-that four, five, or six spot.” now, and hopefully the winner of “We need to make our shots 
Schuveiller headed in a corner ner with 20 minutes left. Playing at home will be pivotal St. John’s and Providence, so count. We got shots, but maybe 
kick from junior forward Rose “The games are going to be for the Irish he said, as fan sup-hopefully we’ll get two more we need to get more quality 
Augustin for the game winner. close from here on out. … You port could prove to be a deciding games before they make that deci-shots.” 
Schuveiller has scored three have to learn to win the close factor in the postseason. sion.” Notre Dame’s shots counted 
goals in her two years with the ones,” Waldrum said. “We’ve “This is the time we really The Irish forced overtime by enough, as Maund’s goal tied the 
Irish — all three have been the had to win close games most of need the fans to come out. We overcoming a two-goal deficit. game, and the teams went to an 
game winners, including last the year. I think that has really know we let the fans down early Notre Dame finally tied the game extra period. 
year’s NCAA Quarterfinal game. prepared us for this time, for the in the year with our performance with seven minutes left when a Overtime saw the Irish again 
“You want players that when Big East tournament, and for the against North Carolina, but this corner off the boot of freshman dominate possession and the scor­
things get tight are willing to NCAAs.” is a completely different team midfielder Dillon Powers found ing chances, but they were not 
take some chances, and Waldrum said a big part of now. We have reeled off 15 the head of sophomore defense-able to make a breakthrough and 
[Schuveiller] is one of those winning close games at this time games in a row, and this is the man Aaron Maund, who put it off get the win before penalty kicks. 
kids,” Waldrum said. “She is just of year is solid goaltending, and time of year we really need the the left post and into the back of Dike was controversially taken 
one of those players with that despite her postseason inexperi-students and fans to come out the net, tying the game 2-2. down in the box in the first over-
DNA. She is made that way.” ence, Weiss fulfilled the role this and support us.” After a scoreless overtime peri-time, but no call was forthcoming. 
Schuveiller’s goal was set up by weekend. od, the Irish were finally able to “Dike had a couple of shots at 
junior midfielder Lauren “I was really pleased with Notes: earn the win on penalty kicks, as penalty kicks,” Clark said. “It 
Fowlkes’ who had a first half Nikki,” he said. “I wasn’t happy • Lauren Fowlkes was named all five of their shooters were able doesn’t matter what I think any-
goal off of Augustin’s first assist about the goal she gave up the Big East Tournament’s Most to convert. The game came down way, it is what the referee thinks. 
for the day. Junior goaltender against Marquette. But I think Oustanding Offensive Performer. to a final shot from South Florida’s If you asked someone in a Notre 
Nikki Weiss allowed one goal in for the most part she handled the uJessica Schuveiller claimed Sebastian Thuriere, but he hit the Dame uniform on they would have 
the game, while the Red Storm weekend every bit as much as Most Outstanding Defensive top crossbar of the net and the seen it as a penalty kick. If you 
(13-6-1, 6-4-1) attempted only she handled the last month of the Performer honors. Irish were able to advance. asked South Florida they probably 
five shots. season. She was very com-uAmanda Clark, Courtney The game started off disastrous-would have seen it differently.” 
Notre Dame then faced posed.” Barg, Jessica Schuveiller, Lauren ly for the Irish, as the rust of a Notre Dame will next play this 
Marquette (15-5-2, 7-2-2) with a The NCAA Tournament Fowlkes and Nikki Weiss were week-long layoff showed when the Friday in the Big East semifinals 
championship on the line. Selection Show is tonight at 8 all named to the Big East All-Irish found themselves in a hole against Louisville in West Virginia. 
Waldrum said the Golden Eagles p.m. on ESPNEWS, and Tournament Team. early. 
presented one of Notre Dame’s Waldrum was not shy about his South Florida’s first goal came Contact Jared Jedick at 
tougher challenges in the confer-hopes for the Irish. Contact Douglas Farmer at after only 2:34 had elapsed from jjedick@nd.edu 
ence. “We’re hoping to slip into one dfarmer1@nd.edu the kickoff. A Bulls run had been stopped by the Irish central defense, but the ball was cleared weakly and South Florida senior midfielder Jorge Mora collected the ball at the top of the 18-yard box and blew a shot past senior goalkeeper Philip Tuttle to put the Bulls up 1-0. 
“We started so slowly, I don’t know what was wrong,” Clark said. “Sometimes I think that is one of the hard things, after you have not played for a week and it’s a long football weekend. I think the guys were a little slow start­ing.” 
Clark said the first goal was a wakeup call for his team, but things had to get worse before they could get better for the Irish, as a South Florida cross from freshman forward Hasani Sinclair found Thuriere’s head right in front of the goal to give the Bulls a 2-0 advantage. The advantage seemed to be a significant one for South Florida, as the Bulls have only given up 13 goals on the year. 
“After the first goal we got some life, and after the second goal there was no question we were really into the game,” Clark said. 
Despite the early deficit, the Irish then took over the game, starting with a goal of their own with the half nearing a close. Senior midfielder Michael Thomas got a cross into the box to Bright Dike. Dike was able to corral the ball and get a shot off into the back of the net for his team-lead­ing 10th goal of the season. 
“It was really important that we got one goal back before halftime and put some pressure on them,” Clark said. 
After that goal, the pressure seemed to really get to South Florida, as one of their senior leaders, midfielder Francisco Aristeguieta, made a costly mis­take as he earned his second booking with only two minutes left in the first half and got ejected from the game, forcing the Bulls to play the second half a man down. After that booking the Bulls really tried to crowd their defen­sive third and keep the Irish from getting good scoring chances. 
“Good marks to [South Florida],” Clark said. “They got a man sent off, they sucked up a lot of pressure and they defended very well. They have a lot of good players.” 
Once they had the man advan­tage, the Irish used the opportuni­ty to push their midfield and defense forward, putting the pres­sure on the South Florida defense. The second-half flurry saw the 


Monday, November 9, 2009 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
WILL SHORTZ HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  
22  23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  34  
35  36  37  38  39  
40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  
60  61  62  
63  64  65  

Puzzle by Mark Feldman 
37Alaskan city near 46Can. division 54President just the Arctic Circle before Wilson 
47Molten volcanic 
CROSSWORD 
Across 
1 Brown eyes or curly hair 6 Surrender 10House in Spain 14Cry ofexasperation 15Salve ingredient 
16Boxer Muhammad and family 
17$500 20Stoops 21Not 
knowledgeablein the ways ofthe world 
22Prefix with plunk orplop 
23Collection of information in tabular form 
25$5,000 30Gladden 31Sort of: Suffix 32“___ du lieber!” 

35Exactly …or where to find 17­, 25-, 43- and57-Across? 
40China's Chiang___-shek 41Tricked 42Questioned 43$10,000 

47Not to be missed,asa TV show 
50“… boy ___ girl?” 51Pester 
52Divided in appropriateamounts 

57$1,000 60Swampy ground 61Snakes that 
constrict 62U.S./Mex./Can. 

commercepact 63Years and years 64Rodgers and
Hart's “___ It Romantic?” 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


65Nervous 
Down 
1 Fancy marbles 2 Banister 3 Singer Guthrie 4 Ice house: Var. 5 Stocky 6 Kodak product 7 Majestic shade
trees 8 Onlyoneof the Seven Dwarfs to wearglasses 9 Hair-raising cry 10Ancient Palestine 11“___ well” (“Don't worry”) 12Kitchen utensil 
withamesh 13So far 18Sound before 
“Your, um, fly isopen” 19Take ___ account 23Waiter's serving 24Tennis's Arthur 25Bozo 
26Inter ___ (among otherthings) 
27Bearers of gold,frankincense and myrrh 
28Biblical suffix 29“Same for me” 32Paul who sang
“Diana” 33Middling grades 34Jekyll's
counterpart 36Undress with the eyes 
38Dance crazeof 
material
the '90s 
48Strip, asaship
39___Kosh B'Gosh 49Cause unrest? 
43Hotpointproducts 52Bit of 44“___ sow, so strategizingshall …” 53Shepard who 45What the weary walkedonthe get, it's said moon 
55Med. specialistswho might treattonsillitis 
56June 6, 1944 
58Hitter's stat 
59“I Spy” co-starBill, familiarly 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 aminute;or, with acredit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions areavailable for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, orvisit nytimes.com/mobilexword for moreinformation. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and morethan 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 ayear).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
COLIN HOFMAN, JAY WADE & LAUREN ROSEMEYER 
THE MOBILE PARTY 



Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 

 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
The Observer 
Sports 

Monday, November 9, 2009 page 24 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Tourney Time 
Title over weekend helps NCAA resume 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Not only did No. 4 Notre Dame won its 11th Big East Tournament with a 2-1 victory over Marquette Sunday, but the Irish also made a strong statement to the NCAA about where they deserve to be seeded in the NCAA Tournament beginning Friday. 
“Even more than winning the tournament and that champi­onship, the focus was winning it so we could get ourselves in posi­tion to get the highest seed possi­ble in the NCAA Tournament,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “Now we’ll wait to see what the NCAA committee does tomorrow night on the selection.” 
The Irish (17-3-1, 10-0-1 Big East) beat St. John’s 2-1 with a 
IAN GAVLICK/The Observer 
golden goal in overtime Friday. 

Sophomore defender Jessica Schuveiller dribbles the ball away from two South Florida attackers see NCAA/page 22 in the Irish 5-0 victory on Nov. 1 in the Big East tournament quarterfnals. 

FENCING 
ND earns two golds at Juniors 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
The Irish proved to the fencing world once again that they are not a team to be overlooked on the strip head­ing into intercollegiate play. Sophomores Courtney Hurley and Gerek Meinhardt finished the USFA NAC Juniors with a pair of gold medals Friday, raising their individual inter­national rankings even fur­ther. 
Held in Kansas City, the North American Cup brings together the continent’s most talented fencers to determine the best individual junior fencers in the sabre, epee, and foil divisions. Following a 
see GOLD/page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Harangody and Hansbrough lead Notre Dame to victory 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer  S e n i o r g u a r d B e n Hansbrough scored 14 points a n d l e d t h e t e a m w i t h 3 4  ing the ball out there,” he said. The Irish had 18 assists and  3-point range and finished with nine points. The Irish and Hawks traded  Hayes made N o t r e D a m e a n o t h e r r u n ,  a 3, but then p u t t o g e t h e r t h i s t i m e 1 0  
F ri d ay ’s exh i b iti on g am e lacked eye-catching stats, but had the big plays — last-sec­ond tip-ins and alley-oops — and, most importantly, result­ed in a win. S e n i o r f o r w a r d L u k e Harangody had 17 points and 1 1 r e b o u n d s d u r i n g N o t r e D a m e ’s 7 5 -5 4 w i n o v e r Q u i n c y, N o t r e D a m e ’s l a s t e x h i b i t i o n g a m e b e f o r e i t opens regular-season play in a week.  m i n u t e s . H e s t r u g g l e d t o 10 turnovers, a stat Brey was make shots to start the game, happy about. but got better as time went “I think we were a little bet-on. ter with our decision making “I told him, just slow down a n d a l i t t l e s l o w e r i n o u r a little bit,” Irish coach Mike offense and that helped us,” Brey said. “Those are great Brey said. shots, keep taking them.” Senior guard Tory Jackson Harangody said he felt the and junior forward Tyrone team moved the ball better Nash each had 11 points. than during its last game, a Senior forward Billy Baptist 70-54 win over Lewis at the led the Hawks with 14 points Joyce Center on Nov. 1. a n d j u n i o r c e n t e r J u s t i n “We were a lot more bal-Brock added 11. Junior guard anced tonight. We were mov-Tyler Burke went 3-of-9 from  l ea d s u n t i l j u n i o r f o r w a r d points, to take a 38-20 lead Tim Abromaitis drew a foul with 2:40 left in the half. as he sank a layup, and he The Irish started the second pushed the Irish lead to 15-11 h a l f j u s t a s h o t , a n d w i t h 11: 49 l e ft in t h e ha l f Hansbrough’s 3-pointer with when he made the free throw. 16:35 left gave Notre Dame a Not r e D ame sc o red e ight 20-point lead. straight points, the final four “ I w a s g o i n g t h r o u g h a i n t r a n s i t i o n a n d o f f o f sh o ot i ng s lu mp, b ut co ach t u r n o v e r s , d u r i n g a t w o -Brey was very good at telling m in u t e stre t c h in the first me, ‘Hey keep shooting you’ll half. Abromaitis capped the m a k e t h e n e x t o n e , ’ ” r u n w i t h a l a y u p a f t e r a Hansbrough said. Hansbrough steal to make the score 28-17 with 7:03 left. see QUINCY/page 20  

MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish win in tense shootout 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s Big East quarter­final match-up with No. 13 South Florida went down to the wire once again, as the game reached the end of overtime tied 2-2, and the Irish advanced on penalty kicks (5-4) into the semifinals. 
“This team comes to attack,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “We outshoot and we out-corner every team.” 
The game only counted as a tie for the official NCAA records, but hopefully that will be enough to catapult the Irish in the NCAA tournament. 
“We’ll still hopefully get another couple of games in the Big East,” 
see BULLS/page 22 

HOCKEY 
Offensive struggles lead to split in Alaska 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer 
No. 9 Notre Dame split a pair of conference games at No. 13 Alaska over the week­end, handing the Nanooks their first loss of the season Friday, 3-2, before falling 3-1 Saturday night in Fairbanks. 
“I actually thought we played a better game on Saturday,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “Friday, even though we won the game, I thought we relied on [fresh­man goaltender] Mike Johnson in goal way too much. We gave them a lot of opportunities off of transition and didn’t do a good job with the puck. We were fortunate to score on the power play a couple times and got great goaltending, especially in the third period.” 
Johnson, making the first back-to-back starts of his career, gave Notre Dame (5-4­1, 2-1-1 CCHA) a chance to win Saturday, but the Nanooks (6-1-1, 3-1-1-0) scored three times in the final period to erase a 1-0 Irish advantage. Johnson made 35 saves Friday and 21 Saturday. 
“I thought Mike played exceptional on Friday night,” Jackson said. “I think he 
see ALASKA/page 20 






