the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


New bus route packed on first trips 
Students flood new service as ridership is ‘much higher than expected,’no behavioral issues reported 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
For senior Tommy Schanzer, riding the weekend Transpo bus home after a night out was like an after party. 
“I got on and saw so many people I knew,” Schanzer, who rode the bus to his off-campus home from the Blarney Stone, commonly referred to as Finnegan’s. “It was a really fun, cool atmos­phere.” 
On Friday night, the first run of the new weekend bus route, 496 people rode the bus, according to Chip Lewis, chairman of the Board of Directors for Transpo. 
“That number was much higher than expected,” he said. “We expect ridership will build from there.” 
Lewis said it is likely that all the riders were students and there were no behavioral issues this weekend. 
“Everyone was excited to have this option and we did-n’t have any problems and we don’t anticipate any prob­lems,” he said. 
The new Transpo route is an initiative of student gov­ernment and partially funded by the Office of Student Affairs. 
Student body president 
see TRANSPO/page 6 




Cavanaugh wins energy competition 

ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

DanceMarathonhosts breakfast with Santa 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
It may be crunch time at the North Pole, but Santa took a break from the workshop to visit Saint Mary’s College with one of his elves Sunday morning as part of the Dance Marathon’s Santa Breakfast Fundraiser. 
The event was hosted in the Stapleton Auditorium and was attended by not only College students, but also members of the local community. 
“We had a really great turn­out,” Dance Marathon president Kelly Deranek said. “We had lots of families in the communi­ty attend as well as students. We expected a lot of people, but we had even more than we thought we would.” 
Deranek said there were many members of the community and children from Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s ECDC (Early Childhood Development Centers). 
“The kids were all very excit­ed to see Santa and make crafts,” Deranek said. “The kids asked Santa all sorts of questions.” 
Santa visited with the guests, but gave special attention to the kids. All of the kids took pic-

see SANTA/page 4 

By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Despite some fierce com­petition, Cavanaugh Hall was announced the winner 
of the Dorm Energy Competition that lasted through November. 
The contest, which was sponsored by the Office of Sustainability and Notre Dame student government, measured how much ener­gy each residence hall used during the month of November and compared those figures to previous amounts. 
The Chaos reduced their energy usage by $718, which will be donated to the Global Water Initiative and will be used to drill wells in Africa that will provide clean drinking water. 
Alicia Vasto, Cavanaugh’s sustainability commissioner, said she was surprised when she found out her dorm won, especially since Cavanaugh was not even among the top five energy-saving dorms at the con­test’s halfway point. 
“We are all really excit­ed that we won the compe­
see ENERGY/page 6 

Mendoza expands nonprofit program 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
The Mendoza College of Business is expanding its non-degree Nonprofit Executive Programs, which began in 2006, to offer more specialized training for people who work with nonprofit organizations, Marc Hardy, director of the Programs, said. 
These programs are part of the Nonprofit Professional Development department of Mendoza, which includes both non-degree programs and a master’s degree in nonprofit administration, Hardy said. 
“All of our programs … are really focused on helping lead­ers in nonprofits become bet­ter at what they do,” he said. 
The master’s degree is a two-year time and financial commitment, Hardy said, but the non-degree programs offer crucial training opportunities without the commitment of the degree. 
“Our [non-degree] program is really geared toward people who are working in the sector and just need to know specific information,” he said. “Nonprofit organizations are becoming so complex and so large that people need to be 
see NONPROFIT/page 6 

Aidan Project makes 400 blankets 
Event aims to help provide comfort for young cancer patients 


By KRISTIN DURBIN 
News Writer 
In keeping with the spirit of Christmas, students gathered in South Dining Hall yester­day to make about 400 fleece blankets for cancer patients at this year’s Aidan Project. 
The Project, sponsored by Circle K, Knott Hall and the class of 2012, was started in 2006 after current senior Aidan Fitzgerald was diag ­nosed with cancer. His room­mate was involved with Circle K and thought the club ’s annual blanket bash could be turned into a larger, more personal event for students 
see AIDAN/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Special Friends hosts puzzle competition page 3  MTV Woodie Awards coverage page 10  Women’s soccer falls page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, December 7, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Best of the blog world 
I love blogs. There are two blogs I read every day and plenty more I read regu­larly. It’s so much fun to get life advice and laughs from people all over the world. Here are a few of the hilarious, uplifting, and generally awesome blogs out there: 
1. ThePioneerWoman.com. Pioneer Woman’s real name is Ree Drummond. She was a city girl liv­ing in LA until she fell in love with a cattle rancher and real-life cowboy from Oklahoma. Now she’s a home-schooling mom of four who writes a hilarious blog about her crazy experiences as a ranch wife. She’s darn good at it too 
— she won Blogger of the Year for 2008 and her recently published cookbook hit No. 1 on the New York Times bestseller list. If you check out her blog, don’t miss the mouth-watering recipe section, the “Black Heels to Tractor Wheels” section that tells the adorable story of how she met her husband and the fantastic photography tutorials. 
2. NieNieDialogues.com. Nie Nie, or Stephanie Nielson, didn’t used to be famous. She was just a normal stay-at­home mom, raising her four cute kids and madly in love with her husband. Her blog was unique because it celebrated her love for domesticity instead of griping about motherhood like many mommy blogs do. But she was still relatively unknown and happy to stay that way. 
Then Stephanie bought her husband flying lessons for his birthday. And one day in August 2008, they were riding in a small plane with his flight instructor. And that plane crashed. 
Stephanie spent two months in a coma, burned over 80 percent of her body. Her sisters took in her little kids who didn’t understand why they couldn’t see their mom. Today she is sadly scarred but overjoyed to be back home with her fami­ly. Her blog is beyond words. Want to see the triumph of the human spirit and the beauty of family and love? Nie Nie is the role model. Her amazing story has also gained national attention. She’s been on Oprah and The Today Show. And now she’s in the Notre Dame Observer. 
If you’re looking to waste time and those blogs just don’t cut it for you, here are a few other Web sites I love: 
MyLifeIsAverage.com. It’s so, so much better than FML. 
SomeECards.com. You remember back when Facebook bumper stickers were cool? You remember those bumper stick­ers that had black-and-white pictures of people with some completely absurd cap­tion? And they were always hilarious? This site is where those stickers came from. 
StumbleUpon.com. This tool is addic­tive. You choose from a list of interests and it finds random sites that match your picks. Warning: It’s easy to spend hours “stumbling” so install with caution. 
HassleMe.co.uk. You pick something you want to be “hassled” about and this Web site sends you random e-mails to remind you about it. Very useful. 
Enjoy! 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: SNUGGIE: ABOMINATION OR GIFT FROM GOD? 






“Gift! How else  “Acceptable  “Without  “Why wear a  “Absolutely a  “Abomination.  
could I read a  only when  question a gift  Snuggie when I  gift from God,  Wearing them  
book and enjoy a  shared with a  from God. I love  can wear my  but only when  right makes you  
snack while  lady friend.”  my blanket with  tux?”  worn to outdoor  look dumb.”  
staying warm in  sleeves.”  sporting  
my drafty dorm  events.”  
room?”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 
Tenn. man arrested after allegedly drunk-dialing 911 
MURFREESBORO, Tenn. 
— A Middle Tennessee man was arrested after police said he drunk-dialed 911 and has called police 47 times over the last year. Murfreesboro police arrest­ed a 57-year-old man on Thursday after police responded to an emergency call to find him intoxicated in his home. According to the police report, officers asked him why he called 911 and he replied that he was “just drunk.” 
The Daily News Journal reported that police later learned that the man has repeatedly called 911 since September 2008. 
He was charged with abuse of the 911 system and booked into the Rutherford County Jail. 
Man dressed as elf threat­ens Santa with TNT, arrested 
MORROW, Ga. — A man dressed as an elf is jailed after police in Georgia say he told a mall Santa that he was carrying dynamite. 
Police say Southlake Mall in suburban Atlanta was evacuated but no explosives were found. 
Morrow police arrested 45-year-old William C. Caldwell III, who was being held without bond Thursday in the Clayton County jail. He was not part of the mall’s Christmas staff. 
Police say Caldwell got in line Wednesday evening to have his picture taken with Santa Claus. 
Police say when Caldwell reached the front of the line, he told Santa he had dyna­mite in his bag. Santa called mall security and Caldwell was arrested. 
Caldwell faces several charges, including having hoax devices and making terroristic threats. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Tuesday Wednesday 
IN BRIEF 
A lecture, “Coordination among Opposition Parties in Authoritarian Elections,” will be held Tuesday at 12:30 
p.m. in Room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. The lec­ture is free and open to the public. 
An exhibit, “Darkness and Light: Death and Beauty in Photography,” will continue at the O'Shaughnessy Galleries in the Snite Museum of Art through Dec 20. The Snite is open 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and admission is free. 
An exhibit, “Sculptural Vessels,” will continue at the Milly and Fritz Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art through Dec 20. Artist William Kremer is also a Notre Dame professor. The Snite is open 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m. and admission is free. 
An opera, Puccini’s “Turandot,” will be shown at the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The showing will begin at 1 p.m. on Dec 11 and tick­ets can be purchased online at performingarts.nd.edu or at the box office. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will perform two Christmas concerts on Dec 12 at 6 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 to $8. Music will include carols, classical works and popular standards. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

Thursday Friday 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 

HIGH 

CORRECTIONS 
34 HIGH 30 HIGH 36 HIGH 35 HIGH 18 HIGH 26 
The Observer regards itself as a professional 
publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so 
we can correct our error. 
Atlanta 56 / 43 Boston 42 / 29 Chicago 35 / 29 Denver 27 / 19 Houston 62 / 57 Los Angeles 56 / 41 Minneapolis 21 / 15 
New York 45 / 34 Philadelphia 46 / 32 Phoenix 58 / 51 Seattle 34 / 21 St. Louis 42 / 31 Tampa 77 / 60 Washington 45 / 36 
Monday, December 7, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





SMC doctors club promotes science 
By ALISON MEAGHER 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s College Future Women’s Doctors Club held an event at Coquillard Primary Center on Dec. 3 and 4 to promote interest in science to young girls. 
“We wanted to empower young girls and get them interested in science,” tled “The Girl Power Workshop,” was created for third and fourth grade girls. During the two days, the girls were able to dissect fish, make volcanoes, ana­lyze fingerprints, play with magnets and pretend to be doctors. 
“[The event] went well,” Cleary said. “At first the girls were hesitant, but by the end 
Catherine “[The event] went well. Cleary, the 
At frst the girls were
vice president 
hesitant, but by the 
of the Future Women’s end they were showing Doctors Club, 
me fsh 
said. 
eyeballs. They 
The club was originally thoroughly enjoyed it.” created to encourage 
Catherine Cleary 
and assist 
vice president
peers looking at gaining Future Women’s Doctors 
acceptance to Club 
medical, den­tal and gradu­ate schools, but the group also arranges volunteer and internship positions with local doctors. 
“Coquillard is a title one school. There is a lot of poverty there,” Cleary said. “Our group wanted to give them the same chance that other schools might have.” 
The two-day program, enti­they were showing me fish eyeballs. They thorough­ly enjoyed it.” 
The club began the workshop at Coquillard last year. The club is planning a similar work ­shop next semester to promote sci ­ence to high school girls. 
The club is also planning 
to volunteer at Healthworks and organize a drive for sin­gle mothers at a homeless shelter. 
“Education is the way out 
of poverty. [Education] breaks the cycle, ” Cleary said. 
Contact Alison Meagher at ameagh01@saintmarys.edu 


Puzzles help raise awareness, funds 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Students and families from around the Notre Dame com­munity pieced together puzzles to raise awareness and funds for autism in a puzzle competi­tion Sunday afternoon spon­sored by Special Friends, Ryan Hall and the Class of 2011. 
Approximately 75 people competed in individual and 
team competi­tions for prizes including gift cards and a Nerf gun. The Special Friends Club pairs Notre Dame students with autistic children in South Bend and Granger, and many of the families and students involved with the club could 
“The symbol of autism is a puzzle piece because puzzles really help kids with autism work on their fne motor skills and focus their attention.” 
Lauren Schmitt Special Friends coordinator 
be found gathered around puz­zles in North Dining Hall. 
Special Friends coordinator Lauren Schmitt said the event was oriented both towards rais­ing awareness and fundraising. 
“The symbol of autism is a puzzle piece because puzzles really help kids with autism work on their fine motor skills and focus their attention,” Schmitt said. “The event uses this symbol to raise awareness and to help fundraising for this cause.” 
The money collected from entry fees and ticket sales will be donated to Special Friends and to the Sonya Ansari Center for Autism at the Logan Center in South Bend. 
According to Ryan Hall presi­dent Courtney Vargas, Schmitt and Kayla Coggins, both resi­dents of Ryan Hall, approached the Hall Council at the begin­ning of the year to find out how Ryan could get involved with Special Friends. 
“The special part of the puz­
zle competition is that it is a combination of families from the community and students from Notre Dame,” Vargas said. “I think that it is a great event, and I hope that this is something that our dorm could be involved with in the future.” 
Students from 
Notre Dame have a history sup­porting causes such as special needs and autism. Special Friends in particular is tied to a seminar on autism and early development taught by Professor Thomas Whitman. 
Special Friends vice president Sean Kickham assembled a puzzle while discussing his involvement with the club. 
“I volunteered with autistic kids in high school, and when Special Friends started up two years ago, I knew that it was a good option for me to keep up that work,” he said. 
The partnerships between the kids and Notre Dame students are the most integral part of the club’s work. 
South Bend mother Deanna Finfrock watched her four-year­old son Nolan play games with volunteers from Ryan Hall and his Special Friend partner Coggins. 
“Nolan has a great time with the college kids,” Finfrock said. “These students are incredibly patient, and I love to see him having such a good time here.” 
Finfrock said Nolan was recently diagnosed with autism and free events like the puzzle competition are the perfect option for her family in the midst of high medical costs. The programs sponsored by Special Friends focus on community participation from families like Nolan’s. 
“I was drawn to Special Friends because I love to work with kids, and Professor Whitman’s autism class got me interested in the group,” Coggins said. “I think that the student interaction with the kids is what really makes the work that Special Friends does a great idea.” 
During Disabilities Week in the spring, Special Friends will be hosting an autism confer­ence featuring a Yale neurolo­gist who will discuss some of his recent research on this handi­cap and raise awareness for ways to help the cause. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, December 7, 2009 
“It’s not just about making Indiana communities, blankets, it ’s more about though some blankets also 
Aidan 
awareness of cancer, espe-go to adult patients. continued from page 1 cially in people our age.” According to Fitzgerald, the Circle K president emeri-event’s coordinators hope to 
tus Katie Teitgen said coor-start sending more blankets by naming it after dinators of the Project spoke to hospitals in the Chicago Fitzgerald. to the Hall Presidents ’ area as well. 
“This is a unique opportu-Council to get representa-“We also send proceeds nity on campus because you tives from each dorm to pro-from Aidan Project T-shirt always see things about can-mote the event. sales to Riley Children ’s cer fundraisers, but this is a “We noticed that the best Hospital in Indianapolis, ” way to treat cancer patients participation came from Teitgen said. “It ’s the like human beings, ” dorms with a direct connec-biggest children’s hospital in Fi tzgerald tion to the the state, and Aidan is from said. “You A i d a n Indianapolis, so it was natu­wouldn’t think Project, so ral to donate money and to give some -““It’s not just about we decided blankets there.” one a blanket, having some-Volunteers and project 
making blankets, it’s 
but something one talking committee members are also that simple is more about awareness about the encouraged to bring a blan­personal and of cancer, especially in event is bet-ket home with them to their provides an ter than just hometown hospitals or to 
people our age.” 
opportunity to putting up loved ones who suffer from make a huge, posters in the cancer. lasting differ-Aidan Fitzgerald dorms,” “We want to keep track of ence in some-senior Teitgen said. where the blankets are one’s life.” A n o t h e r going, and we would love to 
In the change this spread word of the event Project’s first year was the more,” Teitgen said. year, 250 students made 100 blankets use one layer of Although Fitzgerald will blankets in the LaFortune fleece instead of two at the graduate this year, he and ballroom. It has since grown request of local hospitals Teitgen are both confident into the largest service w h o s e the event will event on campus and pati ents continue to be changed locations to South r e c e i v e popular and 
“The Aidan Project is a 
Dining Hall to accommodate the blan -successful in 
pretty well known event,
for yearly growth. In addi-k e t s . years to come. tion, the event won a According and there’s been a huge “The Aidan national award for the best to Teitgen, Project is a
response so far. It will be 
service project last year. the dou -pretty well 
different because the
After the fleece used for ble -layer known event, the blankets ran out in the bl ankets event will have less of a and there ’s first hour of last year ’s were too personal connection.” been a huge Aidan Project, the event’s warm for response so sponsors spent over $4,000 young can-far,” Fitzgerald 
Aidan Fitzgerald 
on fleece this year to be c e r said. “It will be more prepared for a large pati ents senior different volunteer turnout. b e c a u s e because the 
This year, the Project ’s the hospi-event will have sponsors also decided to tals are climate controlled. less of a personal connec­change the organizational The Project focuses on tion.” structure of the event in raising awareness for youth Teitgen said Circle K will order to get the dorms more cancer, so the majority of continue the Project because involved. the blankets made go to its officers enjoyed it so 
“We have commissioners children’s hospitals in South much and students antici­in each dorm to get the Bend, Mishawaka, pate the event at the end of word out,” Fitzgerald said. Indianapolis and other first semester because of its popularity and past success. 

In addition, some of the event’s popularity derives from musician Pat McKillen’s annual perform­ance at the event. McKillen’s friendship with Fitzgerald initially got him involved in the Project. 
Students responded very positively to the event this year. Freshman Kristin Ruekert said the sense of community fostered by vol­unteers working together was a unique and important part of the Project. 
“What made me smile the most were the volunteers who weren ’t students, ” Ruekert said. “I thought 
Food services all made con­tributions for the event, 

Santa 
Deranek said. continued from page 1 Dance Marathon raised 
over $350 for the Riley tures on Santa’s lap and told Children’s Hospital from this him what they wanted for Santa Breakfast, and raised Christmas. community awareness for the 
“One little boy wanted to cause. know how he got down the The event was so successful chimney and what his elves that it may become an annual were doing,” Deranek said. event, Deranek said. She “It was fun to see the kids believes that the event could interacting with Santa.” become even bigger for 
Geared towards families, future years. the Santa Breakfast offered “This event was a great opportunities to make orna-fundraiser for us,” Deranek ments, candy cane reindeer, said. “The event focused on mini -Christmas trees and Christmas and having a fun mini-stockings for the chil-breakfast with Santa for kids, dren who attended. but in doing so we were able 
Guests were served pan-to raise a lot of money for cakes, sausage and eggs all Riley Hospital.” made by students. Target, Meijer, Krispy Kreme, Contact Megan Loney at Studebagels and Gordon’s mloney01@saintmarys.edu 

their selflessness proved this world still has a lot of goodness in it, and I love that we can make a differ­ence when we work togeth­er.” 
Sophomore Meg Larson said it was great that so many people participated in the event even when every­
one is busy during the Christmas season. 
Although the Project is steadily becoming a larger event, it still promotes the same simple mission of making a difference in the lives of cancer patients. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 

World & Nation 
Monday, December 7, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iraq prepares for elections 
BAGHDAD — Iraqi lawmakers approved plans Sunday to hold parliament elections early next year that are seen as an impor­tant step toward political reconciliation and easing the withdrawal of U.S. troops. 
The vote — during an emergency session convened just before a midnight deadline — followed marathon talks by political leaders to break an impasse over balloting provi­sions that would satisfy the nation’s rival groups. 
“I would like to congratulate the Iraqi peo­ple for this historical victory,” said Vice President Tariq al-Hashemi, who had held up the elections for weeks with a veto. He also hailed political leaders for compromises that “got Iraq out from the bottleneck and out of a problem.” 
Civilian rule called for in Guinea 
CONAKRY — A regional African bloc on Sunday called for Guinea to return to civilian rule as the junta’s No. 2 assumed control of the country following an assassination attempt on its leader. 
Gen. Sekouba Konate, the vice president of the military junta, rushed back to Guinea’s capital from overseas to take charge follow­ing a Thursday assassination attempt on the junta’s president. 
Guinea’s military leader Capt. Moussa “Dadis” Camara was airlifted Friday to Morocco where he received surgery for trau­ma to the cranium, Morocco’s chief military doctor Brig. Gen. Ali Abrouq said Sunday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Ohio innate gets new execution drug 
COLUMBUS — Condemned killer Kenneth Biros could become the first person in the country put to death with a single dose of an intravenous anesthetic instead of the usual 
— and faster-acting — three-drug process if his execution proceeds Tuesday. 
The execution could propel other states to eventually consider the switch, which propo­nents say ends arguments over unnecessary suffering during injection. California and Tennessee previously considered then reject­ed the one-drug approach. 
Though the untested method has never been used on an inmate in the United States, one difference is clear: Biros will likely die more slowly than inmates put to death with the three-drug method, which includes a drug that stops the heart. 
Sex abuse claims filed against Jesuits 
SPOKANE, Wash. — More than 500 people in the Northwest filed claims against the Oregon Province of the Society of Jesus in advance of a November deadline, alleging members of the Catholic order sexually abused them as children. 
The Spokesman-Review in Spokane reports the claims against the Jesuits span decades and range from Native Alaskan chil­dren to students at Spokane’s Gonzaga Preparatory School. 
A federal judge overseeing the Chapter 11 reorganization of the province set a Nov. 30 deadline for people to file the claims. The organization includes Jesuits in Oregon, Washington, Idaho, Montana and Alaska. 
The Jesuits already have settled 200 addi­tional sex-abuse claims. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Teen charged with murder of brother 
RISING SUN, Ind. — Showing no emotion and with his parents a few blocks from the court­house, an Indiana teenager pleaded not guilty to killing his 10-year-old brother. His mother and father were greeting mourners who came to pay respects to their slain younger son. 
Andrew Conley, 17, was charged as an adult in Ohio Circuit Court with murdering his brother, Conner Conley, a decision that the boys’ parents supported, said Dearborn-Ohio County Prosecutor Aaron Negangard. In front of a few of his friends, the teen answered only basic ques­tions during Friday’s hearing. His attorney, Gary Sorge, entered a not guilty plea on his behalf. 
Tiger Woods faces more scrutiny 
Golfer’s actions widen his distance from the African-American community 
Associated Press 
Amid all the headlines generated by Tiger Woods’ troubles — the puzzling car accident, the suggestions of marital turmoil and multiple mistresses — little attention has been given to the race of the women linked with the world’s greatest golfer. 
Except in the black com­munity. 
When three white women were said to be romantically involved with Woods in addition to his blonde, Swedish wife, blogs, air­waves and barbershops started humming, and Woods’ already tenuous standing among many blacks took a beating. 
On the nationally syndi­cated Tom Joyner radio show, Woods was the butt of jokes all week. 
“Thankfully, Tiger, you didn’t marry a black woman. Because if a sister caught you running around with a bunch of white hoochie-mamas,” one paro­dy suggests in song, she would have castrated him. 
“The Grinch’s Theme Song” didn’t stop there: “The question everyone in America wants to ask you is, how many white women does one brother waaant?” 
As one blogger, Robert Paul Reyes, wrote: “If Tiger from his African-American this preservation thing we right for blacks and whites Woods had cheated on his father and Thai mother. have among one another. to date, a study published gorgeous white wife with This vexed some blacks, We like to see each other this year in Sociological black women, the golfing but it hasn’t stopped them with each other.” Quarterly showed that great’s accident would have from claiming Woods as one Black women have long blacks are less likely to been barely a blip in the of their own. Or from disap-felt slighted by the tendency actually date outside their blogosphere.” proving of his marriage to of famous black men to pair race than are other groups. 
The darts reflect blacks’ Elin Nordegren, despite with white women, and “There is a call for loyalty resistance to interracial blacks’ historical fight many have a list of current that is stronger in some romance. They also are a against white racist oppo-transgressors at the ready. ways than in other racial reflection of discomfort with nents of mixed marriage. “We’ve discussed this for communities,” said the a man who has smashed On the one hand, Ebonie years among black women,” author of the study, George barriers in one of America’s Johnson Cooper doesn’t said Denene Millner, author Yancey, a sociology profes­whitest sports and assumed care that Tiger Woods’ wife of several books on black sor at the University of the mantle of the world’s and alleged mistresses are relationships. “Why is it North Texas and author of most famous athlete, once white because Woods is when they get to this level ... the book “Just Don’t Marry worn by Muhammad Ali “quote-unquote not really they tend to go directly for One.” and Michael Jordan. black.” the nearest blonde?” The color of one’s com-
But Woods has declined to “But at the same time we This tendency may be panion has long been a identify himself as black, still see him as a black man more prominent due to a major measure of “black­and famously chose the with a white woman, and it relative lack of interracial ness” — which is a big rea­term “Cablinasian” makes a difference,” said marriages among average son why the biracial Barack (Caucasian, black, Indian Johnson Cooper, a 26-year-blacks. Although a recent Obama was able to fend off and Asian) to describe the old African-American from Pew poll showed that 94 early questions about his racial mixture he inherited New York City. “There’s just percent of blacks say it’s all black authenticity. 

FRANCE 
Europe still shows signs of Obama-mania 
A poll released Friday and conducted in they could ever have expected from Bush. 
Associated Press 
the five major European powers — Obama on Friday altered his plans and PARIS — Europeans might have reason France, Germany, Italy, Great Britain, will join the crucial last week of the meet-to feel disappointed with Barack Obama. Spain — and the United States, showed ing amid shifts in the Chinese and Indian 
The American president arrives this that Obama has retained the support of positions, reviving some hope of a major week in Europe to pick up his Nobel the vast majority of the Europeans polled, breakthrough. Peace prize just as he has nearly doubled even as his rating sagged in the U.S. “It sounds like he’s still the bees knees the U.S. troop presence in Afghanistan. The president’s continued high stand-for everyone in Britain. He’s fabulous,” This fall, Obama found plenty of time to ing in Europe may be due in part to the said Sarah Hodgkin, a civil servant from tour Asia, while missing the 20th anniver-deep-rooted hostility Europeans have Essex, England. sary celebrations of the fall of the Berlin harbored for his predecessor, George W. In the small Spanish town of Arroyo de Wall. Bush. Luz, about 180 miles (300 kilometers) 
And Obama originally planned to spend Europeans seem to sense that even if southwest of Madrid, Miguel Angel just hours at the Copenhagen conference he only shows his face at Copenhagen Bernejo Carrero made news when he on global warming, which for many and has failed to sway his own renamed his bar in honor of Obama dur-Europeans is the world’s No. 1 problem. Democratic Congress to do more on glob-ing the Democratic primary battle, even 
Nevertheless, Obama-mania lives on in al warming, Obama will likely be bring-before it was clear Obama would be his the hearts of millions here. ing far more to the climate table than party’s candidate. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, December 7, 2009 
Transpo 
continued from page 1 
Grant Schmidt and student body vice president Cynthia Weber began working on creating a bus route for stu­dents to use on the week­ends as a safe and reliable way to travel off campus for the weekend. 
“Hopefully this will become a staple in how students get on and off campus on the weekends,” he said. 
The route starts at Library Circle, runs through student neighborhoods and stops near the Linebacker Lounge, Fiddler’s Hearth, Madison Oyster Bar and Corby’s Irish Pub, as well as Finnegan’s. 
Schmidt said he was happy to hear about the high num­ber of student riders on Friday. Numbers for Saturday’s ridership were not available on Sunday. 
“It was really important for this weekend to be suc­cessful,” he said. “But the buses were literally packed.” 
He said the only issues he heard from students were people not knowing the time schedule of the bus route. 
“People just need to get used to approximating when the buses arrive,” he said. 
Overall, riding the bus was a good time, Schmidt said. 
“On Saturday night, people were singing Christmas Carols together,” he said. “People were legitimately having a good time.” 
Junior Ryan Hawley rode the bus both Friday and Saturday night and was able to flag down the bus on Twyckenham Drive after walking from his Irish Row apartment. 
“It was really easy. I just stood on the route and 
Energy 
continued from page 1 
tion, ” Vasto said. “Honestly, it was really unexpected.” 
Cavanaugh reduced their energy usage by 34 percent 
— significantly more than the runner-up Pasquerilla West Hall, who used 27 percent less energy. 
Vasto said one of the first things the dorm did for the contest was to participate in the compact fluorescent lightbulb (CFL) exchange. Cavanaugh exchanged more than 50 CFL bulbs for more eco -friendly incan ­descent bulbs. 
In addition to the CFL exchange, Cavanaugh ’s residents also tried other ways of cutting their ener­gy usage, Vasto said. 
“We set our lights to parietal settings for the entire month. I think that flagged the bus down,” he said. 

Hawley said the bus he took was packed on Friday night. 
“You literally couldn’t move,” he said. “There weren’t as many people rid­ing on Saturday but it was still pretty full.” 
Schanzer took the bus home from Finnegan’s by chance as it was outside of the bar when he was leav­ing. 
“The fact that the bus was there when the bar closed was really convenient,” he said. “You can save the three dollars you would pay for a cab with and buy another drink.” 
When he got on the bus at the end of the night, Schanzer said there were 
was what really put us 
over the top and it was such a simple thing to do,” Vasto said. “One of the girls said that her eyes were actually hurting when we set the lights back to normal. I also sent out a lot of reminders to unplug everything, especially before Thanksgiving break, which was really key.” 
Vasto said the e-mail reminders were very help­ful because her dorm mates wanted to win the competition and the e­mails helped them stay on top of everything. 
“I think Cavanaugh girls are already pretty con ­scious about their energy use so simple reminders were all I really needed to do to get people to partici­pate,” Vasto said. “Plus, we are pretty competitive.” 
Vasto said her dorm ’s residents were especially eager to participate because the winner’s sav­about 80 other students on the bus. 
“All my friends were able to get on and it dropped us right by my house,” he said. 
Schmidt said the buses will run this weekend during study days, but he does not think it will run the weekend after, and then it will start up again the first weekend of the spring semester. 
“When people get back from Christmas break, we want to have a laminated card with the schedule for students to put in their pock­ets or purses,” he said. “And then we want to make a more student friendly ver­sion with all the bars labeled.” 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
ings were being donated to such a good cause. 
“Because the money was going to the Global Water Initiative, we had greater incentive to reduce our energy consumption, ” Vasto said. 
Besides helping provide clean water to people in need, one of the greatest benefits the competition provides is educating Notre Dame students about how they can be more environ­mentally conscious, Vasto said. 
“The competition does a good job of raising aware­ness about our energy con­sumption on campus and how often we are unneces­sarily wasteful,” she said. “There are so many simple things we can be doing to reduce our energy usage on a daily basis.” 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 
Nonproft 
continued from page 1 
constantly updated and retrained on this information.” 
The current expansion of the nonprofit offerings is a result of a grant that the program received to create an endow­ment and offer programs to nonprofits at a low cost, Hardy said. Nonprofit organizations cannot always afford to send executives to educational and training sessions, but there is a constant need for education and training in this field, he said. 
Two new training programs are scheduled to begin during the summer of 2010, Hardy said. 
“We are going to be doing a program for alumni of the ACE program,” he said. “So they can better serve 
Catholi c “All of our programs … are Hispanic pop-schools and ulation. 
really focused on helping
organiza -Also includ­
leaders in nonprofits
tions. ed in the cur-The become better at rent pro-
Alliance for what they do.” grams is the 
Catholi c Civic Sector Education Leadership 
Marc Hardy
(ACE) is a Fellows program director Program, for offered by Nonproft Executive Programs rising stars 
Notre Dame in which participants teach for two years in Catholic schools and earn their Master’s degree in Education. Hardy said the new four-day training session for graduates of ACE will teach them how to be better board members and leaders in Catholic schools. 
The University will also launch a new 10-day program this July “specifically for Catholic nonprofit organiza­tions,” Hardy said. 
“The program is to help edu­cate leaders of Catholic organi­zations learn how to become better nonprofit leaders,” he said. 
In addition to these philan­thropic programs, the University is looking to expand the training programs it offers to specific organizations for a fee, Hardy said. For example, the nonprofit professional development faculty already provides specialized training for Volunteers of America. 
“Our goal is to add three national partners in the next three years,” he said. “We are currently in negotiation with two national partners ... We partner with nonprofits to cre­ate programs that fir their needs.” 
Currently, the nonprofit exec­utive programs include Leaders in Transition, an annual program that guides its participants in a transition from a year of post-graduate volunteer service into the rest of their lives as they look to enter the workforce, Hardy said. 
“How to maintain that phil­anthropic spirit even through you’re entering the market­place,” is a major theme of the Leaders in Transition program, Hardy said. 
He said the University also offers a 10-day training pro­gram in Cicero, Ill., in partner­ship with the Cicero Youth Task Force, which works with nonprofits serving the 
nationwide in 
nonprofit organizations, Hardy said. 
Hardy said Nonprofit Professional Development is currently working on a new marketing strategy in addition to expanding the non-degree programs. 
“We’re planning on a major marketing push in the next six months to a year,” he said. 
Mendoza College of Business’ Dean Carolyn Woo and Thomas Harvey, the Luke McGuinness Director of Professional Development, have been instrumental in reinventing Notre Dame’s offerings to non­profit organizations in the past several years, Hardy said. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 



The Observer 
Business
Monday, December 7, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Bashas’ grocery declares Bankruptcy 
PHOENIX — A bitter four-year fight between Arizona grocery chain Bashas’ Inc. and a gro­cery union will end under an agreement ham­mered out in U.S. bankruptcy court. 
The Chandler-based grocery chain and the United Food and Commercial Workers union will call off their respective publicity campaigns against each other and settle a raft of lawsuits that allege defamation and harassment, court records show. 
The union also will suspend its efforts to organize Bashas’ employees. 
The agreement is seen as overcoming a key hurdle for the company, which hopes to emerge from bankruptcy early next year. 
“It’s a very important step in reorganizing Bashas’,” said Michael McGrath, the grocer’s Tucson bankruptcy attorney. 
A tentative reorganization plan calls for the Bashas’ family to continue to run the 77-year­old business and possibly close additional stores. 
Bashas’ operated nearly 160 Bashas’, Food City and AJ’s Fine Foods markets when it filed for bankruptcy in July but has since closed 30 stores. 
‘Buy local’ movement excels 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. — A lot of things have helped Deb Dormody and her partners turn their annual holiday craft show, Craftland, into a year-round permanent store: a growing appreciation for handmade, unique goods, a desire to support the arts, and — surprisingly — the bad economy, which she says has pushed people to examine how they spend their money. 
“People can feel really good about what they’re purchasing,” she said. “Being able to say to the recipient, ... ‘I know the person who made this. This person lives here in town.’ “ 
Providence is among many cities and states pushing a “buy local” philosophy this holiday season. Mayor David Cicilline says businesses are critical to the economy of Providence, the capital of a state where unemployment is 12.9 percent. New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson urged residents of his state to spend $25 at each of two local stores this month, saying it could have a $27 million economic impact. Cities including Cambridge and Somerville, Mass., and Portland, Maine, have similar pushes. 
Obama makes Copenhagen trip 
As prospects brighten, President shifts visit in order to promote climate change action 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama is shifting the timing of his visit to an international cli­mate summit in Copenhagen as prospects for a political agreement at the event seem more likely. 
The U.S., India and China all have specific proposals on the table for the first time, and world leaders are aiming for a deal that includes commitments on reducing emissions and financing for developing countries. They no longer expect to reach a legally binding agreement, as had long been the goal. 
Obama is hoping to capi­talize on steps by India and China and build a more meaningful political accord, the White House said. 
The move means Obama will be at the summit on Dec. 18, considered a cru­cial period when more leaders will be in atten­dance, as opposed to his scheduled stop in Denmark on Wednesday on his way to receive the Nobel Peace Prize in Oslo. 
It also means that Obama will be squeezing in a sep­arate, 10th foreign trip before Christmas — a record pace of travel for a ing issues that must be his receiving the Nobel would cut the ratio of first-year president — as a negotiated for an agree-Peace Prize, but talks have greenhouse gases pollution means to giving momen-ment to be reached, but not produced a final break-to production by 20 per-tum to a deal aimed at this decision reflects the through. cent to 25 percent from combatting global warm-president’s commitment to On climate, India pledged 2005 levels by 2020 but ing. doing all that he can to Thursday to significantly would not agree to a hard 
Obama will now leave for pursue a positive out-slow the growth of its car-limit on the amount of Oslo late Wednesday, come,” White House press bon emissions over the heat-trapping gases it attend Nobel events secretary Robert Gibbs next decade. China could release. India’s Thursday and return to said in a statement. Gibbs announced its own targets pledge, like the one made Washington on Friday. said the U.S. will have for cutting carbon emis-earlier by China, is a cut in 
The president had said negotiators involved sions last week, a day after carbon intensity. that he would travel to the throughout the Dec. 7-18 Obama announced the U.S. That means emissions Copenhagen conference if conference. goals. can keep rising as their his appearance would help It is also possible that None of the three coun-developing economies clinch a deal. His decision Obama could tack on tries — which are among grow, but they would do so to go early to the two-week another agenda item to his the top five emitters of car-more slowly. China pledged meeting had been seen by revamped, final trip of the bon dioxide in the world — weeks ago to commit to a many as a sign that an year: the signing of a broad were subject to limits put 40 percent to 45 percent agreement was still a long treaty with Russia to in place by the 1997 Kyoto reduction in carbon inten­shot. reduce both nations’ Protocol, the treaty that sity from 2005 levels over 
The possibility of an nuclear arsenals. The negotiations in Denmark the next decade. That agreement may be improv-White House had hoped seek to replace. means its emissions would ing, however. that deal would be ready in The development came grow at half the rate they 
“There are still outstand-time to coordinate it with one day after India said it would otherwise. 

U.S. campuses support geothermal power 
Associated Press Geothermal technology has been A typical geothermal system works 
around for decades, it works and it’s like this: 
MILWAUKEE — While solar and increasingly affordable. At colleges On a warm day, the system draws wind power get most of the head-that must maintain dozens of large heat from a hot building and pumps lines, geothermal power is quietly buildings, the savings are magnified. it underground where the soil gaining traction on college campus-Those involved in the decision to absorbs it. On a cold day the process es where energy costs can siphon pursue geothermal technology say reverses — the system extracts heat millions each year from the budget. they wanted to use less coal-fired from the earth and returns it to the 
Schools from Wisconsin to New power, although the schools also building. Mexico have geothermal projects in had to save money to justify the The process is so efficient that the works. There are 46 schools move. even though the underground tem­divvying up millions in federal stim-The technology is a natural fit for perature remains about a constant ulus dollars to advance technology schools like Boise State that sit atop 55 degrees, the system can be used that uses the temperature of the geothermal springs. The school to chill water to 45 degrees or heat Earth, rather than coal-fired power recently announced it expects to it to 170 degrees. plants, to heat and cool buildings. save as much as $80,000 per year in “That makes heating and cooling a 
So far this year, the Department of heating costs by doing so, and even whole new ball game,” said Robert Energy has announced $400 million more as the project expands. Yet J. Koester, a Ball State University in grants to advance geothermal schools in the Midwest and East are architecture professor overseeing projects like those under way on a also turning to geothermal power one of the nation’s most aggressive handful of campuses. using a different type of technology. installations. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, December 7, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
How to keep tradition alive 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Notre Dame is a special place. Perhaps more than any other universi­ty, it holds almost mythological impor­tance to its faithful. To many the future of Notre Dame is the future of morality or Catholicism or tradition itself. As Chris Manley Notre Dame goes, 
Guest
so go the giant 
Columnist
intangible con­structs, as they say. When it comes to creating devotion, this is excellent. But I am sure it has already occurred to you (looking at you here, Fr. Jenkins) that this can be problematic when try­ing to make decisions. Because every­one’s investment feels so large, every­one believes that what they want for the University must be accomplished, or we court disaster. 
And what represents the University to these faithful? Football. So I am sure your decision is a nerve-wracking one. Choosing a coach to please one faction of the faithful may upset another fac­tion. You are, perhaps, tempted to choose a “compromise candidate,” one who will be the least objectionable to all concerned. One that makes no one angry. I write to urge you not to do this. Not when an ideal candidate exists — one who will make everyone overjoyed. 
I write to nominate for the position of head football coach a life-size card­board cutout of Lou Holtz. Or perhaps, if the previous coach hasn’t put as large a drain on University coffers as has been speculated, you could even spring for a Lou Holtz Fathead. 
Listen to this: For a fraction of the cost of luring a successful coach from another school you can put one on the wall of the locker room. Research shows these things are about 100 bucks. Expensive as far as stickers go, sure, but better than a fire sale in the world of Division I coaches. No private jets required to fly him around. Lou Holtz Fathead travels United States Postal Service. No worries about Lou Holtz Fathead getting distracted by family, charity work or dying children wishing for play-calling privileges, about jumping ship for an NFL team. Lou Holtz Fathead is as focused as they come. Once you put him in the locker room he won’t even go home to sleep. And for that price you can even get a second Lou Holtz Fathead on a card­board stand for the sidelines, halftime interviews and press conferences. 
Lou Holtz Fathead is unflappable. No more worries about how a coach will interact with the media. Lou’s winning smile will never leave his face. It will inspire players on and off the field. Imagine halftime with players circled around Lou Holtz Fathead, all anxious­ly taking a knee. Lou Holtz Fathead smiles. His enthusiasm makes everyone want it just a little more. At practice, Lou Holtz Fathead will never tell any­one it’s okay to be undisciplined, and he’ll never berate a player. He will handle all situations with characteristic aplomb. 
Most importantly, Lou Holtz Fathead would embody Notre Dame history and tradition without endangering it. In The Observer, the wider sports media, even in dorm rooms and classrooms, well-meaning fans, students and alum­ni pontificate without a hint of irony about the sacred tradition that is Notre Dame winning football games. Lou Holtz Fathead speaks directly to this group. By selecting an image of 1988 Lou Holtz for Lou Holtz Fathead we get all that he meant to the school without that thing at South Carolina, or that kind of lisp thing he does. No one will ever be able to claim Lou Holtz Fathead is anything but emblematic of a time when Notre Dame really meant something, as a team and also a school. 
Lou Holtz Fathead has never done a single thing to advance the legality of abortion. Put that in your pipe, Randall Terry, and smoke it. In fact he’s never challenged the hierarchy of the Catholic Church at all. Lou Holtz Fathead has never lied on a resume, has never been accused of infidelity, of poor sportsmanship, of racism or of aiding or abetting terrorism. He has never, even once, suggested that Notre Dame should lower its academic stan­dards to improve its football program. I have it on good authority he would keep his views on homosexuality to himself. Mark May would still disagree with him, but come on. That’s part of the fun. 
It’s time to return Notre Dame to a tradition of supporting Notre Dame tra­dition. Allow our football team, and by implication Notre Dame itself, and by further implication the Notre Dame faithful, to mean something again. 
Imagine, if you will, players running out of the locker room, helmets gleam­ing in expectation of the victory to come. One by one they good-naturedly slap Lou Holtz Fathead on the behind, only on his front, since Lou Holtz Fathead, will, admittedly, not have a behind. 
Do you have goosebumps? I just got goosebumps there. 
Chris Manley is a member of the class of 2004 and a visiting faculty member. He can be reached at cmanley1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY’S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Viewpoint 
Joseph McMahon Lianna Who will be the next Notre Dame Amanda Gray Brauweiler head football coach? 
Carly Landon Sports Graphics Sam Werner 
Brian Kelly Andrea Archer Mike Gotimer Bob Stoops Scene Allan Joseph Skip Holtz Jess Shaffer Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“In three words I can sum upeverything I’ve learned about life:it goes on.” 
Robert Frost 
U.S. poet 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
Monday, December 7, 2009 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Long home games hurt team 
Notre Dame’s endowment was $400 60 minutes in terms of pure playing years as Notre Dame has grown more let-downs at home late in the second million in the late ‘80s when it began time, having to muster concentration dependent on the pass. Despite prob-half. negotiating with NBC. It is now $8 bil-into that fourth hour is difficult. For lems in recent years, Notre Dame usu-If Notre Dame has to join a confer-lion. visitors, who often make the Notre ally has more talented and stronger ence in order to recruit at the top level, 
I mention this because I think Notre Dame game their marquee game, this athletes than the opposition; this a positive side effect might be the end Dame football will not really prosper is feasible — once a year. In addition, advantage is mitigated when the game of that goofy contract — three-and-a­until the NBC contract is abolished. We the length of the games hurt the run-is stopped repeatedly, allowing people half-hour games are acceptable; four-can afford it. ning attack, as it allows opposing D-to rest. The cumulative effects over the and-a-half-hour games without roman 
Four-and-a-half-hour football games lines to catch their breath. (Granted, length of a season mean that Notre numerals after them are a joke. hurt the team. While it is true that Notre Dame will have to field a running Dame teams are less effective at the opposing teams also have to play dur-game before this becomes a real prob-end of the year — this probably con-Peter Zavodnyik ing that four-and-a-half-hour span, lem.) The numerous time-outs also give tributed to the numerous losses of alumnus they don’t have to do it seven times a opposing defensive backs time to rest Weis-led teams in November. Even class of 1992 year. And while the game is still only — this has mattered a lot in recent Holtz’s teams in the early ‘90s suffered Dec. 4 
Grab and Go system unfair 
Grab and Go is flawed because we are overcharged for what we can get and it limits our choice on what food and the quantity of that food we can eat. 
It takes a quick look at the Notre Dame food Web site and a few calculations to find that for each meal swipe we are charged $10.52. With each point costing $1.50, the seven points’ worth of food we get does not add up anywhere close to that. You could get this meal at the grocery store for a few dollars, yet we spend almost 11 dollars on it. 
Not only that, but with the cost of attend­ing this school, most of us don’t have money to throw around. Baylor University, which is 15 minutes away from my house, uses the system of filling a box with as much food from the regular dining hall as can fit for a Grab and Go meal, and both my sisters who went there really liked it, as did their friends. For more than 10 bucks, I’d like to be able to stuff as much food as I can into a box and save some for later. 
Not only are we limited as to how much food we can take to go, but we have a set variety of food. Sure, the dining hall has a set variety of food as well, but that selec­tion is much greater than that of Grab and Go. Also, being able to get our food to go from the dining hall would allow us to be able to select hot food, refrigerate it and heat it up later instead of being constricted to cold food. 
Skinny people or those of us on diets who enjoy eating small amounts of monotonous food day-to-day may enjoy Grab and Go as it is, but I feel that a change is needed. I appreciate the fact that we have an alter­nate choice for when we don’t have time to sit down and eat, but a switch to packing a take-out box with a wider variety of food from the dining hall seems to be a much better way to feed students on the go. 
Mitchell Myers 
freshman Keough Hall Dec. 4 
Global warming skeptic 
There is a lot of research taking place these days that points to global warming as an imminent threat. The great leader, Barack Obama and his Congressional cronies are moving ahead with legisla­tion and international meetings to begin limiting greenhouse gas emissions on a grand scale. Europe, in its infinite wis­dom, is also pushing climate change leg­islation internationally. When the global economy is hurting so much already, they want to handicap our economic capacity with these kinds of regulations that likely won’t yield any positive results. 
Allow me to explain: In most environ­mental issues there is a direct effect on human and ecological well being. When air pollution is too high, air quality becomes intolerable and has a direct human effect. When an oil spill turns the ocean and beaches black, there is a direct ecological impact and humans cannot use the water until it is cleaned up. These are problems with a direct cause traced back to us that we should resolve. Climate change is a little fuzzier. Right now, there is no direct cause. Sure, we are releasing a lot of different gasses into the atmosphere while manu­facturing goods, but need I remind you that every year wild fires release immeasurable cubic tons of greenhouse gases? A single volcanic eruption can spew out huge amounts of carbon diox­ide. How are you going to regulate those kinds of phenomena? With all these other variables added to the mix, plus the daunting task of measuring the tem­perature of the earth given its sheer size (do they average the North Pole temper­ature with the temperature in Ecuador?), it is impossible to conclusive­ly say that humans are the sole cause of climate change. In fact, going by current 
scientific findings, the climate of the earth shifted several times before humans were even around. North America was once pure ice and the Middle East was once a dense jungle. That was all before we had cars and fac­tories. 
At the recent Commonwealth summit, climate change was at the forefront in preparation for the Copenhagen talks. The poor countries requested that at least $10 billion per year be offered up by the richer countries in order for the topic to even be on the table. The facts are that even if you believe in man-made climate change, you can’t make any gains unless emerging nations coop­erate with climate change regulation. The other fact is that cheap energy is a big creator of greenhouse gases. Are you going to deny the prosperity of poor countries for the sake of maybe keeping the earth cooler? Are you going to make people who live on less than a dollar a day foot the bill for your regulations? We had our chance to grow without reg­ulation and now you are going to tell others they can’t do the same? 
The argument can definitely be made that the climate is changing considering its cyclical pattern. However, there is still no way to prove we are the ones who are causing the climate to change. So before we go spending a lot of time and resources, we should make sure what we’re doing is actually solving a problem in the first place. All that money would be really nice to fund any number of things that are way more important at this point in history. 
Mark Easley 
sophomore Keenan Hall Nov. 30 
PE must be worth something 
As a freshman, there are many things you have to just get used to here at Notre Dame. Parietals are a big one that I imagine will never seem to make sense. The fact that the University can put such harsh regulations on the new freedom college is supposed to bring doesn’t seem right. The amount of work that has to be done each day is also something that you just have to accept and push through during the first year. But one thing that a col­lege freshman shouldn’t have to accept is taking a class for a full year and not getting credit for it. There is no good reason physical education should be a zero-credit course at Notre Dame. 
PE is required for all Notre Dame freshmen, but while it is a graduation requirement, there is no credit given for the class. It meets twice a week and consists of 20 weeks of four different physical activities and 10 weeks of Contemporary Topics. Attendance is mandatory at each and every class and multiple tardies result in an absence and require a make-up class or assignment. In Contemporary Topics there is a paper to write and other various assignments to do outside of class. So far this doesn’t sound at all different from some of the Arts and Letters classes offered on campus. Actually, the required attendance and make-up classes make PE seem more difficult in some ways. 
If these reasons aren’t enough to make PE a two-credit course per semes­ter, then there is absolutely no reason it shouldn’t be worth one credit. I am in Liturgy Choir, and it was my surprise to find out that I could get credit for it. I am receiving one credit hour this semester for it. Now, I attend two rehearsals a week and we sing at Mass on Sunday. While atten­dance is kept, there are excused absences. There is never work outside of choir, except the occasional requirement to work a couple hours at a con­cession stand or something. This is less regulated than PE, but I am getting credit for Lit Choir and not PE. Something here is not right at all. 
Some people may argue is that since every single student has to take PE before they can graduate, then it doesn’t matter. But everyone has to take a lot of similar classes their first year. For example, everyone has to take a University Seminar their freshman year. Should that class be not worth any credit? The answer to that question is obvious. So why isn’t the answer to the question about whether PE should count as a credit just as simple? 
Given these facts, I can see no reason that PE is a zero-credit course. Attendance is mandatory and work is assigned for Contemporary Topics outside of class. Also, other things, such as Liturgy Choir, can be taken as one-credit courses and even though PE is a graduation requirement, that doesn’t mean it shouldn’t count as some sort of credit for students. This is a great example of the University adding things to freshman year without giving students any recognition for completion and is just nonsensical. PE should be worth credit for Notre Dame freshmen. End of story. 
Lindsey Marugg 
freshman Pasquerilla West Hall Dec. 5 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



By ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
The annual mtvU Woodie Awards aired on Friday for a target audience of college students. The awards ranged from best college station to best new artist and mainly focused on musical artists that would appeal to the wide-ranging music tastes of the college student audience. 
The Breaking Woodie, which awards the year’s best new developing artist, had a wide range of nominees, from 18-year­old acoustic pop artist Never Shout Never to Brooklyn-based psychedelic indie rock band Grizzly Bear to Nigerian-American rapper Wale. Other nominees included British synth-pop duo La Roux, dance punk band Friendly Fires and Cambridge, Mass.-based electronic indie rock quintet Passion Pit, who played at Lollapalooza this summer. 
The Left Field Woodie goes to the most genre-busting musical artists, those clas­sification-resisting bands and solo artists who come out of so-called left field. Nominees this year included hip hop artist Tech N9ne, eclectic collaborative rapper Amanda Blank, futuristic Afro-punk funk singer Janelle Monae, British DJs and producers Major Lazer and com­bined blitzkrieg punk garage artist Jay Reatard. 
The Performing Woodie commemorates the musical artist who always gives a memorable live performance. Alternative punk rock band Green Day, eclectic 80s rock-synth French quartet Phoenix, Boulder, Colo.-based goofy electronic rap duo 3OH!3, folky, noise-pop alt rock band Animal Collective and punk rapper P.O.S. were all nominated for the award. 
The College Radio Woodie rewards the 
The Observer 
Scene
page 10 Monday, December 07, 2009 

By COLIN RICH 
Scene Writer 
Woodie of the Year – Kings of Leon 
After living in the shadows of alternative rock since 
the early 2000s, Kings of Leon emerged as one of 
this year’s hottest acts following the release of their 
fourth album “Only By The Night” in 2008. 
Comprised of three brothers and their cousin, this 
quartet tore up American airwaves with Grammy-
award winning singles “Sex on Fire” and “Use 
Somebody.” While the band garnered an impressive 
reputation in the U.K. in the past several years, “Only 
By The Night” launched a wave of commercial success in 
the U.S., reaching No. 5 on the Billboard Charts and 
receiving critical acclaim from pop culture paragons Rolling 
Stone and Spin. Basking in their American ascent, Kings of Leon headlined the Lollapalooza and Austin City Limits music festivals and recently released a live DVD of their performance at London’s O2 Arena. 
Best Video Woodie – Matt and Kim’s “Lessons Learned” 
With one of the most impressively jaw-dropping and imagina­tively simple music videos ever made, Matt and Kim streaked off with the Best Video Woodie of 2009. The video featured Matt and Kim coolly exiting a van in a chilly Times Square before (un)com­fortably stripping and running naked from the NYPD. This consti­tuted their second MTV win for “Lessons Learned” which gar­nered Breakthrough Video honors at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards. Matt and Kim’s genuine affability, gratitude and spunk permeated the Woodies as the sprightly duo’s opening perform­ance paid a likewise skintastic homage to their audacious video. 
Breaking Woodie – Never Shout Never 
The success of 18-year-old acoustic pop musician and devout vegan Christofer Ingle (a.k.a. Never Shout Never) lies in his gifted musicianship and rampant Internet exposure. Set for release this week, his fifth EP “Hot Topic” is only his second after signing with Warner Bros. Records this past May. His spring and summer con­sisted of touring with smaller acts and surfacing repeatedly on college playlists nationwide. Never Shout Never’s debut full-length album “What is Love?” hits iTunes in January 2010. 
Left Field Woodie – Tech N9ne 
Well known for his collaborations with a broad range of other artists, a good spirited Tech N9ne took home the Left Field Woodie for his 2009 releases “K.O.D.,” “Sickology 101” and “The Box Set.” In Sept. 2008, Tech N9ne officially hit a milestone in his career, accumulating over a million album sales to date thanks to the release of his double album “Killer.” Tech N9ne also co-owns the record label Strange Music, and his 10-year film and music career demonstrates a repeated embrace of a bizarre and brutal hardcore rap. 
Performing Woodie – Green Day 
Following the release of their eighth studio album and subse­quent tour circuit, punk rock vets Green Day earned top per­forming honors for everything from their sold-out shows to their impromptu soundcheck-turned-30-minute-set at the MTV VMAs this year. 2009 witnessed the relative revival of Green Day, who began their current world tour in April following a three-year hiatus from live events. The Performing Woodie salutation pays tribute to a band once considered faded but poised for another confident run at the top. Their May release “21st Century Breakdown” achieved Green Day’s best chart-performance to date, reaching Gold or Platinum status in 14 countries. 
Good Woodie – Jamie Tworkowski 
Becoming the first ever non-musician to take home a Woodie, Jamie Tworkowski founded To Write Love on Her Arms (TWLO­HA), a non-profit movement dedicated to the spread of aware­ness and help for those who struggle with depression, addiction, self-injury and suicide. TWLOHA seeks to encourage, inform, inspire and invest directly into treatment and recovery. Today the distinctive slogan appears on T-shirts, bracelets and yes, even the arms of major international celebrities and musicians such as Paramore, Switchfoot and Panic at the Disco. Check out the TWLOHA Web site to browse merchandise and learn details on how to get involved. 
Best Music on Campus Woodie – Hotel of the Laughing Tree 
This year’s best campus musicians reside in Long Island at Suffolk County Community College, where Hotel of the Laughing Tree’s astute lyricism and instrumental range amounts to more than just another indie also-ran. 
College Radio Woodie – KUPS 90.1 
Sorry WVFI, the University of Puget Sound apparently holds top college radio honors this year, but we tried to put in a good word. 
Contact Colin Rich at crich@nd.edu 


college station breaking out the latest and greatest in music as pioneers of the music industry, and nominees this year included KUPS 90.1 at the University of Puget Sound, WCRD 91.3 at Ball State University, Coyote Radio at California State University: San Bernardino, KCOU 
88.1 at University of Missouri and WPTS 
92.1 at the University of Pittsburgh. The Best Music on Campus Woodie, which goes to the top college band, nominated rapper G-Eazy from Loyola University New Orleans, pop-rock band Oh, the Story! from Loyola College, pop-punk quintet The OverUnder from Baruch College, indie rock Long Islanders Hotel of the Laughing Tree from Suffolk County Community College and indie quartet VulpesVulpes from Five Towns College. 
The Best Video Woodie’s nominees included Matt & Kim’s “Lessons Learned,” which basically consists of the duo getting out of a van in Times Square in New York and going streaking. The Dead Weather’s “Treat Me Like Your Mother” has Jack White and Alison Krauss decked out in black leather shooting rounds of ammo into the other’s chests. Death Cab for Cutie’s “Grapevine Fires” is a touching animated video with a pretty much literal interpretation of the song’s lyrics. Anjulie’s “Boom” showed the singer falling through the sky into various scenes like Alice in Wonderland, while Yeah Yeah Yeahs’ “Heads Will Roll” went to a night­club where a monster in a business suit knocks off people’s heads and spills con­fetti streams of blood. Kid Cudi’s “Day N’ Nite” had the rapper walking around town watching everything in sight turn into vibrant animation. 
The big award, Woodie of the Year, commends the musical artist who’s made the most noise on the college scene in the past year. Nominees for this sought after acclamation included Asher Roth, Drake, Kings of Leon, MGMT and Silversun Pickups. Asher Roth, himself a young col­lege-educated prodigy, rose to success in the mainstream rap scene with his debut 2008 single, “I Love College,” playing on college student iPods throughout the nation. The Canadian rapper and actor, Drake, perhaps best known for portraying the character of Jimmy Brooks on the Canadian teen drama, “Degrassi,” quickly came onto the college scene with his debut 2009 single, “Best I Ever Had.” 
After the overwhelming success of their fourth album, 2008’s “Only By The Night,” no one will forget Nashville-based alter­native rock band Kings of Leon, previous­ly referred to as the Southern version of the Strokes. The all killer, no filler album brought singles, “Sex on Fire,” “Use Somebody,” “Revelry” and “Notion” to college stations and dorm rooms every­where. Brooklyn-based electro pop duo MGMT, previously known as Management, and their 2007 album, “Oracular Spectacular,” received plenty of airplay on campuses nationwide over the past year with singles “Time to Pretend,” “Electric Feel” and “Kids.” LA-based alt rock band Silversun Pickups delivered clear-cut rock with their new album, “Swoon,” and a sound similar to that of 90s style Smashing Pumpkins. 
Overall, the 2009 mtvU Woodie Awards had an excellent lineup of nominees. From Asher Roth to MGMT to Matt & Kim, there was something for every col­lege student. 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 
The Observer 
Scene
Monday, December 07, 2009 page 11 


By NICK ANDERSON 
Scene Writer 
Behind closed doors, there are whispers that MTV has finally been found guilty of at least one of their many, many crimes against humanity (“The Hills,” we’re looking at you). After a long but secret trial, MTV was sen­tenced to thousands of hours of community service and thinking about what they’ve done. While this may not be true, it is the leading theory explaining the existence of the MTVU Woodie Awards, the leading college music awards show. 
MTV provided necessary stage, performers, music and bar with little respect for the legal drinking age declaring boldly, loudly and in its own edgy manner, “This ain’t your father’s award show.” The night quickly transformed into a manic display of uninhibited college antics, over-hyped musicians, malfunctioning Teleprompters and unrefined hipness. 
Matt & Kim, backed by some incredibly con­fident back-up singers, opened the show, bursting onto the main stage on fixed gear bicycles. An inspired performance, backed by nearly naked singers started the show on a high note, capped off by Kim’s stage dive off her bass drum. 
Never a network to miss an opportunity to force more com­mercialization into an event, Matt & Kim were fol­lowed, for the first 
and likely final time in their career, by Pete Wentz, who opened with a toast. In a normal situation, the hipster-heavy audience would have alternatively booed or laughed the Fall Out Boy front man off-stage. They instead wel­comed him loudly cheering heavy with enthu­siasm and alcohol. He’s a celebrity; he deserves at least the much respect. 
The presenters, equipped with shoddy but high concept jokes, mainly fell flat, either from bad writing or a clear lack of celebrity. All pre­senters were vexed by a slow Teleprompter, leading to either awkward pauses in their speeches or clear and inappropriately inter­jected vulgarity. David Cross’ extended scien­tology introduction for Death Cab for Cutie left the audience confused and disappointed. The pairing of Cyndi Lauper and Leighton Meester proved that knowledge of one is mutually exclusive of the other. Pac Div and Janelle Monae clearly had the best agents. Both acts somehow made it on stage without anyone in attendance actually being familiar with music of either. 3Oh!3 were the only presenters who clearly energized the crowd, largely thanks to their imitation Lady Gaga apparel, which both wore with pride and elegance. 
The musical performances were a complete­ly different matter. Every act that played was a veteran of the college circuit, navigated the stage smoothly and worked the crowd despite the availability of a limited set list. Drawing solely from indie rock and rap, and clearly mined from the depths of the college music scene the selection was a perfect match for a packed room of college kids. 
Death Cab for Cutie provided an incredibly important lift around the midpoint of the show. Performing “Meet me on the Equinox” from the New Moon soundtrack. A favorite of the college crowd for the last decade, Death Cab played a strong, indie-worthy though short-lived show. Following closely on the heels of their performance, Clipse also kept the crowd on its feet, assisted markedly by guest spots from Rick Ross and Cam’ron. While rap often comes off as a novelty to the college crowd, Clipse stuck to a street-worthy persona and performance, showing a strong argument for the conversion of many nonfans. 
While Matt & Kim provided a more than adequate start to the show, Jack White’s latest side project, The Dead Weather, absolutely killed to end the night. Always a strong pres­ence on the stage, White finally found a female vocalist who can match his intensity, dynamics and style and only slightly some off as a com­plete carbon copy. Pasty and marginally crazed, The Dead Weather ripped through three songs, culminating in “Cut Like a Buffalo.” Dancing crowds, frantic performance and thrashing guitar provided the perfect end point. Following the show, one could only agree with Cindi Lauper’s assessment, “We make music because music is awesome.” 
Contact Nick Andersn at nanders5@nd.edu 
I can’t say that I’m a red carpet pro. Admittedly my first interview on the Woodie Red Carpet was disaster. Apparently the fact that I wasn’t interview­ing acts of U2-scale fame, instead these bands are minor, fringe group favorite bands, didn’t occur to me. Nervous, panicky and so green to this type of experience, I clashed with the red carpet. 
With a bit of practice, chatting with talent like Janelle Monae, 30h!3 or Friendly Fires became easier. 
And of course with comfort, quickly came my tendency to mock relentlessly. In an inner commentary, I began to notice delightful nuances in an already strange environ­ment. Alexa Chung plays Never Have I Ever with “Weeds” star, Mary Louise Parker. As Parker walks away from Chung, a priceless scoff escaped her lips in response to her interviewer — “Who the f**k was that?!” David Cross, of “Arrested Development” fame, looks around confused and asking where his girlfriend, Amber Tamblyn (“Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants,” “Joan of Arcadia”) disappeared to. Maybe she’s gone back to preschool, where she would have been when you were her age. A lanky character, dressed up as Waldo, wanders the car­pet, posing with acts for no apparent reason. 
Personal highlights of the night is an odd mix­ture of memorable highs and lows. I insulted Roxy from “The City,” accidentally asking her about being on “The Hills.” Her look of disgust was priceless. My only star-struck moment of the night is one of shame. Seeing Nick Cannon round a corner, what was my response? My mind blank cry of “What up Nick Cannon?!” This low point quickly gave way to a high point when Cannon responded with a smile, a wave, and a “Hey!” Though the Dead Weather remained reclusive on the Red Carpet, I did manage to get an awkward smile from lead singer, Alison Mosshart. Considering her red eyes, pale skin, generally lifeless demeanor and affinity for black clothing, I considered this the equivalent of seeing a dog walk on its hindlegs — confusing but somehow wonderful. Getting to banter with Matt and Kim and chat with Zooey Deschanel pretty much made my night. 
Inside the show, I managed to get accidently seated in the same bar area as the stars. Sitting next to the very band I offended with my horrible first interview, I looked around to see Asher Roth over my shoulder and Leighton Meester mere feet away. I tried to play it cool, until I was inevitably asked to leave the area by security. Yet another highlight. Then again, I’m particularly proud that the same security guard hassled model, Jessica Stam, until a frantic publicist ran over to rectify the situation. When it comes down to it, if it’s good enough for Jessica Stam, it’s good enough for me, particularly in a situation involving security. 
The views expressed in this column are that of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd.edu 


The 2009 MTV Woodie Awards’ Red Carpet brought out publications ranging from Rolling Stone to daily college newspapers, like yours truly, The Observer. While lights flashed and a long parade of absurdly thin, marginally 
famous starlets posed for pic­tures and answered questions, indie music’s male stars blend­ed into a mob of shabby, almost vintage-looking clothing and identical thickly rimmed glass­es. 
Ironically, many of the night’s nominees and attendees, either dropped out of college early on or never even attended. Alexa Chung, who did on camera interviews while playing Never Have I Ever, admitted that she had never even heard of the 
drinking game before that night, never having attended university. As Zooey Deschanel admitted, “I was only at col­lege for nine months, but I enjoyed col­lege actually. Leaving college was nice too. There were some good ‘bonding sessions.’” 30h!3 declared that college “teaches you a way to work, a work ethic. And to party.” Fall Out Boy’s Pete Wentz called college “A thing I didn’t go to for very long.” 
Other talent strongly held that college, and college audiences were crucial to their careers. The eloquent and bold artist, Janelle Monae, accredited her start to her fellow college students. “It’s because of the college student word of mouth, giving me that confidence. They wanted to hear what I had to say and what I was thinking about was impor­tant to them. It empowered me.” Jamie Tworkowski also praised that “on col­lege campuses people are really open and willing to talk.” College students and the Facebook/MySpace phenomena are largely responsible for Tworkowski’s charity’s, To Write Love on her Arm’s, success. As he explained of college student’s favorite medium, the Internet, “we kind of look at it as a stage. But what’s even more interesting is what you put on that stage, and it’s used with story telling and com­munication.” 
While Asher Roth declared his affections for university life in his hit “I Love College,” he wasn’t planning on returning to the birthplace of his success any time soon, “We’ll see, right now I’m going to keep the snowball rolling and see where it goes. I 
really do have a passion to teach, and I know I need that piece of paper to do that.” He later confessed, “I don’t want to be rapping at 35.” 
Though all acts were being honored for their popularity on college campus­es, not all had had the best experiences with university audiences. Friendly Fires laughed that “The last gig we played in a college in America, it was possibly the most depressing experience of our lives. It was midday, and people were at lunch, and many people were eating sandwiches. Well there was just about 10 people there.” Paradoxical to their Woodie recognition as a college favorite, the band didn’t seem to give much credence to their college audi­ence, saying “Great music should be for everyone.” Contrary to this opinion, Janelle Monae praised college audi­ences saying “These are the early adopters, they know what’s important in music before anyone else does.” 
Not all nominees were so talkative. Jack White’s pale, red-eyed band, The Dead Weather breezed through the car­pet, ignoring flashing lights and eager reporters. Additionally, Leighton Meester and Cyndi Lauper skipped the carpet, though they were notable pre­senters in the show. 
The Woodie Awards Carpet oddly combined kitschy, retro indie vibes and inflated egos from off-the-radar fan favorites. The Woodie Awards Red Carpet highlighted talented acts and stars that may be much obsessed over by devoted enclaves of fans but are gen­erally unfamiliar with the limelight. The endearing but bewildering Red Carpet was only the start to of a strange award show. Pete Wentz maybe said it best when he said “I think award shows are pretty pompous. But this one’s cool because there are free drinks at it.” 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I ANDREA ARCHER 
page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, December 7, 2009 
NFL 
VickvictoriousoverformerteaminreturntoAtlanta 
Drew Brees takes advantage of a late Redskins’ missed field goal to rally the Saints and remain undefeated 
hoped for. He played sparingly in 
Associated Press 
his first nine games with the 
ATLANTA — Michael Vick took Eagles, but coming back to the city the snap, sprinted to his right, that once hailed him as its biggest made a quick cut to the left, broke star finally gave him a chance to a tackle and dove into the end zone. shine. 
He wasn’t done, either. Vick went 2-for-2 passing, setting Turns out, No. 7 still rules up his touchdown throw with a 43­Atlanta. yard completion to Reggie Brown, 
Making quite a return to the and ran four times for 17 yards. Georgia Dome, Vick accounted for The Falcons sure could’ve used a pair of touchdowns — one run-their former quarterback. ning, the other passing — and Five offensive starters, including basked in the cheers of his former quarterback Matt Ryan, were side-home as the Philadelphia Eagles lined by injuries. That was simply thoroughly dominated the short-too much to overcome, even with handed Atlanta Falcons 34-7 on the Eagles missing a couple of key Sunday. offensive players, running back 
The Eagles (8-4) pulled two Brian Westbrook and receiver games ahead of the reeling Falcons DeSean Jackson. (6-6) in the NFC wild-card stand-Atlanta scored on the final play to ings, bringing a little more clarity to avoid a shutout. the playoff race. But most of the Before the game, Vick chatted attention was on Vick’s first game with Falcons owner Arthur Blank in Atlanta since he went off to and several former teammates, prison for dogfighting. including receiver Roddy White. 
Vick, a three-time Pro Bowler When it was time to get down to with the Falcons and one of the business, No. 7 led the Eagles out of NFL’s most dynamic players before the tunnel, served as one of the his stunning downfall, ran for a 5-captains for the coin toss and got a The ball deflected back into the perfect performance. The defense seven catches for a career-high 100 yard touchdown in the third quar-chance to take a couple of snaps on hands of fullback Leonard Weaver, gave up 455 yards to the Redskins, yards and two touchdowns, and ter, his first score since Oct. 15, Philadelphia’s very first drive. who turned toward Vick, apparent-and the offense had to make up a Davis had five receptions for 53 2006. With the game out of hand, After that, all he did was watch ly to ask if he wanted to keep it. 10-point deficit in the fourth quar-yards and a score. he slipped a 5-yard scoring pass to — until the Eagles faced third-and-Already heading toward the ter. Washington (3-9) blew a late The Redskins’ season-high Brent Celek early in the fourth, his 1 at the Atlanta 5 on the opening Eagles bench, Vick just pointed fourth-quarter lead to lose for the yardage output came against Saints first TD throw since that final sea-drive of the third quarter and lead-toward the stands. Weaver man-third straight week. defensive coordinator Gregg son with the Falcons. ing 13-0 in a game they had domi-aged to get it to a fan on the second Brees finished 35 for 49 for 419 Williams, who ran Washington’s 
By then, all the fans who had nated. Trotting on the field to those try. yards with two touchdowns and defense from 2004-07 and was showered Vick with boos when he familiar boos, Vick lined up in a Vick did keep the ball after his TD one interception for the Saints, who passed over for the head coaching came in for a couple of snaps on shotgun and pulled off the sort of pass. And when it was done, he lin-won a sub-40 degree game for the job when Joe Gibbs retired. Players Philadelphia’s opening possession play that was so familiar when he gered on the field for interviews, first time since 1995. Meachem on both teams expected the fiery had long since gone. Those who played for the home team. then trotted off with both arms caught eight passes for 142 yards Williams to try to punish his old were left — many of them wearing Spotting the hole and taking off, raised before blowing kisses in all and scored the late game-tying team relentlessly, but his players No. 7 jerseys — were chanting “We Vick darted into the end zone for a directions. touchdown, a 53-yarder wide open frequently missed tackles and want Vick! We want Vick!” touchdown that looked as though it Chris Redman, filling in for Ryan, over the middle that made the couldn’t shut the Redskins down 
Deciding that two touchdowns lifted a huge weight off his shoul-had a miserable game after leading score 30-30. when New Orleans was trying to was enough, Philadelphia coach ders. With the boos now drowned the Falcons to a last-second win the Meachem also scored a fluke mount a comeback in the fourth Andy Reid let third-string quarter-out by thunderous cheers, Vick week before. Redman was picked first-half touchdown by forcing a quarter. back Kevin Kolb finish out of the hopped off the turf, pulled away off twice, one of them returned 83 fumble after an interception. Suisham’s missed field goal game, much to the chagrin of those from his teammates and headed yards for a touchdown by Sheldon After Meachem’s late touchdown, bailed the Saints out, but it wasn’t fans who hoped the ex-Falcon toward the stands. Brown. the Saints had a chance to win in the first big New Orleans break of would get even more playing time. He tried to flip the ball into the regulation after Jonathan Vilma’s the game. Meachem’s first-half 
Still, the day was everything — crowd, but was thwarted by the net Saints 33, Redskins 30 interception, but Hartley — playing touchdown was an especially 
and then some — that Vick could’ve being raised for the extra point. LANDOVER, Md. — Oh, what a his first game of the season in place unforgettable play. charmed life the unbeaten New of benched veteran John Carney — Facing third-and-26 at the Orleans Saints are leading these was well short with a 58-yard field Redskins 44, Brees backpedalled days. There’s surely no other way goal attempt on the last play of reg-under pressure and threw a des­to explain the shanked punt that ulation. peration pass deep over the middle turned into a 29-yard gain, the The Redskins won the toss and toward Jeremy Shockey in triple Drew Brees interception that some-had the ball to start overtime, but coverage. Kareem Moore dived how morphed into another touch-Mike Sellers fumbled when he was over Shockey’s back to make an down for Robert Meachem, or the upended by Chris McAlister after interception, rolled over, got up and fact that the Washington Redskins making a catch — a turnover that ran 14 yards before Meachem sim-missed a 23-yard field goal that was only verified after a meticulous ply took the ball away from an would have sealed a victory with replay reversal — giving the Saints upright Moore and started running less than 2 minutes to play. the ball at the Washington 37. down the sideline — high-stepping 
Therefore, it seemed inevitable Brees needed only seven plays to 44 yards for the team’s ninth return that Brees, operating with no time-march New Orleans to the 1 before touchdown of the season, tying the outs, would lead an 80-yard, game-Hartley made the game-winning game at 17 with 22 seconds left in tying drive that took just 33 seconds kick. the first half. and tied the game with 1:19 Jason Campbell completed 30 of Just as strange as that touch-remaining. And, of course, in over-42 passes for 367 yards and three down was a play that set it up. A time, the Saints benefited from a touchdowns with one interception few plays earlier, when the Saints replay reversal and won Sunday’s for the Redskins. Campbell fre-punted from their own 30, Thomas game on Garrett Hartley’s 18-yard quently picked on first-round draft Morstead shanked the kick so badly field goal 6:29 into the extra period. pick Malcolm Jenkins, and much-that it hit Washington’s Kevin 
The victory improved the Saints maligned 2008 second-rounders Barnes flush on the back near the to 12-0 and clinched the NFC Devin Thomas and Fred Davis had sideline. New Orleans recovered at South, although it was a far-from-big games once again. Thomas had the Redskins 41. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Considering Adoption? ND Alums Singers for new pop group. He hauls off and whacks one - big Hoping to Adopt. If you are an hitter, the Lama - long, into a ten-FOR RENT PERSONAL Do not go it alone. expectant mother searching for a Info 574-261-6857 thousand foot crevasse, right at the family, please see our website at ——————————————— base of this glacier. Do you know andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES If you or someone you care about Notre Dame has many resources in http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro-You learned English? what the Lama says? Gunga galun­
——————————————— has been sexually assaulted, we place to assist you. file.net. ——————————————— ga... gunga, gunga-lagunga. So we OFF-Campus housing, Irish can help. ——————————————— Don't be obsessed with your finish the eighteenth and he's Crossings and Dublin Village 3 and desires Danny. The Zen philoso-gonna stiff me. And I say, "Hey, 4 bdr, furnished and unfurnished. If you or someone you love needs pher Basha once wrote, 'A flute with Lama, hey, how about a little some-
confidential support or assistance, WANTED no holes, is not a flute. A donut with thing, you know, for the effort, you January and June 2010 leases For more information, visit Notre please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-no hole, is a Danish.' He was a know." And he says, "Oh, uh, there available. Dame's website: 17819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For PART TIME WORK funny guy. won't be any money, but when you www.cespm.info more information, visit ND's website $14.25 base-appt., no experience ——————————————— die, on your deathbed, you will 
at: needed, customer sales/service, I'll bet you a hundred bucks you receive total consciousness." So I Call 574-968-0112 http://csap.nd.edu http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 574-273-3835. slice it into the woods. got that goin' for me, which is nice. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around t eNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Monday, December 7, 2009 
page 13 
NCAA Football AP Top 25 
team 
1 Alabama 2 Texas 3 TCU 4 Cincinnati 5 Florida 6 Boise State 7 Oregon 8 Ohio State 9 Georgia Tech 10 Iowa 11 Penn State 12 Virginia Tech 13 LSU 14 Miami (Fla.) 15 Brigham Young 16 Oregon State 17 Pittsburgh 18 West Virginia 19 Stanford 20 Nebraska 21 Oklahoma State 22 Arizona 23 Utah 24 Wisconsin 25 Central Michigan 
NCAA Football 
previous 
2 3 4 5 1 6 7 8 12 9 10 11 15 17 16 13 14 24 23 21 22 NR NR NR NR 
Coaches’ Top 25 
team  previous  
1  Alabama  3  
2  Texas  2  
3  TCU  4  
4  Cincinnati  5  
5  Florida  1  
6  Boise State  6  
7  Oregon  8  
8  Ohio State  7  
9  Penn State  9  
10  Georgia Tech  12  
11  Iowa  10  
12  Virginia Tech  11  
13  LSU  14  
14  Brigham Young  13  
15  Miami (Fla.)  17  
16  Pittsburgh  15  
17  West Virginia  23  
18  Oklahoma State  21  
19  Nebraska  20  
20  Oregon State  16  
21  Stanford  24  
22  Wisconsin  NR  
23  Arizona  NR  
24  Utah  25  
25  Houston  18  




around the dial 
NHL 
Devils at Sabres 7 p.m., Versus 
NFL 
Ravens at Packers 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Alabama, Texas to meet for championship 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Alabama and Texas get to play in a national title game. For TCU, Cincinnati and Boise State, the math doesn’t quite add up but they still get a spot in a BCS bowl. 
The quirky, often imperfect method of choosing a nation­al champion succeeded Sunday in matching top-ranked Alabama against No. 2 Texas in the BCS champi­onship — a Jan. 7 game between undefeated teams that will bring together Heisman Trophy hopefuls Colt McCoy of the Longhorns and Mark Ingram of the Crimson Tide. 
And, of course, it also pro­duced plenty for the little guys to get upset about. 
No. 3 TCU, No. 4 Cincinnati and No. 6 Boise State also finished undefeated. All three were included in the BCS, but none will play for the title, which will renew the annual debate about college football’s way of determining the best team in the land. 
“If we were going to talk about fairness, the first thing we’d do is destroy that whole structure,” said Jay Coakley, a sociology professor who authored the textbook, “Sport In Society: Issues and Controversies.” “That’s the least fair thing in all of col­lege sports. It doesn’t even pretend to be fair.” 
Seeking its first national title since 1992, Alabama opens as a 3-point favorite for the game at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, Calif. That’s the place where Vince Young almost singlehandedly led Texas to a victory over Southern California in 2006 to claim the national title. 
The other BCS matchups: Oregon against Ohio State in the Rose Bowl; Iowa against Georgia Tech in the Orange; Florida against Cincinnati in the Sugar and TCU against Boise State in the Fiesta. 
“We’re here to prove a point,” TCU coach Gary Patterson said after his team’s fate was announced. “I voted for us No. 2 in polls today when we voted. We believe we have a great foot­ball team and we’re out to show we could be the No. 1 team in the nation.” 
The Longhorns (13-0) have been on both sides of the BCS debate in the past. 
Just last year, their chances for a national title were squashed when they lost a three-way tiebreaker for the Big 12 South title. 
This time around, Texas defeated Nebraska 13-12 in the Big 12 title game Saturday to secure its spot in the national championship, though the less-than-domi­nating performance certainly left things open for debate. Still, there was a big gap between Texas and TCU in the BCS rankings, the coach­es’ poll and The Associated Press poll, which is not included in the BCS formula. The AP awards its own national championship. 
IN BRIEF 
NFL cuts revenue-sharing pro­
gram, NFLPA to protest move 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — The NFL has told the players’ union it will cut a $100 million annual supplemen­tal revenue-sharing program that subsidizes lower-revenue teams. 
That plan, which is a small portion of the $6.5 billion shared in full by all 32 teams, will be cut because the 2010 season will not have a salary cap. 
“We are simply going forward on the terms the union approved in March of 2006,” NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said. 
Those terms pertain to only years with salary caps, the league says. 
The NFL Players Association will challenge the league’s move this week, a person familiar with the union’s plans told The Associated Press on Sunday. The person spoke anonymously because the NFLPA has not officially announced its inten­tions. 
Tiger’s caddy Williams offers 
support for his boss 
WELLINGTON, New Zealand — Tiger Woods’ caddie said Saturday he sup­ports his boss while the world’s No. 1 golfer copes with allegations of extra­marital affairs. 
Steve Williams has been Woods’ cad­die the last 10 years. He refused to dis­cuss Woods’ private life, although he said the golfer had confided in him. 
“That’s what friends are for,” he told the New Zealand Herald. “You support them through good and bad. It’s like marriage, really.” 
Williams also told the newspaper he expected to carry Woods’s bag in San Diego the last week in January. 
He said Woods called to say he was withdrawing from the Chevron World Challenge in California because of injuries from a Nov. 27 car crash. 
Williams was to have driven in a dirt track car race at Te Marua, north of Wellington, on Saturday night but withdrew because of engine trouble. 
Flyer Carcillo suspended by 
NHL for role in brawl 
PHILADELPHIA — The NHL has sus­pended Flyers forward Dan Carcillo four games for his role in a fight that earned him a whopping 19 penalty minutes and a game misconduct. 
Carcillo landed a big punch on Washington’s Matt Bradley as he dropped his gloves Saturday night. Following Carcillo’s punch, Bradley fell to the ice and left the game. Despite being in the process of drop­ping his gloves, Bradley wasn’t penalized. 
Flyers general manager Paul Holmgren said on Sunday that he did not agree with the decision. 
Carcillo was tagged with 2 minutes for cross-checking, 2 minutes for instigation, 5 minutes for fighting, a 10-minute misconduct and a game misconduct in Philadelphia’s 8-2 loss. 
He will start the suspension begin­ning Monday at Montreal. 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, December 7, 2009 
FENCING 
Irishcapoffsuccessful weekendinPittsburgh 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
The Irish have become accustomed to winning at the highest levels, capturing multi­ple medals at junior world cup events this season. This week­end’s showing at the USFA North American Cup in Pittsburgh only confirmed those expectations. 
“In general our fencers played very well, having strong bouts, and it was a good tournament for us,” head coach Janusz Bednarski said. “It was a very tough competi­tion with a lot of very good fencers from Canada, Mexico, even from Switzerland. In some competitions, like men’s epee, it was more than 220 fencers, so it’s a big tourna­ment that requires good preparation.” 
The Irish took home the gold medal in women’s epee as sen­ior Kelley Hurley bested an elite field of international fencers, including her sister sophomore Courtney Hurley. Due to an improbable misfor­tune, the two siblings were seeded together in the single-elimination bracket. 
“Whoever wins goes up, and it was bad luck that they were forced to face each other,” Bednarski said. “It’s the kind of system that is making deci­sions based on pairs, and they are both extremely good fencers. Only one can go up, and Kelley, a former junior world cup champion and NCAA champion, won.” 
Hurley dispatched Canadian Eirn Selzer in the champi­onship bout to complete her gold medal run. 
“She beat Selzer after a very heavy bout, and it was tied until the last minute, but she demolished the Canadian in the last five touches,” Bednarski said. 
Heading into the invitational, Bednarski and the coaching staff said they fully realized the elite level of competition an open tournament brings. Nevertheless, they expected strong performances out of the entire squad, and were not disappointed. 
Sophomore Gerek Meinhardt turned in a top-8 finish, while freshman Lian Osier continued her success on the internation­al stage, finishing fifth in women’s saber. Bednarski is very pleased with the progress Osier and the underclassmen have shown in recent bouts against stiff competition. 
“You have to be very strong, and in addition it’s open cate­gory, so all the best are com­peting for Olympic and nation­al team points,” Bednarski said. “For me, the most impor­tant thing was to look at the bouts, not only for medals, but how the younger fencers are performing, and I was very, very happy with some young fencers.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Kansas defeats UCLA in‘07tournamentrematch 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — Markief Morris scored a career-high 19 points and No. 1 Kansas pulled away in the second half to beat UCLA 73-61 on Sunday, sending the Bruins to their fourth consec­utive loss. 
Xavier Henry added 16 points and Sherron Collins had 14 for the Jayhawks (7-0), who led the entire game but allowed UCLA to get within four early in the sec­ond half. 
Michael Roll scored 16 points and Nikola Dragovic added 14 for the Bruins (2-5), who haven’t lost four in a row since 2003-04, coach Ben Howland’s first season in Westwood. 
The defeat capped a rocky week for the struggling Bruins, who lost forward Drew Gordon when he quit the team. The soph­omore averaged 11.2 points and 
5.3 rebounds. 
The last time the schools met was in the 2007 NCAA tourna­ment’s West Region, when UCLA won by 13 points and went on to the second of three consecutive Final Four appearances. 
But that run of success has taken its toll this season on the Bruins, who lost several key play­ers early to the NBA draft leaving them with a slew of inexperi­enced underclassmen. Tyler Honeycutt made his college debut after missing UCLA’s first six games with a stress reaction in his right tibia. He finished with three points. 
Kansas led by 13 points in the first half, when the Bruins com­mitted 11 turnovers and shot 33 percent, missing several open shots. 
Collins’ jumper gave Kansas its largest lead of the half, 29-16. From there, the Bruins ended the half on a 12-6 run to close to 35­
28. Dragovic and Roll had five points each in the spurt. 
UCLA outscored Kansas 6-3 to start the second half and get to 38-34. Reeves Nelson, starting in place of Gordon, dunked to get the Bruins within seven with 
14:40 remaining. He was poked in the right eye and had to leave the game for a few minutes before returning wearing protec­tive goggles. 
The Bruins closed within seven once more on a 3-pointer by Dragovic at 12:03 before Kansas soon restored its double-digit lead. Henry’s fourth 3-pointer of the game extended the Jayhawks’ lead to 69-54 in the final minutes. 
Kansas’ Marcus Morris finished with four points after being held scoreless in the first half. 
NFL 
Chargers beat hapless Browns 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — Once they warmed up, the San Diego Chargers looked like they do every December. 
LaDainian Tomlinson scored his 150th career TD and stiff-armed Hall of Famer Jim Brown for eighth place on the career rushing list as the Chargers won their seventh straight and 15th in a row in December by beating the Cleveland Browns 30-23 on Sunday. 
Antonio Gates set a career high with 167 receiving yards for the Chargers (9-3), who dragged their cleats early and only led 13-7 at halftime. But Philip Rivers led San Diego on touchdown drives of 85 and 83 yards in just over nine minutes in the third quarter to open a 27-7 lead. 
Tomlinson’s 4-yard TD run with 5:58 left in the third put the Chargers up by 20, and placed the running back in elite company among NFL greats. 
Tomlinson reached 150 TDs faster than any player in league history, hitting the milestone in his 137th game. Emmitt Smith needed 160 games to reach 150 and Jerry Rice didn’t score his 150th until his 167th game. 
In the fourth quarter, Tomlinson burst up the middle for 11 to give him 12,315 yards, three more than Brown, who attended the game. Tomlinson finished with 64 yards on 20 carries and has 12,321 yards. Tony Dorsett (12,739) is seventh all-time. 
Rivers threw two TD passes 
— both on short routes — as the Chargers continued their surge following a 2-3 start. 
With Dallas and Cincinnati looming on the schedule, San Diego couldn’t afford to over­look the Browns (1-11), who have lost seven straight amid mounting injuries. 
At halftime, San Diego seemed to be in trouble. 
At the end of the third quar­ter, the Chargers had little concern. 
San Diego thoroughly domi­nated the Browns in the third, outgaining Cleveland 208-10 — 164-0 in passing yards — while holding the ball for 12:06. 
Rivers was 7 for 8 in the quarter with four completions going to Gates for 114 yards. The highlight of San Diego’s aerial assault came when Gates, the former Kent State basketball star, boxed out Abram Elam and Hank Poteat for a 56-yard reception. 
Cleveland quarterback Brady Quinn threw three TD passes for the Browns, who have lost a franchise-record 10 straight home games and must get ready to play an angry Pittsburgh squad on Thursday. The Steelers lost at home to Oakland 27-24 on Sunday. 
The Browns made the score look respectable by scoring 16 points in the fourth as Quinn hit running back Jerome Harrison for two TDs. 
Phil Dawson’s 49-yard field goal with 39 seconds left made it 30-23, but Tomlinson recov­ered an onside kick with 38 seconds remaining. 
Quinn went 25 of 45 for 271 yards. 
Nate Kaeding kicked field goals of 32, 42 and 22 yards for the Chargers, who amassed 286 total yards in the second half. 
Leading just 13-7 at half, the Chargers quickly went to work against the Browns’ banged up defense, which was missing four starters because of injuries. Rivers completed a short pass to the lightning-quick Darren Sproles, who did the rest and zigzagged his way 31 yards into the end zone. 
The Chargers were sleep­walking during the first, giving up an early TD while barely resembling a team pushing for a playoff spot. 
San Diego trailed 7-3 and was in danger of falling fur­ther behind when Dawson missed a 43-yarder. 
Rivers needed just 13 sec­onds to give the Chargers their first lead. He threw a short pass in the flat to backup full­back Mike Tolbert, who ran away from linebacker Jason Trusnik, picked up a nice down-field block and went 66 yards for the TD. 
The Browns drove inside San Diego’s 5 and were poised to tie it or take the lead when Quinn was stripped from behind by linebacker Shaun Phillips and the Chargers recovered. 
Browns Stadium was less than half full at kickoff and any late arrivals missed the Browns’ first TD, Quinn’s 11­yard pass to Mohamed Massaquoi. Running the no-huddle, Quinn was 6 for 6 for 61 yards on the scoring drive, Cleveland’s first for a TD on the opening possession of game since Nov. 11, 2007 — a span of 35 games. 

Monday, December 7, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
MEN’S SWIMMING 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish finish fourth in Columbus 
Runnersendontop 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish finished off the semester’s competitions with a fourth-place finish at this weekend’s Ohio State Invitational. Notre Dame coach Tim Welsh said 
he hoped the freestyle sprint-when we see them again in 
many of the Notre Dame ath­
“The Big Ten always 
result would ing event, as January. 
letes to showcase their talents 
provides really great
help the team well as sopho-Though they are done com-
this year, as the Irish opened up 
figure out its competition. It was more Petar peting for the rest of the 
their season on Friday with the 
strengths and P e t r o v i c semester, the Irish will travel 
annual Blue and Gold meet.
clearly the fastest
weaknesses as (1:49.65) in the to San Juan, Puerto Rico for a 
They didn’t disapoint, as the 
competition we’ve
the team takes 2 0 0 -m e t e r winter training trip that will 
Irish posted 17 first place fin-
a break before seen all season.” backstroke prepare them for the rest of 
ishes against visiting schools 
2010. competition. the 2009-10 season’s upcom-
DePaul, Detroit Mercy and 
“I think that Notre Dame ing events. 
Marquette.
Tim Welsh 
the experience totaled 442 “We’ll go back into a very 
While the Irish graduated 18 
Irish coach
of this weekend helped us take a major step towards being ready for what we have next season,” Welsh said. “We put a lot of focus on preparing for this meet, and this is kind of like the final exam for the fall semester.” 
Of the 12 teams that compet­ed in Columbus, the Irish earned their fourth-place spot thanks to six first-place finish­es. Three ninth place finishes helped the Irish against the Big Ten foes, which annually boasts some of the best pro­grams in collegiate swimming. 
“The Big Ten always pro­vides really great competi­tion,” Welsh said. “It was clearly the fastest competition we’ve seen all season.” 
Senior MacKenzie LeBlanc placed ninth in the 200-meter return to later this season, as butterfly event in 1:48.03, the Buckeyes will host the which qualifies the swim to the NCAA regional meet. 
inBlue&Goldmeet 
NCAA B-cut standard. Ninth-Minnesota and Big East com-place finishes also went to two petitor West Virginia also other Irish swimmers during placed above the Irish. 
By JOHN HELMS 
the weekend-long competition. “West Virginia was in their 
Sports Writer 
Senior John Lytle (45.27) championship mode,” Welsh received a ninth-place finish in said. “We definitely know to the 100-meter race fast against West Virginia 
It was the first chance for 
points on the hard training phase, trying to 
seniors from last year’s team, 
weekend, with strengthen our basic condi-
Notre Dame coach Joe Piane 
help from the 400-meter tioning, working on the funda­
said he thought this year’s 
freestyle relay team consisting mentals and working on the 
squad was just as talented, and 
of seniors Lytle and Andrew things we need to improve,” 
that he was excited to watch his 
Hoffman, as well as two freshmen John McGinley and Kevin Overholt who came in sixth place against the field in 3:02.67. 
“We had to earn those places in the finals,” Welsh said. “We were 
“We were faster in our events tonight then we were when we left on Thursday.” 
Tim Welsh Irish coach 
Welsh said. 
team perform in their first test 
“We’ll start 
of the season. 
focusing on 
“We’re really interested in the 
specifics and on 
sprinters and field events kids 
the meet condi­
because they have had no 
tions ahead 
opportunities to compete, 
when we 
whereas the cross country kids 
return.” 
have been competing through-
The team’s 
out the fall,” Piane said. 
next competi­
Piane’s team didn’t disap­
tion will be a 
pointed, as the sprinters and 
dual meet 
field event athletes helped the 
against the 
Irish to an impressive 48 Big 
Northwestern 
East qualifying marks. 
faster in our events tonight Wildcats on Jan. 9 at the Rolfs 
There were many highlights then we were when we left on Aquatic Center. 
for the for the Irish on the field. Thursday.” 
Notre Dame dominated the Ohio State won in their home Contact Molly Sammon at 
men’s pole vaut, in which Irish pool, which the Irish hope to msammon@nd.edu 
vaulters sophomore Kevin Schipper, senior Matt Schipper, senior Jim Merchun and junior Andrew Kolbeck posted four Big East qualifying marks. The Irish also took the top three spots in the women’s long jump as sophomore Maddie 
NBA 
Knicks prevent Nets from back-to-back wins 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Larry Hughes scored 16 of his 25 points in the third quarter, and the New York Knicks sent the New Jersey Nets back to their losing ways with a 106-97 victory Sunday. 
Al Harrington had 26 points and 14 rebounds for the Knicks, who capped a strong week with their third win in four games. New York routed Phoenix and won at Atlanta during the week, with its only loss coming at Eastern Conference champion Orlando. David Lee added 24 points and nine boards. 
The Nets beat Charlotte on Friday for their first victory after NBA-record 18 straight losses to begin the season and seemed headed toward a second straight after play­ing their best half of the season Sunday. 
But Hughes woke the Knicks with his big third quarter, and they stormed back to continue their dominance of their local rival. New York has defeated New Jersey twice this season after sweeping all three preseason meetings. 
Not that the fans seemed entirely Buttinger, senior Jaime Minor and Jasmine Williams finished in the top three spots. 
“Our coaches were really happy with us,” Buttinger said. “A lot of people on our jump team made Big East so it went really well.” 
Buttinger had quite a day for herself, with a fourth place fin­ish in the women’s 60-meter hurdle, a seventh place finish in the women’s shot put, and a sixth place finish in the women’s 500. 
“I was pretty happy with how I was able to do” said Buttinger. 
On the track, senior Blake Choplin, sophomore Jack Howard, senior Cameron Eckert, freshman Jeremy Rae and junior Kevin Labus set five Big East qualifications for the Irish in the men’s 1,000. This was only one of the highlights in a dominant performance by Irish track athletes, which included a total of 12 first place finishes. Senior Jake Walker was the top finisher in the men’s 5,000, junior Kelly Langhans took the top spot in the women’s 800 meter and senior Brier Steenberge won the men’s 800. In the women’s 500, the Irish recorded three Big East qualifying marks by senior Joanna Schultz, junior Natalie Johnson and senior Samantha Williams. 
The Irish are now off until Jan. 15, at which point they will host the Notre Dame Indoor Opener at the Loftus. 
Contact John Helms at jhelms2@nd.edu 

happy about it. There were a few chants of “We want Nate! We want Nate!” as popular backup guard Nate Robinson was left on the bench by coach Mike D’Antoni for the third straight game. 
Chris Douglas-Roberts scored 26 points for New Jersey, which fell to 1-1 since general manager Kiki Vandeweghe took over as coach for the remainder of the season. Devin Harris and Brook Lopez each added 19. 
Vandeweghe has the Nets playing a quicker tempo, and they shot 58 percent and scored a season-best 61 points in the first half. But they’re still the lowest-scoring team in the league, and their offensive woes returned in the second half, when they managed only 36 points after halftime. 
The Knicks were 28 of 34 at the free throw line, while New Jersey was only 12 of 15. 
New York trailed by eight at the half, but quickly came back behind Hughes, who was 14 of 17 from the line in the game. His 3-pointer tied it at 67, and Harrington later had three baskets in an 8-0 run that made it 82-74. New York outscored New Jersey 33-18 in the period and took an 86-79 lead to the fourth. 
The Nets cut it to three on Courtney Lee’s basket with 7:38 remaining, but Wilson Chandler and Harrington had consecutive baskets on offensive rebounds before Danilo Gallinari’s free throws made it 99-90 with 4:33 left, and the Nets never got close again. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, December 7, 2009 
NFL 
New England loses second straight to Miami 
Colts stay perfect after cooling off red-hot Titans; Seahawks win on last-second field goal by Mare 
Colts keep making history. 
Associated Press 
Instead of another patented 
MIAMI — When Tom Brady comeback or impressive air show, missed repeated chances to put Manning opened December by the game away in the fourth quar-playing keepaway from Tennessee ter, Chad Henne and the Miami and leading the Colts to a victory Dolphins took advantage. for their record-tying 21st consec-
Henne threw for a career-high utive regular-season win. 335 yards and directed a 51-yard “You try to tell these guys that drive for the winning field goal when you win a couple in a row, with 1:02 left, and Miami rallied or three or four in a row, this is past New England 22-21 on not normal,” the three-time MVP Sunday. said. “It’s not normal to win 10 or 
The Dolphins (6-6) overcame an 11 or 12 games every year. But early 14-point deficit to keep their these guys that have been here slim playoff prospects alive, while five years would tell me it is nor-AFC East leader New England (7-mal for us. That’s all they’ve 
5) remained winless in five games done.” in opponents’ stadiums this sea-For Indy (12-0), the milestones son. all seem commonplace. 
For the third time on the road, Sunday’s list included: the Patriots lost after leading in uMatching New England’s the fourth quarter. The defeat was record, set from 2006-08, with a sealed when Channing Crowder chance to break it next week at made his first career interception, home against Denver. Broncos picking off Brady at the Patriots 40 coach Josh McDaniels was on Bill with 35 seconds left. Belichick’s staff during the 
Brady left the field briefly early Patriots’ record run. in the game to treat an arm injury, uExtending their own NFL but returned without missing a record of consecutive 12-win sea-play. He finished 19 for 29 for 352 sons to seven. yards and two long touchdowns, uRemaining undefeated, the but also threw two fourth-quarter first time in league history two interceptions. teams — New Orleans is also 12-0 
Leading 21-19, the Patriots had — have been unbeaten this late in first-and-goal at the 4 with 10 the season. minutes left, but Brady was inter-uAnd tying the 1990s San cepted in the end zone by rookie Francisco 49ers for most wins in a Vontae Davis, who stepped in front decade (113), a mark they could of Randy Moss to make the play. also break against Denver. 
New England subsequently “It (the record) is one of those forced Miami to punt twice, but things we talk about. We kind of Tennessee’s fate. reverse; another fumble by Gore Butler ran past cornerback Keith each time Brady and the Patriots identify the milestones on Indy needed just 1:58 to take a at Seattle 22; and an ill-timed Smith and Hasselbeck’s laser pass went three and out. On one play Wednesday morning when we get 7-0 lead, on Addai’s 8-yard run. three-and-out in the final minute hit him in stride for a 32-yard Brady overthrew an open Sam in. We talk about some of the After Rob Bironas’ short field goal, that left Seattle time and field gain. One run later, Seattle called Aiken deep. things we’re accomplishing,” Addai scored on a 1-yard run to position for the winning drive. timeout, and Mare calmly made 
The Dolphins started from their coach Jim Caldwell said. “The make it 14-3. The final quarter was full of 21st field goal in 23 tries this sea­26 with 3:44 to go. On fourth-and-guys appreciate it, but it’s not And when Young was picked off, misfires by both teams, epitomiz-son as holder Jon Ryan and then 6, Henne hit Greg Camarillo for 13 something that goes to their Manning hooked up with Austin ing the mild, mild West. the rest of the Seahawks mobbed yards to the Patriots 28. That set heads.” Collie on a 4-yard TD pass to Four consecutive completions by him on the field. up Dan Carpenter’s third field It showed. make it 21-3 with 1:55 left in the Hasselbeck, three to T.J. “We hung in there in that last goal, a 41-yarder. Colts players celebrated with a first half. Houshmandzadeh got Seattle to minute,” Seattle coach Jim Mora 
Brady threw touchdown passes nonchalant stroll toward midfield, Young answered with a 6-yard the San Francisco 40 with 1:19 said. “Hopefully, it’s an indication of 58 yards to Moss and 81 yards then shaking hands and trotting TD pass to Kenny Britt, but left left. Then came the game’s fourth of what we’re building here.” to Aiken, and he also had a 58-into the locker room as though it Manning 20 seconds and two negative-yardage completion, a Smith had moved San Francisco yard completion to Wes Welker. was no different than the previous timeouts — too much time. screen pass to Julius Jones from its own 2 to the Seattle 26 in 
But New England twice failed to 20 wins. destroyed by Patrick Willis for a 5-a tied game earlier in the period. score inside the Miami 10. The But the script was different. This Seattle 20, San Francisco 17 yard loss. A false-start foul by cen-Gore then darted inside and had a Patriots were stopped on downs at time, Manning took a page out of The San Francisco 49ers blew a ter Chris Spencer pushed Seattle 4-yard gain before Jordan the 6 in the second quarter. Tennessee’s playbook, relying an career day from quarterback Alex back to midfield for a third-and-19 Babineaux poked the ball out. 
Henne went 29 for 52 with one effective ground game and a ball-Smith, more opportunities to win with 1:03 left. Hasselbeck lofted a Josh Wilson scooped it up and ran interception. He drove the control offense to stymie the than they could have wished for — perfect throw in stride into Deion 43 yards the other way before Dolphins 88 yards for their first Titans’ comeback hopes. and a chance to keep pressure on Branch’s arms at the 49ers 12, but Smith saved a touchdown with an score, which came on a 13-yard Tennessee (5-7) was the last Arizona in the NFC West. the ball skidded through his open-field tackle. pass to Davone Bess. team to beat the Colts, on Oct. 27, Olindo Mare kicked a 30-yard hands. Gore punched the air in frustra-
Henne drove the Dolphins 83 2008, and it wanted to bookend field goal as time expired to send Hasselbeck bent over in disbe-tion, as Seattle took over at the yards in the final 1:55 of the first the streak. the Seattle Seahawks to a victory lief, and Seattle punted for the San Francisco 41. Mare converted half for a field goal, and they While Chris Johnson ran for 100 on Sunday over inopportune and 10th time. that into a 25-yard field and trailed 14-10 at halftime. yards in his seventh straight angry San Francisco. But the 49ers went three-pass-Seattle led 17-14 with 5:30 left. 
Henne hit Brian Hartline with 7-game, tying Earl Campbell’s fran-After the 49ers called timeout to es-and-out from their own 11 — yard touchdown pass in the third chise record, he finished with 113 try to ice the veteran on a cold the last pass would have been an quarter to cut the margin to 21-yards and fell just short of a sev-day, Mare made his second field interception by Deon Grant at 19, but his ensuing 2-point con-enth straight 125-yard game, the goal of the final quarter and midfield had he not dropped it. version pass was tipped away by Titans struggled in the red zone. extended his team record of 18 Nate Burleson returned the Ty Warren. Twice in the second half, the consecutive makes for the ensuing punt 21 yards to the 
Brady hurt his arm taking a hit Titans went for it on fourth down Seahawks (5-7). They also kept Seattle 48 with 21 seconds to go. as he threw the touchdown bomb deep in Colts’ territory and failed alive hopes for a winning season, Two plays later, rookie Deon to Moss on the opening series. both times. Tennessee also recov-if not a playoff berth. While the Patriots celebrated, ered an onside kick after scoring a The Seahawks also severely their quarterback trotted off the late TD, then turned the ball over damaged the postseason hopes of field and kept going, vanishing on downs. San Francisco (5-7). through the tunnel. “We just didn’t finish in the red Smith, who had never had a 
He returned five minutes later, zone,” quarterback Vince Young 300-yard passing day in his first and following a Miami punt he said. “Our guys made some big 38 NFL games, threw for a career-was back in the game to direct a plays, but we just didn’t finish. high 310 yards in the 49ers’ new 13-play, 80-yard drive for a 14-0 Against a team like this, with an spread offense. The No. 1 overall lead. MVP quarterback, you have to pick in 2005, reinstalled as San 
On the Patriots’ first play of the score touchdowns.” Francisco’s starter in October, second half, Aiken caught a pass The Colts, however, took anoth-completed 27 of 45 throws and near midfield by snatching the ball er approach. had two touchdown passes. away from rookie Sean Smith, Joseph Addai ran 21 times for a One was to Vernon Davis, who who fell and then watched the season-high 79 yards and two had six catches for a career-high receiver dash to the end zone. touchdowns. Manning was 24 of 111 yards. Davis’ 10th touchdown 
But the Patriots didn’t score 37 for 270 yards and one TD, of the season set a single-season again. Pierre Garcon caught six passes record for a 49ers tight end. 
for a career-high 136 yards and Yet San Francisco will regret its Indianapolis 27, Tennessee 17 the combination of quick scores in blown chances: two incompletions Peyton Manning keeps finding the first half, and Manning’s ability from the Seahawks 1 in the open-new winning formulas, and the to run clock in the second sealed ing quarter; a fumble on punt 



Monday, December 7, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
occurred with 13:28 remain­ing, when senior point guard 
UCF 
Tory Jackson went down with continued from page 20 an ankle injury after going up 
for a shot. another typical performance, “I didn’t even see the guy as the preseason All -under me when I went up for American scored 29 points the shot, and I just came and brought down seven down on his foot,” Jackson rebounds. After a slow start said. shooting the ball early, While Jackson left the game Harangody made eight of his and did not return, the early 10 attempts from the field evaluation of the injury was and helped Notre Dame domi-that it was just a light sprain. nate the second half. “I think I’ll be fine,” 
“We’ve done that this sea-Jackson said. “I was scared son, and every time we’ve when it happened though. been at home we’ve had a Especially senior year, you second half surge,” don’t want that to happen to Harangody said. “I don’t know anybody. I’m very, very thank-what it is but we just come ful that it’s not a big deal.” 
out there and pick up the Brey was relieved to hear defensive intensity. This is a his floor general would not be great team tonight, and this is missing significant amounts of big for us.” time. 
Notre Dame got off to a “We’d have to say he’s ques­quick start behind tionable for Wednesday Abromaitis, with the junior [against IUPUI],” Brey said. making an early 3-pointer “If we are betting men on and then converting the free Tory Jackson, that guy is throw after being fouled to going to take a couple Motrin put the Irish up 11-4. The and be out there.” Knights then responded with Junior guard Ben a 9-0 run to take the lead, Hansbrough also scored in and the first half was back-double digits for the Irish, tal­and-forth the rest of the way. lying 10 points and four 
“They were hard to guard in assists. Jackson had nine the first half, making some assists and four points before 
Heels won their first 12 National shot which glanced off the cross-tough shots on us,” Irish leaving following the ankle 
Championships in a span of 13 bar had been two inches shorter, 
UNC
coach Mike Brey said. “I injury. 
years by a combined score of 45-it would have slipped in. In all of thought our poise to start the Central Florida was led by 
continued from page 20 3, the last four years show a true reality, if only one Irish forward second half was really good.” forward Keith Clanton, who 
change in the times. had run under the shot, the other After the score was even at scored 14 points off the 
Noguiera scored two goals to beat “[North Carolina] certainly is could likely have knocked in the 41 -41 at halftime, Notre bench. The Knights reserve 
Notre Dame in last year’s Final, the standard [all women’s college slow bouncing rebound. Dame went on an 8-0 run to players outscored the Irish 
and in Friday’s semifinal, the soccer programs are measured A few minutes later in the sec-start the second period. After bench 34-8. 
Hermann Award candidate netted by], and has been for 25 or 30 ond half Irish senior Michele the Knights settled down a The Irish will next play 
the only goal of the game. years,” Waldrum said. “They are Weissenhofer had a chance at a bit, the Irish stretched the IUPUI at Purcell Pavilion 
Was it realistic to think the Irish the standard everybody is trying goal, but her shot curved wide lead to 70-55 with just nine Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. 
defense could keep Noguiera and to reach.” right. minutes remaining. 
the high-powered Tar Heel Waldrum continued to distin-If either one of those chances The scariest part of the sec-Contact Michael Bryan at 
offense quiet for 90 minutes? guish between two Tar Heel eras hits net, this column could be cel­
ond half for Notre Dame mbryan@nd.edu 
Friday night, as was obvious to – two eras in the sport as a whole. ebrating a Notre Dame title. The anyone who watched the game, “I think you’ve got to look at fact that the game was that close North Carolina was the superior Carolina in the first 25 years and is still something to be noted. team on the field. what they had done, and look at North Carolina no longer owns 
“They were the better team,” Carolina in the last five or six women’s soccer. Are the Tar Heels Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. years,” he said. “You have a lot of still the favorite? Twenty College “There is no question about it.” teams that can boast a lot of suc-Cup titles earn them that respect. 
Maybe this weekend it was cess against them in the last few “They are always going to be unrealistic. But certainly in the years.” good,” Waldrum said. “They will future, beating North Carolina in And that is a true statement. always compete for national the College Cup will be more real-Notre Dame may be able to boast championships, but I think there a istic as the gap between the of the most success against them lot of really good programs in the perennial powerhouse Tar Heels in the latter half of this decade. country now.” and the rest of college soccer — In 2007, Notre Dame traveled to And with players like Lauren especially the Fighting Irish — has Chapel Hill in the third round of Fowlkes, Rose Augustin, Jessica closed to a nearly negligible mar-the NCAA Tournament, and Schuveiller and Melissa gin. jumped out to a 2-0 first half lead Henderson, Notre Dame is one of 
Don’t get me wrong — the level-en route to a 3-2 victory. them, possibly poised for its own ing of the playing field is still a That makes four NCAA title in the next season or two. work in process. North Carolina Tournament matches between has won three College Cups in the the two teams in the last four The views expressed in this col-past four years, but the combined years, all decided by one goal. In umn are those of the author and score in those three title games any sport, a one-score margin is not necessarily those of The was 5-2, with Notre Dame falling nothing to be very sure of, and Observer. by a 2-1 deficit twice in that span. this is especially true in soccer. If Contact Douglas Farmer at Compared to the fact that the Tar Irish junior Rose Augustin’s arcing dfarmer1@nd.edu 


Herman 
continued from page 20 
match was the exceptional play of Bobcat outside hit­ter Ellen Herman, who tal­lied three aces, 19 kills and 17 digs to lead all players. Herman’s success against Notre Dame dates back to the last meeting between the two schools, a 2007 matchup in which Herman logged 26 kills. 
Although Friday’s loss is a bitter pill to swallow for a senior class that was one of the most highly touted recruiting classes in pro­gram history, it has made a remarkable run over the last four seasons. Although the seniors’ greatest legacy to Irish fans will be an out­right Big East regular-sea­son title and a 15 -game winning streak, Brown believes their chemistry was just as significant. 
“To say that any of them that don ’t play in the matches as much as the others aren’t as important is entirely false,” Brown said prior to the match. “They all bring special things to the team. I think the attitude of all of them is great, and they all lead in different ways. They’re a very close class, and they have great comradery. It’s just a tremendous class, a tremendous group.” 
In addition to Sciacca and Dealy, starting sopho­more libero Frenchy Silva and sophomore Megan Barnicle will be called upon to fill up the gaps left behind the seniors. 
Although the hopes of an NCAA title were dashed with a loss to Ohio, the Irish are poised to make a return to the tournament next year and beyond. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Bowl 
continued from page 20 
think it’s a tough situation, especially with younger guys and those who aren’t in the mix for playing. It extends the season even further with finals coming around and we don’t know where it will be or who our opponent is going to be with our 6-6 record. It’s tough to think that Stanford might be the last football game I ever play in my life.” 
Even though the Irish will not be playing post­season football, wide receivers coach and recruiting coordinator Rob Ianello will continue to 
oversee football opera ­tions until a new coach is named. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, December 7, 2009 
Waldrum 
continued from page 20 
said. “But it doesn’t take away how proud I am of our girls and their effort.” 
Tar Heel midfielder Lucy Bronze made a strong run down the right side, slipping past the Irish defense, and put a low cross into the six-yard box that Nogueira touched in for the game-winner. 
The Irish were forced to play much of the game in their own defensive end, managing just eight shots against North Carolina’s 26. The Tar Heels also held a 10-2 advantage in corner kicks. 
“I think through the course of the season Notre Dame has matured tremendously,” Tar Heel coach Anson Dorrance said. “The game plan [Notre Dame] had was a good one. They made it very difficult for us to score.” 
In the first half, North Carolina wasted no time put­ting pressure on the Irish defense. The Tar Heels took the ball straight down the field in the first minute and drew a foul just outside the penalty box. Notre Dame dodged an early bullet when Nogueira’s shot sailed over the crossbar. 
The Irish bounced back with their best opportunity of the half just a few minutes later when sophomore Melissa Henderson led a counterattack that caught the North Carolina defense out of position. Henderson hit Augustin on a through-ball inside the penal­ty box, but Augustin’s shot was deflected wide by Tar Heel goalkeeper Ashlyn Harris. 
“They were a good team and they pressed us a lot,” Augustin said. “We tried to settle it down and we almost got through on a few.” 
Just before the end of the half, North Carolina had two opportunities to capitalize on loose balls inside the Irish penalty area, but those shot attempts were cleared off the end line by sophomore Molly Campbell. 
Early in the second half, the two teams traded a number of offensive opportunities, with the Notre Dame defense standing strong to keep the game scoreless. 
Just as the Irish were gain­ing the momentum, senior defender Haley Ford, who has struggled with injuries for much of the season, went down with a leg injury min­utes into the half that forced her to sit out the rest of the game. 
But as they have done all season, the Irish continued to fight through adversity. 
In the 67th minute, Notre Dame looked to have taken the lead, but Augustin’s volley from the left side of the penal­ty area bounced off the cross­bar and the Tar Heels were able to clear. 
From that point on, North Carolina regained control of the match forcing play onto the Irish’s defensive third. Nikki Weiss made several saves down the stretch, finish­ing with six on the night, before allowing Nogueira’s go-ahead goal. 
“We were a little frustrated [in our inability to score], but we’re used to taking lots of shots,” Nogueira said. “But we kept taking them and it paid off eventually.” 
The Irish had one last opportunity to get the equaliz­er in the final seconds, but Henderson’s through-ball intended for senior Michele Weissenhofer was cleared away by a sliding effort from Tar Heel defender Rachel Givan. 

North Carolina advanced to the finals Sunday where it knocked off previously unbeat­en Stanford to claim a record 20th NCAA Championship, its third in four years. 
The seven members of the Irish senior class, led by Weissenhofer and Ford, boast a career record of 91-11-4, including four appearances in the College Cup and two trips to the NCAA Championship final, but again fell just short of claiming a national title. 
“It’s been a really great group [of seniors],” Waldrum said. “They have had a lot of ups and downs and helped the rest of the team persevere. It makes the rest of the team cherish and appreciate more the time they have on the field when they see all that this class has had to go through.” 
While Friday’s result was another disappointment in a season filled with tough breaks, the Irish made a graceful exit with their heads held high. 
“We’re going out proud tonight,” Henderson said. “Our team has overcome so many obstacles and the play­ers have really stepped up and made some great things hap­pen. I’ve never been prouder to be on a team, the way everyone stepped up and played for each other was phenomenal.” 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 
HOCKEY 
Irish fall in pair of shutout losses 
erwise perfect in making 25 saves. 
“Johnson was good in both games,” Ridderwall said. “You obviously can’t win a game not scoring any goals though. And Saturday we didn’t help him enough [defensively].” 
Saturday’s game was closer than the score indicated, as the Irish only trailed 1-0 for most of the game after Tommy Wingels’ goal midway through the opening peri­od. But third-period goals by Pat Cannone, Carter Camper and Justin Vaive put the game out of reach. 
“I think we can learn a lot from Miami,” Ridderwall said. “Their special teams were fantastic all weekend. Just a very fast team, and we’ve been wanting to play quicker. Definitely the speed of their game and their offensive abili­ties.” 
The Irish will try to right the ship this weekend, but they’ll have another tough series when they play a home-and-home with con­ference rival Michigan. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 
No. 15 Notre Dame failed to light the lamp in a pair of shutout losses to top-ranked Miami as the Irish suffered their first weekend sweep in more than a year, falling 1-0 Friday and 4-0 Saturday. 
“Friday we had scoring chances and we just didn’t put the puck in the net,” junior left wing Calle Ridderwall said. “Saturday we had a couple chances that probably should have gone in, but the bot­tom line is that you’ve got to bury the puck in the back of the net and we’re not doing that right now.” 
Notre Dame (7-7-4, 4-4-4-2 CCHA) had not been swept since Oct. 24-25, 2008, when the RedHawks (11-2-5, 8-1-3-1) hand­ed the Irish consecutive losses at the Joyce Center. Miami has now beaten Notre Dame six straight times dating back to 2007. 
The lone goal of Friday night‘s contest came at 18:42 in the first when freshman defenseman Joe Hartman beat Irish freshman goal­tender Mike Johnson, who was oth­


Monday, December 7, 2009 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
COLIN HOFMAN, JAY WADE & LAUREN ROSEMEYER 
THE MOBILE PARTY 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 
Monday, December 7, 2009 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Twice denied 

Despite loss, Irish in College Cup for 
Team falls to Tar Heels 
are closing the gap second year in a row 
on North Carolina 
By ALEX BARKER 
In some ways, it now seems as if 
Sports Writer 
it was always inevitable. North Carolina has nine more COLLEGE STATION, Texas — 
College Cup For the second straight year, 
titles than the Irish were beaten in the 
Notre Dame College Cup by a late second-
has appear-half goal off the foot of North 
ances. Was it Carolina forward Casey 
really realis-Nogueira. 
tic to think Nogueira’s finish from close 
the Irish range with 7:58 remaining 
could beat sent the Irish home with a 1-0 
the Tar Heels defeat in the NCAA Semifinals 
on the Douglas Farmer Friday night at Aggie Soccer 
biggest stage Stadium. 
in women’s 
Sports Writer 
college soc-tonight, no question about it,” 
“They were the better team 
cer? Irish coach Randy Waldrum 
North Carolina senior Casey 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Senior forward Michele Weissenhofer looks back on the field after Notre Dame’s 1-0 loss to North see WALDRUM/page 18 Carolina in the NCAA semifinals Friday night. see UNC/page 17 

FOOTBALL 
Swarbrick says team will not partcipate in bowl game 
and we sincerely appreciate thrilled to take part — and would not be retained as the 26 or the GMAC Bowl in 
By SAM WERNER 
the bowls and individuals we certainly look forward to head coach for next season. Mobile, Ala. on Jan. 6. 
Associate Sports Editor 
representing them who being part of the bowl system Last year, the Irish went to When players spoke to the reached out to us.” Swarbrick in the years to come.” the Hawaii Bowl to play media after Weis was fired, 
Notre Dame will not be par-said. “However, the unique After a 6-2 start, the Irish Hawaii. Notre Dame defeated reaction to a possible bowl ticipating in a bowl game this circumstances surrounding lost their last four games to the Warriors 49-21 for its game was mixed. year, director of athletics our program at the current finish 6-6 for the second con-first bowl win in 15 years. “Obviously I want to get this Jack Swarbrick said in a time prevent us from making secutive season. On Nov. 30, After the loss to the Cardinal, taste out of my mouth and statement Friday. the commitment required to two days after Notre Dame’s the most likely postseason end on a high note,” senior 
“Notre Dame institutionally compete in a bowl game. If season -ending loss to destinations for the Irish center Eric Olsen said. “I always has been a strong the landscape had been dif-Stanford, Swarbrick were either the Little Caesers advocate of the bowl system, ferent, we would have been announced that Charlie Weis Pizza Bowl in Detroit on Dec. see BOWL/page 17 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Abromaitis nets 31 in win 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The first half of Notre Dame’s game against Central Florida Sunday featured 17 lead changes and 11 ties scores. The second half had none, as the Irish stormed out after halftime to outscore the Knights 49-31 and secure a 90-72 victory. 
With NBA legend Michael Jordan in the press box to watch his son Marcus, a freshman guard at UCF, jun­ior forward Tim Abromaitis had the best game of his career. Moved into the start­ing lineup, Abromaitis scored 31 points on 10-of-17 shoot­ing to lead the Irish effort. 
“I think it’s really my team­mates who set me up for those 31 points,” Abromaitis said. “I got a lot of easy shots out there, just off good pene­tration and getting good cuts. It’s a lot of the teamwork that went into it.” 
Senior Luke Harangody had 
see UCF/page 17 

VOLLEYBALL 
Notre Dame falls in first round of NCAAs 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Highlighted by a 15-game winning streak, Notre Dame’s 2009 season culmi­nated in the longest losing skid of the year on Friday. Notre Dame fell to Ohio University in the opening round of the NCAA champi­onships, the third straight loss and the final match in the careers of a senior class defined by winning. 
“Although the outcome was not what we had hoped for, I’m extremely proud of our team and their effort tonight, and Ohio deserves plenty of credit for earning the win,” Irish head coach Debbie Brown said to und.com. “We ’ve battled through injuries lately and perse­vered many times through­out the season. This team will miss our very special six-person senior class.” 
The Irish (21-7) battled the Bobcats (27-6) to five sets (23-25, 25-16, 20-25, 25 -15, 15 -7), but in the end could not stop an over­powering offense defined by execution of the funda­mentals. Lifted by 10 aces, Ohio finished with a .236 attacking percentage com­pared to Notre Dame ’s .125. 
Nevertheless, the stat line featured the impres­sive numbers Irish fans have come to expect from their main contributors. Junior middle blocker Kellie Sciacca led the Irish offensive with 16 kills, and sophomore outside hitter Kristen Dealy recorded her ninth double-double of the season with 10 kills and 16 digs. Senior outside hitter Christina Kaelin added 10 kills to round out the attack. 
But the real story of the 
see HERMAN/page 17 




