
Weis out after five seasons 

“For many of you who may begun to contact any potential “I will say that it is important significantly different,” Swar-

By MATT GAMBER 
have thought that was a fore-replacements. to us to look first and foremost brick said. “And so I think that 
Sports Editor 
gone conclusion, I would say to “It'll have its own pace,” at people who have demon-was probably the tipping 
you that the decision was Swarbrick said of the coaching strated an ability to build and point.” 

Hours after a press release harder than you might have search. “We’ll begin immedi-sustain a Division I college foot-Weis’ dismissal did not come confirmed that Charlie Weis thought, principally because of ately and move as expeditiously ball program,” Swarbrick said. entirely as a surprise to the would not return for a sixth the man it involved,” Swarbrick as we can. There is always the Rampant media speculation Notre Dame players, junior re-year as Notre Dame’s head said. “Those of us who had the possibility that Bowl commit-surrounding Weis’ job status ceiver Golden Tate said Mon-coach, director of athletics Jack opportunity to work closely ments or other things play a began following Notre Dame’s day. Swarbrick said at a press con-with Coach Weis or play for role for some of the people 23-21 loss to Navy on Nov. 7. “I knew that it was a possibil­ference Monday “it’s time to him couldn’t help but The Irish defeat was ity that he was leaving and I move forward.” develop a great affin-the second in three knew it was a possibility he 
“It is critical to this program ity for him. years to the Midship-was staying,” Tate said. “I took 

“As you look at the entire 

and to its place in this Univer-“I hope we can find men, who had previ-the approach of expecting the sity and college football that we somebody who loves ously lost 43 straight worst, but preparing for the 

course of the season, it led 

compete at the highest level, this University as games to Notre Dame best. The administration made that we compete for National much as he did, does, you to the conclusion that before breaking the an educated decision and I Championships,” Swarbrick and who cared as streak in 2007. have to support it. I’m in this said. “And as we go out now much about his stu-you couldn’t have enough The Irish never re-program and I’ve got to sup-and begin our search, that is dent athletes as he covered, losing a hard-port the decisions they make our focus, in finding the right does.” confidence that a jump up fought road game to and try to make this program a individual to lead Notre Dame Swarbrick an-highly ranked Pitts-better program.” back to place of prominence in nounced that until a was imminent, that you burgh, 27-22, the next Swarbrick had in recent college football. The University new coach is hired, as-week. Notre Dame weeks denied a variety of re-is better when we do that, col-sistant head coach could know with sufficient then dropped its sec-ports suggesting Weis had been lege football is better when we Rob Ianello would as-ond straight Senior terminated. Reports had sur­do that, and the student ath-sume the responsibil-certainty that next year’s Day game, 33-30 in faced that Weis was fired be­letes who call this place home ity for football double overtime to fore the Connecticut game, and are better when we do that.” operations. Ianello results would be Connecticut, on Nov. others claimed he cleaned out 
Swarbrick said the decision served as the wide re-21, before heading to his office before the team’s trip to fire Weis was ultimately ceivers coach and re-significantly different.” Stanford for the sea-to Stanford. None of those were handed down after he made an cruiting coordinator son finale. accurate, Swarbrick reaffirmed official recommendation to Uni-and had previously The season’s disap-Monday. 

Jack Swarbrick 

versity President Fr. John Jenk-coached at Wisconsin, pointing ending came “He made many contributions ins Sunday night, a day after Arizona and Alabama. after a 6-2 start rekin-to the University, important 

director of athletics 

Notre Dame’s fourth consecu-“Rob is a skilled dled preseason predic-things which serve us in good tive defeat, a 45-38 loss at coach and has already tions of a BCS berth stead going forward,” Swar-Stanford, dropped the Irish to played a central role for the Irish. Swar-brick said. “He demonstrated 6-6. Swarbrick said Weis had in coordinating our recruiting we're interested in, but we’ll go brick said the sudden drop-off that he can bring the very best been informed of his recom-and I know will provide us with full bore and close it as fast as over the past four weeks played student athletes to this campus mendation on Saturday night, the leadership we need going we possibly can.” a critical role in his decision. and attract them to come here and that the entire team forward between this period of Swarbrick said he has devel-“As you look at the entire to play football for Notre Dame, learned of the decision at a time and when we have a new oped a list of criteria that will course of the season, it led you and he demonstrated that once meeting Monday. coach in place,” Swarbrick play a large role in determining to the conclusion that you they're here, they can have the 
Though Monday’s announce-said. who will become Notre Dame’s couldn’t have enough confi-full success we expect from ment was not unexpected, Swarbrick did not offer a 29th head football coach. He dence that a jump up was im-student athletes.” Swarbrick said his final deci-timetable as to when he ex-did not offer specifics Monday, minent, that you could know sion was not an easy one to pected to name Weis’ succes-but he did say he would favor with sufficient certainty that Contact Matt Gamber at make. sor, and he said he had not yet for a proven college coach. next year’s results would be mgamber@nd.edu 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Irish Insider analysis pullout  Christmas music page 12  Women’s soccer heads to semifinals page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
COMMENTARY 


Weis not answer, but future is bright 
The worst-kept secret in South Bend is finally out of the bag. 
Around 3 p.m. Monday, Notre Dame students received an e­mail confirming that Charlie Weis will not return as head football coach next season. 
While the announcement may not have come as a surprise, it was a jarring reminder that, for the third time in a row, Notre Dame had failed to find the right coach to return the Irish to their place at the top of the college football world. 
By now, everyone knows the damning statistics about Char­lie Weis’ tenure at Notre Dame. He presided over the worst three-year stretch in Irish his­tory, guiding the team to a 16­21 record since 2007. Losses to Syracuse, Connecticut, Air Force and Navy — twice — rank as some of the most inde­fensible in Notre Dame history. 
The 2007 season will un­doubtedly be remembered as the tipping point in Weis’ term. From a mismanaged preseason quarterback derby to the first loss to Navy in 44 years, the season set a slew of record lows for the Notre Dame football program. The optimism that surrounded the BCS berths of the previous two seasons was replaced with a now-infamous 3-9 record. 
Still, the Irish won their last two games of 2007 and — as Weis himself would often say — the arrow was pointing up. 
But Notre Dame struggled to play up to its potential in both of the past two seasons. Sure, there were high points: A rain-soaked win over Michigan in 2008, dominating performances over Hawaii and Nevada and coming oh-so-close to finally beating USC this October. 
The systemic deficiencies, though, were present through­out. During Weis’ entire tenure, and especially over the past three years, the Irish have suf­fered from a lack of emphasis on the defensive side of the ball, an ineffective and poorly-developed rushing attack and a general lack of fundamental football skills. The Weis era will likely be remembered for missed tackles, poor line play and wasted opportunity. 
In the end, Charlie Weis’ greatest shortcoming was sim­ply that he couldn’t be some­thing he was not: a college football head coach. Coming from an X’s and O’s NFL men­tality, Weis never fully under­stood that college football games are ultimately won and lost in the trenches. 

While Golden Tate and Jimmy Clausen have flourished in Weis’ pass-first system, players like Armando Allen and Sam Young just haven’t quite seemed to live up to their po­tential. 
Amid all the rubble, however, there is hope. 
Whoever the next coach is — and there will be plenty of speculation over the next few days — he will inherit a team that is ready to contend for a BCS berth. Not in two years, not down the road, but right away. 
Even if Clausen and Tate don’t come back next season, the talent is there for the Irish to be an elite football program. Dayne Crist will be a more than capable starting quarterback once he recovers from ACL sur­gery, and with the flashes Allen has shown, a focus on the run­ning game could elevate him to superstar status. 
At the same time, the new head coach will be able to uti­lize recruiting pipelines that only recently reemerged. With classes consistently ranked at the top of recruiting service rankings, Weis dispelled any myths that Notre Dame could no longer haul in talent with the big boys. Players like Clausen, Michael Floyd and Manti Te’o would be stars wherever they went to school. 
More important than any­thing, though, is that Notre Dame gets this hire right. With no other major college coaching jobs available, there’s no ex­cuse for director of athletics Jack Swarbrick to hire anyone other than his No. 1 target, whether that be Bob Stoops, Brian Kelly or someone else. 
As reporters were quick to remind Swarbrick at his press conference Monday, it’s been 16 years since the Irish con­tended for a National Champi­onship. Most of the players Notre Dame is currently re­cruiting were barely a year old then. 
If we’re going through this same process five years from now, that means Notre Dame is five years closer to being no more than a college football history lesson. If Swarbrick truly wishes to annually con­tend for BCS berths, now is the time to start. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
STUDENT REACTION 
Students not surprised by firing 




By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
The news of Irish football coach Charlie Weis’ firing spread fast across campus. For many students, like senior D.C. Smith, the reaction was simple: “Finally.” 
“Everyone pretty much saw this coming. It was just a matter of time,” Smith said. “I don’t know what Notre Dame was thinking when they extended Weis’ contract so long in the first place.” 
Watching four football sea­sons as a Notre Dame student, Smith said he saw a talented team wasted by poor coaching. 
“Weis did well with [former coach Tyrone Willingham’s] people but he failed when he played with his own recruits,” he said. “But the team has tal­ent.” 
Junior Dashaun Gasque said Weis’ biggest handicap was his coaching on defense. 
“He’s great offensively but I was disappointed in his defen­sive tactics this season,” Gasque said. “The last game proves that — the defense just wasn’t there. 
“Weis would do better with an offensive coaching job. He’s just not a head coach.” 
But Gasque said Weis is actu­ally in an enviable position right now. 
“He’s going to make millions getting fired,” he said. “I would like to get fired just to make that much money.” 
Junior Maggie Waller said she almost felt bad for Weis, except for the fact that his termination will earn him millions. 
“It’s terrible that we have to pay him so much,” she said. “His contract should never have been extended.” 
Waller said she believes the downside of Weis being fired is the possibility that quarterback Jimmy Clausen and wide re­ceiver Golden Tate, both jun­iors, will leave with Weis. 
“I’m nervous because I think this means Jimmy and Golden will leave,” she said. “I’ll cry if Golden leaves.” 
Freshman Roberto Pellas said he thinks the University made a mistake in firing Charlie be­cause he believes Clausen no longer has an incentive to stay another year. 
“This is a huge mistake be­cause Jimmy and Golden are behind him,” he said. “We will lose our star players which is disappointing because the team has a lot of talent.” 
Freshman Neil Eveld said a coaching change is exactly what the football program needs, but the new coach should be chosen carefully. 
“They finally fired Weis, but now we better get a big-name to replace him,” he said. “[Uni­versity of Cincinnati head coach] Brian Kelly would be perfect.” 
Junior Nathan Bush said he thinks people hoping for a big-name replacement will be dis­appointed. 
“Someone like [Florida coach] Urban Meyer would be great, but he’s not going to leave his team,” he said. 
After two disappointing foot­ball seasons from Weis, Bush said he had low expectations for this season — and those ex­pectations were met. 
“How many games were de­cided in the last two minutes?” Bush said. “This was a long time coming.” 
After a couple mediocre sea­sons, junior Colleen Harris said she expected to hear Weis would not be retained after the Stanford game Saturday. 
“All I can say is, he had two Navy losses,” she said. 
Looking to the future, Waller said she believes the team’s performance next season de­pends on whether Tate and Clausen stay. 
But Smith said he thinks next 
season  hinges  on  the  new  
coach’s  chemistry  with  the  
team.  

“We have a lot of talented players,” he said. “But Notre Dame is held in high esteem even when they lose, so they aren’t hungry enough.” 
Smith said the next Irish head football coach’s challenge will be to motivate the players. 
“At ND, the football team is really a business,” he said. “It’s not fun. A coach needs to make the game fun again.” 

Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 


RECRUITING 



Recruits weigh options with Weis out 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Regardless of the manifestation of Charlie Weis’ coaching abilities, he always whipped up impressive recruiting classes. 
Now that recruiting force is gone, and the Irish set about the task of retaining those recruits who have verbally committed while still attracting those who were undecided. 
Athletic Director Jack Swar­brick said he did not expect com­mitted recruits to back out of their verbals because they committed to the University, not necessarily one man. 
“The young men that picked this place have picked this place,” Swarbrick said. “They were at­tracted to the coaches they met and no doubt were attracted to Coach Weis and have an affinity for him. But as we’ve talked to them today and will continue to talk to them, we’re hearing the message we would expect to hear, which is ‘I’m very sorry to hear that, but you still offer the things that attracted me to the Univer­sity, and so I’m still coming.’” 
Interim head coach Rob Ianello, who also serves as the recruiting coordinator, agreed with Swar­brick and said Weis’ firing may not be the only question mark for potential recruits. 
“Anybody that might be waver­ing I think as recruiting goes might have been wavering no matter what the circumstances might have been,” Ianello said. “I think we’re prepared for that, “Even though it may cost you a prepared to move forward to try few recruits, even though you may to secure those commitments first take some PR hits, you still have to and foremost and then move for-hold out and get the guy you really ward to some guys that we’re still need.” recruiting that are uncommitted Since Ianello was the recruiting at this time.” coordinator, he has been involved 


Ianello said the staff would be with the recruits throughout the visiting the homes of potential re-process, something Frank said cruits this week. was a benefit. 
The coaching change will most “I think it was a very wise move likely not affect many of those who to have him in charge because 
have  verbally  he’s  going  to  
committed, said  know  the  most  
Mike Frank, a Notre Dame re­ “Most of the committed  about the most important thing  
cruiting analyst who runs the ESPN-affiliated  guys I think you’ll wee will stick around.”  at this point, which is recruit­ing and  
site Irishsports­daily.com  Mike Frank  prospects and the candidates  
“Most of the committed guys I  Irish recruiting analyst  that are left out there,” he said.  
think  you’ll  see  The  potential  
will  stick  decision to turn  

around,” Frank said. “The un-down a bowl game, Frank said, committed guys, that’s going to be will not affect the recruiting the interesting thing. The new process. In fact, he said it might coach will have a lot of selling to help to have the coaches visiting do.” the players rather than coaching 
Frank said if Notre Dame hires in a bowl game. a big-name coach, such as Okla-Without Weis, Frank said, some homa’s Bob Stoops, Florida’s players may de-commit, but oth-Urban Meyer or former Tampa ers may reconsider. Bay Buccaneers coach and cur-“A big name or somebody who’s rent ESPN commentator Jon Gru-a real persuasive guy could come den, signing uncommitted recruits in and possibly grab some guys will become easier. Smaller that aren’t currently on the list names, like Cincinnati’s Brian right now,” Frank said. Kelly, might have more trouble, but Kelly’s personable nature may For more on Notre Dame re-win over some recruits, Frank cruiting, check out Mike Frank’s said. irishsportsdaily.com. 
Swarbrick said the timetable for E-mail Mike at finding a new head coach is open-mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and ended. Frank said getting the tell him The Observer sent you. right coach is more important for Notre Dame than finding one Contact Bill Brink at quickly. wbrink@nd.edu 
PLAYER REACTION 

Squad upset, but understanding, of coach’s dismissal 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Editor  calm me down when I was talking to him today because I was pretty upset,” Olsen said.  
“I just want everyone to know  
Monday’s announcement that  I’m  indebted  to  coach  Weis.  
Irish coach Charlie Weis would  Giving me a scholarship to play  
not be retained didn’t come as  at  the  University  of  Notre  
much of a surprise, but hear- Dame,  it’s  a  huge  deal.  It’s  
ing the news from director of  changed my life.”  
athletics Jack Swarbrick still  Indicative  of  the  relation- 
hurt, several Notre Dame play- ships these players forged with  
ers said.  Weis is the fact that Tate, along  
“I’d be lying to say we didn’t  with junior quarterback Jimmy  
hear that it was a possibility,”  Clausen, will still consult with  
said  senior  safety  Kyle  Mc­ the former Irish coach Friday  
Carthy,  who  was  one  of  five  to discuss the possibility of for- 
Irish  players  going  a  senior  
made available  season to enter  
to the media Monday. “Still, it was tough to hear that it’s  “I just want everyone to know I’m indebted to coach Weis.”  the NFL Draft. “As far as I’m concerned, he’s still a mentor  
actually a real- for  me,”  Tate  
ity.” Several play­ers described  Eric Olsen Irish center  said. “Every time I’ve talked to Coach I feel  
their  close  re- like he’s talked  
lationship with  to me like I was IAN GAVLICK/The Observer  
Weis, who will  not  return  to  [Weis’  son]  Charlie  Jr.  And Irish players (from left to right) Golden Tate, Kyle McCarthy, Chris Stewart, Kapron Lewis-Moore and Eric Olsen  
Notre Dame for a sixth season  that’s a good thing in my eyes. look on as athletic director Jack Swarbrick announces coach Charlie Weis’ firing at a press conference Monday.  
as head coach.  He’s always told me the truth,  
“It’s  hard  to  lose  a  family  whether I wanted to hear it or  fill that spot. You have to have  named  Weis’  successor,  a  changes can be a good thing. It  
member, and that’s how I see  not. That’s  one  thing I really  your head on right for sure, or  coach  alone  will  not  single- kind of breaks up the continu­ 
coach  Weis,” junior  receiver  respect about him.”  else  you’ll get  swallowed  up  handedly  turn  the  Irish  pro­ ous rituals and stuff that hap- 
Golden Tate said. “These last  Olsen said if he could offer  alive by everything that comes  gram  around.  Rather,  Olsen  pen in football, and it shakes  
weeks have been tough for us.”  Notre Dame’s next head coach  with the coaching job. It takes  said, it will be a combination of  things up  a  bit,” Olsen said.  
Senior center Eric Olsen said  some  advice,  he‘d  tell  him,  a Notre Dame guy to be a Notre  the coaches and players work­ “But at the same time, a coach  
Monday  in  particular  was  a  “heads up.”  Dame coach.”  ing together to improve a Notre  can  only do  so  much with Xs  
tough day, especially when he  “He’s definitely going to be  While  the  decision  on  who  Dame team that has finished  and Os and motivating.”  
spoke  to  Weis  after  hearing  under the microscope. It’s not  that  guy  will  be  ultimately  consecutive regular seasons 6­ 
word he had been let go.  an  easy job,”  Olsen said. “It  rests  with  Swarbrick,  Olsen  6.  Contact Matt Gamber at  
“He  was  kind  of  trying  to  takes a special kind of man to  said  regardless  of  who  is  “Sometimes  coaching  mgamber@nd.edu  

WEIS TIMELINE 

The highs and lows of Cha 
arlie Weis’ five-year tenure 
Observer Graphic by ANDREA ARCHER, IAN GAVLICK and LAURA MYERS 

ND ASSISTANT COACHES 
Assistants must secure future in wake of change 

By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 

Charlie Weis’ future at Notre Dame was made quite clear Mon­day when director of athletics Jack Swarbrick announced his firing, but the 11 assistant coaches on Weis’ staff await their destinies while Swarbrick searches for a new head coach. 
The odds are few of the 11 will be retained by whomever Swar­brick hires, and as assistant head coach Rob Ianello said in a press conference Monday, the coaching staff will be looking out for them­selves while helping the Univer­sity through this transitional period. 
“I have committed to Jack [Swarbrick] to do all that I can to ease this transition for the Uni­versity and I am going to devote my time and efforts to that,” said Ianello, who was given the re­sponsibility for football opera­tions until a new coach is hired. “I think you’d be naïve that I wouldn’t be reaching out to some 








Jon Tenuta Tony Alford Randy Hart Bernie Parmalee Brian Polian Ron Powlus Frank Verducci 
Defensive Running Defensive Tight Ends Special Teams Quarterbacks Offensive Line Coordinator Backs Coach Line Coach Coach Coordinator Coach Coach 
people about my future also.” If not, Ianello will likely land on season, it seemed progress had with the Colts. Polian’s younger 
Ianello said the entire coaching his feet somewhere, as he al-been made through the first sev-brother is the assistant to the staff will put the players and the ready has coached at Wisconsin, eral games under first-year line head coach of the Minnesota University first, but will naturally Arizona and Alabama. coach Randy Hart. He survived Vikings. look out for their families and Offensive line coach Frank Ver-nearly three decades and several Defensive coordinator Jon their futures. ducci is the next most likely can-coaching changes at Washington Tenuta did not find the same suc­
“This coaching staff is a very didate to be on the Irish sidelines before coming to Notre Dame, so cess at Notre Dame as he found professional coaching staff, a next season. In his one season while the line did not perform up at Georgia Tech the six seasons very committed staff,” he said. with the Irish, the offensive line to expectations, Hart’s resumé prior, but he will likely end up in “They will certainly do the Uni-performed noticeably better than may earn him another year in the same position somewhere versity right through this transi-in the previous two, and the run-South Bend. else in college football. tion.” ning game became a legitimate Swarbrick’s hire will want to Running backs coach Tony Al-
Ianello may be able to breathe weapon. But if the next head mark his start here with his own ford has never stayed at the same easily for at least a season. His coach chooses to proceed without staff, so it is unlikely many, if any, school for long, but in his past 14 duties as assistant head coach in-Verducci, he, like Weis, will likely other assistants will be retained. years as running backs coach at volved coaching the receivers find a position waiting in the NFL. Defensive graduate assistant various schools he has produced and, more notably, coordinating Verducci coached for Cleveland, Bryant Young could return for seven 1,000 yard rushers, and he recruiting. Over the past five sea-Buffalo, Dallas and Cincinnati be-another season, as he is a former should be given a chance for an-sons Notre Dame receivers, from fore coming to Notre Dame. Irish and NFL star. But his role other next season at yet another Jeff Samardzija to Golden Tate, Player favorite co-defensive co-this season was unclear, and the school. have enjoyed much success, but ordinator Corwin Brown will next hire is most likely not going The three remaining members Ianello’s true value to the next present an interesting case to any to have Notre Dame ties, so of the coaching staff — tight ends Irish coach will be his recruiting new head coach. While Brown Young’s accomplishments years coach Bernie Parmalee, quarter-knowledge. may be the best motivator on ago may not hold much weight. backs coach Ron Powlus and of-
The Irish have landed four staff, his defensive backs largely Special teams coordinator fensive graduate assistant Brian straight top-15 recruiting classes, underperformed this season. If Brian Polian should be able to White — will all likely be else-and without Weis as the lead re-Brown is kept, it will likely be be-find an NFL position if it comes to where in college football next cruiter, Ianello’s knowledge of the cause of his relationship with that. His father is the president of season as well. incoming class will likely lead to many of the returning players. the Indianapolis Colts, and one of him sticking around campus for Though the defensive line his brothers serves as the vice Contact Douglas Farmer at another season. looked overmatched at times this president of football operations dfarmer1@nd.edu 
WEIS’ ROAD TO ND 

NFL success doesn’t translate to college for Weis 
Bills 20-19, and Weis earned 
By BILL BRINK 
his first Super Bowl ring. 
Sports Writer 
In 1991, Weis took over as the Giants’ running backs 

Charlie Weis’ affiliation coach and served for two with Notre Dame began long seasons. ago, when he was a student Weis then spent four years in the 1970s. He walked into with the New England Patri­then-University President. ots, also under Parcells. He Fr. Theodore Hesburgh’s of-coached the tight ends dur­fice with a complaint about ing his first two seasons in the state of the football New England. In his third, he team. coached the running backs, 
In his book, he said he left and rookie Curtis Martin set “feeling as humbled as you Patriots records with 1,487 could possibly be.” rushing yards and 14 touch-
Now Weis leaves Notre downs. In his fourth year, Dame again, probably not 1996, Weis coached New with the same humbled feel-England’s receivers. ing as he had as a student From 1997 to 1999, Weis but possibly with a different served as the New York Jets perspective on the frustra-offensive coordinator. He tion of losing than he had as coached under Parcells and an undergraduate. Bill Belichick, whom he 
After graduating Notre would later coach under in 
Dame in 1978, Weis coached New England. He took the at Boontown High School and Jets, who went 1-15 in 1995, Morristown High School in to a 9-7 record in his first his native New Jersey. In season. In 1998, the Jets fin­1985, coach Joe Morrison at ished fourth in the NFL in Belichick. New England won year contract. Irish lost to Ohio State. In his South Carolina hired him and total offense. three Super Bowls during his Midway through his first second year, Weis led the he coached there for four They scored the second-time there and he helped season, Weis signed a new team to the Sugar Bowl, but seasons. He returned to New most points in franchise his-make Tom Brady, the 199th 10-year contract that ex-again the Irish lost, this time Jersey to lead Franklin High tory and won their first-ever overall pick in the NFL Draft, tended through the 2015 sea-to LSU. School to the state champi-division title. The Jets’ top a top-tier NFL quarterback. son and was worth anywhere In his next three years, onship in 1989. receivers, Keyshawn Johnson Five years ago yesterday, from $20 to $30 million de-Weis went 16-21, including a 
That year, Weis made his and Wayne Chrebet, both Notre Dame fired Tyrone pending on reports. Weis 3-9 debacle in 2007. The foray into the NFL, working passed 1,000 yards receiving Willingham as head coach. compiled a 35-27 record at Irish went 7-6 in 2008, beat-in the New York Giants’ per-under Weis, who was also Their first choice, Urban Notre Dame, won one bowl ing Hawaii in the Hawaii sonnel department while the receivers coach. The Jets Meyer, turned down Notre game and lost two. Bowl. This season, the Irish coaching Franklin. In 1990, hadn’t had two 1,000-yard Dame and accepted the head Weis had success in his finished 6-6 and lost their he became a Giants offensive receivers since 1986. coaching position at Florida. first two seasons at Notre last four straight after start-and special teams assistant From 2000 to 2004, Weis Meyer has since won two na-Dame. The Irish almost upset ing 6-2. under Bill Parcells. The Gi-went back to New England, tional championships with USC at home during Weis’ ants won Super Bowl XXV serving as the Patriots’ of-the Gators. Notre Dame then first season, and he led the Contact Bill Brink at that year, beating the Buffalo fensive coordinator under hired Weis and signed a six-team to the Fiesta Bowl. The wbrink@nd.edu 


POTENTIAL REPLACEMENTS 
Who will be next in line at Notre Dame? 

By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 

At Monday’s press confer­ence, director of athletics Jack Swarbrick announced the search for Charlie Weis’ re­placement had officially begun. 
“This is a job in which there is great interest,” Swarbrick said. “It is a job in which peo­ple understand the potential that is here to return Notre Dame to a position of promi­nence in college football, and I’m excited to embark full bore on the process of finding the right next successor to the legacy of Rockne and Leahy and Parseghian and Holtz.” 
Swarbrick denied reports that he had contacted potential replacements, but he said the search “has effectively begun.” 
At this point, the discussion of who will succeed Weis is en­tirely conjecture. But it sure is fun, so with that, here is our list of the top candidates Swar­brick might examine in the hopes of taking the Irish back to glory. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

















Another coach that has led its team to an undefeated season in 2009, Patterson led TCU to a 12-0 record and a probable BCS berth this sea­son. 
The Horned Frogs have fin­ished with 10 or more wins in six of nine seasons under Patterson. Despite battling for local talent against local powerhouses like Texas, Texas Tech and Texas A&M, Patterson has been able to develop elite talent in Fort Worth. 
Patterson’s defenses have consistently ranked near the top national teams. 

After leaving his post as a coordinator for the Cowboys, Davis compiled a 51-20 record at Miami from 1995­2000, helping to return the program to prominence. The Hurricanes compiled an 11-1 record in his final year, and Davis laid the foundation for their 2001 national champi­onship. 
A top recruiter, Davis has helped improve a struggling UNC program after strug­gling in the NFL with the Browns. He has the head coaching experience the Irish are looking for and a history of bringing in top talent. 
Since taking over the Boise State program in 2006, Pe­tersen has led the Broncos to a 47-4 record and a BCS win in his four seasons as head coach. 
While Peterson has the least head coaching experience of any major candidate, he has a proven track record of success and player development at Boise. 
He made his first impact on the national college football scene by leading the Broncos to an undefeated record in his first season, leading the team to a Fiesta Bowl upset of Okla­homa that featured several trick plays. 

Iowa’s coach of the last 11 seasons, Ferentz had one of the best years of his career this year, leading the Hawkeyes to a 10-2 record. 
Iowa has shared two Big Ten titles under Ferentz, and made a BCS appearance in the Orange Bowl in 2002. Many major college pro­grams and NFL teams have been rumored to have inter­est in Ferentz at different points in his career, but the coach has elected to stay in Iowa and currently has a contract to remain there until 2015. 
A coach the Irish are famil­iar with facing, Johnson has had rapid success since tak­ing over at Georgia Tech in 2008. 
While many doubted that Johnson’s triple-option of­fense would work in a major conference, the Yellow Jack­ets have compiled a 19-5 record over the past two years and will play for the ACC Championship against Clemson Saturday. 
Johnson led Navy to five straight bowl berths and a 45-29 record in six seasons in Annapolis. 
The last opponent Charlie Weis faced, Harbaugh led Stanford to one of its best seasons in years in 2009, fin­ishing 8-4 and 6-3 in the Pac­10. 
In 2007 Harbaugh led Stanford to a huge win over No. 1 USC, upsetting the Tro­jans 24-23 despite being a 41-point underdog. The Car­dinal again beat Pete Carroll and USC this season, defeat­ing the Trojans 55-21 and scoring the most points against USC in program his­tory. 

The top candidate for the Notre Dame job in 2004, Meyer turned down the Irish for Florida and has turned the Gators into the top program in college football after a successful run at Utah. 
A former Notre Dame assistant under Lou Holtz, Meyer led Florida to national championships in 2006 and 2008, and the Gators are currently No. 1 in the BCS Standings and undefeated heading into Saturday’s SEC Championship game against No. 2 Alabama. 
While Meyer has in the past called Notre Dame a “dream job,” he has denied having any interest in leav­ing Florida and has no good reason to abandon a peren­nial title contender in Gainesville. 
Another name suspected as a candidate after Willing­ham’s firing, Gruden has family connections to the Notre Dame program, as his father was an assistant under Dan Devine. 
Gruden has coached as an assistant at the college level, but gained notoriety at the NFL level as the coach of the Oak­land Raiders and Tampa Bay Buccaneers. He led Tampa Bay to a Super Bowl win in 2002 over his former team. 
Most recently, Gruden has been an analyst on Monday Night Football and recently signed an extension to remain with the program. It also seems unlikely that Swarbrick and the Irish would want to sign another professional coach who has no head coaching experience at the college level. 

Tuesday, December 1, 2009 The Observer  IN FOCUS page 8 
Observer Photo Illustration by ANDREA ARCHER and IAN GAVLICK 

IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Tuesday, December 1, 2009 observer Stanford 45, Notre Dame 38 
Deafening silence 
Stanford’s Gerhart runs for 205 yards as Irish lose fourth straight 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
STANFORD, Calif. — The game followed the template of nearly every game of 2009: outstanding performances by Jimmy Clausen and Golden Tate, an inconsistent defensive effort and a last-second finish. And like the 2009 season as a whole, the final game was a dis­appointment for the Irish, who fell to the Cardinal 45-38 at Stanford Stadium. 
Stanford senior running back Toby Gerhart rushed for 205 yards and three touchdowns, including the game-winner with 59 seconds left as Notre Dame lost its fourth straight game to finish 6-6. 
Another late comeback effort by Clausen and Tate fell short, as Notre Dame gave up two sacks on the final drive and Clausen’s Hail Mary pass was batted down as time expired. 
“It’s just the way the year’s been,” Irish coach Charlie Weis said in a press release. “I feel real­ly bad for the outgoing players. There’s a bunch of 22-, 23-year-old young men right there finishing their career losing the last four games. They feel miserable and I feel miserable for them.” 
Clausen finished with 340 yards and five touchdowns, tying a career high. Tate caught a career-high 10 receptions for 201 yards and three touchdowns. 

“It’s frustrating, anytime you lose the game we’re losing by a touch­down or less,” Clausen said. “I’m a third-down conversion. senior defensive end John Ryan runs by Hughes and Tate. Weis Taylor runs to hold the Cardinal to real competitive athlete and it’s The 10-play drive finished in making a key tackle for a five-yard then dialed up a trick play out of a 29–yard field goal to end the really tough.” spectacular fashion, as sophomore loss after several big runs by the Wildcat formation for a 48-third quarter at 31-30. 
After a big stop on Stanford’s Michael Floyd caught a touchdown Gerhart. yard score, with Hughes receiving Clausen and the Irish then went first offensive possession, the Irish pass from Clausen on the next The ensuing Irish drive started the snap and handing off to Tate, to the air, throwing several deep offense had a critical giveaway on play, staying in bounds on one foot out moving the wrong direction, who pitched back to Clausen. No balls for Floyd and Tate. Both drew their first offensive play. Freshman and extending over the sideline to with false start and holding penal-Cardinal player was within 20 pass interference calls, moving running back Theo Riddick was make the catch and give Notre ties on their first two plays. A per-yards of Floyd, and Clausen hit Notre Dame well into Stanford ter­stuffed on an inside run and fum-Dame its first lead at 14-10. sonal foul call on Stanford finally him for his fourth touchdown pass ritory. On second down and nine, bled, which the Cardinal recovered Stanford took advantage of good gave the Irish some breathing of the game, giving Notre Dame a Clausen found Tate wide open. on the Notre Dame 13. starting field position on their next room, and on the next play 31-20 lead. After receiving the 12-yard pass, 
Gerhart ran three straight times drive, as David Ruffer’s kickoff Clausen connected deep with Tate Stanford continued to respond to Tate juked two Stanford defenders on the ensuing possession, refus-went out of bounds. After several for a 78-yard touchdown. Notre Dame scores, however, turn-and weaved his way back across ing to go down on a four-yard Gerhart runs, the Cardinal were With the catch Tate broke Jeff ing to its strength and the ground the field for a 28-yard touchdown, touchdown run that put Stanford set back by a holding penalty and Samardzija’s school record for game to respond with a touch-putting the Irish up 38-30. up 7-0 early. had to settle for a 47-yard field to career receiving yards (2,593), and down of its own. Gerhart led an “I took a risk, I felt like I could 
Notre Dame responded by forc-cut the lead to 14-13 early in the gave the Irish a 24-13 lead. 81-yard drive that was comprised maneuver through some guys, and ing a turnover of its own, gaining second quarter. “It was about concentration and of nine straight runs, and finished I had some downfield blockers, the ball deep in Stanford territory Notre Dame went back to the being competitive,” Tate said. “I the effort with a 10-yard romp into and I was grateful for those guys to after safety Sergio Brown forced a running game to ignite its next knew that could change the game, the end zone. show up when I needed them,” fumble that was recovered by drive, beginning with three and if I dropped it I would have “Our players did a great job,” Tate said. Braxston Cave. Starting on the straight runs by Hughes for a total been devastated.” Stanford coach Jim Harbaugh The Cardinal answered yet Stanford 16, the Irish evened up of 24 yards. After two Clausen The Cardinal retaliated with a said. “Handling success, facing again, using a 28-yard run from the score with a five-yard touch-completions and a quarterback touchdown of their own before adversity, rising from adversity. It Gerhart to start the drive and com-down pass from Clausen to Tate. sneak, Hughes broke free for a 15-halftime, with quarterback starts from the seniors, their fire pleting it with an 18-yard pass to 
A big sack by Brown helped the yard gain on fourth down to Andrew Luck completing passes and desire to win has fueled this Ryan Whalen on a fourth-down Irish hold Stanford to a Nate extend the drive. for two big first downs. Fullback team.” play. Stanford coach Jim Whitaker field goal on their next An incompletion and fumbled Owen Marecic punched it in for After the Cardinal defense finally Harbaugh elected to go for two, possession. They responded with a snap led to Notre Dame settling for the touchdown with just 11 sec-made a stop, the Stanford passing and converted it with a pass to long drive of their own. After com-a 41-yard field goal from Ruffer, onds left in the half to make the attack began clicking. Luck found tight end Jim Dray, tying the score pletions to Tate and Robert extending the lead back to four score 24-20. Gerhart for a 33-yard gain, and at 38. Hughes, Riddick took a short pass points at 17-13. The Irish continued moving the then Chris Owusu for 21 yards one from Clausen 24 yards to the The defense forced a Stanford ball at will in the second half, play later. The Irish made stops for Contact Michael Bryan at Stanford 18-yard-line for a key punt on their next possession, with gashing the Stanford defense with losses on two straight Stepfan mbryan@nd.edu 


player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
Toby Gerhart 943 Toby Gerhart’s 18-yard touchdown 
“It was a microcosm of

Stanford running back pass on 4th-and-4 in the fourth quarter 
our season ... It’s just the 
Total yards of offense combined way the year’s been.” 

Gerhart did it all with 205 yards for Notre Dame (447) and The halfback pass to Ryan Whalen rushing and 3 touchdowns, 33 yards Stanford (496) in a game that helped the Cardinal tie the game Charlie Weis receiving and an 18-yard TD throw. was a classic shootout. with nine minutes to play. Irish coach 



report card 
quarterbacks: Clausen posted gaudy A statistics and showed yet again that he can make all the throws, including 
several tough ones on the run. 
B 
running backs: Riddick’s early fumble led to a Stanford touchdown, but he and 
Hughes both ran hard and averaged nearly six yards per carry. 
A 
receivers: Tate and Floyd combined for 286 yards and five touchdowns, including several 
highlight-reel catches and runs that kept the Irish in the game. 
B 
offensive line: The line looked good for most of the night but couldn’t give a push 
on a big third-down or allow Clausen time on Notre Dame’s last drive. 
C-defensive line: Stanford ran all over the Irish to the tune of 280 yards, and the blame for that falls first with the big 
B­B A­
C+ 
boys up front. 

linebackers: Te’o and Smith each had five tackles and made some nice plays, but the effort was inconsistent and Gerhart found too many open running lanes. 
defensive backs: McCarthy and Brown, who also had a sack, led the team in tackles, and considering Stanford’s run­ning success, the pass defense was OK. 
special teams: Designed pooch kicks gave Stanford good field position, but Ruffer was perfect, Turk was solid and the punt coverage team recovered a fumble that led to the first Irish score. 
coaching: Weis dialed up a few nice gadget plays, and the team kept its composure despite a tough start. But the Irish couldn’t finish a game yet again, and that continues to fall on the head coach’s shoulders. 
overall: A familiar story for Notre 
Dame, as the Irish lose a close one in which they led late and 
3.04 

showed glimpses of greatness on offense but failed on defense. 
adding up the numbers 
Number of Notre Dame games decided in the final minute of regulation or in overtime. The 10 Irish are 4-6 in those games this season. 
50 
Number of consecutive starts made by senior right tackle Sam Young, a Notre Dame record. Young has started every game of his career. 
Number of career touchdown receptions for Michael Floyd after he caught two scoring passes 16 Saturday. Floyd has played in just 18 games. 
7 
Number of 300-yard passing games for Jimmy Clausen this season, a school record. Clausen now has 10 in is career, second in Irish history. 
Number of touchdown drives of 70 yards or more the Irish have executed this season, including 
25
four against Stanford. 

Number of Irish freshmen to record at least 60 tackles in a season, now that linebacker Manti Te’o joined that group Saturday. 
Consecutive field goal attempts junior David Ruffer has made since taking over for injured 
5
freshman Nick Tausch. 

8 
Number of consecutive games with a receiving touch­down for Golden Tate, who has scored in 11 straight games. He has 18 total touchdowns this season. 

DAN JACOBS/The Observer 
Irish junior quarterback Jimmy Clausen talks with the media following Notre Dame’s 45-38 loss at Stanford Saturday. Clausen suffered a black eye in a reported altercation outside of C.J.’s Pub in South Bend early on Nov. 22. 
Season ends in disappointment 
Isaac Newton never met Charlie Weis, or any Notre Dame football play­ers. 
If he did, he’d be in for a shock. 
After he got plunked on the head by a falling apple, Newton figured out some laws of motion, the first off which says that everything in motion stays that way unless some outside force acts upon it. 
The Irish were 6-2 and had the Bill Brink momentum to cruise to 10-2 

Sports Writer 
and a potential BCS berth, at the very least a New Years’ Day bowl game. Four losses later, that momentum has dissipated. 
So what outside force acted on the Irish? You could make the argument that Navy’s option attack, Dion Lewis, UConn’s run game and Toby Gerhart were “outside forces,” but the true actor that stopped Notre Dame was itself. They couldn’t finish. Newton wouldn’t know what to do with such empirical evidence. 
Blame who you want, but Weis, as the face of the program, ultimately has to take the blame for the inability to convert talent to success. In the past three seasons, he’s gone 3-9, 6-6 and 6-6 after restocking the talent. Especially in light of the way the games this season were won and lost, Weis has not prepared this team to win games. 
The Midshipmen started it all, run­ning the same offense they always do and still succeeding, rushing for 348 yards and beating the Irish at home by two. The thread started loosening in the seams after that game when nose tackle Ian Williams said the Irish were out-schemed while safety Kyle McCarthy blamed the playmaking. 
Against Pittsburgh, the Irish played too conservatively. Weis claimed he called the game that way because he was on the road in a hostile environ­ment. Notre Dame mustered three points in the first half but 19 in the fourth quarter, when it was desperate­ly trying to come back. Imagine if the Irish played with that intensity all game. 
Notre Dame changed that and got going early against Connecticut, but couldn’t keep it up. Nor could it con­tain Jordan Todman or Andre Dixon, who each rushed for more than 100 yards. Dixon eventually scored in the second overtime to seal the win and Notre Dame lost to a sub-.500 Big East team on Senior Day for the second year in a row. 
Which brings us to Stanford, surpris­ingly Notre Dame’s best showing of the final four games. Jimmy Clausen threw for 340 yards and five touchdowns, Golden Tate made a last-second push for the Biletnikoff with 10 catches for 201 yards and three touchdowns and the Irish established the run even with­out Armando Allen. But no finish. Like every other loss, no finish. 
On a fourth-down attempt, the Irish let Toby Gerhart throw a halfback pass to Ryan Whalen to tie the game. Then they allowed a 72-yard drive that took 
4:49 and ended with Gerhart’s third rushing touchdown of the game with less than one minute left. 
Again they showed fight. Clausen completed three passes to Tate on the final drive but couldn’t score, and the Irish are 6-6 for the second straight season and have to live with the knowledge that the blame falls on them and the coaches. 
With the talent the team has shown, 6-6 is inexcusable and the players and coaches know it. They also know what Newton knows: for every action there’s a reaction. 
Action: Team goes 6-6. Reaction: Weis was fired. Secondary reaction: the chances of Clausen returning are slim. 
“The reason I stepped on this cam­pus was because of coach Weis,” Clausen said after the game. “To be honest, I wouldn’t be here right now if it wasn’t for him.” 
I’m no linguistic expert, but the rough translation is: If Weis is gone, I’m gone. 
Without Clausen throwing to him, the odds that Tate jumps to the NFL increase as well. Which leaves the Irish as an underperforming squad short a head coach, quarterback and star receiver. 
As if the program didn’t have enough black eyes already, Clausen got one himself last weekend, and the program responded by banning media access not only to him but the rest of the play­ers and assistant coaches. After the loss to Stanford, where surprisingly enough there was good (Clausen’s good game and Tate, who tied or broke sev­eral school records) to discuss along with the bad (Weis’ job, a potential bowl game, Clausen’s shiner), Weis did not speak with the media. 
Of all the things the program needs from its leaders, silence isn’t one of them. 
The off-season, regardless of who is in charge, should be focused on one thing: how to finish. Finish halves, fin­ish games, finish seasons. The talent is there but the assassin’s mentality to bury opponents, to kick them when they’re down and leave no chance of a comeback, or to come back yourself when all seemed lost, hasn’t permeat­ed the program. 
Newton probably wouldn’t care much for football, but he certainly knew how to finish what he started. The Irish need to channel their frustra­tion with their four-game losing streak to end the season into converting their opportunities in 2010 — no matter who wears the headset, no matter who’s under center. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Gerhart makes case for Heisman 

DAN JACOBS/The Observer 

Stanford running back Toby Gerhart runs upfield during Stanford’s 45-38 win over Notre Dame Saturday night. Gerhart fin­
ished with 205 yards rushing and three touchdowns. 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 

STANFORD, Calif. — On his final play of the game, the Irish defense let Toby Gerhart into the end zone in the hopes of getting the ball back with a chance to force overtime. Most of the game, though, Gerhart had his way with the Notre Dame defenders even when they were going all out to stop him. 
The Stanford running back rumbled for 205 yards and three touchdowns, including the game-winner, and even passed for a score on a crucial fourth-and-four play. While senior captain Kyle McCarthy said the Irish’s game plan was to focus on stopping the run, the Notre Dame defense was gashed repeatedly by the 235-pound Gerhart. 
With the monstrous game against the Irish, Gerhart became the leading rusher in all of FBS, finishing the regular season with 1,736 yards. Gerhart’s 26 touch­downs also lead all running “He’s a phenomenal play­backs, and the senior aver-er, one of the best I’ve ever aged 5.6 yards per carry. been around,” Harbaugh 
Gerhart’s second touch-said. down against Notre Dame Every time it seemed put him into the record Notre Dame might have a books, as he broke the Pac-chance to pull away, 10 single-season record for Gerhart and the Cardinal touchdowns in a season set offense would put together by LenDale White in 2005 a long scoring drive to stay and Corey Dillon in 1996. within a score. The senior’s 
“Toby has said it all with 10-yard touchdown run in the way he’s played,” the third quarter, his sec-Stanford coach Jim ond of the day, narrowed Harbaugh the Irish lead said. “He to 31-27. hasn’t talked “He’s a big 
“Toby [Gerhart] has 

about it, just physical run-gone out said it all with the ner,” Irish there week way he’s played.” coach Charlie after week.” Weis said in 
Gerhart ’s a press 
Jim Harbaugh

first touch -release. down came Stanford head coach “Everyone less than thinks he just four minutes runs north ­into the game. Following a south, but they run him to Theo Riddick fumble, the edge a lot on a toss or a Gerhart ran the ball three toss-sweep. When he gets straight times for the to the edge, you’re in trou-Cardinal, breaking a tackle ble.” and using a hand to stay With Stanford finally driv­balanced and get two extra ing with a chance to even yards before diving into the up the game, Gerhart end zone. showed off his throwing ability in the fourth quarter. On a fourth-and-four play from the Notre Dame 18­yard-line, Gerhart took the pitch from quarterback Andrew Luck and complet­ed a touchdown to wide receiver Ryan Whalen. 
“We practice that once a week, I just threw up a prayer,” Gerhart said. “In practice [Whalen] is always wide open and in the game his back was turned and I just threw it out there and he made a great play.” 
With his strong perform­ances throughout the sea­son and role in big wins 
over marquee opponents USC and Notre Dame, Gerhart seems to have played himself into the Heisman discussion. 
“Toby is too humble to say anything about himself, but how can you not at least invite him,” Luck said. “He put his team on his back. He makes everyone in the locker room a better player. I think he deserves it.” 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

Notes: Tate breaks career record in loss 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
STANFORD, Calif. — Irish receiver Golden Tate broke Jeff Samardzija’s school record for career receiving yards. Tate’s 201 yards in the game put him at 2,707 career receiving yards, pass­ing Samardzija’s record of 2,593. Tate also tied Samardzija’s record of eight consecutive games with a receiving touchdown, which Samardzija set in 2005. Tate now has had a touchdown of any kind in 11 consecutive games. 
Tate also extended his streak of games with 100 yards or more to 15 overall and nine this season. His season total broke Tom Gatewood’s record of eight, which Gatewood set in 1970. 

Tate tied a single-season touchdown record with 15 receiving touchdowns. Samardzija had 15 in 2005 and Rhema McKnight had 15 in 2006. Finally, Tate scored his 18th overall touchdown, which tied Allen Pinkett for second on the all-time list. Pinkett had 18 in 1984. Jerome Bettis set the single-season record with 20 in 1991. 
Tate said he didn’t know he had broken the records after the game. 
“It’s great to be mentioned with those guys but right now I’m really hurting,” he said. “Maybe in a week or a year … it’ll hit me.” 
Quick off the blocks 
In Notre Dame’s last three games, all losses, the Irish scored an average of eight points in the first half and 3.3 points in the first quarter. Against Stanford, they scored 14 points in the first quarter and 10 in the second. The 14 points in the first quarter were the most the Irish scored in the first period this season. 
Tackling leaders 
With his 10 tackles, fresh­man linebacker Manti Te’o finished with 63 on the sea­son, making him one of four Irish freshmen to record more than 60 tackles in a season. 
Senior safety Kyle McCarthy, already the only Notre Dame defensive back to record 100 tackles in a season with 110 in 2008, did so again this year. His team-leading 11 tackles gave him 101 in the season. 
So close … 
Ten of Notre Dame’s 12 games have been decided dur­ing the final minute of the game or in overtime. 
“To be honest with you, we didn’t finish,” Irish quarter­back Jimmy Clausen said. “It’s frustrating. It seems that every time we lose a game it’s by a touchdown or less.” 
He’s right: Notre Dame’s largest margin of defeat has been seven points, during Saturday’s 45-38 loss to Stanford and a 34-27 loss to USC on Oct. 17. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Notre Dame  14  10  7  7  38  
Stanford  10  10  7  18  45  

First quarter 
Stanford 7, Notre Dame 0 
Toby Gerhart 4-yd run (Nate Whitaker kick) with 
11:34 remaining. Drive: 3 plays, 13 yards, 1:30 elapsed. 
Stanford 7, Notre Dame 7 
Golden Tate 5-yd pass from Jimmy Clausen (David Ruffer kick) with 8:56 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 16 yards, 1:18 elapsed. 
Stanford 10, Notre Dame 7 
Whitaker 40-yd field goal with 5:59 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 38 yards, 2:52 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 14, Stanford 10 
Michael Floyd 18-yd pass from Clausen (Ruffer kick) with :40 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 78 yards, 5:12 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 14, Stanford 13 
Whitaker 47-yd field goal with 12:39 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 30 yards, 3:01 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 17, Stanford 13 
Ruffer 42-yd field goal with 7:25 remaining. Drive: 11 plays, 53 yards, 5:08 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 24, Stanford 13 
Tate 78-yd pass from Clausen (Ruffer kick) with 
4:23 remaining. Drive: 3 plays, 88 yards, :48 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 24, Stanford 20 
Owen Marecic 1-yd run (Whitaker kick) with :11 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 61 yards, 4:07 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 31, Stanford 20 
Floyd 46-yd pass from Clausen (Ruffer kick) with 12:56 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 76 yards, 1:58 remaining. 
Notre Dame 31, Stanford 27 
Gerhart 10-yd run (Whitaker kick) with 8:12 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 81 yards, 4:42 remaining. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 31, Stanford 30 
Whitaker 29-yd field goal with 14:57 remaining. Drive: 12 plays, 76 yards, 6:01 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 38, Stanford 30 
Tate 28-yd pass from Clausen (Ruffer kick) with 
12:56 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 80 yards, 2:01 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 38, Stanford 38 
Ryan Whalen 18-yd pass from Gerhart (Jim Dray pass from Andrew Luck) with 8:59 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 67 yards, 3:50 elapsed. 
Stanford 45, Notre Dame 38 
Gerhart 4-yd run (Whitaker kick) with :59 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 72 yards, 4:49 elapsed. 
statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

time of possession 

Clausen  passing 25-30-340 Luck  14-20-198  
rushing  
Hughes Riddick  13-77 Gerhart 6-37 Taylor receiving  29-205 12-35  
Tate Floyd  10-201 6-85  Whalen Fleener  6-75 4-56  





Out with a whimper 
Jimmy Clausen threw for 340 yards and five touchdowns and Golden Tate caught 10 passes for 201 yards and three scores, but the Irish defense couldn’t slow Stanford’s Toby Gerhart, as the Cardinal prevailed 45-38. 
Notre Dame held a 24-20 halftime lead and extended its advantage to 31-20 after its first drive of the second half ended with Michael Floyd’s second touchdown catch, but from there, Gerhart would run for two more touch­downs (after scoring one in the first half) and throw for one as well, as the Heisman hopeful rushed for 205 yards. Tate’s third touchdown grab — a 28­yarder in which he caught a short pass to the left and cut across the entire defense for a highlight-reel run — gave Notre Dame its final points with 
12:56 to play, as the Irish led 38-30. But Gerhart’s touchdown pass and his 
third scoring run with a minute remaining cemented the game, as Clausen’s final Hail Mary try would fall incomplete as time expired. 
For more photos, check out the photo gallery at ndsmcobserver.com 





Clockwise from top: Junior wide receiver Golden Tate steps in the end zone for Notre Dame’s first touchdown, junior quarterback Jimmy Clausen warms up on the sidelines, junior line­backer Harrison Smith tries to make a tackle, Tate reacts after an incomplete pass, sophomore wide receiver Michael Floyd hauls in a touchdown pass from Clausen on a trick play. 



