
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER 9. 2009 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

More bars in more places 
AT&T expands coverage to serve Duncan Hall, Eck Hall of Law 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Wrirer 
For Dan Manier, who works in the newly constructed Eck Hall of Law, the slogan 'more bars in more places' finally holds true. 
"Just sitting at my desk, in the past I was receiving anywhere from zero, one or at most, two bars of service. Now, I get almost always four if not five bars," Manier. who is the director of Law School Information Technology, said. 
Manier is one of many AT&T users who is benefiting from two new transmitters that have been installed to serve the Eck Hall of Law and Duncan Hall directly, chief technology officer Dewitt Latimer said. 
Prior to the installation, serv­ice in those buildings was "hit or miss," Latimer said. 
In the law building, service depended on "whether you had a room or an office with a window in it or what side of the building you were on," he said. 
AT&T saw that signal was weak in those two buildings and received feedback that there was room for improvement. The company consequently added the transmitters late this sum­mer, Brian Ducharme, vice presi­dent general manager for AT&T Consumer Markets and Mobility in Indiana, said. 
"We've been very committed to working with everyone at the University to improve the cus­tomer experience there on cam­pus," he said. "This year we added a couple more sites to improve some areas." 
Ducharme said there should be a clear improvement for AT&T customers in those build­ings. 
"I think the two biggest notice­able benefits in these areas now will be a strengthened voice 
see AT&T/page 4 

Notre Dan1e students get inspired to serve 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
NewsWrirer 
Inspire, a newly conceived service club at Notre Dame, hopes to fill an apparent void at the University and create a line of direct communication between Notre Dame students and non-profit organizations on campus and across the country. 
"Basically we want to sup­port Notre Dame students who are interested in becoming a part of or starting their own non-profit," club president Kathryn Colby said. "We want to be a resource for these stu­dents, whether that means helping them with business efficiency or setting them up with an internship in an alum's non-profit organization." 
Colby, a junior, said while the club's official status is new, the idea formed two years ago when she helped organize a charity gala for a student's non-profit organization here on campus. 
"[Junior] Dan Jacobs and I organized an Oscar Night Gala our freshman year in which all the proceeds went to the Eyes on Africa Foundation, a non­profit here on campus," she said. "We had a huge turnout and found out that there were a lot of Notre Dame students with non-profits of their own. Dan and I got to talking and decided that we could maybe take our idea and change it into a student group." 
Jacobs, a photographer for The Observer, said the Oscar Night Gala two years ago opened his eyes to how limited the resources were for non­profit organizations on campus. 
"We just noticed that there 
see INSPIRE/page 4 



ROTC blood drive draws big turnout 
Notre Dame, said. 
Alliance To Lead And Serve (ATlAS), the ROTC cadet commu­nity service organization, helped put together the staffing plan for the ROTC volunteers and will assist in taking down the equip­ment when the blood drive con­cludes, Dukeman said. He himself planned much of the event, includ­ing the contact with the Hed Cross. 
Dukeman said he hopes this year's event draws record num­bers. 
"I am hoping we see between 270 and 300 people this time," he said. "Last semester, 262 people 
see DRIVE/page 4 

Kellogg to hostreentry openhouse 
By CARL¥ LANDON 
Heturning from an overseas study program can be diffi­cult, shocking and exciting ­even with adequate prepara­tion. Every year, Notre Dame students who have studied abroad come back to campus eager to tell their stories, readjust to campus life and learn what to do with their learned experience abroad. 
Tonight from 4 to 7 p.m., the Kellogg Institute is offer­ing a Heentry Open House for all students returning from 
abroad  at  the  Hesburgh  
Center  for  International  
Studies.  

According to the Office of International Studies, Notre Dame's rate of undergradu­ate participation in the abroad programs is about 53 percent. 
"One of the things I think most offices on campus rec­ognize now is it is not enough to just prepare stu­dents to go abroad," assis­tant director of the Kellogg Institute for International Studies Holly Hivers said. 
Recognizing the need for more resources for abroad returnees, the Kellogg Institute is having its second open house for students returning from abroad. The Institute aims to help stu­dents incorporate their expe­rience into their life at Notre Dame as well as do some-
see KELLOGG/page 6 By KATIE PERALTA 


Assisranr News Ediror 
Notre Dame Reserve Officer's Training Corps (ROTC), partnered with the American Red Cross, enjoyed a high turnout once again at Tuesday's semiannual blood drive in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The event, which takes place each semester and lasts two days, is a Tri-Military sponsored event, which means Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine ROTC con­tribute volunteers to staff the sign­in desk and assist with snack and beverage, Major Tim Dukeman, executive officer of Army ROTC at 
INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER SMC urges offcampus safety page 3 • Henderson shines for Irish offense page 24 • Fall TV preview page 12 • Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 9, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A shameless plug 
In my three years here, I've learned to accept certain universal truths about Notre Dame life. 
There will never be parking in the C lot when you need it. There's a reason the Mendoza College of Business is ranked No. 2 in the country. There's a reason the economics department is not. 
Freshmen take a while to realize they aren't as smart as they thought they were in high school. Student govern­ment is a largely useless organization. 
But despite their general futility, occasionally the overachieving do­gooders on the sec­ond floor of LaFun strike gold. And they appear to have done so with their plans for the stu­
dent-only  pep Kara King  
rally  this  
Thursday.  Assistant 
Rather  than  

talking in circles and hypotheticals while achieving nothing, COR (or whichever of the many acronyms it is that is in charge of this thing) is actually putting one of their plans into action. 
Students have been asking for their own pep rally as long as I've been here, and now we actually have one. 
So take advantage of it. 
As Viewpoint Editor, I read countless letters complaining about the state of the current pep rally system. 
Now that student government is implementing an entirely student-run format, it falls to us to actually show up. 
Prove that we actually have the school spirit everyone always claims mysteri­ously surrounds this place. 
Even as a disgruntled senior, I can't help but be excited. 
It's true that our section may be slightly less enthusiastic in the stadium as games progress and sobriety sets in, but perhaps the newly formatted pep rally will tailor to this tapering effect. 
We as a student body finally have a chance to come together -without the token tourists ogling us as ifwe're some kind of spectacle to check off their "Things to see at Notre Dame" list ­and experience the event from the good ol' days. 
Considering what the alums have to say (via Viewpoint, of course), those times seemed rather enjoyable. 
So go to the pep rally, and go early. 
They start letting students in at 7:15 p.m., but apparently there's only room for 2,000 or so. 
That means I'll have to elbow my way through all the enthusiastic freshmen to finally get a chance to experience a real pep rally here. 
Perhaps student government deserves more credit. I'm thinking they have fmally made an event that is worth my time and effort. I have it on good authority that "It's going to be crazy in there." 
So long as it's not raining of course. 
Because yet another universal truth about life here is that Stepan as an architectural structure is less than sound ... and it's ugly as hell too. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Kara King at kking5@nd. edu 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE PLACE TO EAT ON CAMPUS? 







Chase Riddle  Mark Easley  Chris Borchers  Abby McCrary  Shawna Kolka  
sophomore Keenan  sophomore Keenan  junior Sorin  freshman Walsh  sophomore Farley  
'Worth Dining  "In my room  "South Dining  "Reekers, because  "North Dining  
Hall, because of the Salad Bar  with Zaland pizza.  Hall. Nice card swipers.  they have really ,good pizza.  Hall. Because it's better. "  
guy.  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LA/The Observer Members of the Air Force ROTC walk around campus Tuesday with their back­packs, as is their weekly ritual. 
OFFBEAT 

83-year-old Maurice Wood has donated more blood than Fischer. Wood is a retired railroad inspector from St. Louis. 
Fischer, a print shop operator, donates blood about six times a year. He says he and Wood are engaged in a friendly rivalry and last spoke to each other a few months ago. 
Long Island Blood Services executive director Harvey Schaffler says Fischer has helped almost 1,000 people. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Ramingo prank leaves city with lasting legacy 
MADISON -Some stories don't fly. This one doesn't even breathe. 
The city council of Wisconsin's capital voted on Tuesday to designate the plastic pink flamingo its offi­cial bird, honoring a college prank committed 30 years ago. 
In 1979, University of Wisconsin students planted roughly 1,000 of the pink plastic birds on a grassy incline outside the dean's office. 
Alderman Marsha Rummel told the Wisconsin State Journal the council's 15-4 vote ensured the event was "captured in our imagi­nations forever." 
Man donates record amount of blood 
WOODBURY, N.Y. -A New York man is donating his 320th pint of blood this week, making him one of two people in tpe U.S. who has given 40 gallons. 
Seventy-five-year-old AI Fischer of Massapequa (mass-ah-PE E' -kw a h) plans to reach the mile­stone Tuesday, 58 years after he started giving blood. 
According to a New York Blood Center official, only 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 


HIGH 64 HIGH 77 HIGH 76 LOW 57 LOW 57 LOW 54 
IN BRIEF 
A Blood Drive will be held at noon in the ballroom of LaFortune Student Center. Participants can sign up at www.givelife.org and schedule an appointment today. 
A lecture titled "Three Things Americans Don't Understand about the War in Iraq Right Now" will be held today from 4 to 6 p.m. at the McCartan Court Room in the Eck Hall of Law. Tom Ricks, former Defense cor­respondent, will speak. 
The Welsh Family Hall Block Party will take place today on South Quad from 6 to 9 p.m. Event activities include a pie­eating contest, 1\vister, door prizes and more. Proceeds ben­efit the Touching Tiny Lives Foundation. 
"King Lear" will be per­formed by the Actors From the London Stage (AFTLS) at Washington Hall at 7:30 p.m. every day until Friday. Tickets are $20 regular price, $18 for faculty, staff and seniors and $12 for students. 
"Para la Gente: Art, Politics and Cultural Identity of the Taller de Grafica Popular" will take place today in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries in the Suite Museum ofArt at 10 a.m. 
An exhibit called "Thin: Photographs by Lauren Greenfield" will host 53 color photographs of young women with eating disorders. It will be held today in the O'Shaughnessy West Galleries in the Suite Museum of Art. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH LOW 

77 
56 

Wednesday, September 9, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Student-run pep rally planned 
By LIZ O'DONNELL 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) discussed plans for Thursday evening's pep rally in the Stepan Center in their meeting on Tuesday evening. 
Student body president Grant Sclunidt said student government would play a large role in running the pep rally 
"This pep rally will be literally student-run," Sclunidt said. "The football office will control only minor details." 
Student body vice president Cynthia Webber explained to the council basic details ofthe rally. 
Doors are set to open at 7:15 
p.m. and the football team will arrive at 8:30 p.m. Schmidt and Weber did not know where the team would enter, but said they would be sitting on stage. 
Up to three speakers will address the crowd, and the pep will conclude at approximately 9:00p.m. 
Students will not be allowed to bring backpacks to the pep rally due to the lack of sufficient space in the venue. 
Schmidt said COR members should try to get the word about the pep rally out as quickly as pos­sible. 
Flyers, posters and e-mails to the student body were the adver­tising tactics Sclunidt said will be most effective. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 

FTT Tracey Poston 
Office of Research 
Undergraduate research grant proposal workshop 
SESSION I 

CUSE Faculty reviewers' perspectives on grant-writing Thursday, September 1.0 -3:30-4:30 pm, Coffee House, Geddes Hall -Refreshments served 
How do you decide on a project? 
Whom should you ask for guidance? 
How do you develop a proposal? 
What's a human subjects protocol? 
What makes a proposal average, good, or great? 
To answer these questions and more, faculty members will share ideas for how to develop students•research projects to meet grant and academic criteria. 



College asks for off-campus safety 
By MEGHAN PRICE 
News Writer 
As the school year kicks off and South Bend is again filled with students leaving campus to pursue off-campus activi­ties, Saint Mary's College Security is once again urging students to exercise caution while away from campus. 
Stan Himczak, assistant director of security, said stu­dent life is very safe at Saint Mary's College. It is when stu­dents leave campus, he said, that they are at risk. 
The security department 
always encourages students to be aware of what is going on around them, however, the need for alert­ness increases immensely when they choose to leave Saint Mary's, he said. 
Himczak emphasized the need for students to be 
"We encourage students to become involved in helping to maintain a safe campus by reporting any and all suspicious activity or criminal activity. '' 
David Gariepy director Saint Mary's security 
aware of their surroundings at all times and encouraged stu­dents to be wary of new people they meet while in town. He also said new students should be especially careful because they are not familiar with South Bend. 
"We help to promote student awareness by providing safety programs, with information provided on our Web site and through safety alert and notifi­cations." Saint Mary's director of security David Gariepy said. 
Saint Mary's otTers a variety of resources to those students who may be put in danger while off campus. 
Besides the transportation offered by the trolley, which stops running at 11 p.m. dur­ing the week and 2:30a.m. on the weekend, and the late night van, "Blinkie," which runs for two hours after the trolley ends, students that need help can call the College's security at any time and be picked up by a security officer. 
Himczak said that if security is unable to come, they will help arrange other transporta­tion. 
"We want to help you the best we can, with the resources we have," Himczak said. 
While on campus, however, Saint Mary's students can feel safe. According to the annual crime report published by security, the College has enjoyed increasingly lower crime rates over the past three 
years. Of the crimes that are committed on campus, most are not threat­ening to the stu­dents. Most crimes, Himczak said, are petty. 
"Larceny and alcohol related incidents have been our largest reported inci­dent problems." Gariepy said. 
Although crime rate is not high at Saint 

Mary's, students should not dismiss suspicious activity because SMC crime can be kept low with the help of stu­dents. 
Ultimately, whether on cam­pus or off. the entire commu­nity can benefit from students being more conscious. Students are also urged to report any unusual incidents to security, Gariepy and Himczak said. 
"We encourage students to become involved in helping to maintain a safe campus by reporting any and all suspi­cious activity or criminal activ­ity." said Gariepy. 
Students who need assis­tance or suspect any unusual activity are encouraged to call 57 4-284-5000. 
Contact Meghan Price at mprice02@saintmarys.edu 






~--------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 9, 2009 
tive. "Folks in the Law School are
AT&T 

ecstatic," he said. "Reports I get back from students in Duncan
continued from page 1 

Hall is that all except for one quality and improved coverage, corner of the building are get­particularly in the building," he ting the acceptable coverage 
said. "And then, of course, customers will experience much improved data speeds." 
Manier said he has seen a definite improvement in the service in the law building. 
"As far as the coverage that we're experi­encing in the and the one cor­ner is the corner

"I was receiving any­
that is facingwhere from zero, one inward towards McGlinn. That's
or at most, two bars 
a very difficult

of service. Now I get 
corner to cover." almost four ifnot five Prior to the 
bars.,, new transmitter, Manier said AT&T had worse 
Dan Manier 

coverage than director Verizon Wireless Law School Information 
in the Eck Hall of Law, but now,
Technology 
AT&T outper­forms its com-

building, it's definitely better," petitor. Manier said. "That doesn't "Before, where we had just mean that we don't have times really awful AT&T service, when calls are cut off. It does Verizon was maybe not as happen, but in general, our awful but still in that category. coverage is much improved." It's just not reliable," he said. 
Latimer said reactions from "[Verizon service] is not as good Verizon will decide to improve coverage in the area now that AT&T has done so. 
"Often that's what happens when you've got two primary vendors in a situation like this. If one does it the other tries to follow suit so they don't lose business," he said. 
Latimer said Verizon and AT&T are the only companies who have chosen to put trans­mitters on campus, so their service is much better than companies like Sprint and T­Mobile, who do not have trans­mitters on campus. 
"We are always in open con­versations with [other cellular companies.] We would love to have them on campus. It's just up to them to make that deci­sion," he said. 
"And what we've always told the students is if the they are unhappy with their cellular cov­erage on campus then they need to call their cell phone company and complain," Latimer said. 
people in Duncan Hall and the now as the AT&T service." Contact Sarah Mervosh at Law Building have been posi-Manier said he hopes that smervosh@nd.edu 
Inspire 
continued from page 1 
was a huge gap with Notre Dame and the non-profit sector as a whole," Jacobs, the Inspire vice president, said. "We saw that need and decided that we could become that network that acts as the bridge between stu­dents and the non-profits." 
Colby said when she looked further into this apparent gap in non-profit resources on campus, she was surprised by what she found. 
"There just wasn't really any­thing, not even an organization of the alumni who have non­profits," she said. "I was kind of shocked since Notre Dame is so much about service." 
This lack of information and the immense interest they had found at the Oscar Night Gala led Colby and Jacobs to begin discussing forming a club. 
"We had the idea of this go-to network for support and inspi­ration for students interested and involved with the non-profit sector," Jacobs said. 
Two years later, that idea has transformed into Inspire, which holds its first official meeting tonight in LaFortune Student Center. While the club is a recent addition to campus, Jacobs is confident that Inspire will be a success. 

"Things are really coming together," he said. "We have a lot of devoted people involved and because of that I think that Inspire will hopefully expand into the future." 
The club already has plans for two events to take place this year that would be educational and charitable. 
"Ideally, I would like to do a seminar first semester and a charity event like the Oscar gala next semester," Colby said. "Eventually, I would like us to have an event each month." 
Colby has made sure that there are plenty of resources for the club members to consult should they decide to start their own organization. 
"I've been working closely with Tom Harvey, who is the administrator of the Non-Profit Master's Degree Program at Mendoza [College of Business], the alumni and non-profit organizations in the South Bend area," she said. "We have a lot of people from different areas helping us so I think that club has the potential to become large and campus-wide." 
While she has already found an abundance of resources for students, Colby is still working on bringing more people into the club for consultation and advice. 
"I don't want someone think­ing 'I'm 20 years old, I want to start a non-profit, how the hell do I do that'," she said. ''I'm try­ing to get a go-to guy at the law school who can help with the law aspects of setting up these organizations and some grad students have contacted me as well. We're continually branch­ing out." 
Colby said most importantly, she hopes Inspire can do for students just what the title says -inspire. 
"I want the club to inspire Notre Dame kids to go out and make the world a better place but in their own unique way," she said. "Whether that be on a local, national or international level I just want them to have the opportunity to do it." 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 


Richard B. Pierce II, 
Department Chair, Africana Studies: Juhn Cmlinal O'H,ml, CSC. Associ<He Professor of History 
Drive 
continued from page 1 

showed up. We would love to keep increasing the number who want to give." 
The number of donors so far in this year's event, Dukeman said, already is promising. 
"We had a completely full appointment list before the first drop of blood was drawn," he said. 
Dukeman said the event has its volunteers to thank for the first day's success. 
"The Notre Dame family makes this one of the biggest blood drives in this part of the country," he said. "Last semester, 235 pints were collected. According to the Red Cross volunteers who worked the event, this was the most they had ever collected over a two-day period. It couldn't be done without the people coming in and giving of themselves." 
Cadets Geralyn Janke and Griffin Bonnema were two of the Army volunteers staffing the event. Both echoed Dukeman's optimism about this year's event. 
"We've had a really good turnout," Bonnema said. "We have more than 20 appointments per hour, including more walk­
ills." 

Cadets like Janke and Bonnema, who worked the event in shifts with fellow cadets, ensured that volunteers sign in and read through the informational packet before donating. Donors were then required to go through a questionnaire and iron test. 
The two cadets said while giving blood is a gift itself, donors do have another incentive: Each day volunteers are entered into a raf­fle to win a $150 VIsa gift card. 
"We also have free Coke and cookies," Bonnema said. 
Kailyn Van Beckman, a senior cadet captain from Valparaiso University, worked with Dukeman to plan the event, as well as to publicize it. 
"[To inform potential donors,] we used posters and a USTSERV," Van Beckman said. "But if I could do it again I'd make it a Facebook group." 
The event continues tomorrow in the LaFortune Ballroom from noon until 6 p.m. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 


\$} 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
(;Ol.lliCii Of AR1S AND llirrf,ltS 
,--------­





ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 9, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE O:ssERVER:s WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Roadside bomb kills 4 US soldiers 
BAGHDAD -Roadside bombs killed four 
U.S. soldiers in Iraq on Tuesday, the military said, in the deadliest day for American troops in the country in weeks, as a series of bomb attacks along roads claimed eight Iraqi lives. 
The first roadside bomb struck a patrol in southern Baghdad, killing one American sol­dier, the military said. A short time later, another bomb targeting a patrol in northern Iraq killed three soldiers. the military said. 
The U.S. military, which pulled back from populated areas of Iraq before the end of June, has suffered fewer casualties in recent weeks. In August, seven U.S. troops died ­the lowest monthly toll since the war began in March 2003. 
Tuesday marked the deadliest day for U.S. forces since June 29, when four soldiers were killed by a roadside bomb in Baghdad. 
Tornado, mudslides kill 16 people 
BUENOS AIRES. Argentina -A violent storm that spawned a tornado and mud­slides killed at least 16 people across north­ern Argentina and southern Brazil, authori­ties said Tuesday. Dozens were injured in the winds and hail as their homes were destroyed. 
At least 10 died in Argentina, said Ricardo Veselka, civil defense director for the town of San Pedro, where the twister hit. 
"Whole houses disappeared," Veselka said. "There are posts down, trees down, and there are more than 50 injured." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Three great white sharks tagged 
BOSTON -A total of five great white sharks have now been electronically tagged ofT Cape Cod, allowing experts to track their movements and learn more about their migratory habits. 
The Massachusetts state office of Energy and Environmental Affairs said three sharks were tagged Tuesday off Monomy (MAW-no­may) Island, near Chatham. Agency spokesman Kate Plourd said the largest of the three was about 15 feet long. 
Two great whites were tagged Saturday by a harpooner working with a state shark expert. Officials said it was the first success­ful tagging of the creatures off Massachusetts. An attempt in 2004 failed when the device detached. 
The sharks were first spotted last week, prompting officials to close Chatham-area beaches to swimming over the Labor Day weekend. 
Budget prevents return to moon 
WASHINGTON -A White House panel of independent space experts says NASA's return-to-the-moon plan just won't fly. 
The problem is money. The expert panel estimates it would cost about $3 billion a year beyond NASA's current $18 billion annual budget. 
"Under the budget that was proposed, exploration beyond Earth is not viable," panel member Edward Crawley, a professor of aeronautics at MIT, told The Associated Press Tuesday. 
The report gives options to President Obama, but NASA's plans have to change. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Communities propose park bans 
LEBANON, Ind.-A central Indiana city is moving ahead with a proposal to ban con­victed sex offenders from public parks, and nearby town may consider such a move after the state Supreme Court rejected a request to throw out a similar ordinance. 
The court last month declined to hear a lawsuit seeking to overturn a ban in Plainfield, letting stand without comment a state Court of Appeals ruling upholding the 2002 ordinance. 
Lebanon Mayor Huck Lewis says an attor­ney is drafting the ordinance, which will like­ly be presented to the City Council Sept. 14. 
VIRGINIA 


Obama challenges nation'sstudents 
President encourages youth to take responsibility for education, success 
Associated Press 

ARLINGTON, Va.-In a pep talk that kept clear of politics, President Barack Obama on Tuesday chal­lenged the nation's stu­dents to take pride in their education -and stick with it even if they don't like every class or must over­come tough circumstances at home. 
"Every single one of you has something that you're good at. Every single one of you has something to offer," Obama told students at Wakefield High School in suburban Arlington, Va., and children watching his speech on television in schools across the country. "And you have a responsi­bility to yourself to discover what that is." 
Presidents often visit schools, and Obama was not the first one to offer a back-to-school address aimed at millions of stu­dents in every grade. 
Yet this one was doused with controversy from the beginning, as several con­servative organizations and many concerned parents warned Obama was trying to sell his political agenda. That concern was caused in part by an accompany­ing administration lesson plan encouraging students where at one point he He also told the group was delivered. Obama gave to "help the president," advised them to "be careful that not having a father at it virtually unchanged, and which the White House what you post on home "forced me to grow it was carried live on C­later revised and Education Facebook. Whatever you up faster." SPAN and the White House Secretary Arne Duncan do, it will be pulled up Asked to name one per­Web site. acknowledged Tuesday was again later somewhere in son -dead or alive -he "There is no excuse for wrongheaded. your life." would choose to dine with, not trying," he said. "The 
School districts in some "When I was your age," Obama said inspirational truth is, being successful is areas decided not to pro­Obama said, "I was a little leader Mohandas K. hard. You won't love every vide their students access bit of a goof-off. My main Gandhi. subject that you study. You to his midday speech. goal was to get on the var­"He's somebody I find a won't click with every 
Upon arrival at the sity basketball team and lot of inspiration in. He teacher that you have." school, Obama's motorcade have fun." inspired Dr. (Martin The school he chose as was greeted by a small One young person asked Luther) King with his mes­the setting for his talk ­band of protesters. One why the country doesn't sage of nonviolence," Wakefield -is the most carried a sign exclaiming: have universal health Obama said. "He ended up economically and racially "Mr. President, stay away insurance. "I think we need doing so much and diverse school in Arlington from our kids." it. I think we can do it," changed the world just by County, according to the 
Obama didn't mention Obama replied. The presi­the power of his ethics." Department of Education. the uproar. dent said the country can The White House Nearly 40 percent of grad­
He preceded his broad­afford to insure all released the text of his uating seniors pass an scale talk by meeting with Americans and that doing speech a day early so Advanced Placement test. about 40 Wakefield stu­so will save money in the school officials and parents That's more than twice the dents in a school library, long run. could evaluate it before it national average. 

GAZA STRIP 
UN. caughtin Gazadispute over Holocaust 
more than 600 primary and second­Palestinian refugees in Gaza protest­
Associated Press ary schools in Gaza, caught between ed what it said were plans to teach GAZA CITY -Gaza students won't the territory's Hamas leaders-some eighth-graders in U.N. schools about learn about the Holocaust this year. of them ardent Holocaust deniers -the Holocaust. Angry protests by Palestinians have and outraged Jewish groups. U.N. officials denied they had such disrupted tentative plans to introduce Some in Hamas accused the U.N. intentions for this school year and information about the Nazi genocide agency of trying to generate sympathy insisted they weren't scaling back in of 6 million Jews into the curriculum for Israel and conspiring against the response to public pressure. in U.N. schools. Palestinians. In turn, Jewish activists Regional agency chief Karen Abu The dispute touches on one of the demanded to know why the subject of Zayd suggested information about the largest psychological barriers dividing the genocide wasn't part of the Holocaust could be included in later Arabs and Jews: Arabs see the human rights syllabus in the first years, as part of lessons about the Holocaust as an excuse for Israel's place. 1948 Universal Declaration of Human creation, and Jews see Arab "Now we are being bashed from all Rights. UNWRA's Web site mentions Holocaust denial as a rejection of quarters," the agency's chief in Gaza, general plans to include the Holocaust Israel's right to exist. John Ging, told The Associated Press. in lessons on the "historical context The uproar has left the U.N. Relief The controversy erupted last week, that gave rise to" that declaration. and Works Agency, which runs 221 of after an umbrella group for 
= Th, Ob"'"" • NEWS



I~~ ------£~-~-e~-~============================================================================================~==e=d=ne=s=d=ay~=S=e~t=e=m=b=er==9,=2=0=0=9 
NY houses mentally ill in nursing hollle 
Associated Press 

ALBANY, N.Y. -New York state violated the Americans with Disabilities Act by housing more than 4,300 mentally ill people in large nursing homes rather than integrating them into the community, a federal judge ruled Tuesday. 
In a decision likely to affect similar cases in other states, U.S. District Judge Nicholas Garaufis of Brooklyn said that under federal law, the state must provide services to the dis­abled "in the most integrat­ed setting appropriate to their needs," enabling them to interact with people who aren't disabled as much as possible. 
Disability Advocates, the Albany-based nonprofit group that sued the state in 2003, said many people in adult homes would be better off in their own apartments -at no more cost to the state. 
"We're thrilled with today's decision," said Cliff Zucker, executive director of Disability Advocates. "We think it will make an extraordinary difference in the lives of more than 4,000 people who are now ware­housed in institutions when they could be housed in the community." 
Jill Daniels, spokeswoman for the state Office of Mental Health, said the agency was reviewing the ruling. She said it had no immediate comment. 
Ira Burnim, legal director for the Bazelon Center Mental Health Law in Washington, D.C., said his center is involved in similar legal challenges in Connecticut and Illinois. 
"I think this case will have a national impact," Burnim said. "One reason is that the decision itself is so com­pelling. It's very comprehen­sive in its findings of fact." 
He said the trial included persuasive testimony from prominent experts, such as Dr. Kenneth Duckworth, medical director of the National Alliance on Mental Illness. Duckworth testified that adult homes often were more institutional-like than the old state mental hospi­tals. 
In his 210-page decision, the judge said Disability Advocates had proven in a bench trial that virtually all its constituents were quali­fied to live in "supported housing," including apart­ments scattered throughout the community while receiv­ing needed services. 
The adult home system resulted from the practice nationwide in the 1960s and 1970s of moving people with mental illness out of large, regimented institutions. New York moved most patients out of state-run psychiatric hospitals and settled them into the community or prof­it-making adult homes. 
"The court found it was pretty much the luck of the draw," Zucker said. "If there were openings in the com­munity, the resident went there. Otherwise they went to adult homes -big insti­tutions." 
According to the court documents, the state has 380 adult homes; New York City has 44. Some homes house more than 120 to 200 people. 
During the trial, witnesses testified the large homes were in some respects more restrictive than the mental institutions they replaced. They told of lines of 200 res­idents waiting for medica­tions and residents having virtually no privacy. In addi­tion, witnesses said, the homes foster "learned help­lessness" because residents are not allowed to cook, clean, do laundry, or man­age their own finances. 
The court said the state failed to show that it would cost more to provide servic­es in a community setting than in an adult home. Moreover, the judge said, it would save Medicaid costs to move residents to apart­ments. When Medicaid costs are considered, the annual cost of serving a resident in supported housing is on average $146 cheaper than serving that person in an adult home, the court found. 
With the ruling, the state Office of Mental Health must propose a remedy. Disability Advocates will be able to cri­tique it. The judge will then issue an injunction spelling out what changes the state must make. 

Kellogg 
continued from page 1 
thing greater with their abroad experience, Rivers said, such as an internship or fellowship. 
"When students return to campus they are trying to process their experience and also trying to decide how to integrate their study abroad, summer experience or internship into their time at Notre Dame," Rivers said. 
"A lot of students worry that they learned something valuable, that their lives were changed and that they're going to lose that," she said. 
The Reentry Open House will offer guidance and advice to returning students so that they can enhance their eligibility for post-grad­uate careers, fellowships or graduate study. 
"Our students are now well qualified to do something greater with their time abroad," Hiver said. "And there are resources available to help them think more strategically and more cre­atively about their abroad experience." 
Reentry Sessions led by Cecilia Lucero, assistant director of Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement, and Lance Askildson, director of the Center for Study of Languages and Literatures, will also be available at 4, 5 and 6 p.m. 
"Both these centers are new this year to Notre Dame," Rivers said. "The ses­sions serve to help launch these new centers and acquaint students with the services available through them." 
Other information about grants, fellowships, confer­ences and classes will be available by the 28 different 
Notre Dame offices also pres­ent at the Open House. These offices include the Career Center, the Center for Social Concerns and the University Counseling Center. 
Hivers also encouraged stu­dents who have not yet been abroad to go to the Open House. 
"There are students who have never been abroad who show up because they are interested in the opportuni­ties and resources out there," Rivers said. "And quite frankly it is a great resource for that as well." 
The technology room will also be available so students can share their photos taken abroad. The Kellogg Institute also hopes to encourage stu­dents to reconnect with friends and share their expe­riences this evening at the Open House. 
Contact Carly Landon at dandon1@nd.edu 

Cal. senator focuses on erosion 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES Sen. Barbara Boxer on Tuesday urged the U.S. Department of Agriculture to focus on pre­vention of erosion when winter rains fall on areas blackened by California wildfires. 
"Erosion from steep hillsides will threaten water quality and often cause mudslides that damage property downstream and can seriously exacerbate flooding, as debris, mud and rocks clog flood basins," Boxer said in a letter to Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack. 
The California Democrat urged the department to use resources from such sources 
as the Emergency Watershed Protection program. 
The program provides funds and technical assistance to help local governments clear debris from watercourses, sta­bilize riverbanks and restore vegetation, according to the Web site of the department's Natural Hesources Conservation Service. 
The biggest current blaze, still burning northeast of Los Angeles two weeks after being ignited by arson, was 60 per­cent contained after blacken­ing 160,357 acres, or 250 square miles, of Angeles National Forest. 
Authorities have said the so­called Station Fire was ignited Aug. 26 along Angeles Crest Highway. Two Los Angeles County firefighters were killed Aug. 30 when their truck plunged off a mountain road. 
The county Board of Supervisors on Tuesday approved a $50,000 reward for information leading to the conviction of whoever set the blaze. The state has already offered a $100,000 reward. 
The major area of firefight­ing remained on the eastern end in the San Gabriel Wilderness. Authorities said fire activity continued to decrease, but unfavorable weather conditions forced another day's delay in planned backfiring operations. 

r-----------~-----~--­
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Wednesday, September 9, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 
Jones 9,497.34 +56.07 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,855 88 896 1,725,894,851 

AMEX 1tf44,6:3 :f22i9lit.
1 

NASDAQ 2,037.77 +18.1J9 
NYSE ·. 72 .·· ••..•.•. :7!iii" ' 
6, ... 6.<l ...·. ·. +8.8.94t. S&P 500 1,025.39 +8.99 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 10,393.23 . 0.00 FTSE 100 (London) 4,947.34 +14.16 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CmGROUP (C) -3.51 -0.17 4.68 FANNIE MAE {FNM) -7.91 -0.14 1.63 BK OF AMERICA CP (SAC) -0.41 -0.07 17.02 GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) +4.54 +0.63 14.50 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.78 +0.0270 3.47 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.00 0.125 30-YEAR BOND +0.89 +0.0380 4.31 5-YEAR NOTE +0.72 +0.0170 2.37 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +3.08 71.10 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -+3.10 999.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.55 84.43 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 92.3050 EURO 1.4510 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0797 BRITISH POUND 1.6519 

IN BRIEF Plan outlined for balancing budget 
EAST LANSING, Mich. -Gov. Jennifer Granholm said Tuesday she wants to balance the upcoming budget by cutting about half the $1.2 billion Senate Republicans have suggest­ed while raising about $550 million in expand­ed taxes and fees. 
Many of the ideas had been mentioned pre­viously but Tuesday was the first time the Democratic governor issued a written copy of her proposal. She said her plan has been on the table since Aug. 6 and includes phasing out an unpopular business tax surcharge over three years. The Republican-controlled Senate finished passing its own budget-balancing plan in June. 
But Democrats who control the House still are discussing how they want to tackle a $1.8 billion shortfall in the state general fund and a $900 million gap in the school aid fund in the budget year that starts Oct. 1. 
Granholm said no one wants a repeat of the 2007 state government shutdown. 
"The Senate has a plan. We have a plan," she said. "We now need for the House to move their plan. Once that is done, then we can move forward." 
Bid submitted for Sun-Times 
CHICAGO -A private investor group led by Chicago banker James Tyree has submitted a $5 million cash bid for newspaper publisher Sun-Times Media Group, which is currently in bankruptcy protection. 
STMG Holdings LLC also would assume $20 million worth of liabilities. Sun-Times Media, which owns the Chicago Sun-Times and 58 suburban Chicago newspapers and Web sites, filed for Chapter 11 in March. 
The company's statement late Tuesday didn't specify who is in the investor group or future plans for the newspapers. 
Tyree, the chairman of Mesirow Financial Holdings, has said his goal would be to keep the Chicago Sun-Times, the company's largest newspaper, as well as its other papers and Web sites. 
Sun-Times Media Group CEO Jeremy Halbreich says the agreement is a "very posi­tive step." 
The sale is contingent on agreement from unions and a judge's approval. 
Google battles for book deal 
Legal arguments criticize, praise company's deal for digital rights to online library 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO Microsoft Corp., Yahoo Inc. and a prominent antitrust lawyer urged a federal judge Tuesday to block a class-action settlement that would give Google Inc. the digital rights to a vast library of books. 
As that coalition warned of a literary cartel that would lead to higher prices and less competition, Sony Electronics, a technology trade group and economics professors came to Google 's defense by depict­ing the book deal as a breakthrough that would make millions of hard-to­find books available to anyone on the Internet. 
Tuesday's legal sparring came on the deadline for written arguments about a $125 million settlement that would entrust Google with a digital database containing millions of copyright-protected books, including titles no longer being published. 
But at least one more key document is expected before U.S. District Judge Denny Chin holds an Oct. 7 hearing in New York to review the settlement. The Justice Department has until Sept. 18 to file its brief, which may provide Tuesday on behalf of the the current standard of The Computer some inkling on whether Open Book Alliance, which about $10 per volume. Communications Industry antitrust regulators have includes Microsoft, Yahoo, "The publishing industry Association, a trade associ­determined if the deal Internet bookseller desperately wants to raise ation critical of Microsoft would hurt competition. Amazon.com Inc., other the retail price point for during its antitrust case in 
The settlement, reached companies and nonprofit digital books," Reback the 1990s, argued that last October, has raised the organizations. Microsoft wrote for the alliance. Google's nonexclusive specter of Google becoming and Yahoo, which compete "The book settlement per­agreement won't prevent even more powerful than it with Google in search, also mits them to achieve that other merchants from sell­already has become as the filed separate arguments; by working with Google." ing electronic books -if owner of the Internet's Amazon submitted its Google would give 63 they can spend an estimat­most popular search and protest last week. percent of its digital book ed $100 million to enter most lucrative advertising The alliance contends sales to the participating the e-book market. network. Google conspired with the authors and publishers. If anything, lawyers for 
Those concerns repre­author and publishing The settlement covers Sony Corp.'s electronics sented the crux of a 32-groups that sued the books under U.S. copyright division argued, the page brief written by Mountain View-based com­through Jan. 5, 2009, increased supply of books Silicon Valley attorney pany to make it more diffi­unless the copyright own­available through Google's Gary Reback, who helped cult for competitors to cre­ers decline to join the digital library would foster the Justice Department ate similar indexes of digi­agreement. more innovation and lower pursue an antitrust case tal books. The alliance con­Backers of the book deal prices for electronic read­against Microsoft's tends that competitive bar­-including 32 professors ers, including Sony's own. bundling of personal com­riers would empower specializing in antitrust However, fhe misgivings puter software in the Google, authors and pub­and economics law -con­about Google's settlement 1990s. lishers to the raise prices tend the antitrust concerns extend beyond its effects 
Reback filed the brief of digital books well above are unfounded. on the digital book market. 


Consumers cut debt by record $21.6B 
from June, the most on records dat­former Fed bank examiner. "It's true 
ing to 1943. Economists had expect­that consumers are being more 
WASHINGTON -Consumers ed credit to drop by $4 billion. responsible, saying 'I don't really slashed their borrowing in July by July's retreat translated into an need that extra credit card,' but it is the largest amount on record as job annualized decline of 10.4 percent. more related to banks clamping losses and uncertainty about the eco­That followed a cut of $15.5 billion in down on lending." nomic recovery prompted Americans June, or a 7.4 percent annualized But Erik Hurst, economics profes­to rein in their debt. drop, and was the most since a 16.3 sor at the University of Chicago 
Economists expect consumers will percent decline in June 1975. Booth School of Business, says it is continue to spend less, save more The latest cut still left total con­impossible to know for sure. "We are and trim debt to get household sumer credit at $2.4 7 trillion. seeing declines in demand for loans finances decimated by the recession Wary consumers and hard-to-get from consumers but also declines in into better shape. Such behavior, credit both factor into the scaled­the supply of loans from banks. How though, is a recipe for a lethargic back borrowing. But economists are much of the credit cutback is due to revival, because constJmer spending split on which force -lack of the decline in supply or demand, you accounts for 70 percent of economic demand by consumers or lack of sup­can't really tell." activity. ply from banks -is having the big­Last month, the Federal Reserve, in 
The Federal Reserve reported ger influence. a survey of bank loan oflicers, found Tuesday that consumers in July "It's really a tug of war," said Mark somewhat weaker demand for all ratcheted back their credit by a larg­Williams, professor of finance and types of consumer loans, the Fed sur­er-than-anticipated $21.6 billion economics at Boston University and a vey said. 
Associated Press 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, September 9, 2009 

Nickolodeon,MTY, Comedy Central get schooled 
Bill & Miranda Gates Foundation and Viacom Inc. partner to launch a campaign to reduce the number ofdropouts 
ketball star LeBron James and 
Associated Press 
President Barack Obama, but 
LOS ANGELES -Students the program's real focus is on who might be too glued to people behind the scenes, like their televisions to keep up a presidential speechwriter, with homework are going to and how education brought find channels like MTV, them success. Comedy Central and Dauman said the "Get Nickelodeon prodding them to Schooled" initiative would find get on task and graduate. its way into plot lines and pro­
The Bill & Melinda Gates grams, like BET's documentary Foundation is "Bring Your 'A' partnering with Game," which Viacom Inc.'s featured promi­
"All too often, the
television net­nent black men
value and benefit of
works, educa­who have tion leaders education are not achieved suc­and celebrities cess.
real enough to kids." 
to launch an But "we're not awareness going to go to all campaign to Tony Miller PBS-type pro­reduce the deputy secretary gramming," number of Dauman said.
U.S. Department of 
dropouts. "In order to
Education
"People reach kids, you should under-have to entertain stand how the them." system is falling short today Activism is not new for and how it really contradicts Viacom and its networks. MTV our commitment to equal has raised AIDS awareness, opportunity," said Bill Gates in promoted participation in elec­an interview with The tions and led other education Associated Press. "If we don't initiatives. . change it now, it will hurt the The Gates Foundation, start­future of the country as a ed by Microsoft Corp. founder whole." Bill Gates and his wife, has 
Only one-third of American invested more than $2 billion high school students graduate in educational programs since with the skills necessary to 2000. succeed in college and the At a Los Angeles event to nation's workplaces, said launch the "Get Schooled" Gates. campaign, New York City 
"All too often, the value and schools chief Joel Klein said he benefit of edu-was hopeful the cation are not approach would real enough to succeed because kids," said "We're not going to "trying to get Tony Miller, traction with the
do all PBS-type 
deputy secre­millions and mil­
program. In order to
tary of the U.S. lions of kids in Department of reach kids, you have school is some­Education. thing that's been
to entertain them."
Charities and a challenge." industry won't "When you have to go it Philippe Dauman bring the alone; about president and CEO resources and $100 billion of the vision that
Viacom 
the federal the Gates family stimulus pack-and foundation age is dedicat-has, coupled with ed to improvements in educa­the distribution assets that tion, said Miller. Viacom has -the role models, 
The "Get Schooled" initiative the glitz they can produce -it focuses on low graduation feels like a good mix of stuff rates in college and high that will capture kids," Klein school and the accountability said. 

Klein and others praised the New York City schools, said successes of charter schools, Klein. which have drawn the ire of In Los Angeles, the Board of union representatives and Education approved a resolu­school officials. An e-mail to tion that invites outsiders to the nation's largest labor submit proposals to develop union, the National Education new charter schools, while Association, was not returned increasing accountability stan­immediately Tuesday. dards. 
Privately operated schools Private charter school opera­undertook fresh approaches to tors, communities and the schooling, had happier teach­mayor's office will submit pro­ers and inspired healthy com­posals for the operation of 50 petition in achievement among new schools that will open 

over the next four years, as well as 200 existing schools that are chronic underper­formers. 
Tuesday's event coincided with a speech Obama made in Arlington, Va., on Tuesday that was broadcast to schools across the nation. In the address, Obama urged stu­dents to hit the books, saying that success is hard-won and every student has something they are good at. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall2010, SPRING 2011, AY 2010-11 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Monday, September 14,2009 6:00p.m. 155 DeBartolo 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2009 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2010-2011 
Applications Available Soon at www.nd.edu/-ois 
of teachers. Gates criticized the practice of salaries rewarding seniority over 

Building Bridges Speaker Series Presents proven efficacy, calling it a detriment to quality education. 
A student drops out of an American high school every 26 seconds, according to the Seattle-based Gates 

Dr. David Severson, Director of the Eck Institute for Global Health 
Foundation. At that rate, not enough American children are gradu­

"Global Health for the 21st Century at Notre Dame: The Eck Institute ating high school and college to stay competitive in the glob­al marketplace, said Viacom 
for Global Health" President and CEO Philippe Dauman. 
"We don't know much about substance, we're about fluff at Viacom," Dauman said with a laugh. The Viacom chief, 

Wednesday, September 91h7:00pmwhose networks also include VI-11, CMT, Spike TV, TV Land and Logo, said he told Gates a 
Jordan Hall ofScience Room 101 year ago, "We know kids, we know how to reach them; if you provide the substance we can be the megaphone." 
To launch the five-year cam­paign, the documentary "Get Schooled" was set to premiere on all of Viacom's networks simultaneously at 8 p.m. EDT 

Multicultural Student Programs and Services 
Tuesday night. The documentary features pop singer Kelly Clarkson, bas­


I
I 
Wednesday, September 9, 2009 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
EGYPT 
Sudan frees won1an convicted of wearing trousers 
Associated Press 
CAIRO -A woman journalist convicted of public indecency for wearing trousers outdoors was freed Tuesday, despite her own desire to serve a month in prison as protest against Sudan's dra­conian morality laws. 
The judge who convicted Lubna Hussein had imposed a $200 fme as her sentence, avoid­ing the maximum sentence of 40 lashes in an apparent attempt to put an end to a case that had raised international criticism of Sudan. 
But Hussein refused to pay the fine, which would have meant a month's imprisonment. She told The Associated Press that she was freed Tuesday after the fine was paid without her knowledge by the Journalist Union, which is headed by a member of the rul­ing party. 
"I had no choice. All my friends knew I didn't want to pay the fine," Hussein said, speaking by phone from Khartoum. "I had chosen prison, and not to pay the fine in solidarity with hundreds of other women jailed" under this law. 
Hussein said she suspects that the authorities don't want her to spend any time in the prison in Omdurman, on the outskirts of Khartoum, where she said at least 800 women are serving time, many of them convicted under the indecency law. 
"I wanted to make reports from inside the prison. Maybe they were unnerved by my pres­ence in prison," she said. 
Fayez Selik, the editor in chief of the pro-south newspaper Ajras al-Hurriya, or Freedom Bells, said the government freed Hussein to end their "predica­ment." 
Mohieddin Titawi, the head of the Journalist Union, said he paid the fine out of duty toward a member of the union. 
"I didn't get permission from the government or from Lubna," he said from Khartoum. "I know my duty very well and I inter­vened to get a journalist out of prison." 
Ever since her arrest in July, the 43-year-old Hussein has used her case to draw attention to Sudan's indecency law, which allows flogging as a punishment for any acts or clothing that is seen as offending morals. Human rights campaigners say the law is vague, that its enforce­ment is arbitrary and that south­ern Sudanese in the capital ­who are mostly Christians -are often targeted. 
Sudan's government imple­ments a conservative version of Islamic law in the north, and "public order" police enforce the laws, banning alcohol, breaking up parties and scolding men and women who mingle in public. In mostly Muslim northern Sudan, many women wear traditional flowing robes that also cover their hair, but it is also not uncommon for women to wear trousers, even though conserva­tives consider it immodest. 

Under the 2005 peace deal that ended a more than 20-year civil war between the Muslim north and the Christian and ani­mist south, laws -including the indecency law-are supposed to be reviewed to respect human rights and freedom of expres­sion. 
Hussein was arrested in July with 12 other women in a public cafe in Khartoum and were charged with violating the inde­cency law for wearing trousers in public. Ten of them were flogged shortly afterward after they accepted summary trials ­as many women do to avoid the social stigma of a public trial on morality charges. 
Hussein, however, decided to take the case to court to show the injustice of the law and its effect on women. Her case drew heavy condemnations from inter­national human rights groups. 
A spokesman for the U.N. human rights office in Geneva denounced the Sudanese treat­ment of women for wearing trousers. Rupert Colville said the $200 fine imposed on Hussein violated the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. 
"This is not my case alone. This is a case of all the Sudanese women and the society," Hussein said Tuesday when asked if she would appeal the court decision. She said she would consult with supporters before deciding if it is worth filing an appeal. 



• MiaolliJt alrltamiiii'D, liiiCII -viruses end ..... lllilidl ..., 001118
University of Notre Dame frOIFII ~ ....,... p~M&$, ti8JIIic ..... ~ ~ ~~wildloi(le 
• ~~.IUdlasMIIIsand~IIIHdt~be.......,_ 
OCQJtJing or .-.. from Ul1l8n ~tunoll. indUStNII or dGmMtie 11.......~---~arlid~­
• Olgenic ~COJllalnll..ll$. ~~ _, !llllallllt OIIJIIRie ~~-t~t~d~~-~ ~or can-from on~-Ulilllll$bl~ tail! urdf. .­
l'hii-"*'*•IIJthe tll!illl ~ OM!uaD w-A«...---"""*­$11plic sy&terns. 
$UilCllr 10 ~........ quelly,.,., filled the eon-~~ • ~oonlanil!alls, ~ <:an be ~or-lbe {Cat) F~II ~he~·__. ftiiPOitlor ...2llOa .....,_ Yfl¥. 
r.ulld oil .and 1J8$ ~and mining lldivifies 
The~· ...... ~•• ~OWfied P"t*-"''IPPY ~ 
Some polllllp6f may be-IIIMIKablttiO ~1114rinldRQ lllliiBr ._,1be 
by IIIII UlilliH ~-The ~-~ St*lm jii'O'<IIdes -IIJ ... 
getlllfal poputdotl. ~ willl ~ ~~-.,..,.,.
~wmmunity...:ltne~C.$.C. ~-~~IIMI 
who nave~ organ~-p!II'IIQilf wi111 HN/AIOO or OChef ,__
~y$18<11 or ~....,.. t:1n be diAic:ted 10 P.llli I<Mlpf. ~of ~­t02 f-*'H Buting, Heft Oame. IN 46556. phone !1>7'4 &3111fi9.101 ~ syUem ~--~and #ants C8ll be ~ :a...... ~-~ ~-Rllk ~and~. 1136 G<we Hal. These ~ 1llhi:dd -* advice abwt dtrilllg ....., ffoln li'IIW I'IQIJh elM Nan Dime. IN ~. pliDAit 514&1!1037 PfC)IWider$ EPNCOC ~on ~_.to le6an ht _. d 
ln(ecBon from~ llll'ld ~QOr!lalrlii•a -lMiiiable lronllbe Then!-QIII'MIIy ......14ifW19 ...-6yllllem. !Iii~ 01! ...~ Sale ~ Willer Holllne (1.800. ..&264791) 01 at the EPA'$ .,... ._ piOpllf Thll-.....from dNp ~-~by~ dey 
www!M~ 

bM1el$ '*_.,ptot.llct ...~tuPPlt We Clllnol ~lba­SOI>Rll ill \'lllnetllble 10 ~ W.-WIG~ 111ep1 to-~bat 
Infants and )'OUil9 ~en-~ more~ to le$J ill dMkift8 ....-
OUt -_,.,.. does oot toocomiO ~ ~ QUI' Well\nd 
11181! 1t1e ~population. m!19lWari, • JOU fltl*h .,our· Ol)td • 1111111 ttw water 
~Plogrtlm This l)l'(91lm .... in~ ......... ..... llf.4llllr 
get$ e5 cold as lt IS PIIJ to gel, you will '-ve ellmil'ulted the potenlial fl'llell!ll
conwslrorn ni!Oilfllodstoproledlhe ~frorn~~ 
COI1IIamiNitbn. ~d0111111bon iJ ~ftt.mlhe &lie~ w.­Tha-of~-(llOift gop ....and bo411ed) ..aucllr tiwft...... Delilibelas
Holline (1.800.426A-1$1}or at 1t1e EPA's ~._ WW'W !C!i~tiii!­--pond&.-·...and ..... ,.. _,....._.,._,_ 
~ MalrimumQoi........~tMCL, 'file.....~.... t • i 

of llleii!IGor hough llle$11wnd.l~ --,.~ ,__..-'·'" W• hawlesied tor-150 ~~by1he EPA and lhll 8111111 d 
~--dining ......

--.~~--....SQflpldo\ll)~~._ Indiana. lndudOO in lt-. tests ~ mei!M, ~ ~-~­......,... _, "--lldio!lv-~-~OIQIInil;~andeyanidll. 
!!9&: ~Ct~wUw•• u.Gall (lllCl.G}. n....,.••....,...,....,. at whldllbere is nou-« tiiiJIIIICIIId ._.,.

OookinQ .....-.llldudlng boiled ..........~be~ to OCIO'ltBI al 
leest __..._..ot_ Water Quality Data
~. The~of~lloos 

t!OC~~ ... -.-.Illlllllhlillil. t.be~lltiO!II JifJi!!!!;. pans per flllllion. QDIIIi!QUMS and J)CIIen1illi bNIIIt illlecis c.lll be ~ l:lr c:aling N The l.abl&bldowlisaltle EPA'stegulaled arid~~ EIMrol........., ~ Aglloo(s (EPA) s.r. O<rilwlg w* HuliN dlllilded in the UI'IN~sily's ~water:. AId!hecontamlr•lk -~:~e~c~w 
-p;!IIIISpetbllm.

(1.100<l28.4791)or•ltleEPA's~•!I!!!W•ll!!!! ' _. ~leYela­
9!t" ~: 90'lfo d\tle ~-........---llllllld

eo........... lll8t ll1ili>t toe expeded 10 ..ill--,........, 1I01IIIIIf} 
Hot inC:IIId8d in1tielal*-file-tflaA 150 Olh!v ~~ 
tndudlf: 
~.llelbicidM.~.~OI'giiiPic~. ~~ 
d.:.~PIIf­~and other~~ wl'idl-~and not~. Sioc# 1993, lhll ~bl~Jbeel'lfl**ld• SID!llia ............. f~(SNF1).monitiWI·-· Or.ietolllll.....,d...-.. !lle ~~-......,.11111101:811 




' 
THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday September 9, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary jesse 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarir:y 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR·IN·CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asreiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
ViEWPOINT DESK 
(574} 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersporrs@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnOl@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universir:y of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advenisemenrs, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advenisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majorir:y ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor-in-Chiefjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ObSI!rvc:r (USPS 599 l-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during ex.1rn and vacariou periods. A ,.ubscription to The Observer is $110 for one aco~demic year; $65 fur one semester. 
The Observer is publWlcd ar: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send addro;:; oorn:c;;tions to: 
Nom:: Dame, IN 46556-0779 TheObscrv~ 
Periodical pcsmge paid at Nm~ Dame P.O. Box779 and additional mailing ufficcs. 024 Somh Dining Hall 
Notre D.uru:, lN 46556-0m 
1be-Observer-is a member ofthe Auodarcd Press. AU reproduction rights art =rm!. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Katie Peralta Michael Bryan Sarah Mervosh Doug Farmer Ann-Marie Molly Sammon Woods Graphics Viewpoint Sofia Iturbe Patricia Scene Fernandez Jordan Gamble 

Eddy Street Commons, not quite enough 
I was both surprised and relieved to see Eddy Street back open last Thursday as I biked back to my house on the south side of campus. As a stu­dent returning from abroad last semester, I missed almost all of the 
rumors and con­ 
jecture concern- Jason Coleman  
ing what would  
be going into the new Eddy Street  Man at Large  

Commons development, and was shocked to see how much progress had been made since I had left. 
While there is still much to go, with the buildings still appearing as if they came straight out of "The Truman Show," I am disappointed at what I saw: a Follett bookstore, a Five Guys, a Chipotle and a large full service hotel in the works. It isn't that I don't like any of these places by them­selves, or won't be a patron in the future, it just seems that Kite Reality, and the oversight team from Notre Dame, missed a golden opportunity to make a truly memorable and unique contribution to the students. 
We all love Chipotle. I know that. It opens in three weeks, and the line will undoubtedly be out the door and down the street. However, it seems that our college experience would be made richer had Kite Reality really tried to bring in some local, inde­pendent flavor: a place to stop in late at night with interesting characters servicing the counter and a place to create some real tradition. Think the type of restaurants Adam Richman, the "Man Vs. Food" host goes for: The friendly, fun kind where they stick your picture on the wall if you can 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
lF PREB\PE~T Of'AMA \ELL~ \\\D&; To ~1AY \N 6Ct-\ooL... 
OBSERVER POLL 
What did you think of the Dillon Pep Rally? 
Uked it Didn't like it Didn't go 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

eat a 14-pound hamburger. None of us will ever consider the Five Guys at Eddy Street Commons a defining eatery in our college eareer, and it will not be the first place we hit up when we come back for football games. 
For those who claim these types of places don't exist in South Bend, look harder. On the east side of campus alone is Between the Buns, the Original Pancake Ilouse (which, admittedly, is a chain), Nick's Patio and the hidden ofT-campus gem, Julio's (open till four on weekends). Moving south on 23 into downtown is Lula's, the only independent coffee shop anywhere near eampus; Parisi's, for those upscale dates; and Rocco's, the godfather of' Notre Dame restau­rants. In fact, last Saturday night as I was standing out on my front pnreh, a ear full of Notre Dame fans coming from the game asked me out of their window where that "world famous pizza joint around here." Yeah, they weren't looking for Chipotle. 
Furthermore, the south neighbor­hood of' students has suffered a blow with brand new apartments going up that are expensive, and neither mar­keted nor created for undergraduate students. The east neighborhood of campus has benefited from serious development of student housing (Irish Row, Wexford Place, Stadium Club, etc.) through a series of prices ranges, in close proximity to each other. Not only has this made condi­tions safer, but it also has helped local businesses and minimized some town-gown problems by consolidating loud, intoxicated students to common 
1\-\~'< N\16\-\T 6"R.oW UP To BE. Et/UC.J\l"ED \fdTERfJ... 
areas (around Vaness and Willis Streets). 
The south neighborhood doesn't have any of these advantages. Most students live in a hodgepodge of houses and apartments stretching for a number of blocks south of campus sprayed among regular neighborhood folks and boarded up houses. There is not a large enough concentration in any given point either to support local business, or to develop a sort of' student area where students would be less disturbing to each other than to neighbors not pleased by loud music at late hours of the night, and kids stumbling around the front yard. 
The "Foundry," as it is cryptically called, will not in the least provide a nucleus around which south neigh­borhood student housing can be cen­tered. The number of apartments eventually available will be nothing compared to Clover Hidge or the apartments formerly known as Turtle Creek, and it all remains prohibitively expensive for an average student. 
However, as far as I can tell from Kite Realty's development plans online, there is still some open retail and restaurant space, and if we are lucky, we may still get a great little coffee shop, unique Asian restaurant or at least a place on the south side where you could get a decent sub sandwich. 
Jason Coleman is a senior account­ing major. He can be contacted at coleman. 70@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
,, A\-tP 1\-\El{ WE'L\.. N£V£R 
6t.T BACK \N 
fbW£~ 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I mean everyone kills people, murders people, steals from !J.OU, steals from me, whatever. ' 
Terrelle Pryor Ohio State quaterback 





~­
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 9, 2009 
page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Die with dignity 

I was almost amused by Professor Rice's reading of the infamous "death panel" legislation ('"Obamacare' raises problems;" Sept. 8). After all, it takes a special combination of vision and creativity to interpret the bill in the man­ner he suggests. The language of the bill simply adds advanced care plan­ning and end-of-life consultations to the list of "medical services" covered under Medicare, giving it coverage comparable to cancer and diabetes screening, psychologist services and other preventative services. 
Bottom line: If a person chooses to talk about end-of-life issues with a doc­tor, Medicare will cover the cost of that appointment. To read that provision as the first step in a secret congressional plot to encourage "Grandma ... to relieve the burden on her family" (presumably by killing herself) takes a uniquely macabre mentality. Like all other provisions of Medicare, such con­sultations would be voluntary, and according to the Associated Press the bill "would block funding for counseling that presents suicide or assisted suicide as an option." 
But while I was almost amused, I was mostly saddened that Professor Rice would try to dissuade people from engaging in end-of-life planning with scare tactics, and that he would try to prevent the government from paying for those who wish to plan ahead but are reliant on Medicare. 
I'm not sure if Professor Rice has ever watched a love one pass away (I pray that he has not), but I have. My father died of cancer in 1992, only three months after he was first diagnosed. I watched hiin and my mother struggle to plan for the future while he was lying on what would become his deathbed. I saw the number of decisions that had to be made. And while they shielded me from the painful realities of the situation, I'm sure they dis­cussed palliative care, resuscitation orders and what would happen when things got bad. Fortunately, my father was covered under private insurance; if he had been on Medicare under current law, meetings with a doctor to dis­cuss these issues may not have been covered. 
I understand that Professor Rice has serious issues with President Obama (he as previously compared the President to the "Fuhrer" who made the Nazis look "unimaginative and primitive by comparison," and further implied that there are "serious questions as to Obama's eligibility for the office" ("No Confrontation Necessary," March 31). But some issues should be above partisanship. Living wills and advance care directives are about empowering sick and dying individuals to effectuate their own will even when they cannot speak; to receive care for as long as they wish, but for no longer; and to die with dignity and peace of mind. For a man so devoted to the value of life, I would have thought Professor Rice would have understood that. · 
Bryan MacKenzie 
law student 
off campus 
Sept. 8 

Two forks and a knife 
Dear North Dining Hall staff, 

Please put the spoons back to where they belong. Although it would seem to make sense to put the spoons by the cereal, it would be much better to have them with the forks and knives so people can get all of their utensils in one quick hand motion. That is all. 
Regards, 
Kevin Eller sophomore Stanford Hall Sept. 7 


Missing the Point 

Perhaps we on this campus have a misunderstanding of what exactly con­stitutes art. If art is what is visually appealing to us and makes us feel warm and fuzzy after viewing it, we have some cleaning up to do around here. 
Emaciated women are not beautiful ... sorry Suite; rape is not beautiful ... see ya, "Loyal Daughters and Sons;" impoverished villages are not beautiful ... no photo displays for you, Center for Social Concerns; at the risk of sound­ing heretical, some might even say the image of the crucified Christ is quite disturbing. 
While I thoroughly appreciate the concern for the mental and physical health of the students on campus, to speak of censoring images such as those in Lauren Greenfield's "Thin" is to deny the validity of the suffering the women featured in the exhibit have endured. 
Do you think if you avert your eyes from something ugly its atrocity will go away? Eating disorders and negative body image are a huge problem for women and men alike. The beauty in Greenfield's photography is not in the skin and bones of the women whose lives she chronicles; the beauty we find in their continued fight against their illness and, most importantly, in our internal reflections the exhibit promotes. 
No one is leaving "Thin" wishing they had the lives of the women featured; rather, the exhibit causes us to think seriously about the way we view our­selves and the potentially dangerous consequences of undue negativity in our personal body image. 
I encourage everyone to stop by the Suite and check out the exhibit. 
Kathleen Shircliff junior Badin Hall Sept. 8 


The polVer of itnage 
Tuesday's Viewpoint provided a fascinating juxtaposition. "Exhibit indeed." (Sept.8) asked the Suite to stop exploiting powerful imagery for entertainment, whereas "Fanatacism over IKEA font change" accused those protesting a change in IKEA's catalog font as frivolous and misguided. I encourage you to judge both on their own merit. 
However, I would like to point out that these articles, though seemingly unre­lated (and certainly of different gravity), are part of a much larger discussion over the power of the image in our increasingly visual society. 
More than any generation before us, we are constant consumers of image. We absorb thousands of advertisements, images, words and by extension thoughts every day when we open our laptops, turn on the TV or even just drive down the street. In this environment of overwhelming imagery density, design and art become very powerful as a means of distilling this massive cloud to its bare essentials. Photography, particularly photojournalism, graphic design, logos (and even, yes, a catalog font choice) are becoming increasingly powerful in shaping how we perceive groups of people, companies and brands, and even political candidates. 
It would be a hard case to claim that Barack Obama won the election thanks to his marvelous use of the Gotham typeface, but his campaign's tight and consis­tent control over image and brand certainly helped build a sense of what it meant to be an Obama supporter. This is an immense power, and bears the weight of a great responsibility. 
As I said, I encourage you to see "Thin" if you haven't and judge for yourself. If nothing else, I guarantee that the experience will be an education in the power of art and image, as well as a troubling exploration of the moral responsibility which that power bears. 
While I would never claim that IKEA faces a decision of similar moral impor­tance when they choose how to use their own image, I would encourage a care­ful reader not to dismiss such debates as frivolous out of hand. 
joe McLean senior off campus Sept. 8 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

MAJ<ING SAUSAGE 


--l 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE I 
Wednesday, September 9, 2009 
By COURTNEY ECKERLE, "Gossip." Between Pam and orful characters attempt to will pick up with Seattle ADRIANA PRATT, KELLY Jim's pregnancy (as well as remedy the effects of the down Grace's latest trials and tribu­GOLDEN, MAIJA GUSTIN, their impending marriage), economy by finding their way lations: the possible deaths of lAUREN HRANAC and LESLIE Michael's unrequited love for out of a Ponzi scheme, accept­both George and Izzie, SHUMATE Holly and Dunder Miffiin's con­ing payment to act as a· surro­Meredith and Derek's Post-It Scene Writers tinuing troubles in the failing gate mother and marketing note marriage, and Bailey's economy, those in the office "kitten mittens." The friends decision to become a single will undoubtedly have much to seem to have learned nothing mother. Whether it is medical
The Vampire Diaries 

discuss. The upcoming season from their previous escapades, or relationship-centered, the
The CW. Thursdays 8 p.m. 

holds potential to develop promising the same politically constant drama in Seattle
Premieres Sept. 10 

these stories as well as new incorrect humor that has made Grace is sure to keep the atten­Based on the book series by ones, all through the hilarious the show so popular. From tion of "Grey's Anatomy" fol­
L.J. Smith, "The Vampire 

repartee that is unique to "The staging interventions to "going lowers.
Diaries" follows a small-town Office." green," the gang's good inten­beauty and her brooding vam­

pire male lead. Stefan tions land them in predica­v Community ments that promise to elicit as ABC, Tuesdays at 8 p.m.
Salvatore (Paul Wesley) 

NBC, Thursdays 9:30p.m. many laughs as they do horri­Premieres Nov. 3
becomes obsessed with Elena Premieres Sept. 17 fied groans. This fall, ABC is diving into(Nina Dobrev), a girl who is a 

NBC is hoping for the next the world of science fiction
dead ringer (no pun intended) big comedy hit as it prepares with "V." The series, based on

for an old love. The two bond Flash Forward 
to launch the season premiere a mini-series of the same name
over journal writing, angst­ABC, Thursdays at 8 p.m.
of "Community," a quirky new from 1983, centers on an alien
filled stares and trendy cloth-. Premieres Sept. 24 
show that follows one man's race that comes to Earth in the
ing. Their love, which is "Flash Forward," already
quest for a law degree. Jeff guise of
fraught with the usual peril, is being advertised as a
(played by Joel McHale, friendly
in immediate jeopardy when successor to 
also host of "The Stefan's less than upstanding 
Soup"vampire brother, Damon (Ian 
E!).
Somerhalder) using smoke and crows as an entrance, comes to town. Elena finds her­self in a danger­ous love triangle just as the peo­ple around her are being attacked by a mysterious assailant. 
The show plays on many vampire myths. While "Twilight" and "True Blood" 

choose to keep ... 
away from dis­torted faces 


CAUTIOI 
when the fangs 
'-"' 
come out, "Diaries" seems to mix between that and Joss Whedon's ani­malistic morph­ing, in a bug­eyed Dorian­Gray-like aging transformation that the CW still makes look attractive. \ 


Gossip Girl ! -'
.. » 
The CW. Mondays at 9p.m. 
Premieres Sept. 14 {"':;'->~ 
_i:" ~­
You know you missed it. 
,-_.'\
"Gossip Girl" is back with more ,w': . ­excitement than ever. Last sea­
•1 A
son's cliflhanger left fans won­practic--,~ "Visitors." The

dering what will happen when the mysterious island
ing lawyer, Visitors quickly win favor
Blair (Leighton Meester) finds drama ends this spring, is a 
gets his license revoked after amongst much of the human
out Georgina (Michelle new ABC show based on an
the state realizes that he population by curing rare dis­
Trachtenburg) is going to be award-winning novel by
obtained his law degree from eases and generally contribut­
her roommate at NYU, if Lily Robert J. Sawyer. A bizarre
Colombia the country, not ing to the overall wellness of
and Rufus's long-lost child will event across the globe for­
Columbia University. Desperate Earth. However, all is not as it
finally meet his real parents wards everyone to six months 
to get back to practicing, Jeff seems. Homeland Security
and what will become of the in the future temporarily. A
attends a community college agent Erica Evans (Elizabeth
"Gossip Girl" gang when they curious Los Angeles-based FBI 
,, 
where he begins a study group Mitchell, "Lost") learns that the
split up and go to separate col­agent (Joseph Fiennes,
with many insightful and hilar­Visitors have been placing
leges? Will Jenny rule her high "Shakespeare In Love") assem­
ious characters, including a sleeper agents in governments
school as the new queen bee? bles a team to discover what
five-time divorcee played by and businesses across the
Will Blair and Chuck (Ed happened. They also create a
the lovable Chevy Chase. planet in a bid to take over the
Westwick) finally have a suc­database compiling everyone's 
world. The show follows Erica
cessful relationship? What will "flash forwards" from around
It's Always Sunny in and company as they attempt
happen to Serena (Blake the world. Other actors star­
to fend off the alien invaders.

Lively) when she leaves the city Philadelphia ring in "Flash Forward" 
"V" also stars Morris Chestnut
to head to Brown? The season FX, Thursday 10 p.m. include John Cho ("Harold and 
("Not Easily Broken"), Alan
premiere will answer these Premieres Sept. 17 Kumar Go To White Castle"), 
Tudyk ("Dodgeball"), and Scott 
questions and more as all the Irreverent, crass and utterly Jack Davenport ("Pirates of the 
Wolf ("Everwood"). 

friends reconvene at summer's hilarious, FX's "It's Always Caribbean") and Dominic end. You know you love it. Sunny in Philadelphia" returns Monaghan ("Lost"). XOXO. Gossip Girl. for its fifth season. Charlie 
(Charlie Day), Mac (Rob Grey's Anatomy Contact Courtney Eckerle at 
The Office McElhenney), Dennis (Glen ABC, Thursdays 9 p.m. cecker 1 @saintmarys.edu, NBC, Thursdays 9 p.m. Howerton). Sweet Dee (Kaitlin Premieres Sept. 24 Kelly Golden at Premieres Sept. 17 Olson) and Frank (Danny ABC is bringing back every­kgolde 1 @saintmarys.edu, Maija 
"The Office" concluded its DeVito) are back to their old one's favorite guilty pleasure, Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu, Lauren fifth season with a humorous antics managing Paddy's Pub -"Grey's Anatomy," and the new Hranacat outbreak of serious events, and possibly the most poorly run season promises to be as dra­lhranaO 1 @saintmarys.edu, Adriana the latest season will open with bar in Philadelphia. matic and emotional as its Pratt at apratt@nd.edu and Leslie an episode appropriately titled This season, the show's col-predecessors. The sixth season Shumate at lshumate@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 





By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 
Fox only has three new series premiering for its fall lineup, and the shining star is quirky comedy "Glee." The show is unlike anything on tel­evision right now, and although it does have the proven combi­nation of high school and musi­cal, "Glee" adds more realistic obstacles and teenage angst into the mix. Only one episode has aired, but already it has the kind of cult-like following that can either help (think "Lost" or "The Office") or hurt a show ("Veronica Mars" or "Arrested Development"). 
The producers took a risk by airing it in May after "American Idol," and then not again until its fall lineup pre­miere on Sept. 9, but it seems absence makes the heart grow fonder. A shopping mall tour, ComicCon screening and a "Biggest GLEEk" contest kept the hype building for the show throughout the summer. 
But the multifaceted cam­paign strategy had a purpose: to display this complex show and reach a broad audience that otherwise might not tune 
in. 
"Glee" centers around an Ohio high school singing troop, and starts out with a typical pecking order division of school groups. Teasers show that when this rainbow coalition of misfit toys gains confi­dence and tal­ent, the social order is all shook up -and that's just the beginning of the shaking that this group is doing. 
The show's first single from the pilot episode, a reworking o Journey's "Don't Stop Believing," shot to the No. 1 ranking on the iTunes chart. A venture this toe­tapping hasn't come out of Hollywood since the 1990's "Sister Act" movies. Versions of "Gold Digger" and "Push It" released over the summer showcased how musically diverse this show will be, rang­ing from 1980s 
rock to hip-hop and R & B. Jane Lynch is perfection as "Cheerios" squad leader Sue, 

creating a villain with only a few caustic one liners, includ­ing "Get the agony out of your eyes!" and "You think this is hard? I'm living with hepatitis, that's 
hard." 

Lea Michele's over-achieving Rachel Berry is the perfect incarnation of "that girl" -the girl with color­coded notes who always sits in . front and asks lengthy questions just as the pro­fessor is about to dismiss class early. At first the audience is unsure if she's going to suc­ceed in her lofty goals or pull a Carrie and burn the school down. Fortunately, it's the former. The sur­prising part isn't how quickly she makes Rachel a relatable character, it's how long they take to let her sing. Like her 
character, Michele has star power to the extreme, and her voice is easily the strongest in the cast, and when she belts out "On My Own" from Broadway's "Les Miserables," you can tell she (and her char­acter) have incredible talent. 
The only sour note comes with Jessalyn Gilsig's (seen last season on NBC's "Heroes") Terri, the wife of Glee club leader Will Schuester. She's a bed-and-bath-product-crazed harpy of a wife. It's a bit unbe­lievable that Mr. Schuester (played by the underrated Matthew Morrison) could be trapped by such a vacant and manipulative nut-job and not even realize how unhappy he is. 
This off-beat comedy is sure to add some sass to the fall shows, especially with its diverse characters and lyrical spin on the David vs. Goliath story line that makes you want to root for "Glee" despite its shortcomings. 
"Glee" premieres tonight at 9 pm. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at 
ceckerOl@saintmarys.edu 

By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Assistant Scene Editor 
"Glee," a quirky amalgama­tion of movies like "High School Musical" and "Election" and TV series like "Freaks and Geeks," has a lot riding on its success this fall: an already cult-like fol­lowing, one-third of Fox's new show lineup, and about $3 mil­lion per episode. 
That's a pretty hefty price tag for a show that has all the indi­cators of a quick fizzle at first glance. It sure looks like a niche show, what with its Broadway renditions and obscure pop-cul­ture references. 
But according to an April arti­cle in the Los Angeles Times, series creator Ryan Murphy (also known for other quirky, and edgy shows like "Nip!fuck" and the short-lived but delicious "Popular") is hoping that with the right marketing and com­mitment to high standards, the show can push the boundaries of network television. 
"I think they are all wanting to break out of the box: What is network television? What can it be? Every once in a while, 
something comes along that's 
just different. 
it works, sometimes doesn't. I think we're on the same page th it's great to attempt it, 
he said. The show's songs have consistently racked up downloads on iTunes, especially as teaser se from upco episodes have released to kee interest fro slacking off. Murphy has sug­gested that Fox will produce sev­eral "Glee" albums a sea­son, but might be likely viewers will race online to purchase the featured music after each episode. REO Speedwagon's "Can't Fight This Feeling," Salt-N-Pepa's "Push It," and Amy Winehouse's "Rehab" are just a few of the songs "Glee" has retooled with 
a cappella vocals from the cast. The licensing fees and royalty ............t~ayouts involved in 
e a c h 
episode's music selection takes up a chunk of that $3 million, but hopefully the popularity of the "Gleeked" versions will defray the cost. 

So far, every song has been a cover, and there are few indica­tions that the show will start 
creating original music. 
The characteriza­
tions present­
in the pilot 
the sensitive 
ock, the 
itchy cheer­
leader, the 
overachieving 
eirdo, and the 
atu.u.,.:u coach) 
t neatly into 
archetypes, which 
prove difficult 
nrich as the 
s progress. 
right now, how­
ever, Fox promoters 
are banking on the 
characters. 

Several of the char­have Twitter, a ace, and a Face ook accounts. "RachelBerryGLEE," the Twitter account for the overachiever charac­ter, is most likely updat­ed by an intern in Fox's market­ing department, but the 
account's 4,435 followers can read updates like "Wait, 'Cop Rock' was cancelled???" and "Spent an hour trying to think of a style of performance I don't excel in and couldn't come up with one." 
During last week's repeat air­ing of the pilot, cast members even updated their personal Twitter accounts for a live­stream commentary on the episode -blurring the line somewhat between reality and fiction. For example, the "sen­sitve jock" Finn, doesn't have a Twitter, but the actor Cory Monteith does (he's searchable as "frankenteen.") More than 10,000 followers read about this summer's "Glee" mall tour through his regular updates. 
The long break after the pilot episode and the gimmicky musi­cal format could work against "Glee," but the show's creator and promoters have used their resources to keep the quirky comedy in the public's mind like that summer song that you can't get out of your head. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at 
jgamble@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 

-------------------------------.., 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 9, 2009 
MLB 


Swisher's ninth-inning solo blast beats Rays 
Rangers top Indians in shootout behind Borbon's two homers; Pedro holds Nats to three runs in nearly seven innings 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Nick Swisher hit his second home run of the game, connecting with one out in the ninth inning to lead the New York Yankees over Tampa Bay 3-2 Tuesday night and send the Rays to their season-high seventh straight loss. 
The switch-hitting Swisher connected from both sides of the plate. He won it with a left-handed shot off Dan Wheeler (4-4). 
Derek Jeter struck out three times and remained stuck in his longest slump of the year, moving no closer to the Yankees hit record held by Lou Gehrig. 
Rays rookie David Price fanned Jeter his first three times up, twice catching him looking. The Yankees star had nothing to show for four at­bats, leaving him in an 0-for­
12  rut  and  still four  hits  
behind  Gehrig's  total  of  
2,721.  

Mariano Rivera (2-2) pitched a perfect ninth as the Yankees won for the 12th time in 15 games. 
Swisher homered in the sec­ond and Alex Rodriguez had an RBI single in the sixth. Swisher has three multihomer games this season -he con­nected lefty and righty each time. Of Swisher's 26 homers this season, only five have come at hitter-friendly Yankee Stadium. 
Jason Bartlett greeted Yankees reliever Phil Hughes with a leadoff home run in the eighth, tying it at 2. Evan Longoria hit his 30th homer the previous inning off starter Chad Gaudin. -. 
Plagued by deep pitch counts earlier in the year, Price came out throwing strikes. He gave up only three hits in six innings, walked two and struck out six. 
Randy Choate retired Jeter on a lineout leading off the eighth, then made the defen­sive play of the game. The sidearming lefty tracked down Johnny Damon's drag bunt, lunged for the ball and flipped it with his glove while falling forward for the out. 
Gaudin took a 2-0 lead into the seventh. His winless streak reached 10 starts, before he was traded from San Diego to the Yankees in early August. 
Gaudin helped himself by picking off speedster Carl Crawford at first base with a quick move in the sixth. Crawford also got trapped after a triple in the opening 
inning, taking off on Longoria's grounder and get­ting tagged out in a rundown. 
Jeter's parents watched from an upstairs box, and they saw their son go hitless in three straight games for the first time this season. 
A day after moving past Yogi Berra into third place for most games played as a Yankee, Jeter joked with the Hall of Farner catcher in the clubhouse. 
"I got more rings than him, that's what counts," Berra kidded. "He's still a baby." 
Jeter batted leadoff as the designated hitter, having started both games at short­stop in Monday's day-night doubleheader sweep of the Rays. 

Rangers 11, Indians 9 
Rookie Julio Borbon was known as a contact hitter with speed before joining Texas. 
Now he's starting to add power to his game. 
Borbon hit two of Texas' four homers, Marlon Byrd went 4 for 4, including a three-run homer in the sev­enth, and the Rangers beat the Cleveland Indians on Tuesday in front of a sparse crowd in the first game of a doubleheader. 
Borbon now has three homers in 70 major league at-bats this season after hit­ting just nine in 1,091 career minor league at-bats. 
"He's capable of doing that," Rangers manager Ron Washington said. "I don't know if you'll see him hit 15 or 20 this year, but he cer­tainly has a line drive stroke and sometimes he can catch it and hit it out. I don't think that's something you can look for all the time, but every now and then he'll put a good stroke on the ball. He did twice today." 
The two teams combined for six homers and 29 hits and scored half of the 20 runs after the sixth inning. David Murphy also homered for Texas, while Matt LaPorta and Travis Hafner homered for Cleveland. 
The two homers for Borbon ended a 5 for 33 skid (.152) that spanned 11 games. He is still batting .329 this year. 
''I'm kind of surprised, I'm not going to lie," he said of the recent power surge. "It's just putting up good swings. They weren't bombs, they were driven balls. That's what happens when you make solid contact." 
Indians reliever Chris Perez entered in the seventh with a runner at first and the longest consecutive scoreless innings streak among major league relievers at 20 2-3 innings. He walked the first batter he faced before Byrd pounded a 2-1 pitch into the bleachers in left, breaking a 5-all tie. Texas led the rest of the way. 

It was the first run Perez allowed since Chicago's Paul Konerko hit a grand slam off him on July 7, a span of 20 appearances. 
"He's done a tremendous job for us, but not today," Indians manager Eric Wedge said. "You're not going to be perfect, that's for sure." 
Jensen Lewis (2-4) pitched 1 1-3 innings to take the loss. 
The Indians had tied the game at 5 on rookie Michael Brantley's two-run bloop dou­ble off Rangers reliever Neftali Feliz (1-0) in the sixth. Those runs were charged to starter Tommy Hunter, just the second and third inherit­ed runners to score off Feliz. 
He entered the day second to Perez with a consecutive scoreless innings streak of 19 2-3 innings. He extended that streak to 20 1-3 innings before Hafner ended that with a solo homer in the seventh. 
"He's only human," Washington said of Feliz, who had retired 18 consecutive batters before Tuesday. "I don't think I can remember any pitcher that came to the big leagues and had a 0.00 ERA. He's going to give up something." 
Texas began the day 2 112 games behind Boston in the AL wild-card race. That's the closest the Rangers have been to a playoff spot this late since Sept. 26, 2004, when they were 2 games out in the AL West. 
An estimated crowd of less than 1,000 witnessed the start of the first game. Monday's rainout pushed the start time up two hours, impacting the late-arriving crowd. 

Phlllies 5, Nationals 3 

The Philadelphia Phillies hit five solo home runs -includ­ing three in the seventh inning -and became the 12th team in major league history with a 30-homer four­some in Tuesday night's win over the Washington Nationals. 
Raul Ibanez went long for the 29th and 30th times this season and Chase Utley hit No. 30, joining Ryan Howard 
(38) and Jayson Werth in 

Philadelphia's 30-homer club for 2009. Werth hit his 32nd, and Carlos Ruiz got his ninth for the Phillies, who snapped a four-game losing streak. 
The power barrage over­shadowed another good start from Pedro Martinez (4-0) and a rare hook in the ninth inning after another shaky outing from Brad Lidge. Ryan Madson struck out Ryan Zimmerman with the bases loaded and the winning run on first and retired cleanup hitter Adam Dunn. 
The Phillies, who have the major leagues' highest per­centage of runs from homers, became the first team since the 2006 Chicago White Sox to have four 30-homer hitters and accomplished the feat for the first time in franchise his­tory. 
Martinez, craftily mixing plenty of offspeed pitches with an occasional low-90s fastball, allowed three runs and seven hits with four strikeouts and one walks over 6 2-3 innings. The Phillies improved to 6-0 when the three-time Cy Young Award winner starts. 
Brett Myers followed with 1 1-3 scoreless innings, but Lidge failed to capitalize on the vote of confidence he received before the game from manager Charlie Manuel. Lidge, who had his lOth blown save of the season in his last appearance on Saturday, retired one batter before a single, a hit batter, a wild pitch and a walk. 
Manuel then removed Lidge and replaced him with Madson, who struck out ninth-inning homer specialist Zimmerman and got cleanup hitter Dunn on a groundout to record his fifth save. 
Werth and Ibanez homered in back-to-hack at-bats in the seventh, followed two batters later by Ruiz, lifting the Phillies from what had been looking like another mori­bund offensive performance. 
The NL East leaders had scored only 23 runs in their previous 11 games and had gone 70 2-3 innings without having a lead of more than one run, causing them to lose ground in the race for home­field advantage in the play­offs. 
Four of the homers came off John Lannan (8-11). spoiling an otherwise fine outing from the closest thing the last­place Nationals have for an ace. 
Lannan allowed only four other baserunners in his 6 2­3 innings. 
Ibanez's multihomer game was his fourth of the season and second at Nationals Park. He also singled to finish 3 for 4 and is batting .463 with eight homers and 20 RBis this season against the Nationals. He is 7 for 10 in his career against Lannan. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notte Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt.,no experience needed,cus­tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835. 


TICKETS 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232-0964. 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
Desperately need season tix/MSU, BC. Call574-654-0168 local call 

FoR RENT 
ATIN: GRAD STUDENTSIFACUL­TY EXECUTIVE HOUSE 4 RENT. 2BR, 2 1/2 Bath, LR, DR, SunRm, kitchen, washer/dryer, 2-car attached garage + security sys­tems. Close to Notre Dame. Available now. One Year Lease ­Shown By Appt.only. 1-262-332­0015 (Cell). 

NO vs MSU Weekend, Sept. 18, 19,20. Rooms in Sacred Heart Parish Hall on campus. $400/per person two nights includes game ticket, bed, parking, K of C Smoker, Lunch at Morris Inn tent, etc. 
All profits go to South Jersey Notre Dame Club Scholarship Fund. Email: Bi11Burns.68@Aiumni.nd.ed or call Bill Burns 609-368-1962. 


PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1­2685. For more information, visit NOs website at: http:l/pregnancy­support@nd.edu 
EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRIT­lNG ACT, inc. invites you to partici­pate in an essay-writing study. Limited number of participants so register soon to secure a spot. www.act.org/essaystudy 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame s website: http:l/csap.nd.edu 
Nine times seven = eight. Wait, that's not right. Is it? 

--------------------------------------------------, 




OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, September 9, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE sERVIcEs page 15 

NCAA Football 

APTop 25  
team  record  previous  
1  Florida  1·0  1  
2  Texas  1·0  2  
3  Southern California  1·0  4  
4  Alabama  1·0  5  
5  Oklahoma Slate  1·0  T9  
6  Mississippi  1·0  8  
7  Penn State  1·0  T9  
8  Ohio State  1·0  6  
9  BYU  1·0  20  
10  California  1·0  12  
11  LSU  1·0  11  
12  Boise Slate  1·0  14  
13  Oklahoma  0·1  3  
14  Virginia Tech  0·1  7  
15  Georgia Tech  1·0  15  
16  TCU  0·0  17  
17  Utah  1·0  19  
18  NOTRE DAME  1·0  23  
19  North Carolina  1·0  21  
20  Miami (Fla.)  1·0  NR  
21  Georgia  0·1  13  
22  Nebraska  1·0  24  
23  Cincinnati  1·0  NR  
24  Kansas  1·0  25  
25  Missouri  1·0  NR  

NCAA Football USA Today Coaches' _Poll 
team record previous 

1 Florida 1-0 1 2 Texas 1-0 2 3 Southern California 1-0 4 4 Alabama 1-0 5 5 Penn State 1-0 8 6 Oklahoma Stale 1-0 11 7 Ohio Slate 1·0 6 8 Mississippi 1-0 10 9 LSU 1-0 9 10 California 1·0 12 111 Boise State 1-0 16 111 BYU 1-0 24 13 Georgia Tech 1-0 15 14 Oklahoma 0-1 3 15 Virginia Tech 0-1 7 16 TCU 0-0 17 17 utah 1-0 18 18 Nebraska 1-0 22 19 North Carolina 1-0 20 20 NOTRE DAME 1·0 23 21 Georgia 0·1 13 22 Miami (Fla.) 1-D NR 23 Cincinnati 1-0 NR 24 oregon State 1·0 25 25 Kansas 1-0 NR 
NCAA Women's Golf NGCA Coaches' Poll 
team previous 

1 Arizona State 1 2 UCLA 2 3 Southern California 3 =it 4 Oklahoma Stale 4 5 Auburn 6 6 Virginia 5 7 Wake Forest 10 8 Alabama 7 9 Purdue 8 10 lSU 8 11 North Carolina 12 
around the dial 
MLB Tampa Bay Rays vs. New York Yankees 7 p.m., ESPN 
u.s. OPEN 
Quarterfinals 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 


Associated Press 
ENGLEWOOD, Colo. ­The Denver Broncos might have solved one of their many mysteries Tuesday after watching Kyle Orton take snaps, hand off cleanly and complete passes at practice for the first time since slicing open his right index finger nine days earli­er. 
"It was obvious today that he could do it all," offensive coordinator Mike McCoy said. 
Orton wore a glove on his throwing hand and thin gauze and tape on his injured finger to protect the dislocated knuckle that poked through the skin in the Broncos' third presea­son game. 

"Obviously, there's a little bit of restriction for a quar­terback when you've got something on your hand. But for the most part every­thing was clean," coach Josh McDaniels said. "Hopefully everybody that was out there today will be ready to go on Sunday." 
McDaniels said the deter­mining factor on Orton's status will be "a combina­tion of the healing process and then how effective he can be. If he's able to be the most effective guy we've got then certainly he'll play." 
If Orton has a setback, Chris Simms, who returned Sunday from a high ankle sprain, would get the nod. 
During the 20 minutes the media were allowed to watch the workout, Orton threw accurate short passes in warm-up drills and also handed off with his right hand without any apparent problems. 
The media was escorted out of the practice facility before the Broncos began the team portion of their workout and weren't allowed access to players once practice was over. 
Orton declined to com­ment before practice. He's scheduled to speak with the media on Wednesday, another sign the Broncos expect him to start. 
Simms said the smart money certainly was on Orton. 
"Yeah, I expect Kyle to be 
ready," he said. "He's a competitor, he's a tough guy." 
Still, Orton's injury could force some changes in the play-calling in McDaniels' head coaching debut. 
"Yeah, a finger's tough," Simms said. "I know I've dislocated my finger a few times and it's your money­maker, you need your hands to throw that ball. So. if you're not feeling right there, it takes a little getting used to but I think he'll be OK." 
The other big question surrounding the Broncos is whether Brandon Marshall will continue to be a headache or resume his role as the team's top receiver. 
IN BRIEF 
Seflllour has yet to move to 
Oatdan.d after tiade finalization 
ALAMEDA, Calif. -Richard Seymour failed to report to Oakland for a second straight day Tuesday after being traded from the New England Patriots. 
"I really have nothing to report on that," Raiders coach Tom Cable said. "Nothing has changed at this point." 
Seymour, a five-time Pro Bowl defensive end, was acquired from the Patriots on Sunday in exchange for Oakland's first-round draft pick in 2011. The move was on the NFL's offi­cial transactions list and Seymour is on the Raiders' roster on their Web site. 
Cable said he spoke with Seymour earlier this week and that the defen­sive lineman told him he wants to play in Oakland. 
Cable reiterated that he is hopeful Seymour will play for the Raiders but declined to discuss reports the two sides were in talks on a new contract. 

Beltran returns to Mets after 
recovery from knee injury 
NEW YORK -Carlos Beltran is back in the lineup for the New York Mets. 
Sidelined since June 22 with a bone bruise on his right knee, the All-Star center fielder was activated from the disabled list Tuesday before the opener of a three-game series against the Florida Marlins. 
Beltran, set to start in center and bat cleanup, says he's glad to be back with the Mets after a long rehabilitation. He says his most recent MRI showed the bruise on his knee has decreased in size. 
Beltran went 3 for 18 with two RBis and two walks in five rehab games with Class-A Brooklyn. 
The Mets also purchased the contract of right-hander Tobi Stoner from Triple-A Buffalo. 
Serena Williams moves to semi­
finals in the U.S. Open 
NEW YORK-Defending cham­pion Serena Williams has advanced to the U.S. Open semi­finals, setting up a showdown against Kim Clijsters. 
The No. 2-seeded Williams beat No. 10 Flavia Pennetta of Italy 6­4, 6-3 Tuesday night to improve to 23-1 in Grand Slam singles matches this season. 
Williams has won three of the past four major championships. She is seeking her fourth U.S. Open title and 12th Grand Slam overall. 
With her older sister Venus sit­ting in the stands, Williams piled up a 21-9 edge in winners against Pennetta, who was trying to be the first Italian woman to reach a Grand Slam semifinal. 
Clijsters, the 2005 U.S. Open champion, beat No. 18 Li Na in straight sets earlier Tuesday. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, September 9, 2009 
NBA 

Heat will stand by troubled star 
opportunity to grow. Because

Associated Press 
of what's happened in the 
MIAMI -Michael Beasley is past, we hope there's growth in daily contact with the spurts for him." Miami Heat and is working Riley could not reveal out under the direction of specifics about the manner of team personnel, with plans of treatment Beasley is receiv­being with the team when ing, citing privacy concerns. training camp begins later Those close to Beasley, this month. including his personal man­
Speaking about Beasley for ager Bruce Shingler, have 

the first time  said repeated­ 
since the 20­year-old entered a Houston reha­bilitation facil­ "Every saint has a past and every sinner has a future. You can ,t put  ly in recent weeks that they are not willing to dis­cuss the exact  
ity last month, Heat president Pat Riley said  yourself above and beyond anybody.,,  details of the treatment. Beasley  
Tuesday that he's "confident  Pat Riley  checked into the Houston  
...  very confi­ Heat president  facility  some­ 
dent" Beasley  time  around  
will  have  a  Aug.  20.  A  

strong season for Miami and series of posts on his Twitter insisted he still strongly account raised many con­believes in the No. 2 overall cerns about his well-being, pick from the 2008 draft. including one entry that said 
"I was told this by some­"I feel like the whole world is body: Every saint has a past against me I can't win for and every sinner has a losin." future," Riley said. "You can't Several Heat teammates put yourself above and offered their support quickly beyond anybody. We all have through Twitter posts and periods where things haven't reaching out to those in gone our way for whatever Beasley's circle. Riley said reason, and we've all had an Dwyane Wade, the team's 
best player and the NBA's reigning scoring champion, was among the first Miami players to send Beasley a message. 
''I'm not going to forgive anybody's transgressions just merely because they're 20 years old," Riley said. "I think when you become a profes­sional basketball player, a lot of things come at you a lot quicker than normal. There's a lot of things you may be able to handle or not handle." 
Beasley finished his rookie season as Miami's second­leading scorer behind Wade, averaging 13.9 points and 5.4 rebounds. The Heat plan for this season include using Beasley at both small forward and power forward, and Riley said that hasn't changed even though Beasley hasn't been around teammates for several weeks. 
Riley said Beasley had between 21 and 28 workouts earlier this summer at the team facility with other mem­bers of the Heat's young core, including Daequan Cook and Mario Chalmers. 
Getting into 4-on-4 or 5-on­5 games in Houston, however, has been impossible, Hiley said. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
BYU leaps 11 spots in polls 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -BYU barged into the top 10 of The Associated Press college foot­ball poll, making the biggest jump of any team from the preseason rankings after scoring the biggest upset of the opening weekend of the regular season. 
The Cougars jumped 11 spots to No. 9 in the Top 25 released Tuesday, three days after they stunned Oklahoma 14-13 as three-touchdown underdogs. 
Cougars quarterback Max Hall said the victory has energized Provo, Utah, and the BYU campus. 
"For the first time there were people at the airport to greet the team. About 2,000 people were out there when we got back," he said. "The overall atmosphere has been really cool and we're enjoying
it... Florida was still an over­whelming No. 1, receiving 56 of 60 first-place votes, two less than last week. Texas held steady at No. 2, with two first-place votes. USC will be No. 3 when it visits No. 8 Ohio State on Saturday in one of the biggest nonconference games of the season. The Trojans moved up a spot this week and the Buckeyes fell after narrowly escaping with a 31-27 victory against Navy. No. 4 Alabama moved up one spot after its 34-24 victo­ry against Virginia Tech and persuaded two voters to pick them as the top-ranked team in the country. No. 5 Oklahoma State moved up four spots after an impressive 24-10 victory against Georgia. The Cowboys 
have their best ranking since October 1985. The loss dropped the Bulldogs eight spots to No. 21. 
No. 6 Mississippi, No. 7 Penn State and No. 10 California round out the top 10. 
Oklahoma dropped 10 spots to No. 13 after losing, but all things considered the Sooners are probably feeling much better about their long-term outlook now than they were Saturday night at Dallas Cowboys Stadium. 
Oklahoma lost Heisman Trophy winner Sam Bradford to a shoulder injury late in the first half against BYU. He is expected to miss two to four weeks, but will not need surgery and could be back by the time the Sooner play their next big game-against Miami on Oct. 3. 
BYU is no stranger to the top 10. The Cougars were ranked as high as eighth last season. But BYU stumbled in its biggest games, suffering lopsided losses to Mountain West Conference rivals TCU and Utah, then losing to Arizona in the Las Vegas Bowl. 
"Our football team, we have three goals ... winning a con­ference championship, win­ning the state championship and going to a bowl game and winning it. We didn't do any of them," Hall said during a conference call with reporters. "Even though we won 10 games, we were upset with the way it ended." 
BYU coach Bronco Mendenhall said the Oklahoma victory should give a boost to the whole Mountain West Conference, which has been fighting for more access to the Bowl Championship Series. 

"I do think that the game and how we played helped our conference, helped our team and helped the expo­sure of the fight that we're all kind of engaged in as our league is trying to gain credi­bility," Mendenhall said. 
BYU travels to New Orleans to face Tulane on Saturday before playing their first home game on Sept. 19 against Florida State, one of three teams to fall out of the rankings this week. 
Oregon and Iowa also fell out. Moving into the Top 25 were Miami, Cincinnati and Missouri. 
LSU was No. 11 and No. 12 Boise State moved up two spots after beating Oregon 19-8 on Thursday. 
Virginia Tech's opening loss dropped the Hokies seven spots to No. 14. 
No. 15 Georgia Tech, was followed by TCU and Utah. 
Notre Dame's 35-0 victory against Nevada helped the Fighting Irish climb five spots to No. 18. 
North Carolina was No. 19 and Miami moved into the poll at No. 20 after a thrilling 38-34 victory Monday night against Florida State in Tallahassee. 
The final five were Georgia, Nebraska, Cincinnati, Kansas and Missouri. 
The Big 12 has six ranked teams, most of any confer­ence. 
Cincinnati, the defending Big East champions, is the first team from the confer­ence to be ranked this sea­son. 
The Bearcats started their season Monday with a 47-15 road victory against Big East rival Rutgers. 

MIKADO 
Chinese &JGjXII'leSe Restat..rtr1t 
Dine In-Take Out -Cateri1'9 
IVele~~..e $~ s~~~, 
~lrrd!.d:!: 
Cllk:k81 Beef RmllM1 SIRJ SatOOd SW;himi Nor:xJe 

402 N DiX!eWOY South Ben::l IN46637 Phone: (547) 272-2535 Fax: (547) 272-2562 

Wednesday, September 9, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
u.s. OPEN
NFL 
Schaub returns to Texans practice 
Murray stunned in 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Houston quarter­back Matt Schaub returned to practice Tuesday, though it's not clear whether he will start against the Jets in this Sunday's season-opener. 
Schaub took half the snaps in practice, his first significant work since the injury Aug. 31 against the VIkings. He is listed as day-to­day. 
"He took a big step forward (Tuesday)," Texans coach Gary Kubiak said. "He's progressing toward getting ready to go, so it's a positive move forward for him." 
Kubiak stopped short of saying Schaub, who has missed five games in each of the last two sea­sons with injuries, would start against the Jets. He did announce that Rex Grossman would be Houston's No. 2 quarterback this week. 
Grossman, who led Chicago to the Super Bowl in 2007, overtook Dan Orlovsky in the competition to back up Schaub after throwing two touchdowns in Houston's preseason finale. Orlovsky, a seven-game starter for Detroit last season, was scheduled to be the backup before Grossman's recent performance that came after he missed two weeks with an injury. 
"Matt is hobbled, so they've got to be ready to go," Kubiak said. "But as I told Dan and Rex, I'm leaning toward Rex's experience and the way he handled himself, handled the team the other night. I'm kind of drawing from what I've seen him do in the past and (am) just very comfortable with him right now." 
Grossman was excited about the decision, but said it won't change anything he does. 
''I've got to prove myself every practice and every time I go out there," he said. "You get graded and you get judged basically every time you throw the football. So I'm still going to have that same sense of urgency." 
The status of receiver Kevin Walter and safety Eugene Wilson are also uncertain because of injuries. 
Walter, who was second on the team with 899 yards receiving and eight touchdowns last sea­son, has a hamstring injury. Wilson was injured by an illegal crackback block delivered by Brett Favre for which the quar­terback was fined $10,000. 
Another question mark for the Texans is how rookie linebacker Brian Cushing and veteran cor­nerback Dunta Robinson will per­form on Sunday. Cushing missed all four preseason games because 

Open's 4th round 
of a sprained knee, but is healthy 
and expected to start at strong­side linebacker. 
Middle linebacker DeMeco Ryans is confident that Cushing is up to the task, but has been try­ing to help the first-round pick in the days leading up to his NFL debut. 
"I stay on him, always asking him questions to make sure he's into what we're doing, into our game plan and making sure we're both on the same page," Ryans said. "The more me, him and Zac (Diles) communicate the easier it's going to be for all three of us." 
Robinson missed all of camp in a contract holdout before report­ing on Sunday. 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK Disappointed. 
That was the word Andy Murray used over and over to describe how he felt about his exit from the U.S. Open. 
After all, Murray arrived at Flushing Meadows ranked No. 2, owner of a tour-lead­ing 37 wins on hard courts this season-and quite sure he was prepared to win his first Grand Slam title a year after reaching the U.S. Open final. Instead, he heads home after the fourth round, a 7-5, 6-2, 6-2 loser to No. 16 Marin Cilic of Croatia on 
naments before the U.S. Open, Clijsters is the first unseeded player to reach the semifinals at Flushing Meadows since Elena Dementieva in 2000. 
"''m surprised to be sitting here talking to you right now," Clijsters said. 
She left the game in 2007, married American basket­ball player Brian Lynch later that year, then gave birth to daughter Jada in February 2008. Since returning to competition in August, Clijsters is 10-2. 
Two more wins, and she'll be the first mother to win a 
Grand Slam 
tournament 

Tuesday. "/ could have been since Evonne "I just strug­Goolagong
better in pretty much 
gled today. I Cawley at 
played poorly," every part ofthe Wimbledon in 
,

Murray said. "I game. 1980. could have "I still have been better in an immense
Andy Murray
pretty much respect for all 
tennis player 
every part of the Grand 


the game, whether it was mental or serve, forehand, backhand, returns." 
Ahead 5-4, he wasted two set points. By the second set, Murray was grimacing while flexing his left wrist, which he acknowledged afterward had been bothering him for about a week. By the third, Murray was moping about the court. 
"Regardless of my wrist, I lost the match," Murray said. "I returned poorly. He served well -and that was 

really the difference." 
Murray's loss, at least for one evening, turned info the talk of a tournament that had been generating very lit­tle buzz about the men's field. Instead, the focus has been on the women's event, thanks to the surprising emergence of 17-year-old American Melanie Oudin and the quick comeback of for­mer No. 1 Kim Clijsters. 
Oudin plays in the first major quarterfinal of her nascent career Wednesday -she obliged autograph­seekers after practicing Tuesday -and Clijsters already is into the semifi­nals, where she will face a Williams for the second time this tournament. 
Clijsters beat Venus Williams in the fourth round; now she will take on defend­ing champion Serena Williams, who improved to 23-1 in Grand Slam singles matches this season by beat­ing No. 10 Flavia Pennetta of Italy 6-4, 6-3 Tuesday night. 
Looking ahead to facing Clijsters, the younger Williams said: "She's such a great person and I, like, only wish the best for her. But not in the next match." 
The 27-year-old American and 26-year-old Belgian both have 12-match winning streaks at the U.S. Open. Clijsters won the first seven en route to the 2005 title, the last time she played in New York, and now has five this year, the last a 6-2, 6-4 win against 18th-seeded Li Na of China. 
Still unranked because she only had played in two tour-Slams and the 
history that's happened in each and every one of them," Clijsters said, "but it's easier now to push that aside when you're out there and just focus on your game and not be too worried or too impressed by every­thing that's happening around you." 

Murray's hopes of becom­ing the first British man since the 1930s to win a Grand Slam championship will have to be set aside until 2010. 
The pressure back home for success will only increase, matched by Murray's self-imposed expectations. 
When he wasn't saying, ''I'm obviously very disap­pointed," or ''I'm going to be disappointed, but I'll have to go and work on some things," Murray was talking about being "ready to win a Slam in Australia." 
"Next year I've got a very, very good chance of doing it," Murray said. "I think I'll be a better player next year than this year, and, you know, hopefully I'll do that." 
Cilic, meanwhile, advanced to the first major quarterfi­nal of his career. 
''I'm feeling tremendously happy," Cilic said. "Of course, it's the biggest result for me, so far." 
Next for him is a match against No. 6 Juan Martin del Potro, who beat 2003 French Open champion and 
U.S. Open finalist Juan Carlos Ferrero 6-3, 6-3, 6-3. 

Cilic vs. del Potro will pit two players who are 20, with lanky frames and big serves. 
"For sure. if he beat Murray, he's confident," said del Potro, who pushed Roger Federer to five sets in the French Open semifinals this year. "It will be very tough for me." 
In another fourth-round men's match, No. 11 Fernando Gonzalez of Chile eliminated No. 7 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France 3-6, 6-3, 7­6 (3), 6-4. Gonzalez will face No. 3 Rafael Nadal or No. 13 Gael Monfils in the quarter­finals. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 9, 2009 
MLB 

Royals' bullpen keeps Tigers quiet in victory 
Holliday takes Hoffman deep in ninth to topple Brewers; Beltran returns to Mets in defeat to Ramirez, Marlins 
to a miscue by right fielder the Cardinals in the first 
Associated Press 
Clete Thomas -couldn't hold inning. 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Billy it. The injury put an abrupt Butler drove in two runs, Raburn did his job on David end to the rnmatch between Kansas City's bullpen pitched DeJesus' single, double­John Smoltz and the Brewnrs 4 1-3 scoreless innings and clutching and still getting left-bander. Last Thursday, the Royals ended the Detroit Betancourt by two steps at Parra won his 1Oth game with Tigers' six-game winning the plate. Thomas, worried a 4-3 victory over the streak with a 7-5 victory about the wall, didn't get a Cardinals. Tuesday night. glove on Butler's foul ball in Blakn Hawksworth (3-0) 
The Royals had 11 hits and the corner. Two pitches later, picked up the win with a a rare strong performance Butler lined a run-scoring scornless eighth. Kyln from their bullpen to win con­single through the right side McClellan pitched the ninth secutive games for the first and Mike Jacobs followed for his third save. time since July 27-28 against with an HBI single that made Prince Fielder's 3Rth home Baltimore. it 6-5. run, a two-run shot in thn 
Yasuhiko Yabuta 11-1) DeJesus' sacrifice fly-and bottom of tho first pushed his allowed two hits in 2 1-3 another close play at the major league HBI total to 125 innings for his second career plate involving Betancourt and gave Villanueva a 2-0 victory, Roman Colon pitched and Haburn -gave the lead to start the second. a perfect eighth and Joakim Royals a two-run lead in the Tho right-hand(~r held the Soria survived two hits in the eighth. Cardinals scoreless over three ninth for his 23rd save. Chen, who allowed five runs innings, retired the side in 
The AL Central-leading and seven hits, replaced the fourth on swinging strike­Tigers scored five runs off Brian Bannister (shoulder outs and matched his career­Royals starter Bruce Chen, fatigue) for his first start high with six overall. but went through six pitchers since he ended a four-year lie had a big advantage and had two costly outfield winless streak on Aug. 6. The because St. Louis had stacked miscues. left-bander didn't really stand their lineup with right ban­
Marcus Thames and Aubrey a chance to make it two ders in anticipation of facing Huff drove in two runs each· straight. Parra. and Ryan Raburn homered Thames hit a run-scoring Pujols hit a solo shot off for Detroit. single off him in the first and David Weathers in the sev­
Butler had two homers and Tigers got two more in the enth for his major-leagun four RB!s Monday night third when Haburn led off leading 45th home run and against the Los Angeles with his 11th homer and cut the Cardinals' deficit to Philadelphia in the NL East. er Jerry Manuel said. "I think Angels and kept his hot Thames hit a sacrifice fly. one. The Marlins, who opened the once that starts he will get on streak going with a double, Huff chased Chen with two The Cardinals pushed season with a major league­track, so to speak. He looked sacrifice fly and run-scoring outs in the fifth, looping a across their first run in the low $37 million payroll, are 5 pretty good." single off Bobby Seay (5-3) in two-run, broken-bat single to sixth. 1/2 behind Colorado for the Trailing by two, New York the seventh. center to put Detroit up 5-2. Holliday singled and NL wild card. tried to rally against Sanches 
Detroit starter Rick Porcello advanced to third when Ryan Beltran was back in the in the seventh. Three singles wasn't sharp, but gave the Cardinals 4, Brewers 3 Ludwick singled ofT reliever Mets' lineup after missing 70 loaded the bases for David Tigers a chance. Matt Holliday hit a two-run Todd Coffey's foot. Mark games, and he brought a Wright, who struck out. 
The rookie right-hander homer off Trevor Hoffman in DeHosa() walked to load the sparse crowd to its feet in the Beltran's long f1y left the Mets gave up two runs in the sec­the top of the ninth and the bases. seventh inning. Ilis bases­4 for 55 (.073) with the bases ond inning on Brayan Pena's St. Louis Cardinals rallied for After a visit from Brewers loaded drive to right field was loaded and two outs this sea­double and a groundout by a victory over the Milwaukee pitching coach Chris Bosio, caught a step or two in front son. Yuniesky Betancourt. In the Brewers on Tuesday night. Coffey got Yadier Molina to of the fence by Cody Hoss, "When he hit it, I thought fifth, a misjudged fly by Hoffman, trying to protect a hit into a run-scoring double preserving Florida's 4-2 lead. he got it," Sanches said. "My Raburn in left turned into a 3-2 lead, walked Albert Pujols play. Mitch Stetter relieved "I just got under that one," first thought was that it was double for Josh Anderson, with one out before serving Coffey and walked pinch hit­Beltran said. "Today I felt like going to hit our hotel." then Mitch Maier knocked up a 2-1 pitch that Holliday ter Troy Glaus before Khalil a kid in the playground, like New York was 34-33 when him in with a soft double to drove over the wall in center. Greene pinch hit for Smoltz when I take my daughter to Beltran went down, only two center. Butler's warning-track It was only the third blown and flied out to end the the playground. She's having games out of first place in the sacrifice f1y cut Detroit's lead save for Hoffman (1-2) this threat. fun and that's how I felt NL East. Also missing Jose to 5-4. season. but it spoiled what Milwaukee' sixth reliever, today. I felt good." Reyes and Carlos Delgado for 
Porcello was lifted after would have been a remark­Claudio Vargas, worked out of Matt Lindstrom worked a the entire stretch, the Mets Betancourt's leadoff single in able victory for Carlos a jam in the eighth. perfect eighth and Leo Nunez went 28-42 without Beltran the seventh. He allowed four Villanueva. He was forced to Ryan Ludwick hit a sinking got three quick outs for his and fell to fourth place. and seven hits, leaving with a fill in when starter Manny liner that eluded sliding left 19th save, bouncing back Even with Beltran batting 5-4 lead. Parra had neck spasms after fielder Ryan Braun and rolled from a miserable outing in behind him for the first time 
Detroit's bullpen -thanks throwing 21 pitches retiring for a double. Mark De Hosa Washington. The right-hander in 2 112 months, Wright had a walked and Yadier Molina threw five pitches Sunday and terrible night. He struck out advanced both with a ground­gave up two homers, allowing twice, grounded into an out before Skip Schumaker the lowly Nationals to rally inning-ending double play was intentionally walked to from three runs down for a 5-and stranded five runners. He load the bases. 4 victory. made an error at third base 
Vargas struck out pinch hit­"lie did a nice job. Closers, and botched another ter Colby Hasmus, and then they've got to have short-term grounder that was ruled a hit. got Julio Lugo to ground out memories. He seems to do Hamirez, the NL's leading to third, preserving the 3-2 that," Marlins manager Fredi hitter, drove a pitch from Tim lead. Gonzalez said. "I thought he Hedding (2-5) to left in the 
pitched today. I thought he third. The shot appeared to Marlins 4, Mets 2 did a nice job pitching instead clip the bottom of a sign that 
Carlos Beltran came oh-so of just throwing. Ilopefully he hangs from the facade of the close to hitting a go-ahead can get better and better." second deck. grand slam in his long-await­Brian Sanches (4-1) tossed Maybin connected off ed return to the New York two scoreless innings for the Redding in the fourth after Mets' lineup. win. Boss' double, a drive that 
Hanley Hamirez and Vandenllurk left with a 4-1 sailed over the home run Cameron Maybin left no lead after the fourth because apple nestled behind the 408 doubt when they connected of a stiff back. He is day to sign on the center-field fence. for the Florida Marlins. day. lt was the third career 
Thanks to mammoth two­"Just some tightness. I'll be homer for Florida's prized run homers from Hamirez fine," VandenHurk said. ''I'm outfield prospect-and first and Maybin, the Marlins kept pretty sure it's not going to be since he was recalled from up their surprising playoff anything serious." Triple-A New Orleans on Aug. push Tuesday night with a Sidelined since June 22 with 31. victory over the Mets. a bone bruise on his right "I don't think we've even 
"We know we have to win knee, Beltran was activated seen half the stuff he can do," every day, but we don't try to from the disabled list before Gonzalez said. put a lot of pressure on us," the game and finished 1 for 4 Rookie catcher Josh Thole Ramirez said. "We stay in the with a fly-ball double to left. hit a sacrifice fly for the Mets race. That's all it's about." He also made a smooth, slid­in the fourth, his first major 
Florida overcame an early ing catch in center. league HBI. Angel Pagan exit by injured starter Hick "It will probably take him a tripled in the fifth and scored 


Royals first baseman Billy Butler slides into second with a VandenHurk and remained few games to really find his on Luis Castillo's infield sin­double in the third inning of the Royals victory Tuesday. six games behind first-place rhythm at the plate," manag-gle. 
Wednesday, September 9, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
T'Wolves sign another guard 
Joventut that would allow 

Associated Press 
Rubio to play in the NBA this 

MINNEAPOLIS The fall. The biggest sticking Minnesota Timberwolves point was an $8 million buy­wasted littl{) time moving on out clause, and the Wolves after being rebuffed by Ricky were limited by NBA rules Rubio. from paying more than 
Two days after the 18-year­$500,000 toward that num­old point guard backed out of ber. a deal to join the Last Saturday, Kahn, Timberwolves this season, Joventut officials and Rubio's Minnesota signed restricted agents agreed upon a deal free agent Ramon Sessions to that would bring the popular an offer sheet Friday. passer to Minnesota. But less 
The Milwaukee Bucks will than 48 hours later, Rubio 
have  seven  told Kahn that  
days to match  he wanted to  
the four-year, $16 million offer.  "We are excited about the opportunity to  stay in Spain to better pre­pare himself  
Rubio's deci­ have Ramon Sessions  for  the  NBA  
sion to stay in Spain for at  on our team. ,,  and have  avoid to pay  
least the next  more than $5  
two  seasons  David Kahn  million out of  
created a  hole  Timberwolves GM  his own pocket  

at point guard for Minnesota behind rookie Jonny Flynn from Syracuse. 
Sessions averaged 12.4 points per game and 5. 7 assists for the Bucks last season. 
"We are excited about the opportunity to have Ramon Sessions on our team," Timberwolves president of basketball operations David Kahn said in a statement. "Ramon has the ability to play both guard positions, and thus will be able to com­plement the members of our current backcourt." 
Kahn selected Rubio with the fifth pick in the draft in June. He spent all summer working with Rubio's agents to try and secure a buyout of his contract with DKV 
to buyout his 
contract. 
So Joventut instead traded him to rival FC Barcelona, which signed him to a contract that will keep him in Europe for at least the next two seasons. 
The Timberwolves hold Rubio's NBA rights for as long as he is playing profes­sionally. Kahn has said that they are willing to wait for him, but a player of his tal­ents also could fetch a nice package on the trade market if Rubio decides he does not want to play in Minnesota. 
After Rubio backed out, Kahn said the team had to move on and the Sessions offer is· it. 
The 6-foot-3 Sessions was ninth in the NBA last season with a 2.97:1 assist-to­
turnover ratio and would give the Wolves some depth in the backcourt that it sore­ly lacks. Kahn has reshaped the roster this summer, trad­ing guards Mike Miller, 
Randy  Foye,  Sebastian  
Telfair  and  Quentin  
Richardson.  

"At only 23, Ramon also has the potential to improve and fits our plan of building a young, up-tempo team with championship contending potential," Kahn said. 
Flynn was the sixth overall pick in the draft and figures to be the starter when train­ing camp opens. Kahn has indicated that veterans Chucky Atkins and Bobby Brown may not be with the team much longer. 
That leaves rookie Wayne Ellington and veteran Damien Wilkins as the only other guards on the roster. 
Sessions' versatility would help things, but there is still a lack of size on the perime­ter for this young and rebuilding team. 
Kahn has preached patience ever since he was hired in May, saying it may take two or three years to get the mess in Minnesota cleaned up. 
But he has been aggressive in making moves, both to help out the accountants and the coaches, as he tries to position the Wolves to be a player in the talent-rich 2010 free agent class. 
"I also hope in some way that in the last three months, people can see that we've charted a new direction and that there's hope again," Kahn said Thursday. 


NCAA FOOTBALL 
Ducks begin n1oving beyond punch, fallout 
Associated Press 
The Oregon Ducks are look­ing to put LeGarrette Blount's punch and suspension in the past by focusing on Purdue this weekend, although there's little doubt the drama will have lingering effects. 
"LeGarrette's not going to be here so we have to move on," was how linebacker Spencer Paysinger summed up the team's mindset. 
Blount appeared briefly at practice on Tuesday, but did not suit up. He did not speak to reporters. 
The running back was sus­pended last Friday after he punched Boise State defen­sive end Byron Hout following the Broncos' 19-8 victory over the Ducks the night before. 
Hout was seen taunting Blount, who threw a right that hit Hout's jaw and knocked him to his knees. 
Blount was allowed to keep his scholarship. He can prac­tice with the Ducks, but can­not play in games or in the postseason, effectively ending his career in Eugene. 
Oregon coach Chip Kelly was brusque in describing Blount's appearance at prac­tice during a conference call with Pac-10 coaches. 
"Yep," he said. "We have a plan in place for LeGarrette to move forward and he has followed that plan." 
Blount and Kelly this week­end called Hout and Boise State coach Chris Petersen to apologize. They also reached out to Kermit Washington, the former NBA player who horrifically leveled Rudy Tomj anovich with a punch during an on-court brawl in 1977. 
Kelly said he heard from Miami coach Randy Shannon, who was the defensive coor­dinator when the Hurricanes were involved in a melee against Florida International in 2006. 
The rest of the Ducks had the weekend off to mull over what happened before returning to practice on Monday. While the media gathered to see if and when Blount would show, the play­ers tried to shift the attention to Purdue. 
"I wouldn't say it's been dif­ficult to put it behind us. We had a meeting earlier and we talked about how the best way to bounce back is to respond against Purdue," Paysinger said. 
The Ducks don't only have to overcome the punch, which undeniably tarnished Oregon's reputation, they also have to figure out how they fared so poorly against the Broncos on national televi­sion. 
Oregon had just 152 yards offense during the game, the program's worst showing in nearly 15 years. The Ducks had just six first downs ­compared to 22 for Boise State. And in all, the offense had the ball for just 17 min­utes and 28 seconds. 
"We didn't really get into a rhythm until the third quar­ter," quarterback Jeremiah Masoli said. "Us not getting any first downs in the first half is pretty much why we didn't win the game. We were just out of sync. There's real­ly not much more you can say." 
The loss dropped the Ducks out of the AP Top 25. They were ranked No. 16 going into the opener. 
Oregon must also try to replace Blount, who rushed for 1,002 yards and a school­record 17 touchdowns last season. 
Redshirt freshman LeMichael James was listed atop Oregon's depth chart in Blount's place, although Kelly said he will rotate James with fellow redshirt freshman Kenj on Barner and senior Andre Crenshaw. 
Kelly, in his first year as head coach after two seasons as Oregon's offensive coordi­nator, made no bones about wanting to distance the Ducks from the punch, although national attention persisted. 
"The conversation about LeGarrette is done," Kelly said. "It's how do we move forward and what are the actions that take place for him to move forward as a person." 
The players, caught in the tough spot between standing by a teammate while con­demning his actions, are also hoping the storm blows over soon. 
"It's not a black cloud. It'll show our character, how we bounce back from this," said tailback Ed Dickson, one of Blount's best friends on the team. "Now a couple of other guys have an opportunity to step in and make some plays." 


page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, September 9, 2009 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Flu bug hits Snead, Ole Miss team 
Associated Press 
JACKSON, Miss. -Flu-like symptoms continue to ravage the Mississippi football team, even sacking quarterback Jevan Snead. 
Shannon Singletary, Ole Miss' senior associate athletic director for sports medicine, says more than a dozen Rebels football play­ers are sick with flu symptoms, including fevers as high as 103 degrees. Tests to confirm the presence of swine flu take two weeks to complete, but officials aren't taking any chances. 
"From what we understand the standard protocol across the country is to treat all the symp­toms as if they are swine f1u," Singletary said. 
Other sports and the student body in general have been hit hard over the last three weeks. Ole Miss spokeswoman Barbara Lago says 368 students have reported flu-like symptoms to campus health services staff and a system that reports absences to 
Co01eback 
continued from page 24 
Abernethy was not cleared for participation eligibility until late in the season which led him to decide that he should sit out that season. 
"From that point, it took a 
faculty has reported twice as many students missing class over the last two weeks than is usual for a full month during the regu­lar fall flu season. 
Washington State University has also been dealing with a flu out­break that is suspected to be swine f1u. Before its opening game last week against Stanford, Washington State reported 13 players with flu-like symptoms. 
Officials at Mississippi are fol­lowing Centers for Disease Control guidelines and ill players are being isolated for 24 to 48 hours even after their symptoms clear up. A vaccine for the swine flu, also called H1N1, will not be available until next month. 
"As best as possible we're put­ting them by themselves," Singletary said. "If they're in a dorm room we're trying to make arrangements where their team­mates are living with other peo­ple. We're doing everything we can to get them by themselves fi>r 24 to 48 hours at least." 
That didn't stop Snead from 
catching the illness. His room­mate, Clayton Moore, also had the flu. 
Ole Miss players in all sports started falling ill around the start of dasscs with the baseball team seeming to take the brunt of it. It started to hit the football team hard last week. Some players, like Moore, were left home from Sunday's trip to Memphis. Others played sick with some vomiting on the sidelines and others taking intravenous fluids at halftime. 
As many as a dozen players were expeeted to miss Monday's practice. That number gn1w to as many as 16 sick by Tuesday, Singletary said. 
Players reporting symptoms an1 seen by a doctor and are put on a regimen of rest with plenty of flu­ids and pain relievers. 
The flu's impaet eould have betm mueh harder on the football team. The No. 6 Hebels have tim week ofl" before playing Football Championship Subdivision oppo­nent Southeastern Louisiana on Sept. 19. 
the upcoming track and field season. 
"In the end, though, it just wasn't the same as running," Abernethy said. "It took all cross-eountry season last year to get completely healthy again." 
With a full summer of train­ing behind him and his health back completely, Abernethy is well prepared to make a name for himself in his junior season. 
"Last summer, one thing after another killed my training," Abernethy said. "This year, I made sure to take care of any nagging pains to prevent some­thing worse from developing." 
In Friday's Crusader Open at Valparaiso's Sunset Hills Park, the Irish men's team came in first place, and 10 of the first 11 runners to cross the finish line were from Notre Dame. 
"A lot of the guys on our team ran well, and it was nice to practice running as a team in a race setting," Abernethy said. 
The next event for Abernethy and the men of the Notre Dame cross country team is the National Catholic Invitational on Sept. 18 at Notre Dame's Burke Golf Course where they will see tougher competition and a longer race than last 
Proudly Present 

Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"The Ethical Implications of the Recent Financial Crisis" 
Presenter: 

John Russell, Relative Value Partners, Chicago and former Salomon Brothers and Citicorp executive. 
Faculty respondents: 
Jerry Langley, Department of Finance Rev. Oliver Williams, C.S.C., Director of the Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business. 
Moderator: 

Patrick E. Murphy, Co-Director, Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide. 
Wednesday, September 9, 2009 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 
weekend. 
"As for the rest of the season. I'm just trying to look at things one race at a time and to stay healthy," Abernethy said. "National Catholic is up next, so I look forward to running my first collegiate 8K there." 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

ACTORS FROM THE LONDON STAGE 
KING LEAR 
ONLY THREE PERFORMANCES! Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday (September 9-11, 2009) 7:30p.m. at Washington Hall 
TICKETS AVAILABLE NOW 
574-631-2800 
performingarts.nd.edu 


while for the site to officially clear me to race," Abernethy said. "It was already mid-sea­son at this point, so it was just easier to redshirt rather than to run in potentially just one race." 
Abernethy's ability to partici­pate last season in his sopho­more year was again inhibited, not by the NCAA but by a long string of injuries that complete­ly halted his ability to run. In the summer leading up to the 2008 season, Abernethy was plagued with shin and hip problems that required a break from proper training. 
"Racing a good cross country season is impossible if you haven't put in enough work over the summer," Abernethy said. 
Abernethy spent the duration of the season doing cross-train­ing activities and preparing for 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
on defense with 18 and 14 digs, respectively. The Belles' next chance to earn their first conference win of the season will come Friday as they travel to Adrian College. 
The Bulldogs, who have lost their last four matches and 
OliO 

The Centerfor Ethics and Religious Values in Business 
liD II 

and The Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide
OliO 
are now 1-4, are also looking for their first MIAA victory. 
The Belles will have a little extra to play for, as last sea­son they were beaten two out of three times by Adrian, including a four-set loss that knocked them out of the MIAA playoffs. 
The match is scheduled for 7 p.m. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmicha12@nd.edu 


Wednesday, September 9, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NHL 
Dirty Book Sale 


Wednesday, September 9 & Thursday, September 10, 2009 
9:30 AM -3:30 PM 
HESBURGH LIBRARY CONCOURSE 
Clean up on our scandalously low priced, dirty, dusty, and otherwise abused, but totally readable books! 
HARDCOVERS $4.00 • PAPERBACKS $3.00 
Also
300/o OFF ALL NEW & RECENT TITLES 
and 
60o/o
SELECT OVERSTOCK OFF! 

Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Canadian bil­lionaire James Balsillie has offered the city of Glendale $50 million to quiet its objections to his bid to buy the Phoenix Coyotes and move the franchise to Hamilton, Ontario. 
Lawyers for Balsillie, co-CEO of the company that makes the Blackberry, filed an amended bid in U.S. Bankruptcy Court on Monday adding the offer to Glendale. Balsillie offered to buy the franchise for $212.5 million, contingent on moving it to Ontario. 
The new bid would subtract $20 million from the original and combine it with another $30 million to pay the city. If Glendale accepts the offer, Balsillie's bid would stand at $242.5 million. 
The NHL bid $140 million to buy the team and keep it in Arizona after its board of gov­ernors voted 26-0 with three abstentions against Balsillie as an owner. 
The team is to be sold at auc­tion on Thursday, but many legal issues have yet to be resolved. 
Glendale has estimated losing the Coyotes would cost the city more than $500 million in loss­es, saying it planned on the team playing at Jobing.com arena for 30 years. 
...WHICH ROAD WILL YOU  
TAKE?  
ROME  
Learn about the  
Italy Study Abroad Programs:  
Sept xo, 5:3opm 129 Hayes-Healy  
Sept x6, 5:3opm 129 Hayes-Healy  


Billionaire offers $50M to move Coyotes north 
! 
Balsillie's lawyers argue the city's estimate is too high, cit­ing the 30-year projection and saying that revenue from the Coyotes has been about half of the projected estimates. They argue that $50 million is much more than what the city would get under the ~HL's bid, saying that Coyotes owner Jerry Moyes sought to cap the city's claim at between $5 million and $7 million. 
Balsillie's $50 million offer to the city is contingent upon Glendale accepting it by Sept. 30 and the Coyotes moving to Ontario. 
Glendale's City Council met behind closed doors about the Coyotes on Tuesday, but city spokeswoman Jennifer Liewer said she could not say whether they discussed Balsillie's offer. 
She said the council took no action and would have to decide on the offer in a public meeting. 
She declined to say how Balsillie's offer has affected the council's objection to his bid. 
"We're not going to negotiate this in the media," she said. "We're working through the process in bankruptcy court and trying to honor the wishes of the judge and go through the negotiations as the bankruptcy court dictates." 
Balsillie wants Judge Redfield 
T. Baum to overrule the NHL's rejection of his bid and allow the Coyotes to move to Hamilton. He also is asking Baum to set a reasonable relo­cation fee if the NHL refuses to do so. 
Two studies conducted for the NHL set a potential relocation fee of $101 million to $195 mil­lion to move the Coyotes to Hamilton. The NHL said even $195 million would not begin to address the true damage done to the league by moving the team. 
The potential fees are in stark contrast to the $11.2 mil­lion to $12.9 million cited by economics professor Andrew Zimbalist in a study conducted for Balsillie. 
Moyes took the team into Chapter 11 bankruptcy on May 5 with the plan to sell it to Balsillie. Under the Balsillie bid, Moyes would get $104 mil­lion of the $300 million he says he loaned to the team. 
The league and city contend the money Moyes lost is not a debt but equity. They also want Moyes' claim subordinated to that of other creditors. The NHL's offer would give Moyes next to nothing. 
The city also is arguing against a $22.5 million claim by Wayne Gretzky, the Coyotes coach who owns a small share of the franchise. 
Baum has yet to rule on the ownership and relocation issues. He also has to decide whether Balsillie can get out of the Coyotes' lease to play at Jobing.com Arena, which was built by Glendale for $183 mil­lion specifically for the hockey team. 
A third potential buyer, Ice Edge, had said it would spend up to $150 million to buy the team, but NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman said in a court filing Tuesday that he was advised Ice Edge no longer intends to participate in Thursday's auction. 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 9, 2009 
Henderson 
continued from page 24 
coach Randy Waldrum said. "What a lot of people don't realize is that we only were able to play her around 60 minutes per game last sea­son, far from the full 90 min­utes, and yet she still was able to score a lot of goals for us under those circum­stances." 
Henderson netted 17 goals and had two assists in her spectacular freshman cam­paign, good for 36 points in a season in which she helped the Irish reach the NCAA Championship. For her efforts, Henderson was named Big East Rookie of the Year, took home first-team Freshman All-America hon­ors and was also a Hermann Trophy nominee. 
"She has a couple of things going for her," Waldrum said. "For one, she has great speed. In any sport that real­ly kills people. But with that speed she also has a lot of strength and she can hold people off the ball. That combination makes her very tough to defend. And at the end of the day, there is something to be said for players who just find a way to score goals. That's what she and Kerri Hanks do so well." 
The Garland, Texas, native is no stranger to top compe­tition. As a member of the Dallas Texans, one of the premier club teams in the country, Henderson led her squad twice to the national finals and once again as a member of the Dallas Sting. 
Henderson also boasts an outstanding resume on the international level. She has traveled across the globe playing in tournaments as part of the U.S.' youth national teams. She current­ly is a member of the Under­23 National Team player pool. 
This past summer, Henderson underwent a number of surgeries to repair damage to her calf which prevented her from playing more minutes last season. 
But while Waldrum said that she's not quite feeling back to 100 percent, you would be hard-pressed to convince anyone else of that fact. With the exception of 
the UNC game, the sopho­more has been on quite a tear thus far. 
In the three games this season, Henderson has four goals, three of which were game-winners, and one assist to lead the team with nine points. Waldrum was quick to credit her tremen­dous growth as a player from last season to this point for her continued success. 
"Last year, she didn't feel much pressure as she flew under the radar in the shad­ow of Kerri Hanks and Brittany Bock," Waldrum said. "But with Hanks and Bock now gone and more of the pressure resting on her shoulders, she is learning how to handle it herself. She's trying to get the rest of the players on the field more involved by not being too selfish." 
Henderson and the Irish (3-1) will travel out to Santa Clara, Calif., for the Santa Clara Adidas Classic Friday. No. 5 Notre Dame will take on Santa Clara Friday fol­lowed by a matchup with No. 3 Stanford Sunday. 
Contact Alex Barker at 'abark­erl@nd.edu 


AIDateur 
continued from page 24 
get better," Kubinski said. 

Zhang agreed with his coach, but said the aspect of the championships that will help him most was not the competition, but rather the venues. 
"After playing those really difficult courses, almost every other course I play now is easy compared to that," Zhang said. "Those two courses were so hard, it just makes every course I play now a lot more simple." 
The team hopes the gained experience will help Santos­Ocampo and Zhang play con­sistently this season, as the whole team needs to play. 
"We have played some very good golf at spots, and have played some not so good golf at spots," Kubinski said of his team's struggles last year. The Irish finished fourth in Big East competition last season. 
"We need to develop some consistency and get rid of the big numbers we had at some tournaments," Kubinski said. 
The Irish begin the pursuit of consistency when six mem­bers of the team, including Santos-Ocampo, head to Minnesota for the Gopher Invitational Monday. 
Contact Doug Farmer at 
dfarmerl@nd.edu 

Frilling 
continued from page 24 
every match, and for our team to work well together and perform as best as we can." 
The tandem of Frilling and senior Kali Krisik are ranked No. 15 as a doubles pairing. 
Last season Frilling and teammate Kelcy Tefft had a 37-5 record as Notre with her before, so I am hop­ing this will lead to good things with Kali." 
Krisik and Frilling first played together last season against Marquette in an 8-0 victory. Irish coach Jay Louderback saw a natural fit if he paired the two perma­nently. 
"They both played with Tefft at different times," 
Louderback 
said. "When 
we put them 

Dame's top dou­bles team. With Tefft now grad­uated, Frilling hopes to contin­ "/ would like to make the NCAA semifinals again, ifnot further. "  together, Kali plays the ad side and Kristy on the deuce." The new  
ue winning far more than los­ing.  Kristy Frilling Irish sophomore  doubles pair­ing stayed on campus for  
"It will  be  a  part  of  the  
transition [from  summer,  as  
Tefft] but [Kali  did sophomore  

and I] have played a few times Shannon Mathews and junior together," Frilling said. "We Kristen Rafael. are trying to get into the "They did conditioning and swing of things. I had to do some strength work in the the same thing with [Tefft] weight room," Louderback last year. I had never played said of the four. "We were able to work on the court some too." 
That limited summer work has Frilling confident she can help lead the team to the same heights Tefft led the team to last season. 
"I want our team to do as well as we did last year, if not better," Frilling said. "[ would like the team to make the NCAA semifinals again, if not further." 
Joining Frilling in individual rankings, Shannon Mathews is ranked No. 94 in preseason and Cosmina Ciobanu skirted into the rankings at No. 125. The doubles duo of junior Kristen Hafael and incoming freshman Christine McGaffigan are ranked No. 38. 
"The team is very experi­enced and has all the tools that they need to win a national championship this year," Tefft said of her former team. 
Contact Doug Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 



Voice of Faith Gospel Choir The Irish Dance Team of Notre Dame/ St. Mary's Filipino-American Student Organization 
Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora ­
And others... 

When: September Ul, 20~9 
Wednesday, September 9, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 27 What Hail Mary 
1 Did a dog trick passes rarely result in, briefly 
6 _-Ball (game on an incline) 28 One who must be above
1 0 "Mamma Mia" suspicion, in a 
quartet 
saying 14 Renault 5, in 
32 Ex-governor North America 

Palin 15 Rain cats and 
33 Hero maker's dogs aid 
16 Film critic 
34 Creche trio Pauline 
37 Whole bunch 17 First few bars 
39 Prefix with 18 Mrs. Dithers in normal the comics 
40 Hunky sort 19 'This _-joke!" 
43 One who tries 20 America's so­
46 Many an called Third autobiographer's Coast need 
22 Clementine's 48 Early Beatie shoe size Sutcliffe 
23 Playboy or 51 Original Luddite Playgirl-caliber Ludd model 
52 Oklahoma's 24 Item with a 
Tree National magnetic strip, 
golf course nowadays 
53 Like Bill 26 Tyler of 'The O'Reilly's "zone" Incredible Hulk" on Fox News 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

55 Clearance rack words 
57 Character known for exclaiming the first words of 20-, 28-and 46­Across 
60 Like certain sums 
61 Ballet bend 
62 Perfect Sleeper maker 
63 Smooth 
64 " Enchanted" (Anne Hathaway movie) 
65 Range extending to the Arctic Ocean 
66 Huge quantities 
67 Gray no more, say 
68 Longtime CBS boss William Down 1 Cold-shoulder 2 Booth Tarkington 
title tween 3 Largish combos 4 Unit of purity 5 Racy reading 6 Pet welfare org. 7 Wackjob 8 'That's it!" 9 Blackboard 
accessories 1 0 Closely related 11 St Peter's, e.g. 12 Affleck!Lopez as 
a tabloid 
twosome 
13 Important plant in alternative medicine 
21 Father of Goneril 
25 Fashion inits. 
29 Mother's cry at a dinner table 30 Japanese sliding screen 
WILLSHORTZ 


31 Disposable  41 "Who am  49 Y. A. known for  
cleaning aid 32 Lust and envy,  say?" 42 Out of order, in a  well-thrown pigskins  
for two  way  50 On edge  
34 Ones in high  44 Refuse to grant  54 Mattei's Princess  
places  45 Matures  of Power  
35 Post-it component  47 Singer with the 1994 #1 hit  56 Rogel offerings: Abbr.  
36 Brainstorming result, perhaps  "Bump N' Grind" 48 Form of a well­ 58 Anger  
38 Wack job  thrown pigskin  59 Interpret  

For answers, call 1-900-285·5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRlTlf$ BORN ON THIS DAY: Joua!han 'favlorThomas, 2$; Pinl;. JO; Davidl\r queue, 38; Neko Case. .38 ­
lbppr Birthda,-: Ptllll!Ore elTon inwtnakinj!lliOil<!}' and k:<-~ into 'l"'udinj! Ad~1UJ!e iu the wav V(lll do even vour basic evel'\lda\• chores v.illl~ad to a lillie more in the bank. You can rnaJ:e headway i(you pm a new ;;pill 011 your oW ideas. Are•identia! move will a!Stl help yoo out financially. Your munb\.'ni ru-e 4. 8, 15.14, 30•.14. 48 
ARU:.'> IMarclt lt·April19): You musm'l brood ov<!T things you cal\l!Ot change. It's what's ahead thar Wlmh and \\·ill ck!enniue what hai•IJCUS in the fntme .Your dfortlo n~-.kc some­one youlo\e happy will pay oft. *** 
TAURUS !Aptillti-May ltll: It's a fa•·t Ilia! you liav.:: S!IITQm!d<.'ll YOI!l'Self wid!. a lri~,tdly atnrost~Jere L'OIK!uctvc to beljliJI¥ you think about your cmrent choic~. You cauoot let a11~'0lll? 1nake your mmd up lur you. Do what mak~ you utust comfonable.*** 
Gt.'Mh"''l (May ll·Junet :ZO): Dou't mke ou resvonsibtliti~s that don't bclonJ; to you. Put rourcfforts into a pmjed mjobtkt will enable you to _get ahead.A little romauc.: late in tbeday will help ease your stn.>ss. *** 
CANCt:R tJunf ll-Jul\• 22}: Make some alterations at home to make V(lllf life easier. You can Il:llU\'II!c or <;Yen lllidoc a residentialllliWC that wiJl hdp to t:ase auy sire~> you've l>e1:11 experiendug.lf youdot(t feel rij!)\t about what you're l:tein@ askt'll todo,say so ** 
LEO (July lJ·AUj~. 221: Ynu hliW a g•lOd !KIIt.e of what u~ to be done ami tbe abtbty to <'Otttpldc aud compete. Your style and fur-nm.:hing ide;!~ will stand out and gmb tim iuwrest ot' ;;.:.lmeotJe wlro can tum what you IMve into a tttastcrpi&.t-. ***** 
VIRGO !Aug. 2J&pt. 22): Y011 can ~Xfl'X'IIo experi~nce rome interesting adjustmems tnade by individuals who ar~ aiming to pleas.: aud trying to n~'lkc a difference to acause <lf project yon believe in. Ahectic schedule may require you to do sonte work fmml101t1e. 
*** 

LlBRA (Sept.l3-0ct.l2): Yoo'll tilce oppositionlhat can tum Ul!ly ifyou~~ all wolted up witbom p.t'ttillp. y<.>ur fa<'IS st.rni~t-Take a diffem•L "!"!lltllldl. Asollttion !hill is a little <)Ill of \hi:. ordinary. hilt WUI\d, will !.how h<>w tlllcut.-:<1 alld valuable you ru-e. *** 
SCORPIO tOet.l.l-Nov. 211: Make plans to p:ct away <lf at least enjoy a day away from Y<lltr urual routine. "':'ou'llll(' moti:at.:d by the people you cncoouter. Aproble-m with some­one ymtlove will j!tVe you cause !or coocern. *** 
SAGfrt'AlUl1S {Nov. ;u.fA,f.lll: Don't initial<: dmnge at lwmc. You will haw enough tc do with d1e additioual responsibilities brooglll on by others. Foens ou IO\'t>, romance and travel aud you will bypa$5 <rome of tlle lllllttllr.o bcin!! bi0\'-'11 Ottl <>f proportion. *** 
CAI'RlCORN tO«. 22-Jan. 19J: You t•au buy and sell belongittp..> and couw our a wiuner An a~ement or ~'flltlract can be l(mnulated aud Slg.tlt'd a.• well as lakin!!-~ar<: or li!Mlalill!l­atty tlt'ndiur lt!gal pm\--eeding>. Clrar np old matt~-n :uullx!j!iu "~"'-"n<h.-awws. ***** 
AQlJARR'S tJan.lO-Frb.lSJ: Dnu1 judge anyone llllsed on hearsay. Ap:muersbi[' may be mqucstwn but if you fmd 01111lte tmtb. }'Ott can JlfCVCnt a sorrowful outcotm•. Your iu sight and dilij!CUCII will hip.blight your capabilitk.-s and loyalty to those yOtt deal with. ** 
l'fSCK<; {Feb. 19-March 20): Cl~mj!l' L• upon yon and it'$ up lo yOtt to make sure th.1t whatever takes pla.:e,yoo ru-cpr11l!l~d and ready to mak~ tl:w most of it.A ll!lrtlh"PiluJl will pby out in your faWJr and a cb;m.:e to dnclop wnn:dnug you've lx'L'Il wantin~t to """' ou \~lll cou~e inro pl~y. **** 
Blrthday Baby: You have tenacity and are sophisticated aud delenniued. You haw )U'Cat tn sight. nsiott aud timinlt 

JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
YEHRM 
I I I I (]
©'c!009 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
AU Rights Reserved. MOACE j(J ( I0NNACY I  I I  
I I  

Print answer here: A ( 
SHYLY
Yesterday's IJumbles: 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 


WHAr 5HE: HOPE:D ro DE:VE:L..OP WlrH rH.e Tr<AINE:r<. 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer. as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

I I I I l X ) 
(Answers tomorrow) WALTZ LATEST FERVID 

Answer: For most people, obituaries are this ­LAST 'WRITES" 
.. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _____________ State --~---Zip._______ 
-
--------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, September 9, 2009 
page 24 
MEN'S GOLF 

U.S. Amateur experience benefits Zhang, Santos-Ocampo 
By DOUG FARMER Sports Writer 
Out of the 300 qualifiers for the U.S. Amateur Championships this summer, two are on the Notre Dame golf team this fall. Senior Carl Santos-Ocampo qualified for the August tournament for the second consecutive year and junior Dustin Zhang advanced past the thousands of com­petitors in his first try. 
Santos-Ocampo nearly 
advanced to the final round of match-play, as he did last year, but he missed the cut-off mark by two strokes. In order to qualify for the round of 300 this year he took second in his regional on a course he knows well. 
"I definitely had a huge advantage [playing on my home course in Florida]," Santos-Ocampo said. "I was comfortable with all the shots I was hitting, and I could make confident swings." 
A two-day score of 141 

earned the Florida native one of three spots to the Championships, even though Santos-Ocampo was not con­vinced he had qualified after his rounds. 
"I didn't feel like I played well," he said. "I knew I had played solid, and apparently that was good enough to qual­ify." 
Zhang took a different route to qualifying than his team­mate did, playing on a course outside of Chicago he had never laid eyes on before. 
Zhang tallied a two-day score of 136, which placed him one stroke ahead of a tie for third place. Zhang would have found himself in a sudden death playoff if his score had been one stroke higher. 
The two teammates compet­ed against each other and the rest of the field at the U.S. Amateur Championships in Oklahoma the last week of August. Irish coach Jim Kubinski went down to watch their rounds. 
"It was a great thrill to 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 

Sophomore scorer 
Henderson leads ND offense in second year 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 
When an underclassman finishes second on the team in goals scored and total points, most would consider that a great season. But when you consider the fact that just three goals made up the dif­ference between Melissa Henderson, a freshman at the time, and four-time All­American and two-time Hermann Trophy winner Kerri Hanks, the achievement becomes downright incredi­ble. 
"I think [Henderson's fresh­man season] ranked right up there with the likes of Kerri Hanks and some of our other all-time great scorers," Irish 

see HENDERSON/page 22 over the Ramblers on Aug. 28. Henderson had a goal and an assist in the game. 

spend so much time on the practice grounds with those guys and then see them on the national stage against the best players," Kubinski said. 
By playing on the national stage against players from across the country, Santos­Ocampo and Zhang gained experience not many have. 
"When you play 300 of the best players in the world, you cannot help but learn some things, adjust your game and 
see AMATEUR/page 22 
ND CRoss CouNTRY 
Abernethy shines in late debut 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 

After two seasons of waiting to run his first NCAA cross­country meet, junior Mat Abernethy had an impressive break-out race Friday by fin­ishing third in Valparaiso's Crusader Open. 
"It was my first ever colle­giate cross country race, so I was pretty nervous, but also very excited," Abernethy said. "At the finish, I was 19:22, seven seconds off my room­mate's winning time." 
For Abernethy's freshman year, he was unable to run based on problems with the NCAA. As a walk-on runner, 
see COMEBACK/page 20 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles drop conference opener against Trine 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Belles opened their conference schedule with an exciting match against Trine, but were unable to come out with a win, falling 3-2. 
The Belles dropped the first set 19-25, but that was the largest point differential for the rest of the match as no set was won by more than three points. 
After the Belles evened things up in the second set and gained a 2-1 advantage by the third, the fourth and fifth sets proved to be a dead heat. 
With a total of 30 ties between the two sets, Trine eventually took both, 25-23 and 20-18, giving them the win and improving their 
record to 4-1 overall. 
Betsy Irwin led Trine with a match-high 30 kills, and Abby RothbaUer added 13 for the Thunder. 
With the loss, Saint Mary's fell to 3-3 on the season. 
Senior Lorna Slupczynski, coming off a successful week­end in which she was award­ed All-Tournament team hon­ors at the Capital University tournament, led the way with 27 kills. 
This mark ties her career high set in October 2007 against Adrian College. Sophomore setter Danie Brink, who set a career high in assists with 57 last season against Trine, topped that mark with 60. 
Juniors Meghann Rose and Ellen Huelsmann led the way 
see BELLES/page 20 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Frilling takes on new role 
By DOUG FARMER Sports Writer 

Kristy Frilling came to Notre Dame a year ago as a freshman eager to defer to upperclassmen on any occasion. As this season approaches, Frilling knows she will be looked at by many as the team's leader on the court. 
Frilling has already been named the 2009 ITA Player to Watch, and in preseason rankings, she is ranked the highest of three Notre Dame singles players at No. 
20. The sophomore's sights are set well past preseason rankings. 
"I want to make both the individual tournaments again," Frilling said. "I want to do the best I can at every tournament and 
see FRILLING/page 22 







