
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Burdick and Schmidt to compete in run-off 
No ticket reaches a majority, so a winner is not determined; top two vote-getters will face off again Thursday· 
Obama lands in South Bend, drives to Elkhart 
Air Force One lands as 
For Co_llege Dems, motorcade a crowd gathers to watch will be a day to remember 
By KAITLYNN RIELY By JENN METZ Associate News Editor 
News Edftor 

The flight was not listed on the "arrivals" screen Professors at Notre Dame have probably heard a in the South Bend Regional Airport, but many peo­wide range of excuses for why their students did ple stood in and outside the terminal Monday not show up for class. 
morning in expectation of the appearance of Air Driving in a presidential motorcade most likelyForce One. 
isn't one ofthem, but for eight Notre Dame students Several dozen onlookers gathered in front of a it's an excuse they can use in class tomorrow. 
window on the second floor of the airport con­Spencer Howard, the president of the Notre course in the hour before the plane arrived. 
, Dame College Democrats, used a few words over Lisa Bruni, 47, of Niles, Mich., was one of them. 
and over again to describe Monday's experience,She was ready with her camera to capture the most notably: "amazing" and "exciting."
plane's landing. 
"It was a very proud moment for me," he said. 
"It's an historic event, and I wanted to do it," she The students who volunteered in the motorcade 
said. "I want something to show my grandkids." 
were able to spend a few minutes with President Her husband, who works at Saint Mary's, was Barack Obama after his hour-long town hall meet­planning on listening for the plane's passage over­ing in Elkhart, Ind., to discuss the stimulus pack­head while he was at work. 
age. They waited by their cars while he spoke.
The distinctive plane, with the words "United Taking a picture with the president was "the 
JESSICA LEEfThe Observer 
President Barack Obama disembarks from Air Force One at the see LANDING/page 4 South Bend Regional Airport on Monday morning. 
see 0 BAMA/page 6 

Green Summit sparks new-ideas 
Second annual conference reccomends ways to make ND greener 
By AARON STEINER Assistant News Editor 
Making faculty pay for parking spots, creating a "cap and trade" system for print quota<> and elimi­nating plastic bottles in Waddick's were among the ideas suggested at Notre Dame's second annual Green Summit Monday evening in McKenna Hall. 
University administrators, fac­ulty, staff and students attended the event, organized by various groups on campus including GreeND and the Office of 
see GREEN/page 6 


Spring transfer students adjust to campus life 
ByJENNMETZ News Editor 
Eight new students enrolled at Notre Dame for this semester, while Saint Mary's added-15 students as spring transfers. 
The Notre Dame Office of Admissions received 80 applications for spring, which was a "fairly standard number," according to Catherine Linn, admissions counselor and transfer admissions coordinator at the University. 
Typically, the University receives between 75 and 100 applicants, she said. 
Of the 80 applicants, 14 were offered admission to Notre Dame and eight accepted. All transfer stu­dents that enrolled at the University in the spring are second-semester sopho­mores, Linn said. Seven of the students entered the College of Arts and Letters, while one joined the College of Science. 
see TRANSFERS/page 6 


By JENN METZ News Editor 
The Election Committee of the Judicial Council announced the tickets Grant Schmidt-Cynthia Weber and Laura Burdick­Derek Sanchez will advance to a run-off election for the offices of student body president and vice president Monday. 
In order to determine a win­ner, one ticket must receive more than 50 percent of the total vote, George Chamberlain, president of the Judicial Council, said. 
Four thousand, five hundred and nine students participated AMBROSEfThe Observer in Monday's election, which ran Top, from left to right, Laura Burdick and Derek from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. on-line. Sanchez, bottom, Grant Schmidt and Cynthia Weber. Students were directed via 
three e-mail messages sent out by the Judicial Council to a Web site where they entered their netiD and password to vote. 
The number of students who voted in the election was "the largest turnout ·ever," Marcello Perez, vice president of the Judicial Council Elections Committee, told the four tick­ets, who were assembled in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune to hear the results. 
Four thousand, five hundred and nine votes cast is approxi­mately 54 percent of the. under­graduate student body based on the enrollment numbers from fall 2008. 
The Schmidt-Weber ticket 
see RUN-OFF/page 4 

D Schmidt -Weber 2,070 votes · IJ!j Burditk -Sonchez 1,109votes II McCaughan -Gorski 383 votes
• 
lennon ~ Harig 557 votes 
Abstain 390 votes 


Pictured above are the election results. Schmidt-Weber failed to win a majority. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Fashion at ND.Ornot. 
My dear fellow students, I am going to be honest with you. As you 
• walk to class, I am judging you pure­ly based. on what you're wearing. Sit down and talk for me for five min­utes and I 
promise I'll let Michelle Fordice 
it pass. But 
until then I am 
going to indulge Scene Writer 
my vapid side 
and silently 
laugh. As such, 
I thought I would use my time in the 
Inside Column to highlight some of 
the worst Notre Dame has to offer. 
Ugg Boots. Yes girls, I've been told they are ever so comfortable. I don't much care. They widen your foot to gigantic proportions, hit that odd place on your leg that will make most girls shorter and bottom heavy, and really, can't we try a bit harder? Stand out from 50 percent of the girls on campus and wander into a shoe department during a sale. Find yourself something in leather with a bit more point to the toe. Perhaps a bit of heel? I promise they aren't the uncomfortable monstrosities you think they are. (Yes, I know just every once in awhile it snows here. Then you are free to wear whatever you like to make it across campus without spread eagling across the ground. I have worn my beloved heels a bit too far into winter and did just that in front of DeBartolo. To those of you that witnessed it, I hope it was gloriously entertaining.) 
Stuffing your pants into your boots. Sometimes it's pouring rain or sleet, and for the sake of not having to sit through hours of class with wet pants, I understand that this is entirely practical (and I've done it.) And on those women with legs up to my armpits (which it is possible you could be) it can work. But if you are anything like me, it just makes you look shorter. Your legs do so much for you on a day to day basis, taking you from place to place, don't turn them into stumps. (I've broken this rule on a couple of occasions, but I have repented. Follow me into the light.) 
Crocs. Repeat after me: A wedge of plastic does not make a shoe. Save them for your garden. We aren't even going to consider the ones with fur. 
Sweatpants. Despite their deceiv­ing suffix, sweatpants are not really pants. They are pants that have given up on life and are gong to live in their parent's basement. Real pants don't take any longer to put on, I promise. 
Columbia/North Face Jackets. These wouldn't be so bad if so many people didn't wear them. But think about this. Go to the Columbia Sportswear of North Face Web sites and look at their promotional pic­tures. Are you: A. Climbing a moun­tain? B. Skiing? C. Walking across campus? If the answer is not A or B, please try a pea-coat, a trench coat, a walking coat, or something with a military edge. Anything. 
Leggings. Buy pants. For all that is good in the world, pack it in and buy pants. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observet regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mis­takes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Tuesday, February 10, 2009 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU DO IF YOU WERE STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT? 







Angela Carothers  Brian Dolinar  Ariella Phillips  Johanna Kirsch  Stevie Biddle  
senior Badin  junior Siegfried  freshman McGlinn  junior McGlinn  freshman Fisher  
"Relocate to California?"  "Declare an end to the game. ,.  "Mandate nap time!"  "Abolish student government.,,  "Legalize pet squirrels.,,  


Pollee find 22 dogs In station wagon with owner 
POTTSBORO, Texas ­North Texas authorities seized 22 dogs found crammed inside a station wagon with their owner. The owner locked the car doors and refused to come out when a constable tried to serve her a warrant for the seizure of the dogs early Monday, said SPCA spokeswoman Maura Davies. 
Two puppies and 20 dogs were taken to a shelter until a judge decides who gets custody, the SPCA said. A hearing on the cus­tody of the animals is set for Feb. 16 in Denison. 
The dogs were in the car along with a pot of water, blankets and waste. 
The owner does not face charges, Grayson County constable Michael Putman said. She was not coherent and the SPCA said it has contacted Adult Protective Services about the woman. 
German pollee chase zebras through the streets 
BERLIN -These fugi­tives were wearing stripes even before they were caught. . 
Police in the southern Germany city of Augsburg said they had to chase four .circus zebras through the streets after they escaped from their handlers. 

Police spokesman Robert Goeppel said one of the escapees gave itself up to by passers-by as it wan­dered the city streets. The other three were eventual­ly corralled in a paddock on the outskirts of town. 
Goeppel said there were no injuries, either to humans or zebras, during Monday's chase. He said it was the first time "any­thing like this has hap­pened here." 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

.... 
c( 
(,) 



0 
HIGH 38 HIGH HIGH
...I 
LOW 33 LOW LOW 
20 10 

IN BRIEF 
Valentine's Day Candy Heart-grams will be sold in LaFortune today, Wednesday and Thursday. The hearts cost $1 per package and will be delivered on Friday. 
The Glass Club is having a sale of some of their products -etched glassware, jewelry, stained glass and fused glass, in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. It will take place Thursday from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
Brazilian Carnival will take place Friday from 8 p.m. to 11 
p.m. in South Dining Hall. The event will include music and dance by Chicago Samba, a costume contest, samba les­sions and door prizes. 
The Freshman Class Council is hosting Lovefest on Friday at 9 p.m. The event will take place in Casey Auditorium in the Heshurgh Library and will include free candy from the South Bend Chocolate Factory and musical performers from the Freshman class. Tickets are $5 and will benefit the American Heart Association. 
The annual Edith Stein Project will take place throughout the day this Friday. The conference will address women's issues which will include speakers, a Mass, meals. Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students are invited free of charge, but must reg­ister at https://marketplace.nd.edu/c ce/index.cfm. 
· To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 
LOW 34 40 

35 22 

Tuesday, February 10, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

SMC student VP revises constitution 
Le~ders discuss extending Student Center'? operating hours, elections for next year 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's student body vice president Sarah Falvey has been working on revising the Student Government Constitution since the fall and announced that her team has completed one draft at Monday night's Board of Governance (BOG) meeting. The Constitution will be presented to BOG once the revisions are com­plete. 
Falvey and student body presi­dent Mickey Gruscinski are also in the first steps of extending the operating hours of the Student Center. They are looking at the Student Center hours at other, sim­ilar-sized colleges, Gruscinski said. 
"Looking up what other colleges have for Student Center hours, most are opened just as late as us ifnot later," she said. 
Currently, the Student Center is open until 10 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and midnight on Friday and Saturday. 
Residence Hall Association presi­dent Maura Oougherty announced that Saint Mary's hosted the Indiana Residence Hall Organization Conference (IRHOC) over the weekend. This year's con­ference was the largest ever. 
Senior Katie Mcinerney won the IRHQC Directorship award, and Oougherty and Mcinerney won a four-year service plan award, she announced. 
Kathy Chlebda, a member of the Oass of 2011, won the first-year experience award. 
Chlebda was diagnosed with lymphoma in August 2006 and relapsed in January 2008. She took a leave of absence from the College after her first semester in Fall2007. 
Her story was documented by junior Taylor Flaherty. 
"We are excited for Taylor and especially for Kathy and we are excited to share this with her," Oougherty said. 
In other BOG news: 
+student Activities Board (SAB) coordinator Michele Peterson said SAB will be going to the National Association for Campus Activities this weekend. They'll be preview­ing new comedians, musicians and entertainers to possibly bring to Saint Mary's. 
+Elections commissiOner Francesa Johnson said that Student Body President and Vice president platforms have been turned in and a Meet the Candidates even will take place this Wednesday and 6 p.m. in the West Wing of the Noble Family Dining Hall. 

+Sophomore Parents weekend starts this Friday night with a silent auction from 5-7 p.m., sophomore class president Meg Griffm said. Saturday there will be Bingo dur­ing the day, a Mass at 4 p.m. and dinner the Waterford Estates Lodge at 7 p.m. 
+Freshman class president Nicole Gans announced that the Class of 2012 will have a their freshman dance at the Hilton Garden Inn on April18. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @stmarys.edu 
Octuplets mom treated at a Beverly Hills clinic 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -The mother of octuplets was implanted with those embryos at a Beverly Hills fertility clinic run by a well­known -and controversial ­specialist who pioneered a method of implantation. 
Dr. Michael Kamrava's name emerged Monday as a result of an interview aired Monday on NBC with Nadya Suleman, who gave birth to eight babies Jan. 26. 
Over the past two weeks, the identity of Suleman's fertility doctor has been a source of great mystery because of ques­tions over the ethics of implanti­ng numerous embryos in a woman who already had six chil­dren. 
Kamrava, 57, would not com­ment on the issue, but told reporters outside his clinic on Rodeo Drive that he had granted an interview to one of the televi­sion networks. When asked to provide more detail, he said, "Watch the news." 
Without identifying the doctor, the Medical Board of California said last week it was looking into the Suleman case to see if there was a "violation of the standard of care." The medical board said Monday it has not taken any dis­ciplinary action against Kamrava in the past. · 
In the NBC interview, Suleman did not identify her doctor by name, but said that she went to the West Coast IVF Clinic in Beverly Hills -of which Kamrava is director -and that all 14 of her children were con­ceived with help from the same doctor. In 2006, Los Angeles TV station KTLA ran a. story on infertility that showed Kamrava treating Suleman and discussing embryo implantation. 
Kamrava graduated from the University of Illinois and went to medical school at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, according to state records and his Web site. 

Some fertility specialists said Kamrava is a controversial fig­ure in the field. 
"He's tried some novel tech­niques and some of those meth­ods have been controversial," said Dr. John Jain, founder of Santa Monica Fertility Specialists. 
Jain criticized the decision to implant so many embryos, say­ing: "I do think that this doctor really stepped outside the guide­lines in a very extreme manner, and as such, put both the mother and children at extra high risk of disability and even death." 
ACE UNDERGRADUATE INTERNSHIPS 
Get your application at http://ace.intern.googlepages.co1n/horne 

Women Writers festival in progress 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA News Writer 
The University is hosting its sec­ond annual Women's Writer's Conference this week, with events taking place through Wednesday morning. 
The conference, entitled "Global Women Writers Now," will be held in the Hesburgh Center. It is co-hosted by Notre Dame's English Department and Creative Writing Program. 
The interdisciplinary festival kicked off with an open-mic night for students on Sunday from 7-9 
p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center ballroom. 
On Monday, the conference fea­tured a panel discussion, "Women in International Literary Cultures: Korea and Mexico." The panel consisted of Kim Hyesoon, a prominent Korean writer, and Laura Solorzano, an emerging Mexican poet and editor. 
Two translators, Don Mee Choi and Jen Hofer, poets and antholo­gists of contemporary women's Korean and Mexican writing, respectively, also were present. 
Hyesoon has published seven volumes of poetry since 1981, teaches poetry at the Seoul Institute and has won many prominent Korean awards. Choi has worked as Hyesoon's transla­tor and will publish her first book next year. 
Hyesoon spoke about the histo­ry of Koreans, including a description of the myth of the first Korean. She also discussed the role of women in Korean myths. A woman's primary purpose in such stories was to give birth to a son; they then disappeared from the story completely. However, in stories involving shamans' rituals, women played a more prominent role. 
Hyesoon also described the var­ious types of Korean poetry, those written by upper-class men in tra­ditional Chinese script and poems created by women that told of daily life in Korea that were passed down orally. She also dis­cussed the roles that such poetry played in society and the influ­ence they had on her own work. 
Solorzano has published three books and currently teaches writ­ing in Guadalajara, Mexico. Hofer is the translator of a large amount of prominent Mexican poetry. 
Solorzano discussed her book of poetry, "Lobo de Labio," which translates in English as "Lip Wolf." She described the book as "an experiment in language." 
"Lobo de Labio" has been pub­lished four separate times since Solorzano wrote it. Today, the Global Women Writers Now festi­val is offering a trilingual reading by Hyesoon and Solorzano, with readings taking place in Kore;;tn, Spanish, and English. The read­ing takes place at 5 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
Tomorrow, a roundtable discus­sion, "Translation: Politics and Praetice," will take place in room C103 of the Hesburgh Center. The discussion is a chance for stu­dent'>, faculty, and translators to share opinions and ideas with one another. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 10, 2009 

SMC hosts Indiana residence hall conference over vveekend 
By MEGAN LONEY News Writer 
Saint Mary's hosted the Indiana Residence Hall Organization Conference (IRHOC) this past Friday and Saturday. Minus a few minor glitches with a few of the pro­grams, the conference went well, said Residence Hall Association president Maura Clougherty. Visiting students responded well to the Saint Mary's programs. 
"I heard a lot of positive feed­back from the programs Saint Mary's put on," Clougherty said. 

Saint Mary's Diversity Student Leadership Conference and the "Sex Talk with SMC" were the two programs hosted by Saint Mary's with the most students in attendance. 
Some of the presentations hosted by other universities included "Ice, Ice Breaker," "Diversi-beads," and "Dress for Success." 
Clougherty said she "found information at one of the pre­sentations applicable to her duties as RHA president. 
"[The presentation] was put on by flndiana University) and was entitled 'Oh No! Not Another Boring Meeting,"' Clougherty said. "I found this· helpful since I run the HilA meetings; I learned ways to make our meetings more inter­active." 
The programs were not the only learning that went along with the conference. The expe­rience of planning the confer­ence also taught those involved,~ Clougherty said. 
"This experience of planning the conference helped me a lot," she said. "I want to go into event planning so I really learned how to work with dif­ferent people. I also learned a lot of ways to better run and manage my HHA board." · 
In addition to receiving new information and experience with planning the event, Saint Mary's RHA members received several awards at the closing awards ceremony on Saturday night. Katie Mcinerny, RHA secretary, won a "Directorship Pin." 
Mcinerny and McClougherty both received "Four Year Service" pins from the IRHOC honoring their four years of service involved in RHA and Hall Council during their four years and Saint Mary's. Kathy Chlebda received the "First Year Experience" award. 
Chlebda was diagnosed with lymphoma in August 2006 and had a relpse in Jan. 2007. She is a member of the Class of 2011, but took a leave of absence from the College after her first semester in Fall 2007. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

past several decades, turned blue Obama said, to loud applause. "The In his remarks, Obama described bring "deepening disaster," Obama in November in support for Obama. last event we had of the campaign the bill before Congress and how it said, as he urged Congress to pass
Landing 

"I wanted to make sure people was in Indiana, and the first time would help the economy recover. the bill with alacrity. · ·continued from page 1 were here to welcome Obama and that I'm traveling outside of the The proposal would create or save "Broadly speaking, it has the 
show our appreciation for his White House to three to four mil­right priorities to create jobs that States of America" emblazoned on return to Indiana," liggett said. talk about the lion jobs over two will jumpstart our economy and its side, landed at 11:11 a.m. liggett, who has a son who is an economy is back in years, Obama transform this economy for the
"I promised you back 
Air Force One taxied around the Iraq war veteran, said she spoke to Indiana." said, and will also 21st century," he said. runway before coming to a stop Obama about mental health Elkhart and the then that ifelected, I provide tax relief Obama took questions on the beside a set of stairs several hun­screenings for all veterans when he surrounding area for 95 percent of recovery plan from the audience
would do everything I 
dred yards away from the terminal. was campaigning at the 4-H has been hit hard American work­for more than 30 minutes, address­
could to help this 
President Barack Obama exited Fairgrounds in St. Joseph County. by the economic ers. ing topics such as how the plan the plane and descended the stairs, Obama traveled to Indiana crisis, Obama said, community recover. " In Indiana, he would help Hoosiers specifically, pausing briefly to wave to the Monday to make a pitch for his with the unem­said, the plan will how schools would be improved, members of the media gathered at approximately $838 billion eco­ployment rate at create or save how the bill would encourage
Barack Obama 
the stair's base. nomic stimulus plan, which is cur­15 percent, com­80,000 jobs for the "green" jobs and whether he wotJld
U.S. President
Kathy liggett, 56, of Mishawaka, rently awaiting a final vote by the pared to 4.7 per­next two years. have a beer with conservative talk Ind., stood next to the train tracks U.S. Senate. Obama chose the cent last year. Obama said the show host Sean Hannity. As Obama outside the station with a sign that nearby town of Elkhart, Ind. as the Obama said he workers in these took questions, a woman wearing a read "Hope" on one side and site to make the case for the pas­still remembered the stories of peo­jobs would rebuild and repair "Notre Dame football" sweatshirt "President Obama, you give sage of the bill because the area ple he met from Northern Indiana roads like U.S. 31, which passes by sat in the screenshot behind him. Indiana hope," on the other. has been especially hard hit by the from when he campaigned in Notre Dame. Air Force One flew over Notre Indiana wasn't spelled out, but economic recession. Elkhart six months ago. ·Obama said the plan also Dame on its way back to instead was represented by a Over the course of an hour, "I promised you back then that if includes investment in clean alter­Washington, D.C. at 2:45 p.m. drawing of the state, colored in Obama delivered remarks and elected, I would do everything I native sources of energy, tax relief Monday, turning sharply south as it with blue marker. Liggett said it then answered questions to people could to help this community for small businesses, student tax passed east over DeBartolo Quad. was to show that Indiana, which gathered in Elkhart's Concord High recover," he said. "And that's why credits and expanded unemploy­had been a reliably red, or School gymnasium. I've come back tO today, because I ment benefits. Contact Kaidynn Riely at Republican-leaning, state for the ·"It's good to be back in Indiana," intend to keep my promise." Delaying passage of the bill will kriely@nd.edu 

Run-off 
continued from page 1 
received a total of 2,070 votes, equaling 45.9 percent, to the Burdick-Sanchez tick­et's 1109 votes, or 24.5 per­cent. 

The other two tickets in the election James McCaughan-Tom Gorski and Luke Lennon-Charlie Harig ­received 383 votes, or 8.4 percent, and 557 votes, or 
12.3 percent, 

respectively. "We need to keep the we're doing, and 
Three hun­support we already that's what you dred ninety, or want to see,"
have and have three 
8.6 percent, of Schmidt said. 
the students more days to explain "The participa­
who chose to ourselves to those we tion and interest participate in of students sup­
haven't convinced." 
the election, porting [the voted to election] attests abstain. Grant Schmidt, to what anyone 
Each ticket candidate for student can do in the carried its body president future." 
presidential candidate's residence hall: Schmidt, who lives in Knott Hall, received 107 votes from the dormitory; Burdick received 86 Cavanaugh votes, McCaughan received 85 Siegfried votes and Lennon received 132 Zahm votes. 
Perez told the Burdick­Sanchez and Schmidt-Weber tickets the run-off election procedure will mirror that of the regular election. The tick­ets will not receive any fund­ing in addition to their initial 200 dollars for the days of campaigning ahead; the can­didates are not permitted to campaign past midnight the night before the run-off elec­tion. 
Any new posters put up by the candidates must carry 

Student Activities Office and Election Committee approval stamps. 
Schmidt and Weber told The Observer they were pleased with the results of Monday's election. 
"We're excited, but we still have work to do and people to talk to," Schmidt said. 
They said they were both happy with the overall stu­dent body turnout in the elec­tion, which shows a real interest in student govern­
ment. 
"Most people 

care about what 
Schmidt, who 

participated in a 
run-off election last year with current student body president Bob Reish, said their campaign ''didn't take the run-off lightly." 
"This is a new ball game," he said. "We need to keep the support we already have and have three more days to explain ourselves to those we haven't convinced." 
He said their campaign will most likely be focusing on face-to-face conversations, explaining the feasibility of their ideas, with fellow stu­dents in the days before the run-off election instead of adding more posters to dormi­tory hallways. 
"We hope to have just as much voter turnout next time," Weber said. 
Burdick and Sanchez said Monday's results were "expected." 
"With four tickets running, a run off is not surprising," Burdick told The Observer. "With Grant already in office, we didn't expect to come in and sweep it, but I think we're happy with where we are." 
Over the weekend, the Burdick-Sanchez campaign posted new posters, called "The Spectator," that addressed a few of their plat­form initiatives. 
"We felt like we needed something to counteract the fact that we didn't get The Observer or Scholastic endorsement, so we made our own endorsement," Sanchez said. 
He said an endorsement "gives another ticket an advantage, and we wanted to set the record straight on that." 
Burdick said the response to the posters was positive, and people thought they were "clever." "When people went to vote, that was the last name they saw," she said. 
Sanchez said he hopes the student body sees "we're also a legitimate set of candidates which I really hope gets high­lighted." 
"It will be interesting to see how it plays out," he said. 
A moderated run-off debate featuring both tickets will take place Wednesday at 8 
p.m. in the Main Lobby of LaFortune. Hun-off elections will ta,ke place between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. Thursday. 
Aaron Steiner contributed to this report. 
Contact Jen Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 10, 2009 COMPILED FROMTHE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Controversial bishop removed 
BUENOS AIRES -The bishop whose reha­bilitation by the Vatican sparked outrage because of his denials of the Holocaust has been removed as the head of an Argentine seminary, his superiors said Monday. 
The ultraconservative Society of St. Pius X, which is trying to reconcile with the Vatican, announced it had dismissed British Bishop Richard Williamson as director of the La Reja seminary and distanced itself from his views. 
Williamson's views about the Holocaust created an uproar last month when Pope Benedict XVI lifted his excommunication and that of three other bishops consecrated by the late Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre. 
Lefebvre founded the Society of St. Pius X in 1969 in opposition to the liberalizing reforms of the Second Vatican Council, par­ticularly its outreach to Jews. 
Sparks start fire at Chinese hotel 
BEIJING -The burning shell of an unfin­ished, 44-story luxury hotel lit the night sky over downtown Beijing on Monday after being showered with sparks from fireworks set off during China's biggest holiday. 
Flames surged up one side of the hotel and sent off huge plumes of black smoke, show­ering the ground with embers as police held back crowds of onlookers. 
There were no reports of deaths or injuries. 
Beijing usually tightly restricts the use of fireworks downtown, but waives the rules each year during the Lunar New Year holi­day. Monday was the final day for fireworks, marking the first full moon since the Lunar New Year, and massive barrages exploded in open spaces throughout the city. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Former mayor may face jail time 
WASHINGTON -Prosecutors asked a federal judge Monday to send former Washington mayor Marion Barry to jail for failing to file his tax returns for the eighth time in nine years. 
In a motion filed in U.S. District Court, Assistant U.S. Attorney Tom Zeno said Barry, who's also a current District of Columbia Council member did not file his taxes in 2007, violating his probation for previous tax offenses. 
Barry, 72, was given three years of pro­bation in 2006 after pleading guilty to misdemeanor charges for failing to file his tax returns from 1999 to 2004. As part of a plea bargain, he agreed to file future federal and local tax returns annually. 
Judge suspended after DUI 
HARTFORD, Conn. -A judge charged with drunken driving and videotaped using racial slurs while arguing with police officers was suspended without pay Monday for 240 days by a judicial review panel. 
Superior Court Judge E. Curtissa Cofield, who was confirmed as Connecticut's first black female judge in 1991, apologized to the state Judicial Review Council. 
"I regret that my actions may have tar­nished the institution that I love," she said. "I've embarrassed and humiliated my family and loved ones, and disappointed my friends." 
LOCAL NEWS 
Senate limits property tax bills 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Republican-controlled Senate has approved a proposal to put limits on property tax bills into the Indiana constitution. 
The proposal passed on a 34-16 vote and now moves to the Democrat-controlled House. If the measure clears both chambers this year or next, voters would decide in 2010 whether to amend the caps into the constitution. 
Democratic House Speaker Patrick Bauer of South Bend has suggested lawmakers wait until next year to consider the resolution so they know more about the financial hit local govern­ments may take from the caps. 
Obama urges approval of stimulus 
President uses first prime-time news conference to warn ofpossible catastrophe 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Barack Obama pressed Congress Monday night to urgently approve a massive economic recovery bill, using the first prime­time news conference of his presidency to warn that a failure to act "could turn a crisis into a: catastrophe." 
With the nation falling deeper into a long and painful recession, Obama defended his program against Republican criti­cism that it is loaded with pork-barrel spending and will not create jobs. 
"The plan is not perfect," the president said, address­ing the nation from the East Room of the White House. "No plan is. I can't tell you for sure that everything in this plan will work exactly as we hope, but I can tell you with complete confi­dence that a failure to act will only deepen this crisis as well as the pain felt by millions of Americans." 
When the stimulus bill passed the House, not a single Republican voted for it. On Monday an $838 bil­lion version of the legisla­tion cleared a crucial test vote in the Senate by a 61­36 margin, with all but three Republican senators "The plan that ultimately sure receive some relief. table face to face," Obama opposing it. emerges from Congress While Obama stressed the said. 
Obama said the federal must be big enough and economy in the opening He said that Iran must government was the only bold enough to meet the minutes of the news confer­understand that funding power that could save the size of the economic chal­ence, he also faced ques­terrorist organizations and nation at a time of crisis, lenge we face right now," tions on foreign policy, and pursuing nuclear weapons with huge spending outlays Obama said. was asked how his admin­are unacceptable. and tax cuts that he con­Again and again, he istration would deal with On the economy, Obama tended could save or create stressed that the economy Iran, a nation accused by took a swipe at Republicans up to 4 million jobs. is in dire straits. the United States of sup­for criticizing the stimulus 
"At this particular "This is not your ordi­porting terrorism and pur­bill as wasteful. He pointed moment, with the private nary, run of the mill reces­suing nuclear weapons. out that he inherited the sector so weakened by this sion," he said. Obama said The president said his current economic crisis and recession, the federal gov­the United States aims to administration was review­a doubling of the national ernment is the only entity avoid the kind of economic ing its policy toward Iran debt from eight years of the left with the resources to pain that Japan endured in "looking at places where Bush administration. jolt our economy back to the 1990s -the "lost we can have constructive Yet, he also acknowl­life," Obama said. decade" when that nation dialogue." He also said it edged that some compo­
Rejecting criticism, he showed no economic was time for Iran to change nents of the bill would not said that 90 percent of the growth. its behavior. create jobs, as GOP critics jobs created by the plan "My bottom line is to "My expectation is in the have complained. While would be in the private sec­make sure that we are sav­coming months we will be such spending plans might tor, rebuilding crumbling ing or creating 4 million looking for openings that be worthy, he said, "those 

roads, bridges and other jobs," he said, and that can be created where we programs should be out of aging infrastructure. homeowners facing foredo-can be sitting across the this." 
AUSTRALIA 
Death toll rises in Australian wildfire 
square miles of land, the Victoria where the wind wasn't. It was
Associated Press 
Country Fire Service said. swirling all over the place," he said. 
WHITTLESEA -Disaster teams Whole forests were reduced to "For three hours, we dodged the found charred bodies on roadsides leafless, charred trunks. Farmland wind." and in crashed cars -grim signs of was in ashes. Firefighters battled more than a the futile attempt to flee raging The scale of the disaster shocked dozen blazes that burned out of wildfires fed by 60 mph winds, a nation that endures deadly control across Victoria state, record heat and drought that caught firestorms every few years. Officials although conditions were much even fire-savvy Australians by sur­said panic and the freight-train cooler than Saturday. Forecasters prise. speed of the walls of flames proba­said temperatures would rise later 
As the death toll rose Tuesday to bly accounted for the unusually high this week, posing a risk of flare-ups. 173 in Australia's worst wildfire dis­death toll. Blazes have been burning for aster, suspicions that some of the "It was very quick and ferocious weeks across several states in 400 blazes were caused by arson and took everyone by surprise," southern Australia, common for led police to declare crime scenes in said Jack Barber, who with his wife, time of year. But the worst drought some of the incinerated towns, a neighbor, six cats and a dog in a century in the south had left Victoria police said. sought refuge with five other people forests extra dry, and Saturday's 
The fires near Melbourne in on a cricket field surrounded by temperature was 117 degrees, the southeastern Australia destroyed trees in Kinglake. relative humidity was 7 percent, more than 750 homes, left 5,000 "All around us was 100-foot and the wind was gusting to 50 people homeless, and burned 1,100 flames ringing the oval, and we ran mph. 
_j 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 10, 2009 
tor at the College, said. transition to their new cam­for students and their par­Following the information The majority of the 14 are puses, the admissions coun­ents, where the committee fair, the students met with
Transfers 
first-or second-semester selors said. answered questions "ranging their academic deans and sophomores, she said, but The theme for Transfer from dorm activities to class signed up for classes.
continued from page 1 
there are also Orientation sign up to student life in the That evening, the students, second-semester this spring was spring on campus," she said. along with students who had As stated on the Office of freshmen on the "They learned about "Destination The transfer students and previously transferred to the Admissions Web site, transfer list. ND" at the their families celebrated a University, attended a dinner
ways to get involved 

students to the University Saint Mary's University, welcome Mass in the Log in the LaFortune Ballroom. may not come into the evaluates trans­on campus and found Linn said. Cabin Chapel said by Fr. Greg Ushela said the transfer College of Business or the fer applicants where to get support Students Green. At the Mass, the stu­students at the College School of Architecture. Linn on the qualifica­arrived on dents received Notre Dame attended an orientation that
during thier transi­

said the Office "does not fore­tions that the campus Jan. medals, blessed by University introduced them to the cam­see a change in this policy." student has tion to Notre Dame. " 11 to move President Fr. John Jenkins, pus as well as to "key peo­Linn said the University completed two into their new Linn said. The Mass was fol­ple," like representatives requires that all transfer stu­consecutive residence lowed by "Dinner in the from Residence Life,
Catherine Linn 

dents complete at least one semesters of halls. That Dome." Athletics, Security, Student
admissions counselor

full academic year at another transferable afternoon, The new students attended Affairs and Academic 
and admissions

institution, but "most often, college work. Transfer-0 an information fair Jan. 13 Advising. spring transfer students have The applicant coordinaor began, led by a with "a number of different "We try to touch base with spent three semesters at must have committee of offices on campus," Linn all the key components on another school." earned a 3.0 eight current said, naming Campus campus," she said. The orien­
All eight students received grade point average, Ushela students who had previously Ministry, RecSports, Campus tation for transfer students on-campus housing, she said. said. transferred to Notre Dame. Security and Financial Aid as allows students to be "aware 
Saint Mary's Office of All spring transfer students "The committee did a won­examples. of where to go and who to Admissions received 32 at Saint Mary's received on­derful job of welcoming the "They learned about ways talk to if they have ques­applications for spring and campus housing, she said. new students and their fami­to get involved on campus tions." 14 enrolled, Sue Ushela, The transfer students at lies to campus," Linn said. and found where to get sup­assistant director of admis­both schools took part in ori­The Orientation featured port during their transition to Contact Jenn Metz at sions and transfer coordina-entation programs to help the separate discussion panels Notre Dame," she said. jmetz@nd.edu 
Discussions at each table lasted departments, buildings or col­"Instead of just putting out pus?" he asked. for over an hour, with representa­leges are spending more, groups recycling bins . . . we would take Other suggestions included
Green 
tives from each group presenting said. away individual trash cans," she eliminating trays in the dining continued from page 1 a summary of suggestions and "We need incentives, and I said, and move them to a central halls, working with vendors to comments. think the competition things are location. At the least, she said, it monitor consumption, and Sustain ability. The Office of Sustainability will great ... but in the end the thing would prove "an interesting increasing the number of courses 
GreeNO President and Office of summarize the suggestions and that really makes a difference is experiment." related to sustainability and envi­Sustainability intern Colleen Kelly comments generated at the sum­money," said Joan Brennecke, Jim Mazurek, Director of the ronmental concerns. said the event drew a larger, dif­mit, Kelly said. The information professor of engi-Office of Kelly said that discussions were ferent crowd this year. will then be communicated to the neering. Sustainability, "collaborative," and she hopes
"We need incentives. 
"I think that the conversation relevant departments, who will be Brennecke said said his table, that groups from all areas and was also different this year," she charged with addressing each her table said that and I think the com-made up of Office levels of the University will con tin­said. idea or criticism. accounting for petition things are of Information ue to work together. 
Kelly said themes like recycling, Kelly said she was especially consumption of Technology staff, "We've been really lucky to
great ... but in the 
conservation and sustainability struck by the repeated discussion individual depart­decided that have established relationships have gained a more "visible pres­about increased education and ments would end the thing that things that "hurt with the administration from the ence" on campus since last year, communication about sustainabil­"really make a really makes a differ­you financially" beginning," Kelly said. In addi­all of which has changed the ity on campus. difference." could also be tion, groups like GreeNO have
ence is money.,,
direction of discussion. Other suggestions focused on "I think in the incentives to strong relationships with stu­
Last year, the summit sparked printing and paper usage, simple end this is the change behavior. dents, and the Office of some criticism and basic sugges­ways to decrease energy con­main way we're Joan Brennecke Specifically, his Sustainability good relationships tions about greening Notre sumption, and using competition going to see real professor of engineering table discussed with faculty and staff, she said. Dame's campus, and this year's as an incentive to adopt sustain­change here," she implementing the "That kind of collaboration has discussion was "building on a able practices and decrease con­said. Pharos printing been the main reason we've been base that we've created," Kelly sumption of resources. Amy Coughlin, director of proj­system -which is a pay per use able to succeed," Kelly said. said. Many tables discussed the fact ect management for Business system -in all departments. "I don't think sustainability is 
"We're able to go [further]," she that it is difficult to track energy Operations, said her table focused Currently, only printers designat­going anywhere at Notre Dame said:. going "out of the recycling and other consumption because on methods of changing behavior. ed for student use make use of but forward." box. of the centralized nature of She suggested a few ways to the pay per use system. 
The nearly 200 participants University operations. It's current­change behavior regarding recy­"Could you imagine that system Contact Aaron Steiner at were divided up into 20 groups. ly not possible to know which cling. rolled out for all of us across cam-asteiner@nd.edu 
limited, Howard had no problem typical of the people you imagine in Senior Rafael Diaz, another to them." 
maneuvering down the blocked-off the government, constantly eom­member of the College Democrats The town hall meeting format of streets on the route from South municating," he said. who volunteered as a driver, said Monday's event was like "home Bend Regional Airport to Concord When Howard joined the College even though he had seen Obama turf' for the president, who's "not continued from page 1 High School in Elkhart. Democrats his sophomore year before at a rally, Monday's experi­exactly a Washington insider," 
"It was pretty easy to stay in line after transferring to the University, ence wa<; a little different. Howard said. highlight of the day," Howard said. and keep up," he said witl1 a laugh. he never tl1ought he would end up "Then he was walking by and "He's happy to be out and across The students took a group picture Howard drove one of the support driving in the president's motor­people were reaching out and try­the United States and actually hav­
Obailla 
with Obama, but Howard, who vol­
cars, which followed behind Secret cade. ing to dutch at his ing a change to speak with the peo­unteered for the president's "Get Service and protection vehicles. "I joined hand," he said. ple," he said. "l-Ie's very comfort­
"We passed schools, 
Out the Vote" campaign in the fall, Among his passengers: David because its some­"This time ... I able explaining his ideas ... he's was lucky enough to get an individ­Axelrod, senior adviser to the pres­thing I believe in, and you could see the was star struck, willing to do it, and he's happy to 
ual photo with the president. 
ident; Valerie Jarrett, senior advis­I'm doing it to faces ofthe kids in we took the pic­do it." "These students did a lot for the er to the president; and Robert build friendships ture, I got the Being asked to assist in the event 
the windows, who
campaign," he said. "It was a fun 
Gibbs, White House Press and work on handshake." -the president's farthest trip from opportunity for the people who Secretary. something that I'm had probably been When Howard Washington, D.C. since taking office worked really hard last fall." It was a thrill, he said, to drive in passionate about," waiting a long time to called his fellow in January-isn't something you
The commander-in-chief joked car with and put faces to the he said. "Not many Obama campaign say "no" to, Howard said. 
glimpse the limo ... it
around with the kids from Notre names he sees so frequently in people get a volunteer Friday Howard used an example from Dame -"he's a very friendly guy, a print. change to meet was really special." night and asked the television series "The West really genuine person," Howard "They've done some big things in the president -him "randomly" Wing" to illustrate his point. In the said. politics and for the government, it's it's just gravy at Rafael Diaz what he was show's second season, the charac­
"He came up to the Notre Dame cool to be even their chauffeur, this point." doing Monday ter Ainsley Haynes, a conservative
member of the College 
students and joked about one of especially for someone like me who Though his day morning, Diaz at spokesperson, accept<; a position in
Democrats
our new recruits from the football is constantly reading about poli­began at 7:30a.m. first didn't' realize the White House Counsel's Office team who went to his high school," tics," Howard said. "Getting the when he left his what he was say­for the Bartlet administration after Howard said, pausing for a chance to see the people you read house for the airport and he didn't ing "yes" to doing. being told by the Chief of Staff, moment. about is pretty cool." return home until after 4:00 p.m., "I didn't know we would be part quite plainly, she serves at the 
"He's a good guy," he said. Axelrod, whose name is on many Howard said every minute of his of the president's motorcade," he pleasure of the president. 
White House events staff mem­of the e-mails sent by the Obama experience was worth it. said. Though perhaps not on the same bers contacted Howard late Friday campaign, and now, administra­"It was a privilege," he said. "The people along the side of the scale, the sentiment, for Howard, is afternoon asking him to put togeth­tion, is working to "keep people One of the best moment<; of the road were waving, and there were the same. er a small group of volunteers to motivated and involved in the sys­day: seeing Obama disembarking crowds of people when we entered "When you have the opportunitydrive in the motorcade. All volun­tem," Howard said. Air Force One. the town," Diaz said. "It was really to serve the president, you just say teers went through a Secret Service "He can't just forget about keep­"We've all seen it on T.V.," he impressive. We passed schools, and yes," he said. "Cla'is comes next on background check, "and everybody ing in touch with the people after said, "but you're actually there to you could see the faces of the kids the priority list." passed," Howard said. the election." see him walk off the plane. in the windows, who had probably As for his professors, Howard 
The drivers -Howard included The Obama staff in Howard's car Everybody our age can remember been waiting a long time to glimpse said "hopefully they won't hold it 
-dressed in "standard business 
didn't talk to their driver much -seeing President Clinton or the limo ... it wa<; really spedal." against me." attire" and drove large 15-passen­they were busy e-mailing and on President Bush walk out of the The people of Elkhart are "really ger vans. Though his experience tim phone. plane, but actually seeing Obama is hurting right now," Howard said, Contact Jen Metz at driving a vehicle of that size was "It was kind of funny, and very a pretty ama7ing thing." "and [ObamaJ wanted to reach out jmetz@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER. 

USINESS
Tuesday, February 10, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 8,270.87 -9.72
Jones Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,085 122 1,667 1,385,281,998 

NASDAQ . 1,591.56.. -0.15 
NYS~1i.[II~·~IJI(IIIillf~JI1!111111111Jirlllilllfll!li.l 
S&P 500 869.89 +1.29 
NIKI(E.t1,1f<IEJIII'~lit!ii~!IJIIIlll!ii!lllllllllil 
FTSE 100 (London) 4,307.61 15.71 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (SAC) +12.40 +0.76 6.89 SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +0.14 +0.12 87.10 GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (GE) +13.87 +1.54 12.64 CITIGROUP INC (C) +1.02 +0.04 3.95 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.61 +0.048 3.027 13·WEEK Bill +1.85 0.000 0.280 30-YEAR BOND +0.62 +0.023 3.706 5-YEAR NOTE +2.42 +0.047 1.992 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.61 39.56 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -21.50 892.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) ·1.28 78.88 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 91.2450 EURO 1.3007 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2208 BRITISH POUND 1.4904 
IN-BRIEF 
Obama hits prime-time airwaves 
WASHINGTON -President Barack Obama pushed for his emergency economic stimulus with an urgent one-two punch Monday, addressing the nation in the first prime-time news conference of his presidency after taking his campaign directly to recession victims in hard--hit Indiana. 
"Doing nothing is not an option," Obama warned during a town hall meeting in Elkhart, Ind., where unemployment has passed 15 per­cent. 
Speedy passage of legislation to pump feder­al money into the crippled econ"omy, once seemingly assured with bipartisan support, has become a much heavier lift and a major test of Obama's young presidency. 
The White House is calculating that numbers like these, combined with Obama's drumbeat from the White House, will win the day. 
Agreement reached with Madoff 
WASHINGTON -The Securities and Exchange Commission on Monday announced an agreement with disgraced money manager Bernard Madoff that could eventually force him to pay a civil fine and return money raised from investors. 
The partial judgment, which renders per­manent a preliminary injunction that froze Madoff's assets after his arrest in December, must be approved by the judge overseeing the case in federal court in Manhattan. 
The civil proceeding is separate from the criminal case against the prominent Wall Street figure, who is accused of bilking $50 billion from investors in what may be the largest Ponzi scheme in history. Madoff was arrested on Dec. 11 after allegedly confess­ing to .his sons that he had stolen from investors for years. 
Federal prosecutors have asked a judge to revoke the bail of Madoff, who has be.en confined to his Manhattan penthouse under house arrest. Madoff, who has not been indicted, is widely expected to eventually enter into a criminal deal with prosecutors in which he would plead guilty in exchange for some form of leniency. 
Senate advances economic stimulus 
$838 billion bill moves toward passage despite strong Republican opposition 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -An $838 billion economic stim­ulus bill backed by the White House narrowly advanced in the Sen,ate on Monday over strong Republican opposition, and Democratic leaders vowed to deliver the emergency legislation for President Barack Obama's signature within a few days. 
The vote was 61-36, one more than the 60 needed to move the measure toward Senate passage on Tuesday. That in turn, will set the stage for possibly con­tentious negotiations with the House on a final com­promise on legislation the president says is desperate­ly needed to tackle the worst economic crisis in more than a generation. 
The Senate vote occurred as the Obama administra­tion moved ahead on anoth­er key component of its economic recovery plan. Officials said Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner would outline rules on Tuesday for $350 billion in bailout funds designed to help the financial industry as well as homeowners fac­ing foreclosure. 
Monday's vote was close. but scarcely in doubt once the White House and Democratic leaders agreed to trim about $100 billion on Friday. declared he was prepared in lower tax revenues for effect on the economy. 
As a result, Republican to hold the Senate in ses­the government. "This is a spending bill, not Sens. Susan Collins and sion into the Presidents Day "This bill has the votes to a stimulus bill," said Sen. Olympia Snowe of Maine weekend if necessary, and pass. We know that," con­Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn. and Arlen Specter of cautioned Republicans not ceded Sen. John Thune, a Sen. Mike Enzi, R-Wyo., Pennsylvania broke ranks to try and delay final South Dakota Republican ridiculed the bill. "The to cast their votes to progress. who has spoken daily in the emperor has no clothes! advance the bill. He said passage would Senate against the legisla­Somebody has to say it. I'm 
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, mark "the first step on the tion. referring to this additional D-Mass., battling a brain long road to recovery." As if to underscore its bailout, this spending bill tumor, made his first Moments before the vote, prospects for passage, the that spends everything appearance in the Capitol the Congressional Budget U.S. Chamber of we've got on nothing we since suffering a seizure on Office issued a new esti­Commerce, a prominent are sure about." Inauguration Day, and he mate that put the cost at and powerful business All 36 votes in opposition joined all other Democrats $838 billion, an increase group, issued a statement were cast by Republicans. in support of the measure. from the $827 billion figure calling on the Senate to The two remaining ver­
"There is no reason we from last week. Ironically, advance the measure. sions of the legislation are can't do this by the end of the agency said provisions Even so, in the hours relatively close in size ­the week," said Majority in the bill intended to limit before Monday's vote, $838 billion in the Senate Leader Harry Reid of bonuses to executives at Republican opponents and $819 billion in the Nevada. As House Speaker firms receiving federal attacked it as too costly and House, and are similar in Nancy Pelosi has said, he bailout money would result unlikely to have the desired many respects. 

SEC's Thomsen leaving position 
Associated Press lightning rod for criticism over the tion by the agency's inspector gen­
SEC's failure to detect the stunning eral. 
WASHINGTON -The top cop at $50 billion Ponzi scheme allegedly A replacement for Thomsen was­the Securities and Exchange run by money manager Bernard n't named. Speculation centered on Commission is leaving the govern­Madoff, despite red flags raised to Robert Khuzami, a former federal ment less than a week after receiv­the agency staff by outsiders over prosecutor who is managing direc­ing an angry dressing-down before the course of a decade. The tor and general counsel of invest­Congress over the agency's failure announcement of her departure ment firm Deutsche Bank. to detect a massive alleged fraud came a few days after Schapiro out-Khuzami didn't immediately scheme. lined new actions intended to return a telephone call to his office 
The SEC said Monday that Linda strengthen and streamline the Monday. SEC spokesman John Thomsen is leaving to pursue agency's enforcement efforts. Nester declined to comment. opportunities in the private sector, Thomsen was front and center at Thomsen, who was the first but did not provide further details. a Feb. 4 hearing by a House sub-woman to hold the chief enforce­She has been the agency's enforce­committee investigating the Madoff : ment job at the SEC, had been ment director since May 2005, affair and the enforcement break-deputy enforcement director before under two previous SEC chairmen. down at the SEC. She was put on taking the top spot. As enforcement 
Mary Schapiro late last month the defensive by lawmakers and director, she led the SEC investiga­became SEC chairman, and it's not forced to defend the SEC's position tion of fallen energy giant Enron unusual for new heads of the that she and other officials couldn't Corp., which began in late 2001, agency to replace the enforcement publicly discuss details of the mat-and a number of other high-profile director. But Thomsen became a ter because of an ongoing investiga-cases. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, February 10, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
Bengal mission bouts 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
. GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 <ibsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A§sistant Managing Editors and deparrment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The !Tee expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ohscrvcr (USPS 599 Z-4000) ill' published Monday through Frid;;ty except during exam and V.lC.Uion pcrioJs. A subscription to The Ob~rver is $100 !Or one ;;teadcmk.: year; $55 for one :.eatCc'ltcr. 
The Observer is publish<d ;~t: POSTMASTER 02-4 Somh Dining Hall Send address corrcc,ipns: to: Nom Damc,..JN 46556-0779 The Observer Pctiodkal posrage paid at Nom; D.1mc P.O. Box 779 and additional maHing Qffaccs.. 024 ~Juth Dining H.t!l 
N(lttc Dame. IN 46556-0779 
1lK Obsc:rver ii a member of lhe ksociated Press. All reproduction righl.S arc reserved. 
"We are being overrun by rats that have come into the jungle and hills because of the flowers and seeds/fruits of the bam­boo. They are destroying the crops of the people. And a group of 41 elephants has destroyed crops, banana trees and homes in anum­ber of villages. And now is the time of drought. The peo­ple are suflering a lot, with very little food (surviving on wild roots and new bamboo plants as their daily food), and they cannot afford the school fees for their chil­dren. They come to us everyday asking money for food and treatment or medicine. I am sorry for telling you the present situation of our people, but as a pastor I think and feel for them and I just needed to share with someone." 
Those lines, in a recent letter from Fr. Robi Gomes, CSC, to Fr. Tom Smith, CSC, tell you more about the need for Bengal Bouts than I ever could. Since 1931 the Bouts have become the largest single con­tributor to the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. Now the relation has moved to a new level. Last summer, Boxing Club president Mark Weber, boxers Tomas Castillo, Patrick Martin, Leo Rubinkowski, Mike Lee and Patrick Ryan raised money to go to Bangladesh with Professor William Donaruma and cinematographer John Klein, '06. They made a film, "Strong Bodies Fight," depicting the reali­ties of the missions. The premiere will be on campus on the Navy weekend in November. See www.strongbodiesfight.org. A student service project in Bangladesh may result from the effort. More about the film and project in a later column. 
Since 1854, Holy Cross priests, brothers and sisters have labored in Bangladesh, especially among the tribal people in remote areas. Of the 140 priests and brothers and the 70 sisters now in Bangladesh, all but 19 are Bangladeshi. The country has more than 140 million people in an area the size of Wisconsin. 
89.7 percent are Muslims, 9.2 percent are 

Charles E. !lice 
Right or Wrong 

Hindus, with the rest Buddhists, Christians and others. The nationwide per capita income is $1400, but the ultra­poor served by lloly Cross have far less. When you go to a basketball game at the JACC and drop $3.50 for some ice cream creation, you will spend what would feed a family of four among those ultra poor for almost a week. In 2008, the Bouts con­tributed more than $50,000 to the mis­sions, a comparatively huge sum. 
The needs are pressing. Fr. Alex Rabanol, CSC, in St. George's Parish in remote Mariamnagar, has 50 children, grades one through five, and two teachers in his boarding school. The children have no money and they board because they live far away. Fr. Alex needs money to feed those kids. 
Corpus Christi Parish is in Mymensingh diocese, a hilly area where the water is putrid for at least half of the year. Fr. Shusanto Gomes, CSC, needs at least 50 tube wells, at a total cost of $3,500, to relieve the disease caused by the bad water. 
Fatima Hani Parish in Bandarban is in a very poor and remote, forested area. Holy Cross has served it since 1957. The priests always carry medicines to treat the many , adults and children affiicted with malaria and dysentery. They also have the rat and elephant problems described above by Fr. Gomes, the pastor. lie needs about $4,000 for a badly needed dispensary. 
The list of needs could go on and on. The Bengal Bouts are literally a lifesaving operation. The program is run by the box­ers themselves, under the supervision of Rieh O'Leary and Jimmy Rogers of RecSports. The captains are Mark Weber, Mike Lee, Kris Perez, Dan Rodgers, Leo Rubinkowski; Diego Villalba, Brian de Splinter, Patrick Burns and Chris Cugliari. Tom Suddes, Chicago attorney Terry Johnson and University pilot Pat Farrell are the head coaches. The assistant coaches include Sweet C. Robinson of the Buchanan Police Department, Mike Hurley, former boxers Ryan Rans, Chip Farrell, Thad Naquin, Judge Roland Chamblee, and Father Briau Daley. 
Dr. Jim Moriarty oversees the medical and safety program which has prevented serious injury for 78 years. Emergency Medical Technician Terri Engel attends every sparring session along with EMTs Erica Daley, Sean Bradley and Steve Serbalik, along with Bonnie Chow, Bert Williams and Myisha Eatmon of RecSports whose official title, on their T-shirts, is (no kidding) "professional rescuers." 
The real indispensables, however, are the managers, Kelly Garvy, Katherine Johnson, Ashley Mensch, Catherine Cooney, and Meghan Rolfs. They not only keep impeccable sparring, advertising, equipment and other records. They are the brains of the outfit, day to day. Without them, things would grind to a halt. And they know why they do it. "The work is challenging, the people are great," said Ashley Mensch, "but most important, we are doing something real for people who need it." 
On Jan. 13, more than 300 athletic (some might say masochistic) young men began their fmal training for the Bouts. Probably half will survive the tniining imposed, not offered, by volunteer coach Tom Suddes, a Columbus developer, who matches his victims push-up for push-up. Why do the boxers do this? One reason is to get in shape and experience the chal­lenge of stepping into the ring, alone, and putting yourself on the line. But the other reason, as any of us involved with the boxers can guarantee, is that they really want to "give back," to help the poor on those missions. 
The Bouts will be in four sessions at the Joyce Center: Preliminaries on Sunday, Feb. 15th at 5 p.m.; Quarterfinals on Tuesday, Feb. 17th at 6:00p.m.; Semifmals on Tuesday, Feb. 24th at 6:30 p.m.; and Finals on Saturday, Feb. 28th at 
7:00 p.m. General admission is $5 for the first three sessions and $7 for the Finals. The all-season General Admission pass is $10. . 
"The Bengal Bouts," said Fr. Tom Smith, CSC, director of the Holy Cross Mission Center, "are a vital support as our Holy Cross community seeks to show God's love and compassion to the hungry and sick, and offers hope through education efforts throughout Bangladesh." Beyond that, the Bouts are fun to watch. If you go once, you'll be hooked. Please support them. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the law school faculty. He may be reached at rice.l @nd. edu or 574-633-4415. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

t-tADBEEN ts;;JITNG-FLt61-tT 1549 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Liz Harter Bill Brink What are you doing Robert Singer Alex Barker 
for Valentine's Day? Liz O'Donnell Douglas Farm~r Graphics Scene "Preach not to others what they 
Going out with my significant other 
Madeline Nies Stephanie DePrez should eat, but eat as becomes you, 
Going out with friends and be silent." 
Viewpoint 
Staying in 
Lauren 
Epictetus
Crying myself to sleep 

Brauweiler Roman slave and Stoic philosopher 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

• THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINTTuesday, February 10, 2009 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Proper channels .. 
Pope John Paul II bestowed upon the Knights of Columbus the title of "the strong right arm of the Church" and the Notre Dame Knights are proud to do our part in defending the Church and the Holy Father. However, all statements made on behalf of the Knights of Columbus Notre Dame Council 1477 must be-approved before publication by the Council's officers and board of trustees. As the statement published yesterday was not approved through the proper channels. We would like to clarify that the Viewpoint was not an official statement by the Knights of Columbus Council 1477 and should not be regarded as such. It is not the Council's position that people who question the Pope's leadership do not belong at this university; rather, we affirm that any discussion regarding the Pope's decisions should be carried on with the respect due the Successor of St. Peter. 
Jim Redden junior Dillon 
Feb.9 

Tradition never graduates 
It seems the administration has lost its way. This year, we have witnessed an unprecedented change in student life at Notre Dame. The Dillon Pep Rally: can­celed. The Alumni Wake: canceled. The Fisher Zoo: canceled. And to be sure, something as controversial as the Keenan Revue is next on the list of things to go (although if this year is any indication, it will just become more and more subdued until it is hardly recognizable). 
Student life, and more specifically, dorm life, is one of the great things that sets Notre Dame apart as an institution, and a big reason why so many alumni are attached to this place: the phenomenal experience they had as undergraduates. But in their chase after the Ivy League, and ever higher rankings in U.S. News, the administration seems to have forgotten this important aspect of Notre Dame. We are not Harvard or Yale, we're better, and the reason is that at Notre Dame, there is more to life than just great academics. But with the way things are going, it seems Fr. Poorman and the rest of ResLife's ideal campus would be dorm rooms housing students with their noses in their books, never seeing one another, much less socializing. That's not the Notre Dame that I wanted to go to when I applied here. 
Hand in hand with dorm life goes dorm tradition, without which, the dorms are just buildings like they are at most other schools, some of them with flat screen TV's (Duncan), and others with tap water that is unsafe to drink (Fisher). All of those events that have been canceled this year are an enormous part of that tradi­tion, a part of which you remember fondly years from now. When you take away that tradition, you take away what makes student life here great. The saying "tra­dition never graduates," is true. Tradition just gets banned by ResLife. 
Trey Griffith 
sophomore 
Fisher 
Feb. 9 

Cocoa Krispies 
Since moving from Keenan to Duncan, the number of times I've visited North Dining Hall can be counted without the use of toes. This is mostly because oflocation. I enjoy the superior pasta stir fry and fajitas at North, the layout and atmosphere at South, and gen­erally just eat at whichever is closest. I never realized how little reason there is to go to North Quad until I moved south. However, this past Thursday, I found myself in the Library (rare in itselO and decided to head over to North for dinner. It was nearly 8:00 so I didn't have to deal with the massive dinner crowds, and after getting penne with tomato alfredo at the pasta bar I went for some milk. Much to my surprise, right next to the milk dispenser was the single most amazing breakfast delicacy ever created: Kellogg's Cocoa Krispies. 
When did this happen? They certainly weren't there last semester, and they have yet to show up in the now incredibly inferior South Dining Hall. I don't want to hear from you non-purists that go for Cocoa Pebbles and Cocoa Puffs. Cocoa Krispies are the real deal. They don't get soggy quickly and the taste is unbeatable. It feels so good when they hit your lips! Anyway, I filled two bowls and was suddenly in a Got Milk commercial (all 4 dis­pensers out of skim-drawback to 8:00 dining). I settled for 2% and had one of the best dinners yet at Notre Dame. I appreciate the cereal survey administered every year, and I hope this inequality of cereal distribution can be corrected. 
On a related note, they have Crispex in the lines at NDH but not at Grab & Go, and they have it at Grab & Go at SDH but not in the lines. What's up with that!? On an unrelated note, the tray carousel at SDH should run in the other direction. Counter-current systems are more efficient. P.S.-my girlfriend, Sara Lewis, wishes everyone to know she's not at all concerned about cereal equality. Thank you. 
Noah Franske junior Duncan Feb. 8 

A defense of criticistn 
In Monday's viewpoint, it was asserted that criticizing the Pope is "ridiculously and offensively arrogant." It was stated the college students do not have the right to question the authority of the Catholic Church. This opinion could not be any more wrong or dangerous. If you take a group of 18-22 year olds who are making the transition from home life to real life, and tell them never to question or criticize, you create the kind of stagnant mind that this nation and world defi­nitely does not need right now. I understand that, as a Knight of Columbus and fervent Catholic, Mr. Metzger feels the need to defend Pope Benedict, but I will never understand and never support anybody who tells an entire university that they should blindly accept what they are told. If the students of Notre Dame fear to question authority, how are they supposed to make a difference? 
We are told that we are all unique and capable of doing great things, but anybody who pushes against the status quo is instantly chastised. This can not be allowed to happen. If it is a loss of faith that you fear: don't. If people are allowed to question their faith, and decide it is the correct path for them, their faith will become stronger in the end just by the act of questioning. If they decide on a different path, well, at least they were able to find their sense _of self. And isn't that ultimately what the college experience should be about? We are not only on a search for knowledge, but a search for identity. That identity may not please every­body, but a school with an intellectual reputation as great as Notre Dame's should not be bothered by that. If you are unwilling to accept criticism and different beliefs, perhaps this isn't the university for you. 
Tim Ryan freshman Keenan Feb. 9 

''Defense'' intellectually offensive 
I consider myself a devout Catholic. I go to Mass every week, try to follow the teachings of the Church, and confess my sins when I err in this effort. I was, how­ever, deeply disturbed by the article entitled, "A defense of the Pope", by Lee Metzger, which appeared in Monday's issue of the observer. Mr. Metzger's article was a blatant ad hominem attack that did more to damage the stance of those who support the Church than to edify it. Rather than addressing the arguments made by those who are disappointed in the Pope's judgment, Mr. Metzger fell back on the age-old argument of, "Yeah, well you're stupid." In the article, he implies that because the Pope has more experience and education than the students here at Notre Dame, his position must be correct, and the students' position must be incorrect. But while the Pope's experience and education certainly makes him more likely to be correct, it does not, in and of itself, prove his point. Certainly sometimes even the wisest men can be wrong, and even the fool sometimes speaks sense. The individual's education and reputation have no bearing on the merits of his or her argument. Mr. Metzger also seems to imply that he is somehow entitled to make these ad hominem attacks, or at least speak from a position of rela­tive authority, because he is a member of the Knights of Columbus. While the Knights are a great organization and fulfill an important role, I doubt that when you are inducted into the Knights you magically gain some kind of deeper insight into matters of faith. If Mr. Metzger and his fellow Knights really wish to"defend our Church and her leaders", I wish them will in their endeavor, but I would encourage them to address the arguments of those who attack the Church, rather than simply saying"shame on you." 
Christopher White 
sophomore 
Dillon 
Feb. 9 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene Editor 
On Sunday, students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will have the chance to see a performance by one of the most versatile groups in contempo­rary classical music. 
The Turtle Island String Quartet, who won a Grammy last year for their crossover album "A Love Supreme," will arrive at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Ce.qter, Feb. 15th for an afternoon of genre­bending string stylings. The group is scheduled to appear with jazz pianist and songwriter Cyrus Chestnut to perform their "Icons" program. 
Yo-Yo Ma has called the Quartet "a unified voice that truly breaks new ground," and the quartet's Web site quotes the St. Louis Post-Dispatch as saying, "It must have been like this when Beethoven was taking Vienna. by storm -the exhilaration of seeing the future of classical music unfold before your eyes and ears." 
No doubt listeners in the Leighton Concert Hall will enjoy the after­noon's touring program, which is set to excite audiences with its multifac­eted approach. "Icons" was designed by the Quartet as the latest in a series of cross-genre musical ventures, and will reinterpret both classic and con­temporary pieces. "Icons" will blend the music of Brahms' piano quintet with strains of gospel, while blue­grass influences like Flatt and 
By EMILY LeSTRANGE 
Scene \X'rirer 
Don't be surprised if you hear orchestral music ringing throughout campus this weekend; Czechoslovakian music is taking South Bend by storm. 
On Wednesday night, the Debartolo Performing Arts Center will host a performance of the world-renown Czech Symphony Orchestra. Although highly influ­enced by the works of Czechoslovakian composers, the Orchestra's repertoire also includes works by Beethoven and Mozart. 
Since 1954, the Czech Symphony Orchestra has been one of the most prominent symphony orchestras in the world. At the peak of the era of Communism, the Czechoslovakian government prevented the Orchestra from touring foreign countries, par­ticularly those that stood against the principles of communistic countries. The birth of the Czech Republic in 1993 and the end of communism allowed the group the freedom to perform as they please. Since then, the Orchestra has found success touring in many countries, including Europe, the U.S., Japan, and Taiwan. 
The Orchestra performs many pieces by 18th century Czechoslovakian composer Leos Janacek. Janacek, famous for pio­neering new patterns of chord spac­ing, was very inf1uential iri the lives Scruggs and Bill Monroe will intersect with names like John Coltrane, Miles Davis and Duke Ellington. 
Founded in 1985, the Turtle Island Quartet has grown in fame and pres­tige over the years for its ability to blend, refashion and revolutionize chamber music for strings. The group consists of four members: David Balakrishnan on the violin, Mads Tolling on the violin, Jeremy Kittle on the viola and Mark Summer on the cello. It was Balakrishnan who first conceived of the Quartet while earn­ing his master's at Antioch University West. Eventually, the group would expand from its humble university roots to become one of the most high profile string quartets in American classical music today. 
The "Icons" program is only one example of the Quartet's ability to cross and blend different genres while retaining its classical core. The group has experimented with music styles as diverse as Indian and Latin American, and has experimented with swing, funk, rhythm and blues, folk, hip-hop and more. They have also made multiple albums with vari­ous labels, and their film, radio and television credits include Garrison Keillor's "Prairie Home Companion" for National Public Radio. Even the name of the Quartet, "Turtle Island," draws from diverse influences -the image derives from a creation myth commonly found in Native American folklore. 
Students interested in exploring 
of Bedrich Smetana and Antonfn Dvorak, two other Czechoslovakian composers showcased by the Orchestra. However, while the Czechoslovakian heritage is highly inf1uential to the Orchestra, it does not prevent the musicians from exploring the works of other com­posers. 
One of the most famous perform­ances the Orchestra has given was in 2006 at the Rudolfinum Hall in Prague. Prague was also home to the Orchestra's performance in the Contemporary Musical Festival dur­ing the same year. Other notable showings include various interna­tional festivals in Australia, the Netherlands, and Italy. This year the Orchestra's 2009 American Tour includ~s four-weeks worth of per­formances in California, Massachusetts, and Florida in addi­tion to the Orchestra's appearance at Notre Dame, a standard stop on the tour. 
The Czech Symphony Orchestra is led by Maestro Theodore Kuchar. Kuchar has been the Artistic Director and Musical Conductor of the Orche.stra for the last 15 years. Best known for his role in recording over 90 discs of orchestral music in the last decade, Kuchar recently assumed his role as conductor dur­ing the Orchestra's performance of Smetana's work in a three-disc recorded special. As put by Classies Today, "Theodore Kuchar is an extremely exciting and talented eon-
more of the Turtle Island Quartet's music can explore any of their more than a dozen recorded albums. Highlights include "A Love Supreme" (2008), which takes a raucous, ener­getic approach to the music of John ·Coltrane, and "4+Four" (2006), the group's first recording with the Telarc label. "4+Four" ranges from European Jazz to the Beatles, and is a collaborative effort between the Turtle Island Quartet and the Ying 
Quartet. 

The afternoon's additional per­
former, Cyrus Chestnut, is a high-pro­
file American jazz artist in his own 
right. An alumnus of Boston's presti­
gious Berklee College of Music, 
Chestnut has toured with sueh artists 
as Wynton Marsalis and the Betty 
Carter Trio. Chestnut has also record­
ed or performed with a variety of 
contemporary jazz, pop, R&B and 
gospel artists, including Bette Midler, 
Isaac Hayes, Chick Corea, Dizzy 
Gillespie and others. Interested listen­
ers ean check out Chestnut's first 
album, 2006's "Genuine Chestnut," or 
his 2007 album "Cyrus Plays Elvis" 
before the show. 

"!eons" will take place on Sunday, 
Feb. 15th at 2:00 p.m. in the Leighton 
Concert Hall. Tickets cost $38, $30 
for faculty and stafT, $29 for seniors 
and $15 for all students. For more 
information, visit 
performingarts.nd.edu. 

Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
duetor, and his take-no-prisoners approach works very well in this colorful music." Kuchar also holds the title of Prineipal Conductor of the National Symphony Orchestra of the Ukraine, and has frequently been a guest conduetor of the Berlin Symphony Orchestra. 
World-renowned violinist Jennifer Frautschi will also be present Wednesday night. In 2008, Frautschi toured with the European Concert Hall Organization in the Rising Stars series, debuting in forums including London's Wigmore Hall and the Salzburg Mozarteum. As "The Chicago Tribune" wrote in a recent article, "lhe young violinist Jennifer Frautschi is molding a career with smart interpretations of both warhorses and rarities." 
As listed on the Debartolo Performing Arts Website, the per­formance of the Orchestra will include many violinist pieces, ineluding Smetana's "Ma Vlast" and other works by Felix Mendelsshon and Antonfn Dvo ak. The perform­ance also includes a short intermis­sion. 
The Czech Symphony Orchestra can be seen on Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Leighton Concert H.all. Ticketed admission is required. Tickets are $48 for general admis­sion, $38 for faculty/staff, and $15 for students. 
Contact Emily LeStrange at elestran@nd.edu 
Image courtesy of nj.com 
Image courtesy of saccca.org 





Image courtesy of weblo.com 
Why Care?: 

Meloy has described the album as an "amalgamation" of Krautrock and the British Folk Revival with a pinch of stoner metal thrown into the mix. If that doesn't sound 
What's Known: 
mind-blowing enough, on the album's opening track, "The Rake's Song," the nerdyThe aborted rock-opera's first song is all over the web. The 17 -song track list has frontman uses the adjective "divest" to describe a husband getting rid of his newalready been released. Also, the group's wordsmith frontman, Meloy, has been dish­wife and children by slaughtering them. ' ing all sorts of dirt on Twitter. 
Image courtesy of greenlightgopublicity.com 

The Decemberists: Hazards of Love 
(MARCH 24TH, CAPITOL) 
By JAMES DuBRAY Scene Writer 
Great Lake Swimmers: Lost Channels (MARCH 31, NETIWERK) 
What's Known: 
A 12-song track list is on the band's website and Stereogum is previewing one of the record's tunes. Why Care?: 
This little known group of bearded Canadians produces a style of melodic folk reminiscent of Neil Young and early Mark Kozelek, aka Red House Painters. 
,.....--,_...-......,-,.., 


Image courtesy of shevesofvinyLblogspot.com 

Golden Bloom: TBA 
(SUMMER, UN-SIGNED) What's Known: 
Notable friend of Guster, Shawn Fogel, will team up with a new group ofbuds and have a record out by this summer. After rifling through hundreds of mailed-in sin­gles and albums, a "Spin Magazine" intern really liked an indie pop song called "Doomsday Devices." A well-compensated "Spin Magazine" staff writer took the assist and featured Golden Bloom in a piece highlighting little known bands. 
Why Care?: 
Unsigned bands barely exist anymore outside of college bars and high school garages. Plus, "Doomsday Devices" is quite good. 
Wilco: TBA 

(SPRING, NONESUCH) What's Known: 
America's rock band once again returns to using the studio as an instrument to construct their seventh album to date and second with the current lineup. "The Colbert Re.fort" debuted "Wilco The Song." 
Why Care.: 

Possible album tracks "Everlasting Everything" and "You and I" sound like they could belong on "Planet Waves," while "Wilco The Song" is the best pop. song the group has produced since "Heavy Metal Drummer." 

Band of Horses: TBA (TBA, Sue PoP)
What's Known: 

Well, nothing, except that the band's in the studio and will have an LP out in '09. Ben Bridwell and the boys gave fans a nice surprise on their Myspace page. Milwaukee blogger Muzzle of Bees caught the hint and word spread. · 
Why Care?: 

2007's "Cease To Begin" was a late-year surprise which ended up on just about everyone's best-of list. If the new album is anywhere as good as the one before it, look for Band Of Horses to_ make an even bigger splash in critical circles. 
Image courtesy of rattlemycage. word press. com 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 10, 2009 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
UNC sinks Duke behind second half surge 
Maryland knocks off Boston College on the road for seventh consecutive time with narrow four-point victory 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C.-Eighth­ranked North Carolina looked as bad as it possibly could in a first half that coach Sylvia Hatchell could hardly stand to watch. Making matters worse, it was coming against the Tar Heels' fiercest rival. 
"It was like a nightmare," Hatchell said. 
Fortunately, Rashanda McCants helped the Tar Heels finally start looking like them­selves again. 
The senior scored 19 of her 22 points in the second half to help North Carolina beat No. 4 Duke 75-60 on Monday night, continuing the Tar Heels' recent dominance in the series. 
Jessica Breland added 14 points and a career-high 23 rebounds for the Tar Heels (21­3, 6-2 Atlantic Coast Conference), who trailed by 12 points in a first-half perform-• ance filled with missed shots and turnovers. But North Carolina got back in it with a spurt just before halftime, then shot 64 percent and scored 50 points after the break against one of the ACC's top defenses. 
North Carolina also took a 54-38 rebounding advantage against the Blue Devils (19-3, 7 -2), who shot just 30 percent for the game. 
"I told them, 'Keep the tempo up, keep pushing it,"' Hatchell said of her halftime speech. "And we did. It played into our favor. It's not always pretty, but it's exciting. And it's fun." 
McCants sparked the offen­sive turnaround, hitting 8 of 9 shots after the break after going just 1-for-4 in the first half. 
''I'm a senior. I'm supposed to wake up," McCants said. "I kind of put everything on my back and I credit my team­mates for getting me easy bas­kets." 
The Tar Heels have won nine of the past 11 meetings after losing 12 straight in the series from 2000-04. North Carolina won all three meetings by dou­ble figures last year, including an 82-51 rout in Chapel Hill to end the regular season and hand Duke its worst loss in 15 years. 
Unlike last season, Duke did­n't look afraid of North Carolina's trapping pressure defense or its transition attack. Instead, the Blue Devils used an opportunistic defense to slow the Tar Heels while keep­ing control of the tempo early. The problem was the Blue Devils couldn't fully take advantage of the Tar Heels' 
CLASSIFIEDS 
early offensive struggles or build a big enough lead to weather an inevitable run. 
And once McCants got going, North Carolina finally resem­bled the team that has ranked among the nation's best. 
The Blue Devils had allowed 
opponents to average 55 points 
per game on 34 percent shoot­
ing. North Carolina finished at 
46 percent, a season-high for a 
Duke opponent. 
"It's 'frustrating when you pride yourselves on defense," Duke senior Abby Waner said. "We say we're a defensive team, then we give up that many points in the second half. That's absurd." 
McCants scored seven points during a 12-2 run that pushed the Tar Heels ahead for good. With the score tied at 46, she started the run with a pair of layups in transition, then helped break Duke's press and assisted on Breland's layup before scoring""off a feed from Breland two possessions later. 
Then, after a 3-pointer from She'la White, McCants buried a 3-pointer over Waner from in front of North Carolina's bench to beat the shot clock arid give North Carolina a 61-51 lead with 4:4 7 left. 
The Tar Heels also helped themselves by taking better care of the ball. North Carolina committed 20 turnovers in the first half -its fourth straight game with at least 20 -but had nine after halftime with several coming after the Tar Heels had built a double-digit lead. 
McCants was the only player on either team to have much success on offense, though Cetera DeGraffenreid had a strong second half and finished with 15 points. Breland shot just 5-for-14, though she fin­ished with five blocks and six steals in 37 minutes. It was the most rebounds by a Tar Heel player since Charlotte Smith had 23 in the 1994 NCAA championship game. 
"Coach Hatchell asked for 15," Breland said. "With 15 minutes left on the clock, I was like, 'OK, I've got 15 more min­utes to rebound."' 
Duke had things going its way early, holding the league's top scoring offense to 13 points in the first 16 1/2 minutes. But the Tar Heels closed the first half with a 12-2 spurt that ended when White made a high-arc­ing floater over Chante Black just before the horn to cut Duke's lead to 27-25 by half­time. 
Then, trailing 38-31, North Carolina pushed ahead with a 15-3 spurt and took its first lead at 40-39 on DeGraffenreid's three-point play with 13:32 left. 

"The reality is we still had the (halftime) lead," Duke coach Joanne P. McCallie said. "There's absolutely no excuse for our performance in the sec­ond half. I mean, none whatso­ever." 
Black scored 13 points to lead Duke but missed 11 of 15 shots while facing constant double teams inside. Waner added 12 points for the Blue Devils. 
Maryland 85, Boston College 81 
Let the other tourists check out the U.S.S. Constitution and walk the Freedom Trail. Brenda Frese and the Maryland basketball team have their own list of favorite sites in Boston. 
There's the new Boston Garden, where the Terrapins won the 2006 NCAA champi­onship. And Boston College, where they improved their record against the Eagles to 7-0 on Monday night with a victory. 
"Boston is my favorite place to come," said Kristi Toliver, who scored 19 points with seven assists, picking up a loose ball and hitting a 3-point­er with the shot clock winding down in the final minute. "I wish we could play here every game." 
Toliver finished 5-for-11 from 3-point range -Maryland shot 56 percent from beyond the arc as a team -and Marissa Coleman added 23 points, seven rebounds, and five assists as the Terps (19-4, 7-2 Atlantic Coast Conference) won their third straight game. 

Corey Rusin scored 21, Carolyn· Swords added 19, and Jaclyn Thoman had 13 points and 10 assists for Boston College (17 -7, 5-4 ACC). The Eagles, who hadn't lost consec­utive games all season, have now dropped three in a row ­all of them to Top 15-ranked teams. 
The Eagles play unranked Miami on Monday before No. 8 North Carolina next Thursday, followed by No. 17 Virginia and then Maryland again. 
"It's tough, and we knew it would be tough," BC coach Sylvia Crawley said. "Our expectations are very high, and we don't make any excuses, but these are tough games." 
Nothing has been tougher than Maryland, which has never lost to BC and has also shut down Boston University, Harvard, and Massachusetts. Although the Terps did lose to Holy Cross in Worcester in the first round of the 1991 NCAA tournament, they beat North Carolina and Duke at the new Boston Garden in '06 to win their only natiOI~al title. 
"I don't ever want to forget that," said Frese, who missed last year's trip to BC because she was pregnant with twins and doctors told her not to travel. "Every time we come back here, it always brings back great memories. "We've had some really good luck and a lot of success, so of course we're going to love it." 
Boston College trailed 7 6-7 3, with the ball and just under three minutes left, when Mickel Picco pulled up for a foul line jumper that could have made it a one-point game. The shot hit the rim, Demauria Liles grabbed the rebound and at the other end took the feed under the basket from Toliver for a layup that made it 78-73. 
Rusin's free throws cut it to three points with 1:11 left before Maryland worked the clock and then almost coughed it up. The loose ball rolled toward the top of the key, where Toliver grabbed it and put up a 3-pointer. 
BC led 34-29 on Picco's 3­pointer with 6:05 left in the first half before Maryland scored the next 11 points. Toliver hit a 3-pointer, then Lynetta Kizer scored on a layup to tie it, drawing a foul and converting the three-point play. Toliver hit a jumper and then added another 3-pointer to give 'Maryland a 40-34 lead with 
3:17 to play in the half, and the Terps made it eight points before Rusin's 3-pointer made it 46-41 at the break. 
With 10 minutes left in the second half, Maryland held BC scoreless for 5:07 while extend­ing its lead to 12 points, 76-64. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offering  NOW LEASING. LAFAYETIE  HOUSES FOR RENT 2009-10. 2-4  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
NOTICES  10-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com --------------­ TOWNHOUSES. $350/PERSON. 3,4 & 5·BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS.  BEDROOMS, CLOSE TO CAM­PUS, STAINLESS STEELAPPLI­ PERSONAL  Do not go it alone.  
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts  FREE INTERNET. NEWLY  ANCES. CALL BILL: 574-532-1896.  
6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-7653.  REMODELED.  We have many resources in place  
New pop Christian music by Will of  --------------­ CALL 574-234-2436 OR  --------------­ to assist you. If you or someone  
Titus available at  613 Lafayette Blvd., 6-bdrm & 2­ WWW.KRAMERHOUSES.COM  1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS  If you or someone you care about  you love needs confidential support  
www.willoftitus.com or itunes  bdrm houses. $350/person. Call  ---------------­ across from Notre Dame Stadium.  has been sexually assaulted, visit  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  
574-876-6333.  The Foundry features private baths  Support Services for Victims of  Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1­ 
---------------­ Student rentals 2009/2010. St.  for every bedroom, washer/dryer,  Rape & Assault at:  2685. For more information, visit  
FoR SALE  Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available.  Peter/SB Ave. Homes. $1300­$2000/month. 5· 7 bdrms, 1st or-2nd  fitness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. Preleasing for  http://osa.nd.edu/health- NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs  
Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at  floor. Contact Bruce Gordon 574­ August. Call574-232·1400 or lease  safety/assault/  website at: osa:nd.edu/health-safe·  
andersonNDrentals.com FREE  574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous­ 876-3537.  online www.foundryliving.com  ty/assistance-for -pregnant -students.  
COMCAST!  es.com  
--------------­ --------------­ --------------­ --------------­ --------------­ --------------­ 
..  



OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, February 10, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NCAA Men's Basketball AP·Top25' 
team  
1  Connecticut (67)  1,795  22-1  
2  Oklahoma {3)  1;710  23;1  
3 4  North Carolina {2) Pittsburgh  1,6n '1,583  . 21·~ 21~2  
5  louisville  10423  184  
6  Duke  1;350  20~3  
7  Wake Forest  1.242  18~3  
8 9 10  Memphis Michigan State Marquette  1,237 1,214 1;131''  20·3 1!:1;4 20"3  
11  UCLA  1;131  19•4  
12  Clemson  1,0~7  > 19•3  
13  Villanova  989  19•4  
14  Xavier  893  20~3  
15  Butler  762  <21·2>  
16  Kansas  751  19.4  
17  Missnurl  395.. ·.·.··  20•4  
18  Arlznna State  389  18~5  
19  Gonzaga  361  11·5  
20  Purdue  353  '17•6  
21  Utah State  317  23~1  
22  Illinois  .303  19•5  
23  Syracuse  280  18~6  
24  Ohio State  216  ·  17~s··  
25  Florida State  182  ..  1B•S  

B ......b...•,.....
NCAA· · Men:s · · as"-et a ·•M:
' USA Today Top 25 

team 
1 Connecticut (30) 2 OklahOma (11 3 North carolina 4 Pilt$:burgh 5 Duke 6 UCLA 1 Louisville 
8 Wake Forest 9 Michigan State 10 .MemPhis 

:::•.•··············· ............ n.········•···•··.••'ft~•·•.·.·.
11 Clemson 

446 ····························· 21F3
12 Marquette 13 Villanova 

.·41.6················· ••···•••·• ···)···············s;:···
14 Xavier 375 m 20"3 
15 Butler 346 ..., •21t2 16 Kansas 300 1$,4 17 Utah State 258 2lH···~· 1 B Arizona State 214 1•5 19 Missouri 162' 20"4 20 Illinois 
143 .···•·19·5·· 21 Gonzaga 124 ·· t'Ni 22 .Syracuse 115 18·6 23 Purdue 114 17~6 24 Washington 86 17·6 25 Florida State 62 1.5 
CCHA Men's Hockey Standings 
team ·····record points 
1 NOTRE DAME . 15~4~3 
36 2 Miami 14~5"3 32 3 Michigan 15-7·0 30 4 Ohio Slate. 11~.3 28 5 Alaska 10~9~5 28 6 Nebraska· Omaha 8·9·1 26 7 Ferris Slate . , 8·9·5 23 B Northern Miehigan 8·10•4 23 9 lake Superklr 640~6 19 10 Western Michigan 5·11•6 18 11 Michigan State 2~14·3 15 12 Bowling Green Jh1M 13 
around the dial 
NCAA Men's Basketball 
No. 12 Marquette at No. 13 Villanova 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL 

Sharks at Bruins 
7:00 p.m., Versus 
MLB 


Associated Press 
. NEW YORK -Alex Rodriguez admitted Monday to using banned drugs, the biggest name yet to acknowl­edge he couldn't resist the temptation to juice up during baseball's Steroids Era. 
The All-Star third baseman said in an interview with ESPN that he used steroids with the Texas Rangers for three years, from 2001·03, in an attempt to justify his status as the game's highest-paid player after signing a 10-year, $252 million contract. 
"Back then it was a differ­ent culture," Rodriguez said. "It was very loose. I was young. I was stupid. I was naive, and I wanted to prove 
IN BRIEF 
Timberwolves devastated as Jefferson undergoes surgery MINNEAPOLIS -All the progress the Minnesota Timberwolves have ·made in the new year came to a 
crashing halt Monday. 
Star center Al Jefferson, the cor­
nerstone of the franchise's rebuild· 
ing plan who has emerged as one of 
the best post players in the league, 
will miss the rest of the season with 
a torn ACL in his right knee. 
It was the most devastating news 
possible for a team that finally 
seemed to be turning the ·corner 
after a horrendous first season and 
a half in the post-Kevin Garnett Era. 
"Of course we're all a little upset 
and a little down," forward Ryan 
Gomes said. "Our guy, our captain, 
our superstar, is going to be missing 
for the remainder of our season. Of 
course our spirits are down." 
Coach Kevin McHale said 
Jefferson will likely have surgery to 
repair the injury in the next week to 
10 days. 

to everyone that, you know, I was worth, you know -and being one of the greatest players of all time." 
He said he quit after 2003, his first of three AL MVP sea­sons, because "I've proved to myself and to everyone that I don't need any of that." He was traded to the New York Yankees before the 2004 sea­son. 
The admission came two days after Sports Illustrated reported on its Web site that Rodriguez was among 104 names on a list of players who tested positive for steroids in 2003, when testing was intended to determine the extent of steroid use in baseball. The results weren't subject to discipline and were supposed to remain anony­mous. 
Rodriguez said he alone was to blame but then accused one of the Sports Illustrated reporters who broke the story of collecting "nonsense." 

"When I arrived in Texas in 2001, I felt an enormous amount of pressure. I felt like I had all the weight of the world on top of me and I needed to perform, and per­form at a high level every day," Rodriguez said. 
"And I did take a banned substance and, you know, for that I'm very sorry and deeply regretful. And although it was the culture back then and Major League Baseball overall was very -I just feel that-You know, I'm just sorry. I'm sorry for that time. I'm sorry to fans. I'm sorry for my fans in Texas. It wasn't until then that I ever thought about substance of any kind." 
Rangers owner Tom Hicks said the admission caught him by surprise. 
"I feel personally betrayed. I feel deceived by Alex," Hicks said in a conference call. "He assured me that he had far too much respect for his own body to ever do that to him­self .... I certainly don't believe that ifhe's now admitting that he started using when he came to the Texas Rangers, why should I believe that it didn't start before he came to the Texas Rangers?" 

Vonn wins second gold at 
the world championships 
VAL D'ISERE, France -Lindsey Vonn was so nervous she was out of control. 
A snowstorm in the French Alps forced the postponement of the one race she wanted to win more than any other -the downhill at the world championships -and she needed someone to calm her. Thomas Vonn, her husband and former U.S. ski racer, did just that. 
She won the downhill for her second gpld at these championships, giving her four victories in her last five races. Vonn became the second American woman to win two golds at a worlds. Andrea Mead Lawrence won the slalom and giant slalom at the 1952 Oslo Olympics, which doubled as the worlds. 
In the men's race, Norway's Aksel Lund Svindal won the super-combi. Julien lizeroux of France was second, 
0.90 behind, and Natko Zrncic-Dim of Croatia was third, 1.58 back. 
Pavlovic sprains ankle in 
home loss to Lakers 
INDEPENDENCE, Ohio Cavaliers starting guard Sasha Pavlovic could miss up to··six weeks with a sprained right ankle, another injury setback for a team which had won all 23 of its home games until Sunday. 
Pavlovic sustained a high ankle sprain at the end of the first quar­ter Sunday in Cleveland's 101-91 home loss to the Los Angeles Lakers, with NBA's best record at 41-9. 
An MRI taken Monday revealed the e·xtent of the injury. The Cavaliers estimated Pavlovic will be out for a minimum of four weeks and possibly six. 
The 6-foot-7 Pavlovic is averag­ing 4.9 points and 16 minutes per game for the Cavs. He was start­ing for injured guard Delonte West, who has been out since early January with a broken right wrist. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS _Tuesday, February 10, 2009 
NHL 
Clemmensen records shutout in Devils victory 
Parise's two goals lifts New Jersey to a 3-0 victory over New York; Rangers handed season-high fifth straight loss 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. -Scott Clemmensen made 27 saves in posting his first NHL shutout in nearly five years, and Zach Parise scored twice to lift the New Jersey Devils to a 3-0 victory Monday night over the skidding New York Hangers. 
The Rangers have dropped a season-high five straight. 
Clemmensen, who has 23 wins in place of injure.d regu­lar Martin Brodeur, wasn't severely tested as he earned his third career shutout and first in 58 games -dating to March 26, 2004, at Atlanta. 
His time in the Devils net could be ending soon as Brodeur skated Monday and is close to returning to action. Brodeur has missed 44 games due to a biceps tendon injury sustained earlier this season. 
Clemmensen held the Rangers off during five fruit­less power plays, including two that were shortened by New York penalties. The Rangers are 0-4-1 in their past five games and are slid­ing closer to the postseason cutoff line in the Eastern Conference. They are closer to that than they are to the Devils, who lead them by eight points in the Atlantic Division. 
Bobby Holik had the first goal, and Parise scored his 32nd this season into an empty net for the Devils, who had lost two consecutive at home. 
Henrik Lundqvist was solid but not good enough. He stopped 28 shots after sitting out Friday night's 10-2 loss at Dallas with the flu. 

The Devils took a 1-0 lead 8 minutes into the second peri­od when a pair of former Rangers· teamed up. Brendan Shanahan, playing against New York for the first time since he signed with New Jersey last month, fed a pass in front that was shoved between Lundqvist's pads by Holik. 
Shanahan spent the previ­ous two seasons with the Rangers and wanted to return, but he grew tired of waiting for New York to clear salary cap space and offer him a contract. Once he opened negotiations with other teams, the Devils brought him back to the club that made him the No. 2 over­all pick in the 1987 NIIL draft. 
Holik, also in the first sea­son of his second stint with the Devils, was with the Rangers for two seasons before his contract was bought out by New York after the NHL lockout ended in 2005. 
Just 22 seconds after Holik's tiebreaking goal, New York's Brandon Dubinsky was sent off for holding to give New Jersey its second power play. Parise needed just over a minute to make it count. 
Devils captain Jamie Langenbrunner kept the puck in New York's zone by stop­ping it on the blue line, and fired a shot at Lundqvist. The puck hit traffic in front, and Travis Zajac shoved it to his left to Parise, who steered in a shot. l-Ie has three goals in three games and seven in 10. Parise is tied for third in the NIIL in goals. 

The Rangers, who failed on their first four advantages ­all handed out in the first period -then burned their timeout to try to settle things down. They entered the final period down by two goals for the second straight game after generating only 16 total shots in the first two periods. 

New York was trying to bounce back from Friday's rout when backup goalie Steve Valiquette was beaten for six goals in the third peri­od. It was the first time the Rangers allowed 10 goals in 16 years. 
The bigger problem against the Devils, as has been for much of the season, was the Rangers' lack of offense. They have scored only five times during their skid and are averaging under two goals over the past 12 games. 
NFL 
Steelers unaware of Roethlisberger' s injury 
Start Your Career in Accounting. 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH The Pittsburgh Steelers have no knowledge that Ben Roethlisberger played the Super Bowl with two broken ribs, as the quarterback told a Web site. 
According to Sl.com, Roethlisberger said his frac­tured ribs did not show up on X­rays taken before he led the Steelers to a 27-23 win over Arizona on Feb. 1, but were revealed only during a MRI test he had last week. 
"Luckily, in the game, I didn't take any big hits to make 'em hurt," Roethlisberger told Sl.com. "But I knew all along there was something wrong. There wouldn't have been any­thing that could have been done about fractured ribs anyway. It was just suck it up and play. 
Roethlisberger did not miss any practices before the Super Bowl, although a pool report from the Wednesday practice said he attempted during the middle of the workout to stretch his torso. He missed one prac­tice during the off wee~ before the Super Bowl because of what the team said was a back injury. 
"There's not a whole lot to 

say," Steelers spokesman Dave Lockett said Monday. "Ben was fine to go. He was cleared to play. He didn't miss any (prac­tice) time. There was no doubt he was going to play." 
The Steelers said it would have been difficult for Roethlisberger to play any bet­ter than he did in leading the decisive 78-yard drive that ended with a precisely thrown 6-yard touchdown pass to Santonio Holmes with 35 sec­onds remaining, Several plays before, Roethlisberger -lead­ing his sixth game-winning drive of the season -hit Holmes on a 40-yard comple­tion. · 
Roethlisberger did not men­tion any possible injury during post-game interviews. 
It is uncertain if the validity of Roethlisberger's claim will be proven. 
NFL teams do not routinely require players to undergo MRI or other medical tests during the offseason, and Roethlisberger isn't due back in Pittsburgh until offseason work­outs begin in April. By then, any problem that occurred before or during the Super Bowl might not show up in tests. 

Northeastern's MS in Accounting/MBA for non-accounting maiors: 
• 
Earn two degrees in just 15 months. 

• 
Complete a J-month paid residency at a leading accounting' firm. 

• 
Proven track record of 100% job placement. 


Take the first step. 
Visit us online or at an information session near you. Learn more about the program and upcoming events at www.msamlxt.neu.edu. 
617-373-3244 


Northeastern
gspa@neu.edu 

UNtVERSlTY
www.rnsan1ba.neu.edu 
Tuesday, February 10, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Young's performance lifts Pitt over WVU 
No. 4 Pitt wins fourth consecutive game despite minimal contribution from star center DaJuan Blair 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -Both of No. 4 Pittsburgh's losses came after physical center DeJuan Blair got into foul trouble. When Blair was pulled with less than five minutes gone after drawing two fouls against West Virginia, the Mountaineers were more than encouraged. 
Sorry, false alarm. 
Even with Blair sitting out for all but 16 minutes, the Panthers seized the lead with a late frrst­half run Monday night and went on to beat the Mountaineers 70­59 behind Sam Young's 20 points and an overwhelming advantage in rebounding. 
Young followed up a 22-point game in Pitt's 79-67 win at West Virginia two weeks ago, making seven of 12 shots and adding seven rebounds. Levance Fields had 13 points and seven assists to help the Panthers (22-2, 9-2 in Big East) win their fourth in a row and sixth in seven games. 
Alex Ruoff scored 17 points and Devin Ebanks 16, but the Mountaineers (16-8, 5-6) lost their sixth in seven games against ranked Big East teams -mostly because they were outrebounded 39-23 as their own top two scor­ers got into foul trouble. Ruoff fouled out with 7:18 to play and Da'Sean Butler, averaging 17.8 points, was held to 4 points in 18 minutes, 
"It was a strange game -their best two players were in foul trouble and two of our best were in foul trouble," Pitt coach Jamie Dixon said, referring to Blair and Jermaine Dixon. "But we played through it." 
The Panthers didn't do that in losing earlier to Louisville and Villanova, but Blair's foul woes proved insignificant in a fourth consecutive home win over West Virginia. 
"That was one of our goals to get him and Young in foul trou­ble, that's what happened in their losses, Blair's gotten in foul trou­ble," Ruoff said. "We did that, but we didn't do a good job of taking advantage of it, plus me and Da'Sean did a terrible job of get­ting in foul trouble ourselves." 
The 6-foot-7 Blair was coming off a 32-point, 14-rebound game against DePaul on Saturday and was averaging 24.3 points and 
14.7 rebounds in his previous three, but didn't score until get­ting Pitt's first two baskets of the second half. He finished with eight points and nine rebounds in 16 minutes. 
Pittsburgh, known for its defense and not its offense, scored 90 points or more in suc­cession against DePaul, Robert Morris and Notre Dame. That wasn't going to happen against West Virginia, which came in leading the Big East with a 61 points per game defensive aver­age, yet the Panthers maintained double-digit leads during most of the final 10 minutes. 
West Vrrginia also shot poorly, going 21-of-52 (40.4 percent) in its seventh loss in nine games against ranked opponents. 
"DeJuan Blair didn't play much in the first half and we're still down 5 (at the half) because Ruoff and Butler did't play," West Vrrginia coach Bob Huggins said. 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
UT' s Kiffin guilty of recruiting violations 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. Tennessee notified the NCAA it found a Southeastern Conference coach committing recruiting vio­lations -the Volunteers' own Lane Kiffin. 
Kitfm was reprimanded by SEC commissioner Mike Slive on Thursday for falsely accusing Florida's Urban Meyer of a recruiting violation. 
In letters to the NCAA and SEC, the Tennessee athletic depart­ment said the secondary viola­tions occurred in January. One violation occurred when nine prospects on an official visit to the school participated in a mock press conference at Neyland Stadium's media center. 
Another violation occurred when a fog machine was used as a recruit entered the field at Neyland Stadium during his offi­cial visit on Jan. 9. 
Under NCAA recruiting rules, schools are prohibited from sim­ulating a game experience for recruits during official visits. 
Tennessee issued letters of admonishment to Kiffin and recruiting coordinator Ed Orgeron and provided the staff with a review of NCAA recruiting policies. Neither the NCAA nor the SEC has issued any punish­ment. 
"They understand that they must ask questions of the compli­ance office about anything 'cre­ative' regarding campus visits," 
the Jan. 26 letter said.  
The  violations  were  first  
reported  Monday  by  The  
Knoxville News Sentinel.  

Tennessee's coaching staff believed the mock press confer­ence was allowed because it was not done in public. They thought the use of the fog machine was allowed after seeing it used at other universities. 
Kiffin, who was introduced as Tennessee's new coach on Dec. 1, said Meyer broke recruiting rules by phoning wide receiver prospect Nu'Keese Richardson as he was making his official visit to Tennessee. Doing so would not constitute a violation of either NCAA or SEC rules. 
South Carolina coach Steve Spurrier questioned whether Kiffin broke rules by contacting a recruit before being cleared by the NCAA to do so. Kiffm assured fans that he had been notified by the NCAA that he was cleared before making his first phone call. 
"We can't get outrebounded by 16." 
West Virginia opened a four­point lead shortly after Blair went out, but a Young-led 13-3 run helped the Panthers make it 29­22 lead with 1:12 remaining before halftime. 
In the second half, the Panthers pushed their lead to 15 points with a 10-1 run that occurred even as Blair was pulled after drawing a technical foul for protesting an offensive foul call with Pitt up 52-40. 
Ruoff made one of the two free throws but West Vrrginia couldn't score on the ensuing possession after the technical and Fields came back with a left-handed layoff and two free throws the next two times Pitt had the ball. 
"Levance controlled the game with his penetration," Dixon said. 
Blair's technical, and his foul problems, could have hurt Pitt in a closer game. 
"Obviously, we expect a lot from DeJuan, but Sam stepped up his scoring," Fields said. "We definitely didn't want to lose him (Blair). But I don't think you have to worry about him losing his head a lot. I don't expect him to do it again." 
Dixon wasn't pleased with Blair's technical but didn't criti­cize him, saying, "Obviously, that's one of those things you don't want to have happen and he's got to learn from it." 
Pitt, 15-0 at home this season, swept the basketball version of the Backyard Brawl for the sec­ond time in three seasons despite making only 4 of 13 from 3-point range. 



page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 10, 2009 

NBA 

Bobcats hammer lowly Clippers 
Hornets fall to Mayo, Grizzlies without top three players 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Walk into the Charlotte Bobcats' lock­er room and there are seven stalls with white stickers cover­ing the names of the previous occupants. 
The newest addition to coach Larry Brown's ever-changing roster made a first impression worthy of a permanent name plate. 
Vladimir Radmanovic, buried on the bench with the Lakers, scored 13 points and hit three fourth-quarter 3-pointers in his Charlotte debut Monday night, helping turn a close game into a rout in the Bobcats' 94-73 win over the road-weary Los Angeles Clippers. 
"Another guy who can hit shots," point guard Raymond Felton said. "That's going to help our offense, no question." 
Emeka Okafor had 19 points and 16 rebounds for the under­manned Bobcats, who were missing starters Gerald Wallace (rib, lung) and Raja Bell (groin). 
So two days after he was acquired for underachieving Adam Morrison and reserve Shannon Brown, Radmanovic was pressed into action without the benefit of a practice with his new teammates. 
The 23rd player to suit up for Charlotte this season -an NBA-high -showed versatility with four rebounds and provid­ed the Bobcats with outside shooting the struggling Morrison didn't provide. 
He fired up an early air ball, but eventually got comfortable in the fourth quarter. After Baron Davis' jumper cut Charlotte's lead to 67-63, Radmanovic hit two long jumpers in a 15-2 run. He added another 3 to put Charlotte ahead 88-70 with 4 minutes left to secure the end of the Bobcats' five-game losing streak. 
"It was definitely nice to be out there and help my team win," said Radmanovic, who had fallen out of favor with Lakers coach Phil Jackson and asked to be moved. "Luckily, I got back into rhythm in the sec­ond half." 
Zach Randolph had 20 points and 10 rebounds and Eric Gordon scored 17 for the Clippers, who fizzled in the fourth quarter in the finale of a seven-game road trip. 
"The last game of a trip, I've been around a long time, I know how these games can be tough," center Marcus Camby said. "Especially right before the All­Star break, you tend to lose a lit­tle focus. Your mind is else­where." 
The Clippers had dropped 11 straight on the road before Randolph combined for 60 points in consecutive blowout wins over Memphis and Atlanta. But the Clippers were outscored 27-12 in the fourth quarter, with Randolph getting little help. 
AI Thornton shot 3-for-13, Camby 3-for-8 and Davis 1-for-7 in his return to Charlotte, where he began his NBA career with the Hornets. 
"We didn't attack and play at the level we've been playing at the last two games," Davis said. "I thought our offense got com­placent and stagnant." 
And the Clippers couldn't take advantage of a team forced to use odd lineups compounded by the absence of forward Juwan Howard, whose sore toe flared up following Sunday's loss to Miami. 

Brown started DeSagana Diop at center and moved Okafor to power forward. Radmanovic, who wasn't sure he'd play before the game, checked in late in the first quarter and initially appeared lost. 
Less than a minute later, the small crowd began to stir as Sean May took off his warmups and jogged to the scorer's table. The injury-plagued former first­round pick hadn't played since Dec. 11 because Brown demanded that he lose weight. 
"Sean May!" one fan near the court shouted in amazement. 
May played only seven min­utes and didn't score, but Radmanovic recovered from an ugly beginning to help the Bobcats up front. He hit flve of 10 shots and was 3-of-5 from 3­point range. 
"I really think Vladimir is going to help this team a lot," said Boris Diaw, who had 15 points and nine assists. "He really knows the game and is a great shooter." 
Memphis 85, New Orleans 80 
O.J. Mayo had 22 points and a career-high 16 rebounds for his first double-double, while Mike Conley scored 18 and handed out eight assists to lead the Memphis Grizzlies to an victory over the short-handed New Orleans Hornets on Monday night. 
Hakim Warrick had 15 point•; and a season-high 14 rebounds, while Marc Gasol added 10 points and 10 rebounds for Memphis, which has won two straight and four of its last five. 
Peja Stojakovic scored 23 points to lead the Hornets, who were without their top three players in Chris Paul, Tyson Chandler and David West. Paul and Chandler were out with injuries, while West was sus­pended for the game after his flagrant foul against Minnesota's Mike Miller on Sunday. 
Antonio Daniels and James Posey each scored 11 points as New Orleans struggled from the field, connecting on only 29.5 percent of its shots. 
Memphis also dominated the boards, outrebounding the Hornets 64-38, including 20 off the offensive glass contributing to 23-8 advantage in second­chance points. 
The Hornets weren't the only ones short-handed, though. Memphis was missing second­leading scorer Rudy Gay with a left hip flexor, along with start­ing rookie forward Darrell Arthur (family reasons) and reserve point guard Kyle Lowry (ankle sprain). 
The Grizzlies, who led by 12 in the second half, still held an 11­point lead late in the third. But the Hornets put together a 13-2 run spanning the third and fourth quarters to pull even at 66 on Rasual Butler's 3-pointer. 
But a 3-pointer and a free throw from Conley, then nine straight Memphis points by Mayo allowed Memphis to take the lead it never relinquished. 
The Grizzlies opened the sec­ond half with an 11-2 run to take its first double-digit lead at 51-41, as the Hornets' shooting dropped under 30 percent. 
Stojakovic was doing every­thing he could to keep the Hornets in the game early in the second half, scoring New Orleans' first seven points in the third period. 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 
•

Irish struggle tn tough conditions 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame got off to rough start Monday in the Northrop Grumman Hegional Challenge, shooting a 46-over-par first round. That score puts them in 14th place out of 16 teams. 
The No. 25 Irish trail five teams that are ranked lower than they are, including host school Ohio State and unranked Baylor. Arizona State, ranked No. 3 in the country, leads the pack, followed by No. 2 USC and the No. 1 team in the coun­try, UCLA. The Irish trail the first place Sun Devils by 25 strokes. 
The weather was a factor Monday in Palos Verdes Estates, Calif., with strong winds and rain throughout the day, making it difficult for any­one to achieve a good score. Juliana Murcia, a golfer for Arizona State, is the only player who shot under par for the day. 
The best round of the day for the Irish was scored by sopho­more So-Hyun Park, who shot a nine-over 80 on the par-71 course, good enough to earn her a tie for 28th place. She fin­ished the day with a birdie, four bogeys and three double bogeys. 
Also scoring for the Irish were freshman Becca Huffer, who shot an 11-over 82, senior Lisa Maunu, who was one stroke higher with a 12-over 83, and junior Annie Brophy, whose 14­over 85 was fourth on the team. Sophomore Katie Conway was two strokes behind Brophy, shooting a 16-over 8 7, so her score was not counted for the Irish. 
Notre Dame will shoot anoth­er 18 holes Tuesday before fin­ishing the tournament Wednesday. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Late Mizzou shot shocks Jayhawks 
Taylor's jumper with 1.3 seconds seals victory 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, Mo. -Zaire Taylor hit a 10-footer from just outside the lane with 1.3 seconds to go, capping No. 17 Missouri's comeback from a 14-point halftime deficit in a 62-60 victory over No. 16 Kansas on Monday night. 
DeMarre Carroll had 22 points and seven rebounds for the Tigers (21-4, 8-2 Big 12), who won their 16th in a row at home against a bitter border rival that had beaten them five straight times. Fans from a raucous sellout crowd of 15,061 mobbed the floor after Cole Aldrich's des· peration shot banged off the backboard at the buzzer as he was being knocked to the floor. 
Aldrich had 15 rebounds, five blocked shots and eight points for Kansas (19-5, 8-1), which entered with an eight­game winning streak and as one of only six Division I schools unbeaten in confer­ence play. Tyshawn Taylor added 11 points but leading scorer Sherron Collins was held to nine points, nine below his average, on 4-for­13 shooting. 
Missouri called timeout after Mario Little's basket from the baseline tied it with 29 seconds to go, then used almost all the time before Taylor popped free for his second winning shot in three games. Taylor, who finished with only seven points, also got the go-ahead basket in a 
victory at Texas on Wednesday. 
Missouri has won eight of nine, a run that enabled them to crack the Top 25 for the second time this season. The Tigers lasted only one week the first time after get­ting blown out by Illinois in St. Louis on Dec. 23. 
Kansas dominated on the boards, outrebounding Missouri 48-28, but was undone by a season-worst 27 turnovers -six more than the previous high. 
The turnover count helped Missouri win despite season­worst 36.4 percent shooting. The Tigers dug themselves a hole in the first half by shooting only 24 percent. 
Kansas led 30-16 at the half, ignoring the pre-game atmosphere that featured Missouri mascot Truman the Tiger being lowered from the rafters in a harness, a throw­back to a stunt the school used before every game at the old Hearnes Center. The Jayhawks seized control despite 36-percent shooting, including 2-for-12 from 3­point range and Collins' 2­for-8 start, mostly because they dominated on the boards with a 30-15 advan­tage. 
Missouri's first-half scoring was a season low, two points fewer than in the Big 12 opener at Nebraska, with the frustration capped when freshman Marcus Denmon blew a pair of free throws with 8.7 seconds to go. 
-------____. 


Tuesday, February 10, 2009 The Observer u SPORTS page 17 

% 

at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore and Varsity Shop I & II 
Sunday, February 1 -Saturday, February 28 
20°/o off Select Styles and Clearance Merchandise* 
www.ndcatalog.com • 574-631-6316 
•offer valid in-store and online on select items only. May not be combined with any other offer. 
See store for details. No additional discounts apply. 0700KB0126098 
Opener 
continued from page 20 
round, putting them at No. 12 overall. 
Leading the Irish this season is senior attack Jillian Byers, who enters the 2009 season first all-time in goals (179), third in points (225) and sev­enth in assists (46) at Notre Dame. However, Byers isn't new to the position of team leader. She is the first Irish player to ever score 50 or more goals in a season three times and also have 66 or more points in a season in three consecutive years. 
She had the most goals (67) and points (81) on the Irish squad at the end of the 2008 season, ranking her No. 14 for points and tied for seventh in goals in the nation. Byers also holds the school record for 52 draw controls and was a unan­imous selection for the third year in a row on the preseason all-Big East team. The senior has also been a selection on the all-IWLCA second team and a unanimous selection on the first team all-Big East each of her past three seasons. 
Joining Byers as a unani­mous selection on the presea­son all-Big East team is sopho­more midfielder Shaylyn Blaney who completed her freshman season fourth on the team in scoring with 43 goals and had 52 points and nine assists. Blaney had th.e sec-
MLB 
Fehr: players had no 
prior w-arning of tests 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Donald Fehr denied allegations that his No. 2 official gave players advance notice of drug tests and defend­ed the baseball players' union against criticism that records of the anonymous survey should have been destroyed in 2003. 
Questions about the 2003 testing intensified after Sports Illustrated reported last week­end that Alex Rodriguez was one of 104 players who tested positive that year. Rodriguez admitted Monday to using banned drugs. 
Fehr, the Major League Baseball Players Association's executive director, said there was just an eight-day span between the initial receipt of the test results and notice that a federal grand jury was seek­ing them as part of the BALCO investigation into performance­enhancing drugs. 
Fehr said the union first received test results on Nov. 11, 2003, that the results were finalized two days later and that players were notified the following day; a Friday. 
"Promptly thereafter, the first steps were taken to begin the process of destruction of the testing materials and .records," Fehr said. "On Nov. 19, howev­er, we learned that the govern­ond-most goals and points for a Notre Dame freshman, falling to Byers' 54 and 78 in 2006. 
She was chosen as a first team IWLCA all-West/Midwest Regional selection and took second team all-Big East hon­ors last season. She was selected to the Big East all­tournament team after scoring a career-high five goals in the loss to Georgetown for the championship. 
The Irish have a third pre­season all-Big East selection, senior defender Shannon Burke. Burke wrapped up her junior season as a selection on the second team IWLCA all­West/Midwest regional team, and a Big East defensive play­er of the week, finishing fourth in the conference with 1.56 caused turnovers per game. 
She contributed offensively and defensively for the Irish with career highs in goals (8). assists (3) and points (11) offensively, while going second on the team for ground balls (33), second in draw controls 
(51) and led the team in caused turnovers (32) defen­sively. 
Notre Dame faces tough competition from the start, playing four-time defending champion No. 1 Northwestern in their home opener on Feb. 20, and adding Louisville and Cincinnati to its Big East schedule. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ment had issued a subpoena. Upon learning this, we conclud­ed, of course, that it would be improper to proceed with the destruction of the materials." 
The union negotiated with federal prosecutors in San Francisco until the following spring and pledged not to destroy the records. The union moved in April to quash the subpoena, and federal investi­gators obtained a search war­rant and seized records from Comprehensive Drug Testing and samples from Quest Diagnostics. 
Although the search warrant sought records of 10 players, the government found a spreadsheet with a list of 104 players who had tested posi­tive; it then obtained additional search warrants and seized all records. 
The case has been in the courts every since. 
The union said the seizure of the wider group of records was illegal under the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution, and that the government had the right to only the records and samples of the 10 players. 
Three U.S. District Judges agreed with the union in August and October 2004. The government appealed, arguing that because the records were .. on the same computer, it had a "plain view" right to all the materials. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 10, 2009 
Big East 
continued from page 20 
everyone else. But there is a battle for the No. 4 spot in the conference, which will give a team two byes in the confer­ence tournament. The top eight get a bye, the top four get two. Here are the stand­ings: 
The best: No. 1 Connecticut (23-0, 9-0) 
No competition, period. The Huskies blow teams out of the water. They lead the confer­ence in scoring (86.6 ppg), field goal percentage (51. 9) and assists (21.5 per game). They beat then-No. 2 North Carolina by 30 in Chapel Hill and Louisville 93-65 on Jan. 
26. In their most recent game Saturday, they beat Marquette, in Milwaukee, 83­
49. They play St. John's, Pittsburgh and Providence before the Irish visit them, and it's conceivable they could go undefeated through the conference tournament the way they're playing. Sophomore forward Maya Moore is fourth in the Big East in scoring with 19.9 points per game-. 
The really good: No. 10 Louisville (21-3, 8-2), No. 19 Pittsburgh (17-4, 7-2) 
The Cardinals were 15-1 in their last 16 games before they lost to West Virginia 79­70 at home Saturday. Losing to the team in last place in the conference at home shows they're heatable -but they're still dangerous. Senior forward Angel McCoughtry is second in the Big East in scoring, averaging 22.5 points per game. 
The Panthers have won six straight games and beat the Irish by 12 on Feb. 3. Senior guard Shavonte Zellous leads the conference in scoring and is third in the nation with 24 points per game. The Panthers face Rutgers 
to.night~ 
The pretty solid: Villanova (15-8, 7-2),. No. 22 Notre Dame (17-5, 6-4.), No. 25 DePaul (18-6, 6-4) 
The Wildcats have also won six straight and most recently beat Seton Hall on the road Saturday. They face Marquette and DePaul before traveling to Pittsburgh. Senior forward Laura Kurz is fifth in the Big East in scoring 'with 18 points per game. 
Notre Dame has lost four of its last seven, but after Louisville and Connecticut, the rest of its conference schedule is favorable. Notre Dame plays South Florida, Providence, Syracuse and West Virginia, all in the bot­
Cham.ps 
continued from page 20 
Defensively, Tim Lang's six 

rebounds and two blocks paced 
O'Neill, but it was not enough 
• to hold off the Manorites. In the final minutes, Morrissey's free­throw shooting sealed the vic­tory. Nichols and Andersen 
tom half of the conference. Those four teams have 11 conference wins among them. 
DePaul just lost a close game to the Irish in the Joyce Center, which ended the Blue Demons' five-game win streak. They face Seton Hall Wednesday. It will be these three teams comprising the fight for the second bye. 
The middle: Rutgers (13-8, 5-5), Marquette (13-10, 4-5) and South Florida (4-6, 17­
7) 
Talk about a slip. Rutgers has lost three of its last five (although it did beat Notre Dame at home in that stretch) and needed double-overtime to take down Georgetown Saturday. The Scarlet Knights have junior guard Epiphanny Prince, who is third in the conference with 20.5 points per game, as well as 6-foot-4 senior center Kia Vaughn. It's tough to count them out yet. 
The Golden Eagles had a lit­tle slip of their own, losing four of their last six. Senior guard Krystal Ellis recently became the school's all-time leading scorer. Villanova comes to town tonight. 
Four of'six is the popular trend, because South Florida's lost four of its last six games as well. The Bulls beat Syracuse 88-79 Sunday and had five players in double figures. They're still within range of that last bye. 
The halfway decent: St. 
John's  (15-7,  3-6),  
Cincinnati  (13-9,  3-6),  
Providence  (9-13,  3-6),  
Seton Hall (15-8, 3-7)  

The Red Storm just beat Cincinnati Sunday, but they face Connecticut, who they haven't beaten since 1993, on Wednesday. Providence al~o beat the Bearcats, in double­overtime, on Feb. 3. Since every team. makes the confer­ence tournament this year, any of these teams could make a run, but making the NCAA Tournament will be tough with their conference records. 
The pretty bad: Syracuse ( 14-9, 3-7), Georgetown (13-10, 3-7), West Virginia (13-9, 2-7) . 
These teams don't have much of a chance to making a run. They will have to get pas·t UConn. Louisville or Pittsburgh to get to the con­ference tournament semifinal or final, which they'll need for tournament consideration. They have a chance to reach­ing the second round, because the top teams won't have played yet, but they won't get much farther than that. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
combined to go 7-for-8 from the line as the clock wound down. Andersen finished with 19 points and five rebounds, Nichols had 19 and three boards. 
"We got there in the end," Morrissey senior Daniel Heimer said. "We got back to the JACC and took care of business." 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nlee5@nd.edu 
Starters 
continued from page 20 
The Irish ended the regu­lar season tied for first in the Great Western Lacrosse League (GWLL) with Denver and Ohio State, with each team sharing an identical 5-1 record. Notre Dame then defeated Quinnipiac and Ohio State in the inaugural GWLL tournament to become conference cham­pions. 
The GWLL earned unprecedented success last season, with three teams qualifying for the 16-team NCAA Tournament field for the first time ever. The Bu c k e y e s· a n d · Ir i s h advanced to the tourna­ment quarterfinals, also the first time two teams from the conference had made the final eight. 
The Irish defense, which ranked No. 5 nationally 
last season, will be led by all-conference senior Hegis McDermott. The defense­man started all 17 games last season and helped Notre Dame hold oppo­nents to 7.04 goals per game. 
On offense, the Irish will look to another all-confer­ence selection, senior attack Hyan Hoff. The cap­tain will be looking for his third straight 40-goal sea­son after leading Notre Dame with 41 last year. 
The Irish offense returns three of the top four scor­f)rs from last year's team, which was ranked No. 5 nationally with 12.09 goals per game. Junior Grant Krebs netted 26 goals, sec­ond on the team, and s.en­ior Duncan Swezey tallied 22. 
Joining McDermott as captains for 2009 are sen­iors Peter Christman, Scott Hodgers and Davey Malera. 
Christman, a midfielder, started every game for the 
The Weasels began to foul with only seconds left, were
'Rocks 

unable to score, and the continued from page 20 Shamrocks claimed the sea­
son's title. 

"Our team morale is great; movements of McGlinn. A we're all really close and play Shamrock guard obtained a all the sports in Pasquerilla crucial rebound, and scored West together," Weasels junior from the field, making it a five­forward Molly Bruno said. point game in McGlinn's favor. "Even the coaches are some of 
Irish last season and recorded career highs in goals, assists, and points. The senior netted several key goals for Notre Dame in 2008, scoring the win­ning goals against Albany and in overtime over Colgate in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. 
Rodgers will be looking to fill the shoes of graduat­ed All-American goalkeep­er Joey Kemp. The Wantagh, N.Y. native has played in seven career games and carries a 5. 73 goals-against average. 
The Irish face a tough schedule that includes four NCAA Tournament teams from last season -Loyola, Ohio State, Denver, and North Carolina. 
Notre Dame begins its season Saturday against Loyola in Atlanta. The Irish open at home Feb. 28 against Dartmouth. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
our best friends." 
The Weasels concluded their season with an undefeated record in the regular season and a large point differential, but McGlinn dominated the sec­ond half and were able to claim this season as their own. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 






Tuesday, February 10, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 37 Free of clutter 

Fiber-_ cable 39 Clayey soil 6 Mllan'sla_ 40 Paycheck extra 11 Sun or moon, to 41 Word before 
bards Charles or 14 ·ee-Bop-_· George (Gene Vincent 42_John's hit) (Domino's competitor)
15 Is visibly frightened 43 Years, In the Yucatan
16 Zilch «Not loyal
17 They're hard to believe 45 Big pile of cash 19 Eerie sighting, 48 Top-_ (best) for short 49 Series beginners 20 PTboat 53 Garlic-crushing crewman: Abbr. tool 21 Adoptees from 56 Tumbled shelters 58 Bearded pres. 22 Initial stage 59 CNN's Dobbs 24 Beach 60 Figure described atmosphere by the first 26 Have the nerve words of 17-, 28· and 45-Across 
28 1939 Bette Davis drama 64 Galley need 33 Former U.N. 65 Bird-related chiefKofi_ 56 Potbelly_ 36 Take fiva 6701dhand 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
":"T'::"T"!:'T:'t 
.;+:;+:~:of 
~~::..f-==1 
~=-t..:~~ 
.;.,:+=-t-:~:.j 

68 Gossipy sort 69 Vocal qualities 
Down Hall's partner ln 
pop 2 Make smooth 3 Arkansas River 
city 4 •__ bite" 5 Sea fed by the 
Volga 6 Dick and Jane's 
dog 
7 Dodgem units 8 Boxer Lalla 9 Ann of the 
Shakers 10 Place into 
cubbyholes 1t Burden of proof 121n widespread 
use 13 Bad mark on one's reputation 18 The u.s. Virgin Is., e.g. 
23 Source of
orange-red light 25 Unbreakable stones of legend 
26 Cause of atrophy 27 Takes steps 29Swedish currency 30 Black mamba's secretion 31 Flesh-and-blood 32 Chews the fat 33 Bemese peak 
34 Wordsmith Webster 
WILLSHORTZ 


PUZIIa by John GteenmM 
35 California wine valley 
38 _ time (course slot) 
40 Barracks locale 
61 N.Y.C.'s Park or
tournament wins 
Madison

44 Most jam-packed 53 Alka-Seltzer­
62 Pewter 

46 Consternation into-water sound 
component 47 Bargain hunter's 54 Have a hearty 63"Whoam_ event laugh say?" 
For answers. can 1-900-285·5656. $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the lest 50 years: Hl88·7·ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.comlmobilexword for more informalion. Onllne subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.comlcrosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.comlwordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytlmes.com/leamlnglxwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRlTJES BORN ON THIS DAY: David Gallagher, Z4; ~kna Suvari,Jil: l'.han11 Ziyi. 30;Joe l'c>d.66 
Happy Birlhday: lx><11: ha.:k hefore you "'"'"" forward. C<>nsicl~.,. the paltcms <lf your pa~t and corren fw Ute fllture tUlythiog ihal didn't pan out. Make lh.i< a oew beg.inning. 'Hl ~land still and wait will lead It' more pf the .anw. ht~wad. wt your goal and wt>rk diligently tow;u-d it. Your numben> are 4, 9, 1'1, 211. S, 31, 46. • 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Stand behind your beliefs .1ncl J<>n'tlel anyone push you ao"<>IU-.d.• Unccrtttin.ty reg:o.rJing work and future dire<'fion can kaJ l<l a.ll j;(\nS ot vari:t· lit1ns that w(ll hdp yc>u huik! a <~mngcr haw. Dvn't rely <>n otb'"" to drum up husines.. 5 
~tars 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Dun'! give in w pres.ure 'nr kt stubbnrnnt.''" be your dvwnfall. Taking on t<lO mu~h ur being too indulgent ur mdodr;unatic can karl l<l chal­lcnse> that will cost you time and money. Oct as much dooc on your own as possible. 2 
stars 

GEMINI (May 2t-June 20): Do<m are <>p<:ning and the timr to talk ;d,.>Uty<>ur plans i• m•w. Ymrr Gemini charm will eutkc mheN to dv things for you and will.au.ract romantic inter<~etion. A playful approach w everything you dv will .cal the deal penonally and professionally. 4 •tW"• 
CANCER (June 21-lucy 22): tlon't Man inddcnt cauS<' y<~u to miss out on an owor· mnity fN IOOI>d!111· help. Bd11g pushy or clingy will hold you hack. Y<>11 n«d a <'hangc uf .rencry lO rethink where you feel you should be ltcuding. 3 >IWl 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You have plenty wcontribul<! to any r,roup. A partnership is appai"CIIt a.nJ can change yout world prnlcs.'lionally. penotllllly or bulb. Don't ha.:k away when all yoo have to do l• lake what yoo wanL 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aue. 23-Sept. 22): Change is on the horizon but you have lo push a little harder to get things I<> f.tll intu place. Don't lei you.r emotions h<>ld you back when you h;we so much to gain by taking a strong posil"ion and ~ticking to your schedule. 3 MM'< 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Spread the word regarding wh;\l y<>u w;~~~t and how you """ things unfuldin11. Yoo cannotld a neg.ative influence in your life stifle your plans or m:tke you fed un<ure. T:tkc advanw.g" of the "1'1"'<1-unity you h~\'C, ~>1111'S 
SC."'ORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't give in to t>ullying ur to som<.'<.lne trying to gel you to do k>o much. llrukrhandcdnes~ is apparent, so do not fall for the false information hein~ given. Ask question~ and go to the S<>U~e if yoo w;mt a true assessment. 2 'tars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec, 21): lAw is all around ynu and a lot .:an be ac~"<lm· plished with 1lw people you are dosc.st t<l. A few altt...-ations regarding your vocatipn arc looking positive. Th~ iofonnation or skiU you acquire shl•uld lead w mure. personal free-­dom. 5 •t"'s 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 12-Jao. 19): Y<>u may end up $addled with a pmblem "''mr.~>ne brings with him t>r her. A eolllract will be riddled with problems that must be adjusted before you c:m "~<!'"" ro sign. Loss i• app;m::nl if you let your emotions rule. 3 still'S 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-fleb. 18): Emotion> are lugh and the abihty tu r:ltang" your p<:r­"''nallife i~ looking very po!l.itl\'e. Sp<:ak up about yuur plans fur the future and the in· teres! ><>rneone has in you will gn1w. Now i• a great tilm! to make changes-3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19·Marcll 20): Dtm't let wnw.one take (>\'~'ford<> your \\·ork for you. If )'(l\1 aren't in the loop, YI'U wi.ll k•~e (>\lt. Yott <:~noot tru~t M)'t>ne W do "'hal'~ be>t for yuu. l!ocertainty ""-ithin a relationship mu•t he hlm<lk>d carefully. 3 >tars 
1i111ltday l:laby; 'l\1u are outgoing, entertaining, intelligent and inwntive. Yuu are power­ful ~nd dlllrismatk. with an inm·r liJiht thm mak~.,. otbors gravitate toward Y"ll­
F.ug<'lli<l'$ ltd.o !itN: t'!lgtmalmf.<"<lttl far wrifidmtia/ r<lll>ultmiom, 111\'spnurmtJif!ugmialn3tfor l"tg<min's blog, astrontfl•icr .cmn forfim 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

www.BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 

THE FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 
A Few Things Couples Should Never, Ever Do 

Match Work Out Together 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Same Side Sit 

-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City ________ State _____·Zip_______ 
JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
DRIAP 
± 
DIALIN 
j
rJ r 

WHAT SH!: !:XPE:Rl!:NCeD WHeN SHe DANCeD IN H!:J< New SHOeS.

IPLOUCEj I I Now arrange the circled letters 
I I 

to form the surprise answer, as
I ri 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: rI I I )T~TE " I I I )"
[ 

(Answers tomorrow) UNITY BASSO CELERY TIMELYYesterday's IJumbles: 
Answer: The mailman received an advanced degree because he was a -MAN OF "LETTERS" 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

------~------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, February 10, 2009 
page 20 
MEN'S INTERHALL BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Title defense: Manorites defeat O'Neill, win championship 
By NATHANIEL LEE 
Sports Writer 
O'Neill senior captain Alex Klupchak scored 17 of his game-high 24 points in the sec­ond half, but was unable to rally the Mob past Morrissey Monday night in the Joyce Center. The Men's Interhall Basketball A-League Championship went to the defending champ Manorites, who won 69-62. 
"We came wanting to defend the title," senior captain Carl Andersen said. "It's really nice for all the seniors to end their careers with this win." 
Pacing Morrissey were the strong efforts ,of Anderson and sophomore point guard Aaron Nichols. Andersen dropped 14 in the first half, driving his team to a 35-28 lead at the break. 
"We had a lot of fun, it's a great experience to play on the real JACC floor," Klupchak said. "They're a good team, we missed some open looks and they made big plays down the stretch." 
The first half displayed the quick, intense play that brought both teams to the big dance ­both teams combined to force 14 forced turnovers. The Mob started quickly, gaining a 11-5 lead in the opening minutes, but missed shots on open looks would plague them, as Morrissey cleaned up on the glass, allowing O'Neill just two offensive rebounds for the half. 

Coming out of the locker room at half down seven, solid play from Klupehak and fresh­men Garrett Quinn kept the game close, bringing O'Neill's deficit to three. Nichols, howev-
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Playing to rest 
ND still has a chance at two Big East byes 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's close win over DePaul Sunday came in a timely fashion, because two of the next three teams it faces will put the heat on the Irish. 
The Fighting Irish had lost four of six heading into Sunday's win and better hope they can create momentum. Angel McCoughtry and No. 10 Louisville come to the Joyce Center Wednesday, and on Feb. 22 Notre Dame travels to Storrs to throw its best at undefeated No. 1 Connecticut. 
At this point in the Big East (arid in the country, for that matter) it's Connecticut and 
AP and ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer 

Left, Cardinals senior forward Angel McCoughtry rebounds against West Virginia Saturday. Right, see BIG EAST/page 18 Irish junior guard Ashley Barlow shoots during Notre Dame's 62-59 win over DePaul Sunday. 

ND WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Tough shoes for team to fill 
Irish start play Saturday after an historic 2008 season 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
No. 11 Notre Dame is ready to take another shot at the national title this spring as it takes on Duquesne in Pittsburgh Saturday. 
The Irish had a history-mak­ing 2008 season with a record of 12-7, 4-1 in the Big East. They finished second in the Big East as they fell 15-14 in triple overtime to the Georgetown Hoyas. Notre Dame came back and advanced to the NCAA Tournament for the fourth time in the program's history, but its season was cut short by a 15-7 loss to defending cham­pion Northwestern in the 
see OPENER/page 17 


er, who scored only seven points in the first half, came up with a 12-point effort in the second to hold off the Mob. Quinn would finish with 11 points and four rebounds. 
"I thought we got some clutch baskets, and hit some clutch free throws," Andersen said. "We made big shots when we had to inside and out." 
see CHAMPS/page 18 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Nevvfaces ready for season 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 

With many pieces still in place from a conference championshLp and NCAA Tournament berth last year, the Irish bring high hopes into 2009. After playing the toughest defense in team history, Notre Dame will try to use its mix of talent and experience to make another championship run this sea­son. 
The Irish return five starters from a strong 14-3 campaign in 2008. The 14 wins tied a program record, and Notre Dame advanced to the quarterfi­nals of the NCAA Tournament. 
see STARTERS/page 18. 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Second-half surge gives Shamrocks title 
By MOLLY SAMMON Spons Writer 

McGlinn claimed a 41-33 vic­tory over Pasquerilla West after a stellar second half Monday night in the women's Interhall championship game. 
From tip-off and an early 3­pointer, Pasquerilla West took over the first half, and main­tained a lead it kept well into the second half. 
"In my opinion, we were defi­nitely the better skilled team, but McGlinn was very aggres­sive," Pasquerilla West junior guard Lindsey McMahon said. 'They rebounded very well, and played as a team." 
The tide of the game started to turn right at the half. as McGlinn's talented guard was fouled just as the buzzer went off and the scoreboard turned red. She made her shot but missed the free throw, pushing the score to 16-13, still in Pasquerilla West's favor, but close enough to keep the Shamrock's hopes elevated, which changed the entire dynamic of the second half. 
-McGlinn brought a new offense to the court after half­time. 
"I thought we were slow tonight though," McMahon said. "We never got into our rhythm, and our shots were just not falling at all." 
McGlinn changed up its offen­sive strategy and the Pasquerilla West defense was unable to stay with them. With four minutes left in the second half, the Shamrocks were up 33-30 when a breakaway drive by Pasquerilla West's center gave the Weasels one last attempt to challenge the bold offensive 
see 'ROCKS/page 18 







