the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Weis charity to stay in South Bend 
Hannah and Friends’ location won’t change despite coach’s firing 

By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
Despite former Coach Charlie Weis’ firing Monday, his family’s charity organization Hannah and Friends, named after Weis’ daughter, will continue to be headquartered and operate pri­marily in the South Bend area. 
“Our programs will not change,” executive director Sharon Bui Green said. “We real­ize that there is a mission and a greater good here that we are doing for people with special needs, and [Hannah and Friends] is going to be a permanent place for people with special needs going forward.” 
Green said Weis’ position as 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Maura and Hannah Weis cut the ribbon at the Hannah and Friends’ first residential home, which opened see CHARITY/page 4 on Sept. 29. The organization will reamin in South Bend despite Charlie Weis being fired. 



Students learnabout off-campus life, rights 
By MEGAN HEMLER 
News Writer 
Moving off campus involves contracts, and knowing the terms of agreement is an important factor in successful off-campus living, University Associate Vice President for Resident Life Bill Kirk said dur­ing an informational meeting Tuesday night. 
Held at 8 p.m. in Montgomery Auditorium, “Moving Off Campus: What to Know Before 
— and After — Signing Your Lease,” covered the basic points students should know if they decide to leave Notre Dame’s residence halls. 
There are many reasons why students choose to live off cam­pus, like lower living costs and more lifestyle freedom, but Kirk also pointed out some of the burdens of life beyond the dorms. 
“But there is a lot of responsi­bility involved in moving off campus,” Kirk said. “Really do your homework and under­stand why you want to move. … 
see RIGHTS/page 4 


Early applicant pool larger, of higher quality 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s Assistant Provost of Admissions Dan Saracino said this year’s early applicant pool increased both in number and overall quality, as measured by GPA and test scores. 
He said the admissions office received 4,330 applications for the Early Action deadline, which is up 13.5 percent from last year’s number. 
“The good news is that we saw an increase in applications. [In addition] we saw an even greater increase in the number of minor­ity and international applicants,” he said. 
Saracino said the percentage of applicants classified as either international or ethnically diverse rose more than the 13.5 percent of the overall applicants. He also said the overall quality of the applications was greater than they’ve received in years past. 
“Good news for us as well was the fact that we saw an increase in the quality of the overall appli­cant pool as measured by tran­scripts and test scores,” he said. 
see EARLY/page 6 





Decorations awake Christmas spirit 
community lights around cam­pus and decorating some of the buildings like Corby Hall, Old College and the guard posts,” McCauslin said. “We also han­dle special requests from dorms to put up the decora­tions outside their halls, includ­ing trees over their porticos.” 
Some of the Christmas fea­tures around campus include a nativity scene by the Grotto, a towering pine underneath the dome in the Main Building, a Christmas tree in O’Shaughnessy Hall and strands of lights on large trees near the main entrance and by the fire station. 
see CHRISTMAS/page 4 

By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Football season may be over, but another is just beginning, as festive decorations have appeared on dorms and lights have been hung to brighten buildings and trees around campus to commemorate the holidays. 
Pat McCauslin, Superintendent Landscape Services, described his depart­ment’s role in the Christmas decorations as a service to the University that he works hard to perform. 
“Landscape Services is responsible for hanging the 

Exhibit shows old, new Berlins 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
A new photography exhibit on campus juxtaposes images of Berlin from before and after the Wall fell, bridging the historical and ideological distance to a time most Notre Dame students can’t remember. 
The traveling photo exhibit “Icons of a Border Installation” is the result of a semester-long project that was undertaken by students at the University of Paderborn in Germany. The exhibit is on display in the Center for the Study of Language and Cultures in room 329 of DeBartolo Hall until Dec. 16. 
see BERLIN/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC candygrams benefit charity page 4  Holiday TV episodes page 10  Ianello to take over page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, December 2, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Memo to Swarbrick 
As of 3 p.m. Monday afternoon, Jack Swarbrick became the most important and most scrutinized member of the Notre Dame family. His task is daunting and his goals are lofty. After more than a decade of medi­ocrity, he is the 
Barrick Bollman 
man tasked with finding the savior. Sports Writer Jack Swarbrick can either be Kevin White or Moose Krause. For the sake of the Notre Dame Nation, I hope it’s the latter. 
So Mr. Swarbrick, I hope you are up to the task. As you conduct your search, I offer a few recommendations. 
Your first task is gauging interest. This year, Notre Dame is the job. There is no Florida or LSU to compete with like last time. I would suggest you con­tact anyone and everyone who could remotely fill the post to gauge interest, starting from Bill Belichick down to Skip Holtz. Even if a coach has publicly denied interest, they are candidates until they say no to you. Be like David Abernathy asking out the much-older Kerry Piqua. Maybe they will say yes. 
Once you have a list of interested coaches, your task gets far more diffi­cult. History has shown that coaches with success as a college head coach have a better chance of succeeding at Notre Dame. So scratch Jon Gruden, Steve Marucci, Will Muschamp and oth­ers. We need a strong defensive foun­dation. It is no coincidence that the top four BCS teams also field the top four defenses. So extra emphasis needs to be placed on coach like TCU’s Gary Patterson and Oklahoma’s Bob Stoops. Lastly, whoever you select needs to have at least an understanding what it is to be a Notre Dame man. This was the area where Charlie succeeded, and our new coach needs to continue that. That means running a clean program, making athletes be student-athletes and giving back to the community. This is why I am afraid of Urban Meyer, with his 25-plus player arrests and lax disci­pline. 
Whoever you choose Jack, now comes the hardest part of all. Getting the sav­ior to South Bend, Ind. There are a cou­ple recommendations I would make to do this. First, don’t be cheap. If you believe the man you picked is the one, then offer him top dollar. And make sure it is clear that the school would also make sure he has the support to hire the best staff possible. Guarantee that he will have an unmatched recruit­ing budget to assist in the difficult national recruiting that Notre Dame is involved in. Second, remind him who we are. Remind him that we build stat­ues for national championship winning coaches around here. Remind him of the unmatched tradition. Remind him that all but one game since 1992 has been nationally televised. Remind him that there is plenty of talent that can meet admissions requirements — this was one thing that Charlie proved. So Jack, the spotlight is on you. How will you be remembered? If you take away only one thing, remember to reach for the stars, aim high, and expect the best. Take nothing for granted and take all steps necessary. I believe you will be successful. Good luck. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Barrick Bollman at jbollman@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE B ST CHRISTMAS GIFT YOU’VE  V R R C IV D? 






Alexis Hiner  Allison Bandeen  Matthew Sushinsky  Rob Goodale  Cavanaugh Hannan  Kate Augustine  
sophomore Le Mans  senior Holy Cross  sophomore Alumni  freshman Keough  sophomore Dillon  sophomore off campus  
“I got a touch screen phone last Christmas. I had a Razor before, but those were getting old!”  “My N’Sync CD, 1997. Best band ever!”  “A teddy bear. I got it two years ago from my mommy.”  “Probably my big wheel when I was five.”  “It’s a toss up. My brother gave me his old Lego castle, or there was this sword I got too, but it was plastic.”  “When I was four, my twin sister and I got matching pink Lion King bicycles.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer First year students Katherine Trainor and Lindsey Bisch pick up stockings and candy for their dorms in the Saint Mary’s Student Center on Monday. 
OFFBEAT 
Jesus Christ dumped from jury pool for disruption 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. — Court officials say a Birmingham woman who changed her name to Jesus Christ didn’t live up to it when she reported for jury duty this week. The woman, previously named Dorothy Lola Killingworth, was sent to Judge Clyde Jones’s court­room for a criminal case Monday. 
Court officials told The Birmingham News Tuesday that the 59-year-old was excused because she was disruptive and kept asking questions instead of answer­ing them. 
Efforts to reach Christ for comment were unsuccessful. 
Court administrator Sandra Turner said people there were shocked when the woman insisted her name was Jesus Christ and some potential jurors laughed out loud when her name was called. 
But Turner said unlike some Jefferson County resi­dents, Christ didn’t try to get out of jury duty and was “perfectly happy to serve.” 
Cowboy motorist helps Mass. troopers lasso 2 cows 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. — Two cows have escaped from a trailer onto a busy Massachusetts highway, but a cowboy stuck in the traffic jam has come to the rescue. 
State police say a man wearing a Western hat and boots lassoed the 500­pound heifers Tuesday morning as they wandered on Interstate 91 South in Springfield, one of the state’s biggest cities. 
Troopers shut down the highway for about 30 min­utes as the man helped load the animals back into a trailer that was carrying them to nearby Enfield, Conn. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday 

IN BRIEF 
The Kellogg Institute is hosting a discussion on “The Role of University in Development” in the first floor Coleman-Morse Lounge today at 7 p.m. Refreshments will be served. 
Hosted by the Notre Dame Energy Center , a lecture titled “Future Automobile Fuels: Fill Up or Plug In?” will be delivered by Michael Desmond, the distinguished advisor within BP’s Refining and Marketing, Research and Technology division, Thursday at 4 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. 
The Kellogg Institute is sponsoring a lecture on “The Churches, Development, and Democracy in Uganda” Thursday at 4:15 p.m. in room C103 of the Hesburgh Center. Bishop Lambert Bainomugisha of the Archdiocese of Mbarara and Professor Peter Kanyandago of Uganda Martyrs University will speak. 
“Bright Star,” a film depicting the early nine ­teenth century love affair between John Keats and Fanny Brawne, will be shown in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Friday at 6:30 
p.m. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents. 
The track team will hold its indoor Blue & Gold Meet in the Loftus Sports Complex Friday at 5 p.m. There is no cost to attend. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event obsnews@nd.edu 
Saturday sunday 


Atlanta 60 / 44 Boston 44 / 32 Chicago 52 / 37 Denver 50 / 26 Houston 54 / 45 Los Angeles 68 / 46 Minneapolis 45 / 29 New York 49 /36 Philadelphia 51 / 36 Phoenix 70 / 46 Seattle 49 / 36 St. Louis 59 /38 Tampa 77 / 65 Washington 56 / 40 
Wednesday, December 2, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



College’s candygrams raise money for charity 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
With the hope raising money for charity while get­ting students in the holiday spirit of giving, Saint Mary’s College is selling candygrams as a part of the 12 Days of Christmas program. 
Students can purchase the 
candygrams in the Student Center Atrium during lunch from December 1 to December 
12. An addition­al sale will be held on Dec. 7 during dinner. 
The candy-grams can be delivered to any­one on Saint Mary’s College campus. This is the second year 

“The candygrams are a way to send a little something special to someone on campus during fnals week.” 
Carrie Call director Offce for Civic and Social Engagement 
the College has offered the treats to students. 
“[We hope] to help make someone’s day a bit brighter during finals week and also to help people learn more about the 12 Days program,” Carrie Call, director of the Office for Civic and Social Engagement, said. 
There are a variety of can­dygrams to purchase this 
year. Each can­dygram comes with a card. 
“If you want to send a candy-gram, you come to the table in the atrium of the student center,” Call said. “There you can pick from three dif­ferent styles of cards. Each card 
has a holiday design and a dif­ferent message. Once you have picked out a card, you then choose which candygram you wish to send.” 
Students can choose one of three different designs to send. Students then must decide between three differ­ent styles of candygrams. The basic candygram comes com­plete with four Hershey’s kiss­es and costs 50 cents. For the same price, students can buy the Ghirardelli candygram, which contains a square of Ghirardelli chocolate. The final option is the Santagram, which holds a Russell Stover Chocolate Santa and costs one dollar. 

“The candygrams are a way 
to send a lit­tle something special to someone on campus dur­ing finals week,” Call said. 
All of the proceeds from the can­dygrams sale will benefit the families that Saint Mary’s College has 

adopted for the 12 Days of Christmas program. 
Candygrams will be deliv­ered to the front desk of each residence hall for students, and to the offices of faculty and staff. 
The 12 Days of Christmas program will continue to hold various events to students from December 1 through December 12. The program is 
“You can pick from three different styles of cards.” 
Carrie Call director Offce of Civic and Social Engagement 
designed to help raise money for families and individuals in need during the holiday season. 
The pro­gram offers a variety of social activi­ties, volun­teer opportu­

nities and worship services. It will sponsor the annual Christmas Craft Show to pro­vide local artisans with an opportunity to sell their goods with proceeds from table rental fees going to charity. 
Contact Alicia Smith at 

asmith01@nd.edu 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 




NewSUBcontrollerappointed 
Council also votes to implement Health Services advisory board 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
In its weekly meeting Tuesday, the Council of Representatives discussed a number of pressing campus issues, the first being the appointment of Matt Howard to the position of Chief Controller for the Student Union Board (SUB). 
Howard will replace senior Kim Kyrouac, who was accepted early into the Master of Science in Accountancy Program and therefore cannot maintain her SUB position, according to a let­ter from Kyrouac to the repre­sentatives. 
“Matt is far and away the best candidate,” board manager Kat Burke said. 
Howard, a senior accounting major who has worked for SUB for the past two years, has interned with Pepsi for the past two summers and said his proudest event so far with SUB is the Joshua Radin concert that will be held at Legends next Saturday. 
COR approved Howard’s appointment in a unanimous 14­0-0 vote. 
COR’s second item on Tuesday’s agenda was discus­sion of the Wall of Ideas initia­tives in the student government office, which displays sugges­tions and concerns voiced by students. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said one of the main topics on the Wall are comments about University Health Services. 
“[Students complain that] Health Services is pushing peo­ple in and pushing people out … and not really examining them thoroughly,” he said. 
Schmidt proposed the imple­mentation of a Health Services advisory board, to which student government would appoint six students to address the concerns 

TOM LA/The Observer Student body vice president Cynthia Weber and president Grant Schmidt participate in discussion at COR’s meeting Tuesday. 
students have with Health Services. 
“It would be a neat concept because we don’t have a medical school and this would be some­thing different for students to get involved in,” student body chief of staff Ryan Brethellin said. 
The board, Schmidt said, would also address student con­cerns as to where to seek spe­cialized care like dermatologists. 
COR voted in favor of the implementation of such a coun­cil 12-1-1. 
In other COR news: 
Schmidt addressed the issue of handicap accessibility on cam­pus, noting the need for func­tioning elevator buttons in build­ings like Mendoza College of Business and DeBartolo Hall. 
“The most tangible thing we’d like to see is more accommoda­tions in the future,” he said. 
Schmidt also addressed con­cerns among off-campus stu­dents of the need for a guest meal plan to accompany their off-campus meal plan. The guest meal plan, which offers five meals a semester for the dis­counted price of $6, is currently only available to on-campus stu­dents. 
Schmidt lastly addressed the new Transpo weekend bus route that will begin this Friday. 
The route will run from library circle to South Bend “hot spots” like downtown bars and restau­rants. 
“It’s going to be fairly effi­cient,” Schmidt said. “This weekend will be a learning experience … as it is the first weekend this will be run.” 
The bus schedule will be post­ed on the student government Web site. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 




Blood drive held at SMC 


By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
The Office of Civil and Social Engagement (OCSE) gave stu­dents the opportunity to save lives with a Red Cross blood drive in the Student Center lounge from noon until 6 p.m. yesterday. 
Olivia Barzydlo Critchlow, assistant director of OCSE, said this is the second blood drive of the 
an 
“This gives students 
year, and this students. drive is being used the chance to give Pugh said to kick-off OCSE’s back in an easy way this gives stu­
12 Days of dents the 
and in a comfortable
Christmas. opportunity to “We did this environment.” conveniently because it’s anoth-give back. er way to give “This gives 
Lizzy Pugh
back,” Critchlow students the 
senior
said. 
OCSE had a goal of collecting 80 units of blood during the six-hour drive. Lizzy Pugh, a senior who volun­teered her help with the drive, said over 100 students had set up appointments for the day. 
Critchlow said they raised their goal this time because the previous target was “exceeded by an astounding percent.” 
There were also chances for prizes for the donor who could get the most referrals. An e­mail was sent out to the stu­dents encouraging them to bring others with them. The student with the most referrals at the end of the day would receive a long-sleeve T-shirt. 
Donating blood takes about 10 to 12 minutes, Critchlow said, and the whole process takes about hour for 
chance to give 
back in an easy way and in a comfortable environment,” Pugh said. 
Some students have donated a few times before. 
Sophomore Emily Schmitt said she donates because she has a rare blood type, and feels the need to. 
“It doesn’t hurt me, and it helps people,” Schmitt said. 
She suggests students eat and drink a lot before they come to give blood, but to keep in mind that it isn’t a bad expe­rience. 
A couple of first time donors agree with Schmitt, and said they would return again. 
Senior Margaret Burke said she would definitely do it again. She said everyone there was helpful and made her feel comfortable. 
“[The nurses] were all really nice and cared how I was feel­ing,” Burke said. 
Morgan Gay, a junior at the College, said she would also give blood again. She also sug­gested eating and drinking before donating and to know your blood history. 
According to the e-mail Critchlow sent out, every two seconds someone in the U.S. needs blood and more than 38,000 blood donations are needed each day. 
“It’s just an hour of you day, and you can give so much,” Pugh said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 2, 2009 
“We have a whole room filled Weis’ record as head football word ‘JOY.’ The ‘J’ went astray 
out in front situated within the with stuff right now, but we could coach, Green said many students 


CharityChristmas 
always use more still,” she said. are still showing up as volunteers continued from page 1 reduced to ‘YO.’ I’m from 
last year, and so we’re now continued from page 1 “We’re still serving a tremendous for Hannah and Friends. 
Philadelphia, so it fits,” Veirling. 

amount of families and a lot of “We have Notre Dame students McCauslin said approximately Other dorms decorated with 
head coach of Notre Dame never families are directly involved in coming tomorrow to help with 30,000 to 35,000 lights adorn lighted signs, such as 
affected the mission of Hannah the organization through involve-cooking class,” she said. “So the trees and buildings through-Pangborn’s “Have a Foxy 
and Friends, and although he ment in our programs.” Notre Dame students are still out campus. Five or six Christmas,” or Keough’s giant 
may no longer hold that position, Green also said the organiza-going to be actively involved.” Landscape Services employees tree and presents. 
Weis and his wife Maura are fully tion would continue to operate Ultimately, Green said Weis’ hung the lights while students “My favorite dorm is Keenan 
committed to the organization’s “the farm,” a 30-acre residential standing at the University never were away from campus over with all of the lights on the 
mission. community just north of South affected his passion for working Thanksgiving break. sides of the building, and the 
“Regardless of Coach Weis’ Bend “which aims to provide with Hannah and Friends, and “I like the decorations that Christmas tree in O’Shag is 
position at the University, we still much-needed housing and care both he and his wife will be are up,” sophomore Jason another great one,” Farley sen-
realize that there is a great need services for adult citizens with actively involved in the organiza­G’Sell said. “But I do wish that ior Katie Rose Quandt said. 
to help out people with special special needs,” according to the tion moving forward. the trees on South Quad had “We put up our traditional 
needs and Coach Weis and his Hannah and Friends Web site. “This is something [the Weis more lights on them.” giant stockings — one for Monk 
wife are still really committed to “This is going to be a perma-family] is very passionate about While Landscape Services fac-and one for Father Sorin,” Sorin 
Hannah and Friends and helping nent place and Hannah and and its not going to go away tors cost and energy efficiency freshman Tom Oliver said. 
us to further our mission,” she Friends is going to stay,” Green tomorrow,” she said. “Hannah into its decorating process, “Those are the best on cam-
said. said. “Our mission is still the and Friends has been very fortu­changes to the campus decora-pus.” 
Green said there would be no same. Our mission has not nate that we have two very pas­tions over the past several years “My favorite decorations are 
change in Hannah and Friends’ changed and we will continue to sionate founders of the organiza­have been minimal. the ones right here in Keough 
schedule moving forward, and serve as many families as possi-tion.” “Over the past few years, a Hall,” Father Peter McCormick, 
added the organization is cur-ble.” few changes have been made, Keough Hall rector, said. 
rently working on a holiday gift Although some Notre Dame Contact Joseph McMahon at but mostly for when a tree just “However, if I had to choose 
drive. students may be unhappy with jmcmao6@nd.edu 

becomes too big to put lights on some other options, I would say it or a case like that,” that the manger outside of the McCauslin said. “Those sort of Grotto, followed by the adjustments help with our Christmas tree in the Main 
face when leasing occurs when you know how your house is budget.” Building.” 
roommates unexpectedly can-zoned.” Several of the buildings on Both dining halls also 

Rights 

not pay rent. Usually, students Kirk also stressed the impor­campus, including the mail dis-embraced the spirit of 
continued from page 1 are still “on the hook” for the tance of student bargaining tribution center and the securi-Christmas with lights, trees and 
total rent, according to their power. ty posts, purchased more nativity scenes. South Dining 
You can live off campus for less lease agreement, Kirk said. “It’s completely acceptable to expensive LED lights in order to Hall reported using roughly 
money than living in the resi-With off-campus safety a top bargain and negotiate,” he said. promote energy conservation. 4,000 lights in the serving areas 
dence halls, but you’re not concern among students, Kirk “There’s been an explosion of Many of the residence halls alone, as well as bright red and 
going to get the same conven-cautioned that choosing the supply in housing.” personalize the decorations green strands in the dining 
ience and location.” right location is important. “Don’t jump on the first place over their main entrances. For rooms. 
The terms a lease can legally “Do your homework. … Some you find because you’re afraid instance, McGlinn Hall hangs a “The lights in South Dining 
include, the basics of paying places are safer than others,” you’re not going to get another giant shamrock above the front Hall are my favorite on cam-
rent, late fee rules and sublet-he said. “Everyone should also one. If what you want is a rea­door in tribute to the hall mas-pus,” freshman Alison Collins 
ting were all topics discussed at have renter’s insurance. … It’s sonable, clean, safe place close cot. said. “I love eating surrounded 
the event. cheap and affordable.” to campus — you could go and Father Ronald Veirling, by Christmas decorations 
“I can’t tell you how many “One of the things that’s most get it now and be in it in a Morrissey Hall rector, explained because it really sets the mood 
students don’t read their lease. important for people in the area week. Ten years ago I couldn’t why the current decorations for the holidays.” 
… If you’re going to make a is we don’t want houses for sin-have said that.” outside Morrissey may look a 
deal, at least read the darn gle families with sixteen stu­little comical. Contact Megan Doyle at 
thing,” Kirk said. dents living in them next door Contact Megan Hemler at “We do have a nativity scene mdoyle11@nd.edu 
A common problem students to us,” said Kirk. “Make sure mhemler@nd.edu 




World & Nation 
Wednesday, December 2, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Climate scientist to step down 
LONDON — The chief of a prestigious British research center caught in a storm of controversy over claims that he and others suppressed data about climate change has stepped down pending an investigation, the University of East Anglia said Tuesday. 
The university said in a statement that Phil Jones, whose e-mails were among the thousands of pieces of correspondence leaked to the Internet late last month, would relinquish his position as director of Climatic Research Unit until the completion of an independent review. 

Actress’ wardrobe to be auctioned 
PARIS — Audrey Hepburn fans got a sneak peek Tuesday of dozens of garments and personal effects once belonging to the movie star that will hit the auction blocks next week. 
A Givenchy black lace dress that Hepburn wore in “How to Steal a Million” and a demure ivory wedding gown that never made it down the aisle are among the items. 
The fans, fashionistas and those looking to score a slice of film history were given the preview of the collection in Paris before the Dec. 8 sale in London. 
“For her, what was important was not decoration and lots of embellishment. She liked very simple things — less was always more for Audrey,” said auctioneer Kerry Taylor, whose eponymous auction house is handling the sale. 
NATIONAL NEWS 


Black Friday shoppers forget kids 
COMMERCE, Ga. — A Georgia couple got so carried away with snagging Black Friday deals that authorities said they left their kids alone in a shopping cart. Banks County Sheriff Charles Chapman told WSB radio that a 35-year-old man and and 31-year-old woman were charged with reckless conduct. 
Chapman said the two left their 9-year-old and 9-month-old children in a shopping cart at the Banks Crossing Walmart so they could go shopping. 
Chapman said he figured the couple thought the kids would slow them down. The children were not harmed. 

D.C. council votes on gay marriage 
WASHINGTON — The D.C. City Council on Tuesday took the first of two votes it needs to pass a bill that will allow same-sex marriage in the city, voting to accept the bill 11 to 2. 
A second, final vote is expected later in the month, and D.C.’s mayor has promised to sign the bill. The bill had been expected to pass, as 10 of the 13 council members co­sponsored it. 
Marriages would begin in the city as soon as the bill passes a period of Congressional review, but it is unlikely Congress will alter the law. 
Massachusetts, Iowa, Vermont and Connecticut already allow same-sex mar­riage. New Hampshire will join them Jan. 1. 
The two council members who voted against the bill were Marion Barry and Yvette Alexander. 
Barry, who served three terms as mayor of the city, defended his position before the vote. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Facebook helps singer quit smoking 
BLOOMINGTON — John Mellencamp’s 14­year-old son has started a social networking campaign on Facebook that he hopes will get his rocker dad to quit smoking. 
The 58-year-old Mellencamp has said many times since his 1994 heart attack that he’s failed in trying to kick his decades-old habit. Mellencamp’s youngest son, Speck, says his dad has promised to quit if he gets 1 million people to join the Facebook group. More than 7,000 people had joined the group as of Tuesday afternoon. 
Mellencamp publicist Bob Merlis told The Associated Press that the challenge is legiti­mate. 
SOUTH AFRICA 



HIV-positive patients to be treated 
South Africa plans to expand treatment of infected infants and pregnant women 
Associated Press 
PRETORIA — South Africa announced ambi­tious new plans Tuesday for earlier and expanded treat­ment for HIV-positive babies and pregnant women, a change that could save hundreds of thousands of lives in the nation hardest hit by the virus that causes AIDS. 
President Jacob Zuma — once ridiculed for saying a shower could prevent AIDS 
— was cheered as he out­lined the measures on World AIDS Day. The new policy marks a dramatic shift from former President Thabo Mbeki, whose health minister distrusted drugs developed to keep AIDS patients alive and instead promoted garlic and beet treatments. Those policies led to more than 300,000 premature deaths, a Harvard study concluded. 
The changes are in line with new guidelines issued a day earlier by the World Health Organization that call for HIV-infected preg­nant women to be given drugs earlier and while breast-feeding. By treating all HIV-infected babies, sur­vival rates should also improve for the youngest citizens in South Africa, one of only 12 countries where come in our struggle to was acquitted of rape. rewrite, the story of AIDS child mortality has wors-overcome AIDS. Let us The one-time chairman of across Africa.” ened since 1990, in part declare now, as we the country’s national AIDS Zuma said in his speech due to AIDS. declared then, that we shall council may never live broadcast across South 
Zuma compared the fight not submit.” down the shower comment. Africa on state radio and against HIV, which infects Zuma was greeted with a But Zuma has won praise television that the policy one in 10 South Africans, to standing ovation when he for appointing Dr. Aaron changes would take effect the decades-long struggle entered a Pretoria exhibi-Motsoaledi as his health in April. They include treat-his party led against the tion hall filled with several minister. AIDS activists say ment for all children under apartheid government, thousand people. Motsoaledi trusts science 1 year old, regardless of which ended in 1994 with In some ways, Zuma is an and is willing to learn from their level of CD4 cells, a the election of Nelson unlikely AIDS hero. As his past mistakes. measure of immune system Mandela in the country’s Zulu tradition allows, he South Africa, a nation of health. first multiracial vote. has three wives — experts about 50 million, has an Patients with both tuber­
“At another moment in say having multiple, con-estimated 5.7 million peo-culosis and HIV will get our history, in another con-current partners heightens ple infected with HIV, more treatment if their CD4 text, the liberation move-the risk of AIDS. And in than any other country. count is 350 or less, com­ment observed that the 2006, while being tried on UNAIDS executive direc-pared to 200 now, which time comes in the life of charges of raping an HIV-tor Michel Sidibe, who took means treatment would any nation when there positive family friend, he the podium shortly before start earlier. Pregnant remain only two choices: testified he took a shower Zuma, told the president: women who are HIV-posi­submit or fight,” Zuma after extramarital sex to “What you do from this day tive also would start treat-said. “That time has now lower the risk of AIDS. He forward will write, or ment earlier. 

IRAN 


Officials consider reducing ties to U.N. 
The sharply worded IAEA resolu-Russia, which has cooperated with 
Associated Press 
tion on Friday demanded Iran halt Iran in the past to develop its 
TEHRAN — Iranian President all uranium enrichment and stop nuclear program, supported the res-Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said Tuesday construction of a newly discovered olution, earning it Ahmadinejad’s that Tehran is reviewing the option of nuclear facility near the Iranian city censure. decreasing cooperation with the U.N. of Qom. Iran responded by saying it “Russia made a mistake. It has no nuclear watchdog after it issued a would build even more such facili-correct analysis about current situa­resolution critical of Iran last week. ties. tion of the world,” he said, maintain-
Speaking in a live television inter-Iran says its nuclear program is ing that Britain and Israel had view late Tuesday, Ahmadinejad also peaceful, insisting it has a right to swayed the opinion of the U.N. body criticized Russia’s support for enrich uranium to produce fuel for because of their animosity toward International Atomic Energy Agency’s nuclear reactors to generate electrici-Iran. resolution, calling it a mistake. ty. The United Nations has demanded The president’s threats follow up 
“Friendly relations with the Iran freeze enrichment, because the those made by parliament speaker Ali agency are over. We will cooperate process can also be used to develop a Larijani last week to cut ties with the as much as they offer us compro-warhead. The U.S. and its allies international agency, whose inspec­mises. We are reviewing this,” he accuse Iran of secretly planning to tors are the world’s only eyes into said. build a weapon. Iran’s controversial nuclear program. 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 2, 2009 
Berlin 
continued from page 1 
The exhibit, which was brought to campus on by the Department of German and Russian as well as the Goethe Institute, the official interna­tional German cultural center, features photographs of remaining border strips, images capturing the culture surrounding the Berlin Wall and even a visual comparison of the border area during the height of the Cold War and the same location today. 
“This exhibit is very signifi­cant because it shows students who didn’t live through the Wall what it was like during that time,” Dr. Katja Fullard, director of the Goethe Institute in Chicago, said. “These photos really are worth a thousand words.” 
Notre Dame German profes­sor Hannelore Weber, who worked with Fullard to bring the exhibit to campus, said the photographs are important to Notre Dame students who “have no personal perception of the Wall,” because it gives them a clear visual of life in Berlin during the Cold War. 
“What is really unique about this exhibit is that it is from a student-to-student perspec­tive,” she said. “A lot of American students aren’t touched by the Wall and Berlin like German students are because it is all so far away from us.” 
Students who visited the exhibit’s opening on Monday afternoon agreed the photos gave them a new outlook on a tumultuous time in history that came to an end just as many of them were being born. 
“The photos really make you think about the seriousness of that time,” sophomore Maureen Vigland said. “To see photos of the Wall during com­munism and to see a photo next to it of that same area today really lets you see the differences. It’s astounding to see how much has changed.” 
Sophomore Alex Gatlin said the photos are important because they show how the once divided cities reunited, but also that they highlight the effects of the Cold War era still felt in Berlin today. 
“It’s incredible to see how far the city has come since the fall of the Berlin Wall but also to see how much presence the Wall and the division still has in the city today,” he said. “The Wall is a symbol to people who live there. It’s a good symbol to keep and an important memory to have.” 
Fullard said one of the inten­tions of the exhibit was to show how much development has occurred since the fall of the Berlin Wall twenty years ago. 
“We can only hope that these images are still new enough to show what a difference a few years can make,” she said. 
Senior Chris Meister said the photos gave him a new outlook on the Wall’s legacy today. 
“Most of the images that Americans see of the destruc­tion of the Wall are very tri­umphant,” he said. “These pho­tos allow you to see it as it is and connects you to the Wall’s presence today rather than twenty years ago.” 
Weber said she hopes “Icons of a Border Installation” will serve as a testament to a trans-formative time in history. 
“I honestly did not think that the Wall would come down in my lifetime,” she said. “I think this exhibit can be shown as an example of having hope, work­ing toward a goal and combat­ing repression. It really was a revolution.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 



Professer offers tips for clever students 
Special to The Observer 
College-bound students know they have to be book-smart in order to get in to a top school. But when it comes to impressing pro­fessors and standing out in the crowd, good grades are only one part of the equation. 
A new book by a University of Notre Dame psychologist empha­sizes the importance of “practical intelligence” and offers advice to new college students on how to give their teachers what they really want and get the most out of their hard-earned – and often expensive – college education. 
“The Clever Student: A Guide to Getting the Most from your Professors” by Anita E. Kelly, pro­fessor of psychology at Notre Dame, aims to give students a leg up by offering strategies for top performance in the college class­room. 
In the book, newly released by Corby Books, Kelly offers strate­gies to college students on such topics as social intelligence and classroom participation, as well as an insider’s perspective on how professors think. The book also provides practical tips for how to handle missed classes or exams, write a great paper for a demanding professor, and get top-notch faculty letters of recom­mendation. It also contains a test of social intelligence in the class­room so students can see how savvy they are compared to their peers. 
In conjunction with the book’s release, Kelly also has launched a new Clever Student blog, which can be found on the Web at http://thecleverstudent.com. 
“It is my hope that through the book and the blog, I can help stu­dents use their social intelligence to get the most out of their profes­sors, including getting very good grades and amazing letters of recommendation,” Kelly said. “At the very least, I hope these tools will help students feel better about confusing or upsetting interactions with their profes­sors.” 
Kelly also is the author of “The Psychology of Secrets” and numerous scientific articles on secrecy, self-presentation and self-concept change. Her work on secrecy has been funded by the National Institutes of Health and has been featured in the Chicago Tribune, New York Times, Los Angeles Times, Newsday, Glamour and Health. 
A 1986 graduate of Northwestern University, Kelly earned her doctoral degree in psychology from the University of Florida in 1991. She became a licensed psychotherapist in 1993 while serving as an assistant pro­fessor at Iowa State University, where she was awarded Outstanding Faculty Member for teaching. She has been at Notre Dame since 1994 and became a Kaneb Teaching Fellow in 2008. 
iors would have a difficult time making a decision about where 

Early 
to attend college without first continued from page 1 seeing information about their 
financial aid package. This fall, some schools have “If you apply Early Decision reported declines in early appli-then you don’t have the chance cations, which some reports to [receive] other offers. Given attribute to the down economy. the current state of the econo-Saracino said, however, that my, that’s very important,” he there is no current trend in said. early appli-Although the cants this year economy hasn’t 
among highly “We saw an increase gotten much bet-selective in the quality of the ter since last schools. year’s application 
overall applicant pool
“ D u k e , process, Saracino Dartmouth as measured by said he doesn’t and Stanford transcripts and test believe the cur-
all had rent economic cri­
scores.” 
increased sis had anyimpact appli cant on the number of pools this Dan Saracino applications the year. Among assistant provost University highly selec-received. 
for admissions 
tive schools there was some increase and some decrease, overall it was mixed.” he said. 
One reason Notre Dame stands apart from many of its highly selective counterparts is its commitment to offering the Early Action opportunity. 
“We believe strongly in Early Action. We do not believe philo­sophically in Early Decision,” he said. “We don’t feel students are ready to make early decision.” 
Explaining the University’s rational against Early Decision, Saracino said high school sen­“Notre Dame is 
one of the dozen or more universities in the country that have a commit­ment to meeting the fully demonstrated need of every admitted student,” he said. 
Part of the increase this year could be due to the switch to the Common Application in the admissions process. 
Notre Dame transitioned to the common application two years ago, but Saracino said the admissions office didn’t see a substantial increase in appli­cants until this year. 
“The first year, colleges report you see an increase in applica­tions,” he said. “We didn’t see an increase last year, [probably] because the economy was on everyone’s minds.” 
Saracino said the increase in early applications this year could be due to a number of fac­tors other than the switch to the common application. 
“This year we saw an increase and that may be a result of the common application, but it’s a result of a combination of differ­ent things. Notre Dame has got­ten stronger and stronger in its reputation and we’re also meet­ing the needs of every admitted student,” he said. 
With the Regular Decision deadline set for December 31, Saracino said he anticipates the increase in applications will continue. 
“We will probably see the increase carry over. I would anticipate that we’ll have close to 15,000 applicants when the dust settles mid-January, which would be a 6 percent increase overall from last year.” 
Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 


The Observer 




Business

Wednesday, December 2, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Government funds transit projects 
NEW ORLEANS — The federal government is making available $280 million for street cars and other public transportation projects aimed at creating jobs and more walkable, environmentally-friendly communities. 
U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood made the announcement Tuesday at a street­car barn in New Orleans. The city, which has been trying to overhaul its public transit sys­tem since Hurricane Katrina in 2005, was LaHood’s first stop on a listening tour on fed­eral transportation policy. 
The last transportation spending bill expired in September. While President Barack Obama’s administration has sought a reprieve into 2011, given the federal stimulus package that passed earlier this year and was aimed largely at public works projects, Congress has­n’t agreed to an extension past mid-December. 

General Motors’ CEO resigns 
DETROIT — General Motors Co. CEO Frederick “Fritz” Henderson stepped down Tuesday after the board determined that the company wasn’t changing quickly enough. Chairman Ed Whitacre Jr. said at a hastily called news conference that he will serve as interim CEO, and an international search for a new CEO and president is planned. 
Whitacre thanked Henderson for his work during a period of challenge and change, but said it is time to accelerate the pace of rebuilding the largest U.S. automaker. 
The resignation comes just eight months after Henderson, 51, replaced former chair­man and CEO Rick Wagoner, who was ousted March 29 by the Obama administration’s gov­ernment’s auto task force. 
Henderson has been with GM his entire career and was the government’s choice to run the beleaguered company after Wagoner left. Whitacre, picked by the government in June to be chairman of the new GM, is con­sidered an industry outsider, having run AT&T Inc. for 17 years. 
Whitacre and the board have become increasingly active in the company’s deci­sions, at times challenging some of Henderson’s decisions. In November, the board voted to abandon plans to sell GM’s European Opel unit. 


Comcasttobuyownership ofNBC 
In light of economic downturn, General Electric returns focus to industrial divisions 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — For General Electric Co., the NBC entertainment divi­sion was always an odd fit. 
One of the nation’s iconic industrial businesses, GE has spent 23 years making sitcoms and blockbuster movies along with jet engines, dishwashers and light bulbs. The pairing of glitzy entertainment and gritty manufacturing has often confounded investors and even has been ruth­lessly satirized by NBC’s own show “30 Rock,” in which a fictional network executive also heads a divi­sion that programs microwave ovens. 
It’s a marriage that will likely soon end. As GE pre­pares for an expected $30 billion deal that will give control of NBC to cable TV operator Comcast Corp., the conglomerate is shift­ing its focus back to its industrial divisions. 
GE is shrinking its finance arm that has been severely buffeted by the financial crisis. It has sold some businesses and shopped others around. And it is chasing nearly $200 billion in stimulus money from worldwide governments, much of it holding a 51 percent stake. $115 billion — but that promoted move of come-earmarked for such prod-GE would likely fully leave marked a 43 percent drop dian Jay Leno to the 10 ucts as medical equipment the partnership in a few in profit and a 15 percent p.m. slot. and wind turbines. This years. revenue decline. That’s a contrast to new GE will likely look a The financial crisis and NBC Universal has been NBC’s stature when GE lot like GE did before it recession of the past year one headache. The unit took it over in 1986 as part acquired NBC in 1986. have been difficult for GE, includes Universal Pictures of its acquisition of RCA 
“When you are running a which is based in Fairfield, movie studios, the NBC Corp. for about $6 billion. company like GE, your Conn., and has 323,000 network, the Universal The move was part of roots are ultimately in employees. The company Studios chain of theme then-CEO Jack Welch’s manufacturing,” said was forced to slash its divi-parks, and such cable shake-up of GE, which Nicholas Heymann, an dend by 68 percent. It lost channels as USA, Bravo included selling major analyst with Sterne Agee its coveted top bond rating and Syfy. The unit has suf-business divisions and who once worked for GE as and its stock fell as much fered from the recession, growing the financial divi­an auditor. as 90 percent below the with a drop in broadcast sion. Buying NBC, the 
GE has reached a tenta-peak it had hit in 2000. GE advertising, and some flops eventual home to such hit tive agreement to buy out is still trying to work at the box office, such as shows as “The Cosby the 20 percent stake in through big losses at its GE “Land of the Lost.” Show” and “Seinfeld” and NBC Universal that is held Capital lending unit, once Operating profit fell 27 the Olympics, was Welch’s by French media company the source of half the con-percent in the first three way of generating a reli-Vivendi SA, according to a glomerate’s profits, in quarters of this year. The able source of cash to person with knowledge of areas like commercial real NBC network ranks counterbalance the chal­the deal. GE and Comcast estate and credit cards. fourth in ratings and is lenges GE’s manufacturing are then expected to turn GE earned $8.1 billion cutting down on scripted businesses faced from NBC Universal into a joint over the first nine months shows to save money — overseas competitors, venture, with Comcast of this year on revenue of reflected in its heavily Heymann said. 


Gannett Company imposes new cutbacks 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Newspaper publisher Gannett Co. imposed a new round of cutbacks Tuesday, with USA Today reducing its newsroom staff by 5 per­cent, as the industry continues to suffer through an extended advertising slump. 
Along with 26 newsroom jobs at USA Today, 11 positions will be cut at USA Weekend magazine, a weekly insert in other newspapers. And nonunion workers at other Gannett newspapers will have to take more unpaid furloughs, after already taking forced time off this year. 
USA Today, which sells many of its copies in hotels and airports, has been hit especially hard by the advertising slump and a falloff in travel, which knocked it out of the No. 1 position in U.S. newspaper circulation. 
The Wall Street Journal has grabbed that spot, although that includes online subscriptions, as it is one of the few major newspapers that charges Web readers. USA Today still has the top print circulation. 
Gannett shares rose 12 cents, 1.2 percent, to close Tuesday at $10.01. 
Other media companies have been shedding workers as well. The New York Times, The Associated Press and Time Inc. have announced job cuts in recent weeks. 
“While advertising is showing some signs of picking up, the economic out­look for 2010 remains weak and the decline in travel has contributed to a recent drop in circulation,” USA Today’s executive editor, John Hillkirk, told employees in a memo. 
Hillkirk said the laid-off employees would get severance pay equal to the difference between their salaries and what they can get from state unem­ployment benefits. He said the sever­ance would come for one week for each year worked at the company. 
USA Weekend is cutting seven posi­tions immediately and four more in March, according to a staff memo from Marcia Bullard, the magazine’s president. Its remaining staff is being combined with that of USA Today. 
Bob Dickey, who heads Gannett’s 
U.S. community publishing unit, told employees at the division’s 82 news­papers that nonunion workers will have to take one unpaid week off dur­ing the first quarter of next year, amounting to about a 2 percent cut in pay. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 

page 8 Wednesday, December 2, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
Four years with Charlie 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 There are a lot of ways to look at my went up to Ann Arbor to witness the witness Brady Quinn come into his 
last four years of Notre Dame football. first time Michigan and Notre Dame own, and I did get to stand off against 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
I could be disappointed. I could be had ever played each other without a rabid LSU fans on Bourbon St. This 
Jenn Metz 
enraged. It’s hard not to get a little win between them. The weekend was year almost every game day was per-

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
nostalgic. But it’s also hard not to be a great and there was a certain cama-fect weather, allowing for historic tail-

Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
little bitter. Let’s 

raderie among both sides as a result gates, great pre-game traditions and a take it year by year. of our less than stellar records. When hope every week that we would win. 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
Coming into Notre all was said and done, Charlie’s magic Nearly every game this year was 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
Dame, the hype was had certainly diminished, but we were exciting, with most of them settled 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
willing to give him the benefit of the only in the closing minute or two, and unbearable. Notre 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
Dame was No. 2 

doubt. After all, he had lost a ton of the marshmallow fight was the best of SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber pre-season and had 
talent. all. SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer a big opener with 
The last two years have played out There are also the positive take-Penn State. Before 
pretty much the same. We started out always. I will always be able to tell 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
choosing Notre strong, win some games, and then future generations of Notre Dame stu-
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
Jason Coleman
Dame, I wasn’t tank. The class of 2010 has the dis-dents who complain about losing a 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

well-versed in tinct privilege of losing to Navy twice game here or there that they didn’t ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea college football, Man at Large at home, USC twice at home, Michigan have to live through the 2007 season. Mary Clare Rodriguez and was excited once at home and twice in Ann Arbor, Even better, once I become an alum-AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza to get my education, as we crushed and of course the crowning loss to nus, my horizon for a national cham­teams all the way to a championship. UCONN on Senior Day. After the first pionship effectively goes to infinity. 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
As a resident of Zahm, we were year, we kept him, as in good faith That is to say, I’ve got all the time in 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
allowed to go into the stadium early to that that the program was back on the the world now. 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
pass out those green “9-3 isn’t good rise. However, after another break-Charlie may have never given me 
(574) 631-7471 
enough” towels. I excitedly called my even season, one remembers the old the year-in, year-out title runs that I
FAX 
parents about that, and looked for-saying, “fool me once, shame on me; hoped for, but he still gave us a team 
(574) 631-6927 

ADVERTISING ward to the game the entire week. fool me twice, shame on you.” And worth rooting for, a no-nonsense 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Looking back, that first 41-17 victory with that, the Weis era comes to a approach to the game, and an exciting EDITOR-IN-CHIEF over then No. 19 Penn State would be close. couple of years. For that I am thank­
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
the best game of my four years. It I don’t mean to sound bitter, but it’s ful. 
MANAGING EDITOR 
would be all downhill from there. We hard not to when looking back over 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
got through the rest of the season with the on field disappointment. However, Jason Coleman is a senior account-
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu ten wins, suffering only serious break-I have a great satisfaction with my ing major. He can be contacted at BUSINESS OFFICE downs to Michigan and USC. four years of football. We didn’t get a coleman.70@nd.edu 
(574) 631-5313 Sophomore year, as we all know, championship, but I did get to go to The views expressed in this column 
NEWS DESK 
was a total disaster. It took us quite a Ann Arbor twice and see the huge tra-are those of the author anotre dame 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
few trys to get a win. Regardless, I dition behind that game. I did get to not necessarily those of The Observer. 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News Sports 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 




QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Robbie Singer Douglas Farmer Sarah Mervosh Meaghan Veselik Caitlin Housley Barrick Bollman 
“If I have ever made any valuable Sofia Iturbe Patricia “Learn to value yourself, which
Graphics Viewpoint 
discoveries, it has been owing moremeans: to fight for your happiness.” 
to patient attention, than to any 

Scene Fernandez 
other talent.” 
Jordan Gamble 
Ayn RandRussian American novelist 
Isaac Newton English physicist 
The Observer 





Viewpoint 

Wednesday, December 2, 2009 page 9 
What about Thanksgiving? 

It’s that time of year, again. Everyone comes back from Thanksgiving break, refreshed, excit­ed (kind of) and ready to stare down finals. The best way to celebrate this, of course, is to start hanging Andy Ziccarelli Christmas lights, playing Christmas Moment of music and doing Inertia other assorted holiday activities. After all, the day after Thanksgiving marks the begin­ning of the Christmas season … right? 
I’ve noticed a disturbing trend these past few years, particularly on this campus. It is one that, if left unchecked, is capable of spiraling out of control. That trend is the creeping of the beginning of the Christmas sea­son to earlier and earlier days each year. It has gotten to the point where people begin to celebrate so early that it doesn’t even feel like Christmas when they do it. Think all the way back to the first week of November, when the temperature was still unseasonably warm and the football team was 6-2 and still harbored hopes of a BCS bowl (seems like for­ever ago, right?). It was during that week that Starbucks began to give out coffee in their trademark red holiday cups. Less than a week after Halloween! 
But Starbucks is far from the only offender. Radio stations have started playing Christmas music before Thanksgiving and Comcast cable offers their entire Christmas On-Demand section way too early, com­plete with a video of a burning yule log in a fireplace (that’s seriously the entire video). And don’t think I didn’t notice those wreaths and Christmas lights hanging from DPAC on my way out of campus last Tuesday. 
At the risk of being labeled a scrooge, it was just far, far too early for all of that stuff, and the problem is that the date for the beginning of the holiday season just keeps barreling forward on the calendar, without regard for anything it may eclipse, most notably Thanksgiving. Fortunately, however I happen to be one of the world’s biggest supporters of Thanksgiving. And since it clearly can’t stand up for itself, I am going to take it upon myself to defend Thanksgiving for its rightful honor of best holiday of the year. 
First of all, and most superficially, Thanksgiving is all about football. All throughout my childhood and up until we graduated high school, I gathered with the friends I made in elementary school every Thanksgiving morning 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

One more year, one more chance 
Dear Jimmy & Golden, 

By writing this letter, I am not asking that you disregard your personal goals, but only that you consider the wishes of the student body and the University in the extremely difficult decisions you are about to make. We are all immensely proud of you both and have enjoyed seeing you progress over the past three years. Although saying goodbye to Coach Weis was a hard decision, I think everyone would agree that the program needs a fresh start. Jimmy, I hate to bring this up, but three and a half years ago, you came to the College Football Hall of Fame and said you wanted to “get four National Championship rings on our fingers.” Needless to say, this hasn’t happened. We haven’t even had a winning season (unless you count the Hawaii Bowl). Next year, with you both returning as seniors and with ris­ing talents like Michael Floyd and Manti Te’o, we have a chance to make the National Championship dream a reality; a chance to finally right the ship. 
As you know, the Class of 2011 — your class and mine — has endured the worst three consecu­tive football seasons in Notre Dame history. It’s been rough. While it is time for a new start, we cannot lose sight of the hopes and dreams we all have of a National Championship during our time here at Notre Dame. We have all dreamt of rushing the field after defeating Southern Cal on our way to a perfect season. We have all dreamt of watching our team raise their gold helmets in celebration after a BCS Championship victory. I think we all deserve a final attempt to make these dreams a reality during our senior season. You will both have successful NFL careers regardless of whether you stay for next season or not. Before walking away, please consider the dreams of your fellow classmates in your decision-making, and real­ize that next season is our best hope for a true return to glory. We can’t do it without you. 
Katie Pietrucha 
junior Cavanaugh Hall Dec. 1 


Charlie Weis’ buyout 
I understand that Charlie Weis is getting paid millions of dollars — possibly as much as $18 million — for not doing his job. Meanwhile, TAs like me get paid less than one-tenth of one percent of that amount, and we show up and do ours in the classroom every week. Does Notre Dame really mean to imply that firing Coach Weis is a thousand times more valuable to the University’s mission than the yearly contribution of each individ­ual TA? In the words of GOB Bluth: come on! 

Darryl Campbell 
graduate student off campus Dec. 1 
on the same field in the same park with our dads for a game of touch football. Then, once you got home, all you had to do was flip on the TV, and football was already on, and the Lions were already losing. Once the first game was over, you just picked up the remote, changed the channel to the Cowboys game, and you were set. The addition of night games has been awesome, as well (it gives you some­thing to fall asleep to on the couch). When Friday morning rolls around, nothing cures your turkey hangover like another full slate of college foot­ball games, followed up by a full Saturday and Sunday of more games. It’s like a four-day football nirvana. 
Perhaps just as superficially, Thanksgiving is synonymous with food (and overeating). As a guy, there is nothing better than getting carte blanche to overindulge in some of the most delicious food you will eat all year. No one judges you for going back for a fourth helping of turkey, mashed potatoes and stuffing because they are probably on their sixth. 
The real reason that Thanksgiving is the best holiday all year is that it truly does still retain all of its mean­ing. Ask a lot of suburban moms about “holiday stress” and they will talk your ear off for a week about it, as they have to cope with the presents and everything that goes along with the ever-expanding commercialization of Christmas. However, Thanksgiving is about being with family and giving thanks for everything that we have. How many times have people wel­comed in strangers (or people that they don’t know well) into their house so that they didn’t have to spend Thanksgiving alone? We all know sto­ries like that. I know my family has done it for a number of years now. It is a time to reconnect with people you maybe don’t see as much as you would like, and to forge bonds for years to come. And, most importantly, it is a time in which people reflect on what they have, and just how fortu­nate we are. 
There is a reason Thanksgiving is the biggest volunteer day of the year. Even if it is only for one day, people become truly selfless, humble and lov­ing. And that is why it’s the best. 
Andy Ziccarelli is not a scrooge. He just thinks that everything has a time and a place. He is a junior majoring in civil engineering and can be reached at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Real leaders graduate 
This is an open letter to Jimmy Clausen, Golden Tate and any other student ath­letes who are considering leaving Notre Dame instead of graduating. 
Please reconsider your decision to leave Notre Dame following your coach’s depar­ture. The value of your education and life here at Notre Dame should not be taken lightly. You have become an important part of our family not just our history since you came here, and we support you as our ambassadors to the world. The true glory of your leadership is not calculated by how much money you can earn as a pro athlete, but how many lives you can touch through doing good work both on and off the field. That’s one of the reasons that Notre Dame expects our athletes to graduate: there are a lot more important things in life than money. And at Notre Dame you are given the opportunity to do both. 
As an Notre Dame football fan since the early 1970s, I look forward to every autumn with hope and high expectations. We sure seem to win a lot of close games that nobody thought we could — the house that Rock built is a magical place to be, that’s for certain. And having been a stu­dent from 1986 to 1991, I recognize the pressure and stress that you must endure through winning years and losing streaks. But storied competitors going back as long as I can remember have gone the full dis­tance to earn their degrees. Some of these men I still admire today, like Rocky Bleier, Bob Golic and Chris Zorich. They gave deeply of themselves not just for the University or for personal gain, but also gave back to their communities because they understood their greater responsibili­ty to their world as a whole. Sure it’s great to be popular, but it’s more important to share love and mercy to those in need. 
I admit, I am a bit selfish. I would love to 
see our football team win another national 
championship, or a major BCS bowl game, 
or perhaps have the opportunity to watch 
a great player like yourself earn the 
Heisman. And certainly you might find 
that revenge wins against Stanford or 
Navy would grant some sense of accom­
plishment. But with more thought, I real­ize that I have received much more from my education at Notre Dame than my GPA might humbly suggest. At Notre Dame, I built relationships with amazing people, learned to open my mind to many new ways of seeing the world, and was able to share my skills with others for rewards that far outweigh my earnings hence. Our University’s tradition of service permeates our culture and inspires us to walk that extra step and lend that helping hand. In fact I suggest participating in the Urban Plunge program over Christmas if you haven’t already taken on a social project. I readily admit that such experiences changed and improved me in ways I could not have predicted. 

I’m not certain how an anonymous letter from a stranger might influence your weighty decision, but I urge you to consid­er the consequences of abandoning your education, and conversely, those conse­quences of how you would benefit by suck­ing it up and showing your brothers and sisters at Notre Dame that you have the intestinal fortitude to do the right thing for both you and for your school. Earning a four-year degree isn’t just some hobby — it’s a commitment to yourself, to prove that you can succeed with your mind as well as your body. Graduating is an accomplishment that is fiercely personal, yet given your growing national populari­ty, it also sets a great example for your younger fans — something that you can’t go back and do over a second time. While I can’t give you much except a glimpse at how earning your degree from Notre Dame will make your life better, I strongly urge that you give Notre Dame the best effort you can. In the end it’s your choice to make, but I am praying that you will make the right choice. Notre Dame gradu­ates take on responsibilities greater than those from other schools, and I think you have a strong enough will to follow in our footsteps. 
Jeff Sepeta 
alumnus 
Class of 1991 
Nov. 30 
The Observer 





Scene

page 10 Wednesday, December 2, 2009 

But through Buffy’s true love and some meteorological magic, all is saved. It snows for the first time ever in Sunnyvale, Calif., so the sunlight doesn’t cook him into roast beast. It’s a holiday weepfest tempered with the requisite “Buffy” wit and drama. 
“Gossip Girl” — “Roman Holiday” 
No cuter couple could be found during 2007’s Christmas season than Dan and Serena. If you’re searching for romantic and original gift ideas in the 50-dollar price range, look no further than sea­son one “Gossip Girl” Christmas 
projected images of a snowy forest on the walls of an art gallery and swirled white confetti from the ceilings to cre­ate a winter wonderland for Dan. Though Dan and Serena have unfortu­nately drifted apart since that first perfect Christmas two years ago, fans can count on Chuck and Blair this sea­son for some chic gift exchanging and precious holiday canoodling 
under the mistletoe. 
“It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia” — “A Very Sunny Christmas” 
In their Christmas special, “A Very Sunny Christmas,” the gang explores their past Christmases and tries to regain the Christmas spirit. Spoofing various holi­day classics, the 45­minute episode, available on DVD, has all the usual shenanigans and hijinks in which Charlie, Mac, Dennis, Frank and Dee man­age to 
the humor goes a little too far in the special, advancing beyond the regular offbeat comedy into the slightly dis­turbing. Overall, the episode is amus­ing, not one of the best, but worth see­ing, though probably not buying. 
“The Office” — “Christmas Party” 
“The Office” has presented many classic Christmas episodes, but “Christmas Party” was the first and the best. This second season episode featured a Secret Santa gift exchange that ends in equal parts disappoint­ment and happiness for all our favorite employees. Any episode that combines the sweet will-they-or-won’t­they romance of Jim and Pam (we all know how that turns out) and a top­less Meredith has to be a classic. The types of presents bought unmistakably fit the characters’ personalities, from Michael’s over-budget iPod for Ryan to Creed’s dirty, worn flannel shirt. Anyone who wants a lot of laughs this holiday season will not be disappoint­ed after watching “Christmas Party,” which is available along with the rest of the season two on DVD. 
“Pinky and the Brain” — “A Pinky and the Brain Christmas” 
Christmas specials tend to be a mash up of wintery atmosphere, cheesy music and sappy lessons. While nor­mally an exact recipe for disaster, mix in two laboratory mice, an Orson Wells impression and a plot to take over the 
world, and the end result will warm 
the coldest miser’s heart 
(and win a well-deserved 
Emmy). The Brain nearly 
achieves world domina­
tion but is once again 
befuddled by the 
actions of Pinky. While 
he fails to reach his 
elusive goal, he man­
ages to spread joy to 
the world, find the true 
meaning of friendship 
and gives the gift that 
keeps on giving: a 
spellchecker. Despite 
Amazon solely stock­
ing the VHS, this for­
gotten holiday classic 
merits an annual view­
ing. 
“Rugrats” — “Babes in Toyland” 
Although not techni­cally about Christmas, “Rugrats” once featured one of the best holiday-themed episodes of all time. An informative 
episode, for all you gentiles out there, at least, it delved into the history of Chanukah, due to Tommy’s half-Jewish parentage. What ensues is an epic reenactment of the plight of the “Maccababies”, “Rugrats” slang for the Maccabees, and their fight against King “Antonica,” played by one Angelica Pickles. Tommy, as Judas, leads them to victory. But, upon their arrival at the Holy Temple, they real­ize there is only enough oil left to light the Temple candle for one day. Can you guess how many days it miracu­lously stays lit for? If not, get your hands on this classic ASAP. 
“Seinfeld” — “The Strike” 
In a somewhat anti-Christmas episode of “Seinfeld,” George intro­duces the non-denominational holiday of Festivus to the New York area. This holiday, created in the show by George’s father, was a holiday meant to battle the commercialization of Christmas. Kramer discovers the holi­day and wants to celebrate it, which brings back horrible memories of George’s childhood, particularly the “feats of strength,” a contest that forced George to attempt to subdue his father to end the holiday. As usual, hilarity ensues, focused mainly on the misery of George, as so often is the case in “Seinfeld.” 
“Six Feet Under” — “Pilot” 
Ain’t no party like a Fisher family Christmas party. Mostly due to the lack of Christmas songs, festive deco­rations, eggnog, presents and overall Christmas cheer. The first season of “Six Feet Under” starts off with a bang when, on one fateful Christmas morn­ing, the fractured Fisher family is reunited for very sad reasons. When picking out your favorite holiday TV episodes, save this one for the day when you’re allowed to be a little down. While not bubbling with Christmas excitement, though, the series premiere of “Six Feet Under” is still really, really awesome. You may just leave it finally able to truly appre­ciate those you spend your Christmas days with. 
Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu, Brandy Cerne at bcerne1@nd.edu, Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu, Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu, Marie Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu, Adrianna Pratt at apratt@nd.edu and Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I SOFIA ITURBE 
The Observer 


Scene

Wednesday, December 2, 2009 page 11 
By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 

“Fantastic Mr. Fox” is an aptly released Thanksgiving delight for Wes Anderson fans. Interjecting his patented quirky, unlike-anything-else-out-there-Wes-Anderson­ness into a stop-motion animated film, Anderson gives his faithful following a whole new look and feel in a film that harkens back to “Chicken Run,” except that this film is catchier and more tailored to adults than its unassum­ing PG-rating might let on. Taking risks is the name of Anderson’s game. His style, which by now we’ve grown to love, is a risk in and of itself, and this film is certainly no exception. But it works, it really does. 
The film’s title character, Mr. Fox (George Clooney), is a retired chicken bandit who has settled down to a life of writing a newspaper column that no one reads. His life predictable and numb, the now not-so-fantastic Mr. Fox longs to return to his 
old lifestyle even though by doing so he’d be breaking a promise he made to his wife (Meryl Streep) before marrying her. 
A new house though, in an above-ground neighborhood located right near the infamous Boggis, Bunce and Bean farms, presents him with the perfect opportunity to regain his sense of being. The prob­lem is that stealing live­stock and Mr. Bean’s covet­ed alcoholic cider carries with it consequences that not even Mr. Fox, with his elabo­rate three-stage plan, can fore­see. 

A portrait family and commu­nity, put together action-by-action in an incredibly laborious fashion, “Fantastic Mr. Fox,” is a story about realizing one’s true self while realiz­ing the true value of those close to us. However, it’s not the film’s sappy message that carries it through its rather short run­time, but rather moments which so effortlessly elicit an uproar of laughter so weird, yet for Anderson fans, so weirdly familiar. Think about it, what would Pixar films be with­out their trademark brand of comedy? The same goes for Anderson’s first foray into full-length animated filmmaking, as his engaging story of a fox living his dreams is brought to a whole other level by that aforementioned unlike-anything­else-out-there-Wes-Anderson-ness. 

The film is meticulous, down to the very motion of the each fox’s tail, which swirls accordingly as the fox moves, and to the precision of character injected into each animal, which somehow, and definitely not coinci­dentally, matches up with the person playing the part. It’s as though these foxes were made for the actors play­ing them, or as though these actors were made for the foxes they play in Anderson’s chicken-centered world. For example, Clooney’s Mr. Fox acts in a pretentious yet elegantly reserved manner that elicits a sense of “cool” best captured by Clooney himself, while Mrs. Fox seems an almost cut-out version of the more relaxed, non­“Mamma Mia” side of Streep. 
Wes Anderson’s folk-like animated film seems surreal on so many levels, yet so close to the heart in the end, that its seems as real as any one of his best quirky por­traits of life—with its subtitled chapters, odd humor and wonderful music montages. Its inherently his, “Fantastic Mr. Fox” is, and you’d know it ten seconds into the film. “Up” perhaps not, but then again, “Up” is perhaps not “Fantastic Mr. Fox.” There should finally be a race in this year’s Best Animated Film category, and dare I say, Pixar might not win this one. In Wes Anderson fashion, here’s a toast to you sir, on thinking outside the box and going that extra mile, and doing it oh so well. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 

Jonathan Bree shows off his drum machine sound with the assistance of Heather Mansfield ’s smooth, charismatic voice. In songs like “Connection” and “Red Rollerskates,” listeners get a different elec­tronic sound that entices the occasional head bob. El ectronic elements are being tested throughout this album as both artists intertwin e their sweet, light voices with chimes that give the songs an airy 



By KATHERINE GREENSPON 
Scene Writer 

New Zealand’s edgy, indie pop duo, The Brunettes, recently released their new album “Paper Dolls.” Their passion for songwriting and their natural abili­ty to belt a tune is obvious in this album, which is packed full of light melodies and catchy instrumental sound. 
This pop group is original and fresh with both Jonathan Bree and Heather Mansfield playing off one another beautifully in every track. The album opens with the song “In Colours,” introducing their brilliant usage of the drums and chimes, which offer the listeners both heavy and light beats. 
This 10-track CD is a joy to listen to because of the duo’s easy -going lyrics and simple approach. 
feel. 
Their songs offer a storyline that, if paid attention to, can be easily followed. Mansfield’s rhythmic voice in “The Crime Machine” illustrates passion and excitement with every verse as she pretends to live out her 1920s dream of being a “Queenpin.” “Bedroom Disco” is one track that would thrive at a house party scenario, with a guitar tremolo and vari­ous arrangements of imagination and pitch varia­tions. 
This album is a continuation from previous works but stays true to their upbeat, fun and celebrated works, which vocalists and instrumentalists have been known for. The album has a sort of fantasy effect with an array of electronic buzz and a childish undertone. Every song on this album seems to glorify the appreciation of a simple melody. With simple tambourine and guitar solos the whimsical duo does an extraordinary job in swaying their voices to mesh perfectly. 
This album is an easy listen that can calm or relax any stressful soul during finals. “If I” is only one of the many songs on this album that could act as a harmonic lullaby. The simple trickle of trumpet and synthesizers gives the effect of a dreamer with its creative tone and subtle vocals. 
It appears that The Brunettes are wandering from their comfortable cute pop to a more instrumental and technological kind of work. Their playful usage of keyboard and music technology achieves a more modern and humming sound that shows their pro­gression as artists. This album has wide-spread appeal with songs like “It’s Only Natural” which begins with an almost islander feel that leaves peo­ple in a mellow state of mind. 
Fans of this band should thank them for once again delivering a masterpiece of eclectic songs that embrace instruments like the xylophone. This indie band versatile, and not afraid to try to new styles and beats. The Brunettes has a special air about them that is refreshing yet risky. They don’t play by the norms of popularity, they write about what inspires them and telling stories through song is their specialty. The Brunettes not only sing but they incorporate synth and other unique sounds that tie all their work together. 
Hearing about artists who step out of their comfort zones is refreshing and appreciated. The Brunettes have come a long way since their first album, “Mars Loves Venus” EP in 1998 so keep your eyes out for this dynamic duo as they continue to share their music with the masses. 
Contact Katherine Greenspon at kgreen01@saintmarys.edu 


page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, December 2, 2009 
NBA 

Allen and the Celtics end Bobcats’ win streak 
D’Antoni leads Knicks’ offense against Suns; Arenas back in double digits as Wizards take down Raptors 
the first half without him, and 100 points, the first time this 
Associated Press 
trailed by as many as 26 points season that’s happened. 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Ray before he got his first points It was a sweet victory for Allen broke out of his shooting with 8:15 left in the third quar-D’Antoni, who rode his high-slump with 27 points, Kendrick ter. scoring offensive system to an Perkins added 21 points and 12 But it may not have mattered average of 58 wins in his four rebounds and the Boston with the Bobcats shooting 55 full seasons in Phoenix before Celtics cruised past the percent and Allen finding his he and the Suns parted ways Charlotte Bobcats 108-90 on touch. after a first-round loss to San Tuesday night for their fifth A career 40-percent shooter Antonio in 2008. straight victory. from behind the arc, Allen had He hasn’t been nearly as suc-
Led by Allen, the Celtics had gone 6 for 23 in the past four cessful with an inferior roster little trouble slowing the games. Rivers said at in New York, where he coached Bobcats, who had won four shootaround that he had said his 100th game Tuesday and straight. Entering shooting 30 nothing to him. recorded just his 36th victory. percent from 3-point range, “I don’t say a word — if he’s He improved to 2-1 against the Allen took only nine shots, but a shooter,” he said. “If he’s a Suns, though said before the hit 5 of 6 3-pointers, including non-shooter, I tell him to stop game the emotions weren’t the one from behind the plane of shooting. ... He hasn’t forgot same as they were last season. the backboard with 1 second how.” “I’ve got enough problems in left to give the Celtics a 62-39 With Perkins and Garnett New York that I don’t really halftime lead. drawing attention inside, Allen reflect on what they’re doing,” 
Charlotte never recovered as was hitting from the outside he said. Gerald Wallace scored just five and the foul line, where he Phoenix missed the playoffs points after getting into early made all 10 attempts. The last season, but has rededicat­foul trouble. Nazr Mohammed Celtics didn’t even need Paul ed itself to playing fast under had 16 points for the Bobcats, Pierce (eight points) to move Alvin Gentry and was looking who entered giving up a into a tie for the Eastern to start 15-3 for the first time league-low 87.9 points a game. Conference lead with Orlando. since doing so under D’Antoni 
But the Celtics, on the second It was a setback for the in 2004-05. But the Suns never game of a four-game trip that Bobcats, whose winning streak slowed the Knicks down for next takes them to San came at the heels of a seven-long, even when they went to a Antonio, scored at will inside game skid and included an zone in the third quarter. and out and quickly ended any impressive home win over By then, New York was on hopes Charlotte had of erasing Cleveland Friday. They shot the way to doubling its 13-point memories of their embarrass-just 41 percent and trailed by halftime lead. None of the rebounds for the Wizards, who with 5:27 left made it 90-85 for ing 59-point performance in as many as 28 points. Knicks’ previous three wins have won three of four. Washington. Boston on opening night. had come by more than seven Chris Bosh had 22 points and Calderon’s driving layup with 
That came before the Bobcats Knicks 126, Suns 99 points. 14 rebounds, Andrea Bargnani 2:45 remaining cut it to 93-91 acquired versatile scorer Mike D’Antoni’s offense was New York fell two points shy had 20 points and 11 rebounds but Jamison made a jumper, Stephen Jackson , and Celtics as spectacular against the Suns of its highest-scoring quarter of and Jose Calderon added 20 then held his finger to his lips coach Doc Rivers joked before as it used to be with them. the season, opening a 39-28 points for the Raptors, who to quiet the crowd as he ran the game that they were going Danilo Gallinari had 27 lead. Wilson Chandler (12), have lost four straight and back down the court, and to “do some tic-tac-toe” to fig-points and 10 rebounds, and Gallinari and Lee (10 apiece) eight of 10. Arenas made two free throws ure out if the 6-foot-5 Allen the New York Knicks beat were already in double figures Jarrett Jack had 18 and Hedo to push the lead to six, 97-91, guarded the 6-8 Jackson or 6-7 Phoenix on Tuesday night, after the first 12 minutes. Turkoglu scored 13 for the with 2:15 to go. Wallace. snapping a five-game losing The Knicks opened the sec-Raptors. Toronto rallied once more, 
Allen started on Jackson, streak and giving their coach a ond quarter with a 9-4 burst, Arenas had been held below with a free throw from who immediately posted him resounding victory over his old extending the lead to 48-32 on 10 points in each of his past Turkoglu and two by Jack mak­and scored in the lane on the team. Gallinari’s jumper. The Suns two games, the first time he’d ing it 99-97 with 58 seconds to first possession. But Wallace David Lee added 24 points cut it to six later in the period, failed to score at least 10 in play but the Raptors couldn’t picked up two fouls in 5 min-and Al Harrington had 22 for but New York pushed it back to back-too-back games since his get any closer. Andray Blatche utes and sat out the rest of the the Knicks, who rang up a sea-15, repeatedly getting layups rookie season in 2002. Thanks made a pair from the line, half, giving the Celtics matchup son-best 71 first-half points, and dunks, and led 71-58 at to a pair of 3-pointers in the Jamison made one of two and advantages. then blew it open when the half. second quarter, Arenas was Earl Boykins hit two more, 
Stephen Graham failed mis-Gallinari scored seven points in Amare Stoudemire, Jason back in double figures by half-making it 104-97 with 23 sec­erably trying to defend Kevin a span of barely a minute mid-Richardson and Alando Tucker time in this one. onds left. Garnett , who had 16 points way through the third quarter. scored 14 points for Phoenix, Arenas scored 12 points and Bosh missed all six shots he and seven rebounds. Nobody New York reached 100 points which ends a four-game trip Jamison scored 10 in the fourth took in the first but Calderon could keep a body on Perkins, by the end of the third and Wednesday at Cleveland. as the Wizards erased a five-scored 11 points for Toronto, who hit 9 of 10 shots and was coasted to its easiest victory of point deficit in the final quarter who trailed 25-24 after one on only five points shy of matching the season. Wizards 106, Raptors 102 by shooting 11 for 16. The Blatche’s fadeaway jumper as a career high. And the blowout Steve Nash had 20 points and Antawn Jamison had 30 Raptors shot 8 for 23 in the the buzzer sounded. took shape in the first half as eight assists for the Suns (14-points and 12 rebounds, Gilbert fourth. Bosh snapped out of his funk Brown stubbornly kept Wallace 4), who came in with the NBA’s Arenas had 22 points and nine A free throw by Amir with an 18-point second but on the bench. best record. They had won four assists and the Washington Johnson gave Toronto an 83-77 Jamison scored 11 and the 
Wallace entered as the reign-straight by an average of 21.3 Wizards beat the Toronto lead with 9:52 to play but the Wizards used five 3-pointers to ing Eastern Conference player points, but this time found Raptors on Tuesday night. Wizards regained the lead with keep it close before another of the week, after twice topping themselves on the other side of Caron Butler scored 19 a 13-2 run over the next 4:25, buzzer-beating jumper, this one 30 points in victories last week. a blowout. points, and Brendan Haywood including three baskets by from Boykins, gave them a 55­The Bobcats shot 31 percent in The Suns didn’t even reach had 15 points and nine Arenas, whose driving layup 54 edge at the break. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES ——————————————— OFF-campus housing, Irish Crossings and Dublin Village 3 and 4 bdr, furnished and 
unfurnished. January and June 2010 leases available. 
www.cespm.info Call 574-968-0112 ——————————————— 

522 Napoleon Street: 1-2 student Nice ktchn,bath,2bdrm,storage Washer/dryer. 5 blks W. off ND Ave. $580/mo+utl (219)629-5483 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-appt., no experience needed, customer sales/service, 
574-273-3835. ——————————————— Singers for new pop group. 
Info 574-261-6857 —————————————— CYO CAMP RANCHO FRAMASA SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS ­HIRING NOW! Secure your summer job! Camp Rancho Framasa is an inclusive, residential camp, located in south central, Indiana, operated by the Catholic Youth Organization since 1946. Serving campers aged 7 to 16 in various programs. We offer a welcoming staff community in a beautiful outdoor setting. General Staff, Counselor Manager, Inclusive Programming, Ropes Course, Adventure and Health positions available. All positions start at $240/week. Training is provided;start date May 29, 2010. For application and information con­tact: (toll-free): 888-988-2839, x25 or email angi@campranchofra­masa.org ——————————————— 
PERSONAL 
Considering Adoption? ND Alums Hoping to Adopt. If you are an expectant mother searching for a family, please see our website at http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro­file.net. ——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-17819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND’s website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu ——————————————— 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. 
For more information, visit Notre Dame’s website: 
http://csap.nd.edu ——————————————— THE GRAB &amp; GO ladies want to thank the myste­rious person who was so thoughtful to leave flowers. Thanks again from the Grab &amp; 
Go Ladies ——————————————— 
“It’s just like Santa’s workshop! Except it smells like mushrooms... and everyone looks like they wanna hurt me...” ———————————————— 
The song written by a baby, a wolf, and a French person: 
Rah-rah-ah-ah-ah-ah! Roma-roma-mamaa! Ga-ga-ooh-la-la! Want your bad romance I want your ugly I want your disease I want your everything As long as it’s free I want your love I want your drama The touch of your hand I want your leather-studded kiss in the sand I want your love Love-love-love I want your love You know that I want you And you know that I need you I want it bad, your bad romance ——————————————— 


Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 

Wednesday, December 2, 2009 page 13 
NCAA Division I Hockey USCHO Rankings 
team previous 
1 Miami (Ohio) 1 2 Denver 2 3 North Dakota 4 4 Quinnipiac 9 5 Bemidji State 6 6 Colorado College 5 7 Cornell 7 8 Mass-Lowell 3 9 Massachusetts 10 10 Yale 11 11 Michigan State 8 12 Alaska Fairbanks 12 13 Minnesota Duluth 14 14 NOTRE DAME 13 15 Boston College 16 16 Wisconsin 15 17 Ferris State 17 18 Nebraska-Omaha 19 19 Vermont 18 20 St. Cloud State NR 21 Michigan NR 22 RIT 20 23 Colgate NR 24 Union NR 25 New Hampshire NR 
NCAA Division I Women’s Basketball AP Rankings 
team previous 
1 Connecticut 1 
2 Stanford 2 
3 Ohio State 3 
4 North Carolina 4 
5 NOTRE DAME 5 
6 Tennessee 6 
7 LSU 7 
8 Baylor 8 
9 Xavier 9 
10 Texas A&M 11 
11 Duke 10 
12 Florida State 12 
13 Georgia 14 
14 Virginia 16 
15 Arizona State 17 
16 Vanderbilt 21 
17 Texas 13 
18 Oklahoma 20 
19 Pittsburgh 24 
20 California 22 
21 DePaul 15 
22 Michigan State 25 
23 Georgia Tech NR 
24 Kansas 18 
25 Dayton NR 


around the dial 
NCAA Basketball 
Illinois at Clemson 
7:15 p.m., ESPN 
Duke at Wisconsin 
9:15 p.m., ESPN 
PGA 

Woods cited for careless driving 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Tiger Woods will be cited for careless driving in a car crash outside his Orlando-area mansion, but will not face criminal charges, the Florida Highway Patrol said Tuesday. 
Woods faces a $164 fine and four points against his driver’s license, not close to enough to have it sus­pended. The citation clos­es the investigation of last week’s crash. 
The patrol “is not pursu­ing criminal charges in this matter nor is there any testimony or other evidence to support any additional charges of any kind other than the charge of careless driving,” Sgt. Kim Montes said. 
According to an accident report, Woods crashed his SUV into a fire hydrant and a tree at 2:25 a.m. Friday. The airbags did not deploy and Woods’ wife told Windermere police she used a golf club to smash the back win­dows to help him out. 
Woods withdrew Monday from his own golf tourna­ment, citing injuries from the crash. 
Since the accident, tabloids and gossip Web sites have fueled specula­tion about the events lead­ing up to it, including that there may have been a domestic dispute between Woods and his wife. 
The crash came two days after The National Enquirer published a story alleging that Woods had been seeing a New York nightclub hostess, and that they recently were together in Melbourne, where Woods competed in the Australian Masters. The woman, Rachel Uchitel, denies the affair. 
An attorney for the neighbors who dialed 911 after the crash said Woods did not appear to be driv­ing under the influence and showed no signs of having been in a fight. Montes said there were no claims of domestic vio­lence and insufficient evi­dence to subpoena any medical information. 
“Despite the celebrity status of Mr. Woods, the Florida Highway Patrol has completed its investi­gation in the same profes­sional manner it strives to complete each traffic investigation,” Montes said. 
Bill Sharpe, an attorney for the neighbors, said Woods’ injuries were “consistent with a car wreck and inconsistent with him being beat up. The scratches on his face were consistent with someone who maybe was in a minor car accident and hit his head on the windshield. ... None of his injuries looked like he was beat up by his wife.” 
Sharpe said neighbor 
IN BRIEF 
Molson family to purchase Steelers’ Roethlisberger Yankees manager Girardi 
NHL’s Montreal Canadiens expected to play Sunday teaches Jets’ Sanchez to slide 
MONTREAL — The sale of the PITTSBURGH — Steelers quarter-FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — Mark Montreal Canadiens was approved back Ben Roethlisberger has worked Sanchez is learning how to slide like a Tuesday, days before the storied team’s out without problems since missing Yankee. 100th anniversary. Sunday night’s game in Baltimore with Don’t worry, Jets fans. The rookie 
The Molson family won approval from a concussion and is expected to play quarterback isn’t looking to trade in the NHL board of governors, becoming Sunday against Oakland. his pads for pinstripes. He was just the fourth group of Molsons to own the Roethlisberger was held out of the working on his sliding technique club since the 1950s. George Gillett put 20-17 overtime loss to the Ravens after Tuesday with Yankees manager Joe the team up for sale in the spring. having post-practice headaches Girardi, who guided New York to its 
Geoff Molson and brothers Andrew Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. A 27th World Series title last month. and Justin are the lead investors in a team doctor recommended Saturday “I’ve never really been a slider,” group that reportedly paid $575 million that the quarterback not play, and Sanchez said. “In baseball, I slid head-for the franchise. coach Mike Tomlin agreed. first. In football, I’ve done the same 
“This is a proud moment for my fami-While the Steelers did not practice on thing or tried to get out of bounds or ly and our partners in the transaction,” Monday, Roethlisberger worked out on throw the ball away. It’s something said Geoff Molson, who will be the his own and did not have any prob-that you need to learn at this level.” chairman and chief executive officer. lems, Tomlin said. Jets coach Rex Ryan wants Sanchez “As owners, we will be right there with “All indications are he’ll be a full par-to make more of a conscious effort to management and the team, building ticipant tomorrow (Wednesday) in slide and avoid potential injuries. and battling toward our next Stanley practice and ultimately play in the “When we bring Joe Girardi in, this Cup.” game on Sunday,” Tomlin said Tuesday. is all about business,” Ryan said. 
The Canadiens celebrate their 100th If the headaches should unexpectedly “Mark understands that. We kid about anniversary Friday when they host the return, Tomlin said the Steelers will the ‘Sanchise’ name, but he’s the face Boston Bruins. “act quickly.” of our franchise. 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, December 2, 2009 
MLB 

Ilgauskas playing to set new record 
Associated Press 
INDEPENDENCE, Ohio — Zydrunas Ilgauskas never got off the bench during his first attempt at history. Given another chance, Cavaliers coach Mike Brown assured it will happen. 
Ilgauskas will become Cleveland’s all-time leader in games played when he enters Wednesday’s game at home against Phoenix. He currently shares the record of 723 games with Cleveland general manag­er Danny Ferry. 
Ilgauskas was expected to break the record at home last Saturday, but Brown didn’t play him during a 111-95 win against Dallas. 
The perceived snub upset both Ilgauskas and LeBron James — Ilgauskas hasn’t spoke to reporters since the game and James criticized Brown for it on Monday. 
“I definitely thought he should’ve played,” James said. “As a friend of his, I was very upset and I know he was, also.” 
Brown explained on Monday that he liked the smaller, quicker lineup that was playing well against the Mavericks. But he said on Tuesday if he had it to do again, he would have played Ilgauskas against Dallas. He won’t start Ilgauskas against the Suns — an idea first floated by James — but said he will play. 
“I’ll be just as happy as any­body when the record is accomplished,” Brown said. 
Ilgauskas declined interview requests for the second straight day Tuesday, while Brown stopped short of apologizing for keeping Ilgauskas from the record. He said he hadn’t spo­ken to Ilgauskas yet about the incident, but that he would. He wasn’t sure what he would say. 
“I don’t know. I haven’t wrote anything out,” Brown said. “We’ll talk. I don’t know when.” 
Ilgauskas has spent his entire 14-year career in Cleveland. He battled foot problems early on that forced him to miss essentially three full seasons. He is one of James’ favorite players on the Cavaliers roster and the only holdover from when James was drafted. James was a big proponent in Ilgauskas receiving a five-year contract extension during the summer of 2005. Ilgauskas, now in the final year of that deal, has hinted at retiring after the season. 
“I’m not trying to stir up any­thing with coach or whatever is going on with the organization, but sometimes one game is the smaller things,” James said Monday. “What was on the line was something way bigger than us playing the Mavericks. That was ‘Z’ breaking the record.” 
Brown was not upset with James for speaking out. 
“LeBron is a loyal person,” Brown said. “That’s big on his agenda. That’s what has made him the type of person he is today. You respect and under­stand that he was being loyal to Z. I have no problem with that at all.” 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Allen Iverson and the Philadelphia 76ers are closer to a reunion. 
A person with knowledge of the contract talks says the Sixers offered a one-year, non-guaranteed contract to Iverson on Tuesday. The per­son spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because the con­tract talks had not been made public. 
Iverson, his agent and busi­ness manager met with team president Ed Stefanski, coach Eddie Jordan and two other members of the organization Monday during the first for­mal meeting between the Sixers and their former MVP. 
Iverson announced his retirement last week after an ill-fated stint with the Memphis Grizzlies. The 10­time All-Star was NBA MVP in 2001 when he led the Sixers to the NBA Finals. 
Iverson announced his intention to retire last week after no other team expressed an interest is sign­ing the four-time scoring champion. The 6-foot Iverson played three games this sea­son with Memphis before taking a leave of absence to attend to personal matters. He was waived after the two sides agreed to part ways. 
He’s on the brink of getting a second chance with the Sixers. The Sixers (5 -13) have lost seven straight games entering Wednesday night’s game at Oklahoma City and need Iverson to spark sagging ticket sales and their playoff chances. 
This reconciliation was once thought foolish after their acrimonious split three years ago. Iverson’s last game with Philadelphia was Dec. 6, 2006 in Chicago. He refused to play the fourth quarter and was banished from the team two days later. He was eventually traded to Denver as part of the Andre Miller deal, and bounced to Detroit then Memphis. 
The Sixers finish their four-game road trip Saturday against the Charlotte Bobcats and Iverson’s former neme­sis, coach Larry Brown. 
If Iverson accepts the offer, his likely debut would come 

MLB 

Matsui and Damon not offered arbitration 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — World Series MVP Hideki Matsui, Vladimir Guerrero and Randy Wolf were among the free agents who weren’t offered salary arbitration, moves that enable new teams to sign them with­out losing draft picks. 
Tuesday night was the first big deadline of baseball’s off­season, with teams having until midnight to make arbi­tration offers to their former players who became free agents. Players have until Dec. 7 to accept; if they reject, they still can re -sign with their former clubs at any time. 
With about two hours left until the deadline, 18 players had received arbitration offers and only seven of them were position players: St. Louis outfielder Matt Holliday and third baseman Mark DeRosa; Boston outfielder Jason Bay; Los Angeles Angels third baseman Chone Figgins; Seattle third baseman Adrian Beltre; Texas catcher Ivan Rodriguez and Rangers out­fielder Marlon Byrd. 
Pitchers offered arbitration included Angels ace John Lackey; Boston reliever Billy Wagner; Detroit’s Brandon Lyon and Fernando Rodney; Oakland’s Justin Duchscherer; Atlanta’s Mike Gonzalez and Rafael Soriano; Colorado’s Rafael Betancourt and Jason Marquis; Houston’s Jose Valverde; and St. Louis’ Joel Pineiro. 
In addition to Matsui, the Yankees declined to offer arbitration to left fielder Johnny Damon and pitcher Andy Pettitte. The Angels turned down pitchers Kelvim Escobar and Darren Oliver in addition to Guerrero. Besides Wolf, the Dodgers said no to pitcher Jon Garland and sec­ond baseman Orlando Hudson. 
Among others declined arbi­tration were Detroit pitcher Jarrod Washburn, Seattle lefty Erik Bedard, Mets first base­man Carlos Delgado, Milwaukee center fielder Mike Cameron and Kansas City catcher Miguel Olivo. 
Before 2006, players not offered arbitration could not re -sign with their former clubs from Dec. 8-April 30, but that provision was elimi­nated in the latest collective bargaining agreement. 
NBA 
Sixers offer Allen one-year contract 
Monday night at home against Denver. In a double-dose of intriguing timing, the Sixers play at home Dec. 9 against Detroit. 
Perhaps Iverson will show his former teams that he still has something left in the No. 3 jersey. 
Or, the Nuggets and Pistons will see they made the right choice to move on without the controversial guard. 
CSNPhilly.com first report­ed the offer. 
Memphis Grizzlies owner Michael Heisley told the AP 
on Tuesday that he spent almost an hour on the phone with Stefanski before his meeting with Iverson. 


Wednesday, December 2, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
MLB
NHL 
Stimulant exemptions rise 

Ovechkin suspended 
Associated Press 

after knee-on-knee hit 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Va. — Alex Ovechkin’s latest on-ice indis­cretion netted him a two-game suspension, a sore right knee and a new level of concern from his coach about his “pret­ty reckless” ways. 
The league’s reigning two-time MVP was suspended for two games without pay by the NHL on Tuesday for a knee-to­knee hit on defenseman Tim Gleason in Monday night’s 3-2 win over the Carolina Hurricanes. 
Ovechkin’s first NHL suspen­sion will cost him $98,844.16 in salary. He’ll sit out Thursday against Florida and Saturday at Philadelphia, although his sore knee might have kept him out of one of the games any­way. 
“I regret that this has hap­pened,” Ovechkin said in a statement released by the team. “I’m glad that Tim was­n’t injured because I never ever want to see anyone get hurt.” 
The initial concern was Ovechkin would be sidelined longer — with a serious knee injury. The hit on Gleason was scary, but the Russian forward was back on the ice Tuesday morning in a red Capitals track suit about 25 minutes before the start of practice. He skated for less than five minutes but did not move at full speed. The Capitals said he was day to day with a sore knee. 
“It’s not a bad injury,” Ovechkin said. “I thought it was going to be worse, but thank God I can walk, I can skate. Of course, it’s a little bit sore, but it’s not that serious.” 
Ovechkin was given a 5­minute major penalty for knee­ing and a game misconduct for the hit on Gleason, the second time in three games he’s been ejected. Last week he was whistled for a 5-minute board­ing major and game miscon­duct for a hit on Patrick Kaleta of the Buffalo Sabres. 
Before hearing of the suspen­sion, Ovechkin tried to plead his case. He said he didn’t have time to pull back when Gleason changed directions while attempting to push the puck out of the Hurricanes’ zone. 
“I can do nothing about it,” Ovechkin said. “It’s just a moment of the game. I turned and realize I don’t have time to stop.” 
Ovechkin was more defiant when asked about his style of play. No one scores goals bet­ter, but he also loves to hit. He leads the Capitals with 18 goals, 30 points — and 44 penalty minutes. He missed six games earlier this season with an upper body injury, the first time in his career he’s had an injury that cost him more than one game. 
“I just play my game and I just enjoy my time and I enjoy my life,” Ovechkin said. “It’s me, and it is what it is.” 
“I play risky,” he said. “I won’t try and hit and make some people get hurt, but peo­ple sometimes turn right away and I don’t have time to realize and stop. What can you do? You can do nothing.” 
Coach Bruce Boudreau isn’t so sure anymore. After two years of essentially letting Ovechkin be Ovechkin, Boudreau said it might be time for a heart-to-heart talk. 
“He’s pretty reckless,” he said. “It’s hard telling a guy that scores 60 goals a year to change the way he plays. At the same time, I don’t want to see him getting hurt. Maybe he has to pick his spots a little better. The open-ice hits, you just look around the league. It’s not only the hitter, it’s the guy that gets hit. ... It’s some­thing that will have to be addressed by us, I guess. ... Not only as a coach, but as somebody who admires him, I just don’t want him to put him­self in harm’s way, so we’ll see.” 
Boudreau said Ovechkin isn’t trying to play dirty. 
“Alex plays hard,” Boudreau said. “All the time. I don’t think there’s a malicious bone of him 
NEW YORK — There was just one positive steroids test in the major leagues over the full first year of the tough­ened program, but the num­ber of players authorized to use otherwise banned stimu­lants because they have ADHD rose by a small amount for the second straight year. 
Baseball granted 108 ther­apeutic use exemptions for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder during the year end­ing with this World Series, according to the annual report released Tuesday by MLB’s independent drug-test­ing administrator. That was up from 106 a year earlier and 103 in 2007. 
“Today’s report contains good news and bad news,” said Rep. Henry Waxman, who has held hearings on drug use in sports. 
“The good news is very good — only one positive steroid test. But the bad news is deeply disturbing,” the California Democrat said. “It is hard to believe that the ADD prevalence rate in base­ball is that high.” 
Rob Manfred, Major League Baseball’s executive vice president for labor relations, said the level of ADHD exemptions, known as TUEs, was not cause for alarm. Manfred said concerns were not justified because ADHD is more prevalent among males and young people. 
“These TUEs are based on diagnoses that originally are made by a doctor and they are reviewed by one if not more doctors to verify the diagnoses,” Manfred said. “And I’ve got to rely on the medical people.” 
Dr. Gary Wadler, a frequent critic of baseball’s drug-test­ing program, also praised the 
‘We don’t want to put you in that situation any more.’ But when he gets out there, he just wants to win so badly he does whatever we can for that team to succeed.” 


anonymity because the deal hadn’t been finalized. 
An official announcement could come Wednesday. 
Patterson has an 85-27 record in his ninth season as the Frogs’ head coach, win­ning at least 11 games in five of the last seven seasons. The last time TCU had an 11-win season before that was its undefeated national champi­onship team in 1938 with Heisman Trophy winner Davey O’Brien at quarterback. 
Associated Press 
FORT WORTH, Texas — Gary Patterson is close to a contract extension with BCS-bound TCU, the deal coming amid speculation that the coach of the undefeated Horned Frogs could be a can­didate to fill the Notre Dame vacancy. 
A person with direct knowl­edge of the situation said Tuesday that Patterson’s cur­rent contract, which runs through 2014, would be extended at least two years, and his assistant coaches would get pay raises. The per­son spoke on condition of sport’s overall progress but said the amount of the TUEs was a concern. 
“Is there something unique about the sport of baseball that attracts individuals with ADD? I suspect not. It seems to me an excessively high number,” said Wadler, chair­man of the committee that determines the banned-sub­stances list for the World Anti-Doping Agency. “This is a problem that merits some independent analysis. Is the TUE process as tight as it needs to be or does it repre­sent some sort of a loop ­hole?” 
Other than ADHD, there were just seven TUEs: two each for hypertension and hypogonadism, and one each for narcolepsy, obsessive-compulsive disorder and post-concussion syndrome. 
“I first raised concerns about these therapeutic use exemptions in hearings in initial positive tests, which don’t cause suspensions, or are still in the arbitration process. Eleven of the posi­tives were for Adderall, the other for Clobenzorex. 
The one positive for a per­formance -enhancing sub ­stance was for nandrolone. Baseball’s only announced suspension for a positive test taken this year under the major league program was given in March to San Francisco Giants pitcher Kelvin Pichardo, who was banned for 50 games. 
There also was one positive not related to a test. In March, Los Angeles Dodgers outfielder Manny Ramirez was suspended for 50 games after baseball obtained records that showed he used the female fertility drug HCG, 
or human chorionic gonadotropin. 
Baseball conducted 3,722 tests, up from 3,486 the pre­
2008, and vious year. 
“This is a problem 
baseball “We had a promised they that merits some very low num­would look independent ber of posi­into the mat-tives, low num­
analysis.” 
ter. But it bers on the appears that stimulants and no progress Gary Wadler steroids, which has been committee chairman is a very good made,” said development,” 
World Anti-Doping 
Waxman, now Manfred said. 
Agency
chairman of Wadler the House agreed with Energy and Manfred’s Commerce Committee. “I assessment of the overall hope that MLB-sanctioned program. use of ADD drugs has not “Baseball has done a good become a substitute for the job over the last several rampant steroid use that the years in cleaning house over league and its players the whole issue of perform-worked so hard to elimi -ance-enhancing drugs, ana­nate.” bolic steroids,” he said. 
There were 12 positives for Dr. Bryan Smith issued the banned stimulants among report under toughened rules 3,722 tests under the major baseball adopted last year at league program. Since no the recommendation of for-players were suspended for mer Senate majority leader stimulants, they either were George Mitchell. 
trying to hurt anybody. He just plays hard and he plays to win every shift. And it’s a really 
NCAA FOOTBALL fine line between taking that away from him, and I don’t see how you can take it away other than talking to him and saying, 
TCU to extend coach’s contract 
Patterson didn’t return mes­sages left Tuesday by the AP. 
The person who said a con­tract extension was in the works said Patterson had not been contacted by Notre Dame, which Monday fired Charlie Weis after five seasons. 
TCU (12-0, 8-0 Mountain West) is waiting to find out Sunday which of the big-money Bowl Championship Series games it will play in. The Frogs are fourth in the BCS standings, the highest ever this late in the season for a team from a conference without an automatic bid. 
There is still a chance the Frogs could be the first BCS buster to play for the national championship, if No. 3 Texas loses to Nebraska in the Big 12 championship game Saturday night and they stay ahead of Cincinnati in the final BCS standings. The other spot will be filled by No. 1 Florida or No. 2 Alabama, who face off in the SEC championship game. 
TCU wrapped up its unde­feated regular season and out­right Mountain West title with a 51-10 victory over New Mexico on Saturday. It was the Frogs’ seventh consecutive vic­tory by at least 27 points, a stretch that included BYU and Utah, last year’s BCS buster. 
The Frogs have a 14-game winning streak, matching the seven decade-old school record set in 1938. 
Patterson, 49, came to TCU as a defensive coordinator with coach Dennis Franchione after the 1997 season, when the Frogs were coming off a 1­10 season. 
When Franchione left for Alabama after the 2000 regu­lar season, TCU promoted Patterson after a national search. Only Dutch Meyer, who won 109 of his 201 games from 1934-52, has more victo­ries as the Frogs coach. 
Patterson’s contract was extended through 2014 at the end of last season, weeks after strong speculation that Kansas State was interested in hiring Patterson to lead his alma mater. Kansas State instead lured Bill Snyder out of retire­ment. TCU was 11-2 last sea­son, including 17-16 win over Boise State in the Poinsettia Bowl that is the Broncos’ only loss the past two seasons. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, December 2, 2009 
MLB 

Indians trading Shoppach to Rays 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — Kelly Shoppach wants to get back to being the player he was in 2008. That’s exactly what the Tampa Bay Rays are counting on. 
The 29-year-old catcher was acquired Tuesday from the Cleveland Indians for a player to be named, giving Tampa Bay depth at the position and new competition for incumbent starter Dioner Navarro. 
“We’ve admired Kelly from afar for a while now,” Rays executive vice 

“We’ve admired Kelly 
president ted .290 with 23 Andrew from afar for a while homers and 97 Friedman said. RBIs last season 
now.” 
A .241 career at Double-A hitter, Shoppach Akron and was struggled last Andrew Friedman selected MVP of season after Rays executive vice the Eastern posting impres-president League. 
sive numbers while filling in for an injured Victor Martinez with Cleveland in 2008. 
“He’s coming off a disap­pointing ‘09 season,” Friedman said, “but we feel like he has all the ability to be a much bet­ter player than that.” 
After leading American League catchers with 21 homers two years ago, the Indians were expecting big things from Shoppach in 2009. But he batted just .214 with 12 homers and 40 RBIs in 89 games, striking out 89 times in 271 at-bats. 
“You can look at (last season) any way you want,” Shoppach said. “Obviously, it was a disap-Santana is expected to begin the season at Triple-A Columbus, but the Indians hope he will be in the majors at some point next season. 
“This is most about our young players,” Cleveland gen­eral manager Mark Shapiro said. “We are excited about giving them an opportunity to play. It’s an area of strength for us.” 
Marson and Toregas both spent time with the Indians late last season, but the 23­year-old Santana is clearly Cl eveland’s catcher of the future. He bat­
“Most likely 
for Carlos some 
time at Triple-A continuing to develop his game-calling, his leadership skills and honing his defensive game will be beneficial,” Shapiro said. “I would expect at some point (next) season, between April and September, we’ll see him in Cleveland.” 
Shapiro acknowledged finan­cial considerations were involved in the trade. Shoppach, who made $1.95 million last season, is eligible for salary arbitration and could earn close to $3 million in 2010. 
Adding a catcher was one of Tampa Bay’s top priorities this 
offseason. The 
switch -hitting 

pointing year “Kelly’s a guy who Navarro was an 
for me. Of All-Star in 2008 
has great talent and
course I would but slumped to have liked to the ability to be a .218 this year — 
play better. I complete catcher.” down 75 points think everyone from the previ­would have ous season. His 
Mark Shapiro 
liked to play batting average better.” Cleveland general ranked 219th 
Sh opp ach, manager out of 222 major 
who spent four seasons with Cleveland after being acquired in a 2006 trade with Boston, likes the idea of joining a young team that’s only a year removed from its first World Series appearance. 
“Obviously, it’s an opportuni­ty for me to compete now rather than the rebuilding process that Cleveland was going to do,” Shoppach said during a telephone conference call. “Ultimately that is what I want to do. Help a team win.” 
Shoppach’s departure from the Indians could make Lou Marson, acquired in the deal that sent ace pitcher Cliff Lee to Philadelphia, Cleveland’s starter behind the plate. Wyatt Toregas likely will be the back­up catcher. 
Highly touted prospect Carlos 
leaguers  with  
400  or  more  
plate appearances.  

In five seasons with the Indians and Red Sox, the right-handed hitting Shoppach has 43 homers and 141 RBIs. He is 
a .295 career hitter against left-handed pitching. 
“Kelly’s a guy who has great talent and the ability to be a complete catcher,” Shapiro said. “He calls a good game, he throws well and, obviously, he hits for power. I know he strikes out a lot, but he’s got great power. The more contact he makes the more a run pro­ducer he will be.” 
The Indians will complete the trade before Dec. 20. Shapiro said the player the Indians receive could be on the 25­man roster when the season begins. 


NCAA FOOTBALL 
Friedgen to return as coach in 2010 
Associated Press 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. — A grateful Ralph Friedgen will return in 2010, eager to rebound from his worst sea­son as Maryland’s head foot­ball coach. 
Friedgen’s job status appeared shaky after the Terrapins lost a school ­record 10 games this season. But after meeting for two consecutive days with athlet­ic director Debbie Yow, Friedgen was given the go-ahead to make plans for a 10th season as coach at his alma mater. 
“I’m very thankful for the opportunity,” Friedgen said. “I hope I wasn’t just judged on this year. But this shows the confidence the adminis­tration has in me and our program. I’m willing to 
repay that with every ­thing I have to make this the team we expect it to be.” 
The 62 ­year-old Friedgen has two years left on a contract that pays him $2 million annually. He is 66 -46 at Maryland and has gone to 
“I hope I wasn’t just judged on this year. But this shows the confidence the administration has in me and our program.” 
Ralph Friedgen 
Maryland coach 
six bowl games, but the Terrapins have endured four losing seasons over the past six years. 
After Maryland’s final game Saturday, a 19 -17 defeat to Boston College that extended the team’s losing streak to seven games, Friedgen made it clear he intended to retain his job. 
He got his wish. 
“Coach Friedgen and I are in complete agreement on 
the expectation to return the football pro ­gram to its competitiv e stature,” Yow said. “He has assured the University and fans of his intentions to do whatever is necessary to become a top 25 program 
again. He continues to have my full support.” 
Although Maryland went to bowl games in each of the three seasons before this 
one, Friedgen wasn’t sur ­prised that his performance this year came under scrutiny by Yow. 
“Obviously, when you’re 2­10 you’re going to evaluated,” he said. “She’s my supervisor. We sat and we talked, and she decided to stay the course.” 
Friedgen 
acknowledged that he entered the discussions with more than a small measure of angst. 
“It was a concern to me,” he said. 
Maryland began the season had only 14 seniors and 58 
players with at least three years of eligibility remain­ing. The hope is that the experienced the underclass­men gained this season will translate into victories in 2010 and 
beyond. 
“We have 
three impres­
“He continues to have sive young quarterbacks 
my full support.” 
that are pret­ty good. We Debbie Yow have all our 
Maryland athletic running backs returning, as 
director 
well as our 
wide 
receivers, ” 
Friedgen said. “All of our offensive linemen are back, except one, with a full year of experience under their belts. We had a very young team this season. We took our lumps this year, but we won’t be taking our lumps next year.” 
Friedgen, a former player at Maryland, took the Terrapins to the 2001 Atlantic Coast Conference title in his first season as a head coach. But Maryland had the worst overall record of any ACC team this year and won only one league game. 
In February, offensive coordinator James Franklin signed a contract that would enable him to take over for Friedgen after the 2011 sea­son or receive a $1 million buyout. Franklin is sure to return; however, Friedgen said he will evaluate the rest 
of his staff in the weeks ahead before deciding whether to make any changes. 


Wednesday, December 2, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
Welsh 
continued from page 20 
student working toward becom­ing an English teacher. 
“I learned through observa­tion and reading and attending clinics,” Welsh said. 
After a few seasons of work­ing his way up the coaching hierarchy from a YMCA coach to a division I collegiate swim­ming program, Welsh was offered a position at Notre Dame in 1985. 
“Most of what I wanted to do when I got here was to help the team get faster and compete at a higher level,” Welsh said. “I had the advantage of arriving when the Rolfs Aquatic Center was built, so since we had a great facility, we wanted to build a team that was worthy of the facility and the university.” 
When Welsh started at Notre Dame, he coached the men’s and women’s teams before they split into two programs, at which point he took over the men’s program. The team has grown from offering one schol­arship per recruiting class to the NCAA’s maximum 9.9 schol­arships. 
In September, Welsh was elected president of the American Swimming Coaches Association by the board mem­bers of the organization for a two-year term. 
“This position is more than I would have asked for myself,” Welsh said. “The ASCA is the first professional organization I joined many, many years ago, and over the years I have done a lot of work for ASCA, writing articles, speaking at conven­tions, serving on the Board of Directors, and overseeing the ASCA Fellows Program, a lead­ership program for young coaches which will select its 10th class in January.” 
So far this season, the men’s swimming and diving team is 2­1 in dual meets with an impor­tant conference win over Pittsburgh. 
“Our ambition is to become a nationally prominent NCAA team,” Welsh said. “We are get­ting closer each year, but there is still a lot to be done.” 
Each season, the men’s swim­ming and diving team works towards winning the Big East conference meet at the end of the regular season, a goal that if achieved this season would be the program’s third in a row. 
“The plan is simple; achieving it is where the challenge lies,” Welsh said. “One step at a time, and year by year, we are trying to get faster each time.” 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Brey 
continued from page 20 
been the most important improvement he made. 
“He finds the hoop,” Brey said. “He’s one of those guys that finds the net. People ask me about him and I say ‘he finds the basket.’ It may not look ortho­dox, and it comes from all areas of the floor now — 3-point line, the short corner, underneath the backboard, the free throw line, tip in — but he finds the bas­ket.” 
After a back and forth first half that saw 12 lead changes and five ties, the Irish turned a three-point halftime lead into a 21-point margin after starting the second half on a 25-7 run, a lead that did not drop under 16 until Notre Dame’s starters were off the floor late in the game. Senior Ben Hansbrough scored 14 for the Irish, and juniors Tim Abromaitis and Carleton Scott chipped in nine and eight points, respectively. 
“We were better defensively to start the second half, and I think that really helped us,” Brey said. a better job of that. I thought we sparked by senior point guard In the first half, I didn’t have us were very efficient offensively, Tory Jackson, who added two out pressuring the ball maybe as unselfish again. Scott and steals and a block to his eight much I as should have, so that’s Abromaitis continue to give us a points. on me, and they kind of got great lift. I’m really pleased with comfortable and made some their development.” Contact Eric Prister at shots. In the second half, we did Defensively the Irish were eprister@nd.edu 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Irish return north to face Eastern Michigan 


By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s hosts Ohio Northern University today for its second home game of the season. The Belles (3 -1) defeated North Central 91-57 over the holiday weekend. 
Saint Mary’s opened up its home season against Anderson University on Nov. 17, defeating the Ravens 72­
33. The team’s only loss this 
s e a s o n  c a m e  i n  t h e  f i r s t  
r o u n d  o f  t h e  B l u f f t o n  
U n i v e r s i t y  Ti p -O f f  

Tournament when it faced Wheaton College. The two teams battled through 13 lead changes and 12 ties until the Thunder ousted the Belles 78­73. 
“So far, our offense has been great in games, and the defense has been following behind closely,” senior for­ward Anna Kammrath said. “We are a young team, but with quite a bit of experi­ence.” 
Among the top returning players this season, all of whom have made strong appearances on the Saint Mary’s court thus far, are Kammrath, junior Liz Wade and sophomores Patsy Mahoney and Kelley Murphy. 
The sole senior on the team, Kammrath came into the sea­son with 598 rebounds. Four games into the season, the 6­foot forward leads the team with 41 to go along with her 37 points, the fifth-best on the team. 
Wade, a junior guard and the MIAA Defensive Player of the Year, was one of the league ’s leaders in both assists and steals. Thus far, she has 28 assists and 18 steals. 
Both Mahoney and Murphy had outstanding freshman seasons for the Belles last year as two of the team’s top scorers. Alongside Kammrath, the pair account­ed for more than 690 points. Murphy, a forward, leads Saint Mary’s in points with 57, as well as having 29 rebounds, second only to Kammrath. Mahoney, a guard follows close behind with 49 points. She also has nine assists this season, second to Wade and tied with newcom­er Annie Doyle, a freshman guard. 
Murphy scored a team-high 18 points at North Central. Kammrath was not far behind with 14 while leading Saint Mary’s with nine rebounds. Mahoney had 13 as sopho­more guard Maggie Ronan put up 12. Wade had a career-high 11 assists in the win, one away from tying a College record. 
Coming off one of their most successful season and losing four seniors to graduation, the Belles are continuing their hard work in hopes of besting last season’s confer­ence finish of second place. 
“Although at times our dis­cipline is not quite there, I have been impressed with the amount of talent on the team,” Kammrath said. “We are so deep and that is a great thing to be, especially in our conference. We still need to keep improving on our defense and rebounding, but the season has been exciting so far and I am antic­ipating great things from us.” 
The Belles will return to their home court at 7 p.m. as they host the Polar Bears and work to move their record to 4-1. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, December 2, 2009 
Eagles 
continued from page 20 
maintain their intensity and focus.” 
The Irish won three straight games from Nov. 26-28, two against ranked teams, at the Paradise Jam in the Virgin Islands. Just three days later, they have to take on an Eagles team off to its best start since 2004. 
“I think Eastern Michigan is a really good team,” McGraw said. “They’re playing well. For us, we need to stay sharp.” 
The Eagles are also playing on short rest — they won a 93-81 decision against Missouri State Sunday. In that game, guard Tavelyn James scored 31 points. She averages almost 20 points per game. 
James and guard Cassie Schrock form a tough combina­tion for Eastern Michigan. Schrock, who averages 37.2 min­utes per game, is second in the team in points and rebounds per game. 
“They’ve got a really good back court,” McGraw said. “[Schrock is] really good. She played well against us last year. They’re both good. They shoot a lot of 3s. 
Ianello 
continued from page 20 
period of time and when we have a new coach in place.” 
As recruiting coordinator, Ianello helped land three top-10 classes from 2006-2008. As receivers coach, he’s coached pro­lific Irish receivers from Maurice Stovall and Jeff Samardzija to Golden Tate and Michael Floyd. 
So now that he’s assumed responsibility for football opera­tions, what exactly will the 44­year-old be doing? 
“Well, it’s a threefold thing right now. First of all, to supply the sup­port to our current student-ath­letes that they need during this transition,” Ianello said Monday. “The second thing is to help secure the recruiting that we have so far ... And the third thing is to supply any support that I have for our coaches and our support staff and our administrative staff dur­ing this time [of] transition. So that’s how I see this breaking down.” 
Nowhere in that breakdown did Ianello mention his own best interests. And while he said Monday that he would “reach out to some other people to make sure to secure my future,” his firm commitment to the Irish pro­gram is both admirable and cru­cial, especially because Swarbrick has not set a timetable indicating when a new coach might be in place. 
Ianello has an impressive resume, particularly with regard to recruiting — and that should be his top priority in his current position, with Notre Dame still in the running for several of the country’s top prospects. Ianello has been recognized as one of the nation’s top recruiters by ESPN.com, Sporting News, Rivals.com and recruiting analyst Tom Lemming, according to und.com, and he has previously coached at Alabama, Arizona and Wisconsin. 
Though recruiting is undoubt­edly more difficult in times of uncertainty like the present, Ianello said Monday he would continue to sell prospective Irish players on the range of opportuni­ties and advantages Notre Dame presents. 
“You come to school here because everybody that comes here is going to get a degree,” They’re going to really challenge our defense.” 
McGraw said the Irish have continued to work on their defense after the Paradise Jam. 
“We’re working on our defense in general, I’m not happy with it after coming off the Virgin Islands trip,” she said. “I think we can get better defensively. That’s an individual effort as well as a team effort.” 
Notre Dame will start the same lineup it did for its win over No. 20 Oregon, which includes fresh­man guard Skylar Diggins in her second start of the season. Though she has played mainly from the bench, Diggins currently leads the Irish in total points and total minutes and is second in both assists and steals. 
However, the Irish will once again rely heavily on its bench to ensure everyone is able to go. 
“We’re going to have to find the right combination of who’s ready to play,” McGraw said. “We’re playing well, we want to get out and play again. We just want to come out hard with a lot of inten­sity and keep on playing.” 
The game will begin at 7 tonight at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Ianello said. “You’re going to play on college football’s biggest stage. You’re going to be on television 32 guaranteed times in your career before you ever set foot on cam­pus here.” 
“Those are great resources that this University has, and those things won’t change. I think that message is clear to the guys that we’re dealing with at this time, and that will be what we go out throughout the country and con­tinue to be on the forefront here in the next few weeks.” 
Aside from recruiting, Ianello’s role largely depends on whether the Irish choose to accept a poten­tial Bowl bid, which Swarbrick, Ianello and several players all said had yet to be decided Monday. Ianello said the team would be back in the weight room Tuesday under his guidance, and then several coaches would hit the road recruiting early this week in an attempt to strengthen current verbal commitments and seek further commits as well. 
“I think we’ll have some guys in some homes [Tuesday] night and we’ll be out on Wednesday and Thursday,” Ianello said. “Our coaching staff will come back to campus on Friday, we’ll regroup as a staff Friday afternoon in preparation for our team banquet on Friday evening, and then dur­ing that time there will be discus­sions about if and when we’re in a Bowl.” 
The efforts of Ianello and the rest of the staff have already paid off, as it was reported that defen­sive tackle Louis Nix gave Notre Dame his verbal commitment Tuesday night. Nix was previously considered a soft verbal commit to Miami but had been interacting with members of the Irish coach­ing staff for most of the fall. The Jacksonville, Fla., native is a future Under Armour All-American. 
As might have been expected, though, Notre Dame lost its first verbal commitment Tuesday, when blue-chip defensive end Chris Martin not only decommit­ted, but also eliminated the Irish from consideration, according to an ESPN.com recruiting service. Martin was said to have been wavering throughout the fall, and he will consider California, Florida, Oklahoma and USC, according to reports. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
remained an integral part of the team. 
Ruth 
continued from page 20 
this year. I changed a lot about myself and my physical ability so I was pretty bummed about it.” 
The injury forced the Irish blue line to make adjustments. 
“I think we were getting used to everybody during training camp and then a week before the season he gets hurt, so it just threw off the chemistry on the back 
“To be honest, he did a great job, whether it was in between periods or after games, he would just come in and tell guys like it is,” Lawson said. “That’s the type of guy he is. He’s real up front and honest.” 
Physically, Ruth said the most difficult step in the recovery process was just get­ting back in “hockey shape.” 
“There’s nothing like hock­ey,” Ruth said. “You can run and bike as much as you want, but as soon as you touch the ice 
one another. 
“Our chemistry has definite­ly been improving a little bit as well, and he’s only beginning to show what he’s capable of,” Lawson said. 
With his return, Ruth also added a boost of much-needed depth to a defensive unit that had been relying primarily on only a handful of key players. 
“He’s made a big difference on our back end,” Jackson said. “Not just his presence, but minimizing minutes played by other guys, which has helped those guys be more effective in transition.” 
Lawson, though, said Ruth also brings his own unique skill set to the Irish blue line. 
“He brings a new dimension to our game,” Lawson said. “Obviously he’s a great physi­cal presence. He’s got a big body and he uses it to his advantage.” 
Ruth echoed his defensive partner, saying his injury won’t stop him from playing his own way. 
“I try to bring a tough physi­cal presence on the ice,” he said. “I want to get my nose dirty.” 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

half,” said s e n i o r d e f e n s e m a n Kyle Lawson,  “I try to bring a tough physical presence on the ice. I want to get  you’ll be sucking wind like it’s nothing.” Once he got  
Ruth’s defen­sive partner.  my nose dirty.”  back into game shape, Ruth said  
Ruth said after he went down, he  Teddy Ruth Junior defenseman  he didn’t have mental problems trusting his leg.  
talked to for­ “It  was  more  
mer teammate  getting back in  

and friend Erik Condra, who the groove, in the pace of suffered a season-ending leg things, getting my legs back injury in the 2008 CCHA under me,” Ruth said. Playoffs. Jackson said the plan was to 
“[Condra told me] it’s just ease Ruth back into the lineup, one of those things that you but not take away from his can’t really control,” Ruth hard-nosed style of play. said. “You’ve just got to work “We didn’t give him normal through it.” minutes right away, but now 
One of the hardest parts of he’s back to playing 20 min-the injury, Ruth said, was not utes a game,” Jackson said. being with the team, especially “It’s a matter of him playing to as the Irish struggled through his strengths, being physical a mixed bag of early season and being a force in our end.” results. As each game passes, 
Lawson, though, said Ruth, Lawson said the duo gets more an alternate captain, and more comfortable with 


Wednesday, December 2, 2009 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
COLIN HOFMAN, JAY WADE AND LAUREN ROSEMEYER 
THE MOBILE PARTY 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Wednesday, December 2, 2009 page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Harangody breaks two thousand points in ND victory 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
Senior Luke Harangody’s first basket of the night gave him 2,000 career points on a night in which he led the Irish to a 80-70 victory over the Idaho State Bengals. 
He is the seventh Irish player to achieve the feat, and became the first to scored 2,000 while also recording 1,000 rebounds. 
“It’s one thing I never thought would happen in my career,” Harangody said. “Never once did I think about that, and last year I never thought about that really. I just wanted to come in here as a freshman and do the small things. I’m just going to concen­trate on every game. I’m not wor­ried about the numbers that I’m putting up or the records I’m breaking. I’m just worried about the next game.” 
Irish coach Mike Brey agreed, saying he expected big things out of Harangody, but nothing quite this big. 
“The first time he put a jersey on, I said ‘we have somebody here who can put some numbers up,’” Brey said. “I knew he’d be really good for us. I didn’t know we were going to get this, but I knew we were going to need that motor and that toughness. But it is staggering, really. I use the phrase ‘machine-like,’ and you see it on game nights — this is practice too. These are the kind of things in practice too. He only knows one way.” 
After being named Big East Player of the Year after his soph­omore season and averaging 23 points and 12 rebounds per game last year, Harangody briefly con­sidered entering the NBA Draft before deciding to return to Notre Dame. 
“He came back for all the right reasons,” Brey said. “He loves being a senior, trying to lead his team. He’s still too hard on him­self sometimes. I have to get him to loosen up, but he’s come a long way in the department.” 
Harangody’s 27 points and 12 rebounds led the team, and he scored from every area of the floor. He shot 12-of-17 from the field and hit both of his 3-point attempts. Brey said his scoring game has evolved from where it was freshman year, and that has 
see BREY/page 17 


FOOTBALL 

Ianello insight 
Recruiting coordinator takesoverprogramreins 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 
When Tuesday morning rolled around, a new man was leading the Notre Dame football pro­gram. 
No, director of athletics Jack Swarbrick had not named a full-
time replacement for Charlie Weis, whose dismissal was announced Monday. But effective Tuesday, assistant head coach Rob Ianello was the man in charge, at least for the time being. 

“I have asked Rob Ianello to step in and take over the pro­gram during this period of time,” Swarbrick said at Monday’s press conference. “Rob is a skilled coach and has already played a central role in coordinating our recruiting, and I know he will provide us with the leadership we need going forward between this IAN GAVLICK/The Observer 
Interim head coach Rob Ianello speaks at a press conference Monday where Director of Athletics see IANELLOpage 18 Jack Swarbrick announced Ianello will lead the football team during a coaching search. 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame returns north 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
In a twist that makes sense only in sports, the Irish are happy to be back in South Bend after a trip to the Virgin Islands. 
No. 5 Notre Dame (6-0) will host Eastern Michigan (5-1) tonight at the Purcell Pavilion. 
“This time of the year it’s really great to be home,” Irish coach Muffett McGraw said. “We need to be playing at home. We’re going to need the energy of the crowd to get us going tomorrow. This is a tough week academical­ly. There’s a lot going on. Everybody’s got things to do. We haven’t gotten the rest we need­ed this week. It’s going to be a challenge for them, I think, to 
see EAGLES/page 18 

MEN’S SWIMMING 
Welshleads swimmers for 25 years 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
After embarking on his 25th season at Notre Dame and being named the president of the American Swimming Coaches Association, men’s swimming and diving coach Timothy Welsh has established this season as one to remem­ber. 
“What draws me to swim­ming is the commitment swim­mers make to be at their very best on a given day at a given time and then doing it,” Welsh said. “In our sport, the clock never has a bad day, so it is always clear and precisely measured when a person does his best.” 
Welsh never swam in high school or college, but began coaching to make money as a 
see WELSH/page 17 
HOCKEY 
Ruth works way back to ice from leg injury 
By SAM WERNER 
Associate Sports Editor 
As the Irish try to turn the corner and reestablish them­selves as a top-flight team in college hockey, they’ll be doing so with a familiar face on the blue line that hasn’t always been there this sea­son. 
After missing the first five weeks of the season because of a leg injury, junior defense-man Teddy Ruth returned for Notre Dame three weeks ago against Northern Michigan, and has taken the last six games to get readjusted as the Irish enter the meat of their CCHA schedule. 
“I mean my first game back, I was working some serious rust off,” Ruth said. “After that I feel like I’ve picked up things pretty fast.” 
After strong freshman and sophomore campaigns, Ruth was considered to be a stal­wart of the Irish backline heading into the season. But in the last week of training camp before the season open­er against Alabama-Huntsville, the junior went down with what Irish coach Jeff Jackson described as a “fluke injury.” 
“I was pretty disappointed,” Ruth said. “I did a lot this summer to prep myself for 
see RUTH/page 18 





