
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
University celebrates Founder's Day 
Mass, reception commemorate feas-t of Fr. Edward Sarin's namesake, St. Edward 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Even though the University of Notre Dame did not cancel classes for Founder's Day as it did in the past, the Oct. 13 cel­ebration of the feast of St. Edward, king and confessor, was still a festive occasion on campus Tuesday. 
The University celebrated Founder's Day with a Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and a reception in the Coleman-Morse Center. 
The feast day of St. Edward does not refer to Fr. Edward Sorin, founder of the University of Notre Dame, but to his namesake, an English king. 
"Fr. Sorin had a great devo­tion to St. Edward, after whom he was named," Fr. Richard Warner, director of Campus Ministry, said. "When the stu­dents wanted to celebrate Fr. Sorin's birthday, he said no, but he agreed to celebrate St. Edward's feast day." 
Sorin's devotion to St. Edward was legendary, Warner said. 
When the University wanted to name a dorm after Sorin, he insisted that it be named after St. Edward instead. After St. Edward's Hall was built, the University eventually named another dorm after its founder: 
see FOUNDER/page 4 




Profs meet with former Pres. Carter 

Dean of the College of Science Gregory Crawford, left, poses with former President Jimmy Carter and his wife Roselynn Carter. 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Two Notre Dame faculty members met with former President Jimmy Carter last week in Haiti to discuss a strategic plan for the eradica­tion of lymphatic filariasis from the country. 
Fr. Thomas Streit, Notre Dame biology professor and leader of the Haiti Program, and Gregory Crawford, dean of the College of Science, joined forces with the Carter Center in Atlanta, which committed to the eradication of diseases in 
see CARTER/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
NOdoctors explain danger of 
•
conCUSSions 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Associate News Editor 
Football players at both the college and professional levels have the reputation for being some of the toughest people in the world, able to endure pain that would reduce most people to tears while still performing at a high level. 
For years, when a football player was shaken up after a hard hit, he was sent right back into the game. Dallas Cowboys quarterback Troy Aikman was renowned for continually play­ing with post-concussion symp­toms. 
"In Troy Aikman's category, he had very well diagnosed concussions with memory loss, difficulty regaining memory and things like that, yet he contin­ued to play," Head University physician and President of the American College of Sports Medicine Dr. James Moriarty said. "It was estimated he was playing every game with some concussive symptoms." 
However, recently sports medicine has begun to focus more on the devastating effects repeat concussions can have on all athletes. 
"That's where sports medi­cine comes into play . . . I think 
see DOCTORS/page 6 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 



Official discusses financial aid status 
who lived here."
By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
Sophomore Kelsey Burke said
News Writer 
Walsh began the weekend by gathering everyone in a hospi­
Marking its tOOth anniversary, tality tent for pizza Friday. the Wild Women of Walsh Hall "After the pep rally on Friday hosted events including a hospi­all the girls in the dorm, alum­tality tent, dinner and a Mass ni, family and friends were that were attended by more invited to enjoy pizza in the hos­than 100 alumni as well as a pitality tent," she said. number of present students. Burke said she has helped 
"Our celebration is not only with planning of the festivities, this weekend, but the entire which started last spring, and year will be a celebration," sen­has continued throughout this ior Meg Mirshak said. "This is year. not only about remembering the "We sent out e-mails to alum-history of Walsh Hall, but cele­brating the men and women see AID/page 8 
SMC enrollmenthighestsince 1991 
Increase goal outlined in College's 2007 strategic plan 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY Saint Mary's Editor 

-lit-
Despite the economic down­turn of the past year, Saint Mary's College is seeing its high­est enrollment since 1991. 
Saint Marv's College
The College currently has 1,664 students enrolled, up from 
enrollment numbers
1,527 in 2006. 

Vice President for Enrollment Management Daniel Meyer said the increase can be attributed to 
2006 1,527 
two things. "For the past four years, we 

2007 1,604 
have had more than 425 stu­

2008 1,628
dents in each of the first-year classes," Meyer said. "Secondly, 

2009 1,664
this year we had higher than expected retention of first-year 
see SMC/page 6 BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 
INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Dooley Societypravides medical networks, lectures page 3 • Go green versus USC page 12 • Men's soccer page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Spice up Vie-wpoint 
Lately I've been hearing a lot of talk about the lack of effort put forth in the Viewpoint section by the student body. For all the haters out there, allow me to say that you are completely right. 
I mean c'mon people, are we real­ly expected to read viewpoints about the same topics week in and week out? As much as I care about hookups and issues of homo­sexuality and what not, no one's going Chris Masoud to get Buddie-sta­tus by reinventing Sports Wlre the wheel. Actually 

Editor 
no one will ever get Buddie status again, but we can at least strive for greatness. 
But let's get back to the matter at hand. People submitting views out there need to step their game up. I know you have to let the whole world know that premarital sex is against Catholic teaching, but you're not going to change people's opinions in a para­graph. So do us all a favor and save the theological debates for the class­room. 
Second, what's with all the alumni all of a sudden having a Dr. Phil moment? Did you just wake up one morning, eat your breakfast, and suddenly have a desire to get something off your chest. Guess what, you had your shot when you were here, but you missed out, so quit taking up space you old windbags. 
Third, enough talk about issues of integrity, or lack thereof. I'm in col­lege, not in grammar school. If I want­ed someone to tell me how to live my life, I'd pack my bags and transfer to BYU. The next time someone steals a piece of your pizza at Reekers, do something about. Just don't start cry­ing in our viewpoint. 
Finally, the ever-popular hookup topic. Probably the most-talked about issue in our sacred forum, hookups really don't catch my attention like they used to. First of all, it's not a real hookup. Second, people don't really care. Third, we all hate parietals to some extent. Unless of course you are one of those people concerned with shoving integrity down our throats, in which case you should probably be liv­ing with the Amish. 
So what should be gracing the cover of the only section of the Observer stu­dents might read? I can't speak for everybody, but this what I would like to see on a typical Tuesday morning: 
1) A solid argument of why Golden Grahams is the most underrated cereal of all time. 2) A complaint regarding the undeniable east coast bias on ESPN. 3) An absolute roast of Chipotle as the most overrated thing of all time (if you've ever been to Mo's, you will understand). 4) The complicated deci­sion process in making a taco in the Dining Hall. 
So before you write your next view­point about the ethics of one-sided printing, just think about those of us with bigger things on our minds. Because if you don't that's at least five seconds of my life I'm not getting back. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris Masoud at 
cmasoud@nd. edu 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, October 14, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK THE SCORE FOR SATURDAY'S GAME WILL BE? 

'"':~~.···

...... 
..... /: .· ·•.• 1' 
'..··. ·..... 't..• ·."."'""'''•· '. .
' II$ .)if ."o/• . I
• 
# .,
'+ "'~ 


Jade Rice Maida Kobaslija Stacey Sams Katie Urbanski Megan Hester Katie Mitchell 
sophomore sophomore junior sophomore sophomore sophomore Regina Regina Regina Regina Regina Regina 
"/ say we choke. "It will be the "/ have faith. "ND24, USC "We win! ND "We will win! USC 33, ND 14." fall ofTroy. ND ND 26, USC 24." 17. 27, usc 24." ND 21. USC 18." 44· usc 7· " 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

Students play a game of pick-up football on the quad and take advantage of a 
clear day after days of rain at Notre Dame. 
OFFBEAT 
Dog bangs against door, alerts family of fire 
BELTSVILLE, Md. -Prince George's County fire officials said a family's barking dog alerted them to a fire and enabled them to escape with­out injury. The fire was reported about 6 a.m. Tuesday in Beltsville. 
Fire Department spokesman Mark Brady said the dog, Monster, a Doberman, was outside the house when the fire broke out. 
Brady said Monster barked and jumped repeatedly on a rear sliding door. The noise awakened the family, who then heard the smoke alarm and fled the two-story, single family home. There were three adults and five children in the home. 
Cowboy arrested after horse wanders from bar 
WORLAND. Wyo. -A northwestern Wyoming man received a citation for letting his horse wander in Worland, but not before he complained to town law enforcement officials about the absence of a hitching post in front of the local saloon. William Schellinger was cited by Washakie County law enforcement officers for allowing his horse to run at large in this city along the Big Horn River. 
Schellinger was appar­ently in a bar early Sunday when his horse wandered away, prompting police to follow it to make sure it didn't cause an accident with a car. 
After being confronted by officers, Schellinger con­tended the city didn't have any hitching posts and told them they should spend their time arresting real criminals, not bothering 
cowboys with  wayward  
horses.  
Information  compiled  

from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 
!;: ~ 
1.&.1 
~ 




0,,,,,,,
0,,,,,,,
..1 
,,,,,,,
,,,,,,,
c( 
CJ 


0 
HIGH 45 HIGH 41 HIGH 48 HIGH 45
..... 
LOW 37 LOW 35 LOW 31 LOW 32 
IN BRIEF 
An exhibit titled "Fritz Scholder, Contemporary Artist: Influences" will be held in the Milly and Fritz Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery in the Suite Museum of Art today. The exhibit will open at 10 a.m. 
A workshop entitled "The Carpenter in the Union Hall: Teaching Labor & Religion" will be held today from 12 p.m. to 1 p.m. The new location is at the coffee house in Geddes Hall. 
Margrit Shildrick, a presti­gious European philosopher, and a gender and disability studies scholar, will give a lec­ture called "Critical Disability Studies: Challenging the Convention," today at 3 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room in LaFortune. 
Notre Dame Professor David Bennett will give a lectue enti­tled "Detecting Extrasolar Planets as Blemishes in Einstein's Lenses." The lec­ture will take place from 4 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland Science. 
American pianist Robert McDonald will give a solo per­formance at 7 p.m. at the Leighton Concert Hall in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $12 for adults, $8 for faculty or staff, $5 for seniors and students. 
Poet  and  critic  David  
Marriott,  will  read  at  the  
Hammes  Notre  Dame  

Bookstore from 7:30 p.m. to 9:30p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 47 HIGH 51 LOW 29 LOW 34 
Atlanta 62 I 54 Boston 51 I 31 Chicago 47 I 42 Denver 62 I 45 Houston 88 I 75 Los Angeles 70 I 60 Minneapolis 45 I 36 New York 53 I 41 Philadelphia 55 I 42 Phoenix 89 I 69 Seattle 59 I 48 St. Louis 47 I 42 Tampa 90 I 75 Washington 52 I 47 
Wednesday, October 14, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Collegetohost Parents Council 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College will be hosting members of the Parents Council this weekend for the organization's semi­annual fall meeting. 
The Parents Council group is a focus group made up of par­ents of Saint Mary's students that meets twice a year -fall and early spring. 
Parents Council members will tour the recently remod­eled Madeleva Hall, listen to a presentation given by Saint Mary's new vice president of Mission Sister Mary Louise Gude and hear about the new Cross Currents Advising Program. 
Each member will attend one committee meeting of Student Affairs, Enrollment Management or College Relations. After sitting in on the meeting, they will report back to the group with their observations. 
The group was established in 1966 to promote the College, spread the word about Saint Mary's to potential parents and assist with fundraising, Executive Assistant to the President Susan Dampeer said. 
"These purposes really haven't changed since the beginning," Dampeer said. "It is very helpful to the College in areas like admission and stu­dent affairs. We often use them as a focus group to help us understand from their point of view what it is that parents want for their daugh­ters." 
The impact of the Parents Council is all around campus, although students may not realize it. 
The Council has aided the College and students through their fund raising. The money that they raised has helped to pay for improved lighting and part of the construction of Dalloway's Cafe. 
Some funds have also been added to the scholarship fund endowment. 
Other outlets for the funds include the purchasing of exercise equipment for the Angela Athletic Facility, new patio furniture for the Dining Hall and a car used by stu­dents who volunteer in the community. 
The Council is made up of about four or five couples from each of the sophomore, junior and senior classes. The group of parents represents geographic and career diversi­ty, Dampeer said. 
The geographic diversity aspect is important because it helps with enrollment man­agement work, Dampeer said. 
The responsibilities of the Parents Council members are not reserved to their semi­annual meetings at the College. Members often host admission receptions in their homes and call parents of accepted students from their area. 
Several of the current mem­hers are Saint Mary's alum­nae, but it is not a require­ment. All members have stu­dents currently enrolled in Saint Mary's. 
Current Council chairs are Jim and Mary Beth Theiss, who have had two daughters attend Saint Mary's. 
Being a member of the council has its perks. 
Members spend time with College President Carol Ann Mooney at each semi-annual meeting and are kept well­informed of what is happening at the college. They are enti­tled to priority seating, park­ing and attendance of the brunch for the honorary degree recipients at Commencement, Dampeer said. 
Many council members con­tinue to participate in Saint Mary's through other means. Some go on to become mem­bers of the Board of Trustees. 
In Dampeer's opinion, the Parents Council effectively achieves their purpose to "enrich student life," as stated on their Web site. 
"I believe that they enrich student life by their work on the Student Affairs Committee to advise on issues that affect parents, by assisting us with our admission efforts, and by their fundraising efforts which always focus on something that their daughters will bene­fit from while they are stu­dents rather than a long term project," Dampeer said. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyOl@saintmarys.edu 

Dooley Society provides llledicalnetwork,lectures 
By MEGAN HEMLER News Writer 

For students considering a career as a medical professional, the Dr. Tom Dooley Society pro­vides a broad range of resources for education, networking and mentoring, founder and Notre Dame graduate Dr. Matthew Hubbard said. 
The organization was formed to bring Notre Dame alumni who have entered the medical and health professions and current stu­dents together, according to the Society's Web site. 
The Society works to promote continuing education, their mentor­ing program and service to others across the globe. 
In addition to the alumni net­work, Hubbard said the group fea­tures a lecture series, sponsoring medical experts from a variety of practices every home football Saturday at 11 a.m. in Jordan Hall of Science. 
"The lectures cover a range of issues, from service opportunities to medical school to medical ethics," Hubbard said. "The society is about 80 percent alumni, and the rest are students or professors who work here now who didn't gradu­ate from Notre Dame themselves." 
The Society also runs a mentor­ing program, which allows stu­dents to shadow Notre Dame alum­ni in the medical field during their holiday breaks at home when stu­dents typically have fewer respon­sibilities and interruptions. 
"Since the Dooley Society has members in all 50 states and over 1 ,000 physicians as members, a student who wants to learn more about medical practice can contact physicians in their hometown to learn more about what they do," Hubbard said. 
And students do not have to be set on medical school to contact the Society. 
"That student doesn't have to be going to medical school in their future. Perhaps they're interested in research, so they can contact a physician who might then be able to point them to someone they know who does medical research ... the Notre Dame network then helps to find the right person," Dr. Hubbard said. "Over the last three years, about 600 students have taken part in the program." 
This week's lecture is entitled "Challenges in Medical Education 
Professionalism and Accountability," featuring the CEO of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Dr. Thomas Nasca. 
"For medical students, this is like being a varsity athlete and being visited by the President of the NCAA," said Dr. Hubbard. "This is huge." 
Students can register to become a member online at the Dooley Society Web site, www.dooleysoci­ety.com. Students can also receive information regarding service opportunities with the Society. 
Contact Megan Hemler at mhemler@nd.edu 
~C~.,sDYIB VILLAG~I; &
~ 

; I ~­
, c:; 
~ c) i 
= 


A PRIME CAMPUS HOUSING COMMUNITY 



• StateoftheArt Brand NewHigh Line Fitness Center • Swimming Pool, Tennis Court,24 Hour Fitness Center, Basketball Court ··· ·
andCOmmunityOubHouse • ·FreeTanningBeds• FreeTanning Beds • FreeWasher and Dryerin each unit• Private Balconies and Free Parking • High Speed W'ueless Internet and Comcast• Swimming Pool, Sun Deck, Hot Tub and Basketball Court Premium Cable Included 
• On Site Management and 24/7 Maintenance • On Site Management and 24/7 Maintenance 
• On Site Security _Officer • On Site SecurityOfficer 

page 4 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 14, 2009 
associate director of Liturgy Founder's Day is also an 
he's a respected elder statesman, for Campus Ministry, said. opportunity to ask St. Edward 
he's a former Nobel Peace Prize During Sarin's lifetime, to bless the University his 


Founder 
Carter 

winner, so people li<>ten," he said. continued from page 1 Rocca said the revelry began namesake founded. 
continued from page 1 "And so President Carter talked the evening of Oct. 12. The "Today we ask blessings on 
about the plan, he mentioned 'Sorin College. University rang out the St. Pr. Jenkins, Fr. Sarin's succes­
many countries around the Notre Dame a couple of times Sarin's devotion is evident in Anthony bell in the Basilica, sor," Rocca said. "And on the 
world, Streit said. and he very warmly endorsed the name he gave to the other the largest bell in the United faculty, students and staff, on 
The Center has a special inter­the idea." university he founded in addi­States at the time, he said. the Holy Cross priests and on 
est in the eradication of lymphat­Streit has worked in Haiti with tion to Notre Dame: St. After Mass, Rocca said a stu­the ministry here at Notre 
ic filariasis and malaria from the this disease for 17 years. He Edward's University in Austin, dent honor guard escorted Dame, Saint Mary's College 
island of Hispaniola, which helped found the University's Texas. St. Edward's University Sorin from the Basilica to and St. Edward's University." 
includes Haiti and the Dominican Haiti Program in 1997 to conduct also celebrates St. Edward's Washington Hall, where a sym­In his homily, Haag empha­
Republic. research and work to treat the feast day on Oct. 13, although phony orchestra concert enter­sized the lessons that can be 
"They're not interested in just people of Haiti for lymphatic for them it is a patronal feast tained them. taken from the life of St. 
one country or two countries­filariasis, also kno\\<n as elephan­instead of Founder's Day. Students enacted a play Edward, King and Confessor. 
they're interested in the global tiasis. The Founder's Day festivities offering tributes to Sorin fol­"Who was this St. Edward?" 
picture," Streit said. "And "It's a worm parasite carried began with a Mass in the lowing the concert and the he said. "He became king of' 
President Carter thinks that thi<> by mosquitoes," Streit said. Basilica of the Sacred Heart at night finished with a fireworks England around age 40. lie 
island in the Caribbean so close One and a half million Haitians 
5:15 p.m. Tuesday. The Notre display. didn't seek kingship but spent 
to the United States is a great are affected by lymphatic filaria­Dame Folk choir sang, "Classes used to be cancelled his reign promoting peace, jus­
opportunity to make some real sis, but the eradication plan University President Fr. John on this day," Jenkins said tice and harmony, so that in a 
progress and to show the world involves the treatment of every Jenkins presided, seminarians before the Mass. very real way, King Edward 
that, yeah, we have the tools and person in the country, he said. of the Moreau Seminary served "We've kept some traditions ruled in the hearts of' those he 
there is the political will to get The treatment also provides a at the altar and at least 30 and not others," he said, draw­governed." 
this done." cure for othnr parasites in addi­Holy Cross priests attended. ing laughter from the crowd. IIis unusual title of confessor. 
Notre Dame's Haiti Program tion to elephantia<>b. Fr. Ralph Haag, rector of St. Although the celebration has Haag said, showed that he 
has worked with the Haitian gov­"We're up to half the popula­Edward's Hall, gave the homi­been scaled back over time, pointed others to something 
ernment and other partners to tion, so this year we'll treat 4.5 ly. Warner said the intention beyond himself. 
develop a plan for treatment and million people," he said. A reception for faculty and behind it remains the same. "lie confessnd to all that he 
eradication of the disease, whieh "Because people have other students followed mass in the "We hope to recapture the lived a life according to the 
Carter endorsed in his visit to worm parasites too, not just the Hammes Lounge of the old spirit of Founder's Day as a Gospel," llaag said. "lie con­
llaiti last week. one that causes elephantia<>is." Coleman-Morse Center. celebration with the University fessed that Jesus was his 
Carter also spoke at a press Streit said lymphatic filariasis L<> "Today is much simpler than community, especially the stu­king." 
conference in llaiti, which Streit also linked to povnrty, as it has Founder's Day celebrations dents," he said. ''I'm so glad 
said gave attention to both the already been eradicated from used to be when Father Sarin we have this occasion to come Contact Tess Civantos at 
di<>ease and em1rts to eradieato it. wealthier countries and only was alive," Fr. Peter Rocca, together and celebrate." tcivantos@nd.edu 
"People pay attention to him, thrives in areas of extreme poverty. 

"If you can eradicate poverty, you can eradicate this disnase," he said. "But the other side of that is if you can eradicate this disea<>n. you can help to eradieate the poverty." 
In the past 10 years, the pro­gram has receivPd two major grant<> from tho Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. totaling $10 million. These grants provided funding f(,r research about ele­phantiasis, which Streit said becomes quite complex when applied to the entire country of Haiti. 
"When we're in a laboratory here [at Notre Dame] ... you can control the problems that crop up," he said. "But an experiment that involves millions of humans is much harder to control. We needed to be there to judge what changes needed to be made, and there have bmm quite a few sig­nificant ones in the strategy." 
The worm inJections present in Haiti are known as neglected tropical diseases INTDs), Streit said. 
A new student group of cam­pus thL<> year, ND Fighting NTDs, aims to raise awareness about NTDs. The group grew out of Streit's biology cow-se in common human diseases. 
There are drugs available to cure each of the seven NTDs, and it only cost<> 50 cents to provide treatment to one person, fresh­man Emily Couron, a member of the group and a current student of Streit's, said. 
"We're dedicated to raising awareness first, and probably funds later do\\-11 the road about the seven most common neglect­ed tropical diseases," she said. "Most people have never heard of these diseases or how wide­spread they are or that there are already eures for them." 
Streit said he is optimistic that by raising awareness and contin­uing to treat people with NTDs, it will be possible to eradicate them. Lymphatic filariasis is just one of the diseases for which there is already enough research to complete it<> eradication. 
"Only one disease has ever been eradicated through the work of humans, so it's really hL<>­toric if we can do it again," he said. "And there are right now five diseases on the list to be eradicated, where we believe the science provides us with the tools to eradicate those diseases." 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 

------------------------, 





ORLD & NATION 
..-----------------------~ -~----­


Wednesday, October 14, 2009 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Factions still can't agree on president 
TEGUCIGALPA -Honduras' opposing fac­tions agreed Tuesday on nearly every point of a pact to end the political crisis except the cen­tral issue: ousted President Manuel Zelaya's return to the presidency. 
Negotiators said Zelaya's camp has prom­ised that if he returns to power, he will drop his efforts to change the Honduran constitu­tion, an initiative that led to his June 28 ouster. 
Juan Barahona, a Zelaya supporter who has led street protests against the coup, walked out of the talks Tuesday in protest of the agreement on the constitution. He vowed to continue fighting for a new constitution on his own even if Zelaya is restored to office. 
Shootout with al-Qaida kills three 
RIYADH -A shootout Tuesday between Saudi security forces and al-Qaida militants ­some of whom were disguised as women and wearing explosives belts -left two of the mili­tants and a soldier dead, the Interior Ministry said. 
Another soldier was lightly injured in the clash at a checkpoint in the south of the coun­try, near the border with Yemen, said ministry spokesman Brig. Gen. Mansour al-Turki. 
The shootout was the first known confronta­tion between authorities and al-Qaida since a suicide bomber injured Assistant Interior Minister Prince Mohammed bin Nayef in the western seaport of Jiddah on Aug. 27. The attacker was a member of the Yemen-based al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Miners heckle environmentalists 
PIKEVILLE, Ky. -Thousands of coal miners fearing the loss of jobs if mountaintop removal mining is curtailed or outlawed shouted down a handful of environmentalists at crowded public hearings Tuesday on the much-debated prac­tice. 
Many in Kentucky and West Virginia wore hardhats and T-shirts and waved signs pro­claiming the merits of coal. Environmentalists who have fought for decades to end the destructive form of mining that blasts away peaks to unearth coal showed up in small num­bers. 
Mining supporters in West Virginia heckled the few environmentalists who testified in favor of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers proposal to eliminate or at least suspend a streamlined per­mitting process for surface mines in six Appalachian states. Hearings were also being held in Tennessee and are set for later this week in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Virginia. 
UCLA student charged in stabbing 
LOS ANGELES -A UCLA student charged with slashing a classmate's neck during a chemistry lab brought a concealed, six-inch kitchen knife into the class and stabbed the woman five times, police said Tuesday. 
Damon Thompson, 20, pleaded not guilty to premeditated attempted murder for the unpro­voked attack on a female student standing next to him. 
Los Angeles police Detective Alan Behnke said authorities were unable to determine a motive or whether the victim had been chosen at random. The woman, whose name was not released, was in good condition after spending time in intensive care. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Veteran kills self in move theater 
MUNCIE, Ind. -The father of an Indiana National Guardsman who fatally shot himself inside a movie theater said Tuesday that the fam­ilies of service members returning home from war need to closely watch them for signs of stress. 
Spc. Jacob Sexton, 21, showed no signs of being suicidal before shooting himself in the head, the guardsman's father, Jeffrey Sexton of Farmland, said. 
"We just need to watch these boys and the girls coming back home. Something's just not right. Too much is happening," Jeffrey Sexton told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Health care bill clears committee 
Obama calls vote a 'critical milestone' in battle for reform, praises Snowe, Baucus 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Historic legislation to expand U.S. health care and control costs won its first Republican supporter Tuesday and cleared a key Senate hurdle, a double­barreled triumph that pro­pelled President Barack Obama's signature issue toward votes this fall in both houses of Congress. 
"When history calls, his­tory calls," said Maine Republican Olympia Snowe, whose declaration of sup­port ended weeks of sus­pense and provided the only drama of a 14-9 vote in the Senate Finance Committee. With her deci­sion, the 62-year-old law­maker bucked her own leadership on the most high-profile issue of the year in Congress, and gave the drive to remake health care at least a hint of the bipartisanship that Obama seeks. 
At the White House, Obama called the events "a critical milestone" toward remaking the nation's health care system. He praised Snowe as well as Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., chairman of the eommittee, and declared, "We are going to get this done." 
There were fresh chal­lenges. Within minutes of the vote, labor unions and large business organiza­tions both demanded ehanges in the bill, which was an attempt at a middle­of-the-road measure fash­ioned by the committee under Baucus' leadership. 
Still, nearly nine months after the president pledged in his Inaugural Address to tackle health care, legisla­tion to expand coverage to millions who lack it has now advanced further than President Bill Clinton's ill­fated effort more than a decade ago -or any other attempt in more than a generation. 
The next move in the Senate is up to Majority Leader Harry Reid, whose office said the full Senate would begin debate on the issue the week of Oct. 26. 


Nominally, Reid must first blend the bill that cleared during the day with a ver­sion that passed earlier in the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. But in reality, the majority leader -with the participation of the White House-has a virtu­al free hand in fashioning a measure to wind up gaining the 60 votes needed to overcome a threatened Republican filibuster. 
"The bottom line here is we need a final bill, a merged bill, that gets 60 votes," Baucus said. "Our goal is to pass health care reform not just talk about it." 
Reid's most politically sensitive decision revolves around proposals for the ical conditions, and for the federal government to sell first time limit their ability insurance in competition to charge higher premiums with private industry. The on the basis of age or family Senate bill approved in size. Expanded coverage eommittee during the day would be paid for by cutting omits the provision, while hundreds of billions of dol­the one passed earlier lars from future Medicare includes it and many House payments to health care Democrats support it as providers. Each house also well. envisions higher taxes -an 
In general, bills moving income tax surcharge on toward floor votes in both million-dollar wage-earners houses would require most in the case of the House, Americans to purchase and a new excise levy on insurance, provide federal insurance companies sell­subsidies to help those of ing high-cost policies in the lower incomes afford cover­case of the Senate Finance age and give small busi­Committee bill. nesses help in defraying the Apart from Snowe, cost of coverage for their Republicans on the commit­workers. tee cited higher taxes, a 
The measures would bar greater federal role in the insurance companies from insurance industry and denying coverage on the other concerns as they basis of pre-existing med-lined up to oppose the bill. 
CONGO 

More than 1,000 killed since January 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG -More than 1,000 civilians have been killed and nearly 900,000 displaced in eastern Congo by Rwandan Hutu militiamen and Congolese forces since January, according to humanitarian groups. 
A report released Tuesday by a coalition of 84 organizations said that many of the killings were carried out by Rwandan Hutu militiamen. Congolese government soldiers also have targeted civilians, the report said. 
A Congolese military operation has been aimed at forcing out the Rwandan Hutu militiamen, many of whom sought refuge in neighboring Congo after participating in Rwanda's 1994 genocide that killed more than 500,000 Tutsi and moderate Hutu. 

But the groups said Tuesday that the military operation, which is backed by a United Nations peacekeeping force, is not doing enough to protect civilians in the region. 
"The human rights and humanitari­an consequences of the current mili­tary operation are simply disastrous," said Marcel Stoessel of Oxfam. 
The U.N. peacekeeping mission in Congo, known as MONUC, has backed the Congolese army in eastern Congo since March following a joint Congolese and Rwandan operation against the Rwandan Hutu militiamen. 
Jean-Paul Dietrich, military spokesman for MONUC, said the U.N. is working hard to protect civilians in the region. 
"We are in conversations with the government, who knows our position on this subject -the officers who have committed these crimes cannot participate in the army and should be tried by the international or national judicial systems," he said. 
However, U.N. officials have said that they simply do not have enough boots on the ground to perform effec­tively in Congo, a country that is big­ger than Western Europe but with only 300 miles (500 kilometers) of paved roads. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 14, 2009 
ers," Moriarty said. "But what is of new data in, for example, when you return someone to said. "The younger you are, it 
the percentage of NFL players how many kids had symptoms competition. They have to go may be that there is increased
Doctors 
continued from page 1 
it is a good thing that we are much more sensitive to head injuries now then we were 10 or 20 years ago," University physi­cian Dr. Rich Jacobs said. "Certainly there is a recognition that certain sports put you at a higher risk for dramatic brain injuries or concussions." 
Jacobs said concussions are common in high impact sports played by many Notre Dame athletes, including soccer, lacrosse and football. Players are routinely checked for con­cussions on the sidelines, he said. 
"On the very first play of the game against Washington, we had a player who was blind­sided," he said. "When he got up he was confused enough to be going to the opposite sideline ... It was quite clear that he was not thinking clearly ... so he watched the rest of the game on the sideline." 
Jacobs said before an athlete is cleared to play, all of the symptoms of a concussion, such as nausea, dizziness, memory loss and headaches, should have faded. 
"Before that person is cleared to go back to play, all the symp­toms need to be resolved -no more headaches, no more nau­sea, no more feeling confused," he said. 
The increased interest in con­cussions has come after reports of retired college and profes­sional players reporting higher instances of dementia. According to a Sept. 29 New York Times article, a recent National Football League study found Alzheimer's disease or similar memory-related disor­ders appear at a rate of 19 times the normal rate in football players aged 30 through 49. 
"That's in NFL football play-in the population? NFL players are at risk because of what they do. You would expect in a high risk pool to have a higher con­cussion rate and dementia rate based upon their exposure." 
Moriarty said the real impact of the study will be on the new NFL collective bargaining agreement, but the rate of con­cussions among even high school football players has been high. 
"There's about 1.5 million kids that play football in high school. They think that the inci­dence of concussion per year is somewhere in between 10 and 20 percent," he said. "So you can do the math -there are a lot of concussions." 
Moriarty said the real danger with concussions is if they go untreated. If a player is put on a field after recently sustaining a concussion, he could be affected by second impact syndrome. 
According to an Aug. 25 New York Times report, at least four high school players have died after suffering head injuries on the field, most from second impact syndrome. 
Moriarty said interest in sec­ond impact syndrome rose after a high school player in Colorado died in the 1990s "from a rela­tively minor concussion." 
However, second impact syn­drome can sometimes be diffi­cult to prevent because concus­sions are so difficult to diag­nose. 
"It is very difficult to defme a concussion. It is actually a con­stellation of symptoms," Moriarty said. "There's a lot of efforts to identify a concussion . . . in people exhibiting unusual symptoms during a game where there is contact going on." 
Moriarty said the difficulty in diagnosing concussion has made gathering reliable data harder. 
"Those efforts resulted in a lot of concussions during games, which is not the same thing as how many kids have concussion during a game," he said. "We know what the denominator is in terms of how many people play football or soccer. What we don't know is the number that truly have concussions." 
Jacobs said those players who sustain one concussion some­times are at a greater risk for future, more serious concus­sions. 
"People that have multiple concussions oftentimes will have a lower threshold for trau­ma that causes their subsequent concussions," he said. "The other problem you see in a per­son that has had multiple con­cussions is they don't clear up." 
Moriarty said he knew of two studies that differed on whether those who sustain one concus­sion are at an elevated risk. 
"The fear has been that once you have a concussion, you're going to get more and more and more, and that is possible but it is by no means certain," he said. "If you continue to play high risk sports, then your chance of having a second concussion is pretty high, but that doesn't mean it comes from less and less trauma." 
Moriarty said one famous case he knew quite well was Florida quarterback Tim Tebow, who was knocked out of a game two weeks ago after sustaining a severe concussion. Tebow was examined by a former Notre Dame sports medicine fellow. 
Many fans saw Tebow vomit­ing on the sidelines before he was taken to the locker room, and some members of the sports media criticized Florida coach Urban Meyer's decision to allow him to play last Saturday. 
"I happen to know it was extremely well managed," Moriarty said. "There is very well laid out criteria in terms of through a series of steps and they have to meet each of the goals along the way." 

Moriarty said a "shotgun sta­tistic" was that it took 80 per­cent of people five to seven days to recover, 15 percent took two to three weeks and five to 10 percent of people took two to three months. 
"Everybody's different, so somebody might be able to take a hit better than someone else," Jacobs said. 
Moriarty said despite the vigi­lance of the sports medicine staff, some players that sustain concussions are never exam­ined. 
"Are there people that have probably had dings and minor concussions after a game that we don't know about? Yes absolutely there is," he said. 
Moreover, Moriarty stressed many things in everyday life put people at risk for concussions. 
"Is the numerator of the num­ber of people that have prob­lems long-term in [football] greater than the average popu­lation? Probably so, and by a small percentage," he said. "But, everybody has exposure to automobile accidents, ski trau­ma, skateboarding-we're at risk for a lot of things." 
But Moriarty said the impact a concussion or series of concus­sions could have can be serious. 
"It only takes one serious con­cussion to have long-term effects," he said. "It depends one what area of the brain and how much." 
In addition, Moriarty said col­lege and high school athletes could be at a much greater risk of developing long-term disor­ders due to concussions because of the brain is not fully devel­oped. 
"We don't really know if it is not more problematic in a younger person because the brain is still developing," he risk." 
Both Moriarty and Jacobs said they have had to tell Notre Dame athletes that their careers were over due to concussions. 
"We are very much interested in that athlete that has multiple concussions," Jacobs said. "And in fact, last year, one of our football players was not allowed to continue because he had multiple concussion over the years." 
Jacobs said the threats from concussions must be taken seri­ously because sometimes effects can be seen "even a year or two years down the road." 
Jacobs compared the effects with a child who falls out of a tree and is "just never the same again." He said he could imag­ine a Notre Dame graduate who suddenly finds themselves unable to focus or developing learning disorders. 
"Now, somebody graduates from Notre Dame ... and here's someone that was a good stu­dent and is on top of the world, but now they're having difficul­ty," he said. "It's not just sports, it's life." 
Jacobs said the game of foot­ball is constantly evolving, and improved equipment and some rule changes, such as the anti­spearing rule, have been effec­tive in decreasing the number of concussions. 
"There was an immediate improvement and lessening of head injuries [after the anti­spearing rule was instituted in the 1970s]," he said. 
Both Moriarty and Jacobs said there is still a lot to learn about the long-term effects of concus­sions. 
"We're just kind of scratching the surface trying to figure out all there is to know," Jacobs said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at 
jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
students to second-year stu­dents." 
College President Carol Ann Mooney named an enrollment increase as a goal in her 2007 strategic plan, written to strengthen diversity and stabi­lize the campus community financially. According to the plan, the College's operating budget is strained when the enrollment falls below 1,600 students. 
In a struggling economy, Saint Mary's families need more financial aid, which has resulted in an 11 percent increase of an average amount of $2,700 per student, accord­ing to a press release. In response to this, the College increases its institutional aid budget by around $2.6 million. 
"A Saint Mary's education prepares our graduates for life, not just that first job. A liberal arts education makes our graduates flexible, which is especially valuable when the economy sours," Mooney said. "At Saint Mary's, we have always worked with families to make our education affordable -but this year we have had to work even harder." 
Budget cuts and changes allow Saint Mary's to offer both new and returning students the assistance to pay for their education. 
"Everyone at the College has pulled together to make this increased aid happen. Our Financial Aid department has worked countless hours pro­cessing applications, all departments made budget cuts and members of the Board of Trustees and our Campaign Steering Committee estab­lished a fund to provide emer­gency assistance to returning students," Mooney said. "We know that this extra effort resulted in a stable enrollment even in these challenging times." 
Meyer said the College's resi­dence halls are currently at 97 percent occupancy, which this has both positive and negative consequences. 
"Basically an increase in enrollment means we are bet­ter utilizing available space on campus, as it was designed," Meyer said. "On the negative side, students have less indi­vidual choice in either the hall in which they reside or their room choice." 
Meyer said he estimates maximum enrollment for the College to range anywhere between 1,700 and 1,750 stu­dents. The administration is still working to continue to maintain the high enrollment numbers and possibly increase them. 
"We continue our work as a College to become more attrac­tive to minority students," Meyer said. "We've put a greater emphasis on improving the student experience, which has helped with our retention efforts." 


Meet the On-Site Director of the Dublin Program Kevin Whelan and the Assistant Director, Lisa Caulfield 
at a meeting for Returnees, SP'10 Participants and students interested in applying 
Thursday, October 15, 2009 6:00pm Room 131 DeBartolo Hall 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS

Wednesday, October 14, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,871.06 -14.74 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 

1,603 136 2,102 781,046,821 

NYSE S&P 500 1 073.19 -3.00 
NIKKEI ·(Tokyo}ilw'l£c'l'oiell~lf11 '!!'llil1'jjl1j'fll. 
FTSE 100 (London) 5,154.15 -56.02 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) +1.26 +0.06 4.83 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -0.20 -0.22 107.46 BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) -1.22 -0.22 17.81 INTEL CORPORATION (INTC) +0.44 +0.09 20.49 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -2.01 -0.070 3.31 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.00 0.06 30-YEAR BOND -1.77 -0.075 4.15 5-YEAR NOTE -3.71 -0.087 2.26 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.88 74.15 GOLD {$/Troy oz.) +7.50 1065.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.15 82.75 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 89.6850 EURO 1.4853 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0336 BRITISH POUND 1.5919 
IN BRIEF 
Ritter: Colorado is model for energy 
DENVER -Colorado Gov. Bill Ritter says his state's efforts to build a new energy economy can provide a model for addressing climate change and other challenges facing the country and world. 
Ritter spoke Tuesday on the last day of the Association for the Study of Peak Oil and Gas conference in Denver. Subscribers to the "peak oil" theory say the world is at or near its maxi­mum oil production and that demand will soon eclipse supply levels. 
Ritter says Colorado's promotion of clean energy technology has paid off in creation of jobs and one of the best research and develop­ment corridors in the country. He says renew­able energy sources as well as natural gas are part of the energy future. 
Bank of America to charge annual fees 
NEW YORK -Bank of America Corp. said Tuesday it will charge a limited number of its credit card customers annual fees ranging from $29 to $99 starting next year. 
"We're testing this to see what the feedback is. In terms of any plans going forward, we haven't made any decisions," said Betty Riess, a spokes­woman for Bank of America. She said the fee is being "tested" on 1 percent of its credit card accounts globally, but declined to give specific numbers. 
Bank of America, based in Charlotte, N.C., had 
80.2 million credit cards in circulation last year, making it the third-largest issuer of cards, according to CreditCards.com. Chase was first with 119.4 million cards, while Citi had 92 mil­lion. 
The Bank of America accounts that will be charged fees were selected based on "risk and profitability," Riess said. That means customers in good standing who never carried a balance ­and never incurred interest charges or late fees -could be among those getting notices. 
The notices of the new fee comes after Bank of America last week vowed not to hike interest rates on credit cards ahead of the sweeping new credit-card reforms that go into effect in February. That pledge came as Congress consid­ered moving up the effective date of the law to Dec. 1. Customers across the country have seen interest rates hiked and credit limits lowered since the law was signed in May. 
Stocks post moderate losses 
Investors cautious after Johnson & Johnson earnings below expectations 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Investors grew cautious Tuesday after quarterly sales at Johnson & Johnson fell short of expectations and an influen­tial analyst stirred worries that bank shares are over­heated. 
Most stocks posted mod­est losses, a day after major indexes finished at their best levels in a year. The Dow Jones industrial aver­age slipped 15 points, though the Nasdaq compos­ite index edged higher. 
Stocks could get a bounce Wednesday from Intel Corp., which posted earn­ings and sales after the clos­ing bell that topped expec­tations. The leading chip­maker also said business is improving. The stock rose 4 percent in after-hours trad­ing. 
The market could also get a lift from comments by CSX Corp. CEO Michael J. Ward, who said the worst of the recession "is likely behind us" as the major rail opera­tor reported quarterly results after the bell. Still looming ahead is the first earnings report from a major bank early Wednesday, JPMorgan Chase & Corp. 

J&J was the first in a as the Senate Finance com­sense at these levels if earn­strong rally. "I don't know if series of big companies to mittee approved a version ings can grow at a decent we have to pull back so report quarterly results this of the health care overhaul pace," said Jerry Wehman, much as take a break," she week, and a 5 percent drop bill. chief economist at said. in sales at the maker of There were some pockets OppenheimerFunds Inc. Investors have sent stocks health care products fanned of green on trading screens. "What we're hearing now is higher in recent days on concerns that companies An agreement by Cisco OK, but you don't get long­hopes that third-quarter have had to rely on cost-cut­Systems Inc., which makes term earnings growth out of earnings reports will signal ting to boost profits, as they computer networking gear, cost cutting." that the economy is improv­did in the first half of the to buy Starent Networks The Dow fell 14.7 4, or 0.2 ing. year. Investors are worried Corp. for $2.9 billion lifted percent, to 9,871.06. On Goldman Sachs, Citigroup that earnings will suffer if shares of technology com­Monday, it came within 69 Inc. and Bank of America sales don't improve. panies. points of the psychological Corp. also report this week. 
The market's unease The modest scale of the barrier of 10,000, a level Goldman fell $2.92, or 1.5 intensified after banking day's slide suggested that not seen in a year. percent, to $187.23 after analyst Meredith Whitney traders are afraid of walk­The Standard & Poor's the downgrade. lowered her rating on ing away from a market 500 index fell 3.00, or 0.3 Howard Ward, portfolio Goldman Sachs Group Inc. that has spent little time in percent, to 1,073.19, its first manager for GAMCO to "neutral" from "buy." reverse since bouncing off loss after six days of gains. Growth Fund in Rye, N.Y., Goldman's stock had risen 12-year lows seven months The Nasdaq rose 0.75, or said investors are likely to 34 percent since Whitney ago. less than 0.1 percent, to lock in some profits follow­upgraded the stock to "buy" Earnings reports are like­2,139.89. ing a rally that propelled the in mid-July. The bank ly to continue to shape the Linda Duessel, equity S&P 500 index up 58.6 per­reports results on Thursday. market's sentiment for the market strategist at cent since March and that 
Health care stocks stum­rest of this week. Federated Investors, said future gains will be more bled after J&J's report and "The market only makes stocks could drift after the modest. 

Intel's profits fall, but its stock jumps 
Associated Press ings, Intel's numbers will lend insight or 33 cents per share. Analysts 
into the strength or weakness of PC expected 28 cents per share, accord­
SAN FRANCISCO -Intel Corp.'s makers' demand for new chips. What ing to a poll by Thomson Reuters. third-quarter numbers show the com­the figures don't necessarily show, Last year, Intel's profit was $2.0 bil­pany is getting better at doing more though, is whether PC companies are lion, or 35 cents a share, in the year­with less in the toughest stretch for stocking up on chips to replenish low ago period. the personal computer industry in supplies, or whether they expect Sales were $9.4 billion, better than nearly a decade. especially brisk sales of computers; Wall Street's forecast of $9.0 billion. 
The world's No. 1 microprocessor That will begin to play out in the Intel had bumped up Wall Street's maker said Tuesday that profit and coming weeks, as the holiday season expectations twice. The first time was sales both fell 8 percent in the July­gets under way and a new edition of in August, when it raised its guid­September period, as the company Windows comes out Oct. 22. ance, and the second was last month, was hurt by sluggish demand from Intel's chief financial officer, Stacy when its CEO, Paul Otellini, predicted businesses and lower prices for its Smith, said demand from consumers that PC sales could defy predictions chips. Intel has insisted things are for PCs has been strong, but spending by growing in 2009, which would improving, however, and offered bet­by corporations remained weak. He avert the first sales decline from the ter-than-expected guidance for the said Intel doesn't expect business prior year since 2001. fourth quarter, sending its shares up spending on PCs to pick up again Still, the company's latest numbers 5 percent. until next year. show the recession continues to take 
As the first major technology com­Intel said after the market closed a toll, even as Intel gets more skillful pany to report third-quarter earn-_ that its net income was $1.9 billion, at wringing more out of its business. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, October 14, 2009 
Anti-mormon backlash like racism during 50s, 60s 
Associated Press 
The anti-Mormon backlash after California voters overturned gay marriage last fall is similar to the intimidation of Southern blacks during the civil rights movement, a high-ranking Mormon said Tuesday. 
Elder Dallin II. Oaks referred to gay marriage as an "alleged civil right" in an address at Brigham Young University-Idaho that church officials described as a significant commentary on cur­rent threats to religious freedom. 
Oaks suggested that atheists and others are seeking to intimi­date people of faith and silence their voices in the public square, according to his prepared remarks. 
"The extent and nature of reli­gious devotion in this nation is changing," said Oaks, a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, a church governing body. "The tide of public opinion in favor of religion is receding, and this probably portends public pressures for laws that will impinge on religious freedom." 
Oaks' address comes as gay­rights activists mount a legal challenge to Proposition 8, the ballot measure that overturned gay marriage in California. His comments about civil rights angered gay rights supporters who consider the struggle to enact same-sex marriage laws as a major civil rights cause. 
"Blacks were lynched and beat­en and denied the right to vote by their government," said Marc Solomon, marriage director for Equality California, which spear­headed the No on 8 campaign. "To compare that to criticism of Mormon leaders for encouraging people to give vast amounts of money to take away rights of a small minority group is illogical it conflicts with "the newly alleged 'civil right' of same-gen­der couples to enjoy the privi­leges of marriage." 

"Those who seek to change the foundation of marriage should not be allowed to pretend that those who defend the ancient order are trampling on civil rights," Oaks said. "The support­ers of Proposition 8 were exercis­ing their constitutional right to defend the institution of marriage 
Oaks said that while "aggres­sive intimidation" conneeted to Proposition 8 was primarily directed at religious people and symbols, "it was not anti-religious as such." He called the inddents "expressions of outrage against those who disagreed with the gay-rights position and had pre­vailed in a public contest." 

"As such, these incidents of 'violence and intimidation' are not so much anti-religious as anti-democratic," he said. "In their effect they are like well­known and widely condemned voter-intimidation of blacks in the South that produced corrective federal civil-rights legislation." 
The Mormon church has faced criticism for its past stances on race; it wasn't until 1978 that the church lifted a prohibition that denied full church membership to black men of African descent. 
In an interview Monday, Oaks said the Proposition 8 saga was one of several trends that moti­vated him to deliver the address, but it was "not the trigger." 
"There are civil rights involved in this -the right to speak your mind, to participate in the elec­tion," Oaks said. "But you don't have a civil right to win an elec­tion or retaliate against those who prevail." 
Fred Karger, founder of the gay rights group Californians Against Ilate, said Oaks' speech is part of a public relations offensive to "try to turn the tables on what has been a complete disaster for the Mormon church ... They are try­ing to be the victim here. They're not. They're the perpetrators." 

COR 
continued from page 1 
ni of the Hall saying we had 100 tickets to the game and to please join us," she said. "We were expecting over 100 alumni to attend." 
A major component that went into planning the cele­bration was collecting history and reflections from members of the Walsh Hall community, Mirshak said. 
"Walsh Hall was the first women's dorm, in 1972, which was the first year of co-educa­tion at the University," she said. 
Included in this weekends events and decorations were posters marking important events in Walsh Hall's history, a poster with pictures of notable alumni and a 20­minute documentary of past and current Walsh residents. 
"We put together a docu­mentary with ref1ections from both male and female alumni, Fr. Hesburgh, Fr. Blantz and current residents," Mirshak said. "They spoke of their and deeply ofl"ensive." 
Solomon said the Mormon church hierarchy has every right to speak out, "but in the public sphere, one should expect that people will disagree." 
In an interview Monday before the speech, Oaks said he did not consider it provocative to com­pare the treatment of Mormons in the election's aftermath to that of blacks in the civil rights era, and said he stands by the analo­gy. 
"It may be offensive to some­maybe because it hadn't occurred to them that they were putting themselves in the same category as people we deplore from that bygone era," said Oaks, a former Utah Supreme Court justice who clerked for Chief Justice Earl Warren at the U.S. Supreme Court. 
The Salt Lake City-based Mormon church, or The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, has shied from politics historically but was a key player in the pro-Proposition 8 coalition. The LDS First Presidency, its highest governing body, announced its support for Proposition 8 in a letter read at every California congregation, and individual Mormons heeded the church's calls to donate their money and time. 
After the measure prevailed, its opponents focused much of their ire on Mormons, organizing boy­cotts of businesses with LDS ties and protests at Mormon worship places. While some demonstra­tions were peaceful, in others church windows were shattered and slurs were hurled at the church's founding fathers. 
Some of the most pointed com­ments in Oaks' Tuesday address focus on Proposition 8. Oaks said the free exercise of religion is threatened by those who believe 
experiences, funny stories, current traditions, the spirit of the hall and the community." 
Mirshak said one of the rea­sons why they were able to compile the documentary was because the community of the dorm is so powerful. 
"Our community is so strong, who wouldn't want to be a part of it?" she said. 
Sophomore Kate Gerbich, whose mother also lived in Walsh, said community is one of her favorite parts of the dorm. 
"My favorite aspect of Walsh is its community and tradi­tion," she said. "With less girls you get to know all of them more." 
The celebration of the 1OOth anniversary of the residence hall will continue with various events though the year 
"Celebrating 100 years is so important, it shows just how important the dorm communi­ty is," Mirshak said. "Even with the new dorms that have been built, the old ones are continuing their legacy." 
Contact Ann-Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 


(crunchy or soft) 

Q Offer expires 11/19/09. Offer good only at participating TACO BELL® loc:ations in the greater South Bead, IN are~~. Offer exdudes Chido:en, Steak and Supreme versions. Please pr1118nt th~ coupon when ordering. Umh: One coupon per person per v~it. Not good with ony other offer. Void if copied, transferred,


Wednesday October 14, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page9 

Boarrilikelytotweakzero-toleranceru1e 
Boy, 6, will probably get reprieve after he brought camping utensil to school 
seven-member board would 

Associated Press 
consider a narrow change that 

NEWARK, Del. -A Delaware would affect only kindergart­first-grader suspended for ners and first-graders and allow bringing his favorite camping for three-to five-day suspen­utensil to school will likely get a sions rather than mandating reprieve, a school board mem­harsher punishments. ber said Tuesday. That change was recommend­
Zachary Christie, 6, was ed by the district discipline ordered to spend 45 days in his director, Sharon Denney, who district's alternative school for had been studying possible troublemakers after he brought changes to the code of conduct 
a  combina­ before the incident,  
tion folding  said  Wendy  
fork, knife and spoon to eat his lunch  "/ agree that they shouldn't bring  Lapham, a spokes­woman for the school district.  
at Downes Elementary School in Newark last  dangerous weapons to school but I don't think the punishment should  The school board is not bound by that recommended change, and more  
month.  be this bad."  changes are likely  
The knife is  in  the  future,  
banned as a dangerous instrument  Zachary Christie 6-year-old boy  Lapham said. "We're continuing to work towards  

under the Christina School District's zero-tolerance policy, which officials said required them to expel Zachary or send him to the equivalent of reform school regardless of his age or what he planned to do with the utensil. 
Hundreds of people were expected to attend a school board meeting Tuesday night at which member John Mackenzie said the policy would likely be amended. Any change would be retroactive to the beginning of the school year. 
"The policy, of course, needs some additional flexibility," Mackenzie told The Associated Press. "Politically, zero toler­ance is what everybody clamors for, until we start to realize how harsh zero tolerance can be." 
The school district announced Tuesday afternoon that the 
making a code of 
conduct that does allow us to have the flexibility that we need," Lapham said. 
Debbie Christie, Zachary's mother, and Lee Irving, her fiance, were among those gath­ered in a school multipurpose room for the board meeting, but they did not immediately speak to reporters. Zachary was not there. 
Christie sought to have her son's suspension reversed but was rebuffed last week by a dis­ciplinary committee. She set up a Web site to further his cause, prompting media coverage of the case. The site urged people to contact the district superin­tendent and school board mem­bers, and Mackenzie said he had been deluged by angry calls. 
Debbie Christie declined an interview request from The AP, writing in an e-mail that "the family is exhausted." 
Zachary said in an interview on CBS' "Early Show" that he understands weapons don't belong in school. 
"I agree that they shouldn't bring dangerous weapons to school but I don't think the pun­ishment should be this bad," Zachary said. "It's not fair." 
He is being home-schooled for now but said he sometimes misses his friends and wants to go back to Downes. 
State Democratic Rep. Terry Schooley sponsored a bill that gave districts more flexibility on punishments, but the law applies to expulsions, not sus­pensions. She was moved to act after a fifth-grader in the same school district was expelled last year for bringing a birthday cake and a serrated knife to cut it with. The child's expulsion was overturned. 
"A state law can't cover every little circumstance that happens in a school district," she said. 
Mackenzie said teachers and administrators have felt com­pelled to ignore the policy on occasion and he's surprised that didn't happen in Zachary's case. 
The American Psychological Association has argued that strict zero-tolerance rules hurt student achievement and can even make schools less safe. 
"When that common sense is missing, it sends a message of inconsistency to students, which actually creates a less safe envi­ronment," said Kenneth S. Trump, president of National School Safety and Security Services, a consulting firm. "People have to understand that assessing on a case-by-case basis doesn't automatically equate to being soft or unsafe." 
No Matter Where You Are... 

We offer a variety ofways for you 
to access your accounts and 
your money, including 
FREE Internet 
Home Banking, 
FREE Mobile Banking, and more than 32,000 Surcharge-Free 
ATMs nationwide. 
Plus, coming soon: 
FREE Text 
Message 
Banking. 
,~:274/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
··· '"" Independent of the University 

RUSSIA 
Foreign~ Clinton disagree about Iran 

Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Russia publicly pushed back Tuesday against 
U.S. efforts to threaten tough new sanctions if Iran fails to prove its nuclear program is peaceful, dealing an apparent setback to President Barack Obama's hopes for Moscow's backing for fresh penalties against Tehran. 
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Moscow believed such threats were "counterproductive" and that only negotiations should be pursued now. Just last month, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev had said that sanc­tions are rarely productive but "in some cases they are inevitable," a statement the 
U.S. hailed as a shift of opinion in Moscow. 
Lavrov, at a joint news con­ference Tuesday with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, said diploma­cy "still has chances to suc­ceed." 
"At the current stage, all forces should be thrown at supporting the negotiating process," Lavrov said. "Threats, sanctions and threats of pressure in the cur­rent situation, we are con­vinced, would be counterpro­ductive." 
Clinton, on her first visit to Moscow as secretary of state, had been hoping for an overt signal from Russia that it will consider new sanctions if Iran refuses to come clean about its nuclear intentions. 
Instead, Lavrov's comment exposed a tactical rift between the United States and Russia in which Washington is pushing diplomatic engagement backed by the threat of U.N. sanctions, while Moscow wants to discuss only negotiations. 
Russia has balked at sanc­tions. However, there had been indications that its opposition might be softening after Tehran last month disclosed a previously secret uranium enrichment site near the holy city of Qom. U.S.-Russian rela­tions also improved after Obama dropped Bush adminis­tration plans for a missile defense system based for east­ern Europe that Russia had fiercely opposed. 
Lavrov said Medvedev's statement about sanctions last month meant that penalties would be considered only when all political and diplo­matic efforts are exhausted. 
Three senior American offi­cials said later that Medvedev had reaffirmed his earlier statement in a private meeting with Clinton at his home out­side Moscow. 
They denied there was any "daylight" between the U.S. and Russian positions but could not explain Lavrov's "counterproductive" remark. They allowed that the com­ment had taken them aback but said that Medvedev had not repeated it. The officials spoke on condition of anonymi­ty to describe the private diplo­matic discussions. 
The U.S. believes it is critical to get tangible signs of support from Moscow for at least con­sidering new sanctions because the more united they are, the more likely pressure on Iran is to work. 
At the news conference, Clinton said she had not sought Moscow's support for actually imposing sanctions and did not believe it was time to do so. But she also said it was critical to let Iran know what will hap­pen should it continue to rebuff the nuclear demands. 
"We have always looked at the potential of sanctions in the event we are not successful and cannot assure ourselves and others that Iran has decid­ed not to pursue nuclear weapons," Clinton said. 
Iran has made pledges to take small steps that if fulfilled would serve as confidence­builders. Those include open­ing up a recently disclosed uranium enrichment plant to 
U.N. inspectors and sending existing stocks of low enriched uranium to Russia for repro­cessing. 

,--­
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, October 14, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF JennMetz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mart Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHi:no EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERALlNFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
· (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR·IN·CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kk.ing5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DESK 
acharnO1@sa.intmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNoue Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparunent editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be dirt:cted to Editor-in-Chiefjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'J'he Observer (USPS 599 24000) is published Monday rhtuugh Friday cxc~pt during exam and v:tc.arion perioW. A rubscrip£ion l:o The Observer is. S120 for one ~emit: year. $65 for one semester. 
The~ is publish~ at: POSTMASTER 024 Somh Dining Hall Send addtc:~S c.orrro:ioru w: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The: Observer Periodical poitagt: paid at None Dame: P.O. Boxn9 and addition~ mailing offico. 024 Sou£h. Dining Hall 
Nom: Damt, IN 46556-0779 

The Observer is a member of rlu: ~red Pres.s. All n:pmduction rights are r~rv~. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Madeline Buckley Alex Barker Sarah Mervosh Meaghan Veselik John Tierney Chris Masoud 
Graphics Viewpoint Blair Chemidlin Lianna Andrea Archer Brauweiler 
Scene Jordan Gamble 
Look in the mirror next chance you get. Then, look around the room and take note of everything you can. Think about how it got there. Have you ever stopped and wondered how your life got to this exact point? Andy Ziccarelli 
We have all heard about the Moment of butterfly effect. Inertia The premise is that a butterfly that flaps its wings in China can cause a tornado in America (or something similar to that). It has been studied by philosophy professors and mathematicians around the world. It was even the premise of a bad Ashton Kutcher movie. And regardless of its accuracy (or lack thereon, it raises an interesting dis­cussion. Life really is all about the lit­tle things. 
Sure, we have all had our life chang­ing moments: big, momentous occa­sions packed with a lot of pressure and emotion and the knowledge that our lives will never be the same, regardless of the outcome. For a lot of us, they came in the form or big sport­ing events, concerts or tough decisions about the future. However, for these, we knew full well going into those decisions what their effect was going to be. Sometimes, though, life throws us a curveball when we aren't looking for it. Things that would seem to be inconsequential actually have had a bigger impact on our lives then we could have ever imagined at the time. 
So I looked in the mirror and thought long and hard this weekend (25 hours on a bus to and from New York will do that to you) about how exactly I got to this point. Here is 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

What if? 
some or what I came up with: 
What if I had been placed in after­noon kindergarten instead of the morning class? I met my first friends in that morning class -the ones that I would spend my entire elementary school life with. Those friends you make will have a huge impact on how you turn out, as elementary schoolers are very impressionable. Who knows how I would have turned out if I was placed in a completely different set of kids'? I probably would have had radi­cally different interests. 
What if my parents decided not to take mn to college football games almost every fall Saturday growing up? It sounds shallow, maybe even lame, but there is no way that I can deny the effect that those games have had on mn. By traveling across the country following around Purdue (I know, I know), l developed a very deep -at times obsessive -passion for college football. I don't think it is a coincidence that I ended up at a col­lege that shares my obsessive passion for the game. 
What if there wasn't an open seat next to tho only other boy in my fifth­grade art class? I know what probably would have happened: I would have sat at a table of girls, not said a word and acted uncomfortable all semester (awkwardness is a tough habit to break). Fortunately for me, though, the seat was open. It didn't matter that I had never met the kid before. llis existence, and the fact that I got to sit next to him, was a huge relief to me. So, as the year wore on, we bond­ed over our art projects and eventual­ly became friendly toward each other. But then, before I even realized it, we 
WHAT Do You 
5P.Y ABOUT THE. BBC REPORT THAT sl--\OW5 WE ~~VE sEEN NO GLOBAL \rJA?.t'\ING OVER THE 
LI\S\ ELEVEN YE~RS? 
/ ~E~ ~~~ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A weapon is a device for making
your enemy change fiis mind.,. 
Lois McMaster Bujold 
U.S. author 
were hanging out all the time, whether it was at lunch, at the golf course or at the swimming pool over the summer. Two kids, forced into contact because of my fear of middle­school girls, grew to become best friends. And that friendship lasts to this day, encompassing years of mix tapes, inappropriate jokes and ideas that seemed like a good idea at the time. 
It's amazing how a random comput­er lottery can change your life forever. What if I had ended up in another dorm instead of Dillon? I would have different friends, a bigger room and maybe even a new dining hall to eat at. We all experience Notre Dame, and to a point we all have similar experi­ences. But it is pretty obvious that everyone's experience is shaped by the people and the setting which they are placed into. and it is startling to think that our experiences are simply based on something as impersonal as a random number generator. Where would we all be at if it had turned out differently? 
Obviously, I am missing some. But that is the point. You never know what is going to change your life, where it is going to come from or when it is going to happen. And it is impossible to predict. So keep that seat open next to you in lecture. Or don't. It may not seem like it, but it might just be biggest decision you make in your life. 
Andy Ziccarelli is a junior majoring in civil engineering. He can be reached at aziccare@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ am a kind ofparanoiacin reverse. I suspect people of plotting to make me happy. 
J.D. Salinger 
U.S. novelist 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINI
Wednesday, October 14, 2009 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Not a good policy for m_ilitary, vvhy here? 

If people can stand one more response to "Don't ask, don't tell" (Oct. 7) I would interject the following comment from life experi­ence: 
Mr. Mullen suggested that Notre Dame adopt the "don't ask, don't tell" policy from the military. He does not go on to explain if that policy is of a benefit to the military. 
I would offer that it is not a good policy at all. After almost a decade in uniform, I consider the policy to be one of the most shameful ever enacted. Having served in ground, sea and aviation units, I can attest that the homosexuals I served with were the bravest, most patriotic and competent service members I ever met. Asking them to conceal their sexual orientation in a way that heterosexuals do not have to is a knife in the back to the gay men and women who volunteer to protect America and who may ultimately die in that effort. 
If Notre Dame is to look to the policies of other organizations as Mr. Mullen suggests that they should, I recommend not looking to a policy that denies dignity to so many of our fighting men and women and inhibits recruitment of so many other talented indi­viduals. The "don't ask, don't tell" policy denigrates every gay American service member that his given his or her life in battle and should not be exported to any other organization. 
Joe Sullivan first year law student off campus Oct. 13 
All Hail the Hodag 
Dear people who make the mythical creatures bracket: . 

Seriously? You had the werewolf beating the hodag? There wasn't even a full moon. The last full moon was Oct. 4, prior to that matchup. Get your facts straight. Which means that the hodag, the incredibly cun­ning little beast that does in fact roam the woods of Northern Wisconsin, would've just been fighting some guy. And I'm pretty sure that some random dude would lose to a stealthy creature with claws and a spiky dinosaur tail, not to mention tusks. 
You guys obviously do not understand the majesty that is the hodag. Tell me, is there a radio station named after the werewolf? A festival? Do werewolves have commercials talking about how awesome they are? Let me think ... no. They don't. And what does? Oh, that's right, a hodag. And saying it shames the entire state of Wisconsin? Really? At least we Wisconsinites don't play Duck, Duck, Grey Duck. 
Brandi Allen junior Badin Hall Oct.11 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Who -we are 
Joseph McMahon has accused Notre Dame Right to Life's Cemetery ofthe Innocents of hav­ing little value because it is not intellectual ("Crossed out," Oct. 12). However, he fails to understand the purpose ofthe demonstration. Our main goal is not just "to convert pro­choicers on campus or ... to encourage them to consider a different point of view." Our goal is not just to prove people wrong. Our goal is not just to provide intellectual stimulation. Our goal is to stand up for Truth. 
During the civil rights movement, sit-ins, marches and protests were not staged in the name ofintellectual stimulation. They were staged in the name ofjustice. 
We did not set up the cemetery because it is intellectually stimulating. We set it up in the name ofjustice. We are not Sophists. We are Catholics. It is who we are. We are a voice for the voiceless. We are the voice of hope. We are the voice of truth. We speak out against abortion because of who we are. We are Catholic. We are pro-life. Mary does not stand on the Dome to make an intellectual point. She is there because ofwho we are. We are Notre Dame. We know what we stand for. 
Clearly, the demonstration did provide some intellectual stimulation. If it did not, McMahon would not have had anything to write about. 
Christopher Damian freshman Dillon Hall Oct. 12 

Go ahead a-nd rush 
This letter is a response to Kevin Sullivan's "Don't rush the field" (Oct. 12). I hope this does not come across as a vent; however, I don't know what annoys me more: alumni writing into The Observer (I realize Mr. Sullivan only graduated last year, but still) or fans being ignorant to the fact that we just haven't been a good football team lately. Ifyou have to make it an obvious point that we are a better team than another, it probably means that we are not or at least most people think we are not. The last time we beat USC was eight years ago under Bob Davie. Since then our dominating Irish are a whopping 0-7, we have been supreme on the offensive and defensive sides ofthe ball, getting outscored 284-95 (or 76-3 in the last two years of our Heisman hopeful's tenure). 
So I say that ifwe do beat the number six­ranked USC Trojans, who have already allowed a disappointing three touchdowns this year (one came in the final 30 seconds against Washington State) and have only rushed for a measly 1,040 yards as a team (don't worry, we will get them on the goal line this time around), we should defi­nitely bull rush the field. Heaven forbid we show our support for the guys who have looked more fired up to play every down for the gold helmets then ever since I have been here. 
Why not go down after the game and give Pete Carroll one of his patented high fives for not com­pletely annihilating us this year, or put your arm around a sweaty Jimmy or someone else on the team that just worked their butt off for your entertainment and belt out the Alma Mater like some ecstatic kid in the candy store? I know, it sounds way more fun and pompous to stay in the stands and golf clap after every touchdown and victory with our better team's performances, but I just think some ofus could get off of our high horses and try and have a good time for once. Go Irish! Destroy USC! 
Hugh McDermott junior Carroll Hall Oct.l2 
U-WIRE 

Grovv up, avoid PPS 
Peter Pan was my childhood hero. He could fly, 
hang out with fairies and fight pirates in Never­
Never Land; I could really see myself doing all of 
those things and tried to emulate him. 
Now that I am an adult, I know I should not act 
like Peter Pan. We must 
beware of Peter Pan 

Roy Long 
Syndrome. This is a disease 

Texas Tech 
which causes us to believe we 

The Daily 
can remain in childhood for­

Toreador
ever, like Peter Pan. It preys 
upon college kids who believe 

their lives parallel that of this hero of children's 
literature. Those afllicted with this syndrome 
believe Never-Never Land exists and it is called 
college. 

Manifestations of Peter Pan Syndrome include a 
refusal to grow up. It is fear ofthe next stage in 
life. Symptoms include a refusal to go on dates 
and spending hours upon end playing video 
games and eating pizza for every meal. In short, it 
is a refusal to take responsibility for life, resulting 
in years wasted in the pursuit of things which do 
not matter. 

There is a cure, but it requires more than just a 
pill or a workout regimen. First, we have to recog­
nize the problem and then we have to take that 
next step. Change can be scary. It is ironic we as a 
nation voted on the platform of change in iW08, 
but yet fear change in our own lives. Life occurs in 
phases, and we do not need to fear the next phase 
in life. Perhaps it is time to devote yourself more 
to your schooling, get married to your long-time 
boyfriend or girlfriend or get a job. Whatever that 
next step may be, taking responsibility is a good 
thing. It makes us more capable individuals and 
we find that happiness does come from success­
fully providing for those dependent on us. 
Simply, we need to grow up. Things which are · most important in life should not suffer from those things which are not. We need to put the pursuit 
of fun and entertainment on the bottom ofthe 
totem pole, below family, responsibility and per­sonal development. 
Those who join this ship ofresponsibility must beware of going overboard. It is important to keep outside responsibilities in moderation. In the sequel, "Hook," Peter Pan grows up and in a trip back to Never-Never Land realizes he has become a jerk. He placed himself and his pursuits ahead ofhis family. This is yet another manifestation of Peter Pan Syndrome: selfishness. It is still a priori­tization problem. 
In college students, this is manifested by being fulfilled in what they do, instead ofwho they are. For example, some actually believe they will be fulfilled through their vocation. While we should do those things we enjoy, work is not the purpose oflife. We need to understand that happiness stems from our identity, not our accomplishments. The shadow of our accomplishments should never overpower the reality of our own selves. 
So, my advice is simple: He-prioritize. To those of you who spend the bulk of your time pursuing your own happiness, look to others. You will find deeper fulfillment in relationships with others, in personal development (which is distinct from the pursuit offun) and in devoting yourself to your studies (which is one of the purposes of your time in college). 
To those who always seem "too busy" for these things, I advise you to simplifY your life. 
Oose the books, clock out ofwork and recon­nect with those who matter. Whether we relate more with Peter Pan as a young boy or as a man, it is time to grow up, to remember Never-Never Land does not exist, and to keep fun and responsi­bility in moderation to those things which matter most. 
This column first ran in the Sept. 29 edition of The Daily Toreador, the daily newspaper serving Texas Tech. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, October 14, 2009 


ferent. While there is no spon­sored program to give away 
You would have to live under a rock to not know the importance of this Saturday's football 
game against USC. Students can build up the excitement and energy that the football team and this campus needs. 
The most important thing everyone can do is participate in the "Green Out" at Saturday's game. Students 
Brandy Cerne

and alums are organizing efforts to inform 
Scene Writer 

all those attend­ing to wear kelly green attire. They are using NDNation.com message boards and various Facebook groups, such as "Sea of Green" and "GO HUSH! Kill Southern Cal!" At this point, there are more than 3,000 members of these groups. Notre Dame Stadium holds more than 80,000 people, so it is up to students to spread the word quickly. 
It is quite obvious that a "Sea of Green" is much more impressive and representative of Notre Dame than the "Sea of Flesh" that is created by wear­ing The Shirt. The Shirt's bland, beige color blends into the stands. We want to look united in our support of the team, both to opponents and on televi­sion. The easiest way to do this is for everyone to wear the same color. 
Green is the color of the Fighting Irish and stands out like beige never could. 
The significance of this game should be acknowledged by the student body, alumni and fans attending. Deviation from the standard beige of The Shirt will represent the recognition that we truly know this game is different from the norm. If you are one of 
. the few opposing the "Green Out," consider this: we have lost to USC in seven straight games, so we might as well try some­thing dif­

green shirts, there are plenty of options available for finding some­thing to wear. Like any typical day in October in South Bend, Saturday is predicted to be cold and cloudy. Fans can still wear a green shirt over their layers. i · If for some reason you do not 
; %-.~ 

own any green Notre Dame 
paraphernalia, there are 
inexpensive kelly green shirts 
available through Facebook, 
and there is always the 
bookstore. Any creative usc of green will surely be appreeiated and grab attention. 
The "Green Out" is the biggest event underway, but there arc many other initiatives taking place this ··., week. Some students are
t.tll 

using their 
print 
quotas to print 
cal 
posters stating "Kill Southern Cal" and "Beat SC" that they will post in their dorms and around campus. Another group of students from the Classics Department is attempting to build a Trojan horse. This was last done in the historic 1977 defeat of USC, when Notre Dame wore the famous green jerseys for the first time in 14 years. 
The Facebook groups previously mentioned are encouraging students to meet the USC players when they arrive Friday. The idea is to greet them with an intimidating silence, so they realize just how much they are not welcome here. One of' the best talked-about ideas is to have the entire stadium, or at least the student body, turn their backs in silence when USC runs out of the tunnel. The silence will speak much louder than boos, which oftentimes motivate the other team. 
On Friday night, there will be a spe­cial "Call to Arms" drum circle at the Main Building with guest appearances. A special pep rally is being worked on, as many students have not been satis­fied with the ones on Irish Green this year and feel that this game deserves a raucous pep rally. 
All of these plans are great ideas for getting the campus pumped up for Saturday's game. However, they can only be successful if everyone gets involved and is passionate about imple­menting them. Spread the word about the "Green Out," and give USC a Fighting Irish student body they can 
fear. 
Contact Brandy Cerne at 
bcerne 1 @nd. edu 
The views expressed in this 
column are those ofthe author 
and not necessarily those of 
The Observer. 

Observer Graphic I BLAIR CHEMIDLIN 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, October 14, 2009 page 13 
By KATHERINE GREENSPON Scene Writer 
Everyone is going green some way or another so why not wear it and express it through the newest clothing styles? Colors like black and white which have always been considered "safe" and timeless, but it is time for both men and women to embrace the color of our earth. 
With fall's arrival and winter around the corner, we can experiment with many clothes selections. Taking advantage of the vibrant and generous color of green would be an excellent start. Cold weather is something we all have become extremely familiar with and having green, blue and gold as our school colors is a blessing in disguise. Our own Fighting Irish leprechaun does an amazing job utilizing the colors in his wardrobe so you should have no problem with this. 
The Hammes Notre 
Dame Bookstore is ~ the mecca of shop­~ ping for everythingtIrish green, but i people heading to f department stores ~ are picking upi new must-haves ~ that are dis-:•' ~ played in every ,.. 
I 
store front. , W a I k i n g through the .; mall, man­~ nequins show ll off thef newest for­~ est green ~ coats and l sea foam tt g r e e n ~ accessories that are ~ overwhelming shoppers ~ and enticing them to ~purchase them. Playing :¢ with different shades of ~ this amazing color is ~, encouraged. You will 
, not only be looking fab­ulous with your new ensembles hut also exemplifying that irre­sistible Notre Dame spirit 
you go. The fall season is a perfect time 
to practice wearing the many variations that "green" has adopted. Jade, mint and olive greens are a fall fashion feature that can be incorporated in a stu­dent's wardrobe easily. Jade has become a popular jewelry accesso­
ry amongst the young women on campus. For men especially, those who are red-headed look amazing in strong emeralds and forest greens that make the eyes pop and the women do a double-take. 
Green is a universal color that can be dressed up and dressed down. Many shades of green have been the inspiration for several fashion designers including Betsey Johnson's , jewelry collection, V i v i e n n e Westwood's Anglomania coi­lection and Eva Daniell e 's Force of Nature collec­tion. Green is such a versa­tile color because you can mix and match so easy with it. Ralph Lauren a n d Tommy Hilfiger have also utilized sea foam greens and light pastel colors in men's button ups . and slacks that can be worm in a casual or formal setting. Make casual clothes dressy with a few easy additions like shoes or classic blaz­ers. Having a versatile 
ume stuaem, IS Key. 

Fall is also the season of ND football, which gives people the opportunity to dress out in their favorite and most creative displays of greens. Women who are on the search for new ways to wear green might want to look into fun new nail polish shades, scarves, 
unique earrings and cozy but still fashionable coats that at Forever 21 and TJ Maxx, where prices are afford­able. For the men in the crowd, Old Navy and H&M are also excellent stores to fmd great jackets, sweaters and scarves that incorporate the color green in patterns and main clothing pieces. 
Green is the color of nature and our land, so wearing it will exude sophisti-i 
cation and sensitivity everywhere you  ,  
go. Today wearing green is not only a  ~'  
fashion statement but a way to help  ~  

the earth. Numerous fashion lines ~ have surfaced this year that offer recy-i cled and organic clothing. Target t oilers this alternative, and numerous Web sites online give people new ideas ~ and options of clothing that can not ~ only benefit you but the earth as well. ~ One Web site in particular that does ~ this is eco-chick.com, which promotes ~ organic and eco-friendly makeup, ,, jeans, jewelry, hair appliances and ~ skin care. 
Fall and winter are cold seasons but fashionable ones. Don't let the gloomy 1 and dark skies effect the way you i express yourself through your clothes. • Whether you are a man or a woman ~ think of the cold weather as an excuse ~ to wear even more clothes! Layering 
1
and playing with what you already have in your closest is a great way to ~ ·start. You can look exceptional in orig­inal clothing and amazing footwear. ;~ This Saturday's game against USC is a perfect opportunity to flaunt your i green. Green is a powerful color and with the big green-out coming up 14i; there should be no excuses. Let the color green be your guide this fashion season when picking out everything ­from boots to beanies. 
Contact Katherine Greenspon at kgreenOl@saintmarys.edu 
':"Jo.JJ.:::-:-j. .:Tf:i:.'?f"~-.=<-~..P.i=!Rit".';E<.~'"'ol.('•--------·----"'"'-~~~~~:..~~':""-,.-:~,~-. ~--~~~-~!·~·~':-!':..."""-'·~""·"""·~ -:.-·.. .,·_·j. __1 
0 Green World-Gorillaz 
. Pretty Green -The Jam 
Blue in Green-Miles Davis 
· Green (Welcome to theWorld) -Sister Hazel 
Green -The DandyWarhols 
Green Fields, Golden Sands -Yusuf Islam 

!If Green Hearts -Ben Lee 
Notre Dame Victory March-The Band 
ofthe Fighting Irish 


.~-.:::·.· ... 
(A'"~ '4' the-voW.m.es and,. !d"the­mood-on,.ca.mf'~Mr: lvf~ i.t'vPIM'JIIf' -u:p .. ~1..ike-JOt-WVl£11, Son-Jov&, ~"I Gatta-Fecli..vv" l>y the-Sla..ck.­Eyed-P~ the.n.t et.dd,. ~ emer· cc.ld.r ~ tv-YOW"" ~ ( ov ~eel:/) p"lCo/U&t" ~ "k.eef> the­
~d ~ee..-von-everyone)l' ~ 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 


By ELIZABETH CHATEN 
Scene Writer 
This week's Dining Hall Dish features two of favorite pasta standbys, as well as a crowd-pleas­ing dessert, Simple and easy-to-make, these din­ing hall classics can easily be concocted in a few minutes. 
Chicken Parmesan 
Four hundred years ago, chefs in Bologna topped a breaded veal cutlet with ham and cheese. The dish quickly grew in popularity and spread to Parma, where they took away the ham and renamed the dish veal parmigiana. The din­ing hall features a modernized chicken version every so often, but I find that when Jines are long, making my own version of this dish is a quick way to get a homey, Italian dinner. 
1. Fill a plate bowl with your favorite pasta. 
2. 
Add a chicken breast (breaded or grilled). 

3. 
Cover with spaghetti sauce and mozzarella. 



4. Microwave till cheese is melted. Add flavor with a dash of Italian seasoning. Enjoy! 
Pasta Primavera Salad 

This Italian dish was highlighted on "Seinfeld" as the food Elaine sneezed on, causing the presi­dent of NBC to become sick. In honor of the reunion of the "Seinfeld" cast this year, I offer a simple dining hall version of this famous dish. Light and cheerful, this salad works fabulously as a healthy side dish, but I recommend adding a few chicken strips or some chickpeas in order to make it your entree. 
1. 
Fill a bowl half-way with your favorite pasta -tri-color rotini works best. 

2. 
Add your favorite salad mix-ins: cucumbers, broccoli, shredded carrots and red onions all work well. Don't be afraid to explore the Mexican station for some other add-ins, like diced toma­


toes and onions. 
3. Spoon Italian-dressing on top, to taste. For an extra kick, squeeze a lemon on top. 
Ice Cream Sandwich 
Around the globe, this dessert is universally coveted. Scotland calls it a 'slider,' England calls it an 'ice cream wafer,' and Australians simply call it the 'Giant Sandwich.' After you master the basics, try making the dessert your own by spreading peanut butter, whipped cream or even jelly on one of the cookies. 
1. 
Take two cookies, preferably chocolate chip -bonus points if they are freshly baked! 

2. 
Scoop your favorite ice cream on top of the bottom of a cookie. Place the base of the other cookie on top, and squish together. Frozen yogurt can be used, but due to its soft consistency, be ready for a bit of a mess! 


Contact Elizabeth Chaten at echatenl@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIED$ Wednesday, October 14, 2009 
NBA 

Rasheed and Rondo lead Celtics to win over Nets 
Brand scores 20 points in his best game of preseason; Wizards come back from behind to win over Pistons 
finished with nine points, did 
Associated Press 
not return after halftime Rajon Rondo played the because of a strained right game like it meant something. groin. Yi Jianlian left after the 
Rasheed Wallace scored 20 first half with a strained right points and Rondo added 18 shoulder. points and 13 assists to lead The Nets will play another the Boston Celtics to a 91-88 preseason game at the preseason victory over the Prudential Center, Oct. 21 New Jersey Nets on Tuesday against the New York Knicks . night in the first NBA game in The Nets play their regular­the Prudential Center. season games at the Izod 
While several of his more Center in East Rutherford. heralded teammates took the Scheduling the two exhibition night off or saw limited games at the Prudential action, Rondo went full tilt, Center fueled speculation that playing over 40 minutes. they were a test run of a 
"I wanted to play it out," he potential new home. said. "I was playing to win. Nets officials insist Newark It's still a game. You don't put is not the long-range answer, on the uniform to lose. People that a new arena in Brooklyn, might not take as seriously, I N.Y. will be their ultimate des­wanted to win regardless." tination. If the remaining 
And he was relentless, legal and financial obstacles sparking the Celtics to the are overcome, the Nets hope come-from-behind victory. to break ground on the 
"Rondo went out and Brooklyn arena later this year showed you why he is an elite with the goal of playing there point guard," Nets coach in 2011-12. Lawrence Frank said. The game drew 12,790 to "Exhibition, it doesn't matter. the Prudential Center, the He goes hard for 40 minutes. home of the NHL's New Jersey He takes over." Devils that opened in October 
Glen Davis scored 18 points 2007. for the Celtics (3-1). 
Courtney Lee had 21 points 76ers 93, Knicks 85 for the Nets (0-4). while Chris Elton Brand's shoulder Douglas-Roberts added 19 looked fine and his elbow was points and Brook Lopez had dangerous. 17 points and 10 rebounds. Brand scored 20 points in 
The Nets closed the first his best game of the presea­half on an 18-7 run to take a son, and the Philadelphia 60-47 lead. Lopez had six 76ers beat the New York points in the run while Devin Knicks on Tuesday night for Harris and Lee both had 5. their first 4-0 exhibition start 
The Celtics scored the final since 1978. seven points of the third quar­Brand shot 8 of 12 from the ter to cut New Jersey's lead to field and scored 10 points in 77-70. They took an 85-82 the third quarter, when the lead midway 76ers rebound­through the ed from an ugly fourth quarter second period to on a jumper by take the lead for 
Rondo. "Rondo went out and good. He also 
The Nets led had eight
showed you why he is 
by one when rebounds, fol­they turned the an elite point guard." lowing one of ball over on a them by swing­shot-clock vio­ing his elbows
Lawrence Frank 
lation with 42.7 and opening a
Nets coach
seconds cut that remaining. required four Eddie House hit stitches over 
an off-balance Knicks forward jumper for an 89-88 lead. The Jared Jeffries ' right eye. Nets best chance to take the "That's the way I played lead vanished when Douglas­when I'm healthy, and I'm 
Roberts was called for an healthy, so that's the way I'm offensive foul. going to play," Brand said. 
Paul Pierce, Kevin Garnett "Aggressive, get to the line, and Ray Allen all had the hit free throws and cause night off for the Celtics, while double-teams, and once the Marquis Daniels played only double-teams come, we've got the first half, sitting out the some prolific scorers, guys rest of the game with an upset that can put up points." stomach. Thaddeus Young led 
For the Nets, Harris, who Philadelphia with 26 points, 

11 coming in the fourth quar­ter to keep New York from getting close, while Andre Iguodala added 15 points and Louis Williams had 14. 
AI Harrington scored 18 points and Wilson Chandler had 16 for the Knicks (1-2), who shot 31 percent from the field, including going 7 for 41 from 3-point range (17 per­cent). Danilo Gallinari , their top perimeter threat whom coach Mike D'Antoni called the best shooter he's ever seen, went 1 for 6, falling to 4 of 19 in the preseason. 
"Defensively we were OK, just one of these days we've got to make some shots and we haven't done it yet," D'Antoni said. "They're think­ing too much about it, they just need to shoot them. I don't think it's a big deal, but obviously you can't shoot 30 percent or 7 for 41." 
The Knicks, who hit only 38 percent in a loss at Boston on Friday, were booed late in their first of three games at Madison Square Garden this week. 
"We didn't play well. They pay for the tickets. It's part of basketball," Jeffries said. 
Brand was limited to 29 

lead the Washington Wizards to a preseason victory over the Detroit Pistons on Tuesday night. 
Antawn Jamison added 15 points and 11 rebounds for the Wizards (2-2), who led 46­45 at halftime. Arenas scored 13 points in the third quarter as Washington opened a a 75­68 lead. 
Will Bynum scored 23 points for the Pistons (3-1). 
The NBA fined the Wizards organization $25,000 for not ensuring that its players fol­low the league's media inter­view rules. 
After the game, Arenas twice declined to comment on his fine. 
"Both teams played hard," he said in the locker room. "I feel fine." 
Ben Gordon gave the Pistons a 91-90 lead with 3:30 to play, but the Wizards, led by Mike Miller 's 3-pointer went on a 7-1 run over the next 2 min­utes to take control. Miller had a steal late in the game to secure the victorv. 
Wizards c(>ach Flip Saunders was facing the Pistons for the first time since being fired after leading them to the Eastern Conference finals, for three straight sea­sons. 
Richard Hamilton scored 10 of the Pistons' first 12 points in a first quarter that ended in a 27-27 tie. 
Pistons forward Tayshaun Prince sustained a cut under his right toe and did not play in the second half. 
games during a disappointing first season in Philadelphia that ended in February with right shoulder surgery. The 76ers were probably better 
without  him  
because  they  
played  an  

uptempo offense that made him a tough fit, but the 6-foot-9 forward could be an 

important piece in new coach Eddie Jordan's system. 
"He's making himself avail­able in the box, off the elbow, in the middle of the floor (and) at the free throw line," Jordan said. "lie's teaching me, too, how to coach him. It's a good thing. I want him to be aggressive so I know what's good for him." 
Brand made 4 of 5 shots in the third quarter, when the 76ors outscored the Knicks 32-20 to turn an eight-point halftime deficit into a 67-63 lead. New York never got clos­er in the fourth. 
The Knicks started slowly, getting two of their first three baskets on goaltending calls against Samuel Dalembert . 
They shot only 6 of 23 in the first quarter and trailed 22-15 before getting their transition game going in the second. 
Trailing by three, the Knicks outscored the 76ers 13-2 to take a 43-35 lead on 
''That·s the way I played when I'm healthy, and I'm healthy, so that•s the way I'm going to play." 
Elton Brand 76ers forward 
Harrington's follow slam with 0.3 sec­onds remain­ing. 
Brand nailed Jeffries above the right eye during that stretch. Jeffries said something to Brand about it before he was taken to the locker room to get the stitch­es. He returned 
to start the second half. 
Brand, who was surrounded by three players, said he was just trying to be careful after he had the ball stolen on a previous play. 
"I just wanted to clear some space," Brand said. "1 got stripped once or twice and it's like all right, I'm going to make sure I hold onto this rebound. Wasn't malicious, I didn't want to give anybody stitches, but I definitely want­ed to get them off me." 
Wizards 101, Pistons 98 
Gilbert Arenas, who was fined $25,000 by tho NBA ear­lier in the day for not making himself available to the media, scored 24 points to 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f,m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-appt., no experience needed, customer sales/service, 
574-273-3835 
FoR RENT 
andersonND rentals.com HOUSES 4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES OF NATURE AND SERENITY. 9 MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME. 
$t ,200 FOR WEEKEND. 
CALL GEORGIA PEACH BED AND BREAKFAST@ 269-357-6979 
2 BDRMAPT. CLOSE TO ND. UTILITIES NOT INCLUDED. CALL 313·382·0536 OR 574-386­3896. 54684 TWYCKENHAM. 
FoR SALE 
Ford 79 T·Bird, 45K miles, Orig. Owner, $8,000, 574·299·0925. 
TICKETS 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
Desperately need USC tix. Please help. Call574·277·1659. 

VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232· 0964 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. 
For more information. visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­lance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1·7819 or Ann Firth at 1·2685. For more information. visit NO's website at http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu 
Jim Halpert: Does that include 'that's what she said'? 
Michael Scott: Mmhh, yes. 
Jim Halpert: Wow that is really hard. You really think you can go all day long? Well, you always left me satisfied and smiling. 
Michael Scott: Mmmm ... THAT'S WHAT SHE SAID! 
Hello. My name is Dwight Schrute. If you are listening to this you are a lucky woman Michael has seduced. Ahh to be in your shoes. What's next. you're probably wondering. Don't be scared of your night in heaven ... ! 


OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER:s WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, October 14, 2009 page 15 
MLB NCAA Men's Soccer NSCAA 
Division I Rankings 
team previous 

1 Akron 1 
2 North Carolina 2 
3 UC Santa Barbara 7 
4 UCLA .4 
5 Wake Forest 6 
6 Harvard 8 
7 louisville 12 
8 Monmouth 10 
9 Maryland 11 
10 California 5 
11 Virginia 13 
12 South Florida 3 
13 Charlotte 1.5 
14 North Carolina State 18 
15 Brown 19 
16 Northwestern 21 
17 Connecticut RV 
18 Stanford 23 
19 Drake 22 
20 Dartmouth 24 
21 Duke 9 
22 Portland 17 
23 Indiana 14 
24 Penn State RV 
25 William & Mary NR 
NCAA Women's Soccer NSCAA Division I Rankings 
team previous 

1 Stanford 
1 2 North Carolina 2 3 UCLA 3 4 Portland 
4 

5 South Carolina 7 6 Wake Forest 11 7 NOTRE DAME Associated Press sitting down to debrief on the three-year contract worth notably Jonathan Sanchez's
8 

8 Boston College year. roughly $6 million expired no-hitter against San Diego
6 

9 Florida State 5 SAN FRANCISCO -Giants While the Giants missed the after the season ended. on July 10 and left-hander 10 Rutgers 10 general manager Brian playoffs for a sixth straight Bochy and Sabean believe Randy Johnson becoming the 11 Florida 14 Sabean and manager Bruce season, they were in the NL this rebuilding franchise is 24th pitcher in major league 12 UCF 16 Bochy have been planning for wild-card chase well into headed in the right direction history to win 300 games. 13 Maryland 19 the 2010 season for a while September and at 88-74 won to become a regular con­Sabean guided the wild­14 Texas A&M 17 now, even with their own con­16 more games than in 2008. tender again, but knew it card Giants to the 2002 World 15 Southern California 23 tract situations unresolved. 'The job of the Giants in the would take time with a young Series and NL West crowns in 16 Virginia Tech 12 Both knew their futures 2009 season was to return to roster. Neukom clearly saw 1997, 2000 and '03, their last 
17 LSU 
13 with the club would be han­winning baseball," Neukom the strides he'd hoped for year in the playoffs.
18 Purdue 
9 dled in time. Now, they know said on a conference call. with Bochyand Sabean lead­Sabean acknowledges he's 
19 Ohio State 
25 they're staying in San "The Giants had a winning ing the way. made his share of mistakes 
20 Santa Clara 
15 Francisco. season and then some. We "We're at a good place in a along the way, too.
21 California 21 
Bochy and Sabean each are not complacent about good time to use this season He has been criticized for
22 Indiana RV 
received two-year contract that. We have more work to as a springboard," Sabean signing players to big con­
23 Georgia 18 
extensions with a club option do because we want to get said. tracts such as pitcher Barry 
24 Arizona Stale 
20 

Tuesday after meeting with the San Francisco Giants to Bochy has been committed Zito's $126 million, seven­
25 BYU RV 
managing general partner be a franchise that's a con­to "changing the culture" year deal through 2013 with Bill Neukom. Both men tender year in and year out." around the Giants and said a club option for 2014, and a expected to return, but Sabean is the longest­when the season ended, $60 million, five-year contract Neukom had said he would tenured GM in baseball after "We're in a win mode now." for center fielder Aaron wait until the end of the sea­completing his 13th season There were significant Rowand done in December
NCAA Women's Volleyball 
son to make a decision after with San Francisco. Bochy's highlights this season, most 2007. 
AVCA Division I Coaches Poll 
IN BRIEF 
team points 

1 Penn State ··1493 LB Seau signs with Steelers DE Aaron Smith out Warriors' SF Jackson gives 2 Texas 1447 Patriots for 20th season with partial cuff tear up title of captain 3 Hawaii 1354 FOXBOROUGH, Mass. -Junior Seau PITTSBURGH -Pittsburgh Steelers OAKLAND, Calif. -"Captain Jack" is 4 Washington 1314 is back with the New England Patriots, defensive end Aaron Smith has a right no more. 5 Stanford 1260 coming out of retirement for a third shoulder injury that coach Mike Disgruntled Golden State star 6 Minnesota 1189 time to sign a contract Tuesday for a Tomlin said "potentially could be sig­Stephen Jackson asked to relinquish his 7 Nebraska 1059 20th season as an NFL linebacker. nificant." captain title during a meeting Tuesday 8 Kentucky 998 The signing of the 12-time Pro Bowl Smith, injured Sunday in Detroit, with Warriors coach Don Nelson and 9 Florida 975 player was announced by Versus, the was being evaluated Tuesday. The general manager Larry Riley. 10 Illinois 894 television network on which Seau has a Steelers are not yet certain how long "Don't try to dig into it, that's just how 
show. The Patriots have not announced one of their most reliable and produc­I feel," Jackson said. "I don't want to be the signing, which had been expected, tive players will be out, although they a role model. ... Being captain was although the team said he had a physi­apparently are anticipating an extend­overrated to me, anyway. You don't do cal and a workout last week. ed absence. anything but go out before the game "I hope at some point he will be" Smith's agent, Peter Schaffer, told and talk to the refs. I don't want to do
around the dial 
with the Patriots, club owner Robert The Associated Press in an e-mail that that, anyway." Kraft said at the NFL owners meeting he was awaiting a doctor's report. Nelson accepted Jackson's request in Boston. "He's a unique individual. I'd "Aaron is in great spirits and is look­and called it a "good thing" on the heels 
NCAA Football 

love to have him part of our team for ing forward to being healthy and play­of the emotional swingman's two-game 
Boise State at Tulsa 

as long as he wants to." ing this year," Schaffer said. However, suspension for an outburst directed at 8 p.m., ESPN Seau, 40, should have a better he did not say if that meant Smith the coach early in Friday's preseason chance of standing up to running backs might not return until the postseason. game against the Lakers in Los 
World Cup Qualifying Soccer than he did to a rodeo bull, which Smith has been with the Steelers (3-Angeles. knocked him down on one of the 2) longer than any player except wide "Well, the prodigal son has returned," 
Costa Rica at U.S. 

episodes of "Sports Jobs with Junior receiver Hines Ward and defensive Nelson said after Jackson rejoined the
7:30 p.m., ESPN2 

Seau." back Deshea Townsend. team for Tuesday's practice. 

-~--­

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 14, 2009 
MLB 
Yankees looking into a three-111an rotation 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The Yankees may go with a three-man rota­tion against the Los Angeles Angels in the AL champi­onship series. 
CC Sabathia is scheduled to start Friday night's opener, with A.J. Burnett and Andy Pettitte and New York's other two primary starters. The shortened rotation would allow manager Joe Girardi to keep Joba Chamberlain and Chad Gaudin in the bullpen. 
"In the 10-day forecast that I looked at, it looks like we have some rain in the fore­cast, so that can change things," Girardi said Tuesday during a conference call. "But we are definitely considering possibly going to a three-man rotation in this round, but we'll have to take a look at it and see how it goes." 
New York swept Minnesota in the opening round, and used Chamberlain as a setup man in all three games. He pitched 1 2-3 scoreless innings, allowing two hits, and combined with Phil Hughes and the rest of the bullpen to bolster the link between starters and closer Mariano Rivera. 
"That was pretty good with us in the first round," Girardi said. "If you go to a three-man rotation, obviously he stays in the bullpen. But if you go to a four-man rotation, then we have to weigh the benefits of either of putting Joba in the bullpen or putting Chad in the bullpen." 
Sabathia made his final three regular-season starts for Milwaukee on three days' rest in 2008, then started again on short rest in the playoffs against Philadelphia, lasted just 3 2-3 innings and lost. 
New York limited him to 230 innings during the regular season -down from 253 the previous year. He will start the opener against the Angels on eight days' rest, another factor the Yankees think will enable him to be effective in Game 4. 
"Not getting him to 250 innings during the regular season allows us to consider that," Girardi said. "We've told him, though, to concen­trate on Game 1. That's the most important game, and we'll go from there." 
Girardi hasn't decided whether to again have Jose Molina catch Burnett instead of Posada. To do that, Girardi said he probably would have to again carry Francisco Cervelli as a third catcher, allowing the team to take out Posada for a pinch runner late in a game. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Bryant apologizes to NCAA 
Associated Press 

OKLAHOMA CITY Oklahoma State receiver Dez Bryant claims he was worried he had done something wrong when he "panicked" and lied to the NCAA about a meeting with former NFL player Deion Sanders at a Texas athletics center. 
In his written apology to the NCAA, obtained Tuesday by The Associated Press fol­lowing an open records request, Bryant said that he is "very, very sorry" and "made a terrible mistake" when he lied to Marcus M. Wilson, the NCAA's assistant director of agent, gambling and amateurism activities, in July. 
"It was all me, there is no one else to blame," Bryant writes in his two-page apolo­gy. "I just panicked because I was scared and afraid that I was in some kind of trouble." 
The All-American was declared ineligible by Oklahoma State last week and was expected to go through a follow-up interview with the NCAA on Tuesday on Indianapolis. 
"I was scared because I was thinking, why would the NCAA talk to me unless they thought I had done something wrong, even though I did not think I had," Bryant writes in his letter. "I worried about the interview and was really nervous during the interview. 
"I kept thinking about how football has been my dream for years and how football was going to allow the chance to make a living and help my family. My mom, my son, brother and sister all depend on me and I felt that somehow I had let them down." 
Bryant's apology ac~ompa­nies Oklahoma State's formal reinstatement request to the NCAA, in which associate athletic director for compli­ance Scott Williams asks the NCAA to consider "unique circumstances" and hand down a lighter punishment for Bryant. 
Williams notes that "the threshold penalty for a viola­tion of this nature is 50 per­cent withholding," apparently referring to a standard pun­ishment that Bryant would be forced to miss half of the No. 15 Cowboys' games for his rules violation. 
Bryant writes that he denied to Wilson that he had met with Sanders at a Frisco, Texas, facility named Fieldhouse USA when that "was not the truth." He describes that he met with Sanders and the two "jogged up and down the field, but did not go through any drills, and he did not work me out." 
"When I was asked by Mr. Wilson about a work-out, I did not think that what I had done with Deion was a work­out," Bryant writes. "I did not break a sweat when I jogged with Deion. When my coaches have worked me out, like (strength) coach (Rob) Glass at OSU, I do many sprints, stairs and a lot of other drills, which leave me sweaty and tired. 
"What I did with Deion was nothing like that." 
Williams suggests that the NCAA could classify the meeting as preferential treat­ment, a secondary violation. 
Bryant also confirmed that he and his girlfriend went to Sanders' house for dinner but "I was not hungry, so I did not eat." 
Bryant asks that the NCAA reinstate him before the end of this season. Oklahoma State has played five of its 12 regular-season games, but Bryant has been held out of the last two because of the eligibility issues. 
"I am sorry that Mr. Wilson had to spend so much time on my case, and am also sorry that I have let my family, my teammates, my coaches, my OSU fans and the NCAA down," Bryant writes. "I real­ly love OSU and would like to have an opportunity to finish the season with OSU. I know I should be punished, I deserve it, but I hope that my punish­ment is not so bad that I do not get to play football again at OSU." 

LONDONPROG "MEET THE DIRECTOR" INFORMATION MEETING FOR FALL 2010 & SPRING 2011 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14,2009 127 HAYES HEALY 6:30PM SOPHOMORES FROM ALL COLLEGES ARE WELCOME!  

..--------------------------------------------------~~~~--­
Wednesday, October 14, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS 

NFL 
NFL keeping eye on Cable 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Oakland Raiders 
coach Tom Cable will be sub­
ject to NFL discipline if he is 
implicated by police in their 
investigation of an alleged 
assault on an assistant coach. 
Commissioner Roger Goodell 
said Tuesday that workplace 
violence is specifically identi­
fied in the league's personal 
conduct policy, and if Cable is 
charged with any crimes, he 
could be punished by the NFL. 
Goodell expects to receive a 
report "in the next couple 
weeks" on the Napa, Calif., 
police investigation, which is in 
the hands of the district attor­
ney. lie said the league is 
"allowing the criminal process 
to go forward for some period 
of time" before potentially get­
ting involved. 
"What are the facts?" Goodell 
asked at the fall owners meet­
ings. "There's a legal and crim­
inal process going on to deter­
mine what are the facts." 
But criminal charges need 
not be brought against Cable 
for the NFL to discipline him if ·he broke the league's conduct rules. Defensive assistant Randy Hanson has alleged that he was 
punched by Cable during train­ing camp and his jaw was bro­ken. Hanson also has claimed Cable threatened to kill him during the August attack. 
Cable has denied the allega­tions and has been advised to stay silent. 
Napa County DA Gary Lieberstein said his office con­tinues to review the case and does not expect any announce­ment on whether charges will be filed this week. 
The meetings began with Goodell delivering a report in which he emphasized the strong TV ratings the NFL has attracted through five weeks. Asked if the economic down­turn actually has helped the NFL's popularity, Goodell said it was "one of the theories because we continue to be available on free television and fans are able to gather around the TV set." 
But will they be able to do so in 2011? The owners opted out of the collective bargaining agreement with the players last year and if a new one is not reached, a labor stoppage is possible that year. 
Plus, next season would have no salary cap, a situation Goodell reiterated the owners are preparing for. 
The league and NFLPA have met several times, but no nego­tiations on major economic issues have taken place. 
"The union got a proposal two weeks ago," he said. "This is a long and thorough process and we're hoping to get a response in the next week or 
two.". Goodell, who missed one of the meetings with the NFLPA, 
said union leadership has not asked for teams to open their books during any negotiating sessions. 
"Are you kidding me?" 
NFLPA  spokesman  George  
Atallah  responded  to  The  
Associated Press.  

Goodell said the league is looking into claims by the San Francisco 49ers that the New York Jets tampered with the Niners' first-round draft pick, Michael Crabtree. The receiver signed with the 49ers earlier this month after a lengthy hold­out. 
The NFL also is investigating whether Browns rookie run­ning back James Davis was injured after a practice during which he was not wearing shoulder pads, but was hit by a player who was. 

Department oflrish Language and Literature 
Kevin Whelan 
''The Sporting Irish" 
16 October 2009 3:00p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Admission is free, and all are welcome. 
Contact~ 
Tara MacLeod Department ofIrish Language and Literature 574.631.7615 Tara.A.Madeod.15@nd.edu 
Please recycle The Observer. 
page 17 

NHL 
Strong second period gives Sabres a 6-2 vvin 
Associated Press 
Thomas Vanek scored twice and Derek Roy had three assists as part of a four-goal second period in leading the Buffalo Sabres to a 6-2 win over the Detroit Red Wings on Tuesday night. 
Paul Gaustad and Patrick Kaleta had a goal and assist each, and Drew Stafford and Clarke MacArthur also scored for the Sabres (3-0-1), who along with Dallas (1-0-3) are the only NHL teams without a regulation loss this season. 
Ryan Miller made 23 saves, including a blocker stop on Valtteri Filppula 's penalty shot late in the sec­ond period. He hasn't allowed more than two goals in his four ·starts this season. 
Filppula and Tomas Holmstrom scored for the Red Wings (2-3-0), who had a two-game winning streak snapped. Detroit hadn't lost to the Sabres in regulation in the previous six meetings (5-0-1). dating to 5-1 defeat at Buffalo on March 10, 2002. 
It wasn't all good news for the Sabres, though, because Vanek didn't return after his second goal put Buffalo ahead 5-1 at 
12:46 of the second period. Vanek was hurt when he crashed into the end boards after snapping in a loose puck at the right post. 
The Sabres only said that Vanek sustained an uniden­tified upper body injury. 
Buffalo never trailed and dominated play over the final 40 minutes, a stretch in which the Sabres outshot the Red Wings 29-14. They held an overall edge of 37­25. 
After the teams traded power-play goals in the first period, the Sabres scored four times on seven shots in a span of 6:43 to chase Chris Osgood , who allowed five goals on 22 shots. The four goals matched the number Buffalo had scored in its first three games this sea­son. 
Kaleta started the rally 
6:03 into the second when he followed up rookie defenseman Tyler Myers' end-to-end rush and con­verted the rebound after Osgood made the initial stop. Vanek scored 2 min­utes later when he his cen­tering pass banked in off the skate of Detroit defenseman Nicklas Lidstrom. 
Defensive miscues by the Red Wings led to the next two goals. MacArthur scored when he was left alone in front to backhand a puck between Osgood's legs. Vanek's second goal came off a Red Wings turnover in their end. 
James Howard replaced Osgood and made 14 saves, allowing only Gaustad to convert his own rebound in front early in the third period to put Buffalo ahead 
6-1. 
Miller, coming off a 1-0 
win at Nashville on Saturday, had his shutout string snapped at 92 min­utes, 53 seconds when Filppula stuffed in Niklas Kronwall 's centering pass. 
Blue Jackets 2, Flames 1 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Rick Nash stretched his streak of multipoint games to.four with a pair of assists 2:04 apart in the second period, and the Columbus Blue Jackets rallied for a victory over the Calgary Flames on Tuesday night. 
The Blue Jackets (4-1), off to the best start in fran­chise history, made the most of a two-man advan­tage when former Flames Anton Stralman and Kristian Huselius scored. 
Stralman netted his goal with a slap shot following a faceoff, and Huselius scored from in-close off a slick pass from Nash imme­diately after the second penalty expired. 
Curtis Glencross scored for Calgary, which has lost three straight after opening the season with four wins. 
It was the second defeat in two nights for the Flames, who blew a five­goal lead at Chicago on Monday and lost 6-5 in overtime. The Blackhawks' comeback victory tied for the largest in NHL history. 
The Blue Jackets , fresh off a successful western road trip in which they won two of three, got a solid outing from goalie Steve Mason after he was yanked in his last outing. 
Last season's Calder Trophy winner as the NHL's top rookie, finished with 22 saves, including gloving a slap shot from Eric Nystrom down low late in the game. He also covered the puck in heavy traffic around the crease with Flames captain Jarome Iginla digging away at with just over a minute left. 
Miikka Kiprusoff stopped 31 shots for the Flames, who seemed to tire as the game wore on. 
Glencross gave Calgary a 1-0 lead 16:19 into the game with his second goal of the season. Several play­ers overskated the puck at the top of the left circle before Rene Bourque spun and whipped a wrist shot that Glencross redirected past Mason. Bourque, who leads the Flames with nine points, has a four-game point streak. 
In the second period, after consecutive hooking penalties to Calgary defensemen Mark Giordano and Cory Sarich , the Blue Jackets broke through. 
Nash fed a pass to Derick Brassard off the faceoff and he slid the puck to Stralman. acquired from the Flames in September because of his ability to run the point. Be smoothly one­timed a shot from the top of the left circle past a screened Kiprusoff at 15:32 for his first goal. 
Huselius snapped a low shot from the right side of the goal area at 17:36 for his second. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 14, 2009 
NFL 
Manning battling sore knee 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Peyton Manning's left knee may be sore, but it doesn't appear to be a serious problem for the unde­feated Colts. 
One day after Manning led Indianapolis to a 31-9 victory at Tennessee, coach Jim Caldwell said he had not received a doc­tor's report regarding the knee, som~thing he would have expected had there been con­cerns. 
"We have doctors that are there all the time. They certain­ly have taken a look at it," Caldwell said Monday. 
Manning said he hurt the knee when Titans defensive end Kyle Vanden Bosch hit him late in the first half. Vanden Bosch was called for roughing the passer, a penalty that helped Indy (5-0) get out from its own 7-yard line as the Colts marched 93 yards for a touch­down to score with 17 seconds left in the half. 
The Titans (0-5) were called twice for roughing the passer on that series and afterward, Manning was asked if he had enticed the officials to make those calls. 
Manning denied it and said he actually had been hurt. 
"The first one, I've had that hit before to the knee," Manning said. "I don't know if that validates it or not but I've got to see the doctor after this and get treatment, if that makes it more valid, I guess. Obviously, when you plant that left leg, it's in a vulnerable position. I wear that brace for that reason alone, for protecting me there." 
It's the same knee Manning needed two surgeries on last summer to remove infections. He has since acknowledged that missing all of training camp and the preseason led to a slower­than-usual start in 2008. 
The pain didn't appear to inhibit Manning's performance at Tennessee. Ile returned in the second half, finished 36 of 44 for 309 yards with three touchdowns, one interception and extended his streak of con­secutive 300-yard games to five. 
The NFL record, shared by Steve Young, Kurt Warner and Hich Gannon, is six. 
Manning is not available to reporters until Wednesday, and he picked the right week if he needs extra recovery time. 
Indy has a bye this weekend and won't play again until Oct. 25 at St. Louis. They may be at full strength by then. 
Cornerback Kelvin Hayden said he could have played against the Titans before decid­ing to give his injured left ham­string a little more rest. !Iayden has missed tho last three games. 
Indy also hopes to have safety Bob Sanders, cornnrbaek Marlin Jackson and loft tackle Charlie Johnson baek in the lineup against the Hams. 
NFL 
NFL ovvners oppose Lin1baugh 
Associated Press 
BOSTON-Rush Limbaugh's bid to buy the St. Louis Rams ran into opposition within the NFL on Tuesday, when Colts owner Jim Irsay vowed to vote against him and commissioner Roger Goodell said the conser­vative commentator's "divi­sive" comments would not be tolerated from any NFL insid­er. 
"I, myself, couldn't even consider voting for him," lrsay said at an owners meetings. "When there are comments that have been made that are inappropriate, incendiary and 
"!, myself, couldn't 
insensitive ... our m e d i a 
words do damage, even consider voting reports are and it's something for him." outrageous that we don't and slander­need." ous." He also
Jim lmsay
Limbaugh has noted that long been a hero of Colts owner he would be conservatives and a minority villain to the left, owner in the thriving on his prospective place in the political spectrum group, adding he is from while establishing himself as Missouri and was saddened one of the most successful when the Cardinals left for broadcasters in history. But Arizona. the NFL tries to avoid contro­"I am happy to be involved versy, as Limbaugh learned in in an effort to keep the Rams 2003 when he was forced to in St. Louis. I love the National resign from ESPN's Sunday Football League, I eagerly dis­night football broadcast after cuss it and promote it and I saying of Philadelphia's greatly admire the men who Donovan McNabb: "I think play in the league. They are what we've had here is a little the best at what social concern in the NFL. The they do," he Absolutely not." 
According to transcripts posted on his Web site, in 2007 Limbaugh also said: "The NFL all too often looks like a game between the Bloods and the Crips without any weapons. There, I said it." That comment, and others, resurfaced this month when he revealed he is teaming with St. Louis Blues owner Dave Checketts to bid on the Rams. 
In an e-mail to The Associated Press, Limbaugh said he was forced to respond because "the totally made-up and fabricat­ed quotes attributed to me in recent 
season. "We can't speculate on potential owners because they have not brought up any names to put before owner­ship. It's out there, but with­out confirmation from the Rams or the Hosenbloom fami­ly, frankly, we don't know who the potential buyers are." 
Patriots owner Robert Kraft referred questions about Limbaugh to the commission­er. Texans owner Bob McNair said anyone who meets the "normal criteria" is a candi­date to own a team. 
"But our vetting process is very thorough," he said. 
Prominent blacks are already lining up against Limbaugh, including the Revs. Jesse Jackson and AI Sharpton. NFL Players Association head DeMaurice Smith, who is black, urged players to speak out against Limbaugh's bid, and several have already said they would not play for his team. 
Atlanta Falcons owner Arthur Blank echoed Goodell's comments and noted that the league and the union had a similar stance. Blank also said he wouldn't expeet Limbaugh, if the deal went through, to tone down his lucrative radio show to avoid running afoul of the league. 
"I find that highly unlikely," he said. 
Prospective owners must be 
approved by 
24 of the 
media has been very desirous wrote. "It is "But the fight is league's 32 that a black quarterback do regrettable that teams. Irsay
worth it to me. I love 
well." something I have is the first Goodell repeatedly distanced dreamed about the National Football owner who the league from Limbaugh's for years has League." has stated statements on Tuesday, calling taken this course. unequivocally them "polarizing comments But the fight is he would
Rush Limbaugh 
that we don't think reflect worth it to me. I rejeet accurately on the NFL or our love the National radio personality Limbaugh 
because he made a habit of "demonizing individuals." 
"I met Rush only once. lie seemed like a nice guy to me and all those kind of' things," lrsay said. "It's bigger than the NFL. As a nation, and as a world, we've got to wateh our words and our thoughts. They can do damage." 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Louisville players face charges after arrests 
Associated Press 
JEFFEHSONVILLE, Ind. ­University of Louisville for­ward Terrence Jennings expressed remorse on Tuesday following his arrest at a southern Indiana restau­rant over the weekend. 
Jennings and senior guard Jerry Smith were taken into custody by Jeffersonville police following a confronta­tion with off-duty ofl'icers at an alumni homecoming party early Sunday morning. Police have asked prosecutors to charge Jennings and Smith with resisting law enforce­ment, battery and disorderly conduct. 
"I want to first apologize to the police and to the organiz­ers of the event," Jennings said in a statement released by attorney Larry Wilder. "1 was minding my own business and unfortunately, was pro­voked by another person that I was unfamiliar with. That's where this all started." 
The police report said sever­al off-duty officers-all of whom were wearing clearly marked T-shirts with "Police" on both the front and back ­were working at the party when a light broke out inside. Officer Tom Mitchell found Jennings, a 6-foot-9 sopho­more from Sacramento, Calif., pushing and shoving people, according to his report. 
Jennings was eventually escorted outside and placed on the ground but "continued 

">~'"~&......,.... 
eat tresh 
to fight with officers; trying to get back to his feet and refus­ing to place his hands behind his back." 
Jennings said he wasn't aware at the time he was being confronted by off-duty police. 
Officers needed to strike Jennings twice with the Taser to subdue him. Police said Jennings, 20, also had a low level of alcohol in his system at the time of his arrest but is currently not facing any alco­hol-related charges. 
Police say Smith, 22, a 6­foot-2 senior from Wauwatosa, Wis., approached officers after Jennings was placed in handcuffs. Smith refused to comply with requests to back away and resisted when an officer attempted to restrain him, according to the report. 
"My teammate Jerry Smith was trying to help me from being physically harmed and I know he did not mean any disrespect either," Jennings said. 
Louisville coach Rick Pitino said Sunday the matter would be handled internally. The Cardinals begin practice for the 2009-10 season on Friday. 
Smith averaged 7.8 points and 2.1 rebounds and Jennings averaged 4.2 points and 2.9 rebounds for the Cardinals last season, and both players are expected to be major contributors for the defending Big East champi­ons. 
• SR 23 @Ironwood •sR 933 North "Downtown •speedway 
SR 2 3@ Edison "Indian Ridge Pia za 
players." 
"I have said many times before that we are all held to a higher standard here," the commissioner said. "I think divisive comments are not what the NFL is all about. I would not want to see those kind of comments from people who are in a responsible posi­tion within the NFL. No. 
Football League." 
The Rams updated the league on their potential sale on Tuesday but specific bidders were not dis­cussed, Goodell said. 
"They're not certain they are even sellers," New York Giants co-owner Steve Tisch said, adding that he expected a decision by the end of the 

..-------------------------------------------------------~~-­ ----------------,  
Wednesday, October 14, 2009  The Observer + SPORTS  page 19  
NCAA FOOTBALL  SOCCER  

'Ba111a clai111s NCAA 
U.S.' Davies injured in crash 
Associated Press 

wrongly vacated vvins 
Associated Press 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. -The University of Alabama con­tends the NCAA wrongly forced the football program to vacate 21 victories, describing it as an "unprecedented penalty" in cases involving abuse of free textbooks. 
The university, in a 14-page rebuttal released Tuesday, spelled out several reasons why the wins should be restored, including the NCAA committee on infraction's improper citing of Alabama's repeat offender status. 
The university said no other textbook case led to wins being vacated and that the committee's brief failed to mention even one textbook case to use for comparison. 
A call to an NCAA spokes­woman seeking comment was not immediately returned. 
The case that led to Alabama's penalty involved 201 athletes in 16 sports obtaining textbooks they weren't entitled to under their scholarships. The violators included 22 "intentional wrongdoers" -among them seven football players -who obtained more than $100 in supplies for other students. 
Alabama was placed on three-year probation in June, 
ARLINGTON, Va. -U.S. 
fined $43,900 and also forced 
soccer forward Charlie 
to vacate one postseason ten­
Davies underwent surgery 
nis victory and several indi­
on Tuesday afternoon after 
vidual and team records in 
being involved in a severe 
track and field. 
one-car accident on the 
Alabama's appeal said the 
George Washington 
penalty vacating football vic­
Parkway in Virginia during 
tories was "so excessive as to 
the early hours of Tuesday 
constitute an abuse of discre­
morning. 
tion." 
There was a fatality in the 
The rebuttal, dated Sept. 17 
accident, said U.S. Soccer 
but not made public until 
spokesman Neil Buethe. 
Tuesday, said the NCAA 
Davies, 23, who plays for 
described Alabama as having 
the French club Sochaux, 
an "abysmal" history of 
was reported in serious 
infractions and that the uni­
condition after a lengthy 
versity's poor record was "the 
surgery at Washington 
driving force behind" the 
Hospital Center, said hospi­
penalty vacating the football 
tal spokeswoman So Young 
victories. 
Pak. 
The university argued that 
Buethe initially said that 
the repeat violator status 
Davies' injuries were "pos­
shouldn't have been a factor 
sibly" career-threatening 
and that the committee cited 
but later clarified the 
it in a way that "ignores 
remark. 
bylaws and precedent 
"At this point, we just 
addressing repeat violator 
don't know the extent of the 
penalties." 
injuries, so we can't com­
According to Alabama, the 
ment on how this affects 
NCAA said the university's 
Charlie's future," Buethe 
"extensive recent history of 
said while Davies was in 
infractions cases is 
surgery. 
unmatched by any other 
Davies has four goals in 
member institution in the 
17 caps, and started on 
NCAA." Alabama said the 
Saturday when the U.S. won 
NCAA database includes at 
3-2 at Honduras to clinch 
least 27 Football Bowl 
its sixth straight World Cup 
Subdivision schools with as 
berth. He made his first 
many or more infractions 
U.S. appearance on June 2, 
cases. 
2007, as a substitute 


The Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management Invite Yotl to Attend 
Guest Speaker: 
Cathie Black 
President ofHearst Magazines and also the author ofthe book, 
"BASIC BLACK: The Essential Guide for Getting Ahead at FVork '* (and in Life)." 
Friday, October 16 12:15-12:45 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 
Write Sports. Email Matt at mgamber@nd.edu. 
•···· 

against China. Washington's NBC affiliate 
Born in Manchester, N.H., WRC. Davies played for Boston U.S. Park Police Sgt. College before turning pro David Schlosser said there in 2006. Davies' parents were three people in the were in route to car and that Roberta was Washington on Tuesday, not the driver. There were USSF spokesman Michael three people in the vehicle, Kammarman said. and Roberta and Davies 
"Obviously, as a team we were passengers, according were saddened to learn this to Schlosser and USSF offi­news," said U.S. head coach cials. Schlosser didn't iden­Bob Bradley in a statement tify the driver, who was also posted on the U.S. Soccer taken to Washington Web site. "Our thoughts and Hospital Center Medstar. 
prayers are  The  cause  of  
w  i  t  h  the  accident  
Charlie and his family,  "Our thoughts and  remained under investigation.  
as  well  as  prayers are with  The U.S. team  
the people in the car and the  Charlie and his family, as well as the people  is in Washington, D.C.. for its  
families of  in the car and the  final qualifier  
the others involved. As a team, we  families ofthe others involved."  on Wednesday night against Costa Rica.  
are  relying  The  players  
on  each  Bob Bradley  were  subject to  
other in a moment  U.S. head coach  a team curfew Monday night,  
that has for  Buethe  said,  

sure hit us all hard." and Davies apparently was 
One person died in the in violation. There was no accident, which took place mandatory team function at about 3:15 a.m. on until lunch on Tuesday, so Tuesday on the George officials were not aware of Washington Memorial the accident until 11 a.m., Parkway in Virginia. The just as Davies' surgery was 
U.S. Park Police identified about to begin. Bradley the fatality as Ashley J. informed the players of the Roberta, 22, of Phoenix, news as they gathered for Md., according to lunch. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Kentucky settles firing case with former coach 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. Former men's basketball coach Billy Gillispie and the University of Kentucky have settled their cases over his firing for nearly $3 million, the school said Tuesday. 
Gillispie was dismissed earlier this year and sued for breach of contract and fraud in May, seeking at least $6 million. The uni­versity countersued. 
He had not signed a con­tract during his two years coaching the Wildcats to a 40-27 record but was work­ing under a memorandum of understanding. He charged that he should have been paid $1.5 million per year for four of the five years left on the deal. 
In a statement, the uni­versity said the lawsuits were settled through medi­ation and that Gillispie would receive a little more than $2.98 million. Another $260,000 will be paid by the university for attorney's 
fees,  as  well  as  $5,600 in  
mediation fees.  
Gillispie's  attorney  

Demetrios Anaipakos of Houston, did not immedi­ately return a telephone message and e-mail from The Associated Press seek­ing comment. He told KRIV­TV in Houston that Gillispie was glad to have the case behind him. 
"Although the decision to sue was a difficult one for him, the fact a settlement was reached at a much higher dollar amount than Coach Gillispie was ever offered by the school vindi­cates his decision," Anaipakos said. 
The university's state­ment said it would have no further comment, but the agreement says the settle­ment is not an admission of liability but made only to avoid further expense, con­troversy and litigation. 
The lawsuit, which Gillispie filed in federal court in Dallas, also con­tended the school's athlet­ics association was in breach of contract and committed fraud because Kentucky never intended to honor the agreement. 
Gillispie came to Kentucky from Texas A&M, where he was 70-26 in three seasons with the Aggies and made the NCAA tournament twice, includ­ing the Sweet 16 in 2007. 
His last season with the Wildcats, they posted a 22­14 mark, tying for the sec­ond most losses in the pro­gram's history. 
After Gillispie's depar­ture, Kentucky hired ex­Memphis coach John Calipari, who signed an eight-year, $31.65 million deal. 

.....----------------~ ---~~~-----------­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 14, 2009 
NHL 
Tucker, Avs take down Leafs 
Associated Press 
TORONTO -Darcy Tucker had a goal and an assist against his former team to help the Colorado Avalanche beat the Toronto Maple Leafs 4-1 on Tuesday night. 
It was his first game in Toronto since having his contract bought out in the summer of 2008. He's still being paid $1 million per year by the Maple Leafs. 
Brett Clark, David Jones and John-Michael Liles had the other goals for Colorado (4-1-1). Craig Anderson made 30 stops to earn his fourth victory of the season. 
Francois Beauchemin scored the lone goal for the Leafs (0-5-1). 
Toronto coach Ron Wilson tried to shake up its team by benching forwards Matt Stajan and Niklas Hagman, 
who had accounted for five of the team's 12 goals prior to the game against Colorado. He also started third string goalie Joey MacDonald. It didn't work. 
"It has to be significant changes," Wilson explained before the game. "Sitting out guys who play on a fourth line who are giving a really good effort makes no sense to me." 
None of the changes helped much against the 
Avalanche,  one  of the  sur­ 
prise  teams  so  far in this  
young season.  

Toronto gave Colorado two power plays in the opening 10 minutes of the game and Clark capitalized on the sec­ond one. His point shot beat MacDonald while the Leafs goalie was being screened by Ian White -his own defenseman. 
Jones extended that lead to 2-0 just before the inter­mission. He made a pretty play on a solo rush to get around Tomas Kaberle before sliding the puck by MacDonald with 50.9 sec­onds left in the first period. 
Falling into an early hole has been a big problem for these Leafs, who have been outscored 10-2 in the open­ing period this season. 
Beauchemin briefly brought some life back to his team with his first goal in a Toronto uniform at 3:33 of the second period, but Tucker quickly nullified that by scoring his third goal of the season just over two minutes later. 
Colorado got its fourth goal as Liles saw his l'loating shot go off the head of defenseman Mike Komisarek and into the net at 9:36. 

NFL 
Bills pick up Draft, Johnson to bolster D 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. -The Bills have signed linebacker Chris Draft and safety Todd Johnson in a bid to improve their injury-riddled defense. 
Johnson's agent, Peter Schaffer, confirmed his client signed with Buffalo on Tuesday. Draft's signing was confirmed by a person famil­iar with the decision who spoke to The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity because the Bills had not announced it. 
The moves come a day after Buffalo announced lineback­ers Kawika Mitchell and Marcus Buggs both sustained season-ending injuries in a 6­3 loss to Cleveland on Sunday. 
Johnson was a fourth-round pick by Chicago in 2003 and played three years with the Bears before joining St. Louis in 2007. Draft is a 10-year veteran who had 38 tackles for the Rams last season. 
Buffalo's defense has been besieged by injuries since starting middle linebacker Paul Posluszny broke his fore­arm in the team's season­opening loss at New England. Since then they've lost cor­nerback Leodis McKelvin (broken leg) for the year, while safeties Bryan Scott (ankle) and Donte Whitner (thumb) have both missed the past two games. 
Whitner indicated he wants to return when the reeling Bills (1-4) travel to New York to play the Jets (3-2) on Sunday. 

NBA 
Anderson leads Magic over Hornets 
Associated Press 
WICHITA. Kan. -Ryan Anderson scored 22 points to help the Orlando Magic remain unbeaten in the pre­season with a 121-86 victo­ry over the New Orleans Hornets on Tuesday night. 
Mickael Pietrus had 19 points for Orlando (5-0) and teammate Vince Carter scored 13 of his 18 points in the first quarter in the game played at Wichita State's Koch Arena. 
David West led New Orleans (1-3) with 14 points while Chris Paul added 13. 
The Hornets cut into a 26­point halftime deficit as West scored six points in a 9-0 run that brought them within 69-52. 
That's when Anderson took over, hitting four 3­poin ters and scoring 16 
points in a 3 1/2 minute stretch that pushed the Magic's lead back to 87-57. 
Anderson, who came to the Magic in the trade that brought Carter from the New Jersey Nets, finished 6 of 9 from 3-point range. 
"That was fun," Anderson said. "It's always fun when you're feeling it, but when the guys got me open and the crowd got into it, it was great." 
The Magic shot 60.9 per­cent from the field and 63.3 percent from the 3-point line. Orlando's biggest lead was 104-64 on a 3 by Carter early in the fourth quarter. 
"People keep calling (Anderson) the other guy in the Vince Carter trade," Orlando coach Stan Van Gundy said, "and when I told you guys (in the media) he was a big part of the thing, you rolled your eyes. But he fits the way we play. Our team is built inside out, and you can't leave him open." 
Led by Carter going 4 of 6 from the 3-point line, Orlando took control of the game with its long-range shooting in the first half. The Magic were 9 of 13 on 3s in the first half, while New Orleans was 3 of 10. That helped Orlando twice build its lead to 30 points in 
the first half.  
"He's  getting  more  and  
more  comfortable,"  Van  
Gundy said of Carter.  

Paul scored four points, all from the free-throw line, in nearly 15 first-half min­utes. 
"We've got to get better defensively," New Orleans coach Byron Scott said. "Communication is the key." 


ATP 
Roddick injured at Shanghai event 
Associated Press 
SHANGHAI -Andy Roddick was forced to retire with left knee pain while leading Stanislas Wawrinka 4-3 Tuesday in the second round of the Shanghai Masters. 
Roddick, who limped into the post-match news confer­ence, quit after wasting a break point. 
"I just felt I pushed off, and then Michael (Novotny, ATP trainer) came on court and did some tests and advised that it probably wasn't worth the risk," Roddick said. 
Roddick is vying for one of the final three spots at the season-ending ATP World Tour Finals in London next month. But the sixth-ranked Roddick says he's more con­cerned about taking care of his health than qualifying for 
the eight-man event. 
"At this point, my concern is more along the lines of fig­uring out what we're dealing with," said Roddick, who has finished the last seven sea­sons ranked in the top 10. 
The 22nd-ranked Wawrinka will play 13th­seeded Radek Stepanek of the Czech Republic in the third round. 
"I hope he's going to be fine for the rest of the season," Wawrinka said of Roddick. "For sure, it's not the way you want it to go. But I'll take it and play the next match." 
Lleyton Hewitt defeated John Isner of the United States 6-2, 6-4. Hewitt saved both break points he faced. 
Hewitt said he's pleased with his progress since hip surgery in August 2008. 
"This year was always going to be tough purely because I didn't exactly know how the hip was going to bounce back," Hewitt said. "I've got better as the year has gone on. My hip's got a lot stronger and better, and that makes life a lot easier on the court." 
Sixth-seeded Nikolay Davydenko improved his per­fect record against Igor Kunitsyn of Russia to 5-0 after a 6-4, 6-2 win. Tenth­seeded Fernando Gonzalez of Chile beat Thomaz Bellucci of Brazil 6-3, 6-4. 
Fifteenth-seeded Tommy Haas beat Benjamin Becker 7-6 (5), 6-4 in an all-German match. 
In an all-French match, 11th-seeded Gael Monfils defeated Paul-Henri Mathieu 6-2, 6-2. 

···~.··.····""'L.' DV'E~ 'V'~'~~'LL' --. ~~~tm"·.,lll~ ... • .-.~~~CA PRI!-t:E CA!-t:PUS HOUSING Cor-t:t-t:UNJTY t'orrnerly Turtle Creek Apartrnent:.s  
Football GaD'IIe Day Parking ~djacent to StadiuD'II 5 20AIIDay Ent:er on St:at:e Road 23 Ent:rance (1 block wes1: of Eddy) 1/Va/k to Tailgate anc:l Game  
'17'1 0 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 Ph 574..272.8'124 Fax 574..27.2.8.204 www.clovervillageapartments.com  

Wednesday, October 14, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
AliDa 
continued from page 24 
the Belles still sit in the middle of the pack in the MIAA standings. Fortunately, they will get a chance to make up ground as the Scots hold a one-game lead on them. 
With the focus fully on Alma, the Belles will try to duplicate their performance in their previ­ous meeting when they defeated the Scots 3-0 on Sept. 12. While the final result points to a one­sided match, Saint Mary's needed a number of clutch rallies in tight­ly contested games to pull out the 
win. 
In the match, senior Lorna Slupczynski led all players with 21 kills. Also, the Belles held the Scots' current team-leader in kills to just four. 
Saint Mary's will need a similar performance on both ends of the court to beat Alma on the road where they have struggled to a 1­3 record in conference this sea­son. 
Looking ahead on the schedule, the Belles will get a six-day break before they attempt to avenge a 3-2 loss earlier in the year against No. 7 Hope College on Oct. 20. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichalski2@nd.edu 
EIIDhurst 
continued from page 24 
when senior Micki Redinger netted her third goal of the season, the ninth of her career. 
Senior goalkeeper Patty Duffy did all she could in net, recording eight saves on the afternoon, but Alma's 20 shots proved too much for the Saint Mary's defensive unit. 
Against Calvin last Tuesday, the Belles played one of their best defensive games of the season but again struggled on offense and failed to capitalize on their scoring chances. The Knights managed just one goal against a stifling Belles defense, but were able to keep the Saint Mary's offense off the board. 

When they have been able to produce goals, the Belles have looked to senior Katy Durkin, who has four on the season despite starting just two matches. Senior Colleen Ferguson has also been a big contributor, netting two goals on the season. Combined with Redinger, the veteran trio account for half of the Belles' goals this season. 
The visiting Bluejays (7-5, 2­2 CCIW) will present a tough challenge as they enter today's contest having won two of their last three games, their only loss coming in a close match against Illinois Wesleyan. Illinois Wesleyan overwhelmed the Belles 5-0 on Sept. 16. 
Looking ahead at the rest of conference play, the Belles have four MIAA matches remaining, three of which are on the road. Saint Mary's will travel to Albion Saturday before playing their last home match of the season against Hope on Oct. 20. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker 1 @nd.edu 
both offense and defense," Wuerdeman said.

Interhall 
The Babes were upset with a couple of pass interference

continued from page 24 
penalties that were called in rolled to a 21-0 victory. the red zone to give the 
McGlinn junior wide receiver Shamrocks first downs and a Kathleen Stanley was satisfied great chance to score, which with her team's performance. they ended up doing on a 20­
"We played a complete game yard quarterback run. tonight," Stanley said. Even though the Shamrocks "Offensive, defense, both sides were able to connect on a few of the ball were clicking." long plays offensively, the 
The lopsided score does not Breen-Phillips defense was indicate the able to hold intensity for them on a few the majority of possessions.
"We played a complete

the game. After "Our offense a series of back game tonight. has to be more and forth pos­Offensive, defense, both consistent," 
sessions Stanley said.
sides ofthe ball were

between the "We did get a Babes (0-3) clicking." few long pass­and the es, but we Shamrocks (2-Kathleen Stanley need to do it 1-1) that more regular­
Shamrock receiver 

resulted in ly." punts and Both teams turnovers on have seen downs, McGlinn finally broke drastic improvement in the through with 45 seconds last couple weeks. remaining in the first half with "We get better every time we a the first of two passing practice," Wuerdeman said. touchdowns on the night. "Our quarterback is getting a 
Despite the loss, Babes' sen­lot more used to the timing of ior captain Stephanie everything and scrambling Wuerdeman thought her team when she needs to." performed well and improved For McGlinn, those improve­over previous losses. ments were a marked rise in 
"We played really well on defensive intensity and better communication. 

"I was really impressed with our defense tonight," Stanley said. 
For the Babes, this loss is another in a long streak, but they will not let it get them down. 
"We just need to keep· our spirits up," Wuerdeman said.· "As long as we keep improving we know we can go out there and play to win." 
The win puts the Shamrocks in playoff consideration, but they have to keep the winning ways going. 
"This win will give us a lot of confidence," Stanley said. "But hopefully it won't make us complacent." 
Howard 27, Pasquerilla East 
6 
Howard kept its winning streak alive with a 27-6 win over Pasquerilla East under the lights Tuesday night. 
"We're super pumped that we've been doing really well in the regular season," senior captain Mary Jenkins said. "It really helps that we're really deep so we can put someone at almost any position." 
Sophomore Jenny Gassner was essential to the Ducks' offense, playing the unfamiliar position of wide receiver, yet scoring two touchdowns and several crucial first downs Meehan Lenzen scored the that brought her team within Pyros' only touchdown. scoring position. Howard uti­"It was a tough game,". sen­lized its dominant passing ior captain Liz Ruiz said. "Our game as junior Kaitlin defense wasn't really ready for Robinson tal-it but we've got lied a touch-a lot of time down in addi­between our tion to several "We have the mentality next game, so key plays hopefully we'll

on that offense wins 
the other end get a spot in
games but defense 
of the ball. the playoffs." The Howard wins championships. " Indeed, the defense was Pyros intend to impregnable, rehearse their
Mary Jenkins 

effectively defensive capa-
Ducks captain 

shutting down bilities to the Pyros' match their passing game, competitors in swarming to receivers and order to make the cut for play­pressuring the quarterback offs. into tallying two sacks by "We have a short defense yet Robinson and an interception we're fast but we're short so by junior captain Kayla when you're going against a Bishop. tall defense like Howard we 
"We have the mentality that have some issues. We don't let offense wins games but our fire die out," Ruiz said. defense wins championships," The Ducks will take on Jenkins said. "When we're Breen-Phillips after break in having rougher days on their pursuit of playoff glory. offense, defense always shows Pasquerilla East will chal­up." lenge McGlinn in hopes of 
The Pyros seemed poised to adding one to their win col­mount a comeback in the sec­umn. ond half as the agile Tara Pillai scrambled for numerous Contact Andrew Owens at gain and completed a 25-yard aowens2@nd.edu, Matthew pass that brought the team Robison at mrobison@nd.edu within a few yards of the goal and Kevin Baldwin at in the second half. Junior kbaldwi2@nd.edu 
Now Open 
and Accepting Employment Applications 

1251 Eddy Street I(574) 855-3201 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 14, 2009 
Hoosiers 
continued from page 24 
of the season, and marks the only time the Irish have been able to string together consecutive victo­ries. Although Notre Dame entered the season with a great deal of promise, a brutal schedule and losses on their defensive unit have kept the Irish from mounting any rhythm in the early going. 
However, since a 2-3-1 stretch in September, Notre Dame has racked up four wins in its last five matches. The defensive struggles also seemed to be resolved after allowing just one goal during that five-game stretch. 
After a 1-0 win at Michigan over the weekend, Indiana comes into tonight's matchup with an even 2-2 record on the road. 
The Irish have enjoyed a strong home field advantage at the new Alumni Stadium, posting a 4-2 home record, including a 5-0 blowout over Michigan to inaugu­rate the pitch. 
The Hoosiers have dominated the series history with a record of 23-5-1, but the Irish have had some success under Clark against their Bloomington rivals. Clark's squads are 4-5-0 against Indiana, but the Hoosiers have taken the last two meetings between the schools. 
"[Indiana] is obviously a team that's done well against us in recent years," Clark said. "They're obviously a challenge for us. This match always seems to come into play in terms of NCAA rankings and seedings. It may determine whether we play in Bloomington or we play at Alumni when it comes to the [NCAA] Tournament." 
Leading the Notre Dame charge will be senior forward Bright Dike, who last week was named to the Big East Weekly Honor Roll and the College Soccer News National Team of the Week. Dike leads all Big East players in goals (eight) and point<> (18). It was the second time this season Dike was named to the Big East Honor Roll. 

"Bright is doing very well but he is far from being a one man show," Clark said. "I feel that we are con­sistently dominating the second periods of every game and this is often due to the players who come on. [Senior! Tamba [Samba]. Uuniorl Steven Perry, [sophomore] Michael Rose, [sophomore] Brendan King, and [sophomore] Adam Mena have all been superb in this capacity." 
After taking on the Hoosiers, Notre Dame will continue Big East play when they host West VIrginia Saturday at 11:30 a.m. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 

Prestige 
continued from page 24 
tired swings, and he is usually fantastic at grinding and focusing. He just didn't have it." 
Fortner shot a 76 Tuesday to finish the tournament tied for 64th at 15-over-par. 
"I think part of it was the physical and emotional toll in getting the first win in a long time [last week at the Irish Classic]." Kubinski said. "And then getting on a plane Friday night, and not to make excus­es, but we landed at 3:30 
a.m. our 
"/ think part ofit was

time." he said. "I just Leading the the physical and think we were Irish in the a worn down
emotional toll in 

absence of the team, and if I
getting the first win in

seniors' usual had to do it stellar play a long time. " over again, I were two would like to sophomores, have a week
Jim Kubinski

Max· Scodro between our
Irish coach 

and Chris Walker. Both finished the tournament with rounds of even par Tuesday, as Scodro tied for 26th at five-over par and Walker finished tied for 42nd at nine strokes over par. 
"I thought they both did a great job," Kubinski said. "Both of them finished at even par today. Chris had 16 pars, one birdie, and one bogey. I Jonestly, if he had dropped a few more putts he really would have had a great round since he hit 14 greens in regula­tion." 
Scodro made a mistake on his 13th hole Tuesday, result­ing in a double bogey, which prevented him from dropping a possible two shots from his round. 
"The guys lost a little bit of their mental edge," Kubinski said. "You would think you would have a lot of confidence after a win, but I just didn't see a Jot of good things out there. I saw silly swings and things they don't normally do, and those things hurt us." 
Kubinski said he traces those mistakes to the quick turnaround after the emotion­al triumph last week. 
"We were too far behind too early, and were just a little 
hungover 
from that last 
tournament," 
tournament 
and then 
heading out to the west coast." 
Notre Dame will finally have a week off before heading to Greensboro, N.C. for the UNCG Bridgestone Collegiate Championship on Oct. 24. 
"I think we will put this behind us," Kubinski said. "It is nice to have a week off to catch up on rest, and Josh is headed to his home course in Greensboro for our next tour­nament, so he, and the team, should bounce back." 
Contact Douglas Farmer at Dfarmerl@nd.edu 
Live just east of the ND athletic fields, near every convenience-friends, fun, food and campus. 
Besides our great location, our furnished apartments and townhomes for· rent include: 
Private full bath in each bedroom 
NO Athletic
40" flat panel HDTV 
Floi~S 
FREE Internet & 200+ TV stations, including HBO 
Laundry room with washer & dryer in each unit 

FREE use of Irish Row Fitness Center TM 
Untbacker 
Tanning 

• 
Secured access to each building 
All this at one of the best rents in town. 

We're now leasing for the 2010-2011 school year. Irish Contact Karie Miller at kariem®lrishRowApartments.com ROW or 574.277.6666 for details. 
lrishRowApartments.com 574.277.6666
You can visit us at our leasing office at Vaness and Burdette 1855 Vaness Street SouU1 Bend. Indiana 46637
Streets or at www. lrishRowApartments.com. 







SIGN YOUR IRISH ROW OR IRISH CROSSINGS LEASE NOW FOR 2010-2011. 

Wednesday, October 14, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Asbanti, 29; Jerry Rice, 47; Marie Osmond, 50;
Across 32 Jack Horner line 66 Nabokov novel 

Chris Carter, 53 
Third-party ender 67 Recovered from account 35 Allen and Coen 
Happy Birthday: Yon can move mountaitts tltis year ifyou put your ntiud to it. Accom­68 University of 
plislunents will start at home and work their way into your personal and professional life.
7 Key of 39 Some touch Oregon city 
You'll be freed from some of the lintitations and fmstrations of the past. Changes witlt Beethoven's screens, for 69 Costa del older and younger people in your life will occur. Good times are ahead if yon stop procras­Seventh: Abbr. short tinating. Your nmnbers are 5. 16, 13. 28, .ll, 39,42
70 Beats by a hair 11 Smoked fare, for 40 Disagree 

ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): If a deal sounds too good, you need to do more homework.
71 Colossus locale 

short 43 Roman Cath. Don't let anyone put yon in a position that makes you tee! awkward about saying no_ Take 14 J. Lo title role title a safe route that will ensnre you can afford the things you want in the future. ***** 
15 Common 44 Get cozy Down 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): You won't win if yon decide to openly argue and yon maycommand in 45 O.R. figures Town line sign even damage your reputation with people witnessiltg events as they mtfold. Stubbonmess Basic will be your downfall. Don't try to manipulate to get your way. **
46 "It has come to abbr. programming my attention ... " 
2 Times Roman GEMINI (May 21-June 20): The people around you will appreciate you for your friend­16 Evian water 48 My _, Vietnam typeface feature ship and aU the help and inspiration you bri11g with you. Be prepared to let a friend lean oh you, offering reassurance, suggestions rutd support.****
17 Arborists 
50 Tuneful Ford 3 Find innocent 19 Tome and CANCER (June 21-July 22): A lazy attitude can lead to tJ:ouble. You may not feel much
56 Key that might 4 Big Cup maker 

Principe like contributing but. if you don't, you will end up being left out of sometlri11g that you
close a dialog 5 See 32-Down 

might enjoy or an opportmtity to make a little extra cash. Money is heading your way.
(equatorial land) box 
6 Become full, as *** 20 "Buenos !" 
57 Letters in a the moon 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't trust what's being said. Someone may not want to bm1 your
21 U.S.N. junior 
U.R.L. feelings or put up with your response should yon be told the tmt!L You'll have to find 011t
7 99 of "Get officer: Abbr. 

for yourself ru1d make a judgment call that will change the relationship you have with
58 Buffer areas, Smart," e.g. 

22 Summer hours someone.*** in Va. 8 'What hath God 
briefly 

VIRGO (Aug. 2..1-Sept. 22): You can't leave anything important up to someone else. You
24 Capitalism 60 Former cabinet wrought" sender 
will be disappointed in the way others do tltings and will probably be denied something 30 Cause for an A department 9 Court V.I.P.: you want badly if your contribution doesn't reflect your unique style. Being responsible is Puzzle by Richard Chisholm half the battle. ***
rating 62 Art show that Abbr. 
31 Margaret might feature 1 0 Nativity figure 33 Israel's Dayan 47 Think, 55 Slate or Salon LffiRA (Sept. 2..1-0et. 22): Take part and you will not be denied the position you want. Mitchell family "Fish Magic" 11 Roused to action Your ability to represent others ":ill help you gain popularity_ Tite more you involve your­
34 For the most colloquially 59 Jeanne d'Arc et 

self in the decision-making, the more control you v.~ll have for your future. **** 
12 Cote call part 

49 Roy G. Biv part al.: Abbr. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 Quid pro _ 36 Giggle bit SCORPIO (Oct. 2..l-Nov. 21): Not everyone will get what yon are trying to accomplish.
60 "Time 

51 Take three of Don't let others' lack of understrutding unnerve you or make you jump ittto somethil<g that's
37 1950s campaign 

B I N 0 S ~A I S A P A M A T 18 Compose, in a 
three, say not right for you. You crut't count on tltings unfolding the way yon imagine.*****
inits. 61 Hubbub

I N L A W 0 H N 0 M A X I way 38 Adolph Ochs's 52 Still-life pieces 63 Mid first-century SAGITTARRTS (Nov. 22-Dec. 211: You have to be ready to take ou anytlting and every-
C R E D p E N 23Uome<C;fol
1 'Y:' 0 

newspaper: -thing. Multitasking will be a must but the results will be spectacular. Adventure awaits you
S E R E N E p 0 T B E L L y Athenian year
53 12-Down 

Abbr. ifyou dive into every opportunity that comes your way. ***** ····~oUA~M~ S A B E-lawgiver 41 fats producer 64 Ballot marker 
CAPRICOR~ (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A contract someone is offering will not be in your best 
A N GIE IL. I A M riAL S A 25 Some shoes ... 
and a feature of 42 Go like heck 54 Fix firmly: Var. 65 "What the ... ?" interest. Don't feel pressured to get involved. Emotional matters concerning an elder in G A RIT-lll.RIS N A K E E A R this puzzle's your frunily will get blown out of proportion.leavil<g you responsible. *** A C EIO...NIU T R I FIA T E theme For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit 
card, 1-800-814-5554. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You won't wrutt to budge but stubbornness can Lead to 
S H E • ~~A L L F A N 26 Renews, say
S E B A Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday error. You will discover how much easier it is to get along with others ifyou compromise. P 0 N T E E S L • E A S Y A 2? _Park, N.J. Bei11g offensive will not solve tl1e problem --it will only bri11g more opposition. ***
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. -L I A M E G 0 28 Libertine of myth 
AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit 

PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Notlting will be too great or difficult for you to solve. Your
nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.

A C I 0 R ~ .J_.!:!. E T 0 I L E 29 Some hook astute observations coupled with a detailed approach w~ll bring results_ t>fuing business 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past 

M A G I C R I MIA N W A R shapes with pleasure will add to your success. *** 
puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).A S H E H E L P R E 0 I L 32 With 5-Down, Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. 
Birthday Bahy: You see the big picture and are v,~lling to fight for what you want. You are
J E T S 0 0 E S 0 A N C E ticket words Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. engaJ>,iug, creative and uniQue in vour approach. 

SCHAD & FREUDE 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 

JUMBLE 
JNJWIID~JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
GITUL 
j

I I [ (] 
©2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~r~"flxJ 
DIMFOY 
1 
rJ I (] 
NEW Jumble iPhone App go to: http1.tr.im.1umbleapp 
BLAURT j 
1 
ri [J 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

WHAT THE: SE:RGE=ANT GAVE: THE RE:CRUIT CONFINED TO BARRACKS. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer: 
"r I I I I]" rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: QUAKE KNOWN CANNED ACTUAL Answer: When the noisy pet duck woke up the farm boy, it was the -"QUACK" OF DAWN 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, October 14, 2009 
page 24 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Whirlw-inds blank Chicks, Shatnrocks shut out Babes 
By ANDREW OWENS, 
MATTHEW ROBISON and 
KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writers 
Sparked by the inspired play of freshman quarterback Victoria Moreno. Welsh Family defeated Lewis 26-0 to win its second game of the season. 
Moreno threw for three touchdowns and added anoth­er on the ground as the Whirlwinds offense clicked on all cylinders. 
"We're feeling good on offense," Moreno said. "Almost all our receivers caught a ball. It's a team effort. The offen­sive line gave great protec­tion." 
It was the final game of the season for the Whirlwinds, who finished with a 2-3 record. The finale was their best game of the year. 
"It's the first time we have had a really good offense and a solid defense at the same time," Moreno said. "We've been practicing a lot and we are connecting more." 
The Chicks, meanwhile, drop to 1-4 and will conclude their season with a game against McGlinn after break. They faced the Whirlwinds without their starting quarterback, who went down last week because of a broken finger. 
Freshman Connaught Blood, normally a receiver for the Chicks, started at quarter­back. The offense was able to move the ball at times but was not able to punch it in for a touchdown. 
"We played alright on offense," Blood said. "We could've played better. Sometimes we are clicking and sometimes we aren't. We have a good offense but tonight was just an off-night." 

The defense, despite allow­ing 26 points. had some bright spots to build on for their final game. Sophomore defensive lineman Lizzy Snow led the way with three sacks. 
"I know I can rely on my linebackers, so I know I can go straight for the quarterback," Snow said. "I had some help from the other linemen and we were able to get around the offensive line quickly and go around the outside." 
After allowing 20 first-half points, the defense made some adjustments and held the 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Hoosier showdown 
Irish host Indiana for latest match in rivalry 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 

Sports Writer 
For a team that seems to have finally found its feet. the Irish will have no time to cool their heels. 
Just returned from two victories on the road, No. 22 Notre Dame (7-4-1, 5-2-0 Big East) will host No. 19 Indiana ( 6-4-1) tonight at 7:15 
p.m. at Alumni Stadium. The match will be the 30th meeting in the long-standing rivalry. 
"It's a big game. It's a huge game," ninth-year Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "Any meeting between the Irish and the Hoosiers is always one of the biggest games of the season in any sport, certain­ly in soccer. Indiana has a pedigree as long as your arm -a fantastic program." 
Notre Dame's current three­game winning streak is its longest 
see HOOSIERS/page 22 

MEN'S GOLF 
Fortner, Sandman falter at Prestige 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame went as its two stalwart seniors went at the Prestige at PGA West, and Doug Fortner and Josh Sandman did not do very well in the three­day tournament, resulting in the Irish fmishing 11th out of 13 teams with a total team score of 895, including a final round score of 294. 
After winning the Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic on Oct. 6, Sandman carded a final round nine-over-par 81 to finish the Prestige tied for 57th place with a 14-over-par, 230 overall. 
"I know Josh [Sandman] was really tired," Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. "He made some 
see PRESTIGE/page 22 Whirlwinds for most of the second half. 



"We started off slow," Snow said. "The coaches talked to us at halftime and really raised our spirits. We started playing like we should have the whole game in the second half. 
McGlinn 21, Breen-Phillips 0 
Despite Breen-Phillips' des­perate need for a win, McGlinn's aerial attack was too much for the Babes to handle and the Shamrocks 
see INTERHALLI page 21 
SMC SoccER 
Team looks for victory vs. Blu~ays 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 
Having lost three of their first four MIAA conference matches of the season, the Belles will put a temporary halt on con­ference play when they host Elmhurst today at 4 p.m. 
Saint Mary's (4-9-1, 1-3 MIAA) has struggled as of late, scoring once in their last five matches outside of their lone MIAA victory over winless Trine. 
Their last time out. the Belles dropped a lopsided 5-1 deci­sion to conference foe Alma Saturday. The Scots jumped out to a 3-0 halftime lead and never looked back. Saint Mary's only goal came just minutes into the second half 
see ELMHURST/page 21 

Belles visit Alma for MIAA match 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Belles take their two­game winning streak on the road to face off against MIAA opponent Alma today in Alma, Mich. 
The Belles (9-9, 5-5 MIAA) picked up two conference wins this weekend against Trine and Adrian to bring their rocord to .500 for the lirst time all season. 
With the playoffs fast approaching, it seems as though the Belles are beginning to come together as a team. 
"We have some things that we still need to work on," coach Toni Kuschel said. "But overall what is most important is that we play well together out on the court." 
Nonetheless, the Belles have made great strides this season and have already beaten two teams that they failed to beat in the previous meeting. 
"We have found a rotation that is working really well for us," Kuschel said. "Our team is giving 100 percent every day at practice to get us where we want to be in the conference." 
There is still work to be done to get a high seed in the post­season tournament. however, as 
see ALMA/ page 21 





