
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Students crushed after brutal defeat 
Campus shocked after Michigan stages late comeback against favored Fighting Irish 
By BRIAN METZ News Writer 
The Golden Dome doesn't shine any less bright after Saturday's defeat, but you wouldn't know that talking with Irish students. 
After a tough 38-34 loss at the hands of rival Michigan, Notre Dame students feel the gloom associated with being upset. 
"Shock. Complete shock," jun­ior Sarah Borrmann said. "The entire game I was convinced we were going to win. It was obvi­ously upsetting." 
To many students, the loss was especially hard to swallow considering the extraordinary 

play of the Irish offense. see LOSS/page 6 
ROTC re111e111bers terrorist attacks of 9/11 
"Armando Allen played the best I've ever seen," senior John Yerkes said. 
Quarterback Jimmy Clausen threw for over 300 yards and three touchdowns, while run­ning back Armando Allen rushed for 139 yards and a score. 
"The offense played out of its mind, and that's what made it tough. We were in position to win that game," freshman Michael McCarty said. 
McCarty, who made the trip to Ann Arbor, was upset by the game's final plays but attributed the loss to missed opportunities, simple mistakes and bad luck. 
"In the end, as well as we 

By JOSEPH McMAHON Associate News Editor 
The men and women of Notre Dame's Navy and Army ROTC programs gathered in front of the Pasquerilla Center early Friday morning to commemorate the eighth anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks. 
"As we honor our flag today, we remember those whose lives were tragically cut short by evil men," Rector of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Fr. Peter Rocca said. 
Rocca, who offered a prayer on the behalf of the victims and the service men and women current­ly deployed, said the ceremony was a way of remembering all those whose lives were cut short as a result of the attacks. 
"In the course of our history, countless men and women -our military comrades -have given their lives to defend this flag and to help rid the world of oppres­sion and injustice," he said. "We remember them in this ceremo­ny, including the almost 500 fall­en and deceased alumni of Notre Dame, as well as those who died eight years ago this day." 
Naval ROTC Battalion Commander Brad Towne said the ceremony held a special impor­tance for current ROTC mem­bers, many of whom will be deployed in combat zones after 
see ROTC/page 4 

Members of the Notre Dame's Navy and Army ROTC units gather early Friday morning to remember the victims of 9/11. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Ticket exchange provides options 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
For students wishing to exchange their student tickets for general admission tickets and for those who want to see the football team play on the road, the student ticket lottery provides a crucial service. 
"Over 80 students entered the Nevada lottery," student body president Grant Schmidt said. "Not a huge request, but for those people that it's help­ing out, it's worth it." 
The system allows students who are not going to a home game to exchange their stu­dent ticket for a general admission ticket for a friend, who can then pay the differ­ence. 
"The tricky part," Schmidt said, "is finding someone who isn't going to a home game." 
The exchange lottery usual­ly occurs two weeks in advance, although for the Nevada game it was held only one week in advance due to time constraints. 
"It gives students enough time to make plans without worrying about the dangers of scalping," Schmidt said. 
Away games, meanwhile, follow a completely different 
see LOTTERYIpage 6 



Teams compete for ticketsto San Antonio 
By CARLY LANDON News Writer 
Six two-person teams of facul­ty members and students com­peted Friday in the Race to San Antonio -a scavenger hunt around campus where the win­ners were· rewarded with a trip to the football game against Washington State. 
"We're very excited for the race. We have been planning it since May," Hammes Bookstore marketing manager Kristin Blitch said. "And there was even a practice run with our staff to help work out the kinks to make it easier for the participants. 
Sponsored by Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, Anthony Travel, the Alumni Association and Notre Dame Food Services, the race started at 8 a.m. on Friday morning at the Hammes Bookstore. It followed an "Amazing Race" style format, using clues to lead participants to various locations around campus such as the library, fire department, Moreau seminary and the NO food services offices. 
"We planned to do it on an away game weekend so no one would miss the game and so far it has worked out well. We are calling it the first annual," 
see RACE/page 4 

College increases financial aid 
Economy forces SMC to allocate more money for needy students 
By BRITTANY VANSNEPSON 
News Writer 
Pressures from the economic downturn have increased the demand for financial aid around the country, and Saint Mary's is no exception. 
The Director of Financial Aid for Saint Mary's Kathleen Brown said in order to handle this increase, the College has raised their institutional money for scholarships by $2 million this year. 
"We've kept the same stan­dards for how we allocate aid. It's all still based on need," Brown said. "It's just that families are needier this 
see AID/page 6 

•$2 million increase in Saint Mary's scholarship '1;: 
fund 
"~ • 2°/o increase in stud~nts i-t -applying for aid t"d • 30°/o increase in students
:::E requesting a special circum­stance review 

• 6.6o/o: portion ofSaint Mary's student body eligible for Pell Grants 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH/Observer Graphic 
INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Energy Week begins page 3 • Blueprint 3 Review page 13 • Insider analysis pullout • Viewpoint page 10 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Kindergarten counterparts 
In a recent conversation with my five-year-old sister, I discovered some­thing that I had never considered before. We were discussing her kinder­garten class and the variety of things 
they do every day. As she was talking, I compared my school life to hers. I discovered that kindergarten and college have more similarities than I would have ever imagined. 

For instance, my Alicia Smith sister, a kindergart­ner, gets to take a News Writer 
nap every day. Likewise, college kids frequently take naps. Naps are a staple to college life, just like they are to a kindergartener. 
While I continued talking to her, I dis­covered a variety of common themes between kindergarten and college. Each day, my sister gets a snack while in school and then has recess. Since I've been in college, I've found that I eat quite a bit more than I do while I'm at home. I am constantly snacking. My new eating obsession may be due to boredom, or it may just be that I burn more calories walking everywhere. Regardless, snacks are a must, espe­cially while in class. 
As for the recess bit, how often do you see students throwing a Frisbee, shooting hoops or passing a football outside while walking around campus? We still have time for fun, even while we are at a place of academics. 
Another parallel I found between col­lege and kindergarten lies within the students themselves. In kindergarten, everyone always got along with one another. Now that I am in college, I have realized how nice it is to leave the drama of high school behind. There are not as many cliques in college, and for the most part, everyone pretty much gets along. There is a sense of commu­nity on campus, just as there is in a kindergarten classroom. 
One other thing that struck me was the way my sister described her first day. As she told me the tale of her hav­ing to leave her mom behind with a quick wave as she walked into a world full of new faces and exciting adven­tures, I was reminded of my first day of college. As my mom left, I was forced to face the college world all on my own. I waved goodbye, and mom drove off. 
Though college and kindergarten may seem to have many differences, it is really just a matter of perspective. For example, although boys no longer have cooties, there are many times where I am glad to live in an all women's dorm building. No offense guys, but the female dorms just smell better. 
I've found that once again I enjoy watching Disney movies, as they are a sense of comfort to me. I have a collec­tion of Dr. Seuss books, which I nostal­gically read from time to time. So even though we are in our late teens and early twenties, the age does not matter. I have realized that no matter how old I get, I am always going to be a kid at heart. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recogniz€ rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please conracr us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, September 14, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHY DIDN'T WE WIN SATURDAY'S GAME? 









Maria Surat  Daniel Tostado  Kaitlyn Maloney  Matt DeStefani  Lucas Harvey  Monica Townsend  
sophomore  junior  junior  junior  junior  sophomore  
Pasquerilla East  Dillon  Welsh Family  Dillon  Dillon  Welsh Family  
"Oh  -I didn ,t  "I think we  "Big Ten refs.  "Probably  "Because we  '7 was there  - 
watch the  made a few too  Absolutely. "  because the  abandoned the  it was painful. I  
game.  many mistakes,  referees ran  run game in the  think it was the  
close calls and  into the tunnel  last play. ,,  referees fault.  
poor choices. ,,  prematurely.,,  Allen did not  
step out of  
bounds.,,  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

GRACE KENESEY/The Observer Notre Dame's tuba section plays at half time of the Notre Dame loss to Michigan on Saturday in The Big House. Notre Dame's Marching Band traveled to the away game. 
OFFBEAT 

office report, Keith Edward Marriott caused "concern for his safety" when he repeatedly submerged himself and floated back to the top of the water. He was also "loud and disrup­tive." 
He then started throwing the sea creatures. 
Marriott was arrested and charged with disorder­ly intoxication and carry­ing a concealed weapon. According to the St. Petersburg Times, Marriott was carrying a pocketknife in his shorts. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Man curses in public, gets citation from 1887 law 
WINONA, Minn. -A man was cited for cursing in public under a local law created back in 1887. Police said a 19-year-old man was cited Wednesday after he yelled obscenities at officers who had earlier given him a ticket for underage drinking. Officers said they could hear the man cursing at them from a block away. Several neighbors said they also heard the shout­ing. 
Police normally issue dis­orderly conduct tickets in similar situations, but Deputy Police Chief Tom Williams said officers use discretion to choose the most appropriate charge. 
Violating Winona's obscenity law is a misde­meanor, with a maximum penalty of 90 days in jail and a $1,000 fine. 
Man arrested after fling­ing jellyfish at teenagers 
MADEIRA BEACH, Fla. ­A 41-year-old man was arrested on Monday at at Madeira Beach after wit­nesses said he repeatedly pretended to drown, then allegedly began tossing jel­lyfish at nearby teenagers. According to a sheriff's 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
0:: 
..... 
:::c 
~ 
..... 
3: 
....I 
<C 
(,) 

HIGH HIGH 80 HIGH LOW LOW 56 LOW IN BRIEF 




A lecture named "New Readings of a Lost Story: The American Indian Movement at 40" will take place Monday in 209 DeBartolo at 4:30 p.m. Paul Chaat Smith, Native American author and curator at the Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian, will speak. The event is free and open to the public. 
A literary presentation fea­turing Orlando Menes & Alicia Gaspar de Alba reading from works will take place Monday at McKenna Hall from 9:30 
a.m. to 10:30 a.m. This presen­tation is sponsored through the Institute for Latino Studies. 
A lecture, "Creating a Safe Community: Notre Dame Home Football Games" will take place Sept. 15 at Notre Dame Downtown, 217 S. Michigan St. from 6 p.m. to 7 
p.m. Information about game­day traffic and tailgating will be presented to help with gameday safety. 
A film, "The Living Nickelodeon with Rick Altman," will be shown Sept. 17 at the Browning Cinema at 7 p.m. Pianist/lecturer Rick Altman gives the audience experience of nickelodeon viewers in the early 1900s. Purchase tickets at the box office or performingarts.nd.edu 
Music artist Perla Batalla will be performing Sept. 18 at the Debartolo Performing Arts Center at 8 p.m. Purchase tickets online at performingarts.nd.edu 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obseruer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
Atlanta 82 I 69 Boston 76 I 57 Chicago 83 I 62 Denver 79 I 57 Houston 82 I 68 Los Angeles 75 I 59 Minneapolis 84 I 62 New York 80 I 63 Philadelphia 81 I 63 Phoenix 101 I 79 Seattle 72 I 57 St. Louis 82 I 62 Tampa 89 I 75 Washington 86 I 66 
Monday, September 14, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Energy Week 111akes a third return 
House of Music 
By NICHOLAS COOPER News Writer 
Energy Week, which fea­tures events ranging from career fairs to environmen­tal lectures, returned to for its third year yesterday with a new theme -green is the new black. 
Senior and GreeND mem­ber Jackie Mirandola Mullen said the new slogan repre­sents a newer, more modern approach to environmental­ism. 
"Green is the new black was kind of a play on the media, showing how the green movement has become more trendy," she said. "Although it may be a little confusing." 
Energy Week will feature a special "green" career fair, which will offer stu­dents an opportunity to net­work with individuals already heavily involved in environmentally conscious firms. 
"As a senior, I'm really looking forward to the Energy Week. Current Notre career luncheon," GreeND Dame graduate student president Colleen Kelly said. Melissa Dinsman, First Year 
hits sweet notes 
"If you had to Composition attend one instructor event, that "Green is the new whose course 
By BRIDGET MEADE would be it." deals with
black was kind of a 
News Writer 
Kelly said issues of con­
play on the media, 
Energy Week is servation and a great time showing how the modernity, is 
One year ago, sophomore for students to also looking 
Malcolm Phelan decided there
green movement has 
were simply not enough musi­
focus on how forward to
become trendy.'' 

cal outlets in the Notre Dame reduce their week can 
they can what this 
community. environmental Jackie Mirandola Mullen teach. 
"Notre Dame is full of dorm­impact. "I think 
room DJs, shower-stall singers,
GreeNO member

"Common answers to this question are something like turn off lights or use less water. Something different that every student could do is simply be aware," she said. Energy Week is a great way for students to become more aware and really have a positive impact on their environment." 
Other events include docu­mentaries, lectures and even a "green" Mass. 
Undergraduates aren't the only ones excited about 
Jack Johnson jammers, chapel is an impor­
Energy Week 

congo drummers, jazz-flutists tant event for the Notre 
and music lovers of all sorts," Dame campus," she said. "It 
he said. "We want to bring is great to see Notre Dame 
them out, put them on the professors from so many 
quads and get them playing disciplines, as well as out­
and enjoying music together." side participants, coming 
Phelan, Rodio and a handful together to educate the 
of other students began draft­Notre Dame community on 
ing a constitution, tentative what we can do and on what 
schedules, budgets, events and is being done to address the 
a mission statement. After energy challenges we face 
gaining approval from the today and in the future." 
Student Activities Office (SAO), 
the ND House of Music was Contact Nicholas Cooper at 
born. ncooper2@nd.edu 
The club is open to musicians of all instruments and skill lev­els. One of the main focuses of the club's ~administration is The Band Project -a list of musicians with similar inter­ests compiled for musicians to form bands. Amps and drum sets are also available for use. 
The House of Music plans to host guest speakers lecturing about topics such as the histo­ry of music genres or dis­cussing their experience in the music industry. 
"Being a young and flexible club, we also plan to work directly with club members to put on specific events that they would like to see on campus," Phelan said. "If there is a demonstrated demand for any kind of musical venture here at Notre Dame, we will do our best to support and facilitate it." 
Contact Bridget Meade at bmeadeO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

LONDONPROG APPLICATION MEETING 




FOR FALL 2010 & SPRING 2011 
Tuesday, September 15, 2009 101 DeBartolo 
6:30PM 
SOPHOMORES FROM ALL COLLEGES ARE WELCOME! 





ROTC 
continued from page 1 
graduation. 
"For most people it's about the remembrance or reminding people, for us, as military per­sonnel or future military person­nel, it's really looking at the peo­ple who have gone before us and sacrificed their lives," he said. "For us, thinking about the sacrifices that we might have to make, it's a good feeling." 
Army ROTC Battalion Commander Scott Vitter agreed, noting that the current American military experience is largely shaped by the events of September 11. 
"From an ROTC perspective, it is really important because it definitely changes the nature of the program," he said. 
"Entering ROTC these days, you do it with the understanding that you'll probably see deploy­ment overseas. That is directly traceable back to the events of September 11." 
Vitter said it is important for ROTC members to remember the history and events that shape their goals. 
"From a military point of view, it's crucial to keep an under­standing of the events and the history and the background that ultimately guides the mission," he said. 
Rocca said the morning of September 11 is memorable for all Americans. 
"I am sure you all remember where you were that morning of that fateful day -September 11, 2001 -when you first heard of the attacks on the World Trade Center in New York City," he said. "No one was quite sure what had happened." 
Rocca said the event was especially painful for the many Americans who personally knew someone who was killed in the attacks. 
"Almost 3,000 people were killed that fateful day. It is esti­mated that almost 20 percent of Americans knew someone who was hurt or killed that day," he said. "It goes without saying that all of us have been affected by this wanton act of evil." 
Addressing the ROTC mem­bers, Rocca said although their mission will be arduous, ulti­mately "we confident that in the end, trusting in God, the power of good will be stronger than the power of evil." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 


Race 
continued from page 1 
Blitch said, "Also because we are doirig it on Sept. 11, we will take a moment of silence to remember all the events of the day and pray for all those affected by the tragedy of the event." 
Though it was estimated that the race would last until 3 p.m., it ended around one o'clock with two seniors sponsored by Elia's restaurant, Xavier Burton and James Ouderkirk, taking the prize. 
"Winning it was a great way to start senior year, is what Xavier and I decided. 
Other than that you can't be not be stoked when its that much that free," Ouderkirk said. 
Burton and Ouderkirk won round trip airfare to San Antonio, a two-night stay at the Alumni hotel, two tickets to the game at the Alamodome and an invita­tion to the VIP luncheon. All proceeds from the race went to the United Way. 
''I'm a big Notre Dame fan, aren't we all? Despite the heartbreak we keep coming back for more," Burton said. "To win the prize, it hasn't really sunk in yet. We'll probably be sitting in the airport waiting for our plane before it really sinks in." 
Rules for the race were teammates must stay in 20 feet of each other, no phones, computers or any electric device could be used, no bikes or any type of mobilization was allowed and all members had to adhere to campus and local laws. 
"We didn't really have a strategy. [We] just ran around like headless kooks and for some reason we got lucky a number of times," Burton said. "[We] found the places we needed to find. The next thing we knew we actually won and now we're off to San Antonio." 
Contact Carly Landon at dandon1 @nd.edu 


Want to improve your Spanish orPortuguese? Come to an Inforntation Meeting with program returnees to hear about... 
Spanish and Portuguese Language Study Abroad Programs 




Information Meeting 
Brazil 


Chile 
lVednesday,Sept.t6 s:ts Pill 155 DeBartolo Hall 

www.nd.edu/-ois Application Deadline is November 15, 2009 






ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 14, 2009 CoMPn£D FROM THE Oas:tRVER:s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Senegal flood alters lives ofthousands 
FASS MBAO -The only piece of furniture that survived the most recent flood in Fatou Dione's house is her bed. It's propped up on cinderblocks and hovers just above the water lapping at the walls of her bedroom. 
The water stands a foot deep throughout her house. She shakes off her wet feet each time she climbs into her bed. To keep it dry, she tries to place her feet on the same spot so that only one corner of her mattress becomes moist. 
Torrential rains have lashed Africa's west­ern coast for the past three months, killing 159 people and flooding the homes and busi­nesses of over 600,000 others, according to the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Human Affairs. 
Argentina media fight gets personal 
BUENOS AIRES -An epic battle between Argentina's two reigning powers -the presidency and media giant Grupo Clarin -started with a political cartoon, the way one editor tells it. 
When President Cristina Fernandez was drawn with an X taped over her mouth, she called it a "mafia-like" threat and accused "media generals" of using their newspaper and TV stations to rally her opponents. 
She and her husband and predecessor Nestor Kirchner told Clarin to be more "disciplined," editor Ricardo Kirschbaum recalls -one of many attempts to control the paper's coverage. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Obama grieves anti-abortionist death 
WOSSO, Mich. -President Barack Obama on Sunday condemned the killing of an anti­abortion activist in Michigan as activists and others gathered for vigil near the site where he was fatally shot. 
Obama called last week's shooting of James Pouillon "deplorable" in a two-sen­tence statement. 
"Whichever side of a public debate you're on, violence is never the right answer," Obama said in the statement. 
Police say Pouillon, 63, was killed Friday morning while protesting across the street from a high school in Owosso, about 70 miles northwest of Detroit. Pouillon was in his usual spot holding a sign that pictured a chubby-cheeked baby with the word "LIFE" on one side and an image of an aborted fetus with the word "ABORTION" on the other. 
FBI investigates Jackie Kennedy's note 
DALLAS -A newspaper reported Sunday that the FBI is investigating a "stolen" hand­written condolence note by Jacqueline Kennedy to Ethel Kennedy that was penned shortly after Robert F. Kennedy's 1968 assassi­nation. 
The Dallas Morning News reported that investigators and Kennedy family members suspect the note was taken from Robert and Ethel Kennedy's McLean, Va., home. 
The note, which has changed hands several times and has sold for as much as $25,000, opens with "My Ethel." 
"You must be so tired," Jackie Kennedy wrote. "I stayed up till 6:30 last night just thinking and praying for you." 

LOCAL NEWS 
2 teens killed in Indianapolis shooting 
INDIANAPOLIS -Police say a teenager started firing a handgun during a party in Indianapolis, fatally wounding one person and injuring another. 
Police say 18-year-old Rodney L. Harris II died Sunday following a gunshot wound to the head. The other victim, 15-year-old Kristian Greene, is in stable condition with a leg wound. 
Police spokesman Lt. Jeff Duhamell says the two were wounded when an unidentified youth pulled out a handgun during a party attended by 60 to 100 people and fired sev­eral shots about midnight Saturday. 
Trouble brews for Dems in 2010 
Upcoming national election brings early obstacles and worries House liberals 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Despite sweeping Democratic suc­cesses in the past two nation­al elections, continuing job losses and President Barack Obama's slipping support could lead to double-digit losses for the party in next year's congressional races and may even threaten their House control. 
Fifty-four new Democrats were swept into the House in 2006 and 2008, helping the party claim a decisive majori­ty as voters soured on a Republican president and embraced Obama's message of hope and change. Many of the new Democrats are in districts carried by Republican John McCain in last year's presidential con­test; others are in traditional swing districts that have proved tough for either party to hold. 
From New Hampshire to Nevada, House Democrats also will be forced to defend votes on Obama's $787 bil­lion economic recovery pack­age and on energy legislation viewed by many as a job killer in an already weak economy. 
Add to that the absence of Obama from the top of the ticket, which could reduce turnout among blacks, liber­als and young people, and them are going to lose," said But Van Hollen said voters had just $4 million in cash the likelihood of a highly Jack Pitney, a political sci­will make their choices on and owed $2.75 million. motivated GOP base confused ence professor at Claremont the strength of the national The economy poses the by the president's proposed McKenna College in economy and will reward biggest problem for health care plan and angry at California. Democrats for working Democrats, with job losses of what they consider reckless Since the mid-19th century, aggressively to improve it. 2.4 million nationwide since spending and high debt. the party that controls the "We passed an economic Obama took office. Despite 
Taken together, it could be White House has lost seats in recovery bill with zero help recent signs the country is the most toxic environment virtually every midterm elec­from Republican colleagues," pulling out of the recession, for Democrats since 1994, tion. The exceptions were in he said. "I think voters will the unemployment rate in 15 when the party lost 34 House 1934, when President see that and will ask them­states still was in double dig­incumbents and 54 seats Franklin D. Roosevelt navi­selves, 'Who was there to get its in July, led by Michigan at altogether. Democrats cur­gated the Great Depression, the economy moving again, 15 percent. rently have a 256-178 edge and in 2002, after the attacks and who was standing in the Democrats must defend as in the House, with one vacan­of Sept. 11, 2001, strength­way?'" many as 60 marginal seats cy. Republicans would have ened George W Bush's image Democrats have gotten off next year, as opposed to to pick up 40 seats to regain as a leader. to a much faster start than about 40 for Republicans. control. With history as a guide, Republicans in fundraising Among those, about 27 
"When you have big Rep. Chris Van Hollen, D­for 2010. The Democratic Democratic and just 13 sweeps as Democrats did in Md., who heads the party's Congressional Campaign Republican seats are seen as 2006 and 2008, inevitably House campaign committee, Committee had $10.2 million especially ripe for a party some weak candidates get said he has warned col­in the bank at the end of July, switch. elected. And when the envi­leagues to be prepared for an with debts of $5.3 million. Some involve incumbents ronment gets even moderate­exceptionally challenging The National Republican stepping down to run for ly challenging, a number of environment going into 2010. Congressional Committee higher office. 

GERMANY 

Germany plans Afghanistan exit strategy 
new international conference on ify one.
Associated Press Afghanistan to be held this year, hop­"We want to create the conditions ... BERLIN -Germany's foreign minis­ing to accelerate and improve training by 2013 so that the withdrawal can ter on Sunday advocated laying the of local forces and lay out a timetable begin," he said. "I can't say now ... foundations by 2013 for an eventual in which Afghans can take back full let's get out without using our heads. withdrawal from Afghanistan. control. Chancellor Angela Merkel, who he is On Sunday, the weekly Der Spiegel "Getting out now would mean challenging in elections later this reported that a paper drawn up for women going back into the cellar, girls month, said it makes sense to exert Foreign Minister Frank-Walter no longer going to school, farmers pressure on Kabul to ensure progress. Steinmeier says the conference should growing drugs again and plenty The country's unpopular mission in "not satisfy itself with vague targets" more," he added. Afghanistan, where it has more than and that foundations for a withdrawal Germany should discuss with 4,200 troops, has been put in the spot­should be laid in Germany's next four­Afghanistan's newly elected president light by a German-ordered airstrike year parliamentary term. what his priorities are and "agree on near Kunduz in which civilians appear Steinmeier, asked about that Sunday a clear timetable on how long we need to have died. in a television debate with Merkel, to be there," Steinmeier said. "Our Merkel last week joined the French stressed that he didn't envision 2013 purpose is to make ourselves superflu­and British leaders in calling for a as a withdrawal date. He did not spec-ous in Afghanistan." 
Loss 
continued from page 1 

fought on both sides of the ball, things just didn't go our way," he said. 
Lost behind the shock of Michigan's fourth quarter drive is the fact that the Irish had two late drives as well. Clausen led the Irish on two scoring drives to take the lead in the final quarter, the first capped by a 21-yard pass to receiver Golden Tate, and the second an 8-yard run from Allen. 
"Jimmy has progressed so much as a player and leader. I really respect the grace he has handled himself with under touchdown, a fumble and such intense pressure, untimely injuries -the little Borrmann said. "The way things just piled against us. The Clausen acts under pressure -breaks didn't go our way," 
on and off the  McCarty said.  
field -that's something I  "The little things just  However, stu­dents were quick  
respect."  piled up against us.  to give credit to  
Yet, as well as Clausen and the  The breaks didn't go ,,  the Michigan team, especially  
team  played,  our way.  the  Wolverine  
the difference  quarterback Tate  
in the game was  Michael McCarthy  Forcier.  
missed opportu­nities. After a  freshman  "Forcier should be on top of the  
questionable  world. He played  

reversal of an Allen touchdown a perfect game," Borrmann in the first half, the Irish had to said. settle for a field goal. 
"A missed field goal, a bad Contact Brian Metz at call, penalties, a special teams bmetz2@nd.edu 

GRACE KENESYffhe Observer 
Notre Dame fans cheer as they watch the Irish take on the Michigan Wolverines in the waning seconds of Saturday's game. 
we had available."


Lottery 

In fact, the demand for tick­ets dwarfed the supply, with
continued from page 1 

1,611 students entering the Michigan lottery and only 145 process. tickets available. 
"Away game lotteries are not "That's the horrible thing, an exchange at all," Kat we're completely dependent Burke, board on what the manager for host institution the Student 'That's the horrible is willing to give 
Union Board us," Burke said.
thing, we're 
(SUB), said. "We took every­
completely dependent 
Instead, stu­thing they dents have the on what the host offered." 
opportunity to institution is willing to The populari­
bring in up to ty of the ticket
give us.
four student lottery program IDs and enter is nonetheless a them in a lot­Kat Burke good sign. tery to win board manager "It's a great 
away game service," Burke
Student Union Board 
tickets. If stu­said. "It's a dents win, they great chance may buy the tickets at face for students to go out and sup­value. port our team." 
The lottery operates on a A different campus group "first come, first served" oversees each lottery. The basis, Burke said. Classes of 2010, 2011 and 
"The Michigan lottery went 2012, each run a lottery, as do unbelievably well," Burke the Hall Presidents' Council said. "We sold all the tickets and the Graduate Student Union. 
"We're very appreciative to the football team and the tick­et office for this opportunity," Schmidt said. "It's a great opportunity for students. You never know when you'll have someone who needs it." 
It's possible that some stu­dents who want to exchange tickets are not able to do so, Schmidt said. 
"Not everyone knows we have this program," Schmidt said. 
As long as students come to the lottery and don't miss the date, however, they can easily exchange student tickets for general admission tickets. Students simply need to remember to come to the lot­tery. 
"I know there were some sit­uations where people missed the lottery," Schmidt said. "We unfortunately can't exchange tickets after the lottery is over." 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 
Become As~uden~ Represemuwelo lhe local Alumni Board 
The Notre Dame Club of Saint Joseph Valley is looking for dynamic and engaging undergraduate or graduate students to serve as Student Representatives on their board. The advantages are many... 
• 
An opportunity to learn the fundamentals of alumni boards as you serve throughout the academic year 

• 
Participate in monthly meetings, held on the first Monday of each month 

• 
Meet local alums who are involved on both the board and in the local community 

• 
Offer suggestions to the board -as a non-voting member ­on the various activities and areas of interest served by the club 

• 
Attend club functions -i.e., Football banquet, Men's Basketball banquet, Blue-Gold Game, and more 


All students -whether local or beyond ­
are encouraged and welcome to apply. Please email your letter of interest by September 20, to Joellen Conrardy (jconrardy@gmail.com). 
If selected, your term will begin at our October 5, 2009 board meeting. 
Aid 
continued from page 1 
year." 
This trend can be seen in the two percent increase in students applying for finan­cial aid, and it is only the beginning of the first semes­ter. 
As federally and college funded loans are increasing, students are receiving less support from the state of Indiana. As a result, there has been over a 30 percent increase in students who request a "special circum­stance review," Brown said. 
These reviews are usually the result of students having unpaid medical bills or pre­vious private school tuition expenses that need to be accounted for. 
However, the Financial Aid Department has seen a 
decrease in students requesting expensive alter­native loans. 
"There is some good news," Brown said. "There are smaller amounts of expensive alternative loans being taken out." 
Alternative loans are more expensive because they are not federally funded and thus have higher interest rates. 
However, Brown noted stu­dents that opt for alternative loans are "are asking for larger amounts of money." 
Furthermore, there has been a dramatic increase in Federal Pell Grants, which go to the neediest students. 
Contact Brittany VanSnepson at bvansnO 1 @saintmarys.edn 


THE OBSERVER 
• 

USINESS
Monday, September 14, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,605.41 -22.07 
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,696  93  1,365  813,275,515  
AMEX  
 
NASDAQ NYSE  2,080.90 -3.12 ·.s;s43.S2' ![i~!!lml!*l[lfl  
S&P 500  1,042.73  -1.41  

NIKKEI (Tokfo) 10;310.49 8133.~ FTSE 100 (London) 5,011.47 +23.79 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) -2.95 -0.14 4.61 S&.P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY} -0.02 -0.02 104.77 BK OF AMERICA CP (SAC) -1.45 -0.25 16.97 GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) -0.88 -0.13 14.67 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.03 +0.001 3.34 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.00 0.135 30-YEAR BOND -0.00 -0.00 4.13 5-YEAR NOTE +0.31 +0.007 2.29 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.65 69.29 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +9.60 1,006.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.15 88.30 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 90.6150 EURO 1.4534 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0834 BRITISH POUND 1.6616 
IN BRIEF 
EU spends billions on sea turbines 
BRUSSELS -European wind power pro­ducers are calling for billions of euros in investments to generate energy from wind turbines planted in the sea. 
The European Union is aiming to generate a fifth of all its energy from renewable sources by 2020 to lessen reliance on import­ed oil and gas and meet climate change goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
Wind power will likely play the major role and could generate up to 16 percent of all EU energy -or a third of all electricity -by 2020, the European Wind Energy Association says. 
The industry says this depends on-govern­ments helping them make a major push to develop offshore wind farms over the next 20 years. They say it could replace power from older coal-fired electricity stations and help meet Europe's growing _energy demand. 
Some €57 billion will be needed to develop these wind farms, the association said. The industry can use bigger and more powerful wind turbines planted in the sea bed to gen­erate around a third more power than land­based wind stations. 
Another €20 billion to €30 billion will need to be spent on energy links to transfer the power onshore and link power connectors between European nations, including links across the North Sea, EWEA says. 
Disney plans expensive facelift 
ORLANDO -Disney executives are plan­ning the largest expansion in the history of Walt Disney World in central Florida. 
The development will nearly double the size of Fantasyland and include a new, lav­ish ride based on the Little Mermaid. Walt Disney Parks and Resorts Chairman Jay Rasulo made the announcement Saturday. 
Analysts predict it will re-ignite travel to Orlando, which has lagged in the global recession. 
Disney also plans to update Star Tours, the Star Wars-themed ride in Disney's Hollywood Studios. It will debut in 2011. The Fantasyland overhaul will be complete by 2013. Disney declined to .say how much it will spend on the projects. 
Disney's parks contribute about a third of the giant entertainment company's rev­enue. 
Banks already bouncing back 
Only one year .after economic crisis struck, Wall Street regains appetite for 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -A year after the financial system nearly collapsed, the nation's biggest banks are bigger and regaining their appetite for risk. 
Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and oth­ers which have received tens of billions of dollars in federal aid ­are once more betting big on bonds, commodities and exotic finandal prod­ucts, trading that nearly stopped during the finan­cial crisis. 
That Wall Street is mak­ing money again in essen­tially the same ways that thrust the banking system into chaos last fall is rea­son for concern on several levels, financial analysts and government officials say. 
+ 
There have been no significant changes to the federal rules governing their behavior. Proposals that have been made to better monitor the finan­cial system and to police the ·products banks sell to consumers have been held up by lobbyists, lawmak­ers and turf-protecting regulators. 

+ 
Through mergers and the failure of Lehman Brothers, the mammoth of financial regulations is and the broader econo­burst last year, banks lent banks whose near-col-needed as soon as possi­my? too freely to consumers lapse prompted govern-ble to keep the financial "We're seeing the same with weak credit and. ment rescues have gotten system safe over the long kind of behavior from the wagered too much on even bigger, increasing haul. banks, and that could lead complex financial instru­the risk they pose to the "You cannot rely on the to some huge and scary ments tied to mortgages. financial system. And they scars of past crises to parallels," says Simon As real-estate prices still make bets that, in the ensure against practices Johnson, former chief turned south, so did the aggregate, are worth far"" that will lead to future economist with the financial industry's health. more than the capital they crises," Summers says. International Monetary Because the largest have on hand to cover No one is predicting Fund. banks' trading divisions against potential losses. another meltdown from Some risk-taking is make their bets with each 

+ 
The government's risky tradip.g in the near good. When banks are other, their fortunes are response to last year's term. Rather, the concern willing to invest in compa­intertwined. The collapse meltdown was to spend is what happens over time nies or lend to home-buy­of one can threaten anoth­whatever it takes to pro-as banks' confidence ers, that nurtures eco­er -and another -if it teet the financial system grows and the memory of nomic growth by generat­is unable to pay off its from collapse -a prece-the financial crisis of 2008 ing employment and con­debts. dent that could encourage fades. sumer spending, feeding a This so-called counter­even greater risk-taking Will they pile on bets to cycle of expansion. party risk is a major rea­from the private sector. the point that a new asset The problem is when son the Obama adminis­


Lawrence Summers, bubble forms and -as banks' quest for profits tration's regulatory over­director of the White happened with mortgage­leads them to take on too haul plan calls for the cre­House National Economic backed securities -its much risk. In the case of ation of a "systemic risk Council, says an overhaul undoing endangers banks the housing bubble, which regulator." 

Consumer spending could boost economy 
Associated Press Analysts say investors need to see omist at New York-based brokerage evidence that consumer spending is house Avalon Partners Inc. Companies 
CHARLOTTE -Wall Street wants picking up before the market can will start reporting results in early consumers to do their part to heal the extend its recent gains. Economists October for the three months ending in economy. Traders know it's going to surveyed by Thomson Reuters estimate September. take some time. retail sales increased 1.2 percent last The stock market ended the week 
Investors will get some insight this month, afte:r falling 0.1 percent in July. with a few pieces of reassuring news 
-week into how much consumers are The report comes out Tuesday. on the economy. The Commerce spending from a government report on Many analysts have been expecting a Department reported Friday that even August retail sales. They'll also get an pullback in the markets, which have though wholesale inventories fell for a indicator of how willing consumers are risen more than 50 percent since bot­record 11th straight month in July, to borrow money to make those pur­toming out at a 12-year low in early sales rose by the largest amount in chases when credit card lender March. The S&P 500 index, a widely more than a year. Also, the University Discover Financial Services reports used market gauge and the basis for of Michigan consumer confidence earnings. many mutual funds, rose for five days index showed improving views of both 
"I think everybody is focusing so before slipping Friday and ending the current conditions as well as expecta­heavily on if people are releasing some week up 2.6 percent. The Dow rose tions for the future. of those dollars they have been clinging 164 points, or 1.7 percent, for the "You have to remember that con­so tightly to over the past year," said week. sumers will spend money if they fep) Jamie Cox, managing partner at Harris "The market could take a breather like that their prospects for a job or for Financial Group in Colonial Heights, before third-quarter earnings reports," wealth feels OK," Cox ·said. "That Va. said Peter Cardillo, chief market econ-'wealth effect' is huge." 
Cops draw blood with drunk driving 
Associated Press 
BOISE, Idaho -When police 
officer Darryll Dowell is on 
patrol in the southwestern 
Idaho city of Nampa, he'll pull 
up at a stoplight and usually 
start casing the vehicle. 
Nowadays, his eyes will also 
focus on the driver's arms, as he 
tries to search for a plump, 
bouncy vein. 
"I was looking at people's 
arms and hands, thinking, 'I 
could draw from that,"' Dowell 
said. 
It's all part of training he and 
a select cadre of officers in 
Idaho and Texas have received 
in recent months to draw blood 
from those suspected of drunk­
en or drugged driving. The fed­
eral program's aim is to deter­
mine if blood draws by cops can 
be an effective tool against 
drunk drivers and aid in their 
prosecution. 
If the results seem promising 
after a year or two, the National 
Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration will encourage 
police nationwide to undergo 
similar training. 
For years, defense attorneys 
in Idaho advised clients to 
always refuse breath tests, Ada 
County Deputy Prosecutor 
Christine Starr said. When the 
state toughened the penalties 
for refusing the tests a few 
years ago, the problem less­
ened, but it's still the main rea­
son that drunk driving cases go 
to trial in the Boise region, Starr 
said. 
Idaho had a 20 percent breath 
test refusal rate in 2005, com­
pared with 22 percent national­
ly, according to an NHTSA 
study. 
Starr hopes the new system 

will cut down on the number of 
drunken driving trials. Officers 
can't hold down a suspect and 
force them to breath into a 
tube, ·she noted, but they can 
forcefully take blood -a prac­
tice that's been upheld by 
Idaho's Supreme Court and the 
U.S. Supreme Court. 
The nation's highest court 
ruled in 1966 that police could 
have blood tests forcibly done 
on a drunk driving suspect 
without a warrant, as long as 
the draw was based on a rea­
sonable suspicion that a suspect 
was intoxicated, that it was 
done after an arrest and carried 

out in a medically approved 
manner. 
The practice of cops drawing 
blood, implemented first in 
1995 in Arizona, has also raised 
concerns about safety and the 
credibility of the evidence. 

"I would imagine that a lot of 
people would be wary of having .their blood drawn by an officer on the hood of their police vehi­cle," said Steve Oberman, chair of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers' DUI 
Committee. 
The officer phlebotomists are 

generally trained under the 
same program as their state's 
hospital or clinical phle­
botomists, but they do it under a 
highly compressed schedule, 

and some of the curriculum is 
cut. 
That's because officers don't need to know how to draw blood from a foot or other diffi­cult sites, or from an infant or medically fragile patient, said Nicole Watson, the College of Western Idaho phlebotomy instructor teaching the Idaho officers. 
Instead, they are trained on the elbow crease, the forearm and the back of the hand. If none are accessible, they'll take the suspect to the hospital for testing. 
In a nondescript Boise office building where the Nampa offi­cers were trained, Dowell scanned his subject and pre­pared to draw blood. Chase Abston, an officer taking his turn playing a suspect, recoiled a bit, pressing his back deeper into the gray pleather chair. 
Dowell slid a fine-gauge nee­dle into the back of Abston's hand. Abston, who had been holding his breath, slowly exhaled as his blood began to flow. 
All the officers seemed like they'd be more comfortable if their colleagues were wielding sidearms instead of syringes. But halfway through the second day of training, with about 10 venipunctures each under their belts, they relaxed enough to trade barbs alongside needle jabs. 
They're making quick progress, Watson said. Their training will be complete after they have logged 75 successful blood draws. 
Once they're back on patrol, they will draw blood of any sus­pected drunk driver who refus­es a breath test. They'll use force if they need to, such as getting help from another offi­cer to pin down a suspect and potentially strap them down, Watson said. 
Though most legal experts agree blood tests measure blood alcohol more accurately than breath tests, Oberman said the tests can be fraught with prob­lems, too. 
Vials can be mixed up, preser­vative levels in the tubes used to collect the blood can be ofT, or the blood can be stored improp­erly, causing it to ferment and boosting the alcohol content. 
Oberman said law enforce­ment agencies should also be concerned "about possible mal­practice cases over somebody who was not properly trained." 
Alan Haywood, Arizona's law enforcement phlebotomy coor­dinator who is directing the training programs in Idaho and Texas, said officers are exposed to some extra on-the-job risk if they draw blood, but that any concern is mitigated by good training and safe practices. 
"If we can't get the evidence safely, we're not going to endan­ger the officers or the public to collect that evidence," he said. 
The Phoenix Police Department only uses blood tests for impaired driving cases. Detective Kemp Layden, who oversees drug recognition, phle­botomy and field sobriety, said the city now has about 120 offi­cers certified to draw blood. Typically, a suspect is brought to a precinct or mobile booking van for the blood draw. 
Under the state's implied con­sent law, drivers who refuse to voluntarily submit to the test lose their license for a year, so most comply. For the approxi­mately 5 percent who refuse, the officer obtains a search warrant from an on-call judge and the suspect can be. restrained if needed to obtain a sample, Layden said. 
Between 300 to 400 blood tests are done in an average month in the nation's fifth­largest city. 
County vvants funds to fix itnage 
Associated Press 

KINGSTON, Tenn. -For a Tennessee community that fears being forever linked to one of the country's worst envi­ronmental disasters, an esti­mated $1 billion being spent to clean up a massive coal ash spill that flooded its lakeside homes isn't enough. 
Roane County leaders want millions more dollars to repair their economy and image after 
5.4 million cubic yards of toxin­laden muck breached a holding pond at the Tennessee Valley Authority's Kingston Fossil Plant on Dec. 22. 
"We are not trying to take advantage of anything. We didn't ask for this. We didn't go out looking for it. We are not ambulance chasers," Kingston Mayor Troy Beets said. "We are trying to recov­er from a hit in the mouth." 
Aside from wh.at it's spend­ing on the cleanup, TVA has agreed to consider local gov­ernments' request for com­pensation that would go toward other refurbishment projects. A joint proposal drafted by top officials from local governments presents TVA with a couple of options for reimbursement, but the one drawing the most atten­tion asks the utility to pay for a wish list of projects esti­mated to cost at least $40 million. 
TVA has indicated it will provide some support beyond the cleanup costs and is expected to announce Monday how much it will pay. 
Most projects on the local officials' list -upgrades to water lines, sewer lines and schools, construction of nature trails, and a big public relations and marketing cam-paign-don't directly relate to the spill. The plans were com­piled by elected leaders on a special panel called the Long Term Recovery Committee. 
To government leaders in the county of 78,000 people with a typical annual operating budg­et of $102 million, the spending is needed to offset months of negative national news cover­age about the spill -especially among Rust Belt and Florida retirees shopping the Internet for a mild-climate retreat on an eastern Tennessee lake. 
To TVA ratepayers, who will 
Fantasies 
at Power 
How the Media Make Feminism Seem Unnecessary. and Sexism Fun 
-a lecture by Author Susan J. Douglas 
Join the Department ofCommunication Studies, Dance, and Theatre as we welcome Author Susan J. Douglas as part ofthe annual Ann Plamondon Endowed Lecture Series. 
Explore the impact mass media has on culture. Stay for a book signing and reception following the lecture. 


Wednesday, September 16 • 7:30p.m. UttleTheatre, Moreau Center for the Arts Saint Mary's College Free and open to the public 
For more Information visit saintmarys.edu/news-events 
Co-sponsored by the Department of Sociology, the Film Studies Program, and the Women's Studies Program. 
The annual Ann Plamondon Endowed lecture brings respected scholars ;md communications profe5sionats to the Saint Mary's College campus to share their e~periences with students, faculty, and the public. 
foot the bill for the projects on top of the $21 million TVA has spent repairing roads and utili­ty services damaged in the dis­aster, the project list raises the issue of how much is fair. 
"How do you recover?" Roane County Mayor Mike Farmer said. "You do some­thing to make people forget about what today's news story is some wonderful announcement that says we are working on a wonderful _ new Roane County with a new school, new ballfields and a new senior center." 

As 1'.\HT u1 oliH 10-n.\R A"<\11\THs.\R' <llH~R.\TIU"< 1111. l"<srrn rn roR L \TJ\io Srt IDlE'> '"' 1'\RT\H RSIIII' \VITI I ~t£.:CI1A \\10 l.\ :\11.\N/ \ PRi<.,L\ti"S 
A FORGOTTEN INJUSTICE 
A FILM BY VICENTE SERRANO 
DIRECTOR•s SCREENING MONDAY SEPTEMBER 14, 2009 6:3D-9:30 P.M. SNITE MUSEUM, ANNENBERG THEATRE 
PROFF~SSOR KAREN RICHMAN WIU INTRODUCE THii FltM, AND A QUF$TION-ANO­ANSWER SESSION WITH DIRECTOR VICENTE SERRANO Wll.L FOLLOW. 
To MAKE ADVANCE HESERVATlONS OR I'OR MORE INI:ORMATION PLE-\SE CA~L THE INSTJTUu•s lWENTS OfFICE AT 574-631-3796 OR b\1/\lt l.ATINO@ND.EDU. 
A FoRGOTTEN INJUSTICE Is TIH IIRST noctL\II"<T\tn ro LIM.T>\TH Ttn sr<JH\ or \L\IOST nvu ""' ttO\l M1 :\tCo\"< ,\1\t!RIC.\1\. US CITI/1 's \\ 11n \Vt Rt H >RCI.D ouT or THI lhrrm Srx1Ts 01 uuM; tHt Gtu \T Dtl'tUS.'>to:-.: I"-Till 1930s. Tt11-s1 l'I'Ot't 1 \\I IU HJRCI n TO llA\1 HJR OM IU \S()\l :\1\.U 0\:1 \10\il: ·n II\ \\IRI Ul Mt\IC·\N UISCI"iT. b ORDIR TO .\\OlD i\1\ld"ili Till S.\.\11 ,\IIST\1\:IS It\ OliR UH>RIS TO 11:'-iD -\ S{)l t ITIU1\. TO TOil·W's 1\IMIGR.\TIO\i I'RUI~l L\1, \\l SllUlliiJ TO IUOJ... lt\Ch: -\ND U::\Rr\ H{U\t A FoRGOTTEN INJUSTICE. 

-!lr 
t../·{li£r,lzLr 

Monday, September 14, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Layoffs lead to fewer blood drives 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. Before the recession hit, Jacksonville's blood bank would pull its buses up to the Anheuser-Busch brewery and pump 300 units of blood from employees. 
Then came buyouts, retire­ments and layoffs. During the company's last blood drive, the Blood Alliance only collected about 45 units. 
Which is why, on a recent day, the organization's blood­mobile was parked in a driving rainstorm outside a small law firm. With the smell of latex gloves in the air, donors read the paper and listened to soft rock on the radio as workers pricked their arms with nee­dles. 
"We have to do smaller blood drives," explained John Helgren, a spokesman for the Blood Alliance. "We have to work harder to get blood these days." 
In some hard-hit pockets of the country, from Florida to Michigan to Southern California, blood centers are noticing a pattern: corporate drives are attracting fewer donors, likely because of the economy. 
The nation's overall blood supply is adequate to cover local shortages, but in some areas a majority of blood is donated during workplace drives because people tend to give where it's convenient. When workers are laid off or aren't replaced after retire­ments and buyouts, there are fewer donors. The employees who are left don't feel like they can take the time to give, or don't feel like it. That leaves the local blood banks scrambling. 
"We are seeing a direct effect of the recession," said Toni Gould, spokeswoman for Michigan Community Blood Centers, which has seen a 15 percent to 20 percent drop this summer. The state's unemploy­ment rate of 15.6 percent is the nation's highest. "So many busi­nesses and factories are clos­ing, and they accounted for a large share of mobile drives." 
It's a similar story in Wisconsin, where a spokes­woman from the Badger­Hawkeye Red Cross says 33 corporate drives were canceled from June through August, resulting in 1,700 fewer units collected. The state's unemploy­ment rate of 8. 7 percent has doubled in the last year. 
And Florida Blood Services in Tampa -where the unemploy­ment rate is 11.3 percent­had to import several thousand units of blood to cover an August shortfall. Spokesman Dan Eberts said employees at some companies are also work­ing from home -or traveling to countries like India, where new headquarters have been set up. That makes them tem­porarily ineligible to donate because it's possible they were exposed to a blood-borne dis­ease. And the workers who sur­vive layoffs often aren't in a giv­ing mood. 
"Some people were like, 'And now you want my blood?'" Eberts said. 
While certain areas report a decline in donations, ·the American Red Cross says there hasn't yet been a significant drop overall -but that might be changing. 
Many businesses are cancel­ing blood drives, and the Red Cross is starting to see fewer donors than in previous months, said Stephanie Millian, the organization's direc'tor of biomedical communication. But she noted that it's too soon to tell ifit's a seasonal shift, or one caused by the poor economy. 
The decline in blood donation in some areas coincides with an overall decline in corporate charity. For example, United Way spokeswoman Sally Fabens said that in 2008, work­place campaigns declined 4.5 percent from the previous year -and corporate gifts to the organization declined 3.9 per­cent. 
Some blood centers say sum­mer donations are always down because of vacations and closed high schools, where drives are often held. Also, the eligible donor population keeps shrink­ing as people visit exotic, malaria-ridden locales or get tattoos -people who get inked often can't give blood for a year because of possible infections. In general, the Red Cross has tightened its criteria for donors in the past 10 years or so. 
The Red Cross of Southern California saw its corporate donations dip earlier in the year, and suspected it was because layoffs. So the group started using a machine that collects twice as many red blood cells from donors and changed how it schedules blood drives. 
"I don't want to say were in a fabulous situation," spokesman Nick Samaniego said. "We're not in a crisis situation -but we're not exactly where we want to be." 
Many locations say the drop in donations correlates with a drop in usage -if people move away it generally means there are fewer people left in the community who might need blood. But in Jacksonville, blood usage is up, said the Blood Alliance's Helgren. 

Fake moon rocks discovered abroad 
Associated Press 

AMSTERDAM -Attention, countries of the world: Do you know where your moon rocks are? 
The discovery of a fake moon rock in the Netherlands' national museum should be a wake-up call for more than 130 countries that received gifts of lunar rubble from both the Apollo 11 flight in 1969 and Apollo 17 three years later. 
Nearly 270 rocks scooped up by 
U.S. astronauts were given to for­eign countries by the Nixon administration. But according to experts and research by The Associated Press, the where­abouts of some of the small rocks are unknown. 
"There is no doubt in my mind that many moon rocks are lost or stolen and now sitting in private collections," said Joseph Gutheinz, a University of Arizona instructor and former U.S. gov­ernment investigator who has made a project of tracking down the lunar treasures. 
The Rijksmuseum, more noted as a repository for 17th century Dutch paintings, announced last month it had had its plum-sized "moon" rock tested, only to dis­cover it was a piece of petrified wood, possibly from Arizona. The museum said it inherited the rock from the estate of a former prime minister. 
The real Dutch moon rocks are in a natural history museum. But the misidentification raised ques­tions about how well countries have safeguarded their presents from Washington. 
Genuine moon rocks, while worthless in mineral terms, can fetch six-figure sums from black­market collectors. 
Of 135 rocks from the Apollo 17 mission given away to nations or their leaders, only about 25 have been located by CollectSpace.com, a Web site for space history buffs that has long attempted to compile a list. 
That should not be taken to mean the others are lost -just that the records kept at the time are far from complete. 
The AP reviewed declassified correspondence between the State Department and U.S. embassies in 1973 and was able to locate ten additional Apollo 17 rocks -in Switzerland, Belgium, Italy, Barbados, France, Poland, Norway, Costa Rica, Egypt and Nepal. 
But the correspondence yielded a meager 30 leads, such as the name of the person who received them or the museum where they were to be initially displayed. Ecuador and Cyprus are among several that said they had never heard of the rocks. Five were handed to African dictators long since dead or deposed. 
The outlook for tracking the estimated 134 Apollo 11 rocks is even bleaker. The locations of fewer than a dozen are known. 
"NASA turned over the samples to the State Department to dis­tribute," said Jennifer Ross­Nazzal, a NASA historian, in an e-mailed response to questions. "We don't have any records about when and to whom the rocks were given." 
"The Office of the Historian does not keep records of what became of the moon rocks, and to my knowledge, there is no one entity that does so," e-mailed Tiffany Hamelin, the State Department historian. 
That may seem surprising now, but in the early 1970s, few expected Apollo 17 would be the last mission to the moon. With the passage of time, the rocks' value has skyrocketed. 
NASA keeps most of the 382 kilograms (842 lbs) gathered by the Apollo missions locked away, giving small samples to researchers and lending a set of larger rocks for exhibitions. 
Apollo 11 gift rocks typically weigh just 0.05 grams, scarcely more than a grain of rice. The Apollo 17 gift rocks weigh about 
1.1 grams. Both are encased in plastic globes to protect them and ease viewing. 
Each U.S. state got both sets of rocks, and Gutheinz said he and his students have accounted for nearly all the Apollo 17 rocks, though some are in storage and inaccessible. They have only just begun researching Apollo 11 rocks in the states. 
In one known legal sale of moon samples, in 1993, moon soil weighing 0.2 grams from an unmanned Russian probe was auctioned at Sotheby's for $442,500. 
Gutheinz, the former U.S. investigator, says ignorance about the rocks is an invitation to thieves, and he should know. 
In 1998, he was working for the NASA Office of the Inspector General in a sting operation to uncover fake rocks when he was offered the real Apollo 17 rock ­the one given to Honduras -for $5 million. 
The rock was recovered and eventually returned to Honduras, but not before a fight in Florida District Court that went down in legal annals as "United States vs. One Lucite Ball Containing Lunar Material (One Moon Rock) and One Ten Inch By Fourteen Inch Wooden Plaque." 
The case is not unique. 
Malta's Apollo 17 rock was stolen in 2004. In Spain, the newspaper El Mundo this sum­mer reported that the Apollo 17 rock given to the country's former dictator, Francisco Franco, is missing. 
Franco died in 1975. The paper quoted his grandson as denying the rock had been sold. He said his mother had lost it, but claimed it was the family's per­sonal possession, to sell if it wished. 
Gutheinz says Romania's Apollo 17 rock disappeared after the fall and execution of Nicolae Ceausescu in 1989. 
According to Gutheinz and other reports, Pakistan's Apollo 17 rock is missing; so is Nicaragua's, since the Sandinistas came to power in 1979. Afghanistan's Apollo 17 rock sat in Kabul's national museum until it was ransacked in 1996. 
In fact, the Netherlands is one of the few countries where the location of both the Apollo 11 and Apollo 17 gift rocks is known. Britain, Australia, Canada and New Zealand are others ­though none has rocks from both missions on permanent public display and some have been kept in storage for decades. 
The Amsterdam case appears to be not fraud but the result of poor vetting by the Rijksmuseum. 
Spokeswoman Xandra van Gelder said the museum checked with NASA after receiving the rock in 1992 from the estate of the late Prime Minister Willem Drees. NASA told the museum, without seeing it, that it was "possible" it was a moon rock. 

r---------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, September 14, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
Big (evil?) Google 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOIHN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Saia 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR·IN·CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observerspons@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO1 @sainttnatys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574} 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofrhe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content, 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directedwEditor-in-Chiifjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obstr~t (USPS 5:99 2-4000) is publi.ilied Monday through Friday except duting nam and '<aca;tion pCliods. A.s:ubscdption to The Obs.ervct ~ $l20 fMonc: academk yea.t~ $6S fOr on<: Stro.esru, 
the Obsecver is published :ill POsTMASTER ~4 South Dining tiall . . Send .address :eorm:tio.ns iu: Nm~ Oame;tN 4655~779 The: Observer Feriodical postage pahlat. Notre Darin: RO,Box.TlfJ and additional mai(iug: ulfteeS•. 024 South DiningHall 
Notre Dam:e, lN 4655&.0779­
~ Ohservt::r i& a-ml!llh.::r 9fdie ~md Pr~ All rt:pfOducrlQn righrx are 
'~· 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Joseph McMahon Douglas Farmer Amanda Gray Michael Bryan Carly Landor Chris Masoud Graphics Scene Mary Cecilia Jess Shaffer 
Mitsch Viewpoint Lianna Brauweiler 

Funny how some take-overs are evil and some are welcome, isn't it? 
The government taking over our health care system: evil (especially when "tak­ing over" doesn't have any concrete meaning). 
Microsoft taking on the world in the high­ly intimidating figure of Bill Gates: evil. 
Wal-Mart buying out every little "Ma and Pa" grocery store to provide cheap alternatives: evil. 
Google providing more and more free* Internet serv­ices and applica­tions: awesome. 
We overlook the corporate domina­tion of one of the biggest companies in Internet services because it's fun to use. We think it's creative, witty and intuitive. Why would you hate a company like that? 
I fully realized my personal devotion to Google two weeks ago when Gmail stopped working for those long couple hours. Surely you all noticed as well. Having those two hours oflife in which communication was forced to transpire only verbally, when scheduling had to be done with hand onto paper books (do those muscles still exist in my hand?), and when documents had to be saved on standard MS Word and not Google Docs was painful. difficult to accept and even made it tough to find alternative things to do. 
It was obviously very traumatic. 
But the whole incident got me think­ing; what would we do, as a global Internet-based community, if Google stopped working? 
According to various outside estimates 

Jackie Mirandola­Mullen 
Freckled Thoughts 

(when you control search engines, it's easy to keep your secrets un-findable), Google has somewhere between 500,000 and 900,000 servers. Coogle's yearly revenue in 2008 was $27.8 billion, from which they made about $6.63 billion in profits. Their gross profits from last year are approximately equal to total revenue of the number two Internet search engine, Yahoo! ($7.2 billion)-that's Yahoo!'s revenue to Coogle's profits. 
Not only is Coogle's net revenue more than the revenues of Arnazon.com, Ebay and Yahoo! combined, but their trusted, easy-to-use and sleek services expand daily. Google has released the Android as a competitor of the i-Phone, Google Chrome to rival Microsoft's long-standing Internet Explorer, Picasa Web Albums to compete with Facebook's easy-to-share albums and GoogleMaps -well, they took out MapQuest a long time ago. Google partners with NASA ("Google Mars"), provides search and ad options to MySpace (which Google paid $900 million for) and owns YouTube (sold for $1.65 billion in stock). 
That sounds like a giant to me. 
But how can you hate Google? Everything is free. Picasa combines Photoshop and Facebook into a touch­up, shared, orderly masterpiece. The organizational theory behind every Google App makes so much sense that it often changes perception. Why didn't I write my calendars out in such a crisp, block format before I started using Google Calendar? How could you possi­bly expect to drive somewhere new and not have an idea of what the street looks like, either from the road or from the sky? 
Google differs from the other evil takeovers in that it actually works. They are taking over not solely because they are that adept at business, but because they are that adept at technology, psy­chology and design. 
There have certainly been some anti­trust fears, such as in 2008 when Google wanted to allow Yahoo! to advertise on its pages, which would have given the combined advertising force control of 81 percent of all searches. The U.S. Department of Justice intervened to stop that deal. 
But when a company's motto is "Don't be evil," it is hard to label it as such. How do you vilify something that your daily structure depends on? Even if they read your e-mails and tailor advertise­ments to your private written words, even if they make 99 percent of their $27.8 billion revenue from ads targeted to (and effectively working on) you and me, even if they hold on to your entire Internet search history, you can't seem to hate them. Why? 
Because if their servers went down, we would go down, too. They have so much information that we all consider "safe," beyond the limits of our crash-able com­puters. We disregard the fact that their servers are human, too. Okay, maybe fal­lible is a better word choice than human, but wanting to call them human is telling. 
So here at the conclusion-drawing part of the column, I'm left without a sketch­pad. Whether Google is good or bad may even be irrelevant. It works, and it works well. Companies make money when peo­ple actually enjoy using their services. Just be aware, the next time you protest Big Government, that you got to the Web site of that ranting blog through Big Google. 
Jackie Mirando/a Mullen is a senior history and German major. She can be reached (via Gmail) atjmirando@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
Are you going to the career fair? 
Yes No Who cares, I'm not going to get a job anyway What career fair? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"All men think all men mortal 
but themselves." 
Edward Young English poet 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, September 14, 2009 page II 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
War in Iraq frotn a soldier's perspective 
Reading Lauren Jacobi's article on the reporter's lecture on Iraq ("Reporter lectures on Iraq conflict," Sept. 10) filled me with the same sense of frustration I often get trying to explain the war in Iraq to someone who has not been there. And apparently, Thomas Ricks spent some time in Iraq. I was there for 15 months as part of the Baghdad Security Plan or, as it is often referred to, "The Surge." My Brigade (approximately 3,500 soldiers) deployed in March of 2007 and stayed until June of 2008. Our job was to secure the east­ern edge of Baghdad to limit accelerant movement into Baghdad. 
Ricks is correct in that the Surge was a very difficult time in Iraq. The fight­ing was intense; I lost several friends and saw the carnage first-hand as a Scout Platoon Leader. Then things changed. As more forces poured into the area and our troop numbers swelled. we were able to provide stabil­ity. Patrol bases were established to maintain watch over the neighbor­hoods, we were able to achieve near constant presence in the streets and the violence crested and then rapidly dissi­pated. 
In the weekly sheik counsel meetings, that change became very real. What started as a hodgepodge of local lead­ers without a voice in the government shaped into the "Sons of Iraq" move­ment that started in the Anbar province and spread like wildfire. The people in our corner of the Wassit Province found their voice. The Iraqis took the respon­sibility of security into their own hands, not just as paid volunteers under the Sons of Iraq, but the ebbing tide of vio­lence allowed for vast improvement in the Federal Police, local Police and Iraqi Army. Additionally, many political leaders that shut themselves out of the previous election where able to make their voice heard through non-violent means. This was the basis for current Security Agreement that allows Iraqis to tell Americans that they do not need our help in the cities. 
According to Jacobi's article, Ricks' three points that Americans do not understand were how difficult the surge was (and that it ultimately failed), that the elections will be vio­lently contested and that there is impending civil war. I feel that is an unfair conjecture at this point. Iraqis have only had security in their hands since July. It's early September; this is not a football season -things take time. New Orleans is still nowhere near where it was before Katrina and that was a natural disaster. Iraq is a country that has been at war with itself and its neighbors for the better part of its his­tory. 
Here are the three things I believe most Americans do not understand about the war in Iraq: 1. Iraq is not America and Iraqis are not Americans. They have different moral and ethical standards, different standards of living and a different outlook on life in gener­al. Ifyou hold Iraq or Iraqis to American standards you will always see a huge dissonance because they are completely different. 
2. 
The current Security Agreement in Iraq is still in flux. Iraqi security forces need time to be tested, learn and improve. This is their first chance to establish security since 2003 so things are not perfect. But they are far better than what most people would believe and they have come a very long way in a short period of time. 

3. 
The elections this January are the true test of how long we will have to stay in Iraq to provide stability and assistance. I refuse to believe that it is 


a foregone conclusion that Iraq will have a violently disputed election. There may be violence, but Iraqi secu­rity forces have three more months to continue to grow and develop. Additionally it is an opportunity that most Iraqis see as a chance to show the international community that are capa­ble of achieving a democratic and non­violent society. 
I know that the war in Iraq is far from over and I think most Americans now realize that nation-building takes time. It took decades to rebuild Germany and Japan after WWII and decades to rebuild Korea after the Korean War. I believe that Americans know and understand this, but that it is a tough pill to swallow when America itself is in turmoil economically and politically. There is light at the end of the tunnel and I believe that, given the opportunity to succeed, our efforts in Afghanistan and Iraq will produce sta­ble strategic partners in critical parts of the globe. 
John Dickson alumnus class of 2005 Sept. 11 

Teatn's post-gatne conduct disappointing 
Dear Football Team, 
Congratulations on playing a terrific two quarters Saturday. Freshmen and sophomores, I hope the Big House lived up to its hype as not only one of the toughest places to play, but one of the most vile holes of swamp-ground in the nation. 
Michigan-hating aside, I want you, the players, to know that I'll be proud to stand behind you as long as you are proud to fight for Our Lady's University. As a member of the drum line, I'm willing to do whatever I can to support you from Monday to Friday at our practices, at mid­night on Fridays and from dawn to dusk every Saturday. This past Saturday, I didn't mind waking up at 7:30a.m., helping to load nine buses, bussing to the armpit of America, holding my drum for five straight hours or scream­ing my lungs out for four quar­ters only to see a heartbreaking loss (a loss that can't be blamed solely on you). I've gotten used to that brand of [censored] in that past two years. What made me most sick wasn't even the mass of drunken Michigan fans taunting me and singing that poor excuse for a fight song in my face. 
The thing that disappointed . me most Saturday was the way a group of men I respect and admire responded to a tough loss by putting their tails between their legs and slinking out of the Big House without stopping to recognize the stu­dent section, alumni, guest fans, band or most importantly the University by singing the Alma Mater. It may be a small act, but watching you sing "Love thee Notre Dame," win or lose, is part of every game day I'm not willing to sacrifice. 
This letter shouldn't be read as a childish tantrum, an ulti­matum or any sort of unneces­sary jest at our football team. It's a challenge to you, the team, to conduct yourselves with pride, dignity and respect. It's a reminder to you that when I watch the games on Saturdays, I'm not watching a group of professionals or celebrities earn a living; I'm watching fellow students do something I wish I could do ­represent our school by giving it all on the gridiron. So when time expires, show some pride and join your peers in singing the Alma Mater. 
I love Notre Dame football. I love our 2009 squad. I love watching you give everything you have every minute of every game. I may not be able to give blood and sweat on the field, but I win and lose, live and die with you every Saturday. I will never let up or let you down. It's a [censored] promise. 
Next Saturday I'll be there with the drum line to watch you crush the Spartans. I'll be there before the game, for each of the four quarters and I'll be there after the game to watch you sing the Victory Clog and Alma Mater. I can't wait. 
Go Irish, beat Spartans! 

Kale Frank 
JUniOr 
Sorin College 
Sept. 13 
Lack of rem_em_brance sham_eful 
On Friday, the Notre Dame community awoke to a day like any another. If we looked closely, however, we would have observed the flag at half-mast -the only truly public tribute on campus to the September 11 attacks that occurred eight years ago. Shamefully, Notre Dame, like most of the country, seems to have forgot­ten the event that claimed the lives of thousands of innocent people 
As a native New Yorker, the 9/11 attacks probably affected me more than others. My dad, now a retired NYPD lieutenant, was one of the many called down to work at Ground Zero and suffered a relatively serious eye injury from the clouds of dust and debris that enveloped the area. In the wake of the attacks he also performed the heartbreaking task of sifting through the wreckage for body parts at Staten Island. 
I must confess, as an American and a Catholic, to being very disappointed with Notre Dame's lack of tribute to the 9/11 attacks. For an institution that places "country" second only to God in the hier­archy of importance, I was shocked at the dearth of both memorial services and pub­licity for the few that were held. Granted, for most of the country 9/11 is also a thing of the past. Friday morning I turned on the news only to witness a breathtaking discussion of health care. Notre Dame is supposed to be different. As one of the premier Catholic universities in the world, I would think that we would be deeply in tune to remembering a day where hatred led to the taking of life-God's most pre­cious gift. I would think that on that day, we might invoke the memory of Father Judge, the FDNY chaplain who died while giving Last Rites, as a model of self-sacri­fice and compassion. I would think that we might publicly thank the members of our ROTC program, where so many students are training to serve and protect our coun­try. On Friday I saw none of these things. 
Forgiveness and the ability to move on past tragedy are important. Remem­brance, however, is a duty-one that Notre Dame obviously has failed to per­form. 
Kaitlin Spillane 
JUniOr 
Lewis Hall 
Sept. 13 

Cosine of the tim_es 
It is typical for liberals to equivocate all conservatives with being racist. This has been even more common since the election of Barack Obama. This demonization by hardcore leftists is a sick (not to mention asi­nine) way to justify their political ideology. Racism equals bad; I think conservatives are racists; therefore, anything a conservative says is dumb/evil. The fallacy with this line of thought is painting a group of people as all believing the same thing. I believe this is called a stereotype, something that I thought progressive-minded persons tried to avoid. 
In Brooks Smith's editorial ("Sign of the times," Sept. 10), this illogical argument is used again. Disregarding the fact that the Republican party, the shell of conservative thought and the party of Lincoln, was instru­mental in ending slavery, that the Bush cabi­net contained two African Americans, two Asian Americans, four women and one Cuban American, that conservative ideology is to the benefit of all peoples who work hard and wish to live life without the govern­ment telling them what they can and can't do, liberals still try to label us as racists. Racism is an individual decision, so don't lump me in just because I may vote the same way. 
Mark Easley sophomore Keenan Hall Sept. 11 



THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Monday, September 14, 2009 
Getting into 'Trouble' 
Favorite Childhood Boardgaines 
their "perfect weddings," complete with bridal gowns and honeymoon destina­By EMILY DORE tions. Scene Writer "Trouble:" The sound of popping dice and a small plastic board were the decid­
ing factors in this game. If this was the most trouble your younger brother got into 
"Should I go to college or start a job right away?" Many eight-year-olds have that night, it was probably a relief for mom. faced this question Friday nights. The very decision has pitted parents and chil­"Candyland:" In a perfect world, "Candyland" would include built-in candy sur­dren against each other, and started arguments and mocking laughter. It could prises. Instead, it is only a game of colors. However, send a child down the path to destruction or wild success in the span of an hour. every time a card told you to move back to Mr. This was the game of "Life," where plastic people and cars decided childhood hap­Plumpy, despite already being three quarters of the piness for a night. F ·· · · h 1way up the board, it was reason to cry. 
Board games had a way of turning a quiet family evening into one of turned I nI s . "Monopoly:" Over 500 million people in the world over tables and tearful shouting. If grandma was ever accused of cheating, it have played "Monopoly." In the game of future real might have been while sitting around the kitchen table. Champions had bragging estate developers, owning Park Place and Boardwalk rights for the night, while losers sulked in the corner. Never had happiness been was the pinnacle of success ... until both had to be decided by the roll of dice or flick of a card. 
mortgaged. 
Here's a nostalgic look back at the top 10 games which either left you pumping "Operation:" "Is it water on the knee?" With metal your fists or shedding a tear on the way to bed: tweezers and playing cards, "Operation" proved that 
"Sorry!:" What better way to get back at an older sibling passive aggressively, there was a doctor in us all. Diseases like "broken then by sending their plastic marker back to Start. The game seemed sim-heart" and "butterflies in the stomach" made medical ple: Move four pieces around a board back to Home, school seem like a breeze, since anyone with a steady before the competition. Yet with Sorry! cards which could hand could probably do it. knock family members out of the lead, that's where sim­"Hisk:" The game of world domination and young plicity ended and war began. tyrants. Another reason why children should not rule 
"Life:" If you ever cured cancer, owned a yacht, and the world. retired with more than $1,000,000 to your name, all while "Pretty, Pretty Princess:" Every girl was the envy of the neighborhood living in a shack with a high school degree, you were like-with this board game of feather boas and "gold" crowns. Purple plastic ly playing the game of "Life." As a 10-year-old, it made rings have never looked so stylish. adulthood seem exciting ... until you realized real life "Yahtzee:" There was nothing more crushing than getting four fives and one six, doesn't include an extra $10,000 every time a wheel hits thereby eliminating chance for a Yahtzee. 
10. So break out the "Sorry!" boards and experience one more night of glory with 
"Perfect Wedding:" Never had Cancun seemed so your roommates. Just be careful when you send them back to Start. romantic. In this board game, little girls planned 
Start 
Contact Emily Dore at edore@nd.edu 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 
By MAIJA GUSTIN Scene Writer 

The highly anticipated "The Beatles: Rock Band" is final­ly out, and it's well worth the wait. Like all other "Rock Band" and "Guitar Hero" games, this particular incarna­tion features parts for guitar, bass, drums and vocals. But instead of choosing some bizarre avatar that may or may not look like a KISS member that let himself go, players are members of the Fab Four, with Ringo playing drums, George playing guitar and you know the rest. The back­ground videos for each song are based on the era from which it comes, with "A Hard Day's Night" featuring a 
graphics, like a flying gazebo in "Sergaent Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band/With A Little Help From My Friends" and an underwater adventure in "Octopus's Garden." Completing songs and beat­ing levels unlocks rare material for "Beatles" fans, like photos and live videos. A welcome new development in the "Rock Band"f'Guitar Hero" universe, also featured in "The Beatles: Rock Band," is a new Quickplay mode in which all of the songs are already unlocked. For those who just want to play some music without taking the time to beat all of the levels in Story Mode (or who don't want to look up cheats to unlock all the songs), this is a great chance for some casual play. With the option of playing 45 of "The Beatles"' most beloved songs, there is plenty to do without beating the 
young group of mop-top Brits playing on "The Ed Sullivan Show" and "Don't Let Me Down" showing Paul, John, George and Ringo with facial hair playing atop a New York City building. This is the case because in story mode, players follow "The Beatles" as they play their first show at the Cavern Club, hit up "Ed Sullivan," chill in Abbey Road Studios, and play their final rooftop concert. 
The experience is immersive, as players travel with The Beatles from their meager 
beginnings to their 

game. Songs include "Can't Buy Me Love," "Come Together," "Dear Prudence," "Hello Goodbye," "Helter Skelter," "Here Comes the Sun," "I Am The Walrus," "I've Got a Feeling," "Lucy In The Sky With Diamonds," "Revolution," "Yellow Submarine" and many more. Soon, for those hooked up to the Internet, even more "Beatles" songs will be available to buy online in the "Rock Band" store. As of now, these include "All You Need Is Love," "Maxwell's Silver Hammer," "Oh! Darling," "Because," "Norwegian Wood (This Bird Has Flown)," "When I'm 64" and others. The first batch of these songs will be available starting Oct. 20, with more coming in November and December. There is no news as of yet 
whether more songs will be available sometime next year. For "Beatles" fans, "The Beatles: Rock Band" is a whole 
new way to experience their music. For casual listeners, 
the game is great fun with an interesting storyline and 
songs for players of all levels. "The Beatles: Rock Band" 
was clearly a labor of love for those involved in its produc­
tion, and the final product is a great new game to add to 
the lineup of music simulator games that are all the rage 
right now. 

Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
The Beatles: Rock Band 

~------­

NSIDER 
O
THE Monday, September 14, 2009 BSERVER Michigan 38, Notre Dame 34 
Big House heartbreak 
Freshman Forcier leads last-minute TD drive and Irish fall 38-34 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. Golden Tate, usually effusive, stood with his hands in his pockets, his chin glued to his chest, and summarized the team's collective psyche. 
''I'm honestly sick in my stomach right now," he said. 
Understandable, considering Notre Dame's 38-34 loss to Michigan in Michigan Stadium Saturday. Michigan's freshman quarterback Tate Forcier led a touchdown drive in the final minute that ended in a five­yard touchdown pass to Greg Mathews. 
"There were plenty of opportunities on offense, defense and special teams to win that game," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "We can't pout and say we should have won the game." 
The loss dropped Notre Dame to 1-1 and put a dent in the high expectations for the season. 
Running back Armando Allen had his best career rushing day, running for 139 yards and a touchdown on 21 carries. He also converted a Statue of Liberty play for a two-point conversion after his touchdown that gave Notre Dame a 34-31 lead with 5:13 
remaining. 
QUENTIN STENGER!The Observer The Irish forced a punt and Mlchlan freshman quarterback Tate Forcier runs past Notre Dame sophomore linebacker Darius Fleming on a 31-yard fourth-down got the ball back with 3:07 scramble at the beginning of the fourth quarter. Forcier's score gave the Wolverines a 31-20 lead. 
left, but couldn't run the clock out. Eric Maust's punt traveled Notre Dame gained 18 yards rushed right up the hash Facing third-and-12, Forcier 37 yards. Once inside the red only 28 yards, and Michigan in the third quarter; Michigan marks untouched 31 yard for completed a 40-yard pass zone, Clausen found Floyd put together a nine-play, 57-gained 153. The Irish had neg­a touchdown to make the down the right sideline to again for a four-yard touch­yard drive to win. ative-six rushing yards in the score 31-20. Mathews, who had five catch­down pass to make the score 
Quarterback Jimmy Clausen third quarter. The Wolverines, Getting the ball back after es for 68 yards and a score. 14-10 with 12:34 left in the completed 25-of-42 passes for meanwhile, gained 99 yards Forcier's touchdown, Notre Minor's 22-yard run put first half. 336 yards and three touch­on the ground. Dame drove down the field in Michigan on Notre Dame's Facing first-and-25 from his downs, but he threw two more "They really didn't change 4:30, eventually scoring on a two, and Minor scored on the own 16-yard line, Clausen would-be touchdowns to Tate their whole mentality from 21-yard touchdown pass from next play. again found Floyd deep, this that Tate dropped. what they were doing in the Clausen to Tate. The two-point Clausen threw a gorgeous time for 33 yards. Clausen 
"That was just a lack of third quarter from what they conversion failed, so the score screen pass to Allen that went eventually found Floyd for an focus on my part," Tate said. were doing [earlier]," Weis remained 31-26 Michigan. for a 41-yard touchdown, but 11-yard touchdown and the "I don't know why." said. Safety Kyle McCarthy inter­an official review ruled that Irish took a 17-14 lead. 
Forcier completed 23-of-33 Tate had nine catches for cepted Forcier on Michigan's Allen stepped out of bounds at Tausch and Jason passes for 240 yards and two 115 yards and two touch­next drive, leading to Allen's the 22-yard line. The Irish Olesnavage each made field touchdowns with one intercep­downs. Michael Floyd had eight-yard touchdown. couldn't get back in the end goals, and the half ended with tion. He also rushed 13 times seven catches for 131 yards Michigan had first-and-goal zone, but freshman Nick the Irish ahead 20-17. for 70 yards and had a 30-and a touchdown but left in on its first drive of the second Tausch made a 43-yard field The message to the team, yard touchdown run on fourth the fourth quarter after cut­half, but a fumbled snap and goal to make the score 7-3. Weis said, was: Where do we down. ting his knee diving for a ball two failed runs forced a field Then Darryl Stonum found a go from here? 
"[Minor and Forcier] sus­in the corner of the end zone. goal, which Olesnavage hole on the kickoff return and "We just got to move on and tained some stuff," Weis said. Freshman linebacker Manti missed. But they got another shot through it for a 94-yard get ready for the game against 
The Irish had a 20-17 lead Te'o started in place of senior chance after running back touchdown, the first time the Michigan State," Smith said. at halftime and held the Toryan Smith. Weis said Smith Jonas Gray fumbled and the Wolverines have returned a Clausen talked after Weis in Wolverines to 49 rushing rolled his ankle earlier in the Wolverines recovered in. Irish kickoff for a score since Steve the locker room and echoed yards in the first half. But week and couldn't cut at full territory. This time Forcier Breaston was in school. Weis' message. Michigan running back speed, and he wanted Te'o to found tight end Kevin Koger Michigan led 14-3 at the end "This feeling right here," he Brandon Minor rushed for 80 play early when the game for a three-yard touchdown of the first quarter. said, "is not going to happen of his 116 yards in the second speed was the fastest. pass to give Michigan a 24-20 The next time the Irish had again." half and the Wolverines fin­Ahead 24-20 in the fourth lead. the ball, Clausen heaved a ished with 190 yards on the quarter, Forcier juked line­The Wolverines scored first deep pass to Floyd down the Contact Bill Brink at 
backer Darius Fleming and on a nine-play, 79-yard drive. sideline, who hauled it in for
ground. wbrink@nd.edu 
player of the game 
Tate Forcier Michigan quarterback 

Forcier passed for 240 yards, rushed for another 70 and led the Wolverines on a game-winning, last-minute drive. 
stat of the game 
-6 

Total Notre Dame rushing yards in the third quarter. The Irish offense sputtered and the Wolverines took the lead. 
play of the game 
Forcier to Mathews five-yard touchdown pass 
lVith I I seconds left, the pass ended a 57-yard game-winning Michigan drive 
quote of the game 

'We just needed two first downs, and unfortunately we only got one. " 
Jimmy Clausen Irish quarterback on Notre Dame's final drive 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 14, 2009 
report card 
A 
quarterbacks: Clausen continued to put up impressive stats, going 25-of-42 for 336 
yards and 3 scores. He also showed 
poise leading two touchdown drives 
when it mattered in the fourth quarter. 
running backs: Armando Allen gets an 'A· 
B+ 
The junior had a career day, rushing for 139 yards on 21 carries. Sophomore 
Jonas Gray, though, had a crucial fumble in the third quarter. 
B+ 
receivers: Both Golden Tate and Michael Floyd went over 100 yards, but Tate also 
had a couple of crucial drops on what would have been big plays 
B 
offensive line: The line had its best run­blocking performance in a long time, but -even though they didn't give up any 
sacks-Oausen was under constant pressure from the Michigan defense 
c 
defensive line: Forcier was sacked twice, but the Irish front line was dec­
imated by the Wolverine rushing attack, especially in the third quarter. 
c 
linebackers: Brian Smith had seven tack­les, but the linebackers -like the rest of 
the Irish defense-weren't able to make a big play when it mattered most. 
8-
defensive backs: Kyle McCarthy had a big interception, and Harrison Smith racked up 11 tackles, but Forcier was able to 
pick the Irish secondary apart on the game-winning drive. 
D 
special teams: Freshman Nick Tausch missed his first career field goal attempt in the first quarter, and had consistently 
short kickoffS. Add in the kick return 
touchdown and it gets pretty ugly. 
8-
coaching: The second-to-last drive notwithstanding, it was one of Charlie Weis' best coached games from a play­
calling standpoint. The poor defensive coaching brings the grade down, though. 
2.67 
overall: A very disappointing showing after last week's blowout. The offense played well, but the defense just could-n't come up with a big stop. 
adding up the nuinbers 
Jimmy Clausen's passing yards were the 
3 3 6 

most ever for an Irish quarterback against Michigan. 
10 
Tackles for loss by Notre Dame, the most by an Irish team since a Nov. 19, 2005 win over Syracuse. 
Yards per carry by Armando Allen, who registered a touchdown and a 
6.6

two-point conversion. 
Yards the Irish had called back after a pass to
9 6 Kyle Rudolph was called back due to holding and replay officials ruled that Armando Allen stepped out of bounds on a screen pass. 
Armando Allen's longest run of the day, it 
2 4 

also marked the longest run of the junior's career. 
Fourth down conversions by Michigan, one led to a field goal and the other was a 31-yard touchdown run by Tate Forcier. 
Michigan's time of possession in the } 
o·. 2o 

third quarter. The Irish entered the quar­ter up 20-17, and ended it trailing 24-20. 
320 
Michael Floyd's receiving yards over the first two games of the season, the most by a Notre Dame receiver since Tim Brown in 1986. 

ANN AHBOR, Mich. -The ques­tion is obvious. The answer, not so much. 
"Where do we go from here?" Irish coach Charlie Weis asked his team following 
Saturday's gut­wrenching loss that several players said was the tough­est to take of any over the past few sea­sons. 

If they knew Matt Gamber that answer, we wouldn't be having this con-Sports Editor 
versation. If I knew, I would-n't be writing for The Observer. 
In past years, I might have said the team is headed right into the tank. But this is a different group that is capable of bouncing back ­or so I think, hope and pray. 
There's too much talent in the Irish locker room to write this sea­son off as lost, and there's still a whole lot of football to be played. There's a world of difference between 2-0 and 1-1, but either way, we're only two games into the schedule -a schedule that looks to have several winnable games ahead. 
The offense is among the most talented in the nation, and Jimmy Clausen has looked as good as any quarterback in the country over the past two weeks. The defense is full of highly recruited athletes who shut down Michigan in the first half and is led by a coordinator who has enjoyed success in the past. 
What I'm trying to say is that this is what we've got-there's no help on the way. This isn't 2007, when the talent wasn't there. And it isn't 2008, when the experience wasn't there. 
The players and coaches who are supposed to make the Irish one of the top teams in the country are in place. There's no "wait 'til next year" mentality on the offense or one recruit coming in that will fix the defense. 
Of course there are holes on this team. Even good football teams have holes. Even good football teams lose games. But good foot­ball teams bounce back, and where Notre Dame goes from here will show what kind of team the Irish have. 
I truly believe there's enough there for Notre Dame to be a top­15, maybe a top-1 0 type of team, and the Irish can be even with the loss to Michigan. It won't be an easy road back, both in terms of climbing the polls and, more importantly, righting the ship as a team. 
But throwing in the towel and mailing it in certainly won't make that happen, and the Irish know that. The only way to get the job done is to regroup and not let it happen again, and the players will surely do what they can to ensure that it doesn't. 
Notre Dame isn't one of the elite squads in the country right now, but the players and coaches who are supposed to make the Irish one are in place. The expectations and potential are high, but so are the stakes. Whether this group becomes a top team will dictate the future of the program. 
For what it's worth, I think they can do it. 
Of course the loss hurts. It stings to fall to a hated rival, especially in a winnable game with so many cru­cial moments that could have turned the tide. The pain of the team, the band and the student section was tangible, and the sick­ness was heightened by the eupho­ria of the Michigan contingent. There are no more national cham­pionship pipe dreams and no chance for an unbeaten showdown with Southern Cal next month. 
Sure, a lot was lost Saturday, and it hurts. But the loss doesn't have to keep hurting. Nothing would ease the pain more than a ruthless beat-down of Michigan State next Saturday. 
Where the Irish go from here will determine the course of the season­(obviously), but also the course of the program. And where they go from here will also dictate whether Saturday's loss to Michigan is ulti­mately viewed as a frustrating but minor speed bump in an otherwise successful season, or just another crushing defeat indicative of the state of Notre Dame football. 
The Irish have the power to write that history beginning Saturday. For what it's worth, I think they come out hungry, angry and aggressive and tear the Spartans to shreds. 
That's the only way to answer Weis' question and make sure he doesn't have to ask again. 

The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd. edu 


.-----------­
---------------------------------------------------, 
Monday, September 14, 2009 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Allen has career day in loss to UM 

By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. --Last year Armando Allen rushed for 45 yards a game, 4.4 yards per carry and three touchdowns. This year, he's got 105 yards per game, 5. 9 per carry and two scores already. 
Allen's been utilized more this season since James Aldridge became a full­back and Robert Hughes was suspend­ed for the first half of the Nevada game. In the 38-34 loss to Michigan at the Big House Saturday, he made the most of it. 
Allen rushed for 139 yards on 21 car­ries and a touchdown and caught two passes for 24 yards. He also took a Statue of Liberty handoff from Jimmy Clausen for a two-point conversion and would have caught a 41-yard touch­down pass but it was called back because the referees ruled upon fur­ther review that he stepped out of bounds. 
Asked if it was his best game yet, he said, "Yeah, I can say that. I'll take that for what it is." 
Allen averaged 6.6 yards per carry Saturday and had three runs through massive holes in the middle. He looked one tackle away from breaking all three. 
"Once I get tackled I'm always think­ing, 'What am I going to do to break it even more?'" he said. "That's my train of thought." 
Like every running back, Allen cred­ited his offensive line for creating those massive holes. 
Michigan student section, he held one finger in front of his facemask to silence them 
The referee didn't like that and 
called an unsportsmanlike conduct penalty, pushing the Irish back 15 yards on the kickoff. 
"The guys up hont "Once I get tackled "It is what it is," he really did a good job," he I'm always thinking, said. said. "Michigan was When the Irish got the
'What am I going to
really trying to stop the ball back, up by three pass and I think we do to break it even after Michigan punted, knew that coming into more?"' Allen rushed once this game that we had to before hobbling off the step up to the cause. I field. He said the injury
Armando Allen 

think we did a really was to his thigh rather good job with that." Irish running back than his ankle and had 
Guard Eric Olsen said the offensive line made no secret of the fact that they empha­sized run blocking in the offseason. 
"We always want to be able to run the ball effectively," he said. "Obviously [Allen] did a great job. It just comes down to us blocking for him." 
Allen said the Boise State-esque Statue of Liberty call was a standard play in that situation. 
"That's one of our two-point plays, I think when it was called it was no sur­prise to anybody," he said. 
Allen nearly bobbled the handoff, but took it in untouched. After scoring in the corner of the end zone next to the 
been bothering him all week. "I know that if I could go I would have," he said. 
It didn't matter to the line, who blocked for Hughes in that last drive as well, Olsen said. 
Allen was pleased with his play but said the outcome of the game trumped his individual achievements. 
"To me it doesn't matter what I've done if we don't win," he said. "I take it as it is and move forward. 
"We've been in this situation before. We got to keep fighting." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
•
scoring suinmary 

1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Notre Dame  3  17  0  14  34  
Michigan  14  3  7  14  38  

First quarter 
Michigan 7, Notre Dame 0 
Brandon Minor 2-yd run (Jason Olesnavage kick) with 4:12 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 79 yards, 3:46 elapsed. 
Michigan 7, Notre Dame 3 
Nick Tausch 34-yd field goal with 0:46 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 56 yards, 3:26 elapsed. 
Michigan 7. Notre Dame 3 
Darryl Stonum 94-yd kickoff return (Oiesnavage kick) with 0:34 remaining. Drive: 0 plays, 94 yards, 0:12 elapsed. 
Second quarter Michigan 14, Notre Dame 10 
Golden Tate 4-yd pass from Jimmy Clausen (Tausch kick) with 12:34 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 76 yards, 3:00 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 17, Michigan 14 
Michael Floyd 11-yd pass from Clausen (Tausch kick) with 7:05 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 69 yards, 3:47 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 20, Michigan 14 
Tausch 42-yd field goal with 2:41 remaining. Drive: 5 plays,17 yards, 3:07 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 20, Michigan 17 
Olesnavage 39-yd field goal with 0:00 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 48 yards, 2:41 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Michigan 24, Notre Dame 20 
Kevin Koger 3-yd pass from Tale Forcier (Oiesnavage kick) with 7:55 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 26 yards, 1:48 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Michigan 31, Notre Dame 20 
Forcier 31-yd run (Oiesnavage kick) with 14:16 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 64 yards, 3:07 elapsed. 
Michigan 31, Notre Dame 26 
Tate 21-yd pass from Clausen (Clausen pass failed) with 9:46 remaining. Drive: 14 plays, 80 yards, 4:30 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 34, Michigan 31 
Allen 8-yd run (Allen run) with 5:13 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 36 yards, 2:29 elapsed. 
Michigan 38, Notre Dame 34 
Greg Mathews 5-yd pass from Forcier (Oiesnavage kick) with 0:11 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 57 yards, 2:02 elapsed 
statistics 

total yards 
ND 490 
Weis wants 'explanation' from officials 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 
The fact that Irish coach Charlie Weis fielded nine different ques­tion.<; at his Sunday press confer­enr,e on the subject of officiating is a pretty good indication that the zebras weren't at their best Saturday in Ann Arbor. 
"I have to be careful when I say tllis. l have Big 10 officials coming in this week again," Weis said. "B~t th~t game left a lot to be desrred. 
Weis said he didn't blame the officiating for the outcome of the game, but he did discuss several specific plays, the tape of which he sent to the Big 10 conference for review. 
"''d say I'd like an explanation on these handful of plays. Just that handful is a little bit longer handful than it would normally be," Weis said. "It never changes the outcome of a game. All you do is want an explanation, that's all." 
One of the biggest calls was the review of a would-be touchdown on a screen pass to Armando Allen. The replay official over­turned the call on the field, ruling that Allen stepped out of bounds. 
"I watched that tape a hundred times this morning, okay?" Weis said. "From what I understand, the TV copy on top of it, I still haven't heard anyone tell me there's any evidence of Armando stepping out of bounds. The way I thought the rule is supposed to be, it's supposed to be conclusive evidence. I'm perturbed at that call. .. 
There were also three holding calls against the Irish, including one on Sam Young that negated a . 76-yard gain on a Kyle Rudolph catch and run. Weis said he could see evidence of holding on all three call<; and he wasn't going to complain, but he did elaborate on the call on Young. 
"What happened on the play, the defensive end -we chip defensive ends," Weis said. "So when he knocked him inside of Sam, Sam now has him. He goes to throw him to the ground. Ifhe just pushes him to the ground they probably don't call it. Hands in the air, throws him to the ground, that's what they called. 
"You're looking at that, heat of the moment, you're not watching everything happen, you're just seeing the guy getting throw to the ground at the end of the pay. I can understand if the guy watch­ing it wasn't watching the whole thing, you end up calling it." 
There was also some question regarding the clock operation at the end of the game. There were originally 11 seconds on the clock when Notre Dame's offense took over after a touchback. The time was eventually cut to nine sec­onds after the officials first changed the clock to leave 10 sec­onds, as there was some question as to whether Theo Riddick touched the ball on the kickoff. 
Those two seconds proved valu­able when Golden Tate was tack­led near midfield as time expired and the Irish were unable to take one final shot at the end zone. 
"Maybe we'd have one more second, throw a Hail Mary," Weis said. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
l \ ~ : ~ 
rushing yards 
ND154 
l \. ' ' t t • ' 
passing yards 
NO 336 
: \' "' 
~ . . ·-· return yards 
Nl) 435 

time of possession 
Nl) 31:25 





Taken by Force 
The Irish had no answer for Michigan freshman quarterback Tate 
Forcier, who passed for 240 yards and ran for another 70. Running back Armando Allen had the best day of his three year career, running for a 139 yards on 21 carries. Quarterback Jimmy Clausen continued his hot streak, completing 25 passes for 336 yards, three touchdowns and no interceptions. But the normally stout Notre Dame kick coverage unit allowed 94-yard kick return for a touchdown, and the offense sputtered in the third quarter, gaining only 27 total yards. Despite trailing 31-20 early in the fourth quarter, Clausen led two touchdown drives to give the Irish a 34-31lead. Forcier got the last word, though, and put together a 57-yard touchdown drive in the fmal two minutes. The Irish have not won at Michigan since Charlie Weis' frrst season in 2005. 
For more photos, check out the photo gallery at ndsmcobserver.com 
GRACE KENESEY/The Observer 
QUENTIN STENGER!The Observer 
Clockwise from top: Michigan running back Brandon Minor breaks a tackle; junior receiver Golden Tate catches the first of his two touchdown catches; sophomore tight end Kyle Rudolph stiff-anns a Michigan defender; sophomore receiver Michael Floyd makes a leaping catch; and safety Sergio Brown walks off the field towards the end of the game. 
-~-------------~-----~---~-~--~ 
THE OBSERVER 
CENEMonday, September 14, 2009 
page 13 
Stardeath: 
Psychedelic Supergroup of the Future 
which doubles as a transitional piece
By ANDY SEROFF 
into the spacey songs that follow. 
Scene Writer 
The unique, second-child ego of Stardeath's breaks out in "The Birth". 
There's a new drug sweeping the This surfacing is highlighted by the nation. It takes you soaring on an inter­heavily-instrumental passages, where galactic rocket race around the Sun, words serve only as a vessel for the then leaves you chilling in an igloo sound of the voice singing them ("Love, lounge on Pluto. Before you call the can be heavy/If you, you're not ready"). DEA, let me clarify. The drug is no sub­The atmospheric groove disassembles stance at all, merely the psychedelic into noise, is released into silence, and tracks of Stardeath and White Dwarves, then the headbang chorus throttles into a new progressive rock quartet out of the space left behind. Oklahoma City. "The Birth" transitions right into 
The group has toured with Deerhoof, "Those Who Are from the Sun Return to British Sea Power, Band of Horses, and the Sun," which is the most liberated of course, their musical comrades and song of the album. The instrumental fellow Oklahomans, The Flaming Lips, power funk rockets unceasingly for­who they traveled with as roadies and ward, throttling the listener into an out­as an opening act. Their debut album, of-control state. The bass player exhibits appropriately named 'The Birth," was his talent with unbelievable riffs at blaz­released this summer, and they went on ing speeds, while the drummer, who a short tour to promote it. broke his drum set while recording his 
"The Birth" is a very strong album. It part to this song, keeps right along with starts off with a contemporary sound, the bass. With this track, Stardeath echoing their cousins from the Sooner shows off their ability to play this psy­State. The tracks are well structured, chedelic rock fast as well as slow. full-bodied, and catchy. As you progress, Debut albums are one of the most the tracks get more and more spacious, important albums of a band's career ­reminiscent of a modern Pink Floyd. In with it they establish a fan base that will this way, "The Birth" never really falters expect music set by the precedent of the -it just progresses (or regresses) stylisti­debut. Albums like "The Birth" are a cally. Credit to the album's producer, great way to start a musical career, Trent Bell, who laid out the material in because Stardeath and White Dwarves such a way to assist this meta-cohesive­have essentially given themselves a wide ness. platform on which to build on. From 
Stardeath's more dominant ego takes such a dynamic album such as this, they after The Flaming Lips. Their more can build on either musical ego, or con­radio-worthy and lyrically significant tinue blending the two. singles all feel very Lips-esque. For The album art, which is a super close­example, "New Heat," has an enthusias­up, expressive, black and white face tic pulse while maintaining a truly superimposed over space, may be off­exquisite chorus of falsetto vocal har­putting at first, but it encapsulates the monies over powerful acoustic strum­album well. Stardeath and White ming and reverbed, atmospheric Dwarves venture from the mas­electric guitar. Instrumental sive depth of space, to the solos pick up where the hyper-intensity of a face. vocals leave off, round­Somewhere in between, ing out a dynamic there's a band with big sonic journey. "Keep shoes to fill and a future Score," the following in musicmaking. track, is the same ego, just toned down into a simpler groove, 
Contact Andy Seroff at aseroff@nd.edu. 
The Birth 
Stardeath and White Dwarf 
Studio: Warning Brothers Records Inc Recommended Tracks: "New Heat," "Those Who Are From The Sun Return To The Sun" 
:_.., 
~·"· 




HOVA LOSES 
His Hunger 
By NICK ANDERSON Scene Writer 
When it comes down to it, there are really only two important elements in hip hop: hunger and swagger. Whether it's a song, album, artist or era, it cen­ters on either a rabid ferocity towards a goal or a celebration of reaching said goal. Strangely enough, the goal itself isn't really important. Public Enemy found greatness in radical politics, Eminem found it in a racial divide and Method Man found it in simply getting high. Good can be found without a goal, great cannot. 
Jay-Z's from a crowd of rappers who came up playing both. In the late 90s, rap was gaining respect quickly while staying true to its perceived roots in crime and poverty. In a class of rappers who were often head and shoulders above previous generations, Jay-Z was hands down the best. An embodiment of the narcissistic attitude, teeming with both, he managed to draw inspiration from his life as a drug dealer, trans­forming it into commercial success. 
With "The Blueprint 3," Jay-Z joins in the trend of album sequels. He also fol­lows the trend of the sequel losing some of what made the original great, but · being far from a disaster. He's coming up on 40 and "The Blueprint 3" marks his 11th album. It's rare for any artist to make it this far into a career while maintaining the excellence and rele­vance expected from Hova. 
Questions surrounded the recording of 
the album; everything from 
the location (Hawaii) to the 
lyrical content 
(He's a married businessman, far removed from what brought him into the game). to the production (Kanye, Timbaland, No I.D. and Mr. Hudson were all present in studio). Two were answered definitively at the album's release. It was recorded in Hawaii to prevent leaks and Kayne got lead pro­duction credit, but seven different pro­ducers contributed tracks. The lyrics leave something to be desired, but will depend heavily on the listener. Jay admits that he's no longer what he used to be but still claims to be "the hardest out there." He walks both sides, clinging to the mythology created by his early life but dropping attitude that can only come from a man in the back of a Rolls­Royce. 
Unfortunately, the weakest track is the lead single, "Death of Auto Tune." A rally cry to return to simpler produc­tion, Jay takes on the easiest target he can fmd. He's not saying anything radi­cal by calling out the over use of auto tune and he doesn't even create a very entertaining song. Salvation comes on the second single, 'We Run This Town." A collaboration rather than a straight Jay-Z track, Rihanna and Kanye both prove they can hold their own. It'll be the more successful song and deserved­ly so. Rihanna's hook may be too long for a more traditional hip-hop fan, but it's the best commercial rap song released this year. West and Jay both deliver on the verses, easily giving the highlight of the album. 
The album also 
provides a 
showcase for 
some young tal­


ent. Kid Cudi and Drake, both who are finishing debut albums, are featured in the second half of the album. They both make excellent sup­porting appear­ances that boost other­wise mediocre tracks to standouts. The chemistry between the performers on both tracks is impressive and 
keep Jay relevant without trying too hard. 
"The Blueprint 3" isn't a classic. Instead, it's a solid album that would be acceptable from anyone who wasn't Jay-Z. It wasn't meant 

to replicate the timeless "Blueprint," but it's a decent com­panion album. Jay-Z fans should 
buy the album, rap fans should download the singles and everyone else will probably hear it at parties. 


Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 
The Blueprint 3 
Jay-Z 

Studio: Atlantic Records Recommended Tracks: "We run this town," "Off That, Already Home" 

Observer Graphic I MARY CECILIA MITSCH 


page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 14, 2009 
NFL 

Peterson rushes for three touchdowns in Vikings win 
Brees ties Saints record with six touchdown passes over hapless Lions, who drop 18th straight regular season game 
Associated Press 

CLEVELAND -After rolling into the end zone with his first NFL touchdown, Vikings rookie wide receiver Percy Harvin had to absorb an unexpected hit. 
Brett Favre flattened him. 

"I thought we were going to bump chests or something," Harvin said. "He wasn't slow­ing down. I took it and we fell to the ground. It was a great feeling." 
For Favre, the ageless quar­terback with a boundless love for football, career touchdown pass No. 464 was as enjoyable as his first. 
Favre looked pleasing in pur­ple, throwing a 6-yard TD pass to Harvin in his debut with Minnesota, and Adrian Peterson scored three touch­downs and ran for 180 yards as the Vikings overcame a sluggish start to beat the Cleveland Browns 34-20 on Sunday. 
"I had a blast," Favre said. "It wasn't a 400-yard passing game, but it doesn't have to be. As long as we win, that's what it's all about." 
Making his 270th consecutive start after a will-he-or-won't­he flirtation that dominated NFL headlines this summer, the 39-year-old Favre, who holds every significant passing record, showed he can still fire it with authority -and that he hasn't lost his joy for playing. 
After hooking up with the speedy Harvin, Favre sprinted into the end zone and tackled the young wideout who was just 4 years old when his QB began his storied career. 
"You don't find too many players like that who still love the game," said Harvin, a first­round pick from Florida. "That's what makes him spe­cial and separates him from a lot of people. For him to be that old -he's got a daughter my age -and still has a love for the game, going to meetings and all that stuff. He's by him­self." 
So is Peterson. 

The league's leading rusher last season scored on a pair of 1-yard plunges and capped his day with an electrifying 64­yarder in the fourth quarter, breaking five tackles along the way, to make it 34-13. 
Peterson was held to just 25 yards in the first half, when he needed treatment for a badly cut left arm. He felt light head­ed and received intravenous fluids at halftime. 
"I gagged myself a couple times trying to get everything in my stomach out," he said. "Normally it makes me feel better and it did. I came in and got an IV and felt recharged and rejuvenated and was ready to go to work." 
On his long TD run, Peterson used a devastating stiff arm to get away from would-be tack-

Browns quarterback Brady Quinn fumbles against the Vikings in Minnesota's 34-20 win in Cleveland. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
lers before finally busting free and scoring. 
"It was pretty good," Peterson said. "The only thing I did wrong was that I didn't go untouched. I was just deter­mined to get into the end zone, and try to stick that dagger in." 
It certainly put away the Browns. 
"When you play a player of Adrian Peterson 's caliber, it only takes once," Mangini said. "He only needs that one time and he can exploit it." 
Favre was 14 of 21 for 110 yards and appeared to be fully recovered from offseason sur­gery to repair a torn biceps tendon, an injury that plagued him down the stretch last sea­son with the Jets. Favre threw nine interceptions in New York's final five games, a slide that cost his team a playoff 
spot and led to coach Eric  
Mangini's firing.  
Mangini  is  now  with  

Cleveland, and one game into his tenure, little has changed with the Browns. They fell to 1­10 in season openers since 1999, but did score their first offensive touchdown in seven games when Brady Quinn hit tight end Robert Hoyal with 28 seconds left. 
Saints 45, Lions 25 
Drew Brees summed up his record-tying performance by harping on "the ones that got away." 
If he can do better than this, look out. 
Brees tied a Saints' single­game record with six touch­down passes and threw for 358 yards as the New Orleans Saints beat Detroit Sunday to extend the Lions' regular-sea­son losing streak to 18 games. 
"I had a lot of opportunities out there. A lot of guys made some big plays in this game. Unfortunately you always think about the ones that got away," said Brees, who shares a fran­chise mark set by Billy Kilmer in 1969. "There was probably one or two more that we left out there. That's what keeps you coming back." 
Two of Brees' touchdown passes went to Jeremy Shockey , who hadn't scored since being traded from the New York Giants to New Orleans last sea­son. 
"It's good to get that asterisk off my name that I haven't ever scored a touchdown" with the Saints, Shockey said. "Being around a guy like Drew makes it so easy out there because he works so hard. If I get there at 6:10, he's there at 6:05. He's that kind of a guy." 
Mike Bell led New Orleans' running game with a career­high 143 yards, carrying the ball with power, speed and elu­siveness, and getting a stand­ing ovation from the Louisiana Superdome crowd when he trotted off the field late in the fourth quarter. 

Matthew Stafford 's first start had its ups and downs. The 2009 top overall draft choice was 16 of 37 for 205 yards with three interceptions, two by safety Darren Sharper , the other by linebacker Scott Shanle. 
"It was tough. Playing from behind is never easy," Stafford said. "Some of those balls I was throwing, I was just trying to get rid of it and not take a sack.... I'm fine. I've thrown three picks in a game before. Obviously, I don't like to lose. I wish I could play better, but I've got to learn from it." 

Stafford led two touchdown drives, capping one with his first NFL score on a short keeper. Lions safety Louis Delmas also returned a fumble for a 65-yard touchdown, which made it 38-27 late in the third quarter. 
The Lions had some high­lights of their own and stayed in the game until the fourth quarter, offering hope they may eventually win before reaching Tampa Bay's record of 26 straight losses. 
At times, however, they also made mistakes symptomatic of a team with a long losing streak. A few plays after Aaron Brown 's 87-yard kickoff return, Daniel Loper was caiied for a false start on a first-and­goal from the 1 late in the third quarter and the Lions wound up with only a field goal. 
Soon after, Brees' pass to 
Devery Henderson deep down the middle went for a 58-yard score, putting New Orleans up 38-20. 
Stafford's longest completion went to Calvin Johnson , who slipped Malcolm Jenkins ' tack­le on a crossing route and scampered 64 yards to the Saints 3. That set up Stafford's TD. 
That was nothing compared to the passing exhibition put on by Brees, who last season became only the second quar­terback in NFL history to sur­pass 5,000 yards passing. 
Brees completed his first three passes for 49 yards, including a 26-yarder to Reggie Bush and a 9-yard TD to Marques Colston . Brees' other TDs went for 39 yards to Hobert Meachem , 1 and 15 yards to Shockey, and 13 yards to fullback Heath Evans . 
New Detroit coach Jim Schwartz didn't let his defense escape blame, however. 
"Good gracious. What would­n't disappoint me? Points allowed, third-down defense, red zone defense, rushing," he said. "There's no silver lining in that performance." 
Bush returned for the Saints after missing three preseason games and had 55 yards receiving and 14 yards rush­ing. He fumbled two punts, recovering one himself and turning the other over. He also had a 4-yard TD run called back by a holding penalty. 
The Lions could not have opened the game much worse. New Orleans first two drives started near midfield and the Saints led 14-0 before six min­utes elapsed on Brees' TD passes to Colston and Meachem. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  If you or someone you care about  
FoR RENT  WANTED  TICKETS  pass. 574-276·8507.  Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in  has been sexually assaulted, we can help.  
place to assist you.  
APARTMENT right off campus. 1­ PART TIME WORK  HELP!  PERSONAL  If you or someone you love needs  For more information, visit Notre  
bdrm. $500/mo. all inclusive.  Need FB tix for family.  confidential support or assistance,  Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu  
574-243-7777.  $14.25 base·appt.  Will pay top $$.  EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRITING  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  
no experience needed  574-251-1570.  ACT, Inc. invites you to participate in  or  Dear drunk Michigan guy,  
You have seen the rest -now check  customer sales/setvice  an essay-writing study. Limited  Ann Firth at 1-2685.  Sorry we drink cheap liquor and  
out the best. Open Houses Sun.  VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade  number of participants so register  For more information. visit ND s  don't drive an Escalade. Our bad.  
9/20/09 4-7. andersonNDrentals.com  574-273-3835.  FB lix. Victorytickets.net  soon to secure a spot.  website at:  
Start at 203 E. Navarre  574-232-0964.  www.act.org/essaystudy  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  Way to go Kanye, you got em.  



OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVEKs WIRE SERVICES
Monday, September 14, 2009 
page 15 

NFL NCAA Football 
APTop 25 

team previous 
1 Florida 1 
2 Texas 2 
3 Southern California 3 
4 Alabama 4 
5 Mississippi 6 
6 Penn St. 7 
7 BYU 9 
8 Calilornia 10 
9 LSU 11 
10 Boise St. 12 
11 Ohio St. 8 
12 Oklahoma 13 
13 Virginia Tech 14 
14 GeorgIa Tech 15 
15 TCU 16 
16 Oklahoma St. 5 
17 Cincinnati 23 
18 Utah 17 
19 Nebraska 22 
20 Miami (Fla.) 20 
21 Houston NR 
22 Kansas 24 
23 Georgia 21 
24 North Carolina 19 
25 Michigan NR 
NCAA Football Coaches' Poll 

team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Texas 2 3 Southern California 3 4 Alabama 4 5 Penn St. 5 6 Mississippi 8 
7 LSU Associ a ted Press quarter. stringer Matt Moore to Sheldon Brown had two of
9 

8 California With the suspended inherit a big deficit. the interceptions and
10 

9 BYU 12 CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Michael Vick watching from Fittingly, he threw his own Akeem Jordan and Asante 10 Boise St. 11 Donovan McNabb limped to a luxury suite, Kevin Kolb interception, one of seven Samuel each had one on 11 Ohio St. 7 the locker room with a finished the game at quar­Carolina turnovers. consecutive Delhomme 12 Oklahoma 14 cracked rib. Jake terback as the Eagles ran Victor Abiamiri picked up throws in the third quarter. 13 Georgia Tech 13 Delhomme was booed off out the clock on a miser­Delhomme's fumble, McNabb, who finished 10 14 Virginia Tech 15 the field. able day for the Panthers. caused by Trent Cole's of 18 for 79 yards with 15 TCU 16 The veteran quarterbacks Playing his first meaning­sack, and plunged 2 yards touchdown passes to Brent 16 Utah 17 had rough games for differ­ful game since committing for the go-ahead touch­Celek and Brian Westbrook, 
17 Oklahoma St. 
6 ent reasons Sunday, putting six turnovers against down on the first play of rumbled for a TO after the 
18 Nebraska 
18 both franchises in flux after Arizona in the playoffs, the second quarter. Jordan pick for the game's
19 North Carolina 19 
the Philadelphia Eagles Delhomme was nearly as Moments later, DeSean final score.
20 Georgia 21 
routed the Carolina bad. With the boos increas­Jackson returned a punt 85 He was on the ground for 
21 Cincinnati 23 
Panthers 38-10. ing before he was finally yards for a touchdown -several minutes after a
22 Miami {Fla.) 22 
A dominant performance replaced in the third quar­the second longest in fran­hard hit by several would­
23 Kansas 25 
by the Eagles thanks to ter, Delhomme was 7 of 1 7 chise history. be tacklers. Vick, wearing a
24 Oregon Sl. 24 
Delhomme's five turnovers for 73 yards with four Delhomme collapsed suit and watching from
25 Missouri NR 
was tempered by concerns interceptions and a lost under the weight of relent­Eagles owner Jeffrey about McNabb, who fumble. less pressure from the Lurie's suite, looked con­cracked a single rib when Then, backup Josh Eagles, who were playing cerned as McNabb got up, he was crunched by several McCown was carted to the their first game since the slapped a high-five with defenders on his 3-yard locker room with a left death of longtime defensive tight end Brent Celek and
NCAA Women's Volleyball 
touchdown run in the third knee injury, leaving third-coordinator Jim Johnson. walked to the bench. 
AVCA Division I Coaches Poll 
IN BRIEF 

team points 
1 Penn St. 1491 NBA assists leader Stockton Bobcats co-owner Beck dies Serena Williams fined 
2 Texas 1444 enters Hall of Fame in small plane crash S10,000 for Open tirade 3 Washington 1385 SPRINGFIELD, Mass. -John ROCK HILL, S.C. -A North NEW YORK -Serena Williams was 4 Florida 1271 Stockton, the NBA's career leader in Carolina businessman who was a co­fmed $10,000 Sunday for a profanity­5 Nebraska 1209 assists and steals, has been inducted owner of the Charlotte Bobcats has laced tirade directed at a U.S. Open 6 Hawaii 1188'!' into the Naismith Memorial Hall of died in a single-engine plane crash. line judge, and an investigation is 7 Michigan 1173 Fame. Authorities say 49-year-old William under way to determine whether there 8 UClA 1052 Stockton played his entire 19-year "Skipper" Beck of Charlotte, N.C., should be additional punishment. 9 Minnesota 1007 career in Utah, leading the Jazz to died in the crash around 7:15 a.m. The $10,000 penalty-not quite 3 10 Stanford 932 the NBA finals in 1997 and 1998. He Friday at a local airport in South percent of the $350,000 in prize money 
also won Olympic gold medals in Carolina just across the state line Williams earned by reaching the semi­1992 and 1996. from Charlotte. finals at Flushing Meadows-is the 
His longtime coach, Jerry Sloan, The York County coroner and the maximum on-site fine that can be was also in Friday's class. Stockton Federal Aviation Administration say issued for unsportsmanlike conduct at said his coach's record "speaks for Beck was the only person aboard the a Grand Slam tournament. 
around the dial 
itself' and called longtime teammate Cirrus SR22. The U.S. Open said in a statement Karl Malone the best power forward Witnesses say the plane returned that the Grand Slam Committee in NBA history. shortly after take off, but crashed as it Administrator will "determine if theNFL Considered one of the NBA's best tried to land and caught fire. behavior of Ms. Williams warrants con­point guards, Stockton averaged 13.1 An Internet flight tracking site says sideration as a major offense for which 
Buffalo at New England 
points and 10.5 assists for his career. the plane flew from New Jersey to additional penalties can be imposed." 
7 p.m., ESPN 

The Hall's class also included Rock Hill on Wednesday. Williams, who was the defending Stockton's Dream Team teammates, Bobcats owner Robert L. Johnson champion, also was docked $500 for San Diego at Oakland Michael Jordan and David Robinson; issued a statement saying that Beck smashing her racket after the first set 
10:15 p.m., ESPN and Rutgers women's coach C. Vivian was instrumental in bringing the NBA of what became a 6-4, 7-5 loss to Kim Stringer. team to the area. Clijsters on Saturday night. 

....----------------------~~-----------­
PGA TOUR 

Tiger cruises to eight shot victory at Cog Hill 

Quality Off-Campus Houses Now leasing for 2010 · 2011 
• Close to campus  •Washers &dryers  
• Student neighborhoods  • Dishwashers  
• Security systems  • 2-10 bedrooms  

• Lawn service 

We have over 100 properties-see them at www.kramerhouses.com For more information call 
574 234·2436 
Associated Press 

LEMONT, Ill. -Tiger Woods left the drama to everyone else at Cog Hill. 
One day after his course­record 62 gave him a seven-shot lead, Woods made sure no one else had a chance Sunday in the BMW Championship. He closed with a 3-under 68 for an eight­shot victory over Jim Furyk and Marc Leishman. 
It was his sixth victory of the year, and assured Woods the No. 1 ranking going into the final tournament of the FedEx Cup and its $10 million prize. Woods won for the fifth time at Cog Hill, and it was his lOth career victo­ry by at least eight shots. 
"It felt like we had a tourna­ment within a tournament," Furyk said. "Tiger was seven ahead. He was kind of running away. It was kind of a tourna­ment for second place." 
That other tournament wound up being quite a show. 
As Woods cruised around Cog Hill in his familiar red shirt, a dozen players behind him were scrambling for positions into the FedEx Cup finale at East Lake in two weeks. 
Furyk's runner-up finish moved him up 15 spots to No. 3, meaning he can win the FedEx Cup with a victory at the Tour Championship. Leishman, who only qualified for Cog Hill by making an eagle on his last hole a week ago outside Boston, earned his first trip to the Tour Championship and will have an outside shot at the $10 million. 
Most compelling, however, was the battle for the 30th and final spot. 
The heartbreaker belonged to Brandt Snedeker, playing in the fmal group with Woods. Walking up the 18th hole, he learned he only needed a bogey to fmish in the top 30. He missed his 12-foot par putt, then watched in shock as his 3-footer for bogey caught the left lip of the cup. Snedeker was so stunned that he missed the next two putts and took triple bogey. 
"I can't believe I did this," Snedeker said. "I just made a mess of it." 
That allowed John Senden to capture the 30th spot by less than a half-point over Ian Poulter, two players who were hardly clutch down the stretch. Senden had a 90-yard wedge to the green at the 15th and chun­ked it so badly that it traveled only 50 yards. Two holes later, he nearly hit a bunker shot over the green and into the water to make double bogey. 
Senden finished with 1,532.41 points. Poulter, who hit his approach into the water on the 18th, wound up with 1,531.95 points. 
Far for easier to compute was Woods winning. 
He finished at 19-under 265 for his 71st career victory, leav­ing two short of Jack Nicklaus for second on the PGA Tour's career list. Woods also tied Sam Snead with his sixth season of at least six victories. 
Woods won for the first time since his aura was slightly tar­nished at the PGA Championship, where he lost a lead in the final round for the first time since he was a 20­year-old rookie. Y.E. Yang rallied from two shots behind to beat him at Hazeltine, ending Woods' streak of never losing a major with at least a share of the lead. 
No way he was about to lose this one -not at Cog Hill, and not the way he was hitting shots and making putts. 
The closest anyone got to him was six shots when Woods missed the fifth fairway and failed to convert a 10-foot par putt. He made it look easy, yet still provided a few thrills. 
Woods sent his tee shot well to the right into the trees on the par-5 ninth, leaving him a 20­foot wide chute under the trees. He smacked a 3-iron low, straight and under the branch­es, just a little too far. Blocked by a tree on his third shot, he played a low hook and ran the ball onto the green to 15 feet. He made the birdie. 
Walking off the green, he shrugged his shoulder and smiled. Indeed, everything went his way this week in the Chicago suburbs. 
He added an eagle on the par­S 15th when his approach bumped off the collar of the green, caught a ridge and rolled to 6 feet. From there, all that remained was his margin of vic­tory. 
Cog Hill became the fourth course where Woods has won at least five times. He has won seven times at Torrey Pines and Firestone, and six times at Bay Hill. 
The Fall Career Fair is quickly approaching! Come get some last minute tips about tall<ing to employers and securing a job or internship position. 
How to Land Your Dream. Job or Internship 
Presentation by Kindra Wray, Recruiting, Training, and Development Manager at General Mills 
TOMORROW TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15t\ 2009 7:30-8:30 PM MONTGOMERY AUDITORIUM, LAFORTUNE (across from Starbucks) 
*FREE SUBWAY COOKIES and GENERAL MILLS PRODUCTS* 
Sponsored by the Black Cultural Arts Council and Management Club 

Monday, September 14, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Gonzalez, Falcons destroy 'Fins 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -For one week at least, the Falcons answered all those questions about their defense. 
There were never any doubts about Tony Gonzalez. 
Atlanta's new tight end hauled in a touchdown pass and became the 21st player in NFL history with 11,000 yards receiving, helping the Falcons beat the mistake­prone Miami Dolphins 19-7 Sunday. 
Gonzalez caught five passes for a team-high 73 yards, including a 20-yard touch­down that was set up by Mike Peterson's interception. He made the catch in the flats, cut to the inside while shov­ing away Yeremiah Bell with his left hand, picked up a nice block from Roddy White and waltzed into the end zone to join the 11,000-yard club. 
The former college basket­ball player didn't get a chance to dunk the ball over the goal­posts. 
"I was going for it, but my teammates were jumping all over me so I didn't have time to get over there," Gonzalez said. "Plus, I was tired. I was just happy to get in the end zone." 
The matchup between the two most surprising teams of 2008 wasn't much of a game. The Falcons' defense, highly suspect after letting go five starters and looking shaky during the preseason, came up with four turnovers and thoroughly shut down a team that won the AFC East after going 1-15 two years ago. 
Peterson, the only promi­nent player signed by Atlanta on defense during the offsea­son, forced a fumble with a vicious hit and did a pretty good impression of Gonzalez on the interception, catching it with his fingertips and returning the ball 39 yards to set up Gonzalez's first TD in Atlanta. 
"I tell the guys all the time that I've got the best hands on the team, but they don't believe me," Peterson said. "Maybe they'll start believing me now." 
Matt Ryan threw a pair of touchdown passes for the Falcons, who made the play­offs in 2008 after a quick rebuilding job from the Michael Vick debacle. They are off to a good start in their attempt to post consecutive winning seasons for the first time in the club's 44-year his­tory. 
Peterson paid immediate 
· dividends, flinging his 33­year-old body into Anthony Fasano after a catch late in the second quarter. Another newcomer, Brian Williams, who started at cornerback after being signed only a week ago, picked up the ball and ran 53 yards to set up Jason Elam's 36-yard field goal, giving the Falcons a 10­0 halftime lead. The defense came within 
3:22 of a shutout, a quick retort to all the critics. 
"We didn't get caught up in all the stuff that's said during the week," Peterson said. "We just used it as motivation." 
Miami ac.tivated rookie quarterback Pat White and used him in a new version of the wildcat, without much success. He stopped for no gain the first time he attempt­
ed to run and overthrew Ted 
Ginn Jr. on a deep pass after 
the receiver beat two defend­
ers. 
"When the wildcat words, 
everybody loves it," quarter­
back Chad Pennington said. 
"When it doesn't, everybody 
hates it." 
• Pennington finally got the Dolphins in the end zone with ~ a 9-yard touchdown pass to Ricky Williams after a scoring toss to Fasano was taken away by a holding penalty. Pennington completed 21 of 29, but his throws accounted for only 176 yards. Ronnie Brown was held to 43 yards rushing, while Williams man­aged 39. 
"They didn't give us any 
deep shots," said Pennington, 
who was sacked four times. 
"You have to step up and 
make sure it doesn't snow­
ball. We let it snowball on 
us." 
The Dolphins avoided their 
first shutout since Nov. 26, 
2007, but did little to bolster 
faith in an offense that had 
five turnovers in a playoff loss 
to Baltimore last season. 
Ryan faced some heavy 
pressure but still completed 
22 of "36 for 229 yards, 
including a 1-yard touchdown 
to Ovie Mughelli that gave the 
Falcons a 7-0 lead in the sec­
ond quarter. 
About the only thing that didn't go right for the Falcons was their kicking. Jason Elam, one of the NFL's most reliable specialists, missed two field goals and an extra point -perhaps the worst day of his 17-year career. He did redeem himself a bit in the fourth, hitting from 50 yards. 

THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
BOOK REMAINDER SALE
•

re·main·der (noun): a book sold at a reduced price re·duced (verb) :up to 30°/o off regular prices (but wait~ there's more.•• ) PLUS YOUR DISCOUNT!* 

Associated Press 

ATHENS, Ga. -After every­thing that happened over nearly four hours -the kickoff return for a touchdown, the interception for a TD, the safe­ty, the blocked extra point, the 24 penalties -it all came down to one play, one make-or­break decision. 
Rennie Curran took a step forward, thinking he would have to make a tackle. Then he stopped, stuck out his left hand and batted down the final pass of a wild night. 
No. 21 Georgia had survived. Barely. 
Curran broke up Stephen Garcia's fourth-down pass from the 7-yard line with 22 seconds remaining, and the Bulldogs held off South Carolina 41-37 Saturday night. 
"Man, it was a nail-biting play," Curran said. "I was kind of put in a bind because it looked like Garcia was about to tuck it and run into the end zone." 
Instead, Garcia decided to throw his 53rd pass of the night to a receiver cutting behind Curran. The junior· linebacker reached out and swatted the ball to the ground. 
"I knew he liked to like to hit his tight end on that 




Business ComputerArt Biography 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Georgia holds on 
over Gamecocks 
reports during the week that he was suffering from a sore arm or shoulder and might not even start, threw for 201 yards and a pair of TDs, though he also gav-e up a score on the ill-advised throw to Norwood. 
"We wanted this win more than anything," Cox said. "It's something that hopefully will give us some momentum." 
He also cleared up the ques­tions about his health, saying he's had a problem with his shoulder for about a year but there's nothing that can be done surgically and it doesn't affect his throwing anyway. 
"I warmed up before the game, and it felt pretty good," he said. "It didn't bother me today." 
Everyone counted on a defensive struggle, based on the series history and the way the teams played in their sea­son openers. 
Neither team had scored more than 20 points on the other in the last five meetings. Besides, Georgia was coming off a 24-10 loss to Oklahoma State, while South Carolina had eked out an-ugly 7-3 win over N.C. State. 
Instead, this was a shootout 
right from the 
start. South 
Carolina 

play," Curran raced to a 17­
"Man, it was a nail­
said. "I didn't 7 lead in the know whether to biting play." first quarter, come up and try but Georgia to hit him or stay rallied for a
Rennie Curran 
back in coverage. 31-23 edge at
Georgia linebacker 
As soon as I took halftime. The 
.a step forward, he 
lobbed it up and I 
was able to stick 

my hand out there and tip the 
ball down." 

The Bulldogs (1-1, 1-0 Southeastern Conference) avoided their first 0-2 start since 1996. South Carolina (1­1, 0-1) was hurt by a blocked extra point after its final touchdown, which prevented the Gamecocks from going for a tying field goal at the end. 
The goal-line stand set off a raucous celebration for the relieved crowd at Sanford Stadium. Curran rolled on the ground with Brandon Boykin, who had a huge game for the Bulldogs. Bryan Evans did a somersault. 
"So many things happened, I don't even know where to start," Georgia coach Mark Richt said. "The bottom line is, we got it done. We got it done at the end." 
Boykin set a school record with a 100-yard kickoff return and set up a score with an interception. South Carolina linebacker Eric Norwood returned an interception 35 yards for a TD. Spencer Lanning tied a Gamecocks record with five field goals, pulled off a fake punt but had that crucial extra point blocked. The Bulldogs took a safety when Ty Frix snapped the ball over the punter's head and through the end zone. 
"There were a lot of big plays all over the place," South Carolina coach Steve Spurrier said. "We almost came back." 
Garcia completed 31 of 53 passes for 313 yards, with two touchdowns and an intercep­tion. Joe Cox, who heard 
Bulldogs 
looked to be 
pulling away as they took the second-half kickoff and drove for another score, Cox hitting Michael Moore with a 4-yard TD pass to make it 38-23. 
But Lanning hit his fourth and fifth field goals, sand­wiched around Prix's errant snap over Drew Butler's head ·to give the Gamecocks another two points. 
Then, South Carolina looked as though it had tied it up when Norwood reached up to grab Cox's pass, racing the other way for a touchdown that pulled the Gamecocks to 38-37 with just under 13 min­utes remaining. All that was needed was the extra point, a mere formality, right? 
Wrong. DeAngelo Tyson reached up to swat away Lanning's kick, keeping Georgia ahead. It was the only thing that went wrong for the South Carolina kicker, who connected on field goals of 21, 39, 22, 35 and 34 yards. 
"He gave an effort when a lot of guys don't want to give effort," Richt said of Tyson. "They'll say, 'I can't get it. Why try hard?' But he tried hard and blocked it." 
When Georgia's Blair Walsh knocked through his second field goal, a 42-yarder with 
6:20 remaining, South Carolina needed a touchdown to pull it out. Garcia led the Gamecocks down the field, converting three straight times on third down. 
But he couldn't complete the comeback. "It's a heartbreaking loss," Lanning said. 


NCAA FOOTBALL 

Houston upsets No.5 Cowboys 
Associated Press 

STILLWATER, Okla. Quarterback Case Keenum was listening in on a conversation in the Houston locker room before the game when someone sug­gested that the Cougars had worked hard enough that they didn't need any luck to upset No. 5 Oklaho)lla State. 
Keenum had to interject. He turned to running back Bryce Beall to say, "I wouldn't mind some luck." 
Hours later, the two teamed up on a connection Cougars fans will remember for a long time. On fourth down, Beall went after a 6-yard pass from Keenum that got batted up into the air and came down with it for the go­ahead score in Houston's 45-35 upset of Oklahoma State on Saturday. 
"It's football. If you keep play­ing, plays like that are going to happen," Beall said. "Everything's not going to come out perfect." 
The Cougars (2-0) took advan­tage of a series of favorable bounces to give second-year coach Kevin Sumlin his first mar­quee win with the program's first victory over a Top 5 team since an upset of third-ranked Texas in 1984.Making Waves In Stillwater 
Jamal Robinson sealed the win with a 26-yard interception return for a touchdown with 3:14 remaining, also off a pass that tipped off an Oklahoma State player first. 
."For us as a program, this is a big win because it legitimizes our university. It legitimizes our pro­gram," said Sumlin, who had gone 5-0 against OSU as an assistant coach at Oklahoma. "There's no doubt that one win does not make a season. We've got a whole bunch of football to go. 
"But I think any time that you can go on the road and win and beat a Top 10 team, it really helps your confidence as a pro­gram and it helps your pride as a university." 
Oklahoma State (1-1) was com­ing off of perhaps the biggest opening win in the program's history last week against Georgia, earning a spot on the cover of Sports Illustrated and a Top 5 ranking for the first time since 1985. 
"We didn't overlook them at all. We practiced like we prac­ticed for Georgia and any other team," said Cowboys receiver Dez Bryant, who had live catches for 85 yards. "We just made too 
MLB 

Red Sox deal Rays 11th straight loss 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Jon Lester made the most of his second chance. 
Two days after struggling in a game that was rained out, the Red Sox left-bander allowed two hits in eight innings and Boston beat Tampa Bay 4-0 on Sunday for a doubleheader sweep, hand­ing the AL champion Rays their 11th consecutive loss. 

Lester gave up hits to three of the first four batters Friday night but none of that counted when the game was called after he threw only 23 pitches. It was made up as the opener Sunday, a 3-1 Boston win. 
"I was kind of surprised the way my body responded," Lester said. "I figured I'd be a little more sore (Saturday) than I was." 
Red Sox manager Terry Francona said he wasn't worried after Lester, who is 5-0 with a 
2.26 ERA in his last 10 outings, told him Friday's work was simi­lar to a regular side session for a pitcher between starts. 
"They're creatures of habit and that's not the way you draw it up," Francona said. "He didn't let it affect him." 
ln the opener, Dustin Pedroia 's tiebreaking, two-run homer in the eighth sent Boston to a victo­ry behind Clay Buchholz and two relievers. 
Tampa Bay was eliminated from the AL East race one year after winning the division and reaching the World Series. The losing streak is the longest by a major league team this season. 
"It's embarrassing," said James Shields , the second-game loser. "Eleven straight losses. Not fun at all. Whether we're in the race or not, we've got to play better baseball." 

The Rays were outscored 16-2 and managed 14 hits in Boston's three-game sweep. The AL wild­card leaders won 9-1 behind Josh Beckett in a game shortened by rain to live innings Saturday night. 
"This whole week has been pretty much negative offense," Rays manager Joe Maddon said. 
Boston's win in the second game of the split doubleheader was its 11th in 15 games and eighth straight at Fenway Park. 
Lester (13-7) allowed only sin­gles to Gabe Kapler in the second and Dinner Navarro in the eighth. He struck out seven, walked three and threw one wild pitch. 
Shields (9-11) had a rare solid performance at Fenway, where he is 0-6 with an 8.04 ERA. 
The Red Sox took a 1-0 lead in the second on a groundout by Mike Lowell that drove in J.D. Drew, who walked and went to third on David Ortiz 's double. 
Boston scored twice in the sixth. Drew led off with a single and went to third on a double by Lowell. Both scored on Jason Varitek 's single, a hard shot that took a bad hop past first base­man Willie Aybar. 
Jason Bay 's 32nd homer just inside the Pesky Pole in right made it 4-0 in the eighth. 
Billy Wagner pitched the ninth for Boston, allowing two hits before striking out the final two batters. 
For a change, there was no rain Sunday. Friday's game was postponed after a delay of 2 hours, 20 minutes. The start of Saturday's game was delayed for 
2:05. Play was stopped in. the top of the sixth due to heavy rain and the game was called 55 minutes later. 
many mistakes and they took advantage and made plays." 
After overcoming a 17-point halftime lead, the Cowboys squandered their final chances for a win. 
Quarterback Zac Hobinson fumbled a snap to end one OSU drive in the fourth quarter, then threw his only interception to end the next. He finished with 240 yards on 18 for 31 passing with one touchdown. 
Bryant returned a punt for a touchdown against Houston for the second straight year as Oklahoma State reeled off 21 straight third-quarter points to surge ahead 28-21. It looked like a repeat of last year's game, when Houston led 16-7 before OSU's offense came alive for a 56-37 win. 
"We bounced back from some big plays that they made. I think that may have been the differ­ence in the teams from this yoar to last year," Keenum said. "They came out and made some huge plays, but we responded this time -defensively and ofTen-. sively." 
Sumlin said he thought the Cougars had more depth and leadership than a season ago. Oklahoma State also ran out of weapons. 

CE''flTR FOR SPIRlTUAUrY SAJ!'\T MARY'S C:OU-Efd' Women. \Visdom. and Witnesl> 
Reflections on Catholicism, Feminism, and History 


Kathleen Sprows Cummings 
A>.~ismm Professor 
Atm:rkan Studics A:;sodatc Din::cmr of the Cushwa Center r~1r the Sntdy ofAnwrican Carholidsm 
Univcr.;ity of Notre Dallli' 
Tuesday, September 15,2009 
7:30 p.m. Vander Vennet Theatre 
Student Center 
Dr. Cumming.\ is tlw lluthor uftlw r<:ccmly pubiL\Iwd book Nt!UJ WtmTm t!,{tht• Old Faith: Gmder and American Guholicism in the PmgmJh•e Em. A book signing will fi1llow the lecture. 
--------~-------­
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
~OTR!' OAMf 1'01.>\NA 
saintmarys.edul spiTituality 
{574) 284-4636 

E-mail: kguthTie@saintmarys.edu 
Free and open to the public. 

Fostering the Baptismal Priesthood in the"Year for Priests" 
Cardinal Roger Mahony 
Archdiocese ofLos Angeles 
Friday, September 18 4:oopm Heshurgh Center Auditorium 
SPONSOIUD BY OJ hcP of tlw President I Department of Tlwology I C:nnpus Ministry I C<o•nler br Social Concerns 
I$1UNlVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 


Monday, September 14, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles notch first 
conference victory 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
USC rallies late over Ohio State 
"I think it's a beautiful that was stellar for 54 min­
Associated Press 

statement for our whole utes. "The last drive was 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Two team," the coach said. "It heartbreaking. Give games into his college foot­was really a great job by a McKnight lots of credit on ball career, 19-year-old lot of guys." that last drive, he was good. quarterback Matt Barkley The official stats will call it "The last drive was defi· already has a place in a 14-play, 86-yard drive, but nitely, you go back and you Southern California lore. it really started with USC at think about, and you think 
Three seasons into his USC its own 5, facing a second­about how close you came to career, Joe McKnight can and-19 with 6:09 left in the winning." now claim a spot with the game. McKnight ran for 60 yards great runners at Tailback U. Suddenly, an offense and had 45 receiving, modest 
The freshman phenom and stymied and held scoreless numbers but most of them the shifty tailback made big all second half by a hard­came at the most crucial play after big play, and charging Ohio State defense time. Stafon Johnson capped one came alive. Barkley finished 14 for 31 of the great drives in USC's "He was scared, really," for 195 yards with an inter­storied history with a 2-yard McKnight said with a laugh ception. He was sacked twice touchdown run with 1:05 left about his quarterback. "No, and took some shots, but just to give the third-ranked he came in with the same a few days removed from his Trojans an 18-15 victory composure he had the whole 19th birthday, he already has against No. 8 game. He was a drive that could define his Ohio State on calm. He career. Matt Leinart and Saturday night. made plays." Carson Palmer couldn't have 
" W e ' r e So did done better. 
Trojans. That's "We're Trojans. That's McKnight. "He's not 19," Carroll said. what we do," what we do." First he "He's our quarterback. I'm Barkley said. darted for 11 not worried about how old "This is what yards. Then it he is. Numbers mean noth­
Matt Barkley
we dreamed of, was Barkley to ing." coming back USC quarterback McKnight, Pryor made some plays for like this. who weaved Ohio State with his arm and 
"Doesn't mat­for 21 more his legs, throwing for 177 ter where we on third-and-yards and running for 36 in are in the 8. a game dominated by score. We found a way. I love When Barkley threw a defense and field position. this." strike over the middle to "We should have beat 
For the Buckeyes (1-1), it Anthony McCoy for 26 to get them," Pryor said. "Point was another big-game disap­USC to the Ohio State 37, the blank, we should have beat pointment, maybe the tough­record crowd of more than them." est one yet. Ohio State has 106,000 at Ohio Stadium Coming off last year's now lost six straight against started to grow uneasy. drubbing by USC, Ohio State top-five teams, including two Barkley converted a couldn't have come up with a national title games and last fourth-and-short with a worse way to start the season's 35-3 loss to USC in sneak. McKnight, so often rematch. Los Angeles. compared to USC Heisman Pryor's short toss over the 
For the Trojans (2-0), it Trophy winner Reggie Bush, middle was picked off by was their lOth straight victo­ran three times, showing Chris Galippo around mid· ry against the Big Ten. None some power to go with all field and he returned it 51 was tougher -and none was those moves and got USC yards to the Ohio State 2. likely more satisfying for inside the 10. Another sneak The Trojans needed four By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team needed two attempts to notch their first MIAA win of the season this past weekend, losing first to Adrian on Friday before defeating Alma College on Saturday. The loss to Adrian was the Belles' second five-set nail-biter in a row, with the first bounced back and were on the brink of tying up the match at one set apiece with a lead at 24-22 before the Belles began their rally. 
A pair of kills by freshman Stephanie Bodien and an ace by junior Meghann Rose allowed the Belles to take four straight points and the set 26­24. 
The third set was much like 
the second 
except the 

being a loss to "This early in the Belles were MIAA opponent forced to dig
season there are
Trine University out of an even
always things you 
on Tuesday. deeper hole. 
Adrian took the are going to have to Trailing 24-19, first set 25-21 the Belles won
work on.'' 
before the Belles eight of the turned it around next nine and dominated the Toni Kuschel points includ­second set 25-15 Belles coach ing two kills 
with a .269 attack percentage. After the teams traded the following two sets to force a deciding fifth, the Bulldogs ultimately capitalized on costly Belles mis­takes to win the set 15-9. 
"This early in the season there are always things you are going to have to work on, but mostly our team needs to learn to communicate on the court and trust one another," Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. 
The Belles had little time to think about the loss as they had a quick turnaround with their next MIAA test less than 24 hours later. The first set against Alma was tied 18-18 before the Belles eventually captured it 25-21. The Scots 
from senior L o r n a Slupczynski to win the set 27­
25. Slupcynski ended the match with a team-high 21 kills and 19 digs. Junior Andrea Sasgen followed that effort on offense with 10 kills of her own and Bodien followed on defense with 18 digs. 
The win brings their confer­ence record to 1-2 and their overall record to an even 4-4. 
The Belles will be back on the road to take on a tough oppo­nent in Hope College, undefeat­ed on the year at 6-0. The match will be at 7 p.m. on Wednesday. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edn 
Pete Carroll's team. 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall2010, SPRING2011, AY 2010-11 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Monday, September 14,2009 
6:00 p.m. 155 DeBartolo 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15.2009 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2010-2011 
Applications Available Soon at www.nd.edu/-ois 
by Barkley got it to first-and­downs, but Johnson hulled in goal. for a 1-yard score to make it 
Then Johnson swept 7-0 less than four minutes around right end, going in in. untouched, pointing toward With their fans a bit the USC section as he stunned and probably fear­crossed the goal line. It was ing the worst after so many the only part of the huge recent disappointments, the crowd cheering. The rest? Buckeyes and Pryor respond­
"When we punched it in ed. there it was good to hear the The rangy sophomore hit silence," Barkley said. Dane Sanzenbacher streak­
Barkley and McKnight ing down the middle for 56 hooked up yards to set up one more Dan Herron's 2­time, appro­yard touchdown priately, for run. Midway
"When we punched it 
a 2-point through the conversion in there it was good first, it was 7-7 that meant to hear the silence. " and Ohio State's an Ohio State crowd was back field goal into it and blar­
Matt Barkley
would only ing.
USC quarterback
force over­The teams time. traded field 
But with no goals in the sec­timeouts left, ond quarter, Terrelle Pryor and the with USC's Jordan Congdon Buckeyes' offense went knocking home a 21-yarder nowhere with their last on the last play of the half to chance. cap a snappy 2-minute drill 
"You need to score more by Barkley. than five points in the second They traded punts and half, and they came up with Ohio State won the field posi­plays on that last drive they tion battle and took the lead needed to and so they go in the third quarter. home with the spoils," coach After pinning USC at its Jim Tressel said. own 10, the Buckeyes forced 
Just when it looked as if USC to punt from its end the Buckeyes would shake zone. That turned into two their big-game bugaboos, points for Ohio State when a they'll now face more ques­high snap slipped through tions about their inability to the hands of punter Billy beat the very best. Just when O'Malley for a safety with it looked as if Big Ten pride 9:03 left in the third. would be restored -at least Pryor and Ohio State then a little -the league took took advantage of excellent another high-profile hit. field position after the free 
"It's very frustrating, but kick, and drove to set up a we knew eventually they'd 22-yard field goal by Aaron make plays," said linebacker Pettrey with 4:49 left in the Brian Rolle, part of a unit quarter to make it 15-10. 
NFL 

Jennings, Rodgers lead Pack over Bears 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. -Aaron Rodgers brought the Packers back late in the fourth quarter, heaving a 50-yard touchdown pass to Greg Jennings with 1:11 remaining to give Green Bay a 21-15 victory over the Chicago Bears in the season opener Sunday night. 
Facing third-and-1 at the 50­yard line, Rodgers faked play action and heaved a rainbow of a throw deep to Jennings, who ran in for the go-ahead score. Rodgers found Jennings again for a 2-point conversion. 
"It was important for us to get a win like this tonight," Rodgers said. "It'll definitely build our team character." 
Rodgers finished 17 of 28 for 184 yards for the Packers, and his big throw ruined the debut of Bears quarterback Jay Cutler, who had a career-worst four interceptions and finished the game 17 of 36 for 277 yards with a touchdown for his new team. 
"There were a lot of fail­ures," Cutler said. "We've got to go back and look at it. I think we're still going to be a good football team, there's no need to panic." 
"It's pretty simple what hap­pened tonight," Smith said. "Any time that you have four turnovers, you're normally not going to win the football game, especially against a good Packers team." 
After throwing three intercep­tions in the first half, Cutler set­tled down to lead Chicago to a touchdown and a field goal in the third quarter, giving the Bears a 12-10 lead. 
But ·chicago's head-scratching fake punt attempt early in the fourth quarter gave the ball back to Packers deep in Bears territory, and Mason Crosby hit a 39-yard field goal to give Green Bay a 13-12 lead with 
10:10 left. 
Cutler answered with a drive for a 21-yard field goal by Robbie Gould to give Chicago a 15-13 lead. Rodgers got the ball back at the Green Bay 28 with 
2:28 left and quickly drove the Packers to midfield, where he made the decisive throw to Jennings. 
"It definitely boosts his confi­dence,'' Packers coach Mike McCarthy said. 
McCarthy noted that Rodgers' performance came after a less­than-ideal performance by a revamped offensive line that gave up four sacks. 
"He had a rough night," McCarthy said. "He was hit a bunch. Our pass protection was not what we were looking for." 
Rodgers generally had a suc­cessful first season as a starter last year, but was criticized by some fans for not coming through in some key late-game situations -although the Packers often were put in bad positions by an inept defense. 

That wasn't a problem Sunday night as Green Bay got steady pass rush pressure out of its revamped 3-4 alignment under new defensive coordina­tor Dom Capers, forcing Cutler to scramble out of trouble all night. Cutler made plenty of trouble for himself from there, making poor decisions under pressure. 
For all the pregame discus-
SMC GOLF 

Belles rise to 3rd in tourney 
sion about Cutler's arrival in Chicago after an offseason trade from Denver, and the potential potency of Green Bay's offense in Rodgers' second year as a starter, few would have guessed the score with less than six min­utes left in the first half: Packers 3, Bears 2. 
But the Packers finally found the end zone just before half­time -thanks in large part to Cutler's third interception of the half. 
Scrambling to avoid pressure, Cutler unleashed a lazy pass over the middle with no appar­ent Bears receiver in the area. Packers nickel cornerback Tramon Williams -who whiffed on a pair of potential interceptions earlier in the half -returned the ball 6 7 yards to give the Packers first-and-goal on the 1. Ryan Grant found the end zone on the next play and Green Bay took a 10-2lead. 


What have you done for me lately? 
It's never too late to start making a difference in the world. Start today by considering a career ot GE, where we're making o positive impact on the planet we live on and the people we shore it with through our Ecomaginotion and Healthymogination initiatives. Whether your interests lie in engineering, finance, manufacturing, marketing and soles, human resources or information technology, we hove on opportunity for you to join us in creating o better world for generations to come. 
• imagination at work ge.com/co reers 
a team score of 303, followed 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
six strokes behind by No. 5 
Sports Writer 

Wisconsin-Eau Claire in sec­ond. No. 3 Gustavus Adolphus Saint Mary's finished in College and No. 7 Allegheny third after the first day of the College are tied for fourth O'Brien National Invitational with scores of 326. No. 9 at Notre Dame's Warren Golf DePauw University sits in Course Sunday. The No. 13 sixth at 330 while No. 4 Belles shot a Southwestern team score of University fol­317 to finish lowed three ahead of six of "We have a lot of strokes behind the top teams in improvement that can in seventh. No. the country in 8 Illinois
be made tomorrow. ,
the two-day Wesleyan held meet. form in eighth "I am really Perri Hamma by shooting a excited about Belles captain 334 and No. 6 
how the team performed today," Saint Mary's Captain Perri 1-Iamma said. "When we started we were ranked 13th in the nation and were sitting behind all of these teams." 
Top-ranked defending national champion Methodist University leads the field with 
Otterbein College round­ed out the day, 
taking ninth with a score of 349. Methodist's Alana Swain is the individual leader with a 
72. 15 of the competing golfers all shot below an 80 for the day. 
Saint Mary's top player, 
freshman Martyna Mierzwa, is tied for third with four other players after shooting a 76 for the first day. Junior Mary Kate Boyce sits three strokes behind Mierzwa with a 79 to take second for the Belles and 12th overall. 
Sophomore Natalie Matuszak is presently in third for the team with a day one score of 80, giving her a share of 16th. Junior Rosie O'Connor trails Matuszak by two strokes with an 82, tying her for 23rd. 1-Iamma closed the Belles' scoring with a round of 88. 
"I am extremely proud of a third place finish after day one, but we have a lot of improvement that can be made tomorrow," 1-Iamma said. "If we all play as smart as I know we are capable of then I know tomorrow will be a good day." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
~-­
Monday, September 14, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles top Dl opponents 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's placed sixth in the field of nine at the NIU Huskie Open as the lone Division III team in competi­tion. 
Senior Megan McClowry led the Belles with a time of 
20:42.69 on the five-kilometer course. The All-MIAA senior captain finished 22nd overall in the field of 105 runners. 
"Megan [McClowry] is a leader by example," head coach Jackie Bauters said. "She is a wonderful athlete to coach and has a lot of natural talent." 
In a field featuring six Division I teams, Saint Mary's finished ahead of NAIA Judson, NJCAA Iowa Western, and NCAA Division I Chicago State. Just behind McClowry, freshman Julia Kenney ran a 
21:12.20 to finish 30th over­all. Fellow underclassman Arianne Rodriguez finished in 
21:17.44 to place 32nd. Rounding out the Belles' top five were junior Clare McVey with a 21:20:17 and sopho­more Joanne Almond with 21:26.17. 
"Both returners and fresh­men made strong showings this weekend," Bauters said. "It's evident they took their summer training seriously and are ready for a solid sea­son." 
It was a solid opener for Saint Mary's, who have high hopes for the season after consecutive fourth-places fin­ishes in the MIAA. The combi­nation of senior leadership and young talent puts the team in a good position to make a run to the top of the conference. 
"The team looks good," Bauters said. "I believe it is the best they've looked since I've returned to coach." 
The Belles open the MIAA portion of their schedule with the Calvin Invitational in Grand Rapids, Mich. on Saturday, Sept. 19. For Bauters, whose squad has steadily marched up the MIAA ladder since the 2004 alumna's arrival at Saint Mary's, the meet will be a crucial test. 
"The MIAA meets are of obvious importance to us," Bauters said. "Returning to the Calvin meet is exciting. Last year there was great competition on a beautiful course. It's a great event, and I'm excited to take the women back." 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 

Notre Darne Apartrnents 
2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Only Three Blocks from Campus 
$300Signing Bonus For 2010-2011 
Lease rnust be signed before October 1 0, 2009 
Leases start at only $350 per ~nonth, per student! 
View the floorplan at www.kramerhouses.com 
page 21 
SMC SOCCER 

SMC' s offense leads to recovery fro111 defeat 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 

Otterbin shut out Saint Mary's Friday before the Belles' offense erupted for five goals against Manchester Sunday. 
Saint Mary's and Otterbin remained scoreless through 50 minutes before senior goalkeep­er Patty Duffy allowed an Otterbin shot past her. Duffy made six saves in the game prior to allowing two goals in the 2-0 defeat. 
"Duffy has a tremendous competitive spirit," Belles coach Ryan Crabbe said. "She has spent many extra hours on her own in order to get better at her position. Having a full sea­son in 2008 and the number of minutes she played should translate into an advantage for her coming into the 2009 sea­son that she did not have last year." 
Senior Sam Smogor also was key for the Belles in the loss, as she registered the only shot in the game, which was blocked from 18 yards away. 
"From an attacking perspec­tive I have high expectations from Micki Hedinger, Sam Smogor and Katelyn Tondo­Steel," Crabbe said. "In addi­tion, Colleen Ferguson, Jess Slean and Keely Noonan bring a full season of playing together in the midfield this year." 
After winning their first con­test of the season the Belles have spiraled downward by los­ing their last three contests. 
However, the Belles have been in big tournaments against teams that have made NCAA Tournament appearances, not scoring any goals in the last three contests. 
"I am looking for a good com­petitive attitude from all of our players, regardless of their role on the field," Crabbe said. "Our energy level when we defend will be important. Finally, we need our attacking players to take greater responsibility in front of goal this year. In 2008 we spent too much time waiting for one player to score all of our goals. This year we have quite a few players capable of con­tributing on the score sheet." 
In the final game of the tour­nament the Belles offense exploded for five goals in a 5-1 victory over Manchester College. 
Ferguson and Hedinger scored back-to-hack goals with­in 22 seconds of each other in the second half to propel the Belles to the victory. 
Freshman Ashley Morfin recorded her first goal as a Belle to give Saint Mary's a 3-1 advantage, which Smogor fol­lowed up 10 minutes later. 
Katie Durkin also contributed a goal and Sam Goudreau picked up the assist in the Belles rout. 
The Belles will next travel to Illinois Wesleyan on Wednesday with the game beginning at 7 p.m. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
for 47th. Senior Kristin 

Wetzel posted a final day 83 for a three-round total of continued from page 24 243. 
"With the depth of talent trailed first-place Purdue by on this team we've got a goud 36 strokes after the first day chance to return to the of play. regional championship," Holt 
Huffer led the team the first said. "The long season start-day with a 7-ed this weekend over 151, sit-and will keep ting at 25th going all year." 
Huffer 

"The long season
place in the In their next 
strong field. started this weekend competitive Senior Annie and will keep going rounds of the Brophy fin­all year.,, season, the Irish ished day one travel to right on Kentucky for the Huffer's tail, Susan Holt Bettie Lou Evans keeping pace Irish coach Invitational. The with a plus­three-day tourna­eight 152. ment runs from Brophy shot a 77 in the Sept. 25 through Sept. 27 at final round of play to earn a the University of Kentucky plus-13 total at 229 for the Golf Club. weekend. She finished tied for 26th. Junior Katie Conway Contact Nathaniel Lee at shot a 79 to finish at 236, tied nlee5@nd.edu 

Overti01e 
continued from page 24 
a game that saw a dominating second half performance in the first ever meeting between the two soccer programs. 
"At the end of the game, I think the result was well deserved," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "We give full credit to Seattle. I feel like they gave us everything we could handle in the first half." 
The Irish wasted no time jumping in front of Seattle, earn­ing its first goal on a cross from senior forward Bright Dike to senior midfielder Justin Morrow, who placed the ball into the back of the net. 
Notre Dame was able to main­tain a stifling defense throughout the match, keeping Seattle from getting its first shot ofT until the 33rd minute. 
The Irish had one more scor­ing threat in the waning moments of the first half when junior midfielder Josh Thiermann made a run into the box, but his shot went just right of the goalpost, leaving the score at 1-0 going into halftime. 
The second half saw more dominance from Notre Dame, as they outshot Seattle 12-1 over the remainder of the game. 
Senior midfielder Michael Thomas made the score 2-0 in the 60th minute as he booted a goal from the top of the box after a good pass from Thiermann. 
Senior defender John Schaefer put the game out of reach in the 72nd minute when he picked off a rebound from Seattle senior goaltender Emerson de Oliveira and shot it into the back of the net. 
Seattle was never able to recover from the 3-0 deficit and the Irish took home the victory. 
"We outshot them 12-1 in the second half and it was a whole different ball game," Clark said. "I thought the attitude was ter­rific in the second half and we need to bring that along in the first half sometimes as well." 
Notre Dame seemed to pick up right where it left ofT in the sec­ond game of the weekend Sunday with an early goal against New Mexico, but the game ended up going into over­time where the Lobos were able to emerge victorious 2-1. 
New Mexico had a miscommu­nication in its own end and allowed an errant pass to go in as an own goal mere minutes into the start of the game. 
The Irish were able to hold onto their lead for most of the first half as New Mexico seemed to have trouble recovering from the early mishap, but New Mexico senior forward Justin Davis scored in the 38th minute, knotting the score up at 1-1. That score would hold up through regulation play. 
Overtime ended quickly as the Irish surrendered a goal in the second minute of the extra peri­od, ending the tournament that had begun promisingly for the Irish on a sour note. Davis was again the goal-scorer, knocking the Irish to a third-place finish in the tournament behind Indiana and New Mexico. 
The Irish led New Mexico in shots 13-11, but New Mexico won the corner kick battle 8-5. 
"I was very disappointed for the team," Clark said. "I thought we kind of took over in the sec­ond half just like we did on Friday. We talked about it at halftime how you have to be so careful in the back and you can't have a concentration lapse. Full marks to New Mexico, Justin Davis had two very good goals. They were both from similar spots on the field and he whipped them in." 
The Irish open Big East play this weekend when they take on DePaul on Friday in Chicago, and then make the long road trip to Tampa, Fla., to face South Florida. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
Brown 

continued from page 24 
between the two squads. Junior outside hitter Stephanie Slatt contributed a career-high four aces, going back-to-hack twice to set up key Irish runs in the second and third sets. 
"We were really steady as a t e a m , " Brown said. "We play lit­Kellie Sciacca contributed eight kills, three of which came in a dominant Irish sec­ond set that saw the Irish combine for a .467 attacking clip. 
Sunday's victory improves the squad's home record to 4-1, compared to a 1-2 record on the road. 
While Brown isn't con­vinced that home court advantage is a deciding fac­tor in the team's sue­-cess, she rec­
tle mini­"We play little mini­games within 
games within the 25
the 25 point 

game, so we point game, so we try to 
try to win win every mini-game to every mini­
five." 

game to f1ve. We beat them to five, Debbie Brown we beat them Irish coach 
to ten, and each time if you can increase that lead a little bit more, it puts you in a good place." 
Whitney Woods led the Aggies (4-4) with a match­high 12 kills, but Dealy added 12 of her own to go along with senior outside hitter Christina Kaelin's 10 to put the contest out of reach. 
Junior middle blocker 
ognizes that her team feeds off the welcoming vibes from the home crowd. 
"I don't think it's huge," Brown said. "For a lot of differ­ent reasons 
it's good. You're in your familiar surroundings, it's fun to play in front of friends and family. I don't how many points they actually put on the board, but in some cases even just a couple is going to be the difference." 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

Stanford 
continued from page 24 
Clara and the second to No. 3 Stanford, by scores of 2-0. 
Just 90 seconds into the first contest, junior midfielder Rose Augustin found her way behind the defense and fired a shot from 10 yards out, but was denied by Bronco goal­keeper Bianca Henninger. The rebound made its way to soph­omore forward Melissa Henderson who was unable to capitalize inside the 6-yard box after a bad first touch. 
A few minutes later, sopho­more Molly Campbell attempt­ed a shot from about 20 yards out that looked to be headed for the back of the net until Henninger made a dive at the last second to redirect it wide of the goal. 
After the Broncos netted the first goal of the match off a blast from well outside the 18­yard box, the Irish stepped up the offensive pressure towards the end of the half but could not break though to tie the game. 
In the 62nd minute of the contest, the Broncos scored . what would be the final goal of the game. 
Just a few seconds later the Irish had their best scoring chance of the game when Henderson played freshman Tereza Stastny in for a one­on-one with the keeper, but Henninger once again came up big, getting just enough of the shot to keep Notre Dame scoreless. 
Junior Nikki Weiss and sen­ior Kelsey Lysander each played a half in the net for the Irish, with Weiss making one save and Lysander recording two. 
Notre Dame ran into more of the same bad luck in its matchup with Stanford, a rematch of last season's national semifinal contest. The two teams were neck and neck in the first half, trading offen­sive scoring chances with nei­ther team able to pull ahead. 
In the second half, the Cardinal put the Irish away in a matter of minutes. In the 56th minute, a Stanford head­er off a free kick found its way past Lysander to begin the scoring. 
Just three minutes later, bad luck struck Notre Dame once again. After the Irish seemed to have smothered the Cardinal attack, a shot rico­cheted off one of the defenders and came to rest at the feet of the only other Stanford player near the play whose quick shot snuck in behind Lysander. 
The Cardinal defense kept a talented Irish offensive attack off the board for the rest of the match to get the victory. 
Notre Dame returns home next weekend when they open Big East conference play against DePaul Friday at 7:30 
p.m. at Alumni Stadium. The team will then wrap-up its non-conference schedule Sunday with a 1 p.m. contest against Northwestern. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker 1 @nd.edu 

Gophers 
continued from page 24 
teams from around the nation, including SMU and the ninth-ranked Arkansas Razorbacks along with the host Golden Gophers. 
In the first of two rounds of the day, the Irish started slowly, shooting a plus-14 302 to land in ninth overall. Junior Connor Alan-Lee led the way for the Irish, finish­ing one over par after shoot­ing a 73, good enough for a tie for 15th place. 
Sophomore Max Scodro, senior Carl Santos-Ocampo 
and senior Doug Fortner also had their scores count­ed in the first round, shoot­ing a 74, 75 and 76 respec­tively. 
The Irish came out hot in the second round of the day, however, shooting two-under par 286 and moving up from ninth to sixth place. 
Notre Dame was paced in the second round by fifth­year senior Josh Sandman who, after a first round 77, came out firing and shot six under par, which puts him in a tie for fifth place overall at one-under and six strokes behind the overall leader, Minnesota's Ben Pisani. 
Another Irish golfer whose first round score was not counted, but came up big in the second round was junior Jeff Chen, who shot an even par 72. Santo-Ocampo and Fortner also had their scores counted in round two, both shooting a plus-2 74. Alan­Lee also qualified individual­ly, shooting a 7 4, which puts him in a tie for twentieth place overall. 
Notre Dame will finish The Gopher Invitational today before returning home to prepare for the Mason Rudolph Championship in Franklin, Tenn. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

:-:=:


Cai 
~ STlJI>Y AH.ABIC, Mmnt.J<: E~\ST POLITICS~ EGYPTOI.O(;y, RlJSINI-:Ss, SCIENCE, EN<;INEERING ANI> MORE IN TilE IIEART OF THE ARABIC \-VOIU.Il ~ ACAUEI\tiC YKAR ANU SEMESTER ()I>'J'IONS ~ STUll\' AT THE AMERICAN UNIVERSITY IN CAIRO 8 MAKE CONTACTS IN THE MOOERN CA.t•ITAL OF THE l\1HlnLE EAST 8 Ext>ERIENCJ.: MOilERN LIFF: IN TilE UESEI{T 
Monday, September 14 5:30pm 129 Hayes Healy 
Application Deadline is November 15, 2009 
·:·+-------------------------------------------------.....t:... 



Monday, September 14, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

62 Persona non 
63 Tennis champ Arthur 
64 Four: Prefix 
65 First Best Actor winner Jannings 
66 Billet-_ (love Jetter) 
Down Hit with high voltage 2 Chapter in 
history 3 Feel sick 4 Gentle creature 5 Skinned, as 
potatoes 6 Midterms and 
finals 7 Tiny bit 8 Basic util. 9 Actress Tomei 
1 0 Slow pitch with a little spin 11 Spills the beans 12 'Pea (Popeye's boy) 
15 Louis Armstrong's instrument 
18 Japanese 
noodle dish 22 1930s boxing champ Max 
23 Race with batons 24 Napoleon, on 
Elba 25 Messy art medium for kids 27 Phone part ... or a title for this puzzle? 
30 What the Hatter
and the March Hare drank 32 Sneak preview 34 Sent to the bottom 36 Private pupil 

WILLSHORTZ 

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Ben Savage, 29; Fiona Apple, 32; Jean Smart, 58; Jacqueline Bisset, 65 
Happy Birthday: You are passionate and caring and can make a difference by putting your ideas and common sense to work for a group you believe in this year. Your participation will lead to new friendships that can benefit you in the future and help you see your true po­tential. Look forward with optimism. Your numbers are 4, II, 20, 24, 36, 39, 48 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Try not to let little things upset you. Your emotions will be difficult to control. Love can conquer all if you work alongside someone you care for in order to reach a common goal. ** 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You'll surprise everyone if you get involved in something that leads you off the beaten path. By taking a different route to achieve something, you will meet people who can offer you other alternatives. **** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be restricted by responsibilities that have been handed to you. Don't miss out because you feel sorry for yourself. Ifyou structure your time carefully, you can enjoy time with friends and also take care of your obligations. *** 
CANCER (June 21-JuJy 22): An emotional moment will clear the air and help you redis­cover something you've been missing within your family relationships or friendships. By opening up about how you feel, you can bring about change and a way for everyone you care about to benefit. *** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): There will be plenty to deal with secretively if you want to accom­plish something without any hassle. Rely on past experience and the knowledge you have acquired about the people you are dealing with in order to come up with a viable way to get what you want. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Show compassion and you will be treated like royalty. You can make a difference to someone who can truly use your help. Add to your popularity by being there for people who just need a helping hand. **** 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0et. 22): Not everyone will want the same things you do. Expect to face some opposition and be prepared to go it alone, if necessary. Taking in an activity, event or gathering will allow you to meet people who can make a difference to your future. ** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Get away if you can or attend something that will fiJI your head with new ideas. It's vital that you stay on top of the changes as they unfold. You can in­corporate something you learn into a project that has been sitting idle.***** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may not be in the mood to do what's being asked of you but it is to your advantage to oblige. You can make special plans late in the day for the person you'd rather be spending your time with. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Plan your day according to what everyone around you wants to do. You will be given a chance to show how much you care and to do something nice, bringing comfort and entertainment to your friends and family. *** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will come up with some interesting ideas regarding how you can make extra cash. Talks with someone you love and respect will lead to a pos­sible partnership. Revisit an old idea or goal. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The more entertaining the event you attend, the better your chance to hook up with someone who has something to contribute to your future plans. Listen to the observations that are made and the insight given by someone with experience, expertise and an interest in partnering with you. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You are caring and sensitive. You are serious-minded, intriguing and unique. You have finesse. 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
SCHAD & fREUDE 
THE MOBILE PARTY 
ND Home Football Saturday yo man, you nah bra. we don'tl-----~!::'"'------1 
THE MOBILE PARTY UNIT 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ Address .­City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
JEFF KNUREK 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

~]! THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ECKER 
j 


I I r (J 
tFLUBEM j 
WHt:N THE: CHt:F Tr<lt:O A Nt:W OISH, THEE DINt:r<S SAID IT WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

IJ r I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answerhere:[IIIJ riiiiJ 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday's Jumbles: EXERT ROBOT TOTTER RUBBER 
Answer: When the gambler took poker lessons, he became a -BEITER BETTOR 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

CROSSWORD 
Across Intense enthusiasm 5 Townshend of the Who 9 Stock exchanges: 
Abbr. 13 Diva's solo 14 Praise highly 16 All over again 17 Examiner of 
heart and life 
lines 
19 "Look twice before crossing," e.g. 
20 Soothing ointment 21 Partitioned-off work space 23 N.B.A. official 26 Fishnet stocking material 28 Halloween purchases 29 Left the building 31 Attractiveness 33 Sheets, pillowcases, etc. 34 Look of disdain 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
35 Beings from out of this world, in brief 
38 Pond organism 39 Student at the 
Citadel 40 Border on 41 " -haw!" 
(western rider's cry) 
42 Tableware inspired by Scandinavian design 
43 Sporty Mazda 44 Call on the carpet 46 Pirate support, 
stereotypically 47 Iridescent gems 48 Feds who catch 
counterfeiters 50 Golfer Trevino 51 Enduring literary 
work 53 The Runnin' Rebels of the 
N.C.A.A. 55 Came to earth 56 Small bottle in a 
purse 61 _qua non 

Puzzle by Paula Gamache 
37 Where a 51­Down performs 39 Producing as a result 40 Insurance giant in 2009 news 42 Two-base hits: Abbr. 
43 Park (Edison's Jab site) 
45 Egg-dyeing time 46 Someone from whom you might collect exotic stamps 47 One-toothed dragon of old children's TV 49 Prefix with vitamin 51 See 37-Down 

52 Give a darn 
54 Prince called ''the lmpaler," who was the inspiration for Dracula 
57" the Walrus"
-

58 Equal: Prefix 
59 Moo _pork 
60 Evil spell 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords . 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, September 14, 2009 
page 24 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
ND takes Adidas Invitational, defeats Wisconsin 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 

The Irish didn't waste time shaking off the rust of a losing stretch, securing six straight sets en route to a sweep of the Notre Dame/adidas Invitational. Friday's 3-1 victo­ry over Wisconsin (15-25, 25­18, 25-16, 25-18) was the first victory over the Badgers since 1987, and just the second in nine tries. 
"I think Wisconsin just came out and played on fire in game one," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. "Certainly we were able to make some adjustments in games two, three and four. When you take the hits like we did it can start to erode away at your confi­dence, and so to come back and put a solid match together like this is really important for us and should help us for sure." 
Senior outside hitter Serinity Phillips and sophomore outside hitter Kristen Dealy turned in their best performances of the year against Big Ten foe Wisconsin {4-4), each notching 19 kills. Adding a team-best 13 digs to go along with her career-high kill mark, Dealy recorded her first double-dou­ble of the season. 
"In particular, our outside hitters were just outstanding," Brown said. "Serinity Phillips and Kristen Dealy were just unbelievable. We didn't have a real balanced attack, but we didn't need to because they were so good that Jamel just 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Win one, lose one 
Irish place third in weekend tournament 
By jARED JEDICK Sports Writer 

The No. 10 Irish split the eighth annual Hilton Garden Inn Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament this weekend with a convincing win against a hap­less Seattle squad and a hard­fought overtime loss to New Mexico, 2-1. The results left the Irish finishing third in the tour­nament, with No. 12 Indiana taking first and New Mexico edging Notre Dame for second place in the head-to-head match up. 
The Irish opened up play well on Friday when they used a trio of scorers to best Seattle, 3-0, in 
see OVERTIME/Page 22 


kept giving them the ball. That's what should happen if you have a hot hitter like that." 
After a day off on Saturday, Notre Dame (5-3) didn't lose a step as they claimed a victory over New Mexico State in straight sets (25-18, 25-19, 25­
19) in the first meeting 
see BROWN/page 22 
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish in 6th after first rounds 
By ERIC PRISTER SportS Writer 

After a somewhat sloppy first round of play, the Irish improved in the second round of the Gopher Invitational to finish the day in sole posses­sion of sixth place, thirteen shots back from the leader, Southern Methodist University. 
Hosted by the University of Minnesota, The Gopher Invitational is a two-day, three-round tournament played in Wayzata, Minn. at the Spring Hill Golf Club. The Irish are competing against 
see GOPHERS/page 22 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Irish drop two over weekend 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 

Over the previous 15 road games, Notre Dame has had its way with its opponents, outscoring them 40-7 during that stretch. But when the Irish took the field Friday at the Santa Clara/adidas Classic in Santa Clara, Calif., nothing seemed to go their way. 
No. 5 Notre Dame {3-3) dropped both matches over the weekend, the first to Santa 
see STANFORD/page 22 


IAN GAVLICKfThe Observer 
Freshman midfielder Lindsay Brown heads the ball amidst four North Carolina defenders Friday, Sept. 4. 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Team opens the season with tenth place finish 
By NATHANIEL LEE Sports Writer 

Notre Dame notched a final round 311 to finish 10th at the Mary Fossum Invitational in East Lansing. The Irish closed their three-round total of 926 by shooting 23-over Sunday. Sophomore Becca Huffer led the squad with a 72 stroke final round and an overall total of 233. She opened her season with a 14th place overall finish. 
"Team chemistry is really important, especially on a team this small," Irish coach Susan Holt said. "It really shows that our players do a wonderful job of supporting each other." 
The Irish women's golf team posted a 615 on the opening day, and sat in a tie for eighth place with the University of Minnesota. Notre Dame 
see HUFFER/page 21 








