
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 83 FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 6, 2009 

Reish, Schmidt present to Trustees 
Off-campus safety and security, community relations are prime focus of meeting 
an overview of their efforts "We need to address the resources, like a "Know
ByJENN METZ 

toward accomplishing goals unawareness factor and Your Rights" guide.
News Ediror 

of better relationships make sure people know One Trustee voiced the between members of the where to find this informa­opinion that the Reish­
Student government lead­Notre Dame and South Bend tion, who to call and how to Schmidt administration has ers met with the Student communities and informing access the Good Neighbor focused a lot of effort on off­Affairs Committee of the students on how to be safe Guide created by student campus concerns. Reish said University Board of Trustees off campus. government," Koski said. about 40 percent of their to offer updates on key ini­"We're interested in mak­Reish listed the ser1es of time is spent ori. these tiatives they presented in ing students more familiar off-campus block parties issues. their fall meeting, with a with their off-campus sur­held earlier in the year, a Another member of the specific focus on off-campus roundings and providing Winter Break safety forum, Board asked about the safety and security and the them with services to make and the recent presentation Community Campus Action State of the Student Union. them more comfortable off titled on "How to Party Coalition (CCAC) and student 
Student body president campus," Koski said. Legally" as ways student government's involvement Bob Reish, student body vice The results of the student government has reached out with South Bend. president Grant Schmidt and survey distributed in the fall to address these concerns. Reish, Schmidt and Koski chief executive assistant showed students were He said student govern­described the events that Karen Koski offered a Power unaware of resources avail­ment is working to keep the took place on campus over point presentation to the able to guide them through a Good Neighbor Guide sus­members of the Board with move off campus, she said. tainable by adding other see TRUSTEES/page 6 

Ramblers brave cold to 
•


ra1semoney 
Siegfried Hall's 'Day of Man' benefits homeless 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 

Even though the temperature in South .8end dropped below freezing yesterday, approximately 150 Siegfried residents braved the frigid weather to spend the day wearing nothing but shorts and T-shirts. 
They were participating in Siegfried's third annual "Day of Man" fundraiser, where Ramblers stand outside in inadequate cloth­ing for the weather to raise money for South Bend's Center for the Homeless. 
A group of students stood near the LaFortune Student Center, hold­ing plastic cups and imploring passerby to donate money to the homeless shelter. 
Participants could also be seen in dining halls and classroom build­ings, carrying their plastic cups around and wearing shirts that said "Man Up'' to explain that they were participating in the dorm event. 
The project's coordinator, Robbie Bernardin. said that the fundraiser has raised about $6,000 per year in past years. 
Bernardin, now a senior, came up with the idea when he was a sopho­more. He decided to walk from Siegfried Hall to Farley Hall to visit a friend while wearing only shorts and a T-shirt, and decided that the idea had potential to become a way to raise money for charity. 
"It felt really manly and I felt we could make it into a dorm event and raise money," Bernardin said. 
see SIEGFRIED/page 4 
Revue draws mixed reviews 

Popular con1edy show pushes limits with raunchy material 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 

The annual Keenan Revue opened last night with the theme of "It's a bird, it's a plane ... it's the Keenan Revue." But one might call 
-the show super-sexual, or super-funny, rather than super-heroic_ Keenan Hall rector Fr. Daniel Nolan prefaced the show by asking those in attendance to behave them­selves, but then said: "that might be hard to do when the strippers come on." 
see REVUE/ page 6 

, 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Candidates 
•


campaign with sites 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
This year's student body president and vice president tickets are stretching their campaign budgets of $200 per ticket as far as possible, with posters, inexpensive Web sites and visits to dorms. 

Three of the tickets, juniors Laura Burdick and Derek Sanchez, junior Grant Schmidt and sophomore Cy1;1 thia Weber, and junior James McCaughan and soph­omore Tom Gorski, have Web sites devoted to th-eir cam­paigns, burdicksanchez.com, giveaschmidt.eom and schmidtandweber.com, and jamesandtommy.com, respec­tively. 
Presidential candidate Grant Schmidt and running mate Cynthia Weber used the domain name "GiveASchmidt.com" to show they don't take themselves too seriously. 
'"Give a Schmidt' is kind of a funny pun, but it's a serious message too because we don't take ourselves too seri­ously, but we take the issues seriously," Weber said. "We take student safety seriously, we take philanthropy seri­ously, we take ·sexual assault seriously." 
The Web site only cost $10, but it is a major campaigning 
tool,  Schmidt  and  Weber  
said_  
"It's  a  complete  invest- 

see SITES/page 4 

Welsh Fam presents 'DanceFest' 

Eight Notre Dame, Saint Mary's dance groups zvill perform at Washington Hall 
Club, ND/SMC Irish Dance,
By LIZ LEFEBVRE 

Team Ballet Folklorico Azul 
News Writer 

y Oro, Troop ND, and First Class Steppers. 
This weekend, "One of the goals of the Washington II all will be event is to showcase all the filled with variety of different types of dance. dancers performing every­This year we have pieces thing from hip hop to ballet from tap, jazz. modern. as Welsh Family Hall puts lyrieal, Irish stf~p dance. on one of its signature stepping, swing, ballroom, events, the Welsh Family and traditional Hispanic DanceFest, this weekend. dance," sophomore co-. 
The two evenings of per­director Kaitlyn Maloney formances feature different said. types of dance and eight In addition to the estab­groups from across Notre lished campus dance ~ Dame and Sairit Mary's. groups, Dance~est also fea­The groups performing tures six numbers that include Dance Company of were choreographed Notre Dame, Ballroom Dance Team, Swing Dance see DANCE/page 4 

page 2 . The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, February 6, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The clocks 

ofND 

I love Notre Dame's campus. It's beautiful and rich with histo­ry of many generations of schol­ars. Nothing could be more gor­geous than an early autumn sun­set shining its beautiful rays 
Amanda Gray 
down on Notre Dame's old buildings, stu­News Wzre dents frolicking Editor on the quads, 
•
playing Frisbee or football. 

However, I have a complaint to register with the community of Notre Dame. I know I'm not the only one with this complaint -it was actually a friend of mine that brought this situation up. It all started with a mention of, «Would you look at that?" Now it irritates me beyond belief, and I'm on a rampage. 
All of the public clocks on Notre Dame campus are running slow by at least two to three min­utes. 
When I say public clocks, I mean the ones on the outside of O'Shag, Jordan Hall of Science, and the Basilica. Why are they running slow? Who knows? They've been that way as long as anyone can remember, according to the people that I've asked. Maybe this is something little and petty to be irritated by, but hon­estly, it makes life difficult. 
What irritates me so much is that I will be walking into O'Shag, and I will look up to see the time, thinking, "Oh, look! I still have five minutes until class!" 
Then I walk into class late, because that clock is running five minutes slow. Do you see how inconvenient that is? I'm sure I'm not the only one that has come across this problem. People have got to dislike walking into class, like, five minutes into the lecture, and all because of a clock that he or she assumed was on time. I'm also sure that the professors don't like it. Or, maybe I just need to relax. But I don't think I'IP the only one who's annoyed by this. So, if everyone's in agreement with me on this, why don't we change it? 
I just wonder one thing though, this entire time: who can I ask to fix those gosh-darn clocks? The building managers? The building staff? Some mythical Notre Dame time keeper? Is it even possible to change them? 
So, I'm sending out a plea here: please, pretty please, just fix the clocks so that they're on time. I mean, having them running slow doesn't benefit anyone. You've got the power, whoever can change the clocks. If you just don't want them to be on time, for some odd reason or another, at least make them run fast. Then, at least students will be getting to class early, instead of late. I don't think that's too much to ask -. anyone else with me? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a reponing error in the Feb. 5 edition, an arride tided "Revue to showcase Keenan Heroes," Melissa Buddie's name was misspelled. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE ON-CAMPUS ACTIVITY? 







Megan Aaherty  Caitlin Asherl  Meghan Curllss  Colleen Trausch  Krista Kulwicki  
Freshman LeMans  Freshman Le Mans  Sophomore Le Mans  Sophomore LeMans  Sophomore LeMans  
"Visiting my nun. She is quite the little lady!"  "Trivia night at Legends.··  "Notre Dame marching bandl".  "Hip-hop night at Legends.''  "Notre Dame basketball games for sure!"  


IN BRIEF 
There will be a lecture titled "Did Catholic Social Teaching incite a racial Revolution? The Rwandan Catholic Church, 1956-1959" at 12 
p.m. today in 104 Hesburgh Center. Jay Carney, a PhD can­didate in Church History at Catholic University, will deliver the lecture. The event, spon­sored by the Africa Working Group, is free and open to the public. 
Keenan Hall's annual come­dy show "The Keenan Revue" will take place tonight and Saturday at 7p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. 
The Browning Cinema will present the film "Children of Men," directed by Alfonso Cuaron, at 6:30 p.m. tonight in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets can be purchased at performingarts.nd.edu or by calling 574-631-2800. 
L.A. Theatre Works presents 

"The Great Tennessee Man poses as pollee officer Police said the imper­ly 40 firefighters, includ­
Monkey Trial" Saturday at 7 to stop people littering sonator never threatened ing m~mbers of the 
p.m. in the Decio Mainstage GARDINER, Maine -the woman. He told the Northern Kentucky Large 
Theatre of the DeBartolo Whoever he is, this litter­woman he had stopped Animal Rescue Team, to 
Performing Arts Center. The bug vigilante doesn't like her because she threw a get the horse out 
play is based on original tran­to see people flicking ciga­cigarette butt out the win­Wednesday. 
scripts of the famous 1925 rette butts from their car dow in Augusta. He nei­Pencil's owner, Doug 
Tennessee v. John Scopes windows. Police are look­ther asked for nor showed Oldiges, said the horse 
"Monkey Trial," which chal­ing for a man wh·o posed any identification. might have gone to the 
lenged the newly passed as a state trooper and pond looking for water to 
Tennessee legislature's "Butler stopped a woman in More than 40 firefighters drink because the heater 
Act" banning the teaching of Gardiner who allegedly rescue horse from icy pond on his water trough had 
evolution in the state's public tossed a spent cigarette NEWPORT, Ky. -Pencil stopped working. 
schools. Purchase tickets from her car window. the walking horse is back Oldiges said a veterinar­
online, visit or call the Ticket Police said the man was at home after being res­ian will monitor Pencil to 
Office at 57 4-631-2800. driving a red pickup truck cued from an icy pond in . make sure the horse has with a dash-mounted northern Kentucky where no continuing effects from 
To submit information to be 

flashing blue light when he was stuck for more the incident. 
included in this section of The 

he stopped the woman and than an hour. The 
Observer, e-mail detailed told her he was an off­Kentucky Enquirer Information compiled 
information about an event to duty state trooper. reported that it took near-from the Associated Press. 
obsnews@nd. edu. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY c::: 
UJ
::c 
~ 
3: L&.l ..... 
ct 
(,) 


..... 0 HIGH 38 HIGH 20 HIGH 51 HIGH 35 HIGH 35 HIGH 48 LOW 33 LOW 10 LOW 26 LOW 22 LOW 34 LOW 40 
Atlanta 36 I 18 Boston 29 I 11 Chicago 38 I 33 Denver 63 I 39 Houston 62 138 Los Angeles 76 1 50 Minneapolis 17 I 9 New York 30 I 13 Philadelphia 30 I 15 Phoenix 83 I 52 Seattle 57 I 42_ St. Louis 28 I 13 Tampa 56 I 31 Washington 31 I 19 
, 
Friday, February 6, 2008 page 3 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
MBAs to host diversity conference · SMCto conferwith 
By AARON STEINER Assistant News Editor 
Nationally recognized diversity experts will meet with Notre Dame students and faculty, as well as alumni and local business leaders, this weekend to discuss issues related to diversity in the workplace in the second annual MBA Diversity Conference. 
The conference, beginning today and running through­out the day Saturday, is organized by MBA students and is titled "Balancing Diversity: Celebrating Our Differences While Achieving a Common Goal." 
Pat Perrella, senior associ­ate director for Career Development in the MBA pro­gram, said the program began last year, spurred by several MBA students. 
Perrella, who said Diversity Conferences are common at business schools around the country, said the conferences serve as a means to "learn about what's going on [in diversityl. and to network." 
The conference is also an opportunity "to ensure that our students at all levels are exposed to this," he said. 
"If they're going to be a good business leader, they will understand the impor­

tance of diversity," Perrella 
said. 
Ashley Clark, a second-year MBA student and co-coordi­nator of the confp,rence, said recent events have made the conference even more rele­vant. 
"I think it's a really inter­esting time with out new president, and all that's hap­pening ... everything that we're learning about diversi­ty and the global market­place," she said. 
The conferences will allow participants, especially stu­dents, to discuss diversity "more than we do on a daily basis in our classes," she. said. 
Perrella said the conference kicks off with a reception in the Notre Dame Stadium Press Box Friday evening. 
Saturday's events include three keynote speakers, net­working opportunities and several panel discussions, he said. 
Clark said she is especially looking forward to hearing from Wendy Lewis, senior vice president of diversity for Major League Baseball. 
"I'm really interested to hear her perspective as a black female working for a national sports organization," Clark said. 
Other speakers include John Cruzat Jr., the national diversity specialist for USA Swimming, and Lisa Gutierrez, executive director of global diversity at Cummins Inc.. a Columbus, Ind., company that is serving as the primary sponsor of the conference. 
University administrators Frances Shavers, chief of staff and special assistant to the University president, and Dr. Don Pope-Davis. University vice president and associate provost, will also participate in the events, along with a number of local business leaders and Notre Dame alumni. 
Clark said registration for the event is closed and 140 attendees are expected. including MBA students and a number of undergraduates from all areas of study. 
Clark said she hopes the event gives participants "a different perspective" and gives students, especially, an opportunity to "not be afraid to ask questions"_about diver­sity. 
"I just hope that people learn something and under­stand so111ething a little bet­ter," she said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 



Indiana colleges 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
About 115 students from 10 
Indiana schools will come to Saint 
Mary's this weekend to share 
ideas about what works and what 
doesn't on college r,ampuses. 
Saint Mary's last hosted the 
annual Indiana Residence Hall 
Organization Conference (IRHO) 
in 1995. 
Senior Maura Clougherty, presi­
.dent of Saint Mary's Residence Hall Association (RHA), said the timing is perfect for Saint Mary's to host the conference. 
"We have been wanting to get more involved in IRHO the past few years, and it is a great chance to show oft' our beautiful campus," Clougherty said. "With the addi­tion of Spes Unica Hall and the Hilton Garden Inn here on cam­pus, it is a perfect place to have a conference. " 
The conference, entitled, "Will You Be My Leader?," includes an opening ceremony on Friday night with the keynote speaker, Patrick Daniel, the Director of Student Involvement, and a roll call in which the schools introduce them­selves through a skit, song or dance. Later that night, there will be a performance by Bell-acapel­la, a movie showing and an oppor­tunity to play Nintendo Wii, Oougherty said. 
On Saturday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., the delegates will attend sev­eral programs that are meant for schools to share ideas about improving life on campus. Some of the programs that Saint Mary's will be presenting are "How to Manage Time as a Student 
Leader," "How to run an Effective 
Meeting" and "How to bring 
Dance Marathon to your campus." 
Saturday will end with a banquet 
dinner. where awards will be dis­
tributed, and a dance, she said. 
This year, the conference will be 
slightly different than previous 
years, as more schools are 
involved. 
"This year's conference is one of the largest of the past five years," RHA secretary Katie Mcinerney said. "We believe this may have to do with location because typically the conferences are held in cen­tral or southern Indiana. so the new location has drawn at least two· new schools to the confer­ence." 
The housing situation will also be different due to the fact that Saint Mary's is a women's college. 
"This is also the first time the conference has housed delegates in a hotel," Mcinerney said. "Typically, the students sleep on a floor somewhere on campus, but due to the number of students attending the conference and the fact that Saint Mary's College is an all-women's college, we will be housing them in the Hilton Garden Inn." 
Mcinerney said this conference presents an opportunity for the delegates to interact with those from other schools. 
"I am looking forward to seeing old friends and meeting new peo­ple," Mcinerney said .. "These con­ferences only happen so often, and you meet such fun great peo­ple at them and then you have to wait a year to see them again." 
Contact Megan Loney mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

NGMAis atruly unique dining and drinking experience featuring acreative blend of culinary delights with adelica't~ touch of Asian flavors in an exciting yet intimate setting. Also come and enjoy our stylish and contemporary fusion martini bar. 
Club NOMA 
119 North Michigan Street Downtown Southbend 574.233.4959 IClubNOMA.com 

Show this ad. ;ffld.recelve $15 off ttJe.t~taJ ptiee otaentrcees, Monday tlltotigb · Thursdaytrom 5PM Ufltil 7PM* ·· 
*Offer valid until D2128109. Umil one distaulltperlab!e. Oiscoont maynot be used 4uring special events. 
Paper offers insight into new species 
ND researchers explore importance of creation of organisms 
Special to The Observer 
This year marks both the bicentennial of Charles Darwin's birth and the 150th anniversary of the publica­tion of his seminal work, "On the Origin of Species." Just in time for the Darwin observances. a new paper appearing today in the jour­nal Science by a team led by Notre Dame researchers Andrew Forbes, Thomas Powell and J.effrey Feder offers important insights into how new species come to be. 
"This study i"s important because it shows how biodi­versity itself can be a major generator of biodiversity," Feder said. "As new species form, they can create new opportunities for others to take advantage of, which, in turn. can lead to a chain reaction of over more new species." 
In the paper, Forbes, Powell, Feder and col­leagues demonstrate that the parasitic wasp Diachasma alloeum is evolv­ing into a new incipient species as n. result of spe­cializing on the Rhagoletis fruit flies that they attack. These Hhagoletis flies are themselves actively diversi­fying and forming new species. 
For the flies, the process begins with a shift to a new host plant. Rhagoletis pomonella flies originally attacked the fruit of hawthorn trees. But about 150 years ago, a portion of the hawthorn fly population shifted and began to feed on apples. In ecologically adapting to apples as a new host plant, apple flies are becoming genetically dis­tinct and reproductively iso­lated from hawthorn flies. The apple race of Rhagoletis flies is now a major pest of apples in the United States and is the proverbial "worm in the apple." 
Every new opportunity opens a world for others, however. The Notre Dame researchers show that the Diachasma wasp that para­sitizes Rhagoletis has also shifted to use the fly larvae that feed within the apple as a new food resource. Indeed, the wasp has evolved many of the same types of ecological adapta­tions to live on flies in apples that the apple fly evolved before it. 
And so it goes, with the formation of one new species planting the seed that germinates in the beginning of another. 
But in a plot twist, the apple wasp's ancestors 
appear to have come from a 
Rhagoletis fly infesting blue­
berries rather than 
hawthorns -one turn does 
not always lead directly to 
another. 
"The idea that there are 'speciation cascades' operat­ing in nature has important applications not only for understanding the process of speciation, but also for theories concerning how biodiversity reforms follow­ing mass extinction events, for why certain groups of organisms with certain lifestyles may be more diverse than others, and for why certain areas of biotic regions may have more life forms than others," Feder said. 
Where Darwin once trav­eled to the Galapagos Islands and sleuthed to other far-flung places in pursuit of the origins of species, the research on the apple fly and the apple wasp reveals that important clues to solving his ultimate "mys­tery of mysteries" can be found all around us, hap­pening right before our eyes in our own back yards. 
Other researchers partici­pating in the study are Lukasz L. Stelinski from the University of Florida and James J. Smith from Michigan State University. 

Friday, February 6, 2009 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
page 4 


Trustees 
continued from page 1 

i 
the last year where mem­bers of the community and students interacted, like the I . Fall Festival, which broughtI children from local elemen­I tary schools and their fami­I lies to North Quad around 
Halloween. · 

A trustee commented on the difference between serv­ing in the community 
..It sounds a little
and for the community. self-serving to say we "It sounds a 
do so much for 
little self­

serving to say the community. •· we do so much for the 
Trustee 
community," 

Student Activities 
the Trustee 

Committee
said. 

Another Trustee said it shouldn't sound like the students' efforts in the com­munity are just a service project, which sounds "patronizing." 
The three student govern­ment leaders also elaborat­ed on their accomplishments 

Revue 
continued from page 1 

And the audience didn't have to wait long for that to happen. 
In the opening act, entitled "Cum On Feel The Noise," a group of males came on stage and stripped down to their boxers, dancing to the song "Cum On Feel The Noize," by Quiet Riot. 
Wiggling, rubbing and thrusting their way around the stage, the dancers set tfi'e tone for the rest of the show, in which there was minimal pants wearing, sex­ual humor and more guy­on-guy grind­ing than will ever be seen 
..I very much enjoyed 
again at Notre Dame. the hook-up story. I The acts 
liked the musical 
focused on 

aspect ofit and the
poking fun at various chemistry really 
aspects of played out on stage.
Notre Dame 

there were
life, including 

Hip Hop definitely sparks.,, Night at Legends, 
Patrick Braga-Heneburg 
Melissa 

senior
Buddie, the growing loss­es of Notre Dame Men's Basketball team and the non-existent Dillon Pep Rally. 
Keenan Revue director Danny Wheeland, said this year, they tried to give the audience something differ­ent that they wouldn't expect. 
''I'd say we've rested some of the older stereotypes like the [Breen-Phillips] jokes, the Saint Mary's jokes and [we're] branching out into some newer directions 
in terms of campus technol­ogy, the University's sexual assault policy, intercolle­giate networking. 
Schmidt described the col­laborative effort behind the change from WebMail to Google Mail, or G-Mail, at the beginning of this aca­demic year. Switching to Google's services have allowed students access to many applications. like Google Documents and 
Calendar, he said, which can be used to share informa­tion and coor­dinate sched­ules. 
Many of the Reish-Schmid t initiatives this year have been results of the student survey from the fall semester, Koski t.old the Board. 
One of..these initiatives, she said, is the Gender Issues Committee's work on the sexual assault policy, which resulted in a resolution recommending its review that passed unani­mously in the Student 

Senate. 
The theme of the Reish­Schmidt campaign, "Bridging the Gap," extends to connecting Notre Dame's student government with peer institutions, Reish said. 
He informed the members of the Board of his work toward creating a working relationship with other stu­dent governments. 
Through his networking efforts, Reish said Notre Dame's student government now has a away to "gather and discuss ideas going on" at the campuses of other colleges. 
He said the group of com­municating student govern­ments is utilizing Google Groups as an on-line forum for discussion, "which is just another example of how Google is affecting our lives." 
An intercollegiate sympo­sium, scheduled for March, will provide Notre Dame's student government with "unique interpersonal con­nection and relationships" with the handful of schools that have committed to par­ticipating, Reish said. 
ContactJenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
you have a reason to endure it."

Siegfried 

Schafer said that he thinks continued from page 1 that it is easier to get donations 
when students passing by see "It just kind of took off from how much of a sacrifice there." Siegfried residents are making. 
Siegfried residents have var­"The pity factor gets a lot of ied reasons for participating, donations," Schafer said. "We but many underdress simply to also remind them that any feel a sense of donation at all pride by help-is welcome, no ing others. matter how 
Sophomore small." Bobby Schafer ..It seemed like a good In the past, said that he Day of Man has
· cause, and everyone
decided to received cover­participate in always tells me I don't age from local the event wear enough layers., news stations because he and has even wanted to been featured
Bobby Schafer 
help raise i n money for a sophomore BusinessWeek 
worthy cause. 

"It seemed like a good cause, and everyone always tells me I don't wear enough layers," Schafer said. "So why not do it for the homeless?" 
This ip Schafer's second year participating in Day of Man, and he said that knowing he is doing a good deed makes it easier to tolerate the cold weather. 
''I'm very happy about my decision," Schafer said. "The cold is more bearable when magazine, in a 
piece about 
innovate col­lege philanthropy. 
Bernardin said that the rea­son the fundraiser received so much press is because many people ·have never seen any­thing else like it. 
"It's unique," Bernardin said. "It's something no one else has ever done before." 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 

because ... some of those jokes have kind of gotten stale." Wheeland said. 
One alternate direction included poking fun at the hook-up culture at Notre 
D a m e Christian Galvan­Gonzalez and Tanner Ryan sang "Hook­Up Story," sung to the tune of Taylor Swift's "Love Story." 
" II a v e another drink, we'll make it out of this 
mess. 
pulled out a ring and said, 'Marry me, Pangborn girl. I don't even know your name. But I went to Jared's and picked out a ring."' 
Senior 
• Patrick Braga­Heneburg commented on the chemistry between the two male singers, one mas­querading as a girl. 
"I very much enjoyed the hook-up story. I liked the musical aspect of it and the chemistry really played out on stage. There were defi­nitely sparks," he said. 
The men of Keenan ignored societal taboos and political correctness, poking fun at anything and anyone, ranging from the secret bathroom lives of girls to 
It's a hook-up story. Baby. just say yes," they sang. Later in the song they sang, "He put his beer down and 

..A lot ofthe jokes were very sexual, but obviously you laugh about stuff. I thought it was really funny... 
Kelsey Gallagher freshman 
people in vegetative states. But even more prevalent than off-color jokes was sex­ual humor. 
One act gave examples of sexually explicit pick up 
seen anything more raunchy ... I couldn't watch most of it," senior Kristen Drahos said. 
She said the pick-up lines were one of the more "raunchy" parts of the show, along with an act where the Keenan men re-enact the first gay couple to have sex at Notre Dame. 
The audience alternated from . responding with uproarious laughter to flat­out shock. 
Freshman Kelsey Gallagher said she was sur­prised the explicit content of the show was approved, but she said she still enjoyed it and found it comical. 
"A lot of the jokes were very sexual," Gallagher said. "[But] obviously you laugh about stuff. I thought it was really funny." 
"It's a bird, it's a plane ... It's the Keenan Revue" will take place again tonight and tomorrow night at 7 p.m. in the St. Mary's ()'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
lines, like "Do you have a keg in your pants? Because I'd really like to tap that." 
The risque material was not well­received by all students how­ever. 
"I don't think I've ever 
campaign and what you're 

bringing to student govern­ment," Sanchez said. continued· from page 1 "It's a great, easy way for 
students to find out more ment," Schmidt said. "We about our platform," Gorski have to figure out a way to said. get the word out. It's a way to Schmidt and Weber used a promote our campaign· and laptop to demonstrate the inform people, a way of get­unique features of their Web ting people interested in stu­site. dent government." "It's very interactive, with 
For other tickets, the Web videos. lots of images. We site is even more crucial to tried to make it as eye-catch­their cam­ing as possible. paigns. We're really 
. McCaughan and 7The Web site] is trying to sell Gorski strug­our ideas to the 


Site. 

very interactive, with
gled to get students," 
posters videos, lots ofimages. 
Weber said. approved and We tried to make it as "People are relying on might say, 'Oh,
eye-catching
their Web site look how much 
as possible. ,
for publicity. time they put 
"We're still into their Web working on get­Cynthia Weber site.' Let that ting signs be evidence of
Vice presidential 
approved, so how much time
candidate
technology is the only thing we have, besides talking to people," Gorski said. 
McCaughan and Gorski were able to save money with a free domain name. 
"We've spent nothing on [advertising]. It was a free Web host," Gorski said. 
All three tickets used easy­to-remember domain names. Sanchez credits last year's Reish and Schmidt team for coming up with a catchy cam­paign website. 
"We tried to use a url that's easy to remember," Sanchez said. "The guys last year were the first ones to go the 'dot-com' route." 
The tickets are enthusiastic about their Web sites, which they see as major campaign­ing tools. 
"The Web site is a good opportunity for students to see the character of your and effort we 
would put in as student body president and vice president," Weber said. 
The three tickets also have Facebook groups and have been campaigning door-to­door in dorms. 
"The Facebook group is pretty standard," Sanchez said. "Our posters and going to dorms have been pretty successful." 
Currently, the Schmidt and Weber Facebook group has 644 members. the Burdick and Sanchez group has 292 members. and McCaughan and Gorski's group has 277 members. The fourth ticket, Luke Lennon and Charles Harig, two Zahm freshmen, were unavailable for com­ment. Their group has 141 members. 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 






Friday, February 6, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OssERVEits WIRE SERVICES page.5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Germany tries to search for Heim 
BERLIN -Germany will seek Egypt's per­mission to search for the body of top Nazi war criminal Aribert Heim after new infor­mation indicated the Austrian concentration camp doctor died in Cairo years ago, inves­tigators said Thursday. 
Heim, accused of carrying out gruesome experiments and murdering hundreds of Jews, has been pursued by German investi­gators for decades. Now it appears he lived in Egyp't under an Arab name, learned Arabic and converted to Islam. 
"He died in 1992, said Tarek Abdel­Moneim el Rifai, the son of Heim 's dentist in Cairo. "I didn't know that he was a doctor and that he is the most wanted Nazi war criminal." 
El Rifai said he didn't know Heim by his real name and that his family used to refer to him as "the German man." 
War coming to an end in Sri Lanka 
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka -The Sri Lankan gov­ernment is poised to crush the Tamil Tiger rebels and end a quarter-century civil war that has killed tens of thousands. But it still faces a major challenge beyond the battlefield: resolving the ethnic conflict that fueled the uprising. 
President Mahinda Rajapaksa has consistently expressed support for a deal to give the ethnic Tamil minority on this South Ao;ian island nation ~!lore say in a government long dominated by the Sinhalese majority. 
"The sowing of discord belongs to the past. The future belongs to those who sow the seeds of unity," he said in a speech Wednesday mark­ing Independence Day. 
Critics welcome the words, but they say little has actually been done to reconcile the ethnic groups. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Shackled murder suspect escapes 
PIIILADELPIIIA -A private prison trans­portation company lost an attempted-murder suspect somewhere ,between Florida and Pennsylvania, leading to a search for the cuffed and shackled inmate and drawing complaints that such companies are poorly regulated. 
The discovery Thursday wa<> at least the sec­ond -escape in six months involving an inmate being moved by Prisoner Transportation Services of America LLC. Still, industry critics said the major issue is not escapes, but mistreat­ment of inmates and poor traveling conditions. 
Authorities searched for the suspect who escaped late Wednesday or early Thursday while en route from Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 
Octuplets' mom avoids the press 
WHITTIER, Calif. -Reporters from all over the map have camped outside her doorstep and surrounded the hospital where she gave birth to eight healthy babies last week, but people still don't know much about Nadya Suleman. That's about to change. 
After managing to avoid reporters as she left the hospital Thursday morning, Suleman headed for her first interview, with Ann Curry of NBC's "Today" show. One of the octuplets mother's hastily hired publicists said she is staying at "an undisclosed location" while she considers offers including possible book and TV deals. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Principal grazed by gun shot 
GARY, Ind. -Police say a Gary high school principal was grazed in the shoulder by a bullet as she was riding in a car with her husband and grandchild. 
Gary Police Commander Richard Allen says Wallace High School principal Lucille Upshaw was driving the car Wednesday night and had stopped at an intersection before she and her husband heard several gun shots, one of which shattered the rear window of their car. . 
Allen says police don't believe the car was the intended target. 


FBI finds new leads in . Tylenol case 
Man linked to deadly 1982 poisonings may be convicted 26 years after the crime 
Associated Press 

BOSTON -James W.  
Lewis has a habit of getting  
into trouble. And a knack  
for getting out of it, too.  
He was charged with  
killing and dismembering a  
man in Kansas City, Mo., in  
1978, but the case was  
thrown out. He was jailed  
on rape charges decades  
later in Massachusetts, but  
went free when the victim  
refused to testify.  
And while authorities in  
Chicago -have long suspect­ 
ed Lewis was responsible  
for the deadly 1982 Tylenol  
poisonings, the only thing  
they ever pinned on him  
was an extortion attempt  
against the maker of the  
pain reliever. No one was  
ever charged in the seven  
cyanide deaths.  
Now the FBI says there  
are new leads in the Tylenol  
case and on Wednesday  
seized a computer and  
boxes of files from Lewis'  
Boston-area home. The  
mysterious and sudden  
flurry of activity has raised  
hopes of a long-awaited  
.break in the sensational 26­ 
year-old case.  
"Up until yesterday, I AP  
thought this would never be Investigators watch a man linked to the 1982 Tylenol posionings in Cambridge, Mass.,  
solved in my lifetime or Wednesday.  
ever," said Jack Eliason.  
whose sister, Mary  died. That triggered a  Kenneth Galinski of the  determined and some evi­ 
McFarland, a :31-year-old  Jlational scare and a huge  Chicago suburb of Arlington  dence had been illegally  
mother, died after swallow­ recall, and eventually led to  Heights, where three of the  obtained. Lewis denied  
ing poisoned Tylenol.  the widespread adoption of  victims swallowed the  killing the man.  
Exactly why investigators  tamperproof packaging for  lethal Tylenol capsules, said  He and his wife, Leann,  
have suddenly taken so  over-the-counter drugs.  Thursday he is "cautiously  moved to the Chicago area  
much interest in the self­ Caught after a nationwide  optimistic" investigators  in the early 1980s, their  
proclaimed "Tylenol Man"  manhunt in late 1982,  have maae a breakthrough,  activities shrouded in secre­ 
is unclear, but the FBI cited  Lewis gave investigators a  but would not elaborate.  cy. Authorities said Lewis  
advances in forensic tech­ detailed account of how the  .  Lewis's life both before  was chameleon-like in his  
nology, along with publicity  killer might have done it,  and after his prison sen­ ability to change his identi­ 
and tips that came in  and eventually admitted  tence is full of strange and  ty, using at least 18 names  
around the 25th anniver­ sending a letter demanding  disturbing twists.  and posing as a freelance  
sary of the crime in 2007.  $1 million from the manu­ Police said that he was  writer, real estate sales­ 
Authorities have refused  facturer of Tylenol to "stop  arrested in 1973 and 197 4  man, computer assistant  
to release any further  the killing."  for fighting with his stepfa­ and importer of Indian tap­ 
details of the investigation,  But he said he was only  ther and spent time in men­ estries.  
including the whereabouts  trying to exploit the crisis,  tal institutions.  .-He was apparently haunt­ 
of Lewis, who is in his early  and denied he had anything  In 1978 he was accused  ed by the death of his  
60s.  to do with the deaths. He  of dismembering a 72-year­ daughter, who had Down  
In a space ofthree days  was convicted of extortion  old man who had hired him  syndrome and died at age 5  
beginning Sept. 29, 1982,  in 1983 and spent 12 years  as an accountant. The  during heart surgery, and  
seven people who took  in prison, getting out in  charges were eventually  sometimes carried a  
cyanide-laced Tylenol in  1995.  dismissed because the  recording of her voice,  
Chicago and four suburbs  Police Commander  cause of death was not  according to the FBI.  

IRAQ 

Support shownfor al-Maliki in election 
including its base in the holy city of vested interest in curbing his power. 
Associated Press 

Najaf. The elections, for ruling councils in 
BAGHDAD-Prime Minister Nouri Still, the margin of victory in a 14 of the 18 provinces, were the first al-Maliki's allies swept to victory over number of Shiite provinces was nar­nationwide balloting since December Shiite religious parties during last row, indicating the prime minister's 2005 and went off peacefully. But a weekend's provincial elections in Iraq supporters will have to cut deals with suicide bomber struck Thursday in -a rousing endorsement of his their rivals in order to govern. an ethnically tense northern town, crackdown on extremists, according And al-Maliki's Coalition of the killing 14 people, according to U.S. to official results released Thursday. State of Law gained little traction in and Iraqi officials. 
The impressive showing, which Sunni areas, suggesting that sectari­The election commission must must be certified by international and an divisions still play a. major role in apportion seats on provincial councils Iraqi observers, places al-Maliki in a Iraqi politics. Al-Maliki is himself a based on the percentages of the vote strong position before parliamentary Shiite from a religious party but his won by each party, a process that elections late this year and ceuld bol­bloc ran on a platform against sectar­could take weeks. Council members ster U.S. confidence that it can begin ianism. in turn elect the provincial governors. withdrawing more of its 140,000 Some Western diplomats believe al­Al-Maliki's biggest victories came in troops. Maliki's biggest problem now will be Baghdad and Basra, Iraq's second 
The results were a major blow to fending off challenges from fellow largest city, where voters rewarded 
Iraq's biggest Shiite religious party -Shiites as well as Sunnis and Kurds him for last spring's offensive crush­the Supreme Islamic Iraqi Council --who all underestimated him two ing Shiite militias that had ruled the which trailed in every Shiite province years ago but now have a strong streets for years. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Friday, February 6, 2009 
Dance 
continued from page I 

specifically for this show. The DanceFest dancers auditioned in September and having been practicing once a week since then for this event. 
The numbers high light a wide variety of talents, as some dancers have almost 20 years of experience, while many of the campus groups welcome beginners. 
"DanceFest provides a great opportunity for people who have-danced in the past to continue dancing at college," said senior Lauren Nolan, one of the DanceFest choreogra­phers. 
Providing this chance for dancers on campus was one of ' 
the main reasons why DanceFest was created. "The idea for the show was initiat­e!!~ by a Welsh Family resident six years ago who realized there was no single outlet for all the dance groups on cam­pus to come together and per­form," Maloney said. 
Nolan noted the importance of promoting different cultural dances through DanceFest. 
"This is an event for stu­dents that explores different types of dance. Students can increase their. cultural aware­ness about dance by seeing styles they may not have encountered before," she said. 
Maloney is excited to see the result of the hard work and 
dedication  of  all  the  
DanceFest  members  this  
weekend.  "Planning  and  

directing a show is so much 
more work than I had ever imagined," Maloney said. "But it's been so worth it. I've met a lot of talented people and learned so much about both event planning and the techni­cal aspects of theater. I can't wait to see the finished prod­uct,"she said. . 
The performances will take place Friday and Saturday at 7 p.m. Tickets can be pur­chased for $4 at the door. 
This. year, all the proceeds from DanceFest will benefit La Casa De Amistad, a youth and adult center located on the west side of South Bend, which addresses the needs of South Bend area Hispanics through organized activities and support. 
Contact Liz Lefebrve at elefebyr@nd.edu 
SRI LANKA 

Aswarends, ethnic tensions remain 
Associated Press 

COLOMBO -The Sri Lankan government is poised to crush the Tamil Tiger rebels and end a quar­ter-century civil war that has killed tens of thousands. But it still faces a major challenge beyond the battle­field: resolving the ethnic conflict that fueled the uprising. 
President Mahinda Rajapaksa has consistently expressed support for a deal to give the ethnic Tamil minority on this South Asian island nation more say in a government long dominated by the Sinhalese majority. 
"The sowing of discord belongs to the past. The future belongs to those who sow the seeds of unity," he said in a speech Wednesday marking Independence Day. 
Critics welcome the words, but they say little has actu­ally been done to reconcile the ethnic groups. 
"The military machine is in full action ... in the politi­cal arena there is no move­ment at all," said independ­ent lawmaker Mano Ganesan, who is Tamil. '~he causes that led to the ere­
-ation of Tamil nationalism, and from Tamil nationalism to Tamil extremism, and from Tamil extremism to Tamil terrorism, they very much exist today." The ethnic conflict traces back to Sri Lanka's inde­pendence from Britain 61 years ago, when the mainly Buddhist Sinhalese took power after decades of what they saw as British favoritism toward the main­ly Hindu Tamils. In the ensuing years, suc­cessive governments domi­nated by the Sinhalese pushed policies favoring their language and commu­nity and marginalizing 
Tamils. By the 1970s, a patchwork of rival Tamil political and militant groups began calling for a separate state in the historic Tamil heartlands of the north and east, which they called Eelam. 
War broke out in 1983 when Tamil Tiger guerrillas killed 13 soldiers in an ambush and Sinhalese mobs retaliated with anti-Tamil riots that human rights groups say killed as many as 2,000 people. 
Thousands of Tamils joined the rebels, known formally as the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam. Tens of thousands of oth8rs t1ed abroad, creating a Tamil diaspora that has been a rich source of funding for the rebels. 
The Tamil community accounts for about 18 per­cent of Sri Lanka's 20 mil­lion people, and Sinhalese comprise about 7 4 percent. Most of the rest are Muslims. 
The government says that once it finishes off the rebels it will be willing to devolve some power to the provinces, giving Tamils, with large populations in the north and east, a significant say in local affairs. 
It also promises a big influx of economic aid for development in the north. 
"With increasing prosperi­ty the temptation to take up a gun and go to the jungle might be less," Foreign Secretary Palitha Kohona said. "We also feel that once the back of tke LTTE is bro­ken completely, the violence that we see in the country will gradually fade away." 
But many Tamils retain deep suspicions of the gov­ernment, exacerbated by reported statements from politicians and military lead­ers about maintaining the 
Sinhalese, Buddhist nature of the country. 
Recent reports of large casualties among 250,000 Tamil civilians trapped in the remaining war zone have intensified those suspi­cions. 
At their height, the rebels controlled a shadow state in the north with its own flag, police force and courts. 
But government troops broke through the front lines a few months ago, routed the rebels from all their major strongholds and boxed them into a sliver of coast. The rebel group is on the verge of being destroyed as a conventional force, and its dream of establishing Eelam is in tatters. 
1kJOtyour 
car bomb leaves man without eye 
Associated Press 
•
LITTLE ROCK -Federal agents investigating a car bombing that critically injured a state medical board official focused Thursday on a tire the victim reportedly was trying to move from his driveway just before the blast. 
Dr. Trent P. Pierce, 54, remained in eritical condition at a hospital Thursday, a day after the bomb blew up in West Memphis as he prepared to leave for work. The chairman of the Arkansas State Medical Board lost his left eye in the blast, suffered burns and was pelted with shrapnel. 
Pierce "is conscious and respunding," board member Joseph Beck told colleagues Thursday at their previously scheduled meeting in Little Rock. "I know our thoughts and prayers are with Dr. Pierce and his family." 
Dr. Scott Ferguson, a family friend, said Pierce's family told him a tire had been left in the way of Pierce's hybrid Lexus sport-utility vehicle Wednesday. Ferguson said Pierce apparently leaned down to move the tire out of the way just before the explosion. 
Austin Banks, a senior special agent with the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, said investigators want to learn more about the tire. 
"This is a lead we're going to follow up on," he said. 
Ferguson said that on Thursday afternoon, Pierce could move his fingers and toes on command, as well as bend his knee. He also said said doc-




j'UWO'R 'PJ{'R!E'1f?:'s 
W~!E'K!EtNTJ P9l~IT 
at ?:'lie 'Riverside ?:'errace 
focatedon tiU 6ants oftiU Saint:Joseyli ~iver 
®in-ners aruf ®ances 

tors examined Pierce's right eye 
and believe he will be able to see out of it again. 
Pierce can't talk to detectives because doctors have placed an oxygen tube in his throat, Ferguson said. Pierce was expected to undergo surgery again Friday to repair a broken wrist and insert a plate there. Previous operations cleared away shrapnel blasted into his neck and abdomen. 
There's been a "remarkable change since they've done the cleaning and the debris remov­ing in the burn areas, Ferguson said. "Yesterday, everything just looked charred and gone. Today, when they,. cleared everything away, you eould see clean, healthy skin underneath." 
Pierce's colleagues on the medical board attempted to carry on business as normal at Thursday's meeting, even as ATF agents pulled them out for interviews and Little Rock police guarded the building. 
ATF agents poured over the panel's disciplinary records, paying close attention to its split decisions. As a habit, Pierce cast a deciding vote only when the board's 12 other· members couldn't resolve cases. Agents also wanted to look at lawsuits involving the family physician, most of which have been settled. 
Beck.. questioned whether a board decision played any part in the bombing. 
"Any time a person's profes­sional license is at stake, emo­tions run high, but that's been going on for years with this board," the Little Rock doctor said. "This was something atypi­cal and terrible." 



Friday, February 6, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow Jones  7,956.66  -121.70  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,674  105  2,082  2,195,501,310  


··-··».-~--_.. 

. 1,404.33 -2R46 1,515.05 -1.25
'rr:g;11;.os i'i~~~~5~11M 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (BAC) -11.32 -0.60 4.70 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) -0.49 -0.41 83.33 
FINANCIAL SEL (XLF) -1.10 -0.10 8.97 
CITIGROU~.INC (C) +0.87 +0.03 3.49 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.53 +0.072 2.914 
13-WEEK BILL -6.45 -0.020 0.290 
30-YEAR BOND +1.38 +0.050 3.673 
5-YEAR NOTE +3.01 +0.056 1.918 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.46 40.32 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +9.70 902.20 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.85 81.15 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 89.3700 
EURO 1.2836 
CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2332 
BRITISH POUND 1.4440 
IN BRIEF 

Retailers face layoffs as sales decline 
WASIIINGTON -More people sought unem­ployment benefits than expected last week and laid-off workers found it harder to land new jobs as the economy struggled to show signs of life. 
Sour economic indicators Thursday also plagued the retail industry: Weak factory orders were reported for December and sales declines last month for many major stores raised concerns about the industry's health. 
Productivity rose sharply in the final months of the year, the government said -but only because layoffs cut the number of hours worked more than output fell. 
"Business owners have gone into lockdown mode in what is turning out to be the worst economic environment since the early 1980s," said Tim Quinlan, economic analyst at Wachovia. 
Some stations switch to digital Feb. 17 • 
NEW YORK -Television viewers who use antennas and were expecting a few more months to prepare for digital TV may not have much time left before their sets go dark: Many stations still plan to drop analog broadcasts in less than two weeks. 
When Congress postponed the mandatory transition to digital TV until June, it also gave stations the option to stick to the originally scheduled date of Feb. 17. 
That means the shutdown of analog signals, which broadcasters had hoped would happen at nearly the same time ncttionwide, could now unfold in a confusing patchwork of differ­ent schedules. 
Lawmakers wanted to address concerns that many households that receive TV signals through an antenna are not preparerl for the switch. They were also mindful that a govern­ment fund has run out of money to subsidize digital converter boxes for older TVs. 
Dozens of stations around the country now say they are going to take advantage of the option to drop analog broadcasts this month. 
Many others arc on the fence. The total numhPr is likely to be in the hundreds, a sub­stantial ehunk and maybe evf'n a majority of the country's 1,796 full-power TV stations. 
Bailout plan to be unveiled Monday 
Treasury secretary to deliver outline of new economic stimulus package 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Trea..cmry Secretary Timothy 
Geithner and other top offi­
cials are putting the finish­
ing touches on a plan to 
overhaul the government's . 
$700 billion fmaneial rescue 
program. 

A Treasury official said 
Geithner will deliver a 
speech on Monday outlining 
the new plan. 

But Treasury officials would not comment on reports Thursday that changes were being consid­ered to the current account­ing standard that requires banks to carry assets such as mortgage-backed securi­ties on their books at fair value, a process known as "mark to market." 
Critics of this process con­tend that it has made the current financial crisis worse by forcing banks to slash the value of assets that are currently depressed because of mar­ket conditions. Treasury officials said the adminis­tration's plan was not yet complete and would be revealed in Geithner's speech in Washington next week. 
Some key lawmakers are examining alternatives to the current rules on mark­ing down bank assets as a possible way to address the banking crisis. 
Senate Banking money would be used to Chairman Ben Bernanke was aimed at improving the Committee Chairman reduce mortgage rates and and other offieials who efl'ort to get credit flowing Christopher Dodd, D-Conn., prevent foreclosures. serve on the President's again and to support the said Thursday in an inter­The Federal Heserve has Working Group on Financial Obama stimulus plan being view that he wanted to con­been buying up mortgage­Markets. The group was debated in Congress. sider the possibility of doing backed securities guaran­formed in the wake of the The working group also something other than mark­teed by Fannie Mae, 1987 stock market crash will devote time to dis­to-market during times Freddie Mac and Ginnie with the goal of better coor­cussing the reforms needed when "you get into a pro­Mae for a month. Before dinating the government's to ensure that the current cyclical environment and rising a bit in recent weeks, response to market crises. financial crisis, the worst to things are spiraling down ... mortgage rates had plunged The administration's over­hit the country in seven but I haven't endorsed any­since the Fed announced haul of the controversial decades, is not repeated, he thing yet." the creation of the $500 bil­$700 billion bailout plan is said. 
Meanwhile, real estate lion program late last year. expected to provide support "We also want to use this lobbyists were pressing the "They can certainly to banks to deal with some opportunity to begin the government to spend bil­expand on it to bring the of the toxic assets that are process of shaping a con­lions to ternporarily subsi­rates down further," said now weighing down their sensus reform of our finan­dize lower mortgage rates. Lawrence Yun, chief econo­balance sheets and keeping cial system so that neither They were looking to mist with the National them from resuming more the U.S. economy or the Geithner's announcement Association of Realtors. normal lending. global financial system ever Monday in hopes that some Geithner met Thursday Geithner said the over­... again faces a crisis of this of the financial rescue with Federal Reserve haul of the rescue program magnitude," Geithner said. 







January sales report a 4.8 percent fall 
Associated Press The discounter has benefited from con­Centers-Goldman Sachs tally -not as 
sumers' focus on necessities like gro­bad as expected but still the fourth con­
NEW YORK -Shoppers passed by ceries and on finding cheaper options secutive monthly decline. The index the jewelry counter in January, delayed for other items. was helped by the better-than-expected buying their favorite perfume and even "Consumers have only one focus results from Wal-Mart, which accounts skimped on buying elothes for their today and that is survival," said C. Britt for just over half the index. Excluding growing kids. If they looked at status Beemer, chairman of America's Wal-Mart, sales fell 4.8 percent. The handbags, they put them back on the Hesearch Group. "They only want to tally is based on same-store sales, or shelf and walked away. buy the things they have to have." sales at stores open at lea.."it a year. 
The dismal January sales that retail­What's clear, he says, is that nothing While January is the least important ers reported Thursday foreshadow a these days is recession proof -even month of a retailer's sales calendar, the cold spring a'i consumers worry about makeup. Estee Lauder Cos. reported a figures confirm how weak consumer massive layoffs and their dwindling 30 percent drop in fiscal second-quar­spending is. Merchants couldn't even retirement funds. Bigger-than-expected ter profits as shopp('rs cut their spend­count on the usual post-holiday lift declines crossed the spectrum from ing on makeup, skincare and perfume. from shoppers mdeeming holiday gift Gap Inc. to luxury retailer Sak5> and the Chief Operating OtficPr Fabrizio Freda eards. Sales of gift card sales were Children's Place. Others, like Macy's said he has noticed consumers are down because shoppers were focusing and Limited Brands Inc., did better delaying purchases, espedally in fra­on deals, or just not buying. And with than f(,reca.."it but still saw sales drops. grances. the economy deteriorating, the ICSC's 
\Val-Mart, the world's largest retaiJPr, January sales at established stores chief economist Michael P. Nimnira was among the outliPrs, reporting sales fell 1.6 p<>rcent, according to the expect-. sales to keep fhlling through at gains that beat Wall Street's fon~cast. lntf'rnational Council of Shopping least spring. 
--~------­

page 8 The Observer +INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 6, 2009 

VATICAN CITY 

Church demands Bishop recant views 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY -The 
Vatican, bowing to the growing 
furor over Pope Benedict XVI's 
decision to accept a return to the 
church of a prelate who denied 
the Holocaust, made a dramatic 
turnaround Wednesday and 
demanded the bishop recant. 
The Vatican sought to distance the pope from the controversy by saying he did not know about British Bishop Richard Williamson's views when he agreed to lift his excommunica­tion last month. 
In the surprisingly public spat, some leading cardinals in Germany and at the Vatican blamed unidentified aides for not fully briefing the pope. 
The controversy provided a rare look at the cracks in the Vatican's facade of unity and raised questions about the advice the pope receives and his access to information. Papal aides say Benedict, a former university professor and theolo­gian, receives a daily news sum­mary and occasionally watches television. 
The statement was issued by the Vatican's Secretariat of State a day after German Chancellor Angela Merkel urged the pope to make a clearer rejection of Holocaust denials. Top German church officials, Jewish groups and the head of the U.S. bishops conference also condemned Williamson. 
In a sign of just how much the Vatican had misread the public mood, the secretary of state, Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone, was quoted Tuesday as saying he considered the matter "closed" after Benedict issued a lengthy denunciation of Holocaust deniers last week. 
Rabbi Marvin Bier, founder of the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles, said he took Benedict at his word that he did­n't know about Williamson's views, but said he couldn't believe Vatican aides didn't do more research to better inform the pope. 
"This was absolutely a matter that was bungled at the highest levels of the Vatican," Hier said. "If they Googled the name 'Bishop Williamson,' they'd find out he was a Holocaust denier. This did not require advanced research at the Vatican Library or Oxford." 
"Everybody knows he's an anti-Semite,'' since Williamson has been vocal about his views, making speeches and publishing a blog, Hier said. "The other Holocaust deniers are rabid, anti-Semites who can't claim any legitimacy. But when a per­son calls himself bishop and he was invited back into the Catholic Church by none other than the pope, he brings with him an aura of legitimacy. And that legitimacy stains the pope. So the pope today finally made the right decision, that (Williamson) must recant." 
Williamson was shown on Swedish state television just days before the lifting of his excommunication was announced on Jan. 24, acknowl­edging his view that "there was not one Jew killed by the gas chambers" during World War II. 
lie said historical evidence "is hugely against 6 million Jews having been deliberately gassed in gas chambers as a deliberate policy of Adolf Hitler." 
Williamson subsequently apol­ogized to the pope for having stirred controversy, but he did not repudiate his comments, in which he also said only 200,000 to 300,000 Jews were killed by the Nazis and none were gassed. 
"Germany has paid out billions and billions of deutschmarks and now euros because the Germans have a guilt complex about their having gassed 6 mil­lion Jews. Well, I don't think 6 million Jews were gassed,'' he said. 
The controversy threatened to mar Benedict's strong record in building Catholic-Jewish rela­tions, which included visits to the Nazi Auschwitz death camp in Poland and synagogues in Germany and the United States. 
Jewish leaders welcomed the Vatican's move Wednesday. 
"Had all this been expressed at the o.utset, we could have avoided the unnecessary dam­age and distress,'' Rabbi David Rosen, international director of interreligious affairs of the American Jewish Committee, said in an e-mail following Wednesday's statement. 
Williamson and three other bishops were excommunicated in 1988 after they were conse­crated by the late ultraconserva­tive Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre without papal consent. 
Lefebvre founded the tradi­tionalist Society of St. Pius X in 1969, which opposes the liberal­izing reforms of the Second Vatican Council, including its outreach to Jews. 
The Holy See said when it announced the rehabilitation of the bishops that removing the excommunication did not mean the Vatican shared Williamson's views. 
In the statement Wednesday, the Vatican said that while Williamson's excommunication had been lifted, he still had no canonical function in the church because he was consecrated ille­gitimately by Lefebvre. 
"Bishop Williamson, in order to be admitted to episcopal func­tions within the church, will have to take his distance, in an absolutely unequivocal and pub­lic fashion, from his position on the Shoah, which the Holy Father was not aware of when the excommunication was lift­ed,'' the statement said. Shoah is the Hebrew word for the Holocaust. 
In addition to its demand of Williamson, the Vatican said the society as a whole must fully recognize the teachings of Vatican II and all the popes who came during and after it in order to have a legitimate canonical function in the church. 
Jewish groups praised the Vatican statement, saying it sat­isfied their key demand. "This was the sign the Jewish world has been waiting for," said Ronald Lauder, president of the World Jewish Congress. 
Elan Steinberg, vice president of the American Gathering of Holocaust Survivors and their Descendants, thanked Merkel for her "righteous comments" and said the process of healing the "deep wound that this crisis caused to the Catholic-Jewish dialogue" eould now begin. 

Friday, February 6, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
FEMA recalls kits with peanut butter 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE Nearly 168,000 emergency meal kits sent to Kentucky in the wake of an ice storm had been recalled more than two weeks earlier because some contained peanut butter that could have been contaminated by salmo­nella, federal officials said Thursday. 
An apparent communication breakdown among federal offi­cials allowed the kits to be sent to Kentucky to help feed hun­dreds of thousands of people left without power at the height of last week's storm. The storm also swept through Arkansas, but federal officials don't believe people there got the meal kits affected by the recall. 
People were warned Thursday not to eat the peanut butter packets. No illnesses have been reported and recalls were ordered out of "an abun­dance of caution," said Jay Blanton, a spokesman for Kentucky Gov. Steve Beshear. 
The company that distributed the peanut butter packets used in the meals recalled them last month because of the salmo­nella outbreak suspected of sickening at least 575 people, eight of whom died. A Blakely, Ga., peanut-processing plant that produces a fraction of U.S. peanut products is being inves­tigated in the outbreak. 
The company that packaged the meals, Hed Cloud Foods Inc., sent a memo dated Jan. 19 to the arm of the Department of Defense respon­sible for getting them to the Federal Emergency Managemerrt Agency. But FEMA said it didn't learn of the recall until Wednesday night, more than two weeks later. 
Beshear had eaten some of the peanut butter while touring storm damage and said Thursday he felt "pretty good." 
But people still in shelters because of the storm weren't so positive. 
"You look forward to them helping and they're handing out things that are making it worse," said Hebecca Schmelz, who was at a shelter in down­town Greenville with her 6­month-old and 6-year-old sons. 
She said her family had eaten several emergency meals but she did not believe any con­tained the peanut butter pack­ets shown on a FEMA flier warning people about possible salmonella. 
''I'm glad that my kids don't cat peanut butter, that's for sure," she said. 
The kits, which contained entrees, cookies, chips and sometimes peanut butter pack­ets, were assembled in September for relief efforts after llurrieane Ike, said Bob IIarrison, chairman of South Elgin. Ill.-based Hed Cloud Foods Inc. 
II arrison said Hed Cloud learned of the peanut butter reeall and notified the Defense Supply Center Philadelphia, an arm of the Department of Defense that supplies meals to FEMA, that it was recalling about' 530,000 meals. Dennis Gauci, spokesman for the Defense Logistics Agency, which oversees the supply cen­ter, could not say when the recall notice was received from Red Cloud or when FEMA was notified. 

FEMA spokeswoman Alexandra Kirin said the Food and Drug Administration noti­fied it about 10 days ago that a different company had been added to the list of recalled products that might contain contaminated peanut butter. FEMA went through all of its prepared meals and found fewer than 10,000 made by that company. They were removed so disaster victims wouldn't get them. 
On Wednesday, the FDA told FEMA that a new company, Hed Cloud, had been added to the recall list. Hed Cloud told FEMA it had notified the Defense Supply Center Philadelphia in January. 
As of Thursday evening, FEMA did not know why Defense Supply Center Philadelphia did not tell it about that notification. 
"So we need to find out about 
that," said Homeland Security 
Secretary Janet Napolitano. 
She said FEMA was telling people to throw away the pack­ets and the meals would be replaced by Friday. She did not know if the new batch would include peanut butter products. 
FDA spokeswoman Stephanie Kwisnek said Thursday the agency could not answer ques­tions from The Associated Press about the FEMA meals. 
Kirin said 167,900 of the Red Cloud meals were distributed in Kentucky. It wasn't clear what happened to the rest of the 530,000 and whether any had been distributed to victims of IIurricane Ike or other disas­ters. 
According to an internal briefing document Thursday morning, FEMA had delivered 959,000 meals to Kentucky Jn the aftermath of the ice storm, with 490,000 more on the way over the next few days. Arkansas received 468,864, and no more were expected. 
Kentucky National Guard Chief Warrant Oflicer Connie Vick said emergency meals containing peanut butter had likely been distributed to nearly two dozen counties there. 
Meals with the suspect peanut butter were found at Nelson Creek Missionary Baptist Church in western Kentucky, but anly one had been taken and it wasn't eaten. 
Nelson Creek yolunteer Fire Chief 'ferry Peveler said his wife, Michaelle, had planned to eat a meal that included peanut butter but didn't because her boss bought pizza. He said he wasn't angry at FEMA. 
"If they hadn't handed them out, a lot of people would be starving," he said. 
The salmonella outbreak has led to questions about Peanut Corp. of America and its Georgia plant operated. Authorities say Peanut Corp. shipped peanut butter, paste and other products that had tested positive for salmonella. The company retested. got a negative reading. and shipped the products. A criminal inves­tigation is under way. The Lynchburg, Va.-based company denies any wrongdoing and said Wednesday that the Blakely plant received regular visits and inspections from state and federal authorities in 200S. 
COLOMBIA 
Political hostage released 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA -The last known politician held hostage by Colombia's main leftist insur­gency was airlifted to fr"ee­dom Thursday after six years in captivity. 
Provincial Iawm aker Sigifredo Lopez was the sixth and latest hostage released this week by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia in what the rebels said was a unilateral act aimed at starting talks on an exchange of hostages for imprisoned guerrillas. 
At a news conference, Lopez firmly blamed the FARC for the deaths of all 11 colleagues who were abduct­ed with him in April 2002. lie said he survived because he had been separated from the other prisoners previously as punishment for arguing with a rebel guard. 
"My companions never deserved to die the way they did," the 45-year-old lawmak­er told reporters in the provincial capital of Valle del Cauca. "The FAHC massacred them on June 1S, at 11:30 in the morning, of 2007." 
The FARC said at the time only that the lawmakers died under confusing circum­stances involving an unidenti­fied military group, and that Lopez survived because he was being held in a different location. The Colombian gov­ernment blamed the FARC for 
the deaths. 
After being isolated from the group, Lopez said he could hear short bursts of gunfire and then the sus­tained firing of automatic weapons. Days later, he learned from a radio broad­cast that his colleagues had been killed. He said the rebels did not explain why they were killed. 
With Lopez's liberation, the FARC have released the last politician on a list of promi­nent hostages it published in October. The FARC says it still holds about 20 police and military officials. 
International Hed Cross spokesman Yves Heller con­firmed that Lopez was hand­ed over Thursday by the FAHC to a humanitarian mis­sion led by the Red Cross and an opposition senator. 
Deseending from a helicop­ter in the western eity of Cali immediately after his libera­tion, a tearful Lopez embraced his wife, Patricia Nieto, and full-grown sons Lucas and Sergio. 
Clad in a dark shirt and wearing a small wooden cross around his neck, Lopez lifted his right hand in triumph arid wept. "I'm well, I'm well. Thank you," he told a cluster of reporters. 
Previously this week, the FARC released three police officers, a soldier and the for­mer governor of the southern state of Meta, Alan Jara. 
Leftist intellectuals hope the goodwill gestures will prod the government to open a dia­logue that might end the FARC's 45-year-old insur­gency. 
But President Alvaro Uribe has resisted. His U.S.-backed military has dealt the FARC a ,series of crippling blows in recent months. 
Uribe has called the releas­es attention-grabbing antics staged by the rebels to deceive Colombians. He and foreign governments have urged the FARC to renounce kidnapping and free all its hostages. 
Opposition Sen. Piedad Cordoba, who led the recov­ery missions, said earlier Thursday that she sent a message to a member of the FAHC's top leadership asking for the rebels to soften their demands to help facilitate a prisoner exchange. 
The wife of one of the dead lawmakers originally kid­napped with Lopez said there arc mixed feelings about the latest hostage release. 
"Not all the 12 have been able to return, only one," Consuelo Mesa told Caracol radio.: 
In July, Colombian military agents posing as members of a humanitarian mission spir­ited to safety U.S. captives Marc Gonsalves, Tom Howes and Keith Stansell, along with French-Colombian politician Ingrid Betancourt. 


With This Special Otter... 

Your Chariot Awaits! 
An Auto L.oan from Notre Dame Federal Credit Union comes fully equipped with a great low rate and 
a full 1% Cash Back. 
Apply ~· Today! 

Please recycle The Observer. 
p

page 10 Friday, February 6, 2009 


THE OBSERVER 
Recruiting in an iPod world 
P.O. Box n9. Now: Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER 
'\ Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 

SPORTS EDITORS: Bill Brink Dan Murphy ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: M~ry Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarty 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO {574) 631-7471 fAX {574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

"(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574).631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@nd.edu 
' SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.I@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR't''S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse • advertiseinents based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opini?n of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed an~ must include contact information. 
QJ«stions regarding Obsrrver policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The: on..,.,..,\USPS 59'J 1-4000) ;, pub!i<hctl Mond.,. through Fri<hy '"""!" during exam and vacuinn pc:rioch. A sulw:npcion to The O~rvcr ia: SI00 fur one ~mk: year; SS'S fUr one ICillafcr. 
The: Ohsern:r i> puhli•hcd •" I'OSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Stnd o~d~ corrt-"Ctions to. Notre O.mt, IN ~M 56.{)779 The: Observer 
Pcriodkal ptmage ~id at No1rc O.tmt r.o. Box779 01nd lliditioru.l m.Uiing offiets 011 South Dinin~ Hall Nurre D.ame. IN 465~779 
Tho Obterver is .t member of the Aswciared P~. An n-production rights ol.CC rtSCrved. 
This week has been a hectic one. First, the Pittsburgh Steelers mas­tered the art of winning the ultimate football game in the Super Bowl. Then, Punxsutawney Phil cursed us once more with another six weeks of winter weather. Later we steam­rolled through col­lege football's national signing day which blessed Notre Dame with at least one impact player from the nation's top five recruits. Tragically, the third and sixth ranked college bas­ketball teams gasped through 27­point losses. Tomorrow, the week cul­minates when "Equus" closes off Broadway signaling the departure of Daniel Radcliffe, a.k.a. Harry Potter, back across the Atlantic. What on the surface appears to be a chaotic week, is in fact, the norm in the iPod world. 
Interestingly, the events of this week intertwine to explain the nuances college coaches must master to successfully recruit and instruct players so that they perform as win­ners during competition. Why does a lowly Syracuse football team beat Notre Dame on its home field? How can the mighty Duke basketball team suffer its worst loss in 15 years and second worst loss ever by 27 points? How can Notre Dame's basketball team fall completely out of the top 25 teams from a perch among the top ten? 
Radio personality Anita Marks of Baltimore's "The Fan" sports radio commented this week on University of Maryland basketball coach Gary Williams' harsh treatment of his play­ers. Marks said, "Today's athletes are more sensitive and. want to be respected. But to be honest, the coaches who were tough on me dur­ing the heat of battle got the most out of me." 

Are athletes today sensitive as Marks suggests or are they spoiled. unfocused and too dependent upon technological devices? Steelers wide receiver and Super Bowl MVP Santonio Holmes mentioned that he had more than 200 text messages after the Steelers advanced to the Super Bowl. Quarterback Ben Roethlisberger was almost literally attached to his digital recorder from the time he exited the plane in Tampa to the end of the victory parade in Pittsburgh. How did they overcome our iPod world experiences like ele­mentary school competitions where nobody won and· everyone played an equal share of the game to playing the NFL's toughest schedule and claiming the Lombardi Trophy? They focused, concentrated, performed according to game plan and main­tained a mental toughness. 
The Broadhurst Theatre on 44th Street offers unique seating in a bal­cony around the stage. From a reverse angle, patrons watch what the rest of the audience cannot. During many scenes in "Equus," the teenage Radcliffe sits atop a box with his back to the main audience repre­senting his confinement in a hospital room. Only the two dozen stage seat" occupants see his boredom as he picks off the box's paint with his fin­gernails. As the play concludes its run this weekend, the box exhibits gaping scars where Hadcliffe has removed paint over the past few months. If only the author could have written an iPod into the script. 
Whether it i~ Duke basketball play­ers, Notre Dame football players or the Arizona Cardinals defensive play­ers who committed several personal foul penalties during the Super Bowl, successful coaches need to recognize the consequences of our iPod world. The lesson to recall is one best dram­atized two decades ago in the Tom Cruise film, "All the'Right Moves." The small town Pennsylvania f~otball star is instructed on how to defend a particular pass in practice drill after drill. However, during the big rivalry game, Cruise decides to attempt an interception rather than make the tackle according to the coaching plan in practice. Of course he misses, and his team loses because of his mental collapse. 
College football's signing day this week demonstrated more of a courtship than a recruitment. Winning in the college ranks today requires a coach to be half game tac­tician and half psychologist to focus and mentally prepare players for each opponent. Last season, Alabama's football team only col­lapsed in their bowl game with 16 freshmen and 9 seniors as regular starters. Having scored atop Wednesday's football recruitment class, their proven mental toughness and focus will keep Alabama among the elite programs nationally. 
Steelers wide receiver Hines Ward sums up the element he attributes for a successful athlete by saying, "Hats off to our scouts. They· do a lot of dili­genc~ as far as looking over the draft picks, making sH.re they're great character guys. That's the one thing about Pittsburgh, you won't find too many character issues about the guys they draft." 
Whether the key is character or concentration, coaches may eventual­ly decide to convey game plans through podcasts to assure them­selves that their players are focused on game day. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislatiz'e and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni. nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
I 

"$500,000 A YEAR BARELY COVERS IT!'' 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Jenn Metz Matt Gamber Kaitlynn Riely Laura Myers Madeline Buckley Doug Farmer 
"The great thing about 
Alicia Smith Scene 
democrac.11 is that it gives ev~ry
Viewpoint Stephanie DePrez voter a cfiance to do somethzng Stephanie Vossler Graphics stupid.". Andrea Archer 
Art Spangler author 
Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It is a common delusion that you make things better by talking about them." 
Dame Rose Macaulay English novelist 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~, 
p

Friday, February 6, 2009 
page 11 

The taste of disapointment 
Last Sunday, millions of Americans tuned in to NBC for the biggest television event of the year: the Super Bowl. While the game was certainly exciting {at least during the final quarter), many people were more excited 
about the commer­cials that aired dur­ing the game. For me, the most excit­ing moment of Super Bowl Sunday did not include l.arry Fitzgerald or . Santonio Holmes, 


but rather the revela-Bob Kessler 
tion that on Tuesday Denny's would be House ofStix serving free Grand Slam breakfasts. 
This announcement made me more excited than I had been in weeks. My life was getting really repetitive as I had made the critical error of going to Finnegan's for three night..., in a row that weekend. lnote: no matter what happens, never go to the same bar for three nights in a row. Two nights is borderline acceptable if you are with different people, but on the third night, you are better off just going to sleep early, or even drinking by yourselfl 
Needless to say I was in a rut, and the excitement of this Grand Slam gave me 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
something to look forward to in the middle of a week was shaping up to be incredibly dull (it's not like I am celebrating a birth­day soon or anything). In fact, the last time a grand slam made me this excited wru;; when Aramis Ramirez hit one in the first inning of game four of the 2003 NLCS, and we all know how that turned out. 
I mean, what other grand slams could excite me more? Sure we are halfway to a PaddySlam in the world of golf, and Rafael Nadal is now merely a U.S. Open win away from the much coveted Career Golden Slam, but could golf tournaments and tennis matches excite me nearly as much as the taste of two golden pancakes, two grease covered eggs, two strips of . crisp bacon, and a pair of perfectly formed sausage links? I don't think so. If God crafted the perfect meal to feed Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, it was probably a Denny's Grand Slam. On Tuesday morn­ing, I would be getting this satisfaction ­for free. 
Or so I thought ... 

When Monday afternoon came I was hit with the shocking news that the Denny's on 31 was nowhere to be found. Apparently it had closed its doors in December. This news was like finding out that Santa Claus didn't exist, only worse. In the pantheon of bad news that I have recei~ed in the past couple montlis; this was worse than finding out Zach 
Hillesland was returning to the starting 
lineup this week, but not as horrifying as 
my discovery that the UPS whiteboard 
commercials are actually animated and 
not really a whiteboard. 
At first, I was in disbelief. How could such a perfectly situated Denny's close its doors? This was a prime location. It was less than a mile from a tollway stop and also near several colleges where students would want to eat great even late. Although I doubt many Saint Mary's girL'i frequent Denny's as I can't picture a side salad being very good if it is smothered in grease like all Denny's food has to be (I kid because I love ladies). 
As my roommate quickly convinced me that we could not drive to the nearest Denny's in Michigan City before our early class on Tuesday, I came to the realization that I would not be savoring what I consid­er to be the best Grand Slam of a.ll the Grand Slams any time soon. Instead, as a consolation, we decided to go to McDonald's on Tuesday morning for some Deluxe Big Breakfasts. However, this was disastrous as I soon realized how inferior the Deluxe Big Breakfast is to the Grand Slam in the long line of incredibly greasy breakfasts. · 
In case you are not familiar with them, the Deluxe Big Breakfast is inferior because it has no choice of eggs, no bacon, a vastly mediocre sausage patty, and a bis­cuit. I can sort of understand biscuits and gravy for breakfast as being a southern thing, but if I wanted just a plain biscuit with my breakfast, I would have gone to KFC. The biscuit is as out of place in the Deluxe Big Breakfast as the Marvin I Iarrison READ poster is on the main floor of the library. 
As I sat there eating my deluxe big breakfast, I couldn't help but wonder how much better the Grand Slam would have been when it hit me that I would have got­ten the Grand Slam for free. I had paid $8 for my breakfast, McCafe Mocha, and extra hash brown. At Denny's I would have paid· a couple bucks for some hot tea, and been done with it. My disappointment was at an all time high. I tasted disap­pointment that morning, and it tasted like Deluxe Big Breakfast. 
But then, out of nowhere, that taste was squelched the next day, when we got Manti Te'o, and I completely forgot about the Grand Slam that wasn't. 
Bob Kessler. is a senior majoring in political science and economics. You can contact him at rkessler@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Joke is on you 
The annual student government elec­stand that the people in student gov­tion is going to take place next Monday ernment have to work "with" the on February 9th (seniors can vote in administration, but student govern­this election!). I know a lot of people do ment's loyalty should remain faithfully not vote, abstain from voting, vote for with the students regardless of the cir-' whom they know, think the whole thing cumstan<;_e. It is time we elect a couple is silly, or maybe worst of all, think the of people who might be thrown out of student government election is actually office, but absolutely under no circum­important. stances will forsake their obligation to 
No matter which one of those groups the student body. you might associate yourself with, it is Luke Lennon and Charlie Harig are not only in your best interest but the the men for the job and will replace the best interest of the entire student body penny loafers of the Reish-Schmidt era that you cast your vote for Zahm with a. pair of clown shoes so big it will Freshmen Luke Lennon and Charlie be difficult for any ticket in the future Harig. I was expecting a few funny to fill them whether they are serious or jokes from the annual Zahm Freshmen not. Student government has not been running for office, but was pleasantly "of the students for the students," but surprised at the debate on Wednesday rather has been "of the student govern­when they absolutely dominated the ment for the student government." other tickets in every aspect of the Whether or not you vote for Luke and entire event. The Zahm Freshmen tick­Charlie in this student government et was hilarious, and at some points, election, which, in the scheme of things fairly inappropriate without ever is almost totally inconsequential, soon­wavering. The Notre Dame student er or later the joke is on you. The body runs the risk of encouraging important things in life you can proba­perennially dissatisfying student gov­bly count on one hand: health, family, ernment monarchy "lifers" into being friends, a. sense of worth ... not Notre the norm if we don't elect this ticket of Dame student government. So let's Zahm Freshmen. It's not that student come together as a student body and government doesn't do anything, it's refuse to put in place that well -oiled just that they don't do anything we cog that will allow student government really care about that much. Student and the administration to continue government is good at setting up task chuPning away together on the most forces, sending out surveys, and taking inane ideas just because they are sani­"No" for an answer from the adminis­tized and safe. Instead, let's throw tration. I honestly believe these Zahm Lennon-Harig wrench right in the mid­Freshmen are exactly what the student dle of the resume building political body needs and what the administra­machine that is Notre Dame student tion deserves. We should make it the government and watch the sparks fly. norm that we elect the funniest candi­dates until someone comes along with Bill Ehrlich worthwhile ideas instead of electing senor serious candidates until a ticket is off-C~;mpus funny enough to be elected. I under-Feb.6 
Thank you 
Dear Lourdes ("To Notre Dame women, Feb". 4), Thank goodness you said it so I don't have to. All the best, Samantha. Samantha Ma.'(Well 
sophomore Walsh Hall Feb. 4 
Pope deserves a break 
This letter is in response to Andrew in the 70's must be wrong). Williamson in Nesi's collumn on Pope Benedict XVI's re­particular holds some seriously flawed incommunication (he was right, it's a beliefs. As was remarked in an article on good word) of Bishop Richard Williamson Wednesday ("Professor defends pope on ("A Papal Fallacy", Viewpoint Feb. 5). In disputed bishop issue~" Feb. 4), it would this collumn, Mr. Nesi bemoans the be much better to have wayward clergy amnesty the Vatican has shown to under the vigilance -and discipline -of Williamson, a certifiable nut-job who Rome. And reinstating a bishop with_con­holds such lovely tenets as male chauvin­troversial views does not an approbation ism, gender discrimination, and good old­make. fashioned ignorance. Furthermor~. in case you weren't 
Mr. Nesi, the pope has been forced to aware, there is a serious shortage of handle a very tricky situation. It is clear priest..c;; in the world. According to from his responses that the view from the Cleveland-based futurechurch.org, the windows of the Vatican may not be all number of priests in England has fallen that great, I will grant you that. He has over 20 percent in the last 30 years. Half long been criticized as "out-of-touch" with of the current priests are over age 60. On the rest of the world. But really, isn't that this side of the pond, the number of the point of the Papacy? I wasn't aware American priests has fallen 23 percent that the term "Holy See" referred to see­since 1965, while the number of yearly ing the world and the world only; the ordinations has been cut in half. In that bishop of Rome must act with the heaven­same time, the number of priest-less ly kingdom in mind. I understand that parishes has nearly sextupled. This is a Benedict has said some incendiary things. crisis situation, folks. But the Church is not in the business of I understand that Williamson is a terri­telling people what they want to hear; it is ble figure for the Church to embrace, but in the business of telling people what they really, our dear Vatican has been forced need to hear "in order for the salvation of into a corner. For the reason above and a souls." Controversial teachings are not number of others more befitting an actual made for the sole purpose of getting free article than a letter to the editor, the press; ifthe Church speaks truth, and it Church decided to extend an olive branch pricks my conscience, maybe my con­to these four priests while distancing itself science is out of line. And readers, please from their radical beliefs. So Mr. Nesi, if don't turn this into a "Who says the you really want to ensure that radical Church is the ultimate authority?" debate. priest..c;; don't end up speaking from I personally believe in the ability of the lecterns on Sundays, maybe you should Church as a whole (the pope "in union become a priest yourself. fi's a shame that with the college of bishops," remember?) the religious vocation has fallen by the to make sound moral doctrines and con­wayside in many modern Catholic fami­clusions. Like I said earlier, Pope Benedict lies. If the Church had more candidates to had a lot of factors to consider. choose from, maybe they could rely on 
First and foremost, the Catholic Church priests who aren't as incredibly contro­has a schism on its hands. The Society of versial as Richard Williamson. Pius X espouses some very flawed notions. including dissent over the Second Kyle Tennant Vatican Council and the authenticity of sophomore the modern Mass (because these people Srantord Hall are right, but all the bishops in the world Feb. 6 
Submit a Letter fo the Editor or Guest
, . 
··column to obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

------~---­

·i I i 
I 
I 
'! 



By PATRICK GRIFFIN Scene Writer 

How does watching a musical group from the small-scale music scene of Omaha, Neb., that is missing a funda­mental instrument, and that recently appeared on "Sesame Street" sound as an idea for a Saturday night activity? Before entirely writing off Legends of Notre Dame's latest performer,'try and get to know Tilly and the Wall. Named after a popular children's book by Leo Lionni, the band is much more than child's play. . 
When Tilly and the Wall take· the stage on Saturday night at Legends Nightclub, you may assume that a vital part of the band's setup is missing. However, rest assured that once the show starts, you will be pleasantly sur­prised with the bands minor shortcom~ ing. Tilly and the Wall does not have a drummer in their lineup. 
Instead, member Jamie Pressnall accounts for the majority of the group's percussion arrangements with her feet; she is a tap dancer. This unique feature may be lost on record­ed tracks, fading into the background of songs as a monotonous, yet driving, beat. However, the distinctive substi­tute is sure to be noticed on stage. 
The indie group's journey began in 2001. The band's members united after the liquidation of several groups, most notably, folk artist Conor Oberst's Park Ave., in the Omaha area. The 
By MARTHA KARAM Scene Writer 

Witness both journalists and monkeys in court this weekend at LA Theatre Works: "The Great Tennessee Monkey Trail," where "If evolution wins, Christianity goes." 
Based directly on transcripts of "Tennessee vs. John Scopes," "The Great Tennessee Monkey Trail" will be showing Friday through Sunday at DeBartolo Performing Arts Center as part of the Visiting Artists series. 
Started in 1974, LA Theatre Works' goal is to "enriCh the cultural life of our national community." Even though an eight-day long case from the 1920s may seflm uninteresting to a college student, IA Theatre Works makes it their goal to entice an interest in theatre within peo­ple throughout the country. 
Funded by Californian businesses and various alliances of art since 1984, LA Theatre Works has also worked in Los Angeles with students at County Juvenile Court Schools, after-school programs, and public schools to give at­risk children a creative. productive out­let. 
The play's historical background is accurate and succinct. The eight-day trail in a sweltering courtroom has its most enthralling moments of the entire case condensed into a single play. 
The play stars Emmy Award-winning Ed Asner (Santa in "Elf," best known for his turn as Lou Grant on "The Mary Tyler Moore Show," and its spinoff, "Lou Grant") and John Heard ("Home 
final ensemble includes the pfeviously mentioned Pressnall (then Jamie Williams}, her future husband, gui­tarist and vocalist Derek Pressnall, vocalist and bassist Neely Jenkins, keyboardist Nick White, and lead vocalist Kianna Alarid. Since Tilly and the 
acclaim to date. The singles "Beat Control" and "Alligator Skin" have received considerable recognition among indie music fans. and the album's release even sparked an exclusive PBS television performance on the popular children's show "Sesame Street." In 
Wall's conception, the 2008, Tilly and the Wall band has released three Jamie Pressnall performed their own full-length albums, all modern re·ndition of the
accounts for the
of which were recorded ABCs. The unique per­under Conor Oberst's majority ofthe formance featured the
, .

label Team Love group s percusswn participation of young Records. "Sesame Street" fans, as
arrangements with 
"Wild Like Children," the band stomped in -time 
her feet; she is a
the band's first full­while wearing colorful length album, was tap dancer. clothing. releasep in 2004. The Though the band is still 

album launched Tilly and the Wall onto the indie music scene and earned the hand the opportunity to tour with acclaimed artists like Bright Eyes, Rilo Kiley, and Of Montreal. · · 
Tilly and the Wall's follow-up to "Wild Like Children" was entitled "Bottoms of Barrels," and was released in May of 2006. While tracks such as "Bad Education" and "Rainbows in the Dark" garnered notable Internet traffic, the band was busy appearing on the Late Show with David Letterman, touring with folk sweetheart Jenny Lewis, and perform­ing at the 2007 Coachella Music Festival. 
Tilly and the Wall's latest effort, "o," has afforded the group the most 
Alone," "Battlestar Galac'tica," "CSI: Miami"). Asner plays William Jennings Bryan, the prosecutor and former United States Secretary of State, and Heard plays the defendant's represen­tative, Clarence Darrow. 
In 1925, the Butler Act passed in Tennessee legislature, which stated "it 
shall be unlawful for any teacher in the public schools of the state to teach any the­ory that denies the story of the Divine Creation of man taught in the Bible, and to teach instead that man has descended from a lower order of ani­mals." 
After the passage of this act, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) persuaded a local General Science teacher, John Scopes, 

Friday, February 6, 2009, at 7:oo pm Saturday, February 7. 2009, at 2 :oo pm and 7:30pm Sunday, February 8. 2009, at 2 :oo pm Decio Mainstage Theatre Tickets: $48, $38 facul­ty/staff. $36 seniors, and $15 all students 
can entertain an audi­ence of any generation. 
The journalistic twists of the backwards "hill­billies" of Tennessee exposes a conflict of ideas between Fundamentalism and Modernism in the 1920's. "The Great Monkey Trail" personi­fies this same conflict through Bryan and Darrow's characters and the people caught in the schism of ideas through · 

to teach information based on Charles Darwin's "On the Origin of Species." 
Ultimately, Scopes was found guilty and ordered to pay a fine of $100. "Time Magazine" depicted the trial as "the fantastic cross between a circus and a holy war." Though the buzz of controversy about evolution is ·almost extinct in our generation, "The Great Tennessee Monkey Trail" suggests top­ics that were new to America in the 1920s but are still applicable to our generation. 
The play is not just about a court on the rise, Tilly and the 
Wall will surprise you with a toy box full of simple and mem.: orable guitar hooks, cheery bass, tech­no beats, and interactive percussion. 
The group's vocals, led by Alarid, call to mipd the sweepingly smooth style of Jenny Lewis and the innocent bounciness of Feist. All of the band's elements fold together nicely to make a sound that may be better to see than to hear. 
The Tilly and the Wall concert is open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students free of charge. The shqw begins Saturday night at 10 p.m. at Legends. 
Contact Patrick Griffin at pgriffi3@nd.edu 
case, it is about the loosening of morals of youth in the 1920s and the resistance of the previous generation to adapt to new ideas after the First World War. The crazed exaggerations of the over 200 journalists at the trial, the exploit­ing and mocking of biological ideas, and antiquated practices of propaganda 
and yellow journalism · 
Scope himself. 
At the Friday and Saturday performances. Anthropology professor Agustin Fuentes is giving a "pre-performance" discussion one hour before curtain at 6 p.m. 
Even if you are not interested in con­troversy, the 1920s, or respectable act­ing, this play will enthrall the entire audience with the reenacted chaos of that scorching summer courtroom 80 years ago. Tickets are available online or at the performance. 
Contact Martha Karam at mkaram2@nd.edu 

page 2 The Observer + ELECTION 2009 
Laura Burdick president 
Friday, February 6, 2009 




~-·· 
d .... 


•.·~ 
·~~ 
e 
l 



.~. 

:~ 
' 


GENE 
J 
~10NDi\ 
I ' ·.-.·I:-:, ... -1.···-(··.·u·. .·-.\.,·,····.-.f.··.,. "F·.
·11\···... -?iiW -.... . . .·. .,. -.-.. ·'··:"·~··.·. ] 
'· -. . 7 -''!fl~ ·+;,~ . ,. . 
-~ . -..L •'<f --· ..£... 
.·~ 
··-~ 
' r
l . ~ r-­
-'t 
~--.. 
Who They Are 
Burdick, a junior who lives in Cavanaugh, is a biolo­gy major. Sanchez is a political science and 

! Spanish double major with a minor in Latino studies. He currently lives in Dunoon Hall, but lived for two years in Carroll Hall. Burdick and Sanchez served as Hall Presidents Council athletic co-chairs. 
In Their Words 
u Top Priority: Loan forgiveness for stu­dents pursuing careers in public serv­ice. " 
uFirst Priority: "Safety First" cam­paign. 
In Our Words 

uBest Idea: The Burdick-Sanchez idea for a loan forgiveness program for students who commit to public service after graduation. 
u Worst Idea: "Safety Firs( covers a broad range of topics that haven't really been explained in detail. uMost Feasible Idea: Expanding the Gold Rush program. 
uLeast Feasible Idea: "Safety First" is an umbrella for topics dealing with many facets of student life and is too broad to be practical. 
uFun Facts: When Burdick was a little girl, her family sang her the Notre Dame Fight Song at bed­time. Burdick and Sanchez met by being randomly seated near each other freshman year at football games. _Sanchez's band, "Vote For Us," won second place at Notre Dame's Battle of the Bands. 
vice president Derek Sanchez 

uNotable Quote: "We're not strictly student gov­ernment." -Sanchez, on his ticket's extracurricular activities at Notre Dame. 
Bottom Line 

Burdick and Sanchez are obviously in tune with the wishes of the student body, and their experience in one part of student government has provided them with the resources to put research into their platform initiatives. Though it is admirable to "leave holes" in a platform to allow for student input, the main Burdick-Sanchez weakness is that there are too rriany gaps. Some of their initiatives are too broad to be feasible. The pair is likeable and profes­sional and will most likely connect with sizeable por­tion of the student body, especially with their off­campus blog idea modeled off of NDToday.com. Sanchez is by far the most sincere of the candidates. 

Luke Lennon president vice president Charlie Harig 
Who They Are: 
Lennon and Harig are freshman room­mates in Zahm. 
pre-med degree and Harig is an engineer­ing major. 
In Their Words 
uTop Priority: Increasing the popu­lation of beautiful women on campus. 
uFirst Priority: A parade. 
In Our Words 
uBest Idea: none 

uWorst  Idea:  
Naming one  of their  
initiatives  after  a  

policy enacted dur­ing a regrettable 
part of American his­tory. 
uMost Feasible Idea: none 

uLeast Feasible Idea: Expanding the idea of buying out Charlie Weis' contract to apply to any member of the University community that you think should leave, such as that professor you don't like, the rector who is on your case, or that kid in the front of class who always raises his hand. 
uFun Facts: According to Lennon and Harig, they were drafted by the Green Bay Packers and Minnesota Vikings, respectively, out of high school, but turned the NFL teams down. "We can never be rivals," Lennon said. Lennon is the grandson of Alumni Association executive direc­tor Chuck Lennon, who stopped by LaFortune Wednesday evening to witness his progeny strip to a skintight suit and dance to the hit Beyonce song, "Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)." 
unstableQuote: "On the morning after election day, we want to be that mistake." -Harig, before Lennon led the student government debate audi­ence in a cheer of "That mistake." 
Bottom Line 

This pair of freshman is probably the best tick-· et Zahm has run in the past couple of years ­they are wonderful public speakers and know how to captivate an audien~e. However, their ideas range from the completely absurd to the slightly offensive. Lennon and Harig have no real plans for student government, though if they win, they promise an inaugural parade. Though you might be entertained by their dancing and cos­tumes, the possibility of having Lennon and Harig in office for their choice term limit -infinity -= is frightening. 
Friday, February 6, 2009 

The Observer + ELECTI 0 N 2009 page 3 
)DY riAL D 

.{"

...,IJ
~$ 



James McCaughan president vice president Tom Gorski 
Who They Are 
McCaughan is a jun­ior history and eco­nomics double major who lives in Siegfried with his running mate, Gorski, an IT manage­ment major. 
In Their Words 
u Top and First Priority: McCaughan and Gorski list creat­
-..

ing an environment for students· and alumni to enjoy the "advantages and pleasures of the University without worrying about tickets or ResLifes." 
In Our Words 
uBest Idea: Bringing Interhall 

laser tag to campus. uWorst Idea: A complete overhaul of the police and University disciplinary policy toward students. 
uMost Feasible Idea: The pair's smaller ideas ­like switching the plain toothpicks in the dining halls to mint toothpicks -are their most practical. 
uLeast Feasible Idea: McCaughan and Gorski plan to ask for a University commitment to eliminating the use of evidence thaJ is illegally obtained in cases against students. The student government is one voice among many discussing the issue of rights and it would be hard for one administration to get the University to revamp its policies. 
uFun Facts: Both McCaughan and Gorski were interviewed by WNDU at Notre Dame football games. Gorski is the younger brother of a former Notre Dame quarterback, Dan Gorski. 
uNotable Quote: "The University was fixing some-· thing that wasn't broken." -McCaughan, about the University's behavior related to tailgating arrests and citations. 
Bottom Line 

While McCaugh~n and Gorski seem to have a good idea of what the student body is concerned about ­particularly their safety and rights on home football weekends. Their ideas are very lofty but haven't been researched enough to be feasible. They wish to move the student government offices down to the first floor of LaFortune to make the institution more accessible to students. Their smaller initiatives have borderline joke status, or are so minor that they would not better the state of student life on campus. Their lack of experience in student government could be a hindrance in the follow-through on some of their grander ideas. 
Grant Schmidt president vice president Cynthia Weber 
Who They Are: 
Schmidt, the current student body vice pres­ent, is a junior from Knott Hall with a dou­ble major in political science and economics. Weber, the current sophomore class coun­cil president, is a soph­omore from Pasquerilla West majoring in theology and possibly pursuing a second major in political science. 
In Their Words 
uTop Priority: Schmidt and Weber plan to direct their efforts toward the cre­ation of a textbook ISBN database that will a,llow students to find uLeast Feasible Idea: Working with Notre Dame their books at cheaper prices. The pair believes stu­Security Police to change the security gate policy. dents seek alternative locations to purchase their uFun Facts: Schmidt boasts being able to de-shell 20 books because of the requisite Hammes Notre Dame sunflower seeds with his mouth in one minute. He also Bookstore markup on textbonks and the limited avail­went to high school with Derek Sanchez, one of his ability of used materials. opponents. Weber is an avid guitar player and is very 
uFirst Priority: "Hot Grab 'n' Go options." Schmidt knowledgeable of various name brands of the instru­and Weber have already made the appropriate con­ment. tacts to add hot items -like soups or Easy Mac -to uNotable Quote: "Our biggest flaw is that people the Grab 'n' Go menu, as well as placing microwaves think that we take [student government] way too seri­and toasters for students to use. The initiative is ously."-Schmidt "already set to go," Schmidt said. 
Bottom Une In Our Words Schmidt and Weber's experience in student govern­
uBest Idea: The creation and sale of taxi ticket book­ment speaks for itself. They have already demonstrat­lets, where one ticket \Vill be worth the flat rate of $2 ed significant research into their long list. of platform with the participating companies. initiatives and have already established the appropri­
u Worst Idea: Schmidt and Weber list diversifying the ate contacts within the University administration nec­Notre Dame applicant pool as one of their platform ini­essary to begin to realize their promises immediately tiatives, which seems to overstep the limits of student upon taking office. Though some of their ideas are very government. ambitious, if they are able to accomplish three or four 
uMost Feasible Idea: The creation of a textbook of their long list of goals. Schmidt and Weber \'\ill have ISBN database with the assistance of professors. contributed a great deal to student life at Notre Dame. 

page 4

Friday, February 6, 2009 The Observer + ELECTION 2009 
The Observer. endorses Schmidt-Weber ticket 
After reviewing the plat­forms of the four tickets run­ning for Notre Dame's student body president and vice presi­dent, the Editorial Board of The Observer feels Grant Schmidt and Cynthia Weber, with their institutional knowl­edge and years of involvement with student government, are best equipped for the posi­tions. 
Their experience, ideas and established relationship with University officials make Schmidt-Weber the ideal choice for student body presi­dent and vice president. They have demonstrated extensive research into their platform initiatives and are prepared to make an impact immediately upon taking office. 
Schmidt and Weber have outlined several worthwhile plans to improve student life, including a two-tier taxi reform campaign, geared at making transportation to and from campus safer and more convenient for students and continuing the current admin­istration's efforts to increase positive interac­tion between 
Dame Bookstore has on text­books and the implementation of a Good Samaritan policy. 
Schmidt and Weber are in tune with the greater student body's wishes from the overar­ching issue of off­campus safety to 
Notre Dame stu­the long-awaited
THE 

dents and the OBSERVER arrival of Easy members of the Mac to Grab 'n' South Bend com­Go.
Editorial
munity. The ticket's slo­
The creation of gan -"Rounding a "Know Your the Bend" Rights" document, especially implies continuity with the in light of the Colfax Ave. body of work accomplished by arrests and circumstances in the Reish-Schmidt administra­which students dealt with law tion. And that's a good thing. enforcement over the past aca­If Bob Reish's presidency has demic year, is a relevant and done anything, it has increased beneficial service to their con­student interest in its govern­stituents. ing body. The current adminis­
Other issues the Schmidt­tration has given students a Weber ticket are prepared to voice in discussions of hot-but­tackle are "subverting the ton issues. Notre Dame has monopoly" the Hammes Notre seen a jump in attendance at student government-sponsored events, like the Last Lecture series, which Schmidt and Weber plan to continue. 
Their closest cq_mpetition, Laura Burdick and Derek Sanchez, have demonstrated a ·clear understanding of student wants and have left a portion of their platform open to stu­dent input. 
Burdick and Sanchez are sin­cere in their promises, but perhaps haven't put eno,ugh research into all of their pro­posals to ensure their feasibili­ty. They have already made contributions to student gov­ernment and are two people that will represent the stu­dents well, regardless of their title next year. 
James McCaughan and Tom Gorski are straddling the joke ticket/serious ticket fence. On the serious side, they propose to change policies regarding students' interaction with law enforcement and disciplinary bodies on campus. Those issues, however, require duti­ful research and planning, and will not be resolved in only one term. 
Luke Lennon add Charlie Harig are just another pair of Zahm freshmen parading around in tight clothing for a laugh. They've served their purpose: entertaining the stu­dent body during campaign season. 
Though Schmidt and Weber have received criticism for tak­ing their positions too serious­ly, it is their seriousness and their dedication that will get the job done. They have the potential and the drive neces­sary to affect change. 
The Observer endorses Schmidt-Weber for student body president and vice presi­dent. 


THE OBSERVER'S TAKE 
COMMUNITY ON THE ISSUES OF THE STUDENT LIFE STUDENT SAFETY RELATABILITY RELATIONS
2009 ELECTION 


Burdick & Sanchez 
They don't address this issue in their platform. 



Burdick and Sanchez run on their image as the everyday Notre Dame students. Though they have experience in student government, tHey also are involved in other groups and clubs and interact with many different members of the stu­dent body. 
Lennon and Harig are two Zahm freshmen who have ambitions of ruling student gov­ernment for infinity. They know how to entertain a crowd and based their campaign on indi­vidual conversations with fel­low students. 
McCaughan and Gorski seem like typical Notre Dame guys who want less restrictions and more fun. 
Their campaign features an ofT-campus blog that will inform students about their neighborhoods. 
They include reaching out to the community and bet­tering students' reputation off campus by working to publicize the good students do, like volunteering or fundraising. 

They want to revamp the Gold Rush program to increase student attendance at non­major sporting events. 
They want to start affirmative action for beautiful women, offering scholarships for those who receive a perfeCt '10' on an NDToday.com-like Web site. They also want to reduce stick­ing of salad bowls in North Dining Hall. 
They want to move the stu­dent government offices to the first floor of LaFortune to make them more accessible. They want to add laser tag as an interhall sport. 
One of their major platform initiatives is titled "Safety First," a broad campaign that involves many aspects of stu­dent life, including security ofT campus and safe tailgating at home football games. 
Their initiatives, including a program of indentured servi­tude, may make campus less safe for certain students. 
Their campaign is focused heavily on changing University disciplinary policies and alert­ing students of their rights off campus. They also want to reevaluate football gameday procedures. 


McCaughan & Gorski 
9 
~~ 
·-. ._ ...:~ 
\.. I 


Their campaign seeks to continue the efforts made by the Reish-Schmidt adminis­tration to work with mem­bers of the South Bend com­munity and give Notre Dame a better name. 

They want to collaborate with professors to compile a list of ISBN numbers so students can find their books at lower prices. They also have prepared a list of initiatives that are ready to go, like hot options in Grab 'n' Go. 
Many of their initiatives aim to increase student safety, both on and ofT campus, like estab­lishing a taxi driver identifica­tion system and providing stu­dents with information about their rights. 
Though the Reish-Schmidt administration has opened up the student government offices to their constituents, Schmidt and Weber might seem less approachable than the other candidates. 
Schmidt & Weber 

( 
OBSERVER SCHMIDT­SCHMIDT­SCHMIDT­BURDICK­PICK: WEBER WEBER WEBER SANCHEZ 

Friday, February 6, 2009 page 13 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene Ediror 

One of the hallmarks of scholarship at Notre Dame is the task of finding cross­roads between faith and wider culture. This weekend, the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center is showcasing one such con­versation: The Films and Faith Weekend 2009. 
Co-sponsored by the Film, Television and Theatre Department, the Department of Theology and the Institute for Latino Studies, the Films and Faith Weekend will focus on a series of films that feature varying religious compo­nents and themes. The event is also unique in its focus on Mexican cinema. Subtitled "Contemporary Catholic Filmmakers from Mexico," the week­end's featured directors include Guillermo del Toro ("The Orphanage"), Alfonso Cuaron ("Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban"), Carlos Reygadas and Alejandro Gonzalez Iiiarritu. 
Tickets for the films are $6 for the gen­eral public, $5 for faculty and staff, $4 for seniors and $3 for students. All films will be shown in the Browning Cinema. 
Children of Men 

(2006) dir. Alfonso Cuaron Friday, lieb. 6 at 6:30 p.m. Rated R, 109 minutes 
A futuristic saga with a pro-life twist, "Children of Men" takes place in 2027, in a dystopian United Kingdom where human beings can no longer have chil­dren on their own. After two decades of infertility, modern man has maybe a cen­tury left to survive. 
Clive Owen stars as Theo Faron, a for­mer activist who must transport Kee 
· (Claire-Hope Ashitey), an African immi­grant woman who has miraculously become pregnant. The film also delves into complex 
issues of immigration; the British gov­ernment, one of the last functioning political structures in the film's time of societal upheaval and collapse, has been prosecuting waves of immigrants who have taken up residents in the besieged country. Faron's task of protecting Kee becomes a symbol for the interconnect­edness of men, and children of men, in an increasingly difficult world. Critics have also described the film as a companion piece to Cuaron's "Y tu mama 
tambil~n." 
Pan's Labyrinth 
(2006), dir. Guillermo del Toro Friday, Feb. 6 a.t 9:30 
p.m. Rated R, 112 minutes 

"Pan's Labyrinth" tells the story of Ofelia, a young girl caught between the brutalities of the Spanish Civil War and the engrossing world of her imagination. Where the film becomes complex, violent and arguably most beautiful is when the two worlds begin to intersect, and even­tually collide. 
With the backdrop of a conflict between Captain Vidal (Sergi Lopez I Ayats), Ofelia's stepfather and a leader in the Franquist regime, and the Spanish Maquis, guerrilla fighters in the sur­rounding forests, Ofelia (Ivana Baquero) discovers an old, abandoned labyrinth on the grounds of a country estate. Soon, a mysterious faun (Doug Jones) begins to appear to her, one who grows increas­ingly angrier and more authoritarian. How del Toro resolves these two story­lines is a profound tragedy, well deserv­ing of the critical acclaim the film received. 
Del Toro is known within the media as one of the "Three Amigos," or the Cineastas in Spanish, a trio of Mexican directors that also includes Cuaron and 
Films and Faith Weekend will focus on a series offilms that feature varying religious components and themes. 
Alejandro Gonzalez Iiiarritu. Other high­profile films in his repertoire include "Hellboy," its sequel, "Hellboy 2: The Golden Army" and "Blade Il." In April 2008, he was announced as director of Peter Jackson's future adaptation of J. R. 
R. Tolkien 's "The Hobbit." 
Silent Light 

(2008), dir. Carlos Reygadas Saturday, Feb. 7 at 6:30 
p.m. and Sunday, Feb. 8 at 3 p.m. Rated R, 136 minutes 
"Silent Light" is an unconventional story of where love, religion and culture can intersect. Filmed in Cuauhtemoc, Chihiahua-. a city in north­ern Mexico, "Silent Night" tells the story of a married Mennonite man who falls 
in love with another woman. Much of the diolague is in Plautdietsch, which is spo­ken by Russian Mennonites. 
Reygadas is well-known for his fre­quent use of nonprofessional actors in his films, and "Silent Light" proves no exception. Most of the film's actors are members of Mennonite communities in Canada, Mexico and Germany, lending the film an intriguing international fla­vor. 
Babel 

(2006), dir. Alejandro Gonzalez Iiiarritu Saturday, Feb. 7 at 9:30 p.m. Rated R, 143 minutes 
"Babel," starring Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchett, is a multi-narrative film whose interwoven storylines jump from Morocco, to Japan. to the United States and finally to Mexico. Its complex por­tray.al of international relations and cul­tural conflict originally garnered the film seven Academy Award nominations, including Best Picture and Best Director. 
Photo courtesy of performingarts.nd.edu 

Pitt and Blanchett star as Susan and Richard Jones, a couple traveling from San Diego... When Susan is hit by an errant bullet while riding a bus, the inci­dent reverberates on a terse and dra­matic global scale. 
The film is considered to be the third and final in Gonzalez Iiiarritu's "Death Trilogy." The trilogy also includes "Amores perros" (2000} and "21 Grams" (2003), which stars Sean Penn. Benicio del Toro and Naomi Watts. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 


By JESS LEE Scene Writer 

The former best-kept secret of the Thursday night student Mecca, Club Fever, is the fact that you can get in for free ... or almost. 
Owned by the same proprietor as Club Fever, the Backstage Grill and its down­stairs addition, the Green Room, have the potential to be as valuable to the late-night scene as the better-known Taco Bell, Nick's Patio and Reekers. Both the Green Room and the Backstage Grill. however. have something for its patrons that the afore­mentioned do not -direct access to Club Fever. 
As per the Web site, the Backstage Grill got its name because it is located directly behind the stage at Fever (you do the math for how the Green Room got its name), but more importantly, this means you can bypass the line and the four dollar cover to the club simply by eating at either economi­cal venue and showing your receipt at the door. In short, you could potentially dine at the Backstage Grill before it closes at 10 
p.m. Thursday-Saturday, or eat at The 
Green Room until it closes at 2 pm Wednesday-Saturday and enter the club for some post-dining entertainment. 
The Green Room, a dark pool lounge (offering shuffieboard as an added bonus), is actually the basement of Club Fever. The Backstage Grill is a roomy and unexpected­ly clean venue with tables and more inti­mate retro high-backed leather booths. The open view of the kitchen complements, rather than distracts from, the sports bar atmosphere complete with four flat-screen TVs. The service is excellent with a staff that is conversational and welcoming to Notre Dame studenl'i. Given the fact that $5 all-inclusive meal specials (cheeseburger and fries or a calzom~ and side-salad with a soft drink) are available exclusively to stu­dents on Thursdays, the managers of the grill know good business when they see it. 
Both restaurants offer standard bar items such as domestic drafts at reasonable prices ($2-4} and variations on the burger {$6-8), but the Backstage Grill offers a more international smorgasbord of entrees. For those interested in lighter fare, the grill offers entrees such as the sesame-encrust­ed yellow-fin. the "Bistro Filet," and a chili­lime tilapia. 
For those 21 and older, the bar has a standard full bar with twelve different beers on draft and thirty bottled beers. Of the draft beers, Shinerbock is exclusive in the state of Indiana to the Backstage GrilVGreen Room, a.•' it is not sold north of the Mason-Dixon Line (unless you're friends with the owner of the micro brewery). 
The Backstage Grill specializes in its handmade pizzas and calzones. Ranging between the very carnivore-friendly "The Big Pig," composed of pulled pork, pepper­oni, ham, sausage and cheese enveloped with marinara sauce in a handmade crust, and the "Granny Smith," which sounds more like a dessert than an entree, the cal­zones are all similar in that they are all delicious and reasonably priced at $7. Similarly, the pizzas are all hand-made daily with fresh ingredienis. 
However, an added bonus for the pizza purists in the world is the fact that pizzas are available at The Backstage Grill until 4 
a.m. on Thursdays. 
In short, the Backstage GrilVGreen Room is the best find for the Thursday night stu­dent clubber's budget since tax returns. 
Contact Jess Lee at jlee13@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of backstagesouthbend.com 

2225. MICHIGAN ST. (574) 232 0222 A LOOK INSIDE THE MENU: 
Spinach Artichoke Fondue $6 Cajun Alligator Bites $6 Granny Smith Pulled Pork Salad $7 "Award Winning" Rib Dinner $8 Bleu Moon Burger $6 Slaw Burger $6 Cuban Sandwich $7 
• 
Friday, February 6, 2009 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

No.9 Xavier extends streak to 11 with win over Temple 
Wolverines rout Nittany Lions 71-51 in Big 10 play; two players score 20 as Vanderbilt holds off Alabarna 
Reserve forward J a mel
Associated Press 

McLean had five rebounds, a 
CINCINNATI B.J. putback and a free throw Raymond scored 24 points during the spurt. and led a 3-point barrage Olmos and Lavoy couldn't that swept No. 9 Xavier to its keep up their first-half pace, 11th straight win Thursday and things got grim for the night, an 83-74 victory over Owls when Christmas picked Temple that kept the up his fourth foul with 11:48 Musketeers perfect atop the to go. Consecutive 3s by Atlantic 10. r Redford pushed the lead to 
Facing a 'defense geared to 17 points midway through take away the inside, Xavier the half. Temple never got (20-2, 8-0} made most of its closer than nine points the big shots from way outside. rest of the way. Raymond went 5-of-7 from Xavier point guard Terrell behind the arc during his Holloway sprained his left fourth straight 20-point foot during an 82-80 win game, and freshman Brad over Massachusetts on Redford made four 3s· as Saturday, leaving his avail­Xavier went 11-of-18 overall. ability in doubt. He started 
Temple (12-9, 4-3) was and moved well, but was looking for a bookend Top 10 ineffective -inishing with upset-the Owls knocked off five turnovers and was 0-for-No. 8 Tennessee in 4 from the field. December. They couldn't come close as Xavier made Michigan 71, Penn ..State sure the conference's top 51 scorer got few open shots. Manny Harris scored 28 Dionte Christmas had only 12 points as Michfgan beat Penn points on 6-of-16 shooting. St. for a key Big Ten victory 
Christmas leads the confer­on Thursday night. ence in scoring for the third Harris, who was ejected straight season, averaging from Saturday's loss at 
20.5 points per game. Purdue, helped Michigan (15­Raymond stuck with him in 8, 5-6 Big Ten} win for just Xavier's man-to-man the second time in six games. defense, making sure he did­The loss ended Penn State's n't get an open shot. winning streak at four games Christmas missed his first -their longest conference four attempts -one an air run since 1996. The Nittany ball -against the tight cov­Lions (17-6, 6-4} are now 1­erage. 14 at Crisler Arena. 
Someone else would have Stu Douglass added 13 to come up with a big game points for the Wolverines. to keep Temple in it. Jamelle Cornley led Penn Surprisingly, Sergio Olmos State with 25, but their high­was the one to do it. scoring guard combination of 
The 7-foot center didn't Stanley Pringle and Talor take a 62-51 lead with 9:12 the longest league winning Florida State 62, even attempt a shot in Battle combined for just 16 left on a 3-pointer by Beal. streak in Southern Georgia Tech 58 Temple's 74-65 win over on 6-for-29 shooting. Beal connected on another Conference history. Toney Douglas shook off a Richmond on Saturday. He Penn State led 31-29 at the 3 with 7 minutes to play, giv­The nation's leading scor­poor shooting night and made hook shots and half, thanks to 15 points ing the Commodores a 70-59 er, Curry had 18.points at scored eight of his game-high jumpers while scoring 10 from Cornley, but Michigan lead. But Alabama cut the halftime and hit the 20-point 21 points in the final 5:09 as points in the first half, which rallied after the intermission. margin to 76-74 on an mark for the eighth straight cold-shooting Florida State ended with Xavier ahead 38-Sims and Harris combined Andrew Steele 3-pointer with game. rallied for a victory over 
34. Olmos and Lavoy Allen for 13 points in a 16-3 run 3:09 remaining. Beal hit two Steve Rossiter had 14 Georgia Tech on Thursday scored 18 of Temple's first 20 that put the Wolverines free throws with 17.4 sec­points and 13 rebounds, and night. points while Xavier chased ahead 45-36 with 10:15 to onds left, and Ogilvy added Andrew Lovedale added 12 Douglas, the Atlantic Coast Christmas around the court. go. another with 6.4 seconds points and 10 boards for the Conference's leading scorer 
Xavier is one of the nation's The Wolverines held Penn remaining to seal the win. Wildcats (20-3, 13-0). in league games, put the best at getting the ball inside State to 20 second-half Ogilvy also had 12 They clinched their fifth Seminoles ahead to stay at and drawing fouls, so Temple points. rebounds and Jeffery Taylor straight 20-win season and 48-46 with a floating jumper took away the pass inside, added 11 points for claimed their 43rd straight just inside the free-throw leaving the perimeter open. Vanderbilt 79, Alabama 74 Vanderbilt. victory in SoCon play -the lane with 5:09 left. The Musketeers took advan­Jermaine Beal and A.J. Anthony Brock scored 15 longest active streak of its Florida State (17-5, 4-3} hit tage by going 7-for-11 from Ogilvy scored 20 points each points· and· JaMychal Green kind in Division I. With a win seven of eight free throws, behind the arc in the first to lead Vanderbilt to a added 12 points and 10 against the College of four by Uche Echefu, in the half. with Raymond hitting Southeastern Conference· win rebounds for Alabama. Charleston on Saturday final 41.5 seconds to stave four 3s. over Alabama on Thursday night, they will tie the off the Yellow Jackets. 
In a one-minute span, night. Davidson 75, league record set by Jerry Georgia Tech (10-11, 1-7) Raymond and Redford com­The Crimson Tide (13-9, 3-UNC-Greensboro 54 West-led West Virginia from was led by Zachery Peacock's bined on three 3s. 5), who led 43-36 at half­Stephen Curry scored 29 1956-60. 16 points, while Gani Lawai 
Raymond hit another 3 dur­time, took a 49-45 lead on an points and Davidson beat Ben Stywall scored 13 came up with his 14th dou­ing a 10-point run that put Alonzo Gee basket with 16:37 North Carolina-Greensboro points to lead UNC ble-double of the season with the Musketeers in control 52-to play. Vanderbilt (14-8, 3-5) on Thursday night to move Greensboro (3-18, 2-10), 10 points and 11 rebounds 39 with 13 minutes left. then went on a 17-2 run to within one win of matching which lost its sixth straight. for the Yellow Jackets. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
New pop Christian music by Will of Titus available at www.willoftitus.com or itunes 
FoR RENT 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. 
Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. 

andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6109. $850/mo. 574-250­7653. 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. • 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. 
Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www. kramerhouses.com 
NOW LEASING. LAFAYETIE TOWNHOUSES. 
$350/PERSON. 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 
2.5 BATHS. FREE INTERNET. 
NEWLY REMODELED. CALL 574­234-2436 OR WWW.KRAMER­HOUSES.COM 
Student rentals 200912010. St. Peter/SBAve. Homes. $1300­$2000/month. 
5-7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd floor. Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876-3537. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 2009-10. 2-4 BEDROOMS, CLOSE TO CAM­PUS, STAINLESS STEEL APPLI­ANCES. 
CALL BILL: 574-532-1896. 1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom. washer/dryer. fitness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. Preleasing for August. 
Call574-232-1400 or lease online www.foundryliving.com 
Townhomes at Dublin Village, Irish Crossing, Wexford Place, Ivy Quad. 3 and 4 Bdr. Only a few left for 09/1 0. CES Property Management. 574-968-0112 CESPM.info 613 Lafayette Blvd., 6-bdrm & 2­bdrm houses. $350/person. Call . 574-876-6333. 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students// 
Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edulhealth-safety/assis­tance-for -pregnant -students. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for 
Victims of Rape & Assault at http://osa.nd.edu/health­safety/assault' 


Friday, February 6, 2009 

NCAA Men's Baseball USA Today Preseason Poll 
team points 
1 .LSU (14) 738 2 North Carolina (12) 737 3 · Rice(1) 
673 4 Georgia 600 5 · Texas A&M (2) 590 6 Stanford (1) 576 7 Arizona State 
533 8 CS Fullerton 507 9 Florida State 500 9 Texas 500 11 Ole Miss 431 12 Georgia Tech 327 13 Oklahoma State 321 14 Miami (fl) 320 15 San Diego 304 16 Lousville 292 11 Baylor 269 18 UC Irvine 262 19 Fresno State {1) 247 20 Missouri 224 21 Pepperdine 156 22 UCLA 140 23 Florida 112 . 24 Costal Carolina 102 25 Clemson 80 
NCAA Men's Hockey USCHO.com/CBS Poll 
team  .points  record  
1  Boston Unlv. (33)  983  19·5·1  
2  NOTRE DAME (17)  967  20·4·3  
3  Northeastern  826  17·6·2  
4  Michigan  781  19-9-0  
5  ComeII  751  14-3·4  
6  Denver  741  16·8·3  
7  Vermont  724  14·6·4  
8  Miami (FL)  664  - 16·8·4  
9  Minnesota  60B  12·7·5  
10  Princeton  548  15-6-0  
11  New Hampshire  466  12·8·4  
12  Boston College  410  11·8·4  
13  North Dakota  399  16-11-3  
14  Yale  360  15·5·1  
15  Ohio State  319  11·8·3  
16  Wisconsin  237  14·11-3  
17  Minnesota-Duluth  229  14·8·6  
18  Col_orado Co11ege  194  13·9·6  
19  Dartmouth  77  11·7·3  
20  StLawrence  56  14-10·2  
21  St Cloude State  53  13·13·2  
22  Minnesota State  47  13·13·3  
23  RIT  21  16·9·1  
24  Alaska  15  12·10-6  
25 ·Air Force  11  11·7·2  

NCAA Swimming CSCAA Rankings 
Men Women 
1 Texas Georgia 
. 2 Stanford Stanford 3 Michigan Texas 4 Arizona Arizona 5 Auburn Florida 6 California Auburn 7 Indiana Tennessee ­8 Florida TexasA&M 9 Ohio State California 10 Tennessee Minnesota 
around the dial 
NBA Basketball 
Golden State at Phoenix 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 
CoM.PILED FROM TH.E OssERVEits WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 

KNOXVILLE; Tenn. -In this season of lowered expec­tations for Tennessee, Pat Summitt still reached unprecedented height.;;: l,()(X) victories. . 
Summitt became the first Division I ba'iketball coach ­man or woman-to win 1,000 career games Thursday night a.., her 12th­ranked Lady Vols beat Georgia 73-43. It was their second chance in four days at giving their coach her latest and one of her greatest mile­stones. 
ThnsP baby Lady Vol.., (17­4), with sevrn freshmen on the rostm·, arr nothing like the squads that brought Summitt 
her seventh and eighth 
. national championships in the previous two seasons. This is an inexperienced group that had Summitt jok­ing about whether they would even be up to the task of win­ning the 17 games she need­ed to reach 1,0<X) this season. 
"It's a hard nwnber to even comprehend," Summitt said. 
"It's a time to reflect on a number of things, the admin· istration saying yes to women's basketball and giv­ing U.'-' an opportunity to play on the biggest stage in the women's game. I appreciate that." 
The landmark win came on the court named for Swnmitt, who just keeps racking up achievements for others to chase. All the fans in the arena began standing with about a minute left, and they clapped to "Hocky Top" as orange and white streamers fell fi·om the ceiling. 
Summitt gave Georgia coach Andy Landers a hug on the sideline. 
The Lady Vols were given T-shirts with the number 1,000 on the front, which they pulled on before a celebration on court with Swnmitt. 
Tennessee fans mi'iSOd the celebration Jan. 29, 2006, when Summiti won her 900th game in Na'ihville. She won her first game at home, and Nos. 300, 800 and 880­the one that pu.'ihed her past Dean Smith for most wins by a Division I coach -came at home. The night she pa'ised Smith, Tennessee renamed the court for Summitt. 
One fan confident of the win flashed 1,(X)() on a sign behind the bench as photos of Summitt over her 35 seasons flashed on the videoboards dwing timeouts. 
Summitt had former Tennessee football coach Phillip Fulmer cheering her from a luxury suite with men's ba'iketball coach Bruce Pearl also on hand, even though he kept his shirt on with no body paint thi'> time. Billy Moore, who coached Summitt in the 1976 Olympics, and Southeastern Conference commissioner Mike Slive also were in the stands. 

IN BRIEF Former Cowboy Glenn 
picked up on drug charges 
IRVING, Tex. -Former Dallas Cowboys rrceiver Terry Glenn was arrested on public intoxication and marijuana possession charges after appearing disoriented at a hotel, police said Thursday. 
The Jan. 25 arrest came after a call of a suspicious person who was wandering the hallways checking door handles, said Irving police Oflicer David Tull. 
After determining Glenn was "intoxicated or disoriented," offi­cers arrested him on a public intoxication charge, Tull said. A subsequent search turned up a small amount of marijuana, lead­ing to a misdemeanor Gharge of possessing less than 2 ounces of the drug. · 
Tull said Glenn was released on bond the morning after the arrest. Glenn also had outstanding traffic warrants in the Dallas-Fort Worth suburb of Roanoke. 
Shoulder surJ{ery ends 
Sixers' Brand's season 
PHILADELPHIA, Penn. -Elton Bral)d has four more years to prove to Philadelphia he was no $80 million bust. 
Brand's comeback from a separat­ed right shoulder is over and the two­time AU-Star power forward will have season-ending surgery on Monday. All the Sixers got in the first year of a five-year, $80 million contract from the player they expected to help win them a round or two in the Eastern Conference pla.yoffs was 13.8 points and 8.8 rebounds in only 29 games. 
"It's the most disappointed I've ever been in my career," Brand said on Thursday. "This was supposed to be special. This was supposed to be win­ning, supposed to be fun. Management believed in me. I'm still not going to let them down." 
The Sixers playoff push -they were the seventh seed entering Thursday -now goes on without Brand. 
Sheets considering elbow 
surgery after deal goes bad 
FOHT WORTH, Tex. -Free agent right-hander Ben Sheet'> could be head· ed for elbow surgery after contract· negotiations with the Texa'> Rangers feU through because of the injury. 
Texas had been discussing a two-year deal with Sheets, the NL starter in the All-Star game last season, a person familiar with the talk..;; said Thursday, speaking on condition of anonymity becau.'ie the deal never wa'> finalized. 
A physical revealed that the torn flex­or tendon Sheets sustained la'>t season apparently has not healed, the person said. 
Sheets struggled with a sore elbow down the stretch last season for Milwaukee and didn't pitch in the play­offs. He said then that he had torn a flexor tendon near his right elbow, but insL.;;ted that he just needed to rest his ailing arm. during the ofli;ea.'iOn. 
Brewers assistant general manager Gord Ash declined to comment Thursday. 
page 16 The Observ~r + SPORTS Friday, February 6, 2009 
MLB 

Judge to throw out key evidence in Bonds steroids prObe 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO Prosecutors trying to prove Barry Bonds lied when he denied knowingly using per­formance-enhancing drugs suf­fered a setback Thursday, with a federal judge saying she might toss some of the strongest evidence against the home-run king. 
U.S. District Judge Susan Illston said her "preliminary thoughts" were to exclude from trial three 2000-2001 positive drug tests that prosecutors say belong to Bonds unless there is a direct link that the urine sam­ples came from the former San Francisco Giants slugger. 
"If there's no testimony to establish that, I don't think any of them work," Illston said. 
The only person who can do that s~ems to be Bonds' person­al trainer,· Greg Anderson.. who spent more than a year behind bars for refusing to speak to a federal grand jury investigating Bonds. And Anderson's attor­ney, Mark Geragos, has said his client will not testify against Bonds at the trial, scheduled to start March 2. 
Without someone to authenti­cate that the test results were from Bonds' urine, Illston said claims that the tests were Bonds' were "classic hearsay." 





THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF 
, presents 


Masterless Mistresses: The New Orleans Ursulines and the Development ofa New World Society, 1727-1834 (UNC, 2007) Emily Clark Tulane University 
Saturday, F ehruary 7, 2009 9:00a.m.-noon McKenna Hall Centerfhr Continuing Education 
Based on the same logic, Illston said she likely also would exclude a doping calendar and other papers seized by federal investigators at Anderson's home. 
She was inclined, however, to allow a recorded conversation between Anderson and Bonds' former personal assistant Steve Hoskins in whiGh they discuss injecting steroids. Hoskins recorded the conversation with­out Anderson's knowledge. 
Illston will issue a formal decision on the evidence dis­cussed Thursday at a later date. She also will hold a separate hearing on whether to allow testimony from expert doctors the government hopes would persuade a jury that changes in Bonds' body were due to steroid use. 
According to court docu­ments, Bonds tested positive on thre--e separate occasions in 2000 and 2001 for the steroid methenelone in urine samples; he also tested positive two of those three times for the steroid nandrolone. 
The three positive drug tests -seized during a 2003 raid of the Bay Area Laboratory Co­Operative, the headquarters of a large-scale sports doping ring -are a key part of the govern­ment's effort to prove Bonds Jied when he told a grand jury that year he never knowingly took performance-enhancing drugs. 
The judge and the lawyers didn't discuss a fourth positive steroids test seized in 2004 from a lab used by Major League Baseball to test its play­ers in 2003. 
The difference between that test and the three positive tests from 2000-2001 is there's no need to authenticate them. 
Prosecutors said former 
BALCO executive James Valente is prepared to testify that Anderson handed him the three biological samples and told him they belonged to Bonds. But the judge said Valente's testimony was not enough to link the sam­ple and Bonds. 
Victor Conte, BALCO's founder, has always maintained that Bonds' biological samples were tested "down and dirty" and unreliable. 
"These alleged Bonds test results and records not only lack a chain of custody and con­tain inaccuracies, but they also involve people with no formal training," Conte said in an e­mail Wednesday. "This causes uncertainty and creates doubt regarding the validity of this testing and record keeping evi­dence." 
Without those three positive tests, the government's next­
best evidence is Hoskins' recording of Anderson dis­cussing undetectable steroids. 
Hoskins said he made the secret clubhouse recording in front of Bonds' locker in March 2003. Hoskins said he was try­ing to obtain evidence to show Bonds' skeptical father Bobby Bonds, a former Major Leaguer who died of cancer in August 2003, that his son was using steroids. 
Bonds' attorneys offered the judge a more sinister motiva­tion for Hoskins to make the recording without Anderson's knowledge: blackmail. Bonds told the FBI shortly after the recording was made that Hoskins was stealing from him by forging his autograph on Bonds' memorabilia. 
"lie wanted to get some pro­tection from the investigation that he knew was coming," Bonds' attorney, Dennis Hiordan, said. The FBI dropped 
its brief investigation of Hoskins 
soon after without charging him 
with any crimes. 
First indicted in November 
2007, Bonds pleaded not guilty 
for a third time Thursday after 
the government revised the 
charges to fix legal technicali­
ties. He now faces 10 counts of 
making false statements to a 
grand jury, plus an obstruction 
ofjustice charge. 
If convicted, Bonds faces a 
sentence between probation 
and twoyears in prison. 
If her preliminary thoughts 
stand, the government's case 
against Bonds will suffer a sig­
nificant blow -but not a fatal . one, legal analysts said. 
"It hurts, but the government 
still has quite a bit of other evi­
dence," Golden Gate University 
law professor Peter Keane said. The judge plans to hold a sep­arate court hearing to deter­mine whether the prosecution can call to the witness stand Dr. Larry Bowers, the medical director for the United States Anti-Doping Agency. Bonds' attorneys argue that the science .of steroid effects is inconclusive. Prosecutors said in court 
papers tha~ Bowers "will testify 
that steroid users develop such 
symptoms as increased muscle 
mass, shrunken testicles, acne 
on the upper back, moodiness, 
and an erratic sexual drive." 
The prosecutors said they also 
will call "witnesses close to 
Bonds who will testifv that 
Bonds exhibited some or all of 
these symptoms between 
approximately 1998 and 2003." 
Keane said that physical side 
effects that Bonds appears to 
have experienced -such as 
sudden head growth -is still 
part of the government's case. 
"The main evidence against 
Barry is his body," Keane said. 
"That's the whole ballgame." 

OLYMPICS 
USA Swimming suspends Phelps 


Announcing the Year 2009 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Associated Press 
Michael Phelps was suspended from competition for three months by USA Swimming, the latest fallout from a photo that showed the Olympic great inhal­ing from a marijuana pipe. 
The sport's national governing body also cut off its financial sup­port to Phelps for the same three­month period, effective Thursday. 
"This is not a situation where any anti-doping rule w·as violat­ed, but we decided to send a strong message to Michael because he disappointed so many people, particularly the hundreds of thousands of USA Swimming member kids who look up to him as a role model and a hero," the Colorado-based federation said in a statement. 
"Michael has voluntarily accepted this reprimand and has committed to earn back our trust." 
Phelps won a record eight gold medals in Beijing and returned to America as one of the world's most acclaimed athletes. Now he's enduring a wave of bad news in the wake of the photo, pub­lished Sunday by News of the World, a British tabloid. 
Earlier Thursday, cereal and snack maker Kellogg Co. announced it wouldn't renew its sponsorship contract with Phelps, saying his behavior is "not consis­tent with the image of Kellogg." The swimmer appeared on the company's cereal boxes after his Olympic triumph. 
Phelps has acknowledged "regrettable" behavior and "bad judgment." .He didn't dispute the authenticity of the photo, report­edly taken at a house party while Phelps was visiting Columbia, S.C., in November during an extended break from training. 
The 23-year-old has resumed training in his hometown of Baltimore, but his plans to return to competitive swimming will have to be put on hold. Phelps had been planning to compete in early March at a Grand Prix meet in Austin, Texas. 

Thanks to a generous gift fi·om the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleasell to announce the year 2009 annual competition for tmvel in supp011 ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and wHl not nonnally cover all expenses. Notre Dame gradm1te and undergmduatt.> studems who are planning to pursue research or a lonnal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of llalian language. The course work will nonnally be in Italian: will involve the study of Italian language, literature. and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre _D-<~mc. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome. Boston University in Padua. UCLA in Pisa. Miami University in llrbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian fim~ign study in the lkpartmcnt of R(lmancc Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students arc invited to submit a kttcr ,~hich should include: 
1)  an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre r>ame:  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background. interests. and long-tenn goals;  
3)  a deM:ription of the research project or the program they intend to follow;  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved:  
5)  two letters of recommendation  
6)  a tnmscript showing all g.rad.es and courses completed  
7)  a list ofother sources offunding (being sought or confirmed) for the same project  
(i.e. Office of International Studies. Nanovic Institute. etc.)  

Application Ile11dline: Friday, M11rch 6, 2009 Albert R11varino Italian Studies TraYel Scholarship Prograltt in Italian Studies .~4j O'Shaughnessy llall lJni'\ersity of Notn Uame 

Friday, February 6, 2009 

The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 

New England tags Cassel as franchise quarterback 
Associated Press 

BOSTON The New 
England Patriots placed the 
franchise tag on Matt Cassel 
on Thursday, making it 
tougher for other teams to sign 
the free agent quarterback. 
The Patriots might keep him if they have doubts that Tom Brady will be ready for the start of next season after sus­taining a serious knee injury in the 2008 opener. If they are confident Brady will be ready, they could trade Cassel rather than pay him the $14.65 mil­lion offer for 2009 in the fran­chise designation. 
Cassel had a breakout sea­son in 2008, starting 15 games after starting none the seven previous seasons-four with Southern California as backup to Heisman Trophy winners Carson Palmer and Matt Leinart, and three after New England drafted him in the seventh round in 2005. 
For now, he remains a free agent, but the Patriots can match any offer made by another team or allow him to sign with that team in exchange for two first-round draft picks. The franchise tag value is the average of the top five paid NFL players at a par­ticular position. 
If and when Cassel signs the one-year designation, he will be under contract to the Patriots and could be dealt. 
"Matt has been a pleasure to coach his entire career and last season in particular, when his years of hard work and commitment resulted in a most impressive performance," Patriots coach Bill Belichick said in a statement. "We look 

forward to working with Matt 
again in 2009." 
David Dunn, Cassel's agent, 
did not return a phone call 
seeking comment. 
Cassel's stock soared after he 
took over for Brady and helped 
the Patriots to an 11-5 record, 
but New England missed the 
playoffs. 
Brady, who led the Patriots to an unbeaten regular season in 2007 and their fourth Super Bowl in eight years, went to the turf midway through the first quarter on Sept. 7 after being hit in the backfield by Kansas City safety Bernard Pollard. The two-time Super Bowl MVP had started 12 8 games and was replaced by Cassel, who helped the Patriots to a 17-10 win. 
Brady underwent surgery for torn ligaments on Oct. 6, then had follow-up surgery to treat a postoperative infection. 
On Jan. 21, he said in an interview that his rehabilita­tion was "going really well," but he did not offer a timetable for a return to the field. He made his comments on Toronto sports radio station The Fan 590. Brady was not asked during the interview if he expected to be ready for training camp or the start of the regular season. 
Teams are allowed to place the franchise tag on one player per season. Without it, Cassel would have become an unre­stricted free agent Feb. 27 and been able to sign with any team without compensation to the Patriots. The period in which a team can designate a franchise player is Feb. 5-19. 
Last season, Cassel finished with 327 completions in 516 

.. 

Vinatieri. But he played under the tag in 2005, then left as a free agent for Indianapolis. In 2003, the Patriots traded Jones to New Orleans for three draft picks. 
In 2007, Samuel held out of training camp until the Patriots agreed not to apply 
.. 

the tag to him again in 2008 if he played in 60 percent of the defensive snaps or they won 12 games. Both conditions were met and he left after that season for Philadelphia as a free agent. 

attempts (63.4 percent) for 3,693 yards, 21 touchdowns and 11 interceptions. The yardage was the fourth most in the AFC and the completion percentage was the third best in team history. 
If the Patriots keep Brady and Cassel, they would have two quarterbacks taking up nearly 25 percent of the team's salary cap of $123 million for 2009. Brady's cap charge will be $14.62 million, although his actual salary for the year is $5 million with a $3 million bonus for making the roster. 
Cassel is the fifth player in Patriots history to be designat­ed a franchise player. The oth­ers were kicker Adam Vinatieri in 2002 and 2005, defensive back Tebucky Jones in 2003 and cornerback Asante Samuel in 2007. The Patriots waited until the last day to place the tag on all but Samuel, doing it six days earli­er. 
In 2002, the Patriots lifted the tag after they reached a multiyear agreement with 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

SEC reprimands Tenn. coach for Florida comments 
Tennessee. contact with a prospect during solely to excite those at the town next season, and become 
J\ssociated Press 

"I love the fact that Urban an official visit on another breakfast," Kiffin said. "I apol­a storyline in the lead up to the 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -Lane had to cheat and still didn't get campus during a contact peri­ogize to commissioner Mike game. Kiffin 's first game against him," Kiffin said, according to od," Foley said in a statement. Slive and the SEC, including Florida is 4-0 against Florida just got much more a WVLT-TV report. "His allegations are inappro­Florida (athletic director) Tennessee under Meyer. interesting. NCAA and Southeastern priate, out of line and, most Jeremy Foley and coach Urban Richardson, a Pahokee, Fla., 
The new Tennessee coach Conference officials said it is importantly, totally false. It is Meyer. My comments were not native, signed with the was reprimanded by the not against recruiting rules to completely unfair to Urban intended to offend anyone at Volunteers on Tuesday, despite Southeastern Conference and contact a recruit while they are Meyer, our coaching staff, our the University of Florida." having committed in May to the issued an apology on Thursday on an official visit to another football program and our insti­Kiffin 's first game against Gators. Another prospect com­for falsely accusing Florida's school. tution," he said. Meyer's defending national mitted to Florida, athlete Urban Meyer of a recruiting Florida athletic director SEC commissioner Mike Slive champion Gators is Sept. 19 in Marsalis Teague, also signed violation. Jeremy Foley rushed to his then reprimanded Kiffin for Gainesville, Fla. The Florida­with the Vols. 
Earlier in the day, Kiffin told coach's defense, delivering a publicly criticizing Meyer, Tennessee rivalry, dominated Kiffin was hired by fans at a breakfast celebrating quick and harsh response to which is against the league's by the Gators since Meyer's Tennessee in November to UT's recruiting class that Kiffin 's statement and called code of ethics. arrival four years ago, is replace Phillip Fulmer, after Meyer violated rules by phon­for him to apologize. That led to Kiffin 's apology. always heated. But Kiffin's being fired four weeks into the ing Nu'Keese Richardson while "It is obvious that coach "In my enthusiasm for our comments will undoubtedly be NFL season by the Oakland the wide receiver prospect was Kiffin doesn't know that there recruiting class, I made some remembered by Florida and its Raiders. It is his first job as on an official visit at is not a rule precluding phone statements that were meant fans when Tennessee comes to head coach of a college team. 

page 18 

ND TRACK & FIELD 
Squads set to host 
ll It j! 
Meyo Invitational 
By JAMES MICHALSKI Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will host the 22nd annual Meyo Invitational this Friday and Saturday in its last home meet before the Big East championships. 
Known as one of the premier winter meets in the country, this year's Meyo Invitational will include ranked squads like No. 11 Louisville and No. 15 Michigan. The meet will fea­ture the Meyo Mile and, for the second year, the Hyan Shay 3000-meter run, in honor of the former Irish standout who died suddenly during the Olympics Trials in New York City on Nov. 3, 2007.
! Freshmen Kelly Lynch and Joe Miller, and sophomore Paul Springer will represent the Irish in that race, and sen­ior Dan Clark will run the Meyo Mile. 
The meet's schedule is such that the highest level of com­petition will take place Saturday afternoon, as unseed­ed entries are reserved for Friday and Saturday morning. 
The event, which is to be held in the Loftus Center, will begin with the long jump at 5 
p.m. Friday. The meet's first running event, the women's 5000-m, is set for 6 p.m. 
Saturday's events will begin at 9 a.m. with the women's 3000-m. The Meyo Mile will start at 2:30 p.m. Saturday, and the Hyan Shay run is scheduled for 4:05 p.m. 
Next on the Irish schedule is the Windsor Team Challenge in Windsor, Ontario, followed by the Big East championships Feb. 21-22 in New York City. 
Contact James Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 
Friday, February 6, 2009 

The Observer + SPORTS 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish to end season against UM 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
No. 25 Notre Dame will host Michigan Saturday in its final tuneup before the Big East championships in Indianapolis on Feb. 18-21. 
"Michigan has a really great program and they are really competitive," senior Claire Hutchinson said. "We're going to have to go into the meet two of my main events," Hutchinson said. "So, I'll have to swim some events that I don't normally swim during the season, which is always a challenge." 
Though the Wolverines (3-6) are unranked, they just recently dropped from the top 25 rankings and should pro­vide a stiff test for the Irish (6­2). 
The last time Notre Dame competed was almost two 
with a really aggressive approach." 
Hutchinson, who swims the 500-yard­freestyle, 400-individ­ual medley and 200-fly events, will be approach­ing the meet 
' 

"It is a great last chance to race before the end ofthe 
,,

season. 
Claire Hutchinson Senior 
weeks ago at the Shamrock Invitational, when the Irish hosted Michigan State, Denver and West Virginia. 
In that meet, sophomore Samantha Maxwell took first in the ZOO­
against Michigan a little differ­ently than previous meets. 
"The format [of this meet) is more favorable for sprinters and we're not competing in breaststroke and fellow sopho­more Katie Kasey took first in the 200-butterfly. The 400­and 200-freestyle relay team, consisting of Megan Farrell, Zeina Shanata, Amy Prestinario and Amywren Miller, also won both of their events. 
Though these freestyle relays have been Notre Dame's stronghold for the duration of the season, Michigan also boasts a strong relay lineup. Four more Shamrock Invitational events were first places awarded to the Irish. 
With the Big East champi­onships quickly approaching, the Irish have already begun to change their practice rou­tine. 
"[WeJ have started resting for Big East," Hutchinson said. "Our yardage has gone down, and we've started to focus more on our speed and tech­nique in practice." 
Saturday's meet concludes the regular season for both the Irish and the Wolverines. 
"It is a great last chance to race before the end of the sea­son," Hutchinson said. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Tar Heels defeat Virginia Tech, look ahead to Duke 
Associated Press 

CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -Hashanda McCants and eighth-ranked North Carolina have little to worry about offensively as they prepare to face their fiercest rival next week. 
As for defense, well, coach Sylvia Hatchell will have plenty for her team to work on in practice. 
McCants scored 23 points to help the Tar Heels beat Virginia Tech 93-77 on Thursday night, sending them into Monday's matchup with fourth-ranked Duke on a three-game winning streak. 
Jessica Breland added 20 points for the Tar Heels (20­3, 5-2 Atlantic Coast Conference), who earned a 20-win season for the eighth straight year. 
North Carolina seems to have bounced back from a three-game losing streak that began with a 30-point loss against top-ranked Connecticut in a No. 1 vs. No. 2 matchup last month. North Carolina shot 57 percent, led by 16 points at halftime and never let the margin slip below double digits from there. 
That's not to say the Tar Heels were at their sharpest. They didn't protect the bas­
ketball particularly well and had several defensive lapses to frustrate Hatchell, allow­ing the struggling Hokies (11­12, 1-7) to hang around much of the way. 
"We just weren't communi­cating and we just had the wrong people on players," Hatchell said. "But also in some of our rotations in our traps, we were getting really out of sync. We didn't have people rotating and covering like they were supposed to." 
Ultimately, it didn't matter all that much against Virginia Tech, which never seriously threatened to pull the upset. North Carolina has won nine straight in the series and 12 of 14 meetings overall, with Virginia Tech's last win com­ing 25 years ago. 
McCants led the offense by hitting her first nine shots, starting with a 6-for-6 effort in the first half. 
"My teammates contributed by getting me easy shots and I just went with it," McCants said. "I felt I was hot. I was just trying to keep myself from thinking (about staying perfect) and stay in the zone." 
McCants finally missed a contested jumper from the top of the key with about 5 minutes left, then missed a turnaround a few minutes 


later before leaving with her third 20-point game of the season. 
"She's big enough to be a post and agile enough to be a guard," Hokies coach Beth Dunkenberger said. "She had 
pretty clean looks at it, but she certainly was on. Her jumper looked pretty smooth and we didn't have anybody who could stop her." 
Breland finished with 11 rebounds, while Italee Lucas 
backed them by continuing her recent scoring surge. After scoring a career-high 27, followed by 19 in the past two games, Lucas went 7-for­16 from the field to go with eight assists and four steals. 


Friday, February 9, 2009 

The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

SMC, Olivet join ND for exhibition 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sporrs Wrirer 

The Irish will have their final meet of the regular season Saturday, matching up with Olivet and Saint Mary's at Rolfs Aquatic Center before attempt­ing to defend their Big East title next week. 
The meet will be the final tuneup for Notre Dame, which travels to Jndianapolis Feb. 18­21 for the Big East champi­onships. 
The meet will also be the sec­ond consecutive at home for the Irish after sweeping three teams at last week's Shamrock Invitational. Notre Dame picked up victories over Wes~ Virginia, Denver and Michigan State after winning four events in the final two sessions of the meet. 
"In terms of preparation, we told the team we couldn't imag­ine a .better preparation for the conference championships than to have a three-session meet over every event in the confer­ence championship come down to the last event," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "Everybody stepped up big time, which made this a giant step for our team." 

Notre Dame junior freestyler John Lytle said the Irish have been steadily preparing for the conference championships in practice. 
"We have started to taper down the yardage and intensi­ty," Lytle said. "We're relying on the countless hours of practice and countless yards we have logged over fall semester and Christmas break as we begin to rest for the biggest meet of the year." 
The friendly meet and final step of preparation for Notre Dame will begin at 1 p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
NHL 

Kings end Capitals' three-game win streak 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Alex 
Ovechkin was in no mood to cel­
ebrate his 200th NHL goal and 
first against the Los Angeles 
Kings. 
A basebalJ cap pulled down over his eyes after his Capitals lost to the Kings 5-4 Thursday night, the usually exuberant Ovechkin instead wanted to dis­cuss what he and coach Bruce Boudreau both described as a lackluster performance that ended Washington's three-game winning streak. 
"We didn't play well for two periods, and they just used our mistakes," Ovechkin said, his voice a low monotone. "I don't want to talk about my personal stats today." 
Anze Kopitar's two goals and assist helped the Kings recover after allowing Washington's Alexander Semin to score only 15 seconds in. Los Angeles went on to Win for the fifth time in six games. 
"The first period wasn't pretty, but the second period was downright ugly," Boudreau said, adding moments later: "They've beaten us twice and we're a better team than them." 
The Southeast Division-lead­ing Capitals entered the night second in the Eastern Conference, while the Kings came in two points out of last place in the West. 
Plus, Washington was 21-3-1 at home, and was backed by a sellout crowd of 18,277. 
"Maybe we were giving them too much respect in the begin­ning," Kopitar said. "But ::tfter we picked up our game, I think we played pretty good." 
It was. after all. the Kings who took leads of 3-1 and 5-3 and held on. And it was the Kings who scored on a 5-on-3 power play and added a short-handed goal. 

Washington has allowed a 
power-play goal in 13 consecu­
tive games, and a short-handed 
goal in two straight. 
"I don't know what's happen­ing with us, but after (Semin's) goal, we just stopped playing," Ovechkin said. "Didn't play our system. We didn't finish checks. We didn't shoot the puck. We didn't play our game." 
Los Angeles was one of only two opponents -San Jose is the other -against whom he never had scored. 
But Ovechkin tallied unassist­ed with about 91!2 minutes left, pulling Washington within 4-3. It was Ovechkin's league-high 37th goal this season and made him one of four NHL players to reach 200 career goals in four seasons, joining Wayne Gretzky, Mike Bossy and Mario Lemieux. 
Kyle Calder sco:-ed with 1:33 left to give the Kings a 5-3 lead. Brooks Laich scored for Washington with 1:06 remain­ing to make it a one-goal game again, but the Kings held on. 
"Very exciting there at the end of the game," Kings coach Terry Murray said. 
Jonathan Quick withstood quite a barrage in the third period: The Capitals took 22 shots, only one fewer than in the first two periods combined. 
"In the third period, I thought we had a little more energy than them," Boudreau said. 
The second period featured three goals in a span of 11!2 min­utes. 
Kopitar broke a 1-1 tie with a goal 13 seconds into the period. Up against the boards, Alexander Frolov sent .the puck ahead to Kopitar. who shot it over Jose Theodore's right shoulder for his second of the game and 14th this season. Los Angeles made it 3-1 less than a minute later with its short-
NBA 
Lakers edge Celtics in overtime 
Trio ofSixers each post double-doubles in £Din 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Ray Allen was 
still on the floor, knocked on 
his back, when the l,.os Angeles 
Lakers began hugging and 
chest-bumping under the 2008 
NBA Championship banner 
that was earned at their 
expense. 
"I wish we would have come 
here last year with this kind of 
attitude," said Pau Gasul, who 
scored 24 points with 14 
rebounds Thursday night to 
lead the Lakers to a 110-1 09 
overtime victory over Boston. 
"Nobody backed down," he 
added. "\Ve were as physical as 
anybody." 
In a rematch of an NBA finals 
in which the Celtics outmuscled 
the Lakers to the title, Lamar 
Odom made a pair of free 
throws with 16 seconds left in 
overtime and Los Angeles held 
on with physical defense 
against Paul Pierce and Allen 
that prevented either All-Star 
from getting ofT a dean shot. 
The loss snapped the Celtics' 
12-game winning streak and 
dropped them to 0-2 against 
the best in the West. Boston 
trails the Lakers by percentage 
points for the best overall 
record in the NBA. and would 
lose a tiebreaker for home 
court advantage in the finals ­
if they both make it back. 
"It would be great," Pierce 
said. 
Kevin Garnett banged his fist 
on the table in agreement, and 
then interjected a reminder 
that seemed t<J be intended for 
the locker room across the hall: 
"We're the champs, man." 
Kobe Bryant scored 26 points with 10 rebounds to help the Lakers take a five-game win­ning streak into Sunday's game against Cleveland. L.A. also snapped Boston's 19-game winning streak on Christmas Day and sent the Celtics into a 2-7 skid that is the worst stretch of the New Big Three era. 
"These games are tough, and they're emotional games and then you play the next night," said Celtics coach Doc Rivers, whose team plays the New 
York Knicks on Friday night. 
"We'll try to muster it up and 
see what we have." 
Pierce scored 21, and Allen had 22, but they both missed off-balance shots in the final seconds. Allen was knocked to the court at the buzzer while Boston fans clamored for a foul call, but none came. 
Rajon Rondo scored 16 with 12 assists. 
It was the Lakers' first visit to Boston since a 131-92 embar­rassment in Game 6 of the NBA finals that clinched the Celtics' unpre-cedented 17th league championship. L.A. got a small measure • of revenge on Christmas, but even then Boston played a more physical game. 
"Coming down the streets, staying at the same hotel, I was up last night thinking about the game -wondering how my teammates would respond. It all came b:tck," Bryant said. "Enough is enough. We were able to match their physical play." 
There were two double-tech­nic a Is -one of thfl m a f'h~ r Bryant and Hondo wflre push­
• 
ing and finger-pointing in the 
third -and enough shoving to 
pass for a playoff game, but 
both teams were tired when it 
ended. Garnett, who missed the 
previous two games with the 
flu, scored 16 before fouling 
out with 4:22 left in the fourth 
quarter. 
Bryant, who scored 61 and 
36 in his previous two games, 
hit three 3-pointers in the 
fourth quarter, the last with 
l :30 left in regulation and Pierce in his face to make it 101-100-the Lakers' first lead of the half. But after Pierce made one of two free throws with 30 seconds left, Bryant tried to shoot over Pierce again and banged it off the rim. 
After .a timeout with 7. 7 sec­onds left, Pierce dribbled the clock down before Bryant poked the ball away. Eddie House got it and put up a side­ways, one-handed 3-point attempt at the buzzer that was­n't close. 
Bryant missed his last five shots of the game. 
76ers 99, Pacers 94 
Now that Elton Brand is out for the season, Andre Miller and Andre lguodala are ready to take charge of Philadelphia's playofl" push. 
Securing a victory with defensive stops down the stretch instead of enduring a massive fourth-quarter melt­down is a nice first step. 
Samuel Dalembert had 18 points and 20 rebounds, and Miller and Iguodala also had double-doubles to lead the Philadelphia 76ers to 'a win over the Indiana Pacers on Thursday night. 
"We really needed that game," coach Tony DiLeo said. 

The Sixers needed any kind of lift after a disastrous week that included losing in two of the most agonizing ways any team can lose. The big blow came hours before the game: Brand-their five-year, $80 million power forward-will 

have season-ending surgery on 
his right shoulder Monday. 
"We have to rally around 

each other and go out there 
and pick up our play on both 
ends of the floor," said guard 
Willie Green, who had 23 ·points. 
More games like this one will 

help. All five starters reached 
double-digits in scoring by the 
fourth quarter and 
Philadelphia held off the pesky 
Pacers to avoid a third straight 
fourth-quarter collapse. 
Miller had 13 points and 12 

assists, while Iguodala had 20 
points and 11 assists to help 
the Sixers snap a two-game 
losing streak. 
"We can make it work, we 

just have to make it work," 
Iguodala said. "It's as simple as 
that." 
The .Sixers wanted a strong showing on their seven-game homestand to throw them in the thick of the Eastern Conference playoff race. They opened with a win, then lost in two of the most agonizing ways any team can lose. They missed their final 18 shots from the floor and coughed up a fourth­quarter lead in a loss against New Jersey. Then they led the entire fourth against the NBA­best Celtics until Ray Allen won it with a 3-pointer with five­tenths of a second left. 
Philadelphia nearly blew it again against Indiana. 
The Sixers opened the fourth with an 11-point lead and watched it quickly whittle away. Troy Murphy scored on a driving layup and Mike Dunleavy followed with a 3­pointer to pull Indiana within two. 
Dalembert, though, went up strong under the basket for a basket and Miller added a layup to make it a six-point game and give the Sixers some breathing room down the stretch. The often-erratic Dalembert abused Indiana down low and was only two rebounds shy of his career high. 
T 

fJ page 20 
I I I 
Bayliss 

'J 
continued from page 24 

were against top-20 teams and we beat a really good Texas Tech team in Tulsa on Sunday." 
Freshmen Casey Watt and Sam Keeton have come up big for the Irish in their two victories, as Keeton is unbeaten {5-0) in singles play. 
"Sam has been great so far, but this was not unexpected," Bayliss said. "He has the ability to take the ball early and take away his opponent's time, so that has made him difficult for teams to prepare for. Being a lefty is always an advantage and he is learning how to maximize that with each match." 
In Sunday's opener, the Irish will try for a repeat of last year's matchup with Duke in Durham, N.C... when Notre Dame snuck by the Blue Devi1s 4-3. · 
Sophomore David Anderson won the clinching match for the Irish last season, earning a victory at No. 5 singles. Anderson has broken the lineup once this season with a loss to No. 108 Drew Courtney of Virginia. 
"Each of us has lost a key player from last year's squads," Bayliss said. "However both teams have added strong freshmen ... I expect this match to go down to the wire." 
In addition to new players, the Blue Devils also have a new coach in Ramsey Smith, a former Duke player. Smith's father, Stan, was former world No. 1 and a Wimbledon and U.S. Open champion. 
On Sunday evening, Notre Dame will again try to beat a squad for the second straight year. Last season,. the Irish were able to defeat Toledo 7­0. 
Bayliss said that if any of his players are extended in the Duke match, he has more than capable replacements· waiting in the wings. 
Bayliss also said that the team has been playing well, but that there is a difference between playing well and finding a way to win. 
After hosting these two • matches, the Irish will travel to Michigan State. on Feb. 14 for a 12 p.m. match in East Lansing, Mich. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


---~-~-­
-

The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 6, 2009 
tough in their own rink this year with only two losses in
Buckeyes 

Value City Arena. The Irish, however, have had no trou­
continued from page 24 

ble dealing with life on the Saturday. They scored four road. Notre Dame has not 
times  in  the  lost  an  away  
first utes  10 min­of the  ..From a statistical  game its  sinoe season  
game.  standpoint. [Ohio  opener  
"We're going to have to be patient. We're  State] is ofthe same caliber as a Michigan  against Denver -a 10-0-1  
going to· have  or a A1iami. "  streak.  
to defend well  "We've just  
b e c a they're  u s e a very  Jeff Jackson  got our  to play..game,  
good offensive  Irish coach  Condra said.  
team," Jackson  "This  year  
said. "They've  they've got a  

got the most goals scored in highly-skilled team and the conference. From a sta­we've just got to play them tistical standpoint, this team like we should." is of the same c&liber as a Michigan or a Miami." Contact Dan Murphy at 
The Buckeyes have been dmurphy6@nd.edu 
UCLA 
continued from page 24 

as the Irish. In just over a week, the Bruins have beaten California, Stanford and. USC by at least 15 points each. 
Meanwhile, the Irish have not won since a Jan. 10 matchup against Seton Hall. The Irish landed in Los Angeles Thursday and might be better-suited than· the Bruins for Saturday's 10 a.m. Pacific time start, 1 p.m. 
"We·ve got to be able game 
Eastern. carrying the 
Still, the Irish to play defense, get Irish in virtual­will need to rebounds and stop ly every recent play much bet­contest.
teams from putting
ter than they , The Irish will have in order up 90 on us. probably need to topple UCLA. more of a team This game was effort against
Zach Hillesland 
widely-hyped the Bruins.
senior forward 
at  the  begin­ Notre Dame's  
ning of the sea- starting back­ 
son  but  now  Notre  Dame  court of Tory Jackson and Kyle  
appears  to  be  an  obvious  McAlarney will try to rebound  
underdog.  after shooting a combined 6­ 
The Irish scoring was more  of-22 from the field against  
balanced Wednesday against  Cincinnati.  
Cincinnati as Ryan Ayers came  The matchup against UCLA  
off the bench to drop 14 points  will be Notre Dame's final  
. and Zach Hillesland chipped in  non-conference game of the  
11. But Notre Dame could not  regular season. After return­ 
get defensive stops down the  ing home, the Irish will play  
stretch as  Bearcats guards  eight more Big East oppo­ 
Deonta Vaughn  and Larry  nents.  
Davis torched them for 34 and  
21 points, respectively.  Contact Fran Tolan at  
The UCLA backcourt of sen­ ftolan@nd.edu  
'EAAT')VI.Kci  

ior Darren Collison and fresh­man Jrue Holiday figures to present just as much of a chal­lenge to Notre Dame's defense. 
"We've got to be able to play defense, get rebounds and stop teams from putting up 90 on us," Hillesland told the Ass.ociated Press after Wednesday"s game. 
Underneath the basket, Irish junior Luke Harangody will battle Bruins forward Nicola Dragovich and center Alfred Aboya. Harangody is averag­ing 25.3 points and 13.2 rebounds per while 
Pink 
continued from page 24 

nobody can find a bad word about her and that's really something to be said in the coaching fraternity." 
And in her memory, the Irish are looking to sell-out against DePaul McGraw said. And a sell out home crowd could be just what the Irish need to break out of their current rut, having lost three of their last four games. 
The match against the Blue Demons marks the 
beginning of the final stretch in the regular season. 
" ... [T]he last seven games of the season are really important for everybody and we're playing not as well as I would like right now, but we've got a lot of freshmen who are starting to hit the wall this time of the year," McGraw said. "So hopefully we'll be able to get together and have a strong finish." 
Notre Dame last faced DePaul on Jan: 6 on the road. The Irish won 86-62. But even with that win under their belt, Notre Dame isn~t counting on a win. Not even past injuries to stars Natasha Williams and Deirdre Naughton has McGraw feeling certain. 
"They're back to full strength now and i think they're playing great basket­ball," McGraw said. "I think they're one of the hottest teams in the conference. 
~ 
along with Pittsburgh. think those two teams are really coming on strong right now." 
Naughton and DePaul step onto the court Sunday com­ing off a five-game coofer­ence winning streak. A large part of their success has come from the 3-pont line. And with Notre Dame not exactly on their defensive game as of late, that could mean trouble for the Irish. 
"I think rebounding is always going to be a prob­lem for. us, we always have to work on that," McGraw said. "Defensively, we've been a little more often down than I would like. We­have to play better defen­sively, we've got to guard the 3-point line a little better, and certainly DePaul is going to challenge that. _They're a great • 3-point' shooting team." ­
McGraw and the Irish hope that guarding the 3-point line will help them secure another win against Depaul. 
Notre Dame and DePaul square off at 2 p.m. Sunday. 
Notes 
+In honor of the pink zone, the Irish will be wear­ing pink jerseys. 
+McGraw said $25,000 has alre.ady been raised. If the game sells out, an addi­tional $10,000 will be donat­ed toward breast cancer research. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 



SUMMER. LANGUAGE GRANTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO CONTINUE FOREIGN LANGUAGE STUDY DURING THE SUMMER. 
Grants are designed to cover only a portion of program costs• 
• 

For details and application torms, go to: 
http://www.nd.edu/-sumlang/ or 
Pick up applications from the Office of International Studies • (154.Hurley Building· Ph 1·5203) 
application deadline: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2009 

Sponsored by the Office of International Studies, the College of Arts and Letters, the Nanovic Institute for European Studies & the Mendoza College of Business 
Friday, February 6, 2009 

The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
NO finally makes home debut 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 

The Irish have already man­aged to qualify for the ITA National Tern Indoor Championships -and they haven't yet played at home. 
Notre Dame (3-0) will take on No. 18 Michigan in its home opener at 4 p.m. today at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. · 
Notre Dame earned its slot in next weekend's Indoor Chqmpionships in Madison, Wise., by upsetting No. 14 Arkansas 4-1 last Sunday. The Razorbacks' sole point was won by the No. 2 singles play­er in the country. With this upset, Notre Dame moved up to No. 14 in the rankings. 
Some of the Irish are indeed used to high rankings, as the doubles team of senior Kelcy Tefft and freshmen Kristy Frilling are currently ranked as the nation's top doubles team. The duo only appears to be getting stronger, as it won twice last weekend, including an 8-1 victory over the eighth­ranked Arkansas doubles team. 
Following that performance, Frilling won the Big East women's tennis player of the week award. 
Today, Notre Dame will try to avenge the upset loss Michigan handed the Irish when the two squads met last year. 
"Michigan is a really good team. They are very deep," senior Katie Potts said. "They are very comparable [to the team's we'll see at the Indoor Championships]. It should be a pretty tough match." 
Having leaped into the top five of the rankings with the win over Arkansas, the Irish know next weekend will be filled with stiff competition. 
"We are one of the bigger 

underdogs to get to the tour­nament," Potts said. "A deci­sive win would be nice to head into the tournament with." 
Before the team goes to Madison, though, it will look to dispatch Michigan -a Notre Dame rival in every sport. 
"We are just excited to see how we match-up, not only with Michigan, but also with the teams ·in Madison," Potts said. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmerl@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles hit road again to face Alma 
By ALEX WEST 
Sporrs Writer 

After just one home game followed a four-game road trip, Saint Mary's .will hit the highway again this weekend to visit conference foe Alma Saturday at 3 p.m. 
The Belles (12-8, 10-2 MIAA) took advantage of their 
home game with  an 86-54  
thrashing  of  Olivet  
Wednesday,  and  coach  

Jennifer Henley said the venue played a factor in her team's dominating perform­ance. 

"Anytime you play four games on the road, it's going to take a toll on you," said Henley, whose team trails first-place Hope by just half a game in the conference stand­ings. "It was great being at home in front of our fans with Olivet. We certainly feed off of their energy." 
The Belles, winners of four of five, will look to avoid an upset against Alma (7-12, 5-6 MIAA), a team that has won three of four. 
"We are still focusing on taking one game at a time as we approach the tournament," Henley said. "With Alma, I feel we have the height advantage with our inside game." 
But Henley said Alma will present trouble because of its team speed. 
"They have speed and will be able to run with us," she said. "Alma does a great job of piayin g a Iot of different defenses to throw you off." 
The Scots will have to try and stop B~lles senior forward Erin Newsom, who leads Saint Mary's in both points (14 per game) and rebounds (eight per game). 
Contact Alex West a awest@hcc-nd.edu 
FENCING 

New No.1 to host competition 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 
For the first time this sea­son, the Irish fencers will have a taste of what it means to be No. 1. 
The top-ranked men (17-0) and No. 2 women (17-2) will host the Notre Dame Duals this weekend looking to con­tinue their hot starts against some of the nation's top teams. The Irish are coming off an unprecedented per­formance at the Northwestern Duals last weekend, where both the men's and women's teams knocked off top-ranked Penn State. 
".Teams are coming after fall work, and they are showing their cards," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. "I told the fencers keep attention. We are in the mid­dle of the race and just because we have a lead doesn't mean we are sure winners. They will attack us for sure." 

This weekend's 14-team field will include No. 7 Stanford and the men's com­petitors from No. 3 Ohio State. 
"We have to keep focus. 
. Everyone is telling us 'Oh, you beat the No.1 team, you beat the No. 2 team,' but that was just a preseason coaches' poll," Bednarski said. "Who know-s how strong Stanford is? Now on the strip we will sec who is really stronger." But the biggest surprise of the season may be the rapid 
adjustment of the talented cast of freshmen and sopho­more fighters to the colle-· giate level. 
"They are adjusting very quickly to the different type of competition, the different type of bouts because defi­nitely it's a different system," Bednarski said. "Sometimes there are surprises from the intensity of the bouts, inten­sity between schools, and intensity of engagement. But I believe we will also be suc­cessful on this field." 
The duals will take place in the Joyce Cei).ter beginning at 8 a.m. both Saturday and Sunday, with closing rounds starting at 5 p.m. and 3 p.m., respectively. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Banquet 
continued from page 24 
middle of it," said Scioscia. 
"It's going to be a.lot of fun to 
watch them, and it's a11 honor 
to be asked to com·e here." 
Samardzija entertained the 
crowd with stories from his 
Notre Dame baseball and 
football career, and also dis­
cussed his past season with 
the Chicago Cubs. When 
asked about the Cubs' World 
Series drought, Samardzija 
denied any belief in the 
superstitions surrounding the 
club. 
"I don't think any of the players think about a curse. Do you believe in curses? I don't," Samardzija said. ''I'm sun~ everyone would rather be talking about X's and O's than fairytales." 
The former dual-sport star has also recently given back to Notre Dame, establishing a scholarship in the name of his mother, who passed away when Samardzija was in high school. The Debora Samardzija Memorial Scholarship will be awarded to a student who has suffered through the loss of a loved one while continuing to strive towards academic excellence. 
Samardzija concluded his speech by making some pre­dictions for the coming year, which included a College World Series berth for the Irish baseball team, a World Series title for the Cubs and a national championship for the Notre Dame football team. 
He also parted with some final words for another two-
sport Irish star following in 
his footsteps -sophomore 
wide receiver and outfielder 
Golden Tate 
"Golden, you might break 
all my receiving records, and 
that's cool. I wish you all the 
best, but you won't look as 
good doing it," Samardzija 
said. 
Scioscia added advice he 
learned from his mother 
before embarking on his pro­
fessional baseball career. 
"She. said, 'Michael. if you want to be a leader, the first person you have to lead is yourself,"' Scioscia said. "You have to remember to carry yourself and lead yourself first." 
Athletic director Jack Swarbrick was also in atten­dance and made a short speech before introducing Irish coach Dave Schrage. 
"I've been to a lot of sport­ing events all over the world 
Super Bowls and Olympics," Swarbrick said. "But my favorite event of them all is the College World Series. And this year I plan on going back with my team." 
Attendees listened to the speakers while enjoying a "ballpark style" dinner, and received season tickets, auto­graphed photos of the speak­ers and a media guide. 
Il!e Irish will start the sea-· son on Feb. 20, traveling to Tampa, Fla., to play in the first annual Big East-Big Ten Challenge. Notre Dame's home opener will be March 17 against Ball State at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mhryan@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Day, Date, 2005 

Friday, February 6, 2009 
page 23 

The Observer+ TODAY 
CROSSWORD 

\X'lLL SHORTZ  
Across  39 Utter collapse  2 World-weary  
· 1 Problem in  40 Preview crowd  words  
closing?  43 " ... ye shall_  3 Refuse  
16 Just before it's  more vanity":  4 Poet's ending  
too late  Ezekiel 13:23  witb what or how  
i 7 1984 JoBeth  44 Social group  5 They might be  
Williams  member  full of baloney 
comedy/adventu refilm 18 Ouija option 19 Bucket seat feature 20 Seventeen • people, briefly 21 One whose deposits are often collected 22 Hit-making group? 24 Gazelle, at times 27 Beetle's need 30 Grounded 34 One way to kick a bad habit 37 It's a shore thing 38 Alice who wrote  45 Social group 46 Instinctive 48 1980s N.B.A. guard Matthews 49 They look better when they're ripped 52 Like some cookie sheets 56 I have, in Le Havre 59 Pressure points? 62 Who said "A hungry man is not a free man" 63 One who'd like to put you in your place  6 Brief scouting outing? 7 _and Jaron (identical-twins pop duo) 8 Posted 9 Prefix with Germanic 10 Not be picky with an instrument? 11 First film in CinemaScope, 1953 12 Word associated with a light bulb 13 It's on Norton Sound 14 Given a line  
· the short-story collection "Open Secrets"  Down Supporting piece  15 Goes off 21 Whitebait, e.g.  Puzzle by Martin Ashwood­35 George Harrison's "_  Smith 49 Start _ (be extremely  56 Cuban patriot Marti  
-------------• 23 Rodeo trio ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 24 Stone, to Caesar 25 Like a shepherd's charges  Mine" 36 V-shaped carrier 41 Real poser 42 Brewer's product  aggressive) 50 Eliot hero 51 A room with una vista?  57 Like some sources: Abbr. 58 Abba's "Love _Easy"  
26 Really get to  47 They have  53 Formerly  60 Jazz guitarist  
27 City NE of  certain rings to  archaic?  Farlow  
Rotterdam  thern  54 Fictional wirehair  61 Like Mahler's  
28 Ban succeeded  48 Zigzag  55 Decide to leave  Symphony No. 4  
him in 2007  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit · 
29 Supporting piece 
card, 1-800-814-5554. 31 Luxury hotel Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday amenity crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit
32 Big pictures 
nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.
33 _per 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past centimeter 
puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). (surface tension Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. measure) Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
WWW.BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 

DAVID CAVADINI 
THE DOME PIECE 


{)UPI. CA/.M IJOWN. 
PAr. rHIS rHE 

I CAMI PRePARID. 
PUMB6ST" /PIA W •••• 
FRIDAYS WITH FRAN  FRAN TOLAN  
Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) The big fish knows what Jonah tastes like. The Jonas Brothers know what each other taste like.  
Pisces (Feb. 1 <J-March 20) Act one was when we met ... Then came act two, you seemed to change and you acted strange.  
Aries (March 21-Apr. 19) I may be a prevert, he's defi­nitely a postvert, but you're a pervert.  
Taurus (Apr. 20-May 20) Did it go "Poof?"  
Gemini (May 21-June 20) Can ShamWow clean what I really need cleaned? Like the blood of victims off my floor? I didn't think so.  
Cancer (June 21-July 22) I am stoked and amped at the same time to crack my first Milwaukee Special Reserve this weekend. Yuu can join the Reserves, too.  
Leo (July 23-Aug. 22) Keenan Revue rhymes with "Seein' Me Pooh." You're welcome for the free advertise­ment, Keenan. Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) Will Ferrell, I hate you for besmirching the good name of "Land of the Lost."  . ...  
Libra (Sept. 23-:0ct. 22) Never listen to a report from Kenny Brockelstein. Or Jon Leibowitz, for that matter. Scorpio (Oct. 23-Nov. 21) I agree with the letter I've been hearing about. No Spandex shall be sold to fat people from this day forward. Also, no Ho-Hos, Twinkies, or entire sticks of butter they plan on eating whole.  
Sagittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 21) Did anyone notice the preponderance of hard nipples on campus yesterday? Long live the Day of Man! Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19) Who would you rather? Your best friend's grandmother or your best friend? Basically your choices are extremely wrinkled or extreme­ly weird. Text your vote to (201)835-5746.  ...  

HENRI ARNOLD
-JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIPJON --­
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 

©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
NEKIF  
' \. ./  /" '\.  ../  


SAWURL 
• 

v 
) 1\.. ~ 
-www.jumble.com 

DOHOKE  
'/ ' '\. .)  i/ "'\ \,. ./  / ' '\...L  

NoN arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
-

Ans: (III]ro " (IIII)" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: BYLAW HAREM FERRET CAMPER Answer: A good place to find a date ­A PALM TREE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The 0 bserver 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D .Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address _________________________________________ 
City _________ State ____ Zip __________ _ 
'l 
' 
-l 
• 


L 
l r 
Friday, February 6, 2009 page 24 

·, 
'j 
.:_I 
F 
NO BASKETBALL 

~·Irish head west trying to stop six-game streak 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Editor 

I; .·; Hopefully for the Irish, a 
:! '' respite from the cold Midwest weather is just what they need. Because really, as Notre Dame travels west to take on No. 12 UCLA Saturday, it seems like
ill
II, that's the only thing the· team
J'' 
Ill has going for it. 
;n 
The Irish have lost six 
1:!1~.. straight games for the first time since the 1993-94 season and could be all but out of NCAA Tournament contention with a few more losses. And a win will not come easi­ly this weekend as Notre Dame heads into storied Pauley Pavilion to face the Bruins, who are 18-4 overall and 12-1 at home. After winning four of its last five contests, UCLA looks to be headed in the opposite direction 
see UCLNPage 20 
Big East blues 

JESS LEE and IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 
Left, junior guard Tory Jackson puts up a runner In the lane during Notre Dame's loss to Marquette on Jan. 26. Right, junior guard Melissa Lechlltner runs the offense during an Irish loss to Rugters on Jan. 27. 
Team looking to raise money, snap recent skid 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
The pink zone is nothing new to NCAA women's basket­ball, but this Sunday it's a lit­tle bit more significant. 
It's the first time Notre Dame will step on the court to raise money for cancer awareness since the passing of North Carolina State's Kay Yow. The long time coach lost her battle with breast cancer on January 24. 
"She's been an inspiration to everyone," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said of Yow. "Personally or not, she is somebody who has probably affected y.ou in some way. I just think she has been a tremendous role model, she's an admirable person; every­body has tremendous respect for her. As people have said, 
see PINK/Page 20 


HOCKEY 
•

Squad looks to clinch CCHA tourney bye with win 
receive an opening round bye we've got to win some games teams split an emotional the puck quickly and have
By DAN MURPHY 

in th_e playoffs. before we do that. At this home-and-home series with scored 100 goals so far this 
Sports Editor 

With a win this weekend, point, every game is essential, both teams winning on the season with their fast-paced the No. 2 Irish (20-4-3, 14-3-and we can't let down until road. offense. Notre Dame winds down 3-3 CCHA) can clinch one of we achieve our objective." "It was an emotional week­Notre Dame has slowed
l4 
one of the toughest stretches those top four spots. Two The Buckeyes are eight end," senior captain Erik down its offensive production 
~ 
of its season this weekend in wins would give the Irish 38 points behind first-place Condra. said. "We've got to in the past few weeks. The 
~ 
Columbus, Ohio, as the Irish points in the league, putting Notre Dame with eight games keep the tempo up. Just like team hasn't scored more than take on the high-flying them out of reach of all but left on the schedule. Ohio Michigan, these guys are a three goals in a game since Buckeyes. three teams. State needs to pull off a few ~ strong team with a good Dec. 13 against Bowling 
No. 15 Ohio State (17-8-3, "We have to recognize the upsets with No. 4 Michigan offense, so we've been prac­Green. Ohio State put six past 10-7-3-3 CCHA) currently situation where we are for and No. 8. Miami still looming ticing at a high tempo and one of the CCHA's top goal­
.. ~­
sits tied for the all important the playoffs," Irish coach Jeff ahead. almost mirror the game we tenders, Chad Johnson, in a (ourth place spot in the CCHA Jackson said. "We want to The Irish are coming off played at [Michigan's I Yost win over Alaska last standings with 26 points. The claim home ice in the second their own showdown with Arena." top four teams in the league round of the playoffs, and Michigan last weekend. The The Buckeyes like to move see BUCKEYES/Page 20 

MEN'S TENNIS 
ND to host a pair Sunday 
By KATE GRABAREK Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will host a pair of matches Sunday, taking on Duke at noon and Toledo at 6 
p.m. at the Eck Tennis 
p·avilion. I No. 32 Notre Dame is com­
' 
I 
ing off a weekend that saw it
/ 
fall early at the ITA Nationals 
l 
r 
in Oklahoma to No. 12 Tulsa, and then rebound for a 4-0 victory over No. 20 Texas Tech. "We have played pretty well
., 
thus far in our season,"
: 
I coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
1 
"Nobody is happy with a 2-4 record, but we certainly played the strongest six matches of the season nation­ally. Five of our matches 
see BAYLISS/Page 20 

BASEBALL 

Samardzija, Scioscia speak at annual dinner 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 

Just two weeks before the start of the season, appear­ances by former Irish star Jeff Samardzija and Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim manager Mike Sciascia helped build excitement for 
the  coming year  at  Notre  
Dame's  eighth  annual  
Opening  Night  Dinner  
Thursday.  
The  major  leaguers  

addressed a packed crowd in the Joyce Fieldhouse, sharing stories and advice from their playing and coaching careers. Samardzija and Scioscia also addressed the Irish team, ranked No. 27 in the Collegiate Baseball preseason poll. 
"I didn't expect to come back so early," said Samardzija, who graduated in 2006. "A lot of the guys here l played with, but its good to come back and see them now that they're lead­ers of the team." 
Scioscia, who managed the 
. Angels to a World Series title in 2002, is a familiar face in South Bend. His son Matt is a sophomore catcher on the Irish team. "Collegiate baseball in this country is booming, and Notre Dame is right in the 
see DINNER/Page 21 
~-~~ ------~ 





