
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Mayor says community benefits from projects 

City hopes development of northeast neighborhood will yield long and short term economic stimulus in region 
Park -in the hopes that a revi­Commons," Luecke said. "The 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 

talized community around cam­University controlled most of 
News Writer 

pus would improve life for stu­that property, so they were an dents and faculty. important factor." 
Editors note: This is the third However, Executive Vice The University sold the land to and final installment of a three­President John Affleck-Graves Kite Realty, who is developing part series examining the said although the University has the Eddy Street Commons, but development projects occurring invested resources, these proj­the administration still has a say near Notre Dame's campus. ects are not extensions of cam­over the project guidelines. 
pus. Notre Dame has also played a 
Notre Dame's collaboration Luecke said the northeast role in the revitalization of the with South Bend in development neighborhood of South Bend saw neighborhood by developing projects south of campus has a decline in the past decade, decrepit lots with the goal of raised questions about neigh­which inspired the formation of creating quality housing to sell borhood gentrification, but the Northeast Neighborhood to faculty and staff. South Bend Mayor Steve tuecke Revitalization Organization Marguerite Taylor, a lifelong said these projects have greatly {NNRO), a community group that resident of the northeast neigh­benefited the community. is working with the city to borhood, works with the NNRO. 
The University helped jump­improve the neighborhood. She said the one of the main start three projects -the "After several years, we were objectives of the group is to pro­Northeast Neighborhood able to develop a concept for the tect the neighborhood from gen-Revitalization Act, the Eddy neighborhood that included gen­Street Commons and Innovation eral ideas for Eddy Street see PROJECTS/page 11 

Professor explains return of indulgenCES 
By ROBERT SINGER News Writer 
Notre Dame is no stranger to Catholic tradition, but the renewed focus on the age-old practice of indulgences has eluded or confused many on campus. · 
A recent article in The New York Times said dioceses around the world are bringing back the tradition of offering indulgences, which lessen the time one spends in purgatory before entering heaven, according to Church doctrine. 
Theology professor Richard McBrien said was practiced at its peak from the Middle Ages to just before the Second Vatican Council. 
"An indulgence is the par­tial or full remission of spiri­tual penalties, or punish­ments, which still apply to sins that have already been forgiven," he said. 
Even though these sins have been forgiven, they still stand to be punished in tl'lH afterlife and acquiring an indulgence would provide some level of pardon from the conse­quences, according to McBrien. 
"A partial indulgence would remit some of those penalties; a plenary indulgence would remit all of those penalties ­at least until the person on earth committed another sin before death," he said. "Then 
see PROFESSOR/page 10 


Juniors welcome parents for JPW 
By EMMA DRISCOLL News Writer 
The annual Junior Parents Weekend {JPW) kicks ofl" today as parents flock to campus to experi­ence a slice of Notre Dame life. 
About 4,000 people are expected to participate in JPW this weekend, 1,200 of which are students, according to Erin Hendricks, JPW 2009 chairperson. 
The first event for juniors and parents is the opening gala taking place at 9 p.m. tonight, JPW 2009 chairperson Erin Hendricks said. The gala will be held in the Joyce Center and will offer hors d'oeu­vres, dancing, a cash bar and pho­
see JPWIpage 1 0 


Andy Steve-s creates travel site 

Son ofguidebook writer hopes to inform stud?nts studying abroad 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
Rick Steves has earned the following of Europe-bound budget travelers with his series of guidebooks, audio guides and television shows. His son, Andy, hopes to capture another market -the college student studying abroad and traveling in Europe. 
Andy Steves, a senior at Notre Dame. launched the Web site www.andysteves.com last fall. The site showcases pic­tures and blog posts from Steves' travels. as well as trav­el tips from Steves. who has been to Europe 23 times. 
Visitors to the site can down-
see STEVES/ page 10 
Photo courtesy of Andy Steves 
Pictured left to right: Andy Steves, Joe Piarulll, Conor Douglass and Pat Carey ski In Switzerland last year. 
Observer chooses top editors 
Observer Staff Repon 
Bill Brink, Aaron Steiner and Kara King have been chosen to help oversee The Observer's editorial operations in 2009-10, incoming Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz announced Thursday. 
Brink will assume the posi­tion of managing editor, the No. 2 spot at the paper, while Steiner and King will serve as assistant managing editors. 
A junior majoring in history with a minor in journalism, ethics and democracy, Brink will assist Metz in managing all departments of The Observer. 
Brink, a native of Edgewater, Md., lives in Fisher Hall and currently serves as co-sports editor. He covered football, women's basketball, track and field, women's soccer, Saint Mary's basketball, swimming and golf and previously served as Interhall football editor. 
Brink held the position of News Editor for part of the Spring Semester in 2008 and said he is looking forward to assuming his new role. 
"Working here has alluwed me to do some pretty cool things and meet some great people, and to have a chance to help lead the paper is some­thing I'm proud of," he said. 
Steiner. also a resident t-rf Fisher Hall, is a junior major­ing in management and German. A native of West Bend, Wis., Steiner currently serves as an assistant news editor. 
He has covered a variety of topics since joining The 
see EDITORS/page 6 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Support the Stache 
You may have noticed recently an influx of facial hair among some of your more outstanding classmates. 
And by outstanding, I mean the wonderful men of Dillon Hall, because next weekend marks the one of a kind Stache Bash. 
For those of you who don't know, the Stache Bash serves two purpos­es, the first of which is to show off the diverse and plentiful types of facial hair. So for those ladies lucky enough to be 
Jay Fitzpatrick
invited to this dance to end all dances, I present Managing the Moustaches of Editor the World. 
+ 
The Walrus (goo-goo-ga-joob): Most well-known as .the stache of Josef Stalin choice of former Notre Dame offensive line coach John Latina, the Walrus is most distin­guishable by it's sheer, unabashed bushiness. Providing a thick layer of fur to the upper lip, this stache demonstrates pure strength. 

+ 
The Fu Man Chu: This stache is most popular in the Far East, and is commonly seen on modern depic­tions of the Chinese philosopher Confucius. It takes great skill and concentration (not to mention amaz­ing connectors) to pull off this look, as the purest state of this stache hangs a good inch ofT of your face. 

+ 
The Classic Handlebar: An American variation of the Fu Manchu, this stache is best worn on bikers and Hulk Hogan. Promising onlookers doom for messing with the wearer of this stache, the Handlebar announces its presence with authori­ty at even the slightest glance. 


+The Chester Alan Arthur: Named for the 21st President, the CAA com­bines two great facial hair tradi­tions, the Walrus and the Mutton Chop. With seamless chin-connec­tions between the sideburn and the upper lip, this should only be attempted by the most brazen of men. 
+ The Common Crustache: Likely the most common type of facial hair on campus, this is the stache of choice for those who forgot to stop shaving weeks ago or freshmen who can't grow moustaches yet (Maybe one day, Tony}. Either way it's the thought that counts, and there's no such thing as a bad stache. 
But the second -and most impor­tant -purpose of the Stache Bash is to support the Center for the Homeless here in South Bend. The incredibly cold winter has sapped the operating budget of the Cent_er, and in fact it is over $45,000 over budget for this year. 
Each man of Dillon has a pledge sheet for their moustache, and we are asking for donations to support the Center. Dillon has already col­lected $900 on our own and we are asking for your help. 
Donations can be either in a lump sum or a certain amount per day (like a fun run, but more fun because it is with facial hair). 
And if you don't give, in the fight against homelessness, you are on the side of homelessness. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are tho$e of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
.ifitzpaS@nd. edu. 
CORR~CTIONS 
An article titled "NO contributes to development off campus" in the Feb. 18 edition ofThe Observer incorrectly stated that the University develops houses to rent to faculty and staff. The developed houses are actually sold to faculty. The Observer regrets this error. 


Friday, February 20, 2009 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
. 

Tickets vie for student class council positions 
Several tickets ofcandidates for sophomore, junior and senior class councils ca1npaign as elections approach Monday 
The Judicial Council approved eight tickets to run for sophomore, junior and senior class council. 
Three tickets are competing for both sophomore class council and senior class council while two tickets are campaigning to lead the junior class. 
( 

The Observer interviewed all eight tickets to hear about their campaign and platform ideas. Students will vote Monday online. 
Pulte, Kimberly compete for top spots in Class of 2011 

By MADELINE BUCKLEY and LIZ O'DONNELL News Writers 
Putte-ShineStayoi&Castellini 
Junior class council presidential candidate Caitlin Pulte said her ticket presents feasible and well­researched platform ideas that will benefit the junior class. 
Pulte is running with Henry Shine, candidate for vice president, Luke Stavole, for secretary and Tim Castellini, for treasurer. 
The ticket promises a CEO lec­ture series, a class trip to see a Cubs game, a poker tournament at Legends, a class rosary and a weekly raffie, Pulte said. 
"Our platform is completely fea­sible," she said. "We have talked to all the sources we need to make sure all the ideas are possible." 
Pulte said the CEO lecture series will have the biggest impact on stu­dents. 
"A., we become juniors, we will be looking tor jobs," she said. "Not everyone's sure what they want to do, so different CEOs talking about difl'erent professions will really help us figure out what to do with our lives." 
Pulte said the ticket's biggest strength is experience and dedica­tion. She added that she will give up studying abroad next year to lead the cla'i..'i. 
Currently, Pulte is the sophomore class social chair. Shine is a Student International Business Council (SIBC) consultant, and 
Stavole and Castellini are members 
of the Sophomore Oass Council. 
Kimberly-Doyle-Fernandez­
Roseberry 

Junior class council presidential candidate Kevin Kimberly said he and his running mates decided to run to make class council more interactive. 
Their campajgn is focused around four large initiatives, including a Community Service Database -which would allow service to be done in South Bend on a regular basi., -and a Study Abroad Transition Program. 
The transition program would offer a series of send-otis and re­orientations to help student., accli­mate to their surroundings abroad. 
Other ideas include a class retreat and a clas..s bracket to pre­dict March Madness winners in the NCAA basketball tournament. 
Kimberly said the team also hopes to start Cla'is Masses at the Grotto as well as "The Environmental Initiative" which would provide for the Class of 2011 to become more involved with campus efforts to go green. 
"We are very excited to have this opportunity to run to make next · year's class council truly one that serves our class and not our­selves," Kimberly said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu and Liz O'DonneU at eodonneOl@nd.edu 

Three tickets look to lead sophomore class 
By SARAH MERVOSH and LIZ O'DONNELL News Writers 
Soler-Kenney-German-Crotty 

Jay Kenney, vice presidential 
candidate for sophomore class 
council (SCC), said the ticket, 
comprised of four members of 
the current freshman class 
council, is running on the plat­
form of "experience and inno­
vation." 

"For us, the big one is experi­
ence and knowing how the 
process works and knowing 
who to go to so we can hit the 
ground running." Kenney said. 
"Yet at the same time, I think 
we bring a new and exciting 
energy to sec.~ 

Presidential candidate 
Catherine Soler said she wants 
to plan events like class trips to 
a water park trip or Cedar 
Point, a class tailgate and a 
poker tournament. 

Other ideas include using the class Web site to form studying groups and class yoga and pilate sessions to help ease stu­dents' stress. 
The ticket also plans to have town-hall style meetings once or twice a month in which stu­dents can give feedback on what is and isn't working, Soler said. 
Responding to criticism that the current freshman class council is an exclusive clique, Soler said it is a "misconcep­tion" and that her ticket wants 
to ··connect with a wider range ofpeople than this year." 

"We're genuine and we really have a passion for what we do. We m~joy being in class council sec because of our experience," said his ticket wants to bring and we understand the commit­he said. "It took us awhile to get strengthened "community, unity ment. For us, this is by no the system down but we have it and communication" to the means an exclusive club, and down. We know where we want Class of 2012. we would like all levels of to go and what needs to be In order to improve communi­involvement from SCC," Soler done. And I think that is a defi­cation with the class, they will said. nite edge over the other strive for "openness of govern­
Kenney said the experience groups." ment," Kelly said. the ticket would help bring This will include meetings leadership. Kelly-Vargas-Schmidt-Kelliher that are open to the entire class, 
"I think hands down that we Sophomore class council pres­are the most qualified ticket for idential candidate C.J. Kelly see 2012/page 8 

Seniors have choice of three calllpaigns 
By SARAH MERVOSH and LIZ O'DONNELL-News Writers 
Harmon-Kinsey-Bell-Hamill 
Christina Harmon, senior class presidential candidate, said her ticket has an innova­tive and unique platform. 
"We believe our platform differentiates us from our competition from being the first ticket to think of a Senior Class Ball to the Class of 2010 Bar Crawl to the necessitv of increased com­munication and accessibility of class officers," she said. 
The Senior Ball, one of the campaign's top initiatives, would take place in Chicago. Other activities included in their platform are a revamped senior day at a home football game, office hours for the president in the class office, a Speakers' Forum Series and a revival of the 2010 website. 
"It is our hope that people are excited about what we intend to plan if elected," said Harmon. 
In addition to these plat­
forms, the team said it will also try to have a class of 2010 market place at the end of the school year for stu­dents to sell excess furniture and goods that they have bought to furnish their dorms and apartments. 
Harmon said the team is ready to assume the respon­sibility for serving a sixth term after graduation in order to plan the fifth year reunion and other activities. 
"We know our basic obliga­tions as class officers and we want to go above and beyond to give our class the best and most memorable senior year," Harmon said. 
TIllett-Hwang-Molloy­Trousdale 
The 2010 ticket of Chris Tillett, Joy Hwang, Elli Trousdale, and Matt Molloy has broken their campaign platforms down into three phases: tradition, transition, and innovation. 
"What this translates to is that we want to accomplish the t h in g_~ t h at the s e n i o r class has always done." said Tillett, the ticket's presiden­
tial candidate. "We want to put our own spin on next year as well." 
The campaign plans to con­tinue the annual senior year activities includiqg Senior Week, Margaritaville, and 

C I a s s  
Mass. In the transi­ See photos of senior class  
t i o n phase, t h e  candidates on page4  
t  e  a  m  

wants to focus on preparing the class of 2010 to enter the real world. They will provide instruction on taking care of everyday issues such as filing taxes, taking out loans, keep­ing track of personal finances and learning to cook. 

The final section of the campaign, the innovative phase, "revolves around the distinct opportunities that we hope to provide to make our senior year particularly memorably," Tillett said. 
These activities include a "One Hundred Days Dinner", Barbeque Tailgate Cook-off, 
see SENIORS/page 4 

Friday, February 20, 2009 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Event celebrates 
•

French ctnema 
"Persepolis" is an animated 
By MEGAN LONEY 

film about a young Iranian 
News Wricer 

girl whose parents send her to 
school in Vienna to ensure her 
Saint Mary's returns to its safety. French roots with the annual Even though Saint Mary's is French Film Festival taking hosting the event, the festival place this week in the Vander is free and open to the public. Vennet Theatre in the Student "The Film Festival is some-Center. thing special that Saint Mary's 
A grant through the has been able to offer its own Tournees Program of the community and the Michiana French American Cultural community," Derakhshani Exchange, part of the French said. "It offers an additional Cultural Services, enabled the resource to students of French College to show five films dur-in the area -from Saint ing the week, one each Mary's and other colleges, evening, Monday through universities and secondary Friday at 7 p.m. schools in the area -to hear 
Senior French major Katie authentic language and be Lescanic and Associate exposed to the cinematic art Professor· of Modern as well as the cultural con­Languages Mana Derakhshani texts of the language they are chose the five films that will studying." be shown from a catalog sent ' Derakhshani said she is by a granting agency. expecting a good turnout, as Derakhshani said there was long as the-weather allows for no particular theme that they easy travel. In the past, the tried to follow when selecting Festival has had a strong the films. turnout with about 50 people 
"These [movies] had present each night, she said. received the most acclaim and "In the past years, atten­were the ones we wanted to dance depended somewhat on see," Derakhshani said. "All the weather," Derakhshani are very recent, from the last said. "We often had very cold three years." temperatu_res or ice and snow, 
The films cover a variety of which made it harder for pea­topics. "La Faute a Fidel ple to come out." (Blame it on Fidel)" is the Derakhshani said the story of a nine-year old girl Festival is important because trying to make sense of key she believes being exposed to p.olitical events happening other cultures through events around her. "Moliere" is a his-such as this foreign film festi­torical fiction film about a val is vital. young actor who is released "Foreign films are just one from prison in exchange for more way in which we can get acting lessons. to learn something about 
In "Ne le dis a personne other cultures," Derakhshani (Tell No One)." a man tries to said. "They provide an oppor­prove his innocence in his tunity to become more aware wife's murder. "L'origine de Ia of the world outside the bor­tendresse and Other Tales" is ders of our nation." a compilation of six short films that represent the diver­Contact Megan Loney at sity of the French people. mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
.. Off-Campus Housing 
Dublin Village, Irish Crossings,Wexford Place,Ivy Quad 
Now taking applications for 2009 • '10 
www.CESPM.info ...~~~..-~-~:--­
S 
Prnp~rty
PropertyMgr@CESPM.info c. . . Manag~rncnt
Call574-968-0112 

Starting at $600 per Student · · · · Hl.:OJh)' ,.................. ~~~~~-~-~"'· '-••••y ..........<»-. 

l\-1eat Entrees C.Y l-lealthy Vegetatian Dishes 
C574Y 27i:7239 

Seniors 
continued from page 3 
Networking Conference and 
Senior Showcase Benefit. 
"When all this comes together, our overall goal is to be able to help send the senior class off into the world, but we want to put finishing touches on the knot that binds us all to Notre Dame as well," Tillett said. 
Kyrouac-Lakusta-Schank­Donahue 
Senior cJass council presi­dential candidate Kim Kyrouac said she and. her running mates will try to help the Class of 2010 take full advantag~ of all Notre Dame has to offer as well as make their final year on r:ampus memorable. 
"We feel that our ticket has pulled together a number of fun and realistic ideas that include both new and signa­ture senior events," Kyrouac said. " 
This team's platform includes continuing the sen­ior traditions of Margaritaville and Senior Week. For new ideas, the campaign includes wine tast­ing and a beer garden, as well as a Christmas press box dinner and commencement· ball. 
Kyrouac also highlighted the senior transition semi­nars that would take place to help students with economic issues. 
The ticket also plans to hold a senior superlatives lecture, which would involve a gathering of seniors to Jis­ten to memorable stories, advice and lessons given by classmates. 
"Senior superlative lectures would take place in Washington Hall during the 

spring semester," Kyrouac said. Five seniors would speak at each event. 
Overall, the team is excited to have the possibility to con­tinue serving their class. 
"The four of us feel that as Notre Dame students we are blessed with a number of opportunities and resources that are unique and excit­ing," Kyrouac said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@ndedu and Liz O'Donnell at eodonneOl @ndedu 



Friday, February 20, 2009 
CoMPILED FROM. TH.E OBSERVER's WI.RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bishop ordered out of Argentina 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina -The tradi­
tionalist bishop whose denials of the 
Holocaust embarrassed the Vatican was 
ordered Thursday to leave Argentina with­
in 10 days. 
The Interior Ministry said it had ordered Richard Williamson out of Argentina because he'had failed to declare his true job as director of a seminary on immigra­tion forms and because his comments on the Holocaust "profoundly insult Argentine society, the Jewish community and all of humanity by denying a historic truth." 
Williamson's views created an uproar last month when Pope Benedict XVI lifted his excommunication and that of three other bishops consecrated by the late Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre as part of a process meant to heal a rift with ultracon­servatives. 
* 

Uvonian ahnost an extinct language 
PARIS -Only one native speaker of Livonian remains on Earth, in Latvia. The Alaskan language Eyak went extinct last year when its last surviving speaker passed away. 
Those are just two of the nearly 2,500 languages that UNESCO, the United Nations. E d u c ati o n a I, Scien t i fi c .an d Cultural Organization, says are in danger of becoming extinct or have recently dis­appeared. That's out of a total of 6,000 world languages. 
In a presentation Thursday of a new world atlas of endangered languages, lin­guists stressed the list is not restricted to small or far-flung countries. They also sought to encourage immigrants to treas­ure their native languages. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Terrorist released, will be deported 
NEW YORK -A Black September terror­ist who served only about half his 30-year sentence for planting three car bombs in New York City in 197 3 was released Thursday into the custody of immigration officials to be deported. 
Khalid Al-Jawary, 63, was released from the Supermax maximum-security prison in Florence, Colo., said Carl Rusnok, a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman. Rusnok said a federal immi­gration judge had signed a de-portation order for Al-Jawary. 
Al-Jawary's release date was set for Thursday after he was credited with time served before his sentencing and good behavior. 
V:rrgina passes partial smoking ban 
RICHMOND, Va. -Lawmakers in tobac­co-friendly Virginia passed a limited ban on smoking in bars and restaurants Thursday. 
The measure restricts smoking to sepa­rately ventilated rooms in restaurants and private clubs in Virginia, which has grown tobacco for 400 years. 
The decisive 60-39 vote was in the House of Delegates, dominated by Republicans who have battled tobacco restrictions for years. The Senate earlier voted 27-13 for the bill, which now heads to Gov. Timothy 
M. Kaine, who said he would sign it. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Man pays property tax in change 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -A South Bend man has paid a $4,079 property tax bill in coins to protest different assessments for his home and for a rental property he owns across the street. 
Richard Ross and his son-in-law lugged two carts with 11 sacks of change into the St. Joseph County treasurer's office Tuesday. He said the money was the property tax for the rental home. 
"Same size house, same value, but because it's a rental home and I don't live in it, I don't have the benefit of any of the exemptions or credits," Ross said. 

Nine-year-old accepts plea bargain 
Boy accused ofshooting two men in October pleads grtilty to one count ofnegligent homicide 
Associated Press 
ST. JOHNS, Ariz. -A 9­
year-old boy accused of 
methodically shooting his 
father and his father's 
roommate to death last 
fall pleaded guilty 
Thursday to one count of 
negligent homicide, set­
tling the case that shocked 
and mystified the nation. 
Under a plea agreement, he pleaded guilty in the death of the roommate and charges of premedi­tated murder for both deaths were dropped. Police said the boy used a .22-caliber rifle to shoot the men as they returned home from work Nov. 5. 
The boy's plea spares the rural community of about 4,000 from what would have been an emo­tional trial and prevents the boy from serving time in the state juvenile cor­rections system or being tried as an adult. 
He was polite in court and was never asked about to explain any motive for the killings. 
The boy has not yet been sentenced. He could be sent to the county juvenile system, which would keep him close to his relatives. 
Apache County Attorney Michael Whiting wants the Police in St. Johns found Friends in the close-knit and relaxed than in previ­boy to undergo extensive Rf\mero and Romans shot community said Romero, ous hearings, laughing mental evaluations and to death after the boy ran who had full custody of his and chatting with his treatment,. an option to a neighbor's house. He son, was a caring father lawyer and mother. allowed by the plea agree­was questioned after who seemed to be doing But his demeanor ment. Romans' wife raised suspi­all he could to raise a because more serious as 
"It's a compromise -no cions about him, and in a polite and respectful boy. the hearing got under way. one is really pleased," videotape released by Authorities said they had Roca questioned him for defense attorney Benjamin prosecutors, he admitted no record of any com­nearly half an hour, about Brewer said after the pulling the trigger. plaints filed about the boy whether he understood his hearing. Police reports say the with Arizona Child rights, the terms of the 
The boy's mother cried boy told a state Child Protective Services and plea agreement and the throughout the hearing Protective Services worker that the youngster had no consequences. and, through her lawyer, that his 1,000th spanking disciplinary record at The boy answered objected to the plea deal. would be his last. school. respectfully and politely, But Superior Court Judge Prosecutors and defense Talk of a plea deal using "yes, sir" or "no, Michael Roca accepted it. attorneys struggled with emerged less than a sir" in most cases. 
The boy was 8 when he what to do with a child month after the shootings, As Roca wrapped up the was accused of shooting who was charged with but Brewer said at the questioning, he asked the his 29-year-old father, murder while he was so time that he was unsure of boy "this is what you want Vincent Romero, and 39-young. No child 8 years his client's ability to to do?" The boy responded 
year-old Timothy Romans, old or younger committed understand the proceed­"yes, sir." a co-worker who also homicide in the United ings. The boy is due back in rented a room from States during 2005-2007,· In court Thursday,_ .the court for a pre-sentencing Romero. according to FBI statistics. boy was more talkative hearing on March 5. 

IRAQ 

Journalist did not apologize at trial 
Associated Press to due to the U.S. occupation and the and wore it proudly during his 30­
murder of innocent people," al-Zeidi minute testimony to the three-judge 
BAGHDAD -The Iraqi journalist told the court. "I wanted to restore panel. who threw his shoes at George W. the pride of the Iraqis in any way pos­Many people in the region -angry Bush did not apologize as his trial sible, apart from using weapons." over the 2003 U.S.-led invasion of began Thursday, and instead struck a He also said he had been tortured Iraq -have embraced al-Zeidi. They 
defiant tone -teJling the judges he with beatings and electric shocks have staged large street rallies calling wanted to hit back at the humiliation during his interrogation -allega­for his release, and one Iraqi man Iraq had suffered at U.S. hands. tions the Iraqi government has erected a sofa-sized sculpture of a 
It was Muntadhar al-Zeidi's first denied. The trial was later adjourned shoe in his honor that the Iraqi gov­public appearance si nee he was until March 12. ernment later ordered removed. arrested in mid-December for hurling Dozens of cheering and ululating When al-Zeidi threw his shoes at 
shoes at Bush during a joint news supporters greeted al-Zeidi as he Bush, he shouted in Arabic: "This is conference with Iraqi Prime Minister arrived at the courthouse in western your farewell kiss, you dog! This is Nouri al-Maliki. The act turned the Baghdad in an Iraqi army Humvee. from the widows, the orphans and obscure 30-year-old reporter into a As the jo-urnalist walked into the those who were killed in Iraq." cult hero throughout much of the courtroom, his aunt handed him a The shoes did not hit Bush. who Middle East. scarf impripted with a red, black and ducked, and al-Zeidi was quickly "What made me do it was the green Iraqi flag, which he kissed. He wrestled to the ground by guards and humiliation Iraq has been subjected wrapped the scarf around his neck dragged away. 
Friday, February 20, 2008 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Editors 

continued from page 1 
Observer his freshman year, including sustainability issues, student government and other campus news. 
"We're fortunate to have a talented staff at The Observer and I'm confident our team will produce an outstanding news­paper in the year ahead," Steiner said. 
King, the current viewpoint editor, is a junior majoring in accounting and economics. She is most recently from Thorpe, Surrey, UK, and served as view­point copy editor from 2006-08. 
"I look forward to becoming more involved with the paper in the upcoming year," she said. 



Burrisloses support ofblack ministers 
Ill. junior senator face~ requests for resignation after accusations of questionable finances 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -A group of black ministers who support­ed U.S. Sen. Roland Burris as he fought to get his job now plan to ask for his resigna­tion following revelations that he tried to raise money for the disgraced governor who appointed him, one of the ministers told The 
--Associated Press on Thursday. Many of the city's influen­tial black pastors supported Burris because of his scan­dal-free reputation -even though he was appointed by then-Gov. Rod Blagojevich three weeks after the gover­nor was arrested for alleged­ly trying to sell the Senate seat. 
Now some of those pastors will ask Burris to resign, according to the minister, who spoke on condition of anonymity because a meeting with Burris had not yet been scheduled. 
Clergy Speaks Interdenominational, an umbrella group that includes hundreds of Chic_ago's black churches, will meet Friday to discuss its support for Burris, spokeswoman Stephanie Gadlin said. For now, the group still supports_ him and its. leaders are unaware of discussions about asking him to resign, she said. 
Burris spokesman Jim 
O'Connor would not say whether the senator would meet with ministers and referred to a statement from Burris asking that leaders "stop the rush to judgment." 
Burris testified before the Illinois House committee that recommended Blagojevich's impeachment in January that he hadn't had contact with key Blagojevich staffers or offered anything in return for the Senate seat vacated by President Barack Obama. 
Last weekend, however, Burris released an affidavit saying he had spoken to sev­eral Blagojevich advisers, including Robert Blagojevich, the former governor's broth­er and finance chairman, who Burris said called three times last fall asking for fundraising help. Burris, a former state attorney gener­al, changed his story again this week when he admitted trying, unsuccessfully, to raise money for Blagojevich. 
Illinois lawmakers have asked local prosecutors to look into perjury charges, and a preliminary U.S. Senate Ethics Committee inquiry is under way. Burris denies lying under oath and has resisted a growing cho­rus of calls for his resigna­tion, including from within his own party. 
Burris is, like Obama was, the only black U.S. senator. 
Current sentiment in the 
-black community is not unan­
imous, but the clergy's 
silence as the maelstrom of 
criticism swells around 
Burris "speaks volumes," 
said another minister, Ira 
Acree, of the Greater St. 
John Bible Church. 
''I'm a little disturbed, but 
because of his track record, 
don't want to rush to judg­
ment," Acree said Thursday. 
"But neither will I attempt to 
defend his actions." 
Blagojevich publicly turned 
to black ministers in times of 
trouble, welcoming a group 
that included Acree to his 
home for private prayer 
shortly after his Dec. 9 arrest 
on federal corruption 
charges. 
Even before the U.S. Senate 
appointment became 
embroiled in controversy, 
Burris trumpeted clergy sup­
port, telling the AP on Nov. 5 
that a half-dozen black min­
isters from Chicago had 
approached him to see if he 
was interested in the job. 
After Blagojevich named 
him to the -seat, Burris 
appeared at a New Covenant 
Church service, where sup­
porters including U.S. Rep. 
Bobby Rush and about 60 
ministers condemned Senate 
Democratic leaders for ini­
tially rejecting Burris. , Burris' latest revelations 
are "making the black com­
munity just as suspicious of 
him as anyone else," said the Rev. Leonard Barr of Fellowship Missionary Baptist Church. 
But Burris deserves a chance to defend himself and should not step down, he said. 
"I think he can do the job," Barr sa'id. "He would be a good senator and a conscien­tious senator." 
People who have supported Burris are torn between feel­ings of anger and betrayal and a desire to keep the only black senator in the country, said Laura S. Washington, a politics professor at DePaul University and columnist for the Chicago Sun-Times. 
"They're disappointed, embarrassed and worried that the seat will be in jeop­ardy," Washington said. 
Edward Bogan, a 58-year­old printer from Chicago, said he doesn't buy Burris' explanation for not telling the House impeachment com­mittee about all his contacts with the Blagojevich adminis­tration. 
"If your memory is that bad, why do we need you in there?" ·said Bogan, who is black. " ... If you're only going to remember the part that benefits you, what good are you?" 
But Chicago resident and real estate counselor Danyelle Hall, 37, says plenty of African-Americans still support Burris. 

Dat:e: Friday February 2 7 Time: 9 pm -12 Where: Hagger Parlour 

Saint: M:arys College 

Friday, February 20, 2009 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,465.95 -89.68 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 


FTSE 100 (London) 4,018.37 +11.54 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF Af.1ERICA (BAC) -14.00 ~0.64 3.93 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -1.07 -0.85 78.18 CITIGROUP INC (C) ·13.75 ~0.40 2.51 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -5.27 ·0.42 7.55 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +4.73 +0.129 2.86 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.00 0.30 30~YEAR BOND +4.62 +0.163 3.69 S~YEAR NOTE +5.50 +0.098 1.88 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +4.86 39.48 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.70 976.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) ~0.90 79.45 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 94.1800 EURO 1.2620 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2588 BRITISH POUND 1.4225 
IN BRIEF 
FBI tracks down wanted financier 
WASHINGTON -Texas financier R. Allen Stanford was tracked down Thursday in Virginia, where FBI agents served him with legal papers in a multibillion-dollar fraud case. 
FBI agents, acting at the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission. served Stanford court orders and other documenl'i, the FBI and the SEC said. 
Stanford is not under arrest and is not in cus­
tody. 
In a civil complaint Tuesday, the SEC accused Stanford, two other executives and three of his companies with committing an $8 billion fraud that lured investors with promises of improbable and unsubstantiated high returns on certificates of deposit and other investments. It's not clear how much of the $8 billion was lost and how much investors might recover. · 
Lawsuit seeks identities of tax cheats 
WASHINGTON -A government lawsuit Thursday seeks the identities of tens of thousands of possible U.S. tax cheats who hid billions of dollars in assets at the Swiss­based bank UBS AG. A defiant Swiss presi­dent pledged to maintain his country's bank secrecy laws. 
In the suit filed in Miami, the Obama 
administration wants UBS to turn over 
information on as many as 52,000 U.S. cus­
tomers who concealed their accounts from 
the U.S. government in violation of tax 
laws. 
"At a time when millions of Americans are 
losing their jobs, their homes, and their 
health care, it is appalling that more than 
50,000 of the wealthiest among us have 
actively sought to evade their civil and legal 
duty to pay taxes," the acting assistant 
attorney general, John DiCicco, said in a 
statement. 
A deal announced Wednesday provides 
access to about 250 to 300 UBS customers 
who used Swiss bank secrecy laws to hide 
assets. 
To avoid prosecution, UBS agreed to pay 
$780 million, which Justice Department 
officials said was the largest ever in a crim­
inal tax case. 
Banks charge extra in times of trouble 
Withdrawals, overdrafts, phone call fees add up for those hit by recession 
Associated Press 
First, Arthur Santa-Maria called Bank of America to ask how to check the bal­ance of his new unemploy­ment benefits debit carcl. The bank charged him 50 cents. 
He chose not to complain. That would have cost anoth­er 50 cents. 
So he took out some of the money and then decided to pull out the rest. But that made two withdrawals on the same day, and that was $1.50. 
For hundreds of thou­sands of workers losing their jobs during the reces­sion, there's a new twist to their financial pain: Even when they're collecting unemployment beneFits, they're paying the bank just to get the money -or even to call customer service to complain about it. 
Thirty states have struck such deals with banks that include Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp., JP Morgan Chase and US Bancorp, an Associated Press review of the agree­ments found. All the pro~ grams carry fees, and in several states the unem­ployed have no choice but to use the debit cards. Some banks even charge overdraft fees of up to $20 -even though they could decline charges for more than 
what's on the card. Some banks, depending Neither banks nor credit an out-of-network ATM. at a "They're trying to use my on the agreement negotiated card companies will say how fee of $1.75, the bank would much money they are mak­collect nearly $500,000. If
money to make money," said with each state, also make money on the interest they ing off the programs, or half of the cardholders also
Santa-Maria, a laid-off engi­neer who lives just outside earn after the state deposit-; what proportion of the rev­call customer service three 
the money and before it's enue comes from user ver~ times in any given week, the 
Albuquerque, N.M. "I just see banks trying to make spent. The banks and credit sus merchant fees or inter­bank's revenue would jump that 50 cents or a buck and card companies also get est. It's difficult to estimate to more than $521,000. a half when I should be roughly 1 percent to 3 per~ the profits because they That would yield $6.3 mil­given the service for free." cent off the top of each depend on how often recipi­lion a year. 
The banks say their pro­transaction made with the ents use their cards and Rachel Storch, a 
where they use them. Democratic state represen­
grams offer convenience. cards. They also provide at least "It's a racket. It's a scam," But the potential is clear. tative, received a wave of 
complaints about the fees
one way to tap the money at said Rachel Davis, a 38-In Missouri. for instance, no charge, such as using a year-old dental technician 94,883 people claimed from autoworkers laid off 
from a suburban St. Louissingle free withdrawal to get from St. Louis who was laid unemployment benefits through debit cards from Chrysler plant. She recently
all the cash at once from a off in October. Davis was bank teller. But the banks given a MasterCard issued Central 8ank. Analysts say a urged Gov. Jay Nixon to recipient uses a card an review the state's contract
benefit from human nature, through Central Bank of as people end up treating Jefferson City and recently average of six to 10 times a with Central Bank with an eye toward reducing the
the cards like all the other paid $6 to make two $40 month. If each cardholder plastic in their wallets. withdrawals. makes three withdrawals at fees. 

•

Layoffs hit all time high 1n Feb. 
6.54 million with the inclusion of also is the longest stretch in more 
Associated Press 
an additional 1.5 million people than 26 years. WASHINGTON -February is who are getting extended benefits "The labor market is in disar~ ray," said Mark Zandi, chief econo­
shaping up to be another brutal under a program passed by 
mist at Moody's Economy.com. "Wemonth of job losses: The number Congress last summer. 
are seeing job losses across nearly
of laid~off workers receiving And those numbers are sure to unemployment benefits hit an all­climb higher, based on the flood of every industry and every region of time high of nearly 5 million, and newly laid-off workers seeking the country." 
Based on current trends, net job
new jobless claims are at levels benefits. 
losses for February could well top
not seen since the early 1980s. The government reported 
The Labor Department reported Thursday that new jobless claims 700,000, Zandi said. That would Thursday that the number of peo­for last week totaled 627,000, the surpass the 598,.000 jobs lost in ple receiving regular unemploy­same level as the previous week January. which had been the 
ment benefits rose by 170,000 to but higher than economists biggest total since 1974. 
Worries about the economy
4. 99 million for the week ending expected. It also was near the recent high of 631,000 hit three dragged the Dow .Jones industrial
Feb. 7, marking the fourth straight 
weeks ago, which was the most average down nearly 90 points
week continuing claims have hit a new weekly claims since 1982 Thursday to close at 7,465.95, its
record. The surge in joblessness has when the country was in another lowest level in more than six severe recession. The three years. The Standard & Poor's 500
pushed those claims far above the 
2.77 million people getting bene­straight weeks of seasonally index and the technology-heavy fits a year ago. The number totals adjusted claims above 600,000 Nasdaq eomposite index also fell. 
r­
~ Friday, February 20, 2009 
~ page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
2012

~ ~ 
• ~ continued from page 3 
,• 
,~ 
~ comparison to dorm unity. "We're all the class of 2012. 
! ~ 
We are all going to graduate together. We are all going out into the world together. We want to get close now," Kelliher said. 

t Kelly said the ticket will 
. • achieve this unity through events 
. ' • like poker games, dodge ball and MarioKart tournaments. He said in order to make sure people are able to attend events, they plan to create a class Web site in addition to a tab on lnsideND to display upcoming sec events. Vice presidential candidate Courtney Vargas said the team thinks their individual involve­ment in different activities, like liturgical choir and mock trial, gives them a broad range of per­spectives from which they can understand the sophomore class. "We'll work really hard to make this class the best class that Notre Dame has ever seen," Vargas said. "That is our prom­ise." 
Ruhling-Mathes-Phillip-Brophy 
Class of 2012 presidential can­didate Lauren Ruhling said her ticket was motivated to run because she said the current Freshman Class Council (FCC) acts too much like a clique. 
"We feel kind of a disconnect between students and the Class Council ... I couldn't name all four of our class officers right now. So we really just want to change that and make us more accessible to students," Ruhling said. 

Laura PhiJlip, candidate for secretary, said the ticket plans to create a class Web site with a calendar of events and a sugges­tion box. She also said they plan to have a day where the entire sophomore class participates in a community service project. 
Other ideas include a Halo tournament and a bake-off in which the girls bake and the guys taste. 
Vice presidential candidate Jay Mathes said they also want to hold a concert that would be similar to The Show, hosted by tbe Student Union Board every fall. He said the concert would occur in the spring and would be performed by a well-known band. 
Ruhling said the ticket is run­ning in order to make a change, not so they can have the title on their resume. 
Phillip agreed, and said they came together because "FCC is a huge click and ... we wanted to make a change." 
Mathes emphasized that, if elected, the team would be visi­ble and accessible. 
"We're not just going to sit in some student council office room by ourselves. We're here to help people," he said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu and Liz O'Donnell at eodonneOl @nd.edu 
Mexico: Exodus of migrants decreases 

Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY -Migration from Mexico, mainly to the United States, has fallen dra­matically as fewer Mexicans leave their country to look for work abroad amid a global economic downturn, the gov­ernment said Thursday. 
The net outflow of Mexicans -both legal and illegal ­declined by over 50 percent in the 12 months ending in August 2008, compared the same period a year earlier, said the Eduardo Sojo, presi­dent of the board of Mexico's National Statistics, Geography and Information Institute. 
Sojo attributed the net drop in migration to tough econom­ic conditions abroad motivat­ing Mexicans to stay at home, rather than Mexicans in other countries returning to their homeland. 
"There is declining tendency of people going abroad, but we have not detected, up to now, any increase in people returning to the country," Sojo said. 
Sojo also said a recent sur­vey of "leading indicators" suggests that the number of Mexicans planning to emigrate in the future is also dropping. lie did not provide details of that survey · 
He said the net outflow of Mexicans -those leaving the country minus those returning from abroad -dropped to 204,000 people between August 2007 and August 2008. That was down from 455,000 for the year ending in August 2007. 
The number of returning Mexicans was roughly the same over the two periods, declining slightly to 450,000 by late 2008, from 478,000 in the 2007 period. 

But the number leaving Mexico fell sharply to 654,000 from 933,000. 
The government has said in past years that a majority who leave are undocumented migrants. Its figures are esti­mates based on quarterly sur­veys of Mexican households carried out by the institute. 
A government survey also shows the number of house­holds in Mexico that receive remittances -the money sent home by Mexicans working abroad, the vast majority in the United States -has also fallen to 1.16 million in 2008 from 1.41 million in 2005, Sojo said. 
Remittances, Mexico's sec­ond-largest source of foreign income after oil, plunged 3.6 percent to $25 billion in 2008 compared to $26 billion for the previous year, according to the country's central bank. 
Despite anecdotal reports of migrants returning to Mexico because of the downturn in the U.S. economy and con­struction sector, experts say the new statistics confirm there has been no large-scale homecoming in Mexico. An estimated 11.8 million Mexicans now live in the U.S. 
"The majority of those who are there are in a family unit, they have relatives there. We know some have children who are in school, some of whom are U.S. citizens," said Agustin Escobar, an analyst with the Center for Investigations and Superior Studies in Social Anthropology. "There are a lot of reasons for them not to leave." 
"They are going to look for other more temporary or more precarious jobs, or rely on their relatives ... rather than just disappear from the UnitPd States," he said. 


Anti-Arab leader endorses Israeli premier candidate 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Benjamin Netanyahu won the endorse­ment Thursday of an anti­Arab politician who emerged from Israel's election as a kingmaker, virtually ensur­ing t]lat the hawkish, U.S.­educated politician will once again become prime minis­ter. 
The big question is whether Netanyahu will be able to build the broad co ali­tion he will likely need to stay in power and avoid clashing with the Obama administration and much of the world. 
With his top rival, centrist Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni, signaling that she would enter the opposition, Netanyahu 's prospects for such a coalition do not look good. He will probably have little choice but to forge a coalition with nationalist and religious parties opposed to peacemaking with the Palestinians and Israel's other Arab neighbors. 
One major Orthodox Jewish party, Shas, also threw its support to Netanyahu, joining a group of similar movements that did the same. 
"Today the foundations were laid for an extremist right-wing government under the leadership of Netanyahu," Livni said in a text message to 80,000 members of her Kadima Party. "That is not our way and there is nothing for us in such a government. .. We must be an alternative of hope and go into opposi­tion." 
If Livni stays out of Netanyahu's government, it would almost surely hurt Netanyahu's credibility with the United States and Europe. And his hold on power would be more tenu­ous in a narrow coalition of rightists, with hard-line allies threatening to bring down his government in the face of any concession for peace. 
Livni seeks a negotiated settlement with the Palestinians, a position sup­ported by the Obama admin­istration, while Netanyahu's partner on the right, Avigdor Lieberman, has drawn opprobrium with his call for Israel's 1 million Arabs to swear allegiance to the Jewish state or lose their cit­izenship. 
Israel's ceremonial presi­dent, Shimon Peres, held talks with political parties before choosing a candidate to form a government. Peres is scheduled to meet sepa­rately Friday with Netanyahu and Livni, and is likely to make his choice over the weekend, the daily newspaper Haaretz report­
ed. If he names Netanyahu, as seems likely, then Netanyahu will have six weeks to create a coalition. 
Israeli Army Radio report­ed Thursday night that if tasked by Peres, Netanyahu would immediately invite Livni and Labor leader Ehud Barak to join him in govern­ment. 
"In light of the great chal­lenges which Israel faces ­Iran, terrorism, the econom­ic crisis and job losses -a national unity government is the order of the hour," the station's Web site quoted him as saying. 
Netanyahu aides could not be reached for comment. 
Barak, himself a former premier, has already said he will take the center-left Labor Party into opposition. 
Livni has said she will not join Netanyahu unless she can be an equal partner, presumably through the sort of "rotation" agreement Israel has tried in the past in which an election's top two winners each get to be prime minister for two years. 
One reason that a rightist government could be unsta­ble is that Lieberman's secu­lar agenda puts him squarely at odds with religious par­ties, such as Shas, clouding 
. prospects. Also Thursday, Sen. John 
Kerry, 0-Mass., traveled to the Gaza Strip, the highest­level visit by a U.S. official since the Hamas militant group seized power in the territory nearly two years ago. He did not meet with anyone from Hamas, which the U.S. shuns as a terrorist group, and used the visit to urge the group to end its vio­lence against Israel. 
Lieberman's Yisrael Beiteinu (Israel is Our Home) Party finished third in the Feb. 10 eleetion, after Kadima and Netanyahu's Likud Party. That essentially allowed him to determine whether Nctanyahu or Livni would be able to muster the backing of a majority in the 120-seat Knesset, or parlia­ment. 
Lieberman's stance toward Arabs has exposed him to charges of racism, and many see him as a far-right extremist. However, he is opposed to the Orthodox Jewish establishment's con­trol over key aspects of pub­lic life in Israel, one of sev­eral positions that has enabled him to find common ground with moderates. 
While announcing support for Netanyahu, Lieberman said he preferred a national unity government that included Livni over a narrow coalition of right wingers. 

• 

Friday, February 20, 2009 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 


Lawmakers pass large tax increase 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO -California lawmakers passed a massive tax increase Thursday along with making billions in spend­ing cuts, ending a grueling week of negotiations over clos­ing the state's $42 billion budget deficit. 
The package of bills was sent to Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger after the early-morning votes in the Assembly and Senate, and the Republican governor was scheduled to sign it Friday. 
Schwarzenegger called the Legislature's work courageous, noting that Democrats com­promised on their opposition to deep spending cuts and some Republican lawmakers set aside their opposition to tax increases. 
"Now, instead of worrying every day only about IOUs and about red ink, we can start moving California forward once again," he said. "This action to solve our $42 billion deficit was difficult but coura­geous and just what California needs." 
Both houses of the Legislature got the bare mtm­m urn of votes to reach the two-thirds requirement need­ed to pass the package, which _ includes $12.8 billion in tax hikes, $15.1 billion in cuts, bil­lions in borrowing and meas­ures intended to stimulate the state's economy. 
·If the economy doesn't wors­en considerably, the plan is intended to balance the state's budget through June 2010. The Senate began debating before dawn Thursday after a moderate Republican, Sen. Abel Maldonado of Santa Maria, agreed to provide the final vote. 
In exchange, he won major concessions from Democrats and the governor. Maldonado was able to strip out a 12 cent­a-gallon gas tax from an earli­er version of the package and have two measures placed on a future ballot: One seeks fully open primary elections and another would freeze lawmak­ers' pay when the state runs a deficit. He also got $1 million for office furniture in the con­troller's office deleted. 

RUSSIA 
Juryacquits for journalist's murder 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -· A jury in Moscow voted unanimously Thursday to acquit three men in the killing ofjournalist Anna Politkovskaya, dimming hopes for justice in a case that has mocked Russia's claims to be a modern democratic nation. 
The brazen 2006 slaying of the crusading investigative reporter sent a grim signal to other dissenters in Russia, proving that even the most prominent of Kremlin critics could be murdered with impunity. 
And it provoked internation­al outrage, raising suspicions that her death was ordered by prominent public officials. 
A jury acquitted two Chechen brothers and a morose ex-cop following a trial that defense attorneys and Politkovskaya' s supporters said was marred by prosecu­tion errors and oversights. 
All three were suspected of playing minor roles in the killing. A suspected trigger­man, a third brother, has not been found. 
Politkovskaya was shot five times in the elevator of her central Moscow apartment building on Oct. 7, 2006, after a trip to the supermarket. 
In her articles, Politkovskaya had attacked some of Russia's most powerful political lead­ers. She was a ferocious critic of former president and cur­rent Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, on whose birthday the 48-year-old journalist was slain. In one book, she ac(.~used him of crushing dissent and leading a "failing democracy." 
She had also accused the regime of Ramzan Kadyrov, a 
former militia leader and now 
president of the Russian region 
of Chechnya, of torture and 
corruption, charges that he 
has denied. 
During the trial, 
Politkovskaya's colleagues and 
family said, prosecutors put 
together a feeble case -never 
bothering to offer a formal the­
ory of who might have paid for 
the suspected contract slaying, 
or why. 
Now those close to 
Politkovskaya fear they will 
never see justice done. 
Sergei Sokolov, one of Politkovskaya's editors at the opposition newspaper Novaya Gazeta, said the verdicts could make it harder to pressure low-level plotters to testify against organizers. 
Now, he said, he feared authorities would "catch the first few homeless people they see, label them guilty and dose · the cas~." 
Politkovskaya's two adult children absorbed the verdict with sadness and resignation. 
"To say I'm disappointed -I can't really say that, because I was ready for such a verdict," said Ilya Politkovsky, th~ jour­nalist's son. 
Karinna Moskalenko, a prominent lawyer who repre­sented Politkovskaya's family during proceedings. sought to keep the pressure on authori­ties to continue pursuing the case. 
"Everything is still ahead ­the investigators now have to start a proper investigation," 
she said. "The more time goes by, thn harder it gets." . She said the Chechen presi-· dent Kadyrov should have tes­tified during the trial, because his name came up frequently 
in case reports and interviews 
with witnesses. But she said he 
was never questioned by inves­
tigators. 
Prosecutor Vera 
Pashkovskaya vowed to 
appeal, saying the judge had 
committed numerous proce­
dural violations. 
Not guilty verdicts are often reversed by Russia's higher courts. But it is hard to predict what will happen in this politi­cally explosive case. 
In the ensuing investigation, prosecutors and investigators appeared to stumble on sever­al occasions. Authorities made unusually detailed statements about the case in the press last year -statements that may have prompted the alleged triggerman to flee. 
The defendants included two brothers, Dzhabrail and Ibragim Makhmudov, both eth­nic Chechens, as well as for­mer Moscow police officer Sergei Khadzhikurbanov. 
Relatives of the Makhmudovs clapped and cheered when the forewoman announced the verdicts. 
"Thank God, thank the jury," said Dzhabrail Makhmudov, while still confined to a metal courtroom cage. "There was no other possible outcome." 
After the judge said the defendants were free to go, they burst out of the cage and embraced relatives. 
"We're glad," said defense lawyer Murad Musayev. "This is something that happens rarely in Russia. This is what I call j ustiee." 
In final arguments Tuesday. Musayev accused the prosecu­tion of fabricating evidence and dismissed their case as 
"dust, fluff and ash." 

LiVe... Study... Dream... 
·Ibwn fl01nes Studio, om:~ & two Bdr homes Furnished homes availahle \Valking distance to ND campus Heated pool/hot tub 24hr laundrv.. center Sand vollevba1t
.. 

P<~t frit'ndlv Covered parkitlg And rn ud1 more! 
Schedu1c vour 
"" 

personal tour today! 
D<) it all at 




Turtle Creek Apartments! 
Corne st:~t~ \vhv~Iurtle Creek 
,; 

is the best place to call horne! 


1710 ETurtlt~ Cret~k Dr South Bend, IN 


Turte 
___ree 
574-272-8124 www.liveturtlecreek.corn APARTMENTS 

Friday, February 20, 2009 

page 10 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Steves 
continued from page 1 
load 18 itineraries for free. Steves said these are meant to act as supplements for Rick Steves-type guidebooks. The one-to-two page itineraries offer tips on transportation options, where to eat and sleep for cheap and where to find the best nightlife destina­tions. Most of the itineraries are· geared for weekend trips. 
Want to spend a few days in Dublin? Steves recommends taking discount airlines RyanAir or AerLingus. Stay at Paddy's Palace hostel and take advantage of their free airport shuttle service. 
Steves wasn't impressed with Irish food: "FYI, black pudding is fried blood. Just a heads up," he writes on the itinerary. Walk 20 minutes from the city center to the Guinness Brewery, and "have a pint of the black stuff' in its Gravity Bar. The Irish Museum of Modern Art is worth seeing too, he writes. 
And if students are in search of enjoyment, they should head to the Temple Bar area. 
Steves said the site is meant to be a collaborative effort. He wants students who have spent time in European cities to e-mail him with tips on places to grab lunch or hostels at which students can stay. 
Growing up as the son of a well-known European travel guide writer, Steves spent every summer touring the con­tinent. But when he was younger, he didn't enjoy the experience. 
"When you're just 12 or 13 years old, you are missing all 
of your friends' birthdays going on back home, and the field days when we'd leave school a week early," he said. 
But looking back, all that travel experience was really "a 
JPW 
continued from page 1 
tography, she said. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins will preside at a ma<>s for juniors and their parents on Saturday at 5:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena, Hendricks said. Father Mark Poorman will deliver the homily. 
After the mass, the President's Dinner for juniors and their parents will take place in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. President Emeritus Fr. Edward Malloy will deliver the Invocation and Jenkins will give the President's Address, Hendricks said. Junior class president Kim Kyrouac will give the junior class address. 
A closing brunch will take place at 10:00 a.m. on Sunday in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Lou Holtz will be the guest speaker. Hendricks said. Hev. Paul Doyle, C.S.C. will deliver the Invocation and President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, 
C.S.C. will give the Benediction .. 
The JPW committee has added something new to the event<> this year. 
"We've also added a Rosary blessing in disguise." 
"J didn't realize how unique it was," he said. "It was just something (did very summer." 
He went to Europe without his parents for ihe first time after he graduated from high school. Along with his best friend, he traveled the conti­nent, stopping in cities like Amsterdam, Paris, Madrid, Barcelona, Nice, Switzerland, Rome, Sicily and Florence. 
It was an experience that turned him into an enthusias­tic world traveler. 
"It just opened up a com­pletely new continent to me, because you could do what you want, you could see what you wanted when you wanted to do it," he said. 
During the spring semester of his junior year, Steves, an industrial design and Italian major, went to Rome. He book­ended his semester with 10 days in Prague, followed by a week on a 40-foot sailboat with five friends in Greece, a week in Istanbul and trips to Switzerland and Dublin. 
During his semester in Rome, he realized there was not much advice available for college students about how to find food and lodging to fit a college budget. 
"I realized at least half [the Notre Dame students in Rome] had brand new passports, never once used, so it was their first time abroad, let alone out of the country in sev­eral instances, so they would come to me and ask advice about how to get to different places," he said. "I saw a huge void where there's no informa­tion geared specifically to the college student abroad." 
Steves has posted itineraries, blog entries and photos for 
cities including Rome, Paris, Stockholm, Milan and London. He's working on creating a forum for visitors to discuss their travel experiences and trade questions and advice. He 
Service at the Grotto this year," Hendricks said. 
On Saturday, workshops and receptions will take place in the dif­ferent colleges to give parents a chance to meet professors, Hendricks said. 
"I know that the College of Science is doing interactive labs and [parent<>] can see the faeilities and · such," Hendricks said. 
Additionally, each hall will host a luncheon on Saturday for juniors and parents on Saturday, Hendricks said. 
Parents can enjoy some enter­tainment from Harmonia, The Undertones and Unchained Melodies in the Hospitality Room of LaFortune on Saturday from 2:00 
p.m. to 3:00p.m., Hendricks said. 
The Student Union Board [SUB] has also planned entertainment for students and parents during the weekend. 
Second City, the Chicago-based improv comedy group, will perform in Washington Hall at 6:30 p.m. and 
9:30 p.m. tonight, SUB Manager Pat Gartland said. Students and parents can purchase tickets and attend. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

also has a Facebook group to 
draw attention to the site. 
When students study abroad, 
they have a limited number of 
weekends in which to visit 
other places in Europe, Steves 
said. 
"Every weekend is an oppor­
tunity, but also there is a lot of 
pressure to make the most of 
your time everywhere," he 
said. 
The pictures and descrip­
tions of activities to do and 
sights to see should help col­
lege students decide which 
destinations to visit while in . Europe. 
The site won the Colombo Award, which is granted to "outstanding person in the tourist sector" by an Italian tourism association earlier this year. Steves has been in con­tact with Notre Dame's International Studies office, as well as programs at colleges around the country, to pro­mote his site. 
Everything on the site is free, but Steves is exploring business opportunities to expand the itineraries into tour packages for college stu­dents. 
Traveling is something that has been a part of Steves' life from the start, he said, and his philosophy is that traveling opens people up to accepting and respecting other cultures and beliefs. 
"With understanding, you decrease the fear of other cul­tures and other people and other countries," he said. "Traveling, not just in Europe, but traveling all ·over the world, is important to under­standing these people, and with an understanding that me, a 21-year-old in Iran, a 21-year-old in Japan, and one in Argentina, are all just chil­dren of God, people of the earth." 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Professor 
continued from page 1 
the process starts all over again." 
Indulgences have long been available and their return doesn't represent a change in policy so much as a shift in 
focus. One theo­ry states that more bishops are promoting indulgences as more lay people seek them because of a growing hunger to understand the meaning of sin and repen­tance in modern society. 
On the surface, this trend also appears to con­firm what many view as Pope Benedict XVI 's 
·"In my opinion -and 
making them-it is only that -selves once 
those bishops who again the 
bestowers of
wish to emphasize 
great spiritualindulgenes once more benefits which 
are concerned with only they have 
the power to
the diminishing of 
confer. The 
clerical authority in problem is that recent years. ,, most Catholics have no inter­est in ind ul­
Richard McBrien 
gences."theology professor Lack of inter­

efforts to restore traditionalist principles to the church. 
"The Pope generally wants to remind Catholics that some devotional elements and prac­tices of the pre-Vatican II Church are still with us and that Catholics who wish to do so can still avail themselves of the spiritual benefits accruing from these devotions and practices," McBrien said. "The rest of the Church, however, is free to ignore them." 
Although the Pope's motiva­tions are unclear, McBrien said that the bishops who are pushing the indulgences could have a specific goal in mind. 
"In my opinion -and it is only that -those bishops who wish to. emphasize indulgences once more are concerned with the diminishing of clerical authority in recent years," he said. "This may be an attempt on their part to reassert cleri­cal. and especially episcopal, 
authority." 
McBrien 
added: "By 
est could pre­
vent the revival of indulgences from having much impact on the daily lives of Catholics. When asked if he thought the renewed tradition would distract people from the church's ministry, McBrien said, "no, because most Catholics will pay no attention to them, and those Catholics who are involved in social jus­tice ministries will continue to be involved, without reference to the renewed attention to indulgences." 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 




Friday, February 20, 2009 
The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS page 11 
is that 30 percent will be avail­
able to lower income families," he said.



Project 
continued from page 1 This effort will result in a mixed-income neighborhood
trification, or the displacement 
with an offering of affordable of low-income residents as a housing and houses sold at the 

consequence of development. 
market rate, Luecke said. 

"We worked with the 
Taylor said this effort has 

University to make the ground made it possible for many fami­rules and look over their shoul­lies in the neighborhood to own der all the time to make sure 
homes. they were· doing what they 
"The first family that moved 

were supposed to, and they 
[into a subsidized home] were did," Taylor said. "There has 

renters. They never'had owned not been one person that has 

a home," she said. "Through

moved from the area that's not better off than before the move."  "We worked with the  this program, they were able to purchase a home on  
In the early days of the proj­ect, Affleck­Graves said there  University to make the ground rules and look over their  Ironwood." Taylor said the NNRO also has a say in the  
was some concern about gentrifica­tion, · but the University worked  shoulder all the time to make sure they were doing what they  design of the Eddy Street Commons. She said when the  
with the n-eigh­borhood residents so all parties could benefit from  were supposed to, and they did."  project began, there was talk of calling the c e n t e r  
the project. · "A lot of that concern has dissi­ Marguerite Taylor neighborhood resident  'University Village' but the NNRO vetoed  
pated," he said. "We don't want to  that suggestion in favor of a  

go take over the whole neigh­name that doesn't imply a con­borhood and rebuild every­neetion to Notre Dame. thing." 
With concerns of gentrifica­

Luecke said while the tion mostly put to rest, Luecke University is developing houses said the Eddy Street Commons to sell to faculty, the city is con­is a bright spot in the current cerned with subsidizing houses landscape of an economic in the neighborhood to make downturn. 
them affordable for community "The construction itself is cre­members. ating jobs in the short term, 
"Out of roughly 60 new and as the stores open up and homes constructed in the the office spaces are filled, we neighborhood, our commitment will see additional jobs added in the community," he said. encouraged to go off campus 
Luecke said the city is paying and there wasn't a lot of inter­for the parking garage in the action with the community," he Commons and some other said. "So we didn't see some .of 
infrastructural needs such as the development that happens drainage and streetlights with a in other university communi­Tax Increment Financing plan. ties." Instead of taking city money Luecke said this recent col­from other projects, this project laboration between the will be funded by the increased University and the city repre­
property taxes that will arise from the com­mercial entities in Eddy Street Commons, such as the retail stores and a hotel. Kite Realty, the private develop­er then pays for all the construc­tion, and the  "The energy and the creativity that will focus there at Innovation Park is something that will • enhance research on campus and make our community more attractive.,,  sents an impor­tant, emerging partnership. "I am delight­ed with the way people have worked togeth­er," he said. "There has been a deep recognition that our futures are linked. For each of us to  
University owns the land. "There has been a huge pri­vate investment  Steve Luecke Mayor South Bend  succeed, we both have to thrive." · The Eddy S t r e e t  
in  the  area,  Commons 'and  
which is why the  the  Northeast  

city is willing to make a public Nei_ghborhood Revitalization investment," Luecke said. project represent short-term 
Along with creating jobs in development and ec-onomic the area, Taylor said Eddy stimulus, but the city and the Street Commons will bring foot University are also collaborat~ 
traffic back to the neighbor­ing to bring about long-termhood. economic develonment in the 
"I was born in this neighbor­form of Innovatior{ Park. hood, and you couldn't buy a Along with Notre Dame, loaf of bread without getting in Luecke said the city has invest­your car," she said. ed money into the project, and The Eddy Street Commons is they acted as the applicant to 
the first attempt to bring com­the state of Indiana and the merce into the neighborhood federal government to receive surrounding campus, Lu'ecke status as a state research park said. and government money. 
"I think for many years the "The energy and the creativi­University and the city coe:Jfist­ty that will focus there at ed, but students weren't always Innovation Park is something 
that will enhance research on campus and make our commu­
... 
nity more attractive," he said. 
"We are seeing interest around 
the country in what happening 
in here in South Bend." 
Luecke said the objective of 
Innovation Park is to transform 
research done at Notre Dame 
into businesses that will take 
root in the area and expand. 
Additionally, businesses will 
come to South Bend to use the 
research that emerges from the 
Park. 
For example, Luecke said 
researchers at Notre Dame 
have worked with the city to 
make a product that functions 
in the sewers and reduces pol­
lution:flowing into the river. .Innovation Park would take this idea and turn the research into a business that would sell the product beyond the city of South Bend. 
Innovation Park sits on 13 
acres, but Luecke said the 
VISIOn ultimately extends 
beyond that. 
The city has funded the con­
struction of Ignition Park, 
which spans about 85 acres 
and would complement the 
work of Innovation Park by tak­
ing the research when it grows 
too large for the original Park. 
"I think the next phase in our city's growth will be to be a ris­ing center of creativity, innova­tion and commercialization," Luecke said. "Innovation and Ignition Park will show people how to take ideas and make 
-them real products that benefit 
the community and create jobs 
and investments here." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 


SUAfAfER LANGUAGE GRA.NTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO SUPPORT FOREIGN LANGUAGE STUDY DURING THE SUMMER.. Grants are designed to cover only a portion oi' progran11 coats. 
http://www.nd..edu/-surnlang/ or· 
Pick up applications *ron11 the Office of' International Studies-(154 Hurley Building-Ph 1-5203) 
.. 

NEW THIS YEAR 
I...A.N.Q.f.l.A.ti..~....Q.B.A.N.T.li......E.O..R....A ..B_T..I/l....~......l.....lfi_T..T~R.Ii.. ....li...T..U..P..#ff.N.T./i.....C!..N..&....:Y,......Q.Q_,..T..Q;_ 
The Center for the Study of Language & Culture website at: http:l/cslc.lnd.edu/grants (329 DeBartolo-Ph. 631~5881) 
• application deadline: FRIDAY MARCH 6, 2009 


THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 924 Sourh Dining Hall, Notr; Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Merz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Bill Brink 
Dan Murphy 
SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING l\{ANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROllER: Stacey Gill 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriany 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
{574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
{574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint. I @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu Scm DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @>nd.edu 
• PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students ofthe 
University ofNotre Dan1e duLac and Saint Mary's 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies ofthe adminisrradon ofeither 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
A-;sistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
ofthe authors and not necessarily rhose ofThe 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChri.r Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Oh,.,,..cr (USI'S 599 2-40p!J) ;, puhli<hc,l Mt>nday through Frid<y except during ~uitl md V".Kouio11 pc::riodii. Asuhscripfi<)n 10 The Observer t~; $100 tC.r one acadt:mic yen; $55 for n11e scmt"Ster. 
_The Ob:.:rv<:r is published "' POSTMASTER 
024 S<.>urh Dining Hall Send addrtss currcctinru. to: 
Nor11: O.me.IN 46556-0779 Th<Obsc""'r 
fl:riodi<alpo•t.>gc paid at Notre Dame P.O. Bo,.779 
ilnd .uklitionaJ mailing offiCQ. 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
Nutre D;:me. IN 46556-0779 
Th~ Observer is a member of chc Auociared PWi:S. All rcproducrion righu arC r=rvd. 


Food gripes 
Notre Dame's dining options, while a step ahead of other schools, leave something to be desired. 
The fixes require only effort, not a massive overhaul of the system. The dining halls present plenty of options for stu­dents to choose from, but they often lump them on the same nights and go weeks without bringing them back. Students have a multitude of choices outside of the dining hall, such as Subway, but the lack of participa"tion in nationwide sales events detracts from the experience. Finally, some of the blame falls on students: they gum up the works in the dining hall and prolong the dining experience. 
We believe simple steps will solve these problems. Not a Chipotle on campus or brand­new food in the dining halls, but small TilE 
OBSERVER 
at least one or two nights a week. _ 
On another note, no more breakfast for dinner nights on the weekend. Ess.entially, you're eating breakfast for lunch and dinner, and nobody wants that. 
Also, do the wings have to invade the dining halls on wing night'? The wings occupy all three grilling stations in South Dining Hall on wing night, leaving you little choice but to take some wings. 
Now to Subway. If we're going to be barraged with five­dollar footlong commercials on television, we should be able to purchase them in LaFortune. Whether it's real money or flex points, five-dollar footlongs would increase revenue for Subway because more people would buy them. Think of how nice this would be for 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Aaron Steiner Dan Murphy Madeline Buckley Michael Bryan Alicia Smith Eric Prister 
Viewpoint Scene Kara King Jess Shaeffer Graphics Andrea Archer 

First, the dining hall: it's not hard to see which foods attract the most students. The lines for peppered flank steak and General Tso's chicken demonstrate the level of demand. And more often than not, when the dining hall introduces a new option, it gets a good response. Same with the cookies at lunch and cinnamon rolls. 
So why serve some of these items on the same night? Asking someone to choose between the General and shrimp poppers just isn't fair. Serving six-cheese sachattini and chicken fingers also asks for too much of a decision. 
Once the great items have been served, they disappear for weeks, and we're left with roast top round of beef for six days straight and the rest of the dining hall food that's there every day. 
Spacing out the good stuff makes sense. If it was offered every day, it wouldn't be special. But space out the good meals between themselves as well, so there are solid options 
changes to take the solid dining options this Editorial off-campus students with no meal plans or flex campus offers to the next level. points who -gasp -use real money to buy 
food. 
Finally, to the students in the dining hall. It's 

like everything else in life: Use your head. Look where you're going. But in case that's too complicated, here are some guidelines to follow. 
Follow this pecking order when allowing people to go past you: dining hall personnel with carts, students with full trays, dining hall personnel without carts, students with empty trays and finally, regular students. Don't get in the way of some-one with a loaded tray. 
Don't stand in front of the drink dispensers, or any food for that matter. Get your cup or plate, procure your choice of food or drink and move on. 
Don't line up for the coveted second-level tray spot on the empty-tray carousel. Put some effort into it and put the tray on the top level or, if you're feeling really ambitious, lay your empty cups down and use the first level. 
Just some food for thought. ' 
LETTER TO THE EDIT,QR 
Punishment must fit crime 
Thank God someone finally started and laughing to themselves at pretty this discussion. much everything; they are not throw­
We would just like to voice our com­ing up at Legends or screaming at plete support for Ben Linskey's discus­everyone they meet. sion of the Michael Phelps case in the Reefer is a drug that mellows out Feb. 19 Observer ("Phelps scandal is people and makes them more aware of reefer madness"). We have been con­their surroundings, whereas alcohol sidering writing to The Observer for makes people get aggressive and lose some time regarding marijuana, and regard for anyone other than them­the University's overall policy towards selves. Smoking the sticky icky is non­it. addictive and there arc no known 
We feel that the University is unfair cases of death directly due to an over­
in its differing policies between under­dose of the bud. Alcohol is highly age drinking and the possession of addictive and thousands die every year ganja. While most people know that if from it, whether directly or indirectly. a student is caught drinking and is So why is lighting up the chronic 
under the age of 21, it means a considered such a terrible offense, in ResLife, and probably community the minds of the general public (as service. It is a slap on the wrist. Linskey so adeptly pointed out} and in 
In contrast, possessing the sweet the mind of our administration? Why Mary Jane is, in the words of DuLac, is the penalty for smoking the herb so "a serious violation. Students who pos­severe when the penalty for drinking sess or use such substances shall be alcohol excessively, clearly a graver subject to suspension or dismissal." Is and much more ubiquitous problem is it fair that students who drink alcohol so mild? We do not know. excessively, become obnoxious, start We would only like to thank Linskey fights, scream in the quads at 4 a.m., for putting forward this issue for the are disrespectful to police officers and consideration of the student body and school staff and put themselves and the administration. We think the others in danger should get the college administration needs to reevaluate equivalent of a detention (ResLife), this "arbitrary standard set forward while students who make the, as by the federal government." Linskey puts it "private and harmless One Love, decision" to smoke weed arc subject to dismissal from the·University? Dan Parker 
These students will most likely Anthony Bonadio spend the evening sitting in a room, sophomores listening to "No Woman No Cry," Keenan Hall watching Aqua Teen Hunger Force Feb. 19 
Observer Poll 
Will the men's basketball team make the NCAA tournament? 
Votes  Percentage  
No  390  58%  
Yes  285  42%  



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If we were not all so interested in ourselves, life would be so uninteresting that none of us would be able to endure it. ,, 
Arthur Schopenhauer German philosopher 


Fat weekend is upon us 
For many who regularly fall short of intended Lenten sacrifices, today begins a "Fat Weekend," or a binge run-up to Ac;h Wednesday. Just as Christmas decorations appear earlier each year -sometimes uncharacteristically well before · Halloween -simi­larly, Lenten light­weights try to com­pensate by begin­ning Fat Tuesday earlier. As a charter member of the 
-lightweight legion, . this year I prefer to approach Lent back­
Capitol

wards,beginning 
Comments

with the calm of Easter Saturday. 
Imagine that Easter was behind us, Lent has just begun, but Fat Tuesday is still more than six weeks away. Would our mental preparation and attempts to purge our weaknesses be less intense? It seems unlikely that a reverse timeline could spawn such a Mardi Gras atmosphere when Ash Wednesday eventually arrived. In fact, the process could become more introspective and less celebratory. 
If Lent were to be reversed, today, at its conclusion, I would think of the Bengal Bouts. My reflections would naturally remind me of Father James L. Riehle, C.S.C., '49, '78 MSA, who passed away in October. Riehle's iconic campus personality evolved while fighting as a boxer during his youth. Maybe his magic came from his seminary training, or maybe it was the fact that he entered the priesthood at the age of 43 after living a life in the real world. But Riehle's uniquely masculine yet tender persona dominated his tenure as dean of students, as Pangborn Hall rector for a dozen years, as the Monogram Club's executive director for two decades and as athletic chaplain presiding over the Notre Dame football team's game-day mass for more than a quarter of a century. 


Riehle successfully managed an impossi­ble task while dean ofstudents during the height of the Vietnam war from 1967 to 1973. He was the sheriff of Campus Mayberry -an insulated Catholic educa­tional enclave whose residents knew too well roommates lost overseas. The harsh reality became starkly visual one day when someone planted more than 200 white crosses on the South Quad, each representing a lost Notre Dame graduate. In the end, a pair ofstokes moved Riehle from a cane to a golf cart. Yet, the frail shadow of this man never lost his meas­ured temperament, sense ofjustice nor his legendary whit. 
Lent focuses us on death, hope and life. It teaches us that the good in our loved ones is never gone. So each winter bits of Fr. Riehle come back to those who shared 
a moment with him during the Bengal 
Bouts or at a Monogram Club function. When trekking back to campus for a foot­ball game, his old office in the Main Building conjures ghosts oftimes many of us were summoned for disciplinary rea­sons. On any evening at home, we whose lives were touched by Riehle can still thumb through a year book for a tangible snapshot of his image. 
As dean of students, Riehle ruled autonomously in a time that University president emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh calls the student "revolution." As presi­dent, Hesburgh established his famous 15­minute rule whereby disruptive students hindering another's rights were given 15 minutes to meditate, then desist or face expulsion. Page 336 of the 1970 year book, "Dome," includes a photograph of Riehle in the Main Building looking at his watch to time a warning to more than 100 stu­dents protesting against the CIA and Dow Chemical, manufacturer of napalm, on campus to recruit students. Riehle expelled five students and suspended five others. Yet, all but one returned to earn a degree. 
My favorite photograph of Riehle lives on page 280 of the 1976 "Dome." It exhibits the hwnan side of Riehle who, as Dean of Students, mingled with students and shared mutual respect. The photograph shows Riehle at the Senior Bar with his signature cigar in hand while grasping a plastic cup of beer and speaking with a student who held a beer as well. It reveals how Riehle lived a measured Sheriff Andy Taylor existence during the height of the Vietnam war's upheaval years. 
During Riehle's tenure as dean, this columnist installed a ten-button telephone as a switchboard for rooms in a Lyons Hall wing. The phone company removed it and notified Riehle. He asked if it was stolen. Yes was the reply. "Well, the phone compa­ny took the phone and does not recom­mend anything, so don't do it again," Riehle ordered. 
Lent is forgiving regardless of the approach or degree of sacrifice. For those who depend on Fat Weekend in prepara­tion, Lent can actually be the best of times. Lent calls out Riehle's oftentimes pro­nounced verdict and signature comment, "Don't do that again." 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame 73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton sadministration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 

'Reefer madness' is insalubrious 

In Ben Linskey's "Reefer Madness" (Feb. 19), he argues that weed is not addictive, does.not cause serious health problems, does not adversely affect the population and is a far less dangerous drug than alcohol. 
I come from San Diego, one of the most pot-infested cities on the map. I have numerous friends who have battled their drug addic­tions, and oftentimes they'll tell me that their Dad still hasn't kicked the habit ofsmoking pot. The most unsafe I've ever felt in a car was when I was a passenger in a car where the driver was getting stoned. For all of Linskey's noble opposition to drinking and driving, I would go further and say that smoking pot and driving is just ac; bad -impaired reaction time and altered perception being chief con­cerns. 
Linskey's assertion that weed is harmless is incorrect. One needs only to Google-search "harmful effects of marijuana" to fmd the medical consensus on its adverse effects. There's also a concept I taught when I was an anti-drug counselor back in San Diego for three years: amotivational syndrome -that a pothead loses his or her motivation to participate in everyday activities: sports, classes, relationships. 
Some people say that smoking pot is natural because it is of the Earth, but should we be breathing in the fumes of a bonfire, if that is also "of the Earth?" Anytime a person inhales smoke, they are doing damage to their body -on both a microscopic level an<1 a holistic level. 
When I evaluate a person's argwnent, I look for areas where a per­son uses hyperbole, or conversely, euphemisms. Linskey tells of how the government is holding it's war on drugs because marijuana is deemed "insalubrious." Please! Call the drug was it is; and don't downplay the harmful effects of pot. 
Linskey's ideal of drug users keeping it in the home does not often occur in actuality. One of my former good friends back home in San Diego keeps on getting arrested, not for smoking, but for repeatedly trying to brea.l( into liquor stores-a very half-baked idea. 
Furthermore, Linskey is wrong in his belief that "you have no right to dictate to your neighbor what he may do within the confines of his home." Obviously the government has the right to intercede in cases of slavery, rape, abuse, etc., and all these cases occur in the confmes of a home. · 
I'll agree that the governmental war on drugs isn't going well­but how much worse off would we be without it? There are untold 
· and unknown numbers of how many more people would do drugs if we weren't as educated about the subject as we are today. We are the product of an education system that really showed us how bad drugs are. 
For all the readers out there that had considered trying weed but ultimately decided against it, you are the reason why the War on Drugs is, on some level, effective. 
Daniel Tostado sophomore Dillon Hall 
Feb. 19 



Promoting vs. support 
I would like to thank Tomn1y Maranges ("A clear misunderstanding," Feb. 19) for bringing some sense and reason to the debate about homosexuali­ty, which has recently featured far too much rhetoric and far too little logic. I fail to see why the refusal to promote an idea is seen to be tantamount to reject­ing, denying, or even hating that idea. 
Bridget Flores, Mary Dewey and Jackie Emmanuel ("Catholic teachings," Feb. 19) would have you believe that anyone who does not own an "Ally" or "Gay? Fine With me" T-shirt dislikes or dis­criminates against homosexuals. While this is ludi­crous to the average reader, many find it acceptable to believe that the University is discriminatory against gays, just because the mission statement does not explicitly denounce it. 
The problem with the Queer Film Festival is that it does nothing. to eliminate the isolation described by Flores and Co. Instead, organizations and events tai­lored specifically towards homosexuals only serve to highlight our differences and create the very isola­tion that Flores so gravely dreads. If a gay movie was banned or censored during a sexuality-neutral film festival, an outcry against discrimination and isolation would certainly be appropriate, but using a gay-only fibn festival to fight isolation is the equiva­lent of using a male-only film festival to improve gender relations. If a demographic wishes to sepa­
l 
4
rate themselves from the population with specific 

events just for them, they lose the right to blame the l majority for the divide that will inevitably arise. In conclusion, a refusal to promote gay-specific 
l
activities is not anti-gay. Rather, it is the University 

l
acting on a religious foundation to not to promote a lifestyle deemed to be morally disordered. "Pro-gay" and "anti-gay" are not the only options. Supportive of homosexuals but not actively promoting the lifestyle, the University is fulfilling its duty as a Catholic institution of higher learning. 
Nathan Furtado 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
Feb. 19 


Footlongs worthy of fight 
Dear Michelle Byrne and Lauren Cmpmings ("That's bologna," Feb. 19), 
I would like to thank you for expressing your pro­found sentiments concerning John Traub's five-dol­lar footlong campaign ("Five-dollar footlongs," Feb. 13). You truly are an inspiration·to us all. 
I completely agree that the speed at which the Facebook group gathered 1550 students to support the cause is truly an accomplishment. Perhaps it's a sign that Notre Dame students do actually have a pulse and care about some sort of justice, that stu­dents will not stand for price gouging (something that just happens to be illegal in many other indus­tries) and are at least nominally willing to break the stereotype of the rich spoiled brat that surrounds the Notre Dame student body, trying to be at least a little more fiscally responsible. 
And I couldn't agree more with your classification of recycling and sexual ao;;sault as "trivial issues." Meriam Webster's online Dictionary defines trivial as being "commonplace or ordinary." Five-dollar footlongs have occupied the front cover of The Observer for all of one day, whereas stories about sexual assault and recycling seem to be a daily occurrence. 
Finally. I would like to applaud your classification of the different types of Notre Dame Students. Indeed only that one percent of us who are "vegans and wear tie-dye" care about the rest of the world, the other 99 percent of us selfish, diversity-hating fascists could care less. It's not as if the majority of students are involved in various service initiates across the greater Michiana area, or that the stu­dent government, directly elected by the students, is actively trying to make a diflE~rence in the communi­ty and in the environment ... 
Give me a break! Just because you couldn't care less about a blatantly unfa'ir economic situation at your own school doesn't mean that you have to attack this idea. People do genuinely care about conflkts in Africa and sustainability, recycling and Sexual Assault, but are sick of hearing a small and vocal minority consistently badger the greater Notre Dame community about what they think is right. We want to take care of an issue that affects each and every red-blooded person at this campus and, as John Traub's research shows, really may make a significant impact, lest we forget that money, in fact, does not grown on trees (especially for college stu­dents). 
Get it? 
Jonathan Jasinski sophomore Srantord Hall Feb. 19 


THE OBSERVER 


E Friday, February 20, 2(
page 14 
The question is, are you feeling luc ing from acclaimed blockbusters lik( Wrestler," the films of 2008 offered a sional critics, movie aficionados, and top dogs. And the Scene's predir.tions 

BEST PICTURE: SLUMDOG MILLIONAIRE 
"Slumdog Millionaire" has been racking up awards from every which way this awards season. And barring any upset:it will probably receive the season's highest honor, Best Picture at the Oscars. What was originally a film intended to go straight to DVD has 
. truly become the Cinderella story of 2008. Only, .in the process, it has bec?~e Goli~th, leaving every other film to inhabit the role of DaVId. However, the Academy s mfatuatwn .with biopics may very well prove the wild card factor here, and may land "Milk" .the · honor. "Milk" has been scoring best picture wins in film critics' circles across the natiOn, but has yet to receive the coveted grand prize at any of the nation's big-audience awards shows ("Crash," anyone?). So, if the Academy feels in a maverick sort of mood, and the moment is ripe for an upset, "Milk" may very well pull it ofT. However, put your money on "Slumdog Millionaire," capping otT its dream run with the Best Picture award. 
Please Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu. 
BEST ACTOR: SEAN PENN 
This year's Best Actor race is probably the tightest of all the major categories. The list of nominees all d~liver~d powe~ful perfo~p}anc~s thisyear; the competition is ~•.~;iff_\?.at vets LeQnoardq D1C~pno _rmd Clmt Ea~f..w()od .were lqft. out Qf thc_<,:atogory~ ·.. . • .. ~·> ,~ . 
Sean Penn's turn as Harvey Mnk-shoW'Sliis VersatilitY: lle iinmerses"himself so com­pletely into Milk's character and delivers an utterly transformative performance that is nothing short of remarkable. For this, Penn will probably garner the Oscar; it may be Gus Van Sant's film's only major award. 
The only real competitor standing in the way of Penn's setond Academy Award in five nominations is this year's comeback kid -Mick~y Rourke. Rourke's triumphant return in "The Wrestler" has already won him a Golden Globe. His own story, which so closely par­allels that of struggling has-been Randy 'The Ram' Robinson, has struck a chord with audiences and criiics alike. His authentic and sensitive performance might be strong enough to kick Penn out of the ring. · 
The Oscar, though, will go to Penn, whose acting tour de force will recruit the members of the Academy to vote for Harvey Milk over "The Wrestler" for Best Actor. 
Please Contact fenn Metz atjmetz@nd. edu. 
Ah, what a year to be a supporting actor. 
This often lower-profile category is hosting five powerhouses this year, all of whom are deserv­ing of their nominations. Josh Brolin ("Milk") has proven himself to be more than the pretty-boy son of another pretty-boy actor, bringing gravitas and power to throwaway roles. Michael Shannon, the lone actor from "Revolutionary Road" to garner a nomination, is arguably that film's emotional and moral anchor, a feat for a man portraying an institutionalized black sheep. Phillip Seymour Hoffman is always a legitimate threat when he's nominated, and his portrayal of Father Brendan in "Doubt" is as solid as ever. And Robert Downey Jr.'s performance in "Tropic Thunder" is nothing short of outrageous-it's a risk-taking move for an actor who rarely settles for the ordinary. 
But despite the sentimentality· that rrll,ght come along with this decision, the Academy should choose Heath Ledger on Sunday night. Ledger's performance as the Joker in "The Dark Knight" a transformative, revolutionary approach to a role that audiences have already seen on the big and small screen. Ledger tormentc;; his predecessors, become darker, funnier and more disturb­than most actors dare to let themselves. Ledger would become only the second actor to 
win a golden statue, a real testament to his performance. 
{_,Ol~r:a.cr Analise at edu. 
SHANE STEINBERG Scene Writer 
1. 
"The Wrestler:" An awe-inspiring tour de force of a film, Darren Aronofsky's masterpiece is so deeply pene­trating that it becomes a sort of beautiful requiem. Mickey Rourke's performance as an over-the-hill wrestler trying to hold onto the false hope that he can mount a comeback is iconic at the least and deserves placement alongside the great screen perf-ormances of all time. 

2. 
"4 Months. 3 Weeks, 2 Days:" This isn't a movie about illegal abortion in the communist bloc. No, it's a surreal, downright horrifying freefall into the confines of human suffering and isolation so washed in unbearable 


rawness, that at its end, a part of you will wish that you hadn't seen it because of how scarred it leaves you. 
3. 
"Wall-E:" Very little dialogue and a robot with feel­ings as the main character? No problem. This searing love poem straight from the masterminds at Pixar stu­dios is so heartfelt that its title character has probably become the studio's most beloved, which is saying a lot. This is one of those rare films that even the coldest of hearts can't keep from cheering for. 

4. 
"Waltz With Bashir:" A paradox of a film, this ani­mated documentary about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in the 1980's is a marvel in -every sense of the word. It will at once tug and tear at your insides forcing you to want to look away in anguish, only to fail because the animation draws you in and doesn't let you escape its 


·I 


THE OBSERVER 

ky? Well, The Scene is. After a year of cinematic glory, rang­
"The Dark Knight" to lesser-known lovable films like "The wide variety for viewer's cinematic pleasure. Now, it's profes­self-proclaimed movie experts to pic~ and choose this year's for Oscar winners are... 
otherworldly allure. In the end, this is powerful filmmak­ing at its best. 
5. "Revolutionary Road:" This is the most underrated film of 2008. Sam Mendes directs Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet in this emotionally wrought, brutally honest drama about the struggle to hold onto one's individual­ism when its seems as though life is resigning itself only to leave behind a numb existence. There isn't an ounce of happiness in this film, but it works because of how well it's put together and how poignant the end result is. 
6~ "Let.The Right One In:" One of this year's real finds, this foreign gem of a film takes the huge risk of trying to tell the tale of a young vampire girl who unexpectedly falls in love with a socially outcast schoolboy, and sur­prisingly enough, it works. 
BEST DIRECTOR: DANNY BOYLE 
This year's nominees for achievement in directing are David Fincher for "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button;" Danny Boyle for "Slumdog Millionaire;" Ron Howard for "Frost/Nixon;" Gus Van Sant for "Milk;" and Stephen Daldry for "The Reader." Despite the presence of previous winners in the mix, and Daldry's unique place in Academy Award his­tory (he's been nominated for each of the three films he's directed), the Oscar will go to Boyle. "Slumdog Millionaire" owes its creative, Bollywood-infused style of filmmaking to Boyle, along with the relentless sense of energy that pervades the entire film. In a lesser director's hands, "Slumdog': could have easily fallen into cliches, but Boyle managed to craft a film that does not shy away from harsh realities and yet retains a joyful, uplifting spirit. This movie represents a new style of international filmmaking. completely different from any of the other films nominated in this category in this and in past years, and its director should be recognized for .his remarkable achievement. For those who didn't see "Slum dog" and can't understand what the fuss is about, just look at-the indications from other award shows so far this year. Boyle has won a Golden Globe, a BAFTA, and an award from the Director's Guild of America. On Sunday night, he will win an Academy Award as well. 
Please Contact Ellie Halt at ehall4@nd.edu. 
BEST ACTRESS: KATE WINSLET 
This is Kate Winslet's year. Twelve years ago her ship sank in the bitter battle for Best Actress, 
to H~~t \t:PMtJ~~~f~i~Jt £~:·-~ .... '... '-'£>~<..........~ 
e Reai:let ..... She's won for· this role tWt~e"a.lteady, at the the SAGs, both gave it to her in the Supporting Actress category. This isn't even her most successful film at the bpx office this year. That was "Revolutionary Road," her kickback reunion piece with 
Leonardo DiCaprio. 
The dark horse for this category is Anne Hathaway. Long gone are the days of frizzy hair and Disney princess endings. She's nominated for hnr role as a recovering adclict in "Rachel Getting Married," a performance that turned heads and revealed to the world this girl really does have acting chops. 
But ifWmslet doesn'twin, it will most certainly go to Meryl Streep. Always a safe bet. Angelina Jo!ie, like her co-pilot Brad Pitt, is just a novelty nomination, and Melissa Leo is the Academy's way of proving it tries not to play favorites. Nice try, but this one belongs to Hollywood's proven goddess. Winslet. 
Please Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu. 
BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS: PELNELOPE CRUZ 
Penelope Cruz will take home the Oscar her role in "Vicky Cristina Barcelona." With Kate Winslet out of the way (for most awards, she was nominated in this category for "The Reader," but at Academy Awards, this role earned her a Best Actress nomination), Cruz looks like she will be the winner. She has received eight nominations from the major awards circuit and has won five of them for her role as the unstable ex-wife of Javier Bardem's artist. vvtnslet was easily her main competition. Amy Adams and Taraji 
P. Henson, although deserving of their nominations, don't seem to be serious contenders for the award. The most likely to keep Cruz from the award are Viola Davis for her brief role in "Doubt" and Maris a Tomei for "The Wrestler". People just love Davis as the mother of a potentially abused boy, and Tomei easily wins Mickey Rourke's heart, and the audience's, as a caring stripper. However, the odds are still in Cruz's favor. She will likely walk away \vith her first statue for her second nomination. She was previously nominated Best Actress in 2007 for the Spanish-language film "Volver." 
Please Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu. 
7. "The Curious of Benjamin Button:" It's the "Forrest 9. "Slumdog Millionaire:" A critical darling that has Gump" of 2008, with Brad Pitt showing once again that left audiences cheering all across the country, "Slumdog not only is he a A-list movie star, but a gifted actor. David Millionaire" is, in essence, this year's "Juno," or if you Fincher's time-driven, wildly imaginative love story may want to go one step further, 2006's "Little Miss be a bit long and sloppily edited, but overall it succeeds Sunshine." Only, for some reason, it has succeeded in in being what so many other movies try to be but fall dominating this awards season. It's a loveable film and a 
short of being-epic. great one at that, but when it really comes down to it, 
8. "The Dark Knight:" Undoubtedly the audience this is probably this year's most overrated film. favorite of 2008, "The Dark Knight," is one of those 10. "Shotgun Stories:" A truly American story of 
once-in-a-blue-moon films that unite both general audi­redemption and family rivalry. this small, hardly seen ences and critics alike. Although It.any factor-s make up Southern masterpiece is as subtle as they come, which is 
both ·its greatest success, and the single greatest obstaclethe film's success, Heath Ledger's career-defining per­
keeping it from being a true Goliath among films.
formance as The Joker is the single reason why "The Dark Knight" manages to be the accomplishment that it 
Please Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu.
is. 

,_ 
• 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

Friday, February 20, 2009 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 




Duke rebounds with victory over St. John's 
Struggling Xavier falls again to Charlotte 65-60 as Mack scores 12 points in final eight minutes for the young 4~ers 
AP 

St. John's guard Quincy Roberts drives over Duke's Jon Scheyer In the Blue Devll's 76-69 win Thursday at Madison Square Garden. 

.. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
FOUND: Ring of 4 keys found in the melting snow piled up near Main Circle. Contact Michael at 574-309-5854. 
FoR RENT 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. 
andersonNDrentals.com 
FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offering 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 57 4-250-7653. 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. 
Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www. kramerhouses.com 
NOW LEASING. LAFAYETIE TOWNHOUSES. $350/PERSON. 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS FREE INTERNET NEWLY REMODELED. CALL 574·234-2436 OR WWW.KRAMERHOUSES.COM 

Student rentals 2009/2010. St. 
• Peter/SB Ave. Homes. $1300· $2000/month. 5-7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd floor. Contact Bruce Gordon 574·876-3537. 
Townhomes at Dublin Village, Irish 
Crossing, Wexford Place, Ivy Quad. 
3 and 4 Bdr. Only a few left for 
09/10. CES Property Management 
574-968-0112 CESOM.info 
1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS 
across from Notre Dame Stadium_ 
The Foundry features private baths 
for every bedroom, washer/dryer, 
fitness center, theater room, tanning 
salon, game room. Preleasing for 
August 

Call 574·232·1400 or lease online www.foundryliving.com 
House for rent. Very clean 3/4 br, 1.5 bath, 2 living rooms and big backyard. Avail 09-10 school year. Affordable and verv. close to campus_ CaiiAJ@ ( 440)463-5633. 
FoR SALE 
609 N_ Ironwood-$149,900 • OPEN HOUSE (February 22, Sunday 1·4PM). Near Notre Dame, Great for Students and visiting professors! Solid brick/stone ranch. 3bdrms. 1.5 baths and 1 ,844SF For more info. pis. call Jan Lazzara (Cressy & Everett) 574-651-1665. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1· 7819 or Ann Firth at 1·2685. For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Studentsi/Otfice of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edu/health-safety/assis­tance-for·pregnant-students. If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/health· safety/assauiV If you boat a lot you are known as a boating enthusiast. I like to bowl, but I just don't ever want to be referred to as a bowling enthusiast. 
Ihope they call me a guy that likes to bowl. 
I went to a record store, they said they specialized in hard-to-find records. Nothing was alphabetized. 
I don't have any children but if I had a baby I would have to name it so I'd buy a "baby naming book". Or I would invite somebody over who had a cast on. 
I order the club sandwich all the time. but I'm not even a member. man_ I don't know how I get away with it. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Duke was in rare territory for one of college basketball's premier programs over the last few decades. So the ninth-ranked Blue Devils went back to basics to right things for at least one game, a 76-69 victory over St. John's on Thursday night. 
"We stopped playing with an e'tlge on defense and that hap­pens and it doesn't take much for it to happen," Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said after the Blue Devils snapped a two­game losing streak that was part of them losing four of six. "We just have to find that edge and tonight we were closer to it and Elliott helped in that regard. It was a collective response on the defensive end." 
Freshman Elliott Williams, who Krzyzewski said added some "verve" in recent prac­tices, made just his second start of the season and he was the early spark Duke needed on the defensive end, pressuring the ball and improving the team's speed."I found out I was start­ing two days ago after a couple of good practices," said Williams, who had a career­high 11 points on 5-for-6 shoot-

I, 
~ 
ing at Madison Square Garden. "I tried to be a. spark for the veteran guys. I tried to think of it as just a game but it was pretty exciting." 
Gerald Henderson scored 19 points for the Blue Dev:ils as the starters scored all but four points. 
The Blue Devils (21-5) looked more like the team that has spent the entire season in the top 10, including one week at No. 1, hitting 3-pointers and converting turnovers into points. 
Jon Scheyer had 18 points, Kyle Singler scored 15 and Lance Thomas added nine for Duke. 
"This has been a tough time for us, the last couple of weeks but that's what the Atlantic Coast Conference and the Big East does to its members," Krzyzewski said. "We were knocked back a little bit and we have to recover. This was a big step in the right direction." 
The Blue Devils finished 7 -for­
15 on 3s (46.7 percent), the first 
time since Jan. 24 they shot 
better than 33 percent from 
beyond the arc. They were 3­
for-16 in the loss to Boston 
College on Sunday. 
"We weren't in a slump, it's a 

game of percentages and they 
come around," Singler said, 
. sounding like the shooter he is. "We got good shots tonight and we made good shots." 
D.J. Kennedy had 20 points for the Red Storm (12-14), who have lost five straight overall and six in a row to Duke. The Blue Devils have won 13 of the last 15 meetings and this win improves their record at Madison Square Garden in the series to 5-1. 
With Singler and Scheyer both going 2-for-3 on 3s in the first half and St. John's matching its season average for a game with 14 turnovers, Duke was able to take a lead as big as 32-18 with 
4:48 left and the Blue Devils led 37-26 at halftime. 
They led by as many as 16 points in the second half, the last time at 60-44 on a jumper by Thomas with 10:09 to play. St. John's closed to 74-69 on two free throws by Malik Boothe with 15.6 seconds to play, but Scheyer made two free throws to seal it. 
"We just didn't get some shots down," said St. John's coach Norm Roberts whose team shot 54 percent (27 -for-50), its sec­ond-best mark of the season. He did explain the turnovers. "Youth and inexperience and trying to make something hap­pen when it's not there." 
Henderson said the Blue Devils did take the game as a must-win. 
"Absolutely we did. We had lost four of six," he said. "We got a win and that's part of how we want to play. This was a big win for us." 
Charlotte 65, No. 16 Xavier 
60 

No. 16 Xavier's latest loss in its puzzling slide left coach Sean Miller fuming and Charlotte celebrating like old times. 
Able to corral its young but raw talent and finally getting top scorer Lamont Mack hot late in the game, the 49ers stunned No. 16 X a vier on Thursday, dropping the strug­gling Musketeers to second place in the Atlantic 10. 
On a night the 49ers retired the jersey of 2005 Conference .. USA player of the year Eddie Basden, the 49ers {10-15, 4-7) played like the teams that used to contend in that competitive league before realignment, leaving their suffering fans 
pouring onto the court for a confetti-dropping party. 
"This team, I've said it all year, has never quit and never stopped believing~ despite all the injuries and adversity that we've had," coach Bobby Lutz said. "It's amazing how hard they work and how much they believe that we can beat any­body we play. 
"We' also know that we've got a fine margin for error." It's why they needed the five 
3-pointers and 16 points from Ian Andersen and why the tide turned when Mack got out of his funk, scoring all 12 points in the final 8 minutes, including a 3-pointer with 31 seconds left to put Charlotte ahead 62-58. 
C.J. Anderson had 13 points and seven rebounds for the Musketeers (21-5, 9-3), who got only nine points from senior 
B.J. Raymond in their third straight road loss. 
Upset with confusion over who should go first in the postgame news conference, Miller declined to come to the podium and released a brief statement after his team slipped a half-game behind Dayton in the A-10. 
"They're playing their best basketball of the season right now," Miller said of Charlotte. "We are not playing well right now. We need to fix some things and it needs to start with prac­tice tomorrow." 
Xavier, which has had two stints in the top 10, may fall out of the rankings as it continued its funk that's included losses to Dayton and Duquesne. 
In a back-and-forth game with 24 lead changes and 17 ties, Mack scored six consecu­tive points to put Charlotte ahead 56-53. A minute later Andersen hit an off-balance 3 from the right wing to give Charlotte a 59-55 lead with 2:21left. 
Xavier got within 59-58 on Ande-rson's driving layup with 49 seconds left before Mack's 3 sent the Halton Are·ria crowd into a frenzy. 
An'Juan Wilderness, whq scored 15 points, iced it by going 3-for-4 from the foul line in the final 11 seconds. 
"It was great. I love the atmosphere," Wilderness said. ''I can't even put it into words right now." 
Xavier cruised to a 22-point home win over Charlotte last month behind a 20-rebound advantage. But..Jhe 49ers were without Wilderness, who was since returned from a stress fracture in his foot. 
Despite its poor record, the athletic if not polished 49ers entered having won four of their past five home games, including a win over now-No. 25 Dayton just before the Flyers knocked off Xavier. 
And while Xavier controlled the inside, it struggled to keep up with Charlotte's frenzied pace behind point guard DiJuan Harris . 






ATION 


CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE sERVICEs page 17
Friday, February 20, 2009 
Fila ITA Division I Men's Tennis Rankings 
team points previous 
1 Ohio St. 25 1 2 Texas 24 2 3 Georgia 23 3 4 UCLA 22 4 5 Virginia 21 5 6 Southern California 20 6 7 Florida 19 
7 
8 Tennessee 18 8 9 Mississippi 17 
9 
10 Baylor 16 10 11 Stanford 15 11 12 Tulsa 14 
12 13 tllinois 13 13 14 Texas A&M 12 15 15 LSU 11 16 16 Florida St. 10 11 17 Oktaho!fla St. 9 18 18 Michigan 8 14 19 Alabama 1 19 20 Pepperdine 6 20 21 Wakt: Forest 5 21 22 North Carotin! 4 22 23 Miami (Fla.} 3 23 24 California 2 24 25 NOTRE DAME 1 25 
ITA Division I Women's Tennis Rankings 
'-'··team points previous 
1 Northwestern 25 f 2 California 24 2 3 UCLA 26· 3 4 Baylor 22 4 5 Stanford 21 5 6 Georgia 20 6 7 Georgia Tech 19 8 8 Duke 18 9 9 Southern California 17 10 
9 . florida. . ·) u •. 16 . 't····
17 v4•
11 North c·aronna 15 
12 Clemson 14 11 13 fresno St. 13 12 14 NOTRE DAME 12 14 15 Miami (Fla.} 11 13 16 Vanderbilt 10 15 11 Arltansas 9 16 18 Michigan 8 18 19 Arizona St. 7 19 20 Kentucky 6 20 21 TCU 5 21 22 Tennessee 4 22 23 LSU 3 23 24 William & Mary. 2 24 25 TexasA&M 1 NR 
Men's USFCA College Fencing Coaches' Poll 
team  points  previous  
1  NOTRE DAME  10  1  
2  Penn St.  9  1  
3  Ohio St.  8  3  
4  Penn  7  6  
5  Coltimbia  6  4  
6  Princeton  5  5  
7  St. John's (N.Y.)  4  9  
8  Duke  3  10  
9  Harvard  2  7  
10  Stanford  1  8  



around the dial 
NBA 
Dallas at Houston 
8:00 p.m., ESPN 
New Orleans at L.A. Lakers 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 
PGA 


Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Eight months after winning the 
U.S. Open on one good leg, a healthy Tiger Woods is returning to golf 
Woods said on his Web site Thursday that he will defend his· title next week in the Accenture Match Play Championship, believing his reconstructed left knee and his game are good enough to win. 
''I'm now ready to play again," Wood'> said. 
The Match Play Championship in Tucson, Ariz., begins Wednesday. 
Players whom Woods has beaten so often while cOin­piling 65 victories were 
IN BRIEF 

happy to hear he was com­ing back. 
"He was ready to go weeks ago," Stuart Appleby said at Hiviera. "I don't think he needs to do a couple of laps around the track. He'll be on that horse and he'll be whip­ping it." 
The timing for Woods to end his 254-day break from competition could not be bet­ter for the PGA Tour, which has seen television ratings plunge after the world's No. 1 player had to miss the sec­ond half of the season, including two majors, the Hyder Cup and the FedEx Cup playoffs. 
"We are delighted that Tiger Ls returning to compe­tition and look forward to watching him compete next week," commissioner Tim Finchem said in a statement. 
The last shot Wood-; hit for real was a short par putt on the 9lst hole of the U.S. Open at Torrey Pines, where he defeated Rocco Mediate in a playoff to capture his 14th major, which Woods described as "probably the best ever" under the circum­stances. 
He had surgery after the Masters last year to repair cartilage damage in his left knee, and suffered a double stress fracture in his left leg while preparing for his return. 
He limped badly over the final few days of the U.S. Open, later saying the swelling wa.•• so bad at night that he couldn't see his knee cap. A week after winning, he had reconstructive sur­gery, the third operation on his left knee in five years. 
What to expect? 
"He's human," swing coach I lank Haney said. "He has played one tournament in 10 months. I vvould think he would be a little rtL'>ty, but I really don't know what to expect. Nothing with Tiger ever surprises me." 
Woods began hitting short irons toward the end of December, and friends such as Mark O'Meara and John Cook said he had been play­ing plenty of golf over the last few weeks at his home course in Florida. 
Spurs Ginobili out 2-3 
weeks with ankle injury 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -Manu Ginobili started the season dealing with an injury to one ankle. Now the San Antonio Spurs super-sub is sidelined because of the other one. 
Coach Gregg Popovich said Thursday before the Spurs played in Detroit that Ginobili is -expected to be sidelined for 2-3 weeks. 
"It's a stress reaction, not a stress fracture, which is impor­tant," Popovich said. "If it had been a stress fracture, there's no way he could have been playing, and certainly not as well as he has been." 
Ginobili had X-rays, an MRI and a CT scan, and Popovich said the results were encouraging. 
"The new bone is already start­ing to lay down, which means the healing process is underway," he said. ''We're thinking that it will be 2-3 more weeks from tonight." 

Rodriguez refuses to speak
further on steroid claims 
TAMPA, Fla. -Alex Rodriguez ducked follow-up questions about his drug use, refusing to address a report identifYing the cousin the Yankees star claims injected him with a banned sub­stance. 
''I'm not talking about it anymore," Rodriguez said Thursday. 
The slugger also wouldn't discuss Major League Baseball's attempt to interview him about his tainted past. 
''I'd rather not get into that," he said. 
The three-time AL MVP met with Yankees owner George Steinbrenner and workeri out on the main field at New York's spring training camp. Fans applauded and shouted encourage­ment, and critical shouts were at a min­imum. 
"The relief was just putting the uni­form back on and running out there with my teammates,:· Hodriguez said. "No matter what happens and what has occurred in my life, the baseball field is where I feel most comfortable." 
Guard Alston traded from 
Rockets to Magic at deadline 
HOUSTON -The Houston Rockets traded point guard Hafer Alston to Orlando and acquired Magic forward Brian Cook and Memphis guard Kyle Lowry on Thursday, two people with knowl­
edge  of  the  deal  told  The  
Associated Press.  
Memphis  also  received  the  

Magic's first-round draft pick as part of the deal, said the people, who requested anonymity because the trade had not been announced by any of the teams. 
The three-team swap eame one day after Rockets star· Tracy McGrady announced on his Web site that he'll have season-ending microfracture surgery on his trou­blesome left knee. 
The Magic, meanwhile, needed an experienced point guard after Jameer Nelson suffered a poten­tially season-ending shoulder injury Feb. 2. 
Friday, February 20, 2009 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Leach agrees to new contract with Texas Tech 
In the new contract that keeps
Assodated Press 
Leach at Tech through 2013, 
LUBBOCK, Texas -Texas .Leach only needs t-o notify Myers Tech and coach Mike Leach in writing to intervit~w at another agreed Thursday on a new con­sehoul. tract after months of contentious The contract also includes a negotiations. $250,000 bonus if Leach and 
Leach signed the contract Tech win the national champi­shortly after he and Kent Hance, onship, a $75,000 bonus if Tech the university's chancellor, met participates in a BCS Bowl and a 
for about two hours Thursday $50,000 bonus if Leach is picked afternoon to hammer out an as national coach of the year agreement. Hance said the nego­If Tech terminates the contract, tiating part lasted only about 15 the school must pay Leach minutes. •$400,000 for each year remain­
"Me and my family are thrilled ing on the agreement. And there to death that we're going to be in is no buyout amount. Lubbock for another five years," Hance said he is confident in 
Leach said at an evening news Leach will stick around for many 
conference. "I appreciate years. Chancellor Hance and Gerald "We'll just make tha_t zero on (Myers') efforts to allow us to stay the buyout," Hance said, recalling 
here and the opportunity to be his conversation with Leach earli­here to coach the Red Raiders for er in the day. "I know he's not many years to come." leaving." 
Weeks ago, Leach and Tech Myers said he has always want­essentially settled on the financial ed Leach to be Tech's coach. terms of a five-year, $12.7 million "I think that got lost with all the 

deal. But Leach took issue with rhetoric and speculation," Myers several clauses the school added said. "To put it mildly this has when the sides were trading pro­been a tough negotiation, and it's public hearing late Wednesday. without commenting to reporters. Tech was knocked out of BCS Under state law, the board had to contention with a blowout loss to
posals. The provision that both­good to get it behind us." He said he didn't want to unrea­
ered Leach the most would have On Tuesday, the school's Board grant his request. Leach then met sonably withhold permission for Oklahoma, then fell to Mississippi of Regents scheduled a special with Hance to discuss his con­Leach to talk to other schools, in the Cotton Bowl to finish 11-2. 
triggered his firing and a $1.5 
Public opinion seemed to favor

million penalty if he interviewed meeting hours before a second tract. just that he wanted to know for another job without getting deadline passed without Leach The termination clause that led when Leach was doing it. Leach as the drama unfolded. A permission from Myers, the ath­accepting Tech's ..last and final" to the stalemate had been added In their ninth season under few dozen supporters rallied on letic director. Leach's existing offer. The board planned to meet after Leach flew to Seattle to Leach, the Red Raiders reached his behalf Tuesday, the day contract had no such restriction. Friday but that meeting was can­interview for the Washington job unprecedented heights in 2008. before a Texas Tech alumnus and 
He was prepared to keep celed once the deal was sealed. in December. Myers wrote to They went 1 0-0 for the first time another fan took out a full-page coaching under the remaining The meeting was to have been Leach's agents that he didn't and beat top-ranked Texas to ad in the Lubbock newspaper two years of a five-year, $10 mil­in private to discuss Leach's sta­want the coach interviewing else­secure the highest ranking in blasting the Texas Tech adminis­
lion contract. tus, but the coach requested a where, then returning to Lubbock school history at No. 2. Texas tration for its stance. 
{ 
... 
Congratulations Andy Manion 
2009 Churchill Scholar Mathematics and Music Major Member of the Glynn Family Honors Program 

Andy is one of fourteen Churchill Scholars, and the first Churchill Scholar from Notre Dame since the program began in l 963. He will study for the Certificate of Advanced Study in Pure Mathematics at the University of Cambridge where he will pursue his interests in algebraic and differential geometry and algebraic topology. A Goldwater Scholar, Andy has participated in two National Science Foundation Research Experiences for Undergraduates, and he is the recipient of the Balles Award for the outstanding senior honors mathematics major, the Taliaferro Prize for first place in the mathematica~ essay competition for sophomores, and the Aumann Prize for first year students in mathematics. In addition to his mathematical interests, Andy has a de~p passion for music he plays percuss.ion, saxophone, oboe, Englfsh horn, and piano. He is a member of the Marching Ba~d (Drum Captain), the Symphonic Winds Ensemble (saxophone section leader), the Orchestra (oboist) and the Chorale. After Cambridge, Andy plans to do his PhD in theoretical Mathematics in the United States.· 
The Churchill Scholarship encourages ·the exchange ofknowledge and the sharing of ideas in science and technology between the US and Great Britain. This pro~ram enables outstanding American students to do graduate work in engineering, mathematics and the physical and natural sciences at Churchill College, Cambridge University. 
( 
See http://winstonchurchillfoundation.org/ and the Office of Undergraduate and Post-Baccalaureate Fellowships 
(www.nd.eduj...fellows) for more information on the Churchill Scholarship. , 
r::::F.llJNIVE RSITY OF 
WNOTRE DAME 


Friday, February 20, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ND SOFTBALL 

TRACK & FIELD 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame will head west this weekend to take on another top team. 
The Irish ( 1-3) began their season Feb. 13 with a 10-1 loss against top-ranked Alabama in the Barna Bash. Today, the team will begin the three-day Nike Invitational in Palo Alto, Cal., with games against the Sacramento State Bandits and the No. 5 Stanford Cardinal. 
On Saturday, the Irish will take on Sacramento State and Stanford again. The team will finish the weekend by facing the Western Kentucky Lady Toppers on Sunday morning. 
Though the beginning of the 
Call574-968-0112 
Irish travel to Nike Invitational 
season did not go Notre Dame's way, several bright spots shone through. 
In a 2-1 win over East Carolina on Feb. 14, sopho­more Katie Fleury hit a home run and a single, tallying both RBI. Sophomore Sadie Pitzenberger also had two hits in the game. 
The two lead the Irish with batting averages of .364 and .444, respectively. 
Senior pitcher Brittany Bargar also got off to a strong start. In 13.2 innings at the Barna Bash, she compiled a 
2.56 ERA with 12 strikeouts. 
Barger will have her hands full with Stanford (8-1). The Cardinal has already defeated . several ranked teams and averages 8.6 runs per game. Their offense has been sparked by freshman Ashley 

Top athletes travel to Big East finale
Hansen, who leads the team with a .531 batting average and two home runs. 
Stanford's top pitcher. sen­ior Missy Penna. is 6-1 with a 
1.02 ERA in seven starts. She has struck out 68 batters and walked only eight in 41 innings. 
The Irish take on Stanford today and Saturday at 5:30 
p.m. both nights. 
Sacramento State {2-0) has not played as much as Stanford. but already shows signs of offensive prowess. The Bandits hit five home runs in their two wins over Pacific, three of which came from the bat of senior Jamie Schloredt. 
Notre Dame will play Sacramento State today at 
1:00 p.m. and Saturday at 7:45p.m. 
Western Kentucky (5-2) comes to Palo Alto following a successful campaign at the Auburn Invitational, which ended with a 13-0 victory over Eastern Kentucky. 
After that performance, Toppers junior Lindsay Antone was named co-Sun Belt Conference Player of the Week. Antone hit for a .637 batting average in three games with two doubles and 5 RBI. She leads the team with a .480 overall batting average. 
The Irish do not face the Lady Toppers until Sunday, and will play them at 12:00 p.m. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

By DOUG FARMER Sports Writer 
From the first days of fall practice, the Irish coaches have focused the team on this weekend. · "Where we really want to run is the Big East champi­onships," coach Jow Piane said from the start. After each meet along the way, he repeatedly said, "This was just one small to getting t-he team ready for the Big East." 
Those long-awaited Big East Championships have finally arrived. The team departed for New York City on Thursday for the competition both freshmen Jordan Rincon and junior Balazs Molnar run­ning the 400. and junior Jack Howard will represent Notre Dame in the 800. 
Sophomore Justin Schneider finished second in the multi­events as a freshman, and will have a chance to improve on that this weekend, with strong Irish participation throughout the field events supporting him. The Schipper brothers, Matt, a junior, and Kevin, a freshman, have already quali­fied for the NCAA Championships, and will pole vault this weekend as well. Meanwhile, Eric Quick is jump­ing in both the triple and long 
jumps. 

this weekend. All the com­
A couple of ..People don't petitors face seniors lead understand how good strong competi­
each the men's tion at the Big
the Big East 
and women's East champi­
squads across Conference is in track onships. The the country. andfield.,, stiffest opposi­For the men, tion will come senior Bill from Connecticut ,. 
Joe Piane 
Buzaid will and Louisville, as compete in the Irish coach both are antici­500-meter pated to fight for 
dash. Patrick Smyth will race in both the 3,000 and the 5,000, and Dan Clark will do his part in the mile, a notoriously difficult Big East event. 
"The mile is a bear. There are two guys seeded under four minutes." head coacb Joe Piane said. "Distance running has always been pretty darn good in the Big East." 
As for the women, the domi­nating field events duo of sen­iors Anna Weber and Mary Saxer expect to headline the women's performances. Weber hopes to place in both the shot put and the weight throw, while Saxer will try to keep her incredible pole vault season rolling. 
The deep underclassmen hope to follow the seniors' examples. In the mile, fresh­men Jordan Carlson will join Clark, while joining Buzaid in the middle-distance events are 
• 
• 
•
• 
•
• 

• • Eat well. Be happy• •
•
• 
• 

• 
hfOt.J...i·J.,-t..Ja.,h.rin~ a.rr~ oJ ;frt:.s1t1 or~IC. 1 •
•
• 
•
• lti~ ~~l'hJ joctt.S. 
•

~---------. •
•

FEATURING HOURS 
•
•• )( ~~K 

Breakfast served all day Sunday -Joesday;7a,m,-2p.m. •• 
• 
•
• ~-__ A~+! 

House-made soups, salads, dnd sandwiches -Woonesday ·· SatUrday; Ta.m. ~ 9p.m. •
;wtd-~
• 
•

Gourmet pizzas •
•• £verv WCI.Inesda~ .-enjoy aq\ass 
Great wine selection!
• .orbonle at ~ne wine at 

574.968.3030 • •• 
• 
Dinner specials Wednesday -Saturday
• 

50o/o offi Reservationsaccepted forany meal. ••
•
• Ask about our catering!
•
• 
•
•
• 
• 
Located inToscana Park ShoppingCentre • 303 Florence Ave., Granger, IN 46530
• 
• E·mail: lnfo@uptownkit£hen.net • Web: www.UptownKitchen.net• 

.the first and sec­ond team places in both the men's and women's results. 
"People don't understand how good the Big East Conference is in track and field," Piane said. "Historically, the Big East is terrific in track 
and fielct.·· 
"Year in and year out, track may be the best sport the Big East has. Now, this year bas­
ketball may be, but year in and year out, track or cross coun­try is the most competitive sport the conference has." 
That sport will have a chance to live up to its billing this weekend in the Big Apple. Most of the finals are sched­uled for Sunday, but the long jump, the weight throw, the pole vault, the 5,000, and the distance medley will conclude Saturday. 
Contact Doug Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

Friday, February 20, 2009 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
No. 11 Irish face off against No.1 Wildcats 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's campaign for a championship continues as it opens its home season this weekend as it hosts the No.1 Northwestern Wildcats Friday and the Ohio State Buckeyes Sunday. 
The No. 11 Irish have met with the Wildcats nine times in their 13 seasons-the Wildcats hold a 7-2 edge in the series. Last year, Northwestern ended Notre Dame's season with a 15­7 win in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. 
Against the Buckeyes, the Irish hold a 7-6 edge in the two teams' history, going 3-4 at home. In their last meeting, Notre Dame took the game 14­11. 
Notre Dame is coming into this game 1-0 after a 22-7 win last weekend at Duquesne in its season opener. Ten different Irish players scored in the game, led by junior Gina Scioscia and sophomore Shaylyn Blaney, each with four goals. 
All 13 of Notre Dame's sea­sons have been coached by head coach Tracy Coyne, who is in her 22nd season of coaching after two at Denison, where she was 23-5, and seven at Roanoke with a 91-21 record. Coyne led Denison and Roanoke to a eombined six Div. III NCAA 
tournament appearanees. In the past seven years. Notre Dame has advanced to the NCAA tournament four times, including a first-time appear­
ance in the finals in 2006. 
Leading the Irish this season are senior captains Shannon Burke and Jillian Byers, both preseason all-Big East selec­tions. Burke is key to Notre Dame's defense, coming out of last season with eight goals and three assists, second on the team for ground balls (33) and draw controls (51), and led the team in caused turnovers (52). 
Byers has been a unanimous selection on the all-Big East team her last three seasons, and a three-time second team All-American. Last season, she led the Irish with 67 goals, 14 assists for 81 points, and a school record of 52 draw con­trols. She holds the Notre Dame record as the all-time leader in goals with 182, is seventh in assists, and third in points. 
Both the Wildcats and Buckeyes will have to be wary of another Irish senior this sea­son, goalkeeper Erin Goodman. Goodman has made 3 7 consec­utive starts since the beginning of the 2007 season, and has a career 24 wins, the most recent being at Duquesne. Last season she had single-season records of 172 saves and played over 1,100 minutes. She is third for the Irish with career saves of 
316. Thought you would enjoy this one. 
Notre Dame goes up against Northwestern Friday at 7 p.m. in the Loftus Sports Center, and 
Ohio State Sunday, 1 p.m. also at home. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
NFL 

Panthers sign All-Pro Gross 
Associated Press 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. -The Carolina Panthers placed the franchise tag on Julius Peppers Thursday, setting up a potential nasty showdown with their four-time Pro Bowl defensive end who wants to play elsewhere next season. 
The move came moments after the Panthers signed All­Pro left tackle Jordan Gross to a six-year deal worth more than $30 million in the first three seasons. Having locked up Gross, the Panthers then placed the non-exclusive tag on Peppers, who had said he would request a trade under that scenario. 
"Julius was expecting to be franchised," Peppers' agent, Carl Carey, wrote in a text message. "We will continue to work toward a resolution that is in line with his professional goals." 
Under the non-exclusive franchise tag rules, Carolina offered Peppers a one-year guaranteed deal worth $16.7 million that will immediately count against the salary cap. While Peppers can still solieit offers from other teams, any club signing Peppers would have to surrender two first­round draft picks to Carolina. 
Placing the tag on Peppers theoretically allows the Panthers to trade him for something less than two first­rounders and get some com­pensation instead of letting the cornerstone of their 
defense walk away in free 
agency. But Peppers has 
power because no team would 
likely trade for him without 
first securing a long-term con­tract agreement. 
A person close to Peppers on Wednesday said he would agree to be traded to only four teams, including the Dallas Cowboys, who do not hold a first-round pick. So the Panthers face the prospect of not being able to work out {1. trade and then having Peppers either hold out or be disgrun­tled while eating up a giant portion of the salary cap. 
But while Peppers has been adamant that he won't sign a long-term deal with Carolina, general manager Marty Hurney wouldn't rule out Peppers returning and said the team will not immediately seek a trade. 
"We've said many times how many times we value Julius," Hurney said. "We would like him to play here." 
NFL teams can place the franchise tag on just one play­er, so the Panthers were scrambling to come to terms with Gross before the Thursday afternoon deadline. 
Carolina's first-round pick in 2003 played last season under the franchise tag in a one­year, $7.45 million deal. His . new contract makes him one of the NFL's highest-paid offensive lineman. 
"Jordan is one of the top left tackles in our league and our offensive line was one of our strong points of our team last year," Hurney said. "Jordan's a very big part of that. ... We're so glad we were able to come to an agreement and be 
able to have Jordan here for 
another six years." 

Gross, who made his t=irst 
Pro Bowl and was voted a 
first-team All-Pro last season, had said he wanted to stay in Carolina and was the key cog in an impwved offensive line that helped running backs DeAngelo Williams and Jonathan Stewart have break­out seasons. 
The moves mean that all five starters on the line are locked up in long-term deals. The defensive line, meanwhile, is in flux -and Gross' contract allowed the Panthers to play hardball with Peppers. 
"He actually texted me con­gratulations after I signed and said you deserve it," Gross said of Peppers in a brief phone interview Thursday night. "I think it was much easier on the team dealing with him." 
Peppers, the No. 2 overall pick in the 2002 draft, is a freakish athlete and Carolina's career sacks leader. But Peppers has also been criti­cized for inconsistent play ­he had a career--high 141f2 sacks this past season, but a career-low 2112 the year before. 
Even in 2008, Peppers didn't record a single tackle against Denver and was shut down in Carolina's upset . loss to Arizona in the playoffs. 
Peppers, who turned down a lucrative contract extension before the start of last season, has said he would like to play outside linebacker in a 3-4 defense instead of staying in Carolina's 4-3 alignment. 
There is precr.dent to slap­ping the franchise tag on a player and then dealing him. Kansas City traded defensive end Jared Allen to Minnesota last year for a first-round pick and two third-round choices. 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Freshman Zeller returns from injury for North Carolina 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -Tyler Zeller couldn't pass up a chance to play a meaningful role in North Carolina's run at another national championship. 
The 7 -foot freshman broke his wrist two games into the sea­son, but instead sitting out and picking up another year of eligi­bility, 26 games into the Tar Heels' season Zeller played in his third college contes~ Wednesday. 
The 2008 Indiana Mr. Basketball from Washington High School grabbed 8 minutes in North Carolina's 89-80 victo­ry over instate rival North Carolina State. 
"It is one of those things where I am losing half a season, but I know at the same time, these are my teammates," Zeller said. "I've got to help support them if I can help them in any way.... I feel like I'm obli'gated, just because they have been great to me the whole time I have been injured. 
"As I come back ... if there's anything I can do to help them out, to help them get to their goal of winning a national championship, then I will help." 
It wasn't long ago that North Carolina took another hit when two other players were ruled out for the remainder of the season. The Tar Heels (24-2, 10-2 Atlantic Coast Conference) regained a measure of their once unrivaled depth with the earlier-than-expected return of Zeller. 

Zeller started the season· as the emergency replacement for then-injured star Tyler Hansbrough. but he broke his left wrist late in the second game of the year. 
Team officials said at the time his season was likely over because the injury had a nor­mal recovery period of 12-to-16 weeks. 

Friday, February 20, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MLB 
Glavine agrees to one year deal with Braves 
Associated Press 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. -Tom Glavine has returned to the Atlanta Braves for one more sea­son, reaching a preliminary agreement on a $1 million, one­year contract. 
The deal is likely to be announced Friday, a person familiar with the negotiations said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the Braves had not yet confirmed it. It will contain $3.5 million in bonuses based on roster time. 
"It's very close," Braves spokesman Brad Hainje said Thursday night. "They're going to talk again in the morning." 
The left-bander, who turns 43 next month, was 2-4 with a 5.54 ERA in 13 starts last season, cut short by an elbow injury. Glavine's partially torn elbow tendon was repaired on Aug. 21 by Dr. James Andrews, who also cleaned up Glavine's shoulder. 
A 305-game winner, Glavine spent his first 16 major league seasons with the Braves, win­ning the NL Cy Young Award in 1991 and 1998. 
The 10-time All-Star pitched for the Mets from 2003-07 and earned his 300th win with New York in 2007 before returning to Atlanta for the 2008 season, when he made $8 million. 
Glavine would earn a $1 mil­lion bonus when he is placed on the active roster and $1.25 mil­lion each for 30 and 90 days on the active roster. The Braves have the ability to defer the $2.5 million from the final two levels. 
He is not expected to report to spring training until about March 1, instead continuing his rehab program in the Atlanta area. 
The deal with Glavine will be a welcome bit of news in the Braves' camp, still reeling from Ken Griffey Jr.'s decision to sign with the Seattle Mariners. 
The 39-year-old Griffey had approached the Braves last week, expressing a desire to fin­ish his career in Atlanta, but apparently had a change of heart. He informed the Braves late Wednesday he was return­ing to the city where he played his first 11 big league seasons. 
Glavine will likely serve as Atlanta's fifth starter behind Derek Lowe, Jair Jurrjens, Javier Vazquez and Kenshin Kawakami. The lefty will have some extra time to rehab his elbow and shoulder, since the BraVflS won't need a fifth starter until April 19 because of days off. 
"It would be great to get Tommy back," manager Bobby Cox said. "It's alwavs better to have one more optio~." 
Glavine's return will likely ensure that top prospect Tommy Hanson gets a little more sea­soning in the minors. The 22­year-old right-hander has never pitched above Double-A, and the Braves would like him to get at least a half-season at their top farm club. 
"There's no question he will benefit from more time in the minor leagues," general manag­er Frank Wren said. "He will continue to develop and grow from his experiences." 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish net fifth straight win 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI Sports Writer 
With a come-from-behind singles victory by freshman Niall Fitzgerald, No..25 Notre Dame knocked off previously undefeated Northwestern University yesterday with a hard-fought 4-3 victory. The win marks the fifth straight Irish victory, bringing their overall record to 6-4. 
The match began with Steven Havens and Casey Watt falling to Northwestern's Alex Sanborn and Joshua Graves 8­2 in second doubles. The 13th­ranked doubles team of Brett Helgeson and Tyler Davis then won first doubles followed by a third doubles win by Niall Fitzgerald and Matt Johnson. The win gave Notre Dame a 1­0 lead early in the meet. 

Freshman Casey Watt tacked on a second point with a win at fourth singles. Northwestern's Joshua Graves kept it close, winning No. 6 singles over Notre Dame's freshman Samuel Keeton. 
The teams went back and forth once more with No. 122 Daniel Stahl winning at third singles followed by a three-set Northwestern win at second singles. No. 18 Brett Helgeson then ended his personal three­match singles win streak by dropping a three-set match to the Wildcats' Marc Dwyer. 
With the score deadlocked at three, Niall Fitzgerald pulled through and ensured the victo­ry for the Irish. After dropping the first set 1-6, Fitzgerald came back to win the second 
and third sets 6-2 and 7-5, respectively. The win is his third straight at singles. 
The schedule does not get any easier for the Irish as they next to travel to Columbus to face Ohio State. The No. 3 Buckeyes are currently 9-1 and coming off a victory over UCLA. The Buckeyes have a number of skilled tennis players. Their top-three have all been ranked in the top-five in the country at some point in their careers. It will be a major challenge for the Irish, as coach Bobby Bayliss considers them the "odds-on favorite to win this year's NCAA tournament." 
First serve is noon on Sunday. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish set to take on BYU, Utah 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
Fresh off a 7-0 thrashing of in-state rival Purdue Wednesday, the Irish will travel cross-country to take on Brigham Young and Utah in a dual-match road trip this weekend in Provo, Utah. 
No. 14 Notre Dame is cur­rently 7-1 on the season, including six victories over ranked opponents. The Irish's only loss came against top­ranked Northwestern in the 

semifinals of last weekend's ITA Indoor National champi­onships. 
Freshman Shannon Mathews has led the Irish so far this season notching a 6-0 record at the No. 6 singles spot. Mathews' 3-0 record at the Indoor National champi­onship tournament resulted in her being named to the All-Tournament team. She 
becomes the first Irish player to receive this honor. "Shannon has come up with big wins for us this season," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "She's really been able to build on her success as the season has progressed." Louderback has been very pleased with his team's per­formance so far. "I feel really good about where we are right now," he said. "At this point, I believe we can compete with any team in the country." Even with two early victo­ries over top-five teams Baylor and Stanford, Louderback is still looking for 
The 
his team to continue improv­ing with every match. 
"We have plenty of tough matches in the next few weeks and winning some close ones against top-five teams has definitely helped our confidence," he said. "But we have some things that we have to improve on to do well at the end of the year."
As for this stretch of match­es that will give the Irish a bit of a break after facing three top-five teams in a row, Louderback won't be taking the weaker opponents any lighter. "Doing well last weekend puts a bigger target on your back," he acknowledged. "So we really have to be ready for every team we play." After this weekend's long road trip, the Irish will return home for a three­game stretch at the Eck Tennis Pavilion starting with , 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 


Parents 

2-bath with ;200±SF :: free internet': washer drier and dishwasher:: central air cond~lioning :: 1arge balcony :: cathedra! ceilings 
Call Cnristina at o1~~~~J·1~l~ or email us at mana~er@ndsta~iumclub.com 
.. 
Friday, February 20, 2009 

page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
There ·is an appointe time everything, 
at1d a time for every affair under the heavens. A time to be 
born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to uproot the plant. A time to kill, and 


a time to tear dow11, and a time to build. A time to weep, and a 
time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance. 
A time to scatter stones, and a time to gather them; 
a time to embrace, and a tin1e to be far fron1 en1braces. 
r\ time to seek, and a titne to lose; a tin1e to keep, and a time to cast avvay....A titne to rend, and a time to se\v; 
• 

a est en a 
ea 




A time to love, at1d a tin1e to hate; a tin1e of war, at1d a time of peace. 
Friday, February 27 
"A Time To Heal" Dinner with Speakers 5-7:30 pm Legends 
John Cavadini, Department 01air and Professor of Theology 
Carolyn Nordstron1, Professor of Anthropology 
Tim Lathan1, President of Nfen Against Violence 
Kyle A.C. Rocca, Survivor of Sexual Assault 

Anonymous Student, Survivor of Sexual.Assault 
All are welcome and the din11er is free, 
but you need to RSVP by February 23 
to grc@nd.edu or 631-9340. 


311 LaFortune· 574.631.9340 • grc.nd.edu · grc@nd.edu 
j 
1. 
• 
Friday, February 20, 2009 

The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Tourney finishes Saturday 

·Lytle and Hoffman set records on Thursday 
heat later in the event final with a time of 20.05. Lytle's performance was good enough for fifth place in the event, as Cincinnati's Josh Schneider held onto first place after breaking the Big East record in the morning session with a time of 19.17. 
Lytle and Hoffman later teamed up to form the front half of Notre Dame's 200-yard freestyle relay team to further cement their status in the Irish record books. The Irish sprinters teamed with sopho­more Joshua Nosal and senior Danny Lutkus to break the Irish record with a time of 1:19.42, which was good for second place and an NCAA B­cut time. 
Arguably, the most impres­sive Irish performance of the day came in the 500-yard freestyle, as a dominant per­formance in the preliminaries put six Notre Dame.swimmers into the event finals. Sophomore Steven Brus won his first career conference title in the event with a time of 4:23.99, which earned him an NCAA B-cut time. Fellow sophomore Michael Sullivan finished in second place to garner all-conference honors while senior Jeff Wood fin­ished fourth. Juniors Jeff Wood and Andrew Deters fin­ished fifth and sixth, respec­tively, while Lutkus scored for the Irish in the eighth spot. In the consolation final, Nosal led the event for the first 400 yards but was overtaken by Connecticut's John Hogan in the final 100 to finish in sec­ond place. 
In other action, senior Bill Bauman finished third in the consolation finals of the 200­yard individual medley after a strong surge in a time of 1:50.63, the team's best of the season. 
Heading into the final two days of competition, Notre Dame leads Louisville by 25 points. The Irish will look to extend that lead on Friday, when the Big East Championships resume at the Indiana University Natatorium in Indianapolis at 10 a.m. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish in good shape to win lucky number 13 • 
. 

Miller sets school record in 50-yard freestyle 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
Coming into the second day of competition of their Big East Championship title defense, Notre Dame was in good shape. 
The No. 25 Irish were in led the field with 80 points, 12 ahead of second-place No. 23 Louisville. 
Shaking off the jitters from the first day, Notre Dame con­tinued to increase its lead over the Cardinals and the rest of the field Thursday with 209 points to bring its overall score to 289. Louisville held onto second with 242.5 points. 
Irish sophomore Amywren Miller had a record-breaking performance in the 50-meter freestyle. Her time of 22.37 made her the fastest swimmer in Notre Dame history, but couldn't e&rn her a win. She was out-touched by one one­hundredth of a second by Louisville junior Whitney Campbell. · 
Sophomore Lauren Sylvester started the day off well for the Irish with a third place finish in the first race of day -the 500 freestyle. She finished with a time of 4:50.32. 
Junior Megan Farrell and 
freshman Emily Barton placed next for the Notre Dame in the 200 individual medley. Farrell came in second and Barton finished less than a second behind her for third. The Cardinals once again took first place in the race. Notre Dame's Ashlee Edgell finished just outside of the top three with a time of 2:01.77. 
The Irish divers dominated the 1-meter springboard, with junior Natalie Stitt and sopho­more Heidi Grossman grab­bing the top two spots with scores of 290.15 and 268.05, respectively. 
In the final race of the day, the 200 freestyle relay team snagged second in 1:31.01, just shy of Louisville's winning mark. 
Under the direction of first­year head coach Brian Barnes, the young Irish squad will continue their quest for a record-extending 13th consec­utive Big East Championship. Barnes is used to winning after spending three seasons as an assistant at perennial 
powerhouse  Auburn  
University.  
The  meet  will  conclude  

Saturday. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 
..,/ . 

~·.·. 

..:rY 
~ 
~­

:·~~r 
K-'
')!.; 
~-­
'\I: 
~~:­
'1"· :)_·;. 
; . .... ::. 
--~ / 
,... 
~-·· 
~-... 
... 
... 
; . 
·., 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Spons Writer 
At the halfway point of the 2009 Big East Conference Championships, Notre Dame finds itself in a familiar posi­tion, leading the field with 296 points after two days of com­petition. 
The Irish followed up their strong performance on Wednesday as .two Notre Dame records fell on the day. In the consolation round of the 50-yard freestyle, Irish junior Andrew Hoffman recorded a time of 20.39, besting 2005 Notre Dame graduate Frank Krakowski's record by' .06 · seconds. Krakowski had originally set the record during the 2002-03 season, making it Notre Dame's longest standing record. 
However, Hoffman's record wouldn't last, as junior John Lytle bested his classmate one 



-

AWARENESS WEEK 

FEBRUARY 22 -MARCH 1 
2/22-3/1 "Giving aVolce" Poster Campaign featuring 
GRC FIRE Starters 
2/23 Take Back the Night 
Prayer Service; 7;00 pm at Log Chapel 
March around campus 
Speak Out at Bonfire; 8:00 pm at Holy Cross Hill 
(with hot-chocolate, smores and free t-shirts} 
2/24-26 Resource Tables from 11 :30 to 1:30pm in LaFortune 
and the Dining Halls 
2/25 Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention {CSAP) Student Forum 
7:00pm in Reekers Hospitality Room 
2/27 "A Time to Heal" Dinner with Faculty and Student Speakers Carolyn Nordstrom Professor of Anthropology John Cavadini Department Chair and Professor ofTheology
•

Kyle A.C. Rocca Survivor of sexual assault Tim Latham President of Men Against Violence Anonymous Student Survivor of sexual assault 
5:00-7:00 pm at legends. All are welcome and the dinner is free, but 
you must RSVP by February 23 to grc@nd.ed u or 631 ~9340 
3/1 SAAW Sunday featuring petitions, ribbons and 
prayer cards at Masses 


-

Friday, February 20, 2009

page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Boards 
continued from page 28 
could end up being a metaphor for Notre Dame's season. Despite many chances to get its season back on track, Notre Dame keeps letting them slip --· away and is in grave danger of missing the NCAA Tournament for the first time in three sea­sons. 
Saturday's game at Providence (16-10, 8-6) repre­sents one of Notre Dame's final chance to keep its Tournament hopes alive and prevent the metaphor from being complete for now. 

women's  or  running plays  
men's side.  She  for  her,  she's  
is one of the most well­rounded play­ers in the coun­ "[Moore] can control the game at both ends ofthe floor, she·s a  just creating her own shot right now and playing within  
try.  great defender. She  the framework  
"She's an amazing play­er," McGraw  can score zn so many different ways and  of the offense," McGraw said. Even though  
said.  "She's  she·s just pretty  Bruszewski has  
somebody that you enjoy  unstoppable.,,  been making field goals, the  
watching  rest of the Irish  
because she's a  MuffetMcGraw  haven't been as  
hard  worker,  Irish coach  consistent.  And  

wit~ a .500 Big  scoring 10  
East record.  points, grabbing  
Last season,  Despite many  eight rebounds  
both Syracuse and Villanova finished 9-9 in  chances to get its season back on track,  and dishing out eight assists. Even with  
conference play  Notre Dame keeps  Notre Dame's  
and faced each  letting them slip  numbers, for­ 
other in the first round of  away and is in grave  ward Luke Harangody con­ 
the Big East  danger ofmissing the  tinues to put up  
tournament. In  NCAA Tournament...  player of the  

A win over the Friars would keep a 9-9 conference record a realistic goal for Notre Daine's Big East slate. On the rest of their schedule, the Irish have four home games, the most challenging coming against No. 14 Villanova on March 2. After Providence, Notre Dame has one road game left on its ·sched­ule when it travels to No. 1 Connecticut on Feb. 28. That's a good thing for Notre Dame, . who has been abysmal on the road this season. The Irish have a grand total of two road wins 
ERASMUS BOOKS .. Used Books bought and sold • 25 Cate9ories of Books 
• 2a;.ooo H.'!!rdb<J.:::k and Paperb~ck books iri stock 
• OutNof~Print seard1 service ,. Apprais"'ls Large and small 
Of)EN noon to six Tuesday thro~h Sundav 1027 E. ·ayne ' South Bend, IN 4()()1 7 
232-8444 
this season -against 2-25 will likely have to keep a body 

Loyola Marymount and 8-18 on Geoff McDermott, who's DePaul -hardly wins they can averaging eight points and 8.88 brag about. rebounds per game this season. 
A<isuming a loss at In Notre Dame's win last season Connecticut, Notre Dame could over Pro\'idence, McDermott get in the NCM Tournament nearly had a triple-double, 

a virtual play-in game for the Big Dance, the Wildcats won, and played on in March, while Syracuse was rel­egated to the NIT for the sec­ond straight season. 
But this scenario would likely require Notre Dame to over­come its road woes and beat the Friars Saturday. 
Providence, who sits in sixth place has done what Notre 
·Dame has failed to do this sea­son -beat the middle of the pack teams in the Big East. Its biggest win came against Syracuse, and it has a record of 8-2 against teams below it in the standings. Providence returns many players from last season, when it took Notre Dame into overtime at the Joyce Center before falling 81­
74. Guard Weyinmi Efejuku, who averages, 13.7 points per game, is its leading scorer. But if Notre Dame wants to remedy its rebounding problems from Wednesday, when West Virginia out-hustled Notre Dame to a 44-32 victory on the boards, it year numbers, 
averaging 24.4 

points per game and 12.7 rebounds. But down the stretch Wednesday, the rest of Notre Dame's offense disap­peared. Notre Dame had 28 points in the second half against West Virginia -Harangody had 16 of them. 
Notre Dame will also need to play the defense that it played in home wins over Louisville and South Florida last week, when it allowed just 57 points in each contest. But a require­ment for good defense is good rebounding, something that Notre Dame needs to improve for Saturday, or it could end up disappointed on selection Sunday. 
The game will start at 12 
p.m. and will be broadcast on ESPN Full Court. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe writer and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd. edu. 
said Bruszewski deserves all the credit for her improve­
Huskies 
ment. "We've played her at a lot of
continued from page 28 

different spots, she's got a lot its season rests largely on the of versatility. She can play on hands of sophomore forward the perimeter or inside. She's Maya Moore. In her freshman having a lot of fun the way season she was named the Big she's playing right now and I East player of the year, the think that for her that's when first time a freshman player she plays at her best. We're· garnered the award on the not looking for her, we're not 
she's a really great kid. She's just a great 

person and I think everybody likes her. And when you watch her play you ju~t have to kind of smile and when you watch her play other teams, it's fun to watch. I'm not sure I'm going to enjoy it as much on Sunday. But there's so many things she .can do. She can control the game at both ends of the floor, she's a great defender. She can score in so many different ways and she's just pretty 
unstoppable." 

But the Irish have their own sophomore who's starti.qg to come into her own. Forward Becca Bruszewski had 20 points over South Florida and five defensive boards. McGraw 
against the 
Huskies they 
can't afford to make those mistakes. So McGraw said if the Irish will strive for one thing against the Huskies it's a boost in their defensive game. 
"Because we have times where we don't shoot the ball particularly well, we have times where we will go four or five minutes without a field goal. We've had those kind of droughts, so we really need to pick it up on the defensive end," McGraw said. 
The Irish will look to put a dent defensively in Moore and the Huskies Sunday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 



I 
5 
•) 
:5 :5 ..... 
1
1 
; 
f~ 
i) 
,j 
< 
~ 
j
; 
II 
); 
I) 
)) 
I. 
I( 
I; I; 
>; 
I; 
>; 
II 'I 
:~ 
J 
_. 
) 
) 
; 
I I 
.;
,, 
•I 
·',; 
il 
,, 
,, 
,. 
). 
' 
'I 
I•
,, 
" 
)I •H 
)' 
I 
' 


Duringjunior Parent W~ekend Experience elegant dining on the Notre Dame Campus 
The perfect setting forJunior Parent Weekend is Sorin's..Our thoughtfuDyprepared meals, serf!ed bya professiona/lyr trained staff, ensure the ultimate Notre Dame experience. 

Reservations recommended 
574 631-2020 
lVWlv.sorinsndcom 
Friday, February 20, 2009 

The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Opener 
continued from page 28 
expected to switch. to short­stop this season after starting at second base for three years. He hit .307 with eight home runs and 50 RBls last year and was named a sec­and-team all-Big East player. 
Two Irish football players will also help lead the base­ball team this season. Senior Evan Sharpley led the team in home runs with 13 last year, and he is expected to start at first base. Sophomore Golden Tate started only nine games last year but is expect­ed to start in left field. 
Junior outfielder A.J. Pollock was named to the preseason honor roll by Baseball America. Pollock started all 55 games last sea­son and hit .352 with four home runs and 42 RBis. 
Sophomore catcher Matt Sciascia, son of former major leaguer and current manager of the L.A.. Angels of Anaheim Mike Sciascia, is expected to split time this spring with sophomore Cam McConnell. Both will have to fill the gap left by Sean Gaston, the fifth-year senior and tri-captain who graduated this spring. Gaston batted .301 and com­
mitted just nine errors in his 
four-year playing career. 
Baseball America also pre­dieted that Notre Dame would make the NCAA Tournament as a No. 4. seed and finish second in the Big East. The Big East coaches picked the Irish to finish third in the conference. Notre Dame went 16-10 in the Big East last season. The Irish lost three straight games to South Florida to end the reg­ular season, then lost another to USF and one to West Virginia to exit the tourna­ment. 
Notre Dame lost six players to the MLB draft last year: Kyle Weiland, David Phelps, Wade Korpi, Brent Graffy, Sam Elam and Brett Lilley. 
Eight freshmen joined the Irish this season, five of them pitchers. Dustin Ipsas, a right-hander from Rancho Cucamonga, Calif., went 3-0 with two saves and an ·o.77 ERA in conference action in high school. Steve Sabatino, a lefty from Lockport, Ill., had a 1. 79 ERA his junior season at Lockport Township High School. He had 57 strikeouts in 47 innings., an average of 
10.9 strikeouts per nine innings, and also hit .327. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


VANESSA GEMPISffhe Observer Irish coach Dave Schrage is confident In his young team in his third season as Notre Dame's skipper. 
PSU 
continued from page 28 

Sophomore Chris Hogan net­ted four goals for the Nittany Lions, but the Colonials racked up a .414 shooting percentage from the field. Penn State received signifi­
... 

cant contributions in the open­er from a pair of freshmen. Redshirt attack Jack Forster tallied a goal and three assists, and true freshman Matthew Mackrides had an assist and two goals. Penn State finished 7-7 in 2008, with a 2-5 record 
-
UNO 
continued from page 28 

Irish coach Jeff Jackson said while he'd like the league crown for seeding p·urposes, he didn't want his team to get hung up on it. 
''I'm not going to put aton of emphasis on winning the con­ference championship because there's a lot more to play for after the fact," Jackson said. 
First, Notre Dame will need to take care of business against the Mavericks. who currently sit in sixth place in the conference with 26 points. Recently, though, Mike Kemp's squad has struggled, going winless since Jan. 9. 
The Mavericks are led by their power-play unit, which ranks fourth in the CCHA with a 15.2 percent efficiency. Irish 
Notre Dame Graduate. 
Joins· Leading Area Veterinary Hospital 
in conference play. record back to back 40 goal The Irish receivecr-some seasons after scoring 41 last 
good  news  year,  barely  
Thursday,  as  eclipsing  his  
Hoff was named to the Tewaaraton  ..We just turned everything up a  mark' of 40 from his sopho­more year.  
Trophy watch list. The trophy  notch.,  The Irish and Nittany Lions  
is presented annually .to the  Scott Rodgers  will face ofT at 1 p.m. Sunday at  
most outstand­ Irish senior  Hoi uba  Hall.  
ing player in  Notre  Dame  
college  will then open  
lacrosse.  at  home  Feb.  

Hoff is fifth all-time in goals 28 against Dartmouth. for Notre Dame with 105 in his career. He became the first Contact Michael Bryan at player in program history to mbryan@nd.edu 
Nebraska-Omaha had one of the momentum by what you do the most explosive offenses in with the puck, not taking bad 
the country, and notched several impressive 

..rm not going to put a
wins, includ­

ing an 8-3 ton ofemphasis on 
non-confer­winning the conference ence thrash­
championship because 
ing of No. 7 

there ·s a lot more to
Yale on Dec. 

29. play for after the fact.,, 
"They've got good depth 

Jeff Jackson 
offensiv~ly," 

Irish coach 
Jackson said. 

''I'm afraid of them right now because they haven't scored a lot of goals in the last month, and that's hurt them, but they have the potential to break out at any time." 
Notre Dame has played the role of road warrior all sea-
captain Erik ..We play a more son, currently 
Condra, though, sporting an 11­
simple game on the
was confident 2-1 record in his team's road.,, away from the ability to step Joyce Center up defensively. this season.
Eirk Condra 
"Northern Prior to a Feb.
I rlsh captain
[Michigan] had 8 loss at Ohio 
a great power play coming in here and our penalty kill stepped up and did the job,", he said. 'And I think that's what we need to do this weekend." 
Early in the season, 
State, the Irish hadn't lost on the road since a 
season-operiing defeat to Denver. 
"The big thing about playing on the road is· momentum," Jackson said. "And you control 

Magrane 
Pet Medical Center 

Magrane Pet Medical Center Welcomes: 

Keith Kitson Logue, DVM 
Dr. Logue is a graduate ofUniver~ity ofNotre Dame and Purdue's School ofVeterinary medicine. 
Dr. Logue brings a wealth of experience in emergency and critical care medicine-care.of the sickest pets, to our experie~ced staff. 
ItCaring for your pet is caring for a[an1ily mernber and I feel privileged to work with a great team to care for your pet, whether healthy or ill. u 
Conveniently located to N.D. in the Edison Lakes Business Park (Mishawaka} 8 minutes from Notre Dame, directly east on Angela I Edison Road 
penalties, not giving up odd­man rushes." 
Condra echoed his coach on the importance of controlling the pace of play away from home. 
"We play more of a simple g~me on the road," the senior center said. "We . don't 
want the other teams crowding it in and getting momentum." 
Last weekend against Northern Michigan, Notre Dame took leads of 3-0 and 4­0, but allowed the Wildcats to cut the scores to 3-3 and 4-2. Though the Irish won both games, Jackson acknowledged that they struggled to put the game out of reach. Condra was confident the same would not 
happen this weekend. "I think it's all mental," he said. "And we realized that and we talked about it. Once we get on teams we need to stay on them." If the Irish do stay on the Mavericks this weekend, it's possible that fans could see a new banner hanging in the Joyce Center soon. Condra, though, said that the team wouldn't rely on the RedHawks faltering to get their league title. "We know we need five points to win the league," he said. "And we'll just take care of it ourselves." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

Write· sports. E-mail Bill at wbrink @nd.edu. 

-
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Friday, February 20, 2009 

The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
CROSSWORD 
Across 33 Upplar.d 1 Romp inhabitant 
6 Scotch flavorer 36 Response to "I have a question
10Soprano_ 
for you"
Huang 38 Tinseltown is
14 A raise may 
part of it
raise it 
40Cul·_
16 Novel about its 41 He fought RObinauthor's on an episode of experiences on 
"BatmanM
Tahiti 43 ..An Enquiry 
17Wh&n many Concerning theshots are taken Principles of
18_snuff 
Morals~ 
19 Not letting go philosopher 20 Many a Kirkuk 44Since native 
46 Veme of Austin 21 Some livestock Powers films 22 Regatta setting 48 Reno's county 24 "A Writer's Life" 50 Break writer. 2006 52 Michigan's _ 28 Some singing College villains 
53 Arnold 
30 PBS station with Schwarzenegger a transmitter on , four times the Empire State 59 Somewhat Building dense 
31 Spin cycles? 60 Match point? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

61 Government largesse 62 It requires spin control 63 _-Ball 64 See 48-0own 65 Ringer of some necks 
Down Steward's domain 2 Poet who wrote "Hope springs etemal in the 
human breast" 3 Penitent 4 Birds with "meat 
cleaver" bills 5 "TheTwo_" (Martha Finley children's book) 
6 Run on 
7 Passes gingerly 8 Greatly 9 Addition column 
10 Unnamed individual 11 Many an item at a checkout line 12 OUr counterpart in France? 13 Smal! perk 
15 Reply to "Have you got that in stoCk?" 
23 Brand named after the pronunciation of its parent company's initials 
24 Flat 
25 Huber of women's tennis 
26 "Keep it simple" 

WILL SHORTZ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIK"i BORN ON TillS l>AY: Mnlly Ringw~dd, 41; Dr. Drc. 44; Matt 
Dillm1. 45; Jt>hn Travolta, $5 

lluppJ 8irthdaly · Not \?Veryurw has (I~ imwv:1tivc ;mJ origil.:•l a mind as y<.m. Open up about your ideas and plans. You are th<~ Oil<~ to makt• refonns and to standardize what's gomg on in your community Your numocrs me 4, 10. l8. :;:..;, 29, 43,48 
ARIES f\lnr"'h ll-Aprill9): l'r<mtotc I()W and JI.O<Ki times. The enc<lUntcn ynu haw h;Kl with dill'~·m•t pcnplc you've hdt:lt'<l nut will be hom>l'ed now,!<.() dn 1101 hes.itat~ to ask fvr hdp vr tv share· Y'1ur plans. An unt•;r.pcctcd surprh"' will 1.·ause altt·ralilm~. 
***** 

TAl1RCS (April 20-!\-by 20): Irs. Ill) <•nc's bu;.iness what y<•u art-doing with whom 
and. by bci~g voc~l. )'OU will im·it_e opposition. Don'! make prnnl!Ses without kn1?wing 
what .)X>U wdl ¥Ct m return. A profelll'l<>nal dlilfl!<~ wdl bl· lk·t:>en,lt·nt L11l tht tk-c1sums y()u make nvw. ** * 
GEMINI {May 2t·Junel0}: Make the fhanges lh~•t v.'ilJ help you gt•t ah~·ad. You can 
11<' a k•ade.r who makes a diffe.reiKe so don'i hold b;~ek.lf ~omcnne que:>lions you, ad· 
dn:ss tfult po!f$On and continuc ...xmfidently down the path you have ch.:)sen. 1t** 
CAN<~ER (June ll·JUI)' ll}: Y<.lll may haw t() he.· m1:>rc ~>te01tiv~· wiU~ Y"Ur mnncy hul thai doesn't mean you should inw:~l in ~omc f:l~t-cash scheme .lltm't fear trying S<lflle­thing llt~l\' or pushing for advaoccment. Utilize your ski Us to IJl.: fullest. *** 
LEO (July 2.'\-Aug. 22): You han• what it takes to swav people lo think the same way 
you d~t. If Y<)ll c;~n fonn a gr<)up. }'<Ill will he a dri\·illg t'tm:e. ;lCc~~nwlishirlg; wrutt p1u 
set out to do A JlarlllE.'fl!hip <;(lUid unravel your plans.***** 
VI.RHO (Aug. 2.1--Sept. 221: Keep your emotion;. out of your dedsil)n-making if )'OU 
don't want lo make a mistake. Hard work, lots ofd.:tail and not kttin~;: othet"S meddk wilt detcrmine the oute(tme of whatever you an: trying to achieve. ** 
LIBRA {Sept. 2J.Oct. 22l: You haw positinnt·d yourself wdl S(l don't It! an~oru:. 
cause y\:IU t() <JU~sti<:m }'(>Ur ~b<>k~~. A unique appn1acb I<) lik.I()W and cn·ativity will 
bring othen; l<.l your !iide. giving you the :~<t.-ength wf()llow thn~t~gb with your plans. 
**** 

SCORPIO (Ort. 2.'·No~. :ll): <'riti...·ism will diS(:oumge you and can be a\'(•ided ifyoo are diligent and perf<(;t what you are pursuing. It's not \\·orth the risk of losing th<." .:on· Iiden<~~· ..,,-SPtn¢lifl~ "-'h<) c•m hdp yt~ in tb!.· t'otun.:. *** 
SA<ii'ITARU 'S (Nov.ll-J)«. ll): You have~' lak~ a\.·tion ba~d ~m what you fed is right, not what rom~~one else is telling you. Have faith in who yon are and u:ha.t you can do. An imaginative approac:h to some of >·our old projocl:s <:an tllt'n thing:> around drastkally no~·. *** 
('AI'RI<:ORN (Ike. U-Jan. 19): Taking ch.-uKc~ i.~ for amateurs whv dun't knnw how to play the game. Y\>u can stay in contwl by keeping things <ts stable, simple and safe as possible Otange will come when Ill<~ time is right.*** 
AQtHRJllS (.Jan. 20-Fc-b. 18): You will build strength of cbara~.·ter by pun>uing thiltg~ that art" g,)l:..d for you --like a fillt~s~ rcgim~ and h~altll~ diet. Lc.-ming willle:td l<) a whok new W<.lfl.d of pwspt"rity and incro:a~·d \1-df-c~lt'cn-l. Sh<•W nmtidctK<' in all that you dt'. *** * · 
PISC£') (Feb. 19-Murch lot: It's time to ''Cillm'C into talks with some<lllc who can n>nlributc to what you are workin~ un. A past partn~rship tbat was shaky or ended on had terms ncc.&h to be reestablish..·d in <mkr tu finish what y()U began. * * 
BirthdaJ &b,·: You <tre <mtgoing. kind and willing W hdp thl' undl'rdog. You are a thinh:r and a doer. Yoo arl? unafm!d to venture into unfamiliar tl~rritory. 
Eugends \V.,-b sit~~>: t•ugcnialas!.com f<)f .:cmfidentialconsult.1fi<ms, mysp:lc~.~omkugt:nial:t~t fhr Fug~'tti.J's M•'G,""trtMd\'kc.cmn lOr llm 
WWW.BLACKDOG.COM 


Puule by Mike Hothnlgel 27 Oscar nominee for "Training Day," 2001 29 Kind of ed. 32 Aleutian Island 34 Torch site 35 Israel's Weizman 37 Prefix With -pod 
39 Bechamel sauce ingredient 42Adapts 45Confines 47 Leak 
48 With 64-Across. sight under the eaves. at times 
49 Perfectly good 

. 
51 Not just jitters 54 Force through a 
sieve 55 Is in Spain? 56 Sluggers' stats 57 _ fil (wireless. 
in Paris} sa Conclusion lead· in 
For answers. call1·900-285-5656. $1.49 a minute: or. with a credit 
card. t..S00-814-5554. · · Annual subscriptions are available for the tx~st of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles. or visit nytimes.com/mobUexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, ny1imes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytlmes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comlleaminglxwords . 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
DAVID CAVADINI 
JUMBLE 

JJIJJWrnrbJEe 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NAGLD 
I 
[J 

©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
RAMOJ ± 
t!;AMBLEj

IJ r I I 
www.jumble.com 
tWRALEY t

J [J J I 
HENRI ARNOLD JEFF KNUREK 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

VvH:N "(1-E ~­TUF<E: WOR.KE:D THE: PATIE:NT SAID IT WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 

A rI I JrI r I JrI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Yesterday's  j  Jumbles:  FLUKE  VALET  WOBBLE  SULTRY  
Answer:  Can be heard at a snooty garden party  - 
"FLOWERY" TALK  

·"' 
.,.

/M HIM INI..,. rHI UIW,UIItl D' INNOYATIDN PARK. I'ArNIR JINKINS. 
fiiiNI IJO YOU ,IllrNJtJ fiii/U 1J0 

'DR TNI UNNI/lSIT'I? 
llo YOU UNPI.ReriiNP THAr THI WORW POlS NOT" I¥YOI¥1 AROUNP YOU. ANP YOUR liiO WHArWIR 11" TAI(6$. ltPIN AS MANY IJYIS. ./L/Sr SO J.ONG AS YOU CAN MAICI AWAMI ~R YOUSIV A9 AN 
IINISf'AGOW JOURNMIST. NO Mtlt/TIR HOW MANY\. I'R/6/!IDS YOU J,,SS, OR P60Ptl YOU UA'I DIAD AIIP ' 61.00P/ID AlONG THII W.lf'f', !iO tONG ASYOU CAN MAICI A NAMI f'OR YOURSIV AS MllfNISf"fGArORY 
oJOURNAU5r. NO MAri'IR Mlrllt HOW MANY ,RI#NDS YOU /.0!16. OR HOW MANY PIOP/S YOU UNI PIAP AND IIIOOPIIP AJONG THI ' 
wAY?!!? 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

-Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box i79 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________ Address ______________,_________________________ ­City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 



VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer Notre Dame junior outfielder A.J. Pollock and the Irish kick off the 2009 season this weekend in Florida. Pollock was recently named to Baseball America's Preseason Honor Roll. 

MEN'S lACROSSE 

Notre Dame hopes to hand out frowns in Happy Valley 
Loyola in dramatic fashion. Irish offense with three goals a notch," Rodgers said. "Our Notre Dame is 11-4 all-timeBy MICHAEL BRYAN Senior attack Ryan Hoff scored and one assist. Junior Neal lifts, our conditioning and indi­against Penn State, and has 
Sports Wri rer 

with 5:29 remaining to give Hicks also netted three goals in viduals were insane this fall and won six straight games in the Notre Dame a 10-9 win over a return to his native area. winter." series. The Irish defeated the 
Notre Dame will try to ruin No. 17 Loyola in Atlanta. Senior goaltender Scott Rodgers For the Irish to be successful, Nittany Lions 15-9 last year in Penn State's home opener this "If our offense keeps playing had several key saves down the the Irish have to improve their South Bend. weekend, as it travels to Happy the way they have, I think it will stretch in his first collegiate performance on faceoffs. The Penn State dropped their Valley to face the Nittany Lions be hard for any defense in the start. team lost 16-of-22 against the opening match last weekend on Sunday. country to stop them," senior Rodgers said the team had Greyhounds. The Nittany Lions against Robert Morris, losing
The No. 8 Irish (1-0) come to defenseman Regis McDermott stepped up its effort and per­led the Eastern College Athletic 12-11 in double overtime. town after winning their season said. formance in the offseason. Conference in faceoff percent­opener last weekend over Junior Grant Krebs led the "We just turned everything up age last season. see PSU/page 25 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
HOCKEY 

Irish take momentum
Banner hangs in the balance 
page 28 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
COMMENTARY 
Team gets 
beat on 
the boards 
By CHRIS HINE Editor-in-Chief 
Early in the second halfof Notre Dame's '79-68loss to West Virginia Wednesday, Mountaineers guard Darryl Bryant missed a 3-pointer. 
It seemed like a good defen­sive stop for Notre Dame until West Virginia grabbed the offen­sive rebound. And then another. And then another. And then another. 
On West Virginia's fifth shot of the possession, Mountaineers forward Da'Sean Butler finally put Notre Darpe {14-11, 5-8 Big East) out of its misery by hitting a jurnper in the lane. Most teams struggle when they allow second-chance points, it's no surprise a team that allows fifth-chance points would lose. 
In many ways, that possession 
see BOARDS/page 24 
Wins over UNO can clinch conference title 

'I 
I, 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 


The No. 2 Irish hit the road again this week'f'!nd with a chance to clinch the regular season CCJIA Championship in two games with Nebraska­Omaha. 
Any combination of five points between Notre Dame and Miami tohio) will give the Irish the league title over the second-place Redllawks. Notre Dame currently holds a four­point lead with each team hav­ing four games to play, but Miami (Ohio) has the tie-break­er thanks to its two-game sweep of the Irish on Oct. 24 and 25. 
see UNO/page 25 

into UConn territory 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Assisranr Managing Editor 

Winning on the road against South Florida was a huge con­fidence booster for the Irish, but Connecticut has had wins like that game after game. That's why the II uskies are the No. 1 team in thP nation. 
Irish eoaeh Muffet Mc:Graw said the Irish are up for the challengfL The trip to Connecticut is always one the team looks forward to, and with Connecticut fans that treat basketball like Notre Dame does football, the Irish women know they'll be respected no mattflr what the outcome. 
"We always like playing 
WU VUE/The Observer 

there becausc the crowd is 
Notre Dame junior Kevin Deeth stops on a dime during a 5-2 always so great. They have a 
Irish win over Northern Michigan last weekend in the JACC. lot of energy and it really is an 

educated crowd. They cheer for good basketball and cer­tainly their seeing a lot of it the way Connecticut has been playing all year. They're an outstanding team," McGraw said. 
Coming of a huge 86-79 win over South Florida Tuesday, the Irish know they can play with teams at the top of' the Big Ea:st. But Connectieut is a dif­ferent story. The Huskies nicked off' South Florida 83-37 in January and defeated Louisville 93-65 later that month. The smallest margin of vietory for the Huskies was 11 points in tlwir 82-71 win over Georgia Tech back in November. 
One of the main reasons Connecticut has been able to win so definitively throughout 
see HUSKIES/page 24 



