
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Schimdt-Weber administration begins tenn 
Leaders outline 'big four' iniatives for 2009-2010 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Student body vice president Grant Schmidt said four initiatives -which he called "the big four" -will be his prime focus as he assumes the posi­tion of student body president today. 
Taxi reform, cheaper textbook options, an online syllabus database and changes in the class registration system are first on the to-do list, he said. 
"We would like to have a way for students to prepay for cab rides," Schmidt said. "That way, students wouldn't have to worry about carry­ing cash all the time or be confused with rates." 
Cynthia Weber, who took the posi­
see SCHMIDT/page 4 



Reish reflects on this year's accomplishments 
ByJOHN TIERNEY Assistant News Editor 
Outgoing student body president Bob Reish worked on major initiatives until his final day in office Wednesday, and he believes diligence character­ized his administration. 
"We're working on this Symposium, which is the last possible weekend I could have done something," Reish said in an interview Thursday. 
"There wasn't a time I was compla­cent in this position," he said. 
Reish and outgoing vice president Grant Schmidt are also proud that their administration let students know they were accomplishing things that mattered to students. 
"Student government has always 
see REISH//page 4 

Refugees give lecture at College 
By JESSICA ROBBINS 
News Writer 
A small group of Saint Mary's students and faculty from across the country learned about life from four very special refugees Monday night in the Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall. 
Janice Pilarski, coordinator of the Justice Education Program, introduced Jasminka Giezenaar, Joseph Bukassa, Jean Baptiste Cyusa and Ghada Kalid to share their personal and very emo­tional experiences to help celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of the Declaration of Rights during a lecture titled "Speaking Truth to Power." 
Giezenarr, originally from Bosnia, has been in the United States for 10 years and her road here has not been easy, she said. Her story started in the 1990s over religious wars in Bosnia. 
Gizenarr, whose married parents were of different religions, said, "If you were not Orthodox, you were prac­tically told to move out because you were a minori­ty." 
The Red Cross helped her and her family over the Bosnian border to a neigh­boring nation. From there, her family moved to Germany 
see REFUGEE/page 6 


Hofftnan, Griffin take SGA office at College 
Pair plan to alleviate tension by being more transparent, create open forums for students 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY Saint Mary's Editor 
Student body president and rising senior Jenny Hoffman and student body vice president and rising junior Meg Griffin begin their term today for the 2009­2010 academic year. 
There has been a rift between student government and the stu­dent body after the stipend dis­pute in the fall semester. However, Hoffman said trans­parency is their main goal for the term. 
"I feel like our theme this year that, our main goals should be the main priorities of our stu­dents," Hoffman said. "In that way, I think it will alleviate ten­sion that has been felt in the past." 
Griffin also added she hopes to· make Student Government Association (SGA) more approachable by the students. She said she hopes to do this by creating open forums for people to voice their concerns. 
"We are part of the student body. We are not here to accom­plish the goals we are interested in, we are here for the student body," Griffin said. JESS LEE/The Observer 
Student body vice president Meg Griffin and student body 

=i=s=t=r=a=n=s=p=a=re=n=c=y=.=I=n=t=h=e=se=n=s=e=====se=e=T=U=RN=O=VE==R=/p=a=g=e=4==p=r=es=i=d=e=n=t=Je=n=n=y=H=o=ff=m=a=n=w=il=l=ta=k=e=o=ff=ic=e=as=o=f=to=d=a=y=.====· 


Students pledge to stop using the 'R-word' 
Soeren Palumbo, a sopho­more at Notre Dame who brought the event to cam­pus, said that the main goal of the event is to call the University's student body to take a stand against hate speech. 
"Once someone sits down and thinks about the preju­dice and hatred that the word embodies, they will realize that to these people and these people's families, this word is really a form of hate speech," Palumbo said. "Disabled people have been a target of mockery and dehumanization for the entirety of human history." 
see PLEDGE/page 6 


By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Yesterday, the University participated in an "End the R-Word Day" event, the goal of which was to collect pledges from Notre Dame students to end their derogatory use of the word "retarded." 
Student volunteers manned booths at the LaFortune Student Center as well as both dining halls to encourage students to sign pledge banners that read: "As a member of the Notre Dame community, I pledge to end my pejorative use of the word 'retarded."' 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 1, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Last Firsts 
I think my real last first hit me last night. Bookstore basketball, not just for drunk freshman anymore. 
Regardless, "senioriti..<;" has hit me hard. 
Standing in the pouring rain, actually physical, athletic domination in the pour­ing rain, made me realize my time here is almost up. And it's not just Bookstore. Everyday for most seniors is a realization that it's time to move on; reality is just a few steps away. But Notre Dame is a place that allows seniors to revel in their final moments: Bookstore Basketball L<; just one of those moments. Last night my best friend<; since the first day I stepped on this campus showed our athletic prowess; was it pretty, of course! We faced the No. 6 ranked team, and did we dominate'? Is that even a legitimate question? Ofcourse we dominated, the score however may reflect otherwise. 
I think that the thing I fe.ar the most is today's date. Sure it's Aprill, April Fool's Day, the Abusrder is released upon the world, big woop. April 1 signals the last full month for seniors on this campus. Haise your hand ifyou aren't ready for graduation. I'm guessing that 99.9 per­cent of my class isn't ready to see May 17 knock on their door. 
So for those who may have dominated their final Bookstore game, but failed to advance to the next round of Bookstore, here's a few "lasts" I encourage you to partake in: 
1: Skip a few classes, come on you know you aren't really paying attention anyway. 
2. 
Ifyou live off campus, return home, your Home under the Dome that is. Pay a trip back to where you grew up-be it where you first got in trouble or where you figured out who you were. Your Notre Dame dorm is home, nothing else will replace it. 

3. 
Unemployed; who cares? Welcome to the world of 2009. We're graduating in a world nearly as bad, ifnot comparable to our grandparents. 2009, may well be the beginning of the next Great Depression, but don't take my word for it. Last week, I (a finance and English major) took a little survey for Mendoza College asking ifI was employed. The answer: NO. But that's because I'm pursuing a "professional" job, like that of an actor or singer. Do I have the talent? You bet I do! Realistically, I measure my talent as a journalist, not exactly Mendoza's standards. But the per­centage of business majors unemployed this year is incomparable to previous years. 


The point is, graduation is about 50 days away. Have you figured out your life? If you have, congratulations. The rest of us haven't. Just enjoy these last few days. Revel in the friends you still have from freshman year-KR, Hannah, Megan , Becki, VyVy, Bilek, Jac-I love you to death. It's these people who will define our four years here (ifyou were lucky enough to make it out.) The memories you made in the past aren't likely to fade, they'll just repeat themselves. 
Don't forget how you started your life here, it's most likely how you will end it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd. edu 

CoRRECTIONS 
An article in the March 31 edition of The Observer titled "Multicultural clubs must publicize," incorrectly stated that multicultural clubs were not publicizing enough. The article should have said University funded programs for Multicultural & International srudents need to be publicized to students. The Observer regrets this error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE THING ABOUT BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL? 






Becki Dorner  VyVy le  Katie Rose Hackney  Megan Veith  Hannah Duffy  
senior  senior  senior  senior  senior  
Badin  Badin  Badin  Badin  Badin  
"Sideline  "Jamal the  "The  "Bad decisions. ,  "The amazing  
Grinding.''  Leprechaun. "  ensembles.  ,  people."  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

IN BRIEF 
The play "Our Town," by Thornton Wilder will be shown today through Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 p.m. in Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The play was first pub­lished and produced in 1938, and depicts life in Grover's Corners, New Hampshire, trans­forming the simple events of everyday existence into univer­sal truths. Hegular ticket prices: $15 general public; $12 sen­ior/NO faculty/staff; $10 stu­dents. 
Pig Hoast in Paradise, spon­sored by Breen-Phillips Hall will take place today on North Quad from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. Free food and drinks for students. 
Cavanaugh Hall will host Dance-a-Thon 2009 tomorrow from 7 p.m. to midnight in the LaFortune Ballroom. Buy raffie tickets now for $1 each or 12 for $10 at North or South Dining Hall during dinner and potential­ly win prizes. Proceeds benefit St. Margaret's House and Healing Mercies. 
Dr. Richard Wolff, professor driving after crashing bar the hospital that he had at Manhattan's Tompkins 
Man charged with drunk after he told an officer at Unemployment Olympics 
emeritus, University of stool consumed 15 beers. Wygle Square Park on Tuesday. 
Massachusetts, Amherst will give NEWARK, Ohio told police his motorized In a twist on the classic 
a lecture entitled "Capitalism Authorities in Ohio say a bar stool can go up to 38 game Pin the Tail on the 
Hits the Fan: A Marxian man has been charged mph. Donkey, participants 
Perspective of the Crisis" from with drunken driving after Wygle has pleaded not pulled a hat over their 
7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. tomorrow in crashing his motorized bar guilty and has requested a eyes and spun around 
DeBartaio Hoom 141. stool. Police in Newark, 30 jury trial. before using a pushpin to miles east of Columbus, attempt to Pin the Blame 
The annual Student Peace say when they responded Jobless gather in NYC for on the Boss. · 
Conference will be held this to a report of a crash with 'Unemployment Olympics' Competitors also played 
Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. injuries on March 4, they NEW YORK -Who has­a game of Office-Phone 
at the Hesburgh Center. Its found a man who had n't secretly wished they Skee Ball. 
theme this year is "Perspectives wrecked a bar stool pow­could pin the blame on Nick McGlynn attended. 
on Peace." Admission is free, ered by a deconstructed their boss? Or slam office He was laid off in 
but registration is required. lawn mower. equipment against the November and said he's 28-year-old Kile Wygle pavement? Dozens of thrilled to have an activity 
To submit information to be 
included in this section of The
was hospitalized for minor unemployed people got the to fill part of his day. 
Observer, e-mail detailed charged with operating a during the homespun, Information compiled 
injuries. Police say he was chance to do exactly that 
information about an event to vehicle while intoxicated tongue-in-cheek from the Associated Press. 
obsnews@nd. edu 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 
:I: 
~ 
1.&.1 
~ 
....I 
C( 
(,) 
0 
HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH
...I 
LOW LOW LOW LOW LOW LOW 








Atlanta 65 149 Boston 50 I 35 Chicago 51 I 34 Denver 42 I 24 Houston 74 I 53 Los Angeles 65 I 54 Minneapolis 38 I 25 New York 51 I 40 Philadelphia 53 I 41 Phoenix 82 I 55 Seattle 47 I 38 St. Louis 67 I 39 Tampa 83 I 69 Washington 55 I 44 
Wednesday, April 1, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Men1bers discuss topic-s to be addressed by nevv adn1inistration 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Topics for next term's adminis­tration were discussed Tuesday evening at student body president Bob Reish's final Council of Representatives (COR) meeting. 
Reish said that he would like to leave student body president­elect Grant Schmidt and student body vice president-elect Cynthia Weber with a "springboard" for COR. 
One topic discussed was to · address what was spoken about at the recent Intercollegiate Symposium and apply it to Notre Dame student government. 
"We should look to apply what was liked from the Symposium," freshman class president Malcolm Phelan said. "We should see if there is anything we need to implement or change." 
Off-campus president Billy Lyman also suggested a number of areas that could be addressed to help improve life for members of Notre Dame living outside the gates. 
"The off-campus student sur­vey could be useful for next year," said Lyman. "It showed a need for off-campus student services." 
Lyman also suggested that COR look into possibly implementing an off-campus orientation for stu­dents moving off for the first time. 
Reish offered the idea of look­ing into the club registration process, citing that there may need to be a change not only for the way that new clubs register, but also updating the registration of already established clubs as well. 
COR members also conversed about the addition of having stu­dent government leaders come together annually for a town hall talk which would include leaders coming together to discuss issues pertinent to the student body. 
Schmidt's concern with this idea was whether it would only happen when a particular situa­tion arises or if it would be some­thing that occurred on a regular basis. 
Members of the Council indicat­ed that it would be a good idea for the talk to occur on a yearly basis, citing the fragmentation of the different sections of student ­government. The general consen­sus was that the talk would draw everyone together. 
Senior class president Joey Brown added the idea of incorpo­rating an orientation to familiar­ize students with the new Google accounts. 
"We should look into setting up a place for people to have work­shops for using Google," said Brown. 
Another area where Schmidt wanted the opinion of the group was whether or not to implement a new practice of recapping what each constituency is doing during each meeting. 
He said, similar to Student Senate committee reports, COR would ask for representatives to send a few sentences weekly about what they are doing. 
This idea was well received by many members of the Council, who hoped that this process would help curtail the announce­ments section of the meeting, which is held at the end. 
Outgoing Chief Executive Assistant Karen Koski asked the Council if they felt that COR would be a group where if an informal survey was needed, the members could ask their con­stituencies and then report back. 
"Especially if we need feedback on big-time issues where repre­sentatives felt that they couldn't necessarily represent their con­stituencies," Koski said. · 
The rest of the Council said that was a good idea and it would not be too difficult to implement. 
In other COR news: 
+ Junior Ian Secviar was unan­imously approved as the new president of the Judicial Council. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at edonnel@nd.edn 


Newton appointed deanoflawSchool 
Special to the Observer 
Nell Jessup Newton, most recently chancellor and dean of the Hastings College of the Law at the University of California, has been appointed as the new Joseph A. Matson Dean of the University of Notre Dame Law School by University President Fr. John Jenkins. 
Newton succeeds Patricia A. O'Hara, who will be ending her tenure as dean after serving in that capacity for 10 years and will remain professor of law at Notre Dame. . 
"In Nell Newton, Notre Dame has gained a superb scholar, a proven academic leader, and a person deeply committed to the University's mission," Jenkins said. "She will help us continue and deepen education and research in our law school, and I am delighted to welcome her to Notre Dame." 
Notre Dame's provost, Thomas Burish, said: "Dean Newton is an experienced, effective and admired leader who has an uncommonly broad and deep understanding of legal education. She has an untiring work ethic, a commit­ment to and appreciation of the special mission of Notre Dame, and a focused ambition to build on the Law School's strong foundation to help it achieve even greater excel­lence." 
Newton, who also was appointed professor of law, will become dean on July 1. 
"I am humbled and excited to have been chosen to lead the Notre Dame Law School and be part of the great intellectual tradition and mission of the University," she said. "It is an honor to follow one of the great law deans, Patricia O'Hara, who has done so much for the law school during her tenure." 
Newton's scholarship focuses on American Indian law with an emphasis on tribal property and federal constitutional issues. She is the author of more than 50 articles on Indian legal issues, co-author of the third edition of the text­book "Cases and Materials on American Indian Law," and serves as the editor-in-chief of "Cohen's Handbook of Federal Indian Law." Her law review articles have been reprinted in collections on race law, the law of reparations, and the philoso­phy of law. She is also an asso­ciate justice of the Yurok Tribal Supreme Court. 
A member of the Hastings faculty since 2006, Newton previously served as dean of the law .schools at the University of Connecticut and the University of Denver and taught at American University and Catholic University of America law schools. 
The following lucky dates are invited tothe 2009 Lewis Hall's Courtyard at 6:30 on Thursday, April 2nd and a tropical dance at South Dining Hall at 1 Opm on Friday, April 3rd!
Lewis Hall 
Mat Abernethy Dayne Crist Chris LaCosta Matthew Prelee 
Paul Allen Alex Deak Ben Linskey Nick Raic 
BrendanAndrew Josh Diaz Pete Lobaccaro Nick Reaves
C.-ush! Kyle Bailey Joey Dipiero ·Jason Lovell Chris Redenour Derek Bailey Sy Doan Andrew Lundquist Joey Ricioli 
Tyler Baker Zach DuBois Kevin Mader Chase Riddle 
Matt Beall Tom Dugan Terry Mahoney Alex Robinson 
John Bellaire Jacques Dupuis Brian Malloy Mike Radio 
E-man Bello-Ogunu Bill Ehrlich Andrew Matasic Sergio Rodriguez 
Robert Blanton Joe Fauria Mikey Maurer Matthew Russell 
Trevor Boston Nathan Feldpausch Andy McCourt Davin Sakamoto 
Matt Boutilier Chad Gardner Danny McRae Tony Schlehuber 
Mike Bradley Michael George Kevin Mickey Doug Schuda 
Jake Brems Colin Goodman Patrick Mines Mike Schwind 
Ben Broadmeadow Brendan Hart Joey Moore Jo Seib 
Michael Brundage · Jeff Henkel Mike Moriarty Brent Shawcross 
Kevin Burke Matthew Herrmann Ryan Noble Billy Shields 
Garrett Busch Joey Herrod Mike O'Brien Robbie Singer 
Mike Byrnes Wes Howard Aron O'Connor Mathew Spencer 
Garrett Campbell Michael Hubert Kevin OfDay Chris Stare 
Jamie Cantania Charlie Hunter Mike Ofiver Steve Stober. 
Rory Carmichael Allan Jones Matthew Ong Patrick Sturm 
Patrick Cash .Andrew Jones Kevin Padden Jarrett Styles 
Ryan Caulfield Chris Jung Aaron Patzwahl Moises Torres 
Levi Checketts Jon Kennedy Angelo Perino Zack Tracy 
Barry Clark Quinn Ketterman Justin Pham Steve Voelkel 
Martin Colianni Andrew Krizman John Plunkett Matthew Wilcox 
Brian. Cook Tom La Evan Possley Bryan Winther 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 1, 2009 
Reish 
continued from page 1 
been effective," Reish said. "I think we've begun to ensure students realize it's effective. It's doing something and the per­ception. It's not just percep­tion." 
He cited student government as the organization that brought cable to dorms, Domer Dollars to Notre Dame Stadium and newspapers to the dining halls through the College Readership Program. 
"I think student government was effective every year since I've been here," Reish said. 
However, many students did not credit student government for these successes. "They were definitely productive," Reish said. "It's just a matter of informing students that that was student government's work and that you had a voice in it." 
To ensure students knew stu­dent government was working for them, Reish and Schmidt focused on improving communi­cation using a variety of resources. 
"I think that strategy that we saw this year was really utiliz­ing all the different channels we have to communicate with stu­dents," Reish said. "One of 

those  was  definitely  The  
Observer."  
"[The Observer] was a  good  

venue for us," Reish said, citing a "common understanding" between his administration and former Observer News editor Jenn Metz. 
Reish's administration emphasized approachability in the hopes that more students can contribute their ideas to student government. 
"We have to relate to students and we don't think of this office as separate from the students," Schmidt said. "Hopefully we're approachable in the sense that if you do know we're in student government and you want to see something done, there's no way that you would not approach us." 
Reish solicited ideas from stu­dents more formally through the student survey. The survey showed students that "when you participate and give us your 

Turnover 
continued from page 1 
Hoffman and Griffin would like to continue the initiatives that were started by exiting student body president Mickey Gruscinski and student body vice pre,sident Sarah Falvey. 
These proposals include put­ting printers in the Student Center and residence halls, extending the hours of the Student Center and possibly the library as well and improving communication between the stu­dent body and SGA. 
"There is a lot of information on this campus, and I think it would be a lot easier to consoli­date all that information in one place," Hoffman said .. 
They do have short-term goals they would like to see accom­plished before the end of the school year, such as putting a printer in the Student Center to monitor student use. Also, they will be sending out a student survey to get opinions on their goals for the upcoming school year. 
"We would like to have a stu­dent survey which we hope will encompass a lot of issues that will help us to determine our long-term goals for next year," 
feedback, we listen," Heish said. 
The survey helped Reish have 
more power when he presented 
an idea, he said. "We were able 
to push things through the 
University and Student Senate 
with those results," he said. 
The survey specifically helped 
Heish ensure that all dorms will 
be equipped with a printer for 
the 2009-2010 academic year. 
Heish and Schmidt made 
efforts to cultivate a good rela­
tionship with the University 
administration during their 
term. "We can't play the 'us 
against the man' mentality with 
the administration," Schmidt 
said. "There are times that we 
disagree, but in order to get 
things done, there's got to be 
some sort of dialogue and some 
sort of understanding between 
the two." 
According to Schmidt, 
approachability is Reish's lega­
cy. "Bob has really expanded on 
the fact that you can touch stu­
dents in a different way," 
Schmidt said. "You can reach 
out in a different way whether 
it's to other universities or to 
students who aren't typically 
catered to." 
Reish cited freshmen as stu­
dents who he has made special 
effort to embrace. "It's easy to 
be a senior in this position," 
Reish said. "We really branched 
out to all years, seniors through 
freshmen." 
However, Reish does not want 
to talk about his "legacy," say­
ing that it is dependent on 
"what sticks here." 
Reish will spend the next two 
years on an entrepreneurial fel­
lowship in Indianapolis, through 
which he will work for a small 
start-up company called Angie's 
List. He said that he eventually 
plans to attend business school. 
However, Reish said he will ·miss his time at Notre Dame. 
"Since I'm going to be in 
Indianapolis, I'm going to be 
coming back for football 
games," he said. 
Reish said he does not know if 
he wants to get involved in poli­
tics after Notre Dame. "For me, 
I could see myself being 
involved in the community, but 
I'm not sure how much higher 
than that," he said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiemel@nd.edu 
-

Hoffman said. 
The previous Board recently passed a new SGA Constitution. At the beginning of the spring semester Griffin, who is also chair of the Constitution Committee, plans to write the bylaws for the new document. 
"Once we have those bylaws down, it will be easier to see if there are any holes anywhere that we need to add to the Constitution," Griffm said. 
Both said they hope to make student government more effi­cient and make sure commis­sioners are doing everything they can to serve students, Griffin said. 
"While our commissioners do have a responsibility for campus programming, it is also in their job description to serve the stu­dent body," she said. "I really want them to help us know what is going on with student con­cerns." 
Once SGA meets next Monday for Hoffman and Grifiin's first meeting, the two said they do not want to waste time on expanding on the work of the previous Board. 
"Now that our foundation has been laid, we can really start building on it," Hoffman said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

SchiDidt 
continued from page 1 
tion of student body vice presi­dent today, said she and Schmidt have been in contact with several community lead­ers about making the taxi sys­tem more efficient and safe for students. She said they are hoping to create a system in which students pay for rides with coupons instead of cash. 
The team will also tackle the bly broadcast videos with updates about student govern­ment's work. 
"We want to advertise to the student body what we are doing," Schmidt said. "We want to reach out to students and figure out what matters to them." 
Weber said many of the tasks of the Student Outreach Committee, such as adminis­tering the student survey and analyzing the results, will con­tinue, just in the form of a communications department rather than a committee. 
She said regular communi­cation with the student body is an important goal for the com­ing term. 
"In terms of the broader principles of student govern­ment, we want to get students more involved," she said. "In general, we want to be faithful servants to the student body." 
Schmidt said people often question whether student gov­ernment can really make a difference, but he said he guarantees a successful year. 
"[Student government] is really a cool thing," he said. "We want this term to be a process of making this year better." 
He said everything is in 

. place for the new term so stu­dent government can "hit the ground running" in achieving the goals laid out for next year. 
"There's a general excite­ment for this year," Schmidt said. "We will really figure out what students want and get it done right." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
issue of high textbook costs, which Schmidt said is a con­cern that has been brought up many times by students. 
"Our goal is to contact pro­fessors directly over the sum­mer to get ISBN numbers in an adequate amount of time for students to be able to pur­chase books," he said. 
Schmidt said the idea is to 

that there is a "shopping cart" option is also in the works. He said he would like to create a tool so that students can put classes in the shopping cart prior to registration, so when the students register, they can just refer to the cart and choose their classes without going through the class search again. 
Finally, Schmidt said the online syllabus database -an initiative that was first under­taken by the previous Bob Reish-Grant Schmidt adminis­
"We would like to have a way for students to prepay for cab rides. That way students wouldn't have to worry about carrying cash all the time or .be confused with rates. 
Grant Schmidt Student body president 
give students an alternative to buying textbooks from the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, which currently does not disclose ISBN num­bers. 
"It's a pretty basic concept," he said. 'This way, if you want to use Dorm Books, eBay or Amazon, you at least have the option." 
Schmidt said changing the course registration process so 
tration -will 
remain a prior­
ity. This would 
allow students 
to view the cur­
rent syllabus or 
an old syllabus 
for a class 
before registra­
tion, he said. ·Although 
Schmidt said he would continue many of the ini­tiatives of the previous administration, there will be a few changes as 
well. 

In order to reach out to the 
student body, Schmidt said he reinstated the Department of Communications as the prime way to connect with students. 
This Department is replac­ing the Student Outreach Committee, which previously had the task of communicating with students. The Department of Communications will regularly send out a press release, and Schmidt and Weber will possi-

~-------------------· 
I I 
: This Thursday : 
! FREE Cover!! ! 
I CLUB LANDING I 1 Bring this coupon with you for FREE Cover I 1 with Student ID 1 
I .::J!Piraoo. oatJe: 1[].(JgroB 1
L-----------------­
-..1 

~~~------------~--~-------------­






ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 01, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE O:ssERVER:s WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Migrants drown off coast of libya 
THIPOLI, Libya -Hundreds were feared dead Tuesday in the chilly waters of the Mediterranean Sea, days after an over­crowded wooden fishing boat packed with migrants seeking a better life in Europe cap­sized in stormy waters off the coast of Libya. 
A few survivors -those who could swim -were rescued, but authorities pulled 21 bodies from the waters and at least 200 more were still missing after the boat cap­sized Friday. 
Thousands of African, Asian and Middle Eastern migrants fleeing wars and poverty use Libya and other North African countries as a launching pads for the dangerous jour­ney across the Mediterranean to southern Europe -often in rickety, overloaded boats. 
China denies report on spy ring 
BEIJING -China on Tuesday denied a research report's contention that a China­based computer spy ring stole sensitive information from thousands of hard drives worldwide, calling the accusation a lie meant to feed anxiety over Beijing's growing influ­ence. 
In the government's first reaction to the report, Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang said the conclusions were symptoms of a "Cold War virus" that causes people over­seas to "occasionally be overcome by China­threat seizures." 
The report by the Information Warfare Monitor added to growing concerns that China has become a center for cyber-war­fare, spying and crime. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Raw nuts: Source of salmonella 
TERRA BELLA, Calif. -The salmonella scare that prompted a blanket federal warn­ing against eating pistachios may have erupted because contaminated raw nuts got mixed with roasted nuts during processing, the company at the center of the nationwide recall said Tuesday. 
Lee Cohen, the production manager for Setton International Foods Inc., said the company does not believe pistachios were contaminated by a human or animal source in its plant. He said the company suspects that roasted pistachios sold to Kraft Foods Inc. may have become mixed at Setton's plant with raw nuts that could have con­tained traces of the bacteria. 
Amish tour Jewish community 
NEW YORK -The city's ultra-Orthodox Jews took the Pennsylvania Amish on a walking tour of their world Tuesday, saying their communities are naturally drawn to each other with a commitment to simpler lifestyles. 
"It's reinforcing to the Amish community to see us Jews living the way the Bible says Jews are supposed to live, and have lived since the time of Moses and Abraham," said Israel Ber Kaplan, program director for the Chassidic Discovery Center in Brooklyn. "The Amish are also living their lives as the Bible speaks to them." 
LOCAL NEWS 

Senate approves 'puppy mills' bill 
INDIANAPOLIS -An Indiana Senate com­mittee has advanced a bill to regulate large­scale dog breeding operations in the state, but some want stricter requirements on breeders. 
The Senate panel unanimously supported the revised bill, saying current animal neg­lect laws that simply require dogs to have food and water are not enough for prosecu­tors to go after so-called "puppy mills." 
ISRAEL 


Nation's new leader seeks peace 
Netanyahu wants peace with Arabs, but refuses to speak of 'Palestinian state' 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM -Benjamin Netanyahu, taking office as Israel's new leader Tuesday, promised to seek "full peace" with the Arab and Muslim world, but refused to utter the words the world was waiting to hear: "Palestinian state." 
The well-spoken, U.S.­educated hawk took pains to portray himself as a pragmatist, telling a packed parliament that Israel qpes not want to rule the Palestinians. 
"Under the permanent status agreement, the Palestinians will have all the authority to rule them­selves," Netanyahu said in comments that appeared to hark back to a decades-old notion that peace could be achieved through limited Palestinian autonomy. 
His words drew a sharp reaction from Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat. "I want to say to Mr. Netanyahu that the only way the Palestinians can rule themselves, by them­selves, is through ending the Israeli occupation that began in 1967 and estab­lishing an independent Palestinian state," Erekat ship a decade after being the United States. He has not retracted his said. forced from it amid a string The aide, speaking on promise to press ahead 
Netanyahu 's refusal to of failures. condition of anonymity so with construction in West embrace the idea of In his speech before par­as not to pre-empt any Bank settlements to make Palestinian statehood could liament Tuesday, announcement, said room for settlers' growing put him at odds with the Netanyahu praised Islamic Netanyahu will say some­families. And his new gov­Obama administration and culture as "great and rich," thing that will "take this ernment includes many much of the rest of the and said Israel and moder­issue off the table" and ministers opposed to terri­world. ate Arab states could find avoid confrontation with torial compromise, includ­
In recent days, however, common ground fighting the world. ing a housing minister Netanyahu has moved to radical Islam and what he If he does, Netanyahu from an ultra-Orthodox soften his image, welcom­called the extremist regime would join the ranks of Jewish party that sees giv­ing the centrist Labor party in Tehran. hard-line Israeli leaders ing up land as a betrayal of into an otherwise markedly "Israel has always, and such as Menachem Begin God's will. right-wing coalition and today more than ever, and Ariel Sharon, who Perhaps most troubling announcing that he sup­striven to reach full peace changed their minds about to those seeking modera­ports peace talks with the with the entire Arab and giving up land and ended tion in Mideast politics is Palestinians. Muslim world," he said. up making far-reaching the fact that Lieberman, 
The 59-year-old politi­A senior Netanyahu aide concessions. head of the Yisrael Beitenu cian-the son of a promi­appeared to suggest his However, so far there is Party, is now the Jewish nent historian and the boss would accept the no indication that state's top diplomat. He brother of a war hero who much hailed two-state Netanyahu's latest concilia­based his recent campaign died commanding the dar­solution to the Israeli­tory statements are any­on a proposal that would ing 1976 hostage rescue at Palestinian conflict in the thing more than words require Israeli Arabs to Entebbe, Uganda -is next few weeks, perhaps designed to curry favor swear loyalty to Israel or returning to the premier-ahead of a planned trip to with the West. lose their citizenship. 

Storms threaten recovering Southeast 
them to brace for another round of In their 40-plus years running
Associated Press 

potentially severe storms that could Stinson's Grocery in Geneva, Ann and 
GENEVA, Ala. -Thunderstorms fatten swollen rivers. In southeast Lloyd Stinson said they've never seen accompanied by the threat of torna­Alabama, volunteers and Houston so much rain in such a short time. does rolled across the already soaked County jail inmates filled more than "Satutday afternoon people were Southeast on Tuesday, raising new 2,500 sandbags for people to place in pulling out carpets--and cleaning up worries for residents still recovering front of their homes to keep out all over downtown," Ann Stinson from a weekend deluge that flooded water. said. "What's so frustrating is to think hundreds of homes, washed out "We've had more than 300 houses they're going to have to do it all over roads and forced evacuations. flooded countywide," sheriff's Lt. Jeff again." 
Tornado warnings were issued for Carlisle said. "It's everywhere, even The area could receive about a foot points in southeast Alabama, the in places where it's never flooded of rain by this weekend. Florida Panhandle and Georgia, and before. Every low-lying area in the The National Weather Service the National Weather Service forecast county is flooded." called Tuesday for as much as three more thunderstorms in the region Schools were closed in one to five inches across south Alabama, Wednesday and Thursday. Mississippi county and more than a the Florida Panhandle and Georgia. 
Southern Mississippi residents were dozen residents in Alabama were Those amounts are expected to still cleaning up from tornadoes and staying at a motel. The problems increase with new storms spreading flooding as disaster officials warned could worsen. rain throughout the area. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, April I, 2009 

Refugee 
continued from page 1 

where more religious contra­dictions nearly forced them, yet again, out of the country. 
Fortunately, a local member of Saint Joe's Catholic Church and a Saint Mary's alumna, Lori Pinter, sponsored Giezenaar and her family during their difficult time of complete transition into the United States. 
Bukassa of the Congo demonstrated his story as one of change. Change from a life of stability and strength to a war-ridden and politically unstable nation before he could even begin to fathom how the world around him was shifting, he said. 
"In my country, men never cry; never weep. But since I have been here, I have cried nearly every day," Bukassa said. 
While going through the long process with the U.S. Embassy, Bukassa was forced to spend time away from his loved ones for months at a time in order to ensure a bet­ter life for his loved ones. 
Cyusa, formally from Rwanda, was once a very prestigious businessman in his country. In 1991, he start­ed his own business after obtaining a master's degree in Architecture, and for a while led a comfortable life. 
In 1993, political battles between two groups, the Tutsis and Hutus led to geno­cide for thousands of Rwandan residence under Hutu rule. By 1995, Cyusa lost his job and his way of 

e Ford Pro ra p sen 
Science, Technology,



and Development 

life. "Suddenly," he said, "you lose." 
His advice to Americans is to be thankful: thankful' for a new day, your friends and your family, and to never, ever give up. 
Kalid, a refugee from Sudan, inspired hope and desire to do something to fight the problems of human rights today. The war-torn country brought pain to many citizens of Sudan in 1989 and still today. 
After her father was detained and released multi­ple times, her family made the decision to escape to Egypt and later to the United States. Within this time, she and the rest of her family were separated from her father. 
She received an education and has lived and worked in America, and he'r experience has inspired her to work to build a culture bridge between the United States and Sudan by writing for a newspaper in her home coun­try, she said. 
These bi-weekly reports show its readers that "it doesn't matter who you are; you are alik.e in so many ways," Kalid said. 
Bukassa closed the lecture saying, "You are living in bliss in this country. Go out­side and you can see how people are suffering, for nothing ... This country is like heaven." 
Contact Jessica Robbins at jrobbiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Pledge 
continued from page 1 

Palumbo, who is a co-director of the Special Olympics Outreach Program, came up with the idea while talking with Tim Shriver, a Yale stu­dent, at the Special Olympics World Wintnr Games in Boise, Idaho. 
The two students decided to declare one specific day as "End the H-Word Day" in order to ensure their project had the biggest impact. They created a Facebook page and once people learned of the idea, more and more people wanted to help, he said. 
Special Olympics International got involved, as did actor John C. McGinley of the hit show "Scrubs," who has promoted the event through various media appearances. This advertis­ing inspired many high schools and universities, including Notre Dame, to bring the event to their cam­puses. 
Palumbo relied heavily on a tea.p1 of dedicated helpers to promote the event on cam­pus. Students hung up posters, invited their friends to a Facebook event and dec­orated the ground with side­walk chalk. He said he was happy to see so much support for the event from students. 
"It's cool to see that there 
are all these other people on 
campus that are really pas­
sionate about it," Palumbo 
said. "It's not just some little 
pet project." 

Sophomore Mary Forr is 
one such student. She said 
she has been affected by use 
of the word "retarded" by 
watching its effect on her 
older sister. 

"My older sister Marita has 
several physical and mental 
handicaps and I've seen how 
hurt she is by people's 
thoughtless use 9f the word," 
she said. "I realize that peo­
ple don't mean to hurt, any­
one by the use of this word. 
but it does hurt them." 

Ed Suski, the president of 
Best Buddies at Notre Dame, 
agreed that much of the 
problem stems from students 
not understanding how 
insulting the word is. 

"The goal [of this project] is 
really just raising aware­
ness," he said. "You hear 
people saying the R-word all 
the time and they don't even 
think about how it's hurtful." 
Palumbo, who has a 
younger sister with an intel­lectual disability, said he . hopes the event will inspire people to get involved in the 
cause. 

"You can take the pledge 
but it's about much more 
than taking a word out of 
your vocabulary," he said. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 

Trialbegins for marine in Iraq killing case 
CAMP PENDLETON, Calif.­A court-martial began Tuesday for a Marine accused of killing an unarmed captive in Iraq in a case oflicials knew nothing about until the defendant sought a Secret Service job and was asked about the most serious crime he had ever committed. 
An attorney for Sgt. Hyan Weemer told the jury that prosecutors cannot prove. their case because they have no body, no forensic evidence and no relatives complaining of a lost loved one. Prosecutors, however, played recorded interviews in which Woerner said he and other Marines shot a total of four men in Fallujah in November 2004 after their squad sulTernd its first fatality. 
Weemnr, 26, of Hindsboro, Ill., is accused of the unpremeditated murder of one man and dereliction of duty. !lis former squad leader was acquitted of related charges in federal court and another squad member has yet to face court-martial. 
The case came to light long after the battle. ' 
In 2006, after he left the Marine Corps, Weemer applied for a job in the Secret Smvice. During a background inter­view before a polygraph test as part of the application, he was asked about the most seri­ous crime he ever committed. 
"We went into this house, there happened to be four or five guys in the house," Weemer said in a recording of the interview played during the prosecution's opening statement. "We ended up shooting them, we had to." 
The U.S. military had ordered all civilians out of Fallujah ahead of an assault aimed at n~capturing the city from insurgents. "Operation Phantom Fury" involved vicious house-to-house fight­ing. 
Weemer's account triggered a criminal investigation and led to Weemer being recalled to active duty to face military prosecution. 
"This is a case about follow­ing the rules, this is a case about doing the right thing at the most critical time," the prosecutor, Capt. Nicholas Gannon, told the jury of eight officers. 
Weemer's civilian attorney, Paul Ilackett, countered that it was "a tragic story that repre­sents the reality of combat." 
"This is not a perfect sci­ence.:.. Marines are put in tough positions and they have to make snap decisions," Hackett said. 
The shaven-headed Weemer sat straight in his chair, occa­sionally speaking to his mili­tary attorney. 
His squad, led by Sgt. Jose Nazario, had been ordered to clear a house immediately after losing its first man, Lance Cpl. Juan Segura, who was shot by a sniper. 
Inside the home, the Marines found three young men and one older man, who were unarmed and had their hands in the air, prosecutors said. Hackett said a sweep of the property turned up at least two AK-47s with hot barrels as well as spent ammunition car­tridges. 
Woerner said in the inter­view that the unarmed Iraqis were slain after the squad asked superiors for instruc­tions. 
"We called up to the platoon leader and the response was, 'Are they dead yet?'" Weemer said in the recording. 


Mary Ann McDowell 
&Stephen Silliman . TONIGHT at 7:bo PM-Coleman-Morselounge(lstfloor) 
Refreshments will be served. THE fORD fAMILY PROGRAM 

KELLOGG 
IN HUMAN Dt:Vt:LOFMtNT 5TUI)IES 

INSTITUTE 


AND SOLIDARITY 
For more information visit: kellogg.nd.edu/fordprogram 
THE OBSERVER 







USINESS

Wednesday, April 1, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,608.92 +X6.90 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,819 113 912 2,790,611,203 
•IMEI···••••·•·••·;:.··. ....··•·········..·.·.•.·.•.••••••··.•~~·~~~~~~l ~~~.~~a· NASDAQ 1,528.!;9 .· .. '!~<>}9 NYSE .. ·...l;l~iill ··drllilli• S&P 500 797.87 +10.34 
.·.Nfi<KS'ffd/iji()J\ .. 1;1III~IIIIil1 111Mll FTSE 100 (London) 3,926.14 +163.2~ 
COMPANY 11/oCHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (BAC) +13.10 +0.79 6.82 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.93 +0.73 79.52 CITIGROUP INC (C) +9.52 +0.22 2.53 FINANCIAL BULL 3X (FAS) +13.40 +0.65 5.50 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE ·1.07 -0.029 2.685 13·WEEK BILL +66.57 +0.080 0.200 30-YEAR BOND -1.14 -0.041 3.561 5-YEAR NOTE -3.0t -0.052 1.675 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE {$/bbl.) +1.49 49.90 GOLD {$/Troy oz.) +7.30 925.00 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) +2.80 86.55 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 99.0000 EURO 1.3254 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2620 BRITISH POUND 1.4350 
IN BRIEF 
Ford to cover car payments 
DETROIT -Opening Day came early for employees Tuesday at Jack Kain's Ford, Lincoln, Mercury dealership, when Ford Motor Co. announced a new program that would help buyers in the event of a job loss. 
Weighed down by the lowest sales levels in 27 years and consumer confidence at historic lows, Ford and General Motors Corp. announced two programs that would cover buyers' monthly car payments in the event they lose their jobs. All automakers report sales figures for March on Wednesday, which are expected to be just as dismal as February, when companies sold about 688,909 cars. 
Under Ford's plan, customers that purchase a new car or truck between Tuesday and June 1 and subsequently lose their job through no fault of their own, will have Ford make their monthly payments for up to one year. The maximum monthly payment Ford will make is $700 -customers would have to make up the difference for payments exceeding that amount. That amount would cover the month­ly payment of a $30,000 to $40,000 vehicle depending on interest rates, down payment and trade in value. 
Congress expands AmeriCorps 
WASHINGTON -Tens of thousands of Americans, from teenagers to baby boomers, soon will get a fresh chance to lend a helping hand in a time of need. 
The House voted 27 5-149 Tuesday for a $5.7 billion bill that triples positions in the Clinton­era AmeriCorps program, its largest expan­sion since the agency's creation in 1993, and establishes a fund to help nonprofit organiza­tions recruit and manage more volunteers. AmeriCorps offers a range of volunteer oppor­tunities including housing construction, youth outreach, disaster response and caring for the elderly. 
Obama has made national service programs a high priority. 
The president, who began an eight-day European trip Tuesday, plans to sign the measure when he returns to Washington. 
Corn and wheat acreage to drop 
Despite fewer staple crops, consumers should not expect big increase in prices 
Associated Press 

BISMARCK, N.D.-The nation's farmers are expected to plant fewer acres of corn and wheat ­staple ingredients in a wide variety of foods. But industry experts say con­sumers should not expect a big jump in prices at the grocery store. 
The Agr_iculture Department's planting report Tuesday does noth­ing to change last week's Economic Research Service forecast of a 3-4 percent increase in the Consumer Price Index for food this year, said Terry Francl, senior economist with the American Farm Bureau, which tracks retail food prices. 
Last year, when market prices for staple commodi­ties skyrocketed, the increase in the index was 
5.5 percent. 

"We're looking at slower increases, and this report would pretty much support that forecast," Franc! said. "I think this would be cate­gorized as good news." 
A slack in demand from the ethanol and livestock industries and overseas markets is leading to a smaller projected corn crop this year, with acres tailing off in areas outside the traditional corn belt. the unstable cost of fertiliz­because of the falling value corn acres to soybeans, 
Corn is an ingredient in a er are discouraging some of the dollar, he said. which can be planted later, large number of foods, and farmers from growing corn Demand for corn-and soy­he said. also is used to feed the cat­this year. bean-based feed from the The soybean crop is tle, pigs and chickens that It would be the second livestock industry dropped expected to be up slightly, end up as packaged meat straight year of a decrease, off last year when com­to a record 76 million on grocery store shelves. though total U.S. acreage modity prices spiked. acres, but Newsom said 
"We're projected to pro­still would be the third­Darin Newsom, senior the market was expecting duce over 12 billion largest in the last 60 years, analyst for Omaha, Neb.­even more-up to 81 mil­bushels ... and corn stocks behind the 2007 and 2008 based DTN, said the report lion acres. are up 1 percent from crops, USDA said. Farmers is at best "neutral" for a "Yes, it's a record num­March of 2008. In my opin­in major corn-producing corn market that was ber of acres, but it was ion there's plenty of corn to states such as Iowa intend expecting a substantial well below what everybody go around," said Bob to plant a slightly larger decrease in acres. "One was anticipating so the Dickey, president of the crop this year. million acres is pretty market should look at that National Corn Growers "We're hoping that at minuscule," he said. as being somewhat bull­Association. some point in time we can However, Newsom said ish," he said. 
That level of production increase demand at all lev­the corn numbers still Francl said the report would match last year's els, whether it be the could drop more. If poor pushed soybean prices crop, despite a projected 1 ethanol industry, livestock weather persists in the higher. "That eventually percent drop in acres from industry or exports," Northern Plains and east­could work into slightly a year ago to 85 million Dickey said. ern corn belt, more farm­higher cooking oil prices because lower prices and Exports are down ers might end up switching for consumers," he said. 

UNITED KINGDOM 
World leaders discuss econon1ic crisis 
Associated Press closer scrutiny of hedge funds and oping economies such as China, 
tax havens. As for the broader India, Brazil and Saudi Arabia ­
LONDON -Desperate but divided issues, they're hoping for the best -important players in any effort to on ways to lift their nations from eco­or at least that they will do no harm. coordinate economic policy -sitting nomic misery, world leaders con­With turbulent world markets as full negotiating partners. verged for an emergency summit watching closely, the stakes are high, "For the first time, there's a recog­Tuesday holding scant hopes of find­especially for America's new presi­nition that major emerging markets ing a magic-bullet solution for the dent, stepping onto the world stage and developing countries have a crit­crisis that brought them hurrying to for the first time to deal with the eco­ical role at the table," said Mike London. nomic crisis and to meet face-to-face Froman, a White House international 
Even as President Barack Obama with many other leaders. economic adviser. and the others were arriving, the One global change is being But will that mean action to stop a 
U.S. acknowledged its allies would acknowledged: The forum for grap­global downward spiral? not go along with a massive burst of pling with world economic problems Froman acknowledged that there stimulus spending, while Europe was has grown beyond the established have been few examples of interna­forced to backpedal from hopes for eight post-war economies that domi­tional gains in times of crisis. "The tighter financial regulation. nated previous economic summits -depression was made 'great' by the 
Instead, leaders are trumpeting the the U.S., Britain, Germany France, lack of cooperation," he said, noting limited common ground they could Japan, Canada, Italy and Russia. that nations like to keep control over reach, including more money for the Now, 20 nations are coming together their own fiscal and monetary poli­International Monetary Fund and in London, with fast-growing devel-cies. 
r---------­
page 8 The Observer +NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 1, 2009 

Obama's aunt a symbol in debate 
Associated Press 

BOSTON -Barack Obama's Kenyan aunt lost her bid for asy­lum more than four years ago, and a judge ordered her deport­ed. Instead, Zeituni Onyango stayed, living for years in public housing. 
Now, in a case that puts the president in a tough position both personally and politically, Onyango's request is being reconsidered under a little-used provision in U.S. immigration rules that allows denied asylum claims to be reheard if appli­cants can show that something has changed to make them eligi­ble. 
Such as the ascension of her nephew to the presidency of the world's most powerful country. 
"If she goes back to Kenya, she is going to be much more in the limelight, and that, in and of itself, could put her at a greater risk. The chances of her going back and keeping a low profile are gone at this point," said Boston immigration attorney Ilana Greenstein. 
Onyango, 56, the half-sister of Obama's late father, moved to the United States in 2000. Her first bid for asylum was rejected, and an immigration judge ordered her deported in 2004; she continues to live in public housing in Boston. 
In December, a judge agreed to suspend the deportation order and reopen her case. An initial hearing is scheduled Wednesday in U.S. Immigration Court in Boston. 
Obama has said repeatedly that he didn't know his aunt was living in the United States ille­gally and believes that laws cov­ering the situation should be fol­lowed. Ifshe wins asylum, he could look soft on immigration enforcement. Ifshe loses, he could face criticism from immi­grant advocacy groups. 
The White House says Obama is staying out of it. 
"The president believes that the case should run its ordinary course, and neither he nor his representatives have had any involvement," spokesman Ben LaBolt said last week. 
Over the past decade, relative­ly few Kenyans have sought asy­lum in the United States: 343 through immigration courts in the fiscal year 2008, compared with 9,250 asylum requests from China and 6,424 from El Salvador. Only 60 Kenyans were granted asylum that year through immigration courts. 
From the fiscal years 1999 through 2008, about 20 percent of Kenyans who applied through immigration courts were grant­ed asylum, according to an Associated Press review of immigration records. 
People who seek asylum must show that they face persecution in their homeland on the basis of religion, race, nationality, politi­cal opinion or membership in a social group. 
Onyango's reasons for seeking asylum have not been made public, and her immigration hearing will be closed at her lawyer's request. 
Kenya has been fractured by violence in recent years. In 2008, more than 1,000 people were killed in the East African nation following a disputed pres­idential poll, which saw a Luo candidate, Raila Odinga, declared loser to President Mwai Kibaki, a Kikuyu, the largest tribe in Kenya. 
Since Kenya gained independ­ence from Britain in 1963, peri­odic tensions have arisen among the Luos -Onyango 's tribe ­and some of Kenya's other tribes, including the Kikuyus. 
J. Patrick Kelly, an interna­tional law professor at Widener University, said the United States views Kenya as fairly stable. The country acts as a regional diplo­matic and economic hub and hosts the only headquarters for a United Nations agency outside the West, the U.N. Environment Program. 
Onyango could improve her chances of winning asylum ifshe can argue successfully that some in the Kenyan government may perceive -because of her rela­tionship with Obama -"that she may have some level of political power and be able to transfer that power" to her tribe, Kelly said. 
Onyango's lawyer, Margaret Wong, may also argue that she needs to stay in the United States for medical reasons. Onyango, who has been pho­tographed walking with a cane, has some kind of a neurological problem, said Mike Rogers, Wong's spokesman. 
In his memoir, "Dreams from My Father: A Story of Race and Inheritance," Obama affection­ately referred to Onyango as "Auntie Zeituni" and described meeting her during his 1988 trip to Kenya. 
Onyango has not responded to requests for interviews.Her case is being closely watched by peo­ple on all sides of the immigra­tion debate. Some critics say her status has already damaged the president's credibility on immi­gration issues. 
"The president's moral author­ity has been compromised by his aunt's situation," said Dan Stein, president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform. "Americans have the right to expect aliens to respect our law, to leave when they are supposed to and not thumb their nose at the legal system." . 
But immigrant advocates say opponents are unfairly using Onyango's case as political fod­der. 
"Whether it's the president's aunt, my aunt or your aunt ­anybody who's seeking asylum is seeking that status for a very important reason," said Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum. "We are always worried that a person whose asylum claims are rejected, that they end up in a situation where they are a victim of violence." 
FBI probes pay-for-play allegations 
Missouri lawmakers accused ofdemanding campaign contributions 
Associated Press 

JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. -The FBI is questioning Missouri lawmakers about allegations that legislative leaders demanded campaign contribu­tions in exchange for presti­gious committee posts, legisla­tive sources told The Associated Press on Tuesday. 
Two lawmakers said they specifically were asked about House Minority Leader Paul LeVota, a Democrat from Independence. Both spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the ongoing probe and because they didn't want colleagues to know they had spoken with federal investiga­tors. 
In an interview with the AP, LeVota said he has not been contacted by the FBI. He denied any wrongdoing and suggested the accusations stem from a disgruntled political rival. 
The Kansas City Star first reported Sunday, citing anony­mous sources, that the FBI is investigating alleged pay-for­play scenarios at the Missouri Capitol. 
Bridget Patton, a spokesman for the FBI office in Kansas City whose jurisdiction includes Jefferson City, said Tuesday that she could neither confirm nor deny a public corruption investigation at the Missouri Capitol. 
The investigation into alleged political favors dates at least to 2008, when House Speaker Rod Jetton, R-Marble Hill, was in charge of the chamber. Jetton, who did not seek re-election last year because of term lim­its, said he had not been con­tacted by the FBI and had "absolutely not" asked any law­makers to make campaign donations to get committee assignments or to have their bills heard. 
One of the lawmakers who spoke on condition of anonymi­ty told the AP he had been con­tacted by the FBI multiple times in 2008 and 2009 with ques­tions about pay-for"play sce­narios in the Capitol, including whether House committee assignments were offered in exchange for lawmakers con­tributing money to campaign committees. The lawmaker said the FBI's questions focused on LeVota and others in legisla­tive leadership positions. 
Another lawmaker told the AP about an interview with the FBI that occurred several weeks ago in the Capitol. That lawmaker also said the FBI asked specifically about whether LeVota had made committee assignments contin­gent upon lawmakers con­
. tributing money to Democratic campaign committees. 
The lawmaker also said the FBI asked about an e-mail sent last year by LeVota on the let­terhead of the Missouri House Democratic Campaign Committee. 
The Sept. 22 letter, obtained by the AP, asks for donations of between $50 and $250 to help Democratic candidates. But instead of listing the address for the committee, which helps all Democratic House candi­dates, the bottom of the letter directed donations to LeVota's personal campaign committee in Independence. 
LeVota told the AP that he "never asked anyone to give an amount for a committee spot whatsoever." 
He sai"d his personal cam­paign address was listed because it was sent under his mass e-mail account. 
"Hindsight tells me I should have took it off for that request," said LeVota, who later added: "It was my intent to try to raise money for the HDCC." 
LeVota's campaign committee contributed $35,000 for the 2008 elections to the House Democratic Campaign Committee, according to cam­paign fmance reports filed with the Missouri Ethics Commission. 
LeVota said he believed the FBI's apparent questions were prompted by a "political rival who's trying to throw me under the bus." 
Current House Speaker Ron Richard, R-Joplin, who took over in January, said he has not been interviewed by the FBI and was not aware of anyone who had been. None of the law­makers who said they were interviewed by the FBI described any questions specifi­cally focused on Richard. 
Former House Speaker Pro Tern Carl Bearden, R-St. Charles, who resigned in July 2007 and now is a lobbyist, said Tuesday that Republicans who were given prime commit­tee spots were expected to help raise money for the caucus. He said he has had no contact with the FBI. 
"What people were told is if you want to be chair, you need to be out working for the team, raising money," Bearden said. But he added: "There was never a deal 'if you want to keep that committee chairman­ship, or if you want that com­mittee chairmanship, here's the dollar amount."' 


INSTITUTE FOR ETHICAL BUSINESS WORLDWIDE CENTER FOR ETHICS AND 
RELIGIOUS VALUES IN BUSINESS NOTRE DAME CHAPTER OF NET IMPACT 
INVITE YOU TO 
4:15p.m. Frank Cahill Lecture "Ethical Issues Faced by Young Managers" 
Panel Discussion Participants 
Kerry Doyle, Shanin Dorfueille Chris Owens, Nicole Phillips 
5:15p.m. 

Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh Award for Exemplary Ethical, Environmental, Social and Governance Practices 
to 

General Electric Company 
Acceptance by 

Keith Sherin Chief Financial Officer General Electric 
Wednesday, April 1, 2009 Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 

Wednesday, April 1, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
ARGENTINA 
Argentine President Alfonsin dies at age 82 of lung cancer 
Government leader symbolized the return of democracy across Latin America after an era of military dictatorship 
Few discussed his crucial wracked Argentina for a half­Party, Argentina's brand of ate from the University of La
Associated Press 
role in the restoration of century. Social Democrat. Plata, Alfonsin married Maria 
BUENOS AIRES -Raul democracy at a time when The civilian court trials, He kept his aura as a key L. Barrenechea, whom he had Alfonsin, whose presidency military regimes ruled most of unprecedented in Latin figure of democracy until the known since childhood and came to symbolize the return South America. America, ended in December end. courted at neighbourhood of democracy across Latin He was instrumental in get­1985 with the conviction and "You are a symbol of democ­dances in Chascomus. They America from an era of mili­ting several political groups to imprisonment of five former racy," Cristina Fernandez told had six children. tary dictatorship, has died. set aside differences and unite military rulers, including two him as she was sworn in as Law practice was a base for 
Alfonsin's personal doctor, in a loose coalition that paved ex-presidents. Four others Argentina's Peronist President launching his political career, Alberto Sadler, said former the way for the 1983 election. were acquitted. in 2008. becoming a Chascomus city Argentine president died of He garnered 51.7 percent of Alfonsin established a He made clear, however, commissioner in 1955, a lung cancer on Tuesday. He the vote, handing the power­National Commission on the there was still work to be provincial legislator three was 82. ful Peronist party its first elec­Disappearance of People done. years later and a member of 
The presidential inaugura­tion defeat ever. which produced for the courts "Our democracy is limp and the national House of Deputies tion of the burly, mustachioed Shortly after entering the a lengthy report known as incomplete," he said as the in 1963. leader on Dec. 10, 1983, Pink House presidential "Nunca Mas," or "Never nation marked the 25th In 1976, the military toppled ended more than seven years palace, he ordered the trial of Again," detailing the military's anniversary of civilian rule. President Isabel Peron, who of a repressive military nine members of the former ruthless campaign against dis­"Intolerance and violence," he had succeeded her husband, regime that left at least ruling military junta, on sident based on testimony by said, were problems Gen. Juan Domingo Peron at 12,000 disappeared. charges including kidnapping, hundreds of victims and their Argentina needed to solve. his death, and launched a 
He won an open election torture and the forced disap­relatives and witnesses. Alfonsin explained his harsh campaign to wipe out that the military was forced to pearances of thousands. Alfonsin was right about the strong rejection of authoritar­leftist subversion. call, in disgrace, after the It was a bold step in a coun­risks involved in trying the ian rule as inherited from his In response, Alfonsin and nation's defeat in the 1982 try where the military domi­military. He survived three father, a fervent supporter of several prominent citizens war with Britain over the nated for decades, having military uprisings between the Republican Forces formed the Permanent Falklands Islands. taken power in six coups in 1987 and 1988, and as a crushed by Gen. Francisco Assembly on Human Rights, 
His presidency was marked the 20th century. result asked Congress to Franco in the Spanish civil which denounced rights by two milestones: his daring "I think that sometimes I approve legislation ending the war. abuse, challenging the decision to bring to trial the take too many risks, because trials and exempting from After elementary school, regime. leaders of the dictatorship for what we did no one had done guilt lower ranking officers. however, he went for five Alfonsin was his party's human rights violations, and before," he said later. Alfonsin was born in the years to a military academy. uncontested presidential can­an economic collapse that He said the trials were small town of Chascomus near "Those were five very good didate when the military per­made him hand power to his needed to restore a strong Buenos Aires, where he com­years, for they served to tire mitted elections in 1983. He successor six month early. judicial system and break the pleted primary school and me of military officials," he won on a platform of human Annual inflation had jumped destructive cycle of political first found an interested in later observed. rights and honesty in govern­to over 3,000 percent. chaos and military coups that politics, joining the Radical As a 23-year-old law gradu-ment. 
GM, Chrysler race deadlines to hold off bankruptcy 
1Vow £easing Por 2009-2010 }f.pp{y rrorfay LimitedSpace)lvaifa6{ef!I 
Offeri11fJ rz1ie CBest <Rpztaf<Rg.tes in 'Town! $99 f£or 14' Mont/is CJ?§nt 'vrhtfi 12 :Montfi Lease! $300 OffP'Mont/is ~t 'vrhtfi 9 Montfi Lease! f£ree Jippfu:ation f£ee f£orStutfents 'vrhtfi l.CD.! Cfose to Campus! 



eastle1'oint 
:1.10:11. C.1411valcnd Bel. So111tl& Bead, IB 46631Apartn1ent.~ Plloa•: (tJ74) 212-•uo FiUt.: (574) :n:~-•u.4 
' 

met, the person said. expect a dollar more than neces­At GM, Henderson said the 60 sary. 
slash its staggering liabilities -days should be enough time to not just the $49 billion in bond accomplish its work, but bank­debt and secured loans, but also ruptcy could come before then if pension obligations and retiree GM management and the govern­health care costs. ment determine it won't be able 
"We need to basically address to meet the deadline. all of our level of indebtedness, "If it's quite clear that we're not because in fact, what they want is able to accomplish what we need a healthy balance sheet, and that to do in terms of operational healthy balance sheet needs to restructuring, reduction of debt address each of these constituen­on the balance sheet and what cies," he said. we need to do to accomplish 
Henderson wouldn't say specifi­these broad parameters of having cally if pensions or health care a viable business, this will be a would change, but it's likely that management judgment," GM's' 400,000 U.S. retirees and Henderson said. spouses will see benefit cuts, Besides slashing costs, GM along with its 244,000 active must start selling more cars, and workers. the company announced Tuesday 
He said the company probably its own version of a plan that will will close more than the five fac­make car payments for cus­tories it promised to shutter in its tomers who lose their jobs February restructuring plan filed through no fault of their own. It's with the government. More buy­called "Total Confidence," and its out and early retirement offers designed to pull in timid buyers are likely. who fear the economy will claim 
If GM doesn't satisfy the gov­their employment. ernment in time, a short bank­The company, Henderson said, ruptcy would allow the company counted on revenue for too long to wipe out its debt, change con­from trucks and sport utility vehi­tracts and emerge as a healthy cles. Now, every vehicle has to business. The government is turn a profit. That means unprof­backing automakers' warranties itable cars and trucks could get and has pledged financing for the ax, and soon. GM. "The view is everything's got to 
For Chrysler, however, Obama's pay rent in our product portfo­auto task force has decided it has lio," he said. no chance to survive alone, and it GM also has to jettison unprof­would be left to get sold off in itable brands, including iconic pieces. There were signs of Hummer. A decision on closing or progress, however, that a part­selling was supposed to be nership could be arranged. revealed Tuesday, but GM is still 
Fiat CEO Sergio Marchionne talking with potential buyers. flew to Detroit late Monday for Henderson said an announce­talks, and the Italian automaker ment will come within weeks. agreed to reduce its stake in GM is alive today only because Chrysler from 35 percent to 20 of $13.4 billion in government percent in exchange for providing loans, and Henderson wouldn't small-car technology, according reveal how much more money to a person briefed on the negoti­the century-old company will ations who was not authorized to need to get through the 60 days. speak publicly. Under the new The Treasury Department has terms, Fiat's share would not told the company how much increase in 5 percent increments money it will get to sustain itself, every time certain milestones are but Henderson said he doesn't 
Associated Press 
DETROIT-He doesn't know exactly what the Obama adminis­tration wants him to cut, but Fritz Henderson, the new CEO of General Motors Corp., isn't wait­ing around to find out. 
Cut deeper. Work harder. Move faster. 
That's how he described the ail­ing automaker's urgent effort to meet a June 1 deadline to fix its debt-ridden balance sheet, cut billions in costs and take other steps to transform itself into a profitable entity. 
It's the same government­imposed race that Chrysler LLC is running, only GM's smaller neigh­bor has to cover more distance in half the time. 
The Auburn Hills, Mich., automaker must make the same cuts as GM, and sign up Fiat Group SpA as a partner, all in 30 days. Fiat's CEO jetted to Detroit for intense negotiations, but if Chrysler doesn't meet the dead­line, it's almost certainly destined for the auction house. 
For GM, failing to take quick action means surrendering to court supervision in bankruptcy. The company has resisted bank­ruptcy talk in the past, but Henderson said Tuesday it is now "certainly more probable." 
The companies have yet to receive specifics from the task force on how much more they must cut and where, but Henderson is proceeding with deeper cuts and pulling previous­ly announced measures forward. 
"We need to reinvent General Motors, and we need to do it in a very, very abbreviated time frame here in 2009 so that we're not spending our time careening from crisis to crisis in the future," he told reporters at GM's head­quarters complex in downtown Detroit. 
There are formidable obstacles, though. Even with less demand­ing hurdles in the government's original loan terms, GM's bond­holders have been reluctant to settle their $28 billion for what may be pennies on the dollar. The company still hasn't reached a deal with the United Auto Workers on funding a union-run trust that will take over retiree health care costs. 
It's uncertain whether they can work together to compromise on their competing interests, even though failure means they stand to lose a lot more. 
It was clear, though, that every scenario will include more pain for just about anyone connected with the companies. 
GM said in its February plan it would cut 47,000 jobs worldwide by the end of the year. Presumably those cuts will come sooner. 
Henderson said GM also must 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, April!, 2009 
THE OBSERVER An apology to Saint Mary's girls 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: A:uon Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDITOR: Man Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley· Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(57 4) 631-5 303 viewpoint,! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574} 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 

acharnO1 @saintmarys.edu 
This column is for the ladies, specifi­cally the Belles of Saint Mary's College. No, I'm not just angling for a date to your formal (though everyone knows I'm a phenomenal dancer with nothing 
to do on April 25). Instead, this column is an attempt to atone for a year of neglect from your brothers and sisters across the lakes. 
I know some of you might be thinking, "Why should 


Notre Dame apol-Brad Blomstrom ogize? Surely they've done noth-The Daft Punk ing but respect and support us over the years!" A few might feel vindi­cated: "Finally! Someone recognizes that we are not Notre Dame's red-head­ed step-sister!" Still more might be con­fused: "What is this guy talking about? Why am I reading this column when I could be watching 'Gossip Girl?'" 
The truth is, we Domers have been pretty selfish in '08-'09-we haven't given you a Viewpoint war to call your own. We've been completely preoccu­pied with our own issues, (Melissa's buddies, snowballs, yelling "sucks!" at basketball games, Obamania, etc.), and have completely overlooked the Saint Mary's firestorm that normally arrives every spring with the tulips. 
Furthermore, a quick glance at the calendar shows little chance of Saint Mary's taking over the Observer at all this year. In two weeks' time, everyone will be upset over the "lameness" of the new Shirt, even though they will buy one the day it comes out. Then there will be fallout from PigTostal or the lack thereof (Side note: make it happen, swim team. Stick it to the man). Even with those two issues, we still will not have addressed the 500 lb. gorilla in the room: Vagina Monologues. It's a crowded schedule, and unless you act now, you won't make it in. 
To add insult to injury, even the Keenan Revue refrained from making any Saint Mary's jokes this year. The Keenan Revue, of all things! By junior year at Notre Dame, I was sure of only three things: losing in the first round of Bookstore, sweatpants after Thanksgiving and smick chick jokes at the Hevue. All that's left of the Revue now is a bunch of guys in their under­wear grabbing each others' butts, (not that the butt-grabbing isn't tastefully choreographed). 
In talking with a few seniors at Saint Mary's, I've learned that they feel cheated by these developments. To them, Belle-bashing is an annual rite, something to be celebrated rather than avoided. To me, their thick skin and ability to take a joke is a quality which I hope will someday cross Route 31. They have to put up with our endless indig­nation over nonissues all year, and it is only fair that they get their 15 minutes of fame. Therefore, in the spirit of mak­ing amends before I have to be forcibly removed from campus in May, (trust me, I'm not leaving without a fight, NDSP), I would like to give this year's seniors the Viewpoint war (albeit abridged) they deserve: 
Notre Dame letter: You probably can't read this because of your inferior intel­lect, and you shouldn't be allowed in the student section at football games because you can't understand our com­plicated cheers. 
Saint Mary's letter: Zahm doesn't even understand all of the cheers. 
Notre Dame letter (guy): You're all named Caitlin or Katie or Kate or Mary Kate or Maribeth, which makes remem­bering your name easy after a drunken weekend hook-up while making cell phone directory organization extremely difficult. 
Saint Mary's letter: That's not true! Respectfully, Katie '09. 
Notre Dame letter (girl): I hate you because I can't get my ring by spring from that dreamy guy in O'Neill. The reservation I made my freshman year to have my wedding in the Basilica will now go to waste! 
Saint Mary's letter: The first day of spring was two weeks ago. Don't hate the player; hate the game. 
There you have it, in so many words. I'm glad that's behind us. Now we can get back to debating important topics like Bookstore team name censorship. 
Brad Blomstrom is a senior majoring in finance, economics and closed-mind­edness. Although he loves being a college student, he can't wait for the day 40 years from now when he will still be writing outraged letters to the Viewpoint editor while yelling at kids to get offhis lawn. He can be contacted at bblomstr@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q;testions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief]enn Met:<. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observa" (USPS 599" 2-4000) fs. publisbt:dMonday through Friday exc.c;:pt during exam and. vacation periods. Asubscription to The-Observer is $1.20 for one a£.ll.demk yeu; $65 fnr ont: snncsu:t. 
The Obse~er is published at:: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address <:ortt!crions r-o: 
Notre Dme.IN 46556-0779 ~Observer 
Periodical [)QStagt paid ar Noue D.unc P.O; Box779 
a:nd additional nulling olfkes. 024 South Dining HaU 
Notre Dame. IN 46556-0719 
1fle Ob~t>Jt:r is-a member of theAssodart.d Ptess.. All reptoduaion righu are «S<<V<d. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Ashley Charnley Matt Gamber Sarah Mervosh Sam Werner Megan Loney Molly Sammon Graphics Scene 'The time to stop talking is when the other ''My Grandmother is over 80 and still person nods his head affirmatively but doesn't need glasses. Drinks right out of
Blair Chemidlin Kaitlyn Conway 
says nothing. " the bottle. " 
Viewpoint 

Stephanie Vossler Henry S. Haskins Henny YoungmanAmerican writer American comedian 

TH_E OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 1, 2009 page 11 
(Sings) ~uellohh, I am your mind' 
In a far more idealistic time, I swore never to begin a column with the words, "As I sprawled out to write this column, I said to myself, 'Self? What blissfully optimistic aspect of humanity are we going to go frol­icking in this week?' 
"And Self said, Katherine 'Katherine, you 
Khorey

need to get out more.' Both Sides "But then I did­Now n't. So here's the semi-weekly frol­ic.'' Etc. Several months later, having produced approximately one column that didn't involve frolicking, the resolve to avoid this beginning is hanging by one very weak thread. So as I sprawled out to write this column, I said to myself, "You know what, Self? We've been travel­ling all over the place this past week. We're drained and exhausted. We have no sense of time or place right now. We're just relieved that we'lllikely not be waiting in another airport check-in line at a ridiculous­ly early hour until Holy Thursday. We sin­cerely hope we will not be eaten by Rome on Easter weekend. "But you know what, Self? There's some­thing we can be sort of proud of, and ifwe don't get smug about it, it might just spawn a column." And Self said, "Seriously, Katherine. Stop dissociating." 
But then I didn't. "Self, since very early in 2009, we have not set foot on a RyanAir flight. And we should, just for us, try to keep it that way. This column, Self, can explain what that all means.'' 
Self rolled her eyes and went out for a Mudslide. 
*** 

For those ofyou who aren't where I am, RyanAir is a budget airline, useful for inter­European travel, whose type of advertising and service suggests it considers its patrons no more than piggy banks desperate to be squeezed. 
To claim a flight costs zero Euro and then slowly add up "extra" cost is a sin ofmany airlines, and a tactic that should fool no one with common sense. But RyanAir-which, by the way, will be shortly charging you to use the on-flight lavatories-pulls it off with an especially tacky flair. 
The inside of a RyanAir plane is brightly plastered with advertising for itself. Now that you're here, asks the placard on the seat in front ofyou, don't you want to pay another "zero" Euro to come back and stare at this same placard next time? 
While you're waiting to take off, you'lllis­ten to a repeated commercial for something akin to Fruit20 (for sale on board). And doesn't that just sound refreshing after all the airport stress? 
Actually, no. What would be refreshing would be to pay my 50-some Euro up front and thus honestly charged, then enjoy some post-airport relaxation amid cloud grey, navy blue and soothing classical music. And a reasonably priced Sprite -in this econo­my, "complimentary" may be too much to ask-wouldn't go down so badly either. 
There are budget airlines out there that still offer almost that experience (except for the upfront charges). They treat customers as people, and not chromatically stimulated ATMs. And these are the ones I will patron­ize. 
Will one person's defecting from RyanAir affect the company at all? Probably not. But by defecting, has said person reasserted some measure ofpersonhood? 
I speak only for Self and I. But I think so. 
*** 

Of course, ifyou couldn't care less what the inside ofyour plane looks like, so long as you make it to Paris in one piece, more power to you. 
Although there could be something else that makes you feel a bit dehumanized. Maybe it's something that no one else in your world seems to care about. But ifyour feelings are legit, and asserting them causes no damage, then why not act? 
Just act effectively. 
I'd accomplish nothing ifI only wrote this column to complain about RyanAir, but had­n't stopped giving it money. Convincing oth­ers is one thing, but what's the point ifyou don't do it for yourself first? 
A case in point: Maybe spending week­ends as an anonymous saliva receptacle isn't as fulfilling as you'd like, and neither can you think of any face you'd be totally happy to see at the other end ofthe Basilica aisle in the near future. Maybe you'd still like a little romance, but you'd be best off, for now, on a middle ground. 
Just make that middle ground. Repeat after me: "Taylor, I really enjoy being around you, and I'd like to be there more often. Want to hit up Barnes and Noble for Italian sodas on Saturday?" 
And then, no matter what Taylor answers -even ifyou're clearly too short for her, or he's only interested inC-cups or above­you'll have made the leap. And you, your personhood, your self, will be stronger for it. 
*** 

"See, Self?" I said, as she poured two cof­fees. "That's why we're flying Aer Lingus from now on. So that you won't disappear on me. So that even ifsomeone, say, directly threatened to turn our college graduation into a circus, you'd be strong enough that it'd be impossible. I'm going to make you strong, Self. Isn't that why we're here?'' 
"It's not just about us, Katherine." Self cut her bran muffin into quarters. 
"I know. But it'll help make it about every­one. Did you want some blueberry jam on yours?" 
Katherine Khorey is a junior studying English and Russian at Trinity College, Dublin. She can be contacted at kkhorey@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Explain yourselves Sorin 
I'm sure this is precisely what you want: A rise out of us W.I.L.D. women in response to another whiney protest of Sorin College (Should I remind you that you walked out on Bon Jovi?). While you eloquently at):empt to state your case, it is downright nonsensi­cal and avoids the actual reasoning of another immature reason why you hate Walsh. I, myself, have experienced the animosity of Sorin towards Walsh for what seems no reason, as you launched water balloons at our flag football team while we innocently walked to the Grotto. Clearly, something big must have occurred between the dorms for such a war to be waged, but it has confused me since I'm only a freshman. 
Curious to find the answer, I asked fellow fresh­men that reside in Sorin why exactly we're their dis­liked neighbors. Their response? "They tell us first day, 'That's our neighbor, Walsh. We don't like them"' And simply, that's all. While I've heard a rumor that the disagreement is based merely upon a breakup gone bad between a Walsh girl and Sorin boy, which occurred before any ofus attended Notre Dame, I feel these vicious allegations had to be stirred by some other reason because a breakup surely does not equal hatred. I'd rather you dislike us for something logical, perhaps vandalizing your dorm or slandering the name of Sorin College (please don't claim that a "lame" request for a game of assassins is the answer because that is equally lame). 
So, tell me Sorin, did we Walsh girls spray graffiti upon your walls during a late night plan to vandalize your abode? Or maybe it was all those viewpoints we sent in to The Observer out ofthe blue, claiming the worst ofyour dorm. In all seriousness, please explain why you dislike us so much, breakup and petty excuses aside. I won't speak on behalf of my entire dorm like a certain someone, but keep your giant hand off our front steps. If you stop making up reasons to dislike us, perhaps you'lllearn that you love your old sister dorm. 
Margaret Kowieski freshman Walsh March30 

Unions m_ay be the problem_ 
Yesterday Sarah q,ons wrote an letter in support of the ironically named Employee Free Choice Act (EFCA) ("Unions a necessity," March 31).This bill, if passed, would change the process ofhow workforces can unionize. 
Currently, once a majority ofworkers sign cards in favor of an election, there is a waiting period trig­gered while both the union and management get to make their respective cases for and against unioniza­tion. After this period is over, a secret ballot election is held, where each worker can go into a booth alone and vote his conscience. Were the EFCA to pass, the process would go like this: A majority ofworkers sign union cards, and a union is automatically formed. 
Without the protection of the secret ballot, workers would be subject to intimidation from union bosses and peer pressure since card signing is done in pub­
lic. There would be no chance to vote without fear of consequences from those that disagree with him. Yet, Ms. Lyons sights fairness as a reason to support this bill. Going from a system where both parties get to present their side ofthe argument and then the worker gets to make a choice anonymously, to a sys-tern where one side of the argument gets to openly cajole and intimidate workers until they get their way, seems unfair to me. 
One man who agrees with me is famed liberal Democratic Senator George McGovern. Despite his longtime support of labor unions, McGovern has actively campaigned against this bill which he sees as an attack on democracy. I do not believe that most of the supporters ofthe EFCA truly wish to attack democracy. I think they simply believe that there is absolutely no downside to unionization for workers and that any obstacle in the way of unionization should be removed, no matter ifit is the secret ballot. However, one must look no further than one ofthe most heavily unionized industries in the country, the failing and layoffhappy U.S. automotive industry, to see why some workers might want the opportunity to say no to unions with the privacy of a secret ballot. 
Brian Benjamin 
junior 
Knorr 
March30 


Stand up for ideals 
I wish to express my gratitude to the students who, earlier this month, presented a petition to Fr. Jenkins asking that sexual orien­tation be added to the University's non-discrimination clause. Fr. Jenkins' decision to reject the petition is deeply distressing. I hope that in the future Notre Dame will reconsider this decision, which contradicts the ideals set out in the 'Spirit of Inclusion.' Despite the disappointing result, I thank those brave students who stood up for the rights ofL.G.B.T.Q. students, and stood up for the ideals Notre Dame claims to uphold. 
Ailbhe Darcy 
graduate srudem 
offcampus 
March31 



THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, April 1, 2009 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 
of hope and prosperity for his people. shadowing a royal future of his own. 
By GENNA McCABE 
Scene Writer 

Everyone loves a good David and Goliath story. Something about the success of the underdog is cap­tivating to audiences. A new drama from Michael Green, executive producer of "Heroes," offers a fresh and modern take on this beloved tale. Set in a mod­ern-day monarchy, "Kings" focuses around a humble soldier who appears to be destined for greatness. 
Not unintentionally, "Kings" centers around a young soldier named David. David lives in the monar­chy Gilboa, which is ruled by King Silas Benjamin. Silas is said to have brought order and unity to Gilboa, establishing his monarchy in a land previous­ly given up to destruction and despair. In the capital of Gilboa, Shiloh, Silas has created a shining beacon 
Kings 
Starring: Christopher Egan (David), lan McShane (Silas), Eamonn Walker (Samuels), Allison Miller, Susanna Thompson, Sebastian Stan, Dylan Baker, Wes Studi, Sarita Choudhury Airs: Sundays, 8pm on NBC 

Killzone 2 Price: $59.99 ESRB Rating: M 
System: PS3 Pros: Multiplayer mode, customization, best-of­seven gameplay Cons: Uninspired single-player mode, boring story­line 
We first meet David as a boy living on a farm with An ambitious undertaking by any producer, Green his large family. He offers help to a strange man hav­seems to have made his modern adaptation of David ing car trouble. This man is Reverend Ephram and Goliath work -at least for the time being. At 
Samuels, the spiritual leader of Gilboa.  times the plot and dialogue of "Kings"  
Through their discussion we learn that  can be seen as overworked or insin­ 
David's father died in a war. The audi­ence cannot help but sense that these two characters will meet again.  The plot of "Kings, purposefully models  cere. There is no doubt that the story is packed full of archetypes and symbols, but many go by too quickly for the  
From there, the story fast forwards  itselfafter the David  audience to catch on.  Still, there is  
several years, and finds David fighting in a war of his own. This war, between Gilboa and the neighboring nation Gath,  and Goliath story from the Bible. In  something strangely enthralling about the show. There is deceit and trickery, lies and secrets, romance and passion,  
seems to have been going on for many  accordance with the  and it is all wrapped up in a story from  
years, and it is clear that the citizens of Gilboa want peace. When a group of Gilboan soldiers are captured by Gath,  Biblical connection, there is a heavy  the Bible. While it may be a stretch to say that this series is groundbreaking or award worthy, it is, at least three  
David goes against orders and res­cues them. Little does he know that  religious influence in the show.  episodes into the first season, hard to stop watching. If nothing else, the  

he. has just rescued the son of the desire to find out what the future holds 
King, and that his life is going to for David keeps this author coming 
change forever. lle is whisked off to back. 
Shiloh to be shown off as a hero and soon gets "Kings" airs on NBC Sunday nights at 8 p.m. 
caught up in the politics of city life. The plot of "Kings" purposefully models itself after the David and Goliath story from the Bible. In accordance with the Biblical connection, there is a heavy religious influence in the show. While they are not specifically any one denomination, King Silas often references his own religious beliefs. He speaks of his monarchy as being ordained by God and relies heavily upon the approval of the Reverend Samuels. A favorite anecdote of the King recounts a moment when a great swarm of butterf1ies came down upon his head. At that moment, Silas knew God approved of Photo courtesy of sisterrose.wordpress.com his work. Ominously, a similar event occurs to David upon his arrival to Shiloh, perhaps fore-Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 
By ANDREW SERHOFF Scene Writer 
At first glance, the highly antic­ipated "Killzone 2" looked like everything a video-gaming male could ever want: killing and zone warfare. While the game delivers in these aspects, there are a cou­ple reasons why this game falls short of being the Halo-killer it was predicted to be. 
As with most first-person shoot­ers, "Killzone 2" features both radio voice god, and you complete these arbitrary objectives, usually utilizing the tacky Sixaxis motion­sensitive controls for non-combat related tasks. The gameplay and visuals (especially the cutscenes) are exceptional, but the story is uneventful and uninteresting. In addition, the known remedy to disappointing storylines -the cooperative campaign -is suspi­ciously absent. 
The multiplayer is the reason to play "Killzone 2." The mechanics advanced for first-person shooter beginners to have a chance against seasoned veterans a Ia Halo, it won't take the average gamer long to adjust to the nuances of "Killzone 2." Probably the best new feature is a best-of­seven game rotation on a single map, giving the player the oppor­tunity to play all the classic first­person shooter objectives without the tedious pre-game and post­game setup and loading. 
"Killzone 2" makes great work 

single-player and multiplayer feel like the widely successful of the PS3's power and is a valu­modes. Unfortunately, it suffers a "Call of Duty 4," especially with able addition to any first-person similar fate as highly touted first­the customizable soldier load­shooter fan's library. The multi­person shooter games before it: outs. In "Killzone 2," customiza­player is near-flawless and a pin­its single-player mode is flat and tion is expanded to include differ­nacle of the genre, but if online uninspired. You start the game ent unlockable classes, talents shooting isn't for you, neither is dropped right into a Normandy­and weapons with a unique sys­"Killzone 2." style invasion, with explosions tem that is intuitive and challeng­and gunfire all around you. ing (but not to the point of Contact Andrew Serhoff at Orders are barked at you by the absurdity). While gameplay is too aserhoff@nd.edu 
--------~~----------------------------------­

THE OBSERVER 


CENE

Wednesday, April 1, 2009 page 13 

By PATRICK GRIFFIN 
Scene Writer 
The University of Notre Dame is a premier universi­ty, with ample opportunities for success available to young people of all backgrounds. Arguably, no other institution offers the variety in aca­demics, athletics, arts and leisure that is so accessible here on our campus. Notre Dame boasts the capacity to turn nearly any interest into regular practice with its wide array of facilities, faculty and stu­dent leadership. 
Why then, is there a significant shortage of casual performance of popular music by Notre Dame's stu­dents? In comparison with many other colleges of varying sizes, Notre Dame lacks notably in this department. 
This statement is not meant to be taken as a criti­cism of the musical inclinations of Notre Dame's stu­dent population. The talent is clearly there, evident in any special performances, talent shows, and the rare sunny-day drum circle. Rather, the claim is that there is a scarcity of opportunities and venues for Notre Dame musicians to display the soul, the chill­ness and the flow that is characteristic of college-age music. 
Now, when compared to other student bodies, Notre Dame students may be slightly more preoccupied with their academic endeavors than with publicly mellowing out with an acoustic guitar strapped to their shoulders. The claim can be made that between difficult classes, the environmental club, applying for mission work in Uganda, and the co-ree ultimate 
The problem may then lie in the availability of casual performance opportunitie, both on campus and in South Bend. 
Frisbee team (note the Notre Dame manifestation of that sweep quickly across campus. Why not have a the Jack Johnson stereotype), casual "jamming" is place where these valuable talents can stick around unfortunately pushed to the back burner. . for a while. 
Students, however, seem to have little difficulty Hopefully, what we as students will see, or more 
involving themselves in ways that tailor  appropriately, hear, in the  near  
to their interests and talents; go see any Notre Dame stage production and it is  There is a scarcity of  future is the mellow musings of musicians during the quieter hours  
clear that students are  opportunities and  at Reekers. Perhaps a fellow student  
willing and capable of producing performance masterpieces. The prob­ venues for Notre Dame musicians to  will preempt a touring artist with his own tunes at Legends. Maybe soon posters alerting passing students of  
lem may then lie in the  display the soul, the  upcoming off-campus performances  
availability of casual performance opportuni­ties, both on campus  chillness, and the flow that is characteristic  will also adorn the walls of O'Shag. Opportunities abound for students at Notre Dame. It's time that stu­ 
and in South Bend.  of college age music.  dents' music was  given the same  
Weekly  Acousticafe  chance.  
performances display  

the talent being discussed. But these 
unplugged sessions don't guarantee a full bill and thirst for a larger commitment. And how often do Notre Dame student performers climb onstage at Legends for exclusive shows, or even as opening acts for the many touring bands that pass through? Unless it's the case of very poor advertising, there exist virtually no student performances any­where off campus. 
What Notre Dame and South Bend need are more venues and opportunities to kick out a few jams. We're talking coffee shops, cafes, restaurants, night­clubs and other locations that would allow a college student to sit down, with or without accompaniment, and bust out a few popular covers, or even introduce the community to some original songwriting. 
Talented student musicians always seem to seep out of the woodwork at one-and-done events like tal­Contact Patrick Griffin at pgriffi3@nd.edu
ent shows or some of the various cultural festivals 


Dinr.. ·ng flgU Qi~h
" .. .-.--. -. .-.. : ._.;-_,. ___ ~-----.. -­
options, but a little change is  shredded carrots. Then take a  quick,  satisfying  lunch  is  
By SARA FELSENSTEIN  always good. Try out these  chicken breast from the grill  repeatedly overlooked.  Well,  
Scene Writer  easy  recipes  and  your  station and cut it into strips. (If  even if you never tire of the  
lunchtime experience could be  the chicken poppers are avail­ premade  grilled  cheese's  
It is easy to get into a routine  revolutionized.  able  you  could  use  those  crunchy, buttery goodness, this  
with lunch foods, especially if  instead). Top the salad in buf­ new grilled cheese is worth a  
you don't have time to be one  Buffalo Chicken Salad  falo sauce from the deli station.  try. Take two slices of sour­ 
of those lunch-goers at South  So yes, my level of innovation  Finally, add those crispy deli­ dough bread from the deli sec­ 
with the big backpacks, doing  here can be explained by my  cious noodle things that no one  tion. Add a slice of cheese  
circles around the salad sta­ job at Reekers. Although there  seems to know the name of.  (cheddar, Swiss or provolone­ 
tions  as  they  is  something  Put another plate on top and  I'd go for cheddar) to each  
weigh  their  special about a  shake until the ingredients are  piece of bread. Then put two  
options. Maybe you head to the deli station day  Finally, add those crispy delicious  good Reekers Buffalo Chicken Salad, if you're  evenly distributed. Eat with a side of pita slices (no organic piadina bread with this one,  slices of ham (or three pieces of bacon) on the bottom piece, and add spinach leaves, onions  
after day for some  noodle things that  running low on  sorry).  and tomatoes to your liking.  
turkey and cheese on a roll. Or maybe you're a  no one seems to know the name of.  Flex points, a similar alterna­tive can be  The Ultimate Grilled Cheese Tired of the generic grilled  Press the sandwich at the pani­ni station. Once the cheese has melted on both sides, your ulti­ 
fan of peanut but­ made  at  the  cheese that sits out in the fried  mate grilled cheese is good to  
ter and jelly and  DH.  Take  a  food section at both lunch and  go!  
see no reason to go for another  plate of Romaine lettuce. Add  dinner, day after day? Maybe  
alternative. Of course, there's  celery, onions, diced tomatoes,  you  don't  like  American  Contact Sara Felsenstein at  
nothing  wrong  with  these  bleu  cheese  crumbles  and  cheese, and what could be  a  sfelsens@nd.edu  

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 1, 2009 
NBA 

Thunder prevent Spurs from clinching berth 
Anthony's 29 against Knicks leads Nuggets into second place; Bobcats earn critical win over Lakers 
Tuesday after spending three weeks with their NBA Development team. The No. 4 pick out of high school in the 2004 draft, Livingston is trying to comeback from a gruesome knee injury with the Los Angeles Clippers in 2007. 
Livingston will practice with the team for the first time Thursday but may not make his debut until next week. Oklahoma City has just eight games remaining. 
Nuggets 11.1, Knicks 104 

Carmelo Anthony scored 29 points and the Denver Nuggets clinched a playoff spot by hold­ing on for a victory over the New York Knicks on Tuesday night after blowing most of a 27-point, second-quarter lead. 
The Nuggets' win, coupled with San Antonio's 96-95 loss to Oklahoma City, moved Denver into the No. 2 spot in the Western Conference heading into the final two weeks of the season. 
Denver's 49-26 record is its best 73-game mark since joining the NBA in 1976. The Nuggets clinched a playoff spot for the sixth straight season. Only Dallas, Detroit and San Antonio have also made the playoffs every year sinee 2003-04. 
Denver has won nine of 10 and New York has lost nine of 10, so a mismatch was expected, and the Nuggets obliged by racing out to a 62-35 led with five min­utes left in the first half. 
That's when they got sloppy, and the Knicks, who were led by Nate Robinson's 30 points, got hot. 
The Knicks used a 26-3 spurt spanning halftime to pull to 65­61 and make a game of it, much to the chagrin of the Pepsi Center crowd that had settled in for another blowout from the Nuggets, who are vying for home-court advantage in the playoffs for the first time in Anthony's six seasons in the NBA. 
New York pulled to 80-77 on Wilson Chandler's jumper with 
1:19 left in the third quarter, but that was as close as the Knicks could get as the Nuggets scored the next 14 points. 
Bobcats 94, Lakers 84 

Needing victories to make up ground in the playoff race, the schedule fell perfectly for the Charlotte Bobcats: The mighty Los Angeles Lakers came to town. 
Continuing perhaps the most unlikely dominance of one team over another in the NBA, the Bobcats got 21 points and 13 rebounds from Gerald Wallace and used stifling defense to bHat the Lakers on Tuesday night and move within one game of the final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. 

Raymond Felton added 16 points, D.J. Augustin scored 14 and Boris Diaw had 12 assists as the Bobcats frustrated Kobe Bryant and completed a season sweep of the Western Conference leaders, who have lost six of seven to Charlotte over the past four seasons. 
"We match up real well with them," explained Wallace after the fifth-year Bobcats set a fran­chise record with their 34th win. "We kind of force Kobe into tak­ing a lot of tough shots, and kind of get him out of the way he wants to do things offensively. At the same time, we're able to attack them and take advantage of their weaknesses." 
Failing to reach 100 points in consecutive games for the first time since November, the weary Lakers dropped their second straight with one game left Wednesday in Milwaukee on their seven-game, 13-day road trip. 
Bryant scored 25 points, but hit just 11 of 28 shots. Lamar Odom added 20 points as the Lakers slipped to three games behind Cleveland for the NBA's best record and home-court for a possible fmals matchup. 
"We've just got to build momentum, build rhythm," said Bryant, who is 18-for-4 7 from the field in the past two games. 
"You want to be playing well going into the playoffs." 
With Raja Bell shadowing Bryant, the Bobcats held the Lakers to 39 percent shooting ­and as the game wore on, Bobcats fans drowned out the thousands of Lakers fans who helped produce the largest crowd for a Bobcats game in their 4-year-old arena. 
"It was like an NCAA tourna­ment game," Bobcats coach Larry Brown said. "They were cheering for the underdog." 
Brown's latest turnaround job has the lightly regarded Bobcats in the playoff mix despite a bru­tal closing schedule that includes six of eight on the road, starting Wednesday in Boston. 
After losses by Chicago and Detroit on Tuesday, the Bobcats are a game behind the eighth­place Bulls and two back of the seventh-place Pistons. 
"It gives us a big chance to make it to the playoffs this sea­son," said Vladimir Radmanovic, who had seven points in his first game against his former team since being dealt for Adam Morrison. "Of course, playing against your old team, it's always a pleasure when you beat them." 
Hot shooting and tough defense down the stretch was the difference. 
After Bryant had two buckets in an 8-0 run to get the Lakers within 80-78 with 5:32 left, Diaw hit a floater in the lane and Bell made a 3-pointer on the next possession. 
Associated Press 

SAN ANTONIO -Kevin Durant scored 31 points and the Oklahoma City Thunder contin­ued to torment the San Antonio Spurs with a 96-95 victory Tuesday night. 
The Thunder led by as much as 1 7 and denied the Spurs a playoff-clinching win after beat­ing San Antonio for the second time this month. With eight games left, the Spurs lost their slim lead in the Southwest Division and fell into a first-place tie with Houston. 
Russell Westbrook had 16 points and 10 assists for the Thunder, who fought off a furi­ous rally from the Spurs to break a three-game losing streak and win in San Antonio for the first time since 2004. 
The Spurs had a chance to win, but Michael Finley's off-bal­ance jumper as time expired clanked off the back of the rim. Tim Duncan scored 21. 
San Antonio has lost two straight and will play five of its final eight games on the road, including another one at Oklahoma City next week. San Antonio still needs either a win or a Phoenix loss to clinch a playoff spot for the 12th straight year but could still be seeded anywhere from No. 2 to No. 8. 
The Thunder seemed deter­mined not to punch San Antonio's playoff ticket. 
Oklahoma City, which had won just once in the six games since beating the Spurs on March 16, built a 7 4-5 7 lead in the third before the Spurs came storming back. The Thunder's lead shrunk to 94-93 with l:llleft on a 3-pointer by Finley, but Nenad Krstic hit a jumper to push the lead back to three. 
Duncan blocked a layup by Jeff Green with 13 seconds left, but the Spurs struggled to find a shooter after immediately push­ing the ball up the floor and set­tled for Finley's errant jumper as the buzzer sounded. 
Manu Ginobili scored 17 points in his first start since December. Finley had 14 and Tony Parker had 11 for the Spurs. 
Krstic and Green each had 16 for the Thunder. 
San Antonio led by as much as eight in the first quarter before the more youthful Thunder ­whose starting lineup has fewer years of NBA experience com­bined (8) than Duncan (11) ­began exhausting the Spurs. 
Kyle Weaver's 3-pointer with 
7:12 left in the second gave the Thunder their first lead since the opening minutes. From there, Oklahoma City went on a 10-3 run and held the Spurs without a field goal for more than five min­utes to take a 51-40 lead. 
Oklahoma City's lead bal­looned to 17 in the third on Durant's jumper, but the Spurs rallied. Duncan answered with a layup on the other end to start a 9-2 run to end the quarter. 
Joining the Thunder on the bench in street clothes was new addition Shaun Livingston, who signed a multiyear contract 
AP 

San Antonio's Tim Duncan passes the ball past Oklahoma City forward Kevin Durant during the fourth quarter of the Spurs' 96-95 win. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
One or two roommates needed for brand new 3 BR 3 Bath Condo at Irish Crossings fully furnished. $500 per mo. incl. utilities -wireless, gas, water, electric and parking. 
Private BR/Bath, gym. 
Ten min walk to campus five min walk to stores. Non-smoker, no pets. animal­cop01 @gmail.com 

FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com 
FREE COMCAST! Why pay for 12 months? 
Now offering 1 0-month leases. 
Bluegoldrentals.com 
Houses for the 09-10 school year. 
2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous­es.com 
Need off-campus housing for next year (09-10)? 2,3,4 and 5 bedroom houses available 1/2 miles from campus, ND ALUMNI OWNED. 
As low as $275 per student. 
Contact on-campus rep at ebar­loh@nd.edu or 1-513-706-9655 
2009/1 0 student rentals Angela St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300-$2000/mo. 
Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876-3537. AA 1 Walk to Campus 
2-5 bedroom homes 574-277-0116-Cooreman.com 


PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NDs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edulhealth-safety/assis­tance-for-pregnant-students. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/health­safety/assaull/ 
$35 Paid Today! New Donors (w/ad) IBR Plasma Center, 2102 S. Michigan, South Bend 574-234­9568. 
Notre Dame will win the 2010 BCS National Championship. 
April Fools. 





OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, April 1, 2009 CoMPlLED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NCAA Women's Tel111is ITA Division 1 Rankings 
team  points  previous  
1  Northwestern  87  1  
2  Georgia  79  2  
3  NOTRE DAME  72  3  
4  Baylor  69  5  
5  Miami (Fla.)  67  4  
6  Georgia Tech  67  6  
7  Southern California  65  10  
8  California  65  8  
9  Duke  63  7  
10  Stanford  55  11  
11  Clemson  53  12  
12  UCLA  52  9  
13  Tennessee  46  13  
14  Fresno State  44  15  
15  Arkansas  43  23  
16  Florida  41  14  
17  Florida State  39  25  
18  North Carolina  38  18  
19  Vanderbilt  37  NR  
20  Kentucky  37  19  
21  Arizona State  35  20  
22  SMU  35  24  
23  Michigan  34  16  
24  LSU  34  21  
25  Alabama  33  17  

NCAA Women's Lacrosse IWLCA Division 1 Rankings 
team record previous 
1 Northwestern 9-0 1 2 Maryland 8-0 2 3 Penn 7·0 3 4 North Carolina 7-2 6 5 Duke 8·2 7 6 Georgetown 5-3 4 1 Princeton 5-1 9 8 Syracuse 6·2 8 9 NOTRE DAME 8·1 10 10 Virginia 6-3 5 111 vanderbilt 4·3 11 111 Boston University 5·3 12 13 Loyola (Md.) 6-1 20 14 Stanford 6-2 15 15 Penn State 4-4 17 16 Dartmouth 3·3 19 17 Ohio State 7·1 18 18 James Madison 4·3 16 19 Cornell 6-2 14 20 New Hampshire 4·3 13 
NCAA Men's Golf Nlke Divison 1 Rankings 
team points 
1 Georgia 572 2 Southern California 540 3 Oklahoma State 530 4 Clemson 455 5 Stanford 446 6 Illinois 435 7 Florida 418 8 Alabama 406 9 Arizona State 397 10 Indiana 386 11 Georgia Tech 287 12 Washington 282 13 Texas Tech 276 14 South Carolina 260 15 Texas 241 
around the dial 
HIGH SCHOOL BASKETBALL McDonald's All-American Game 8 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 

Chicago Blackhawks vs. St. Louis Blues 
8:30 p.m., CSN 
NBA 


Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS-T.J. Ford hit the go-ahead jumper with 3.9 seconds left, and the Indiana Pacers beat the Chicago Bulls 107­105 on Tuesday night to tighten the race for the eighth spot in the Eastern Conference. 
Chicago had a chance to tie or win, but Ben Gordon missed a long shot that was signaled as a 3-pointer in the closing seconds. 
Ford finished with 22 points and nine assists. Danny Granger led the Pacers with 31 points, while Troy Murphy had 15 points and 12 rebounds after miss· ing the previous three games with a strained medi­al collateral ligament in his left knee. 
Derrick Rose had 24 points and a career-high 11 rebounds, Kirk Hinrich had 20 points, seven assists and seven rebounds, and Tyrus Thomas added 20 points for the Bulls. 
Indiana won for the fourth time in five games and is 31f2 games behind Chicago with seven games left. 
Chicago led 103-100 and could have been up by more, but didn't take advan­tage and failed to score on its next three possessions. Granger scored on a put­back to make it 103-102, then the Pacers forced Chicago into a shot clock violation. 
Indiana worked the ball to 
IN BRIEF 

Tony Dungy invited to be on While House Advisory Council 
INDIANAPOUS -Former Indianapolis Colts mach Tony Dungy has been invited to join a White House faith-based advisory muncil. 
Dungy publicist Todd Starowitz con­frrmed Tuesday that President Barack Obama had invited the former coach to join the Advisory Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships. He said Dungy had not decided whether to accept. 
White House deputy press secretary Bill BurtDn declined mmment. The Associated Press left a message for Dungy on his home answering machine. 
Americans United for Separation of Church and State has criticized Dungy's selection, citing his 2007 support for efforts in Indiana to ban same-sex marriage. 
'We're not trying to downgrade anyone else," Dungy told a crowd of 700 while accepting a "Friend of Family" award from the mnservative Indiana Family Institute in 2007. "But we're trying to promote the family-family values the Lord's way." 
Granger again, and he drained a 3-pointer with 43 seconds left to give Indiana its first lead of the quarter. 
Gordon responded with a fallaway jumper from the free-throw line to tie the score with 38 seconds left. 
Indiana worked for a shot, and Murphy missed, but the ball went out of bounds off a Chicago player, giving the Pacers a new 24-second clock with 26 seconds to play. 
Ford worked the shot clock down, then drove left against Rose before hitting the fadeaway. 
The Bulls led 52-50 at halftime, but the Pacers opened the half with a flurry that included a 3-pointer and a reverse dunk by Murphy to take a 59-54 lead with just over 8 minutes left in the quarter. 
Chicago rallied, and back­to-hack 3-pointers by Tim Thomas and Hinrich gave the Bulls a 69-63 lead. 
Josh McRoberts' two­handed baseline jam in the final second of the third quarter cut Chicago's advantage to 79-76. 
A two-handed dunk and a layup by Tyrus Thomas increased Chicago's lead to 85-78. Indiana rallied again, and a 3-pointer by Granger trimmed the Bulls' lead to 87-85 and caused Chicago to call a timeout. 
Chicago responded with a 12-6 run during which four different Bulls scored to take a 99-91 lead. 
Plaxico Burress' gun trial 
pushed back to June 
NEW YORK -A gun possession case against New York Giants star Plaxico Burress was adjourned Tuesday until June unless he reaches a plea agreement with prosecutors to resolve the matter sooner. 
Burress accidentally shot himself in the thigh with an unlicensed gun he'd stuffed into his waistband at a Manhattan nightclub last year. 
The star receiver, wearing a gray suit and a light blue shirt, arrived at Manhattan Criminal Court in the company of his wife and his attor­ney, Benjamin Brafman. 
Both sides agreed to adjourn the case to June 15 following a brief hearing before Judge Michael Yavinsky. Burress' bail was contin­ued. 
Prosecutor John Wolfstaetter told the judge that the prosecution was continuing its investigation. 
Paris leads Oklahoma 
women to Final Four 
OKLAHOMA CITY -Courtney Paris will get the chance to back up her national championship guarantee in the Final Four. 
Paris led the way with 19 points, 13 rebounds and six blocks as top-seeded Oklahoma surged ahead in the second half to beat Purdue 74-68 Tuesday night to earn the second trip to the Final Four in school history. 
The Sooners (32-4) will face Louisville, an upset winner against top-seeded Maryland, in the national semifinals in St. Louis. 
Danielle Robinson scored 23 points for Oklahoma, which has made it this far for the first time since losing to Connecticut in the 2002 championship game. 
Lindsay Wisdom·Hylton led sixth­seeded Purdue (25-11) with 20 points and 13 rebounds, and Lakisha Freeman and Brittany Rayburn scored 12 points apiece. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 1, 2009 
MLB 

Poll: Major League ticket prices too high 
Associated Press 
Take me out to the ballgame ... because I can't afford it. 
The high price of going to a game is now the No. 1 problem in Major League Baseball, a new Associated Press­Knowledge Networks poll of fans shows. 
Soaring salaries and steroids dominated fans' worries in past AP surveys. But with opening day less than a week away, the nation's recession is delivering the biggest blow. 

"Like every election, it's the economy," said New York Yankees star Mark Teixeira, who signed a $180 million, eight-year contract in the off­season. "In tough times, dispos­able income may not be there." 
In other poll results released Tuesday: · 
-Nearly 60 percent of fans said no player who used steroids or performance­enhancing drugs should get into the Hall of Fame. 
-85 percent said all 104 names on the list of players who tested positive for drugs in 2003 should be made public. So far, only Alex Rodriguez has been identified. 
-60 percent said they were not interested in the World Baseball Classic -the presea­son tournament involving major leaguers that was won by Japan for the second time. 
But the cost of tickets, con­cessions, parking and every­thing else added up to fans' main concern. The toll of attending a game was tops at 45 percent, followed by player salaries (29 percent), steroids/drugs (19 percent) and the length of games (6 percent). 
"It's gone up like everything else. The last game we went to, we paid $50 for a seat. That's pretty steep," Robert Neel, a retired director of admissions at the University of Cincinnati, said at spring training in Florida. 

That would make for a cheap seat at either of the two new ballparks opening in New York. At the $1.5 billion Yankee Stadium, a ticket in the lower deck between the bases goes for a minimum of $350 and tops out at $2,625. 
At the Mets' Citi Field, it's $18 just to park. The average ticket price in the majors was $25.43 last 

year -up 11.7 percent over the previous season, according to The Team Marketing Report. The 2009 cost hasn't been determined, but the increases typically outpace the inflation rate. 
MLB said two-thirds of the 30 teams lowered either their average ticket price or some level of seats. The Toronto Blue Jays went even further, offering a season ticket in the upper deck for $76 -less than $1 per game for all 81 home dates. 
"The prices at the concession stands are insane," Cleveland fan Larry Jameson complained at spring training in Goodyear, Ariz. "Eight bucks for a beer. My wife bought a T-shirt. It cost her 22 bucks. She was going to get me a golf shirt. It was 55 bucks. I said forget about it, we need a plane ticket home." 
Margaret Costello, a retired teacher from Sandusky, Ohio, assessed blame across the board. 
"I'm not happy about the prices," she said this week at the Indians' new camp. "Every sports team in America, every professional athlete, is out of line. 
"We have people losing their jobs, and CC Sabathia -I love him, he was my favorite -he gets more millions than a third­world country's national budg­et?" she said. 
''I'm here for spring training, but I think this is the last time. Every year, I get more disillu­sioned with the millionaire players. Now, with Americans really in a financial bind, these guys keep getting richer? It h!)-S to stop." 
Sabathia, who signed a $161 million, seven-year deal with the Yankees, accepted that sen­timent. 
''I'm not surprised with the economy being so bad and the way things are, the price of a ticket is probably going to be high. Hopefully they'll still come out and support us," he said. 
Overall, almost 60 percent of poll respondents said going to a game was more expensive than other entertainment they might consider. Yet there was no indi­cation they would stay away because of the prices -only 11 percent who went to a game in 2008 said they aren't likely to go back this year. 
SOCCER 

Police blamed for stampede 
Associated Press 

ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast ­Fans who survived a deadly stadium stampede in the Ivory Coast blamed police Monday for the tragedy, saying security forces pro­
voked  the  panic by  tear  
gassing people  who  had  
nowhere to run.  

World soccer body FIFA called for a prompt inves­tigation into the stampede Sunday at Abidjan's Felix Houphouet­Boigny arena that left 19 peo pie dead and injured more than 
130. The pres­ident of Ivory Coast declared a three-day 
period of mourning. 

Tens of thousands of fans turned out to see Chelsea striker Didier Drogba -a native of Ivory Coast -as the home team squared off against Malawi at a. World Cup qualifying match. Interior Minister Desire Tagro said on state TV that fans outside the stadium began pushing and shoving before the game began, set­ting off the panic. But wit­nesses said that as fans tried to get into the stadi­um, police fired tear gas into the crowd, setting off the stampede. 
The weight of the fans pushing forward caused a wall to come crashing down, according to an AP photographer and other witnesses. An Abidjan morgue listed 19 dead, and Tagro gave the number of injured as 132. 
Members of the lvorian Football Federation denounced the police. Senior federation member Anzouan Kacou told Radio France Internationale that security forces had been "negligent" and had violat­ed safety procedures by using teargas inside the sta­dium. 
"We saw people falling from the top bleachers," said Diarassouba Adama, who was inside the stadium. "The stampede was pro­voked by the security forces 
"We are all so sad about what happened and can only send our condolences to the family and friends of all those who died," said Drogba, who scored two goals for the Ivory Coast in the match. 
The organizer of the next World Cup, meanwhile, pledged Monday there will be no stadium stampedes during Africa's first World Cup in 2010 or during the 2009 Confederations Cup, both being held in South Africa. 
Danny J ordaan told reporters in Johannesburg that many African fans buy their tickets only when they reach the stadium, and delays often create impa­tient crowds outside. 
"It triggers a stampede that leads to disaster," Jordaan said. "Those things will not occur in the Confederations Cup or the World Cup. It is impossi­ble." 
Jordaan said World Cup and Confederations Cup tickets will have to be pur­chased well in advance and those without tickets will be stopped far away from the stadiums. 
He said stadium gates will open early, three hours 
who threw tear gas canis­ters at us. I don't know why they fired on us." 
Relatives of the dead out­side one of the capital's morgues agreed. "My broth­er left to go to the stadium with his friends. At the entrance, they were attacked by security forces. That's what set off the 
"We saw people falling from the top of bleachers. The stampede was provoked by the security forces who threw tear canisters at us.'' 
Diarassouba Adama Stampede witness 
Morgue officials released the names of the 19 dead ­including two children, one of whom was age 10. There was no immediate word Monday on the condition of the injured. 
President Laurent Gbagbo announced a three-day period of mourning to mark 
the incident, spokesman Coulibaly Gervais on state TV. Prime Minister Guillaume Soro called a meeting of his cabinet Monday to dis­cuss the tragedy. 
Local news­papers argued that more tick­ets had been sold than were seats inside 

stampede," Momodou Kamara said after identify­ing the body of his brother. 
Women faint­ed with grief outside the morgue Monday and others sobbed as they held each other. Fathers and brothers stood, their eyes red with sorrow. 
said his 
"We are all so sad about what happened and can only send our condolences to the family and friends ofthose who died." 
Didier Drogba Ivory Coast soccer player 
before kickoff, and public transportation to stadiums will be improved all to reduce anxious crowds. 
Both he and FIFA President Joseph S. Blatter offered their condo­lences to the families. 
If tear gas was to blame 
the 35,000-seat capacity stadium. The daily "Super Sport" cited anonymous sources who said that fans were able to bribe security forces to let them into the stadium for the game even though they did not have tickets. 
The game took place Sunday despite the deaths and Ivory Coast won 5-0. It was the first match in the final stage of African quali­fying for the 2010 World Cup. 
in Abidjan, it would be the fourth time since 2001 that police firing tear gas have set off deadly stadium stam­pedes in Africa. 
In 2000, 13 fans died at a match in Zimbabwe after police fired tear gas into the crowd. A year later, at least 12 3 people died in Accra, Ghana, after security forces fired tear gas and seven other fans were crushed to death in a stam­pede in Lubumbashi, Congo, after police fired tear gas. 

,-----------~-----------­
Wednesday, April 1, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
StoreYour Stun 
Ou~u th~ Summ~rl 
Call or stop on by & reserve today! 
(5741 203-0572 

6482 Brlck Road, South !lend Located at Cleveland Rd.& US 2() Bypass.7 minutes from campus 

apartments available for 2009-2010 :: walking distance to campus:: 2·bedroom, 2-bath with 990± SF :: free internet :: washer! dryer and drshwasher :: central air condilioning :: large balcony :: cathedra! ceilings 
Call Cnristina at ~1~·l~J·1~l~ to scneaule an a~~ointment or email us at mana~er@nastaaiumcluo.com 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 

Enjoy the good life when you five off campus at a very reasonable price! 3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Town homes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Off~Street Parking Located Close to Notre Dame 
Only $350 permonth, perstudent 
*Our townhomes rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes. apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(5741234-2436 
OLYMPICS 
Chicago prepares for Olympic visit 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Chicago has rolled out the red carpet for kings and queens, presidents and movie stars, not to mention Bulls and Bears. But this week a few YIPs most people have never heard of get the royal treatment as the city tries to land the 2016 Olympic Games. 
Mounir Sabet, Alexander Popov, Dr. Ching-Kuo-Wu and a few others from an International Olympic Committee delegation will inspect the city in its first stop during the competition against Rio de Janeiro, Madrid or Tokyo. It follows meetings last week in Denver where each city made a 20-minute presentation. 
Chicago officials have been busily rehearsing, paving, prac­ticing, painting and planting. For example, they'll make sure IOC members see two Millennium Park fountains in all their glory, just they way they are when they become one of the city's top summertime attractions. 
"We usually wait until April 15, but the water will be turned on" when the committee arrives, said Jill Hurwitz, cul­tural affairs department spokeswoman. 
Workers are also trying to fm­ish renovating the famed Buckingham Fountain ahead of time. Around the city, communi­ty groups and businesses have planted flowers in parks and planters along streets. And in this season of gaping potholes, work crews are laying down fresh asphalt in Washington Park, where the Olympic stadi­um would be builL 
Roads departments spokesman Brian Steele said crews are working across Chicago, not just near Olympic venues. Still, he acknowledged, "We wanted to complete those streets prior to the IOC visit." 
In Denver last week, Madrid, Tokyo and Rio de Janeiro offi­cials all talked specifically about the slow global economy as part of the presentations to the IOC members. Chicago bid leader Pat Ryan said he would go into detail about the city's economic plan during this week's visit. The delegation is scheduled to arrive Thursday. 
Chicago plans an Olympics with 90 percent of the athletes within 15 minutes of their com­petition venues, all based around Lake Michigan. 
Chicago also planned to greet each IOC member with some­one who speaks their language and knows their countries' cus­toms. A.D. Frazier, the chief operating officer of the Atlanta games, said it's a safe bet that the visitors aren't caught in traffic during their tour. 
"You think the IOC ever saw a traffic jam in Beijing?" he asked. "I guarantee you they never saw a traffic jam in Beijing." 
Chicago organizers acknowl­edge they've got detailed biog­raphical information about each IOC member. 
"We have done some research about some of the key cultural and other interesting spots that they might want to take a look at when they're in town," said Lori Igleski, Chicago 2016 director of events, volunteers and accommodations. "We have information at our fingertips of key places they might be inter­ested in." 
Chicago organizers say 1,500 people would play some role in the visit: children were planned to be playing soccer during a visit to Soldier Field, where the NFL's Chicago Bears play; at Lincoln Park, site of the pro­posed tennis venue, tennis play­ers will be volleying. 
Staffers have rehearsed each stop on the venue tour and the drive to get there. Judging by one recent rehearsal the media was allowed to watch, they will assure the IOC that Chicago, which hosted the 1933 World's Fair at the height of the Depression, knows how to put on a big show during terrible economic times. 
The city wants to tout its plan for environmentally friendly games, and planned to take the committee on its tour in an electric bus and a hybrid bus. 
Along the way, they wanted them to see what organizers say is widespread support of the games -thanks to full page ads organizers are taking out in local newspapers that readers can cut out and hang in their windows. 
The IOC was also expected to see something that has been part of the landscape here for as long as anyone can remem­ber: protests. 
"I think a lot of people will be trying to take advantage of this moment for a variety of rea­sons, some legitimate and some not," said Jitu Brown of the Kenwood Oakland Community Organization. 
Brown said the group believes that building the Olympic Village and other venues on the city's South Side will speed the gentrification that is already displacing thousands of low­and middle-income residents. 
But, he said, "we are not anti­Olympics," just against displac­ing residents. 
A group calling itself "No Games Chicago" says the city should be spending money on schools and housing, not the Olympic Games. The group plans a Thursday rally. And the head of the police officers' union says there may be picket­ing to show their anger about the status of contract negotia­tions. 
Chicago 2016 President Lori Healey said organizers won't duck the issues. 
If IOC members ask about picketing police officers, organ­izers will "tell them the truth, that they're out there because they have an issue with their contract (and) it's not directly related to 2016," she said. "That this is a city where people express their opinions." 
TRACK AND fiELD 
U.S.A. to take on Jamaica 
Multi-event challenge between rival countries to start in 2010 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Usain Bolt and the rest of Jamaica's Olympics-domi­nating sprint crew are ready to take on the best from the U.S. 
In a bid to boost track and field's profile in non­Olympic years, the two countries will square off in the USA vs. Jamaica Challenge Series starting in 2010, USA Track & Field and the Jamaica Amateur Athletic Association announced Tuesday. 
The team-based, scored meets will include men and women competing in the 100, 200 and 400 meters, two hurdles distances, three relays and the long jump. 
The countries will have one meet in the United States -probably on the East Coast -and one in Jamaica, sometime in May 
or  June  before  the  
European  track  season  
begins.  

"We feel the stars will be aligned, literally and figu­ratively, next May and June for this series to really take off," USATF CEO Doug Logan said. "We will be working with the Jamaican federation, our athletes and other stakeholders over the next 12-plus months to put together a top-tier event." 
With Bolt's gold medals and world records in the 100 and 200, and wins by Shelly-Ann Fraser and Veronica Campbell-Brown, Jamaica won all four sprints at the Beijing Games. Bolt also helped Jamaica break the world record held by the United States in the 400 relay. 
"We look forward to tak­ing on our American friends in head-to-head competition in 2010," Jamaican federa­tion president Howard Aris said. "We are confident that this kind of team competi­tion, featuring the most exciting events in athletics, will prove captivating to fans around the world." 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 1, 2009 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Bay lor moves on to NIT final 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK --Curtis Jerrells tries not to think about where the Baylor program was when he arrived, the struggles it had endured, the perception of it around the country. 
He'd much prefer to think about where he'll leave it. 
Jerrells scored 25 points and LaceDarius Dunn had 23 as a remarkable senior class carried the Bears into the NIT champi­onship game, 76-62 over San Diego State on Tuesday night. 
Fellow senior Kevin Rogers added 14 points for Baylor (24­14), which has won seven of its last eight games and matched the 1947-48 team that lost in the national championship game for the second-most wins in school history. 
"I can almost say I'd rather be here, coming to New York, play­ing for a championship, than to make it to the NCAA tourna­ment and maybe lose right away," said Jerrells, whose team will play Penn State in Thursday night's title game. 
When Jerrells arrived on cam­pus as a freshman, Baylor was still reeling from the shooting death of one of its players by a teammate, and the numerous violations under former coach Dave Bliss. It may be many more years before the school shakes that ugly past, but these seniors have done their part. 
The NCAA didn't allow them to play a nonconference sched­ule their first fall on campus, but slowly coach Scott Drew molded them into a gutsy team that could hang with anybody. 
They peaked with an NCAA tournament appearance last season and again reached 20 wins, thanks to a stunning run through this year's Big 12 tour­nament that included upsets of Kansas and Texas. 
Rather than sulk over their loss to Missouri in the confer­ence tournament title game, they rallied to beat tradition­rich Georgetown in the NIT. Then they went on the road to beat Virginia Tech and Auburn, those seniors refusing to let their careers come to a close. 
Together, they've won a school-record 64 games. 
"I try not to think about that, where we came from," Jerrells said. "That was a tough time, but that's what makes us who we are. We've got a great group of guys, a great group of coach­es who took a chance coming here, and we've made the best of it." 
Kyle Spain scored 15 points to lead San Diego State (26-10), which long ago set a school record for wins in a season. The only No. 1 seed remaining won more games in this tournament than it had in its previous nine postseason appearances com­bined, but were done in by 19 turnovers. 
"Jerrells in the first half and Dunn in the second half were both hot, and they did what they had to do," said San Diego State coach Steve Fisher, who 20 years ago was leading Michigan to the national championship. "We just committed way too many turnovers and we're dis­appointed with that, but I'm really proud of this team." 
The Aztecs and their own sen­ior-laden bunch did their best to ruin things for Baylor early, going on a 13-3 first-half run and briefly taking the lead on 
D.J. Gay's basket with 1:12 left. But the elusive Jerrells got free on the perimeter and was fouled, making two of three free throws to give Baylor a 35-34 lead at the break --the first time the Aztecs trailed at half­time in the NIT. 
The Bears pushed the lead to 55-42 early in the second half on the strength of their 3-point shooting, with Dunn hitting three of them on live trips down floor. 
San Diego State, which beat Saint Mary's and star guard Patty Mills in the quarterfinals, mounted its only rally of the second half with five straight points that cut the lead to 55­
47. A few moments later, Billy White's basket off a turnover made it 57-51. 
But the Bears were too athlet­ic, too quick and playing for far too much. 
Twenty Cartnr hit a 3-pointer to kickoll' an S-0 spurt, Jerrells finished a three-point play after slashing to the rim, and even big Josh Lomers put down a dunk to make it 72-55 with 2lf2 minutes left, bringing the folks wearing green and gold sprinklHd throughout Madison Square Garden to their feet. 
And assuring a memorable senior class one more game. 
"When we brought in these seniors," Drew said, "we knew they had the capability and potential to play in games like this." 
NHL 

Canucks push for playoffs 
Associated Press 

ST. PAUL, Minn. -Roberto Luongo and the Sedin twins have the Vancouver Canucks looking as though they might be a force in the playoffs. The Minnesota Wild, however, are fading from postseason contention. 
Henrik Sedin scored 4 minutes into overtime and Roberto Luongo stopped 33 shots, lead­ing the Canucks over the Wild 2­1 on Tuesday night. Vancouver vaulted over idle Calgary into first place in the Northwest Division. 
"Back in January not many people thought we'd be in the spot we are, but we've worked hard for where we are," Luongo said. "We need to make sure here in the last few games that we keep pushing and try to get that third seed." 
Former Wild forward Pavol Demitra scored Vancouver's reg­ulation goal late in the second period and Marian Gaborik tied it at 5:14 of the third for the Wild. 
The Canucks needed Luongo's dominance because they didn't have a shot on goal in the third period. It was the first time Minnesota held an opponent without a shot in a period since Oct. 29, 2000. 
Daniel Sedin was credited with the assist on his brother's win­ner, a slap shot that beat Niklas Backstrom high. 
The line consisting of the Sedins and Alex Burrows has totaled 19 goals and 41 points over Vancouver's last 11 games. The Sedin brothers' dominance has stood out down the stretch. 
"The twins this past month when we've had 15 games to play have been our top produc­tion guys," Canucks coach Alex Vigneault said. 'They've done it in pressure moments, and that's good for us with the playoffs around the corner." 
Luongo reached the 30-win mark for the fourth straight sea­son. Only four other goalies in the league have such active streaks. 
Vancouver finally managed a shot 3:30 into overtime. Despite Minnesota's late defensive stand, it still wasn't able to earn the extra point. 
"Everybody gave 100 percent and we couldn't come up with the two points," Wild forward Stephane Veilleux said. "That seventh and eighth playoll' spot are tough to get, so not getting that extra point hurts." 
Both teams have a lot to play for late in the season. The Canucks are now in control o-f the No. 3 seed that comes to the Northwest winner. 
"It's very important. Now we're in chargH of our own des­tiny," Vancouver forward Ryan Kesler said. "The division is up to us to have now, it's not up to whether Calgary wins or loses. It's been a long time since we've had a hold of it." 
The loss seriously damaged Minnesota's already slim playoll' chances. Minnesota is 11th in the West, and will need a lot of pieces to fall into place to over­come the three teams it trails with live games left. 
Want to spend your summer living and working in the Hamptons? 
You'll have aonce in alifetime opportunity to live and work in the Hamptons for two summers! Earn a$10,000 scholarship plus aweekly stipend. 
Looking for amotivated, self-starter who enjoys working with people. 
Must be amale freshman or sophomore who enjoys working outside. 
If interested, send aresume and abrief composition to sbeach@nd.edu by Sunday, April 5th, explaining why you would be agreat candidate for the internship 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Notre Dame Apartments 

Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 
2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Off-Street Parking Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 


---~---~-----------~-----~. 
Wednesday, April 1, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NHL 
Bruins win fourth straight; Panthers down Sens 
shutout bid. Vincent 
Associated Press 
Lecavalier hit the post on a 
BOSTON -The Boston power play with four minutes Bruins are going to be in the left, and that was Tampa playoffs-perhaps for a nice, Bay's best chance at a come­long run -and Manny back. Fernandez would like to be "You'd like to keep teaching able to help them while they and look for players that are there. want to compete in the NHL. 
"Guys havP got to feel confi­It makes your job easier when dent, no matter what hap­you see guys that are not pens, that another goalie can competing," Lightning coach help them win," the Bruins Rick Tocchet said. "It's the backup said Tuesday night same kinds of things: We're after stopping 24 shots to not winning battles." lead Boston to· its fourth Fernandez, who backs up stra,ight victory, 3-1 over the Vezina Trophy contender Tim Tampa Bay Lightning. "I've Thomas, had lost five straight got to make sure my game is before eking out a 7-5 victory there, whenever I come in." over Toronto on Saturday. But 
Blake Wheeler and Chuck this time he shut down the Kobasew scored --becoming 14th-place Lightning on a Boston's seventh and eighth first-period 5-on-3 to protect 20-goal scorers this season. a 1-0 lead, then held on for Zdeno Chara matched his his second win since Jan. 8. career high with his 17th goal "He looks a lot more confi­and added an assist for the dent, a lot more poised," Eastern Conference-leading Bruins coach Claude Julien Bruins, who lead the said. "It's important to have Washington Capitals by nine your backup goaltender ready points and the New Jersey for anything if called upon. Devils by 10. It's only fair to our team, to 
Boston could clinch home­make sure he's as sharp as he ice advantage through the can be. We're getting ready conference finals as early as for that." Thursday night if both Wheeler backhanded a shot ond when he redirected tage goals late in the second They had won 10 of 13 but Washington and New Jersey past McKenna with 5:57 left Chara's shot from the point -­period and lifted the Panthers are in 11th place in the East. 
Jose on Wednesday. in the first period to give losing his stick in the process to a win over the Ottawa Ottawa, a Stanley Cup finalist 
"We've looked each other in Boston a 1-0 lead, then the --19 seconds into Richard Senators on Tuesday night. in 2007, hadn't missed the the eye, and from here on out Bruins got a pair of power­Petiot's hooking penalty. Nathan Horton and Stephen playoffs since the 1995-96 we'll let the personal stats play goals just as the penal­"If you're trying to top Z's Weiss also scored for Florida, season. take a hike," Fernandez said. ized Lightning players were shot -it's pretty tough," which won its third straight "It's n-ot something that "What's important are the settling into the box. Kobasew said. "They come in game. Michael Frolik added snuck up on us," Ottawa cap­two points every night." Patrice Bergeron fed a per­pretty good." an empty-net goal with 1:32 tain Daniel Alfredsson said. 
Mike McKenna made 36 fect cross-ice pass to Chara, left. "We've known this situation saves for the Lightning, who who one-timed it as he was Panthers 5, Senators 2 Chris Kelly and Chris for a long time. Our focus have lost seven of eight. coming in from the right cir­The Florida Panthers have Campoli both netted goals for hasn't been only on trying to 
Steven Stamkos whacked a cle to make it 2-0 just 25 sec­picked the right time to find a Ottawa, which was elimnated get into the playoffs, it's been rebound over Fernandez with onds into Evgeny Artyukhin's spark for their power play. from playoff contention. on turning things around, 
7:53 left-his 20th goal-to high-sticking minor. Kobasew Richard Zednik and Bryan It was Florida's third con­which we definitely have, and 
spoil the Boston backup's made it 3-0 later in the sec-McCabe scored man-advan-secutive game with two now it's a matter of trying to power-play goals. Before the keep our momentum and Panthers' three-game win­keep playing. Even though we ning streak started with a 4-2 didn't win today, we did a lot victory in Philadelphia on of great things and we've got Thursday, Florida had con­to keep that going until the verted just 2-of-24 power­end of the season." play chances over eight The Panthers, meanwhile, games. entered play Tuesday ninth in 
Craig Anderson, making his the East. Florida, which has­third straight start for Florida n't been to the playoffs since in place of Tomas Vokoun, 2000, was one point behind stopped 30 shots. Montreal. The Canadiens beat 
The Panthers appeared to • Chicago 4-1 on Tuesday night. be fading from the Eastern With Brendan Bell serving a Conference playoff picture double minor for high-stick­earlier this month during a 1-ing, Zednik scored with 2:42 4-3 skid. After a 5-3 loss to left in the second period. He Buffalo on March 25, Florida pushed the puck through coach Pete DeBoer replaced Elliott's pads to give Florida a Vokoun with Anderson. 2-1 lead after Elliott stopped 
"lie's been great over the his initial shot from the side past three games," McCabe of the net. Then 1:06 later, said of Anderson. "Givefl us McCabe's slap shot from the an opportunity to win every high slot went off Ottawa night. Even when we've hac1 defenseman Anton slow starts, he's shut th ~ Volchenkov and trickled into door." the net to make it 3-1. The 
In his first career start goal came seconds after against the Panthers, Ottawa Alfredsson's shot went off the rookie Brian Elliott made 17 post. saves before he was replaced "It's a very small margin by Alex Auld in the third peri­sometimes," Alfredsson said. od. Elliott earned his first "That was probably the NHL shutout when he made heartbreaker for us." 20 saves in a 3-0 win at Weiss put the Panthers up Tampa Bay on Sunday. 4-1 at 2:02 in the third period 
"There are a couple of goals when he deflected David he probably should have had, Booth's shot from the wing. the second one and even the Campoli's shot went off the third one," Ottawa coach Cory leg of Florida defenseman Clouston said. "Even though Karlis Skrastins to make it 4­there was some traffic, he 2 at 13:27 of the third period. opened himself up and it just Horton, who missed six went right through him. He's games this month with a fin­a young guy, still growing, ger laceration, opened the still has things he has to over­scoring at 4:35 in the second come." period. He converted a pass 
Although the Senators have from Cory Stillman on a two­been one of the league's on-one for his 21st goal. hottest teams of late, they Kelly tied it at 1 with 7:36 playoff hopes were dashed. left in the second period. 



--------~~--~--------~----..., 
page 20 
Baylor 
continued from page 24 

Corrigan said he wants his team to be more patient with the ball, as the Wildcats were able to wear down the Irish defense with several long possessions. 
"We did exactly what I did­n't want to do," he said. "They were having two­minute possessions and we were having 15-second pos­sessions." 
The weather also didn't help the Irish, as cold rain pelted Alumni Field through­out the course of the game, 
making it difficult for the players to gain traction. 
"I thought (the weather) hurt us because I think we're a little more athletic," Corrigan said. "I think we're quicker and we weren't very quick today." 
Despite his unhappiness with his team's perform­ance, Corrigan admitted that there wasn't anything wrong with their record so far. 
"You can't be unhappy with an 8-0 record," he said. ''I'm not exactly happy with every moment of getting there, but 8-0 is 8-0." 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
NHL 

Blackhawks blanked 
by Luongo's 26 saves 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -Robert Luongo and the Vancouver Canucks sent the Chicago Blackhawks a loud playoff message Sunday night. 
Luongo made 26 saves to match his career high with seven shutouts, and Daniel Sedin had two goals and an assist in Vancouver's 4-0 victo­ry over Blackhawks. 
Alex Burrows had a goal and two assists, Ryan Kesler also scored, and Henrik Sedin had three assists to help the Canucks end Chicago's three­game winning streak and move into a fourth-place tie with the Blackhawks in the Western Conference. 
If the Canucks and Blackhawks finish fourth and fifth in the West, they'll meet in the' opening playoff round. The fourth-place team would have home-ice advantage. 
The Canucks hit the ice on Sunday with that in mind. 
Luongo, who also had seven shutouts with Florida in 2003­04, made only a couple of tough saves en route to his 45th career shutout as the Canucks checked closely, neutralized the Blackhawks' speed and limited their chances. Chicago's Patrick Sharp fanned on a penalty shot with 5:41 left in the third peri­od. 
"We came in as possible match-up in the playoffs' and we wanted to show we could win in this building," Daniel Sedin said. "Our defense did a tremendous job. 
"They have a bunch of really skilled guys. You're never going to shut them down, but you can limit their chances. I think we did a good job of that." 
Vancouver also closed within a point of first-place Calgary in the Northwest Division. The Canucks are 7-2-0 in their last nine and 11-3-1 in their last 15. 
"We wanted to make sure we came in here with a goal in mind, and that was to get the win," Luongo said. "We didn't give them a lot of room to make plays. That was key, especially with the speed their forwards have." 
Meanwhile, the Blackhawks couldn't contain the line Canucks' line of the Sedins and Burrows. Daniel Sedin has four goals and four assists in his last four games, and twin brother Henrik has three goals and six assists in the same span. 
"That line was unbelievable on the ice," Vancouver coach Alain Vigneault said. "Obviously they were our best players and Roberto was on top of his game tonight. 
"That said, it was a pretty solid team effort all around. When we did make a mistake, Roberto bailed us out. When they made a mistake, we were able to capitalizP." 
Chicago's Nikolai Khabibulin made 19 saves in his fifth straight start and seventh in the last eight games. 
A series of fights broke out at 
5:50 of the third. In one skir­mish, the Canucks' Shane O'Brien reached over referee Paul Devorski as he grabbed at Chicago's Adam Burish. O'Brien received a misconduct in addition to a fighting major. 
Chicago forward Troy Brouwer left the game at 8:19 of the first period and didn't return. As Brouwer tried to shoot from the left circle, he fell awkwardly as Vancouver's Darcy 1-Iordichuk slid into him. He's out day-to-day. 
"We couldn't have been pleased with how we played," Chicago coach Joel Quenneville said. "It was check, check, check and we didn't fight through it enough to generate anything." 
"We had a bunch of shots, but didn't get enough quality chances," Blackhawks captain Jonathan Toews added. 
Vancouver all but shut down Chicago in the first period and led 1-0 after 20 minutes. 
Daniel Sedin opened the scor­ing 3:22 in, taking advantage of a Chicago coverage breakdown. Henrik Sedin passed the puck from behind the net, through Chicago defenseman Duncan Keith and to Daniel, was who open at the edge of the crease. 
Martin Havlat fired wide on Chicago's best opportunity in the first. Following a give-and­go with Andrew Ladd, 1-Iavlat slipped in alone in the final minute. 
Daniel Sedin's pinpoint pass set up Burrows' goalmouth tip­in at 8:43 of the second to extend Vancouver's lead to 2-0. Burrows gained a step on Chicago defenseman Brian Campbell, breezed to the net and redirected Sedin's feed from the right wing boards past Khabibulin. 
The Blackhawks finally gen~ crated several prime chances late in the second. Luongo made a point-blank glove save on Havlat from the edge of the crease with just under two min­utes left in the period. 
The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 1, 2009 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 

A Divine Comedy of Errors 21, The Cereal Killers 16 
A Divine Comedy of Errors was able to fend off the rain in a close match-up, defeat-. ing The Cereal Killers in a round-two game in the Dan Devine Sectional. 
Led by their captain, senior Melissa Meagher, Divine Comedy of Errors tried to stay fundamentally sound thrcrughout the game, some­thing they had worked on coming into the tournament. 
"We had three basketball 1­on-1 practices this week to work on basic offensive and defensive skills because we don't have a lot of basketball experience," Meagher said. "We're just trying to focus on fundamentals and technique." 
Along with Meagher, who scored nine points in her team's victory, Comedy of Errprs received an excellent contribu­tion from sophomore Gabby Moriel, who scored 11 points. 
"We're the two with the most basketball experience, so we're used to playing together and we make good cuts and pass to each other," Meagher said. 
The Cereal Killers, led by sophomore captain Brittany Johnson, made a run in the sec­ond half but just did not have enough firepower to overcome the offensive attack of Meagher and Moriel. 
"We'll continue to focus on our technique and try to have a good time," Meagher said. 

United Nations 21, Da Backlash Bonus 5 

The all-sophomore squad United Nations topped Da Backlash Bonus in a one-sided, rain-soaked contest. 
Jimmy Moore led his team to victory by scoring 12 points, and his teammate Steve Thomas also chipped in three in the win. 
"Our team nickname is the Gorillas," United Nations sopho­more Katie Dufner said. "We got the name because everyone is wearing a piece of clothing from my high school Villa Walsh and we were the Gorillas." 
Team captain Karla Garcia-1-Iuerta was also able to piteh in three baskets in the win. 
United Nations will move on to the second round to play Fighting Fate with Fate on Thursday. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu and Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO1@saintmarys.edu 


;. View 2009 summer courses at www.northwestern.edu/summer 
• 
Choose from more than 300 classes 

• 
Earn transfer credit 

• 
Prepare1or graduate study 

• 
Immerse yourself in an intensive science or language sequence 

• 
Take advantage of day and evening classes on two campuses 

• 
Explore a new interest 




NORTHWESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 

summer session 

--~ ~­
Wednesday, April 1, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NO BASEBALL AND SOFTBALL 
Rain wipes out pair of nonconference ga111es 
Observer Staff Report 
Both the baseball and softball teams had noncon­ference contests washed out by rain Tuesday, but both squads are scheduled to return to action at home this afternoon. 
The Irish baseball team (15-10., 2-4 Big East) was supposed to host Michigan State Tuesday, but between the threat of rain and travel considerations, both schools agreed to call the game. The contest is not likely to be rescheduled, a release said. 
Unfriendly weather also wiped out a softball match­up between Notre Dame (17-11, 4-1) and Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis, and that game is also unlikely to be made up. 
A pair of Mid-American Conference clubs will take 
on Notre Dame today. 
Toledo's baseball team will visit Frank Eck Stadium, where the Irish will try to break a two-game losing skid it suffered at Pittsburgh in conference action over the weekend. 
Notre Dame won Friday's series opener in a pitcher's duel, but the host Panthers outslugged their visitors on both Saturday and Sunday. 
The Irish softball squad will host Northern Illinois, and they will do so looking to extend their seven-game win streak. Notre Dame has won nine of its last 10. 
Both the baseball and softball games are sched­uled to begin at 5 p.m. 
Can't make it to the game? Follow all of today's action live ~with The Casual Observer at observersports­blog. wordpress. com 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles to host Olivet for two 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
Today's conference double­header between Saint Mary's and Olivet features two solid teams with a combined 31-5 record. 
The Belles (16-2, 2-0 MIAA) have won five straight and nine of their last 10, sweeping Calvin in a pair of road games Monday to open the confer­ence slate. The Comets (15-3, 1-1), after a 12-0 start to the year, lost three of four last week but swept Concordia in non-conference action Saturday to get back on track. 
Though the MIAA season is still young, Belles coach Erin Sullivan said every game is crucial as only the confer­ence's top four tea~ms advance to the end-of-the-year tourna­ment, which begins April 30. 
"We play one game at a time," Sullivan said. "Our goal right now is to beat the teams we are supposed to beat, which we did yel>terday against Calvin, and compete against the remaining teams in the conference." 
Besides the tough competi­exhausting, but we have a day or two between most games to mentally prepare for the next game." 
Junior shortstop Maureen 

tion that satu­rates the MIAA, the Belles may also have to bat­tle fatigue, play­ing multiple doubleheaders on little rest. Saint Mary's is in the middle of a stretch of six games (three doubleheaders) in six days, but Sullivan said the schedule is actually a posi­tive. 
"We played 10 games in 5. days 
"The team is always excited to play, so the more games we get to play, the better we tend to be. This can be mentally exhausting, but we have a day or two between most games to mentally prepare." 
Erin Sullivan Belles coach 
Healy has been leading her team offensively lately, going 2­for-3 in the first game against Calvin with two runs and an RBI. Last week, Healy was named the MIAA's position player of the week for her role in a pair of victories over Franklin last Thursday. 
The first 

over spring break and did very well," she said. "The team is always excited to play, so the more games we get to play, the better we tend to be. 
"This can be mentally 
game of the home double­header is set to begin at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 

up on offense," Jackson said. 
Staniyuk and Taylor Ormond, the exact same team," Tefft "And he started to use his 
8-3. But the third Notre Dame said. "They will do very well
BaylorHanson 
hands ·and his size, which is 
doubles team of freshman at the end of the season, but continued from page 24 his biggest asset." 
continued from page 24 Shannon Mathews and junior hopefully by that time we can Even though he was initially 
Colleen Rielley lost, clinching match them." think that's when it's going undrafted, Hanson said he 
freshmen Kristy Frilling, Baylor the doubles point. Notre Dame will not have to hit me." knew throughout this season 
lost. Baylor's No. 16 duo of Tuesday was only the fourth long to dwell on this defeat, Hanson said that the day that teams were interested in 
Lenka Broosova and Csilla time this year Notre Dame has though. The team has three after Notre Dame's loss to the signing him. He didn't, howev­
Borsanyi won the match 8-6. lost the doubles point. matches between Friday and Beavers, he woke up to a mes­er, expect this much immedi­
"Their No. 1 doubles team "In February [at Indoor Sunday this weekend, includ­sage from his father, who said ate interest. 
plays a little bit different than Na'tionals], we got the doubles ing a Saturday encounter with that he had received contract "I knew there were a couple 
a lot of others. The first time point, which I think helped us the top-ranked team in the offers from several teams. of teams out there that saw 
we played them we just played a lot," Tefft said. "They have country, Northwestern, anoth­Other than the me, and liked 
really bad, Today we did not switched up their lineup, er rematch from Indoor Maple Leafs, me, and were 
play terrible," Tefft said. "But which we have too. We didn't Nationals. Hanson said he going to keep 
we definitely had a lot of match up as well today." "Already having three losses
''At the end ofthe 
had talked to an eye on me," 
chances that we didn't put As far as singles matches on our record, I think we
day. Toronto seemed 
the New York Hanson said. "I 
away. I think there was a bit went, only Tefft and Krisik would want to especially top Rangers, San like the best fit. " really wasn't 
of a mental block starting out were victorious for the Irish, Northwestern, who is always a Jose Sharks, sure what was 
today, considering they beat in the one and six spots, rival of ours," Tefft said. Vancouver going to hap­
us 8-0 last time." respectively. "Hopefully the loss today will
Christian Hanson
Canucks and pen, though, so The No. 2 Irish doubles duo "They are a really tough only get us more motivated on
Irish senior
New York what happened 
of juniors Cosmina Ciobanu team. They are really good Saturday." Islanders. was a pretty 
and Kali Krisik evened the one through six. Last year "I just kind nice surprise." 
doubles matches at 1-1 as they got to the NCAA semifi­Contact Douglas Farmer at of looked at them all, weighed It's quite a turnaround for 
they defeated No. 59 Jelena nals, and they have basically dfarmer1@nd.edu the pros and cons for each Hanson, who was very emo­one, where I thought I fit into tional after the loss to Bemidji each organization," he said. State. "At the end of the day, Toronto "It was a complete 180," he 
cut the deficit to 51-4 7 late in the underclassmen tried to remind seemed like the best fit." said. "I went from the bottom 
second half but could get no clos­the seniors how much they con­
NIT 
Hanson said one of the main the barrel to the top of the 
er. Penn State forward Jamelle tributed to the Notre Dame bas­reasons he chose the Maple mountain overnight. I still 
continued from page 24 Cornley, who finished with 15 ketball program. Leafs was his relationship with wish that .we were practicing 
points, converted a basket on the "We were just trying to cheer new general manager Brian to play in the Frozen Four, but 
The Notre Dame offense got off next Nittany Lions possession to _them up because they're a little Burke, whom he talked to you've just got to move on." 
to a slow start and never picked propel his team to the victory. down right now," Jackson said. Tuesday shortly after signing. Hanson said he hasn't talked 
up any steam. The Irish shot just "We felt great after we got it to "But we try to remind them that Burke told Hanson tha_t, if he to any of his new teammates 
5-of-30 from the field in the first [within] four but we couldn't get some of them will play at the could make it, he could play in yet, but that his agent also 
half andfell behind 31-18 at any closer," Harangody said. "We next level and some will stick Toronto's game tonight against represents several players on 
intermission. The point total in had some juice going but it just around ... There's always room the Flyers. However, both the team, and they said they 
the period tied a low for the pro­came down to free throws and for good guys like those guys." Burke and Hanson agreed that would look out for the rookie. 
gram since coach Mike Brey took they got it done." Harangody agreed with Friday night might be a better Jackson said he had no wor­
over nine years ago. Penn State made 15 free Jackson, saying that the seniors time for Hanson to make his ries about Hanson handling 
"We just didn't hit shots," Irish throws while Notre Dame con­have left an indelible imprint on NHL debut. himself at the next level. 
point guard Tory Jackson said. verted eight. the team. Hanson finished his Irish "It's just about consistency, 
"We had some open looks in the The loss ends the careers of "We just have to realize how career with 36 goals and 28 being mentally tough, and 
first half but it just wasn't a good the four Notre Dame seniors, much they've all done for the assists over four years. But to being able to play with a little 
flow for us." who experienced many highs program," Jackson said. ''They Notre Dame coach Jeff jam," Jackson said. "All the 
Harangody led the Irish with and lows while playing for the put Notre Dame basketball on Jackson, the most remarkable things I've talked about since 
17 points but shot just 5-of-16 Irish. the map." aspect was how Hanson he's been here." 
from the field. "It was very hard for the sen­Penn State moves on to the NIT improved over his four years. 
"I couldn't tell you exactly what iors, they were obviously upset," final Thursday to face Baylor, "Especially the second half Contact Sam Werner at 
happened," Harangody said. "We Harangody said. "But they made who beat San Diego State 76~62 of last year, he started to open swerner@nd.edu 
went a couple minutes where our two NCAA [Tournaments], two Tuesday. offense was playing well but we NIT's. They have nothing to hang 


page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 1, 2009 
The Notre Dame Law School 
Natural Law Institute presents 

The 2009 Natural Law Lecture 
.... ,..:· 

Habeas Corpus and Guantanamo Bay: ' A View From Abroad 
...•. ,.,,*l"'*W'h1lMliilliWi·k~ irnothy E ndicott 
Dean of Law Faculty M and Professor of Legal Philosophy 
Balliol E:ollege, Oxford University 


Tqursday, .April 2, 2009 4 P·P'l· 
;t 


Eck Hall of Law Room 3130 



.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, April 1, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

DAVID CAVADINI 
#ICJ!. 
I 


THE DOME PIECE 
CROSSWORD 
Across 34 Brand of clothing Base coat or energy drink 
7 "More than I 36 Tickle need to know," 37 Stand that a in modern lingo speaker might 
10 Turn over take 14 U.S./Mexico 39 Randomizing 
border city device 15 Games org. 41 Burgers on the 16 Tiny bit 
hoof 17 Is nuts for 
42 Meal on a blanket18 Chart shape 43 Even chance 

19 Littlest sucker 45 Old spy org. 
20 Component of bronze 
46 Resistance units 21 Pulitzer Prize 49 Muhammad's entries pugilistic daughter
24 Big lug 25 Web-footed 
51 Some jazz animal 52 They may be 26 Ride with 
served at the runners 
beach Zion Church 

58"... _ quit!" 29 Makes 
59 ORD or LAX evolutionary figs. changes 60 Above, to bards 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

61 Indian encountered by Columbus 
63 When tripled, a 1970 war film 64 My _, Vietnam 65" Nacht'' (German carol) 66 Boarding pass datum 67 Pro-_ (some tourneys) 68 Dissed verbally 
Down 
"_ Republic" 2 Michelin offering 3 Some 
ornamental barriers 4 Fruits de (menu heading) 5 Scene of a fall 6 Sommelier's selection 
7 One with the inside track at the track? 
8 Like a towelette 9 Summer cooler 10 Singer Vikki 11 Place for a 
thimble 12 Ready to serve 13 Rescue crew, 
briefly 22 John's ode to 
Yoko 23 Make a father of 27 Spoils, with "on" 28_ Lingus 30 Prenatal test, for 
short 31 Party servers 32 Philosopher Lao­
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Kelly Browder 

33 Sun. speech 42 Star in Ursa 52 Checks out Minor 
thoroughly

35 Schoolmaster's 53 Oklahoma tribe 
rod 44 Radio no-no 54 Zhivago's love
37W.W.II 47 It may need transport: Abbr. boosting 55 Aspiring atty.'s 48 What 21-and 
exam38 Arena where 37­

52-Across and 

Downs were 56 Bonny one 
3-and 31-Down
used: Abbr. 

might be 57 Mex. miss 39 Rope fiber 
50 Construction 62 Grafton's "_ 40 CD burners girder for Alibi" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

Cl':UmRrrms BORN ON TillS l>AY: J>awl !lure, .iS; Ewan McGre):or. .'8; Rhea Perl m<m, 61: Chri•t<>ph<."r Walk,·n, 66 
Happ~· Uirthday: Yon .:au milk~ some hdplnl pmfe.stonal chanf!I!S Thl' is a fabulous Far to get iHvolwtl m~ubjcd>. p!'<.lj~"-'b and uuercst~ abom whkh yon f<.>cl pa>'inu~!dy. The m•?rt you hke wbM you Me domt a11d tlw p.:opk with wh<.llll yi:lu are eu!laged, profc,. >ioually ~md S(>c!ally. !.he hdler you will do. Your mm1hcr> are 5. 12.19.25 ..16. W:-10 
ARIES !Mar<'lt2l-Aprill9!: You ~au m:.,ke )!ains IJumJ:Ci~lly, nJ:Cati<>ll<'-11} and emotion ally. Ad.wnce meeti.nr or an imenl.ional ~ontacl with sout<~me from your pa~t wJ!l kad to <HJ "P!Wrt~>m!y tn make extra c<Jsb in your ;;pare tim<'. 4 stars 
TAURliS 1Aprli20-May 20): Somc!hinp: is goi1111 on hcbiu<.l your h~Jck ~o. hdon: you .m.ak~ ~'IY eart.h shanenng ~is ions, fi11d out the tr\llh. S\lll~<:ou~; may be k;Jditll! Y<>U QU .lxm't trn~l any<>nt· ofl~riu.~ •mnetluug too good to he trn<: .>star> 
<>EMINl t\1ay 21-June 20}: Toke a look at what IM[l)Wited iu !he paS! and you \\'lll know cxadly how to mmdk ym.-<·u.rrcnl >ifmttmn. It someone gc1s a)l~!ressiw, mm aw:Jy. Yml'll d<> lx:tt<.>r W1tb pwplc you haw known a lou11-lime ~o rc.:ounect witl1 wnJCm~<: lrom your past J smrs 
CANCER t.Juu". 21-Jnly ll_,, llucrnainty will d"'ul yuur day, causiul<! you '" wc<>ml F"'"'-' en:rythinl' you do. Your emotions will be errd!.ic .1ud will nmluse you. You um:>t not try to rewlve svmdb.ing dm1 m:c<b more tim.<: 1o sdtk down. J sl:u:. 
LU) (July ,U·Ang. lll: Have ~mm: hut <md Y'»~ will euucc otbc.rs tn l!c! iU\1Jivcd iu tlJC adt\•iiic< <ll><Jlll "hidt )'<JI< kd •tr<>n)!ly L<>w i• on tbc me M<i you «Ill tum a rcla1ivu.•lup llwt in!t'l:<:-Sl$ you into Y.llt~Cilliug suhstauu~l-4 •t~rs 
VIRGO tAug.lJ.Sept. 221: Dml'l play game< l)f ymt will end !If' with the <hort cud of the suck..lk rc~tdy !\l <ay ll<) to aoyon<: l:fYlll)l to ban ynH. h:><;us ou y()IU>elf. your family autl yoor b~mi:C ,lWt ouhid~r:~ ttyulg to p.¢l ~•J.n~<..~ of yuu.r acuon. 1 stan. 
UURA !St-pl.l~Otl. 221: Stop wait in)< for <OIIll">n.: el;;,: to milk.: a tnow wlwu tit¢ ,;pot li~hl ;, ml )'<lll.. Low rd<~tionship>; will tlouri.,h. E~paml ywn lllllffl. y<>ur philo">phy autl yl)llr ~warcncss ol otlwr ndtlti':'S. 5>tal" 
SCOU.1110 !CM. 23-No-.. 21!: lXIII'! !!Ct '"lnied aw~y with trh•ial matter-;. You cnu spin yourwbed~ all ym1 w>ll! but that won't help yon ~el ahead. RtjlaNil~~s o( t.h~ nutc<lme it's how yon conduct yonrwlf on the j<.>Imtcy. lk stron)l ami l<lllow your instmcts. .l 'Iars 
SAHI'ITARJ.l!S tNov. 22-lm. llJ: You'll he drawn t,, the pe<lpk who haw :dways 1"--<'ll there fnr you . .!."""' will play "" i.rnpm1:mt rule in a deciSJoH reganliu~ your k>eatiou ami Y"llr1~1tttr<'. Strive f<lrp~rfel't.iou bm don'r miss au Of~Jmtuuity bt'<~.au'e yon an•n'tl'<.carly. .) 
?~.rats 

CAPRICORN tDt>c.l2-Jan. 19): Dml'l >['<'!ld if y(m don't have 10 and <'ert:iitoly do not 
hand om ca>h tor ""nemw dse's mist:tk<: lk st.ron~ when 11 comes to ,-m~r Jl<:1'3ouallik. 
If~ hctkr f<> say om au<.! span: yoursdt lmurc cn>ts ;md cmr~ional 11pocf lhau f<> l'~l in owr 
yon.r ltead linaucially ~.ml r~r~onally J star~ 
AQFAlUt.:S t.Jan. UI-Feb. t81: Make ~omc m~•vc~ to lilt y<>ur spitib and hnu~ )'<It! 
~ttealc'r comlort at h<>me. Fc.>nll a co:ihtio11 W!lh ~oll~eone who has the same hackm·mmtl 
;md ambitious as you. Ymu iuSJ)I:ht will,~tuidc yon ln l.llilh the rirht dec~>~ on ..hims 
PlSCES !l1eb. 19-March .!01: '!:ike:< sectllllll{)()k "t vnur situation aud make uote of wt~.<~! wmeoll~ "ilh m.m: c~J.>CrtCIK'C tdh you. !'O<JI"de<:t>R;n, Will rewll in a mishap m cwu ltlJIIl'Y if you aren't .:~ret\ II Yo11 will be tempt•••:! tn a~l in ha<!e don't c:wr to tile pn•<surc. 1 ~tars 
Uirthd.1y Baby: Y()\l are cn•atw~. t~lkative a1~tl qukk turc~,·t. You an• O[l('n and llpJ!re<­W>'e aud you nevn lose si.du nf )'1"1111' j!nilb. 
WWW. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
DEAR \'lAD, STu!' lNTEM-£0/l...IJJI'Y IN MY (DI-Vo1ENC£MfJVT"1 
I ~E.Sf'UT y&;,t. PoSITIOIJ, 11-fAT''S WHY You MAY THIN~ '(ou HAVE A SA'I' IIJ HOW I'M STO!"PtrJ6-PAYP-'\E.NT or-J YoUR 
THtNfrS ~RUN Hf'!ZE JUST" gECAU.SE. Tl)tTio,.J. E.loll<>'( '(ou~t tJEW F~Et>oM. '(c)<) G-IVE MONEY T'D THE Sc.HoOL, BlJT 
l,.ovE:,
THE.. STUDENTS SHOUI-!> Sf. FIC:EE-TO 
f'I\AK£. THE!~ 
£_....-,;ly 
DAl>
owlol l>ECJSION.S! 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


I 
NlfY 11/.(f)(H, 'f'NAI' WAS A I"J,,IGRNff I"'V/..1 JIM HI'S 6¥65 A-WeAK, GO 1"01? 1'H6 6"65/ 

Y6NI61?C/ 
I 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ____________________ State _________ Zip___________ 

JUMBLE 

Jm11W[311R
Unscramble these lour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
AMOFY j

I [I (] 
@2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~rn () 
tKHODEO t
IJ I J 

NEWJUMBI.E NINTENOO www.jumble.comldS
tSLUDON I 

Yesterday's IJumbles: Answer: 

MOOSE GOUGE PASTRY TREATY When the vintner lost the wine tasting contest it amounted to -SOUR GRAPES 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
O!FFICUL.T TO SAVE FACE WHEN YOU 00 THIS. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, April 1, 2009 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

End of the line 
Slow start dooms Irish in season-ending defeat 
By FRAN TOLAN Senior Staff Writer 

Even though Notre Dame was playing in the City that Never Sleeps, the team's offense never woke up Tuesday night. The Irish fell to Penn State 67-59 in the NIT semifinals at Madison Square Garden in New York City. 
Notre Dame shot just 21-of-63 in the contest and trailed by as many as 19 points during the second half. 
"It was just one of those nights where we couldn't get a shot to fall," Irish junior Luke Harangody said. "I was laughing with coach Brey on the sideline because we just couldn't get a shot to fall." 
see NIT/page 21 

AP 

At left, Irish senior guard Kyle McAiarney defends Penn State's Talor Battle during Notre Dame's loss Tuesday night. At right, Irish junior guard Tory Jackson tries to control the ball. 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
ND loses to Baylor in ren1atch 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 

Ignoring rankings and pre­vious matches this season, Baylor got its revenge on Notre Dame Tuesday. 
The No. 3 Irish (17 -3) fell to the No. 4 Bears (13-4), 5-2, in a rematch of the National Indoor Quarterfinal match in February. 
Baylor took command from the beginning of the match. For only the third time this season -and the second time to Baylor -Notre Dame's top doubles pair, the third-ranked duo of senior Kelcy Tefft and 
see BAYLOR/page 20 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Team ties program record for best start with victory 
game and the score tied at "We kind of ran what we did The teams traded goals for The teams traded goals one 
By SAM WERNER 

seven, Christman ripped a the whole time," he said. "We the rest of the half, with nei­more time before Christman Associate Sports Editor 
shot past Wildcat netminder tried to spread them out." ther squad going up by more put the Irish up for good. Andrew DiLoreto, who made A goal from junior Neal than one, and went into the Despite the win, Notre Dame 
Wind, cold, rain and a feisty 12 saves in the game. The Hicks with four seconds left break tied at four. coach Kevin Corrigan said his Villanova squad couldn't stop Wildcats had one last chance sealed the deal,· and kept the The Irish came out flying in team still had work to do on No. 3 Notre Dame from run­with just under a minute left Irish perfect on the year. the second half, though, and offense. ning its record to 8-0 on the in the game, but a save by Villanova got on the board goals from seniors Ryan Hoff "We didn't do our best in year, matching a school best. Irish goalie Scott Rodgers, firs·t with a goal from and Duncan Swezey gave the game today, but we had a 
The Irish downed the who made nine saves on the Matthew Fritts just three min­Notre Dame a 6-4 lead, its very good week of practice Wildcats 9-7 on a late goal day, preserved the win. utes into the first quarter. The largest of the game. offensively," Corrigan said. from senior Peter Christman, Villanova coach Michael Irish fought back, though, and But the Wildcats just would­"So, I think we're coming who netted a hat trick on the Corrado said he didn't draw goals from Hicks and n't go away, as Villanova goals along." afternoon. up anything specific for that Christman gave Notre Dame a from Fritts and Tim Driscoll 
With just 2:54 left in the last-minute play. 2-1 lead. knotted up the game at six. see PERFECT/page 21 
HOCKEY 

Hanson signs pro contract 
Senior center inks deal with Toronto franchise 
By SAM WERNER Associate Sports Editor 

Even though Notre Dame's hockey season ended with last Saturday's loss to Bemidji State in the first round of the NCAA Tournament, one Irish hockey player will be in action this weekend. 
Senior center Christian Hanson signed a two-year entry-level contract with the Toronto Maple Leafs Tuesday, and said he expected to play in the team's Friday night game against Philadelphia. 
"It's pretty surreal," Hanson said. "It hasn't really hit me yet. I think when I wake up tomor­row morning, show up to the rink and the media frenzy's there for pre-game skates, I 
see HANSON/page 21 

WU YUEffhe Observer Irish senior center Christian Hanson signed a two-year contract with the NHL's Toronto Maple Leafs Tuesday. 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Bad Decision Badin falls to Delivery Boys 
By ERIC PRISTER and 
KATE GRABAREK 
Sporis Writers 

Utilizing their distinct height advantage and expe­rience, The Delivery Boys swept through their first round game, defeating Bad Deeision Badin, 21-7. 
In true Harlem Globetrotters' style, The Delivery Boys ran up and down the court, fast-break­ing and throwing behind­the-back passes on their way to the victory. The fast break was an important part of The Delivery Boys' game plan, and will contin­ue to be so. 
"We're a run and gun team and we like to fast break," sophomore Michael Garcia said. "It'll be part of our game plan, but we also like the half-court set up as well." 
Despite the one-sided nature of the contest, the rain was a factor, forcing The Delivery Boys to slow down and stay fundamental­ly sound. 
"We had to adjust at the beginning. We were falling over," Garcia said. "But in the end, we got our stuff together and came out with a victory." 
The Delivery Boys, No. 6 overall, look to go far in the tournament, but Garcia said they enjoyed their first round match-up, even if it did little for preparation as they move forward. 
"This is the first time that any of us has played girls, but it was fun," Garcia said. "We knew a lot of the girls, and, I mean, it's Bookstore. You've got to love it." 
see BOOKSTORE/page 20 

The Independent Newspaper Mocking Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUM£ 6: ISSUE 66 . APRIL FOOL'S! LEMONPARTY.COM 
Way to go, President Yomama cancels speech 
Most powerful man in the world brought to tears by Viewpoint letters, Junkins' second choice proves he's gone insane 

By HINE'S KETCHUP 
Satan's Minion 
After reading his daily copies of the Observer from last week, President Yomama has decided to cancel his visit to campus to speak at this year's commencement cere­mony. 
Apparently, all of the strongly-worded Viewpoint letters condemning his invita­tion to speak, have, for the first time in history, actually gone beyond aimless com­plaining and have inspired action. 
The Pope had no comment on the issue, except to say, "Condoms don't fight AIDS 
and Holocaust deniers are OK, but no way should Yomama speak at Notre Dame." 
Fr. Jim Junkins, University president expressed his dis­pleasure with the Viewpoint authors. 
"What the hell is wrong with you people? Do you ever stop complaining?" Junkins said in an e-mail to all students and alumni Wednesday. "The foot­ball coach should be fired, The Vagina Monologues are obscene, the ushers are fas­cists. I try to do something nice and bring the president of the freaking United States here and, of course, you've got a problem with that!" 
The Viewpoint letters sharply criticized the University for inviting Yomama and giving him an honorary degree in light of Yomama being a pro-choice president, and, according to some letters, Satan incarnate. 
"They made me cry," Yomama said Wednesday before hanging up the phone in tears. 
A defiant Junkins is likely to spark even more controversy 
with his second choice  to  
speak at Commencement.  
"They  think  Yomama  is  

bad?" Junkins harrumphed in a phone interview with The Abusurder. "Well I'd like to see what they think of this guy -Dr. Jack Kevorkian." 
FIND IT YOURSELF/page 99 

ABSURDER'S HARD-HITTING JOURNALISM 
Meish, Dam put the 'stud' back in student governtnent 
By RED WRITING HOOD Possibly the dumbest kid ever born. Honestly? You couldn't tell it was a wolf? 
Former student body president Robbie Meish and current student body president Ulysses Dam have both been offered $5 million mod­eling contracts after a talent scout spotted an old copy of The Observer featuring a picture of the two presiding over a Student Senate meeting. 
Meish and Dam both said they were "flattered" by the offers, and said they plan on taking them. 
"It's a great opportunity to raise awareness about how good looking student government can be," Meish said, pointing with his pencil for emphasis. 
Meish, who graduates this year, 
see SEXINESS/page 3 


I HATE SO MUCH ABOUT THE THING THAT YOU CHOOSE TO BE. 
Ad hoc group to combat skunks 
Problem got out ofhand with skunk-human birth 
By PEPE LE PEW Master breeder 
The Notre Dame Ad Hoc Committee on Repelling Skunks has been renamed the Notre Dame Ad Hoc Committee on Repelling Skunks and Enforcing Skunk-Related Parietals Offenses, University President Father Sean Shankins said Tuesday. 
Shankins created the initial ad 
see LEPEW/page 5 


Under 21? Want to go to a bar? Go to BJ's! 
By BUNSEN and BEAKER Nobel Prize-winning scientists 
Absurder sources have learned that the local South Bend bar and eatery, BJ's Pub on North Michigan Ave. has been granting underage students entry. Sources tell the Absurder that while BJ's requires proof' of age before entering, nearly any form of identification will suffice in proving an entrant is 21­years of age. 
"When I was a freshman I used to go to BJ's every Monday night,~ one senior said. "The bouncers barely looked at my ID. It said I was 40, a red-head and 6­feet tall; I'm 5-foot-2 and redhead." 
When asked if she thought the bouncers intentionally let underage students into BJ's, the student replied, "Of course, I mean, I'm pretty sure they're there for the beer and free popcorn just like the rest of us were." 
But while it was no secret 
see SATAN/page 5 

page 2 The Absurder+ PAGE THE SECOND Wednesday, April 1, 2009 
lAST MINUTE COLUMN 
Unbiased perspective 
You know, I've heard a lot ofsalacious things in my time regarding the animosity between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's that bubbles just below the surface of campus relations. 
The nuns at 

Saint Mary's Road
Saint Mary's used 

to grumble about Inside Column 
the brothers at 

extraordinaire 
Notre Dame as 

they made the trek back to their College from the grotto and students have been traversing me to visit friends and significant others for years. I've been called anything from St. 
Mary's Road and the Avenue to Rape 
Road. 

However, I've never felt the need to repeat the scandalous behaviors or words I've witnessed until now. This year, the biggest battle to be fought upon the pages ofViewpoint was something about a politi­cian and baby killing. Somehow we skipped right over the annual Notre Dame and Saint Mary's war that always leaves broken friendships and relationships splattered upon my winding path and some of us miss that carnage. 
So, I've decided to let you all know what you think ofeach other. Most ofwhat I hear comes from SMC chicks stumbling to Notre Dame on heels too high for them, but I do occasionally see the odd Notre Dame student heading in the other direc­tion as well so don't worry, there will be equal opportunity for angry responses. 
u"The only thing worse than a Notre Dame girl is a freshman Notre Dame girl." -I heard this gem at the beginning of the school year as a group of SMCers made their way to a sweaty, drunken orgy ... also known as a dorm party. Be mad NO girls, the SMC chicks want your men! 
u"You must have free time because you go to Saint Mary's."-This one was a Notre Dame girl talking to a friend from Saint Mary's. The SMC chick left in a huff and the Notre Dame girl, without receiv­ing an explanation, shrugged and went on thinking Saint Mary's is an inferior school. Get angry Saint Mary's women! The Notre Dame girls think your school isn't as good as theirs ... and you want their men! 
uNO guy #1: "What's down that road?" NO guy #2: "Past the grotto? That's just Saint Mary's. They're a bunch of jersey chasers and parasites."-OK, in all hon­esty I just made this one up. But really, it's a question asked every year, and jersey chasers and parasites are adjectives that have been applied to Saint Mary's in the past. 
And really, SMC, you should just admit it. You really are a parasite. You don't offer activities of the same caliber as Notre Dame. Sure, you may give the Keenan Revue a place to perform, but no Notre Dame kids actually walk on me unless they have friends across US-31. On the other hand, you walk to Notre Dame all the time -usually in short skirts and high heels. Let me ask one favor: please, put on pants. 
And Notre Dame, you'd do well to remember there's ~mother institution of higher learning across the street. It's pret­ty. And they don't have DuLac rules threatening expulsion for sexual relations. So go visit the ladies across the street every once in a while. Their feet will get a break from walking in three-inch heels for a change. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are held subconsciously by everyone on campus. Deal with it. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Absurder regards itself as a professional publication. We do, however, suck from time to time. Scholastic sucks more. Think you can do bet­ter? Fine. Try it. Give I 0 hours out ofyour night a couple times per week and see if you put out a perfect paper with no errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How WOULD YOU DESCRIBE THE NOTRE DAME MEN'S BASKETBALL SEASON? 


Mock-Tee Chuckie Wise Irish McBiarney Trigger Yelps Leprejuan 
one foot out the Martin's salad
coach male model Ragin' Cajun 
door bar fanatic 
"There aren't "All I can say is "We didn't really "Did you know I "HERE JtVE GO 
enough mock that they made weed out the bad snapped UCLA's FENCING HERE turtlenecks in us look good. " teams in the record-setting JtVE GO., 



the world to beginning. We answer that were a little green. question. " Kind ofburned 
out. Didn't blaze the trail. Ya know?" winning streak?" 


Suck it, Sensenbrennerffhe Absurder In a hard-hitting interview with President Yomama, an Absurder reporter asked Yomama what color The Shirt should be next year. Yomama babbled for 12 minutes about how his story is only possible In America before responding "green." 
BEATOFF 

Notre Dame "just Catholic 
enough" 

CHI-TOWN-The Society of Catholic Educators has issued a report stating that Notre Dame is "just Catholic enough." 
"A lot of people say Notre Dame isn't Catholic enough. Others say it is too Catholic. We've done extensive research and concluded that Notre Dame is 'just Catholic enough,"' said Mark O'Donnell, the president of the society. 
The report analyzes data including the ratio of class­rooms to crucifixes, the num­ber of times the catechism is quoted in the school newspa­per's opinion section, the aver­age number of hook-ups per student per weekend and the number of cheers that use the phra...:;e "suck it." 
The Society also factored in the ratio of people that have attended the "The Vagina Monologues" to the number of crosses planted on campus during pro-life demonstrations. 
Notre Dame spokesman Menace Brown declined to issue a statement in response to the relea..'le, saying he didn't want to "jinx it." 
Following the news about the report, the Irish Rover, Notre Dame's conservative newspaper, announced today they plan to jeer the Society of Catholic Educators in their next issue, then devote the rest of it, as usual, to explaining why Notre Dame is not Catholic enough. 
SMC to donate alcohol to ResUfe survivors 
Saint Mary's students are collecting gently consumed bottles of hard alcohol or cases of beer to donate to recovering Reslife survivors. 
'We just want to make sure the girl'> can get back on their feet," college president Caroline Moody said. 
Alcohol will be distributed accordingly students who are most deserving of the moral support, Moody said. 
Information compiled by washed out seniors living off campus. 
a:: ... TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY
LLI 
a::
:::E: 
8 
LLI 
t­
is= 0 
3: LLI e 
LLI ~ 
:::E: 0 ~ 
t-
LLI LLI 
:::E: a::
ti 1-... 

Cl ::l ::l :E ~ HIGH 17 HIGH -12 HIGH 107 HIGH 22


0
~ 

LOW LOW 50 LOW 10 LOW N/A
fE 5 
!::!:: 

BOXERS OR BRIEFS? 
The Excise Police will be visit­ing all off-campus apartment complexes tonight from 11 p.m. to 3 a.m. Students are asked to be hospitable. Free breathalyz­er tests will be available. 
Club 23 is offering bullet­proof vests to the first 100 stu­dents in line on Monday. The initiative, titled "Getting Caught is Costing us Business" will be followed by a brief seminar called "Be Careful Whose Screen Doors You Knock On." 
Students will be passing out free "Stem Cell Research? Fine By Me" T-shirts at LaFortune today from 3 p.m. to 5. 
Graduating seniors can pur­chase Obama voodoo dolls at LaFortune this week. All pro­ceeds go toward Planned Parenthood. 
Tonight in Coleman-Morse, Student Government will host the next installment of its totally original Last Lecture Series. Tonight's speaker will be Carl Goodcook, the genius behind Hot Carl's Chicken Sandiwch. 
The Irish Rover and the Right to Life Club will be hold­ing a public flogging and ston­ing of all College Democrats at Notre Dame tonight at 8 p.m. on the steps of the Main Building. Contrary to e-mails sent out earlier this week, the groups do not have enough stones for everyone to throw, so please, bring your own stones. It's only polite. 
Fr. Hesbrugh will be hosting a kegger tonight in the 13th floor of the library, sponsored by Bill Dapalucci and the Audit and Advisory Services. 
Why do we let people publi­cize this crap for free? 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 
HIGH Pi HIGH 32 LOW 0 LOW 22 
West Baltimore 12 murders I 3 murders (Never cross Avon or Stringer). Beantown 38 I 29 Scranton 34 I Depressing llladelph 68 142 City of Angels? 60 I 43 Dillon, Texas 55 I 31 Hesburgh Library 39 I 30 St. Lunatics 29 I 17 Mishawaka 7 4 I 59 Do you really read the weather? 
NEWS YOU WON'T READ 
Wednesday, April 1, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THEABsuRDEirs INTREPID REPORTERS page 3 
BOG uses stipend to buy Observer comic strips 
By DRUNK KOHLER  
Sloshed  
After years of frustration, out­ 
rage, and parasitic references,  
Saint Mary's Board of Governance  
(BOG) has decided to use their  
$60,000 annual stipend to buy the  
rights to Observer comics, citing  
they are "Like totally not true and  
super annoying," student body  
president Mickey McSmickey said.  
The stipend, which is allotted to  
the six top executives on the Board,  
ha'> typically been used on alcohol,  
tank tops from Forever 21, and  
quesadillas from the Cyber Cafe is  
now being used for a greater pur­ 
pose -for student rights,  
McSmicky said.  
"We're like really tired of getting  
made fun of, so we're taking a  
stand against those mean boys who  
write those comics. First of all,  
they're not funny. And, B, we don't  
even look like that," she said.  
Student body vice president  
Caitlin Caitlinson echoed  
McSmickey's sentiments. "We're  
more than just doodles, you know."  
While rights to the comics cost  Don't worry SMC students, your money won't go to providing Student Government with alcohol or nights in luxurious hotels anymore.  
less than $10,000, BOG is donating  
the rest of the stipend to the cam­ compete weekly to have their pic­news source. have all their meetings catered by "Our funds were low, so we had  
pus group Students Against  tures featured. "It's a great way to "I already sent in 10 of my sexi­Ruth's Cris Steak House. to give in. I'm just going to miss all  
Students Who Make Fun of Other  get more dates and show how est Facebook pies. I really hope I "See? We can do good stuff and those nights in the office without  
Students Across the Street.  totally awesome we are," get picked. I look really good in still get tan. I love steak," executive Papa John's."  
"It's for a good cause. A lot of  Caitlinson said. "We might also try black and white," freshman Lizzie assistant Bella Belles said. McSmickey and the rest of the  
people out there have been affected  to buy the Question of the Day LeMans said. ''I've never been to a "I agree. I mean we put in at Belles are happy that the comics  
by the comics and it's time to take a  space so more of us can be in The school that has so many opportuni­least four hours a week for our and subsequent Viewpoint battles  
stand."  Observer. We think it's totally the ties." school. Don't we deserve a vacation have been laid to rest. "Boys are  
McSmickey said the space usual­ best idea ever. Seriously." Even though the Board has for­too? I think yes," McSmickey said. mean. Throw rocks at them."  
ly reserved for the comics will be  Students are relieved to have the feited the stipend money to the stu­As for the future of the Observer  
filled with a special "She's Saint Mary's" section where students will  space and also to be featured in dents, they will still take their comic strip, Editor in Chief Jenny Contact Drunk Kohler at campus' most read and reliable annual cruise to the Caribbean and Mets is a little disappointed. Passedout@gmail.com  


Yo01am.a 
continued from page 1 
That's right, Jenkins' next choice to speak at the gradua­tion of the most pretigious Catholic University in the world is the euthanizing, recently­released from prison doctor who has assisted in the deaths of over 130 people. 
"I was initially shocked when I received a phone call from Fr. Junkins and thought he was going to condemn me to hell," Kevorkian said. "But hey, the economy's bad and people don't have the money to be eutha­nized since I got out of jail. Too many are resorting to just plain old suicide. I could use the money." 
Kevorkian was released from prison in 2007 after serving eight years of a 10 to 25-year prison sentence. He was released on parole for good behavior. All this information on Kevorkian was obtained by The Absurder using that bea­con of journalistic integrity known as Wikipedia. 
Associate vice president of News and Information and University spokesman Menace Brown defended Junkins' selec­tion. 
"Look, just because President Junkins invited somebody to speak here doesn't mean he supports their views," Brown said. "In this case, Fr. Junkins obviously doesn't condone euthanasia. It's clear why he chose Dr. Kevorkian. He's a doctor, duh. And he's probably a smart guy with a lot of other things to talk about besides 
euthanasia. 
"Maybe he can talk about his time in prison. That's what kids want to hear at Commencement." 
"No it isn't," said senior Spoiled Brat. "If we couldn't get Stephen Colbert, Yomama was a great second choice. But now, those stupid alumni and right-· wing idiots ruined my gradua­tion." 
Many alumni expressed out­rage with Junkins' choice. 
"This is ludicrous," said Diss Gruntled, Notre Dame '80. "Though I don't know who'd be worse, an abortion-loving pres­ident or a eutha.nizing criminal. 
"After all, the people that were euthanized did want to die anyway. Fetuses don't have a choice. But who cares what the students think? We need to make a point here." 
South Bend/Fort Wayne Bishop John F'Artsy fell over in his chair and accidentally killed himself when Junkins told him about Kevorkian. F'Artsy could not be reached for comment. 
Contact Hine's Ketchup at iwillnotrespond@gmail.com 

Hi there, this is your friendly nei.ghbors atReslife..we realii~J th@t we'·re nc)~ the mostpopular people on campus, and that we try to take all the fun out of college. We just want to say -don't expect us to stop..now..xi!x't·': 


You whiny little brats shouldn't have fun, because WEt at@eslifEt are stuck, in a dead-end bureaucratic hellhole for the rest of our careers with no end in sight. We need an outlet for all of our frustration. We didn't have fun hi college and neither should you. So, for the rest of your time here at Notre Dame, expect us to keep breaking up your fun and likely violating your Constitutional rights by serving you with inordinately high punishments for relatively petty offenses. 
And don't think that because you move off-campus or even graduate that you're free from us. Oh no, Dulac applies everywhere. Why is that? Because it says so in Dulac. That's ironclad logic right there. Don't like it? Suck it up. That's what she said. 
This ad paid for by Jeff Shopaholic and Captain Kirk. 

THE ABSURDER 
IEWPOINT 
Wednesday, April 1, 2009 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Jayson Blair Tony Kornheiser Would you hit that? 
Bob Woodward Bill Plaschke 
(A) Yes. 
"I know that human beings and fish
(B) No.
Jack Colwell Red Smith can coexist peacefully." 
(C) After 5 or 6 Graphics George W. Bush Former president of the United States
Pablo Picasso Viewpoint 
Vote by paper ballot in the 
Bill O'Reilly University president's office. 
THE ABSURDER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michael Scott 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Liz Lemon Jack Donaghy 
ASSJ:ronm 

Dwight Schrute 
EDITOR IN OimF: 

NEWS EDITOR: Aaron Sorkin VIEWPOINT EDITOR: JulieTayur 
SPORI'S EDITORS: Kenny Powers Rick Vaughn ScENE EDITOR: Rory Gilmore 
SAINT MARy's EDITOR: C.J Cregg 
PHOTO EDITOR: Matt Cashore 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Pam Beesly 
ADVEimSING MANAGER: Don Draper 
AD DFSIGN MANAGER: Matt Saracen 
CoNTROllER: Stringer Be11 SYsTEMs ADMINJSTRi\TOR: Chloe O'Brien 
0FAC£ MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
{900) 444-PINK fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

ELITEVl!'@escorts.com EDITOR IN CHI£f (574) 631-5000 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS 0FRCE 
(574) 631·5313 
News DEsK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574} 631-5303 viewpoint.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

ABSillmERONLINE 
www.lemonparty.com 
POLICIES 

The Absurder claims nothing in this paper to be true. Anything you read in this special section is not subject to review ofthe Notre Dame administration. We hope it will remain thac way. 
Special thanks to: Bill Kirk Jeff Shoup Brian Coughlin Dennis Brown Phil Johnson Phil Trent Paul Rudd Jason Segd Tom O'Neil The entire cast of Our Town 

Questions regarding Absurderpolicies are inane. Shut the hell up andgo home. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ahoiurder (random numbers~ herr) is published on April Fool's. D.ty each-~· A mbscriP"ion m The Abiu.n:ler would. br poindess. We love you, Shirley! Th.ar is all. 
The Absurder is pubHdlcd at: POSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining Hall S<nd addf'=SS-correaiORS to: None Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Absu(der Periodical posrag: paid at: Norte D.vnc -P.O.Bmcn9 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining H~l 
Notre Dm.e, IN 46556-0779 
The Absurder i.s a tm:mbcr ofsome stupid win: service. All reproducrion rights lire vio" lmd. 
Success has no place in ND athletics; 
Janush Bedfellow is one of the top coaches at the University. As fencing coach, he has won Nationa1 Championships, produced All­Americans and even a few Olympians. 
And for that, he must go. 
Notre  Dame's  
athletic  depart- Absurder Staff  
ment has taken a  Editorial  
new  turn in the  

last few years, and Bedfellow does not exemplify that direction. Since new Athletic Director Jack Swashbuckle took over during the summer, Notre Dame has striven for mediocrity. 
Recently, Notre Dame fencing came in second in the NCAA Championships, losing to Penn State at State Colle~e, Pa. It's not that sec­ond place isn t good enough; it's that second place is too good for Notre Dame. 
Let's look at the facts. 
Chuckie WISe and the football team got the ball rolling early, realizing how things worked midway through the season. After a surprising 5-2 start to the season, Weis figured out how things work now, finishing the season 6-6. So as not to make his los­ing too apparent, Weis at least coached during the Hawaii Bowl to get a winning record to end the sea-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Hook-up, schmook-up 
Dear four guys, two dining hall workers, my rectress, Father Junkins, and nightly janitorial staff of The Huddle: 
Thank you for the hook-up. It was ... amazing. It wasn't a typical freshman year hook-up at all. (Father Junkins ... helloooooo!) 
Some of you (cough cough janitors) led me on, while others just drunkenly happened (JJ you know sacramental wine makes me wild). Obviously, I wanted it because I didn't stop you. I love to kiss janitors and presidents of prestigious universities. Some people call it my "hobby." 
Yes, the hook-up itself was fine, but afterwards we've run into a problem. At the dining hall, dorm parties, Board of Trustee meetings, and on the quad. It's the way you look at me, with that awkward stare that makes me want to scream "Just because we did it in the janitor's closet or behind the salad bar doesn't mean we can't talk like civil human beings!" Other times, you pretend you don't see me at all and just go on praying or serving mashed potatoes. To be fair, I think I may have gotten a "hey" from one or two or a "Body of Christ" on occasion (but it's been a while). 
What about my number? You know you asked for it. Is that your way of saying, "Thanks for the hook-up, can I have your number so that I can give you ResLife at a later date?" Well it worked, I haven't heard from any of you, except via e-mail, which was addressed to the whole student body. I know you all have Katie O'Katerson in your phone book. Use it. I'm very needy. 
Fire Janush 
son. 

Men's basketball was ranked as high as No. 7 in the nation before head coach Mock Tee got the memo on the new standard operating proce­dure. Tee's squad foundered during Big East play before losing to Penn State in the 
Final Four-of the NIT. and not a moment too
Notre Dame's athletic 
It took a little longer soon. The team was
department has 
for Little Miss Muffet undefeated all season, and Jack Jefferson to taken a new turn in and looked almost get the memo, although the last few years, unstoppable going into they fell into line even­the Tournament. But
and Bedfellow does 
tually. The women's the Irish gave up the basketball team was not exemplify that game-winning goal ranked No. 4 all season, direction. with only two minutes 
but later slipped in the polls down to the 20s. The squad lost in the first round of the NCAA Tournament-as a No. 7 seed-to Minnesota. 
Jefferson did an even better job with the hockey team. The Irish were the top-ranked team for most of the season before slipping to No. 2 8oing into the NCAA Tournament. With a team that looked even better than last season's National Runner-up, Notre Dame seemed poised for a deep post­season run. But there's a new way of 
Don't blame me for not calling you. I broke my phone because I drunkenly threw it in the lake as I was crying over you not calling. You probably wouldn't answer anyway. I've blocked my num­ber several times and called and you still don't answer. What the elf? 
Of course I don't render myself blameless. Our hook-up was the mo..<Jt convenient form of instant gratification that I could find. I am just as guilty as you are (except I didn't take a vow of chastity ....). But next time I smile at you on the quad, wear shirts that show off my cleavage, have a "wardrobe malfunction," or accidentally drop my fork in the dining hall, can you pretend that you haven't gone both deaf and blind since that night we met? 
I am sure of one thing after all of this: you are where I draw the line. This weekend, I refuse to add to my list (unless your name is Menace Brown or Ted). I can't afford to have any more people refusing to look at me. I am looking to make friends (not lovers, clergy or staff alike). I can find a new hobby, hopefully something that really does make me happy, but, like Kelly Clarkson, I do not hook up. See you at the dining hall. 
Sincerely, 
Katie O'Katerson 
P.S. Don't worry about our dome under the Dome. Xoxo. 
doing things, and Jefferson knows it. The 5-1 loss to Bemidji State is the exemplar of the new Notre Dame Way. 
Even Randy Wallbanger of the women's soccer team understood what he needed to do to suc­ceed at Notre Dame, 
left to lose the 
Championship to a 
North Carolina team 
they had already beat­en. Compare that to Bedfellow. He started out the season ranked as 
one of the best teams in the nation. He continued to push his team to excel throughout the season. He lost in the end, but to one of the only teams ranked ahead of his for the season. He's one of the most decorat­ed coaches the Notre Dame has and therefore, he has no place here. 
Anger 
I thought I'd come to Notre Dame, get my easy business degree, watch "Family Guy" 2417 and not give a crap about "getting involved" with any campus activities. That's for nerds. 
Then I heard some­thing that really grinds my gears: 
The Subway in Lafortune will not sell $5­footlongs 
This is absolutely out­rageous. Don't they know every other Subway across the country is sell­ing them? Those price­gougers. 
Well, I'm getting off my couch, putting down my beer and doing some­thing about it. Nothing else at this school has angered me this much. Abortion? Nah. Politics? Nah. Food. That's what I really care about. 
D-bag March 31 
Wednesday, April 1, 2009 The Absurder + VERY IMPORTANT INFORMATION page 5 
BJ's 
continued from page 1 

that underage students can gain entry into BJ's, more notorious faces have been appearing. 
Sources tell the Absurder that sophomore wide receiver Silver Skate has been spotted as a regular at the bar, along with dozens of other under­age athletes. Sources also report that Skate has been spotted taking "body shots" off of female classmates. 
"Yah, I see him there pretty much every Monday, some­times Wednesday's too," a male junior said. "He's pretty hard to miss, all the girls around him, the issued gear, I mean hell, I wish I had lived that life when I was 20." 
Skate, who does not turn 21 until this upcoming August, refused to be interviewed by the Absurder. 
Head football coach Chuck Wise released a statement that he could neither confirm nor deny the alleged under­age drinking of his players. 
"We do not condone under­age drinking," Wise said. "But if underage drinking is occurring at local establish­ments, I highly doubt any of 
LePew 
continued from page 100,000 

hoc group in response to stu­dent complaints about the pres­ence of skunks on campus. 
"After careful consideration and prayerful deliberation, I have decided to create an ad hoc group, which will report directly to me, composed of sev­eral members of the Notre Dame community, as well as skunk experts from the South Bend area, and oddly enough, some members who were on that pointless ad hoc group to examine stadium security issues," he said in a news release last month. 
The ad hoc group proposed spraying Notre Dame with a chemical agent that members of the group believed would repel the skunks. The Notre Dame Security Police used Segway vehicles to scatter the powdered chemical around the campus. 
The chemical did not work as intended, however, and has produced larger skunks capable my players are involved." that a few slip in here and 
Despite denying that his there. players were "We have regulars at installed great
"Do I really have to 
BJ's, the measures to pre­Absurder explain myselftwice? vent the pres­overheard ence of underage
Ifyou need to know 
Wise was students at our
why this annoying lit­
telling them to bar," McJohns "lay low for tle box is here, read said. "Our awhile." The my rant on the right bouncers are Absurder also trained to know
side ofthe page. 
heard Wise all 50 state state that Right now, it's almost licenses by Skate "would heart, but even
5 a.m. The Grab N' Go 
ladies are setting up 
enough and ers slip up. that all of this shop for the day Sometimes back will blow across the hall and doors get left over." open, these
we still have about 4 
Underage things happen." athletes drink­pages to In a statement ing at BJ's is finish before we can released by the 
not a new University,
finally leave this 
issue. The President Jim 
Absurder place. Crap, I need to Spankins states, reported simi­jill about four more "under Du Lac, lar problems underage drink­
lines oftext before 
back in 2005 ing is not permit­
the article can end.
when then­ted no matter freshman Phew! There we go.,, who you are. quarterback Athletes should Manmeat not receive spe­
Overtired copy editor 
Brady was cial treatment,
The Absurder
spotted at BJ's but I can't help it before he was if people in the 
21. South Bend community are 
BJ's Pub owner Connor willing to look the other way." McJohns stated that while he does not permit underage stu­Contact DK all the way at dents in his bar, it is possible dkrasula@nd.edu 
and Dam looked better in black and white or in color.
Studly 

"The response rate was over­
whelming," Meish said. "Students
continued from page 69 

obviously care a lot about improv­will begin modeling in the sum­ing the quality of life at Notre mer, and Dam, currently a junior, Dame, and also having male eye will begin in a year .. candy on the cover of their news­
Dam said he still anticipates paper every morning." appearing on the front page of The results of the survey indi­The Observer most days of the cated that 65 percent of students week. think Meish looks better in color, 
"Appearing on the front page of and 89 percent think Dam looks 
be 21 soon the best bounc­

The Observer is a  better in black  
great way to help students remem­ber that student government is here, working for them, and that the people in charge of student government look really, really good while doing it," he said. Dam takes over  "Look, the story was too short for the required space, so we had to put in this inane pull-quote in our best attempt to make it .fit. Sometimes the quote is attributed to SMC  and white. ''I'm going to take the responses stu­dents have given us and use them to help student government work better for them," Dam said, stroking his strong jaw line. One of the ini­ 
for Meish as pres­ident today, and he said he's plan­ning on making some changes now that he real­izes how good looking he is. 'We're going to  volleyball coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. why? Because that's the dummy pull-quote we use each night and if you see her name in the pull-quote that  tiatives Meish and Dam planned was a meeting of the student body presidents from across the Midwest. The leaders will con­ 
eliminate the position of Chief Executive Assistant and  means we forgot to change the name to the right person or  verge at Notre Dame to talk about initiatives at their schools  
replace it with Chief Executive Photographer," he said. "It's going to really improve student life for people. I've done a lot of research  our stupid editors didn. 't catch the mis­take at 4 a.m. Hey, professional papers make similar mistake like that all the time.  and trade ideas. 'We also want to see whether any of their pres­idents or vice presidents are better looking than us," Meish  
into it, and I know it's what students want." The photogra­pher will take pic­tures of Dam as he goes about his daily life looking fantastic.  We're not the only ones who screw up. Pull-quotes may seem like a waste ofspace to you, but ifwe did­n't have these, we might kill ourselves .,,  said. "Notre Dame has to stay competitive." Some others in student govern­ment, however, are jealous of all the attention Meish and Dam  
Dam said he's  are getting.  
also launched a new Web site, Dam Imfine.com,  Burned out copy editor The Absurder  "They're so ugly. I'm 10 times better  
to give students easier access to  looking than that rat Meish," said  

the photos. Asian Joey, senior class president. "It will make student govern­When Meish graduates from 
ment so much more accessible to Notre Dame in May, he will imme­students," Dam said. "Now what diately head to Bermuda to shoot looks better, the white shirt or the a spread for GQ. striped one? Glasses on or off?" Dam said Meish will be missed, 
Earlier this year, Meish and but said new vice president Lydia Dam e-mailed a survey to the stu­Sheber will bring experience, dent body asking for reactions to competence and good ideas to his several student government initia­administration. tives, including an all-out effort to "Oh, also, she looks great in 
become the two most widely black and white," Dam said. sought-after men on campus. The questionnaire asked stu­Contact Riding Hood at dents whether they thought Meish Wolfstomach@gmail.com 
of breeding with humans, resulting in several skunk pari­etal violations. At least one skunk-human couple has pro­duced a skunk-human hybrid offspring, who has been seen on many occasions visiting South Bend drinking establish­ments. 
Shankins renamed the ad hoc committee to add~ess the pari­etals violations. 
"After careful consideration and prayerful deliberation, I have decided to create an ad hoc group, which will report directly to me, composed of ResLife .and NDSP. Skunk­human parietals breaking is an abomination," he said in a news release. 
Speaking anonymously, a top member of the Shankins admin­istration told The Observer that Shankins has retreated to isola­tion and is "flipping out." 
"This is worse than the Vagina Monologues," the offi­cial said. "I only hope next year Loyal Daughters won't have a piece about skunk-human pre­marital sexual encounters." 
The rash of skunk parietals violations have been compared by others to the Vagina Monologues controversy, with some questioning Notre Dame's Catholic character. 
"When I went to Notre Dame, no one ever had sex before marriage," cranky 1965 alum Roger Whelan said. "Now stu­dents are having sex with skunks? I'm withdrawing my donation until Notre Dame becomes Catholic again. I've also ripped up my five Notre Dame sweatshirts and I punched a baby I saw at the grocery store holding a toy foot­ball, because it reminded me of Notre Dame. I never thought I'd say this, but Notre Dame is no longer my university" 
Some students, however, have supported the skunk parietals violations. Sophomore Casey Martin has formed a Facebook group promoting "skunk love." 
"Notre Dame is a great place, but it is so anti-skunk," she said. "Why aren't skunks included in the non-discrimina­tion clause?" 
Martin is planning on selling black and white striped shirts that say "Skunk? Fine by Me." 
Contact Pepe Le Pew at creepyfrenchskunk@aol.com 


page 6 The Absurder + SPORTS Wednesday, April 1, 2009 
Riots 
continued from page 8 
swordfight with my roommate all the time, it's not that hard." 
The hundreds of fans that wreaked havoc on innocent women and children following the loss apparently first tried to express themselves con­structively. They initially looked into appealing the 
NCAA's deci­"I don't get it. I Wacca said the 
sions. However, swordfight with my organization none of the fans normally sticks
roommate all the 
knew any of the to no more than 
rules of fencing, time, it's not that throwing eggs or had ever hard., or PVC pipes, seen a match, but the fencing so that plan loss needed
Jim Andruszkiewicz 
never got off something big­
Alpha Male
the ground. ger. 
ed a bigger hill to climb. 
"Sure, it was bush league, total bush league," he said. "What do they think is, women's basketball?" 
Wacca is the president of the Destructive Rioters Upset with Notre Dame Kinesthetics (DRUNK) and has led several riots after disappointing loss­es. Up until this past weekend, DRUNK was best known for urinating in the Stone Henge fountain after the Notre Dame football team lost to Syracuse. 
Fans instead relied on the unfair home advantage given to Penn State to justify their complaints. The championship tournament was held at the Nittany Lion's home fighting area -the Happy Valley ThunderDome. Several Irish fighters com­plained that the raucous Penn State fans threw off their con­centration severaL times. 
"Oh really, no such thing as a home advantage? Haven't you seen 300?" said senior Matthew Wacca. 
Berdnarz, in fact, had never seen the 2007 Zach Snyder film, but he did admit that playing at Penn State present­
"To be honest, I was pretty drunk. I'm not 

sure what happened. I was just trying to do something crazy," Wacca said. 
When police arrived on the 
-scene several houses were on fire and students were danc­ing in circles singing the classi Billy Joel song, "We Didn't Start the Fire." 
Initial reports show that two bicycles, a picnic set and three South Bend area homes were burnt to the ground. The city believes that the damage will cost over $700 to repair. 
Contact with public toilet seats can give you diseases. 

AT LEAST IT'S A LITTLE FUNNIER THAN BLACK DOG. 
Hot Dogs 
continued from page 8 

tossin' around the pigskin without trippin' on your own two feet? Silly really." 
To combat not just under­age drinking, but drinking in general, Gagme has equipped each usher with a shotgun. 
"If you booze, you lose ... possibly even an arm or a leg now," he said. 
Roger Underager was one of the POWs who The Observer spoke to via telegram. "This is a load of sh*t. Stop. I don't pay $40,f*"%%"in',OOO a year for this bulls&"%t! Stop. SOS. Stop." 
University President Father John Junkie issued an official statement yesterday claiming that he sees no problem with addressing the problem head on. "Drinking? At Notre Dame? They don't pay $40,f*"&"&#in',OOO a year to be blowing it all on unsacri­mental wine." 
Gagme said once football season ends, they will move onto other highly attended sports including fencing and women's crew. "We'll hit 'em where it hurts." 
At this time, the time of release of the prisoners is still uncertain. "We'll lettem out when they learn their les­son," Gagme said. 
lie added that if the prison­ers wrote a Jetter saying they had in fact learned their les­son and pretended to com­plete 20 hours of community service he would seriously 
consider shortening their sentences. 
The new shotgun measure caused concern with Notre Dame alumni's premier web­site, slackernation.com Many angry threads have been posted and caused the web­site's administrator, Lipton IcedTea, to quit his dayjob just to manage the site. 
One poster, I'dTeabagHoltz69, summed up poster's concerns 
"The only shotguns that should be on campus are made with keyholes and beer cans," l'dTeabag said. "And it's out God-given right to shotgun those beers in the Stadium, and nobody will ever take that away!" 
Joe College lost his blackberry. Contact him at a dorm party. 

Omar Uttle, former gay Baltimore native, who previously made his living stealing from drug deal­ers, will rise from the dead in 2009 to lead the NDSP's shotgun enforcement team. 
ANOTHER STUPID STORY 
By TOM WOLFE 
Special to the Absurder 

Bishop John F'Artsy, whose diocese includes Notre Dame, announced Monday that he would not attend the April 18 Blue­Gold Game, the traditional spring exhibition match for 
the  Notre  Dame  football  
team,  so  he  could  "get  
blackout"  at  PigTostal  

instead. 

"This will be the 25th Notre Dame Blue-Gold Game during my time as bishop," 
F'Artsy said. "After much prayer, I have decided not to attend. 
"I wish no disrespect to Charlie Weis, I pray for him and wish him well. I have always revered the job of Head Coach of the Fighting Irish. A bishop must teach the Catholic faith 'in season and out of season' but I've heard that PigTostal is a lot more fun than sitting through four hours of mediocre football." 
F'Artsy has waited for this day all spring. "My decision is not an 
attack on anyone," F'Artsy continued, "But rather in defense of my desire to get completely wasted and pass out before 6 p.m." 
University President Fr. John Junkins issued no reply in requests for comments by press time, but University spokesman Menace Brown told The Absurder there was no way Junkins was "picking F'Artsy's drunk-*** up when he calls asking for a ride to Taco Bell." 
Contact Tom Wolfe at Shinywhitesuit@gmail.com 


,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, Aprill, 2009 The Absurder + SPORTS page 7 
Hilarity 
continued from page 8 
names referencing Cleveland Browns wide receiver Dante Stallworth, who was recently involved in a fatal car crash that claimed the life of Mario Reyes, a 59-year old man in Miami. 
"He hit a guy with his car and the guy died. Hahahaha," Pooper said. "Naturally, it 
Skanks 
continued from page 8 
McBlarney gained his coveted status after Brady's assumed suc­cessor, Stork Dausen, failed to live up to the renowned lofty expecta­tions of the Jersey Chasers. 
"Everyone thought Stork would replace Manmeat," said Darla Skankintosh, president of the Jersey Chasers. "But he just assumes girls want to hook up with him, which is true -don't get me wrong, a lot of us would still totally do Stork -but McBlarney, just does something to us that's indescribable. We all want to marry him, then divorce him for the money." 
Skankintosh said McBlarney's smile, his sexy on-again, off-again beard, and velvety Staten Island accent put him ahead of other candidates on the football and basketball teams. 
"Have you heard him speak? Holy crap," said Lyla Loosehips, vice president, or "the sloppy sec­ond" of the Jersey Chasers. "That's part of why we all line up one after the other to approach him at Fever or Cheers when we see him out." 
McBlarney had no problem edging out competition from his own team, most notably senior forward Mac Hillandsand. 
was all we could do to contain  dents on this campus should­ absolutely unacceptable.  Pooper also said the policy  
ourselves anytime we  saw a  n't be drinking.  "It's not just  that says Bookstore censors  
team name that said some­thing similar to 'Dante's Killer  Domestic abuse and manslaugh­ "You don't want to  harmless fun," Pooper  cannot allow any team names that make fun of anybody  
Drives.' Oh man, that one really cracked me up." Pooper reiterated his claim  ter, on the other hand, have no age limits."  offend anybody with these Bookstore  said. "There are Catholic principles at  within the University will stand. "You don't want to offend  
that anything to with alcohol  Pooper said this  names.  stake  here  anybody with these Bookstore  
should be censored.  policy is unlikely  and  we  all  names," Pooper said. "You  
"Unlike domestic violence and manslaughter, alcohol ruins lives. It's nothing to joke  to change any time soon, since allowing alcohol  Part E. Pooper Bookstore censor  know, the University will not compro­ have to be sensitive in areas." That's what she said.  some  
about," Pooper said. "Also,  and sex-related  mise its iden­ 
did you know that the drink­ names  in  tity  as  a  Contact Censor This at  
ing age was 21? Most stu- Bookstore  Basketball  is  Catholic institution."  dirtysanchez@nd.edu  


IT'S BEARD-FACE!/The Absurder TIM RIGGINS/The Absurder 
Aww, doesn't Irish McBiarney look so sad after NO lost to West Sorry, Mack Hillandsand, the Jersey Chasers all agree, you're Virginia? Don't you just want to give him a hug? not as hot as Irish McBiarney. What's up with the creepy face? 
Hillandsand had some things said Ja Rule Jackson, junior Notre Dame. "A turnover is the ing lineup next year, Ben going for him as well, guard on Notre Dame. "It's least of our worries. It's a miracle Handsbro, will take his place as Skankintosh said. At 6-foot-8, he embarrassing not only to him, but when he doesn't fall over." the No. 1 stud at Notre Dame. is one of the tallest men on cam­to me as well. People think I McBlarney's two-year reign at When asked to evaluate pus, always a good thing, she showed him those moves!" the top rivaled that of Manmeat's, Handsbro's qualifications, said. But Hillandsand fell behind His attempts at being smooth and he can go to bed as the envy Skankintosh said: "He's not bad. in the race because he tried too failed on the court as well. of men everywhere and the But he's from Missouri right? much to be like Justin "Just watch any of our games desire of thousands of women. Then why in God's name does he Timberlake. and watch as he tries to dribble When asked who would take his sound like he's lived in Alabama 
"Yeah, Mae thinks he can to the basket, shoot a free throw, place, McBlarney said there are a all his life?" dance, but have you seen him hell, do anything that requires a couple of candidates, but strip down to his beater at Finny's bit of coordination," said Duke McBlarney said the man who will Contact Hines Ward at and try to bust a move or two?" Hairybody, junior forward on might take his place in the start-SuckitRayLewis@gmail.com 
WANTED BASKETBALL STUDENT MANAGERS Do you have experience as a professio~al sports agent? Do you have _a total disregard for NCAA regulations? Would you be a scapegoat for Jim Calhoun? If so ... At least we don't steal At least we don't steal laptops anymore! laptops anymore! UCONN Wants you! For more information contact Coach Calhoun atfuboeheim@notadime.com  

THE ABSURDER 
PORTS
Tuesday, April 1, 2009 
page 8 
SMOKIN' HoT 

Jersey Chasers: McBlarney No. 1 catch 
President Skankintosh says all want to marry him, then divorce him for money in 5 years 
By HINES WARD Bane of the Ravens 

When Manmeat Brady left Notre Dame, he left a void on campus, a void many thought would be left unfilled for years. 
No, not the void he left at Notre Dame's quarterback position, rather the void in the hearts of the many undying, jersey-chas­ing females on campus as the unanimous No. 1 catch at Notre Dame. 
Thankfully, one man stepped up to fill those shoes and raise the heart rates of women (and even some men) all over campus -senior basketball star Irish McBlarney. 
"It's been a burden to bear these past two years since Manmeat went to the NFL," McBlarney said after the Jersey Chasers elected him the No. 1 catch. "At first, I didn't know how I'd handle my new role, but I think there's been plenty of me to go around. Luckily, the Jersey Chasers are easier for me to con­quer than Marquette's half-court defense." 
see SKA1\l'KS/page 7 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Censors: Alcohol and sex bad. Dotnestic abuse 
such teams as "The Backdoor But Pooper said there was "How ean you not get aBy CENSOR THIS 
Threats," "The Impenetrable one category of team names chuckle out of teams like 'We
Nothing Bur Chet 

Box" and "A Little Dribble the committee didn't have to Play Better Defense than 
Between My Legs" should be think twice about approving Rihanna' or 'We'll beat you 
Once again, the Bookstore replaced with plain, old num­-anything to do with the worse than Chris Brown.' It's censors did their usual hatch­bers. And of course, anything Chris Brown/Rihanna domes­so funny!" et job on hundreds of poten­to do with alcohol has to be tic abuse scandal. Pooper said it didn't matter tial bookstore names that banned. "Let's face it, domestic that domestic abuse may be a clever Notre Dame students "It's only natural," abuse is downright hysteri­sore subject for some stu­tried to sneak by them. No Bookstore commissioner Part cal," Pooper said. "And it dents on campus, and that doubt, these heroes spent E. Pooper said. "Alcohol and really brings out the best in some may have parents or countless hours on Urban sex have no place at Notre creative thinking among may even be victims them­Dictionary trying to decide if Dame, whatsoever." Notre Dame students. selves of such terrible vio-
FOOZEBALL 
Ushers 
•
given shotguns 

University no longer content with capturing drunken, rabid fans 
By JOE COLLEGE Never seen the second half 

Forty-two students, 12 alumni, three hot dog vendors, and a blind spectator have been taken into custody as prisoners of war (POWs) at Saturday's football game. What war, you ask? "The war on underage drinking," usher leader Chappy Gagme said. "Zero tolerance. I won't rest until prohibition is reinstated at Notre Dame." 
Gagme, who has been at Notre Dame since prohibition in 1920, said it is the only way to make football games fun again. 
"Whatever happened to 
see HOT DOGS/page 6 
hilarious 
lence. 

"Besides, it's not like Rihanna is a real person any­way," Pooper said. "Have you ever heard her sing? She sounds like a computer! Now, she's back with Chris Brown anyway, so it should be OK to make fun of how bad she got beat up." 
Also acceptable are team 
see HILARITY/page 7 
FENCING DISASTER 

Fencing flop ignites riots among ND students 
By MARCUS CRAYMUR Newly homeless 

Irish fans have had enough. Last Sunday, following Notre 
-Dame's second place finish at the NCAA Fencing Finals, loyal athletic supporters showed their outrage by riot­ing in South Bend. South Bend Police Chief Ray Jingflamerr said that several homes, big screen televisions and lives were destroyed. "We were able to get things under control pretty quickly," Jingflamer said. "I didn't want to make any arrests because I feel for these kids. I saw the finals on the Ocho and I was upset about it too. We're not the excise, you know." Notre Dame students have grown used to disappointing clubs falling short of expecta­tions this year. Back-to-hack 
poor football seasons, a pro­jected top 10 basketball team now playing in the NIT and a loss in the women's soccer national championship laid the groundwork, the fencing loss was the final straw. 
The Irish fencers finished the regular season as the No. 1 team in the country. However, perennial power­house Penn State proved to be too much in the tournament. Irish coach Janski Berdnarz said that he was proud of the way his team fought through­out the whole season. 
"You're not going to come out on top every time you have a sword in your hands. .Just ask Rufio," he said. 
Upset fans found that hard to understand. "I don't get it," senior Jim Andruszkiewicz said. "I 
see RIOTS/page 6 









