PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY ANDREA ARCHER AND TOM LA 
Leaders look beyond campus bubble 

Schmidt, Weber launch yearlong Global Water Initiative to bring clean water to African village 


things. We have two different Africa and India where peo-energy competition, which 

By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
spectrums and two different ple commonly die of water-ran through the month of 
In Focus Writer 
focuses and that ’s how it borne diseases. The wells November. 
should be in our opinion.” offer a clean source of water Next semester, student gov-
Student government aims to In the past, Weber said stu-and cost about $5,000 to ernment plans to put “wish­look at the “small things and dent government has raised build. ing wells” in the dorms for the big things,” student body money for smaller and more Schmidt and Weber said students to donate spare president Grant Schmidt said short-term events and issues, they are able to balance deal-change and release a benefit of his administration so far but this is the ing with campus-CD featuring campus musi­this year. first time stu-related issues cians, Weber said. 
Schmidt and student body dent govern-“We have the small and the Global “I was worried when cam-vice president Cynthia Weber ment has things and the big Water Initiative paigning that this would be have put in place some of the undertaken a by delegating the one of those things that fell 
things. We have two 
smaller things, like benches yearlong proj-work. Junior by the wayside, but the stu­at Main Circle and mints in ect focused on different spectrums R a c h e l dent response has been over-the dining halls. one social Roseberry and whelming,” Weber said. 
and two different 
But the duo is also looking problem. s o p h o m o r e But Schmidt and Weber 
focuses and that’s 
to reach beyond the Notre “I was inter-Justin Pham are said people have asked why Dame bubble. ested in doing how it should be in co -directors of they are focusing on Africa 
This year, Schmidt and somethi ng our opinion.” the project. when there is poverty in Weber launched the Global kind of monu-“We really South Bend. Water Initiative, a project mental for wanted to find a “Notre Dame does play a
Grant Schmidt
where student government is student gov -long-range social big role in the community raising money to build a well ernment,” she student body president issue for student and we have been doing in an impoverished town in said. “The government to things in South Bend, but we Africa to offer clean water to idea was to focus wanted to do the residents. find a non-controversial issue on, ” Roseberry s o m e t h i n g 
The Initiative was part of and provide consistent educa-said. “A yearlong b i g g e r , ” their campaign platform from tion and fundraising on that project is more “We may not be able Schmidt said. the beginning, same issue all unique.” A l t h o u g h 
to give an apple to
and Weber said year.” The goal of the student gov-
everybody but if we
she was told And for project is to raise ernment pri­that students Weber, the at least $5,000 have one apple, we marily serves 
“If that complaint
wouldn ’t care answer was this year to build the student 
can still give it to
about it. The was present from stu-simple: Water. one well, most body of Notre 
somebody.” 
role of student “Communities likely in a village Dame, Weber 
dents, typically they
government is have unclean in western said the 
would say that’s not 
to address the drinking water Kenya, Roseberry Cynthia Weber group is in a needs of the what student govern-and people are said. position to do 
student body vice
students them-ment should be getting sick, ” So far, student president more. selves. Weber said. government has “We can 
doing.” 
“If that com-“The issue is sold T-shirts to really put on plaint was cornerstone to raise money and a united front present from Grant Schmidt so many other awareness and and push one students, typi-social prob -has encouraged dorms to cause,” she said. “Honestly, 
student body president
cally they lems.” hold events to raise money. we may not be able to give an would say Student gov -Howard Hall ’s Totter for apple to everybody but if we that’s not what ernment is Water event earlier this year have one apple, we can still student govern-working with raised funds for the project. give it to somebody.” ment should be doing, ” The Water Project, a non-The Office of Sustainability Schmidt said. “We have the profit organization that also pledged to donate the Contact Madeline Buckley at small things and the big builds wells in poor areas of proceeds from the dorm mbuckley@nd.edu 
Editor’s note: The Observer is publishing a comprehensive review of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s student governments. This issue is intended to illustrate for students what elected officials are doing in their name, so they can enter the election season fully informed. Its intent is to provide an illuminating, unbiased assessment of the state of the Student Union. 




Schmidt, Weber address campus conveniences 
Transpo, other administration initiatives help raise quality of life at Notre Dame while keeping students safe 


By JOSEPH McMAHON 
In Focus Writer 
When former student body presi­dent Bob Reish and then-vice presi­dent Grant Schmidt took office, their administration marked a changing of the guard, as it was the first time in three years members of former student body president Dave Barron’s administration had not controlled student government’s top office. 
Last year, Schmidt and current student body vice president Cynthia Weber handily defeated the oppos­ing tickets to extend the group’s legacy and maintain control of the student body presidency. 
In their campaign platform, Schmidt and Weber promised to continue many of the previous administration’s programs while also implementing several ideas of their own. 
“We’ve taken a common sense approach, and we’ve addressed the issues that are of most concern to students,” Schmidt said. 
Focusing on the little things 
Since taking office, Schmidt and Weber have made it a top concern of theirs to enhance student living on campus by increasing the number of small conveniences available. 
Schmidt said many students often have a difficult time conceptualizing what student government does. 
“I really do think that we’ve addressed campus conveniences in a different way,” he said. “I’ve been in student government for four years, and sometimes people say, ‘Hey I have no idea what you do?’” 
While discussions about the intel­lectual life on campus may be stimu­lating for some, Schmidt said a pri­mary complaint of many students was student government focused myopically on large initiatives while ignoring easy to implement ideas. 
“My roommates [usually] don’t care about what I do,” Schmidt said of his work in student government. “But there recently have been sever­al things that we’ve done that are relevant to them.” 
Among the small conveniences student government has achieved or planned this year are the lowering of prices in the Huddle, the renovation of the LaFortune arcade room, benches at main circle, mints in the dining hall and hot Grab ‘n Go options. 
“We joke about mints in the dining hall and we joke about the benches at main circle,” Schmidt said. 
Weber said although some of those initiatives may sound insignifi­cant, implementing smaller ideas helps build credibility and has helped paved the way for larger plans. 
“Focusing on little things is really important and something student government should do because those conveniences are really impor­tant, but it also gives your organiza­tion a bit of credibility,” she said. “If you’re doing the things that every­one cares about, it gives our organi­zation the credibility to focus on things like the Global Water Initiative.” 
The administration has also focused on responding to student complaints about large events. For example, Schmidt and Weber spear­headed the idea to move the Commencement ceremony into Notre Dame Stadium after hearing numerous complaints from students that they did not receive enough tickets for family and friends. 
The idea of utilizing small pro­grams to curb the average student’s apathy towards student government is something of a holdover from the Reish administration, which used ideas such as the installation of printers in every dorm, the DVD rental service or the Last Lecture series (which has not been contin­ued this year under Schmidt) to get students more involved with and interested in student government. 
Schmidt said while he enjoys working of big-picture issues, adding small conveniences to everyday stu­dent life has been the most “rele­vant” effect of his administration. 
“The Global Water Initiative is a big thing that I think is one of the key things that we’ve done, but I think as a whole the ability to address the things that people actu­ally care about so we’re not just up in our little student government office and patting each other on the back — that is the most relevant thing that we’ve done,” he said. 
Off-campus transportation 
Coming into office last April, Schmidt and Weber immediately began working on their signature platform issue — off-campus trans­portation. 
“Obviously this year we’ve high­lighted off-campus living and off-campus safety because that was the thing that really rose to the top,” Schmidt said. 
Schmidt said students would rou­tinely complain about unpleasant experiences in South Bend cabs. 
“The main concerns we had were the rates fluctuating, them not hav­ing correct change, some being kind of creepy and the general behavior of drivers,” he said. 
Schmidt said he attended meet­ings with the owners of several cab companies and many of the drivers that service Notre Dame themselves to help work out solutions. Among the many ideas the duo tried to push were pre-paid tickets for cabs and a $2 flat rate to prevent cab drivers from taking advantage of students. 
However, after several meetings with cab drivers produced few results, Schmidt and Weber turned their attention to creating Transpo route 7A — a new service using South Bend’s Transpo system that runs late at night near many popu­lar student destinations. 
“Transpo was our huge trans­portation initiative and that’s what we put our time into. It solved the problems I was worried about with cabs,” Schmidt said. “It creates kind of the easy transportation solution.” 
Weber said Transpo’s reliability — the fact that it runs on a schedule and is free for students — made it an easy solution to solve the seem­ingly complex problems with cabs. 
“The idea with Transpo too is that it’s reliable,” she said. “So the idea with Transpo is that you know you have someone to rely on instead of hitchhiking or walking back.” 
Schmidt said the new Transpo route will also help improve commu­nity relations by keeping loud, intoxi­cated students out of the streets late at night — a selling point he used to help convince local South Bend lead­ers at the Community/Campus Action Coalition (CCAC). 
“In my opinion it is a community relations effort because if people are walking home late you can hear [them] talking in the streets,” he said. “It’s keeping people in a group, keeping people on a bus and avoid­ing student complaints about safety issues, avoiding intoxicated people possibly walking.” 
Schmidt said his position as a member of CCAC was crucial in finding common ground with com­munity leaders. 
“If I wasn’t present at CCAC I think the Transpo thing would have been received in a completely different way by the city,” he said. 
It is important to note that while Schimdt and Weber deserve a fair amount of credit for the project, the Office of Business Operations actual­ly negotiated the contract and final­ized the plans with Transpo. 
In addition, Transpo route 7A is still very young — it was only first used this past weekend — and still in the testing phase. The project has a number of serious potential pit­falls, including destructive behavior on the bus or students being too loud while waiting at the stops, which could undermine the entire project. 
Ultimately, the success of the Schmidt-Weber administration is tied to the success of Transpo route 7A, and if the project is denied fund­ing next year by the South Bend City Council or shut down because of stu­dents’ behavior, the administration will have failed to address what Schmidt and Weber have identified as one of their signature issues. 
‘The 10,000 foot level’ 
While campus conveniences and improving local late-night trans­portation have been focal points of this administration, Schmidt said he and Weber have also been focusing on large issues “at the 10,000 foot level.” 
These issues include the Global Water Initiative, improving rector relationships, conducting a serious discussion on the intellectual life at Notre Dame and, most pressingly, off-campus safety and police rela­tions. 
“If there was one big issue that Cynthia and I have had to deal with it was off-campus safety,” he said. 
Schmidt made his presentation to the Board of Trustees on off-campus relations and has met several times with local police. 
“In the meetings that we’ve had with South Bound Police, we’ve said we would like safety addressed, we like the presence of [SBPD] and we know there are areas of the city that deserve the same amount of atten­tion,” he said. “We want to make sure students aren’t targeted.” 
Schmidt said it is difficult to ask for more cops to improve student safety in the wake of incidents such as the abduction of two Holy Cross stu­dents on Notre Dame Ave. earlier this semester while requesting more leniency for party-throwers. 
“You can’t say you want more cops and then be worried about [parties being broken up],” he said. 
However, Schmidt said while local police have been receptive to talks, he has been unable to meet with the Indiana State Police, whose excise force is most often responsible for breaking up parties with what many students consider excessive force. 
“Excise can show up whenever they want, so in order to be political we can sit down and talk with SPBD, but … to be honest with you, I don’t know how much the student body president can tell the excise police. I wish I could say something like, ‘Slow your roll,’” he said. “There’s only so much I can do.” 
Schmidt said some of his talks with law enforcement have been very productive, and cited statistics showing game-day arrests were down this year as proof. 
Campaign Promises 
Implemented 
 Off-campus transportation 
 Continuing relations with the South Bend Common Council 
Pending 
 The development of an off-campus housing Web site 
Abandoned 
 Community summit 
 Taxi reform (replaced by Transpo) 
 Tax exemptions for text books 
 Last Lecture series 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 



Grade: B+ 
Schmidt and Weber have proved themselves effective at providing students with small conveniences such as the benches at Main 
Circle while also implementing big picture ideas such as the Global Water Initiative and the Transpo Route 7A. However, they have not excelled at the programming side of student gov­ernment — a side which former student body president Bob Reish stressed in his 
administration. Also, it is still too early to determine the success of the new Transpo route 
— this adminstration’s major project. 



Senate relies less on resolutions than past years 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
In Focus Writer 
Student Senate participated in productive discussions at their meetings this year, and its committees tackled large issues while paying attention to small details — no easy feat. 
Student body vice president Cynthia Weber, who leads Senate, said she used meeting time during the semester to keep senators informed about what each committee is work­ing on, and to have discussions as a whole. 
“Sometimes it’s really just about having a discussion because these people were elected in their and senator to discuss individ­ual dorm-rector relationships. 
These discussions helped Schmidt and Weber accomplish a goal of their administration, which was to have a pulse on the student body’s opinions on a certain topic and then form an educated stance on the sub­ject to represent them. 
The individual committees succeeded in paying attention to the small details of student life while tackling larger, global issues, which were two other of the Schmidt-Weber administra­tion. 
The Social Concerns Committee worked on the Global Water Initiative, which 
raises money to 
build wells in 
Africa. 

dorm so they “Every project that The Howard should have a Hall Totter for 
you’ll see and every
pulse on dorm Water raised life,” she said. committee has pretty nearly $2,000 
Senate much been done with-for the cause engaged in sev-and the savings 
out resolutions
eral notable from the Dorm 
because they’ve been
discussions E n e r g y during their able to sit down Competition meetings this were donated to 
with these 
year, including the Global Water 
administrators.” 
a one about the Initiative. intellectual Senate also environment on Grant Schmidt paid attention to campus. smaller details 
student body president
Most senators agreed that there was a lack of intellectual debate both inside and outside of the class­room compared to Ivy League schools. But senators also said Notre Dame had qualities that make the school better than Ivies, and that this balance is what makes Notre Dame unique. 
Weber said she is working with committee chairs to create a University-wide task force to address the lack of intellectual debate at Notre Dame. 
Senators also discussed the role of the dorm rector and made suggestions regarding how to foster relationships between rectors and students. Assistant Vice President of Student Affairs Sr. Sue Dunn also came to a Senate meeting to clarify what the University looks for in a rector. 
In response to these discus­sions, student body president Grant Schmidt said he plans to meet with each hall president of student life. 
For example, the 
Residence Life committee worked to extend hours in South Dining Hall on the weekend and to display prices on items in The Huddle. 
While Senate as a whole as engaged in important debate during meetings, and the indi­vidual committees have been productive, the group did not generally use meeting time to pass resolutions. 
Prior to their last meeting of the semester, Senate passed two resolutions. 
The first resolution honored late lacrosse coach Rich O’Leary and the second clari­fied Council of Representative’s role in allocating funds to cam­pus groups. 
At Senate’s final meeting of the semester, two more resolu­tions were passed. 
A resolution was passed thanking Notre Dame security gate guards for their increased willingness to allow students onto campus and asking them to continue to recognize legiti­mate reasons students need access to campus. 
Senate also passed a resolu­tion recommending the cre­ation of a health services advi­sory board. Students who sit on the board will provide feedback and input to the health servic­es. 
Weber said she and Schmidt established relationships with administrators, which decreased the need for resolu­tions this year. 
“Grant and I spent the sum­mer here meeting with every administrator we could,” she said. “We already had these existing relationships so the tool of the resolution is often times not necessary.” 
Schmidt said committees were able to accomplish many goals without resolutions for this reason. 
“We could sit down with all these people and talk instead of having to vote on these issues officially,” he said. “Every proj­ect that you’ll see and every committee has pretty much been done without resolutions because they’ve been able to sit down with these administra­tors.” 
Though Senate could accom­plish many goals without rely­ing on resolutions, Weber and Schmidt should use resolutions to make a meaningful impact on the student body and increase student government’s visibility. 
The recommendation to cre­ate a health services advisory board was a good use of a reso­lution because it has the poten­tial to influence the student body in the future. 
Using resolutions as a means to thank others or clarify the role of a committee are positive contributions, but will not impact the student body in the way the health services resolu­tion will. 
Student Senate should work to pass more results-oriented resolutions in the coming semester. Not only will this increase Senate’s ability to make a difference, but it will also make Senate’s work more tangible and visible to the stu­dent body. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Grade: A-The Student Senate as a whole engaged in productive discussions about issues that are important to the student body, and were able to gain a feeling for what the student body thought. Senate rarely used resolutions this year, which makes their work invisible to the student body. In the coming semester, Senate should work to increase their visibility and approachability so the student body can see what they accomplish.  

Academic Affairs: B+ This committee, chaired by Austin Holler, has the potential to make an impact on the student body if it follows through on plans that are in the works. For example, initiatives related to improving the intellectual environment at Notre Dame and a plan to allow excused absences for a student with an imminent death in the family would be very laudable, if they are achieved. This committee has great ideas, but should look to create concrete results in the second semester. Campus Technology: A Committee chair Walker Anderson worked to make technology run as smoothly as possible for students. He conducted usability tests for the course registration system and held the Notre Dame Tech Week where students could get their technology questions answered in the convenience of their dorms. The LaFortune Student Center computer cluster will be remodeled over winter break, and several projects are due to be completed in the spring semester. The committee has followed through on their plans and produced tangible results. Community Relations: B+ The committee’s most notable contribution this year was the new Transpo route, 7a. Committee chair Denise Baron also worked on off-campus safety concerns and held monthly events in the South Bend community. The committee introduced freshmen to the area with the freshman bus tour of South Bend and an off-campus safety meeting. With her success so far, Baron should challenge her commit­tee to move beyond simply venturing into the community for these types of programs and create meaningful relationships with those who live there. Gender Issues: A-Co-chairs Robyn Grant and Patrick Tighe succesfully stimulated debate on campus. The ‘Love Thee Notre Dame, Love Thyself’ campaign was personalized by photographing body parts of Notre Dame students, and the slogans hit home for students by using the alma mater. Grant and Tighe also held guided tours of the Thin exhibit and showed a documentary about it, which provoked students to think. Grant and Tighe should continue to stimulate debate, and do so by choosing publicized, widespread campaigns like the two mentioned that attract attention from the student body as a whole. Multicultural Affairs: B-Committee chair Nika Giger succeeded in planning and conducting multicultural commissioner training, and the committee has discussed many productive topics like ideas for Martin 
Luther King Jr. Day and Black History Month. However, the committee has not produced significant results at this point in the year. Much of this committee’s success hinges on the International Showcase and their ability to follow through on finishing the Diversity Certificate proposal. The committee should work hard in the coming semester to accomplish these two initiatives. Oversight: B Two resolutions passed in Student Senate this year came from this committee. Oversight, chaired by Kevin Kimberly, has several projects in the works regarding revising the constitution and organizing archives. The committee has plans to create an introduction to student government video for fresh­men and a strategic plan for student government. Oversight has been productive so far, and Kimberly and his committee need to move forward on the projects they have in the works and adhere to their completion dates for next semester to produce results. Residence Life: A-Committee chair Nick Ruof accomplished several projects this semester. This committee was responsible for extending the hours at South Dining Hall on the weekends and for putting prices in The Huddle. Essential phone numbers will also be put on the back of ID cards in 2012, when the University will run out of the ID cards that they bought in bulk. Though these projects may be small, they make an impact on student life. Now, Ruof and his committee should focus on translating their success to larger projects, like Medical Amnesty, during the spring semester. Social Concerns: A-Committee chair Rachel Roseberry took on the Global Water Initiativel, a ambitious project that was successful so far this year. The committee also brought a farmers’ market to campus and raised awareness about AIDS. In the second semester, the committee can make an even larger difference by continuing the Global Water Initiative, and following through on their plans to rid the dining halls of Styrofoam and work on off-campus recycling. University Affairs: B This committee, chaired by Jeff Lakusta, worked on advertising for Transpo and was responsive to problems with vending machines in DeBartolo Hall. Lakusta’s committee has discussed the intellectual environment at Notre Dame and the role of the rector. This committee has a lot of potential to make a difference and should turn discussion into action in the coming semester. 
 




FACULTY SENATE 

Group addresses Library, football scheduling issues 
a library resolution included an undergo an internal review every there will be similar delays in the staff and alumni make to the United 

By LAURA McCRYSTAL 

emphasis on the need for more five years and an external review future. States Armed Forces, Gresik said. 
In Focus Writer 

subject librarians to build library every 10 years.” The Faculty Senate also passed a Next semester, Gresik said the 
collections and assist faculty mem-The Office of the Provost agreed resolution related to academic hon-Faculty Senate plans to address the 
The Faculty Senate passed four bers in finding materials for their that an external review would be esty, Gresik said. issue of parking. Faculty members resolutions this semester, making research, Gresik said. appropriate for the Library at this “The main concern is that there have expressed concern about the recommendations about the The resolution also states that time, Gresik said. seems to be a gap in perception current availability of parking spots Hesburgh Library, football schedul-each department should conduct a The football scheduling resolu-between what faculty consider to on campus, and the issue will ing and academic honesty, as well review of library resources and tion, completed by the Faculty be academic honesty practices and become a greater concern as the as recognizing the contributions of report its findings to the dean of its Senate’s administrative affairs com-what students feel is acceptable,” University looks to construct new military veterans and ROTC stu-college or the provost. mittee, was a result of the delayed he said. buildings on or near existing park-dents, according to Senate chair Gresik said the final recommen-release of the 2010 football sched-The resolution recommends that ing lots, he said. and economics professor Thomas dation of the resolution involves an ule, Gresik said. incoming students receive a more “The University has started think-Gresik. external review of the University “Delays in getting out the 2010 detailed explanation of academic ing more about parking garages 
“Perhaps the biggest issue we Library System. schedule were causing some com-honesty as well as a second orienta-and parking fees for dedicated dealt with was a report on the “The Faculty Senate recom-plications with faculty who wanted tion when they declare their major. spots,” he said. Library,” he said of their work this mends that the Office of the Provost to schedule conferences next fall,” It also suggests that faculty mem-Gresik said the Faculty Senate year. in conjunction with the Office of he said. “We just wanted to ask the bers receive annual reports with chooses which issues to address 
Gresik said the academic affairs Strategic Planning arrange for an administration to keep in mind that the number of each type of honor based on the concerns of fellow fac­committee of the Faculty Senate external review of the entire there are these additional conse-code violations as well as more fre-ulty members, but Senate repre­conducted an extensive study of the Library system,” the resolutions quences of getting a delayed sched-quent reminders of their own obli-sentatives also constantly look for Library, including interviews of states. “This should include the pro-ule out.” gations under the honor code. potential areas of improvement. more than 150 people in all depart-duction of a library self.study docu-Gresik said the University admin-A fourth resolution by the Faculty ments and colleges. ment. We further recommend that istration was understanding of the Senate this semester recognized the Contact Laura McCrystal at 
The recommendations passed in after this review, the Library system resolution, and he does not think contributions that students, faculty, lmccryst@nd.edu 


Leaders focus on off-campus safety, collaboration 
Schmidt, Weber aim to increase communication, improve relationship between administration and student body 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
In Focus Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR), an advi­sory board to student body president Grant Schmidt, has effectively and productively contributed to student govern­ment discussions and policies, especially in their advisory role for off campus issues this semester. 
COR is made up of leaders from various student organiza­tions, and these representa­tives allow for increased com­munication and collaboration between the student body pres­ident and the student body as a whole. 
“The approach I really want­ed to take [with COR] is that I always have something that I wanted your opinions on, all on topics of relevance,” Schmidt said. 
During the first semester of the Schmidt and Weber admin­istration, University and stu­dent body relationships with the South Bend community have been central to their focus and achievements thus far. 
Concerns regarding off cam­pus safety, living and trans­portation have been priorities for the current administration because of their imperative nature, and COR has facilitated the development and imple­mentation of specific initiatives to address these community affairs. 
In preparation for the first meeting of the year with the University Board of Trustees, Schmidt utilized COR to decide on and develop a topic of rele­vance to the student body to be addressed with student affairs committee of the Board. 
Schmidt and COR members agreed that off-campus safety was the most important student concern, and recommended that it is the role of the University to protect and keep students safe off campus. 
COR members were instru­mental in the various stages of planning for the Transpo initia­tive. 
In addition, the Off-Campus Evaluation Web site, known as RentND, and the Off-Campus Incident Report Web site are two important initiatives the administration has been work­ing on to improve the safety and well being of students liv­ing or going off campus. However, these sites have not yet been launched. 
Schmidt has effectively uti­lized COR members as consult­ants and advisors to these stu­dent government projects, ask­ing for assistance in the writing and effectiveness of these sites. 
Improvements to student life and campus conveniences have been central to this administra­tion’s initiatives, and Schmidt has drawn on COR as a means to gain an accurate pulse on the needs of the student body. 
COR has also discussed reno­vations to the former arcade room in the LaFortune Student Center, potential changes to the access and timing of student-wide e-mails through IrishLink and the implementation of a student-run advisory board for Health Services. 
“My goal with COR is to get true, raw advice [on current student issues],” Schmidt said. 
Finally, as a way of empha­sizing their commitment to communication and collabora­tion with the University, Schmidt and student body vice president Cynthia Weber have invited several representatives from the University to speak to COR members in order to allow interaction between represen­tatives of the student body and the administrators of the University. 
Joseph Russo, director of Student Financial Strategies from the Office of Financial Services, spoke to COR about the financial aid process at the University and opened the dis­cussion up to questions from members about student misun­derstandings and confusion with the financial aid process. 
This exemplifies the impor­tance of Schmidt’s implementa­tion of COR as a channel for conversation and advising, as COR serves as an intermediary between not only the student body and student government but also between the student body and the University as a whole. 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 



STUDENT UNION BOARD 



Group revitalizes old traditions, changes advertising methods 
roots by taking what’s classic and new ideas into traditional events. weekend, musician Joshua Radin 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 

making it new and exciting and full “I think that’s the approach that came to Legends. Next semester’s 
In Focus Writer 

of life again,” she said. we’re taking,” she said. “I think a lot events will include a larger concert The Notre Dame Literary Festival of that is trying to tap into what stu-in Stepan Center, two comedy 
The Student Union Board (SUB) has existed for more than 40 years, dents want.” shows, the 52nd annual Collegiate set out to improve and increase the but this year was the first time that it Burke said the most exciting new Jazz Festival, the comedy group popularity of traditional campus took place over the course of three event this fall was a visit from an Second City and the spring Antostal events this year, SUB manager Kat days in true festival style, Burke said. actor and director of “Boondock festival. Burke said. “Last year it was very limited Saints 2,” as well as an extended SUB has also changed its method 
“It’s a lot of tradition with a lot of attendance to all of the events and showing of the film. of advertising its events this year, new and I hope that’s what we’ll this year the attendance was just The event was a free but ticketed Burke said. continue to bring next semester,” amazing,” Burke said “In the 40-event for students, and Burke said “We’ve moved away from bom-Burke said. “I think we are continu-plus years of the event it’s great to the line for tickets reached capacity barding students with e-mails,” she ally pushing the envelope and chal-see new life brought into it.” 30 minutes before the box office said. lenging our events to go bigger.” One strategy SUB used to generate opened. Instead, she said SUB has placed 
Burke said SUB coordinates many student participation in the festival “More than just the number and greater emphasis on its creative events that have been traditions on was the Notre Dame short story in the audience, it’s the presence that posters and other forms of commu­campus for years, such as the Notre the Viewpoint section of The Notre Dame students bring with nication, such as a commercial the Dame Literary Festival and Observer, which allowed students to how excited they get about different group recently filmed with NDtv and Acousticafé, and she wants to renew submit parts of a story and see their events,” she said. “And that’s really giveaways to students such as water student enthusiasm and generate own writing in the newspaper. what we strive for.” bottles and sunglasses. new ideas. Burke said SUB’s approach to the Burke said SUB will host more 
SUB should “demonstrate how Literary Festival represented the events during the spring semester Contact Laura McCrystal at important it is to give back to our group’s overall goal to incorporate because football season is over. Last lmccryst@nd.edu 

Grade: A­
SUB has made postive progress 
toward its goal to revitalize traditional events and increase student turnout as well as bring new events to campus that will 

generate enthusiasm among the student body.  





Task forces fall short of goals 
Group passes only one resolution; task force forced to reorganize 

By LIZ O’DONNELL 
In Focus Writer 
The Campus Life Council 
(CLC) has made strides on several projects this semester, but failed to produce results tantamount to the success of last year’s administration. 
As in years past, the Council divided into task forces that met on a bi-weekly (or some­times weekly) basis to discuss an specific issue pertinent to campus life. This year, the Council had three task forces: Student Disciplinary Records, Student Legal Services and Alumni-Student Relations. 
This semester, the Council passed one resolution, is in the process of discussing the second and has not yet intro­duced the third. 
While the members of the Council should be credited for this progress, they faced a number of roadblocks along the semester that set back their success. 
The Task Force on Alumni-Student Relations was the only committee able to pass a resolution this semester, a surprise because the task force was only created toward the end of the semester. 
The resolution, which CLC members passed at Monday’s meeting, is a proposal to add a member of the Alumni Association to sit as a mem­ber on the Council. 
However, some of the Council members questioned whether it is a good idea to extend voting privileges to the new member. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said the inclu­sion of a member of the Alumni Association will be beneficial for students because they will have alumni opinions on certain issues. 
Originally, the task force was assigned to investigate communication (in terms of advertising) on campus. They chose to delay the topic, how­ever, until after the new agen­da.nd.edu Web site debuts next semester. 
The Task Force on Student Legal Services undertook a project more in depth than the other two committees when they looked into creat­ing a system students could use for legal advice. 
Chairman John DeLacio and the rest of the committee did extensive work on the topic. They looked at over 20 benchmark universities with legal services programs in order to decide what type of resource would be best suited for Notre Dame. 
DeLacio and the rest of the task force proposed an online database that would carry names of area attorneys approved by the university. 
The task force submitted a resolution to the larger coun­cil that would seek approval from the Office of Student Affairs to continue on with the database. While it is still in discussion, it appears it will be passed within the first few weeks of the spring semester. 
The Task Force on Student Disciplinary Records, chaired by student body vice presi­dent Cynthia Weber had to change the direction of their task force half-way through the semester in order to make their end result more feasible. 
Initially the task force investigated the removal of a “minor infraction” from a person’s disciplinary record if it was a student’s sole offense 


Grade: B-

The task forces have failed to yield any tan­gible results. The res­
olution passed by the Task Force on Alumni-Student Relations is good for the Council itself, but has little effect on the daily lives of students. 

and if it was committed dur­ing the student’s freshman year. 
In investigating this topic, however, the group ran into several problems, which resulted in their decision to switch to issues pertaining to the handling of situations by outside agencies. 
As it stands currently, the task force is looking to create a procedure where Residence Life staff would notify a stu­dent’s rector of the situation and ask if the rector would like to handle the situation in dorm rather than have it sent straight to the Office of Residence Life and Housing, as the policy stands now. 
While the committee hasn’t produced a resolution yet, their aim is in focus and Weber said the task force has a draft. They hope to produce a resolution at the beginning of next semester. 
Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 



Government in brief... 
Graduate Student Union plans Christmas party 
The Graduate Student Union (GSU) organized a number of events this fall to provide social interaction and professional devel­opment for the entire graduate stu­dent community, GSU president Andrew Bramsen said. 
“We see ourselves as providing constituent service to the grad stu­dents,” he said. 
This fall, the GSU co-sponsored a Halloween party with a student group at the Law School, Bramsen said. 
In December, the GSU will host a family Christmas party as well as a dinner and reflection for married graduate students about balancing faith, family and academia, he said. 

Bramsen said a continuing chal­lenge for the GSU is to attract stu­dents to its events and programs. He said graduate students tend to be involved in their own depart­ments, but disconnected from a larger campus community, espe­cially compared to undergraduate students. 
-Laura McCrystal 


FMB approves funds for new Transpo route 
The Financial Management Board (FMB) has approved the allocation and redistribution of funds to student groups and the distribution of funds for The Shirt Charity Fund this fall, Student Union Treasurer Nick Danna said. 
Danna said in early September, FMB approved the redistribution of funds to pay for the new late night Transpo route. 
“We must approve any changes in the use of money allocated to student groups,” he said. 
Student groups looking to spend more than $5,000 for an event must seek approval through FMB, Danna said. The Irish dance team’s trip to Ireland, the Liturgical Choir tour and the Iron Sharpens Iron fall retreat have been among the student groups group events approved by FMB this fall. 
Danna said FMB oversees The Shirt Charity Fund, which uses a percentage of the profit from the sale of The Shirt every year to provide financial relief to stu­dents with extraordinary cir­cumstances, such as an illness for which they cannot pay med­ical expenses. 
-Laura McCrystal 


Club Coordination Council distributes funds 
The Club Coordination Council (CCC) has allocated money to clubs for events this semester and will organize a winter reallocation of funds to student clubs for the spring semester, CCC president Cameron Shane said. 
Shane said all student clubs receive money for the year at the end of the spring semester, but they can appeal for more funds for unexpected events. 
CCC has $20,000 each year to offer to clubs that appeal for more funds, Shane said. 
At the start of spring semes­ter, Shane said student clubs will be able to apply for addi­tional funds, which are given based on merit or the success of the group during the fall semester. 

“It’s basically a smaller ver­sion of the spring allocation,” he said. “We’re looking for a group of officers who have basically already proven them­selves to give a couple extra hundred dollars or a couple thousand dollars to really shine.” 
-Laura McCrystal 


Hall Presidents’ Council promotes pep rallies 
Hall Presidents Council (HPC) helped plan the student-only pep rally in Stepan Center before this season’s football game at Michigan and continued its nor­mal duty of advising and over­seeing dorm events and the pres­idents of each dorm, HPC co-chair Brendan McQueeney said. 
Members of HPC met with stu­dent body president Grant Schmidt and vice president Cynthia Weber to plan the Sept. 10 Stepan Center Pep rally, McQueeney said. The hall presi­dents advertised the pep rally through their dorms, he said. 
When pep rallies were held in the JACC in previous years, HPC planned the dorm sponsorship and activities before the official pep rally began, McQueeney said. When the pep rallies moved to Irish Green this year, HPC played less of a role, but they did plan the all-student pep rally. 

McQueeney said HPC also over­sees and allocates funds for dorms’ signature events. 
“We’re an oversight for the hall presidents and the guiding force behind them,” he said of HPC’s role. “Our group of people is kind of like a sounding board.” 
-Laura McCrystal 

SENIOR CLASS COUNCIL 
The Senior Class Council has been working hard this semester to organize a variety of events for the Class of 2010 during their last year at Notre Dame, class president Chris Tillett said. 
The group offered Senior Weekend Kickoff Afternoon at Legends during the USC football weekend. The Council teamed up with Legends again recently to host the Senior Beer Tasting with varied drink selections, expert explanations and a guitar perform­ance from a member of the Class of 2010. 
Tillett said that events for the Class of 2010’s final semester include a Press Box Dinner and plans for Senior Week in May are already being discussed. 
-Megan Doyle 

JUNIOR CLASS COUNCIL 
The representatives of Junior Class Council have been dedicated to creating a successful semester, blending campus activities with projects for stu­dentslookingtovolunteerintheSouthBendarea. 
Class president Caitlin Pulte listed the range of events hosted by the Council, including a volleyball tournament, class adoration, pumpkin carving and the creation of a human glowstick rosary. In the community, juniors baked cookies and helped kids in Sunday school in addition to writing letters to pen pals in nearby schools. The pen pals visited campus and spend time with their partners in the junior class. 
“Next semester, we plan to continue with the pen pals and other service ideas,” Pulte said. “We are alsoplanningaskitripandapokertournament.” 
-Megan Doyle 


SOPHOMORE CLASS COUNCIL 
The Sophomore Class Council has been 
busy with numerous events this semester. 
Their goal was to create unique and inter­
esting projects that would attract a wide 
variety of students, class president 
Catherine Soler said. 
The Council hosted a dodgeball tourna­
ment to benefit the organization Right to 
Play and sent Thanksgiving cards to all 
staff workers on campus. Council members 
also put together a volunteer trip to the 
Catholic Worker location in South Bend. 
Next semester, the Council has planned 
service events to benefit the American 
Cancer Society and St. Baldrick’s Society to 
help fight children’s cancer. 
-Megan Doyle 


FRESHMAN CLASS COUNCIL 
The members of the Freshman Class Council (FCC) have been enthusiastic about their first semester as part of student govern­ment. 
Building relationships and making the FCC an accessible representative for the freshmen class on campus have been the top priorities for the Council this year. 
Class president Michael Thomas said a new Class of 2013 Web site has bridged the gap between the Council and the freshman class. 
“We have had the opportunity to organize ourselves into committees to raise a signifi­cant amount of funds and to familiarize our­selves with the various steps involved in event planning,” Thomas said. 
-Megan Doyle 





Hoffman,Griffinbringtransparencytoadministration 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
In Focus Writer 
Jenny Hoffman, student body president, and Meg Griffin, stu­dent body vice president, set the goal of transparency at the begin­ning of their term back in April 2009. 
Their predecessors and their tumultuous term left students feeling uneasy toward their elect­ed peers, but Hoffman and Griffin have been successful in regaining their constituents’ faith. 
The duo has succeeded in implementing some of their spe­cific goals, like adding printers to the Student Center and residence halls and extending campus facil­ities’ operating hours, but their continued and focused efforts are geared toward making their offices more accessible and reconnecting to the student body. Though there is still a long way to go, their progress is respectable. 
The Saint Mary’s student body is at times reluctant in offering feedback, and Hoffman and Griffin need to work to get their constituents involved in Student Government Association (SGA) events. 
The pair has planned several events — a major priority of their administration — but Griffin said 

Grade: A-
Hoffman and Griffin entered their positions with the challenge of reconnecting students with student government. They have been consistent 
in working to smooth out the inner workings of their office, as well as creating open forums with the student body. While there is always room for improvement when it comes to involve­ment with the student body, the pair have gotten creative in ways to connect to students. Both are very approachable and have answered student demands in one some form since they took office in April. They deserve credit for how successful­ly and efficiently they have improved the image of student government while still in the middle of their term. 
they want to be more than an “event planning service” on cam­pus, and they are working to lis­ten to the desires of the student body. 
Griffin said they have tried to stay focused on the wants of the students and look at their requests frequently, one of their campaign promises. The SGA and the student body have trouble communicating and the adminis­tration is not ignoring the prob­lem. 
Students asked for more all-campus events, so Hoffman and Griffin reinstated the Navy Dance as well as planning a service trip to Wabash College earlier in the semester. Both of which, Hoffman said, were a great success. 
The two have also started a Facebook page for SGA to pro­vide an open forum for students. 
Most of the work Hoffman and Griffin have been doing is very much behind the scenes. 
Griffin said they are trying hard to work out the issues with pass­ing resolutions and different poli­cies to help clear the way for the next semester. 
This year, Hoffman and Griffin eliminated the old Board of Governance (BOG), which served as the ruling body and renamed it the SGA in effort to make stu­dent government less confusing for students. 
Another goal of the administra­tion is to smooth the process of passing resolutions and allot­ments on the College campus. 
Other internal issues the two have focused on include balanc-ing the workloads of individual commissioners and the sponsor­ship process, strengthening restrictions. 

The pair should be applauded for its new focus on community relations, something previous administrations have neglected. They are working to make con­nections with the South Bend community and organize service projects that will take students off campus. 
Hoffman said she believes the South Bend community has posi­tively affected the women of Saint Mary’s, and the administration would like to support the rela­tionship. SGA has organized events with the Center for the Homeless to help improve the College’s reputation in the area and bring the communities closer together. 
Hoffman and Griffin also said they have been trying to have a more active voice within the College’s administration, effec­tively communicating students’ needs. Hopefully they continue to pay attention to the desires of the student body as successfully as they have so far. 
Overall, Hoffman and Griffin are a far cry from administra­tions past that lost students’ trust. They work to listen to stu­dents and try to be as approach­able as possible, refreshing changes in student leadership. They work hard and have a respectable level of follow through. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 


SGAworkstofixproblemsofpastboards,movetowardchange 
Group plans all-school events, provides allotments, smooths out the inner workings of student government 


By NIKKI TAYLOR 
In Focus Writer 
Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) has set lofty goals for themselves this year and thus far they have been working hard to achieve these aims and check them off the to-do list. 
This year’s SGA board is implementing numerous changes in order to fix some 
of the problems that past boards had come under scrutiny for. SGA is trying to make their operations trans­parent and fair across the 
board. In the first half of their year 
of change, SGA has put a strong focus on the group being more transparent with the student body. They want the students to be able to see what SGA does for them. SGA is striving to have a stronger presence on campus to help earn the trust of students. 
Efforts being made to enhance this include more publicity for SGA sponsored events (like the little table tents in the dining hall), a student government Facebook page and SGA members wear­ing SGA apparel to advertise who the board members are. 
At the beginning of the year, 

Grade: A­
SGA has been setting the bar high for themselves, 
and best of all, they are following through. They quickly and efficiently passed their budget, and have reorganized some of their internal policies while still keeping up with sponsorships and planning events for the College. While they have only gotten through four items on their list, they have done so while still accomplishing many other important changes for the student body. There is still some work that needs to be done when it comes to advertising what they offer on campus. Overall though, as long as they stay focused and prioritize well, they should manage to end the semester with several more of their initia­tives completed. 
SGA wrote out a list of 32 goals they would like to work on by the end of the year. The last time the list was looked at four out of those 32 goals were checked off and one goal on the list, better com­munication with the office of special events, is currently a work in progress. 
This number looks small, but SGA had their hands full this semester passing their budget, sending out and lis­tening to appeals for allot­ments and making changes to sponsorship guidelines. 
Thus far SGA has passed two resolutions, one about the use of the French cross and another on Saint Mary’s IT department supporting student government comput­ers. Student body president Jenny Hoffman and vice pres­ident Megan Griffin researched Saint Mary’s peer institutions’ IT departments before contacting the College’s about servicing SGA computers. 
This fall SGA has also planned successful all cam­pus events including a trip to Wabash College, and the Navy Ball. 
The organization has also discussed making the student center a more attractive place to study, and while many ideas were thrown around, nothing seems to have been decided or moved upon. 
SGA did research health care on campus and dis ­cussed the possibility of get­ting another gynecologist on campus, but found the logis­tics would not work out. This issue therefore seems to have been dropped. 
The system to distribute money for club sponsorships also underwent changes this year as result of SGA’s work. SGA changed the name of the process from co-sponsorships to sponsorships because SGA usually ends up paying more than the club itself. They have also put in place strict regulations as to how the process should be run, and clubs will be denied funding if they do not follow the proce­dure. 
The board is trying very hard to enforce a policy of requesting funds with docu­mentation of costs before they are purchased to avoid reim­bursements in an effort to better utilize student resources. Clubs are also required to show receipts after purchases are made with sponsorship money in 
order to ensure correct spending. 
In the second half of the semester, once sponsorship requests began coming in, SGA became distracted with sponsorships while other issues on their agenda seemed to have been on the back burner. However, the board is committed to ironing out all the kinks in the new sponsorship program this year in order to leave a stronger legacy behind. 
One of SGA’s goals for the year is to increase their pres­ence in the greater communi­ty. The board will be taking part in at least one service project next semester to help the community. 
In the next semester, SGA will continue to review spon­sorships for clubs. In the spring, they hope to have completed an SGA handbook that will go out to all of the clubs on campus and will out­line new sponsorship guide­lines, allotments and will also direct clubs to various cam­pus offices, which should be used as resources. 
All things considered, SGA is off to a great start this semester. If the group wants to accomplish everything on their to-do list, they will need to devote time and hard work in the spring to their priori­ties. Of their work this semes­ter, their efforts to be more in contact with the student body have been successful and are appreciated. 
SGA is working hard to bet­ter serve the student body and the changes they made will certainly help, but there is still always more to be done. 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntaylo01@saintmarys.edu 





SDB gives students ‘multi-cultural education’ 
Group works to educate students about diversity, holds events that ‘develop community awareness’ on campus 
By ALICIA SMITH  and graduation rate from Saint Mary’s College [and] to provide  world. Students had the chance to donate a meal to the  Their largest event, the Diverse Students’ Leadership  Nefertiti, Al Zahra, La Fuerza and Straight and Gay Alliance.  
In Focus Writer  an open forum for discussion  United Nations World Food  Conference (DSLC) will be held  There is also a faculty and stu­ 
regarding issues of diversity.”  program  in  Zimbabwe.  March 17 to 19. The confer- dent representative, as well as  
Saint  Mary’s  Student  During the fall semester, SDB  Salvador said that 141 meal  ence gives students the oppor­ an  entire committee, which  
Diversity Board (SDB) has been  has hosted a bonfire as their  swipes  were donated to the  tunity to learn about diversity.  focuses  on  the  Diverse  
working hard to educate stu­ kick-off event.  cause.  The conference offers a variety  Students’  Leadership  
dents about cultural diversity. Carissa Salvador, SDB presi­ “The enter-tainment provid­ “The entertainment  Currently, SDB is planning the  of speakers to educate each participant’s perspective of  Conference. SDB works to help students  
dent, said the group was creat­ ed allows us to  provided allows us to  M u l t i c u l t u r a l  adversity.  have a better understanding of  
ed “to unite the Saint Mary’s  showcase  cul- showcase cultures in  Dessert Night.  SDB is composed of about 40  the differences throughout the  
College community in celebra­tion of the cultural diversity of  tures in a vari­ety of ways,”  a variety of ways.”  The night includes a vari­ board members who represent different divisions of the pro- College community. “[The organization] provides  
every woman on campus, to  Salvador said.  ety of different  gram.  SMC with a well-rounded edu­ 
help foster the Saint Mary’s  Other  events  Carissa Salvador  desserts  from  Salvador said that there are  cation and provides a forum for  
community by developing awareness, to provide support  SDB has offered include the SDB  SDB President  different coun­tries.  representatives for students with disabilities, campus min- all students from all walks of life to come together and pro- 
for students of various socio- H  u  n  g  e  r  SDB also plans  istry, international students,  mote the diversity within us  
economic backgrounds, sexual  Banquet, an event that gives  to  host  the  Disabilities  women’s issues, journalistic  all,” Salvador said.  
orientations, faiths, ethnicities  students a better understand- Awareness Week and Women’s  relations and from the multi- 
and unique abilities, while  ing of poverty in the United  Appreciation  Week  in  cultural clubs at Saint Mary’s  Contact Alicia Smith at  
increasing their enrollment  States  and  throughout  the  February.  College including Sisters of  asmith01@saintmarys.edu  


Government in brief... 
Residence Hall Association plans events 
The Residence Hall Association (RHA) has been busy this semester with a number of interesting activi­ties and initiatives. 
The Health and Wellness and Service committees successfully hosted an “80s Workout Night,” a fitness class styled after aerobics classes of the 1980s and encouraged participants to dress accordingly. They also organized a Habitat for Humanity service project and a Santa Breakfast at the Center for the Homeless with the help of Office of Civil and Social Enagagement (OCSE), RHA president Cristen Dalessandro said. 
Each hall council has been extremely active, Dalessandro said. 
“So far this year, all the hall coun­cils have been extremely active and have hosted successful events in their halls including Desserts with Doctor Mooney, Hall Mass, Notre Dame game watches, mani-pedi study breaks and ornament decorat­ing,” she said. 
For the upcoming semester, RHA has begun planning for the annual Little Sibs Weekend on April 10 and the All-School Formal on Feb. 27. 
Other than that, RHA is in the process of revising the College’s Constitution. The revised version will be in place for next year’s board. 
Dalessandro said she is positive this year’s RHA is fulfilling its duty to Saint Mary’s students. 
“Our reason for existing is basical­ly to bring a little happiness to the lives of students,” Dalessandro said. 
-Megan Loney 



StudentActivities Boardprepares events 
The Student Activity Board (SAB) has worked consistently throughout the year to plan a variety of events for students to participate in. 
Their opening event was Jamaica Shaka, an annual event which featured a 1980s cover band as well as a hula-hoop contest and luau-style food. Another annual event, Twilight Tailgate, also took place this semester. 
“This year, we showed ‘The Proposal’ on an outdoor screen on Library Green. We served free popcorn, caramel apples, cotton candy and slushies,” Michele Peterson, SAB presi­dent, said. 
SAB also offered a perform­ance by poet Gabriela Garcia Medina. Another event SAB sponsored was a pumpkin-carv­ing contest near Halloween. 
Currently, SAB is planning a gingerbread house-decorating contest, which will be held in conjunction with the Alumnae Association of South Bend. 
SAB plans to hold other events throughout the school year including a charity concert to benefit the Student Athletic Advisory Committee Belles for Africa program. 
Other events SAB would like to present include additional movie nights, as well as their largest event for the spring semester, SMC Tostal. 
-Alicia Smith 


SAC establishes mission statement 
In addition to organizing the annu­al “majors of the week” designed for each department to promote their majors, the Student Academic Council established a mission state­ment for the Women Honoring Women Award this semester. 
Applications to nominate faculty and staff members for the award will go out early next semester. The awards ceremony will be in March, Megan Griffin, Student Academic Council representative and student body vice president, said. 
The Student Academic Council is focusing on textbook affordability next semester, Griffin said. 
“Basically, we are looking at how much students really spend on text­books at Saint Mary’s and trying to establish alternative methods to help students not have to pay so much,” Griffin said. “We are also looking at how educated students are about financial aid and whether that’s something that needs to be improved.” 
The Student Academic Council just passed a resolution on electronic transcripts, which states “that the Office of the Registrar should offer official electronic transcripts as an alternative to the traditional paper transcript.” 
The Student Academic Council will present the resolution to Student Government Association on Jan. 11. 
-Megan Loney 



Board of Trustees elects new members 
The Saint Mary’s College The Board is responsible Board of Trustees elected for major decisions that four new members to the affect the entire college, committee in June. The including tuition. newest members of the The Board’s approval of Board are Sr. Maureen a five percent increase in Grady, Rose Marie Lopez tuition and a three percent Jones, Almira Wilson Cann increase in room and and Carmen Murphy. Each board for the 2009 -2010 member will serve a three-academic year was publi­year term. cized in a press release by 
Senior Kristle Hodges the College in March. will serve a one-year term No information has been on the Board as a student released about the Board’s representative. current activity. 
The Board of Trustees The next meeting of the held one of their four Board of Trustees will be annual meetings in held in February. October. -Megan Loney 
FIRST-YEAR BOARD SOPHOMORE BOARD JUNIOR BOARD SENIOR BOARD 
For their first major event, the First Year Board invited guest speaker Perry Watson to Saint Mary’s. Watson, the owner of Mishawaka’s Lexus dealer­ship, spoke to students about leader­ship. 
For Thanksgiving, the Board wrote and delivered 632 thank-you notes to the faculty and staff of Saint Mary’s. 
The Board is currently working on their “Give One Dorm Item” event. The items are then sent to the Saint Vincent de Paul Society of South Bend. 
The Board is planning a variety show for next semester and they are develop­ing ideas for new service projects and other plans. 
-Caitlin Housley 
During the past semester, the Sophomore Class Board focused on apparel fundraising sales. Much of the Board’s time this semes­ter has been spent planning Sophomore Parent’s Weekend. The weekend is sched­uled for February, and the Board has already sent out invitations to sophomore parents. 
The Board plans to have more events next year aimed at fostering class bonding. The Board is contemplating volunteer activities. 
The Board’s goals for next semester are to welcome back the students that studied abroad and to incorporate them back into class activities. In addition, they would like to plan events that will create a better union of the members of the Class of 2012. 
-Caitlin Housley 
To kick off the year, the Saint Mary’s Junior Board members had a meet and greet with their class members. 
T-shirt sales began this week and are open to all students. The junior class picked the shirt design. 
The Junior Board organized the Junior Class Formal. President Meghan Helmle said, “[The Junior Formal] was the best attended dance 2011 has had.” 
The Board is also planning a spring community outreach event, where stu­dents can donate gently used or new formal gowns to Cinderella’s Closet. 
The goal of the Junior Board this year is to increase student participa­tion. 
-Caitlin Housley 

At the beginning of this year, the Senior Board planned Senior Dad’s Weekend. 
According to president Nancy Mulkerrins, the event “ended up being a really fantastic time.” 
Also, the Board focused on raising money with their Saint Mary’s windbreak­er sale. 
Currently, the Board members are work­ing with the Children’s Dispensary, a local group that creates learning activities for children. In addition, they are exploring the ideas of sending letters to troops and participating with Meals on Wheels. 
The Board is currently planning ideas for Senior Week and Senior Formal. The for­mal is scheduled to take place in April. 
-Caitlin Housley 





