
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
University strategic plan still evolving 

Notre Dame is five years into 10-year plan; Executive Vice President says research, financial aid are priorities 
continue to think ahead into have been achieved. names research, residence Despite the past year's 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY the future, Executive Vice "At the time you draft it, you and campus life, diversity in recession, Affleck-Graves said 
News Editor President John Affleck-Graves are trying to guess how things the faculty and student body the University's faculty has 
said. will be 15 to 20 years later and the University's Catholic been growing. 
In August 2003, then­Affleck-Graves said the doc­and things change in unex­identity as priorities as the "The first thing is continu­University President Fr. ument, "Notre Dame 2010: pected ways," Affleck-Graves University heads into the ing to get outstanding faculty, Edward "Monk" Malloy final­Fulfilling the Promise" was said. "So now we are five future. and then it's providing an ized a 10-year strategic plan Malloy's vision for the years into the plan and Affleck-Graves said these infrastructure of support for for the University to direct its University in the year 2010 [University President Fr. John focuses still remain central to that faculty to do research," development in the upcoming and beyond. Although several Jenkins] has been undertak­the University, so the budget he said. years. priorities in the strategic plan ing a review of what we have has been adjusted to build Since the plan was drafted, 
Now roughly five years into have been altered because of done, what we need to do still facilities for research and the University has added the the plan, the document is still the economic downtown, he and what we need to change." attract endowed faculty to evolving as University leaders said many goals in the report The original strategic plan Notre Dame. see 2010/page 12 
Right to Life stages demonstration 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
Students walking through South Quad Thursday were met with more than just the usual diagonal paths and fields of grass. Instead, passersby witnessed a dis­play of hundreds of small white crosses as well as thousands of pink and blue flags throughout the Quad. 
Notre Dame Right to Life (NDRTL), a pro-life student organization, set up the dis­play as a "visual means of keeping perspective of the scale of abortion in the United States," senior John Gerardi, president of NDRTL, said. 
The display is called the Cemetery of Innocents and will be exhibited today as 

see LIFE/page 11 numbers, stretch across South Quad Thursday. 

Students produce COfl!edy mrm-senes 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Meet Spot. He's a junior English major who has dreams of becoming a writer. Unfortunately, it's not going so well. He's in love with a girl who doesn't seem to know who he is and his best friend might be hav­ing feelings for him. He's the quintessential loveable loser. He's also fictional. 
Spot is the title character of a six episode comedy mini-series 
see SERIES/page I 0 

New center examines science of networks 
social networks such as
By LAURA McCRYSTAL Facebook, Hachen said. 
News Writer 
Yet networks are apparent in all aspects of life. Examples 

Notre Dame's Interdisciplinary include weather networks, · Center for Network Science and ecosystems, Applications (iCeNSA). estab­food chains, See Also lished last year, is looking to business 
"Lecture

expand and reach out to more distribution faculty and students, David networks, explains Hachen, co-director of the cen­financial 
networks" 

ter and professor of sociology, networks, 
page4

said. electric 
iCeNSA is devoted to the study power grids of networks in various disci­and the network of the human plines. It includes faculty and brain. students from the Colleges of "There's networks across all Arts and Letters, Science and physical and social walks of 
Engineering. life," Hachen said. "The tools When students think of net­

NDawarded 'B' sustainability grade 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
The University is a grade greener this year. 
The College Sustainability Report Card, a project of the Sustainable Endowments Institute that evaluates the environmental impact of national universities, awarded Notre Dame a B grade Wednesday, up from last year's grade of B-. 
The scoring is broken down into nine categories with a grade for each one. The overall score is the average grade from each area. 
Notre Dame was given an A in Administration, Student 


'~'~,~~~~-~!~~!'.,~,~,.,,,. ,.,,, '"''"·.·.·,·.·.,. •••••'·-d~..
•<"N• 

CLIMATE CHANGE 8c ENERGY t; 
_10,.._..._"""' .. 'frl._._
......·, olill .. Ill rl'lll414•~-~ ~·.1 ~a•" __~~-•-•~~~ • ... ,.....,..,..Tir»-r,.,A...._-.•_.~ •• ..._:::;;;_,..___i 
FOOD AND RECYCUNG 
"S 
.. ,,-WI'.....·'·"·-·-. 
GREEN BUILDING 
"B
._.,....,................,..~Vo"<'o'N'o' .......-·.·.•·.,·...--.-.•-...-•.-. -•• 

STUDENT INVOLVEMENT 
A

.......... -.-.., ..-..•-, .•-.,,.-,.,,.u~,.,,·,.-.•. ..., ..•,.'n-'··•·•·········•··"' .. ,...... •··•···-,_,...,..,,..,.,...,-.-,.,....,..,.~.-.-.-.·.·.·, .-....-.-.,.,....,...,....-.·.-.·.·.v...,....,.... ,,_..,-,, •. , 
TRANSPORTATION "S
......,.. ..,.....,. 

ENDOWMENT TRANSPARENCY !) 
,o,~~~-4~-~~ NifY·U.~-:.:.· -\~=~------.......r---;.....,--•·'1 INVESTMENT PRIORITIES 
A

· • -~-·.c·v~~;>:\<,,.,-,;-_,,.,... _____-••WMt"'•"'-'•""".:J...,,,;,,.........._.,;v;~"'-'""i.,_-;,.,,;,..,,..,,.,_.;,;,;......---~~...--..-­
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 
c 

works, they typically think of see ICENSA/page 11 see GRADE/page 12 JACLYN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 
INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Journalist speaks at SMC page 8 • Mythical match-ups round two page 16 • Hockey preview page 32 • Viewpoint page 14 


I I I 11 11 1 /,1,1,1,I I I  I  


Friday, October 9, 2009 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Weather: why we endure it 
The last thing I want to write about is the weather, but in light oftoday's wonderful temperate climate and the fact I stood out­side in it for two hours without any jacket, I feel it must be addressed. Being from Texas, my idea of cold weather came once a Carly Landon year when my family would go to Colorado 
News Wlre 
for two weeks each 
Editor 
Christmas. One year it got into the teens. It was awful. Another year I can remember playing an agonizing lacrosse game where the temperature was in the 30s and it was sleeting. I never thought itwould get any worse than that. 
'When I started looking at colleges, I want­ed big sports and a large body of water nearby, preferably a warm body ofwater. Then I wound up at Notre ·Dame. Don't get me wrong though, I love Notre Dame. 
At first, I even loved the weather. I liked South Bend's version of summer. It was a pleasant change from the heat ofTexas. I loved when the leaves changed. I was the first one outside for the first snowfall. And the second. But that was when it was still relatively warm and the snow was still new enough to be seen as beautiful. 
At Ouistmas, I raved to my friends about the seasons, how winter was not at bad as we'd been warned. It was 80 degrees at home the day I left for spring semester, at the time I couldn't wait to get back to the beautiful winter wonderland of Notre Dame. 
That's when the real winter came. 'Where the 20s. the 30s, even the teens really were an oasis of warmth. There were mornings I'd wake up and the temperatures were lower than I imagined was possible outside of Antarctica. 
One night as I walked home I wore both my guy friend's and my parka. It was nega­tive 40 with windchill that night. Lovely. It was a little after midnight and campus was dead. It was the f~1 I've ever made it from North Quad to South. I might have even set a record. Too bad everyone else was smarter than to venture out or else they might have witnessed my amazing dash. 
This year as the weather steadily descends on its downhill slope towards the worst weather and each day grows a little colder, I fill with dread. I still love Notre Dame. I hate the weather, but I love thee Notre Dame. Why do we do endure the cold though? 
My answer came last week. After the Washington game, a game ringing true to South Bend's charming weather, I saw a lit­tle boy crying as his mom attempted to usher him out ofthe stadium. She begged him to stop crying so they could get to the car, saying, ''You just got over pneumonia. I let you stay the whole game but I am your mother and now I say its time to go. You don't want to be sick do you?" He replied, ''I'll never make it to Notre Dame ifyou make me leave, I have to be the ~1 one here. I don't care ifI'm sick." 
Notre Dame students are very much like this little boy. We endure the weather. Not just for the games, but also for the school. To many, No1re Dame was a dream and now its finally come 1rue. To others, they came and fell in love despite the weather. Still even ifyou aren't on the bandwagon, you aren't sure you love No1re Dame or can endure the weather, you take it. You take it OOca.use it's No1re Dame. And really, deep inside, you know itc; worth it. No1re Dame is infectious. You can't help but love it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Carly Landon at clan­don 1 @nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The photo that appeared on page two of Oct. 8's paper was a picture of Jesse Polen, not Don Jamell, with Taylor Swift. An Oct. 8 Observer anide titled "Moreau box office begins Web ticket sales" misspelled Chris Sallaks name. The anide also misidentified Mr. Sallak as a female. He is a male. The Observer regrets these errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS YOUR FAVORITE MOMENT FROM 'THE OFFICE' LAST NIGHT? 







Jessica Spiewak  Chris Gill  Tara Scannell  Lauren Vela  Lizzie Schwegman  
junior  senior  sophomore  sophomore  junior  
Pasquerilla East  off campus  LeMans  Howard  Breen Phillips  
..Kevin's sexy  "When Andy  ..The procession  ..When Jim  ··cutting offthe  
hair and box shoes. ,.  tore his scrotum. clearly. ,.  down the aisle.,,  says, "/ bought those tickets the moment/ saw  tie because it was risky but doable.,,  
that video.···  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

GRACE KENESEY/The Observer Pamphlets lay around campus Thursday supporting veganism and encouraging people to cut down on their consumption of meat. 
OFFBEAT IN BRIEF 
Pat Ward, vice president and CFO of Cummins, Inc., will deliver a lecture today at 10:40 
a.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The lecture is part of the Boardroom Insights Executive Speaker Series sponsored by the Mendoza College of Business. The event is open to the public. 
The Notre Dame men's and women's swimming teams will host the Dennis Stark Relays today at 5 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Admission is free and open to the public. 
The Notre Dame hockey team will play Alabama­Huntsville tonight at 7:35 p.m. and Saturday at 7:05 p.m. at the Joyce Center Ice Rink. For ticket information, call the ath­letic department ticket office at 574-631-7356. 
Sorin will host the 121st annual Sorin College Talent Show tonight at 8 p.m. in front of Sorin. The event is free. 

The Notre Dame Rugby Club Zoo paints donkeys like look like zebras. faucet in her family's eastern 
will play Indiana University at zebras to attract visitors Hasan Yaseen said North Dakota farm house. 
1 p.m. Saturday on West Quad. GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -Thursday since his three chil­Boomer stares into car win­Gaza City zookeepers have dren have never seen a real dows eye to eye with drivers. 
The Notre Dame women's found a creative way ofdraw­zebra, they enjoy the Gaza A 20-pound bag of dry dog 
volleyball team will play ing crowds to their dilapidat­version. food lasts the 180-pound 
Cincinnati at 2 p.m. Saturday ed zoo -by painting their canine a couple of weeks. 
in the Joyce Center donkeys. The Marah Land North Dakota dog may be Weber says her furry black 
Fieldhouse. For ticket informa­Zoo's only two zebras died of tallest In the world and white dog "comes into 
tion call the athletic ticket hnnger earlier this year when CASSELTON, N.D. the house and his tail is so 
office at 574-631-7356. they were neglected during Boomer may be a buster: high everything gets knocked the Israel-Hamas war. Measuring 3 feet tall at the around." 
The Domer Doggie walk will The popular animals were shoulders and 7 feet long Weber plans to send 
take place Sunday at 1 p.m. on too expensive to replace, so from nose to destructive wag­Boomer's measurements to 
South Quad. the keepers decided to design ging tail, he might be the Guinness World Records. The a pair of donkeys with black world's tallest living dog. previous record holder was a 
To submit information to be 
and white patterns instead. Owner Caryn Weber says her nearly 4-foot-tall Great Dane 
included in this section of The 
Ahmad Barghouti says a 3-year-old Landseer that died this summer. 
Observer, e-mail detailed 
professional painter used Newfonndland keeps all four 

information about an event to French-manufactured hair paws on the floor when he Information compiled from 
obsnews@nd.edu coloring to make the donkeys drinks from the kitchen the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::z::: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
.... 
ct 
(.) 






49 39 
0

.... HIGH 52 HIGH HIGH 48 HIGH 46 HIGH LOW 47 LOW LOW 36 LOW 35 LOW 
57 
35 
HIGH LOW 
47 
36 

Atlanta 85 I 69 Boston 62 I 56 Chicago 51 I 41 Denver 56 I 28 Houston 81 161 Los Angeles 71 I 56 Minneapolis 50 134 New York 68 I 61 Philadelphia 74 164 Phoenix 88 I 65 Seattle 59 I 38 St. Louis 54 I 39 Tampa 94 I 76 Washington 83 167 

Friday, October 9, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



New group promotes international development 
International Development Research Council assists students in pursuing overseas study and internships 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 
International Development Research Council (IDRC) is a new student-created and student-led group on campus, dedicated to bringing students together toward the pursuit of international devel­opment, IDRC President and Notre Dame senior Paul Jindra said. 
The group's main purpose is to point students toward grant opportunities and strengthen applications for grants to travel and experience developing coun­tries first hand, Jindra said. 
"I believe IDRC fills a hole in Notre Dame's current academic environment," Katy Smith, Second Vice President and Notre Dame senior, said. "Many stu­dents wa·nt to do research or complete an internship abroad, but aren't quite sure of where to start or, can't nail down a specific research question, or can't find contact<> in their country of inter­est or the grant money to get there. We can help them connect the dots. 
''There are so many opportuni­ties for students, but they don't know about them." 
The IDRC is currently working with the Center for Social Concerns, the Center for Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement, the Kellogg Institute, and various other post­graduation fellowships to help students, Jindra said. 
Discussion is an integral portion of IDRC. she said. IDRC is divided into five geographical regions that meet separately for discussion. Each group is directed by a stu­dent that has traveled abroad and is familiar with the region they are leading, Jindra said. At the meetings students discuss view­points and ideas. 
"IDRC facilitates interdiscipli­nary discussion so students can confront issues they didn't know existed," Jindra said. "There real­ly are roles for every major, ever student. The effort stretches across lines of where we study and what we're interested in." 
"One of the amazing things about ND students is that they're so passionate about combating worldwide poverty and injustice," John Firth, First Vice President and Notre Dame senior, said. "IDRC harnesses that passion and helps students put it to use on the ground all over the world. Any student at this university has the potential to make a difference ­whether his or her interests are in business, engineering, the liberal arts, the sciences, or architecture. The philosophy underlying IDRC is that if we talk to each other and combine our efforts, we can prove to be more than the sum of our parts. 
"The University mission state­ment calls students to put their education into action 'as learning becomes service to justice.' IDRC facilitates the discussion, the con-tacts, and the resources so that students are able to truly live out what they have learned and believe," Laura Cassel, IDRC's Working Group Chair and Notre Dame senior, said. "Through IDRC, students can bring the knowledge they've learned in the classroom into a real world con­text." 

IDRC has been in the works for some time, Jindra said. The idea for IDRC came, in part, from Jindra's personal experience abroad in Uganda with the Ford program. 
"Coming back, I had made con­tacts to go again, but other stu­dents didn't have that opportuni­ty," Jindra said. 
Now the group is hoping to build networks and connect stu­dents ea..<>ily to grants, Jindra said. The working group chair, Laura Cassel, is responsible for sending out opportunities and helping stu­dents develop ideas and applica­tions. 
IDRC is always taking new members, Jindra said. Group meeting times and locations are available at the IDRC Web site, www.nd.edu/-idrc. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
·:-'(·.· 


·. -~. /: . \.. .. -; . ; .. .. ~\

~ 
. -~­
. 


. ; ..­
·_ ·-. .': .. 
: l I 
; . . . ; .
'· 
•. 

• _--: •••;·: • 0 .;; : ~.. '; -. 
i-" -.. ( ,;: -: ... .. / -. -~ 
{ 


. ;."; ·' : 
. ::. c.; .--~ . : . . '. -· ·; .... ·,.. 
·J; 

:-. ~ .. ,. -~ . 
. ~ ;~ ~-. . } ": ~ ~:­
0 :: ..... 
.· ~ 
.. 1 . . ;, 


..... : . 
-:-~ ~--: . 

·. '; . 
~ . 

: -~ . .: . ~ ..... 
·:: ; 
. . . ' ,. : 
{ : -.· . ' <~-: .-. /· . ~ 
,.__ l 


: . ~ 
. ·. ( . 

': .' -<' 
·.
I :: ,_' 
~: :·, . . . :: ., . 



;. 
·. -~: i . . . . . ' :~ 

. . . .~-~ ·,' . : . ~· '• 
: . 





THE (ORE COUNCIL FOR GAY, LESBIAN, BISEXUAL & QUESTIONING STUDENTS 
,,•·•.·:c .,.., ......... , 

CORECOUNCIL.ND.EDU 
• , • ..,:.. '' • I ~' 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 9, 2009 


iCeNSA lecture explains theory about social networks 
By ALEX TOOMBS 
News Writer 

Professor Katherine Faust, of the University of California­Irvine's sociology department, was the first speaker in a series of lectures on the dynamics of social networks and their applications initiated by the new iCeNSA intercolle­giate program. 
"Individuals ... directing communications or actions toward one another," was Faust's underlying premise for the classification of a network as being a social network. 
Faust explained her theory through her analysis of net­works among both humans and animals. 
According to Faust, ties and groups are "at the crux of what it means to be social." 
These ties and groups were shown in a hypergraph, an elaborate graph that con­tained both nodes and bonds between nodes. 
At one point, Faust pointed out the similarities in the social network hypergraphs of cows licking each other and of politicians co-sponsoring bills together. 
They illustrated connections that arise among social beings, 
such as people, in the same setting. Each node had a prop­erty of degree measuring its involvement in the network. Faust explained the different methods for analyzing a social network that spanned many different disciplines. The structure of the network is nearly synonymous with the relations than run between each actor involved in the grouping. 
Empirical and graphic rep­resentations, along with com­putational models, are valid ways of both analyzing and representing social networks. 
The property of "multiple individual interactions in the same place, at the same time" is defined as the property of social networks known as sociality, according to Faust. Networks wherein the individ­uals are "reacting to each other," and are "very public and observable" have the property of sociality. 
The consequences of sociali­ty were illustrated with dia­grams of the interactions of different animals. These con­sequences described social phenomena like linear hierar­chies, bystanders, interven­tions and coalitions. 
"The emergence of things like linear hierarchies depends upon the presence of third party bystanders," Faust said. 

Essentially, linear hierar­chies wherein one individual was dominant over another were formed differently or did not emerge at all dependent upon the presence of a third­party observer. 
Interest in social networks from other fields like comput­er science, physics and biology renew Faust's question of just what is social about social net­working. 
However, the interaction of these new fields together yields interesting possibilities for future career paths. 
Some incarnations already emerging from these co-opera­tions are the ever popular Web sites, Facebook and MySpace, she said. 
Contact Alex Toombs at atoombs@nd.edu 




Friday, October 9, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Caribbean leaders target malaria 
SANTO DOMINGO -The leaders of Haiti and the Dominican Republic agreed Thursday to cooperate in a campaign aimed at eradicating the last vestiges of malaria from the islands of the Caribbean by 2020. 
What remains uncertain is how to fund the roughly $250 million effort, which also aims to eliminate lymphatic filariasis, on the two­nation island of Hispaniola. Former President Jimmy Carter, who helped spur the deal, said he is confident a "constant com­mitment" from the two countries will wipe out the two diseases. 
Woman smuggles immigrants 
CHARLOTTE AMALIE, U.S. Virgin Islands -A ticket agent contractor who worked for Delta Air Lines in the U.S. Virgin Islands has pleaded guilty in a conspiracy to smug­gle illegal immigrants into the United States. 
Felicia Browne was accused of helping three mig:cants bypass security and escort­ing them to a U.S.-bound plane in May 2008. The indictment said she allegedly received $5,000 from each migrant in return. 
Another contract ticket agent, Diana Telemaque, and airport luggage handler Daniel Confidente are awaiting trial on simi­lar charges. 
Delta has said the two contract employees were paid by another company and have been dismissed. 
A judge accepted Browne's guilty plea Wednesday. Sentencing was set for January. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Calif. herbal doctor arrested 
LOS ANGELES -Prosecutors brought fraud charges Thursday against a doctor accused of promising terminally ill cancer patients in their darkest hours that thev would be cured with an herbal treatment. • 
Using her influence as an ordained Pentecostal minister, Dr. Christine Daniel tapped into the vessel of faith to entice people from across the nation to try her regimen. She even appeared on cable's Trinity Broadcasting Network in 2002 touting her cancer cure and its 60 percent success rate, according to feder­al investigators. 
Gun-toting Penn. mom found dead 
LEBANON -A suburban mother who fought in court for the right to openly carry a loaded handgun at her daughter's youth soccer game was fatally shot Wednesday along with her parole-officer husband in an apparent murder-suicide at their home in Pennsylvania Dutch country, authorities said. 
Police released scant details about the deaths of Meleanie Hain, 31, and Scott Hain, 33, but said more information would be released Friday after their autopsies. 
''I'm devastated. I lost my daughter. I lost my best friend. The children lost their par­ents," Jenny Stanley, Meleanie Hain's moth­er, told WGAL-TV. Stanley added that the three children, ages 2, 6 and 10, are "hang­ing in there." 
The children were at a neighbor's house by the time police arrived to answer 911 calls from neighbors, said Lebanon City Police Chief Daniel Wright. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Record number take the PSAT INDlANAPOIJS-Arec,ord number of Indiana high St::hool sophomofffi have signed up to take the PSXI: 
lbe state Department of Education says about 82 percent of Indiana sophomores registered to take the PSAT on Oct. 14. That's a big increase from la<;t year, when 49 percent of10th-graderstook the test. 
State schools Superintendent Tony Bennett hopes the exam \\'ill spur more student" to take rigorous dasses and p~ue higher education. 
Educators say the PSAT aN> gives ~tudent" a leg up \\'hen taking the SAl: Indiana graduating seniors who took the PSIXI' scored an averc~ge of 1 f,{) to 250 point<> better on the SAT la.<;t ye.ar compared tn ~tudent<> 'v\'ho didn't take the PSAT 
ITALY 

Allies may decide Premier's fate 
Plagued by scandal, Berlusconi's future may be determined by political supporters 
Associated Press 
ROME -From cruise­ 
ship crooner to billionaire  
media mogul to Italy's domi­ 
nant political figure,  
Premier Silvio Berlusconi  
has achieved an improbable  
rise to power.  
Now-dogged by a sex  
scandal and ordered back  
to trial this week to face  
corruption and fraud  
charges -he's staring into  
the abyss of a spectacular  
downfall.  
But this master of self­ 
transformation has bounced  
back from scandal countless  
times in the past, and the  
Constitutional Court's deci­ 
sion Wednesday to lift his  
political immunity as pre­ 
mier may be just another  
chink in the leader's Teflon  
armor.  
With the opposition in dis­ 
array, the Italian people still  
behind him and almost  
inexhaustible avenues for  
appeal, Berlusconi's fate  
ironically rests with his  
political allies. The most  
dangerous are key figures  
of his own coalition: one the  
boisterous head of a xeno­ 
phobic party, the other a  
cool-headed former nco­ 
Fascist who considers him­AP  
self the media magnate's Italian Premier Silvio Berlusconi gestures as he leaves the Palazzo Grazioli residence in  
successor. Rome Wednesday. An Italian court recently overturned a law granting him immunity.  
Despite setbacks that  
would have cost other lead­ himself against political  leader who rose from noth­ tionships with far younger  
ers their jobs long ago, the  attacks will prove a major  ing to become Italy's richest  women -one was 18 - 
73-year-old leader says he  distraction from such criti­ and most powerful man,  and a self-described call girl  
has no intention of stepping  cal issues as Italy's econom­ wielding the reins of state  said he spent a night with  
down and intends to serve  ic crisis and Afghanistan,  even as he parties on yachts  her.  
the final 3 1/2 years of his  where six Italian troops  with starlets.  Berlusconi says he is "no  
term.  recently were killed in a  As a businessman, he's  saint" but has denied ever  
He has launched into  bombing.  shown a genius for tapping  paying anyone for sex or  
combat mode, denouncing  Stefano Folli, a commen­ into powerful national  having any improper rela­ 
the high court judges as  tator for the business daily  obsessions.  tionships.  
"leftists" and implying that  newspaper II Sole 24 Ore,  In a soccer-crazy nation,  The premier said  
the president -a dignified  calls this the "most critical  he owns AC Milan, one of  Thursday he will go on TV  
figure who has sought to be  moment of his political life."  Italy's most successful  and appear in courtrooms  
a voice of reason -is a  But Berlusconi is never  clubs. And his media  to prove that corruption and  
communist stooge.  quite so alive as when he's  empire has fed Italy an end­ tax fraud charges in two tri­ 
There's little question the  battling his critics -and  less stream of glitz that has  als against him are false.  
high court's decision to  the Italian public often  helped the masses vicari­ "These two trials are  
remove Berlusconi's immu­ appears to applaud the  ously live "Ia dolce vita" - laughable, they are a farce  
nity as premier -clearing  spectacle of the premier  the sweet life.  which I will illustrate to  
the way for his corruption  sneering and snarling as he  Polls have shown that  Italians also by going on  
trial to resume -is a mas­ fends off his accusers.  Berlusconi, who has ruled  TV," Berlusconi said. "I will  
sive political blow that could  Berlusconi's enduring  for seven of the past eight  defend myself in the court­ 
hobble his premiership if he  popularity may lie partly in  years, enjoys broad support  rooms and ridicule my  
holds onto power.  the way he's seen by mil­ despite repeated scandals.  accusers, showing all  
Preparing for court  lions as the living embodi­ His wife has accused him of  Italians ... the stuff I am  
appearances and defending  ment of their dreams -a  having inappropriate rela­ made of."  

Gay women more likely to be expelled 
percent of those expelled. That is a sig­when women rebuff sexual overtures
Associated Press nificant jump from the previous year and from male colleagues or do not meet tra­SAN FRANCISCO -Women are far marks the first time women in any ditional notions of feminine beauty. more likely than men to be kicked out of branch of the military constituted a "Often times the lesbians under my the military under the "don't ask, don't majority of those dismissed under "don't command were under scrutiny by the tell" policy against gays in uniform, ask, don't tell," researchers said. same men who were also sexually according to government figures Nathaniel Frank, a researcher at the harassing straight women, so it was this released Thursday that critics said Palm Center, a University of California, kind of sexist undercurrent of 'You don't reflect deep-seated sexism in the armed Santa Barbara, center specializing in belong here,"' said Anuradha Bhagwati, forces. gays and the military, said one partial a former Marine who founded the Women accounted for 15 percent of all explanation is that homosexuality is Service Women's Action Network, an active-duty and reserve members of the more common among women in the advocacy group. military but more than one-third of the service than among their male com­Pentagon spokeswoman Cynthia Smith 619 people discharged last year because rades. said officials would not speculate on why of their sexual orientation. But Frank and some women who women accounted for a disproportionatP The disparity wa'i particularly striking served in the military said the gap could share of those dismissed for being gay, in the Air Force, where women repre­also be a result of "lesbian-baiting" adding that even inquiring about it might sented 20 percent of all personnel but 61 rumors and investigations that arise run afoul of"don't a'ik, don't tell." 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 9, 2009 
Economist addresses poverty in developing world 
Lecture by advisor to Ford Family Program focuses on the use of natural resources to overcome poverty 
Collier said. "If any of the links in of natural resources. comprehensive wealth in Africa international standards thatBy ANN-MARIE WOODS that chain break the whole chain "The resource extraction has been cut in half." Collier teach nations how to use the 
News Writer 

is broken." process shouldn't be sold by said. "Natural resources depleted opportunities created by natural 
Central to any discussion of secret negotiations between a and accumulation of other assets resources effectively, Collier said. 
When addressing the problem poverty is an important ethical company and a minister but by have been built up, yet living Collier said it just takes one of extreme poverty in developing component that addresses not transparent auctions," Collier standards have been very low." generation, adhering to the ethi­countries, economist Paul Collier only the people involved but also said. "The true value is revealed Collier suggested saving and cal custody chain of decisions, emphasized the importance of the natural resources being used in an auction, but this is verv sel-investing in the nation itself as for change and prosperity in the harnessing the natural resources to bring about a solution to dom done." · the best model for developing developing world. of the modern world for the ben­poverty in developing countries, The question of consumption countries to economically and "This is a long chain, and all efit of the poor, focusing on four Collier said. versus investment of revenues is socially advance themselves. the links have to hold, and not integral links in the chain of the "The right message for the the third link in the chain of "They need to invest the money just hold for the moment but ethical custody of resources. ethics of the natural world is that responsible custody of resources. in the country, using the savings have to hold again and again," 
Invited to serve as a special nature is there for us to use, but When examining the best solu­for domestic investment," Collier Collier said. "There are no quick advisor to the Ford Family to use responsibly, not just for tion for developing countries, said. fixes to bring a poor society to Program in Human Development ourselves, but for the future, not Collier studied the comprehen­The fourth and final link is prosperity, but it only takes a Studies and Solidarity, Collier just for the few but for the sive wealth of a nation, derived learning how to invest revenues generation." presented the lecture "The many," Collier explained. "This from natural resources in addi­properly and efficiently to yield Plundered Planet and Restoring is the ethics of custody or stew­tion to manmade revenues. the greatest outcome, which Contact Ann-Marie Woods at Natural Order in the Bottom ardship." "Over the past 30 years, the necessitates the development of awoods4@nd.edu Billion" Thursday at the Finding the natural resources Hesburgh Center for and determining their utility are International Studies. the first links in Collier's chain of 
In the lecture, Collier identified ethical stewardship, and forms of the necessary steps to employ plunder are pivotal to the failure the world's natural resources in of this chain. For Collier, the two order to bring developing coun­main forms of plundering occur tries out of poverty and into posi­when the few steal from the tions ofstrength and utility. many and when the present 
"Paul's research and service steals from the future. are motivated by deep respect "Use [the resources], we can," for the inherent dignity of the Collier said. "But ifwe use them human person and, because this we should use them productively a core value at Notre Dame, we and bequeath to the future are extremely happy that Paul something of equal or greater has joined us as special advisor," value." director of the Ford Program Fr. While the known natural Robert Dowd said. assets of the developed world 
Professor of Economics and value $125,000 per square kilo­director of the Centre for the meter, the known subsoil assets Study of African Economies at of Africa value approximately the University of Oxford, Collier $23,000 per square kilometer. has devoted his career to The disparity in values highlights researching the many causes of the important concern that there poverty and developing innova­have not been enough discover­tive ways of creating tangible ies and harnessing of natural solutions to the many economic resources in places like Africa, and social problems facing devel­Collier said. oping areas of the world. The second link in the chain is 
When addressing the need to how to sell and tax the resources maximize natural resources to for the benefit of the individual bring them to development, countries. Collier continually focused on an Citing specific developing coun­analogy of links that make up a tries' failed experiences with rev­decision-making chain. enues and taxation, Collier 
"There is a whole chain of emphasized the need for greater Paul Collier, economist and special advisor to the Ford Family Program, delivered a lecture about decisions that have to go right," transparency in the transactions using natural resources to solve poverty on Thursday. 

Journalist speaks at SMC on misconceptions about media 

Richard Halloran, former New York Times reporter, talks about seven myths that the public often believes 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer  only bad news; the fifth: liberals dominate the media; the sixth: media jeopardizes national secu­ Review reports that only 11 per­cent of Americans consider tele­vision to be their primary source  media is dominated by liberal ideals. "The point is that the criteria  print version and then they took it and put it in the Internet ver­sion," he said. "Now people who  
rity by printing leaks and unau­ of news."  for judging the political stance of  are daily reporters are asked to  
Former New York Times and  thorized disclosures; and seven:  Another common misconcep­ a paper or a TV news program is  write  their  stories  for  the  
Washington  Post  journalist  Internet has changed the media's  tion is that the media has power  in the copy, not  Internet and then  
Richard Halloran spoke at Saint  coverage."  when in reality the media simply  in the resume of  touch it up a little  
Mary's Thursday to discuss  a  There is no institution called  has the capacity to influence it's  a  writer  or  a  bit and put it in  
variety of myths that the public  the media, he said. Instead, there  audience. According to Halloran,  news  anchor,"  the print edition."  
holds about the  are various outlets  there is a  distinct difference  Halloran said.  Halloran closed  
media. Halloran cov­ered seven par­ticular myths about which he felt the public should be aware. "This is not a happy time for journalism for  ..It is impossible to generalize from this conglomeration of newspapers, magazines, radio and 1Voutlets. "  to cover the news, Halloran said. "It is impossible to generalize from this conglomera­tion of newspa­pers, magazines, radio and TV out­lets," Halloran said. Halloran also  between power and influence. "Myth number three is the ancient slogan about the power of the press. Ladies and gentle­men, the press has no power. What we do have is influence," Halloran said. "Power means you have the moral and the legal authority to make something happen. I have no power. I do have the influence, which means  Halloran also discussed the problems among unauthorized disclosure, or leaking informa­tion that should not be realized to the public. "What the reading and the  ..There is a lot going on with the news game today. and much that could be improved. ·· Richard Halloran journalist  the lecture by challenging the public to learn to understand the news industry before criticizing it. "Let me sum up. There is a lot going on with the news game today,  
our country. Let me turn to what  Richard Halloran  discussed which outlets the public  the capacity to persuade. Even that is limited."  viewing public does not see is  and much could  that be  
I call the seven  journalist  utilized to obtain  Another common fallacy when  the number of  improved,"  he  
myths of the media," Halloran said. "The first myth: that there is an institution called  the news. The community believed that tele­vision is the most common way to attain informa­ attempting to understand the media stems from the idea that the press only reports "bad news," Halloran said. "The good news bad news  times the press and TV pull their punches instead of sensitive information," Halloran said. The final myth Halloran spoke about the effect of the Internet in  said. "But first and foremost there needs to be a hard look at journalism. If you are going to demand that newspapers improve, you've got to under­ 
media; the second myth: most people get their news from tele­ tion is by the use of television. "The audience for television  thing is also far more in the eye of the receiver than it is in the  the world of news," Halloran said.  stand how they operate and what they're doing."  
vision; the third: the myth about  networks has been falling sine  fingers of the writer," Halloran  "It used to  be that if your  
the power of the press; the  the early 1980s," Halloran said.  said.  newspaper had an Internet out­ Contact Alicia Smith at  
fourth: the press and TV report  "The  Columbia  Journalism  Many  also  worry that the  let, you wrote your story for the  asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu  





THE OBSERVER 
I

Friday, October 9, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,786.87 +61.29 
Up: Same~ Down: Composite Volume: 2,738 96 1,003 1,535,697,064 
AMEX 1,818.60 +32.03 NASDAQ 2 123.93 
.. *l~l,(JQ

NYSE :~····· 
···~;:~~~ ;~6~99o:67 +78.02 
S&PSOO 
!"·tfll«El"'trdl<voJ ! 
FTSE 100 (London) 5,154.64 +45.74 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) +0.22 +0.01 4.65 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.77 +0.81 106.61 BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) ~0.12 -0.12 17.33 ALCOA INC +1.06 +0.15 14.35 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.52 +0.08 3.26 13-WEEK BILL 0 0 0.06 30-YEAR BOND +2.56 +2.56 4.09 5-YEAR NOTE +2.91 +2.91 2.23 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.} +2.12 71.69 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +11.90 1056.3 PORK BEWES (cents/lb.) +2.38 84.78 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 88.385 EURO 1.4793 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0511 BRITISH POUND 1.6069 
IN BRIEF 
Monsanto accused of antitrust 
ST. LOUIS-The Justice Department is 
investigating whether Monsanto Co. violated 
antitrust rules in trying to expand its domi­
nance of the market for genetically engineered 
crops. 
Monsanto has provided interviews and docu­
ments to the Justice Department over the past 
two months, company spokesman Lee Quarles 
said. He said the department has questioned 
Monsanto about its marketing tactics in the 
biotech seed industry, which have become a 
target of criticism. 
Quarles said Monsanto has done nothing 
illegal and is cooperating with the department. 
"We definitely stand behind our business," 
he said. 
At issue is how the world's largest seed com­pany sells and licenses its patented genes. Monsanto has licensing agreements with seed companies that let those companies insert Monsanto genes into about 96 percent of U.S. soybean crops and 80 percent of all corn crops. 
Lenders use debt to buy newspapers 
PHILADELPHIA -Secured creditors of Philadelphia's major daily newspapers can use the $300 million debt they're owed to bid for the company in a bankruptcy auction, a judge ruled Thursday. 
The ruling could determine who takes over The Philadelphia Inquirer, Philadelphia Daily News and the Philly.com Web site. 
CEO Brian Tierney and other company offi­cials had hoped to block creditors from mak­ing a credit bid in the bankruptcy auction they proposed. 
"All eyes are now on Citizens Bank, the Agent (for senior lenders). Who will they sup­port?" the company said in a statement. "We will continue fighting for our newspapers and for our employees." 
Creditors had complained in court that the company drew up a contorted bankruptcy reorganization plan designed to exclude credit bids and keep Tierney and his team at the helm. The plan includes a proposed auction along with an opening or "stalking horse" bid of $67 million in cash and real estate from a new ownership group that includes two of the existing owners. 
Hummer brand to be sold 


General Motors set to sign sales agreement with Chinese manufacturer 
Associated Press 

DETROIT -General 
Motors Co. is poised to sign 
a deal to sell its Hummer 
brand to a Chinese heavy 
equipment manufacturer 
as early as Thursday after­
noon, a person briefed on 
the deal said. 

Representatives of 
Sichuan Tengzhong Heavy 
Industrial Machinery Corp. 
have been in the U.S. for 
the past nine days working 
on final details with GM, 
and both sides hope to sign 
a definitive sales agree­
ment on Thursday or 
Friday, said the person, 
who asked not to be identi­
fied because the deal is not 
finaL 

The purchase price was 
not known, but GM said in 
its bankruptcy filing that 
Hummer might bring $500 
million or more. 

Hummer, whose smallest model gets 16 miles per gallon in combined city and highway driving, sold well until the middle part of this decade when fuel prices began to rise. Through September, GM has sold only 8,193 Hummers in the 
U.S. this year, down 64 per­cent from the same period last year. In September, only 426 Hummers were sold nationwide, according to Autodata Corp. auto dealership magnate 2012. The larger H2 was authority said all definitive 
GM, which spent 40 days Roger Penske's bid to buy made under contract with documents for the sale in bankruptcy protection the Saturn brand fell apart South Bend, Ind.-based AM have been signed by the during the summer and just before the deal was General LLC, which also companies. has received about $50 bil­finalized when a contract makes military versions of The headquarters would lion in U.S. government to make vehicles was the vehicles. The work­house global design, engi­aid, plans to sell its rejected by the Renault horse military vehicles neering, product planning, Hummer and Saab brands board. used in Iraq and purchasing, sales, service, and scrap Pontiac and Hummer spokesman Nick Afghanistan are not a part marketing and financing, Saturn as it tries to stream­Richards in Detroit would ofthe deal. Richards said. The compa­line its operations. The not comment on the timing The deal with Sichuan ny plans to invest $9.4 mil­company wants to focus on of the deal. Tengzhong has long been lion over five years, he four core brands: In June, Sichuan expected. The Michigan said. Chevrolet, Cadillac, Buick Tengzhong announced that Economic Development The memo says the and GMC. it had a tentative agree­Authority in September Hummer headquarters also 
Once the deal is signed, it ment with GM to buy the approved a $20.6 million would create another 641 still must be approved by brand, which features state tax credit over 10 jobs with other companies the U.S. and Chinese gov­large off-road vehicles that years for Hummer to build and generate $36.6 million ernments, and Chinese reg­initially were developed for a headquarters in the in additional revenue for ulators initially expressed military use. Detroit area. the state through 2019, reservations about The consumer version of The tax credit is contin­excluding the tax break Tengzhong's ability to run the Hummmer H3 and H3T gent on Sichuan Tengzhong costs. such an enterprise. pickup are assembled at closing the deal for The company will decide· 
GM already has seen one the GM plant in Shreveport, Hummer with GM, on the headquarters' loca­similar deal blow up at the La., which is slated for clo­although a memo to the tion by Oct. 31, the memo last.minute. Last week, sure no later than June economic development says. 

U.S. to impose regulations on Ticketmaster 
Associated Press response. That could mean and former director of the Federal Ticketmaster and Live Nation will be Trade Commission's Bureau of LOS ANGELES -Regulators in the forced to sell off assets, or forced to Competition. But he added there was 
U.K. and U.S. appear likely to impose sell some concert tickets through a "no obligation" for U.S. authorities to conditions on the merger of concert competitor. follow the British lead. promoter Uve Nation Inc. and ticket­Live Nation shares fell nearly 6 per­Before the merger plan was selling giant Ticketmaster cent Thursday, while Ticketmaster announced, Bremen, Germany-based· Entertainment Inc. now that British shares fell more than 4 percent. CTS Eventim AG had agreed to pro­authorities came out against the deal "I think the writing is on the wall vide ticketing services for Live Thursday. that the deal is not going to happen Nation's music events in Britain. CTS 
The U.K. Competition Commission without some fix," said Mark Ostrau, also has enabled Live Nation to run its said that combining Ticketmaster and an antitrust lawyer with Mountain own ticketing platform, which cur­Live Nation "could severely inhibit the View-based Fenwick & West LLP. rently competes with Ticketmaster, in entry of a major new competitor, CTS Several antitrust lawyers also noted the U.S. since January. Eventim, into the U.K. ticketirig mar­that the.U.S. Department of Justice The commission said if the merger ket." The British regulators have until has taken unusually long to give a were to proceed, Live Nation would Nov. 24 to determine what actions to green light to the deal that was have an incentive to inhibit CTS's take. announced in February. business in the U.K. by minimizing the 
Antitrust experts said the ruling "The fact that the U.K. regulators number of tickets it gave CTS to sell. makes it more likely that U.K. and acted puts the· U.S. more on the spot," That could lead to higher ticket 
U.S. authorities will coordinate a said Kevin Arquit, an antitrust lawyer prices, the commission said. 


~~~~---~-------------------­
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 9, 2009 


Please join the members of the Congregation of Holy Cross for a special Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on October 13, at 5:15 p.m. to celebrate 
Founder's Day 
honoring Fr. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. 
* . A reception mth Fr...Johil 1 Jei1klfls, CSC 
Will foUow Mass 1fl the HanJmes Stude11t Lou11ge, Coleinan-Morse Center 


Friday, October 9, 2009 page 9 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC raises cancer awareness 
By ALISON MEAGHER 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Health and Wellness Department is pro­moting breast cancer aware­ness this month at a booth in the Student Center atrium. 
"Girls here need to realize that [breast cancerl can hap­pen to them," said Cathe DeCleene, director of Women's Health at Saint Mary's College. "It doesn't just happen to old women." 
In honor of National Breast Cancer Month, The American Cancer society is hosting a "Making Strides against Breast Cancer Walk" Oct. 10 at Howard Park in South Bend. 
At the booth, students can sign up for the "Belle Brigade," the team repre­senting Saint Mary's. 
Registration is free and stu­
ties," she said. 
In addition to promoting the walk and rais­
dents can also ..Girls here need to sign up online 
realize that [breast
at www.can­
cer.org/strides­cancer] can happen online. to them.,, Donations will 
be accepted at 
Cathe DeCieene 
the booth, 
director

online or at the walk. Women's Health 
Over 30 stu­dents have already regis­tered for the walk. 
exams. Besides the booth, Saint 
DeCleene said students Mary's is raising awareness should also inquire about their about breast cancer in other family's history with the dis­ways. ease, because this could indi­The Saint Mary's volleyball 
cate  a  higher  team sponsored  
risk  factor  of  "Dig  for  the  
having  breast  Cure,"  a  charity  
cancer. "In general, [student's bod­ ..Students should practice good health  event that raises money for The Susan G. Comen  
ies] are chang­ing as they mature. Students should  habits and be aware ofthe changes and abnormalities. ,,  Foundation Tuesday. The event took place in Angela  
practice good  Athletic Facility  
health habits and be aware of the changes and abnormali­ Cathe DeCieene director Women's Health  in the team's game against Calvin College. Participants  

ing awareness, the booth is also selling pink rub­ber ducks to place around the banister of the atrium. There is no fixed price, but most stu­dents donate a dollar. 
Students may dedicate the ducks to a per­son they know who has strug­gled with breast cancer, or simply buy one in sup­port of breast 
The booth also offers pam­cancer awareness. All pro­phlets to students about mam­ceeds will be donated to the mograms and self-breast American Cancer Society. 
donated a flat rate, or offered a fixed donation for every dig the team made. The gym was dec­orated with pink slips written in memory or honor of cancer victims, and the team sold pink shirts at lunch on Tuesday in order to raise additional funds. 
The shirts will be on sale in the bookstore until the end of October. 
DeCleene said many Resident Advisors are also helping to raise awareness by organizing events for their sections that educate students about breast cancer prevention. 
Pamphlets explaining how to conduct a monthly breast self­examination were also hung in showers throughout the cam­pus. 
Contact Alison Meagher at ameaghO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
College holds Sk for children's hospital 
By HILARY BENGSSTON News Writer 
Saint Mary's College Dance Marathon will host its second annual 5K Trot for Tots to ben­efit the Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis. 
The event will be held Sunday and participation is open to the public. All pro­ceeds from this event will be given to the Riley Hospital for Children -one of the only comprehensive children's hos­pital in Indiana. 
"The Riley Hospital for Children affects the lives of many children and families throughout Indiana. The Trot for Tots 5K is a great way to support the local community and raise money for an excel­lent cause, said Kelly Deranek, Dance Marathon president. 
As a comprehensive hospital, the Riley Hospital for Children is capable of treating all forms of illness, serving families from every region of the state, including the greater South Bend area. The hospital admits all sick children, regardless of a family's ability to pay for treatment, according to the Hospital's Web site. 
Check-in begins at Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility at 7:30 a.m. The registration fee of $25 for the 5K and $10 for the "fun run" on the day of 
the race includes a black, long-sleeved t-shirt and refreshments following the race. 
The 5 K run or walk will begin at 9 a.m. Participants will follow a course on the nature trails surrounding Saint Mary's campus. A half-mile children's "fun run" will be held at 10 a.m. 
Saint Mary's Dance Marathon is beginning its fifth year as a student organization by hosting the event. The pur­pose of the group is to raise money for the Riley Children's Hospital throughout the year, leading up to their final fundraising effort -a twelve hour dance marathon March 26-27 from 8 p.m. to 8 a.m. 
Last year, Dance Marathon raised just over $90,000 for the Hospital. Within the last four years, over $245,000 has been raised to benefit the Children's Miracle Network Hospital. 
Saint Mary's is one of 113 colleges and universities to host a Dance Marathon for the Children's Miracle Network of Hospitals. 
"The Children's Miracle Network of Hospitals give every child who walks through their door the best treatments and professional care avail­able," Deranek said. 
Contact Hilary Bengsston at hbengsO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Time to build that mental muscle? 
Get in shape 
with 
Library 101 ! 
Learn how to use library 
resources and services to 
support your research. 

Monday, October 12, 4:30-5:30 PM in Hesburgh Library Room 222 Register at https://www.library.nd.edu/instruction/forms/workshop/registration.cgi or inquire at the Information Desk 

Heshurgh Libraries 
University of Notre Dame 

Friday, October 9, 2009

page 10 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

TheWedding Singer Roland Kelly Tribute 
Broadway  Starring Randy Kelly  
National Tour  at Palais Royale  
Fri-Sat, Oct. 9-10  Sunday, Oct. 11  

Series 
continued from page 1 
named "Spot On" that airs on NDtv on Tuedays at 11 p.m. The series, which was filmed last year, was written, directed and executive-produced by juniors Paul Dechant, Javi Zubizarreta and Lora O'Shaughnessy. The three Film, Television and Theater majors, who also act in the series, came up with the orig­inal idea for "Spot" during their freshmen year. 
"I really wanted to do a TV show that would have a strong story," Zubizarreta said. "Paul and Lora got involved with me and we wrote the episodes over the summer before sophomore year; there was a lot of iChatting involved." 
After casting the nine actors for the series, the show went into production at the beginning of the fall 2008 semester. The three producers did not realize how much work that they had in front of them. 
"We thought that we'd have it all done by Fall Break," Zubizarreta said. "We were still fLlming as we began spring fmals. On the days that we filmed we'd be filming anywhere from four to 12 hours a day with each scene taking us about two hours to film." 
Dechant said the amount of time it took to ftlm the show took him by surprise as well. 
"We were new to the experi­ence," he said. "When you watch a show you don't realize how much goes into a two-minute scene; you have to re-shoot it sev­eral times from different shots. It took time but we got what we 

Dean Woo participates in U.N. symposium 
Special to The Observer  the business, science and diplomatic communities.  
Carolyn Y. Woo, Martin J.  The manifesto, development  
Gillen Dean of the Mendoza  of which was led by Swiss­ 
College of Business at the  German theologian Kiing, the  
University of Notre Dame,  president of the Global Ethic  
served this week as a keynote  Foundation, aims at laying  
speaker, along with profes­ out a "common fundamental  
sors Hans KUng and Jeffrey  vision of what is legitimate,  
Sachs, at a high-level United  just and fair" in economic  
Nations symposium dedicated  activities. First signatories  
to establishing business  include former President of  
ethics in the global market­ Ireland and former U.N.  
place.  Human Rights Commissioner  
The event, held Tuesday at  Mary Robinson; Sachs, direc­ 
the U.N. headquarters in New  tor of the Earth Institute at  
York, also launched a new  Columbia University; and  
manifesto titled "Global  Nobel Peace Prize Laureate  
Economic Ethic  Desmond Tutu, Anglican  
Consequences for Global  Archbishop emeritus of Cape  
Businesses."  Town, South Africa.  
"The current economic cri­ The document will be open  
sis emphasized the need for a  for signature to individuals  
broad consensus on business  globally. Signatories of the  
ethics worldwide," Woo said.  manifesto commit to "being  
"Efforts such as this event  led by its letter and its spirit  
hosted by the United Nations,  in their day-to-day economic  
which brings together key  decisions, actions and gener­ 
global players, are critical if  al behavior."  
business is to be a force for  Building on the 1993  
good that improves the way  Parliament of World  
of life for the human commu­ Heligions' "Declaration  
nity."  Towards a Global Ethic," the  
The symposium was jointly  manifesto outlines five uni­ 
organized by the Swiss  versally acceptable principles  
Mission to the U.N., the U.N.  and values: the prineiple of  
Global Compact Office, the  humanity; non-violence and  
Novartis Foandation for  respect for life; justice and  

wanted." 

The three all share writing credit for the episodes and the characters. While they all said writing was a rewarding experi­ence, it didn't come without its own set offrustrations. 
"I think I now understand the saying that goes 'you sit down, open a vein and that's writing'," O'Shaugnessy said. "But it was so exciting to see our ideas come to life, especially the first time we heard the actors read what we had written." 
The producers drew on real experiences and people in their own lives to help create situations and characters for the series. 
"There's a scene in the first episode where Spot has a bad meeting with his college advisor," Zubizarreta said. "This was based on a meeting I had with my freshmen advisor who told me film was a waste of time and if I wanted a job I should go into business." 
Some of the characters in the story are also based on real peo­ple or the producers themselves. 
"I think we all put a lot of our­selves into Spot," O'Shaughnessy said. "All three of us had our own ideas and the they combined to make the final product." 
Dechant said some characters started with a specific attribute that developed into a fully fleshed personality. 
"Each character started with a little quirk that we drew from real experiences," he said. "Felix, the character that I play, is always wearing a knitted cap; that little trait is part of his bigger personality." 
Zubizarreta said developing the characters and making them into "real" people was his favorite part ofthe whole "Spot" process. 
"We got to see these characters go through a whole evolution," he said. "Every character changed so much; at one point I wanted Spot to be on drugs but that got thrown out." 
A year after beginning filming and a week after watching the first episode air, the three execu­tive producers can look back at. their work on Spot On and reflect on their creation. 
'Tm excited that it's now fin­ished and that we have people that enjoy watching it as much as we enjoyed making it," O'Shaughnessy said. "I can watch it now and see the little things that we put into it." 
Watching the first episode with friends was something that pro­vided a sense of accomplishment for Dechant. 
"I think my favorite thing was that the viewers laughed at what we had meant for them to laugh at," he said. "That's something I proud of. We put a lot of work into this because we wanted it to be a quality product." 
Zubizarreta said hopes that "Spot" will not only entertain viewers but also allow the audi­ence to identify with the charac­ters on the screen. 
"Hopefully people watch it and hopefully they'll laugh," he said. "But I hope that they identify with the characters and the rela­tionships. I hope that they can take something serious out of it along with the comedy." 
On the other hand, Dechant has a much smaller desire of the audience. 
"I just want everyone to think that Felix is the sexiest man alive," he said. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 

()n Sale ,...()W% 


eat tresh 
*SR 23@ Ironwood ~sR 933 North ~oowntown ~speedway 
SR 2 3@ Edison 
•1 n d ia n Ridge PIa :z a 



The Wiggles 
"Go Bananas/ Uve" 
Family Concert 
Monday, Oct.19 
UPt:()minlt Sh()W§ 
·satun:Jay, Nov. 'i'i~South •RAfild s·wntihrii1fit
. Saturday. Oet0Ji""$otlttr~ SYt'n~ 
···~~::~ 
Tuesday, Nov.10 Tyler Perry's 
•1.sugtl to Keep lion Crying• 
. . .· Orchestra Concert · . 


.· ...· ;... •*~~:=~~~!t 
. _:___ :_. ._····:··--f.i;r:.::::. ---.-. -_:._ --_. -. -.·· 
Sunday, Nov. 15"' David Cook . ·~merlcan tdor Winner 
Fridayl Nov. 20 Bob &Tom Comedy JW«. AU-Stars"; ,.-:, ···. c~ 'i 
!W}.M~. 
Stl'd; CROh'\.. Xt rum.£ ti1H.J lBRi ~ 
Casting Crowns With Matt Redman Christian Concert Saturday, Oct. 24 

Sustainable Development and solidarity; honesty and toler­the Global Ethic Foundation. ance; and mutual esteem and It included practitioners from partnership. 
Have a news tip? E-mail Madeline at mbuckley@nd.edu 

Friday, October 9, 2009 page II
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Life 
continued from page 1 
well. 
Gerardi said the some 500 
planted crosses represent 
the number of abortions in 
the United States during a 
three-hour period, roughly 
the duration of one college 
football game. 
The flags, he said, which amount to about 4,000, rep­resent the number of daily abortions in the United States. The pink and blue flags represent aborted females and males, respec­tively, he said. 
Although the exhibit may be shocking, Gerardi said he believes it is significant in reminding people of the impact of abortion nation­wide. 
"We don't even stop to con­sider those lives," he said. 
Although the Cemetery has been exhibited for many years, it continues to have an impact on the community, former NDRTL president and current vice president Mary Kate Daly said. 
"I myself am affected each year it goes up," Daly, a sen­ior, said. 
She said she has been involved with NDRTL since her freshman year. 
Gerardi and Daly said the display is controversial in the Notre Dame community each year. 
"People say it's weird or morbid," Gerardi said. 
"Some people feel it may alienate those whom abor­tion has affected," Daly said. "It does affect people, but we try to recognize the women affected by abortion as well. We sympathize with their concerns." 
Daly said the display has also undergone vandalism such as defacement in recent 

SUZANNA PRATifrhe Observer 

Crosses stand on South Quad Thursday to represent abor­tions throughout the United States. 
years. Daly said, Theology 
"Usually though people are Professor Adrian Reimers pretty civil," she said. "It's a will give a lecture today University approved display." about the theology of the 
The Cemetery of Innocents family and sexual relations. display is a part of Respect A Respect Life Mass will Life week, an effort to call take place in the Basilica attention to the discussion of Saturday. abortion and its impaet on the national community. Contact Katie Peralta at 
Along with the display, kperalta@nd.edu 


iCeNSA 
continued from page 1 
you use to study networks can be used in all domains, and insights gained in one domain can be used to help people in all domains." 
Nitesh Chawla, co-director of iCeNSA and professor of Computer Science and Engineering, said the Center itself is a network of faculty and students from different disciplines who collaborate together. 
"We focus on fundamental methods, advances related to each of the fields," Chawla said. "Together we also com­bine our forces so that the whole is greater than the sum of the products." 
Hachen said as a social sci­entist, he finds collaboration with people in the fields of Physics and Computer social networks, we expect that the talk will have all applicability," Hachen said. 
Chawla said the center launched a Web site, icensa.nd.edu, also with the goal of spreading the word about iCeNSA. 
Faculty and students at the ~enter are currently involved in several network research projects. One project studies social networks and the use of cell phones, Chawla said. Hachen said other projects involve the application of net­work science to climate change, health and disease and the brain. 
"Really it means we are bridging across all these areas and learning from each other," Hachen said. 
There are already several professors, undergraduate stu­dents and graduate students working on network research through iCeNSA, Chawla said, but he hopes to see the center 
Science partic­..It looks like continue to ularly useful. grow and devel­
networks are easy
"It looks like op. 
networks are things to understand "We plan to easy things to but it turns out the grow and be 
understand, more aggres­
mathematics and the
but it turns out sive in bringing 
the mathemat­computations to in more grants ics and the understand networks and writing computations quality papers,"
are very
to understand he said. 
networks are complicated.'' The Center's very complicat­goals for the ed," he said. future include
David Hachen 
"Usually we involving more
iCeNSA director
study things independently, but that's not the way net­works are -they're highly interactive." 
Before iCeNSA was created, Chawla said there was a Center for Complex Network Research, which operated out of the physics department. 
"We wanted to create a cen­ter that was multidisciplinary across all the colleges," he said. "We've been trying to build the center as people interested in networks and network applications." 
During its first year, iCeNSA focused on finding grants for funding. Chawla said the cen­ter received $3.7 million in the past year and received recog­nition from the Army Research Lab, a distinction that has only been granted to a few other universities. 
The center is currently look­ing to incorporate business into its research and involve faculty and students from the business school, Chawla said. 
iCeNSA is also hosting a dis­tinguished speaker series on social networks this year, which llachen said is aimed at exposing students to iCeNSA and the study of networks. Katherine Faust. a professor from the University of California, Irvine, delivered the first lecture, "What is social about social networks?" Thursday. 
"Although the subject is 
students, 
Hachen said. 

Last year, iCeNSA applied for but did not receive a grant to create a graduate program in network science, but Hachen said he }).opes that they will eventually achieve that goal. He also said iCeNSA may develop an undergraduate concentration in network sci­ence. 
In the more. immediate future, iCeNSA will try to attract undergraduates through the lecture series as weJl as classes taught by pro­fessors who work with the cen­ter. 
''I'm a little bit planning to throw the ball in the under­grads' lap as we evolve and looking at what they want to do [for network research I." Hachen said. 
Hachen said there are end­less possibilities for research in the area of network science. and iCeNSA will continue to unite various disciplines under network research. 
"It turns out there's a lot of people that are interested in networks ... but they don't really know that there's other people on campus, that we're doing the same research as well," he said. "We want us to be a resource for faculty. grad­uate students, undergraduates, and also internationally." 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 

~-~~~-----------------------------------------------------------------­
page 12 
2010 
continued from page 1 
new Law School, and the new engineering facility, Stinson­Remick Hall will be ready this year. 
The University is waiting on funding for a Social Sciences building and a multidiscipli­nary research center. 
"I think the faculty are absolutely essential to our teaching and research mis­sion, so they are a very impor­tant priority for us," he said. 
While strong faculty and state-of-the-art research facil­ities have been a steady focus since the original plan was drafted, Affleck-Graves said 
Grade 
continued from page _1 
Involvement and Investment priorities. The lowest cate­gories were Shareholder Engagement, which received a C and Endowment transparen­cy, which received a D. 
The Report Card cites an increase in the use of "environ­mentally friendly paper prod­ucts," efforts of GreeNO and the Office and Sustainability and the LEED-certification of many of the newer campus buildings as reasons for the University's higher grade. 
The D grade is because the University does not have a pub­lic list of holdings and the shareholder voting record is kept private, according to the site. 
University Sustainability Programs Coordinator Erin Hafner said she believes Notre Dame's commitment to pur­chasing paper products that have been recycled was a large part of the higher grade award­ed this year. 
"Through a collaboration with Office Depot's corporate sustainability program, Notre Dame's Procurement Services and the Office of Sustainability, the University was able to real­ize a 70 percent increase in purchases of recycled-content paper," she said. 
Hafner said the University also decreased the demand for electricity on campus, the result of a University project that increased heating and cooling efficiency in 24 build­ings across campus. 
But she said student involve­ment was invaluable. 
"Student initiatives like the CFL bulb exchanges and sever­al energy awareness campaigns have contributed to behavioral change as well," Hafner said. 
She said the University has also reduced carbon emissions by 7.5 percent this year. A large part of the decrease is due to a push to use LED lighting on campus. 
The University's grade in the College Sustainability Heport Card rose for the third straight year, according to a University press release. Last year's B­was an improvement on the D­grade the University received in 2007, one of the lowest the report card awarded. 
Hafner said the Office of Sustainability is always work­ing to improve the environmen­tal impact of the University. 
"The Office of Sustainability will continue to focus on cam­pus energy use and energy effi­ciency projects." she said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, Ocrober 9, 2009 
financial aid emerged as a high University budgetary pri­ority in the past year. 
"We're in a very difficult economic time and more of our students need financial aid and those that need it, need more," he said. "On the student side without a doubt that is one of our biggest pri­orities. We are still fully need­blind and committed to that." 
Student priorities indicated in the 2003 plan are over­crowding in the dorms and the size of LaFortune Student Center. 
"Relative to our own campus residency rate, LaFortune Student Center should be at least twice its current size," the plan said. 
However, as new priorities 
have emerged and the econo­my has limited some funding, Affleck-Graves said plans for the construction of a new stu­dent center, originally slated to stand near Stepan Center, have been pushed to the side until the University can come up with the money. 
The report also states a need to "alleviate overcrowd­ing in the existing residence halls, accommodate under­graduate students in at least four new residence facilities." 
Affleck-Graves said Ryan and Duncan halls were built in response to this concern, and the University is currently seeking funds to possibly build two other residence halls. 
"We always have to reallo­

cate; it's part of the process," he said. "The University is always responding to what we see is the greatest priority and we do change those and sometimes only some priori­ties get funded." 
Along with the student and faculty focuses in the strategic plan, Affleck-Graves said Geddes Hall, the new center for the Institute for Church Life and Center for Social Concerns, is a visible sign of the commitment to the University's Catholic mission as stated in the plan. 
"Geddes Hall is such a great feature of undergraduate life at Notre Dame. I think we feel really good about it," he said. "I think the University would like to feel that it's a very 
attractive place for the lead­ing catholic scholars in the country to have as their aca­demic home." 
As the University is moving into the 2009-2010 school year, Affleck-Graves said Notre Dame has made good progress in developing the goals outlined in the report, but Affleck-Graves said the 
plan is just that: a  plan, and  
leaders  are  constantly  
reassessing it.  

"We've lived the plan and we're about halfway through," Affleck-Graves said. "It's an evolving, living document. We just kind of grow with the plan." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

Feed your future 
Learn how we can help jump-start your professional career. 
Begin at www.pwc.tv 
Cl 20~ ""ce..at.., ....uc~ U.l>. All •~~Jhl~ •••<~•..,d. .,...~...,..,_,,.c_,.<e4ero to P<~lll"'ll<>uw.C-" 1.1.1' ._ o.t-•r• ;...,,..., uat>tKty ~""'"'>hi:»"'· u ·~ ~'()~>,.., '""'-·tl\<t Ptte-a~•ftou«f.:<IOI\4•• !1i>l>lll n•t..O<~ Of ol"-r --'""'* o! '"" ,..,,._,.~, <011<:11 Ill wn.c!l II a H1>a>Oit an# >nd_.,.,Of\l ~ll"i*'lllt)' Ill'• .... JlfE>II<I to t>• *"Aif~"'•t•'" Aci<Ot! .an<l Equal OppOII~I>~V E"'1>1"'"' 


Friday, October 9, 2009 page 13
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
~~====~~~~~~~~=~========== 
Spielberg receives Liberty Medal 
UCLA student 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Award­winning filmmaker Steven Spielberg, long recognized for his artistic achievements, was honored with the Liberty Medal on Thursday for his compassion and humanitari­an work. 
Former President Bill Clinton presented the medal to Spielberg at the National Constitution Center, which offers history-based exhibits focused on the U.S. Constitution and gives the annual award to those whose actions represent the found­ing principles of the United States. 
"We honor a man today who has always been able to make a simple story and make it scary, make a simple story and make it interesting and make a simple story and remind ·us of the greatness in us all," Clinton said. 
Spielberg's movies include the Holocaust drama "Schindler's List" and the World War II epic "Saving Private Ryan," which both landed him Academy Awards. 
"Art is and should endeavor to be among the human enterprises that contribute to the building of good and free societies," said Spielberg, whose other projects include "Amistad," about a slave ship mutiny, and the HBO series "Band of Brothers," about a company of soldiers during World War II. 
In choosing Spielberg for the award, the center said he "presented stories of the struggle and triumph of humanity over tyranny, informing and inspiring mil­lions to better understand the abiding call of liberty." 

After making "Schindler's List," based on the true story of a man who tries to save Jews from the Nazis, Spielberg established a foun­dation to produce video and oral histories of Holocaust survivors. 
The Survivors of the Shoah Visual History Foundation became part of the University of Southern California in Los Angeles in 2006. Its collection now stands at nearly 52,000 video testimonies in 32 lan­guages, representing 56 countries. 
tn lab

stabbed • 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -A female UCLA student was hospital­ized Thursday after a fellow student slashed her throat in a chemistry lab on campus, authorities said. 
The suspect, a male stu­dent, was arrested in the same chemistry building shortly after the stabbing. 
UCLA spokesman Phil Hampton said the victim and suspect were both 20-year­old seniors taking an organic chemistry class along with other students who were in the undergraduate teaching lab at the time. 
The woman underwent surgery for multiple stab wounds at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, and was in stable condition Thursday night, Los Angeles police said. 
Cyril Baida, a teaching assistant who was working in a lab across the hall, said he saw the victim stagger out of the lab while another teach­ing assistant applied pres­sure to her neck, Baida said. 
"The poor girl was com­pletely drenched with blood. She was talking at first but then she started fading away," he said. "We told her she was going to be fine and to keep breathing so she did­n't pass out. I told the other TA that he was doing great so he didn't faint either." 
Baida said he did not know the victim or the suspect, but was told that they were lab partners or had worked together in a small group on projects in their lab section. 

Los Angeles city police and campus police interviewed about 30 witnesses who were in or near the lab and might have seen the attack, Campus Police Assistant Chief Jeff Young said. No names have been released, and the motive is under investigation. 
"Her TA -that guy deserves a medal. He had his hands around her wounds and was yelling, 'Call 911,"' said Baida, a 26-year-old bio­chemistry graduate student. "I called 911 and told him to bring her into our lab. He kept holding her so she wouldn't bleed until the paramedics arrived." 
Baida said the organic chemistry lab where the attack took place is a demanding class. 
"All my students have taken it and they hate it. Usually people bond during classes like that because they have to study together. I don't think it was so tough that it makes people go crazy," he said. "It's awful, but things like this can hap­pen anywhere." 
UCLA Chancellor Gene D. Block said the campus com­munity was shocked by the attack and "wishing for the speedy recovery of the young woman who was injured." 
Spielberg, who won Oscars for best director and best pic­ture for "Schindler's List" and best director for "Saving Private Ryan," will donate the Liberty Medal's $100,000 cash prize to that organiza­tion, the National Constitution Center said. 
The medal was established in 1988. Previous winners have included rock singer and human rights activist Bono, former South African President Nelson Mandela 
and former U.S. President Jimmy Carter. 
HighnumberofHlNl. patients to go to ICU 

Associated Press 

One quarter of Americans sick enough to be hospitalized with swine flu last spring wound up needing intensive care and 7 percent of them died, the first such study of the early months of the global epidemic suggests. That's a little higher than with ordi­nary seasonal flu, several experts said. 
What is striking and unusu­al is that children and teens accounted for nearly half of the hospitalized cases, includ­ing many who were previously healthy. The study did not give a breakdown of deaths by age. 
"Contrary to the perception among many people that this influenza, novel H1N1, is mild, these data vividly demonstrate that influenza can make you very, very ill," said Dr. William 'Schaffner, a Vanderbilt University flu expert and spokesman for the Infectious Diseases Society of Ameriea. 
"Clearly, the best way to protect yourself and your fam­ily is to get vaccine as soon as it becomes available," said Schaffner, who had no role in the study but has consulted for swine flu vaccine makers. 
The study was done by researchers at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, working with hospitals and state and local health departments. Results were published online Thursday by the New England Journal of Medicine. 
A second study released by the journal revealed that swine flu had a profound efl'ect on intensive care units in Australia and New Zealand from June through August ­\\'inter months and the normal flu season in the Southern Hemisphere. 


THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame:, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz SPORTS EDITOR: Man Gamber ScENE EmroR: Jess Shaffer SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER:. Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
fAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

Participation in respectful dialogue 
Allow us to use Colin Sullivan and Sean Mullen as a prism and arguing Sean's points, you've lived this ideal. Whether through which to examine the issue of respect. Not because intended or not, the letter sparked your intellect and creat­of their actions, but because of the responses to them. ed meaningful dialogue about an important issue. 
Colin made a joke about women. Sean advocated a policy To those who looked up the authors on Facebook for dirt towards homosexuals. And without a thought, many stu­to put in their letters, you've missed the point. You're not dents reacted in the way they deemed appropriate. showing them the respect you yourself ask for. Instead, 
Comparing women to South Bend weather was clearly you're stooping below their level to fire off some cheap facetious, probably meant more to poke fun at the respons­shots, hoping that by making them look foolish you'll win. es it elicited than a serious attack on the sta-And to those who read these comments or tus of women. And while instituting a "don't their responses and wished the "other side" ask, don't tell" policy goes against common OR~:ERVER would keep to themselves, you, too, are on the decency, Sean's arguments were rooted in wrong track. Hateful remarks, in any fashion, Catholic doctrine. are unacceptable. But ultimately, this is an issue
Editorial 
But what were the responses? Long, ranti­ng diatribes against the writers' reasoning and the writers as individuals. 
We don't deny the remarks were inflamma­tory. But students claim they want people to show respect, either for homosexuals or women. So show respect for those who disagree with you. 
It's more than respect. It's being open-minded, willing to accept and consider new ideas. This goes for the original writers and those who responded.The phrase "think before you speak" exists for a reason. 
To those who responded to the letters by researching Catholic doctrine, reading the non-discrimination clause 
of freedom, and both sides of the debate want to 
repress the other. But silence achieves nothing. 
An intelligent conversation, one of mutual 
respect, and one which gives both sides the opportunity to learn something, should be the ultimate goal. 
This four-year period presents a time where students can learn and experience more than they ever have before. Embrace it. Because in life you'll find plenty of opinions, positions or thoughts you don't agree with. You won't always change your views; instead, you'll have to deal with disagreement, either by rational argument, discussion or, if the situation calls for it, ignorance. 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

{574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 spons@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO1@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVEROn1ine 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's CoUege. Editorial content, including advenisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer ~rves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and depanment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions ~arding Obsovapolicies should lx dirrcted to Editor-in-Chiefjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 l-4000) "'pubiUhed Monct.y rhrough Friday ..rocpt during= and vaalion period<. A subocripuoo ro The Oh.av<r is $120 for <>ne academic yea~"; S65 for one scmcfter. 
The Observer ia published •r' POSTMASTER 024 South Dining H.ll Send addi'(5S corrections oo; 
Notrt Dam.:, IN <l6556-Q779 TheOho.:tvcr 
Ptriodical po""S" paid ar Nou< Dame P.O. Box 779 

arod additional maili"'l offica. 024 South Dini"l! Hall 
N<>t"' Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Asoociared l'ra;s. All tcpmdocuon r;vt~> arc rescrv«i. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Shouldn't ask, shouldn't matter 
If someone says he or she has nothing against homosex­uals but agrees with the Catholic Church's teaching on homosexuality, it is a lie. The stance of the Catholic Church is overtly anti-homosexual. To tell a homosexual that it is okay to be gay, but that one cannot act upon those feelings, is an explicit slap in the face. 
As if the Catholic Church's teachings about sexuality were not tyrannical enough, the rules about homosexuality are nearly evil. While heterosexuals are at least permitted to have sex once in a while (under only the most specific of circumstances), homosexuals are never allowed that same opportunity. Why not? "Because it is not procreative," goes the official answer. The honest answer: it's weird. Were Notre Dame to adopt a ··don't ask, don't tell" policy as sug­gested by Sean Mullen's letter (Oct. 7), it would not only be morally wrong, but also weaken the university. 
In the same way this policy has excluded many compe­tent soldiers from serving in the military, a similar prohi­bition in this case would repel many intelligent students who are not (and should not be) ashamed of their sexuali­
ty. Such a policy would certainly not promote the growth of a great university with greater aspirations. 
It is argued that adding sexual orientation to the non­discrimination clause will only further secularize Notre Dame. While the word "secular" carries negative connota­tions for many religious people, let us all momentarily step out of our box and realize that a secular humanity is mak­ing progress in morality and human rights. 
On the other hand, the Catholic Church is playing catch up as usual while it continues to hold on to ancient preju­dices. Rather than condemn those Notre Dame students who disagree with the Church's stance on homosexuality, we should encourage them. Perhaps some of these bright Catholic minds can one day help to revise and improve the Church's faulty and outdated reasoning on this issue 
Andy Hills sophomore Carroll Hall Oct. 7 

Don't ask me not to tell 
I'll start by saying I have nothing against straight people. I'm not someone easily offended, I laugh it off when friends poke fun of me for being gay, but I am offended when some­one displays childlike ignorance and makes derogatory remarks. 
I'm awestruck how people can warp religious views to make others feel less than human. It's true the church teach­es that it's ok to be gay, but that it's a sin to act on those feel­ings. However, being able to tell your peers that you are gay and being intimate with someone of the same sex are two completely different things. Being gay isn't "practicing" some kind of hobby, it's a lifestyle that the majority of us dido't ask for. Most of us are no different from any other straight per­son, besides who we go home to (although we may be a little better dressed and have whiter teeth). I was born and raised Catholic, and I thought the core Catholic social teaching is "Treat others the way you want to be treated," not abortion is wrong and punish the gays. 
Adding homosexuality to the non-discrimination clause won't change anything; we aren't some cult dressed in pink robes going from building to building re-arranging furniture. No, the only thing it would change is the disrespectful atti­tude students on this campus seem to have towards gays. No one passes judgment when straight people have premarital sex (which is a sin), but when someone admits to being gay they are shunned. 
We are at a top 20 University, and if Notre Dame wants to break into the top 10 they need to be able to recruit all types of students. It's sad that many students spend their four years here hiding their sexuality because they fear their peers will cast them out if they "come out." So the next time you want to rant about how gays are evil, immoral, (insert adjective) perhaps you should stop and look at the group you're addressing; there's a good chance someone in that group is gay but too afraid to admit it. 
Joseph Deters junior Duncan Hall Oct. 7 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Madeline Buckley Douglas Farmer Laura McCrystal Meaghen Veselik Molly Madden Chris Masoud 
Megan Doyle Viewpoint Graphics Michelle Maitz 
Jaclyn Espinoza Scene Adriana Pratt 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ have always felt that a politician is to be judged 6y the animosities he excites among his opponents.,. 
Sir Winston Churchill British politician 



Understanding the Obama haters 
We routinely complain that we hate this or that in our everyday conversa­tions. Sports fans of rival teams famous­ly disdain each other, so much so that in Europe. for example, their "football" fans regularly riot in the stands. I personally hate that song the University of Southern California band quickly plays dur­ing their football games constantly at each pause of action on the field. For me, it's repet­itive and monoto­nous tone is like Chinese water torture: Da, da, da-da, da-da, da, da, da-dum, da-da da, da-dum. 
That said, I do not truly hate Coach Pete Carroll or the USC fans. I just don't like them. I have little in common with them. I live a different lifestyle on the east coast, and I never tan for as long or as golden brown as they appear to be upon arrival at Notre Dame in late October. However, I must admit that I admire the way Carroll transitioned from the pro football ranks to the col­lege game as a multiyear national cham­pion and contender, infinitely much bet­ter than Notre Dame's head coach, Charlie Weis. 
Not too long ago-around the year of birth for today's high school sophomores -national politics deteriorated to a level of incivility. In 1994, Republican house leader Newt Gingrich strategized a way for his party to gain a majority status in Congress. He correctly rea­soned that the only way to convince the American public to vote for Republicans was for him to tear down the political status quo on Capitol Hill through a national political campaign. However. he carried his war-like campaign outlook into his style of governance as the new Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives. It was an action that polarized the political process from one of dislike to hate. His rule of governance simply rejected compromise. the opera­tional status quo for decades, to a prin­cipal that he was always correct, and his opposition was always nefarious. 

Gingrich poisoned the well of political discourse by refusing to compromise in an institution founded on serving the public through consensus. In the process, he began to cleanse his own party of the "Rockefeller Republicans," moderates named after former New York Governor Nelson Rockefeller. Gingrich ignored a tradition that for half a century, ever since World War II, treated the minority political party as the "loyal opposition." Thus, under Gingrich's rule, Republican Party poli­cies evolved into a more homogeneous and less tolerant political vision. To them, Democrats had become their ene­mies. 
That change in Gingrich's outlook, combined with a dwindling of moderate Republicans, also ended the traditionally civil level of disagreement a party voiced against their opposition party's presi­dent. 
Instead, Republicans displayed an absolute rancor against President Clinton. Since the days of Franklin Roosevelt, presidents had enjoyed a modicum of respect from the "loyal opposition." Even Richard Nixon, who became ensnarled in a congressional impeachment, could work with the Democratic majority to create new envi­ronmental initiatives and change foreign policy to include opening diplomatic relations with Communist China. But under Gingrich, feelings of hatred for Clinton and Democrats replaced civil expressions of disagreement. 
Today President Obama reaches time and again to the Republicans in an effort to solve problems in a bipartisan man­ner. Reminiscent of the Democrat's 40 years of majority status prior to Gingrich. Republican leaders like Gerald Ford and Bob Michel or Everett Dirksen and Bob Dole shared a slice of the leg­islative pie through compromise. Some argue that they perpetuated their minority status by not drawing dramatic distinctions between themselves and the Democratic majority like Gingrich had done. Polls show that the American pub­lic as a whole seems to prefer action in Washington, but when further polled, individually reject specific solutions from the opposing political party. 
Obama's opposition also stems partly from a 24-hour news cycle reduced to hourly segments on cable channels that feature more partisan perspectives. The media stage has become an entertain­ment theater catering to like-minded audiences. Those audiences cling to cer­tain beliefs which in turn encourages others to find supporting facts regard­less of the truth. It is now possible for some to say absolute falsehoods in hopes that it becomes accepted as truth if repeated enough times. 
Perhaps critics of the president, like Ann Coulter, really believe the mean­spirited accusations spurting from their mouths. Or do they posture on the politi­cal stage to create television drama? In days past, no media personality dare espouse vile comments like Rush Limbaugh blurts with regularity in an effort to discredit Obama and wish the president's failure. But we are living in the post-Gingrich world of politics where Obama's opposition can be as bad as getting that damn USC song stuck in my head. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, serves in the Department ofHomeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni. nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students stand up to discrimination 
When I first read the letter "Don't ask, don't tell" (Oct. 7) I felt sick and frustrated with this university where somehow archaic beliefs proven incon­sistent with the Church can continue. However, reading today's Observer gave me hope when all the letters to the editor were united in exclaiming how incredibly misinformed and misguided Sean Mullen must be. 
The Notre Dame Spirit of Inclusion states: "We welcome all people, regard­less of color, gender, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, social or economic class, and nationality, for example, pre­cisely because of Christ's calling to treat others as we desire to be treated. We value gay and lesbian members ofthis community as we value all members of this community." I am glad that people are willing to speak out for these stu­dents who should not be treated like a minority or fringe group on this cam­pus. 
However one has to question whether or not gay and lesbian students really are included ifthey are not given the same rights of other students I specifi­
cally refer to SAO's continued denial to give permission for the formation of groups and organizations for support 
and community. Why is including 
homosexual students in the Notre Dame community openly considered acceptable by the University and yet acknowledging the existence of a club for gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgen­dered and allied students considered not? Sometimes it feels as though Notre Dame's desire to maintain a specific image to the outward world is more important than the needs and desires of the students who are here. Try to keep their seniors within the security ofthe Notre Dame campus. Instead of pursu­ing plans to build another new dorm, please consider the option of building a seniors-only residence like Saint Mary's. 
Fllen Rolfes semor offcampus Oct. 7 
Drunken homophobia 
Sean Mullen, I am interested to know more about your state of mind when you wrote this. Your bigoted tirade can only be the result of A} a complete mis­understanding of Catholicism, education and logic or B) black-out drunkenness. You repeatedly used the term "openly practicing" in your letter. As far as I know, the only means by which some­one could "openly practice" homosexu­ality is by having sex out on the quad and, in four years, I have yet to see that (homosexual or otherwise}. 
You claimed Obama is the "biggest pro-choice advocate in the world." I appreciate this comment in that it dis­credits most of what you say. Your use of hyperbole is exactly what Father Jenkins criticized in his own address. As a "hard-hitting Roman Catholic" (or so Facebook says), you probably know, but misunderstand, that the name of the nation that God created, Israel, trans­lates to "he struggles with God." Varying perspectives facilitate that struggle. 
I also assume that you've heard, and misconstrued, the Great Commandment: love thy neighbor as thyself. Asking someone to hide a legitimate aspect of themselves is not loving. 
Your last misconception lies in the Catechism, which condemns the sexual acts and not any public admission of homosexuality nor homosexuality itself. 
Finally. I object to your reference to "gays." Gay is an adjective, not a noun; it describes one facet of an individual. Please show minimal respect to people who are different than you are. At the very least, I would expect an Arts and Letters major to understand the differ­ence between a noun and an adjective. 
You are a modern day Pharisee. People like you distance Notre Dame from its Catholic identity with narrow­minded beliefs that starkly contrast the open-mindedness that marked Jesus' life. Prostitutes, tax-collectors and lep­ers; these are the people with whom Jesus spent his time; in other words, the marginalized. I am embarrassed that you speak your hateful words under the name of the faith that I love. I am embarrassed to be affiliated with you. Your understanding of Catholicism is objectively wrong and I can only hope that it was the result of many shots of tequila. 
Beth Daley and Tati Estrada semors off campus Oct. 7 

What would you fight for? 
There comes a time in everyone's life On October 11, Saint Edward's Hall will momentum swing which can fuel an epic skip the line and come back in. However, where they are witness to something that attempt to defend its honor and title as comeback. The risk of attempting a catch the order of the line is the responsibility violates everything they believe in. Interhall Dodgeball Champion, but a is too great ifthere is no comparable of the team, not RecSports.Whether it is racism, fascism, abortion, major rule change has set the dodgeball reward. Never in my three years has this been a etc., we face a challenge to which we are world ablaze. The rule change is comparable to an problem. This is not first grade PE, this is summoned, summoned by some higher Kerry Kemp, in his first year as interception in football being ruled an collegiate dodgeball, a six-on-six test of 
power to speak out, to rise against tyran­Assistant Director of Intramurals, has incomplete pass. As a student of the game pride and valor, and I will not stand by
ny and oppression. This University pushes decided to change one of the core rules of I am outraged by the rule change and and watch it be debased by Kerry Kemp. I us to become leaders and stand up for dodgeball. This season, when a player livid from Mr. Kemp's indignant will fight for dodgeball. our beliefs. They ask us every week, catches a ball, one of his teammates is demeanor. Kemp is ending a tradition. He 
"What would you fight for?" not allowed to enter the playing field. claimed he was making changes in Adam Fonseca 
For the first time in my four years at This not only defiles the sport, but robs it response to feedback from previous years seniOr Notre Dame, I have been challenged and of the emotion that goes into a catch. If a and, in his words, preventing teams from St. Edward's Hall refuse to go gentle into that good night. team is outnumbered, a catch provides a cheating by allowing their best players to Oct. 7 
I 
I 
!\ I 
j, 
!i I 
., 
ii 
The Nymph successfully 
ained entry into the tricky Mythical Bracket but was soon verwhelmed by the Kraken, ho used his sheer size on the ath to victory. 
Each side played to their 
trengths early, the Kraken 
ying immersed in the water section of the field while the Nymph majestically wandered the forest and rivers. Despite an early attempt to seduce the Kraken with its beauty, the 
ymph was quickly demolished 
a variety of menacing tenta-
Cerberus def. the Minotaur 

In an early battle of the bruis­ers, Cerberus came from behind to end the championship hopes of the Minotaur. 
The mythical monsters start­ed the battle at full sprint, both attempting to engage the oppo­nent at a disadvantage. Both landed blows, Cerberus with his teeth and ciaws and the Minotaur with his axe. The Minotaur was slow to rise due to its hooves and thus took a few bites and scratches on its way up. 
After circling each other, the Minotaur held its axe toward Cerberus but failed to maintain its balance and Cerberus snapped at its clenched wrist, forcing the Minotaur to lose its weapon and engage Cerberus with its only remaining option -hand to paw combat. After grappling on the ground and rolling to and fro, it was Cerberus who was able to inflict lasting damage on the Minotaur, who soon had nothing left to give. 
The Manticore def. the Pegasus 
In what came as no surprise, the range and close-combat monstrosity the Manticore easily poisoned the Pegasus' chance for mythical immortality. 
Utilizing both its aerial and land attacks, the Manticore simply had too many weapons for the Pegasus to keep track of, and defeated the Pegasus easily. 
Scylla def. the Harpy 
The terrifying Scylla stunned the equally ugly I larpy into fear-
i~-·--~~-, 
",:<;..
lt,,.J 
.;: 

------~--------,---------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

page 16 

Friday, October 9, 2009 
MYTHICAL MATC1 
.,.....,.......,.,.on, tearing beast apart on her way to victo­ry . 
"I can't believe the creature had never seen anything as ter­rifying as I am," Scylla said after an impressive one sided defeat. 
Medusa def. the Cyclopes 
Using her most potent power, Medusa petrified the Cyclopes in a single glance on her way to victory. 
After the match, the Cyclops blamed his depth perception for the loss. 
"She just blended in so well with her surroundings. Also no one clarified that she could turn me to rock with a single glance," the Cyclopes said. "I just ran into the area, knocked o·ver some trees, looked around to find my opponent and bam! That was it." 
The Sphinx def. Cockatrice 
The clever Sphinx outwitted the enormous, but much less intelligent Cockatrice in a bat­tle of both wits and brawn. 
Speed, intellect and claws were a dangerous combination, something the bird-brained Cockatrice learned in its first round matchup. 
The Griffin def. the Chimera 
The agile Griffin de-wings the Chimera early and claws into an upset victory. 
The Griffin's clever first strike was to assault the Chimera's wings from above, but after a fall from grace the Chimera was forced to resort to ground-based attacks. The Griffin swooped and bit at the Chimera from every direction until the Chimera was tired and could no longer defend itsel from the onslaught, giving the Griffin an upset victory. 
The Hydra def. the Faun 
The Faun attempted to dis­tract the Hydra with his flute, but the Hydra gobbled him up in a single bite. 
The Faun gave a valiant effort but could not save him­self in this mythical mismatch. The second ranked Hydra pre­pares for its second round matchup. 
nyan 

Paul Bunyan, trekking from the great northern tundra, tow­ered over the arena, painting an imposing picture which lingered in the mind of his opponent on his way to victory. .Jack Frost, an icy, elemental force, made the first offensive strike, nipping at the nose of Bunyan. With one fell swoop of the ax, Frost's head was sheared from his body, leaving a bloody stump and a victorious lumberjack. 
The Boogeyman def. El Chupacabra 
In a close match between two terrors of the night, El Chupacabra, despite his physi­cal gifts, was quickly driven mad by the nightmares found in the eyes of the Boogeyman. Left cold and alone in the middle of the ring, El Chupacabra was carried away to spend the rest of his days in an asylum. 
The Werewolf def. the Hodag 
While sharing many similar 
tures, such as razor sharp 
ns and grotesque teeth, the 
If used his distinct size 
dvantage to overcome the Hodag. 
Suffering only minor injuries, the Werewolf tore the Hodag imb from limb, shaming the entire state of Wisconsin in the 
ocess. 

"New Jersey should be count­ing its blessings that I didn't ce their devil in the first 
The Gremlin def. the Loch Ness Monster 
In the first matchup of the brack­et which involved a sea creature, the Loch Ness Monster was unable to use this advantage to gain victory against the duplicating Gremlin. 
Nessie forced his opponent to enter the water to engage in com­bat, but was unaware of the first rule of Gremlins: don't let them get wet. The Gremlin quickly multi­plied, overtaking the Monster as one became thousands, leaving only bones at the bottom of the lake. 
The Yeti def. the Jersey Devil 

Because of its ability to fly, the Devil was able to hold out much longer than it has any right to, but in the end, using its strength to overcome, the Yeti was victorious. 
The Jersey Devil was shrouded in mystery as it made its appearance in the ring. At an underwhelming three and a half feet tall, he was far from the expected imposing figure. 
"I expected a much larger Devil," said the Yeti. "When I saw how scrawny he was, I knew I had the victory in the bag." . 
Swooping circles punctuated with sharp kicks from his hooves gave the Jersey Devil an early lead, but the match spiraled to an end when one dive swung too close, which allowed the Yeti to latch onto his enemy's wing; ending in an implo­sion of blood, cartilage and the snapping of bones. 

...... ..,..~
_ 

PaulBunvaa
-. -.. ----. . . 1 
Gn:mlin 
Y.U FOLKLORE 
__ }llwy~ Th-mab 
~-----~ 


I

S!pguatcb }------· 
The Tiyanak, a heavily favo three seed, turned in the most dis­appointing performance of th first round, falling to the ed Leprechaun. 
Seeing only a small chance victory, the Leprechaun prepare for the match by getting ..,..,.,,,,~--· 
sively drunk. As the match com­menced, the Leprechaun, in h drunken stupor, started to remove his clothes. While the Tiyanak waited, the Leprechaun then replaced his clothing, but in his impaired state, he unintentionally put them on inside-out. by its only weakness, the 
wandered into the water and drowned, leaving the Leprechaun both victorious and unconscious. 
The Sasquatch def. The Mermaid 
In another highly anticipated match at the water, the Sasqu~L.._.... was able to defeat the Merm surprisingly quickly. 
The Mermaid, attempting to stab with its trident, was ripped from the stream. Then, displaying all the agility of an elephant seal, the Mermaid was quickly ended by a heavy rock thrown by the vic­torious Sasquatch. 
The Genie def. the Jackalope 
The Jackalope, an abomin...,........ in the eyes of God, stood chance against the Genie's phe­nomenal cosmic powers. Second after the fight began, only a wis of smoke and a lamp remained. 

I 
f 

MISCELLA 
L. . J~ 

Friday, October 9, 2009 page 17 

e Balrog def. ·w1111~1t Vampire 
In the most fulfilling victory in the first round, the Balrog dominated the Sparkly Twilight Vampire, capitalizing on the S.T.V.'s weaknesses. 
The Balrog had trouble at first with the S.T.V.'s quickness, but was able to capture him 
· the fire whip as the S.T.V. was distracted by a nearby butterfly which tore at his emotions. Once in his grasp, the S.T.V. had no way to escape, and was defeated soundly. 
Giant def. the Phoenix 
Using his height, the Giant as able to overcome the 
Phoenix's flying ability on his ay to victory. The Phoenix took off immedi­
ately and attempted to gouge out the Giant's eyes with his iron talons, but the Giant grabbed the Phoenix out of the air, crushing it between his alms before depositing it in he lake. The Phoenix soon ose from the dead, but the 
iant had already been ruled rio us. 
"In short, I'm not pleased with the judge's decision," the Phoenix said after the match. 
The Ent def. Frankenstein 
The overpowering Ent acted quickly and used his size and strength to seal his victory, not allowing Frankenstein to use 
--. 
.--. ___ ,__,
GodUUa 
.i 
. t' 

LITERARY 
secret weapon. 
"My plan was to make a fire, 
something that, coincidentally, 
I discovered soon after I was 
given life," Frankenstein said. 
"He just reacted too quickly, 
and I had no chance against 
those huge limbs." 
Merlin def. the Dwarf 
Magic was might for Merlin as his spell-casting ability was more than enough to lead him to victory over the physically stronger but far less powerful Dwarf. 
The Dwarf tried to use brute strength right from the start, but Merlin used some quick staff work to bind the Dwarf and suspend him off the cliff until he conceded victory. 
"I felt disrespected by the 4­seed," said Merlin. "I think this performance proves that I'm a force to be reckoned with." 
The Centaur def. the Vampire 
In one of the best-fought bat­tles of the first round, the Centaur was able to avoid the Vampire's fanged attach and defeat him. 
"The Vampire is so hard to kill," the Centaur said. "I had to make a specially crafted arrow from a wooden stake and aim my shot carefully, right into the heart." 
The Vampire turned into a bat. attempting to get near enough for a bite, but the Centaur's speed and bow and 
arrow accuracy was too muc 
for him to overcome. 
Grendel def. the Gnome 
Using speed and brute 
strength much like that of a 
bear, Grendel was able to rip 
the Gnome limb from limb in 
one of the most dominatin 
performances of the firs 
round. 
"After Beowulf, that little 
thing was nothing," Grendel 
said. 

The Elf def. the Basilisk 
Outwitting the terrifying king of the serpents, the Elf elimi­nated the Basilisk's most dan­gerous weapon before defeat­ing it. 
Intelligently, the Elf hid in tree in the dense forest, fo the Basilisk to use his sense smell to try to discover his whereabouts. The Elf then fired two well-placed shots into the Basilisk's eyes, removi the threat of petrification. The blinded Basilisk was then an easy target for the highly accu­rate Elf. 
The Dragon def. the Goblin 
In the quickest battle of the first round, the Drago scorched the Goblin with i fire-breath only seconds after the match had begun. 
"Who's next?" the Dragon said, while enjoying his overly crispy dinner. 

1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7  
8  
~  9  
DuaBwuax  

lemon Demon -TheUltirnzftShowdown Avenged Se'lrll!i !fold-~Beest adtheHlllat 311 -Crearures (For a While) 
A.fJ.-Days ofthe Phoenix Bfink-182-Aliens Exist Social Distortion-Mol•••¥'sUttleMaA!r 
Th~ Might Be Giants-Boss ofMe Van Halen-Runnin'with ~Devil Fastball -Vampires Ted leo& The Pharmacists-rm a Ghost 
Sut't~ubu•  ~~.,... Mu.-my  led Zeppelin -TheBattle ofEvermore  
~NEOUS  Wookk Hdltiound Alkn ~or  Wookie ........ ~ Uaicoru .~~­·­MM.!lmm&abbil A.tiesa ~­Poke -Pftd.ator :z.ocubM  fw:ty ~barr~ of'*«ukonproponiotts r~IJWs in own thri/ing sountltnJd,and 5c::mt>~ mytholoqiallci'Nfll~ ~isno e«~lion. Whk ~ matche ~bt!!ing hekl in~ Ob5ervtttr staHroom. ~is what MIS blmting ~~ stM:"O systt"m. You mn ~ ~of rhisplaylisr ~IV7tt ~you holda  
~~  GMCUJi! ~  viciousdmfh motch in )IOCidotm mom,«just put II on~...,., )011 ~fPOIIy jackl!dupon  
I L  .~~  __, ___ r .~~--­---t... $k "'!•  Mountain CNwond~tJng ~olim""" in "GeoB ofMbr:  

uuu,.lla . the Dust Bunny 
Godzilla overcame an early 
eakness to blow away the 
underprepared Dust Bunny. 
The showdown commenced at 
igh noon in the plains area of 
he arena, where the Dust 
Bunny remained motionless 
hroughout the fight and 
watched as Godzilla was 
wracked with severe allergies. 
In end the dust Bunny's potent 
offense turned against it as a 
watery eyed and stuffy Godzilla 
let out a whale of a sneeze, 
scattering the Dust Bunny to 
e four winds. 
King Kong def. the Skeleton 
King Kong showed little 
weakness, easily handling the 
skeleton in round one. 
In one of the shortest matches 
of the first round, King Kong 
swiped once and the skeleton 
was spread across the field like 
butter across golden brown 
toast. The judges scrambled to 
md the remains, and are still 
arching for the left femur and 
ost of the right hand. 
Predator def. the Zombie 
Showing amazing hunting prowess, Predator killed the Zombie in four ways at the same time. 
Invisibly creeping up behind the Zombie, Predator simulta­neously cut off its head, stabbed it, hit it with the energy cannon and ripped out its brainstem. 
"I was just looking for a chal­
enge," Predator said. "Hopefully I find one at some point in the tournament." 
The Hellhound def. the Monty Python Rabbit 
The Hellhound took advan­tage of its arcane knowledge to dispense of the Monty Python Habbit. 
Lacking the Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch, things looked dark for the Hellhound throughout the early stages of the fight. It disappeared and reappeared constantly, staying barely one step in front of the relentless rabbit. The tide final­ly turned against the rabbit when the Hellhound brought the C-4 of Babylon into play, and the match was over soon after. 
The lcorn 
The Wookie took advantage 
its superior technology to power 
past the under-armed Unicorn. 
In a battle that had the poten 
tial to be closer than any 
would have imagined, th 
Wookie's energy bowcaste 
quickly reminded viewers wh 
the Wookie deserves its fift 
seed. After several minutes 
stalking through the woods, the 
Wookie fired a shot and stunned 
the unicorn. "ARRGRGRGRG," 
the Wookie said as he ran up and 
finished off the majestic crea­
ture, ending the contest. 
Alien def. the Poltergeist 
Alien adapted to new its envi­
ronment to oust the incorporeal 
Poltergeist. 
When the Alien was sucked 
in to a new dimension by the 
Poltergeist, it looked like curtains 
for the double-mouthed beast. It 
seems, however, that not only 
acid, but also ice runs through its 
veins. Quickly adapting to t · 
new environment, the Alie 
ripped into the Poltergeist, 
shredding its ectoplasm an 
sending it to its final rest. 
The Gargoyle def. the Banshee 
The Gargoyle utilized its ears of stone to triumph over the Banshee. 
The Banshee came out of the gates screaming, carrying out impressive offensive attack. Unfortunately it fell on deaf ears, and with no soft tissue to scram­ble with its piercing yell, the Gargoyle flew out of the sky, catching the Banshee unaware and ending the match with a sickening crunch. 
The Succubus def. Mummy 
The Mummy used a surprise army to annihilate Succubus in the highly anticipated first round match. 
With its sex drive long dead by a few millennia -the Mummy sidestepped the Succubus's most potent advan­tage, its ethereal beauty. 
"She just wasn't that appeal­ing to me," the Mummy said. 
After avoiding her one trap, the Mummy summoned the Armies of Anubis. and the jack­al headed warriors made short, bloody work of the Succubus. 
JACLYN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 

page 18 Friday, October 9, 2009 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 
Rockies take down Phillies to even out series 
Holliday's dropped catch late in the ninth gives Dodgers a two-run rally to win over the Cardinals 
Associated P~ 
By the time Cole Hamels rushed off to be with his preg­nant wife, his streak of postsea­son dominance was long over. 
Yorvit Torrealba hit a two­run homer, Aaron Cook pitched effectively into the sixth inning and the Colorado Rockies beat Hamels and the Philadelphia Phillies 5-4 Thursday to even their NL playoff series at a game apiece. 
Huston Street pitched out of trouble in the ninth to secure the win for Colorado. He retired Shane Victorino on a soft liner to second to leave the 
potential tying run - Game 1  
winner Cliff Lee  - at second  
base.  

"It was definitely a huge game for us," Cook said. "It's huge to go back home with the series tied." 
Hamels, the World Series and NLCS MVP last year, looked nothing like the guy who was brilliant during Philadelphia's championship run last October. The left-bander allowed four runs and seven hits in five innings. He didn't stick around after being pulled for a pinch hitter, heading to the hospital to join his wife, Heidi, who was in labor with the couple's first child. 
Was Hamels distracted on the mound? 
"It could've bothered him, yes," Phillies manager Charlie Manuel said. "He was con­cerned about his wife and his child. It's an exciting time, something you look forward to. It was probably on his mind." 
The best-of-five series shifts to Denver for Game 3 on 12 of his 15 outs on grounders or strikeouts. 
"His sinker was downhill and he was really working both sides of the plate," Torrealba said. 
After Lee turned in a master­ful performance in his playoff debut Wednesday, the Phillies were counting on Hamels to give them a commanding 2-0 series lead. But Hamels hasn't been the same pitcher since going 4-0 with a 1.80 ERA in five postseason starts last year. He was 10-11 with a 4.32 ERA this year, and now is 0-7 in day games. 
"His stuff was good," Manuel said. "He threw some close pitches. He was around the plate. His command could've been better." 
The Phillies are trying to become the first repeat cham­pions since the New York Yankees won three World Series in a row from 1998­2000. No NL team has done it since the Cincinnati Reds in 1975-76. 
For the second straight day, the Phillies had the largest crowd in the six-year history of Citizens Balik Park. There were 46,528 fans packed in the ball­park, waving their white-and­red "Fightin' Phils" towels. Now, there's no guarantee they'll see another game this year. 
Jayson Werth 's solo homer off Rafael Betancourt in the eighth got the Phillies within a run and whipped the fans into a frenzy. 
But Franklin Morales came in and retired Raul Ibanez on a sharp grounder. Street, who was 35 for 37 in save chances 
Saturday. Jason Hammel (1 0-8)  "Jt•s huge to go back  in the regular season, started  
will start for the  home with the series  the ninth.  
wild-card Rockies against a yet-to­ tied.··  He walked pinch-hitter  
be-announced  Matt Stairs with  
pitcher. Manuel  Aaron Cook  one  out.  Lee,  
said he'll use Joe Blanton or Pedro  Rockies pitcher  who became the first Phillies  
Martinez  .  J .A.  pitcher to steal  
Happ was a can- a  base in the  

didate before getting injured. postseason in Game 1, ran for 
Blanton pitched one inning in the slow-footed Stairs. After relief, allowing a run. Happ got Miguel Cairo flied to right, knocked out of the game when Jimmy Rollins singled to right. Seth Smith hit a hard liner off But Street got Victorino to end the lower part of his left leg. X­it. rays were negative. "It's huge," Torrealba said. 
"He was trying to stay out "Going back to Denver, that there, but he wasn't able to was our goal, if we can win at pitch," Manuel said. "I think least one game here -and we he'll be fine." did." 
Making his third start since a Trailing 4-0, the Phillies final­shoulder strain sidelined him ly got going in the sixth. for most of September, Cook Victorino led off with an infield allowed three runs and seven single and advanced to second hits in five-plus innings. The on second baseman Clint right-handed sinkerballer got Barmes ' throwing error. Chase Utley followed with a single and Ryan Howard lined an RBI dou­ble into the right-field corner, chasing Cook. 
Jose Contreras came in and struck out Werth. But Ibanez followed with a two-run single to cut it to 4-3. 
After Happ was forced out in the seventh, Scott Eyre came in with the bases loaded and nobody out. He struck out Carlos Gonzalez before Dexter Fowler 's sacrifice fly made it 5-3. Eyre retired Todd Helton to end the inning. 
The Rockies took a 3-0 lead in the fourth when Torrealba connected off Hamels. Torrealba had just two homers in 213 regular-season at-bats, but he ripped a hanging curve into the seats in left. 
Rockies manager Jim Tracy flip-flopped his top two hitters and it paid off right away. Gonzalez led off with a single. He stole second on an attempt­ed pickoff, easily beating first baseman Howard's double­clutch throw. 
Gonzalez advanced to third on Fowler's sacrifice and scored on Helton's 20-foot drib­bler down the first-base line, giving the Rockies their first lead of the series. 
Gonzalez singled his next time up in the third and was picked off again, but this time Howard quickly fired to second to get him. 
After Cook hit a one-out sin­gle in the fifth, Gonzalez lined a double to right-center. Fowler followed with a sacrifice fly to left to make it 4-0. 
Dodgers 3, Cardinals 2 
A sinking line drive sailed through the chilly evening air toward Matt Holliday. All he needed to do was make the catch, and St. Louis would have a series-tying victory. 
Instead, the ball smacked him in the gut and dropped to the grass -and the Cardinals never recovered. 
Holliday's crucial error with two outs in the ninth inning led to a two-run rally that gave the Los Angeles Dodgers a 3-2 vic­tory Thursday and put the Cardinals on the brink of play­off elimination. 
"I didn't see the ball," Holliday said. "Obviously, I can catch a ball that's hit right at me. It's very difficult to swal­low. We had a chance to win the game. It was unfortunate that it happened when it did." 
Ex-Cardinal Ronnie Belliard and pinch-hitter Mark Loretta came through with RBI singles off All-Star closer Ryan Franklin , giving the Dodgers a 2-0 lead in the best-of-five series. They can close it out with a sweep in Game 3 on Saturday in St. Louis. 

Holliday, who homered in the second inning, was a huge rea­son the Cardinals won the NL Central. Acquired from Oakland in a July trade, his hit­ting tear helped them cruise to the division title. Along the way, he committed one error in 63 regular-season games with his new team. 
But his fielding gaffe Thursday cost the Cardinals dearly. 
"It's about as tough a loss as you can have, except we still have an opportunity to play Saturday," manager Tony La Russa said. "Right now I think it's important .to get upset about the game that got away. We did a lot to win that one and didn't win it. Turn the page too quickly means you don't care." 
The Cardinals got a stellar performance from starter Adam Wainwright , who left with a 2-1 lead after eight innings. Still, St. Louis went home empty-handed after opening the series with two Cy Young Award contenders on the mound: Chris Carpenter and Wainwright. 
With the bases empty in the ninth, Holliday charged in on James Loney's shot to left field. But he couldn't make the play, allowing Loney to reach sec­ond. 
"That ball got lost in 50,000 white towels shaking in front of Matt's face," Wainwright said. "It doesn't really seem fair that an opposing team should be able to allow their fans to shake white towels when there's a white baseball flying through the air. How about Dodger Blue towels?" 
Franklin walked Casey Blake before Belliard singled up the middle, scoring pinch-runner Juan Pierre. A passed ball moved runners up to second and third, and Franklin walked Russell Martin on four pitches to load the bases. 
Loretta, batting for reliever George Sherrill , was 0 for 15 in his career against Franklin before fisting a soft single to center that drove in Blake. That triggered a huge celebra­tion, with teammates jumping on Loretta in a pile between first and second base. 
"Unfortunately, I did know the numbers," said Loretta, who signed with the Dodgers as a free agent in the offseason. "I really didn't have a lot of nerves. I felt like all the pres­sure was on them at that point. I was fortunate to find a little bit of fairway out there." 
The late rally was nothing new for the Dodgers. They won 23 regular-season games in their final at-bat, most in the National League, according to STATS LLC. 
"Until that last out, nobody ever gives up," Loretta said. "That's sort of been our modus this year. We started off 13-0, we had a bunch of these last­minute wins, so it obviously gives us some confidence in that situation." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt., no experience needed, cus­tomer sales/service, 
57 4-273-3835 
FoR RENT 
andersonND rentals.com HOUSES 
2 bdrm apt. close to NO. Utilities not incl. 
Call313-382-0536 or 574·386­3896. 54684 Twyckenham. 
TICKETS 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top $$. 57 4·251 ·1570 VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 
574·232-0964 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574·276-8507. 
FoR SALE 
Ford 79 T·Bird, 45K miles. Orig. Owner, $8,000, 
574-299·0925 
FoR SALE 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis· tance. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1·7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NO's website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
If your or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu 
Kevin:What does a bean mean? 

Pam Beesly:Why aren1 there any beans on this very old, frizzy-haired picture of me? 
Kevin:Michael, what does a bean mean. 
Pam Beesly:Jim? 
Jim Halpert: I was just trying to be unbiased. Kevin :WHAT DOES A BEAN 
MEAN. 
Oscar:Would someone please explain to Kevin? Meredith :Why can1 you? My time is 
just as valuable as yours. Phyllis:Not according to the beans. 


OUNDTHE 
ATION 
CoMPilED FROM THE 0BSERVE~S WIRE SERVICES 
Friday, October 9, 2009 page 19 
NFL 

NCAA Men's Soccer NSCAA Division I Rankings 
team  prel'ious  
1  Akron  1  
2  North Carolina  5  
3  South Florida  6  
4  UCLA  4  
5  California  1  
6  Wake Forest  3  
7  UC Santa Barbara  11  
8  Harvard  8  
9  Duke  14  
10  Monmouth  10  
11  Maryland  2  
12  Louisville  11  
13  Virginia  12  
14  Indiana  9  
15  Charlotte  22  
16  Boston Univel'lity  16  
17  Portland  21  
18  North Carolina State  24  
19  Brown  23  
20  Old Dominion  19  
21  Northwestern  25  
22  Drake  RV  
23  Stanford  20  
24  Dartmouth  RV  
25  UMBC  18  

NCAA Women's Soccer NSCAA Division I Rankings 
team  previous  
1  Stanford  1  
2  North Carolina  2  
3  UCLA  3  
4  Portland  4  
5  Florida State  5  
6  Boston College  6  
7  South Carolina  8  
8  NOTRE DAME  10  
9  Purdue  12  
10  Rutgers  13  
11  Wake Forest  9  
12  Virginia Tech  RV  
13  LSU  23  
14  Florida  7  
15  Santa Clara  11  
16  UCF  21  
17  Texas A&M  16  
18  Georgia  22  
19  Maryland  24  
20  Arizona State  19  
21  California  14  
22  St. John's  17  
23  Southern California  RV  
24  Connecticut  RV  
25  Ohio St.  15  

NCAA Women's Volleyball AVCA Division I Coaches Poll 
team  
1  Penn State  
2  Texas  
3  Washington  
4  Hawaii  
5  Minnesota  
6  Florida  
7  Stanford  
B  Michigan  
9  Nebraska  
10  Kentucky  


points 
1485 
1441 1394 1320 
1207 
1090 
1073 
1046 952 
883 
around the dial 
MLB Playoffs 
Twins at Yankees 6 p.m., TBS 
Golf 
Presidents Cup 
2 p.m., GOLF 
IN BRIEF 

NHL fines Maple Leafs 
for tampering violation 
NEW YORK -The NHL fined the Toronto Maple Leafs an undisclosed amount after ruling that coach Ron Wilson was guilty of tampering when he expressed interest in Vancouver Canucks forwards Henrik and Daniel Serlin before they reached free agency. 
NHL deputy commissioner Bill Daly announced the penalty Wednesday in a news release. Wilson made refer­ence to the Canucks twins during an interview when they were still under contract with the Canucks. Both play­ers reached new deals to stay with Vancouver. 
A separate charge by the Canucks against the Maple Leafs wa!) dis­missed by the NHL. 
Vancouver general manager Mike Gillis was upset after a recent Leafs TV segment showed Toronto GM Brian Burke talking about a rumored Vancouver-Tampa Bay trade." 
Hasselbeck P.robable for 
start at Jacksonville 
RENTON, Wash. -All signs are pointing toward Matt Hasselbeck returning to quarterback the reeling Seahawks on Sunday against Jacksonville. 
The three-time Pro Bowl passer looked sharp while completing a sec­ond consecutive practice Thursday. It's his first work since he broke a rib Sept. 20 on a dive for the goal line at San Francisco. 
The team officially listed him as limited on the daily practice report it filed to the league. Hasselbeck took the majority of snaps with the first­team offense, with backup Seneca Wallace left with only a few. 
Hasselbeck didn't look very limited to top receiver Nate Burleson. He expects Hasselbeck to be throwing to him Sunday. 
"Yeah, he wouldn't be taking as many reps as ~e has this week if he wasn't," Burleson said. 
Bradford still questionable
for start against Baylor 
NORMAN, Okla.-Oklahoma coach Bob Stoops is waiting another day to make a decision on whether Heisman Trophy winner Sam Bradford will play against Baylor on Saturday. 
Stoops had said at the start of the week that he didn't plan to announce whether Bradford would play until Thursday. But Sooners spokesman Kenny Mossman said Thursday that Stoops had put off th~ decision until Friday. 
Bradford has missed the past three games for No. 19 Oklahoma (2-2) with a sprained AC joint in his right, throwing shoulder. 
Redshirt freshman Landry Jones has started in place of Bradford, win­ning back-to-hack shutouts against Idaho State and Tulsa before a 21-20 loss at Miami last week. 
Bradford has said he hoped to play this week to prepare for next week's game against No. 2 Texas. 

Associated Press 

SANTA CLARA, Calif. ­Michael Crabtree is confi­dent he can play a big role for the San Francisco 49ers as a rookie even though he's months behind. He will get his chances in an offense that could really use him. 
Crabtree signed a six-year contract early Wednesday after a drawn-out negotia­tion process that had some wondering whether the star wide receiver would ever show up this season. 
"It's a lot of relief ofT my shoulders," Crabtree said when formally introduced at team headquarters. 
While specific terms of the deal, which was completed around 2 a.m. Wednesday, were not disclosed, Crabtree ~ill receive nearly $17 mil­lion in guaranteed money, according to a person famil­iar with the contract. The person spoke on condition of anonymity because the details weren't made public. 
Crabtree headed out Wednesday for his first practice as the 49ers pre­pare for Sunday's home game against Atlanta. 
"Everybody came to a reachable agreement and it happened," Crabtree said, sporting a red No. 15 prac­tice jersey and charcoal gray sweats. ''I'm just glad I'm past that part. I'm very humble right now, man, it's a very humbling experience. Just getting a chance to sit back and better myself as a person, as a player, as a teammate.... I feel like going through that it made me look at the world in a different way, look at my teammates a different way. Hopefully it will work out for the best." 

The agreement was first reported by ESPN.com. Coach Mike Singletary called it a "fair deal for both parties involved." 
The former Texas Tech star was the only draft pick who hadn't signed -and even rapper MC Hammer got involved to finally make it happen. 
Crabtree could provide the game-breaking receiv­ing threat the 49ers have been lacking, assuming he can quickly learn the offense after missing all of training camp. The lOth pick overall, he also sat out offseason minicamps and organized team activities while recovering from a foot injury, but was a regular presence at the team's training facility. 
Before Wednesday, Singletary had spoken to Crabtree just once since breaking offseason work­outs in June. 
Crabtree and his agent, Eugene Parker, met with three top 49ers officials Tuesday to work through his contract impasse. Crabtree balked at a long-standing offer of approximately five years and $20 miJlion, with a reported $16 million guar­anteed. 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 
Tigers' GM upset with Cabrera 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -Tigers general manager Dave Dombrowski spoke to the media for more than an hour Thursday about last season and next year. 
The first question and many more that followed were about Miguel Cabrera's ·infamous weekend. 
"We know he made a mis­take. He knows he made a mis­take," Dombrowski said. "I feel confident that he going to address the issues he needs to address to take care of the problems that he has. Those issues will remain personal and private." 
Cabrera, the slugging first baseman with a $152 million contract, got drunk enough between Friday night's. game and Saturday morning to have what police said was 0.26 blood-alcohol reading and a bruised and cut left cheek. 
Authorities said he got in a fight with his wife, who called 
911. He was taken to a police station, where Dombrowski picked him up. 
Dombrowski acknowledged being angry and sad to get a call at 7:30 a.m. Saturday-in the middle of a key series against Chicago with the American League Central title largely Detroit's for the taking ­-to pick up Cabrera. 
Still, he said it wasn't unprecedented in baseball or elsewhere. 
"This isn't the first time this has happened, not with him but with players, it's just that you don't know about the other ones," Dombrowski told reporters. "I would gather there's probably somebody out here that has come to work and had a little bit of a hangover at some time." 

Cabrera likely still had some alcohol in his system when he played the White Sox on Saturday night -going 0-4 with runners on base for each at-bat -but Dombrowski said the team stands by putting him in the lineup. 
"The feeling was that he was capable of playing in the game," Dombrowski said. 
The Dombrowski-led Tigers have some key decisions to make in the offseason. 
Closer Fernando Rodney, sec­ond baseman Placido Polanco and shortstop Adam Everett are all eligible for free agency. 
"We have some good players that are becoming free agents," Dombrowski said. "We still have to sit down with the owner on what we're going to do there. We have a complicat­ed formula this year because we have a lot of dollars spent, and some young players we think are ready to step in and help us." 
"We are not going to be able to keep all of our players," Dombrowski added. "But I'm not ready to declare who we are and who we are not going to pursue." 
The clutch-hitting, strong-
fielding Polanco hopes to return to play for the Tigers, but he might have to go else­where for more than a one­year contract. 
"I would love to come back, but I do not control the situa­tion," Polanco said Thursday in a telephone interview with The Associated Press. "I had a great time on and off the field with the Detroit Tigers." 
Dombrowski said if Polanco isn't back, prospect Scott Sizemore likely will be Detroit's second baseman. 
The Tigers aren't sure if they have a player in their organiza­tion who could be a closer next year, but they might not be able to afford to keep Rodney after he had 37 saves in 38 chances. 
"It only takes one club to give a tremendous deal," Dombrowski said. 
The Tigers had a seven-game lead with less than a month left in the season and became the first team to miss out on the playoffs after having a three­game lead with four games left. Detroit's season ended Tuesday night at Minnesota with a 6-5 loss in 12 innings in the divi­sion tiebreaker. 
Dombrowski said he never thought the 2009 Tigers were a powerhouse, but acknowledged it was tough to come so close to winning the division. 
"When you're in first place from May 1Oth and you lose on the last day of the season, it's heartbreaking," Dombrowski said. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
OSU WR ruled ineligible 
Bryant did not disclose interaction with former NFL player 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY --All­America wide receiver Dez Bryant has been ruled ineligi­ble by Oklahoma State, four days before the 15th-ranked Cowboys' first Big 12 game. 
The university announced Wednesday that Bryant "failed to openly disclose to the NCAA the full details of his interac­tion with a former NFL player not affiliated with OSU." 
Oklahoma State (3-1) said it had already begun the process of asking the NCAA to rein­state Bryant for the violation of bylaw 1O.l(d), which pro­hibits players from knowingly providing false information to the NCAA regarding a possible rules violation. 
However, NCAA spokes­woman Stacey Osburn said no student-athlete reinstatement request had been received from OSU. She said it is NCAA policy not to comment on cur­rent, pending or potential investigations. 
The NFL player was Deion Sanders. Sanders told the New York Times the suspension stemmed from a day he and Bryant spent together last summer. They met at an ath­letics centBr in frisco, Tex., and later had dinner at Sanders's home in Prosper. Tex. 
"I made a mistake by not being entirely truthful when meeting with the NCAA," Bryant said in a statement released by the university. "I sincerely regret my mistake 
and apologize to my team­mates, coaches, OSU fans and the NCAA." 
A top NFL prospect, Bryant caught 87 passes for 1,480 yards and 19 touchdowns last season while also scoring twice on punt returns. He's the only one of last year's three finalists for the Biletnikoff Award that is still in school. 
This season, Bryant leads the team with 17 catches for 323 yards and four touchdowns. He left Oklahoma State's 41-24 win against Rice after taking a hard hit and sat out a 56-6 staffs, any employee of the university, alumni, donors, or any third-party affiliated with 

OSU." 
Beyond that, the university said it would have no further comment. 
Without Bryant, Oklahoma State's receiving corps is made up of unproven players who had combined for only five 
"We are certainly disappointed, but we are moving forward as we would with any challenge during the 
,.
season. 
Mike Gundy Oklahoma State Coach 
catches prior to this season. Former starters Jeremy Broadway and Damian Davis were kicked off the team after last season, and Bo Bowling was sus­pended after being charged with possession of marijuana and an anabolic steroid. He has pleaded 

win against Grambling State two weeks ago. 
"The Cowboys were off last week and open conference pI a y Satu r day morn i ng at Texas A&M (3-1 ). 
Bryant's availability for Saturday's game was uncer­tain, though coach Mike Gundy has declined to com­ment on specifics of the receiver's injury. 
"We are certainly disap­pointed, but we an~ moving forward as we would with any challenge during the season," Gundy said in a statement. 
Oklahoma Statf~ said the sit­uation "does not involve any­Ollf\ associated with the OSU football or athletic department not guilty and is awaiting trial. 
That has forced a group of inexperienced players, includ­ing sophomore Josh Cooper, junior college transfer Dameron Fooks and redshirt freshmen Isaiah Anderson and Justin Blackmon to help an offense that's also been with­out all-Big 12 tailback Kendall Hunter (ankle). 
"When it's their time, they've got to do it. Defenses are going to play you a little bit different with or without Dez, or with or without Kendall and where they're playing (quarterback) Zac (Hobinson)." offensive coordi­nator Gunter Brewer said ear­lier this week. 
Friday, October 9, 2009 
NFL 

Jets'WR fitting in with teammates 
Associated Press 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. Braylon Edwards spent most of his first few hours with the New York Jets meeting his new teammates and coaches and digging into the play­book. 
Just over 24 hours after being traded from Cleveland, the wide receiver was on the practice field for the Jets and already feeling like one of the guys. 
"It's just a fresh start for me being in a situation where everything is moving in the right direction," Edwards said Thursday. "It's great for me to be a part of something like this. It's good for me, for my mental, for my physical, and I'm expecting to play well in this system." 
Edwards, wearing a white No. 17 jersey, caught passes from rookie Mark Sanchez, as well as backups Erik Ainge and Kevin O'Connell in early drills. 
"He looked tall," coach Rex Ryan said of the 6-foot-3 Edwards. "He's big, fast; he's everything." 
He's at least everything the Jets had been missing in their receiving corps. Sorely in need of a big deep threat, New York acquired Edwards 
o n Wednesday 
carryover." And, that comfort level showed. 
"He was really pretty smooth, to be honest with you, for a first day," tight end Dustin Keller said. "It seemed like he had been doing this for a little while. We know he's just going to get that much better and open things up for us." 
Edwards' best season came in 2007, when he had 80 catches for 1,289 yards and 16 touchdowns. He hopes to return to that elite status, and thinks the first step is developing a solid rapport with Sanchez. 
"Mark is the guy here," he said. "Mark's c~lling the shots. The big thing for me is to just stay on his page, see how he likes to call plays, how he likes to throw passes, his hots, his sights. I really want to get a feel for him." 
Edwards said he met Indianapolis wide receiver Reggie Wayne at the Pro Bowl following the 2007 season and asked him what the key to his success with Peyton Manning was. Wayne told him that he and Manning spent so much time together they "know each other like the back of our hands." 
"For us two young guys," 
Edwards said, 
"that's what we 

for wide "It's good for me, for need to do." receiver Edwards has
my mental, for my
Chansi one year remain­
physical, and I'm
Stuckey, line­ing on his exist­backer Jason expecting to play well ing contract, and Trusnik and in this system. ,, the Jets have two undis­said they won't closed draft offer a new deal choices. Braylon Edwards during this sea­Edwards Jets wide receiver son. Edwards 
will start opposite Jerricho Cotchery in New York's next game Monday night at Miami. Ryan is excit­ed about how his new receiv­er's presence will open things up for the entire offense. 
"If you're going to put nine guys down there or eight guys down there, then we have a chance to run Cotchery and him straight down the field," Ryan said. "We've got one-on­one matchups and we like them on both sides." 
Edwards, in his fifth season, had 10 receptions for 139 yards and no scores for the winless Browns. He has familiarity with the Jets' offensive system because it's similar to what former Browns offensive coordinator Rob Chudzinski ran. Jets offensive coordinator Brian Schottenheimer worked for a few years in San Diego with Chudzinski. 
"It went well with the ter­minology," Edwards said. "That's the big thing coming over to a new system. Can you get it? Can you learn it? It went real well today. I feel pretty confident." · 
Schottenheimer said he has no concerns that Edwards will be ready to go against the Dolphins. 
"He's a really sharp guy," Schottenheimer said. "He's ahead, just because a lot of the stuff that we call things he's heard it called the same thing bdore. It's not 100 per­cent, but there's quite a bit of 
said that's fine 
with him. 
"I think the biggest thing for me is knowing that right now I'm just playing through the end of this season," he said. "There's nothing guar­anteed. It's not about a con­tract. It's about going out there and proving every play that I deserve to be here and I deserve to be the guy that he's throwing the ball to." 
Edwards' character has come under fire because of a series of off-field problems, including his alleged involve­ment in a nightclub fight early Monday morning in Cleveland. His unhappiness with losing with the Browns, and questions about his desire to play football also dogged him. 
"I don't even want to talk about what I've experienced because that's over with," he said. "Cleveland is Cleveland and now I'm in New York. It's just fun." 
Lapses in concentration also led to Edwards dropping some passes in games, a rep­utation he's trying to elimi­nate. 
"He had one drop today, so I'm sure we'll focus on that," Ryan said with a laugh. "He caught about 50 balls and dropped one. It was funny because right when hf' did drop one, I was like, 'Oh, boy.' He's going to drop some passes. He's human, just like anybody else, but I don't think we need to be ovPrly concerned if he drops a ball." 

Friday, October 9, 2009 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
NBA 
Shaq 
• g yoga in offseason 
Associated Press 
INDEPENDENCE, Ohio -Shaquille O'Neal has made a career out of twisting around opposing centers. 
Now he is doing it to him­self. 
After a summer of boxing, football, beach volleyball and swimming, Shaq has a new hobby -yoga. He attended his first class at a suburban Cleveland studio on Wednesday night. 
''I'm the worst yoga student in the history of yoga," O'Neal said Thursday. 
His massive 7-foot-1, 325­pound frame needed two mats, according to Tami Schneider, owner of Cleveland Yoga in Beachwood. She was O'Neal's instructor for the class and is special ordering a 100-inch mat for her new stu­dent, who promised he'll be back. 
"He's got some tight ham­strings," Schneider said. "He's obviously a big, strong man. He told me he doesn't stretch very often and that was pretty apparent. I'm looking forward to working with him to get him into some deeper stretch­es." 
O'Neal was interested in Schneider's "hot yoga" class, which is practiced in a room heated to between 85 and 90 degrees. It's designed to puri­fy the body and make the body sweat, release toxins 
and enhance stretching. 
That's important to O'Neal, 
who needed some modifica­
tions for a few of the exercis­
es, like crossing one thigh 
over the other. 
"His thighs are gigantic and so strong, they're as big as my whole body," Schneider said. "So he was able to cross his ankles and that was just fine." 
For a forward bend, stu­dents are instructed to reach down to the ground in front of them. O'Neal needed blocks to bring the floor closer to him. 
Still, Schneider said O'Neal is not the worst yoga student she's seen in her 12 years. 
"Not at all," she said. "He came in just like a regular guy. He was alone, which was nice, and he seemed to feel right at home at the studio. He fit right in." 
O'Neal spent the offseason filming his reality show "Shaq Vs," in which he competed against various top athletes in their sports. He traded punch­es with Oscar De La Hoya, intercepted Ben Roethlisberger passes and even swam against Olympic gold medalist Michael Phelps. 
Teammates already have remarked that O'Neal looks to be in terrific shape, which he credits to a summer in the pooL 
Now the 37-year-old wants to work on his flexibility. 
"You just want to stay loose. You have to do different 
things to stay loose," O'Neal 
said. "I have a lot of time on 
my hands because I'm new to 
the city and I don't have any 
hangout spots yet." 
0' Neal was traded to the 
Cavaliers over the summer 
and already likes what he 
sees on his new team. He has 
won four NBA titles, but 
thinks this Cavaliers team 
could be the best yet. 
"It's probably the best team I've ever played on, on paper anyway," O'Neal said. "I've always been on management to get me the power forward I've needed and the shooters I've needed." 
With O'Neal and Kobe Bryant, the Lakers went 67­15 and won a championship in 2000. 
The Cavaliers won 66 games last season, but added O'Neal, Anthony Parker and Jamario Moon after losing to Orlando in the Eastern Conference finals. 
O'Neal said he likes having guys like Zydrunas Ilgauskas and Anderson Varejao with him in the post, along with shooters like LeBron James and Mo Williams. 
"When the big fella talks, you have to listen because he's been around a long time and his resume speaks for itself," coach Mike Brown said. "He's been on a lot of teams. If he says that, it's something that has to be heard." 
NFL 

Patriots' Taylor sitting out at practice, game 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. -Oft­injured running back Fred Taylor is sidelined again and could need surgery on his right ankle after leading the New England Patriots in rushing this season. 
Taylor is expected to miss Sunday's game at the Denver Broncos after sitting out his second straight day of practice Thursday amid an ESPN.com report that he needs surgery. He would play again this sea­son unless there are complica­tions, the report said. 

Patriots spokesman Stacey James said he was not aware that Taylor needs surgery. Taylor's agent, Drew Rosenhaus, did not respond to a phone call and e-mail from the Associated Press. 
Taylor, in his first season with New England after spending 11 with the Jacksonville Jaguars, was hurt on his final carry of Sunday's 27-21 win over the Baltimore Ravens, a 3-yard run with 5:09 left in the game. He limped off the field. 
Taylor finished that game with a team-high 25 yards on seven carries one week after gaining 105 yards on 21 attempts in a 26-10 win over the Atlanta Falcons. 
He has 201 yards on 45 car­ries as part of a four-man backfield rotation with Sammy Morris, Laurence Maroney and Kevin Faulk. Another running back, BenJarvus Green-Ellis, has been inactive for three of the Patriots' four games but could play Sunday. 
The Patriots signed Taylor in the offseason as a free agent after he and Maurice Jones­Drew shared time with Jacksonville. On the first day of training camp July 30, Taylor discussed his past injuries. 
"I reallv never worried about the naysayers," he said. "I used it as motivation. \'\'hen I would go behind closed doors, I'd work a little harder, thinking that they called me Fragile Fred. I knew I was never frag­ile. I had a little bit of misfor­tune, that's about it." 
ERASMus BooKs 

• uv:·d iJnoks. t-•~;.u9h~ end s.dd 
• '). ~,~ (;~!.(:'}ora;~!' qf (look~~ • 2~.(H}('~ HJtdb.)d; ,)f1:;i 
P.apcrtMrk b-o-r.:'l~''i m )t>',:;,(t ., Out of Pnnt S('~F(h s.('P' {e .. Appt<?it).;1 h k<f'Jf' <l-f'ld ~;m<HI 
(lPEN noon to six Tut"~da}' fh~ounh SundayI 0.27 f:. \~~lY.nt:­South llt!nd, aN· 4b!:~ 17 23i«H444 
·· World VIew •s an initiative from the Office of the President to promote constructive ~UNIVERSITY OF 
~DEBARTOLO
WNOTREDAME ~ PERfORMING AKTS CENTER
dralogue about issues of race. class, ethnicity, religion, and gender through the arts. 
Office of the Preiident 
~~---­

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 9, 2009 

NFL 

Manningsitting out, Carr ready to play 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -With 79 career starts, David Carr knows how much Eli Manning wants to be on the field calling the plays when the New York Giants meet the Oakland Raiders on Sunday. 
Manning's teammates say he's a com petitur who will play if he's able. Carr wants to be out there just as much, and his chances of playing this 

..We're down a lot of
weekend seem­Minnesota ingly improved gu.ys now and I think and was 8 when Manning for 11 for
everyone on the side 
missed his second 110 yards
wants to be out there
straight practice and a touch­on Thursday with to help the team." down. an injured right "It's got to heel. be frustrat­
David Carr 
After practice, ing for a guy
Giants quarterback 
coach Tom that started 
page after working together the past six years. He said he can look at Manning and the quarterback can aim os t immediately sense what is wrong and go back on the field and act like a coach in the huddle, conveying Gilbride's concerns to the offense. 
Carr's most extensive play with the Giants carne in the final regular-season game last year. He took over in the second half against 
Coughlin declined to predict whether Manning would be able to start his 83rd straight game, saying only that that inflam­mation in Manning's heel was feeling better. 
A decision on whether Manning plays may not be made until Sunday. 
The No. 1 overall draft pick in 2002, Carr isn't worried. He told himself that he was going to be the starter after Manning was hurt last Sunday in a win over Kansas City, and the worst that can happen is he doesn't. 
"You have to prepare your­self one way or you are going to be riding a rollercoaster all week," said Carr, who last started a game in 2007 for the Carolina Panthers. He was 10 for 22 for 95 yards passing and two intercep­tions in a loss to New Orleans. 
He came to the Giants as to just be on 

the sidelines, 
and now he 
has a chance," Gilbride said. "So I think if I was him, and what I have observed looking at him, he seems genuinely excited about this opportuni­ty." 
For the first two days of practice, Carr has gotten the chance to throw to Steve Smith · and Mario Manningharn, to hand off to Brandon Jacobs and to play behind a. first-team offensive line that has started 36 straight games. 
"It's nice to play with the toys," Carr said. "Sometimes you feel like the brother who doesn't get to play with all he cool stuff." 
Carr admits he has come a long way since his rookie season with the Houston Texans, when he was sacked 76 times, an 
Manning's backup "J expect !Carr] to do NFL record. last season and "It's not
well. I would be
has been mostly even close
disappointed ifhe
an understudy. for me men­lie appeared in doesn •t play well., tally," Carr three games last said. "I feel season and two like a totally
Kevin Gilbride 
this year, all off different 
the bench. Giants offensive quarterback "I am sure he coordinator as far as 
wants to play really bad, proba­bly as bad as I want to play," Carr said of Manning. "It's the same for every competi­tor, every guy who wants to be on the field. Everybody gets hurt. We're down a lot of guys now and I think every­one on the side wants to be out there to help the team." 
Giants offensive coordina­tor Kevin Gilbride has no doubts about Carr. lie said the eight-year veteran knows the Giants offense, but he might not be as familiar with some of its subtleties as Manning, who has been the starting quarterback since midway through the 2004 season. 
"I expect him to do well," Gilbride said. "I would be disappointed if he doesn't play well." 
Gilbride said the biggest difference is that he and Manning are on the same what to 

expect, my 
preparations, 
how I go about the game is a whole lot different than then. I guess it's what you learn going through the things I have gone through, except I'm a better player." 
He also has a solid offen­sive line, so there is no need to duck and cover after every pass. 
"If my number is called l will go out there and have lot of fun," Carr said. "We have a lot of great players on this team. We are on a win streak. Guys are feeling good and I want to be a part of it. It was good to get out there and throw some ball with those guys and sweat. It kind of felt like the old days." 
The difference from his days in Houston, of course, is that if Carr starts fur the 4-0 Giants, he'll be expected to win. 

Dance nonstop with OJ BREEZE Featuring RicheUe: Exclusive Dancer from GraffitiDancers in Chicago 
PRE-PARTY WITH OJ BREEZE AND GRAFFITI DANCERS FROM CHICAGO THtS THURSDAY FROM tOPM TO 2 AM 
119 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
www.clubNOMA.com 233.4959 
NQMA 
Please recycle The Observer. 
.. 
Friday, October 9, 2009 page 23 
The Observer + SPORTS 
GOLF 
Americans in lead as Presidents Cup begins 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -One putt changed everything except the lead Thursday in the Presidents Cup. 
The Americans were poised to seize control in the opening session of foursomes at Harding Park, already assured of the lead and on the verge of winning the final match for a two-point advantage. 
Justin Leonard had a 3-foot birdie putt to win -a putt he first thought had been conced­ed -and was stunned when the putt caught the right edge of the cup and spun away. 
The match was halved, and the Americans had to settle for a 3 1/2-2 1/2 advantage. 
"We wanted to get out of the day with pretty close to a push, and I'm very, very happy," International captain Greg Norman said. 
He was fortunate for that. 
Tiger Woods and Steve Stricker were dominant from the start, playing bogey-free in the difficult alternate-shot for­mat and teaming up for six birdies in a 6-and-4 victory over Geoff Ogilvy and 18-year­old Ryo Ishikawa. 
Phil Mickelson and Anthony Kim came to life late, closing with four straight birdies to give the Americans the first point of the matches with a 3­and-2 victory over Mike Weir and Tim Clark. 
The momentum switched to American red on the score­board late on the cloudy, cool afternoon on this public course south of San Francisco. The final push figured to come from Leonard and Jim Furyk, who made a furious rally in the mid­dle of the match and surged ahead of Retief Goosen and Y.E. Yang, 2 up with two holes to play. 
Goosen holed a birdie putt on the 17th to send the match to the par-5 18th, and the South African missed the green to the right. Leonard hit a splendid fairway metal to the middle of the green, setting up what appeared to be a two-putt birdie. 
Furyk lagged to 3 feet, the International team got up-and­down for birdie, and Goosen looked over at Furyk as if won­dering why Leonard even need­ed to putt. Eventually, the South African realized the putt meant something. 
Did it ever. 
The Americans were ready to celebrate another point. The International team was pre­pared for another big deficit. 
"I just hit a bad putt," Leonard said. "I knew I was going to need to make that little putt. Unfortunately, I missed it." 
Norman said there was no gamesmanship on Goosen's 

Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Tampa Bay's Tanard Jackson is practicing again after serving a four-game suspension for violating the NFL's substance abuse policy. 
The third-year safety is eligi­ble to be activated for Sunday's game at Philadelphia, however coach Raheem Morris said Thursday a nnal decision has not been made on whether he'll play against the Eagles. 


DQuble Order $13.49
Mishawaka 

(enough for twQ) 
4810 Grape Road 


Single.Order $7.99 
574-271-1330 

part. 
"He thought the match was over," Norman said. "He didn't concede the putt, he just thought the match was over. It was a legitimate mistake, and no intent or malice. It was just the intensity ofthe game." 
Next up are six more matches Friday, this time fourballs. 
Two years ago, the International team failed to win a match in the opening session and fell five points behind. This is one time a tie-the halve in the final match -felt far bet­ter. It goes into the second round with a fighting chance. 
Both teams and captains were around for the finish, and Norman couldn't help but notice how Leonard went from hitting a clutch shot from the middle of the fairway to miss­ing a short putt for the victory. 
"It's a cruel game," Norman said. 
In the seven previous 
Presidents Cup, only once has a team trailing after the first ses­sion gone on to win -the U.S. team in 2005. The Americans also trailed by one point in 2003 in South Africa, where the cup ended in a tie. 
Ishikawa had said he and Ogilvy would be facing the Americans' best team, and he was right. Woods and Stricker proved to be a tough combina­tion of Woods' pure iron shots and Stricker's sure putting. 
Woods got them going with an 18-foot birdie putt on the opening hole, while Stricker closed out a flawless front nine with a 30-foot birdie putt on the par-3 ninth. 
Weir and Clark, the only part­nership that failed to make a single birdie, still managed a 1­up lead through 12 holes because of the wild play of Kim, who is missing some of his swagger from the Ryder Cup last year. 
NFL 
Bucs'Jackson practicing again 
A fourth-round draft pick in 2007, Jackson is the only defen­sive player in franchise history to start every game in his first two seasons. His suspension was announced during training camp and further weakened a secondary that was already relying on two new young starters. 
While he was out, the Bucs lost veteran safety Jermaine Phillips for the season with a broken thumb and have yielded six pass plays of 40-plus yards -five of them for touchdowns. 
'Td like to think I could have made a difference," said Jackson, who returned to prac­tice on Wednesday. 
"It's good to see him back. I'm sure it was hard enough on him watching this team lose football games without being here," Morris said. 
"We don't have to make a decision until the end of the week whether he's going to be up this week or not. We've got the one-game exemption. But we'll go to the end of the week and see whether hp,'s ready to play or not, and how good a shape he's in." 
When Jackson rejoins the lineup. sixth-year pro Will Allen will return to the bench and restore some of the depth the Bucs have lacked safety since Phillips, who began training camp at weakside linebacker, was injured on Sept. 20. 
The 24-year-old said he split time between Tampa and Syracuse, where he played in college, during the suspension. He declined to discuss the spe­cific reason he was disciplined, saying he had apologized to teammates and family and is eager to move on. 
"I could sit here and go on forever as to how much I learned. The main thing is that this is what I love to do, this is what I'm blessed to do," Jackson said, adding that it was extremp,ly tough watching the games on television. 
"I definitely felt I let my team down. I disappointed myself, but your actions affect others around you, and that's one thing that hit home," Jackson said. 
Morris, who was Tampa Bay's defensive backs eoach before becoming the NFL's youngest head coach in January, picked Jackson up from the airport this week and had a long conversa­tion with the safety. 
The coach said the player paid for his mistake. Now, it's up to Jackson to make the most of the opportunity to resume his career. 
"lie apologized before he left and told us he was going to come back and clean up his life and do everything that needed to be done," Morris said. 
Jackson described the conver­sation with Morris as a long positive talk. 
"He is just happy to have me back," the safety said. "Just as happy as I am to be back." 

Write Sports. E-mail Matt at rngarnber@nd.edu 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 9, 2009 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish take on Cincinnati, Louisville at home 
Not-re Dame looking to continue its undefeated conference record in back-to-back matches this weekend 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Normally the fourth confer­ence game of the year in the beginning of October is not a date Irish fans mark on their calendars. But with sole own­ership of first place in the Big East and an undefeated con­ference record on the line, Saturday's matchup against Cincinnati should turn some heads in the direction of the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame (9-4, 3-0 Big East) will face its toughest test of the season when it wel­comes conference foes Cincinnati (12-7, 3-0) and Louisville (9-7, 2-1) for a weekend of elite action. The Irish are off to their best start since 2005 when the team recorded 12 wins through the first 13 matches of the season. 
"It's been a combination of several things," coach Debbie Brown said. "I think we have a really strong work ethic on the team, which over time the team is just going to get bet­ter and better. I think our pre­conference schedule definitely prepared us well for anything we're going to see in the Big East." 
Losses to LSU, No. 19 Florida State and No. 8 Michigan may not make the highlight reel at the end of the year, but the Irish are certain­ly showing that they are bet­ter off for having played top­ranked opponents outside of the conference. 
The Bearcats have yet to play a top-1 0 team this sea­son, but they are more than capable of holding their own against the Irish. Led by jun­ior outside hitter Stephanie Niemer, the Big East Volleyball Player of the Week, and freshman setter Megan Turner, the Freshman of the Week, Cincinnati currently shares first place in the con­ference with the Irish. 
"It's just really important for us in terms of what we want to accomplish this year," Brown said. "Cincinnati's undefeated, [and] we're unde­feated, so it could come down to this match in terms of who wins the conference. We know that in order to be in con­tention or to have a chance to win it outright, it's important for us to win." 
The task ahead does not get any easier Sunday, as the Irish take the court against a Cardinals team that was pre­dicted to finish with a second consecutive Big East title in the Preseason Coaches' Poll. The match will be nationally televised on ESPNU. 
"I think we'll for sure be mentally prepared," Brown said. "It's a big match for us. Louisville has been our strongest conference rival since they joined the Big East. Traditionally the matches have been very close and very competitive, and we have every reason to believe that it'll be the same way this year." 
The Irish lead the lifetime series against Louisville 16-7, but fell to the Cardinals last season in the Big East Championship 3-1. In the end, supremacy in the conference may come down to leadership and experience, two qualities this year's Irish squad has relied upon all season. 
"I think we're getting a real­ly good team effort, but for sure the strongest leader we have is [senior setter] Jamel [Nicholas]," Brown said. "She's just been doing an out­standing job keeping every­body focused and playing with a lot of poise and confidence." 
The Irish will face Cincinnati at 2:00 p.m. on Saturday and Louisville at 5 
p.m. Sunday in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Chris Masoud at crnasoud@nd.edu 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish head to Harvard Invite 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
After having a couple weeks off for practice, Notre Dame will head back to the courts this weekend at the Harvard Invitational. 
The Irish will face a top 15 squad a year ago in Alabama, a top 25 squad a year ago in Minnesota, and the best of the Ivy League schools, Harvard, at the Invitational. 
"The format is 'hidden dual' and will give our guys a chance to cor:npete with teams that are usually factors in the NCAA tournament," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
The Irish are working on being more cohesive in doubles and finding the right combina­tions to produce more wins to earn the crucial doubles point, as well as working on being more consistent from the back of the court, Bayliss said. 
Notre Dame is coming off a strong showing at the Illini Invitational in late September that showed some of the team's promise in the singles lineup. 
Sophomore Casey Watt stepped up big for the Irish, earning three wins in the tour­nament and proved he is a front runner to take over the number one singles spot this year. 
"Casey played very well in most of his matches," Bayliss said. "He served consistently at close to 120 m.p.h. in his match against Christian Blocker of Miami and really hit some big ground strokes as well. 
"Against Connor Both (Illinois) he competed as hard as I have ever seen him. ripping winners from both sides ofT the 
ND SWIMMING 

Irishhost annual 45th Dennis Stark Relays 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will commence the 2009-10 season Friday by hosting five teams at the Rolfs Aquatic Center for the 45th annual Dennis Stark Relays, the first of seven home meets this season. 
With eleven relay events and two diving events for some of the best regional competition, Friday's meet will feature the best swim­mers on the Notre Dame ros­ter. 
"The addition of the University of Michigan is a major addition to the Meet," men's coach Tim Welsh said. "Michigan is one of the lead­ing men's teams in the nation. We will be proud to have them here at our meet." 
Illinois State, Valparaiso, Oakland, and Cleveland State will also be competing against the Irish and the Wolverines. 
Last year the Irish won both the men's and women's com­petitions, as the men set meet records in the 200 and 400 Free Relays and the women swept all 10 relays and both diving events 
As this is the first event of the season for the Irish, all the team has in terms of measuring itself against its opponents is roughly one month of structured team practices. 
"We are in a major work phase of training right now. both in the pool and in the weight room and dry land," Welsh said. "That training has continued this week." 
Last year, the climax of the Irish men's swim season was their close upset win over Louisville at the Big East Conference meet. This year, they have set the bar higher with hopes of reaching the NCAA Championship meet at the end of the season. 
"We want to evaluate where we are in the middle of all this hard work by looking at our meet results from Friday," Welsh said. "In aca­demic terms, [The Dennis Stark Relays] are like an early quiz, not yet a final exam." 
The meet is named after former Notre Dame coach, Dennis Stark·who will be in attendance on Friday. Stark, a 1947 graduate of Notre Dame, began both the Irish men's and women's swim­ming programs, and coached for 27 years. 
The Dennis Stark relays start at 5 p.m. on Friday. 
Note: 
+ Welsh recently was voted and named the President of the American Swimming Coaches Association. As he enters his 35th season as a collegiate swim coach, Welsh took the position to advocate leadership in coaching posi­tions and improving the swimming community. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


ground. He fought off match points and finished with an unreturnable forehand. If he learns to finish better at the net and defend better with his slice backhand he can really move up and enhance our chances to become an elite team this year," Bayliss said. 
The Irish coaching staff has seen improvement in many of their players already this fall including freshman Bias Moros. 
Bayliss said Moros has impressed him with his ability to compact his swing on the forehand side and really attack ofT the ground. 
Overcoming the young group of guys that the team has will be a challenge for Bayliss, while many have much varsity experi­ence Bayliss said that many of them have only have low levels of varsity player under their belts. 
"Many of our guys are locat­ing their second serves better," Bayliss said. "I see improve­ment each week and that is what motivates me most -see­ing the proverbial 'ugly duck­ling' become a swan." 
The Irish will open play today in Cambridge, Mass. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Friday, October 9, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles host Alma, honor seniors 
Back 

: ::\{~~: 
···NotreDa1neF 
•the return of No Title I 
., 
·'•.·, : No Apprai 
o D ...... ._.c... 


likes the progress his team is 
making and is looking for­
ward to seeing more com­
plete performances from his 
team. 
"We showed that we could 

execute a plan and stay com­
mitted to it," he said. 
"Additionally, there were 
players that showed a lot of 
maturity by sacrificing play­
ing time because the style of 
play did not suit some of 
[them)." 
With the Scots coming to town, Crabbe stressed the importance of getting confer­ence wins so as to not fall too far out of the playoff race. 
"The need for a win is absolutely imperative," he said. "It has less to do with a third conference loss and more to do with moving up the standings and staying inside the top-six in the con­ference. We have to play for a spot in the post-sPason tournament." 
Al'tnr being shut out in each of their first two con­ference losses, Saint Mary's will look for an early goal against Alma to break the scoring slump they have faced throughout much of the season. 
"We need to score first," Crabbe said. "I have chal­lenged our players to play with the lead. Playing from behind only makes it more difficult to get results." 
Saint Mary's showdown with Alma is scheduled to kickoff at noon Saturday. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 
Popular Demand... 
1Credit Union is pleased to annouttce Closing Cost Mortgage Loan. 
I 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 574/631-8222 • WVJW.ndfcu.org 
Offer not valid on mortgage loans under $50,000. Not valid for existing Notre Dame Federal Credit Un1on mortgage loans. Offer does not include prepaid items associated with the loan closing Construction-permanent loans ate not eligible for this special offer. Offer may be withdrav.fl at any time. Indiana and Michigan properties only. Independent of the University. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles take on MIAA teams a second time 
matches went to a dramatic 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
fifth set. Furthermore, Adrian 
Sports Writer 
has been struggling all sea­son, and is currently on a 13­

The Saint Mary's volleyball game losing streak. team will get a second chance Nonetheless, Kuschel is not this weekend against two taking any opponent lightly. teams that they previously "This is a very strong con­lost to this season. The Belles ference that we compete in," will face Trine today and Kuschel said. "No team in the By ALEX BARKER 
Adrian  on  conference is  
Saturday. After the Calvin match  "J am hoping that we will play our game  just going to give us a win. We have to go  
on Tuesday, the Belles had played every­one in their  andfocus on what we can control out on the court.··  out there and take it." T r i n e University,  
conference  today's oppo­ 
once, and will now begin the second round  Toni Kuschel Belles coach  nent, is cur­rently 4-4 in the league and  

Sports Writer 
The Belles will hold senior day when they play host to conference foe Alma Saturday as they look to get back in the win column after a loss to Calvin earlier this week. 
Saint Mary's (4-8-1, 1-2 MIAA) will return to action after having played one of its best games of the season earlier this week when it pushed the heavily favored Knights to the brink before falling 1-0 in the final min­utes. 
"We played a great match [against Calvin)," coach Hyan Crabbe said about Tuesday's contest. "Our approach to the game was to defend first and try·to eliminate the space where Calvin's team spePd could hurt us. The 
team committed to the plan and played very well. We gave ourselves a chance to tie or win by keeping the game close for 90 minutes." 
Although it was their most complete game of the season, Crabbe admitted that there are still quite a few areas where improvement is need­ed. 
"The one item I would like to have seen changed was not letting the other team's best player beat us," he said. "Prins is the top player in our conference. We should have made it come from their second, third or fourth option on the field." 
The Belles began confer­ence play earlier this season with a 3-0 loss at Adrian before notching a 6-0 victory over Trine. 
While their record is some­what of a disappointment so far this season, Crabbe said 

of games. With an MIAA record of 3-5, the Belles have a distance to climb in the standings to reach last ynar's fourth seed in the confPrenee tournament. 
Belles Coaeh Toni Kuschel was happy with her team's performance on Tuesday against a very talented No. 11 Calvin team, despite losing 3­0, which encouraged her for this weekend. 
"I am hoping that we will play our game and focus on what we can control out on the court," Kuschel said. "If we can do those things I think we have a great chance." · 
Kuschel should also be encouraged with how close the. losses were back in September, where both coming off a 
dominating 3­0 defeat of Olivet College. Freshman middle hitter Betsy Irwin leads The Thunder with 294 kills on the season. The match will be played tonight at 7 p.m. in Hershey Hall on Trine's campus. 
Saturday, the Belles will return home to face the Bulldogs, whose last win was against Saint Mary's College. That match will begin at 1 
p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. 
The two matches this week­end are part of a string of a nine straight MIAA matches, which continues on Wednesday against Alma. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 
MLB 

Angels shut out the Red Sox in Game 1 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -With Torii Hunter hitting the rocks and John Lackey rolling through the Boston lineup, the Los Angeles Angels finally got on top of the Red Sox in the playoffs. 
Lackey pitched superbly into the eighth inning and Hunter hit a three-run homer off the rock pile in center field, leading the Angels to a 5-0 victory over their longtime playoff nemesis in their first-round opener Thursday night. 
Hunter's shot broke open a scoreless game and appeared to topple any mental barriers Los Angeles might have faced against the Red Sox, who ended three of the Angels' past five seasons in the division series, winning nine of10 games. 
"(Lackey] went out there and set the tone early," Hunter said. "Man, we were so pumped up from then on. I'm excited about this start today." 
Boston didn't manage an extra-base hit while getting shut out in the playoffs for the first time since Game 2 of the 1995 division series against Cleveland. The shutout was the first in the Angels' 53-game postseason history. 
Game 2 is Friday night at Angel Stadium, with Boston's Josh Beckett facing Jered Weaver. 
The AL West champion Angels snapped a six-game home playoff losing streak behind Lackey, who dominated his first playoff victory since 2002 with fme control and good defense behind him. After strik­ing out four and allowing four singles over 7 1-3 innings, he doffed his cap to a standing ovation. 
"Even in the bullpen, I knew my arm was feeling good," said Lackey, who pitched just once in the previous 11 days. ··The extra rest that I had really helped me out. I really felt like my arm was pretty live tonight." 
Darren Oliver finished up with 1 2-3 innings of hitless relief. 
Jon Lester allowed four hits over six innings for the wild­card Red Sox , who had won five straight playoff series open­ers. Lester wasn't as sharp as Lackey during his second loss since July 19, but he avoided trouble until the fifth. 
Erick Aybar startPd the rally with a leadoff double down the left-field line. After Bobby Abreu walked, Hunter smashed Lester's second pitch off the Disneyland -esque artificial rock pile, with fireworks bursting from it at the moment of impact. 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 9, 2009 
MEN'S INTERHALL fOOTBALL 
Manor takes shot at revenge in unbeatens' clash 
Dillon defense looks to stifle Keough; Alumni hopes for first win; Stanford looks for win over Angry Mob 
upperclassmen have helped time," he said. "I think we 
By KEVIN BALDWIN, CHRIS to carry over that tradition," finally got it together. It's 
ALLEN, JOHN HELMS, Smith said. "The freshmen bound to happen sooner or 
MEGAN FINNERAN and have also been flying all over later." 
MATTHEW ROBISON the place and hitting people Kickoff is 1 p.m. Sunday 
Sports Writers real hard all season." afternoon at Riehle Fields. 
Keough will need to concen­
Morrissey and Siegfried trate on its running game if it Sorin vs. Carroll meet Sunday with both teams hopes to make a dent in the After a bye week for Sorin hoping to follow up big wins impenetrable Dillon defense. and a narrow win against last week. "A win against Dillon would Zahm for Carroll last week­
This will be a grudge match definitely help our effort to end, the Otters and Vermin for the undefeated Manor, make the playoffs," Keough appear ready for this week­whose playoff run last year sophomore captain Ryan end. was ended by the same Cordell said. "We want to go Sorin (2-0) comes into this Ramblers squad that went on out and try to establish our game with little doubt of their to win the championship. running game. We've been capabilities. Carroll (2-0-1) is 
Morrissey, which beat making strides in that depart­also confident, but still Duncan 15-0 last weekend, ment each week and we're remembers their loss to Sorin will hope to maintain its going to have to continue to last season. undefeated season with a·bal­improve there to make the "We plan to minimize the anced offense, led by senior playoffs." mistakes," Carroll junior cap­quarterback Danny Deveny. The game will likely be tain Nick Ruof said about 
"We've used a successful physical as both teams see their game plan to take on aerial attack, but we'd like to themselves as strong in the the Otters. mix it up with a run-pass mix trenches. Keough will look to Looking at past games, the to utilize talent more effi­block its way to a playoff Sorin offense has already ciently," Morrissey senior Phil spot. proven itself to be a powerful Yuhas said. "We're going to go out there one. Both of their wins have 
The dynamic Manor defense and play our game. It all racked up double digits, was essential in shutting starts up front with us," which is more than Carroll's down the Highlanders last Cordell said. "If we can win offense has been able to do in week, and even some fresh­the battle in the trenches, we any of their three games thus men stepped up and made should be in good shape" far. play, including defensive end The two teams will face off The Otters rely on freshmen Taylor Stein and tackle Sean in a fierce battle for a Ted Spinelli at quarterback, Baur. remaining playoff spot freshman Ryan Robinson at 
Siegfried will counter with Sunday. tight end, and sophomore The entire team is excited to O'Neill, on the other hand, an effective offense that rout­Bobby Felden at running back take on Zahm and ready to has struggled out of the gate ed Alumni last week 34-0. Alumni vs. Knott on the offensive side. come one step closer to play­0-2. 
Junior Matt Meinert is a Knott and Alumni meet on Together these three have offs. A win here will put them The Mob is still confident in dual threat at quarterback, the field Sunday coming from shown their ability to work in a good place for the final their ability to put up a with a proven ability to both different directions in terms together and convert to score. week of the regular season. strong performance against pass and run with great skill. of their record. "We don't really know what "We've been meshing like the Griffins, however. Ramblers senior captain Dex Knott (1-0-1) has started off defense Carroll runs, but if the Mighty Ducks. To get "If we go out and play hard, Cure emphasized teamwork the season well so far, and things go as they should, our ready for Zahm, we have we can come away with a and coordination as funda­looks to continue their suc­offense should be fine," junior been feeding the pythons at win," sophomore wide receiv­mental to the Siegfried game cess coming off its bye week. Sorin captain Michael Rolfs to really get in beast er Julian Murphy said. plan. "We've had a very encour­Browder said. mode," senior Andy Nester The Griffins have hopes of 
"We're going to play hard, aging season thus far," Knott While Carroll's offense may joked. playing in the Stadium and play as a team," Cure said. senior captain Aidan not have scored as much as After its victory over Fisher are looking to keep an unde­"That's what we do". Fitzgerald said. Sorin so far, its defense has last week, St. Edward's is feated season alive. 
Siegfried has a solid The Juggerknotts are one of stepped up, keeping its past looking for another win. "We're looking to go out defense known for their three undefeated team in the three competitors to seven The Rabid Bats may be 0-2, and take care of business and speed and putting up impres­blue division so far this year, points or less. Junior defen­but they are not ready to give secure a playoff spot," senior sive numbers, which will along with Morrissey and sive back Odaro "Nigerian up just yet. cornerback and captain challenge the Morrissey Siegfried. In their last game Nightmare" Omusi and junior "In all essence we have Christopher Gill said. "It'd be offensive line on every play. two weeks ago, Knott tied the linebacker John Ashley lead been beaten off of a handful nice to go into the last game 
The defending champions defending champion the Vermin defense. These of plays. This week we return against Keenan and know are certain to be a formidable Ramblers in a tense rivalry veterans have set up a power­some key players and all we that it's nothing more than a threat to the Manor's unde­game. ful defense in hopes of setting can do now is win this game game for playoff positioning." feated season, intensifying an "We were a little disap­of Sorin's pass-heavy offense. and make the play-off sce­Stanford will look for its already heated rivalry. It will pointed we couldn't pull off If the Carroll offense can nario a little bit more inter­defense to make the differ­be a test of will for both the win, we had a couple of step up its game one last time esting," senior Jarred Carter ence this week, as it has teams and a hard earned vic­opportunities that slipped before playoffs and continue said. proven stingy so far, not even tory for whoever comes out by," Fitzgerald said. ''I'm sure its powerful defense, it has a Last week, freshmen cor­allowing a point. on top. they were too. Both teams good chance of ending the nerbacks Sam Beres and "If the defense can continue 
"We're pumped," Yuhas had their chances." Otters' undefeated streak. But Roberto Aran shone through dominating opposing offens­said. "We lost to them in the The Dawgs (0-2-1) on the if the Otters continue to per­against Carroll, and this week es, I'm confident our offense playoffs last year so this is a other hand are still in search form as they have been, the with the return of juniors can get a few scores and put huge motivation for us". of their first win of the sea­Vermin may not be able to Xavier Murphy and Dylan us in a position to win," Gill 
Kickoff will be at 2 p.m. son. Last week Siegfried dis­stop them. Fernandez, Zahm hopes to said. 
Sunday at Riehle Field. mantled Alumni 34-0 in the Both teams are currently turn over a new leaf. O'Neill may have a few Dawgs' worst loss of the sea­undefeated, but after this "In order to win this week tricks up its sleeve, however, Dillon vs. Keough son. matchup, which kicks off 1 we must correct the mistakes that Stanford might be unpre­
As the playoffs draw nearer, The Ramblers' big win over p.m. Sunday at Riehele that have taken place thus pared for. Dillon and Keough face off Alumni puts added pressure Fields, either the Vermin or far," Carter said. ''We put in some new Sunday in a match-up that on the Juggernauts, in a divi­the Otters will have to chalk The Rabid Bats have plays," Murphy said. could be crucial to playoff sion where every win is cru­one up in the loss column. already improved since their "Hopefully we'11 be able to positioning. cial. With Morrissey and first game, narrowing their catch them off guard." 
"We know it's going to be a Siegfried undefeated, the Zahm vs. St. Edward's loss from 20-0 against Sorin To their credit, the Angry tough test," Dillon junior cap­Juggernauts are fully aware With only one game left to 6-0 against Carroll. With Mob is using the slow start as tain Jordan Smith said. "The that one of the three will be before playoffs after this the veteran team of junior motivation. winner's probably going to be on the outside looking in. A weekend, Zahm and St. Greg Bennett and Carter, the "The 0-2 start just makes us in the playoffs and the loser's loss to the Dawgs, currently Edward's are both looking to team hopes to pull together to prepare harder," said probably out. We have to be at the bottom of the division, shake up the results. come out with a win. Murphy. "It makes us hungri­ready and come out and meet would significantly hurt the St. Edward's (1-1) is a Zahm and St. Edward's will er for victory." the challenge." Juggerknotts' chances. stronger team than its record face off Sunday at 2 p.m. at The Griffins and the Mob 
If Dillon meets the chal­"We've got to win. This is a may show, with its only loss Riehle Field. will meet on the Riehle Fields lenge, it will likely be with its big game for us," Fitzgerald being to Carroll by one point. at 3 p.m. Sunday. defense that has been stout said. "Every game is so The Gentlemen hope to Stanford vs. O'Neill all season. The Big Red gave important with such a short improve their standings Heading into the matchup up 12 points in last week's schedule." against Zahm (0-2) Sunday. between Stanford and O'Neill Contact Kevin Baldwin at loss to Stanford, but early­In their third game and' The Gentlemen return mul­Sunday, the two squads could kbaldwi2@nd.edu, Chris Allen season opponents struggled fourth week of the season, tiple key players from last not have more different expe­at callenlO@nd.edu, John Helms to score a touchdown against Fitzgerald believes the team year, including junior quar­riences in the past two weeks. at jhelms2@nd.edu, Megan them. is just hitting its stride. terback Matt Abeling, junior Stanford has dominated in Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
"We've had a good defense "So far we've all clicked, it wide receiver Sean Reed and its first two outings, defeating and Matthew Robison at for a few years now, and our just hasn't been at the same senior tight end Joe DeMott. Keough 16-0 and Dillon 12-7. mrobison@nd.edu 


Friday, October 9, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
Pangborn vs. Badin
Wildcats 
continued from page 29 
be reckoned with on offense for the Wild Women, and one of the keys to victory for Ryan will certainly be shutting her down. 
Because of Walsh's blowout victory over Lyons, they had the opportunity to play some freshmen and give them valu­able game experience. 
Hadley acknowledges that beating Ryan will not be an easy task for the Wild Women. 
"We just need to go out there and do what we've been doing," Hadley said. "We're looking to improve the passing game and bring the same intensity that's been there for us all season." 
The two teams will meet Sunday at 4 p.m. at LaBar Fields. 
Both Pangborn and Badin have their work cut out for them for the rest of the sea­son, but each hopes to take a step towards the Stadium when they face off this Sunday. 
The Phoxes have been work­ing on both their offense and defense this past week, and sophomore captain Julie Cooney really feels like they are starting to click. 
"We've been working on speeding up our plays," Cooney said, "and our quick­ness at flag pulling." 
Pangborn is ready for Sunday, and feel that after playing in the rain last week they can take anything weath­er-wise. Even though Pangborn lost that game they still feel the weather will not be a problem. 
"We played through the rain 
fL 
THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF _.. AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
presents 
The Hibernian Lecture 
Squaring Circles': Daniel O'Connell and Public Protest, 1823-1843 
Maurice Brie University College ofDublin 
Fridav, October 9, 2009 4:00p.m. 
Hesburgh Library, Carey Auditorium 
and mud at Stepan last week," 
Cooney said. "And we'll step 
up again if need be. And 
though we lost, we tried hard 
to not let the weather get the 
best of us, adjusting our strat­
egy to minimize errors due to 
weather." 
The key Phox players to look 
out for are junior quarterback 
Gabby Tate, receiver Liz 
Pawlak and center Annie Kotz. 
These three are a force to be 
reckoned with and will try to 
take any of the Badin defend­
ers down. 
Badin has also been putting in the work this week with sharper routes on offense and keeping pressure on pass plays on defense. The Bullfrog offense has not been clicking the past few games, but senior captain Kelley Daniels has had these girls working to fix that. 
"On offense, we sharpened our routes and threw in some specific o-line calls," Daniels said. 
Their defense has also been working hard on getting to the flags quicker and getting to the quarterback. One of the key defenders for the Bullfrogs is sophomore Rachel Cink. Captain Daniels also has a lot of speed to get to the quarter­back on defense. 
"We worked a lot on defend­ing the run and keeping pres­sure on pass plays." Daniels said. "Our goal on defense is not merely to make stops, but to create turnovers and get the ball back to our offense." 
Welsh Family vs. McGlinn 
West Quad dorms Welsh Family and McGlinn square off in a rematch of last season's women's interhall champi­onship game. 
Both teams are struggling to repeat last year's success and have gotten off to slow starts. Welsh Family (1-2) won their first game of the season last Sunday and hopes the victory will be a jumpstart to their season. 


"We have lots of talented players and have been adjust­ing our team," senior captain Tara Schimpf said. "We want to get back to our winning ways." 
In order to regain last year's form, the Whirlwinds must to get their talented sophomore wide receivers Charlotte Seasly and Natalie Baldasare involved. The duo will need a big game to beat McGlinn. 
The Shamrocks (0-1-1) are still looking for their first win of the season. McGlinn's hopes remain high for the season 
said  senior captain Emily  
Dore.  
"We're  progressively  

improving and have had a lot of good practices lately," Dore said. "We're really starting to come together as a team." 
Senior quarterback Lauren Miller leads the Shamrocks. The dual threat quarterback looks to keep the Whirlwind defense on their heels by delivering the ball to the tal­ented receiving corps of junior Kathleen Stanley and sopho­more Kate Tucker. Stanley and Tucker will need big games if the Shamrocks are to capture their first win of the season. They know it won't come easy against the Whirlwinds. 
"We know they would love to beat us," Dore said. This is a great rivalry and hopefully we'll come out and surprise some people." 
Both a chance to return to last season championship form and West Quad supremacy are on the line Sunday when McGlinn and Welsh Family kick off at 3 p.m. at LaBar Fields. 
Pasquerilla West vs. Lyons 
Lyons hopes to get its season back on track with an upset against undefeated Pc:.squerilla West, but the Purple Weasels will not give up their perfect record easily. 
"We are extremely confident in our team," Pasquerilla West senior co-captain Alyssa Moya said. "We will not let up even though we are undefeated." 
The Lions will certainly have a lot to overcome. After the Purple Weasel offense was rel­atively quiet against Hyan and Pangborn in the early stages of !he season, they exploded against Cavanaugh Hall for 30 
points. The key to this offen­
sive resurgence has been the 
offensive line, led by the con­
sistent play of sophomore cen­
ter Grace Concelman and the 
fierce play of senior Kelly 
Schumacher. 
And while the Purple Weasels have finally estab­lished their potent offense, it was their defensive prowess carried them to their first two victories. Senior linebacker Cynthia Curley and senior defensive lineman Lindsey McMann lead the defense. McMann has been the driving force, consistently reaching the backfield of the opponent. 
Lyons Hall counters with a strong quick defense, led by sophomores Kat Rodriguez and Carolyn Henderson. They hope to shut down the Purple Weasel offensive attack. Offensively, the Lions feature a strong complement of receivers led by sophomore Caroline Maroney. However, they are searching for a quar­terback to get them the ball after senior quarterback and team captain Claire Connell down because of a sprained knee and senior backup Maria Petnuch will be unavailable for the game Sunday. 
That leaves freshman Erica Miller to lead the Lions offense. 
Lyons is the obvious under­dog, but they feel they still have a chance. 
"I expect us to come out with a lot of heart and a strong desire to win on Sunday," Lions Connell said. ''I'm confi­dent the with all the talent on our team we can turn our sea­son around with a big win against Pasquerilla West." 
But the Purple Weasels won't take the game lightly. 
"We play against every team as if they are better than us," Moya said. "Their record does not matter to us. We just take it one game at a time." 
Pasquerilla West plays Lyons at 6 p.m. at Reihle Fields. 
Contact Timothy Singler at tsingler@nd.edu, Lex Dennis at bdennis1 @nd.edu, Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu, Kelly Zenere at kzenerO 1 @saintmarys.edu, Colin King at cking6@nd.edu and Barrick Bollman at jbollman@nd.edu 
page 28 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 9, 2009 
HOCKEY 
Phillips steps into big skates 
it." 
By SAM WERNER 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson said 
Associate Sports Editor 
he didn't notice any significant difference in Phillips' play. 
Players have come and gone "I know he's full strength," during Jeff Jackson's tenure at Jackson said. "He looks good. Notre Dame, but solid goal­There's no signs of any issues keeping has been a constant. with him right now." First David Brown, then Even though he didn't play in Jordan Pearce. Now, it's junior any games last season, Phillips 
Brad Phillips'  said he learned  
turn  to  carry  a  great  deal  
the torch. Phillips first broke on the  "I remember the kid that I recruited. I  watching Pearce. "I think it  
scene in 2007  recruited him to win  helped me a lot  
when, as a highly recruited  us a championship . .,  mentally," Phillips said.  
freshman, he was one of the three candi­ Jeff Jackson Irish coach  "Just rehab­bing and watching  
dates,  along  Pearce  play  
with Pearce and  well the whole  

senior Tom O'Brien, to replace year." Brown. Phillips said the one thing he 
Pearce ended up winning the took away from Pearce's play job, but Phillips played in five was his consistency. games that year, posting a "He didn't really let in any 
1.53 goals against average. soft goals and helped the team Jackson said he had planned every night when the team on Phillips playing in about 10 needed him," Phillips said. games last season, but a leg In addition to Pearce, injury kept him out for the Phillips said Jackson, who has entire season. a history of developing goal­
"It's not where it was before, tenders, has been invaluable still a little pain," Phillips said. as a teacher. "When you're out on the ice "Going out there once a you don't even notice it. When week and doing goalie drills you get off you just have to ice before practice, he helps me 
Opener 
continued from page 32 
son and preseason a little bit," senior captain Hyan Thang said. "But once the puck drops Friday night we'll kind of forget about it." 
When the Irish hit the ice tonight, there shouldn't be any thought of the shocking first-round upset Bemidji State handed Jeff Jackson's heavily favored squad in March. Notre Dame lost only two of its top 10 scorers from last year's 31-win team, and while the Irish will surely miss Erik Condra and Christian Hanson, this group could be the most tal­ented one in program histo­ry, between its accomplished veterans and difference­making youngsters. 
Even with all Notre Dame's talent, however, there very easily could be some grow­ing pains and early bumps along the road. 
No man on the ice is more important than the heavily armored one stationed between the pipes, and any time a team has to replace one of the nation's best goal­tenders, there will always a question mark. But junior starter Brad Phillips had the opportunity as freshman to watch Notre Dame's transi­tion from David Brown to Jordan Pearce take place and should be ready to repli­cate the success Pearce enjoyed in his two years as the Irish netminder. 
It may not happen from 

Day 1, but Phillips has all the tools -athleticism, nat­ural ability and a talented team in front of him -to become a rock-solid back­stop for Notre Dame. In fact, there's probably less con­cern about goalie turnover this year than there was two years ago, when the unknown Pearce had to bat­tle the freshman Phillips for the starting gig for an Irish program that had just recently emerged as a national power. 
With the winning culture Jackson and Co. have installed over the last few seasons with three straight NCAA Tournament berths, and with two veteran defen­sive pairings and a couple of established scoring lines in place, it won't be about Phillips winning games early in the season. It will be more about Phillips developing the composure and confidence in October that he'll need to keep the Irish alive in March and April. 
What I'm most interested in is how Jackson will mix and match his veterans and rookies to create a balanced lineup. As we prognosticated on our Irish Insider Podcast last night (sorry, I hadn't plugged it yet), it would seem that only one line is set, while Jackson will likely try different combinations, both in even-strength and man-up situations, in the early going to figure out what will click. Whether that happens immediately or instead takes some time will determine how Notre Dame out a lot," Phillips said. 
Now that it's finally Phillips' turn, he said it's a mixture of emotions. 
"I'm excited and kind of nervous," he said. "It's good to be nervous I think. I haven't played a game in a couple of years so it should be fun." 
The last time Phillips did play, it was in a 5-1 loss to Michigan at the Palace at Auburn Hills on Jan. 19, 2008. Phillips gave up four goals in two periods before being replaced by Pearce. Despite the rough outing, Phillips said he had put it behind him. 
"I don't really think about that," he said. "It's in the past." 
Phillips also said he's grown up since that game, both men­tally and physically. 
"I'm more mature now," he said. "J think I got stronger as well as far as leg strength and moving side to side." 
Jackson also noted Phillips' newfound maturity, and said he was more than confident in his junior goaltender. 
"I remember the kid that I recruited," Jackson said. "I recruited him to win us a championship." 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 
looks this weekend. 
In any case, this is a team with solid veteran leadership that knows how to deal with the grind of the longest sea­son in college sports. While postseason aspirations are always on the minds of the nation's top teams, the Irish know they have a long way to get there -five months, in fact. 
Thang and classmates Kevin Deeth and Kyle Lawson, two of Notre Dame's three alternate captains, have been looked at as lead­ers since their sophomore seasons, and with a slew of experienced juniors -par­ticularly on the blue line, with Ian Cole and alternate captain Teddy Ruth -this is a team that will be able to bounce back in the even if it does struggle early. 
That isn't meant to take any importance away from this weekend's series against Alabama-Huntsville or next weekend's matchups with Providence leading up to a non-conference, top-five showdown at Boston University. 
But considering last year's team started 2-3 before rat­tling off a 20-game unbeaten streak that lasted 2-1/2 months, I don't think anyone will be pushing the panic button if the Irish don't look dominant on the ice tonight. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Jackson 
continued from page 32 
though, said that game is behind this team. 
"I don't think about it," Jackson said. "It's in the past. 
This is  a  new season,  a new  
team."  
This  weekend  will  be  

Jackson's first look at this year's squad in a game situa­tion. He said that a good part of the weekend would be spent analyzing his roster and seeing which players belong where. 
"For me, these games are also about giving guys oppor­tunities to see what they can do in different situations," Jackson said. 
"I've got some set lines going in there, but we'll be juggling things." 
The two most notable names are freshmen right wing Kyle Palmieri -the 26th overall pick in this year's NHL draft -and cen­ter Riley Sheahan. Jackson said the duo, as well rookie defenseman Sam Calabrese, would play this weekend, but that he was also excited about players who were on the roster last season but did­n't receive a good deal of playing time. 
"To me this is more about some of the sophomores than the freshmen," Jackson said. "We've got some guys who were great contributors last year, just not in game situa­tions." 
He specifically noted left wing Kyle Murphy, center Patrick Gaul and defensemen Nick Condon and Eric Ringel. 
As for the Charger squad Notre Dame will be facing this weekend, Jackson said he expects to face a well­coached, hungry team. 
"I think they're very hard­working and I think they'll come at us and play physi­cal," he said. 
Most Irish fans probably remember Alabama­Huntsville from· the NCAA Tournament in 2007. The fourth-seeded Chargers took the top-seeded Irish to double overtime before Ryan Thang 
scored a game-winner to send Notre Dame into the next round, where a tired Irish squad lost to Michigan State. 
The Irish also faced the Chargers in 2007, a 4-1 win in the Rensselaer Hockey Tournament. Despite the loss, Alabama-Huntsville's then­freshman goalie Cameron Talbot made 27 saves, and Jackson said the Irish would have to work hard to get pucks past Talbot this week­end. 
"We saw him two years ago in the RPI Tournament when he was a freshman and he stood on his head," Jackson said. 
As far as momentum goes, Jackson said a pair of wins this weekend would be nice, but isn't the be all, end all of Notre Dame's season. 
"Last year we had some bumps early on, then we went on a great run. But it varies. I always like to see us get off to a good start." 
Notes: 
•Jackson announced that senior left wing Ryan Thang would serve as captain for the Irish this season. 

"It means a whole lot. It's something I've been striving for since I got here," Thang said. "To follow in the foot­steps of Erik Condra, Mark Van Guilder and T.J. Jindra is just an honor." 
• The CCHA announced that they will change the point structure this season regarding shootouts. This year, wins in regulation or overtime will garner three points, a shootout win will earn two points and a shootout loss will be worth one point. Previously, all wins, in regulation, overtime or shootout, were worth two points. This way, all games will award three points in some fashion. 
"Everybody gets the same amount of points for every game, which is probably a smart way to go," Jackson said. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 




Friday, October 9, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Farley looks to keep perfect record against Babes 
Playoff picture begins to come into focus for teams as season hits midpoint after two full weeks of ga1nes 
By TIM SINGLER, LEX 
DENNIS, ANDREW OWENS, 
KELLY ZENER£, COLIN 
KING and BARRICK 
BOLLMAN 
Sports Writers 
Coming off of a disappoint­ing shutout loss last week, Breen-Phillips will hope to bounce back against Farley Sunday. 
After not scoring a single point last week, the Babes anticipate coming out strong and putting some points on the board this week. With a lot of youth on tho team, the Babes hope to gain more experience with each game played. 
Breen-Phillips will hope to use their young players as a surprise to upset the undefeat­ed Finest. The Finest have yet 
to lose a game this year and are still hungry to revenge last yPar's finish. 
"We were eliminated in the semifinals last year," Farley sophomore Katie Smith said. "We will be taking the season game by game." 
A remarkable point on Farley's unblemished record so far this year lies in their ability to have key players step in and fill important positions. 
"We really had some players step up in big places this year," Smith said. 
The Babes, though, aren't afraid to take on Farley just because the Finest are unde­feated. 
They hope to take advantage of their raw talent and sur­prise the Finest. 
Farley knows not to overlook their opponents as last week 

Rfi'IMtl( 
100 Susan Ullery 
~~ 
3010 tidt;o!y Road M.sha al:a. lrOana 46545 \lbice Mall• (574) 23>3446 
Office. {574} 255-5858 
Fax:(574)~ 
101 AM: {800j 697-2824 
~com e....,~ 
...., ....,..o-...,--., 
they experienced a scare. The Finest needed to fight back to win the game. 
That being said, though, Smith said her team was con­fident heading down the home stretch. 
"We feel that we can take on 

any team we face," Smith said. 
Kickoff is Sunday at 2 p.m. at LaBar Fields. 
Lewis vs. Howard 
Flags and feathers will be flying as the Chicks and Ducks are set to square off Sunday. 
Both Lewis and Howard are fresh off huge wins and this is sure to be a great match-up. 
Lewis experienced an impor­tant victory over Breen­Phillips, which incited much excitement for the Chicks. At practice this week the team concentrated on reviewing the offensive playbook, which worked well against the Babes. 
"Our team is looking to keep improving," sophomore Brandy Cerne said. "We plan to channel the excitement and momentum we established last week and translate it into a victory on Sunday." 
Howard is also lining up a solid team on the other side of the ball. The last game the Ducks played was against defending champions McGlinn. Howard held the Shamro<;ks scoreless with a stellar per­formance on both sides of the football. 
"Our defense really stepped up," junior captain Kayla Bishop said. "We had four or five interceptions and our offense was firing on all cylin­ders." 
Howard put in a great work­out at practice this week. Hands were the main focus both on offense and on def~nse. 
"Hand-eye coordination was a point of concentration this week," Bishop said. "We worked on catching and flag­pulling, and generally getting our hands ready for the game this weekend." 
Two spectacular offenses and two iron defenses are ready to collide in what's 
shaping  up  to  be  a  great  
game.  
The  battle  of the  birds  

begins Sunday at 1 p.m. at LaBar Fields. 
Walsh vs. Ryan 
Following its first win in dorm history against Lyons, Ryan will now try to knock off undefeated Walsh. 
Ryan's defense led the way last week in a 19-0 victory over the Lions in a rainstorm. 
"It was really exciting and an all-around fun time," sen­ior captain and quarterback 
Kenzie Bowen said. "We defi­
nitely need to bring our best 
game Sunday in order to win. 
Everyone is going to have to 
play their role." 
The girls of Ryan may have come from different dorms, but they are playing as one unit and the team chemistry is very good. 
The girls celebrated their 19-0 victory with a team slide in the mud. 
Following this Sunday's bat­tle with Walsh, Ryan will con­clude the regular season by playing Cavanaugh and Badin in consecutive weeks. They hope to ride their current momentum and reach the playoffs in their inaugural sea­son. 
Walsh, meanwhile, took one more step towards a playoff berth with their 29-6 win over Badin. 
The Wild Women will con­clude the regular season next week against Pasquerilla West and have their eyes on the playoffs. 
"We have a good team," sen­ior captain Meghan Hadley said. "We have a good mix of veterans and enthusiastic freshmen. We're built around teaching young players how to play." 
Hadley has been a force to 
see WILDCATS/page 27 


:·..
"".:~--..:~_-·, 
·::_:-: 


.>'·' 
cr1bs 



SIGN YOUR IRISH ROW OR IRISH CROSSINGS LEASE NOW FOR 2010-2011. 
Live just east of the ~0 athletic fields, near every convenience-friends, fun, food and campus. 
Besides our great location, our furnished apartments and townhomes for rent include: 
Private full bath in each bedroom ;, 40" flat panel HDTV ,. FREE Internet & 200+ TV statmns, including HBO 
Laundry room With washer & dryer in each unit 
FREE use of lrtsh Row Fitness Center '" Tanning ~ Secured access to each building 

All this at one of the best rents in town. 
We're now leasing for the 2010-2011 school year. 
Irish 

Contact Karie Miller at kariem@lristlRowApartments.com ROW or 574.277.6666 for details. 


lrishRowApartments.com 574.277.6666
You can visit us at our leasing office at Vaness and Burdette 
., 
page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 9, 2009 
on Tenuta's every word. ''I'm parents -then got off the field. always listening," he said. More "It was a big relief to get out 
Powers 

than one sentence started with of the cold," he said. "Coach Tenuta says... " His iPhone app showing the 
continued from page 32 

"He knows so much about the weather in Hawaii next to the game," Te'o weather in 
Big East) hope to add a third said. "You'd be South Bend, he 
game to that streak when they a fool not to lis­"[Coach Tenuta] knows said, doesn't 
take on Providence (5-4-1, 2­ten to him." help. 
3-1 Big East) at 1 p.m. this

so much about the 
For example, Adjusting to 
Saturday at Glay Field in regarding what game. You'd be a fool college life also 
Providence, R.I. technical aspect not to listen to him. ·· took some get­
Powers and Maund returned of play he needs ting used to. 
to the team this week after to improve on: "It's very 
representing the U.S. at the

Manti Te'o
"Coach Tenuta time-consum­
Under-20 World Cup in Egypt,

Irish linebacker 
always says use ing. You've got where the U.S. team was elim­
Te'o 
continued from page 32 
tackles. 
"You're going to go through some growing pains when he's going to be out there that much," coach Charlie Weis said Sunday. "But his speed and ath­leticism covered for a lot of the things right there, and I thought he was very active and involved in a whole bunch of plays." 
Te'o said his speed covered his mistakes sometimes, but that mistakes got swept up in the enjoyment of the game. 
"You don't really want to make a mistake, but the fun of the game kind of takes away from that," he said. 
When he does mess up, defensive coordinator Jon Tenuta makes sure he hears about it. But then the other linebackers, namely Brian, Scott and Toryan Smith, st.ep in and pick him up. 
"They're like parents," he said. "They've been there. They've done that." 
Tenuta can't be too hard on him, though, because he hangs 
Rutgers 
continued from page 32 
Knights also presents the Irish with another chance to take down a top 10 foe, as they couldn't do against Stanford or North Carolina, who rank No. 1 and 2 respectively in the current NSCAA poll. Waldrum views the match as an oppor­tunity for the team to evaluate its progress at this point in the season. 
"I think we've definitely moved forward since those games and the progress has been steady," Waldrum said. "West Virginia was a good indicator. Although their record isn't as good this year, they're still one of the top teams in the conference and I thought we played very well against them on Friday night. I think it's a great opportunity in another big game setting for us to se where we're at." 
After their showdown with Rutgers on Friday night, the Irish will travel north to Seton 
Hall for  a  Sunday afternoon  
contest  to  complete  their  
Garden  State  road  trip.  

Although Notre Dame's matchup with the Pirates will be overshadowed by their con­test with the Scarlet Knights, Waldrum says his team still knows that they have to get it done against a conference opponent. 
"I think one of the good things is that we realize [Friday] night's game is the one to worry about and we haven't really talked about [the Seton Hall game]." Waldrum said. "If we take care of things on Friday, we can focus on it on Sunday and prepare. I think we know that we need to win every game." 
Notre Dame holds a 14-1-0 advantage all time against Seton Hall (4-7-1), who remain winless in conference play. The Pirates are led on offense by junior midfielder Nicki Gross who has scored a team high four goals and three assists for 11 points. 
Notre Dame kicks off against Rutgers at 7 p.m. on Friday in Piscataway, N.J., before trav­eling to South Orange Sunday. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
your eyes," Te'o said. "I just have to follow what my eyes tell me." 
Some instructions from the coaching staff aren't so nebu­lous. What did the coaches tell the defense about tackling. a weakness thus far'? 
"Get better at tackling," Te'o said. "Don't miss so many tack­les. 
"Coach Tenuta says use your shoulder pads, that's what they're for." 
He's adjusted to game speed just fine; the weather is anoth­er story. After the Washington game, when it was cold and rainy, he said he hugged his Providence to stay competitive. Still, Murray should face one of the stiffest challenges of the season when facing the Irish's high power offense on Saturday. 
Clark cited his bench as one of the key factors in his team's relentless attack, pointing to senior Tamba Samba's goal early in the second half 
against  Marquette  as  an  
example.  
"Tamba  Samba  was  the  

player who provided the early spark," Clark said. "I feel that we are consistently dominat­ing the second periods of every game and this is often due to the players who come on. [Samba], UuniorJ Steven Perry, [sophomore] Michael Rose, [sophomore] Brendan King, and [sophomore] Adam Mena have been superb in this capacity." 
Notre Dame, who routinely plays one of the toughest slates in the country, has struggled at times this season with consistency on both sides of the ball. Clark hopes that his team's efforts will prepare them for a run at the Big East crown and the NCAA Tournament. 
"We play a very demanding schedule so there is always the danger, especially early on, that we have a little bit of a roller coaster," Clark said. "Hopefully, we can find some rhythm in the latter part of the season. Having said that, I feel these losses have now pre­pared and deepened the squad for the run in." 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
to know how to 

manage your time," he said. "That comes with maturity." 
Te'o, a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, has found a second home at church. The people there welcome him, he said, and ask about the games. He's still considering taking a mis­sion, but hasn't decided. He said the success of the team would not factor into his deci­sion. 
"It's always on my mind," he said. "It's football right now." 
Contact Bill Brink at 
wbrink@nd.edu 

inated in the first round with a 1-2 record. Their absence, coupled with the loss of senior defender Cory Rellas to injury in the season opener, left a hole that Notre Dame spent much of the early going trying to fill. 
"Losing Cory Rellas 10 min­utes into the first game of the season was a factor [in our struggles]," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "Not so much his play but his experience and leadership. He was the 'old head' at the back and, although [senior defender] John Schaefer has come in and performed superbly well, there was a little bit of uncer­tainty and this was compound­ed when we lost Maund, our other central defender, to the Under-20 World Cup in Egypt." 
Providence comes into Saturday's match after a 4-0 loss against Connecticut. Generating offense has been a struggle for the Friars, who are averaging only 0.80 goals per game. 
However, senior goalkeeper Timothy Murray's 0.62 goals against average has allowed 


Junior forward Rose Augustin kicks the ball against Louisville (574) 277·7239 Sept. 27. Augustin and the Irish won the game 1-0. 

STUDENTS WITH A MAJOR., 
.\lli'lOR, OR CONCENTRATION IN MEDIEVAL STUDIES 
STUD~ IN S'I'. ANDREWS. SCOTLAND 
SPRh"\G. 201 1 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 12 6:00P.M 71 S HESBUR.&B J.IBRA.RY 
Application Deadline is November 15J 2009 www.nd.edu/-ois 
Serving Lunch {-,i Dinner Come Dine \Vith Our .Fcmdiy ~<tnd Be Our Friend1,i

~~~?· Tttts·Sat 11~1; i·9 Closed Sun &Mon 
O-ur Spt'daltks Indudr EX!JUisitr Mea( Entrees {.,.; Hcaldty \~gcwrian Disht·s 
Appetizers • Salads •Sandwiches Meat Dishes • Vegetarian Selections • Desscrt5 Dine In •T.akc OUl • C-atering •ReservationsAccepted 
115 DLxie \\!w Norrll.. South Bend 
.~ 



Friday, October 9, 2009 
The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
CROSSWORD 
Across 26 Little wood Wood cutters 27 Well-thought-out 8 Small river craft: 29 Kind of network Var. 30 They have their 15 Psychiatrist's limits arsenal 
31 Freshener since 17 They were used the 1890s on old TV's 
32 Economical way 
''Twenty One" 

to buy 18 Welcome things 
33 Punch-Out!! 
on hectic 
maker 
workdays 
35 "_ beauty, so 

19 Concluding 
to speak, nor 
notes 

good talk ...": 20 Start making a Kipling stink? 36 Styles 21 Increase in 37 It might get a 
volume, in mus. plug 22 Zapped 38 Ravel's "Ma 23 Modern, in Mere_," aka 
Munster "Mother Goose" 24 Timor Sea, vis­39 Model's series a-vis the Indian 40 Bond variety, Ocean briefly 25 Sank on a 41 Little or wee course follower 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

42 Restaurant opener? 43 Late, in Leon 
44 Process associated with socialism 
47 Having no pressing needs? 48 Service staples 49 Annoyances 
Down Part of a track 

team? 2 Rebel 3 Long-disproven 
scientific theory 4 Framework components 
5 Some prosecutors: Abbr. 
6 Not ideal for a picnic 7 Sponge skeleton parts 8 knee 9 ''That's just _!" 10 Chinese menu possessive 11 Asian way 12 Launching a start-up, say 
13 Number of nights in old stories 
14 Pittsburgh giant 16 Hornswoggled 22 Small choir, 
maybe 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Joe Krozel  
23 Pointless  32 Out around  40 Swimmer Biondi  
25 Jack, e.g. 26 Decimal point follower 28 Attack barbarously 29 Iberian infants  midday, say 33 Register button 34 Breaks in 36 Toddlers cut them  and others 42 Hitter of 66 in '98 43 Old propaganda source 45 Publisher Ballantine  
31 Course  39 Instrumentation  46 He overthrew  
component  location  Bhutto  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 
HOROSCOPE FRIDAYS WITH FRAN 2.0 
Aries -l'm sorry you missed Taylor Swift. It would have been cool, of course, but in general, good call avoid­ing the source of the frantic screams. It could have been a zombie attack! Then again... she does have pretty weird eyes. Verdict: "It's a zombie story, baby just stay dead" 
Taurus -You're a bull. Good luck with that. Verdict: TOROOOOOOOO 
Gemini -If you're from Africa, why are you white? Verdict: God Karen, you can't just ask people why they're white. 
Cancer -So, you've fallen off your workout plan. At least your lack of washboard abs won't be on Perez any­time soon. Verdict: "I wouldn't write a song about any of these uggos" 
.....
Leo -Students, be nice to your professors. Professors, have some sympathy and let us sleep this weekend? Please? Maybe? Verdict: Midterms blow hard. 
Virgo -Pam and Jim got married. You should start working on your fairytale ending. Verdict: 3.5 stars. 
Libra-What happened to Hanson? 
Scorpio -You should work on your sense of humor. Verdict: Colin Sullivan 
Sagittarius -Embrace your inner star and burst out in song. But not in public, of course. Verdict: You ARE the star. 
Capricorn-Just because there isn't a game tomorrow, doesn't mean you can't be belligerent by three. Verdict: 4 stars. 
Aquarius -It's beginning to look a lot like UGG­NorthFace-sweatpants-pale Season! Verdict: Damn. 
Pisces-Just for the record, Fran loves the gays, almost as much as Fran loves Fran. Verdict: Take a Viewpoint chill pill. 
SCHAD & fREUDE 
•• oo Fo 12. '"B ~$1t. etTL!~L..t.. ;-t C.ll ~T S"~ 
THE MOBILE PARTY 

1 tight to keep homosexuality a sin. 

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
T tool f:\ T 'S L HC: 
oE.. $00 PER

{l S "t>€1<-'t;)EC E.NT 
G-OOD DE.r'£1-JS lU£" ~--"'P t-A 't 
COLIN HOFMAN 
What do you fight for? 

Weare the 
l fight to promote 
Fighting Irish!
the illusion of 
tolerance. 

THE 0 BSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 7'79 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name _______________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City ______________ State ____ Zip_________ 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HESEP j
rJ r I I 
LUTEL 

j
I I [ (] 
I VHIALS I 
r I I 

Answer here: 

" rI I I ]" rI I I ) 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: COLIC BULLY GARISH SEPTIC
Yesterday's 

Answer: What the retiree needed when he decided to take up golf -A •COURSE" 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIIUON 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and JeH KrM&k 

THE: SHOP OWNE:f<'S DONUT DISCOUNT AMOUNTfED TO --­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 




Friday, October 9, 2009 page 32 
HOCKEY 

Return to the Ice 
Irish host Alabama­
Notre Dame looks to Huntsville to open return to NCAA's 
\ 
I 
2009-2010 campaign after first-round exit 
~ I 
I 
By SAM WERNER It may seem a bit early for Associate Sports Editor the start of the college hock­ey season, 
After a six-month hiatus, but Notre Dame will finally drop tonight's the puck on its 2009-10 sea­season son Friday opener night when against
See Also 

the Irish take Alabama­
"Brad Phillips
on Alabama­Huntsville 
' 
). Huntsville. steps in at can't come The last soon
goalie."

time Notre enough for Dame took page28 No.5 Notre the ice, it Dame. was in a dis-"[Our
i: appointing first-round NCAA NCAA first-Tournament loss to Bemidji round exit last season] was State. Coach Jeff Jackson, good moti-yation in the offsea-
Current senior Ryan Thang attacks with the puck in a 2-1 defeat to Michigan Jan. 31. Thang and the see JACKSON/page 28 Irish open this season tonight against Alabama-Huntsville at 7:35p.m. see OPENER/page 28 

ND WoMEN's SoccER 

Irish travel to New Jersey for two conference matches 
threat to extending its NCAA ence play. goals and three assists. team did anything different to 
By MIKE GOTIMER 

record 57 match conference Rutgers is fresh off of a gru­Senior goalkeeper Erin prepare.
Sports Writer 

unbeaten streak. eling road trip in which they Guthrie, who has started all "I don't think we've done Although the Irish (8-3-1, 4-defeated Marquette 3-1 on but one match for Rutgers and anything different," Waldrum 
After three weeks of confer­0-1) hold a 16-1-2 record all­Friday in Milwaukee before carries a 9-1-2 record, seven said.."We have to focus on ence play, No. 9/8 Notre Dame time against the Scarlet traveling to Tampa for a shutouts, and a 0.41 goals paying attention to details on prepares to take on No. 10/11 Knights (9-1-3, 3-0-2), they scoreless tie with South against average into the offense and finish. The key for Rutgers on an East Coast face a Rutgers team holding Florida on Sunday. On offense, match, anchors the Scarlet this weekend is to focus on the swing in New Jersey in what its highest NSCAA ranking in the Scarlet Knights are led by Knights superb defense. small details." may prove to be the Big East's school history and the only junior forward Ashley Jones Despite the magnitude of the The match with the Scarlet premier match-up of the sea­other Big East team that who leads the team with 19 matc h , I r ish co· a c h Randy son and Notre Dame's biggest remains undefeated in confer-points on a Big East high eight Waldrum didn't think that his see RUTGERS/page 30 
fOOTBALL 

Rookie Te' o learning role quickly 

By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Manti Te'o made a tackle. He doesn't remember the play, or even the game, but he remembers looking up into the stands and seeing his parents smiling. 
For the freshman line­backer, who speaks of his family as the most important influence in his life, there's nothing better than that. Especially because they live five time zones away, time spent with them becomes more important. 
"There is nothing I can do that will bring them closer," he said. "The only thing I can do is honor them hy the way I play and conduct myself. 

Te'o was the No. 2 recruit in the 2009 recruiting class, the middle linebacker who can revolutionize Notre Dame's defense over the next four years. Until the Washington game, he received limited playing time, but shined when he did play. He sacked Purdue quarterback Joey Elliott in the final minutes to help Notre Dame secure a close victory and used his speed to keep coverage breakdowns from becoming big plays. 
But against Washingon, he started and played signifi­cant minutes. He used them well, coming away with 10 
see TE'O/page 30 
PAT Observer Freshman linebacker Manti Te'o eyes Nevada quarterback Colin Kaepernlck during the 35-0 Irish victory Sept. 5. 
MEN'S SOCCER 
ND hopes to continue win streak 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 

After a rollercoaster first half of the season, the Irish seem to have found what they needed. 
The return of defenders fresh­man Dillon Powers and sophomore Aaron Maund to the lineup has given Notre. Dame its first winning streak of the season with consecu­tive victories over Seton Hall and Marquette. The Irish (6-4-1, 4-2 
see POWERS/page 30 



• 
For more matchups and pregame analysis, check out 
The Observer's Irish Insider podcast
IRISH INSIDER at ndsmcobserver.com/podcasts
-. ~----~--... -~ 
PODCAST -_1~·. beat wrHf;r~ Matt (h'm1bt:H & Sam Wernet dh':f:U~~i; the U~t;oming hot:k~?) ~~th'HH>n. 
-----·­






