THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Fonnn finds role for unions in economy 
Participants discuss importance of collective bargaining for rights of labor, democracy 
ByJOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Unions and management often don't agree at the bar­gaining table, but Monday night, AFL-CIO Central Labor Council President Bob Warnock. Jr. and AM General Vice President of Human Hesources Gary Wuslich agreed that unions are essential for the health of both workers and the corporation at "Union Forum: The Hole of Unions in Today's Economy," a Higgins Labor Studies Program. 
"I believe there is a value to organized labor," Wuslich, of AM General, the company that manufactures Hummers and 
BOG 


Circle K requests funding 
By SARAH MAYER News Writer 
Brittni Qualizza, the secre­tary of Circle K, asked for two co-sponsorships from the Board of Governance (BOG) at their meeting Monday night. Circle Kis a nationwide service organization that has a chap­ter at Saint Mary's. 
Qualizza, along with Alicen Miller, Circle K's former presi­dent, requested the first co­sponsorship to help fund an upcoming conference involving all Indiana Circle K groups. 
"Awards are given in April for the best clubs," Miller said. "It is a time to celebrate Circle K clubs and the board's turn­ing over to next year's lead­ers." 
Qualizza also asked for a co­sponsorship for the second annual alumni reunion week­end hosted by the Saint Mary's Affiliates of the American Chemical Society (SMAACS). She is in charge of gathering alumni to campus so they can present what they did after graduating from Saint Mary's. 
"!The weekend] consists of alum from recent years to 15 years ago," Qualizza said. "It is a really good opportunity for younger women who are chemistry majors to see them give speeches and be influ­enced by their amazing place in society." 
see BOG/page 4 HMMWVs, said. 
Wuslich said that he has tried to build positive relationships with unions throughout his career, and has turned down positions from manufacturing firms that do not negotiate with unions. 
Wuslich describes the efforts to organize labor as one of the "two great social movements of the 20th Century," with the other being the civil rights movement. 
However, he said that new generations do not understand the importance of unions. "Very few people have had exposure to unions and they do not understand what it took to get where we are today," he 
see UNIONS/page 4 


CLC debates Good Samaritan Policy 
DeBartolo study space, Web site, communitiy relations also discussed 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Members of the Campus Life Council discussed tech­nology and the Medical Amnesty Policy, which would protect students who have been drinking from getting in trouble while trying to help an intoxicated friend if they are hurt or sick, at their meeting Monday night. 
Student body vice presi­dent Grant Schmidt reported for the task force on technol­ogy and student space in dorms. Schmidt said he and Fr. Pete McCormick, Keough Hall's rector, plan to meet 

with the coordinators of the 
Web site agenda.nd.edu to 
discuss making it simpler ~and more appealing. 
Schmidt pulled the Web 

site up on an overhead to 
show how he thought the 
Web site could be improved. 
"It's extremely updated 

and it's very well kept. The 
problem with it is it's not 
very appealing," Schmidt 
said. "It's just really, really 
confusing, in my opinion and 
in our task force's opinion." 
Schmidt demonstrated how 

the Web site was confusing 
to him by clicking on the 
Athletics tab, and showing 
that Junior Parents 
Weekend, which is not an 
· athletic event, was listed. 
Schmidt also reported that 
his task force is working on 
creating more space for· 
studying. 
"We are also going to meet 
with the Office Hegistrar to 
discuss the possibility of 
using some of the rooms in 
DeBartolo for study space at 
night," he said. 
Diversity Council 
Representative Brigitte 
Githinji spoke in behalf of 
the new student introduction 
to Notre Dame task force, 
and said they will be focus­
ing on multi-cultural and 
international students. 
see CLC/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Hip hop and black culture exan1ined 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
The influence of hip hop on the perceptions of African American culture, especially in media, was discussed during a lecture entitled "Hip Hop Psychology 101" given by John Rogers Ill, director of orienta­tion at Wright State University in Dayton, Ohio. 
Hogers placed emphasis on the importance of looking back over the past and what has happened to ancestors and eld­ers. 
"When you look back over our history, and realize a lot of the things that have happened, it does give a lot of students pause," Hogers said. 
During his multimedia pres­entation, Hogers showed clips from cartoons, films and televi­sion to explain the promotion of racial stereotypes in these mediums through the years. 
One clip was from a cartoon called "Lazy Town" that aired in the early 1930s. The African American characters are por­trayed as lazy with exaggerated features. Rogers stressed the inconsistencies of these depic­tions. 
"Slaves weren't lazy, they couldn't be lazy. Women would give birth to babies and had to go back out into the fields right after giving birth," Hogers said. 
These incorrect representa­
see HIP HOP/page 3 


Profs compar-e development standards 
By LIZ LEFEVBRE 
News Writer 

Two University professors dis­cussed how to measure develop­ment across different cultures at the first lecture in the Ford Family Program in Human Development Studies and Solidarity Discussions on Development series Monday. 
Carolyn Nordstrom, a profes­sor in the department of Anthropology, and Arnitava Dutt from the department of Economics talked about whether people across cultures and com­munities can agree on what development is and how it can be gauged. 
Nordstrom began with two sto­ries from her field experiences in war-torn Angola in southwestern Africa. The first story told of a single man who appeared to practice development by reset­tling displaced people onto a farm that produced goods which were then exported to other countries. Nordstrom pointed out that in this man's system, he made all the profit without doing any labor. 
"This man is heralded as a king of development," she said, despite the fact that he was act­ing as a "robber baron" and profiting off of these displaced citizens. 
Nordstrom's second story focused on a group of women in Angola, who, after having their entire lives destroyed by the war, pooled their resources and began to make and sell their own products before eventually set­ting up their own community banks. 
see FORD/page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

My25thmgs ... or 15 
In lieu of the fad that is sweeping Facebook, I have decided to create my own Jist of 25 Things About Myself (Well. more like 15.) 
1. When it's October here, I think, "God, this is 
the most beau-Stephanie DePrez fiful place on earth. How Assistant Scene 
come I got so Editor lucky as to end up here?" When it's January here, I think, "What idiot human decided to settle here? Who on earth hated themselves so much they decided to spend every moment they were outside wishing they could rip their face off because it's so cold it's going numb?" 
2. 
My roommates and I absolutely adore the dinning hall's sweet potato fries. Whenever they gloriously appear, we have a mass texting circle that coordinates how we will system­atically lift as many as possible from the DH to our room. 

3. 
When I work out I put my laptop on the elliptical trainer consol and watch an episode of whichever TV show I am currently obsessed with. Dangerous? Yes. Enough to get me out of bed at ?a.m.? You betcha. 

4. 
I get sick, twisted pleasure out of ripping out the electrical chord of the radio in the bathroom when it's blast­ing U93. 

5. 
I'm convinced someday my room­mate and her boyfriend are going to run away together and open a pen­guin farm and train the penguins to sing Disney songs. 

6. 
I have crushes on old guys. Hugh Laurie, Nathan Fillion, Hugh Jackman, Sting. The young ones, eh. They do nothing for me. 

7. 
There is a video of me on Youtube that has 22,409 views. I don't know if that makes me proud or frightened. 

8. 
I have written 41 articles for The Observer. 

9. 
My r'oommates have somehow gotten it in their heads that they can convince me to do anything, no mat­ter how ridiculous. And it's usually true. I draw the line, though, at stand­ing on the table in the dining hall and belting out "And IIIIIIIIII will always love youuuuuuuuu." Maybe senior year. 

10. 
In my film class, two class peri­ods in a row I have gotten up to go to the bathroom. I'm starting to worry people in that class will only recog­nize me as the "Bathroom Girl." 

11. 
I have had full conversations with a squirrel. They are very atten­tive. 

12. 
I have joined the "Fighting for Footlongs" boycott. I only get 6-inch's, but I figure if the footlong price goes down to $5, the 6-inch will have to cost less than $4.19. 

13. 
I am addicted to the Web site Whedoneque.com, and I check it hourly. 

14. 
I love my "Notre Dame Music" sweatshirt. I am a little disappointed, though, that the slogan "Where My Pitches At?" didn't fly. 

15. 
My 25 percent off receipt at the bookstore did not count for the $20 pack of 50 CD's, and I was sorely dis­appointed. 


The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdprez@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional 
publication and strives for the highest standards of 
journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize 
rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a -mistake, please contact us ar 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 17, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE KIND OF CANDY? 






Charles Janini  Jason Miller  Kate Sullivan  Molly Smith  Rachel Brzenzinski  
freshman Dillon  junior Dillon  junior Pangborn  junior Walsh  senior offcampus  
"Gummy  "Watermelon  "Swedish fish. "  "The Lego can­ "Sour gummy  
penguins.  rings.  dies, because I  worms.  
can make stuff  
out ofthem"  


ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer 
Freshman Melissa Buddie, whose letter published in The ()bserver last fall inspired much debate about the college hook-up culture, speaks in a panel discussion at the Edith Stein lecture this past weekend. 
OFFBEAT 
Police shoot chimp after it attacks woman 
STAMFORD, Carin. -A 175-pounq chimpanzee kept as a pet was shot and killed by a police officer Monday after it attacked a woman visiting its owners' home, leaving her with 
serious facial  injuries,  
authorities said.  
The  injured  woman,  

described by police as in her 50s, was taken to-'a hospital; her condition and identity were not immedi­ately available. The 15­year-old chimpanzee's owner and two officers also were hurt, though police said the extent of Stamford reported on its Web site Monday night that the primate's owner called 911 and tried to stop the chimp from attacking the woman by stabbing it with a butcher knife. 
their  injuries  was  not  
immediately known.  
The  Advocate  of  

Starbucks heist costs jeweler $300,000 
PARKEH, Colo. -How much is a cup of coffee at Starbucks? For a jewelry salesman from Kansas, it ended up cos.ting about $300,000. 
Police say the man stopped for coffee Monday at a Starbucks in Parker, Colo., south of Denver. He was just returning to his car when he was held up. Three masked robbers took three "tubs" of jewelry and a briefcase containing the salesman's handgun. 
Police didn't identify the 64-year-old salesman. Parker police spokeswoman Elise Penington says he was in town for a trade show. One of the robbers allegedly brandished a gun, but no one was injured in the rob­bery. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

...J 
<t 
(,) 




0 
HIGH 31 26 HIGH 42 HIGH 38
..... 
LOW 21 19 LOW 32 LOW 20 
HIGH LOW 
IN BRIEF 
"How the Health Are You?" a health fair open to students, will take place Wednesday from 4 to 5 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. The event is free and attendees have the chance to win raffle prizes, including a free roundtrip ticket to anywhere in the United States. 
The Saint Mary's senior class is hosting "Financial Tips for Recent College Graduates," a lecture by Professor Susan Vance Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. in 335 Spes Unica Hall. 
Men Against Violence will present "That's What He Said?: Images of Modern Masculinity,'' a lecture relating the TV show "The Office" and the roles of men and women on Wednesday at 8 
p.m. in Carey Auditorium in Hesburgh Library. 
Panelists, including students, professors and members of the South Bend community, will debate President Obama's impact on diversity Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Center lounge. 
The Class of 2012 presents "Frosh Four Square" Thursday from 6 to 9 p.m. in Stepan Center. The event is free to par­ticipate, and $5 for aT-shirt. 
David Walker, the president and CEO of the Peter G. Peterson Foundation, will speak Friday from 10:40 a.m. to 12:10 
p.m. in Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. The event is part of the Ten Years Hence lecture series. It is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 26 
29 

LOW 13 
19 
HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 56 I 31 Boston 34 I 23 Chicago 34 I 27 Denver 56 I 25 Houston 68 I 61 Los Angeles 59 I 46 Minneapolis 33 I 20 New York 36 1 22 Philadelphia 40 I 24 Phoenix 70 I 51 Seattle 49 I 36 St. Louis 41 I 30 Tampa 71 I 47 Washington 38 I 27 
Tuesday, February 17, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Can't decide what to do this summer? Can't decide on just one study abroad location? 
STUDY ABROAD THIS SU~~ER THROUGH NOTRE DAME! 
Notre Dame will offer faculty-led programs in: 
Cape Town, South Africa 
Dublin, Ireland Paris, France Toledo, Spain Vienna, Austria 
SUMMER PROGRAMS INFORMATION SESSION 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 5PM 217 DEBARTOLO 


Professor's book looks at plagiarism 
Special to The Observer 
Susan D. Blum, associate professor of anthropology at Notre Dame, is the author of a new book titled "My Word! Plagiarism and College Culture," which explores the prevalence of plagiarism among American college stu­dents and why it exists. 
Blum is a cultural and lin­guistic anthropologist who has been researching decep­tion, truth, lying and cheat­ing for several years, mostly in the context of China but also cross-culturally. In "My Word!" she examines in greater depth the specific area of plagiarism, in which those same accusations are . made. 
"My goal simply is under­standing," Blum said. "The book examines the complexi­ty of student behavior using standard anthropological tools for holistic approach to a problem. ·I see my role as a translator of students' cul­ture to non-students through analysis of the perspectives of faculty, administrators and students. I neither excuse nor blame students for the behavior we lump together as 
Hip Hop 
continued from page 1 
These incorrect representa­tions have continued into the hip-hop genre, he said. 
Music throughout the decades has clianged drasti­cally according to Rogers. In the 1970s, African American music included the Sugar Hill Gang. In the 1990s, gangster rap began becoming popular. Now, African American music 

is "no holds b a r r e·d , " Rogers said. 
He related this idea to the use of the "N" word in our society. Rogers commented on the overuse of the word all over the world, and how its use in music can be more influen­tial than peo­ple realize. 
"Depending on where your head is, that word can 
"Depending on where your head is, that word can cause death just like anything else. People say, 'Well music doesn't have that much power.' Look, can't you catch the Holy Spirit by lis­tening to music in church?" 
John Rogers III director of orientation Wright State University 
cause death just like any­thing else. People say, 'Well music doesn't have that much power.' Look, can't you catch the Holy Spirit by listening to music in church?" Rogers said. 
He showed examples of the word, not only in hip hop music, but on television as well. It is also used on store fronts in foreign countries to sell the hip hop style, Rogers said.· 
Another important fact about African American rep­resentation in the media, Rogers said, is that very few of the outlets in radio or tele­vision are owned by African Americans. Channels like 
'plagiarism.' Rather than complaining about how 'lazy' or 'distracted' they are, I decided to investigate all the claims on their time, and I offer suggestions to help fac­ulty and administrators bet­ter communicate with them." 
Blum, who served for five years as director of Notre Dame's Center for Asian Studies, also is the author of "Lies that Bind: Chinese Truth, Other Truths," which explores the ideology of truth and deception in China and elsewhere, as well as "Making Sense of Language: Readings in Culture and Communication," and "Portraits of 'Primitives': Ordering Human Kinds in the Chinese Nation. She is co­editor of "China Off Center: Mapping the Margins of the Middle Kingdom." 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 2000, Blum was graduated from Stanford University. She earned master's degrees in anthropology and Chinese language and literature and 
her  doctoral  degree  in.  
anthropology  from  the  
University of Michigan.  

Black Entertainme'ht Television (BET) or MTV, which air black music and entertainment, use low quali­ty music and lack diversity, Rogers said. 
"There is something going on with our stations and the music getting to us, and the mainstream stations and the music getting to them," Rogers said. 
Rogers also explored the statistics in African American society. Twice as many black women graduate from college as men, he said. He also dis­cussed the increase of 
divorce and sin­gle parents in this country for all races, and how that has negatively affected the black middle class. African American chil­dren raised in middle-class households "end up near poor, he said. 
To conclude the presenta­tion, Rogers showed a slide show that illus­trated the African 

American struggle from slav­ery, to the Civil Rights move­ment, to today's. portrayal of black culture in the media. Pictures of Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcom X went across the screen as music from the hip hop genre played in the background. 
One of his closing slides had a quote from Dr. Maoshing Ni reading, "We are the physical and spiritual fusion of ancestors whose genes we carry. Knowing our history is a starting point in the pursuit of knowing· your­self." 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO1@saintmarys.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 17, 2009 
environments can change." Nordstrom said development
Ford
BOG 
is a "dangerous term" because it is such a difficult concept. 
continued from page 1
continued from page 1 
"It seems simple, but it becomes slippery the more you look at it," she said. "If we 
In other BOG news: 
can't have a single meaning of 
Nordstrom noted that while
+Junior Caitlin Sullivan development, then at least we 

groups of women like these are
expressed concern about the 
can try to shed light on why it 
often ignored or disregarded as
parking in the Science Hall park­is a difficult term." 
informal traders, "people like
ing lot. She said that many of the 
The Ford 
these women
spots are reserved for teachers 
Program 
are the ones
leaving students to park in the aspires to con­
actually build­"Development is 
back comer of the lot or in Angela 
nect scholars, parking lot while many of the 
ing the coun­some kind of 
citizens, and 
try."
spots in the teacher area remain 
progress, some kind institutions to 
In light Of
unoccupied. 
address critical 
these contra­ofgood happening. 
+Elections commissioner 

challenges that Fraricesca Johnson said the "Meet 
dicting percep­But in what sense? face peoplethe Candidates" event for 
tions of devel­
Who decides what is who live in 
opment, Dutt
Residence Hall Association (RHA) extreme pover­
addressed the developed, and at
and Student Diversity Board ty. The pro­
ways in which what level?" gram investi­Wednesday at 6 p.m. in the West 
(SOB) president will be this 
economists 
gates difficult Wing of the Noble Family Dining 
measure devel­questions relat­
Amitava Dutt
opment.
Hall. 
ed to develop­
economics professor 
"Development+The SMC Monologues have ment and uses 
said. Schmidt said that students
CLC 
do think about whether or 

continued from page 1 not they will get in trouble before.. making th~ decision to help an intoxicated stu­dent, which means that "the
She also said that in the coverage is directly con­next few weeks, the task nected or correlated to the
force plans to focus on what issue of safety."
specific issues would be 
Koski said that althoughmost helpful to these stu­

her task force had discusseddents and she said they are 

"whether we want an edu­

considering sending out sur­cational solution or a policyveys to get student input. 
solution ... we did not by

Chief executive assistant 
any means decide that poli­

Karen Koski reported for 
cy was the solution that wethe task force on the review 

were looking for, but justof the Medical Amnesty that the problem that wePolicy, which was formally were addressing is alcohol."

known as the Good 
Student body president
Samaritan 
Bob Reish
Policy. 
reported on
Rather than 

"It sounds more like the task force
look at the 

a policy coverage ... on the rela­
implications of 
tionship

the policy on rather than deal with 
between theall rules on 

the more University
campus, such 

fundamental issue of and off-cam­
as parietals, 
pus students.

Koski said that alcohol abuse on 
"We toyed
they task force 

campus. 
around with
has decided to 
the idea of
focus on the should there

Jim Lewis
Medical 
be some off­

Amnesty Policy rector 
campus stu-_

in relation to Carroll Hall 
dent servic­

two performances that will take place Friday Feb. 28 and Saturday March 1 in Vander Vennet Theater, women's issues commissioner Becki Faunce said. "We actually have too many peo­ple and too many monologues, and that is not a bad problem to have," she said. 
+Sophomore Parent's Weekend, which took place this past weekend, went well accord­ing to sophomore class president Meg Griffin. Despite several last minute registries everyone had a great time, she said. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
would not nec­essarily come with unorgan­ized labor. 
"If you are able to harness the influence, power, struc­ture, manage­ment of organ­ized labor to achieve a com­mon goal, you achieve far more success," he said. This success can come in achiev­ing both the company's goals is some kind of progress, some kind of good happening," she said. "But in what sense? Who decides what is developed, and at what level?" 
While presenting different ways that economists attempt to quantify development, each style had its own pros and cons. Dutt said there is "no sin­gle indicator" that signifies a "best" way to achieve develop­ment. 
"Our choices may depend on what we are trying to do for what purpose," she said. "There is nothing fixed about development, as meanings and 
have a right to freely join a
"If you are able to 
union and chose
harness the influence, 
their own leader­power, structure, ship. Unions "do
management of 
everything· that
organized labor to 
the citizenryachieve a common really demands," goal, you achieve far he said. 
Wuslich agreed
more success. " 
that unions are about more than Gary Wuslich their effective­ness.
AM General Vice 
"Inherent in
President of Human 
every democracy
Resources 

is the right to bargain collec­tively," he said. 
critical thinking and solidarity to implement innovative solutions for people trapped in poverty. 
The second part in the Discussions on Development series will be held Wednesday, March 18, in the Coleman Morse Lounge. Scott Appleby, the director of the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, and Paul Kollman, professor of Theology will discuss "The Impact of Religion on Development." 
Contact Liz Lefevbre at elefebvr@nd.edu 

Purcell. Catholic Social Teaching strongly believes in the dignity of work and labor, as it extends from humanity's co-creation with God in Genesis. 
"Not only is life important, but quality of life is important," Purcell said. People have a nat­ural right to decent work, fair wages and private property, he said. 
According to Catholic Social Teaching, economics exist for people and systems are sup­posed to work for people, not the other way around. 
Catholic Social Teaching also supports unions because of its emphasis on the community,. according to Purcell. 
"Everything that we do has to be about building community," he said. "One of those forms is the union." 
Many of the audience mem­bers at Monday evening's forum were local union mem­bers, representing the steel­workers, carpenters, electri­cians, postal workers and autoworkers unions, among others. 
Also present was local activist and 1970 Notre Dame graduate David Janes. Janes argued that a discussion of unions is incomplete without mentioning unorganized labor in third world countries. 
"I can't imagine a discussion of the value and the future of unions without talking about the value and the future of unions on the Mexican­American border and in the fields of the Benediction of God in El Salvador, and in China," Janes said. "If we're going to talk about unions, we're going to have to talk about unions there." 
It is only when the discussion on organized labor extends beyond national borders that Janes says we can focus on "uplifting the whole human race." 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 
alcohol abuse. 

" [ T h e Medical Amnesty Policy] could apply to anything on campus, any kind of situa­tion and the implications for that seemed harder to deal with than the alcohol ones. Not necessarily harder, but something that is too broad for us to deal with," Koski said. 
Fr. Jim Lewis, rector of Carroll Hall, expressed con­cern that the policy seemed to focus on protecting stu­dents who had been drink­ing from getting in trouble rather than on safety or alcohol education. 
"It sounds more like a pol­icy coverage ... rather than deal with the more funda­mental issue of alcohol abuse on campus," Lewis 
es, Reish 
said. 
Reish said they wanted to work on establishing that students need these servic­es, and plan to do so by looking at what other col­leges have to offer and per­haps implementing this issue into the Student Government survey, which will take place over Spring Break. 
Linda' Cirillo, rector of Lewis Hall, said the task force also wants to look into what services are already available for off-campus students so they can "find out what we really need that we don't have." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 



Unions 
continued from page 1 
said. "They take it for granted the sacrifices their forefathers made." 
Wuslich admits that his com­pany pays more money to labor because they employ organized workers. 
"Do we pay a premium? Yes. Are we willing to? Yes," he said. "We get a better quality work, and a more efficient job. You cannot make the judgment about what you pay solely by the cost." 
According to Wuslich, unions help to bring a sense of team­work to the workplace that 
for all workers, not just for 
manufacturing workers, 
according to Warnock. "None 
of us are in total control of our 
lives," he said. 
Unions really are effective in representing workers, Warnock said. He cited Toyota's recent layoffs and hour reductions at their non-union plants, but not .at their unioni1;ed plants as evi­dence that the unions are pro­
tecting their members. 
"The bargaining committee's 
in there and you've got people 
representing you," he said. 
"But the people who don't have 
people representing them, 
they've got problems." 
In addition to their effective­
ness in dealing with manage­
ment, unions are a basic right, 
according to Warnock. He said 
that workers 
OPEN HOUSE 2009-10 SCHOOLYEAR 
at the Early Childhood Development Center 
at Notre Dame Come See Our Program and Meet Our Early Childhood 
Early Childhood Teachers 
Development Center, Inc. 

ECDC-ND Open House Dates: 
at Notre Dame

Sundav. 2/L09 ... 1:30 • 3:\)(J Sundav. 3 1 ·o9 ... HO-3:00 

and the goals of a United Way campaign, he said. 
Unions are essential for workers because "people need representation," Warnock said. 
"The doctors have the AMA, the dentists have their group, everybody has their group," he said. "You need someone to represent you in your life." 
Representation should be "democratic," and workers should be able to "vote the peo­ple in that run it, get to chose, and get the right to say 'yes' and 'no,"' Warnock said. 
Representation is important 

"On a broader, more strategic role, I believe that collective bargaining is the most demo­cratic of democratic processes that exist," Wuslich said. "It immediately translates to eco­nomic value or economic deval­ue." 
"What you do in collective bargaining makes a difference in the lives of people," Wuslich said. 
Unions are also a crucial component of Catholic Social Teaching, according to Associate Director of the Center for Social Concerns Bill 

-----------------------, 



ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 17, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Submarines crash in Atlantic Ocean 
LONDON-Nuclear submarines from Britain and France collided deep in the Atlantic Ocean this month, authorities said Monday in the first acknowledgment of a highly unusual accident that one expert called the gravest in nearly a decade. 
Officials said the low-speed crash did not damage the vessels' nuclear reactors or missiles or cause radiation to leak. But anti-nuclear groups said it was still a frightening reminder of the risks posed by submarines prowling the oceans powered by radioactive material and bristling with nuclear weapons. 
The first public indication of a mishap came when France reported in a little­noticed Feb. 6 statement that one of its submarine had struck a submerged object -perhaps a shipping container. But con­l'irmation of the 'accident only came after British media reported it. 
Taliban commander killed in attack 
KABUL -Forces with the U.S.-backed coalition killed a regional Taliban com­mander and eight others in an airstrike in western Afghanistan, the U.S. said Monday. 
The Sunday night attack destroyed the building housing Ghulam Dastagir and eight other militants in the village of Darya-ye-Morghab, near the Turkmenistan border, the U.S. military said in a statement. 
Dastagir oversaw all of western Badghis province for the Taliban. He was responsi­ble for a surge in violence in the province in recent months, including a November attack on an Afghan army convoy that killed 13 soldiers, the statement said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
.Winter storm strikes Los Angeles 
LOS ANGELES -A winter storm that 
could be the largest of the season is bring­
ing heavy rain and mountain snow to 
Southern California. 
The National Weather Service says the rain should last much of the day, and wind with gusts of up to 45 miles per hour is causing dangerous surf conditions off the coast. 
The California Highway Patrol says heavy snow has closed a section of Interstate 5 in the mountains north of Los Angeles. 
Meteorologist David Gomberg calls it the "most significant storm so far this season." There could even be waterspouts or small tornadoes, he says. 


Economy taking toll on dairy farms 
TURLOCK, Calif. -Hundreds of thousands of America's dairy cows are being turned into hamburgers because milk prices have dropped so low that farmers can no longer afford to feed the animals. 
Dairy farmers say they have little choice but to sell part of their herds for slaughter because they face a perfect storm of destruc­tive economic forces. At home, feed prices are rising and cash-strapped consumers are eating out less often. Abroad, the global recession has cut into demand for butter and cheese exported from the U.S. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Vote on unemployment bill delayed 
INDIANAPOLIS -Political fighting in the Indiana House has delayed at least tem­porarily a vote on a bill to help fix the state's depleted unemployment insurance fund. 
The bill would raise taxes on employers to help balance the fund, which currently pays out millions of dollars more than it collects while relying on federal loans to issue unemployment checks. The plan wouldn't tamper with other ways to balance the fund, such as lowering payments to unemployed workers or tightening eligibility rules. 
./ 
States face decisions on stimulus 
$27 billion allocated to states for infrastructure funding won't cover all projects 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -It may sound like a nice problem for states -figuring out how to spend the billions in infrastructure funding they'll rece·ive as part of President Barack Obama's economic stimulus plan. 
But the task is more complicated than it seems, as state officials try to set priorities while managing competing pre.ssures from communities, watchdog groups and federal regula­tors over how the money--· is allocated. 
Under the plan Obama is expected to sign into law early this week, states will divide $27 billion to build and repair roads and bridges. That is less than half the $64 billion in projects states told the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials late last year that they had ready to go. 
The law also requires that half the money be spent on projects that have been vetted by the . federal government and deemed "ready to go" in 120 days, as a way to jolt the economy and create jobs. That. means state officials are under pres­Public Interest Research with journalists, interest the stimulus funds. sure to make decisions Group. groups and others "An ounce of prevention quickly on which projects In California, for exam­demanding a full account­in handling the money is to fund and which to pie, Gov. Arnold ing of which projects worth a pound of grand bypass. Schwarzenegger's office receive the funding, which jury investigations and 
While many states have rejected a request by The are rejected, and why. civil litigation down the made their lists of "ready­Associated Press for a Massachusetts Gov. road," Coakley said. to-go" infrastructure proj­detailed list of "ready-to­Deval Patrick addressed Mindful of the accelerat­ects available online for go" projects. The AP that sentiment last week ed timetable they face, public review, others have sought the information when he named a local states are movirig quickly resisted, in part because under the California real estate developer to to develop mechanisms the limited stimulus fund­Public Records Act, but oversee bidding for the for identifying priority ing means only a fraction the governor's office last stimulus money. Patrick projects and disbursing of the projects will receive week said the documents also set up a new Web site funding for them. money. Watchdog groups were internal drafts, with information on every Some have created say it's likely that state adding "disclosure would project that receives the oversight commissions officials fear angering chill critical communica­money. while others are leaving constituents if a project tions to and within the "I don't want to send a decisions to state transit appears on a wish list and Governor's Office, thereby mistaken impression officials. Some are then is struck from the harming the public inter­there are pet projects," required by law to involve final allocation. est." Patrick said. · state legislators, while 
"There will be huge The sheer volume of The governor appeared legislators in states that internal battles in states money directed toward with the state's attorney don't require their partic­about priorities," said state projects has fueled general, Martha Coakley, ipation are pressing to Phineas Baxandall of the calls for transparency, who also will help track have input. 

FRANCE 

France recognizes role in the Holocaust 
Associated Press ed the deportation from France of vic­what it did," said Serge Klarsfeld, a 
tims of anti-Semitic persecution." renowned French Nazi hunter and 
PARIS -France's top judicial body on "In an absolute rupture with the val­Holocaust historian. Monday formally recognized the nation's ues and principles notably of the dignity Since Chirac's speech, deportees and role in deporting Jews to Nazi death of the human person ... these anti­their families have won special state camps during the Holocaust-but effec­Semitic persecutions provoked excep­pensions and other compensation for tively ruled out any more reparations for tional damage of extreme gravity," it their suffering. Some €500 million has the deportees or their families. said. been paid out by a state commission 
Jewish groups welcomed the ruling by The statement legally formalized a his­established in 2000, according to the Council of State, the clearest legal toric gesture by then-President Jacques Klarsfeld. a,cknowledgment to date of France's role Chirac in 1995, when he became the Monday's decision could put an end to in the Holocaust. first French leader to say the nation bore the quest for such reparations. 
Nearly 70 years ago, the Vichy govern­responsibility for the deportation of Jews A Paris court had sought the Council ment helped deport some 76,000 people in wartime France. Chirac broke with of State's opinion on a request by the -including 11,000 children-from the official position that France's Vichy daughter of a deportee who died at Nazi-occupied France to concentration regime was not synonymous with the Auschwitz for reparations from the camps during the war. Fewer than 3,000 French state. French state. She also was asking for returned alive. "For 11s; it was France. The uniforms material and moral damages for her 
The council said that the French gov­were French. The Germans did not own personal suffering during and after ernment of the time "allowed or facilitat-always ask the Vichy government to do the occupation. 
page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 17, 2009 


UAW, GM 111ake progress in talks 
Associated Press 
DETROIT-With a govern­
ment-imposed deadline for its 
restructuring plan just a day 
away, General Motors Corp. 
was making progress Monday 
in concession talks with 
debtholders and its main 
union, but deals may not come 
until after the deadline passes, 
according to people briefed on 
the situation. 
Talks at GM and Chrysler 
LLC, both of which are living 
off billions in government 
loans, continued Monday with 
few details emerging. Both 
companies must submit plans 
to the Treasury Department by 
Tuesday to show how they will 
repay the loans and become 
viable again. 
Two people briefed on the 
GM plan reported progress 
toward a deal with the United 
Auto Workers. Both spoke on 
condition of anonymity 
because the negotiations are 
private. 
But UAW Legislative Director 
Alan Reuther said Monday he 
does not expect labor agree­
ments in time for Tuesday's 
deadline. 
One of the people briefed on GM's plan said some parts, such as bondholder and labor -agreements, probably won't be complete by the time the plan is submitted to the Treasury Department late Tuesday. GM executives have said the com­pany only has to show sub­stantial progress by Tuesday, with the whole plan finalized 
by March 31. 
Reuther, who heads the UAW's Washington office, said he had not been updated on the talks since Sunday night but he doesn't expect agree­ments before Tuesday. He said the Obama administration's appointment Sunday night of a task force to oversee the automakers' restructuring should get things moving. 
"I think this is an ongoing process, an.d having the Obama administration finally putting this task force in oper­ation, hopefully it will be able to facilitate discussions going forward," Reuther said. 
At GM, UAW bargainers walked out of talks Friday night in a spat over the com­pany's contributions to a union-run trust fund that will take on retiree health care expl.lnses starting next year. Although talks resumed Sunday, Reuther said the union's concerns had not been resolved. 
.GM has received $9.4 billion in government loans and is to get another $4 billion if its plan is approved by the gov­ernment. Chrysler received $4 billion and could get $3 billion more if its plan is approved. The plans must include con­cessions from debtholders and unions as well as substantial restructuring. 
GM is likely to seek more money, at least up to the $18 billion that it requested from Congress in December under its worst-case scenario projec­tions. That scenario has arrived with U.S. sales at a 26­year low and auto sales drop­ping in other parts of the world, a person briefed on GM's plan said. 
The plan will stick with GM's public strategy of trying to remain viable and avoiding Chapter 11 bankruptcy protec­tion, said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the plan has not been finalized. 
GM's plan will discuss cost savings from labor concessions and additional plant closur,es, but the locations of those plants will not be revealed, another person briefed on the plan said Monday. The number of factories to be closed wasn't available. 
GM's board met Monday by teleconference to go over the plan, but details could not be obtained. 
The people briefed on the plan said it will include more information about how GM will cut some of its eight brands, although nothing will be finalized. The company already has said Saab and Hummer are up for sale and Saturn is under review, leav­ing GM to focus on Chevrolet, Cadillac, GMC and Buick, with Pontiac reduced to one or two models. 
Earlier, local union officials said negotiations had been slowed by the Obama adminis­tration's delay in. appointing a "car czar." But Sunday night, the White House announced a task force to oversee the com­panies' restructuring: 
Oba111a to decide troop levels in Afghanistan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Barack Obama's chief spokesman said Monday that he will make a decision "with­in days, not weeks," on how many additional troops to send to Afghanistan, and when. 
White House press secretary Robert Gibbs made the obser­vation in a chat with reporters Monday aboard Air Force One as Obama and his family flew back to the Washington area after a long weekend in his hometown of Chicago. 
The president, his wife and daughters arrived at the mili­tary base just outside Washington at midday Monday. His family had left for Chicago on Friday aboard Air Force One. Among items topping Qbama's agenda this week is signing into law the $787 billion economic stimu­lus plan that Congress passed last Friday. 
Obama has been widely believed likely to send fresh forces to the Afghan battle even as a wide review of U.S. strategy and goals there gets fully under way. 
Defense Secretary Robert Gates had told a Pentagon news conference last week that Obama "will have several options in front of him." Gates suggested, as have other offi-­cials, that the ground com­mander in Afghanistan would eventually get all the forces he has asked for, but no more. 
Lt. Gen. David McKiernan wants more fighting forces and support troops such as helicopter crews to push back against the Taliban in Afghanistan's increasingly dangerous south and eastern regions. 
An opponent of the "surge" of U.S. forces that is now credited with turning around the Iraq war, Obama has taken a cautious approach to the addition of forces in Afghanistan. He is expected to initially approve only part of a military request for as many as 30,000 forces this year, while military and civilian advisers revamp U.S. war goals. 
While in Chicago, the first family did not have a public schedule. The president played basketball with friends, visited the gym and got a haircut. Barack and Michelle Obama celebrated Valentine's Day with a dinner at Oprah Winfrey's personal chef's restaurant on Saturday. 
It was Obama's first signifi­cant break since taking office on Jan. 20. 
Obama won't be in Washington long; he heads to Denver, Colo., Arizona and c:._anada this week and he prans to sign the stimulus leg­islation in Denver. 
DuringJunior Parent Weekend Exper1ence elegant din1i1g on the Notre Da111e Ca111pus 
The perfect setting for Junior Parent Weekend is Sori11:Js., Our tl1oughfully prepared meals, served by a professionally trained staff, eiJsure the ultimate Notre Dame experience, 
Reservations recommended 574 631-2020 n'llrrv.soriiJsndcom 


THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, February 17, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,850.41 0.00 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,537 117 2,179 1,082,642,687 
AMEX NASDAQ 1,534.36 0.00 NYSE fit,. s;2o6.z6.•······•·• +w·o:ii·· S&P 500 826.84 0.00 NIKKEI (Tokyo) FTSE 100 (London) 4,134.75 -54.84 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 {SPY)  -1.08  -0.90  82.76  
BK OF AMERICA (BAC)  -5.11  ·0.30  5.57  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  -3.80  -0.35  8.85  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -0.46  ·0.14  30.43  
Treasuries  
· 10-YEAR NOTE  +5.68 +0.1550  2.88  
13-WEEK BILL  +1.75  0.00  0.29  
30-YEAR BOND  +6.35  +0.22  3.68  
5-YEAR NOTE  -8.56 +0.1470  1.86  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +3.53  37.51  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -7.00  942.20  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.60  81.50  
Exchange Rates  
YEN 91.7200 EURO 1.2791 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2427 BRITISH POUND 1.4290 


IN BRIEF 
Clinton weighs in on economic crisis 
WASHINGTON -Former President Bill Clinton said Monday he thinks the country will surmount the current economic crisis, but sees the threat of terrorism and global instability as a longer-term problem. 
Clinton also gave President Barack Obama high marks for the $787 billion economic stimulus bill that Obama will sign into law as early as Tuesday. 
"I think he's off to a good start," Clinton said. "I think he's got a good team." 
He said he thought Obama's White House han­dled the stimulus issue relatively well, "given the fact they had to do it in a hurry." 
Clinton also said he believes the massive bill, which combines spending and tax cuts, will be "our bridge over troubled waters." 
He confirmed he has talked to Obama about the job, although Clinton said he didn't want to be too specific. 
He said he talked to the new president about "nuts and bolts" issues of the presidepcy and how to keep things from "falling through the cracks." 
Job losses coupled with home losses TOKYO -In corporate Japan, losing your job can mean losing your home as well. 
As major companies cut their work forces in the economic downturn, many Japanese work­ers are finding themselves out on the street because they have to move out of company-run dormitories. 
Sadanori Suzuki was one of them. . 
The 26-year-old lost his job at a car factory in December, and by mid-January he was kicked out of the dorm run by his employer. He moved from Internet cafes -which often have private rooms and double as flop houses-to "capsule" hotels, which are coffm-like individual compart­ments just for sleeping. But within two weeks he was nearly broke and out on the street. 
He found his way to a Shinto shrine in Kawagoe, a Tokyo suburb, where he planned to take temporary refuge. But the worship hall was locked. Exasperated, Suzuki set fire on the shrine, then called police from a nearby pay phone and turned himself in. When he was arrested, last week, he had only 10 yen (11 cents). 
PBGC sees $11 billion deficit grow 
Government corporation that insures 44 million pensions affected by economy 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The deepening recession spells trouble for a little­known government cor­poration that insures the pensions of 44 million workers and retirees. 
The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. already has an $11 billion deficit that seems sure to grow larger as Corporate America suffers through the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. 
With companies report­ing shortfalls in their pension funds, it's all but certain that the PBGC will be forced to take over the pension plans of a rising number of bankrupt busi­nesses. 
That means more red ink at the corporation before things possibly can improve. 
The future financial health of the agency is hard to forecast. It is hinged on interest rates, the length of the reces­sion and the PBGC's own luck in playing the mar­ket, where it has billions invested. 

The agency has $63 bil­lion in assets. But it is obligated to spend $74 billion on pension bene­fits in the coming years. The PBGC might have time to rebound, but over building a few blocks turn to 401(k)-style pro­When a plan is termi­the long term it might from the White House. Its grams that require work­nated, the PBGC takes become insolvent and fate is important to the ers to make contributions over and pays benefits to require a bailout. workers covered by the and shoulder investment the retired workers. But 
"Someday -probably more than 29,000 risks. The PBGC, which they might not get the full more than 20 years from employer-sponsored ben­receives no tax dollars, amount that th.eir now -there's a signifi­efit pension plans it gets its money from pre­employer promised. The cant chance that some­insures, and to all taxpay­miums paid by companies maximum guaranteed body is going to have to ers who could be asked to that sponsor the pension amount currently is pay the piper," said for­foot the bill if its financial plans, along with revenue $54,000 a year for a per­mer PBGC Director picture worsens down the from its investments. son retiring at age 65. Charles E. F. Millard, a road. The corporation's bal­Some pension experts Bush administration Congress created the ance sheet has taken shrug their shoulders at appointee who stepped PBGC in 1974 to guaran­heavy hits in recent the PBGC's $11 billion down on Jan. 20 when tee the retirement securi­years. Nine of the 10 deficit, noting that the Barack Obama became ty of workers covered by largest pension plan ter­35-year-old corporation president. "In the near-to defined benefit pension minations in PBGC's his­has been operating at a medium-term, there will plans. These traditional tory, including United deficit for most of its exis­be no need for a bailout plans, which pay a speci­Airlines, Bethlehem Steel tence. They say the PBGC of PBGC." fied monthly benefit at and Kaiser Aluminum, has many years to recoup 
The PBGC quietly oper­retirement, are being have occurred ~ince its losses and fulfill its ates in a brick office phased out as companies 2001. obligations to pensioners. 


Oil prices stable as demand decreases 
energy and industry affairs, said Sunday that crude prices are unlikely
Associated Press OPEC is ready to cut output further to rise above $40 per barrel, even if SINGAPORE -Oil prices stayed when it meets next month. Al-Sada OPEC decides to cut as much as 2 above $37 a barrel Monday in Asia as said a reasonable price for oil would million barrels per day next month. OPEC members talked up more pro­be $70 a barrel. Oil prices are being pressured by duction cuts over the weekend amid Venezuelan Oil Minister Rafael surging U.S. crude inventories and a weakening global demand for crude. Ramirez said Saturday his country lack of compliance to quotas by some Light, sweet crude for March deliv­would support new production cuts in OPEC members, he said. ery fell 6 cents to $37.45 a barrel by the face of rising crude inventories. "Until demand picks up, oil won't midday in Singapore on the New York "It's probably 50-50 that they'll cut have a significant rally," Chu said. Mercantile Exchange. The contract again in March," said Clarence Chu, a "Another big OPEC cut could add $5 rose $3.53 on Friday to settle at trader at market maker Hudson to the price, but it's not going to send $37.51. Capital Energy in Singapore. "The itto$70." The Organization of Petroleum budgets of a lot of those countries U.S. markets are closed Monday for Exporting Countries has implemented run on oil so they need the price Presidents Day. most of the 4.2 million barrels a day higher." Investors have already priced in the of output reductions announced since Even within OPEC, however, there passage of a $787 billion stimulus September, but the cuts have been is skepticism over whether reducing package that President Barack overwhelmed by a collapse in crude supply will spur higher prices. Obama plans to sign on Tuesday and demand amid the global slowdown. Moussa Marafi, a high-ranking will be looking for its impact on con­On Sunday, Mohammed Saleh al­Kuwaiti oil official, told Annahar sumer and industrial demand in the Sada, Qatar's minister of state for newspaper in comments published coming months. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 17, 2009 
Ex-inmates hope for reconciliation after incarceration 
Congress-approved Second Chance Act could help non-violent offenders find jobs, housing and counseling 
Associated Press 
OHLANDO, Fla. -Ex-convict Vikki Hankins had the misfor­tune of being freed from prison during the worst recession since the Great Depression. While serving an 18-year sentence for a nonviolent federal drug con­viction, she was assured of tax­payer-funded food and shelter. 
Now on the outside after her first offense, she lives in a motel room and struggles to find work. 
Like thousands leaving prison amid the economic slump, Hankins could be helped by the Second Chance Act, a program approved by Congress to help nonviolent offenders get a new start on life. 
Signed by then-president George W. Bush in April, the Second Chance Act is designed to help ex-convicts get jobs, housing and counseling. But congressional backers worry the act may not even see its first dollar as billions in taxpayer money are being shunted to the nation's economic bailout. 
"I want to establish a life for myself. But where is my home going to be? What am I going to do for the rest of my life?" Hankins said. 
Like many ex-cons, the 40­year-old wants a house, a job and a car. Since her release last spring, she has lived in Orlando­area motels and has been turned down dozens of times for jobs in fast food restaurants serving the Disney World throngs. behind bars. According to the 
Potential employers have been federal Bureau of Justice scared off by her past, and she's Statistics, 2.3 million people in one of many people looking for the U.S. are held in jails, state work in Florida. The state's job­lockups or federal facilities. less rate hovers above 8 per­The Second Chance law won cent, topping the national aver-wide bipartisan support in 2008. age. · Lawmakers anticipated setting 
Hankins does do administra­aside $165 million a year in tive work with a group started grants to nonprofit organiza­by a retired federal corrections tions, religious groups and officer, called Advocate 4 states to help prisoners re-enter Justice, which lobbies lawmak­society, but so far no funding ers to reinstate has been federal parole approved. -particularly U.S. Hep. Danny for nonviolent "I want to establish a Davis, D-Illinois, drug offenders. said funding for
life for myself But

In exchange, Second Chance the group helps "where is my home wasn't part of the pay her weekly going to be? What am stimulus bill; motel bills and instead, it is
I going to do for the 

some basics expected to be in 
such as toi­rest ofmy life?" the annual appro­letries and priations pack­clothing. Still, Vikki Hankins age. she hasn't made Those who
e)(-convict

enough for a work with ex­
Orlando, Fla. 

car or a down­felons say grant payment on an money from apartment Second Chance rental. 'would support programs 
"In many ways," Hankins said, already in place or fund new "it's harder than being incarcer­ones that would help keep tens ated." of thousands of ex-offenders 
Hankins, who heard about. the from going back to overcrowded Second Chance Act about the prisons -saving taxpayer time she was released, is watch­money in the long run. ing and waiting to see if its "In this economy, many of funding will be approved this these individuals are going to be year. left out, left behind," said Davis, 
Lawmakers believed the who sponsored the Second Second Chance Act could help Chance Act. "At the end of the whittle down some of the $50 day, they will be just as unem­billion-plus spent on offenders ployed as before." 
Backers say the Second Chance Act is needed now more than ever because money for state or community-funded pro­grams is tight. 
"We have to work really hard to make this happen," said Jessica Nickel of the Washington, D.C.-based Justice Center of the Council of State Governments. "These people are coming home to our community, and having a job and a place to live are critical if you want them to be upstanding, taxpaying citi­zens." 
Kemba Smith, 37, of Washington, D.C., is a former inmate who, like Hankins, received a long sentence for a first-time drug offender. 
"Having a record, especially a drug conviction, does limit one's ability to move forward. How long should someone's past fol­low them?" said Smith, whose sentence was commuted by a 2000 presidential pardon. 
Upon her release, Smith was hired as an administrative assis­tant by a law firm that was familiar with her story. She has since become a motivation speaker and educator, and a Hollywood producer has optioned her story. 
"Even though my past kind of haunts me, my motivation when I got out was to keep pushing forward regardless of what doors close in my face,"' she said. 
But the chief of the federal probation office in Tampa, Elaine Terenzi, says not all ex-offenders have Smith's drive. Terenzi hopes the Second Chance Act funds will flow to ex-convicts who face enormous obstacles after prison. 
"People who have served 10~. · 15-year terms, many of their expectations are no longer feasi­ble," Terenzi said. "Everything is so different." 
Even those who served short sentences are discovering their criminal record is an employ­ment barrier. 
Donald Carter of Cincinnati thought he'd have no problem getting a job after three months' behind bars on a felony child support charge. 
The 57 -year-old had worked for years helping the mentally disabled, but spent months searching for jobs in and out of the sochil work field after his June release. ~ 
"I was so discouraged," he said. "That felony, it stigmatizes you; it makes employers put you in another category." 
A tough economy didn't help either. 
So Carter enrolled in Ji Cincinnati program that is already trying some of the con­cepts of the Second Chance Act and could qualify for funding under the law. Program leaders taught Carter interviewing skills, job-hunting tactics and wrote letters for to a judge who wondered why Carter hadn't found employment. 
The program worked. Carter landed a job in December with a defense contractor. 

Tuesday, February 17, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
S.C. Police announce Phelps won't face drug charges 
Lack of physical evidence keeps Olympic star out of hot water; eight others arrested, seven charged in investigation 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, S.C. -Now that Michael Phelps won't face drug charges, he can try to distance himself from a photo that showed the Olympian smoking a marijuana pipe. 
A South Carolina sheriff decid­ed Monday after a highly publi­cized investigation that he simply didn't have enough physical evi­dence to charge the 14-time gold medalist. 
"We had a photo and we had him saying he was sorry for his inappropriate behavior. That behavior could've been going to a party," Richland County Sheriff Leon Lott said. 
"lie never said, 'I smoked mar­ijuana.' He never confessed that." the sheriff said. 
Phelps, who lost a major endorsement and faces a three­month competition suspension in the fallout from the photo, said he was ready to put the ordeal behind him. 
"For me, it's all about recog­nizing that I used bad judgment and it's a mistake I won't make again," the swimmer said in a statement. "For young people especially-be careful about the decisions you make. One bad decision can really hurt you and the people you care about. I real­ly appreciate the support my family and fans have shown me." 
The photo showed Phelps smoking from a marijuana pipe at a party in November when he visited the University of South Carolina. · 
Lott said authorities seized the marijuana water pipe, known as a bong, in the photo during the investigation but couldn't prove Phelps had smoked from it. 
Holding a bong is not a crime, he said. 
"They're sold in stores. We're kind of sending a double mes­sage," Lott said. "You can buy rolling papers at any conven­ience store in the world, but we're telling kids not to smoke dope." 
Phelps didn't get through the scandal unscathed, though. USA Swimming suspended Phelps for three months in the wake of the photo, and Kellogg Co. said it would not renew its endorse­ment deal with him. 
And while the swimmer won't face any charge, eight people were arrested during the investi­gation when a small amount of marijuana was found in raids on two homes. The bong was found in a car. 
Seven people have been charged with simple possession of marijuana, which carries a maximum penalty of 30 days in jail or a $575 fme. Another per­son was arrested for driving ·under suspension. 
The sheriff, known for his tough stance on drug crimes, said ignoring the photo would have sent a message of toler­ance. 
Phelps' "bad decision and the highly published photo placed me and the Richland County Sheriffs Department in a no-win situation. Ignore it and be criti­cized or address it and be criti­cized. I chose to do what was right," said Lott, a Democrat who was frrst elected in 1996. 
Lott rose from patrol officer to captain of the narcotics division in the early 1990s. He was well­known in the county for wearing stylish suits like the drug agents on "Miami Vice" and driving a Porsche seized from a drug deal­er. 

The sheriff said the investiga­tion involved two narcotics offi­cers that logged 25 hours over about a week. He said the house where the November party took place and another suburban home near Columbia had previ­ously been investigated for drugs. 
His investigation was criticized in newspaper editorials, on talk shows and by defense attorneys who questioned whether the sheriff was being .overzealous because of Phelps' celebrity sta­tus. 

Even if the sherifl' had the evi­dence needed, he acknowledged Richland County Sheriff Leon Lott holds a press conference on Monday, Feb. 16, 2009, in Columbia, S.C., to announce that Michael Phelps would not be charged as a result of the photo­graph that was published, which pictured him smoking from a bong during a November party.he could not force Phelps to return to South Carolina to face a misdemeanor possession charge. 
One of the attorneys represent­ing the three students arrested said the accused were all in their early 20s. Attorney Dick Harpootlian said the police kicked in the doors with guns drawn during the raids and found less than a cigarette's worth of marijuana in the house where the party was held. The other raid netted about four or five cigarettes worth, Harpootlian said. 
The lawyer expects his clients to either have the charge dis­missed or for them to get a con­ditional discharge, which allows an offender to avoid punishment as long as they comply with cer­tain conditions for six months and stay out of trouble. 

Dial-up still viable due to economy 
Associated Press 
With the costs of home­schooling a special-needs child, Arlene Dawes of Haleigh, N.C., says dial-up Internet is more attuned to her budget than broadband. Chuck llester says the high-speed Internet options available in his rural neighborhood near Little Rock, Ark., are too pricey. 
Lightning speed Internet is the wave of the future. But in a recession, good old dial-up service might get a longer look. Now Internet providers that have seen their dial-up customer base whittled over the past decade see an oppor­tunity to stay in the game by offering the budget-conscious a cheaper option. 
"Dial-up is declining overall, but that doesn't mean it's not still a viable business," said Kevin Brand, senior vice presi­dent of product management at EarthLink Inc. "There's still. a big market out there and during these tough times, even customers who have bundles including broadband may be looking at their bill and think­ing, 'Do I really need all this?'" 
With that in mind, EarthLink recently rolled out a dial-up offer of $7.95 per month, low­
ering its cheapest service ­and undercutting competitors -by $2. 
The move to more aggres­sively court new dial-up users is striking, since it's a market many consumers have fled. 
Only 9 percent of Americans were still using dial-up in a study last year by the Pew Internet & American Life Project. Time Warner Inc.'s AOL, once the king of dial-up with almost 27 million U.S. subscribers at its peak, decid­ed long ago to prop itself up instead on advertising rev­enue. Now AOL, whose Internet subscribers are still mainly dial-up customers, counts 6. 9 million of them. 
United Online, which offers dial-up through its NetZero and Juno services for $9.95 a month, hasn't said whether it will match EarthLink's dis­count. But the company's ads signal the same approach to the recession. 
"The economy is tough," Chief Executive Mar~ Goldston says in a recent TV commer­cial, claiming the 56 million American households with broadband could save $16 bil­lion a year by switching to NetZero dial-up. "It comes down the·need for speed or the need to save," he says. 

THIS LENT 



CELEBRATE 
THE HOLY CROSS TRADITION 
New! 

The Gift ofthe Cross 
Lenten Reflections in the Holy Cross Tr11dition 
Edircd by Andrew Gawrych, C.S.C. 
Perlccrlysuited for btL~Y campus life, lhe Gift nfthe Cmss features daily rdlcrrions tor each day of Lent wriuen by priests, brothers, and sisrers of the Congregation of Holy Cross. lndud(-s comribution.~ from "lht.>odore 
M. Hc:oburgh, CS.C., J<>hn 1. Jenkin~. C.S.C., James King, C.S.C., Peter Jarrel, C.S.C.. Joel Giallau1.a, C.S.C.. Maureen Grady. C.S.C., and Mary Ellen V:tughn. C.S.C. 
ISBN: 9781594712029/96 pages Price: $3.50 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, February 1 7, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
Obama is not Lincoln 
P.O. Box 779, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS 0ESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574} 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcDbserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The OhM:rv.cr (USPS 599 24000} ~published Mond;~y through &iday cxo:pt during aam aml V.iCUion periods:. A suhscripdon ro The Observer U; $1 (ltl for one academic year; S55 for oncsemesrer. 
The Observer is pubhshed at: POSTMASTER 024 Souch Dining Hall Send addrcs.~ corrections ro; 
Notre Dame. IN 46556-0n9 TheObserur 

Periodical poscage paid ar Notre D:tmc P.O.Boxm and .1.ddition.al mailing officu 024 South Dining Hall 
Notte O-rne, IN 46556.0779 
The: Observer is a member of the Assuciolted Press. All rq:~roduction tights arc 
re:~ervcd. 
Even before he was elected, Barack Obama has attempted to model his rise to power and subsequent presidency on that of his hero, Abraham Lincoln. From the announcement of his candidacy at the Old State Capitol in Springfield where Lincoln gave his "House Divided" speech, to his arrival by train to Washington, D.C. on Inauguration Day, to being sworn in with his hand on the very Bible lincoln used, to dining upon Lincoln-inspired foods at the Inaugural lunch­eon, Obama shows no qualms about comparing himself to the man who often sits atop historians' lists of greatest presidents in our nation's history. 
The mainstream media, throwing all semblance of objectivity aside in an orgy of adulation for their beloved Chosen One, have seized upon the President's own bla­tantly deliberate attempts to draw paral­lels between himself and Lincoln with immense enthusiasm. 
They eagerly point out that the two men were both lawyers of.humble origins, both began their political careers in Illinois, and both served in that state's legislature. They compare Obama's eloquence to Lincoln's profound gift of rhetoric. They have even gone as far as observing their similarities in height and stature to prove their point. And instead of honoring the real man of the hour, they translormed the celebration of the 200th anniversary of Lincoln's birth into yet another chance to tout Obama's Lincolnesque qualities. 
In their eyes, the current president might as well don a stovepipe hat, grow a beard, and have his visage carved into the side of Mount Rushmore. 
Now I understand that it is perfectly reasonable for president'> to draw inspira­tion from their predecessors, and Obama has every right to express gratitude to Lincoln for setting the stage that enabled him to become the first African-American president. But when the endless barrage of analogies begins to distort the truth, we must take a step back to reevaluate the accuracy of our oversimplified characteri­zations. 


Indeed, there exist substantial differ­ences between the two men that go beyond the superficial level of origin, career.and appearance. 
For instance, Obama's admirers and critics alike praise him as a gifted speak­er, just as generations of Americans con­tinue to extol Lincoln's powerful speeches. The difference, though, is that while Lincoln's rhetoric is steeped in substance and profound wisdom, Obama's words lose their luster when read from a tran­script. The phrase, "yes we can" may have been an effective campaigning tool, but in terms of content, it holds next to nothing. 
Upon closer inspection of their ideolo­gies, it becomes apparent that Obama's vision for America dramatically diverges from the path Lincoln carved as presi­dent. When Lincoln assumed oflice in the midst of Southern secession, he knew that the nation would have to fight a war in order to remain united. Unlike his Secretary of State, William Seward, who attempted to reach an agreement with the South that would convince them to remain in the Union, Lincoln refused to . budge on his opposition to the spread of slavery, even though he knew this would provoke Southern aggression. Somehow I can't see Obama, the ehampion of diplo­macy and reaching out to hostile nations, taking a similar stance. 
Obviously Lincoln was not very popular among Southerners, but many people today are unaware of the fact that some Northerners criticized the president, claiming that he was bent on destroying civil liberties and had become a tyrant. Rather than preserve the Union, these Northern Democrats were willing to call for an end to the Civil War, even if it meant granting Southerners their inde­pendence as a slave-holding nation. Obama and Democrats today, like their forebears in the North, would rather see that terrorists are-granted the right to habeas corpus and pull our troops out of Iraq than ensure American victory there. 
But the most prominent difference between Lincoln and Obama stems from Lincoln's steadfast devotion to individual liberty. Although modern historians trace the expansive growth of the federal gov­ernment to Lincoln's assumption of broad presidential power during wartime, the President never intended for his actions to establish a precedent upon which his suc­cessors could claim increased authority. Writing in response to accusations of tyranny, Lincoln declared: 
"I can no more be persuaded that the Government can constitutionally take no strong measures in time of rebellion, because it can be shown that the same could not lawfully be taken in time of peace, than I can be pm;suaded that a particular drug is not good medicine for a sick man, because it can be shown not to be good for a well one." 
Here, Lincoln demonstrates his recogni­tion that his actions were authorized by extraordinary eircumstances, but would not be justified during any other time. Furthermore, the argument that Lincoln's support for a strong federal government as opposed to states' rights would have made him a liberal in today's world because back then there was disagree­ment over whether or not the states had the legal ability to withdraw from Constitutional rule. Today, the states' rights debate deals with opposition to the federal government's encroachment upon the states' sphere of authority as delegat­ed by the Constitution in the Tenth Amendment. Obama and his party are seeking to expand the federal government to new levels of vastness; Lincoln, with his heightened understanding of the Constitution, would balk at the sugges­tion. 
Chri!stie Pesavento is a junior and can be reached at cpesaven@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Liz Harter Fran Tolan Robert Singer Laura Myers 
Will the men's basketball team make 

Liz O'Donnell Douglas Farmer the NCAA tournament? 
Graphics Scene "When a quiet man is moved to 
Madeline Nies Michelle Fordice passion, it seems the very earth will 
Yes 
shake."
Viewpoint 
No
Lauren 
Stephanie Barron 

Brauweiler author
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 17, 2009 -page 11 
Explore your 2nd Amendment right 
I bet when you turned 18 you were excited to finally be able to legally buy a lottery ticket, tobacco products, and maybe even some pornography, but I bet you overlooked a critical freedom that became available when you crossed that milestone. In most states of the union, at age 18 you are able to purchase a long gun, which includes shotguns and many Mark Easley types of rifles, as long as you are an American citizen, are not a crimi-Guest Column nal, and have no record of unstable mental health. At 21, you are able to purchase a handgun in most states. That's good to know, but why would anyone need to think about buying one? Aren't guns outdated tools that are only useful in movies ftlled with zombies? 
There are many arguments as to why or why not the second amendment should be heeded. One is hunting, and yes, there are still people who mostly survive off of what they shoot today. I think their rights should be secure as long as they hunt within the law, but I have to admit that is a small percentage of the population. Opponents argue that guns cause crime, which I again have to admit that guns make crimes much easier to commit. They argue that the police have guns and it's their job to stop the "bad guys." Now we come to the crucial juncture. We have insti­tutionalized personal protection and outsourced it to oth­ers who are not our person. In the process we have sur­rendered our right to defend ourselves and instead have to pray for the help of those who are tasked by law to help us. 
But what if no one comes? We have seen in episodes like Hurricane Katrina, you can't depend on the government to save you (doesn't matter who is in the White House). Now the majority democrats and liberals in the federal govern­ment will actively seek to limit your gun ownership rights even further. When this happens, you will be even more dependent on others to save you when chaos breaks out or "as I like to say, "when the fecal matter hits the propeller." 
Buying a gun is not a complicated matter. At a certified dealer, you select a firearm that matches your needs. Uke anything, you should shop around and find the real price. You may expect to flU out a mountain of paperwork to secure ownership in this country, but in fact it is only one or two sheets of paper with questions certifying that you are eligible to own a firearm. The dealer will then call in to the Department of Justice to verify that you check out, and the whole process takes about half an hour, give or take. It is always important to handle guns safely and before pur­chasing firearm, one should research gun safety tips or consult a professional. Gun ownership is a hefty responsi­bility. Any crimes committed with your firearm will be traced back to you, and any fatal mistakes you make while handling a gun will live with you forev~r. It is illegal to con­ceal your weapon in public without a concealed carry license, which can be acquired through a certification class. 
Shooting guns can be a lot of fun, and there are many places that cater to gun enthusiasts. Often there will be gun clubs or local ranges in your area, where you can practice against targets. These places are good areas to interact with other gun owners and pick up tips and tricks to improve your accuracy and gun handling. 
Thomas Jefferson wrote specifically in the Declaration of Independence that "Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed. That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their Safety and Happiness." Without guns, the revolutionaries would not have been able to break away from the tyranny of English monarchy. And so, it is a sacred right of Americans to also bear arms in the event our government is perverted by evil men, so that we as a people may restore a republic of "Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness." 
Guns are an insurance policy for survival when the law no longer applies. Whether it's in the back alley with a gangster or the collapse of civilization, the ones who are prepared will be the ones who have a better chance to survive. 
Mark Easley is a freshman computer engineering major. He can be contacted at measley@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A Catholic university 
Tom O'Neil's column in the Observer Monday (How Notre Dame Sneakily Killed offthe Queer Film Festival, Feb. 16) provided another example of someone who is shocked and offended when Notre Dame, rather than accommodate the radical views of a few, sticks to its Catholic roots. Just how radical are his views? Well, Mr. O'Neil answered that himself when he asked rhetorically, "But why hasn't anyone noticed? And why haven't Notre Dame leaders been denounced for the shocking way they killed off the fest? Why hasn't the Faculty or Student Senate issued new resolutions denouncing the University for this?" The reason O'Neil was only able to ask this question rhetorically is that, to put it simply, very few DO notice. 
This play is not missed, despite all the wishes of disgruntled alums to the contrary. Notre Dame is a Catholic university that attempts to act in a way that is in accord with Catholic morality. Although there .have been missteps in this endeavor along the way, including the initial acceptance of this play, that is no reason to further misstep in order to please a select few. Notre Dame's mission as a Catholic university is to guide its students in pursuit of the truth. How, then, could Notre Dame possibly reconcile support for such activities the Church deems, categorically, inimical to truth? In O'Neil's words, this amounts to "a gay bashing successfully pulled off by one of the most notoriously anti-gay universities in America." There is nothing "anti-gay" about Notre Dame. The Catholic Church is clear, however, in Her position on homosexual activity: "Basing itself on sacred Scripture, which presents homosexual acts as acts of grave depravity, tradition has always declared that homosexual acts are intrinsically disor­dered. They are contrary to the natural law. They close the sexual act to the gift of life. They do not proceed from a genuine af£ective and sexual complementarity. Under no circumstances can they be approved" (Catechism of the Catholic Church 2357). It should be clear, then, why, as O'Neil put it, "It was a miracle, frankly, that the Queer Film Festival was permitted to exist at such a conservative Catholic school." This is because to allow such a production runs counter to the core of Catholic teaching. 
O'Neil asks about the festival, "How could it go on without being able to identify itself?" I would ask Mr. O'Neil the same question about Notre Dame. You, sir, along with others, completely disregard the Catholic identity of the university and attempt to morph it to fit your specific worldview. Fortunately, there are many more people who wish to maintain this identity than those who wish to crush it. Notre Dame cannot allow its mission to be shaped by those determined to demoralize it. Mr. O'Neil, you should have made a different college choice if you had viewing homosexual productions on your college priority list. I'm sure there are plenty to choose from. As for Notre Dame, it is dif­ferent, and that's what makes it so wonderful. 
Brad Duffy alum class of 2008 Feb. 16 

No class on St. Patrick's Day 
While looking at a schedule, I noticed that classes are in session on March 17, 2009 here at Notre Dame. This is absolutely preposterous (this is not sarcasm. I'm totally serious!) This is Notre Dame, so we should be throwing the biggest St. Patrick's Day Celebration outside of Ireland itself, NOT going to class. Also, St. Patrick is a very important saint. He brought Christianity to Ireland and helped it spread rather quickly. Although many schools have class on his very special day, I think we should show St. Patrick some respect and cancel classes. 
.. 
Kevin Eller freshman Stanford Feb. 16 

Respect doesn't stop at the Atlantic 
I was appalled and dismayed this weekend when I heard students from Our Lady's University shouting obscenities and telling student<> from a fellow Big East University that they "suck." This event was not at a local sporting event or match. It was not even in America for that matter. I found myself riding an escalator out of the London Underground when three young men behind me were yelling at a group of students from this fellow University. They riddled them with obscenities and told them that they "sucked." They also continued to tell the student<> that they attended a "terrible school." I felt unease in my stomach as I began to pray that these students did not represent Notre Dame, but some other Big East school. To my sadness, they continued to curse and shout loudly behind me, before excitedly telling anyone and everyone within earshot that they were Notre Dame architecture students visiting for the weekend from Rome. 
I am writing this letter to remind you that just because an ocean splits you from Our Lady's University that your conduct is still a reflection of the great University you all attend and we attended. Shouting obscenities and telling other students that they are inferior does not represent us well; in fact it was embarrassing to me and my wife that we also graduated from the University at which these students now call their own. I do not hold this against these three young men for their obvious intoxieated nature at noon on a Sunday was apparent to even the most innocent of those around us. No, I know that they were making an ill-advised attempt to have a good time and show their spirit for Notre Dame. I just implore you to remember that respect is a virtue, and school spirit does not need to include a complete and utter lack of respect for your fellow college students. It is an honor and privilege to attend and someday graduate from Notre Dame. Let us never forget the fact that Notre Dame reaches far beyond the simple shores of America and the respect we show for one another must resonate across the globe. 
Matthew Frey alum class of 2006 Feb. 16 

THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, February 17, 2009 

Scene Writer 
If you 'rc a slasher movie fan, your taste for blood has probably been wanting at the cinema lately. Who wants to watch some girl got haunted by her dead evil twin or, worse yet, see anemic vampires talk about their feel­ings? Nnver fear becausn onn of hor­ror's favorite sons, Jason Voorhees, the machete-wielding killing machine 
in a hockey mask, is baek at Camp Crystal Lake to start some may­hem for any sexy teens who happen by in the remake of 1980's "Friday the 13th". 
In tlw tradition of other recent horror remakes like 2003's "Texas Chainsaw Massacre" with Jessica Biel and Hob Zombie's 2007 "Halloween," this "Friday the 13th" has a much more polished and stylized look to it than the low-budget original. It is also a lot more gruesome with some of 

group of rich co-eds (played by mostly unknowns, including one-hit-wonder Willa ForcO coming to the lake to party as well as a guy named Clay I"Supnrnatural's" Jared Padalecki) who's rome to the lake looking for his sister Whitney ("Tiw OC's" Amanda Higlwtti) who disappearnd under mys­terious eireumstanees. 
What transpires over the next hour and a half is pretty much an old­school slasher movie bloodbath, and 
In the tradition of other recent horror remakes like 2003's "Texas Chainsaw Massacre" with Jessica Biel and Rob Zombie's "Halloween," this "Friday the 13th" has a much more polished and stylized look to it than the low-budget original. 
the most needlessly elaborate on­screen deaths in years. 
The plot is really inconsequential but here it is anyway. Jason Voorhees has hidden himself away at the abandoned Camp Crystal Lake and, in order to avenge his long-dead (and equally insane) mother, kills whoeVf~r happens to intrude. This spells trouble for a 

Friday the 13th 
Director: Marcus Nispel Starring: Jared Padalecki, Danielle 
Panabaker, Amanda Righetti, Willa Ford 

thnre are plenty of nePdlnssly elaborate, cringe-worthy demises to suit anyone's tastes. Without giving spoilers, some of the best macabre moments involve a mishap with an iPod, a deeorativ'e wall furnishing and a sleeping bag being put in a precarious position. The f'ilm does try and inject some black humor throughout .with moder­ate suecess, but basical­ly you arc just waiting for the next person to get axed. One certainly never ends up caring for 
any of the over-sexed, perpetually wasted teenagers that get slaughtered in what ends up being a pretty pre­dictable, check-list fashion. Although all the effects and gore are very (tech­nically) well-done, it really isn't any­thing a horro·r fan hasn't seen or heard before a million times. 
Jason Voorhees has always kind of been second-in-command to 
the likes of big horror movie baddies like Michael Myers and Freddy Krueger. This is pretty unfortunate because Jason has just as much history and on­screen presence as those icons, he's just a little different. That being said, Jason certainly deserved a high-quality Hollywood reboot like this, but it would have been a lot more 
effective if he had gotten a more original script to work with and something more to do than just brood and stab. 
Contact Jim McGuire at jmcguir2@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Tuesday, February 17, 2009 
page 13 
, 

rea r oor, ifnot 
Scene Writer 

Last week, British songstress Lily Allen followed up her acclaimed album ~'Alright, Still" with "It's Not Me, It's You." Allen still sounds like the same quirky pop-punk girl she was in "Alright, Still," but has stepped away a little from her formula with this new release. 
While no less upbeat than "Alright, Still," "It's Not Me" shows Allen trying to deal with serious topics like love, sex, materialism, drugs and politics. You'd never know it, though since her songs are still perfectly 
ext on t e a urn ear, sung from the perspective of a spoiled rich girl. Again, it feels less like a song with a message and more like a catchy pop tune with an angle. Still, tho,ugh, it's good. The third track, "Not Fair" is a sequel of sorts to "Not Big'" from "Alright, Still." It's a hilarious number about less-than-stellar boyfriends actu­ally set to the sound of Western­inspired banjos. Enough said. "Never Gonna Happen" is one of the best songs on the album. It features the best use of accordions in a pop song in a while, if not ever. 
"F*** You" is the first single off the 
album, and it starts o 
tailored to the dance sounding like a sitcom
Allen may not always
floor. Allen may not from the 70s. In reality, always succeed at mak­succeed at making a it's actually an anti-Bush ing a political statement, political statement, song, and gives some but she does always suc­insight into European
but she does always
ceed at making people perspective. It makes for want to dance. succeed at making an interesting context. 
Lily Allen's paru"cular people want to dance. but the song itself is just 
brand of pop may not suit the tastes of every listener, but it is infectious. Each song on "It's Not Me, It's You" could be a hit single. In some ways, this makes Allen's album less cohesive, but that's not really her goal. Each song is just meant to be a great song. 
The album starts off with "Everyone's At It," which is total old-school Lily Allen. The song is so catchy that it's easy to forget that it's ·about drug-rid­den society. As a message about drugs, it's not totally effective. At inducing head bobbing, it succeeds. 
It's Not Me, It's You Lily Allen 
Label: Capitol 


Recommended Tracks: "Chinese," "All right, Still," "P** You," "Everyone's At It," Never Gonna Happen" 
a great pop number. 
"Who'd Have Known" and "Chinese," two classic pop ballads, prove that Lily Allen does actually have some vocal ability, and that she's not just an eccentric oddball. 
"It's Not Me, It's You" is often raunchy, crass and explicit, but Lily Allen hides it well. Her songs often have the drug-like ability of distracting from the lyrics. The lyrics specifically are very hit-or-miss, but with Allen's sound, that doesn't really matter. Her songs are great pieces of pop that can revel in irrelevancy. 
As a whole, the album is solid, but each song stands out in its own right. Lily Allen never fails at making fun music. Some of her songs are insightful political and social commentaries, while others just try to be, but she has created a great work of pop that deserves a listen. 
Lily Allen will be playing in Chicago on April 12 at the Vic Theatre, which will undoubtedly be a great venue for Allen's danceable pure pop. This show is definitely worth a look. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 17, 2009 
NBA 


Porter out as Phoenix coach after just 51 games 
Assistant coach Alvin Gentry to replace Porter as head coach, promises return to success for struggling Suns 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Terry Porter is out as coach of the Phoenix Suns. The failed effort to tame the Suns' offense went out the door with him. 
The sputtering Suns fired Porter just four months into his first season as Phoenix coach and replaced him with assistant coach Alvin Gentry. Gentry promptly promised a return to the style so success­ful under Porter's predeces­sor, Mike D'Antoni. 
"We are who we are and I think we have to go back to trying to establish a~break­neck pace like we've had in the past," Gentry said at a news conference Monday announcing his promotion. 
Phoenix (28-23) lost five of eight going into the All-Star break and trails Utah by one game for the eighth and final playoff spot in the West. 
"We have enough talent that we should not be on the out­side looking in right now," Gentry said. 
The Suns' Grant Hill was with the Detroit Pistons when Gentry replaced the fired Doug Collins there. 
"Considering the circum­stances, considering what we've been through, he's probably the perfect person to take over at this time," Hill said after Monday's practice. 
Gentry said the team needs to revert to the game that brought out the best in Steve Nash. Nash, twice the league MVP with the Suns, called the coaching change "a difficult part of our business," but he welcomed the decision to go back to the high-octane game. 
"That's a pretty natural thing for me and for our group, just kind of pick the pace up a little bit and open up avenues for our guys to excel," Nash said. 
Gentry and Nash both said Shaquille O'Neal showed late last season he can be effective in a running system. 
"The last 18 games we were 15-3 and we averaged 112 points a game with him in our lineup," Gentry said. "There's no reason-you saw him yes­terday (in the All-Star Game) -why we can't run with him." 
But the transition won't happen overnight, Nash said. 
"We've got to get in shape, we've got to get that mentality back," he said. "I think we've also got to get some cohesion, find an understanding, a feel­ing between us that we're going to read and react rather than be as deliberate as we were. It takes time but I think it's worthwhile." 
O'Neal, citing a cold and cough, did not talk to reporters after practice. 
The Suns are the eighth team to fire a coach this sea­son, meaning more than one­quarter of the league's coach-· es are gone at the All-Star break. 
General manager Steve Kerr said he went to Porter's home Sunday to tell him of the deci­sion. 

"I hired Terry because I believed in him. He's got a ton of integrity and dignity and class, and he's got a great work ethic," Kerr said. "I hired him because I believed he was the best man for the job." 
But Kerr said he probably 

underestimated the difficulty of the transition from D' Antoni's unorthodox style. 
Porter, who played in the NBA for 17 seasons, was an assistant with the Pistons when he was ·hired by the Suns. The intention was for him to bring the Pistons' defense-oriented style with him. It was a bad fit. 
"In the last month, it became apparent to me that, look, this is not working,' Kerr said, "what we're trying is not working. 
"I think we still can make this a very successful season. 
. This was a move I think we had to make in order to give our team the best chance for success." 
OLYMPICS 

South Carolina sheriff: no marijuana charges for Phelps 
marijuana.' He never con­smoking from a marijuana pended Phelps for three said ignoring the photo would
Associated Press 
fessed that," the sheriff said. pipe at a party in November months in the wake of the have sent a message of toler­
COLUMBIA, S.C. -Now that Phelps, who lost a major when he visited the University photo, and Kellogg Co. said it ance. Michael Phelps won't face endorsement and faces a of South Carolina. would not renew its endorse­Phelps' "bad decision and drug charges, he can try to three-month competition sus­Lott said authorities seized ment deal with him. the highly published photo distance himself from a photo pension in the fallout from the marijuana water pipe, And while the swimmer placed me and the Richland that showed the Olympian the photo, said he was ready known as a bong, in the photo won't face any charge, eight County Sheriff's Department smoking a marijuana pipe. to put the ordeal behind him. during the investigation but people were arrested during in a no-win situation. Ignore 
A South Carolina sheriff "For me, it's all about rec­couldn't prove Phelps had the investigation when a it and be criticized or address decided Monday after a highly ognizing that I used bad judg­smoked from it. small amount of marijuana it and be criticized. I chose to publicized investigation that ment and it'"s a mistake I Holding a bong is not a was found in raids on two do what was right," said Lott, he simply didn't have enough won't make again," the swim­crime, he said. homes. The bong was found a Democrat who was first physical evidence to charge mer said in a statement. "For "They're sold in stores. in a car. elected in 1996. the 14-time gold medalist. young people especially-be We're kind of sending a dou­Seven people have been Lott rose from patrol officer 
"We had a photo and we careful about the decisions ble message," Lott said. "You charged with simple posses­to captain of the narcotics had him saying he was sorry you make. One bad decision can buy rolling papers at any sion of marijuana, which car­division in the early 1990s. for his in~ppropriate behav­can really hurt you and the convenience store in the ries a maximum penalty of 30 He was well-known in the ior. That behavior could've people you care about. I real­world, but we're telling kids days iii jail or a $575 fine. county for wearing stylish been going to a party," ly appreciate the support my not to smoke dope." Another person was arrested suits like the drug agents on Richland County Sheriff Leon family and fans have shown Phelps didn't get through for driving under suspension. "Miami Vic.e" and driving a Lott said. me." the scandal unscathed, The s.heriff, known for his Porsche seized from a drug 
"He never said, 'I smoked The photo showed Phelps though. USA Swimming sus-tough stance on drug crimes, dealer. 
.­
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Ali classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer-Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. Student rentals 2009/2010. St. House for rent. Very clean 3/4 br, UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? ing 1 0-month leases. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Peter/SB Ave. Homes. $1300· 1 .5 bath, 2 living rooms and big LOST & FOUND Leasing fast. $2000/month. 5-7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd backyard. Avail 09-10 school year. Do not go it alone. 
Bluegoldrentals.com floor. Contact Bruce Gordon 574-Affordable and very close to cam-FOUND: Ring of 4 keys found in the ---------------Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or 876-3537. pus. Call AJ@(440)463-5633. We have many resources in place melting snow piled up near Main www.kramerhouses.com to assist you. If you or someone Circle. Contact Michael at 574-309-4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts . ------------------------------you love needs confidential support 5854. 6/09: $850/mo. 574-250-7653. 1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS or assistance, please call Sr. Sue
PERSONAL

NOW LEASING. LAFAYETIE across from Notre Dame Stadium. Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1­---------------TOWNHOUSES. $350/PERSON. The Foundry features private baths 2685. 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS. for every bedroom, washer/dryer, If you or someone you care about For more information, visit NOs 
FoR RENT 
613 Lafayette Blvd., 6-bdrm & 2-FREE INTERNET. fitness center, theater room, tanning has been sexually assaulted, visit Assistance for Pregnant 
bdrm houses. $350/person. NEWLY REMODELED. CALL574-salon, game room. Preleasing for Support Services for Victims of Rape Students//Office of Student Affairs andersonNDrentals.com FREE 234-2436 OR WWW.KRAMER-August. Call 574-232-1400 or lease & Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/health-website at: osa:nd.edulhealth-safe-COMCAST! Call574-876-6333. HOUSES.COM online www.foundryliving.com. safety/assault/ ty/assistance-for-pregnant-students. 
------------~---­

---------------------------......-------------------------------------------------­







OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, February 17, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVEJrs WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NFL 
NCAA Men's AP Top 25 Ranklngs 

team record points 
1 Connecticut (66) 25·2 1,794 2 Oklahoma (4) 25·1 1,709 3 North Carqlina (2) 23·2 1,676 4 Pltlsburgh ' 24·2 1,589 5 Memphis 22·3 1,465 6 Michigan State 20·4 1,443 7 Louisville 19·5 1,280 B Wake forest 19·4 1,217 9 Duke 20·5 1,048 10 Marquette 21-4 1,045 11 Missourti 22·4 1,041 12 Villanova 20·5 983 13 Clemson 20·4 939 14 Arizona State 20·5 830 15 Kansas 20·5 651 16 Xavier 21-4 646 17 Gonzaga 19-5 599 18 Illinois 21·5 589 19 Purdue 19·6 582 20 UCLA 19·6 473 21 Butler 22·3 373 22 Washington 19·6 334 23 LSU 21·4 294 24 Syraacuse 19·7 207 25 Dayton 23·3 194 
NCAA Men's Basketball USA Today Top 25 
team points record 
1 Connecticut (30) 24-2
774 2 Oklahoma(1t 25-1
739 3 North Carolina 23·2
711 4 Pittsburgh 24-2
689 5 Michigan State 20·4
634 6 Memphis 22·3
618 

7 Louishllle 19·5
508 8 Wake Forest 19-4
489 9 Duke 468 20·5 10 Missouri 22·4
429 

11 Marquette 21·4
409 12 Arizona State 20·5
409 13 Clemson 20·4
393 

14 Villanova 20·5
377 15 UClA 324 19·6 16 Illinois 21·5
294 

17 Xavier 278 21·4 18 Kansas 268 20·5 19 Washington 224 19·6 20 Gonzaga 19·5
191 21 Purdue 176 19·6 22 Butler 162 22·3 23 Utah State 24·2
121 24 LSU 21·4
114 25 Syracuse 19·7
74 

Big East Men's Basketball Standings 
team rerord 
1 Pittsburgh 12·2 
2 Marquette 10·2 
3 Louisville 10·2 
4 Connecticut · 12·3 
5 Villanova 8·4 
6 Providence 8·5 
7 Syracuse 7·6 
8 Cincinatti 
1·6 

9 West Virginia 6·6 
10 NOTRE DAME 
5·7 

11 Seton Hall 
5·7 

12 Georgetown 
4·8 

13 USF 
3·9 

14 St. John's 
3-10 
15 Rutgers 
1-11 
16 DePaul 
0·13 
around the dial 
College Basketball 
No. 5 Michigan State at No. 21 Purdue 7 p.m., ESPN 
Maryland at No. 13 Clemson 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 

Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. ­Running back Fred Taylor wanted to end his career in Jacksonville, hoping to join the small list of standout players who spent an entire career with the same team. He won't get the chance. 
The Jaguars released Taylor on Monday, parting ways with their all-time leading rusher after 11 sea­sons and continuing the team's offseason makeover. 
Coach Jack Del Rio flew to Fort Lauderdale earlier Monday to meet with Taylor and deliver the news. Del Rio made it clear the team has no plans to re-sign Taylor, who turned 33 last month and was scheduled to make $6 million next sea­son. 

"We felt like the best thing for this football team is what it has to be about," Del Rio said. "We feel good about the talertted group of backs that we have ... and as you work through it, it's difficult to come up with a role that's going to be acceptable for everybody. 
"It makes it awkward. It 
. makes it difficult. We came to an agreement on what the best course of action was as a football team." 
And that was to move on without Taylor, who ranks 16th on the NFL's career rushing list with 11,271 yards, 81 behind John Riggins. 
Taylor has said he would like to retire after passing Jim Brown (12,312) on the career list. Brown, Chicago's Walter Payton (16,726), Detroit's Barry Sanders (15,269) and San Diego's LaDainian Tomlinson (11,760) are the only run­ning backs ahead of Taylor who spent their entire careers with the same team. 
Taylor was not available for comment Monday. 
Releasing Taylor was no surprise since he had clear­ly become the second option behind Maurice Jones­Drew. But deciding to not even try to bring back the longtime team captain was somewhat shocking, espe­cially since the Jaguars endured chemistry issues last season after letting go of some veterans and bring­ing in high-priced free agents Jerry Porter and Drayton Florence. 
The Jaguars released Porter and Florence last week. They also parted ways with longtime person­nel chief James "Shack" Harris, defensive coordina­tor Gregg Williams, defen­sive backs coach Donnie Henderson and a few other assistants. 
Taylor was next in line. 
Del Rio said it was time to turn the offense over to Jones-Drew, a 5-foot-7 dynamo who has scored 40 touchdowns in three years. 
IN BRIEF Ortiz in favor of year­
long bans for steroids 
FORT MYERS, Fla. -David Ortiz wants players who test positive for steroids to be suspended from baseball for a year instead of the current 50-game penalty. 
Taking players to court, though, for cases involving use of the substances before players were subject to penalty is not the way to clean up the game, the Red Sox designated hitter said Monday. 
"I would suggest everybody get tested, not random, everybody," he said. "You go team by team. You test everybody three, four times a year and that's about it." 
And if a player tests positive for steroids? "Ban 'em for the whole year," the slug­ger said. 
The current penalties are a 50-game suspension for a player who tests positive once, 100 games for a second positive test for the same player, and a lifetime ban for a third positive test, though a player can seek to return after two years. 

Richardson arrested for 
reckless driving with child 
PHOENIX -The Phoenix Suns have suspended Jason Richardson for one game without pay as the result of his arrest on allegations he was driving 55 mph above the limit with· his unre­strained 3-year-old son in the car. 
In a brief statement late Monday afternoon, the Suns said Richardson would miss Tuesday night's home game against the Los Angeles Clippers "for conduct detrimental to the team." 
A Scottsdale police officer first saw Richardson driving 67 mph in a 40 mph zone Sunday night and followed him, police said Monday. That's when the officer clocked him at 90 mph in a 35 mph zone and pulled him over. 
Police said Richardson admitted to speeding and identified himself as a Suns player. The officer saw Richardson's son in the back seat of the car and that he was not in a child seat. 
Richardson said he had taken his son to dinner and was on his way home. 
Curry foresees return 
this week from injury 
DAVIDSON, N.C.-Turns out Stephen Curry doesn't just have a lightning-quick release. He's a fast healer, 'too. 
Davidson's star guard was walk­ing with a just a slight limp Monday, two days after what appeared to be a gruesome injury to his left ankle. 
The Wildcats host No. 21 Butler on Saturday in an important matchup for Davidson's NCAA tour­nament resume. 
Curry was held out Of practice Monday but was confident he could return this week -even if he couldn't bear to watch the replay of him turning his foot so badly his ankle scraped the floor. 
"I saw it once and I turned it off," Curry said. "A few of my friends who saw it on TV were asking me if I had broke something because it looked pretty bad. I keep telling them that it looks worse on TV than it really was." 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 17, 2009 
CYCLING 

Leipheimer takes second 
Armstrong involved in early crash in second stage ofTour ofCalifornia 
Associated Press 
SANTA CRUZ, Calif. -Lance Armstrong took a spill when he got tangled with a motorcy­cle, and still moved up a spot in the overall standings Monday at the Tour of California after a rainy and crash-filled second stage. 
Two-time defending champi­on Levi Leipheimer of Santa Rosa, Calif.. became the third different race leader. He emerged from a chasing group on the final climb with about 17 miles left before finishing a close second to stage winner Thomas Peterson of North Bend, Wa. 
Peterson was victorious in the 115.9-mile Sausalito to Santa Cruz road race in 5 hours, 6 minutes and 20 sec­onds. 
Strong wind and heavy rain hampered the field throughout most of the stage, which crossed the Golden Gate Bridge shortly after the start. 
Armstrong, the seven-time Tour de France winner mak­ing a comeback after a 3 1/2 ­year retirement, had his mishap about 80 miles into the stage. 
"A motorcycle for the pho­tographer ~rom the race crashed right in front of me," Armstrong said. "Unfortunate, but it could have been worse. I don't feel too bad, hip is a lit­tle banged up but overall a great day. Levi proved he is the best guy in the race hands down." 

Armstrong quickly received a spare bike from a team car and returned to the field with the assistance of teammate Jose Luis Hubiera of Spain. 
Armstrong, who began the day in fifth place, is now fourth, 30 seconds behind. He finished 13th in the stage. 
Floyd Landis, the former 2006 Tour de France champ competing for the first time following a two-year doping suspension, is 29th overall, 
6:04 behind. 
In addition to Armstrong's crash, a group of 15 riders also crashed during the stage. 
Andy Jacques-Maynes of Capitola, Calif., was also fell into a parked car and left the race in an ambulance. He suf­fered head and ankle injuries not considered serious, said Ben Jacques-Maynes, his brother and teammate. 
Leipheimer, who began the day trailing former race leader Francisco Mancebo of Spain by 1 minute and 2 sec­onds, now leads the race's fourth edition by 24 seconds over Michael Rogers of Australia. 
David Zabriskie of Salt Lake City is third overall, trailing Leipheimer by 28 seconds. 
"The weather has been nasty the last couple of days and it really changes the race," Leipheimer said. "I thought I better go because l didn't want to freeze up. I felt great, and I told (Yaroslav) Popovych 'I feel great, let's go. I couldn't wait any longer. I had to go." 
Peterson, who missed his starting time Saturday in the prologue and finished last, rode behind Leipheimer in the final miles after b11ing part of an earlier lead group. 
"I just stayed on his (Leipheimer's)' wheel," Peterson said. "It was pretty easy." 
Leipheimer, who earned his fifth Tour of' California career stage win, rode among team­mates, ineluding Armstrong, throughout much of the stage. 
Leipheimer launched off the front of a group chasing Carlos Barredo of Spain, who pedaled in a solo lead until he began to lag on the final climb. 
Mancebo, who rode to a long solo victory in the opening stage, was never a factor. 
"Even though I had a rough rider today, I can still compete for the (leader's) jersey as well as the other jerseys," said Mancebo, who finished 27th in the stage and dropped to 16th place, trailing by 56 seconds. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Bradford vvins O'Brien 
Trophy, looks ahead 
Associated Press 

FORT WOHTH, Texas-No 
second  !houghts  l'or  Sam  
Bradford.  
At  a  time  when  top  NFL  

prospects are getting ready for the draft, Bradford on Monday night was recognized with the Davey O'Brien Award as the nation's top quarterback -and looking ahead to another chance to lead Oklahoma to a national championship. 
The NFL will have to wait another year-maybe two-for the O'Brien and IIeisman Trophy winner. The 24-14 loss to Florida in last month's BCS national championship is what occupies his thoughts, not the decision he made to bypass the pros for now for another season with the Sooners. 
"It's great to be in the game, but probably a lot more frustrat­ing to actually be in the game and lose than if you weren't in the game at all," Bradford said. "I've thought about it probably every day since the game, just different things that could have gone different. ... I'm using it as motivation right now, work hard than I've ever worked to get back in that game." 
Bradford has thrown for 7,841 yards and a school-record 86 touchdowns in his two seasons at Oklahoma, including 50 this past season as a sophomore. 
Though he would have been a high draft pick, Bradford decid­ed last month to stay with the Sooners. 
"Before I made that decision, I knew whichever direction I was going to go, I had to be fully committed, and I had to just look ahead and not look in the past," Bradford said. "I felt like I made the right decision." 
Two months after being named the O'Brien winner, the magnitude of the award hit him as he stared at the list of previ­ous winners while sitting in his hotel room before the banquet. 
"It was really humbling. It almost took my breath away," Bradford said. "It was hard for me to comprehend that I joined a list of football players that I idolized growing up." 
Among the former O'Brien winners are Florida's Tim Tebow, who as a sophomore last year also won the Heisman and is also returning to the Gators, Troy Aikman, Steve Young, Peyton Manning and Jim McMahon, the initial recipient in 1981. 
Bradford shared the podium with Super Bowl-winning and former Notre Dame quarterback Joe Theismann, who was pre­sented the O'Brien Legends award. Theismann spoke with the Oklahoma quarterback about the specialness of the O'Brien trophy. 

Tuesday, February 17, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Tribe enjoying nevv Arizona spring training facilities 
Associated Press 
GOODYEAR, Ariz. -Fresh from a morning run on an underwater treadmill in the 1 ,200-square-foot hydrotherapy room across the hall, designat­ed hitter Travis Hafner sat at his locker while a few team­mates watched highlights of the 1997 World Series on one of four pla~ma TVs hanging from the ceiling. 
llis back to the giant screens, Hafner sifted through a box stuffed with fan mail. Some of the envelopes had been for­warded. 
The Cleveland Indians have a new address. 
Unpacked but not completely moved in, they are settling into their new spring home. 
After training from 1993 to 2008 in Winter Haven Fla., the Indians have returned to Arizona where they already are enjoying the amenities of the $108 million state-of-the-art training facility and adjacent 10,000-seat ballpark they'll share with the Cincinnati Reds, who will follow them West next spring. 
Cleveland's new desert digs, nestled in the shadows of the Estrella Mountains, are a world away from the antiquated con­ditions they j.eft behind in Central Florida. 
"It's such an upgrade from Winter Haven, it's unbeliev­able," Hafner said, looking around the spacious clubhouse. "It's got everything: training rooms, weight rooms, hot tubs, batting tunnels. Anything we need is right here. In some ways, this is even nicer than Progressive Field." 
On arid land first developed by Akron-based Goodyear Tire, the Indians' 42,000-square-foot training complex and ballpark have sprouted like a cactus flower in this fast-growing com­munity west of Phoenix. Unable to work out a deal to remain in Florida, the Indians packed up and headed back to Arizona, where they previously trained for 46 years. 
Upon arrival at the new com­plex, players have found them­selves awed by their new sur­roundings. 
"Every guy who walks in here is taken aback," said clubhouse manager Tony Amato. "It's like, 'Wow! This is unbelievable. It isn't Winter Haven anymore.' " 
Not even close. 
Cleveland's former spring hangout had become a joke. With the club unable to work out a deal with Winter Haven officials, charming Chain Of Lakes Park deteriorated to the point that it was no longer major-league caliber. There were rats in the clubhouse and a snake slithered into the out­door press box two years ago. 
By contrast, the Indians' Player Development Complex and Goodyear Ballpark are up­to-the-minute modern. The two structures share a common design of dark-stained wood, glass and steel exteriors with interiors that are sparsely deco­rated yet maintain a distinct Southwest influence. 

But beyond the 4 7 -acre com­plex's architectural merits, the Indians are counting on the facilities to be a year-round training home for players throughout the organization. 
"We look for opportunities at different junctures to have a competitive advantage," said assistant general manager Chris Antonetti. "To have a state-of-the-art facility and development complex, this pro­vides us with those opportuni­ties. It creates a better environ­ment to work and to get work done." 
Upon entering the training complex, visitors walk down a long hallway adorned with framed pictures of Indians greats Bob Feller. Satchell Paige, Sandy Alomar and Omar Vizquel. To the right is the club's minor-league clubhouse, housing the team's future, as well as cavernous weight and training rooms. 
On the left is the lavish club~ house, which was designed in an oval shape so players can see everyone in the room to promote more interaction. 

"It brings everyone together," Amato said. "It's the selling point of the facility." 
Through the doors at the end of the hallway are the six prac­tice diamonds-one with iden­tical dimensions to Progressive Field, down to the 19-foot-high wall in left-six batting cages, two infields, an agility area for conditioning and a six-mound outdoor bullpen where Cy Young winner Cliff Lee and Fausto Carmona threw side-by­side on Monday. 
Indians manager Eric Wedge, who will hold his first full-squad workout on Tuesday, said the club has already benefited from the facility's uniformity. 
"It's just more efficient and the efficiency we have with our day-to-day work, that delivers. That's real," he said. "That's time. That's work and it's clean­er. It's been great here in the early going. I'll feel better after we get through the next few days and make sure everybody is going the right direction." 
One cannot get lost on the way to the new ballpark, which is about a 10-minute walk from the complex. On Monday, trac­tors, cement mixers and deliv­ery trucks all crisscrossed in the parking lot as workers readied the stadium for the Feb. 25 opener against the San Francisco Giants. The line at the box office was 12 deep at lunchtime and fans were already streaming into the team shop for souvenirs. 
Walking around the perime­ter, Jim and Nancy Marek of Marblehead, Ohio, could only wish they could get inside for a closer look. · 
"We love it," Jim Marek said as he checked the last imagp, on his camer'a. "It's got P.verything. But it looks like they've got a lot of work to do in a short pPriod of time." 
There was still eorHT!'tf1 being poured around a shade struc­ture inside the ballpark, where the lower-bowl seating will bring fans even rloser to tlw Indians, and safety netting was being hung on the third-base dugout. Otherwise, the ball­park, designed by renowned architectural firm IIOK, looks ready for a game. 
Arter giving a brief tour of the second-level press box, ballpark manager Nathan Torres proudly promised to have everything sPt for the first pitch next wcPk. 
"Our goal was to build a facil­ity like no other," he said. "I think we've delivered on that concept." 

I 
-I 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 17, 2009 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Blair grabs 23 rebounds as No.4 Pitt beats No.1 UConn 
Associated Press 

HARTFORD, Conn. DeJuan Blair had 22 points and 23 rebounds and Levance Fields scored all 10 of his points in the final 3:09 as No. 4 Pittsburgh beat No. 1 Connecticut 76-68 on Monday night, the Panthers' first win ever over a top-ranked team. 
Fields missed his first seven shots from the field but the senior guard gave the Panthers (24-2, 11-2 Big East) the lead for good with a 3-pointer with 

3:09 left that made it 64-61. He added another 3 with 2:21 left to make it 6 7-61, and he added four free throws in the final minute. 
A.J. Price had 18 points for the Huskies (24-2, 12-2), who started their third week at No. 1 earlier Monday and had their 13-game winning streak ended. 
Sam Young had 25 points for Pittsburgh, which lost all 13 games it had played against No. 1 teams, the last three against Connecticut over the last 11 years. 
The game was expected to be physical down low and it was with the 6-foot-7 Blair flipping the 7-3 Hasheem Thabeet over his back in the first half, send­ing him to the bench for about 4 minutes. Blair got a dose back in the second half when he had to leave the game for almost 3 minutes after taking an elbow to the face. 
The teams meet again on March 7 and there could be another matchup in the Big 
East tournament. 
Pitt took a 36-33 halftime lead behind Blair's 15 points and 13 rebounds and Young's 12 points. 
Connecticut, which leads the Big East in scoring defense 
(60.5) and field goal percent­age defense (37.3) held Pittsburgh to 7 -of-25 shooting until Fields suddenly got going. 
Both his 3-pointers were wide-open shots when Connecticut couldn't switch fast enough on screens, and they seemed to take the wind out of the Huskies, who came up empty on both possessions around the 3s. 
The minutes leading up to Fields' big shots was as intense as college basketball gets. The lead changed hands four times and there was a tie in the 21/2 minutes leading up to those shots. 
Pittsburgh finished with a · 48-31 rebound advantage, the first time the Huskies were outrebounded this season. 
Connecticut fell to 40-8 as a No.-1 team and the loss kept them from the best start in school history. The Huskies remain tied with the 1995-96 team at 24-1. 
Thabeet, who came into the game off a 25-point, 20­rebound, nine-block effort against Seton Hall, finished with five points on 1-for-5 shooting and had four rebounds and two blocks. 



Dockwciler Award for Excellence in UndergTaduatc Advising 
Student, faculty and staff nominations are sought to identify faculty or professional staff members whose involvement with undergraduates inspires students to reach their academic and career goals. Nominees may be members of the academic advising and career counseling staffs or members of the faculty and staff who: 
• 
Facilitate learning outside the classroom 

• 
Serve as mentors or role models 

• 
Encourage student participation in fellowships, internships, undergraduate research and post -araduate opportunities 

• 
Cultivate relationships with organizations that recruit Notre Dame graduates 


Nominations are due Tuesday, March 3. Three faculty or staff will be chosen. 
Submit online non1inations at l>rovostawards.nd.cdu. 
The joyce Award for Excellence in Undcrjvaduate Teaching 
Student and faculty nominations are sought to identify faculty who: 
• 
Create environments that stimulate significant student learning 

• 
Elevate students to a new level of intellectual engagement 


• foster students' ability to express themselves effectively within the discipline Nominations due by Tuesday, March 3. Nineteen recipients will be selected. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
Vi;f/1 NOTRE DAME 
Office ofrhe Provost 

,..----------------------­
Tuesday, February 17, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

SUIIIIIIer 
Res~dence
• 
all S"*aH 
I 

Lean1 more about great summer employmenr opportunities hy attending 1m optional information session: 
Thursday, February 19 
8:00 PM I LaFortune I Dooley Room 

... . . . ... 
Priority Application Deadline: March 17 
OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 305 Main Building I Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone; 574.631.5878 I E-Mail: summer@nd.edu
or & 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

Where the girls are. 
JUST ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME 
Wonder where NO gtrls are living next year? 
Btand new Irish Row Apartments and khn Crossings Townhom€'s are teasing h:;t tor both !he 200SF2010 and 2010-2011 school years. 
Interestingly, future re:.idents are 80% gilts and 20% guys so far-that's four girb to every one guy. 
What brings the girls? ­

May!:ie it's the cool features that come w1th living 

at Irish Row or lri~h Crossings, like: 
• 
Furnished residences 

-fnduding a42" flat paryel HDTV in every living room 

• 
Priv<Jte, full bath in each bedmorn 

• 
Up to 4 bedrooms per unit 

• 
FREE lr.temet &200+ TV stations 


• 
laundry wom will• wastwr &dryer in i<1&Ch unit 

• 
fitness renter and lounge, int!udrng tanning " Brand new construction 

• 
Community sodai events 


• Close to gwceries, restaurants, 
entert<i!nrnent and campus 
tome see what's bringing in all the girls, But, better hurry befnr~ all the guys 'atch an, 
~~ $~ lr"1sh 
ROW 

lrishRowApartmcmts.wm ! ltishCrossings,xom 
karlem@iri.~i1mwilpmtmen!!..cnm I 574JJ/J1666 s~tc>i ffi<:lQ0i ill tiw (<)r t\W ol Sudl!lt0 & VMWS> SIW!?H 


NHL 
Rangers, Penguins suffer tough losses 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -The New York 

Rangers have lost eight of nine 
while scoring two or fewer 
goals in all the losses, and the 
strain seems to be getting to 
Henrik Lundqvist. 
After giving up the go-ahead 

goal on a rebound to B.J. 
Crombeen with 5:14 to play in 
Louis Blues, Lundqvist said the 
confidence of the players is 
fragile. 
"You see when they score a 

goal, we totally lose our com­
posure and start running 
around," Lundqvist said. "It 
takes a lot for us to bounce 
back from a goal because 
everybody gets so tight." 
Lauri Korpikoski had the 

lone goal for the Rangers, who 
are 0-6-1 in their last seven on 
the road. This time they fell to 
a franchise whose rebuilding 
job is led by team president 
John Davidson, a longtime 
Rangers broadcaster and for­
mer goalie. 
"He's one of the best," 

Rangers forward Scott Gomez 
said. "Since Day 1 when I 
came into the league, he's 
treated me like gold." 
Chris Mason made 19 saves 

and Carlo Colaiacovo also 
scored for the Blues, 4-1-2 in 
their last seven games while 
trying to inch into playoff con­
tention. They've been in last 
place in the Western 
Conference much of the sea­
son, but were tied for 13th and 
six points out of the postsea­. son. 
"It doesn't take much to fig­

ure out it's going to be a tough 
road and we're going to have 
to play really well," Crombeen 
said. "But we believe we can 
do it and it's showing in our 
play." 
Lundqvist had 31 saves a 

day after yanked in the second 
period of a loss at 
Philadelphia. But the Rangers 
were 0-for-3 on the power play 
after coach Tom Renney jug­
gled the lineup, and are in a 1­
for-34 slump overall with the 
man .advantage. 
"We got four power-play 

shots, which might not sound 
like a lot," Renney said. "But 
for us, that's an accomplish­
ment. We had trafnc, the shots 
were intelligent shots, so what 
we're doing right now is trying 
to rebuild our foundation if 
you wilL" 
Islanders 3, Penguins 2 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. -If Dan 

Bylsma can't turn around the 
Pittsburgh Penguins in their 
final 24 games, the defending 
Eastern Conference champions 
will be in the same sorry state 
as the lowly New York 
Islanders -out of the play­
offs. 
Bylsma stepped behind th'e 

Penguins bench on Monday for 
the first time as an NHL head 
coach, less than 24 hours after 
taking over for the fired 
Michel Therrien. The result 
was not much better than 
many under the old regime as 
Pittsburgh was beaten by the 
Islanders in a shootout. 
Frans Nielsen and Jeff 

Tambellini scored shootout 
goals, and Joey MacDonald 
turned aside Penguins stars Evgeni Malkin and Sidney Crosby in the tiebreaker to snap the Islanders' 0-4-1 skid. 
"I was a little bit surprised, but the team is struggling, so things can happen," captain Crosby said of the change. "The first time we met him was at a team meeting this morning, and then we went through our normal pregame routine." 
Bylsma got the call that he would replace Therrien on Sunday, just before he was set to coach his Wilkes Barre­Scranton club in an AHL game. 
The decision to dismiss Therrien, who led the Penguins to the Stanley Cup finals last year, was made by general manager Ray Shero after Pittsburgh blew a 2-0 lead at Toronto and gave up five goals in the third period of a 6-2 loss Saturday. 
"When I talked to Ray Shero (Sunday), there were some nerves," Bylsma said. "But this was an opportunity you work for and if you are granted it, you do the best you can. I think with the little time we've had together, as the game went on, we got more in tune with the way we should be playing." 
Bylsma is faced with the task of implementing a new fast, attacking style that can make the most of the Penguins' tal­ented forwards. It produced a season-high 37 shots Monday, but only one point in the standings. 
Malkin and Ryan Whitney scored tying goals, and Marc­Andre Fleury made 28 saves through overtime for the Penguins, 1-7-2 on the road in 2009. -Pittsburgh (27-25-6) is lOth in the Eastern Conference, two places and four points below the playoff cutoff. 
"We want two points every game, especially right now," forward Jordan Staal said. "The guys in the dressing room know what we're capa­ble of. We know what we can do out there. It's a matter of going out and doing it." 
Chris Campoli and Frans Nielsen scored for New York, which owns the NHL's worst record (17 -33-6). 
Bylsma paced behind the Penguins bench, keeping his arms folded for most of the game, and taking occasional drinks from a water bottle. He leaned over several times to talk to his new players. Only two Penguins in the lineup played under Bylsma in the AHL. 
"He was right in the mix," Staal said. "In the third we really started to show what we could do in that system. Obviously we didn't get the result." 
The Penguins erased a pair of one-goal deficits with 20 shots through two periods and then turned it on. 
"We have to play that way for 60 minutes," Bylsma said. "If you do, you tip the scales in your favor." 
A pretty passing play pro­duced Whitney's second goal of the season and tied it at 2 with 2:53 left in the middle frame. 
page 20 
Bulls 
continued from page 24 
game," McGraw said. "I want them to come out ready, to come out with a lot of intensity, and to really get after them defensively and rebound and do the things we can control. That always makes us feel a little bit bet­ter about our offense." 
The Irish will need to stay focused against the Bulls to maintain their position as the No. 6 seed in the Big East. Currently, South Florida (5-6, 18-7) sits one game behind the Irish (17 -6, 6-5) in the conference standings. McGraw said, however, that she has not emphasized that factor to her players, who already know this is an important game. 
"I don't really stress that too much with the team. We don't talk about the stand­ings; they know what's at stake," she said. "They know how important the game is. It's important to both teams. This is going to be a huge game." 
The last time the Irish took the court, they hung with one of the best teams in the country -No. 8 Louisville -for most of the game, but could not complete a come­back, losing 71-65. That game was almost a week ago, and the Irish have had plenty of time to rest up since then. 

The Irish will need that rest· because of South Florida's prolific perimeter shooting. The Bulls are 189­of-576 shooting from beyond the arc, and have taken more than twice as many threes as the Irish (93-of 2 7 7). Bulls junior guard J anae Stokes has already launched 202 3-point attempts, connecting on 82 . of those for a .402 shooting percentage from distance. 
"That's gonna be huge. We need to step up and guard the 3-point line, especially when they're playing at ho.me, they're gonna shoot the ball a little bit better," McGraw said. "We really have to be ready to get out and guard Stokes in particu­lar, but [senior guard Shantia] Grace is a good 3­point shooter as well." 
Grace leads the Bulls with 
14.7 points per game, and is shooting 35.8 percent from 3-point land. , 
Although Stokes has "the hot hand," McGraw said, having lit up the scoreboard so often recently, Grace will still be a major threat in the Bulls' .offense. 
"And Grace, with the great assist-to-turnover ratio that she has (107-to-57), she is very dangerous because she can find people inside, she can find them in transition, and she can score," McGraw said. 
The best way to combat the Bulls' high-powered offense, which scores 80.4 points per game, McGraw said, is to get back to play­ing fundamentally sound defense. 
"We want to get back to the way we were playing earlier in the year. We want to shoot the ball a little bit better; we want to defend a little bit better. We want to do a little bit better at everything," McGraw said. "We want to take better care of the ball, and we want to rebound better. I think those are the things that we were doing earlier in the year.... We're playing better; I think we just need to get every­body playing better. " 
One Irish player that is already playing at that lev1~l is forward Becca Bruszewski. The 6-foot-2 sophomore is averaging 9.9 points per game, but scored 18 against Louisville on Feb. 11, 14 against DePaul on Feb. 8 and 14 against Pittsburgh on Feb. 3. 
"She's really playing well, . and I think she's comfort­able, I think she's loose. She's just going out and playing, she's not worried about things," McGraw said of Bruszewski. "She's doing the things that she's good at. She's shooting the ball well from the 3-point line and she'll run the floor and scor­ing inside. She's really showing versatility with what she's good at." 
McGraw also said that Bruszewski 's looseness is something she would like to spread to the rest of the team. 
"I think that's what we need. I think the seniors feel like it's up to them and it's their responsibility to lead us and to play well. That makes you feel a little bit more pressure. That would be good if we could all just relax. At the same time play hard, but I think you need to be a little more relaxed." 
Tip-off for the game is scheduled for 7 p.m. from the Sun Dome in Tampa, Fla. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

The Observer + SPORTS Tu"day, Febma<y 17, 2009l 
Coaches 
continued from page 24 

Brown runs the sidelines if they decide to. explore that option. 
"I can honestly tell you it's not a no. It's something that is still under consideration," Weis said. 
Brown will be Weis' second in command and Tenuta will help to pick up any slack by taking over the defensive play calling responsibilities. 
"Last year, game planning was a collaborative effort and that won't change. The only thing that will be different is that Jon will call the plays on Saturday," Brown said. 
Tenuta and Brown will both have added support along the defensive lino this season be.cause of the addition of Bryant Young. Young gradu­ated from Notre Dame in 1994 then wont on to play in four NFL Pro Bowls bol'or<~ retiring two years ago. 
Young said hn spnn t a ynar travnling the country while weighing his options for the futuro. 
C:.oe·p~"r-...r;.l.>r-~.d ~~-~--"':lmpJI<" tv1~ni"&tl·tJ, c;~.SL1~ lr1t~rr~~:3ti'(.1~-::~~~1 ..St~~ds.~nt ,5-e..rvi(:t:-~~· ~-~n<J /\(--:tlv!h-e:S<, Jn.tc..r.f::.·sH·h [)i~ll;l1.-:-l~~u(.-; (.)~--~>Ut'\ ..::~n~J Nl) }y\u$iim ...Studen~ /\&&oc~t;bnn ' 
CM 


"I thought about a lot of a defensive line coach, but things I might want to do,'' Weis said promoting Young to Young said. "The morn I that position is not very like­looked at different business ly. opportunities, it didn't fire me up like coaching did." Contact Dan Murphy at 
Notn1 Dame is still without dmurphy6@nd.edu 

::· •• ~. ·::·• •••••••••••••• -•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• *. •.' •••••••••• 
•· 

Eat well. Be happy. 
ClJ)OfJ a,. /'HOv..i·lt-t.Ja.fcriKfj-arr~ oJ JreSit; Or~C..;
• •
• •
• • 
.. 
• • 
.. 
.. 


1t1~ fv...a.lify. Jood$. 
FEATURING HOURS 
Breakfast served .1!1 day Sunday .., Tuesday; ! a.m, --2p;m, Housr~made soups, salads, and sandwiches Wednesday ·Saturday;laJn. ~ 9p.m. Gourmet pizzas Gre<;t wine selection! 
574.968.3030 
Dinner specials Wednesday-Saturday 
Reservations aw!ptedfor any meal. 
Ask about our catering! 

• 

Located inToscana Park Shopping Centre • 303 Florence Ave., Granger, IN 46530
• 

E·~ail: lnfo@uptownkitchen.net • Web: www.UptownKitchetwet 

Tuesday, February 17, 2009 
The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
The offi,ce .§ Roles of ~ell\, .§ wo~ell\, 
Wl1&tt ~oes tt VtA..e&tJA., to be A VtA..AJA.,? 
Feettt..trt~~Vg ... 
}:)r. tiL.Leejl\, Huv1..t "'Sottt~g.. }:)Lrtetor of C{tJA..oltr St~~td~es 'Progra~ }:)r. Ag~A.Stt""' FueV~-tts,... 'Professor of A~tV!ropoLogt_j 
Dr. M. c.atV!LteV~-·K.avejl\,tjJpV!tJ\. P. M~~trpV!tj Fo~~tV\,olati.oJA.. Professor of l-IJW 
}:)rJoV!JA.. c. cavt:tdtV~-~; CV!a~r ofTV!eotog~ }:)tpart~ejl\,t 
}:)r. Mc.tr~ Cfvt~ttj ... Professor of soc.rot.ogB ··········· ·· Co-Sponsors Tlieit:ili'iJiy··nc,>rirt.llii.'iti.··s('idi}!i_)gj··l>eiiiittiiieiK.GeiidiifSittdl,iiH\'iiii)rSooiiiix•..tie"der·Rel<itliiii.il·renier, coRc·c;;iiiiidi; Btwlu)gnJ'und l{lr Fz-cclll'on~c ii1 Gender Sun:!ics, l)fOJlJf?!l~h;.; Sm4rm:sri!ll~1t~. 9t:w!;,:rl:\l.l,ltjit,~ Pr~m;rnm 
time to train in the overcrowd­ed Guglielmino Athletic 
Rink 
East but among an elite vulnerable to an Irish come­group of teams with legiti­back. The Friars have just
Hope 

mate national title hopes. one game remaining they continued from page 24 They're not battling for top­should be favored in -at 
four Big East seeds as much Rutgers -and a loss to the that how the Irish per­as they're battling for No. 1 Irish would give Notre Dame formed in the Big East tour­seeds come Selection the tiebreaker if the teams nament would likely deter­Sunday. ended up with matching mine their NCAA fate. That conference marks. type of opportunity is really Top-four contenders: No. 7 Notre Dame also partially all Notre Dame can ask for Louisville (19-5, 10-2), No. controls its destiny with after losing seven games in 10 Marquette (21-4, 10-2), West Virginia, but the Irish a row. No. 12 Villanova (20-5, would have to win in 
Getting to that magical 8-4) Morgantown this .500 record in the Big East With the Big East Wednesday. Only Pittsburgh won't be easy. Notre Dame Tournament switching to a and Connecticut have man­can be realistically favored 16-team format this year, a aged to do that thus far this in only two of their next six top-four seed assumes year, and Villanova saw its games -home contests added importance, guaran­six-game winning streak against Big East bottom­teeing not one but two byes. come to a grinding halt last feeders St. John's and Of these three teams, only Friday when the Wildcats Rutgers. two will likely secure that lost by 21 points at West 
Assuming the Irish don't extended rest over spring Virginia. pull out a miracle victory at break. Connecticut, that means Although it may seem like Playing out the string: Notre Dame's NCAA Louisville and Marquette Seton Hall (14-10, 5-7), Tournament hopes likely have the spots locked up, Georgetown (13-10, 4-8), rest on three games: at West take a look at the Golden USF (8-16, 3-9), St. John's Virginia, at Providence and Eagles' remaining schedule: (12-13, 3-10), Rutgers home against Villanova. Seton Hall, at Georgetown, (10-15, 1-11), DePaul 
Win zero or one out of Connecticut, at Louisville, at (8-18, 0-13) three and the Irish are look­Pittsburgh, Syracuse. With These teams are equiva­ing at an NIT bid. Win two Villanova playing a much lent to a pre-pubescent mid­out of three and Mike Brey's cushier final stretch, dle school kid playing men can play themselves Marquette will have to earn eighth-grade ball. They're into the Big Dance with a its top-four seed. at a competitive disadvan­strong Big East showing. tage, and the hits just keep Win all three games and Notre Dame and its compe­on coming. Take DePaul for Notre Dame becomes one of tition: Providence (16-9, example. The Blue Demons the teams nobody wants to 8-5), No. 24 Syracuse have a winless conference play come March. (19-7, 7-6), Cincinnati record, and they get to try 
That's Notre Dame's situa­(17-9, 7-6), West Virginia and end that streak against tion. Here's a look at how (17-8, 6-6), Notre Dame teams like Pittsburgh, the rest of the Big East cur­(14-10, 5-7) Villanova and West Virginia. rently stacks up. If the Irish are to reach On the plus side, they get to 
that .500 Big East mark, try and avoid the goose egg A cut above: No. 1 these are"the teams they in Big East play when they Connecticut (24-2, 12-2), hope to pass on their way to take on St. John's on Feb. No. 4 Pittsburgh (24-2, a top-eight seed. Although it 28. 11-2) currently holds the best 
These two teams are not record of the group, Contact Greg Arbogast at only the class of the Big Providence may be the most garbogas@nd.edu 

Fettt~y~~g tltl~ spiso~e 
IIC..ocl<(,t&t~Ls~~ 
"T11ere was vvo space to cuddLe ... " -MLeV!aeL scott 

continued from page 24 
fact that, despite the presence of funds donated specifically for a rink renovation project, several other Irish athletic pro­grams (deserving in their own rights, .of course) received major facility upgrades. 
And I would have expressed my concern that, despite the program's remarkable progress in Jackson's first four years, Notre Dame could lose college hockey's best coach to a school that showed a greater financial commitment to its program's development. 
Thursday was one of the biggest days in Irish hockey history, right up there with the days Notre Dame hired Jackson in 2005 and when the Irish beat Michigan in last year's Frozen Four. There was a palpable buzz from both the players and the increased media presence at Thursday's practice, and the general feel­ing seemed to be one of tri­umph -tbat, with this announcement, the hockey program had truly arrived. 
No longer will players have to squeeze into an undersized locker room with no space for r,elaxation or study. No longer will the team have to jockey for Complex or in the undersized Joyce Center weight room. 
No longer will coaches have to remove their skates in a closet-like space half the size of a double in Morrissey. No longer will team meetings have to be held in a second-floor conference room or in the visi­tors' locker rooms. 
No longer will the team's managers \YOrk in "caves," as Jackson not-so-fondly called the dungeon-like offices beneath the Joyce Center ice rink's bleachers. No longer will those offices have to be emp­tied each off-season to avoid the flooding that occurs when the ice is melted. 
No longer will the pep banli be forced into a few small rows of corner bleachers. No longer will some of the students responsible for making the Joyce Center a tough place to play for opponents be turned away because of limited stu­dent seating. 
And no longer will I have to search for the right time to write that angry column. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd. edu 

Cth'e!:j AL<.olitoti14l% t-tesb14relt\ LtbYRYtj 
WV\e~A-: wedV\.tSii~ t:l 
FebYuQrl:;11..€ Rt i?pjt\o\, 

.-------------­
Tuesday, February 17, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
WILLSHORTZ 
53 Optional phrase 55 Belt-hole makers 56 Nose: Prefix 57 Reef dwellers 59 Button on an 
iPod 60 Sinclair alternative 62 Part of una semana 


PUzzle by Vldot Fleming and Bruee Venzke 
23 Narrow way 38 Efface. with ''off' 
25 Passover month 40 One of the men waiting in
26 Gentleman of "Waiting for the court 
Godot" 28 "Deal!" 
43 Like some eyes 30 Troop group 
46 Mortgagor. e.g. 31 Kind of daisy 
48 Canadian native 33 Eternities 
51 At hand, in 35 Starting point poems 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card. 1-8()0..814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
pas1 puzzles, nytimes.comtcrosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzz!eforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nylimes.com/learninglxwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Swil;•ni Bra%. 17: M1n ~1.:Eol\-.:. 50: ke·1. 51~ tevar Burton. ~2 
Happy Binbday: M•ki!lj! personal ch:mgc• to your li!i?•tylc. ~our app<:<tr:ulcc and the pt~oplc }"!JU b.itng out \\'tth will hl•lp you ~ichh:~\"c yonr go<lb Stn:n~th ot i.. h.ar;.J:U.cr (U\d mind will he ><quireJ l<.> foUvw ynuf ""'" <lre;uns.ll<m"t giw in I<' <moli<mal bl..::km:oil <>r mt-d.dting~ it's imp\)rtan_t for you to stand up fGr wh3t you w;mt this year. Your num~n­are 2v 9. l··k 14.. 21. 35. 4_) • 
ARI.ES (M<~l'!!h ll-April19): Don't kl cm<A.imt<ll tt"ubks inkrlro· wiU1 wha1 you IK>c<1 lf) do. K"l.->cping: bus}· wllllcad to ym..1r-succe~s Nut ev~ryon...: \\·tl1 sec thing~ pmr \'-'ay but. if you are wilHng tn do th"· work yourself. ytm will pnwe how valuahk~ ynu are and have 
g<><><l re>Ull>. 3 'tars 

TAURUS (Apri.! 20-May 20): S,>mwne will t;lk~ Jdvanta(!e <>f yuu if yvu Aren't ,·;m:btl. J),, !K>I vohmtNr for "''mething without kn,,wing the full extent of what's being askeu of you. :t sta.n:.. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 2-0): A gmid id~;o tlml 'VflWOII<' ha' will hdp y<>u <!UI ;., wdl. Thb 1:-;;.'~ g:m>•t limt~ to as~ thr .0:1 rail!"-t.~ ().f w make a proks:sinanl dmngc bul m.ak.e ~urc->·ou ba,.·e a ~1.tu .inb (O !W w ~fore ~\"lU .quit )>nur curnmt P.,)~ittl'n. ,1 $tars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A positive c.haugc b within your reach. Talk!<> whoever;, in dtltrg<· al)<l kt hill! m hcl" know \\·hat yo11 want tu <l<l. D<Jn"t t<tl<~ n" for an an>'Wr at1<l be-pn~pan.~.u h> uw ynur o\Vtl tl:lt:Htf:.)" and ·idrt1s to g1..>.t \\·hat you w'111L 5 ~~~~ 
I)".O (July :Z3-Aut:. 22): You'll b<: altracted tv ><•m<:<>nc wh,, motii."ates y<>u. il<bke sure Y"U k'"l' things simple. Complicating y<>ur Jl<'rsonallif< t>y mix>ng tm>ine.s with pk~­sure will tl<~ bring ~<X><l re>uh~. Separntc your cm<.>tivtt~ (1\>m lil<' equation. 2 ~tar<; 
VIRGO (Aug. '23-Sept. ll): Change i• Ui\<>fl )·ou. Smn~<)tl~ yoo kast expect will utili~<' mte ()f your olU idt::as for hii; or her 1:t\\1l benefit. Dl1U'l let ..:myon~ take crt:-dit for }·our 4~on¥ trilmtk>n>. 4 ''~r; 
UBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You·ve got ewr)ithi.ng goinjl your way so doo't kt huine>s stop you frmn g~uing "·hal Y<'U d~'crw. Y<>u h"''~ to push forward and take ;~etion. Fon.-e sbmlldn"! b<: nece;sruy -u~ intdlig~nce mupl~d with a little han! work. ~ stare 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): lk careful h<>w you handle friends. rellllives ;utd your lover. Povr ,·ommunicati<ln will lead I<) mi$Undcn<!andin~;s and fal"<' mformation will lead to a dtan~te of pla!IS. l'mtect your asscL<. 3 >131"> 
SAGITTARitJS (Nov. 22·De.:. 21}: Y"u may •ni11k ewrythi11g ;, goiul! wdl bul. !J<·hill<l dt)~d dot>:n.. -s.ottk""one is. doing yuu an injustk~. fk <'ttreful hoVe' you ~~~n1 an}· infor­mation }'OU haw, C>p<:<:iaJ!y if il can influence }"<>Uf position. Jk upfronl aoout your intcn· tk'lru;._ .3 stars 
CAI'RlCORN (De.:. 22-Jan. 19): An <'!llotional <tUadunciU to ""ll"'lnc may W;ter )·<>to from "-'<"ing what thb J><f>l<lll ;, aclually UJ' to anu ll<>W it Gill hun Y•'" m the <lld. 0..1n't be f<•··k...l by compliment> or ge,ture• of friendton~ss. (ietth<: facts and a<:t on them. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Emotion~ I dec·cpti.-~l may !.>ad to" J><:~or ded>ic>n re· g~ruing :t pa>l p:lltncr. Keq> r<>ur <listaru:e anJ d<>n·l make :my mvw> tbat you may o>egr"t. Yctl!<lf'li<llls an: gn•ater th~n y"u reahze. !.>.1n'tlet hmcli.n,>-ss he yout gui.Je.1 
~tar~ 

PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Yolo may know what you •~ant hm 11nd~rlying f;t<ton •nay stand in p:u.tr \\·ay. You h<l\"t' l() !'%-str<*igh~ !I~JUt your wants and nt~i:d~ if you '-".!<JX'~'t to gain re~~et ami h~ ahll.:" to fvllow through \\'lth ynu~ plans. ~ ~l~tts .... 
Bkth<by llahy: Y<>~ are pioneerinji.. onginal ~nd inventive. y.,y :u-e • hunl>nllarian who ,;;.ro~ ab<mt hdping those in n~d. You at·e a g<l<'IU frienJ. 
Eug{•nlu'J< l\<1->b ,,·tkS:' ~ugemahnt com for c'f.mjitlf~rUilll (.'(m.o,ultttrions. m_,~5f"l-tU'<" .r:omlf:wg.~:~rw.llm~·t for EustJwf:~ ··J; b!og, astrr.wul\·irr ('omfi>r fim 
CROSSWORD 
Across Seinfeld's "sworn enemy" 
7 En route 
15 Dig up 
16 Vicious sorts 17 1961 Connie Francis hit 19 Up to no good 
20 Sterile, in a way 
21 Debussy's "Air de_. 
22 Word before Oscar or Orloff 24 Madras title 25 Inti. agreement since 1993 27 Class-conscious grps.? 29 Prefix with skeleton 32 Hold 'em challenge 
34 Fourth book of the Book of Mormon 
36 Gore follower 
37 Eponymous rink jump 39 Bring up 41 View from Long 
Is. 42 Tennyson woman called 

"the Fair 44 _ Beach. Fla. 45 ~ Jordan, who 
wrote "The Crying Game" 47 A writer may work on it 49 Bolero. e.g. 50 Long on screen 52 First name in architecture 54 One-third of a Morse "0" 

55 Children's author/photograp her Aida 
58 "Here, I can help you" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


61 End of a line about "friends" 63 Not be honest about oneself 64 Ingredients in many stews 65Derides 66 Become, as mush 
Down 
Google heading 2 Thrill 3 1952 Doris Day 
hlt that was an even bigger hit for the Lettermen in 
1001 
4 _acid (okl name tor hydrochloric acid) 
5 Bob -·-·-· young man in Dreiser's "Sister Carrie • 6 Web-based service 7 Be in charge of 8 Pointed extremity 9 Suffix with beta 10 First sitting president to visit the West Coast 11 Protect 12 "Huh?r 131t rises in the BemeseAips 14 Battle of the -·1914 18 Mr. Wicklield's clerk, in nterature 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
JUMBLE 

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
NYSAP 
1 

rJ 

<92()07 Tribune Media 5efllices. Inc. 
if~rlJ 
tRUFTUE I

IIJ I I 
GHOTUB 

(lJ II 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Atgirion 

WHAT THE PHO­TOGI<!APHER USE:O TO TAKE: PICTURES OF THE NEW CAR.. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

WWW.BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
THE FoRBIDDEN DouGHNUT 


Answer:" rI I I)" [I I I I) 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: SUEDE TRAIT DAHLIA NETHER Answer: How the farmer knew the cows were ready for milking -HE HEARD THE HERD 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
• -Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, February 17, 2009 
page 24 
fOOTBALL 
Bryant Young among new coaches brought in by Weis 
opportunity to formally intro­"We're trying to do every­over Haywood's role as run­coordinator.
By DAN MURPHY 
duce new running backs coach thing we can to get this pro­ning backs coach. He will be a "I thought the best chance 
Spans Ediror 
Tony Alford and new graduate gram to where it needs to be," big part of trying to turn for us to win this year would assistant Bryant Young. Brown said. "Anything I can around a running game that be to make me the offensive 
Notre Dame head coach Verducci, who was hired as do to help our program get averaged just 3.3 yards per coordinator," Weis said. "What Charlie Weis held a press con­an offensive line coach last there, I'm going to do." carry in 2008. that~s done, though, is it's ference last Friday to hand out month, was named the run­Weis said he made the "I think we need to sit down caused a trickle-down effect in some new coaching titles. ning game coordinator. Ianello changes because he will take as a staff, evaluate what we configuration of our staff." 
Corwin Brown, Rob Ianello, and Tenuta are now the assis­over as offensive coordinator want to do and just get work," The promotions also make it Jon Tenuta and newcomer tant head coaches of offense now that Mike Haywood has Alford said. possible for Weis to coach Frank Verducci were among and defense, respectively, and moved on to the head-coach­Weis said he intends to con­from the press box while those that received promo­Brown was promoted to asso­ingjob at Miami (Ohio). centrate on improving the tions. Weis also took the ciate head coach. Alford was hired to take running game as the new see COACHES/page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Running -with the Bulls 
ND will try to tame South Florida's potent 3-point game 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
With the regular season starting to wind down, each game becomes increasingly important -espec.ially when you haven't been play­ing at your best. 
The Irish have gone 3-5 over the last month, some­thing Irish coach Muffet McGraw said she wants to change tonight at South Florida. But in order to do that, she said she is going to need to make sure her squad is focused on the task at hand. 
"I just want to have a sense of urgency about this 

ALLISON AMBROSE and IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 

Left, Irish sophomore forward Becca Bruszewski dribbles during Notre Dame's 62-59 win over DePaul on Feb. 8. Right, junior guard Ashley see BULLS/page 20 Barlow drives during a 78-721rish victory over Michigan State on Nov. 29. The Irish will travel to Tampa to take on South Aorida tonight. 

MEN'S BASKETBALL ANALYSIS 
Irish preserve NCAA hopes 
Squad will probably have to win four of 
. . . 

remaznzng szx games 
Hope is a wonderful thing. 

For Notre Dame and its fans, hope means being able to make statements like the following: If we can just manage to 
win four out of our  Greg Arbogast  
last six  
games,we'll have a  Sports Writer  
shot at a  

bye in the Big East Tournament and a'slot in the NCAA Tournament. 
Four wins would put the Irish at 18-12 overall and 9­9 in Big East play. That would put them on the bub­ble for both a top-eight Big East seed and an NCAA Tournament spot, meaning 
see HOPE/page 21 


wu YUEfThe Observer 

Irish junior point guard Tory Jackson and his teammates are looking ahead to their final six regular-season games. 
HocKEY 

Elite program deserves stellar free-standing rink 
I never did get to write that angry column. 

All year it seems like my fel­low beat writers and I have been alluding to the hockey program's desperate need for a facility upgrade, and we each prom­ised-in prior columns, blog entries and casual conversa­tions-to write a piece detailing the condition of the team's cur­rent rink and the status of a potential renovation. 
But, as associate athletic director Tom Nevala said Thursday, "It's like that old proverb -good things come to those who wait." 


Thursday's announcement that the University will begin construction on a free-standing ice arena next spring might be a few years overdue, but the important thing is the adminis­tration finally got it right. No college hockey program has won more games than Notre Dame since the start of the 2006-07 season, and the best deserve the best. 
In that angry column, I would have explained how, despite the fact that "hockey has arrived at Notre Dame," as coach Jeff Jackson proclaimed Thursday, the Irish continue to play in the conference's -and potentially the nation's ­worst facility. 
I would have bemoaned the 
see RINK/ page 21 

'· 





