.. 
! 
t 
I I•
I 

---------------~­
page 2 Friday, May 15, 2009 
The Observer + PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Thank you 
Mom 
Like millions of other sons across the country who are away from home, I ealled mom to wish hP.r a happy Mother's Day on Sunday. Only mom couldn't talk for too long. We chatted for a minute, I told her 
I loved her, said "Happy Mother's Day," and we hung up. The following day, May 11, was her birthday. 
Once in a while our family gets a double whammy 

and her birthday Chris Hine and Mother's Day fall on the same day. This year, they Editor-in-Chief came back-to-Emeritus 
back. 
Again, I ealled her, but again she couldn't talk for too long,"not because she didn't want to talk, but because both times I called her, she was work­ing. On her birthday, she was working her regular Monday-Friday, full-time job. On Mother's Day, she was working at her part time job. 
There are some days when mom works 15-hour days. She works from 9­5, then has about an hour or so to get to her part-time job, where she works until about 11:30 p.m. Then she comes home around midnight and has to wake up in time to get to work at 9 a.m. again. Also, her weekends are rarely free. This weekend is one ofthe few where she doesn't have to work. She switched with someone and took that Mother's Day shift so she could come and see me graduate. 
She's been doing this now for about six years, all so our family can have a little extra money and I can go to Notre Dame. 
Mom, there's no way I can ever repay you for the many sacrifices you've made for me over the years, and I want you to know that no matter where I go over the next few years, I have you to thank for helping me get here. I know it's been hard, but without you, I wouldn't have been able to spend these last four won­derful years ofmy life at Notre Dame. It's all because of you and I want every­one who reads this to know that I have the best mother any son could ever ask for. 
I still remember the day I got the acceptance letter to Notre Dame. 
It was just after grandpa had died (my grandfather was a huge Notre Dame fan) and you and Jennifer went out to meet the mailman as he walked up the steps. You grabbed the envelope and came running inside. I ripped it open and I could barely read past "congratu­lations" before you mobbed me with a huge hug. No matter how long I live I'll take that moment with me. Mom, because of your selflessness and your kind heart, I'm graduating from the University ofNotre Dame this weekend, the school I've dreamed of attending since watching the football games with grandpa all those years. And I'm gradu­ating becalL'ie you've been there with me everyday, mom, making sure I can accomplish that dream. Thank you. And I love you. 
Chris Hine will graduate with a degree in history and a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. He will be interning this summer as a sports writer for the New York Times and hopefully will land a job in journalism after that. In addition to his mother, Chris would like to thank everyone in his family for being there for him. He would also like to thank and wish well all his friends who are graduating this weekendfor all the memories, especially those who are in the Navy and Marine Option ROTC, for they are much better people than he is. 
The views expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and not 
necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 

Judge John T. Noonan Jr., recipient of the Laetare Medal in 1984, will deliver an address "in the spirit of the award" at the Commencement ceremony Sunday, The University announced April 30. 
The University will not award the medal this year, according to a press release. 
Mary Ann Glendon, for­mer U.S. ambassador to the Vatican, was selected to receive the award March 22, but she declined the 
letter that implications that her speech would "bal­ance" the event is inappro­priate for a Commencement ceremony. 
Jenkins said that since Noonan has already received the Laetare Medal, the University decided "upon reflection" not to give the award this year. 
Dennis Brown, University spokesperson, told The Observer that the University decided against making a "hurried deci­sion." 
"The Laetare Medal is our highest honor, and we annually take great care in 
medal in a letter to University President Fr. John Jenkins April 27, marking the first time the award has been accept­ed and then declined, according to an April 28 Observer report. 
"I could not help but be 

..I could not help but be dismayed by the news that Notre Dame also planned to award [President Barack Obama] an honorary degree ... 
Mary Ann Glendon former U.S. ambassador to the Vatican 
selecting a recipient. While we have a list of individuals who are more than worthy of the award, upon reflection we decided against mak­ing a hurried decision," Brown said. 
He said Jenkins reflected on 
dismayed by the news that various options and decid­Notre Dame also planned ed to ask a former Medal to award [President Barack recipient to speak to grad­Obama] an honorary uates. degree," Glendon wrote in Jenkins called Noonan the letter. the "ideal choice" in the 
Glendon also said in the press release. 
.at the Conu11issionh..g ceremot1Y Saturday 
"In thinking about who professor of Law, and could bring a compelling taught at the Law School 
voice, a pas­sion for dia­logue, great intellectual stature and a deep com­mitment to Catholic val­ues to the speaking role of the Laetare Medalist ­especially in t h e s e unusual cir­cumstances -it quickly became clear that an ideal 

..Judge Noonan will join with President Obama and other speakers in that celebration, sending them from our campus and into the world with sound advice and affirmation. " 
Fr. John Jenkins University of Notre Dame president 
until 1966. He has also taught at 
t h e 
University of California Law School at Berkeley. 
Working as a con­sultant for agencies in the Catholic Church, Noonan has consulted for Pope Paul VI's Commission on Problems of the 

choice is Judge Noonan," Jenkins said in the press release. 
"This Commencement ceremony, more than any­thing else, is a celebration of our students and their families. Judge Noonan will join with President Obama and other speakers in that celebration, sending them from our campus and into the world with sound advice and affirmation." 
Noonan serves as a Senior Circuit Judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. He was appointed to the Court in 1985 by President Ronald Reagan. 
Noonan joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1961 as a Family and the U.S. Catholic Conference's com­mittees on moral values, law and public policy, law and life issues and social development and world peace. 
Noonan was also a gover­nor of the Canon Law Society of America and director of the National Right to Life Committee. 
Noonan graduated from Harvard University in 1946 and received a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School in 1954. 
Aaron Steiner contributed to this report 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

.*Abrmt 196 graduating seniors, almost l 0 percent t1f the class, wil · 
. post ~gt11duate service progran1, volunteerill$ for a year or ntore nati<;~•nJ,~~if,~i~i;;~ 
*Alx)ut 95 percent of the students who enrolled atNotre Datne as ..tre.!sn ~eceive a diploma Sunday -agraduatil1n rate exceeded t1nly1JY 
*About 80 percent of the .graduatestnttiicipated in 'Volunteerand 
t:lrogrants in the greater &1uth Bend area, nationwide and around the wodd 

ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 


Friday, May 15, 2009 page 3
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
High securi~ protesters e at Commencement 
Police say they are prepared to handle crozvds, possible disturbances resulting from President Obanza's visit 
ByJENN METZ 
News Writer 
Almost two months after the announcement of President Barack Obama's commencement schedule, Notre Dame's campus will be flooded with visitors, graduates and Secret Service agents and South Bend's streets will be lined with protesters Sunday when Obama visits cam­pus. 
When the president addresses the over 2,900 graduates in the Class of 2009, commentators pre­dict the packed Joyce Center will be the calm at the center of a protest storm. 
Bishops, student groups and anti-abortion activists have spo­ken out against University President Fr. John Jenkins' deci­sion to invite Obama to speak at Commencement and award him an honorary degree. 
Hundreds of protesters plan to stand or walk along Angela Blvd. and Indiana 933 Sunday; bus­loads of protestors are expected to arrive in South Bend -at least three buses are expected from Chicago --to join those who have already descended on South Bend. 
Anti-abortion activists Randall Terry and Alan Keyes have led dozens of protesters on to cam­pus the past few weeks, pushing baby carriages with bloody baby dolls and bearing graphic images; over 20 of these protesters have been arrested for trespass on University property. 
A plane sponsored by the Center for Bioethical Reform has circled the campus since April28, alternating images of an aborted fetus with messages to Jenkins to change his mind, and trucks from the group are driving the streets in South Bend bearing graphic images protesting the decision. 
As local police are coordinating with Secret Service to prepare for the president's visit, those living around campus are preparing for an estimated 20,000 protesters to come to their neighborhood. 
Reports by WNDU and WSBT indicate residents of the neigh­borhoods around the campus' main gates, who are used to crowds from football weekends, have growing concerns related to damage to personal property if the protests are not peaceful. 
The Pro-life Action League and Citizens for a Pro-Life Society are joining in protest Sunday, accord­ing to the Web site notredame­protest.com; their day's activities will include two parts: walking in the neighborhood leading up to the ceremony and joining the scheduled prayer services on campus during Commencement. 
Another group -ND Affirm Life -will be protesting around campus today until Sunday, according to its Web site. The events will include prayer rallies, speakers and acting in solidarity with ND Response on Sunday. 
Captain Phil Trent of the South Bend Police Department (SBPD) told The Observer the police are prepared for any disturbance before Commencement day. 
"We have numerous officers on call should we need them on Friday or Saturday," he said. And when Sunday arrives, law enforcement will be monitoring the situation closely. 
"All the local enforcement will have fairly large [presence], with man power in the area," Trent said, stating that various state units and local law enforcement agencies will be assisting SBPD. 
He said the police haven't made exact estimates as to the num­bers that will flock to Notre Dame in protest. 
"It's hard to put a number to that. We've heard multiple thou­sands, which we're kind of skep­tical of," Trent said. "We're pre­pared for whoever comes." 
Trent said he knows that at least one group has filed for a permit for a protest walk, and that the city approved that request. 
"If past behavior is a predictor, we see what's happened in the last week on campus, and we're just preparing for a magnified lsituation]," he said. 
This weekend's events will be different from past protests because the groups have made media and law enforcement aware oftheir plans, he said. 
"We've received word from protest groups themselves that suggest that they're going to be very vocal and some of the groups that we're expecting can be problematic when they come together," Trent said. 
SBPD will also be assisting with the presidential visit itself, both on and off campus, Trent said. 
"If everybody does this peace­fully, then it will be just a day of complete standing, monitoring the situation," he said of police activity during Commencement. "We're there just as much to pro­tect everyone's 1st Amendment rights just as much as everyone's right to private property is enforced." 
University spokesperson Dennis Brown said the University is not commenting on specific actions Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) is taking in preparation for Commencement. 
Construction on local roads, specifically on Indiana 933, will cause traffic blocks, police said, and officers will be on hand for traffic and crowd control Sunday. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

.March:zo 1\:farch23 tlpril:; AprilJD AprilJl;J April:zH Mayt , .May u May t6 Ohama.f.tfU'IQillltWd t~s .rcnk.iW> !11W~"'~'"' NO R~~$f)nww.hold$· D'Ar~;y td•~nses statrmwnl S(tnw l5~>li•<lenl.>\. A phme fH~m·UwCtmkr ·RandaUTtmy !tndQne~uppomtr .knkms writt~s NDRt~po,xst· 200(}tommeneement statem~"Jlt defenillnR theil'. first offic.W w-gin,&Catholics to axoid or n.>prt>sentiris 9wr.;;to . for nilhEthlcat.Reform are ar:rest<il on Notr:e l)~me'~ rnro·pageleuer bt>gius a.nt~rly. ~>twuker by Whttt~ flolliW. his·dt:d11ionto in'llibi #V~!nt, a t•nl.m Sunda'' "unseNnty" <~t "'unh'l{>fttt" ~t,1d~nt gf()tlb.t; tw~et · tl(~.gins dr¢1itlg r~lmpus {~mpt•t. for prtltililt:ingllftet .to gr<)dHiltes 24·bvnr ~rks ND annnntwcs ht• will ·Obnnu1 tttspcak, ~t'lYt• prayetraByun Notre dt>rrioUSlrtltifJn!l ll&Ut!1!!{ lb~· •knld.ns, rtrilent ldt(~r with nnti•uootti{m hdh~ issutil n h<) h't'ilpass mdt>r. addres:iiing the· · •·of ~~wuts, · receive honorary d€p't:~; degree. AntHlh<:trtion Ham~'i c~mpus, president or Notre Dame. and petiti¥Jil< in stJp.p<>rt hannt•:ts in tow. oontmvers}'.lnlhe ~tarting with
May4 .

Cardinal Nttwnmn Sodety lWthi.<>t twndall1'~tl'\' \Vhk'h atfr<l('l.$ afew ofbis dedskm. The I:Jilnll)ardtrucksfrom ktwr: hr. prailit:'d nl) all·nlf,ht
A11ril16 1wo hilfboatds ron(Jemninf;
laun~h~ first petition <ll)twunt~t>$plansro .. 
·>. hl1t1dJ:t-•<l s\tpport~rs. Black Culbiffi1.Arts ~he gropp withgl'aphk thdr nffl:~ij~~aud ~v•yer vigU,
Alumni l<lntwh groupto·.. .Notre Damefor itwitin~(:)pamfi •·•···
<lgainst di.~cfuion, move to &>t•th.Jktid c()uncil~~tibtit~o9 · imng.es alw) begin !l@lin.d¢fi·nqt'dlhe
tally ckmittions Withhdd go UlJ(ItlUW)p~ill~.1'qU Rmld
to pn,b~~ (kcisiol:)i · indudidni-~'r J,ooo drivtng ;';t~ts ~round ·ailmint...tration's 
from lhr; tlnjvcrt>ily, signatures. / · Jt~:a~ South lktul, · d~lon.,.·
South Bend. 
THEOBAMA M h A .I M 
CONTROVERSY arC pr1 ay , 
ll1aM.!h 2~ > · lllnt'ch 114 
Maull ... . > · < .. •. •·• •·..···•.. · · .· .• .· .• . 
··· 
Uni,.'¢Nity unoonti(~,$ •• FtJrtWayri~South Biffitl AI<U\KiY~li~d$Qt~2t1Qtil<;~areanest¢donNtlb'el)antt>'s·· on.UIA~ttre Sundayth.at . Bishop JohrlD'Mt>y'.rekmst>.s . c.nmpm;for protesting a.nd·ref'ttsingto ienve tht t'tUlJ,put~., th<' mcd~t namedfor .. smtementsily'ittgh~ InanE to 
thatdtty,tht• highe-st M«YI$ ·. .. .·. .. .. .. ... . ..·.
l~ovd.~tt d1(~ cen:mon}'• i 
~---.... :.. :·.. -'-.-.-:..... ·.-:' :_-:·· 
Alan Key<$ aoil mtvprrtt~n !'Inn tfll't'arl:t•5kd onhonor &iwn {(> AmNitan 
MtJrclt us . . NOtre Drum?~ <$ntJ>tls; · · ·· · 
.C,atholie,., wiII be nwurHI.'tl 
A*VIrrld udUtfn stil.:lknt.
to Mary Ann Glt~ndon~ 
May17 . . ··.·• ..·.. . . ·.
groups f()nn l'JI) Response,
..former U,S. amhuAAadQ£ ()banta ddiw:n.·the ~o~~J Ctnlltm~uct~IU.Nlt aQdt~~tt 
a coolitmtrgroup opposiJtg
to lht• Vtlfit•.a.n. Nmrellnme,r~i~$ bonornrydegree:. Hlmda>t<ds expected
th~ dt~':ision tu inviteObamu. 
to prpt¢$t thee~('ll~ uq ~lld around the UniVersity's .61mpns. 

ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

196 seniors to participate in service after graduation 
Graduates to do volunteer zvork nationally and globally, credit Notre Dame with fostering a desire to serve others 
By TESS CIVANTOS News Writer  today's society." Pascagoula is a city of only about 26,000, yet Gelchion looks  minor in peace studies, also has service plans after graduation. Through the Good Shepherd  "I've seen what solidarity means, and what it means to live a truly Christian life."  ening their commitment to work­ing for social justice. "The environment at Notre  
While most seniors head for grad school or careers after grad­ forward to his stay there. ''I'm excited about the opportu­nity to live in co:rn­ volunteer program, Amanda will work in New York City at a fair trade store,  Seniors Kate Mattoon and Francesca Pennino are both mov­ing to Peru next year.  Dame was the biggest thing," Mattoon said. "It really oriented me to social justice and charity."  
uation, 196 have other plans. They're traveling everywhere from Peru to Pascagoula, Miss., with one shared goal -serving others. Matt Gelchion, who holds a double major in political science and sociology, is a new member of the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE). He will teach high school history in Pascagoula for two years. "I'm a really big fan of the line in the Bible that 'to whom much is given, much is expected,"' Gelchion said. "I see how blessed I've been to be at a place like this, and I wanted to give back." Gelchion specifically chose ACE for its commitment to Catholic schooling. As a lifelong attendee of Catholic schools himself, Gelchion wanted to share the value of a Catholic education with others. "Education is extremely impor­tant," he said. "Catholic schools are a great source of good in  munity," he said. Handcrafting "This will be a Justice, for one··1 see how blessed very formative year. She then rve been to be at aexperience, and plans to spend it'll be better with place like this, and I two years in the the community of internationalwanted to give back.·· six other ACE branch of the teachers in my program.Matt Gelchlonhouse." "I've been A benefit of the senior wanting to do high school's service since I small size is that got to Notre Gelchion will be able to take on Dame, to create a more just more roles than just that of histo­world," Ryan said. ry teacher. He also plans to coach Ryan said a Summer Service sports and help with other Learning Program (SSLP) through extracurricular activities. the Center for Social Concerns As he prepares to graduate, confirmed her desire to serve, Gelchion recalled the role that and the social justice groups she Notre Dame has played in his became involved in on campus ­desire to serve others. Ryan was co-president of the "What makes Notre Dame Children's Defense Fund through unique is that charge to go forth the Center for the Homeless this and do good," Gelchion said. ''I'm past year -helped her deter­like to think that in some small mine where she wanted to serve. way, I'm living up to that." "Notre Dame's been a really Amanda Ryan, who holds a great place to come and learn major in anthropology and a what true service is," Ryan said.  They will work for 27 months at the Farm ofthe Child, an orphan­age run by Franciscan sisters and a staff ofvolunteers. Pennino planned for some time to do service after graduation, and an SSLP at the orphanage last summer convinced her that it was her calling ­despite the dif­ficulties she faced. "It was one of the most chal­lenging experiences. I was totally out of my comfort zone, adjusting to a different language, different food, a whole different culture," Pennino said. "But in the same breath, it was one of the most ful­filling and God-filled experie~es imaginable." -Mattoon also said she is excited about the experience because she identifies strongly with the pro­gram's mission of helping chil­dren. "It's where my heart is," Mattoon said. Pennino and Mattoon both credit Notre Dame with strength- Pennino, who holds a sociology major and education minor, recalled specific professors and classes who encouraged her to engage with issues of social jus­tice. "Notre Dame had a huge, huge impact in shaping where I end up next year," she said. "Notre Dame has given me the heart and the mind to devote myself to serving others." Pennino, Mattoon, Ryan, Gelchlon and the other seniors will be honored at the annual Senior Service Send-Offceremony at 1 p.m. Saturday in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center's Leighton Concert Hall University President Fr. John Jenkins will address the seniors and their families on the University's commitment to serv­ice in education at Notre Dame and beyond. Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu  


Friday, May 15, 2009 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Oass of2009 valedictorian discusses service work 
Brennan Bollman, zvho will attend Harvard Medical Sclwol in thefall, explains her desire to help others through volunteering 


world. They "a lot of whom care about ·Tm grateful for the I met through 
their hall mates opportunities I've been the Center for even if they S o c i a I
offered and the people 
don't know Concerns." them; they care that I've met. I hope I She said the about the staff can honor those gifts. " commitment to that works service which here," Bollman the Center for
Brennan Bollman 
said. "It flows S o c i a I naturally out of Class of 2009 Concerns rep­the Catholic valedictorian resents is a character of the major part of school." what makes 
The caring that Bollman Notre Dame special. senses among her classmates "The Center for Social is one reason she said she is Concerns is one of the most proud to represent her grad­important things on campus," uating class at she said. Commencement. Bollman is a Biological 
"I'm incredibly excited," Science major and Peace she said. "This is a wonderful Studies minor from St. graduating class, very Joseph, Mich., and will engaged and passionate." attend Harvard Medical 
Bollman has come to School in the fall. appreciate the character of She said she originally Notre Dame and of the class planned to pursue a career in of 2009 through taking part biomedical research, but her in a range of extracurricular service work convinced her activities. to become a doctor instead. 
Bollman spent the summer after her freshman year working at a Catholic Worker house in New York, and spent the next two summers in Haiti and Cambodia. 
"I realized I want to help individual people in individ­ual moments," Bollman said. "So medicine was a better fit. Everything flowed from that." 
Bollman taught English in Cambodia and worked in Haiti to help implement her undergraduate research 
work, which focused on elim­inating the disease that caus­es elephantiasis. 
Summer service was only one part of Bollman's active service work throughout her time at Notre Dame. 
She has worked at the Sister Maura Brannick Health Center in South Bend for the past two years and helped coordinate the Pathos Project, a class for pre-pro­fessional students that inte­grates discussions about human suffering with service 
work. 
Bollman is also active in Lewis Hall, where she has lived for the past four years. 
As Bollman prepares to graduate, she says that her time at Notre Dame has been a wonderful experience. 
"I'm grateful for the oppor­tunities I've been offered and the people that I've met," Bollman said. "I hope that I can honor those gifts." 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 

By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
In her four years as an undergraduate, Brennan Bollman, the class of 2009 valedictorian, has found that Notre Dame has a character all its own. 
"I think it's that people here care about each other, about the local community and the larger 
Bollman served on Voice. the student advisory board of the Center for Social Concerns, and worked to pro­mote NDVotes '08. She said her involvement with the Center for Social Concerns helped her meet many of her 
cI o s est  friends  at  Notre  
Dame.  
"One  of the  cool  things  

about Notre Dame is that I have friends in every major," Bollman said, 
1 
~ 
I I 
Friday, May 15, 2009 page 5
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Jenkins addresses Commencement issues in letter to students 
President believes University is a 'crossroads'for dialogue, hopes to create relationship between Catholics and public officials 
contribute to closer relations "It has never been a political when Fr. Theodore Hesburgh life, who agree completely thatBy AARON STEINER between Catholics and public statement or an endorsement of was University presidP-nt, writ­we should work for change ­
News Writer 
officials who make decisions on policy," Jenkins said of the hon­ing that Hesburgh called Notre and differ only on how we 
matters of human life and orary degrees. "It is the Dame "both a lighthouse and a should work for change," he 
University President Fr. John human dignity," he wrote. University's expression of crossroads. wrote. Jenkins sent a letter dated May Jenkins addressed his critics respect for the leader of the "As a lighthouse, we strive to Jenkins said he has seen the 11 to all Notre Dame graduates, in the letter, specifically those nation and the Office of the stand apart and graduates addressing the controversy that who have called into question President. In the Catholic tradi-be different, illu­"observed, has erupted over his invitation the administra-tion, our first minating issues 7AJ Catholic interviewed, and to President Barack Obama to tion's stance on allegiance is to with the moral evaluated" by
university has a
give the principal address and life issues. God in Christ, and spiritual many people, in 
..Ultimately I special obligation not 
receive an honorary degree at "I am saddened yet we are wisdom of the addition to dis­this Sunday's Commencement. that many hope that the called to Catholic tradi­just to honor the cussing the deci­In the letter he wrote that Notre friends of Notre conversations and respect, partici­tion. Yet, we sion among
leader but to engage
Dame must be a crossroads Dame have sug­pate in, and must also be a themselves.
the good will that the culture. ·•
"where people of good will are gested that our contribute to the crossroads "You engaged
come from this day 
received with charity, are able invitation to wider society. through which each other with to speak, be heard, and engage President Obama will contribute to "As St. Peter pass people of Fr. John Jenkins passion, intelli­in responsible and reasoned indicates ambi­wrote (I Pt. many different gence and
closer relations University president 
dialogue." guity in our posi­2:17), we should perspectives, respect. And I
between Catholics backgrounds, saw no sign that
University spokesman Dennis tion on matters honor the Brown said Jenkins does not of Catholic teach­and public officials leader who faiths, and cul-your differences normally send such a letter to ing. The who make decisions upholds the sec­tures,'' he wrote. led to division," graduates, but "given the University and I ular order," "At this crossroads, we must be he wrote. "You inspire me. We 
on matters ofhuman
unusual nature [of their are unequivocal­Jenkins wrote. a place where people of good need the wider society to be 
Commencement] he thought ly committed to life and human He wrote of will are received with charity, more like you; it is good that we that it would be appropriate to the sanctity of dignity ... what he called are able to speak, be heard, are sending you into the world reach out the seniors." human life and to an "obligation" and engage in responsible and on Sunday." 
In a copy of the letter its protection for an institu­reasoned dialogue." Jenkins told graduates "there obtained by The Observer from conception Fr. John Jenkins tion like Notre Jenkins also told graduates will, no doubt, be much atten­Tuesday, Jenkins wrote he to natural birth," University president Dame to that he recognized the invita­tion on your Commencement" hoped the Obama visit would he wrote. "engage the cul-tion to Obama has triggered a in the letter. lead to "broader engagement He also refer-ture." debate that they have been a "Remember, though, that this on issues of importance to the enced the University's long his­"[A] Catholic university has a part of. is your day.... You are the ones country and of deep signifi­tory of conferring honorary special obligation not just to "In many cases, the debate we celebrate and applaud," he cance to Catholics. degrees on U.S. Presidents in honor the leader but to engage has grown heated, even wrote. 
"Ultimately I hope that the the letter. Obama will be the the culture," he wrote. He between people who agree conversations and the good will ninth president to receive a specifically wrote about his completely on Church teaching Contact Aaron Steiner at that come from this day will degree from Notre Dame. time as an undergraduate, regarding the sanctity of human asteiner@nd.edu 


ND to award eight honorary degrees 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY News Editor 
Notre Dame will award seven honorary degrees in addition to the honorary doctor of laws degree that will be given to President Barack Obama, the University announced Monday. 
The recipients are "distingui<>hed figures in academia, business, ath­letics, engineering, law and philan­thropy," according to a press release. 
The eight degrees will be award­ed at the May 17 graduation cere­mony. 
"We seek to honor people who have made significant contribu­tions to our nation," University spokesperson Dennis Brown said of the recipients. 
Chief Justice of the Indiana Supreme Court Randall T. Shepard will receive a doctor of Jaws. Shepard has served as chief justice since 1987, and hie:; leadership has led to "dramatic improvements, including successfully breaking down the language barriers in the courts, creating an atmosphere of accountability for judges, and edu­cating the public about the judicia­ry's role in society," the release said. Shepard was recently appointed to the U.S. Judicial Conference Advisory Committee on Civil Rules by United States Chief Justice John Roberts. 
Myles Brand, president of the NCAA. will receive a doctor of laws. He served as president of the University of Oregon and Indiana University and as chair of the Association of American Universities. Brand is a philosopher and has focused his studies on "the nature of human action," the release said. 
A doctor of humane letters degree will be awarded to Cindy Parseghian, a Notre Dame gradu­ate who founded the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation along with her hus­band. The Foundation works to find a cure for Niemann-Pick Type C disease, a fatal genetic disorder that affected three out of Parseghian's four children, and ha<> raised more than $33 million to help scientists find the gene responsible for the disease and develop a cure, according to the releac:;e. 
President Emeritus of Purdue University Steven Beering will receive a doctor of laws degree. Beering served as president of Purdue from 1983 to 2000 and ic:; currently the chair of the National Science Board. Beering has also served as chair of the Association of Medical Colleges and Association of American Universities. He spent 10 years as dean of medicine and director of the Indiana University Medical Center and currently hold'> appointments as professor of medi­cine at Indiana University and pro­fessor of pharmacology at Purdue University. 
A doctor of engineering degree will be awarded to Patrick Finneran, vice president of pro­gram management and business excellence for Boeing Integrated Defense Systems. Finneran, a Notre Dame graduate, has "led every military aircraft program at Boeing's St. Louis site," the release said. He served in the U.S. Marine Corps for 20 years and has combat service in the Vietnam War. Finneran retired as a lieutenant colonel. 
Fritz L. Duda, a member of the University's Board of Trustees, will receive a doctor of laws degree. Duda is the chief executive officer of a Dallas-ba<>ed investment com­pany, and he owns a real estate and investment firm. Before his election to the Board of Trustees in 1997, Duda served on the Advisory Council for the School of Architecture, helping to develop a "long-term plan for the Notre Dame campus" and influencing a return to the gothic theme for new campus buildings, according to the release. · 
President of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Don Michael Randel will receive a doctor of laws degree, as he is "a prolific and internationally prominent historian of music," the release said. Randel taught at Cornell University for 32 years and served as the dean of the university's college of art<> and let­ters. He was appointed president of the University of Chicago in 2000 and led the largest fund-raising campaign in the university's histo­ry. 
This story originally appeared in the April 22 edition of The Observer. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 


Saint Mary's to honor Schwiebert 

By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's College announced it will honor Deborah 
Johnson Schwiebert with an honorary Doctor of Humanities degree at the Commencement 


ceremony Saturday. Schwiebert 
After gradu­ating from Saint Mary's with a Bachelor of Arts degree in English Literature in 1974, Schwiebert earned her Master's degree in Organized Leadership from St. Ambrose University. 
Upon graduating from St. Ambrose, Schwiebert 
'"My Saint
began working tribute." for John Deere. Mary·s education Executive 
She has worked transformed my life Assistant to the 
for the company President Susan 
and being able to give 
for 34 years and Dampeer said currently holds back to the College Schwiebcrt was the position of has been a real chosen because director of com­of aJl of the
privilege.,,
munications at time she has John Deere's put in volun­W o r l d Deborah Schwiebert teering and 
Headquarters Saint Mary's alumna attempting to 
facility. 

Schwiebert has worked at S:1int Mary's for the past 16 years. 
She has served on the Board of Trustees since 1998 and was appointed Board secretary and then Board chair. She served as Board chair from 2004 to 2007. 
Additionally, Schwiebert has been a part of two Presidential Search Committees, served as chair of the Madeleva Steering Society committee and served as vice president and president of the Alumnae Association Board of Directors. 
She also served as the Annual Fund chair in the College's 1994 Sesquicentennial Campaign. 
In 2004, Schwiebert received the CoHege's Distinguished Alumnae Award. 
Schwiebert said she is pleased and honored to receive an hon­orary degree at Commencement and that she has enjoyed her time spent serving and giving back to the College. 
"It has been my pleasure to serve the College these past 16 years. My Saint Mary's educa­tion transformed my life and being able to give back to the College has been a real privi­lege," Schwiebert said in a press release. "I am humbled by this wonder­ful honor and 
improve life at 
Saint Mary's, as 
well as because of her success in the business world. 
"Schwiebert is retiring from the Board of Trustees," Dampeer said. "She was the chair of ihe Board and has been an outstanding alumnae volun­teer. She is also a very success­ful business executive." 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 

page 6 Friday, May 15, 2009 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Committee 
on assault 
presents to 
Poorman 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY News Editor 
The Committee for Sexual Assault Prevention (CSAP) ­a committee formed to lead "a comprehensive review of Notre Dame's sexual assault policies and resources" ­presented recommendations to Fr. Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, earlier this month according to a statement by the Committee. 
Ann Firth, associate vice president for Student Affairs and a member of CSAP, said the review of the policies was to identify steps the University might take to pre­vent sexual assault and address unacceptable behav­ior "beyond what is currently in place" in the University's policy. 
"All of these efforts must be understood in the larger context of the Notre Dame community, a community dedicated, in the words of the University's mission statement, to 'the formation of an authentic human com­munity graced by the Spirit of Christ,"' Firth said in an e­mail. 
She said the work of CSAP seeks to "ensure the safety of every student." 
"Clearly, sexual violence 
has  no  place here," Firth  
said.  
CSAP  was  born out of a  

resolution from Student Senate in December of 2008, which asked for a review of "the effectiveness of the University's sexual assault, rape and sexual misconduct policy, resources for victims of sexual assault, and the University's disciplinary options available to victims of sexual assault." 
The Observer reported the resolution stated that "the University's current resources for victims and disciplinary options often do not satisfy the needs of the survivors" in a Dec. 11 arti­cle. 
Firth said the resolution went to Poorman, who creat­ed CSAP -composed of a combination of students and faculty -to examine the current policies and make suggestions for improvement. 
CSAP, along with represen­tatives from student govern­ment, formed three subcom­mittees: Policies and Procedures, Resources and Education/Prevention. 
"As part of their work together, the subcommittees examined current University policies, programs, and resources, and collected information from peer insti­tutions," Firth said. "The Committee also hosted an open listening session during Sexual Assault Awareness Week in February to which all students were invited." 
Poorman will now consider CSAP's recommendations and may implement next year. the statement said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 



Seniors reflect on their four years at ND 
Graduates share their memories, experiences of their four years under the Dome 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA News Writer 
With their time as Notre Dame students rapidly com­ing to a close, seniors across campus agree that their experiences here will carry over into the next phase of their lives. 
Many students said their favorite part of life at Notre Dame was the friends they made and the people they met through their various classes and activities. 
Apurva Aslekar, a senior from Knott Hall, said he will miss the friends he made here, and he said he doesn't think anyone he will meet later in life will ever com­pare. 
"I think the relationships I've built over the past four years are going to be the most missed things," Aslekar said. "To grow up and have some of the biggest mile­stones and achievements with them during my early years are moments I will never be able to replicate with others in another set­ting." 
Laura Schwartz, a senior from Cavanaugh Hall, also said that out of all the vari­ous aspects of campus life, she enjoyed meeting new people the most. · 
"[My favorite part of life here is] the people," Schwartz said. "Being class­mates, neighbors and friends with so many smart, diverse and interesting people, I have been challenged and encouraged to grow as a per­son." 
Students said Notre Dame's unique dorm life is an impor­tant aspect of the Notre Dame experience. 
"I really liked the dorm life. I liked the environment it creates," Jimmy Champlin, a senior from Sorin College, said. "That's why I chose to live for four years on cam­pus." 
Champlin said that he would not miss the smoky atmosphere of many bars 
that students frequently share his beliefs. visit. "I think I was exposed to a 
"I won't miss having to lot of viewpoints that I other­wash my clothes twice every wise wouldn't have experi­time I wear them out to a enced at other schools," he bar," he said. said. "I think there's been a 
Schwartz said being raised lot of growth due to my in the South did not prepare increased capacity to under­her for a typical Notre Dame stand these beliefs." winter. Champlin said his time at 
"I won't miss the snow," the University helped him she said. "My Texas blood grow spiritually and and the Notre Dame tundra strengthen his Catholic faith. don't mix." "Instead of going through 
Students also had mixed that phase some college stu­feelings towards the football dent go through where you team, which fluctuated lose your religion, I think I between being ranked in the strengthened mine," he said. 
top  25  and  "Being  in  an  
being consid­ environment  
ered  one  of  "'I think the  where you can  
the teams nation.  worst in the  relationships rve built over the past  discuss [reli­gion] rationally, that's some­ 
Katie Dunn, a senior from Cavanaugh Hall, said she  four years are going to be the most missed things.··  thing big here that I wouldn't have gotten somewhere  
really enjoyed  else."  
football her freshman  Apurva Aslekar Knott Hall  Graduating seniors are  

year, but the team entered a downward spiral from that point onward. 
"Football all went downhill after the USC game freshman year," Dunn said. "Except for the snowball fiasco this year." 
Even though the Irish did not always play their best, Champlin said he still enjoyed attending the games and cheering on the football team. 
"[Games] were a little dis­appointing, but still fun," Champlin said. "Sitting in the student section is defi­nitely a unique experience." 
Just as they have tried to make a difference during their time on campus, stu­dents said that attending Notre Dame has also made an impact in their own lives. 
Aslekar said that the diver­gent opinions present in campus dialogue have exposed him to points of view he would have other­wise been ignorant of, and have helped him open his mind to those who do not 
aware that life 
post-gradua­tion will bring about some big changes. 
Dunn, who will work for an organization in India that prosecutes child forced pros­titution, said that she will have to start behaving more like an adult and less like a college student. 
"I have worn sweats for 98 percent of my time here at Notre Dame. Literally," Dunn said. ··Apparently I have to dress like a real person after I graduate." 
Some students said they knew very little about Notre Dame during the college application process and were convinced to enroll because their campus visits persuad­ed them that Notre Dame was the right choice. 
Caitlin Ivester, a senior from Pasquer'illa East Hall, said she did not even know that Notre Dame was located in Indiana when she applied. 
··I didn't really know much about Notre Dame when I applied. I was pretty con­vinced it was in Ohio some­where," Ivester said. "But my guidance counselor told me it would be a 'perfect fit.' When I visited everyone was so friendly and welcoming I felt at home right away." 
Even students who grew up cheering for the Irish agreed that the campus visits they made were an important fac­tor in convincing them to attend Notre Dame instead of another school. 
"My family has always been really big Notre Dame fans, but no one from my family has ever gone here," said Champlin. "So I visited with a friend whose brother went here and once I got onto campus everything just felt right." 
Notre Dame seniors are leaving campus with the knowledge that their lives will never be the same again. They will get jobs, do serv­ice, or pursue advanced degrees. Many will move to parts of the country they have never visited before. 
But the seniors said will always have the various memories and anecdotes regarding their time on cam­pus. 
Champlin said he will recall participating in the Mr. ND pageant, Schwartz will think about her travels abroad while studying in France and Dunn will treas­ure the glory of winning the interhall football champi­onshp in Notre Dame Stadium. 
In this way, seniors said they will take memories their time here with them as they move on from Notre Dame. 
"It's really sad to leave Notre Dame behind because it was such a major part of my life and had a lot to do with who I am as a person," Champlin said. "But I realize moving on is a part of life. I'll go other places and make new friends and see new things, but memories of Notre Dame are something I'll always have with me." 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 


~------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
FOUR YEA 
IN REVIE 


Friday, May 15, 2009 page 7
The top Observer news stories from the 2005-2009 academic years 

Jenkins replaces Malloy as president 
September 23, 2005 
University president Fr. John Jenkins Brady. after he took office when he questioned was inaugurated as Notre Dame's 17th At his inauguration ceremony, Jenkins the presence of controversial events like president Sept. 23, 2005. Inauguration recalled the legacy of Notre Dame's The Queer Film Festival and "The Vagina activities spanned two full days as after­founder, Fr. Edward Sorin, and spoke of Monologues" at Notre Dame. More noon classes were cancelled in order for his desire for Notre Dame to strive to be recently, the University has announced a students to attend an academic forum a top Catholic university in the 21st cen­$1.5 billion fundraising drive that could Thursday afternoon featuring Tom tury for research and learning. Jenkins shape the campus' future -and much of Brokaw as the moderator and a Mass called for a "bigger and better than ever Jenkins' legacy. Friday morning. university." Jenkins replaced University President 
Featured speakers at his inauguration His promise to promote academic Emeritus Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy, who included Board of Trustees Chairman excellence and religious faith as "two served at the University's helm for 18 Patrick McCartan, Fort Wayne-South indispensible and wholly compatible years. University President Emeritus Fr. Bend Bishop John D'Arcy and then­strands of higher learning" proved to be Theodore Hesburgh, who served as pres­Alumni Association president Timothy pillars of his presidency just months ident for 35 years, preceded Malloy. 

Five students die during past three school years 
Senior Caitlin Brann, 22, Timothy Aher, a student in died in a car accident after the Law School's London her tire blew out on the Programme, died at his resi­Indiana Toll Road in dence in Jlford. Aher was
'Th>~ ~d.wu ri~ 1$ ~~tt-4 ~"" i~·,<~""'t) ,, 
November 2006. More than from Brookfield, Conn. 200 students gathered a day Andrew Bunikus, a junior later at the Grotto to pray from Zahm Hall, died in a and sing in her memory, and bus crash in Thailand on Brann's friends called her "a April 18, 2008. He took a spark of fire." semester off to teach English 
Brann was a marketing to students in Thailand. major from Orland Park, Ill. Sophomore Kevin Healey, 
Three students died in un­20, died April 24 after a bat­related cases in 2008. tle with bone cancer. He was Connor McGrath, a sopho­a resident of Sorin College. more in Siegfried from Healey was diagnosed with Oklahoma City, passed away osteosarcoma in December on Feb. 17 in Dillon Hall. He of 2006. Friends said intended to major in busi­Healey's courage was inspir­ness. ing. 


Jenkins allo-ws 'Monologues' 
Jenkins delivers \*erdict 

Jenkins appealed to the Notre Dame com­munity for feedback on the interplay between academic freedom and Catholic character. Vigorous campus debate fol­lowed. Ten weeks later Jenkins announced "The Vagina Monologues" would not be prohibit­ed at Notre Dame. The play was performed off campus last year before coming back to campus this year. 


Jenkins meets Pope Benedict XVI 
Jenkins and Pope Benedict XVI spoke for 30 seconds in Vatican City during the former's pil­grimage to the Holy See. Jenkins, University officials and the Board of Trustees travelled to Rome for a series of meetings and conferences with Vatican leaders. The Pope called Notre Dame a great Catholic uni­versity." 
February 1, 2006 

Obatna to speak at Comtnencetnent 
21\l)~ntnlrof~iMkrMri h'>li~@ ·· 

T-wo students shot outside Club 23 
Seniors Matthew Collins and Mitchell Depree were shot by a man in an SUV around 1 a.m. on August 21 follow­ing a conversation with the shooter. Collins was shot in the abdomen and leg, wounds that were originally considered life­threatening. A bul­let remains in Collins' abdomen. Depree was shot in the leg. 
August 25, 2007 

Glendon declines Laetare Medal 


City council passes party ordinance 


hllfl~ -~nlt:;~~\'.11'" ~~s~ \:,;o:~j,:;~r: :win n''tn• t..-~d..lJJ! ~~!off 
lloot~-~»-W..:.x..:l.-:..: ··tc-~:.M~&~ '*~·~­

f-!1!=~:=~
::::~:-":~:::;::::~::;.::~~~:-:-=~: ::::::::~::::::~::::x:~::::::-:-:::::::·::~~::-::~ 

:t'~tn<~li-\-H,)t~ C'S'!.~~ ·~m~~~..-rc>llll!..
.,.J....,. 
.~§~ 
:~i~~ 
: ~;,~~:-..t ·····~::;;. 

The University and the White House announced on March 20 that President Barack Obama accepted University President Fr. John Jenkins' invitation to speak at Commencement on May 17. The invita­tion sparked contro­versy, eliciting both protest and excite­ment from students and criticism from religious and pro-life groups. 
Cl<!miM d«liftt-t. 1-A<ttaN M~cl.-1 !Gr>,>ur· >.«4" ;;n.•oMMto:»~C«-~....-..c~~-~iMor:-;.o..~;.~ j ~'fY;') \~ ~ 
+.~*~ :;.~~~ :E:1il.= ~ f~«lh(~ ~" 
~i!~~~lg

ROTC Uf,)ct(1~ lOO bhH)d uununo: ::..ltl'«,..oc~».~~--loO--·-=~•w·-l 
-~:.;~~·-··· ~ ..;~ 
~1fj ~~-!·1 ~;~~~ ~~~~~t~j ~~~ 
-~~&:~~ -···· v+M~-:: ~ ·';;.;..,....;,;..;..;_.,:. 
Mary Ann Glendon, former U.S. ambassa­dor to the Holy See, declined the Laetare Medal in a letter to University President Fr. John Jenkins on April 27. She wrote that she was "dis­mayed" President Barack Obama was selected to receive an honorary degree, marking the first time the award has been accepted and then declined in its 126-year history. 
April 27. 2009 

Cllundl p;t~~~ nvtwd ~>nlill.lllU 'liii~,,~lr'*' 
The South Bend Common Council passed an amended form of an ordinance that would require permits for parties. The ordinance lays out rules that, if enforced, would force residents of boarding houses to obtain a permit to have a party of 25 or more people where alcohol would be served. Future legislation could enact the ordi­nance. 
September25. 2007 
page 8 Friday, May 15, 2009
The Observer + THE YEAR IN REVIEW 
Duncan Hall opens. Student body expresses concerns over BOG budget issues. America elects Oban1a; student groups 

By MADELINE BUCKLEY and ASHLEY 
CHARNLEY 
News Writers 
Duncan Hall opens 
Duncan Hall, the newest male dorm, welcomed its first residents at the beginning of the 2008-09 academ­ic school year. 
The dorm, which houses 232 stu­dents on West Quad, is the first new dorm to be built on campus since 1997. . 
The dorm cost about $20 million and took 17 inonths to build. 
The Hall integrated itself into Notre Dame life, choosing the "Highlander" as its mascot and hosting its first sig­nature event, the Highlander Games, an adaptation of the traditional Scottish games, including food, music and games of skill. 
The dorm colors are blue and green and the residents of the Hall donned kilts and war paint in the tradition of a Scottish warrior to celebrate the mascot. 
The newest female dorm, Ryan Hall, is currently under construction and will open for the 2009-10 school year and will house 246 students. · 
SMC opens and dedicates new aca­demic building 
Spes Unica Hall, the newest aca­demic building on Saint Mary's cam­pus, opened at the beginning of the fall semester. A dedication for the building on Oct. 30 included alumnae, benefactors and students. 
The new building houses 13 differ­ent departments, the Career Crossing Office and the Center for Academic Innovation, the Center for Spirituality and the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership, as well as classrooms, laboratories, and office spaces and common areas. 
"I am amazed how many students are camped in the chairs and sofas. Staff lights are on before the sun rises. I see faculty pouring over their work at their desk," Vice President and Dean of Faculty Patricia Fleming said. "It's an environment that seems to draw our academic community to itself." 
Along with the new academic build­ing, Saint Mary's is also renovating Madeleva Hall, which will offer up-to­date classrooms and offices. 
Dillon Hall cancels annual pep rally 
Hector of Dillon Hall Fr. Paul Doyle cancelled the annual Dillon Hall Pep Rally -the dorm's signature event held every year the Friday before the first home football game -a week before the pep rally was supposed to occur. 
The pep rally, an annual campus fixture, mocks various aspects of life at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Doyle said the pep rally was can­celled because he failed to give the necessary guidance and the script writing and production was not com­ing together in a timely manner. 
But the writers and directors of the show told The Observer they were surprised by the sudden decision because the script was finished and production was underway. 
Dillon Hall residents and other stu­dents expressed disappointment over the abrupt cancellation of a Notre Dame tradition and confusion over the reasons for the cancellation. 
Student body expresses concerns over BOG budget issues 
Early in the fall semester, Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) began voting on the budget presented by the Executive Board that included a $20,000 stipend for the eight mem­bers on the Executive Board. 
Some members of BOG and the stu­dent body expressed concern over the amount of the stipend, which was actually only half of what the previ­ous Board had voted on and awarded themselves. 
The budget was voted down by BOG and the Executive Board was then forced to change the plans for the budget. 
Many members believed that there was a "conflict of interest" and the Board should not be able to choose their own allotments. 
"We were not informed of this (hap­pening! last year," Pauline Kistka, a member of the 2008-2009 BOG, said. "My concern is that I know that six people -and I'm not saying you guys, I'm saying on boards prior ­were given the option to receive money. If the decision was in their hands and they're the ones going to receive the money, I don't see the open-mindedncss of the decision or an unbiased decision regarding it. I guess I kind of see a conflict in get­
ting money in general." 
After over a month of disputes, the budget was approved on the third vote and it did not include an execu­tive stipend. The money left over from the stipend was then dispersed between the College Readership Program and a contingency fund. 
America elects Obama as presi­dent; student groups campaign, educate 
On Nov. 4, Barack Obama, then a senator from Illinois, defeated Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) to become the first black president of the United States. 
Obama won with 365 electoral votes and 52.92 percent of the popular vote and narrowly won the state of Indiana. 
Attracted by Indiana's traditional status as a swing state, many stu­dents elected to register to vote in Indiana in lieu of voting absentee in their home state. 
NDVotes '08, a nonpartisan group, sprung up to educate students about issues in the election and help get them registered to vote. 
The group held "Pizza, Pop and Politics" discussions with students and faculty and recruited a commis­sioner from each dorm on campus to 
help students in the dorm register to vote. Students also rallied to campaign for specific candidates. 
Notre Dame College Democrats col­laborated with students from other local colleges to open a democratic campaign headquarters in South Bend. 
'"We want to help elect Senator Obama and all the other candidates we are working for," Notre Dame's College Democrats then-president Spencer Howard said. "And in the broader scheme of things, [our goal] is to put the country on what we con­sider the right track." 
Notre Dame's College Hepublicans organized a group of students to attend a political rally in Sterling, Heights, Mich. in support of the John McCain ticket. 
"The rally was absolutely awesome and inspiring," then-College Hepublicans president Edward Yap said. "The 25 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students that collectively drove more than 40 hours to see the 


2008+ 

McCain/Palin rally in Sterling Heights left ready to do anything and every­thing necessary to elect John McCain and Sarah Palin." 
Schmidt, Weber elected as student body president, vice president 
Grant Schmidt and Cynthia Weber were elected student body president and student body vice president on Feb. 12 and took office on April 1. 
Schmidt had previously served as student body vice president and Weber, sophomore class president. 
Schmidt and Weber defeated juniors Laura Burdick and Derek Sanchez in a run-off election with 51.9 percent of the vote in one of the closest elections in recent years, according to then­Judicial Council president George Chamberlain. 
The duo credited their win to their "grassroots campaign" in which they took the time to meet and talk with individual students. 
Schmidt and Weber promised taxi reform and cheaper text book options and said off-campus safety and com­munity relations are also a priority. 
Hoffman and Griffin elected to 2009-2010 Student Government Association office 
Rising senior Jenny Hoffman and rising junior Meg Griffin were elected as Saint Mary's student body presi­dent and vice president for the 2009­10 academic year. 
They took office April 1, and the duo said they hope to continue the projects of the previous Gruscinski­Falvey Board. 
Hoffman and Griffin said they would like to distance themselves from the stipend disputes that occurred earlier in the school year and start to bring the student body and student govern­ment back together. 
Hoffman said she would like to extend Student Center and library hours, have printers placed in all the residence halls and improve commu­nication with the student body through open forums and e-mail sur­veys. 
"Now that we're in place we're really eager to hear what students want done," Hoffman told The Observer earlier this semester. "Hight now we have a blank slate and we want to get some issues on it so we can start addressing them." 
August31 October29 
Dillon Hall rector Fr. Jlaul Doyleannounces the The Saint Mary's Board ofGovernance (BOG) approved 
annual Dillon Hall pep rally~ which mocks various the Student Government Association (SGA) budget after 
aspects ofNotrt~ Dame life. is C'dflt,•dk•<l. Students the third vote on the issue at their weekly meeting. The 
voice disappointment about the sudden budgethad difficulty passing because of the stipend the 
cancellation of a Notre Dame tradition. Executive Board was allotting for themselves. Students 
and members of BOG opposed the stipend, and it was eventually removed from the budget. 
August September October November Decen1ber 
August24 November4 
Duncan Hall opens for the 2008·2009 S{'hoot year. America elects Barack Obama as president of 
'I11c newest male dom1 houses 232 student-; on West the United States. Manystudents register to 
Quad. It eost $20 million and took 17 months lo build. vote in Indiana rather than their home state, 
and student groups, such as NDVotes 'o8, 
Notre Dame College Republicans and Notre 
Dame College Democrats, campaign for 
candidates and educate students. 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Gr 


~ 
• 
• 
Friday, May 15, 2009 page 9
The Observer + THE YEAR IN REVIEW 
campaign, educate. Student shot near off-campus home. Sophomore Kevin Healey dies. Obama to speak at Commencement. 
• 

+2009 
A new Student Government spokesperson Dennis Brown told The endorsing his positions on specific to the speaking role of the Laetare Association Constitution was voted on Observer at the time. issues regarding the protection of life, Medalist -especially in these unusu­and approved by the student body But Jenkins told the group he would such as abortion and embryonic stem al circumstances -it quickly became this semester and Hoffman and be open to alternative ideas to make cell research." clear that an ideal choice is Judge 
Griffin have said they will begin Notre Dame more welcoming for the Students rallied both in support and Noonan," Jenkins said in a statement. adding amendments in the fall. GLBTQ (Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, opposition to the invitation. Transgender and Questioning) com­ND Response, a coalition of student Sophomore Kevin Healey dies Student shot near off-campus home munity. groups in opposition to Obama deliv­Kevin Healey, a sophomore of Sorin 
A Notre Dame student was shot in ering the Commencement address College, died on April 24 after a bat­the arm early morning on Feb. 24 SMC Dance Marathon receives and receiving an honorary degree, tle with cancer. He was 20. after trying to enter a neighbor's award, raises $91,538 created a Web site, held a prayer Healey, a native of the Cleveland house, which she mistook for her own Over the summer, Children's rally and organized the first Right to area, was diagnosed with osteosarco­
off-campus residence. Miracle Network awarded Saint Life March on campus. ma, a type of malignant bone cancer, 
The 23-year-old female was shot on Mary's Dance Marathon with the The Progressive Leadership Council in December 2006. the 800-block of E. Miner St. after Incentive Award, the highest award gathered the support of about 20 Attending Notre Dame was a "life­returning from Club 23, a bar located the organization gives to a commit­campus clubs -including the long dream" of Healey's, according to 
at the corner of South Bend and tee. Progressive Student Alliance, College Fr. Jim King, rector of Sorin College. 
Notre Dame Aves., and knocking on "The Incentive Award is to recog­Democrats, Feminist Voice, the Notre Friends of Healey's said his courage 
the door of a neighbor's house. nize exceptional Dance Marathons Dame NAACP chapter, Students for was inspirational. 
Police said the victim was intoxicat­that have broken the mold," Zac Environmental Action and the Black "We ought all to thank Kevin ed. Johnson, national director of Dance Cultural Arts Council (BCAC) -and Healey, at least those of us in Sorin 
The residents of the house told Marathon in the press release, said. met with Jenkins to show support for College with whom he willingly police they heard knocking on the "Saint Mary's College students have his decision and presented him with a offered friendship and many lessons door and told the woman to leave. set the bar very high for campuses petition with about 1,150 signatures to learn, even in his final days," soph­
When the knocking persisted, they just starting the program. These from students and faculty also in sup­omore Steven Lechner said. "May his 
fired a shot through the door. young women re-imagined what can port. memory, which has united us now in 
The student was treated at be accomplished in such a short time Both groups said they will continue this time of sorrow, live on forever in Memorial Hospital in South Bend with and serve as an example to other to make plans to create dialogue our hearts in thanksgiving to him and a gunshot wound to the arm. campuses." about the issue until the ceremony on to God." 
This year, Dance Marathon raised Sunday. A plaque that says, "Reserved for 
Students petition to add sexual ori­over $91,000 for the Riley's Children Kevin Healey '11" is attached to the 
entation to non-discrimination Hospital in Indianapolis which is up Glendon declines Laetare Medal seat closest to the altar in the Sorin 
clause over $6,000 from last year's total. Mary Ann Glendon, former U.S. Chapel. 
Members of the Campaign for 400 participants stood for 12 hours in ambassador to the Holy See, declined Human Dignity, a coalition of the Angela Athletic Facility to help raise the Laetarc Medal, an award given SMC spends a second year on U.S. Pr.ogr.essive Student Alliance (PSA), money for the cause. Families and annually to an American Catholic News and World Report ranking presented the Office of the President children from the hospital were there since 1883. Saint Mary's has been ranked 104 with a petition asking that sexual ori­throughout the night to visit and Glendon declined the Medal in a let­out of 248 schools on the U.S. News entation be added to the University's encourage students. ter to University President Fr. John and World Report magazine's "2009 nondiscrimination clause in March. Jenkins. America's Best Colleges" list, marking 
Currently, the clause states the Obama accepts Invitation to speak "I could not help but be dismayed the second year in a row the College University does not discriminate at Commencement by the news that Notre Dame also has made the list. based on "race/ethnicity, color, The White House and the University planned to award [President Barack "We know we compete on a nation­
I
national origin, sex, disability, veter­announced on March 20 that Obama] an honorary degree," al level. Saint Mary's excellent faculty I an status or age." President Barack Obama will deliver Glendon wrote in the letter. and our commitment to educate the ~ 
..
The leaders of the group presented the 2009 Commencement address at Glendon initially accepted the whole person set us apart. The real University President Fr. John Jenkins the May 17 graduation ceremony and award and Jenkins told The Observer proof of our success can be found in ~ with a petition of about 2,300 student receive an honorary degree from the she is "probably the most powerful our graduates," President Carol Ann I signatures and he agreed to a meet­University. spokesperson for the Catholic view­Mooney said in a press release Aug. ing with the group. Catholic and pro-life groups and point in our world today." 22 earlier this school year. 
At the meeting, Jenkins told the religious leaders, including Fort This marks the first time the award In addition, the College was named group the University will not change Wayne-South Bend Bishop John was accepted and declined. a "Best in the Midwest" school by the the nondiscrimination clause to D'Arcy, condemned University Instead of choosing a new recipient Princeton Review. Out of the 2,500 include sexual orientation. President Fr. John Jenkins' invitation for the award, the University invited four-year colleges, Saint Mary's ranks 
"That is, after careful analysis from to Obama claiming it violates a docu­previous Laetare Medalist Judge John in the top 25 percent, according to a both the legal and theological per­ment of the United States Conference T. Noonan to deliver an address at press release from earlier this year. spectives, it was determined that of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) that the Commencement ceremony. This is the sixth year Saint Mary's adding the clause may not allow us to states Catholic institutions should not Noonan received the award in 1984. has received this designation. distinguish between sexual orienta­honor politicians "who act in defiance "In thinking about who could bring tion and behavior, which is a distinc­of our fundamental moral principles." a compelling voice, a passion for dia­Contact Madeline Buckley at tion that we must maintain as a Jenkins said the invitation should logue, great intellectual stature and a mbuckley@nd.edu and Ashley Charnley Catholic university," University "in no way be taken as condoning or deep commitment to Catholic values at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
February24 
A Notre Dame student is shot in the arm after mistakenly attempting to enter a neighbor's house. The 23-year-old female was treated at Memorial Hospital in South Bend. 
Marchao 

Students from the Progressive Student Alliance meet with University President Fr. John Jenkins asking that sexual orientation be added to the University's nondiscrimination clause. Jenkins rejected the appeal, but asked for suggestions to make Notre Dame more welcoming to GLBTQ students. 
April24 
Sophomore Kevin Healey dies at 20 after a battle with cancer. Healey was diagnosed with osteosarcoma, a type ofmalignant bone cancer, in December of 2006. Residents of Sorin College, Healey's home on campus, said Healey's courage and strength were an inspiration. 
January FebMiary · March April May 
Februa•·y 12 
The stud(~nt body electsjunior Grunt &~hmidt and 
sophomore Cynthia Weber as student body president 
and student body vice pn..-...;ident Schmidt pr<~viously served as student body vice president. The duo beat juniors l..auru Burdick and Derek Sanchez with 51«9 
pcrt~ent of lhe vote. 
March2o 
Obama accepts University President Fr. John Jenkins' invitation to speak at the Commencement Ceremony. Obama will also receive an honorary degree from the University. Students rallied in support and cond~nmation ofJenkins' decision. 
April27 

Mary Ann Glendon declines the Laetare Medal in a letter to Fr. Jenkins, writing that she was 
"dismayed" by the news that Obama would receive an honorary degree. Glendon initially accepted the award, marking the first time the award was accepted and then declined since its inception in 1883. 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer G 

------~----------------------------­
·' 
L· 
t ' 
•,. 
~· 
,-.· ~ 
'. ' 
~ 
page 10 Friday, May 15, 2009 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 





Congratulations Class of 2009 
Want to make a difference in the world? Contact us for the opportunity ofa lifetime. 

t i -L • ~-'-) .-. -· i
~-~ 
. ~ B • : 
.c.·. :..r;·lc ''~;;'! 
. C''l(\ 

We heard a summons to give over our lives in a more explicit way. It was a call to serve all people, believers and unbelievers alike. We would serve them out ofour own faith that the Lord had loved us and died for us and risen for us and that. He offers us a share in his life, a life more powerful and enduring than any sin or death. 
Cfonstitutions of. the Congregation oj.Holy Cross 

ANSWER* 
THECALLW 
Friday, May 15, 2009 page 11
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Graduates recognized for outstanding achievements 

By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Several members of the graduating class have been recognized nationally and by the University for outstanding achievements during their time at Notre Dame. 
Andrew Manion, a senior from Coon Rapids, Minn., was awarded one of the presti­gious Churchill Scholarships this March. The award, valued at about $44, 000, will allow Manion to pursue graduate work at Cambridge University. 
One of only 14 college stu­dents nationwide to be pre­sented with this award, Manion will study for the cer­tificate in advanced studies in pure mathematics at Cambridge. 
"It will be challenging but fun to adapt to life in the U.K. without ever having spent a significant amount of time outside the U.S." he said. ''I've also heard the math courses at Cambridge are very diffi­cult." 
He is the first student at Notre Dame to win the award since the program's inception in 1963. 
Manion said he hopes to make the "most of the major European capitals and see the museums and landmarks, as well as experiencing the musi­cal culture through the vari­ous orchestras and opera houses." 
In addition to this national award, Notre Dame's Division of Student Affairs also award­ed four seniors with Student Leadership Awards. 
The John W. Gardner Student Leadership Award was presented to Megan Rybarczk, a senior from Muncie, Ind. This accolade is given to a graduating senior who "exemplifies the ideals of Notre Dame through outstand­ing volunteer activities reach­ing beyond the University," according a press release. 
In addition to participating in international service pro­
grams in Ecuador and Haiti, Rybarczk also took part in service trips to New Orleans and Appalachia. 
"I have been privileged to h a v e received m u c h more than I have given in all of the service activities in which I have par­ticipated over the years," she said. "I plan to take what I have learned and apply it to the work I plan to do in the future, which is to hopefully finally give back more than I have been given by serving medically under­served communities within the United States or elsewhere as use what she had learned as a member of student govern­ment and apply it when help­ing to run the event. 


Former Editor-In-Chief of The Observer Chris Hine, orig­inally from West Pittston, Pa., 
was  presented  with  The  
Denny  Moore  Award  For  
Excellence in Journalism.  

The award is presented to ·a senior who exemplifies the qualities for which Moore was known including personal integrity and character, writ­ing ability and commitment to the University. In addition to serving as Editor-in-Chief his senior year, Hine previously interned as a sports writer for The Los Angeles Times, and will intern at the New York Times this summer, also as a sports writer. 
Daniel Rodgers, a senior from Phoenix, Md., was pre­sented with The Ray Siegfried 
a physician." 
Javena Waked, a senior from Winter Springs, Fla., was present­ed with the Rev. Leonard Collins, 
C.S.C. Award. 
The award is given to a gradu­ating senior who has made a sub­stantial personal effort to advance the interests of 
Notre Dame stu­dents, according to the press release. 
Waked served in the freshmen 
..I have been privileged to have received much more than I have given in all ofthe service activities in which I have participated in over the years. ·• 
Megan Rybarczk John W. Gardner Student Leadership Award recipient 
Award for Leadership Excellence. 
This award was estab­lished in 2006 in memory of Mr. Siegfried, who was both an alumnus and University Trustee. 
R o d g e r ' s a c t i v i t i e s· 
range from various serv­ice programs to a number 

and junior class councils and was also sophomore class sec­retary and senior class vice president. 
In addition to her commit­ment to student government, she also served as a resident assistant in Howard Hall. 
Waked said her ability in being able to bring her ex peri­ence in student government to other activities as a great accomplishment. As a co­leader for the Senior Retreat, Waked said she was able to 
. of interhall sports teams. He participated in both the South Africa Public Health Program as well as the Center for Social Concern's Urban Plunge program. 
Aside from being a four-year member of Siegfried's cross­country, ice hockey, lacrosse, and soccer teams, he also served as president of the box­ing club and was a three-time Bengal Bouts champion. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 



Businesses prepare for 
•

Increase In• commerce 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 

Like any other major campus event, Commencement weekend and the surrounding days have left few hotel rooms open and business booming, according to local business owners. 
Aaron Perri, general manager of Legends of Notre Dame, said there are a few weekends out of the year -like football week­ends and Junior Parents' Weekend -that set business flowing. 
He said Commencement week­end is not exempt from this list. 
"Legends of Notre Dame Restaurant and Alehouse Pub is impacted just as much as every­where else, if not more," Perri said. 
Shannon McKaskle, the rooms manager at the Morris Inn, said that on-campus businesses have a unique situation. 
"Our situation is slightly differ­ent than hotels that sit off-cam­pus," McKaskle said. 
Factors like proximity to cam­pus have aided the Morris Inn to a sold-out booking for Friday and Saturdav, she said. 
Sold-out booking for Commencement weekend is typi­cal, she said. 
McKaskle said business at the Morris Inn has picked up slightly in the past month. 
"We have experienced a bit of a slow down because of the economy, but not now," McKaskle said. 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore is also expecting an increase in business from Commencement weekend, mar­keting manager Kristin Blitch said. 
"We'll see strong sales in Diploma Frames and other gift items as grads and parents are looking for the perfect momento to cap off their educational expe­rience," she said. 
Blitch said the Bookstore has seen an increase from last year in cap and gown orders. 
"The biggest difference we've seen thus far is in the number of orders we've received for caps and gowns," she said. "It appears that almost every stu­dent who could participate in this graduation will." 
Blitch said the economy has led to some fallbacks in business this year, but she said she's opti­mistic about turnout for the weekend. 
"Graduation is an event that people will always fmd a way to attend because it marks such a monumental step in the life of a student," she said. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

1~() THE f~l NE C~l.i1\SS ()f~ 2()()9 
t()'\:<,H·\rt'l \!hf'\St)'. YCH'Rf)( iST\\.Dl~G \CIIIl.\l\ff\.1\ \I '\(J!!U D\\!1 
e 8
\\c \\;,r, ;ou l \ ~.·n Su~.·~..:~s and a ( ir..:at Hon .kn i I i1 (: 
. . ..... ; .· 

page 12 Friday, May 15, 2009 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
' 
! \ 
\ 
.\ 
l t ~ 




t~ct justly, love tenderly, 
l 
and wall< humbly with
J 
your God." -MICAH 6:8 
The University of Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns wishes to honor the following 
~ 
~ graduates of the Class of 2009 who have committed ayear or more to full-time
n 
I 
postgraduate service. Our thoughts and prayers are with you as you go forth. 
Allison Ackerman Karla Albite 
I ,, 
.'·\ Jaime Amrhein Michael Angulo Gregory Arbogast 
~ 
<( John Avila 
Marie Bader
*f 
't' 
:\ ... 
Emily Balthasar Kyle Barrettsmith Stephen Beach
,I ,. Marisa Behan 
i -~ ' \ 
Nathan Bernardi Robert Bernardin Susan Bigelow 
t 
Joella Bitter
' ' 
~ 
~. Megan Black Sarah Boeding Caitlin Booth Elena Brandewie Jeffry Branham Allyson Brantley Cynthia Brenner Martha Calcutt Nicholas Caprino 
'1• 
i Thomas Castillo
! 
Richard Chapman Allison Ciesielski Kelly Clancy 
~ 
Christine Clark
I Drew Clary 
i f 
Barry Cleary Michael Clemente I Bethany Comfort Margaret Condit Erin Conway Catherine Crecelius Margaret Culhane 
Charles Cummings  leeah Kohley  Christopher Ochoa  
Tim Cummings  lauren Kopsky  Theophilus Ossei-Anto  
Katie Day  Daniel Kuzma  Katherine Palumbo  
John Daughton  Christopher labadie  Katherine Paquette  
Erin Dowd  Joe Langenfeld  Courtney Parry  
Emma Driscoll  Melissa lee  leann Parson  
Katie Dunn  Elizabeth Lefebvre  Danielle Patzner  
Stephen Eckart  Kate Leszkowicz  Gavin Payne  
Amy Efliot  Analyze Lipari  Daniel Peck  
Rosefis~r  Mark Loehr  Mark Pedersen  
Erin Fitzpatrick  Jaime luna  Francesca Pennino  
Drago Flores  Dan Mahon  Shanna Pereira  
Sean Gaffney  Jessica Mannen  Maria Pham  
Julie Garcia  Andrew Masak  Anthony Piskurich  
Emily Garnett  Michael Massengale  Jessica Pollum  
Catherine Garza Hake  Katherine Mattoon  Mary Frances Popit  
Matthew Gelchion  Melissa Maxwell  Erin Ramsey  
Christina Golubski  Brendan McCarthy  Justin Rees  
Michael Gotsch  Michael McDonald  Daniel Reimer Jr.  
Thomas Haan  Kathleen McDonnell  Andrew Reynolds  
Patrick Hagan  Kerry McGuire  Erin Richardson  
Greer Hannan  lourdes Meraz  Kathryn Rivard  
Ashley Hardy  Michael Merz  Kyle Rocca  
Michael Hawking  Michael Mesterham  Heidi Rocha  
Kathleen Hedrick  Agata Michalska  Aisa Rocha  
Caitlin Hildebrand  Stacy Mick  Daniel Rodgers  
lucy Hirt  Andrew Miller  Jennifer Rolfs  
Patricia Hughes  Sarah Miller  Margie Rosmonowski  
Caitlin Ivester  Geoffrey Mooney  Robert Rusca  
Kathleen Janik  Miranda Moyer  Keenan Ryan  
Dana Jason  Adrienne Murphy  Amanda Ryan  
Rebecca Jones  Caitlin Murphy  Michele Sagala  
Amy Karwoski  Patrick Needham  Eric Saito  
Jonathan Kearney  Emalia Norton  Abigail Salazar  
Damian Kearney  AdiNott  Rachel Santay  
Robert Kessler  Kristine Nugent  Teresa Scherping  
Kinzie Kiser  Elizabeth Nye  Gisela Schmidt  

~$]UNIVERSITY OF 
'{f/NOTREDAME Center for Social Concerns 
Christina Sensabaugh 
Christina Shakour 
Brittany Shelton 
Dana Sherry 
luls Silva 
Erin Simon 
Kelly Simon 
Nicholas Simonson 
Molly Slavin 
Claire Sloss t . 
Kevin Smith 
Jessica Stouffer 
Megan Sweitzer 
Kricky Szczepaniec 
James Toner 
Joseph Tsai 
Usa Tuholski 
Gregory Vallejos 
Kevin Veselik Leora Wallace John Wanek 
Glen Water 
Michelle Webb Faustin Weber Thomas Weiler 
James Welle laura Wilczek Alisha Wilkinson Bryan Winther Margaret Wong Nicole Yergler Whitney Young 
Alyssa Zamora Eileen Zander Tesia Zientek Daniel Zimmerman ...and many more. 

Friday, May 15, 2009 page 13
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Notre Dame ROTC to commission 47 officers 
Lieutenant General Ted F. Bowlds of the Hanscom Air Force Base to address the candidates on Saturday in DPAC 
Medal.
By LIZ O'DONNELL 
Courtney Collins, a senior 
News Writer 
Army ROTC member from St. Louis, Mo., said the program 
Notre Dame's three has taught her a lot about Reserve Officers' Training responsibility and the lead­Corps (ROTC) will commis­ership that comes with it. sion 4 7 officers Saturday in "[My ROTC training] has the DeBartolo Performing given me a stronger ethical Arts Center. base for when I go out into 
Lieutenant General Ted F. ·the real world," she said. Bowlds, a commander of the "Beyond the army, the situa­Electronic Systems Center tions I face may not be life (ESC) at the Hanscom Air or death, but I have the Force Base in Bedford, training and the background Mass., will address the can­to deal with difficult situa­didates during the tions." Commissioning Ceremony. Battalion Commander 
At the ceremony, he will Justin Figueredo, also a address members from all member of the Army ROTC, areas of the military when said he feels confident about Notre Dame commissions 13 the future. officers from the Army, 12 "I definitely feel more con­from the Air Force, 16 from fident from the beginning of 
the  Navv  and  the  year,"  he  
four from the  said.  "Notre  
Marines.  "[My ROTC training]  Dame  ROTC  
In his current position, Lt. Gen. Bowlds  has given me a stronger ethical base  does a great job preparing ourselves as  
manages  the  for when I go out into  leaders."  
ESC, which acquires com­mand and con­ the real world. Beyond the army, the  Figueredo will complete basic officer  
trol  systems  situations I face may  courses  at Fort  
for the Force. Bowlds  Air has  not be life or death, but I have the  Sill, Okla., and will then be stationed in  
received many  training and the  Hawaii.  
personal deco­ background to deal  He  credited  
rations, which include the Distinguished  with difficult situations. ,  his instructors as role models who have set  
Service Medal,  the  bar  high  
Defense Meritorious Service Medal,  Courtney Collins Army ROTC  for their stu­dents. "The instruc- 
Meritorious  tors  serve  as  

Service Medal, Air Force great examples," he said. Commendation Medal and "They really give us some­Air Force Achievement thing to model ourselves 

after." 

Reflecting on their experi­ences as a part of the ROTC program here, both cadets said the toughest part of it 
was  the  responsibility of  
leading  their  peers  and  
friends.  

"Leading peers was the hardest part because you're telling your friends what to do," Collins said. 
She will undergo basic training at Fort Benning, Ga. before serving for a year in Korea. Collins said that it was nice to bP-part of such a tight-knit community. 
"I think being a part of the community at a fairly large school was nice," Collins said. "It was nice to have a community of people who have the same values as you and who go through the same experiences as you that other students can't relate to." 
Figueredo said he has not only made friends in his divi­sion but has made friends in all the other ones as well. 
"I have friends in the Navy ROTC program in addition to my friends in the Army ROTC program," he said. "My 
roommate is even from the Navy ROTC program." 
Collins said the campus community made it easier for her to participate in the program. 
"I'm glad the Notre Dame community is so supportive of ROTC, especially because there are schools where ROTC isn't even allowed on campus," Collins said. "The student body as a whole is very supportive of ROTC and it helps a lot." 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 

Randel to speak at Graduate ceremony 
Music, the Harvard 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Biographical Dictionary of 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Music and the Harvard 
Concise Dictionary of Music 
Don Michael Randel, presi­and Musicians. dent of the Andrew Mellon W. He taught at Cornell Foundation, will be the University for 32 years, serv­keynote speaker at Notre ing as the dean of arts and Dame's Graduate School letters for a time. Randel also Commencement ceremony spent five years as the univer­Saturday. sity's provost. 
Randel, who is also receiv­In 2000, h.(' became the ing an honorary law degree at president of the University of Sunday's Commencement cer­Chicago where during his emony, is an "internationally tenure he headed a $2 billion prominent historian of music" fundraising campaign, which according to University press was the largest in the school's release. His work focuses on history. the Middle Ages and He is an alumnus of Renaissance, but he also lec­Princeton with undergradu­tures on Arabic and Latin ate, masters and doctoral American popular music. degrees in music. 
According to the press release, Randel is editor of Contact Ashley Charnley at the Harvard Dictionary of acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Follow The Observer at ndsmcobserver.com for coverage of Commencement 
weekend. 
The  Universitv...  of Notre  Dame's  
The  John J.  Reilly Center  
for  

Science, T(:lchnology and Values 
Is pleased to announce that the following students have been awarded the distinction of 
John J. Reilly Scholar 
In The Five Year Double Degree Program in Arts and Letters/Bngineering 
Class of 2009 
Craig Borchard Evan Lintz Jon Strong 
----~-----­
'­
page 14 Friday, May 15, 2009 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Parry finishes top of class with 3.99 
students.
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
"I would certainly say that
Saint Mary's Editor 
in general, I have enjoyed th~ 
tight-knit math departmeat, ·· 
Saint Mary's valedictorian, Parry said. "Math majors can senior Courtney Parry, said frequently be found in the she is very grateful to her math resource room working professors and the faculty in small groups, trying differ­who have helped her ent problem-solving tech­throughout her 
niques." four years on She also recognized that campus. her four years here have 
"I owe a gone by very quickly. great deal of "Though it sounds a bit gratitude to the cliche, I would certainly professors and advise upcoming students to faculty I have make the most of every learned from minute of their time as a stu­
Parry
over the past dent," Parry said. "Four four years, years goes by so quickly." Parry said. "My professors Parry said her fondest have inspired me to. want to memories were not necessar­learn more about their disci­ily found in the classroom. pline, and have excited me One of her favorite college about my own ability to make memories "was presenting a a difference in the world." paper at an economics con-Parry, a mathematics and ference at economics double major with Bowling Green State a 3.99 GPA according to a University in early April," press release, was not plan­Parry said. ning on becoming valedictori­After graduation, Parry an. plans to participate in the 
"I was not working toward Engineering, Science, this goal specifically, and was Technology and very surprised when I first Entrepreneurship Excellence learned about the designa­Masters (ESTEEM) at Notre tion. I had honestly given my Dame, which is a joint pro­class rank very little thought gram between the College of prior to learning about my Science, the College of status," she said. Engineering and the 
Parry has also been Mendoza Business School, involved in many other she said. organizations on campus. "I would encourage upcom­She is the student member of ing students to always try the Board of Trustees and is their hardest and work to currently administrative resi­make each day better than dent advisor for Holy Cross the day that came before," Hall after two years of being Parry said. a resident advisor in the Most of all, she said she same building, the press "will miss working with such release said. inspiring students and dedi­Parry has been a member of cated faculty." the math honor society, Pi Mu Parry will be graduating on Epsilon, since her sophomore May 16 at noon on the year and is now president of LeMans Green. the Saint Mary's chapter. 
She said she enjoyed her Contact Ashley Charnley at math classes and fellow math acharnO1@saintmarys.edu 


Please recycle The 
Observer. 
?:> __ . 
.··... ·.·.····-·····•<:••············--.······-·-·· 



SMCcommendsprofessors,students 
Accomplishments in service, civic engagement recognized by College 
hours working with the Saint Award was awarded to
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Mary's College Academy of Thomas Fogle, a professor in 
Saim Mary's Ediror 

Tutoring (CAT), which works the department of biology. with Title 1 schools in the The award was established in 
Saint Mary's recognized area. 1976 in honor of Sister Maria three members of the Saint She was also recently award Pieta who Mary's community by handing by the College with the served as a out the St. Catherine Medal, Patricia Arch Green Award for teacher and the Spes Unica Award and the "her exemplary service to the administrator Maria Pieta Award during the community's children," the at the College, College's Honors Convocation press release said. according to May 5. The Spes Unica Award rec­the press 
According to a College press ognized mathematics profes­release. It "rec­release, sophomore Alicia sor Charles Peltier for his ognizes the Wilkins 
"eminent service to Saint quality of teach-Fogle received the St. Mary's College," according to ing done in Catherine's the press release. courses for freshmen and Medal for Peltier has been teaching at sophomores," the press demonstrating the College since 1974, lead­release said. "high standards ing math courses such as Fogle has been at Saint of personal Introduction to Statistics and Mary's for almost 30 years, excellence and Statistical Applications. He is and is well respected by his scholarship and also the College Marshal for colleagues. has contributed Wilkins Honors Convocation and "When parents ask me why to the College Commencement, and has also their daughter should select community in the spirit of served as secretaries of the Saint Mary's College, I tell Christian leadership." The F a c u l t y 
....--------.---. them their daughter will get a award is given in honor of St. Assembly, great education here. This Catherine of Alexandria who Academic person is one of the people I is the patron saint of women Standards mention by name," Professor scholars. Committee and Nancy Nekvasil, chair of the 


Wilkins is an education Academic department of biology, said in major who was recognized for Affairs the press release. her "tireless volunteer efforts Committee. Fogle teaches several in local schools," the release According to Biology courses. One among said. She spends time working the release, Peltier them is a two-week with the Office for Civic and Peltier was Ecuador/Galapogos Summer Social Engagement (OSCE) at recently elected treasurer of Study Program that is offered Saint Mary's to volunteer the Indiana section of the pro­every other year. within the South Bend com­fessional mathematics organi­munity. zation. Contact Ashley Charnley at 
Wilkins has spent over 500 This year's Maria Peita acharnO1@saintrnarys.edu 
Seniorawmdedfor'outstanding'~CE 
Caitlin Brodmerkel demonstrates 'leadership' and 'dedication' 
The senior is chosen from Advisory Committee. In addi­By ASHLEY CHARNLEY nominations submitted by stu­tion, Brodmerkel served the Saint Mary's Editor dents, faculty and staff. South Bend community by 
Brodmerkel received nomina­spending time at the Sister 
Saint Mary's College will be tions from two administrators, Maura Brannick Health honoring senior Caitlin the press release said. Center, Saint Joseph Regional Brodmerkel with the Brodmerkel is a nursing Medical Center Outreach Outstanding Senior Award for major who spent the summer Program, St. Margaret's House 2009. before her senior year in and Marquette Primary, the 
According to a press release, Kyarusozi, Uganda. She spent press release said. every year the 
10 weeks working with the Brodmerkel studied abroad Alumnae Sisters of the Holy Cross at in Ecuador and also partici­Association their health clinic, according pated in two service trips to Board of to the press release. She also Appalachia. Brodmerkel has Directors pres­spent time at St. Joseph's continued to help the Sisters' ents this award Secondary School, which is clinic in Uganda by starting to a senior run by the Brothers of the the Web site, "who exempli­Holy Cross. ugandavillage.com, which has 
fies the spirit Brodmerkel was a member raised nearly $10,000. and values of Brodmerkel of the Saint Mary's cross­Brodmerkel will graduate the College," country team and served as summa cum laude with a 3.88 according to a press release. the team's captain for her jun­GPA and will be attending 
The Board searches for can­ior and senior year. graduate school at the didates who "demonstrate During her four years at University of Indianapolis in 
scholarship, leadership and SMC, she participated in Circle the fall. outstanding dedication to K, Dance Marathon, the Saint Mary's," the release Student Nurses Association Contact Ashley Charnley at 
said . and the Student Athlete acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

Friday, May 15, 2009 
The Observer + CAPMPUS NEWS page 15 


ND Response organizes demonstration on campus 
Coalition will hold 'prayerful and constructive' series of events over duration of 24-hour period 
give witness to Notre Dame's Elizabeth
By AARON STEINER 
Catholic identity and affirm Borger, former
News Wrirer 
the sanctity of life," according chair of the to ND Response's Web site. board of the N D Response, a coalition of The demonstration events Woman's Care 11 Notre Dame student will begin Saturday at 9:30 Center and a groups opposed to President p.m. with all-night prayer Notre Dame Obama's commencement visit, vigil in the chapel of Alumni alumna; will hold their biggest event Hall. Local Bishop D'Arcy, Professor yet when they begin a who is boycotting the ceremo­David Solomon "prayerful and constructive" ny based on the University's of the philoso­demonstration Saturday invitation to Obama, is sched­phy depart­night, a series of events that uled to be present at the ment and is scheduled to stretch nearly beginning of the vigil. director of the 24 hours. Events on Sunday, the day Notre Dame The ad hoc group composed when primary Commencement Center for of 11 student clubs is leading ceremonies will take place on Ethics & the only on-campus demon­Notre Dame's campus, begin Culture; Fr. stration scheduled this week­at 10:45 a.m. with a Wilson end in response to Obama's Benediction of the Blessed Miscamble, a visit. The group Sacrament in professor of will host a the Alumni Hall history at prayer vigil, chapel, moving Notre Dame;
"Those supporters in 
outdoor mass, outdoors at and Lacy
attendance will be 
rally and an 11:15 a.m. for a Dodd, an alternative urged to join seniors Mass. alumna of the event-a med­The outdoor University who
who have decided not 
itation -for Mass will be also serves on
to attend graduation 
seniors boy­celebrated on the board of directors of the director of Priests for Life, officially associated with any cotting their at a prayer vigil on South Quad out­Room at the Inn in Charlotte, will be leading a Scriptural outside groups. graduation. side the Rockne N.C. Rosary during this prayer While inviting those outside
campus. ,. 
A May 12 Memorial build­Then, at 2 p.m., ND vigil," the Web site states. the University community to press release ing. Response will hold a "Class of A post-commencement the demonstrations, the coali­from the coali­ND Response Web site The primary 2009 Vigil for Life" at the honor ceremony and party tion states on their Web site tion said they event of the Grotto on Notre Dame's cam­are scheduled for 6 p.m. that graphic images "not in aim to "literally day, a rally, will pus. Sunday, held by ND Affirm keeping with the tone of this fill Notre Dame's South Quad begin immediately after the "Those supporters in atten­Life, a national coalition rally" will not be permitted with Notre Dame and pro-life Mass on South Quad. dance will be urged to join group organized in response on campus and those violat­supporters from around the Some six speakers will be seniors who have decided not to the Obama invitation, at ing this request may be country." present for the rally, includ­to attend graduation at a the State Theatre in down­escorted from campus by 
The group has invited any­ing Fr. John J. Raphael, prin­prayer vigil on campus," town South Bend. security. one who is "interested in cipal of St. Augustine High according to the group's Web ND Response, although hav­respectfully and constructive­School in New Orleans, La.. site. ing coordinated events with Contact Aaron Steiner at ly standing alongside us as we and a Notre Dame alumnus; "Fr. Frank Pavone, national outside organizations, is not asteiner@nd.edu 

An Open Letter to the Students of Notre Dame 
What's the big deal with Notre Dame honoring President Obama? Shouldn't we be happy that we are at a point where our country can elect a minority to be President? Obama brings important gifts to the office, most particularly his unique background, his intellect, his eloquence and his ability to inspire people. So he's pro-choice. That's only one issue, isn't it? 
These are the types ofquestions that are currently dividing the NO famHy. And they will continue to be asked long after this year's graduation. This is not a time for politics and rhetoric; it is a time for sound scientific, moral and ethical reasoning. Let's boil it down a little: 
(1) 
Human life begins at conception; that is a scientific fact. Biology majors, help us out. Every graduate level biological textbook explains that human life begins when a sperm from a man fertilizes an egg from a woman. That's the moment of conception-when a separate biological entity with its own unique DNA begins to live. 

(2) 
A basic principle of natural law is that it is always wrong to intentionally kill innocent human beings. The intentional killing of innocent children is intrinsically different from the intentional killing ofguilty and dangerous criminals or the soldiers ofagg1·essively advancing annies. Some killings can be justified under moral theories of self~defense. No theory of self~defense justifies the mur·der an innocent child. 

(3) 
President Obama isn't a bystander in the abortion debate; Obama is the abortion movement's star point guard. His recently enacted policies have opened up Federal taxpayer funding for abortions and experimentation on live human embryos; and they threaten "conscience clauses" that allow health care workers to refuse to take part in medical procedures (like abortions and sterilizations) that offend their moral conscience. His appointments to crucial cabinet positions reflect his pro-abortion views. And he has promised to do more. 


By honoring President Obama, ND is presenting him as someone to be admired and emulated. That's what it means, ..to honor." Yet, the President's policies concerning the most basic human life issues are ethically and morally wrong. This is the type of conflict that the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops sought to avoid when it said that: "The Catholic community and Catholic institutions should not honor those who act in defiance of our fundamental moral principles. They should not be given awards, honors or platforms which would suggest support for their actions." 
Let's be honest, Obama's not coming to ND for a debate. He's coming because the administration thinks that the "prestige" of having a sitting President on the ND stage takes precedence over the concerns of the teaching office of the Catholic Church. And for that, the words of Christ are instructive: ''For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" 
Notre Dame is not USC or Harvard. It is a Catholic university that cannot separate itselffrom the Catholic Church without losing its soul. I want President Obama to be a great president, but his heart needs to be awakened and his mind enlightened about the sanctity of each human life. In light of the views that Obama currently believes, promotes and enacts, the University's honoring President Obama is a mistake. 
Yours in Christ, 
Monsignor Christopher Nalty NO 184 
Msgr. Christopher Nalty is a 1984 graduate of Notre Dame. He also received a JO and an MBA from Georgetown. After practicing law for six years, he entered the seminary and was ordained a Catholic priest in 1999. Msgr. Nalty recently completed a five year appointment as a Vatican official, and is currently a pastor in New Orleans. 
THE OBSERVER 
p

page 16 


Friday, May 15, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
What I really learned at Notre Dame 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDlTOR 8USINFSS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDlTOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Stacey GiiJ SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574} 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR•IN·CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
kk.ing5@nd.edu, asreiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4 540 jshaffel @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DESK 
acharnO I @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs ofrhe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advenisemenrs, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advenisements based on comem. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available w all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qut'Stiom regarding Observerpolicies should be dim:trd to Editor-in-Chiefjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obs<rvcr (USPS S99 2-4000) i• publi>hod Monday through Friday excepr during aam md vaa[ion periods. A subsai.prK>11 to i1u: (')bserver is $120 for one acad.emic year; $65 fur one :&Cmestt.r. 
TheOhsc:<vcr is publiJlCd oc POSTMASTER (}24 South Dining H.all Send :tddrcss GQrrectious to;. N.><.., Dame, IN 4<i556-0?79 The Observer l'eriodic.J P"'"t':C paid at Norr< Dome ~O.Ilox779 ana additional mailing officao. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dalll<. IN <16556-077'1 
The Ob..:rver is a membe-r of rh< A.-..ociatcd Pres.. AD reprodacrion ri¢tu arr raer=l 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Madeline Buckley Michael Bryan Ashley Charnley Sam Werner Irena Zajickova Douglas Farmer Liz O'Donnell Graphics Viewpoint Andrea Archer Kara King · Scene 
Stephanie DePrez 
Before I begin, I need to apologize to my parents. They invested all that time and energy on me and my edu­cation, and all they really needed to do was pay rent for me in the house I spent most of the last nine months living in. 
I learned more there anyways. 
The first thing I learned was the importance of cultural diver­sity. 

Diversity does­n't just mean basic differences between people that you hear about most of the time in cul­tural-based classes, such as racial or gender diversity. (Sure, I lived with a Filipino the last three years, but it would be wrong to pigeonhole every­one's differences into what they look like-especially at a place like Notre Dame.) 
As a group we embraced the subtle differences that exist among people from the South, engineering majors and even Zahmbies. Without these different cultures, I never would have listened to anywhere near as much Toby Keith, couldn't have built a structure to prop up a hose in Lake Geneva or ... well I didn't learn that much from the Zahm guy. 
That diversity also helped us out this year because everyone had their own particular skill set that made everything easier. If we needed a fridge moved from just one person, 

Live and learn 
You learn a lot when you get to sen­ior year. I have learned that eating Penn Station three times a week is wrong. That you have to study to get good grades. That when you leave 
your license on the floor at Corby's, some­times you won't get it back. That senioritis is, in fact, a real and contagious dis­ease. But more 


than anything, I Katie Kohler learned that four years is a very, very short time. Assistant Living with peo­Managing ple, eating with Editor people, learning 
Emeritus 

with people forces you to make fast friends, which is why and how I am friends with the people I am now. My friends and I were talk­ing the other day about our freshman year roommates and how we became friends even though we didn't live together. We became friends because we went to the bathroom at the same time or went to Vendoland at three in the morning. It's the little things that brought us all together. 
If I had any advice to give to a we had a guy for that. If we needed to know who the Tsar of All the Russias was in 1815, we had a guy for that. If we needed someone to run 13 miles with you no problem, we had a guy for that, too. 
I also learned about how important it was to remember what really mat­ters. 
Sure, when you first got a bad grade, you likely weren't very pleased about it. When I got a C-on a fresh­man philosophy test (damn you David Burne), I was very upset at the time, but I think I've just about moved on by now. 
But when you are with your friends and something great happens, it's something you will always look at and smile. 
Living together for a year, obviously we've been through a lot together. So that we would always have our mem­ories from senior year, we decided to make a mnemonic device to help remember what happened. 
We took a break when we got nine pages in 15 minutes. 
But when you want to look back at your time in college, I would bet dol­lars to doughnuts that you are going to want to reminisce about things like porch sitting or the Kahuna and not worrying about that paper you didn't do so well on. 
The last important lesson I learned from 627 St. Peter St. was how much I needed to cherish my last year here at Notre Dame. 
There probably won't be another time in any of our lives when we can get away with the sort of things we did here. I really don't think the best way to prepare for a real job than 
freshman, I'd say a few things. A) Go to class. B} Appreciate the dining hall food because once you live off cam­pus, you have to fend for yourself. C) Be spontaneous. Just do things that make you happy because, like I said earlier, four years is a very, very, very short time. 
When I think about my four years, it's basically impossible to do without thinking about The Observer. During Frosh-0, I walked into the basement of South Dining Hall and listened to some very intimidating people talk about the paper. I picked up my first story about the opening school Mass and butchered it. Surprisingly, I decided to keep writing and with the help of some wonderful seniors, I got the swing of things. Then I started work in the office. Then I became Assistant News Editor. Then I was the Saint Mary's Editor. Then I was the Assistant Managing Editor. Then I was working in the office three days a week at all hours of the day. Thinking back, sometimes I wonder why I sac­rificed so much time for The 0. But then, I think about all the doors it opened up for me. 
I met some great people, learned a lot and became a part of something really great. Even though some people bash The Observer or don't read it, so staying up until about 4 a.m. to play Rock Band with friends, but it seemed like a great idea to prepare for class some days. 
There were so many things I did this year I couldn't have imagined doing coming in as a freshman, and just about all of them were great experiences at the time and will remain great memories for years to come. 
The old cliche about college is that these are the best four years of your life. That will most likely turn out not to be true for most of us, myself included. There are many great things to live in the future, and many more great experiences and memo­ries to make. 
But when I look back at that list 
from this year, I know that this will 
definitely crack the top four. 
Jay Fitzpatrick was a double major in history and Arabic Studies who lived in Dillon Hall for three years and, obviously, off-campus senior year. He will be working for the federal government next year, although he isn't exactly sure what his job entails. · 
At his time with The Observer he is most proud ofthe fact that he can now name the nicknames for all 120 Division !A football teams. 
He would like to thank his parents and his fiancee for all of their love and support during his time at Notre Dame. Without you three he couldn't have accomplished anywhere near the things that he has. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
many other people rely on it for cam­pus news or at least a good Viewpoint war. We worked so hard everyday and I am proud that I was a part of it ... I also met some pretty cool people in the process. 
So basically, I loved college very much, and I am so happy that I decid­ed to come to Saint Mary's. Even though the job market isn't too prom­ising, I wish everyone the best and hope I run into people in the most random places. Happy graduation and while not many people will get this reference, hey Pothees and goodbye BroooOOOOoothers. 
Katie Kohler is a senior political science major. After graduation, she is working for Arlen Specter, yes, Arlen Specter, in D. C. for the summer. After that, she is on God's good humor. Katie enjoys Degrassi, EZ-Mac, her Snuggie, Titanic and long walks on the beach. She does not enjoy jellyfish or golf She wants to thank everyone who paid for her education (cough, Marmie and Jeff-ZJ and wants to say haaaaaay to her sisters, Meemerz, Tare and Rat. Peace out homes. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ am careful not to confuse excellence 
with perfectwn. Excellence, I can reach for; 
perfection is God's business." 
Michael J. Fox 
U.S. actor 

"Never let the future disturb ]IOU. You will meet it. if.you have to, witli the same weapons ofreason which toda!J arm you against the present. 
Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Roman Emperor 


Uncertain futures 
The last time I sat in the JACC for a weeks. But I don't think I'm alone possibly every night). So while I'm not ready to walk away and start over graduation was four years ago. It was when I say that I'm pretty indifferent stressed that my immediate future isn't again. I came to Notre Dame as the my sister's graduation and l truthfully at this point. planned, I know that my long term only person from my high school, and I couldn't tell you who gave the com­Yes I'm frustrated that graduation future will be something I'm happy walk away with the best friends I've mencement speech -I do remember could potentially be a circus and that with. ever had. I wouldn't trade my four spotting Fr. we might have to line up at 11 a.m. for I think my four years at Notre Dame years here for anything and I know Jenkins closing his security purposes. But the thing is, have allowed me to settle into that that no matter what happens I will eyes for a few we're graduating at a unique time in mentality. I poured my heart and soul always look back and remember the minutes on stage, history and while it might be frustrat­into the relationships I made here, and laughs and the smiles, not the fights it was just that ing and somewhat scary, I'm also excit­those people have allowed me be confi­and the drama. I look forward to figur­memorable. For ed. dent in who l am and where I'm going. ing out what path I'll follow, and I myself and all of We get to listen to what President My friends are what I'll miss most know that I'll always keep Notre Dame my classmates, Obama has to say and while everyone about the Golden Dome. That's why my close to my heart, and my friends on that won't be an may not agree with his beliefs, we are uncertainty has become less and less speed dial. issue. one of three schools in the country that frustrating as senior year progressed. I 
The class of will get to say the president was their stopped worrying about what my first Deirdre Krasula will graduate with a 2009 has gone commencement speaker. job would be out of college, after all degree in Finance and English. She through a lot since Assistant And while some of us will be headed most people hate their first job any­doesn't have ajob lined up yet, but is we first stepped into the corporate world or graduate way, and I started focusing on enjoying still in the interviewing process for any
Managing
foot on campus. school, not everyone knows where they what little time I had left. I remember and all broadcast journalism jobs. She
Editor
We were here for will be a year from now. Yes I don't my sister telling me that the years would like to thank all the Badin girls, 
Emeritus
Fr. Jenkins inau­have a plan right ahead of me, but a seem to get shorter and shorter as you Katie Rose, Katie, Becki, Hannah, guration and got lot of people don't, the chaos en masse get older-she could not have been Megan, VyVy and Jacquelin, for always to see Tom Brokaw moderate a debate. is somewhat settling. While the current more right. It seems like yesterday I being there no matter what. She would And now as we leave we deal with economy has made the job hunt harder was walking around Bond Quad trying also like to thank her parents and her another newly inaugurated president, than ever, there has been some bless­not to cry as my family drove away. I'm sister who have been her support granted it's the President of the United ing in it. l'm not willing to settle for almost positive there will be tears system since day one and have always States. We've dealt with an airplane something that I won't be excited to again this weekend. encouraged her to chase her dreams. carrying a picture of a 10-week fetus do, I know that I want to continue in I'm ready to move on, I'm happy I The views expressed in this column flying around campus and past our my journalism career and find a job won't have to sit in a classroom for are those ofthe author and not apartment windows for the past few that I love going to every morning (or potentially a very long time, but I'm necessarily those of The Observer. 


Words of wisdom 
Do you remember that song about sun­screen? It wasn't really a song, to be hon­est. It was more of a list, a collection of advice seemingly gleaned from someone's life adventures. I remember the singer/nar­rator discussing the difference between moving to NorCal and moving to SoCal. lie also mentioned that the wisest people he knew still had no idea where their lives were headed, along with a slew of other random observations. Each had the air of experi­ence, despite border­ing on cheese until the song's final second. 
The anchor point, you might recall, was wearing sunscreen. He told us to be smart and lather up, to metaphorically protect ourselves from the bad rays that could break through our bar­riers. Or, you know, to ward off skin cancer and its malignant brethren. 
Even today, I still don't remember to wear sunscreen every time l go outside. I should, given that I practically reflect sunlight dur­ing the winder months, and have yet to adjust to the oncoming summer sun beyond the errant freckle on my nose. 
But beyond the sunscreen, beyond the pseudo-wisdom, was an idea that I actually liked: taking a minute (or more) to tell someone else what you've learned from life. The exercise might seem kind of pompous coming from a 22-year-old undergraduate (sweet Lord, I'm a 22-year-old undergradu­ate). but I'll keep going nonetheless. I won't tell you to wear sunscreen, because you already know your own bits of wisdom. If anything, this is a chance for me to sit back and reflect. Maybe you'll recognize some of what l came to know in your own experi­ence under the Dome. If not, you can use my printed column as packing material when you box up your lives on Monday morning. 
First, take the canyon jumping approach to life. I'll explain. When I studied abroad, I took a trip to Interlaken, Switzerland, the "Extreme Sports Capital of Europe!" I was the last person you'd expect to visit such a place: I liked my feet firmly on the ground, usually covered in sensible sho('s. But I had the opportunity in lnterlakt~n to go canyon jumping-not unlike bungee jumping­and had a choice. To jump, or not to jump? 

Analise Lipari 
Scene Editor Emeritus 
Rather than give myself an out, I paid my 150 Swiss francs, climbed the mountain, strapped on my harness and free-fell 90 meters. 
The point? If there's a new experience that you could have in life-as simple as trying a new food, or as big as moving to a new city -and you know you might back out, push yourself. Push yours~!f until there's no turning back, and you'll be sur­prised by how much you grow. 
Learn to say "thank you" to everyone that makes your life as easy as it is. I think it's safe to say that students here are extraordi­narily blessed to find themselves on a cam­pus where hot food is waiting for them daily, where their housing is guaranteed and where their toilets are cleaned by someone else. This isn't magic, nor is it Notre Dame's legions of house elves that live in the South Uining Hall basement. The men and women who really make this University run are as far from the spotlight as you can get, and most deserving of your thanks. Go out of your way and give it. 
Try the spicy sea nuggets once. Or what­ever culinary equivalent you encounter that might scare you half to death. 
The stuff of the world today is translation: how we interact, how we communicate and how we meet each other at the places 
• where we are. Equip yourself with your metaphorical phrase book, and go! Say what you feel, and say what you mean. Smell the flowers. Even the ugly ones­they might smell the best. Take pictures. You don't always have to post them on Facebook, or tag yourself every time, but take them. It's surprising how much you forget as time goes by. Call your parents -but not too often. They want to see you grow up, too. Keep wearing your goofy-looking pajama pants well after graduation. 
Lastly, it's okay to use the word "gradua­tion." Even if I called it "the g-word" until maybe three weeks ago. 
Analise Upari is going to graduate, no matter what. As a soon-to-be member of the ACE program, this New Hampshire girl will be teaching Language Arts in Dallas. Texas come August. As senior week goes on, you'll hear her using her Mufasa vmce more and more often. Remember who you are, Simba. Remember who you are. 
The l'ieu•s expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Great 
expectations 
Dearly beloved, we have gathered here to say our goodbyes. I, for one, tried to avoid saying goodbye in written word because I know it will be preserved in the archives of the interweb and The Observer paper morgue, and because it means I will be held accountable for my last publishable words here at Notre Dame. Unfortunately, a disgruntled former Viewpoint Editor threatened me with some­thing so horrific that I find myself staring at a word processing program two hours before I can fully enjoy the senior week Cubs game trip at Wrigley field. So, in the interest of protecting my class from having to read an entire page of Black Dog comics in The Observer senior week edition, I'm taking one for the team-you can thank me later. 
But first, I'd like to thank all of you. When I arrived here as a freshman, a racial and religious minority, I didn't have any expectations regarding our class aside from those detailed by the admissions office (80 percent Catholic, 90 percent participated in a varsity sport, 90 percent graduating in the top 10 percent of their class, etc.). Instead, I expected to have a prflductive four years of study culminating in an acceptance to medical school. Those expecta­tions have been met. Many of you are (or were) in fact, intelli­gent, athletic and pious, and I am on my way to being a bona fide doc. However, I did not expect to have the privilege of being shaped by such a supportive and impressive community of peers in the past four years. l did not expect to learn so much about myself through the development of relationships I would be lucky to continue later in life. 
So thank you, class of 2009, you have made all of the differ­ence since freshman year. You have made life interesting with your collective support against abominations of nature such as quarter dogs, the bun runs and, of course, Stepan Center. You have shown yourselves to be sympathetic through mourning with Virginia Tech, and pursuing causes for the benefit of the world beyond Notre Dame. You have proven yourselves dignified in ushering a period of change in welcoming President Obama despite the chagrin of the Catholic Church and you have become a symbol of bionic strength in the midst of the swine influenza virus. 
In parting, thank you for equipping me with the ability to fac(' the real world, with the audacity to believe that I can contribute to its improvement, and with knowledge that I won't be alone. In the words of my second favorite Tiny Tim, "God bless us-every one!" 
Jess Lee is graduating with a degree in biology. She will be attending med school at Indiana University School ofMedicine next fall. 5;he is, obviously, a Jan ofChipotle. Her column was sel'eral hours late and serveral hundred words short. She can be contacted at jlee13@nd. edu 
The l'iews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


....... _ 



The things I'll miss 
With the firestorm of anti-and pro­okay. Without Matt of the Saxophones to down the steps of Moreau at midnight. Obama coalitions and Viewpoint letters Advice I need to listen to once again ask to a dance in the newspaper. Even though there have been bad popping up and pouring into campus as I have no idea what I'll be doing as Without Angela always ready with a times, hard times and even horrible, lately. it's sometimes easy to forget ofMay 17. hug and ready to order pizza to make no good, very bad days, the fact of the that there's an institution across the I made the best friends anyone could a bad night better matter is that this place and all of the street from Notre ever ask for while I was here. I still Without Mary Ellen to have random friends I met here will forever be in Dame. can't fathom the fact that next August dance parties with in my parked car my heart and I'm glad I became a 
But, come I won't be moving into a dorm room and to make fun of my sudden obses­Belle. Saturday, I will lis­getting ready to start production on sion with wings. So, to the Class of 2009 on both sides ten to a presti­the first Observer of the year while my Without Mandi and Ashley to gossip of the street, thank you for the memo­gious broadcast friends get ready for band camp. about The Observer with. ries and the friendship. Good luck in journalist -Judy I can't imagine life without Katie, my Without Buddie to take creepy stalk­everything you set out to do. Woodruff, in case BFFF, one floor above me. I look for­er pictures of at Friday Marchouts. you've forgotten -ward to our motorized wheelchair Sorry I lapsed in the stalking this year, Liz Harter is graduating with a address students, races in the nursing home. but we'll always have "Buddie does degree in English Writing. After shake hands with Without Jim to keep me sane when MSU." graduation she will be gainfully a 1972 graduate of the world seems to try it's best to Without Kristi, whose futon became unemployed in Cincinnati, Ohio so if the same institu­unhinge me. my second bed during sophomore year. you hear of any leads send them her
Saint Mary's 
tion, receive a Without Jessie always ready with And without Mickey to stop and chat way. She wants to especially thank her 
Editor
degree and join some chocolate or the box of goodies with at the Student Center front desk. Mom and Dad for everything they've the ranks of Saint · Emeritus to eat while watching "The Office" and Don't forget to make me your press done for her over the years. And Mary's College tales of Vegas to brighten my day. secretary when you become president thanks to The Observer. We've had our alumnae. Without Jared -wait, you've been someday. ups and downs, but in the end, I devot­
Four years ago, I couldn't wait to gone for a year already. I'll miss the little things about being ed a huge portion of undergrad to you leave. I had only been on campus for Without Emily always ready to watch at Saint Mary's. The peaceful feeling I in the basement. To all my fellow edi­five weeks, but those five weeks "Lost" with me. always get seeing nuns taking walks tors, thanks for allowing me the pleas­seemed to be the longest of my life. Without Melissa, who hates pants. to on nice spring days; the beauty of the ure of working with you all and a spe­
Four days ago, I sat at the alumnae fawn over JRM and lament our Avenue in the fall; the quietness of cial thanks to all my writers for put­luncheon and couldn't believe it had migraines together. campus in the summer; and even the ting up with my insanity. gone so fast. Without Deanna to survive Spanish seemingly endless winters. Without The views expressed in this column 
If I could tell my freshman self one classes, eat Ritter's and take walks them we wouldn't have had amazing are those of the author and not thing it would be: it's all going to be with. snowball fights or been able to sled necessarily those of The Observer. 

I'm a survivor 
Be patient with me, I've never done this before. Write an article, I mean. But, thanks to my liberal arts education -I love putting 

sounds so impressive -I think I can handle it. After all, look at all I've been through. 
I've sur­
vived four Mary Jesse years of 
living in Graphics Farley. The Editor hardest Emeritus part was having roommates for the first three years, meaning I had to keep my room somewhat clean. Thank you, Lauren, for not mind­ing that my solution involved stuff­ing everything under my lofted bed and covering it up with a shower curtain. 
I survived five semesters of' work at North Dining Hall. I'll never for­get working Saturday brunches, especially on football game days, nor all the lovely Napkin Mountains and Leftover Upside­Down Cup Volcanoes people have gifted me during my shifts. Greasy half-eaten chicken bones and breakfast leftovers saturated in orange juice still make me a little queasy. 
I survived a tornado at Notre Dame during senior week a few years ago, when the poor Basilica lost one of its spires. Once the hazy green sky faded back to its usual grey-blue, it was fun exploring the new jungle created on North Quad by all the fallen trees. 
I survived designing The Shirt 2009, and all the criticism that has come as a result of the gold color. Luckily, Viewpoint letter-writers have been too distracted by a cer­tain airplane and protest campaign to offer many nasty comments this year. I think it actually looks awe­some with blue jeans, which every­one wears to the game anyway, because then the outfit is Notre Dame Blue and Gold. 
I survived a getting lost on a hik­ing trip in the south ofChile. After wandering for a considerable amount of time through a waist­high field of thorns with a dead flashlight and worthless cell phone (I get better reception in the base­ment of my dorm), I found my group just as the sun was setting and the storm winds were picking up. Dinner was tuna and smashed granola bars for the fourth day in a row-clearly, we are experi­enced campers. 
I survived 21 years without underage drinking, followed by very crowded birthday initiations at The Backer and Finny's during Blue-Gold Weekend. I've still never been to Fever, but some tell me this is possibly a good thing. 
I survived the Holy Half Marathon this year ... in South Bend's specialty: overcast wintry­mix and 32-degree weather. This semester was the frrst time I've run more than two miles consecu­tively in my life. I should also men­tion that I hate running. Thanks Teresa, I never could -or would -have done it without you! 
I've survived a year-long rela­tionship with my boyfriend, intelli­gently started just as summer vacation began last year, even though we wouldn't be in the same country again until the fall. Happy anniversary, Greg! 
I survived a design thesis project that is currently on display in the Snite Museum of Art. It's an ani­mation to teach young children the basics of Catholic Social Teaching. I put a lot of work into it, so take the kids and go see it because it's there until Monday. This is a shameless self-plug. 
Finally, I've survived writing my first article, all 582 words of it. I hope it wasn't too terrible for a first attempt. 
Mary is a BFA Graphic and Industrial Design major. and after graduation she will move back in with her parents and hope to win the lottery. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Never the same 
It's hard to imagine life after Notre Dame. The great honor of my life has been being a ~tudent at this University, the only school I ever
1 

wanted to attend. For two years in high school, I kept a Notre Dame magnet in my locker, reminding myself before every test, every project, that my goal was to live under the Dome for four years. 
And I've done that. But in my last semes­ter at college, I've been asking myself why I didn't major in architecture, or do a double major, any­thing to give myself just a little more time, a few more months or years to soak up Notre Dame. 
Because it's hard to imagine life without some of my best friends a few steps away from me, ready to talk at noon or 3 a.m., about nothing or everything. 
It's hard to imagine life without a DeBartolo Hall, a Waddick's, The Huddle, the popcorn machine in CoMo. 
It's hard to imagine life without football Saturdays, without complaining about The Shirt, then wearing it, without Knights of Columbus steak sandwiches, without brats, without dorky dorm cheers, without the Notre Dame Victory March, without push-ups after touchdowns. 
It's hard to imagine life without Reekers, with­out Nick's Patio, without Piano Man, without $3 cab rides, without The Backer, without Corby's, without Finnegan's. 
It's hard to imagine a life without parietals, without Mass in every dorm, without candlelight dinners. 
It's hard, because I hoped, irrationally, that my four years at Notre Dame would go on forever. Of course, I always knew that one day it would end, but I didn't think the time would go so quickly. 
"I don't think there's any point in being Irish if you don't know that the world is going to break your heart eventually." said Daniel Patrick Moynihan, then an assistant secretary of labor, in reaction to President Kennedy's death. "I guess that we thought we had a little more time." 
I thought I had more time. On a hot August day earlier this year, after running around the lakes, I sat on South Quad and willed the time to slow down. I willed the days to go by slowly, but of' course, time marched on, and soon the first of the lasts -the last first day of class, the last 


home football game, the last Christmas dinner at the dining hall -gave way to the last of the lasts -the last Spring Break, the last day of class, the last week of final exams. ' -· -' 
"It will never be the same again," a friend of mine said at dinner a few months ago. We were talking about whether, years after we graduat­ed, we would still be able to reunite, to come back to Notre Dame and pick up where we left off. 
No, it will never be the same. When we come back, we won't be in the Notre Dame bubble. We'll be outside, looking in, probably wanting to return. 
As I've savored the very last of the lasts, I've tried to tell myself that maybe that's okay. 
Maybe it's okay that I'm moving on. I've given Notre Dame my all-my 4 a.m. fmals nights at the library, my 20-page papers, my late nights at The Observer that I thought would never end ­and Notre Dame has given me its all-a beauti­ful campus that takes my breath away every time I drive up Notre Dame Avenue, a world­class education, professors who have inspired me, a dorm filled with lifelong friends and an experience in London that I'll never forget. 
Notre Dame has made me a person who, I hope, will go out and do good things for this world. 
But on Sunday, my school is going to break my heart. I'll receive my diploma, walk up the stairs of the Main Building, and nevermore be able to call myself a Notre Dame student. 
The only solace is that, though Notre Dame undergrad doesn't last forever, memories do, and here, I've made memories that will stay with me long after I've left 46556. 
A friend of mine told me Father Hesburgh gave her advice about what to do before leaving Notre Dame. 
Go to the Grotto, he said, say a prayer, and promise you'll be back. Notre Dame, I promise I'll be back. 
Kaitlynn Riely is graduating with a major in American Studies and a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. She will be taking a position at the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette for the summer. She would like to thank her parents, who have made everything possible and her jive younger siblings, for listening enthusiastically to four years ofcollege stories. She would also like to thank all the Pangborn girls, without whom college would never have been so much fun, and give a special thanks to Observer writers and staffers, past and present, who defined my Notre Dame career. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


EXCERPTS FROM PAST ISSUES 


Four Years in Review 

Academic 
freedom: problem? 
Perhaps the ongoing discussion of academic freedom and Catholic character has reached the point where we should make an effort to ask, "What is really at stake in this dis­pute?" 
Some of us agree that the basic question is simply. "To what extent and why must (or should) recognized student organizations, at Notre Dame or any Catholic university, refrain from discussions and performances of materials which question or challenge standard Catholic teaching con­cerning sexual morality'?" 
I have yet to hear a strong Catholic voice explain why, or discuss whether, a Catholic university fully tolerant of student freedoms on such matters is on the slippery slope to secular­ization. Perhaps there are arguments of that kind, but no one, neither our President, Father John Jenkins, nor the Chancellor of the University of Dayton, Father James Heft, has produced such an argument in this discussion so far. 
Edward Manier professor Department of Philosophy March 9, 2006 

Obama speaking 
I am Roman-Catholic, pro-life and middle-upper class citizen with strong leanings toward the Republican Party. Oh, and one more thing: I am ecstatic that the President of the United States is coming to speak at my graduation Commencement. Within hours ofthe big announcement on Friday, I was receiv­ing infuriating e-mails from my fellow pro-lifers calling for the immediate repeal of President Obama's invitation to Notre Dame. "We must stand against evil," said one message. "He supports gay marriage, which is an affront to the family," read another. "He should not be given this opportunity to confuse our youth." One message went so far as to compare Obama with history's most hated villain. The email read: "The German people supported Hitler because he was dynamic and promised jobs and food. There is more to a man than his charisma." . There is also more to a man than his views on the single issue of abortion. Such rash and radical comments not only fail to promote the end of abortion, they undermine the entire pro­life movement. 
In an emergency press release issued by the Pro-Life Action League, National Director and Notre Dame alumnus Joe Scheidler made the following statements: "Over the first two months of his administration, Barack Obama has established himself as the most pro-abortion president in u.s. history a~ My alma mater should not be providing a platform for this president a~ Father Jenkins cannot expect pro-life Catholics to stand back and allow the most pro-abortion president in U.S. history to make a mockery of Notre Dame's Catholic identity." As a pro-lifer myself, I understand where Scheidler is coming from; I, too, am concerned for the pro-life movement under the Obama administration. I simply cannot agree, however, with the idea that Notre Dame, one of the finest academic institu­tions in the nation, should deny the President of the United States a platform to speak solely because of his views on abor­tion. Obama is not coming to Notre Dame to speak about abor­tion, nor is his speech supposed to play a pivotal part in the formation of our Catholic identity. 
It is our responsibility, not our Commencement speaker's, to continue to cultivate our Catholic identity and apply it beyond graduation. The role of a Commencement speaker is to wel­come college graduates into the real world, arm them with knowledge of complex and evolving issues, and inspire them to be passionate and influential citizens of a global community. I simply cannot think of anyone more qualified to do these things than the leader of the free world, President Barack Obama. 
Thus, to my fellow pro-lifers: let us battle the president on each and every issue pertinent to life, but let us not undermine our intelligence and our patriotism by forsaking other impor­tant issues in the reckless pursuit of one. The world will not stop turning for the abortion issue to be resolved. We as Catholics are therefore called to be dynamic citizens who take a multi-dimensional approach to making our world a better place; this means listening and learning from influential world leaders such as Barack Obama. To disinvite the President of the United States based on a single issue, even one as impor­tant as abortion, would be a disgrace both to our Catholic iden­tity and to this great Catholic University. 
Mark Weber semor offcampus March 21 , 2009 


The hook-up culture 
Dear six guys I've hooked up with this semester, 
Thank you for the hook-up. It was ... decent. From my experience, it was a typical freshman year hook-up. 
Some of you shamelessly lead me on, while with others it just sort of happened. Obviously, I wanted it too because I definitely didn't stop you. In fact I love to kiss boys, my roommates and I refer to it as "my hobby." 
Yes, the hook-up itself was fine, but afterwards we've run into a problem. The problem is the din­ing hall, at parties, the quad and in class. It's the way that you look at me, with that awkward stare that makes me want to scream "Yes we did hookup once and no we haven't talked since then!" Other times we see each other and you quickly dart your eyes to avoid eye contact or suddenly become enthralled in conversation with the nearest object. To be fair, I think I may have gotten a "hey" from one or two of you before (it's been· a while though, so forgive me if my memory isn't perfect). 
What about my number, did you ask for it just as a matter of course? Is it your way of saying,"Thanks for the hook-up, can I have your number so that I can delay your realization that we are never going to speak again?" Well it worked, I gave every one of you my number and haven't heard from most of you since. How many of you would actually call me if you needed some­one to go grab lunch with? Or if you needed help studying for a class that we both have? How many of you haven't deleted it, or are just now realizing that I must be that mysterious "Melissa" entry in your contact list? 
Don't blame me for not calling you, a broken phone can attest to the fact that I've lost most of your numbers. I doubt you would answer even if I 

Belles 
Every day I get The Observer and flip to Viewpoint to see what debate is raging. The past few days, after reading the responses to the Jockular comic, I can only say that Jockular has been taken far too seriously. A-; many comics today, Erik Powers and Alec White are satirists, so obviously they use Jockular to poke fun at everyday events. 
We've all seen The Simpsons, Family Guy or South Park. During every episode, they target a difl'erent aspect of daily life to laugh at, sometimes even things dear to us. But do we take offense? No. Those of us who can recognize and appreciate satire just laugh and turn up the volume. That's exactly what I'm calling alJ Belles to do: laugh and turn up the volume. Don't take it personally that Saint Mary's is this week's target of satire, because could call you. I'm a good person and an even bet­
ter friend. But obviously, since we hooked-up, it 
would be too much to ask that we ever consider 
friendship as an option. Ignoring each other, 
apparently, is the only choice that we have. 
Of course, I don't render myself blameless. Our hook-up was the most convenient form of instant gratification that we could find. I realize that and I admit to being just as guilty as you are. But next time I smile at you on the quad, or say hi to you in class, can you pretend that you haven't gone both deaf and blind since that night that we met at that party? 
Although I doubt that you are willing to do that, I am sure of one thing: You six guys are where I draw the line. This weekend, and all weekends until I graduate, I refuse to add to this list. I won't hook-up with any more random boys. Not because the act itself wasn't enjoyable, but because this campus isn't that big and I can't afford to have any more boys refusing to look me in the eye when I walk down South Quad. At Notre Dame, I am look­ing to make friends (not boyfriends, fiances, or husbands) and hook-ups obviously lead to any­thing but friendship. I can find a new hobby, hope­fully something that really does make me happy. but I will not hook-up. I'll see you at the dining hall. 
Sincerely, Melissa. 
P.S. -Don't worry about our kiss under the arch -unless we move to Utah, it's unlikely that all six of you will find yourselves married to me. 
Melissa Buddie freshman Lyons Hall Nov. 13, 2008 


lighten up 
that's all it is-a little sarcastic fun. 
In no way do I feel that I am betraying my fellow Belles through this opinion. I love Saint Mary's; hence the reason I am here and not at Notre Dame. I am proud ofthis school and the women in it. But I feel that we should not take things so much to heart. Ethel Barrymore said, "You grow up the day you have your first real laugh at yourself." So lower your shields, put down your weapons, pick up today's Jockular-and have a good laugh. 
Maggie Yancy Andrea Beres freshmen Saint Mary's College April 12, 2006 


Original fight song cherished 
At this point, I've grown accustomed to biting my lip and grimacing at certain times when Notre Dame students, faculty and alumni try to instill their opinions, viewpoints and belief's into others. This has held true until I recently read Caity and Erin Schneeman's letter to the editor, "Reconsidering the Victory March" (Oct. 30). 
While few people would refer to me as "old fash­ioned," I am still a firm believer that certain tradi­tions should remain unscathed -above all, the "Notre Dame Victory March." I'm a proponent for equal rights, yet I can't help but ask myself the question: Can anything be left sacred anymore? The reason that most Notre Dame fans are fans is because of the traditions and pedigree associated with the University. 
While people are on such a kick to appease the minority by making every tradition as politically correct as possible, they isolate the majority and forget about ~hat most people care about. I've wit­nessed many great Notre Dame traditions die since I started as a student and the very mention of changing the lyrics to the "Victory March" fills me with the same sadness and rage I usually associate with watching Tyrone Willingham coach a football game. 
What's next? Should we start redrafting the Declaration of Indepen<;lence because it doesn't state that "all men and women are created equal"? Words might just be words but like the Declaration of Independence, the "Victory March" has meant a great deal to a number of people and to change it now would be an injustice to every person who has walked the steps beneath the Golden Dome. 
The thing that you must remember, Caity and Erin, is that this University was founded in 1842, not 1972. So, while I find Caity and Erin's family traditions to be "interesting" and "cute," I, along with the rest of the Notre Dame family, will continue to sing the original and real version of the fight song written by the 0' Shea Brothers in the early 1900s. 
Honestly, if Caity and Erin feel oppressed or short­ed in any way by reading my opinion, then I would like to remind them that the beautiful gates of Saint Mary's College are always open. Last time I checked, there was no discussion of incorporating a male presence into its fight song. 
Matthew Wrablik Class of2006 Los Angeles, Calif. Oct. 30, 2007 

~-~---------------------------------------· 
TH.E OBSERVER 
E

page 20 


Friday May 15, 2009 

By JORDAN GAMBLE Scene Writer 
Whether it was in the theater, on DVD or in DeBartolo 101, the past twelve months have given college students new sourees of pro­crastination, catch-phrases, and fodder for dorm room posters. Here are the top 10 movies of the past year, in no particular order: 
1. Slumdog Millionaire 
This Oscar-winner for Best Picture deftly balances gritty, tragic reaJism with fantasy in a modern-day fairy tale about a poor orphan teenager from the slums of Mumbai who improbably wins the jackpot on India's ver­sion of "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire." 
2. The Dark Knight 
Before it even got to theaters, the latest installment in the revamped Batman fran­
' I 
I 
chise was a hit of hype. In one of the last roles before his death, Heath Ledger delivers t I an amazingly transformative, Osear-winning performance as the creepy and morbidly funny Joker. Director Christopher Nolan 
keeps the movie tight and tense for most of its two-and-a-half hour run time, building
l 
I I suspense to a crescendo that nonetheless I keeps the path open for another sequel. 
I 3. The Curious Case of Benjamin Button It's like Forrest Gump: set in the South
I 
I ' 
(here, primarily Louisiana), with a protago­nist always bumping into the requisite major events of history (the end of World War I, Hurricane Katrina), and holding out for that one girl (a red-headed Cate Blanchett). Of course, in "Benjamin Button," the lead char­acter just happens to age in reverse. The visual effects are stunning, effeetively trans­forming Pitt's character into a hobbled, gray­haired, wrinkly child and the eerie teenaged­looking old man Benjamin becomes by the end of the film. 
4. Pineapple Express 
In another product from the Judd Apatow factory of raunch and romance (here it's more of a bromance), a stoner (Seth Rogan} and his pot dealer (James Franco) aren't just paranoid ~ they really are on the run from corrupt cops and violent gangsters. It all ends in a fiery inferno of a showdown at a hydroponic weed factory. With a lot of blood, profanity. and nerdy white guys wielding guns, this might be a very clever PSA about how your Jife can actually go to pot if you get high. Or it's just hilarious. 
5. Twilight 
Traditional vampire enthusiasts probably didn't know what hit them. It didn't have the best script ("This is the skin of a killer, Bella!") or the best special effects (that skin sparkling rather harmlessly in the sunlight), but fans of the book series, stalkers of Robert Pattinson and unsuspecting boyfriends made this movie a huge success at the box office 
and on DVD. 
6. Revolutionary Road 

Kate Winslet and Leonardo DiCaprio return to the screen together in a film decid­edly less epic than "Titanic" but nonetheless tragically hopeless. The duo play April and Frank \Vheeler, a couple trying to break out of the monotony and apathy of suburban 1950s Conneeticut, but never able to attain their dreams. It is certainly not a happy, fun time at the movies. Still, DiCaprio and Winslet deliver fantastic performances worth seeing. 
7. Wall-E 

Who knew a trash compactor and a flying iPod could induce such heart-melting cute­ness? Wall-E and E.V.E. have more chemistry as computer-animated robots than quite a few live-action, human screen couples do. For a movie that goes its first 45 minutes without any dialogue, Pixar's latest endeavor sure packs a lot of messages~ love, persever­ance and environmentalism, to name a few. 
8. The Happening 

This is yet another nuanced, subtle film about environmentaJism. With gripping per­formances and flawless plot execution, this thriller -ha, just kidding! This was easily the biggest "what the heck?" movie of 2008. Director and writer M. Night Shyamalan grasps for anything resembling logic or sus­pense, and ends up with not much of either. Mark Walhberg and the rest of the cast rou­tinely looked confused or bored, and their characters tend to make ridiculous decisions at just the right time to move the plot along. Spoiler: Plants did it! They made everybody kill themselves, to get back at humanity for spilling noxious fumes into the atmosphere. Duh! So it is a film about environmentalism ­in a way. 
9. Step Brothers 

Will Ferrell and John C. Reilly team up again in yet another dumb-buddies flick, this time playing middle-aged stepbrothers Brennan and Dale. This is all the cohesion the film needs as it veers around from one ridiculous situation to the next, which are lit­tle more than showcases for Ferrell and Reilly's outrageous physical comedy and dia­logue. 
10. Iron Man 

Hobert Downey, Jr. returns to Hollywood in another new comic book franchise. Jon Favreau, the same director behind comedies like "Elf," makes the movie a slick and fun origin story that nicely toes the line between exposition and action. As Tony Stark, the playboy genius who becomes a superhero, Downey uses copious amounts of charisma to pull the whole persona together. With such a great response from audiences, a sequel is in the works for 2010. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
-By CAITLIN FERRARO Scene Writer 
After suffering through the painful writer's strike, the 2008-2009 television season was a refreshing comeback for television in gener­al. Viewers witnessed many firsts and lasts throughout, and certainly some unforget­table moments. Shocking twists and turns came from all directions. In a sea of so much goodness, and of course some badness, par­ticular shows and moments stand out: 
Best Death 
It had been known for months that Edie was going to die on "Desperate Housewives." Few cared that Bart Bass died on "Gossip Girl," although it did lead to some beautiful scenes for Ed Westwick as Chuck. But did anyone expect Kutner (Kal Penn) to commit suicide on "House"? Or that his death would set off a chain of events in whieh Hoir~~~ would end up in Cuddy's arms? Or that this all began when Kal Penn chose to leave the show to work for -Obama? While the death was not shown, the way it affected the rest of the characters was beautifully scripted and portrayed. Foreman stepped up and was there for Thirteen. Chase and Cameron got engaged. And House actually doubted him­self, for once. Kutner's suicide was both shocking and served a greater purpose to the show's overall storyline. Kudos. 
Best New Series 
There are always misses when the new tel­
evision season rolls around, but every once 
in a while there are hits. CBS' "The 
Mentalist," FOX's "Fringe" and IIBO's "True 
Blood" are all examples of great new shows. 
Simon Baker is fantastic on "The Mentalist" 
as he exudes charm while catching bad guys, 
all the while waiting to find the serial killer, 
Red John, who killed his wife and son. 
"Fringe" is a wonderful amalgamation of 
weirdness as an FBI agent works together 
with a once-institutionalized-doctor and his 
wisecracking son to solve crimes that involve 
"fringe" science. And "True Blood," a series, 
based on the "Sookie Stackhouse Novels," is 
about a woman with psychic abilities that 
finds herself entangled with a vampire and a 
serial killer. Beware though that this sala­
cious show is definitely an adult version of .. "Twilight." 
Best Series Finale 
"Scrubs" ended with a touching and funny 
series finale. "The Shield" pulled out all the 
stops for its concluding episode. But the best 
finale of this season goes to SciFi's 
"Battlestar Galactica." The re-imagining of 
the 1980 series began in 2003 and has since then found a devoted audience. The show ·· has a complicated mythology pertaining to 
the battle between Cylons and humans, but 
all the questions were beautifully answered 
in the 2009 finale. They found a suitable 
place to live and all our favorite characters 
THE OBSERVER 
E

Friday, May 15, 2009 


page 21 


( . I t ·"[ 
\·\...· .··J....·· 
,.)
,J. 
,.J 
found a sense of completion in one way or another. 
Best Reality TV Show 
One of the best reality show's this year was VH1's latest creation "Tough Love," a show surprisingly not like the other shows on the network that tend to border on sleaziness. Inst~ad, the show's premise was that match­maker Steve Ward would help eight women find love by discovering who they were, and finding out what men really think. In addi­tion, one cannot ignore the sensation that was "The Bachelor" this year. The nation witnessed as Jason Mesnick dumped his fiancee Melissa Rycroft and then minutes later was reunited with runner-up Molly Malaney. Shocking? Wrong? Terrible? Maybe, but it was definitely great television. 
Best New Series that Was Over Before it .iSegan 
Every year there are shows that are hyped but unfortunately do not last. This year NBC's "Kings" (and possibly FOX's "Dollhouse") hold this unfortunate honor. 
R.I.P. to "Kings" and other great shows that did not last the season: "Pushing Daisies" and "Eli Stone." 
Overall, some shows have stepped up their game this season and keep getting better and better. Shows like "Mad Men," "Lost" and "Dexter" have been great dramas this televi­sion season. And the seventh season of "24," which had been postponed due to the writer's strike, returned in January with a vengeance. The best comedies this year have been "How I Met Your Mother," "Big Bang Theory," "The Office" and "30 Rock." Tina Fey and company rolled right through the Emmy's, collecting statuettes all over the place. 
Television this year also brought us enter­tainment in the form of the Democratic and Republican Conventions. At times they were important to watch in order to be informed voters, but they were also fodder for the "The Daily Show with Jon Stewart," "The Colbert Report" and "Saturday Night Live." These shows really outdid themselves with the help of election year material. 
The 2008-2009 television season has been a great one, and it is not even over yet. There are a plethora of sea..o;;on finales yet to come and burning questions that hopefully will be answered. Is William Bell (Leonard Nimoy) responsible for the Pattern on "Fringe"? Who will win "American Idol?" How will Heidi and Spencer get married on "The Hills?" (Just kidding on that one.) Who is the mother on "How I Met Your Mother?" Will everyone survive the series finale of ..Prison Break?" Will Izzie (Katherine Heigl) survive her horri­ble brain cancer and how will it affect the rest of Seattle Grace? You'll have to stick around this season, -and perhaps the next -­to discover the answers. 
Contact C...aitlin Ferraro at cferrar 1 @nd.edu 

\ 


into a slew of other venues, including the By STEPHANIE DEPREZ TV show "House" and the compilation Assistanr Scene Editor album for AIDS awareness, "Dark Was 
Music this year had successes in many the Night." Yael Naim, though barely rec­genres. From Britney Spears and Beyonce ognized for her name, wrote herself a to Death Cab and The Decemberists, household tune with the song "New Soul" established artists' new albums led to that was featun~d in the commercials for most welcome suc-Macbook Air. cesses. Soundtracks Few have heard of Orba Squara, 
made a comeback, Taylor Swift's but they wrote the song in the bolstered by the iPhone commercials, called "Perfect
utterly
"Twilight" sensation. Timing," which anyone who has 
Television and com­inescapable ..Love been within a 10-foot radius of a mercial placement Story,, was fea­television in the past eight months brought new artists to has heard.
tured in the
the forefront, thanks "Twilight" has done wonders for
Keenan Review
to the likes of "Gossip every artist or band featured on the Girl" and Mac com­(cleverly movie soundtrack, including Muse, puters. Overall, big which received prime placement in
reincarnated as 
stars made big bucks, the film's stylized baseball scene.
··Hook-Up Story") 
and new artists real­Any record of the year in music ized that ancillary and was used in a would be fool not to mention the markets may be the two leading ladies of self-indulgent
least one actual 
place to start. pop-sensation: Taylor Swift and
marriage
Big hits in the world Miley Cyrus. The former's utterly of H&B included proposal on inescapable "Love Story" was fea­Beyonce 's schizo­tured in the Keenan Heview (clever­
campus.
phrenic album "I am ly reincarnated as "Hook-Up Story") 
Sash a Fierce." and was used in a least one actual There's nothing like an alter-ego to shake marriage proposal on campus (so far). up your musical look. ("It's a ring by spring story, she's already 
Hits like "Single Ladies" have fueled a said yes!") new dedication to learning the music Cyrus starred in the "Hannah Montana" video-specific dance. Other dance-floor movie, which featured the new song "The hits from the year include T.l. & Climb," with lyrics that are disturbingly Rhianna's collaboration "Live Your Life" appropriate for anyone graduating this (is that really the Numa Numa song?) and year. the ever-popular Band of the Fighting Music flowed through campus in all the Irish number, "Shake It" by Metro right venues this year, with the latest Station. There's nothing quite like a dance beats spinning frisky tuba section to get the blood at Hip-Hop Night, up­flowing at a football game. and-coming indie out­
Few have heard of
Other accolades go to the lyric­fits headlining at
Orba Squara, but

shifting antics of Akon's "Right Now Legends and 90s (Na Na Na)" who just wants to they wrote the throwbacks being "make up right now," according to pumped through
song in the iPhone 
your local FCC affiliate (not "make South Dining Hall.
commercials,

love"). And who could have missed Special thanks go to the lyrical genius of that music called ..Perfect the Band of the maven Spears, who's got everyone Timing,,, which Fighting Irish for begging to "If You Seek Amy." Hight. rekindling campus
anyone who has

Indie rock also had solid success love for Bon Jovi, this year, including the release of a been within a IO­whose cameo was the new Death Cab for Cutie album last ,highlight of pep rally
foot radius ofa 

summer. The most recent hit has appearances. The lat­
television in the

been the album "Hazard's of Love" est and long-forgotten by The Decemberists, which has ·past eight months acousti-hits were been slowly working its way into the showcased at Acousti­
has heard. 

minds and hearts of hard-core and cafe all year long. casual listeners alike. Broadway managed 
Coldplay, known for main-stream rock, to tap into the campus psyche at least nettled their way into the indie-psyche once a semester with help from the likes with the mega-hit "Viva La Vida" and the of PEMCO and Fortnight Productions. now-ubiquitous title-track. Overall, it was a successful year in music­
Musical product-placement has been a dum here under the Dome. boon to many new artists this year. Bon Iver's quasi-hit album "for Emma, Contact Stephanie DePrez at Forever Ago" has songs that have made it sdeprez@nd.edu 
---------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, May 15, 2009 

page 22 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Perfection falls in first round 

By MICHAEL GOTIMER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's unbeaten sea­son came to a screeching halt Sunday in a 7-3 loss to Maryland in the first round of the NCAA tournament. 
"We're a very good team," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan 
said. "I'm not going to beat up our team for going 15-0. We had a great season, but we didn't play well today and therefore we lost." 
I 
I The Irish I started off thel, season with nonconference
~ 
wins over 
"The lesson is that 
anchored byyou should do senior netmin­der Scott
something because 
Rodgers, who
you love it and do it 
led the NCAA
right., with a 6.14 goals against average and a
Kevin Corrigan 
0.663 save per­
Irish coach 
Loyola (Md.), Penn State, and Dartmouth. On March 8, Notre Dame notched its most impressive win of the season over then-No. 3 North Carolina. 
Notre Dame rolled through Great Western Lacrosse League (GWLL) play, winning each game by no fewer than 
two goals and rising as high as No. 2 in the nation. The Irish conference dominance continued in the conference tournament, which they won with victories over Quinnpiac and Ohio State. 
The cornerstone for Notre Dame's success this season 
was  its  defense,  which  
allowed  a  nation-best 6.19  
goals  per  
game. The Irish  
backline  was  

centage. 

In addition to 
their team accomplishments, the Irish boast a number of seniors with significant individual achievements, which came to a peak during their final sea­son on campus. In April, sen­ior attackmen Hyan Hoff and Duncan Swezey, midfielder Peter Christman, defenseman Regis McDermott and Rodgers were all named first team all­conference in the GWLL, which the Irish have won each of the past three seasons. 
Furthermore, Rodgers, who leads the country in goals against average, was named GWLL Player of the Year and has been named a finalist for the Tewaaraton Trophy, which is awarded annually to the nation's top lacrosse player. 
"More than anything else, they did things right," Corrigan said. "They worked hard, loved each other, loved play lacrosse and represented Notre Dame in excellent fash­ion. They love what they're doing, love being a part of the team, and bring a sense of fun to the team." 
Corrigan ultimately thinks that this is the best lesson that his seniors could teach the program that they have contributed so much to in their four years on campus. 
"The lesson [from the sen­iors] is that you should do something because you love it and do it right," Corrigan said. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
MVP Goodman leads Irish to Big East crown 
breaking Goodman. Not only
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
is she the all-time winningest
Sports Writer 

goalkeeper for the Irish, but Goodman has also started in The Irish defeated 55 consecutive games, play­Vanderbilt 19-13 in the first ing the most minutes overall round of the NCAA of any Irish goalkeeper. Tournament Goodman holds on Sunday, a career and will face record of 38­N o r t h 17 for a .690
"Our success has been 
Carolina this winning per­weekend in expected and centage, and the tourna­was named
unexpected ... 
ment quarter­this year's Big finals. East MVP. "Our suc­Tracy Coyne Byers is sta­cess has been Irish coach tistically the 
expected and unexpected," Notre Dame head coach Tracy Coyne said. "We had some key players choose to leave the program in the beginning of the year, which made us re-evaluate our direction. The seniors, in particular, have done an incredible job in doing that and a great job in bringing the team together." 
Notre Dame {16-4) has had one of their most successful and record-setting seasons this year. Winning the Big East Championship for the first time was just a highlight for the 2009 Irish team. 
Making an impact on the team over the last four sea­sons are the four Notre Dame seniors: co­captains 
S h a n n o n years and all
"Their legacy is 
Burke and they have 
Jillian Byers, always looking for learned and defender Beth ways to get better. all become, they Koulup and the time.,, represent the goalkeeper Notre Dame Erin Goodman. family well, Leading the Tracy Coyne and are all defense, Burke Irish coach great people. has a season They have 56 ground really raised ba1ls, 31 draw the level of controls and 42 caused competitiveness of the pro­turnovers, a Notre Dame sin­gram. Their legacy is always gle-season record, as well as looking for ways to get bet­seven offensive points. ter, all the time." Named to the All-Big East The Irish will face North First Team with teammates Carolina in Chapel Hill on Byers and sophomore mid­Saturday. fielder Shaylyn Blaney. Protecting the goal for Contact Meaghan Veselik at Notre Dame is the record-mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
most success­
ful player 
Notre Dame has ever seen. She is the all­time points leader, with 325 off of her 253 goals and 72 assists. Her 7 4 goals and 36 assists coming this season make her the second Irish player to ever score over 100 points in a season and are career highs. She leads the Big East in goals and point totals while ranking second nationally for points, and was named the league's co-attack of the year with Syracuse senior Katie Rowan. Byers is also the NCAA's all-time active leading goal scorer. 
"Individually, they [the sen­iors] are all outstanding com­petitors," Coyne said. 
"Looking back 

on the last four 1 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classitleds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
PASTORAL ASSOCIATE St. Christopher Parish. Speedway, Indiana, is seeking a full-time Pastoral Associate. The successful candidate will be primarily responsi­ble for Womens Spirituality pro­grams and Parish Outreach min­istries, and Pastoral care. A Masters degree in Catholic theology, sacra­mental theology and Pastoral Care or another related discipline is also required. The successful candidate must have a minimun of five to seven years of ministerial experi­ence and demonstrate the ability to participate with the Pastoral staff to provide a comprehensive spiritual mission for the Parish. Saint Christopher is an established parish with approx. 2,000 families located in the Speedway community on the westside of Indianapolis. Interested candidates should submit their resumes and letters of reference by May 20, 2009 to Search Committee, St. Christopher Parish, 5301 W. 16th Street. Indianapolis, 
IN 46224 or vial email to info@ saintchristopherparish.org. 
FoR SALE 
Very nice 2-bdrm home, totally remodeled inside and out. New roof, windows, siding, gutters, front door. Nice large deck. New kitchen, ceramic tile, light fix­tures. All new appliances. Fresh paint, new carpet, brand new bathroom, fenced yard with over­sized 1-car garage. Nicely land­scaped. 1.5 miles to ND. Broker owned. $74,800. Amy Ziolkowski, ReM ax 100, 574-360-4800. 
3 BDRM 2 BA TOWNHOUSE. STEPS FROM STADIUM & CAM­PUS. PERFECT FOR FOOT­BALL WEEKENDS OR STU­DENTS WISHING TO WALK TO CAMPUS. $149,000 AS IS. CALL 310-940-9444. JAMISON RESI­DENTIAL. 
Condo for Sale 1564 Sq Ft 3 bdr 2 baths 2 car garage Basement Sun Porch Quiet neighborhood 6 mile south of University $130k 574-291-2306 3-bed, 2bath condo in quiet neighborhood. 2 miles east of NO. Unit is less than 2 yrs. old. For info, 630-464-2044 or morourk1 @gmail.com 
Womans NO dinner ring, size 7. $400. 574-272-8027. 
FoR RENT 
ATTN: GRAD STUDENTS/FAC­ULTY EXECUTIVE HOUSE 4 RENT 2BR, 2 1/2 Bath, LA, DR, SunRm, kitchen, washer/dryer, 2­car attached garage + security systems. Close to Notre Dame ­Available Aug. 1. One Year Lease -Shown By Appt. Only. 1-262­332-0015 (Cell) 
HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK. 2800 s/f +base., L.A. w/fp. 4 bdrms,study +finished 3rd fl. Full appliances+ W&D.3 porches. 413 W. Navarre. $1350 + util 574-261-3184 or email escar­got55@hotmail.com or www. xog.com/property/413WNav arre.html 
Rental House 1 mile from NO, on TRANSPO route. New kitchen, bath, windows & carpet. 2 bed­rooms, 2 living rooms & dining room. APPLIANCES INCLUDED. Call Linda 574-288-0168. 
5 bedroom house 105 Marquette_ Great neighborhood, refinished hardwood floors. Washer and Dryer. 574-232-6964. 
3 bdrm house for 07/01/09 on Corby, $1600/mo. Owners are ND alums. Pis call/text 619-804­3359. 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offering 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
3br Clover Ridge Apt. for Summer Sublet. $1 000/mth. 404­200-3330 
PERSONAL 
ADOPTION -Loving Domer cou­ple looking to adopt a baby (babies). please call Marie and James (301 )977-5069 or (866)202-1424 PIN 5448. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1­2685. Learn about available assistance at: http://pregnancy­support.nd.edu 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http://osa. nd. edu/health­safety/assault/ 
LUKE TABIT, You are an amazing young man. Continue to work hard. You will do well in whatever you do. We love you, Mom and Dad 
Outlined against a blue-gray October sky the Four Horsemen rode again. In dramatic lore they are known as famine, pestilence, destruction and death. These are only aliases. Their real names are: Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden. They formed the crest of the South Bend cyclone before which another fighting Army team was swept over the precipice at the Polo Grounds this afternoon as 55,000 specta­tors peered down upon the bewil­dering panorama spread out upon the green plam below. 
Notre Dame, our Mother Tender, strong and true Proudly in the heavens, Gleams thy gold and blue. Glory's mantle cloaks thee Golden is thy fame, And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre Dame. And our hearts forever, Love thee, Notre Dame. 
-----·-----­

t 
Friday, May 15, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 23 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Perfect season ends with loss in championship 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame entered the sea­son with a lofty goal -to win a national championship. 
Even though the Irish fell short of that goal, they still earned many trophies and accolades that will distinguish this season in the Notre Dame history books. 
After a perfect regular sea­son and successful run through the NCAA Tournament, top­ranked Notre Dame met up with No. 5 North Carolina in the College Cup Final. Despite a quick goal by senior forward Kerri Hanks just 16 seconds into the game, the Irish could not keep Tar Heel Casey Noguiera from finding the back of the net. Noguiera's two goals were too much for the Irish to overcome in the 2-1 defeat. 
While Notre Dame obviously wished for a different outcome, not even Hanks could feel bad for the team. 
"That definitely wasn't our game plan [scoring early]. You score a goal early and that's good for our team. just try to keep doing it, but obviously we didn't get it done," Hanks said. "I thought we played a good game, but that's how it goes, the game of soccer." 
Looking back on the season it is quite clear that the Irish put together a season to remem­ber, with or without a final vic­tory. 
Notre Dame first won both the Inn at Saint Mary's Classic and the Carolina Classic, including a 1-0 defeat of North Carolina, in routine form. The strong offense led by Hanks outscored their first six oppo­nents 22-1. 
This offense and Hanks pro­ceeded to post a 25-0-0 record 
. leading up to the final meeting with North Carolina. Within that 25-game run, the Irish won the Big East final over Connecticut in overtime, 1-0, and advanced to the NCAA quarterfinals by topping Minnesota 1-0 in an extended period as well. 
In order to reach North Carolina in the final, the team beat No. 6 Florida State 2-0, and No. 3 Stanford 1-0. 
All season long it was Hanks' play, records and leadership that paved the way for the Irish. 
"She [has] what separates the good players from the great ones," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "Great players have that constant mentality to win at all costs." 
Hanks agrees that she puts winning above all else, and indeed, she has. The senior class has recorded a four-year record of 92-10-3. 
"I would rather win than have the records," she said. "I just want the younger players to look up to me." 
Nonetheless, record and 

tion for her success. 
"It would be impossible with­out my teammates to finish off those assists and set up those free kicks for me to take," she said. "Without my teammates and [Waldrum] I wouldn't be able to get those records." 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfanner1@nd.edu 

accolades have seemed to gravitate towards Hanks. She was named to the NSCAA All­American first team along with fellow senior Carrie Dew. Senior Brittany Bock was named to the second team. Hanks. junior goaltender Kelsey Lysander, and freshman Courtney Barg were named to the NCAA All-Tournament 
THE 



We express our deep thanks to the following Seniors for their 
hard work and dedication over the years. 
Travis Allen Allison Ambrose Greg Arbogast Brad Blomstrom Maddie Boyer David Cavadini Caitlin Conway Zhibin Dai John Donovan Emma Driscoll Mary Kate Fahrenbach Jay Fitzpatrick Michelle Fordice 
Pat Gartland 
Liz Harter 
Chris Hine 
Becky Hogan 
Mary Jesse 
Bob Kessler 
Katie Kohler 

Deirdre Krasula Jess Lee Analise Lipari Katherine 1\1cCullough Samantha McDonald Shannon McVeigh 
We wish you all the 
Team, while Dew received Defensive Player of the Year honors. 
In January, Hanks received the Missouri Athletic Club Hermann Trophy, awarded to the nation's top NCAA Division I player, her second M.A.C. Hermann Trophy in two years. Hanks is the first to acknowl­edge others deserve recogni-
Mike Mikuska Andrew Miller Andrew Nesi Madeline Nies Adi Nott Greg Podelej Kaitlynn Riely 
J.J. Rees Syzmon Rzyner Elizabeth Stevens Mandi Stirone Fran lolan Mark Witte 
best ofr~~~ years to come. 

Friday, May 15, 2009 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Duos' success leads way through tough schedule 

By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Posting 24 wins against only four losses, the Irish filled the spring with highlights and success. In one of the best seasons in program history, Notre Dame (24-4, 5-0 Big East) made it to the semifi­nals of the ITA National Team Indoor Championships, reeled off an eight-match winning streak, won the Big East Championship without suffer­ing defeat and earned the fifth seed in the NCAA Tournament. 
Entering the season, the Notre Dame held the No. 17 ranking in the polls. The team however, had a much brighter outlook for the sea­son. 
"With the bunch we had returning and two freshmen we knew could play a very big part coming in, I felt we were a top five team and a team that could contend for a national championship," head coach Jay Louderback said. 
The team opened the sea­son with a convincing 6-1 vic­tory at Ohio State. Then the team went down to Arkansas and defeated both Pepperdine and host Arkansas to qualify for Indoor Championships ranked 14th. 
"We knew it would be tough to qualify at Arkansas," Louderback said. "[The victo­ry] did give a hint to what we had for the season, especially playing on the road." 
At the Indoor Championships the Irish exceeded many expectations. First the team defeated No. 5 Stanford 4-3, and then topped No. 4 Baylor 4-3. The Irish fell to No. 1 Northwestern in the semifinals, but a state­ment had been made. 
"It showed us how good we could be," senior captain Kelcy Tefft said. "All of us felt we had a very good team, and then we went out and proved it to ourselves and everyone else, which gave us some extra confidence." 
Following the defeat to North western, Notre Dame rolled to eight straight victo­ries before falling on the road to No. 7 Georgia Tech. All season long, the Irish only lost to the stiffest competi­tion, falling in rematches to Baylor, 5-2, and closely Northwestern, 4-3. 
"Losing to those types of teams doesn't hurt the confi­dence much," Louderback said. "It's tough to go through the year playing so many ranked teams. To not lose to any outside the Top 10 is not easy." 
Indeed the schedule Louderback put together for the 2009 campaign was tough. Notre Dame played top 25 teams 12 times, and only lost in four of those matches. Through the whole season, the Irish faced 14 teams in the NCAA Tournament. and defeated ten of them. 
"It was really rough this year. We traveled a lot and Coach dropped a few teams in order to add teams like Baylor and Georgia Tech, top 10 teams," Tefft said. "That is the way I would havt" it. We play the top teams every year so when we get to the NCAAs we know what we have to do beat thosf~ teams." 
To conclude the season, Notre Dame went undefeated in Big East competition. In the Big East Championships, the Irish dominated en route to its ninth overall Big East title. 
with freshman Shannon Mathews. 
"We were very deserving to have so many people on the all-tournament team," Tefft said. "We were the best team there, and had the best play­

"One of our goals this year ers there." was to win the Big East 
Championship," "We were the best Tefft said. "We 
team there and had 
were glad to do 
the best players 
that." 
In doing so, there.·· Notre Dame nearly swept 
Kelcy Tefft 

Big East acco-
Irish senior 

1a des. Tefft earned her sec­ond consecutive 
After  such  
tho rough  sea­ 
son  long  suc­ 

cess, the Irish were selected as the fifth seed in the NCAA tournament, and hosted the first two rounds. 
Notre Dame defeated 
Illinois-Chicago 4-0 and then topped Michigan 4-1 to advance to the Sweet Sixteen. The Irish will face No. 12 Clemson Friday at College Station, Texas. 
Contact Douglas Fanner at 
dfarmer1 @nd.edu 

Big East Player of the Year, while freshman, and Tefft's doubles partner, Kristy Frilling was honored as Big East Freshman of the Year. Joining the two as members of the All-Big East team where juniors Cosmina Ciobanu and Kali Krisik along 


Friday, lviay 15, 2009 page 25
The Observer + SPORTS 

ND SOFTBALL 
Big East champs now face NCAA Regionals 

· By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
The Big East champion Irish head to Ann Arbor this week­end to compete in NCAA Regionals to face No. 5 seed Michigan, Miami (Ohio) and Cleveland State in group play. 
Notre Dame defeated DePaul this past weekend 1-0 to win the conference tournament, earning an automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament. Senior pitcher Brittney Bargar held the Blue Demons scoreless in the championship game and was named the tournament's most outstanding player. 
During the course of the sea­son, the team excelled defen­sively largely in part to having two stellar starting pitchers, Bargar and sophomore Jody Valdivia. 
"As a ball player I have com­pletely changed," Bargar said. "Coming in as a freshman I was a pitcher that relied on throwing the ball past the hit­ters with a screw ball and a curve. As a senior I now rely on hitting my spots and my movement on my pitches." 
A recent honor for an indi­vidual player was given to Valdivia, the most current recipient of the Big East Conference Pitcher of the Week. Valdivia's 1.94 E.R.A. and 28 strike-outs from the weekend helped the Irish beat three different Big East Conference teams, Providence, Georgetown and Louisville during the last week of the current season. 
"I think we had a great sea­son offensively," senior Linda Kohan said. "We made the adjustments we needed to and hit for power." 
Freshman third baseman, Dani Miller made a name for herself offensively this season, with three grand slams, 10 homeruns, and a .342 batting average that consistently yielded hits. Junior infielder Christine Lux also proved this season to be an important offensive asset to the Irish. Lux hit 15 homeruns and led the team in RBis, accumulat­ing 50 during the regular sea­son. 
"We have hit more home­runs then any other Notre Dame softball team and we have also learned how to feed off of each other," senior pitch­er Christine Farrell said. 
The improvements that the Irish have made this season in comparison to last season can be traced back to a set of tal­ented underclassmen ballplay­ers. 
"I think all underclassmen play different roles and all of them have a chance to impact this team," Bargar said. "When [the seniors] leave, look for Katie Fleury, Christine Lux, Heather Johnson and Sadie Pitzenberger to have huge impacts as leaders." 
The girls saw the bulk of their major competition in the earlier games of the season. They faced many difficult opponents from other confer­ences, such as top-ranked Alabama and other top 10 teams in the NCAA, including UCLA, Stanford and Oklahoma. 
"Getting past some of the losses we took in preseason was our biggest challenge," senior outfielder Beth Northway said. "We expected more of ourselves, and I think we approached it believing that we were better than those games indicated and have spent the rest of the season working to prove ourselves as the team we are." 
The Irish will compete in the double-elimination regional beginning today against Cleveland State. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
BASEBALL 

ImprovedND closing strong 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 

Irish coach Dave Schrage thinks his team is playing its best baseball of the season as it prepares for the Big East tournament, which is set to begin Tuesday in Tampa, Fla. 
Notre Dame (30-20, 13-11 Big East) has won five of its last six games before its final conference series of the season begins today, at St. John's in Jamaica, N.Y. And in that stretch, the Irish took two of three from South Florida, the Big East's top team that had lost just two conference games all season before visiting Notre Dame. 
"We played really well and showed a lot of heart in all three games, coming from behind," Schrage said. "I liked how we came together and played, and we got a great spark from our sen­iors." 
No senior has given his team more sparks than shortstop and captain Jeremy Barnes, who is one of two players -along with junior center fielder A.J. Pollock -to start every game for the Irish this sea­son. Barnes led Notre Dame in batting average (.358}. home runs (10), RBis (57) 
and total bases (122) head­ing into the weekend, and he trailed Pollock by just one for the team lead in hits. 
While Barnes has had the most eye-popping statistics of any of his classmates, Schrage said the constant presence of all five of his seniors -Barnes, co-cap­tain Ryan Connolly, Sam Elam, Eddy Mendiola and Evan Sharpley -has been invaluable on a team with several young, up-and-com­ing stars. 
"They have meant a lot to us from a leadership stand­point," Schrage said. "Barnes and Connolly could­n't have been better cap­tains, and they have all been great in the clubhouse and meant a lot to the program. We're certainly going to miss them." 
The Irish will certainly have an opportunity to make some waves and extend their season in the conference tournament. If Notre Dame takes two of three from St. John's this weekend, the Irish will earn the No. 4 seed in the Big East bracket after getting off to a fairly slow start. 
But Notre Dame has played more consistent ball of late, and Schrage said his team has shown it can play with anybody. 
"What's strange about this season is we've won two of three from all the teams at the top of the league," Schrage said. "We've got a lot of confidence, and I like how we're playing right now." 
A strong showing against the Red Storm would go a long way in preparing the Irish for what lies ahead in the Big East tournament, Schrage said. 
"We want some momentum going into the tournament," he said. "You want to be playing your best baseball at the end of the season." 
With solid starting pitching from Cole Johnson, Brian Dupra and Eric Maust, and a balanced lineup that starts with speedy outfielders Pollock and Golden Tate, Schrage said his squad may have the right pieces to make a late-season run. 
"In the league tournament, it's the team that plays the best for four days. That's baseball," Schrage said. "You've got to get hot, get good pitching and get some timely hits. We're going to be playing great competition, but whoever we play, our kids are going to feel like we can beat them." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@od.edu 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish shocked in second round 
By MATT GAMBER 
Spons Editor 

For a senior class that had reached the NCAA Sweet 16 in each of its first three seasons, a Nov. 25 season-ending loss to Northwestern in the tourna­ment's second round was both shocking and shattering. 
'This group of seniors really set their hearts on the Final Four," Irish coach Bobby Clark. "I just feel so sorry for the seniors. I don't know if I've ever seen a locker room more disappointed after a game." 
The loss was the first -and only -at home for Notre Dame (12-7-2) after a regular season during which the Irish posted a 9-0-1 record at Alumni Field. 
"Even though they were disap­pointed, they handled it very well, they handled it like sports­men," Clark said. "Their legacy may be that they helped next year's team. I know it's going to happen. There's going to be a team that before very long will make it to the Final Four. I don't know when, but I know it'll hap­pen sooner than later." 
Not all was lost, however, for a team Clark had often called his best at Notre Dame. The Irish captured the Big East regular­season title for the second straight year, a first in the pro­gram's history. 
"They played very nice soccer -as nice a playing team as I've ever had," Clark said. 'They're a great grotlp, and I don't know when I've had a group with such a great attitude. All my teams have been very good, but in many ways they were a special group. They all came in very fit and worked their tails ofT." 
Walk-on defender Terry Lee epitomized the work ethic of the senior class, Clark said. He called the 5-foot-9, 155-pound senior "one of the inspirations behind this team" because of the effort he brought to practice on a daily basis. 
After back-to-hack all-Big Ea..'>t selections, senior defender Matt Besler was named a preseason All-American heading into this year. He didn't disappoint, earn­ing individual weekly conference and national honors several times throughout the season while starting every game for the Irish and being named an All­American. 
"A terrific senior year, but a terrific four years as well," Clark said of Besler, who wa..'> the first­round pick of the MLS' Kansas City Wizards. 

Notre Dame's leading scorer, senior forward Bright Dike (12 goals, 29 points), could be grant­ed a fifth year of eligibility after not playing as a junior. Defender Cory Rellas and goalkeeper Andrew Quinn, who was Notre Dame's starter this season until suffering an injury on Oct. 29, may also apply for another year after not seeing any game action as freshmen. 
Whether it has some returnees or not, the nine-man senior class is one with which Clark has cher­ished his time. 
"These guys are just all terrific guys and they have been fantas­tic," Clark said. "I just can't say enough positive things about them." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

\ 
~ 
{ 
l 
\ 
{ page 26 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, May 15, 2009 
I t 
~ 
I 
I Congratulations to all seniors in the College of Arts and Letters who are entering a Master's or Ph.D. program next fall. 
l
\ 
\ I . ' 
ANTHROPOLOGY MATH POLSI ' \ Madeline Boyer Cody Mack Paula Alfonso . : ~ I Jillian Brems Kaitlin Moran John Avila I Cristina M. Crespo Andrew Bertoli 
,{ \ 
Robin Yim MUSIC Aimee Brewster ll\ \ ,, Jennifer Zabel Nicholas McCollum Jennifer Cassidy 
Nicholas Shaneyfelt Alice Ciciora ARABIC Alex Woller Rafael Diaz Brian Torro Camila Escallon 
PEACE STUDIES Sean Hoskins k•· ART HISTORY Rachel Brzezinski Daniel Krcmaric 
' 
I 
; Teresa Nesbitt Rafael Diaz Gabrielle Miller Sarah Miller Miranda Moyer 

) I 
CLAS Michael Scholl 
~ Katy Fles PHIL Jacqueline Sheridan Kristen Liest Emilee Booth Kevin Smith Daniel Perkey Jonathan Buttaci · 
Miranda Moyer PLS EACL Victor Saenz Angela Carothers Edith Felix Jacqueline Sheridan Brandon Frost PSY 

THEO Lauren Bohn ENGLISH Andrew Chronister Andrea Borrego l 1 Elizabeth Meaney Mary Geier Dan Blakely 
I \ 
( i Alexa McMahon Katherine Palumbo Noelle Crooks 
' l 
Alexander Stachniak Bridget Gilloon 
Jen Hames FTT Hayley McGovern Matt Goodrich Erica Harmon Kathleen Hession Alissan Schaub Ashley Williams Lyndsey Timpone 
Best 
FRENCH RUSSIAN
l 
Marcus Gatto wishes in Mary Ann Barge 
David Murren Katehrine Buza Andrew Polich James Curtis Drummond 
' l your future 
HISTORY soc
endeavors.
Brandon Frost Rachel Brzezinski 
i 
Michelle Garber Christine Farrell 
l Heidi Hausse Meghan Johnson John Hennessey Jane J. Lee Brian Samacki Annalise Loehr Patrick Smyth 

. ' 

r  ~  • •  0  0  •  ~  I  ~  •  0  \  ,  
Friday, May 15, 2009  The Observer + SPORTS  page 27  

fOOTBALL 
Bowl streak snapped after late season letdowns 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Talk about a turnaround. 
No, not a complete 180 from the faee-plant that was the 3­9 2007 season. It was a switcheroo from one extreme -a snowball-filled embar­rassment of a loss to Syracuse at home on Senior Day and a blowout against USC -to the other, a honeymoon-esque escape to warm and sunny Hawaii. 
When the Irish took off their swim trunks and flippy-flop­pies and got to work, they demonstrated the totality of their shift in a 49-21 win over Hawaii in the Sheraton Hawaii Bowl on Christmas Eve. The bowl win, Notre Dame's first since 1994, capped a 7-6 season that saw both promise and despair. 
Notre Dame's start to the season had fans believing that last year's demons had been exorcized. The Irish defeated San Diego State at home, 21­13, on Sept. 6. 
"It's a great feeling to get the win, especially coming off of last year," sophomore receiver Golden Tate said after the game. "To get a win in the first game, we feel much more confident." 
Tate had six receptions for 9 3 yards and a touchdown in the game. Sophomore quar­terback Jimmy Clausen com­pleted 21-of-34 passes and threw three touchdowns. 
Notre Dame's success con­tinued against Michigan the next week. The Wolverines' new coach, former West Virginia head coach Rich Rodriguez, was still figuring out how to run his style of offense with the players he inherited. That, plus the mon­soon that drenched Notre Dame Stadium and a good Irish running game, helped Notre Dame win 35-17. 
During the game, junior linebacker John Ryan was shoved out of bounds and into Irish coach Charlie Weis, knocking him to the ground. Weis suffered a torn anterior 
cruciate ligament (ACL) and 
medial collateral ligament 
(MCL). 
''I'll show up as a coach, but 
I'll be gone for the year as a 
player. Tommy Brady's got 
nothing on me," Weis joked 
after the game. "I feel like an 
athlete. First time in my life." 
Sophomore running back 
Robert Hughes ran 19 times 
for 81 yards and two touch­
downs in the game, getting a 
ton of carries in the down­
pour. 
Notre Dame's early-season success stopped on the road against Michigan State. The Irish lost, 23-7, largely in part to the performance of Spartans senior running back J avon Ringer. Ringer rushed 39 times for 201 yards and two touchdowns. 
"With J avon Ringer being such a dynamic guy, I think the one thing you needed to do was make sure you had everybody in every gap," Weis said in his Sunday post-game press conference. "And the few times in the gap where we didn't have somebody in every gap, like the one 60 yarder that he went for, was the one time if you go back and watch it you'll see there was no one in that gap where he ended up running through." 
Clausen threw two costly interceptions, one in the end zone and one while the Irish were driving. 
Spartans kicker Brett Swenson made three field goals in the game, one from 45 yards out. 
Notre Dame got back on track with a 38-21 win against Purdue. Sophomore running back Armando Allen carried the Irish, rushing for 134 yards and a touchdown. 
"We went out there and showed people that we really can run the ball," Allen said after the game. "We always hear that we can't run the ball, so to go out there and run the ball effectively is great." 
Clausen had another good day, throwing for 275 yards and three touchdowns. 

Weis said after the game. "It 
took us over a quarter to get 
into any kind of flow." 
Notre Dame's record fell to 
5-4 after being 4-1 at one 
point. The Eagles extended 
their winning streak over 
Notre Dame to six games. 
Notre Dame's 43-game win­
ning streak over Navy, 
snapped in 2007, now stands 
at one. Notre Dame eked out a 
27-21 win that Navy threat­
ened to ruin in the final min­
utes. 
Notre Dame led 27-7, but 
Navy back Shun White broke 
a long touc.i1down run to make 
the score 27-14. The 
Midshipmen recovered an 
onside kick and after a long 
pass put them on the 1-yard 
line, they punched the ball in 
to make the score 27-21. 
Then they recovered anoth­
er onside kick, but Irish fans 
breathed easy when Notre 
Dame's defense stopped the 
Midshipmen. 
Then came Syracuse. 
Not good times for the Irish, who lost 24-23 to the Orange. Notre Dame led 23-10, but Syracuse scored twice in the fourth quarter, once with less than a minute left, to win. The Irish could only muster 41 yards on the ground in the game. 
Against top-10 Southern California in Los Angeles, the wheels fell off. Notre Dame couldn't get a first down until the last play of the third quar­ter during a 38-3 loss. 
Then came Hawaii, and Notre Dame stomped the Warriors in their home stadi­um. Clausen blew the Hawaii secondary out of the water, completing 22-of-26 passes for 401 yards and five touch­downs. Tate had 177 yards receiving and three touch­downs. Both set Irish bowl game records. 
"I'm glad that we got the monkey off our back, and that we were the team that did it," senior defensive tackle Pat Kuntz said after the game. 
Notes: 
+Senior safety David Bruton was drafted by the Denver Broncos in the fourth round of the 2009 NFL Draft. 
+Pat Kuntz, David Grimes, Terrail Lambert, Asaph Schwapp and Mike Turkovich all signed with NFL teams. 
Contact Bill Brink at 

wtth the Hawaii Bowl trophy after a 49-21 win over the Warriors. room today. it was the first the composition of a team," wbrink@nd.edu 
"I thought [Clausen] 
improved a lot," senior receiv­
er David Grimes said after the 
game. "He was coming up to 
the line of scrimmage and 
calling plays just like Brady 
(Quinn) used to do. I think he 
grew up a lot today. I'm proud 
of him." 

Freshman receiver Michael 
Floyd led the Irish receivers 
with six catches for 100 
yards. 

Sophomore kicker Brandon 
Walker, who had struggled up 
to this point, made a 41-yard 
field goal during the game. 

"It boosted my confidence, 
the coaches' confidence and 
the players' confidence in me, 
so it was a relief," Walker 
said after the game. 

Notre Dame moved to 4-1 
with a 28-21 win over 
Stanford despite only 83 yards 
rushing. Clausen had his best 
game yet, throwing for 347 
yards and three touchdowns 
while completing 72.5 percent 
of his passes. 

"We were really getting Jimmy a lot of time and keep­ing him off the ground, and it just got going," junior tackle Sam Young said. "Our receivers made great plays. I thought the line did a pretty good job keeping Jimmy up and keeping him clean." 
So then came a big chance for the Irish: A road game against a ranked North Carolina team that would cement the fact that Notre Dame had returned. But a costly second-half intercep­tion and a last-second play that almost worked doomed the Irish, who lost 29-24 in Chapel Hill. 
Notre Dame scored first, on a 19-yard touchdown pass to Tate. The Irish led 17-9 at the half, but on the first play of the second half. Tar Heels linebacker Quan Sturdivant picked off Clausen's pass and returned it for a touchdown to make the score 17-16. 
Junior running back James Aldridge scored to put the Irish ahead by eight, but two North Carolina touchdowns in the final six minutes put the Tar Heels ahead by five. 
Notre Dame had a chance at the end of the game, but Floyd's cat'3h came short of the end zone as time expired. 
Despite the loss, Weis was happy with his team after the game. 
"That team in that loeker 
time in a long time where I've looked in their faces against a good opponent and it was a team that really feels bad," he said after the game. "And the reason they felt really bad is because they're starting to get 
it... 

No worries, though, because after the bve week Notre Dame traveled to Seattle and trounced Washington, 3 3-7. Floyd scored a 51-yard touch­down pass on the first drive and the Irish never looked back. In fact, Notre Dame would have shut out the win­less Huskies had Washington not threw a six-yard touch­down pass in the final three minutes. 
Aldridge rushed 13 times for 84 yards and two touch­downs in the game. 
Back in South Bend after fall break, the Irish and Pittsburgh needed extra time to decide the game, but the Panthers won, 36-33, after four overtimes. 
Notre Dame led 24-17 with 
5:38 remaining, but a late touchdown pass tied the game. Pittsburgh kicker Conor Lee and Walker traded field goals in the first two over­times. When Lee made his in the third, Walker attempted a 48-yarder that barely curved over the lower left corner of the crossbar. 
In the fourth overtime, how­ever, Walker missed a 38­yarder wide left. Lee knocked his through, and the game ended. 
"It's not [Walker's) fault at all that we lost," senior safety Kyle McCarthy said. "He played a great game, and he is a big reason that we stayed in the game throughout. It's the offense and defense's fault just as much as anyone's." 
Whatever demoralization resulted from Pittsburgh may have carried over into the next game, against Boston College in Chestnut Hill. Clausen threw four intercep­tions in a 17-0 loss. Boston College ran one of those inter­ceptions back for a touch­down, and Eagles running back Monte) Harris rushed for 
120 yards. The  Irish  held  
Boston  College  to  just  79  
yards  passing,  but  Notre  

Dame's offense could not take advantage. 
"The defense put out a win­ning performance, unfortu­nately that's only one-third of 

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 

Seniors David Bruton, David Grimes and Maurice Crum celebrate 

,_ 
page 28 Friday, May 15, 2009
The Observer + SPORTS 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Injuries end Irish season, lead to Gophers'win 

By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Deja vu can be positive or negative, and unfortunately 
\• the Irish got all of the bad kind 
~' and none of the good. 
~ 
\' Notre Dame lost sophomore i 
I forward Devereaux Peters to a I torn anterior cruciate ligament<<· (ACL), the same ACL she tore L last February. While we're at 
~· 
it, sophomore guard Brittany Mallory had the same injury. But there would be no return to the Sweet 16 for the Irish, ~--who finished 22-9 but lost to
\ 
\ Minnesota in the first round of the NCAA Tournament March 22. The Irish received the No. 7 seed in the Tournament and got a chance to play at home in the first round, but lost 79-71 to the No. 10-seed Gophers. The Irish gave up eight 3­pointers, a common problem for them all season. Five of them went to Gophers guard Katie Ohm. 

"Same old story, every game, we can't defend the 3-point line," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said after the game. "It was a fantastic crowd out there today and we didn't give them their money's worth." 
Ohm hit back-to-hack 3s that acted as an early death knell for the Irish. 
"When Ohm hit those two back-to-hack 3s that was really the gamebreaker right there," Irish junior guard Melissa Lechlitner said after the game. 
The Irish return every player next season, thanks to senior guard Lindsay Schrader's extra year of eligibility due to a torn ACL before her sophomore season. 
Peters tore her ACL during a win over Boston College on Nov. 23. Since she only played in three games, she can receive a medical redshirt. 
Notre Dame's start to the season boded well. The Irish began with a seven-game win­ning streak that included a 62­51 win over Purdue. Lechlitner scored 19 points to lead the team. 
The Irish suffered their first setback at Michigan, where they lost 63-59 in overtime. Notre Dame missed layups in the extra period and allowed Michigan's Stephany Skrba to score twice in a row. The Irish also lost Mallory to her ACL injury in the game. 
Jfatth~..,BNIO 
Daniel Cerrc11t 
Clm\wpha t\Mr 
Jlattlrt-14:' Fanmn Shm1tllt< Fdda Cath~rinc G"r:a llaA~ B~rntldt'tlt' f oudf'('au 
Tifftmy lildwx ( aitlin l!iidcbrand 
JareHl'~t 
SupJumie Kukhil 
EJ.,..-arti Kreimi" Ill frml A'uppich Jr. Ullrtll Lilley 
The Irish wouldn't lose again and losses for the next six until they entered Big East games before ending the sea-play, running off seven straight son on a three-game win victories. Included in these streak. games was a 59-57 win over Schrader made sure the Irish No. 20 Vanderbilt during which beat Cincinnati by scoring 19 Notre Dame came back from points and grabbing 15 down 18 points. Notre Dame rebounds in a 66-50 win at the outscored Vanderbilt 35-21 in Joyce Center. the second half, led by "We're just sick of losing, Schrader and sophomore for­and we're sick of talking about ward Becca Bruszewski with losing," Schrader said after the 
12. Bruszewski  game. "We have  
scored 10 of her  to go out there  
12 points in the second half. Once Notre  '"Same old story. every game. we can •t  and let our actions show." Freshman for­ 
Dame  entered  defend the 3-point  ward  Kellie  
conference play,  line.··  Watson hit two  
however, it had  back-to-hack 3s  
difficulty mount­ing a winning  Muffet McGraw  near the end of the game.  
streak  like  it  Irish coach  No momentum  

had against non-conference opponents. The Irish defeated DePaul and Georgetown but then lost three of their next four. 
Marquette defeated the Irish on the road, 75-65, to start the skid. Notre Dame responded by edging St. John's 70-67 in a tough game. Schrader blocked a potentially game-tying 3­pointer to secure the Irish vic­tory. Lechlitner had 15 points and Schrader and junior guard Ashley Barlow each had 13. 
Two straight losses to Villanova and Rutgers damp­ened the win. The Wildcats beat the Irish 55-48 on the road and sank 10 3-pointers in the process. 
"That's their game," McGraw said after the game. "I actually thought we did a decent job holding them to 55 points." 
Barlow led the low-scoring Irish offense with 11 points. Senior forward Laura Kurz had 16 points for the Wildcats. 
The Scarlet Knights didn't make life any easier when they visited the Joyce Center. Brittany Ray scored 26 points and Epiphanny Prince 24 in a 78-68 win over the Irish. 
"I thought Rutgers' two best players stepped up and played great," McGraw said. "We bat­tled at the end. We definitely tried to fight down the stretch but it was too little, too late." 
Freshman guard Natalie Novosel led the team with 19 points. going 7 -of-11 from field goal range. Lechlitner had 18 and Barlow added 17. This dropped Notre Dame's record to 15-4, 4-3 in conference play. 
The Irish alternated wins 

f.he Un.iversi ty of Notre Dame 's 
Science~ Technology &Values Program 
in tbe 
College of Arts & Letters 
Is pl-eased to announe'#J the following graduating studetlts fo1· 


the 
Class of 2009 
Jarnr,~ Md~rig 
Jl«ry Net'~/11 
Kutluriut \IJ(ter Suru.h Pmtt<1 Eli~th Purgm Ctt~y Robmwn William Sahw,e;:io 
Timothy P. S:fwc::_rlt 
RJim True.~aie 
OJi,·ia f'mwit> 
Jfi't)wt'l Waiim 
Patrid Jfafd 
Timr>thy lfrml 
(ialwid }malay 
for Notre Dame, 
however, because Pittsburgh's Shavonte Zellous scored 29 points as the Panthers defeated the Irish 82­70 on the road. Freshman for­ward Erica Solomon scored 14 points in the game, as did Bruszewski. The Irish got with­in one in the second half, but Pittsburgh went on a 14-6 run to put them away. 
Notre Dame spanked DePaul in the Blue Demons' house the first time around, and the Blue Demons came for revenge. DePaul had a long 3-point attempt to tie that came close, but clanged off the rim to give Notre Dame a 62-59 win dur­ing "The Pink Zone" promotion that raised money to fight can­cer. 
"I was holding my breath. That was a pretty open shot from quite a ways out," McGraw said. "I was saying some prayers there." 
Bruszewski hit a baseline 
· 

jumper with 50 seconds left to give Notre Dame a two-point lead and the Irish made their free throws down the stretch. She finished with 14 points and 12 rebounds. 
No. 10 Louisville came to town next, and Notre Dame gave the Cardinals a tough challenge, but lost 71-66. Notre Dame had a 6-0 run to pull within two in the final minutes, but Lechlitner fouled Cardinals senior Angel McCoughtry as she attempted a 3-pointer. McCoughtry made all three free throws and Louisville came out on top. 
"When you look at us now, they're a top 1 0 team and we obviously are right there with them," McGraw told the Associated Press after the game. "So even though we lost I think we can draw some good things from that game." 
After a win on the road at South Florida, Notre Dame traveled to Storrs to face the undefeated, No. 1 team in the nation, Connecticut. The Huskies had blown out oppo­nents all season, but the Irish stayed within 10 points in a 76-66 loss. The margin of vic­tory tied the lowest for Connecticut on the season. 
Barlow led the Irish with 18 points and Schrader had 17, but four Huskies starters scored in double figures. 
From there, Notre Dame won out against Syracuse, Providence and West Virginia and earned the No. 5 seed and a first-round bye in the Big East tournament in Hartford, Conn. In the second round, the Irish faced No. 13-seed St. John's and, after a dismal first half, outscored the Red Storm 42-23 in the second half to win 62-45. 
Schrader had her seventh double-double of the season, which broke Notre Dame's sin­gle-season record for guards. 
"I was getting on the block more," she said after the game. "I got a lot more oppor­tunities and I was just making them." 
This gave the Irish a second­round matchup against No. 4­seed Villanova, and the Wildcats used the same tools to beat the Irish as earlier in the season. They hit 10 3s on their way to a 58-47 win. 
Kurz had 21 points and 11 rebounds and Wildcats for­ward Lisa Karcic had 11 points. Siobahn O'Connor hit three of her six 3 -point attempts. 
"We were trying to double­team Lurz because she was hurting us down low, we were sending the double team down and rotating back out defen­sively," McGraw said after the game. "For some reason we stopped short on her twice." 
Notre Dame earned the No. 7 seed in the NCAA Tournament but lost to Minnesota. The prospects for next year, howev­er, look positive. Schrader and Mallory will be healthy and Skylar Diggins, one of the nation's top high school guards and a senior at nearby Washington High School in South Bend, will play for the Irish. 
"We had seen her play and I knew she was going to be a great player," McGraw told The Observer. "She was really special and I think we could tell that right away." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

Congrats andStayinTouch... 
We wish you the best of luck as you begin the next chapter in your life. 
No matter where life takes you, access to your accounts is easier than ever with our many online and mobile services. Plus, with over 32,000 surcharge-free ATMs nationwide, your money is always just around the corner. 
Graduates, you may qualify for an upgrade to a v~ Platinum Credit card with asigned letter ofacceptance from your employer. 

Friday, May 15, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
HOCKEY 
Conference champs upended by Bemidji St. 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish fall to Michigan; Helgeson advances to NCAAsingles 
By KATELYN GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Early season victories and another trip to the NCAA Tournament highlighted another successful season for the Irish, who fell to Michigan 4-1 in the first round last weekend. 
Notre Dame finished 13-13 against tough competition, and had defeated the Wolverines earlier in the sea­son. When it counted, howev­er, only senior Brett Helgeson won his point at the NCAA Tournament. 
The Irish gained confidence at the beginning of the season with big wins over No. 9 Illinois and No. 12 Texas A&M. 
"Against A&M we rallied back from a 3-0 deficit to win 4-3," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "Seeing Stephen Havens serve it out at 5-3 in the third was particularly amazing since he defeated the former U. S. National Junior Champion, someone who played in the main draw of the 
U.S. Open last September. That is pretty rarified air in which to compete. Brett hit one of the biggest forehands I have ever seen at match point to down Connor Pollock." 
The Irish were able to get 
big wins from freshman Casey Watt this season as he finished the regular season with 15 victories while splitting time between No. 3 and No. 4 sin­gles for the Irish. 
"The most pleasant surprise has been Casey Watt's ability to compete as we keep moving him up the ladder," Bayliss said. "He simply plays at a much higher level in matches than we see daily in matches. The trick now is to find ways to force him to practice with the same intensity and focus because that is the best way to be able to add the weapons and improve the areas of con­cern that will lift him to greater heights." 
The Irish will be faced with yet another senior graduation, losing their No. 1 singles play­er, llelgeson. 
Helgeson was recently named to the 64-player draw of the NCAA Singles bracket that will be held from May 20­25 in College Station, Texas. This will be his second straight appearance at the event. Helgeson has also been named as the fourth alternate with sophomore Tyler Davis to the 32-team field in doubles. 
"You cannot really replace a Brett Helgeson," Bayliss said. "Our team went into every match knowing that we had a chance to win at No. 1 and not many teams can say that. We need to try to find someone ­Stephen [Havens] and Casey [Watt] come immediately to mind -who gives us the best chance to win at No. 1 next year. We have pretty good freshmen arriving in the fall, but it is certainly a stretch to feel that any of them is ready to play high in the lineup." 
The Irish will have some of their players around South Bend this summer to hit and train and others will be work­ing on their games at home. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at 
kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer 
Led by a group of seniors that Irish coach Jeff Jackson said helped changed the cul­ture of the program, Notre Dame followed up last year's national runner-up finish with a dominating regular season and a CCI-lA title that won't soon be forgotten despite a disappointing loss in the NCAA tournament's first round. 
"Probably 95 percent of the teams in the country would have loved to have our sea­son," Jackson said. "It's a blemish, but it's the timing of [the NCAA loss] that hurt the most. I think winning the league and playoffs was another sign that we're mak­ing good progress." 
Perhaps the biggest sign of the Notre Dame (31-6-3, 21-4­3 CCHA) program's develop­ment under Jackson was the Feb. 12 announcement that the University will begin con­struction on a new, freestand­ing ice arena next spring that will be ready for the 2011-12 season. First-year athletics director Jack Swarbrick was a major supporter of the proj­ect, which had significant funding secured more than a year ago, but only recently received approval and a defi­nite timeline for completion. 
"The fact that hockey has arrived on the campus is a huge thing, and we want to continue that in the next few years moving into a new building," Jackson said. 
Jackson has emphasized all along that while the graduat­ing seniors won't have the opportunity to play in the new rink, it was their contribu­tions over the last four years -Jackson's first four at Notre Dame -that helped make the dream facility a reality. 
Captain Erik Condra led the Irish in scoring in each of the last four years. and he was also a finalist this past season for the conference's top defensive forward honor. 
Condra, along with goaltender 
Jordan Pearce, was also one 
Senior CLASS Award. 
Pearce manned the Notre 
Dame goal for each of the 
past two years after sitting 
behind All-American Dave 
Brown for his first two. But 
Pearce made his time count, 
leading the nation and setting 
single-season Irish records in 
wins and shutouts as a senior. 
And Jackson said his other 
four seniors current 
Toronto Maple Leafs center 
Christian Hanson, Luke Lucyk, 
Garrett Regan and Justin 
White -all stepped it up for 
their final season and provid­
ed valuable ice time in addi­
tion to quality leadership in 
the locker room. 
"There's no question that they've put us in position to be where we are," Jackson said. "Erik Condra was con­sistent throughout his career, but [others] really took their game to another level." 
The seniors' departures will surely hurt the Irish, but the proverbial cupboard is not bare by any means. Notre Dame will likely be one of the top teams in the country in preseason polls, as one of the nation's top recruiting classes will team with a solid return­ing core that includes eight of last season's top 10 scorers. 
Among the returnees will be sophomore Calle Ridderwall, who built on a strong finish to his freshman campaign by leading the Irish with 17 goals, including 11 on the power play -one of the top totals in the country. Notre Dame will also return fresh­man Billy Maday, whose 16 goals put him among the nation's top newcomers. 
The blue line will also be strong come October, with the return of juniors Kyle Lawson and Brett Blatchford and sophomores Ian Cole and Teddy Ruth to a defense that was underrated in the shadow of Pearce's dominance and the offense's ability to put up crooked goal tallies. 
"There will be some adjust-
Observer 

Goaltender Jordan Pearce makes a save in the CCHA championship against Michigan on March 
21. The Irish defeated the Wolverines 5-2 with four goals in the third period. 
ment, but we've got potential rest of the CCHA pack and the Grand Rapids, Mich., for a good group of leaders solidify one of the top two regional. The Beavers took next year," Jackson said. spots in the national polls, control with a pair of fluky "We've got some big holes to where Notre Dame was goals early in the game, and fill, but I'm hoping that some ranked for nearly the entire Notre Dame never recovered guys continue to elevate their the season. in a 5-1 loss that sent the game similar to what After the Miami series, the heavy favorites home in Christian and Jordan did this Irish never again lost back-to­shock. year." hack games, running away "To be honest, it didn't sink 
Notre Dame's tremendous with the league title and then in for me until I was sitting in regular season came as no taking the CCHA tournament the locker room, looking surprise to most, as the Irish championship with wins over around, and realized I was were a consensus No. 1 or No. Northern Michigan and never going to put on this jer­2 pick in the preseason polJs. Michigan. sey again and never play with But they struggled a bit out of The championship game vic­these guys again," Hanson 
the gate, dropping three of tory over the Wolverines was said after the game. their first five games particularly impressive, as Though the end of Notre -including the first two con­Notre Dame overcame a two­Dame's season came sooner ference games at home to goal deficit and a heavily pro­than many would have liked, Miami (Ohio}. Michigan crowd to score five Jackson noted that those feel­
Perhaps those early defeats unanswered goals and win, 5-ings are another indication of served as a wake-up call, 2, at Joe Louis Arena in how far the program has though, as Notre Dame then Detroit. come just a few years rattled off a school-best 20-"That's why you play 60 removed from a single-digit game unbeaten streak that minutes," Jackson said after win total. spanned nearly three months that victory. "It was just a "Expectations have changed -from an Oct. 31 loss to matter of being patient for our program and I think Miami to a Jan. 30 defeat at enough to generate some that we left with an empty the hands of Michigan. scoring chances. Once we feeling to an extent," Jackson 
"We were getting production caught a break, it turned the said. "To become one of the from a lot of people," Jackson tide for us." top 10 teams in the country is said of the streak. "I think our Most viewed the Irish as one thing, but to try to sustain consistency was much better being poised for a deep NCAA it is a lot more challenging." than in previous years." run, but Notre Dame went up 
The streak helped the Irish against a feisty, quick Bemidji Contact Matt Gamber at distance themselves from the St. team in the first round at mgamber@nd.edu 
Recycle The Observer. 

~----­
Friday, May 15, 2009 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Shooting woes, tough schedule doom Irish 



IAN GAVLICK!The Observer Point guard Kyle McAlarney takes a jump shot in the second round of the Big East Tournament against West Virginia in early March • 
won 45 straight games.
By CHRIS HINE However. that ended on Jan. 
Senior StaffWriter 
24, when Connecticut beat 
Notre Dame 69-61. McAlarney 
They began with a top 1 0 had some open looks, but preseason ranking and had scored just nine points on 3­four returning starters from a of-15 shooting. Senior Hyan team that made the NCAA Ayers had his own troubles, Tournament a year ago, shooting just 1-of-1 0 for the including the reigning Big night. East player of the year in Then Marquette defeated Luke Harangody. It was a Notre Dame two days later, recipe for suc­and again Notre cess. Dame's shoot­
..This was
But there was ers couldn't one ingredient embarassing today, find their touch. 
in Notre Dame's definitely a low point The Golden season that Eagles hounded
in my career at Notre
spoiled the fin­McAlarney and
Dame.,,
ished product limited him to -a tough and nine points. grueling sched­
Luke Harangody Ayers shot 0­
ule. for-7 for the
Irish forward 
Notre Dame faced the No. 1 seeds in the NCAA Tournament a total of six times, with five of those games coming in conference, and suffered through a seven­game losing streak that played a large part Notre Dame's relegation to the NIT. 
The Irish finished the year
' 
with a 21-15 record (8-10 Big
~ ·. 
East) and went 1-5 in this 
matchups against those No. 1 
seeds. 
The writing on the wall for this season may have come 
. \ before Notre Dame began conference play, in a contest against Ohio State at Lucas Oil Stadium. Harangody played despite fighting the effects of pneu­monia he contracted during Notre Dame's time in Maui playing in the Maui Invitational. He still scored 25 points and grabbed 16 rebounds. Harangody wasn't the prob­lem. The problem was that Notre Dame couldn't make up for the off night senior guard Kyle McAlarney had. Ohio State closely guarded McAlarney and held him to just six points on 3-for-11 shooting. Junior guard Tory Jackson was second in scor­ing for Notre Dame with 13 points as the Irish struggled and fell 67-62 to the Buckeyes. Ohio State had designed the blueprint on how to beat Notre Dame -let Harangody get his points, but contain McAlarney. The rest of the Irish weren't score-first players the way Harangody and McAlarney were, and Notre Dame's defense was inconsistent, and made it hard for the Irish to stay in I i I close games. Notre Dame's Big East oppo­
·~ 
nents certainly took notes ·~ !"rom Ohio State's victory. 
Teams took away McAlarney at times during Notre Dame's seven-game losing streak, while his team mates strug­gled to pick up the slack. 
The streak began with a Jan. 12 overtime loss to Louisville. then continued with a 93-74 loss to Syracuse on Jan. 17. Still, optimism abounded around the Irish squad. The following weekend ESPN's College Gameday came to campus, as did top­tier opponents in Marquette and Connecticut. The Huskies came to town on Saturday amidst. all the hype. Notre Dame may have been strug­gling. but those struggles were a way from the Joyce Center. where the Irish had night. 
While offen­sive problems doomed the Irish in the losses to Marquette and Connecticut, defensive deficiencies con­tributed to Notre Dame's next two losses. The Irish gave up 93 points each to Pittsburgh and Cincinnati. Their seventh loss of the streak, however, was just an overall disaster on both ends of the floor. The Irish reached their low point in Los Angeles at the hands of UCLA. The Bruins delivered an 89-63 thumping of Notre Dame, aired nationwide on CBS. 
"Time for us to go back to step one," Harangody said fol­lowing the defeat. "There's not much you could say. This was embarrassing today, defi­nitely a low point in my career at Notre Dame." 
The streak ended in per­haps Notre Dame's weirdest game of the season. Against eventual Big East champion Louisville on Feb. 12 at the Joyce Center, Notre Dame played outside of itself and beat the Cardinals 90-57. 
Everything went right for the Irish that night, but soon, Notre Dame came back down to earth, ending the Big East season with two straight loss­es to Connecticut and Villanova -playing two straight Final Four teams can do that to you. 
West Virginia knocked the Irish out of the Big East tour­nament and days later, the Irish learned they would play in the NIT. 
They advanced to the semi­finals before losing to Penn State. 
Their final season may not have gone as they planned, but Notre Dame's four gradu­ating seniors -McAlarney, Zach Hillesland, Ayers and Luke Zeller -certainly aceomplished a lot during their four-year careers 
The four struggled through a tough freshman season that mirrored their final season in some ways. They suffered defeat after agonizing defeat and missed the NCAA Tournament. But those two years bookended two solid years where the Irish had one of the most potent offenses in the country. 
And each had their own 
memorable moments. 
McAlarney hit nine 3-point­
ers his junior year. against 
Syracuse. then hit 10 in a loss 
this year to North Carolina. 
llillesland posterized 
DePaul's Mac Koshwal in a 
game in March of 2008. 
Zell£>r's left-handed dunk 
against Marquette, which his Ayers, a bench role player teammates named "The during his sophomore year, Baptism" sparked Notre Dame hit a key 3-pointer to tie the to a key win in 2008 against game late against the Marquette, while Ayers hit Wildcats, then hit two free what Irish coach Mike Brey throws to give Notre Dame called one of the most impor­the lead. The Irish won the tant shots of the past four game, advanced to 5-3 in the years when he was a sopho­Big East on their way to more against Villanova. advancing to the NCAA 
·-~;:-_,~ 
Model unit OPEN NOW! 
Tournament. 
The four seniors had some moments on the court they'd like to forget, but the good memories they created should be enough to drown out the bad. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Just north ofToll Roall access

Roseland Square Condos 
207 Ditie Wav North (LV 933)

. Six one level condos within view of I 
Contact us at (574) 271-8961

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's I • • . 
1 
or v1s1t us on1me at: I WWII\RoselandTech.com

Aunique opportunity in ahigh visibilio' loclltion! 
Friday, May 15, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 31 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles' season sets record heights 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
The Belles enjoyed their greatest season in program history, coming up just short in their bid to capture the MIAA title in a tough loss in the conference finals. 
With a 17-10 record overall, 13-3 in conference, Saint Mary's eclipsed the school's previous record for wins in each category. The Belles also reached the championship game of the MIAA conference tournament for the first time in school history, but fell to conference powerhouse Hope 77-4 7 in the finals. on February 28. 
"It means a lot to reach the MIAA championship game," third-year head coach Jennifer Henley said. "Every team in this conference strives to get there." 
After graduating one of the championship game validates 
most distinguished senior that we are moving in the classes in the program's histo­right direction." ry, Saint Mary's used a bal­The Belles will lose four sen­ance of veteran leadership iors from this year's team: and impact freshmen to finish Meghan Conaty, Katie Rashid, with 13 wins in the MIAA, sec­Erin Newsom and Nicole ond only to Hope's 15-1 mark. Beier. The Dutchmen's lone loss "I am very proud of our four came at the hands of the seniors," Henley said. "They Belles at Saint Mary's Angela took ownership of this team Athletic Facility in January. early on and are a big reason 
Henley is confident that her for the success we had. One of squad will be able to build on the best parts of this season this season's success. and the for me is to watch how this strong freshman and sopho­team has improved since more classes are a testament [going 2-6 in non-conference to the program's bright future. play]." 
·"With each new season; we N-ewsom ·earned an All-MIAA continue to try and get one first team selection, while for­step closer to thP [NCAA ward Beier received All-MIAA Division III Championships!," second team honors. Newsom Henley said. "Despite (~oming finished third in the MIAA in up short, making it to the both seoring (14.4 ppg) and rebounds (7.8 ppg). 

Sophomore guard Liz Wade also earned conference hon­ors, being named the MIAA Defensive Player of the Year after leading the league in steals {3.56 spg) and finishing second in assists. 
Losing four seniors, espe­cially a senior class as strong as the Belles'. will hit any pro­gram hard. Henley said. 
"It's hard to say who will fill the roles that are seniors had this year," she said. "Each sea­son brings a new identity. Our four outgoing seniors have set the bar high for those that fol­
low. I am· very proud of -this team and all that they have accomplished this season." 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.eclu 
Tit::k.eU Un §ale ~f)W 
South Bend David Pendleton Symphony Concert Ventriloquist 
Magical Melodies Family Show 
Saturday, May 16 Satur-day, June 6 
Upwmlne §h()~ ·. 
Saturday· Jeffrey O.bome Aug~1 . R&BConcert 
·Sunday Alice Cooper Aug.9 with Blue Oyster Cult Rock Concert 
The Wedding Singer 
Broa Musical 
.f' 

"'·~...... 
\:.. . 

Mamma Mia! Broadway Musical. 
Basedon ABBA Songs 
Fri..Sun, July 24-26 
Crosby, Stills &Nash Rock Concert 
Rock &Roll Legends 
Monday, Aug. 3 
FREE Summer Concert Series 
R. Hunt . . . 
.··. :30 arn~1:30prn 

June 12 KennedY• Kitchenllrish 
June 26 Half-Pint Jones/Jazz
July 10 · Shilo/Country 
July 24 · Bill NicksiM6foWI'! Oance Petty . 7 · Goldmlne PickeralrBfureg,ass 
. 21 
FENCING 

Runner-up finish disappoints Irish 

By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 

For the second consecutive year, the Irish finished second overall at the NCAA Fencing Championship and, for the second consecutive year, the Irish left the strip after hav­ing a national title snatched out of their hands. 
Notre Dame fell to the heav­ily favored Nittany Lions of Penn State, but accumulated 182 wins over the course of the 
gram-best mark in win totals originally set in 1995. 
Despite the lack of experi­ence at the collegiate level, the Irish did boast some expe­rience at the world level. Olympians Gerek Meinhardt and Kelley Hurley played an important role in developing the attitude and work ethic of 
the successful fencing squad. 
Meinhardt, a freshman foil­er and the youngest male U.S. Olympian in Beijing in 2008, believes Olympic experience has immense value when 

four-day tourna­"We know that we translated to ment. Despite collegiate fene­
have a core team that 
falling short of' ing.
is very strong and 
their· ultimate "Beijing w iII goal, the Irish very young.'' help in getting turned in used to pressure impressive per­situations,"
Janusz Bednarski 
formances each Meinhardt said
Irish coach 
day of the com­petition on both the men's and women's sides. By the end of the championship, the squad featured 10 All-Americans and two silver medalists. 
"We just mobilized all the energy, everything to fight," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. "We had a very good season and in general, many teams wanted to be second. We are not happy anyway because we have a bigger appetite, but we have to wait until next year." 
But by any objective meas­ure the Irish turned in a truly impressive season, consider­ing the team featured 14 freshmen and missed the sup­port of a very strong senior cast from 2008. 
After combining for a 14-0 record at the Notre Dame Duals in early February, the men's fencing team finished the regular season ranked No. 1 in the coaches' poll at a perfect 34-0. The undefeated 2009 season is the 20th in program history and the first sinee 2003, while the men's win total of 34 is the highest in Notre Dame history. 
Not to be outdone by the men's team, the women also went undefeated at the Notre Dame Duals with a combined record of 12-0. The women's squad finished :{2-2 in the regular season. tying the pro-
in December. 
"It's the highest 
level of competi­
tion, so I'll better be able to deal with nerves that come with playing in the NCAA." 
In addition to the outstand­ing fencing of Meinhardt, who finished with a silver medal in the foil at the NCAA Championship, the core of young talent was greatly sup­ported by first team All­American Courtney Hurley and second team All­American Avery Zuck. Hurley, a freshman and the younger sister of Kelley Hurley, fin­ished tied for third in the epee at the championship, while sophomore Zuck fin­ished in fifth in the sabre division. 
Bednarski, the only coach in Notre Dame's history to win a national title in his first sea­son and win multiple national titles in fewer than five sea­sons, believes his young team is well on its way to a nation­al title in the near future. 
"Each year is different because we don't know who will come to support them next year," Bednarski said. "We know that we have a core team that is very strong and very young. But anything can happen if we make it to the Bloody Four." 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

-----------~~----------------------------------------------------·--------------------------------------------------------~----------------------­
[ 

page 32 Friday, May 15, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS 
'~ -,' 
'' 
'­
•.' 
'· 
.\ 
·~ 



Observer File Photos 

Top left, Tory Jackson reacts after hitting the game-winning shot over New Mexico in the NIT. Top right, Annando Allen celebrates the end of a kickoff return for a touchdown in the Hawaii Bowl. Center, Notre Dame poses with the CCHA championship trophy in Detroit after defeating Michigan. Bottom left, Brittany Bock fights for the ball in a 5-0 win over Cincinnati. The lrtsh were undefeated until their final game. Bottom right, the doubles team of Kelcy Tefft and Kristy Frilling win a point against Michigan in the NCAA Tournament. 
.... 
Friday, May 15, 2009 page 33
The Observer + SPORTS 



Observer File Photos 

Top left, senior guard Kyle McAiamey reacts following Notre Dame's loss to West VIrginia in the second round of the Big East Tournament. Top right, junior Neal Hicks leaves the field after the Irish's 7-3 loss to Maryland in the NCAA Tournament. Center, a Bemidji State player scores on Notre Dame goalie Jordan Pearce in the Beaver's first round upset. Bottom left, quarterback Jimmy Clausen consoles safety David Bruton after a 24-23 loss to Syracuse. Bottom right, senior Carrie Dew sits after losing in the NCAA final to UNC. 
r 
' 
page 34 Friday, May 15, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS 

every day and be a better team­difficult to put up such gaudy reserves or even [fellow sen­mate, and that helped me a lot in statistics if she did not play ior Brittany Bock] if they're
Pearce Hanks 
practice and I improved." for a premier team like doing something wrong." continued from page 40 Though Pearce learned a lot continued from page 40 Notre Dame. But Hanks said she is criti­from Brown about handling the "It would be impossible cal of herself, as well. he also tied Brown's career shutout pressure of being the go-to guy in 
the all-time assist list. without my teammates to fin­"I expect my teammates to tally with 12. net for the Irish, Jackson said there 
"I actually haven't thought ish off those assists and set do the same to me, if I'm not Thi.:; season, he led the nation in aren't many comparisons to be 
about all of [the honors] yet," up those free kicks for me to doing my best," she said. " ... wins (30), goals-against average made between the two. 
Hanks said. "The records take," she said. "Without my Once I step off the field it's 
(1.68) and shutouts (8). "Jordan's a bigger man, he's a.'> 
have obviously been great teammates and [Waldrum] I completely different. But if J "So much of it has to do with athletic as David, and he's learned 
and I'm speechless about it wouldn't be able to get those do anything wrong, I'd consistency," Jackson said. "He to be better in the situations that 
still ... It hasn't really set in records." expect my teammates to step does it every night, and he doesn't was he wa.'> weak at when he first 
-yet . " up and yell at me." have bad games. He'll occasionally started," Jackson said. "It's really 
Hanks is only the third The missing piece to the give up a soft goal -very seldom his competitiveness that mirrors 
player ever to notch 70 puzzle Taking It to the next level though -and even if he does, he David Brown's competitiveness. 
career goals and 70 assists. Hanks and her classmates On Jan. 16, Hanks learned comes back and plays well. He And his demeanor is probably bet­
On Jan. 9, Hanks became garnered almost every team that she'd be playing soccer doesn't get rattled by it." ter than David Brown's, as far as 
only the fourth women's and individual honor except beyond her years at Notre In four years as his coach, his ability to react to adversity. He 
player to win the Hermann the national championship. Dame when she was picked Jackson hasn't found a way to has the tendency to be able to 
Trophy twice, joining the The team has made it to the with the sixth overall selec­break Pearce's focus-even when respond better." 
ranks of Hamm, Cindy College Cup in each of the tion in the in augur al he deliberately tries to do so. 
Parlow and Christine past three seasons but has Women's Professional Soccer "I wish he had a little bit more What's next? 
Sinclair. Hanks was the first never earned the title, losing draft. flair to him beeause he'd get more Even if the NHL doesn't come 
player to win the award in once in the semifinals and Hanks was selected by the recognition," Jackson said. "I try to calling, Pearce's future i'i bright. 
non-consecu­twice in the St. Louis Athletica, just one pump his tires as much as I can \'Vith a 3.816 grade point average 
tive seasons. championship. pick after teammate Brittany because I think he deserves to be and a spot in Notre Dame's 
"I'm grateful Despite the Bock was snatched by the recognized a'i one of the top play­Academic Honors Program, the 
to everyone at ..I would rather win disappointing Los Angeles Sol. ers in the country." anthropology and pre-med double 
Notre Dame -results, The WPS is the second
than have the 
At the end of the season, Pearce's major ha.'i already begun to inter­
my teammates, Waldrum said attempt at women's profes­
records.··

contribution'> within the team were view for medical school. 
coaches, staff Hanks' com­sional soccer in the U.S. The acknowledged when he was "I wanted to pmsue mcd school 
and our fans petitiveness Women's United Soccer named team M.V.P. for the second so that option would be there if I 
who are the Kerri Hanks can frequently Association (WUSA) was consecutive year. wanted to go that route," Pearce 
greatest in the Irish forward be seen in her founded in 2000 but only As Lawson said, Pearce is said. "We'II see if the hockey offers 
country -for emotional on-survived three seasons Pearce. He'll almost admit that he come my way. I'd love to go play 
all of their sup-field nature. before folding. With fresh enjoys the personal accolades -hockey, and you only get one 
port, not only "She's highly stars like those coming off "It's always nice to get those," he chance to go pursue a dream to 
this year but throughout my competitive," Waldrum said. the Irish graduating class, said -but he quickly qualified that play professional hockey. If the 
career," Hanks said in a "What [fans] see a little trace many hold hopes the WPS statement by saying that individual opportunity comes, I'd be excited to 
statement released by the of on the field, we see every will survive longer than its honors aren't his primary fO<:us. play." 
athletic department. "I will day in training." predecessor. "To me, it's more important to be It looks like Pearce may get that 
always treasure the friend­Waldrum said Hanks is Boasting internationally­there playing [in the CCHA champi­chance. On April 10, he signed a 
ships I made at Notre Dame serious even during daily famed players like Brazil's .... ' onship] than it is to receive your two-year contract with the NHCs 
and will carry those memo­scrimmages. Marta (Los Angeles Sol) and awards [the night before)," Pearce Detroit Red Wings. Ironically 

ries with me forever." "Kerri wiJJ always Jet me America's own Abby said. enough, Pearce's professional 
Still, Hanks said she would know what the score is in Wambach (Washington As for the school records -well, career will begin where his colle­
rather have earned a nation­practice," Waldrum said. "If Freedom), the WPS stands a he doesn't need those, either. giate one ended, as he was 
al championship trophy than I have the wrong score, fighting chance. .. 
•( "Only having two years to play assigned to Detroit's AHL affiliate in 
any individual honor. And she 'II let me know if I'm Hanks has played in five here, it's nice to be making all these Grand Rapids. Pearce played in 
she said she wants to leave a wrong." games so far for St. Louis, 
, I records," Pearce said. "But with one game for the Griffins, giving up 
legacy as a good teammate Hanks said she knows she who sit in fifth place in the the coaching staff and the way this five goals in a loss. 
rather than a top statistical might rub some people the WPS standings. program is going, I'm sure that the Growing up in Anchorage, Ala., 
performer. wrong way during games but next goalie in line will probably just Pearce's parents instilled in him a 
"I would rather win than said her attitude simply This story originallykeep on breaking all the records staunch commitment to academics, 
have the records," she said. reflects her will to win. appeared in the Dec. 5, 2008 that I set." and that has stuck with him at 
"I just want the younger ''I'll be the first to tell you edition of The Observer. Notre Dame, he said. 
players to look up to me." I'm not very nice out there," Leaming from the best "You always have to have that 
Besides, Hanks said, it she said. "I tell everyone on Contact Fran Tolan at Even if that's the case, though, it safety net," Pearce said. 
would have been much more the team, whether it's the ftolan@nd.edu will be with Pearce's help. "Academics was always the top 
"I didn't understand it my first priority in my life. I've learned over couple years, but now I know the years that you don't have to exactly what he was going through sacrifice your athletic perfonnance being behind somebody who's that or your attitude just to accomplish good," junior backup goaltender good things in the academic world. 
·.--Tom O'Brien said. "Just watching You can do both, you just have to him, you learn so much about how be dedicated and know how to to handle every situation you can manage your time." inmgine. He learned from the best, Easier said than done, but and I have the opportunity to learn Pearce has got it under control. But from the best." that's no surprise to those who 
With Pearce's departure at the know him. end of this season, O'Brien will bat­"The kid's probably smarter than tle sophomore frontrunner Brad all of us, and he's the No. 1 goalie Phillips, who missed the entire sea­here at Notre Dame," Lawson said. son after preseason knee surgery, "The kid's got a.'> full a plate as you to become heir to the Irish goal­can get here, and he just goes tending throne. about his bu'iiness quietly. I'm just 
''He (Pearce) works hard in the glad I don't have his schedule." weight room, works hard on the As for that rock-solid demeanor ice and is a gO<x:lleader in the lock­-well, that might be an important er room," Phillips said. "He's a quality to have as a doctor. And as good goalie to follow after and look it turns out, it works for a goal­up to ... I just want to follow in hi'> tender as well. footsteps, and hopefully I can do "From where I was with him as a the same thing." freshman or sophomore, wonder­
And it's not only in games that ing how hard he was going to com­Pearce makes some of the spectae­pete or how hard he would work, ular saves to which his teammates he's a kid who has probably made have become accustomed. the biggest turnaround from my 
"Even in praetice he's uncon­perspective of him," Jackson said. scious," O'Brien said. "I can't beat "I had him wrong. I didn't know him in any [scrimmage] games, it's how hard he really wanted it, and I tmbelievable." watch him now and he competes 
It might not have always been as hard as any goalie I've ever that way for Pearce, who said it coached. took him a year or so to deal with "It's just his nature, and that his role as a backup. Once he came demeanor is what makes him even to the realization that when Brown better. That low-key [attitude] that I graduated, it would be his job to was looking at as a negative was lose, his view on the situation actually a positive, because it's a changed.. great trait in a goalie to be emo­
"It was a long two years being tionally under control." behind David Brown, but I learned to adapt and I learned that by kind This story originally appeared in of pouting and moping around, you the March 20 edition of The don't get anything accomplished Obsen•er. and you're not making yourself better," Pearce said. "I tried to Contact Matt Gamber at change my attitude, get better mgamber@nd.edu 

·~ 
Friday, May 15, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 35 
Saint Ma 
s:Year in Review 
Soccer adjusts under new coach; McClowry leads young cross-country squad; Golf to compete for NCAA title 
Observer Staff Report 
Soccer 
With a young team and a new 
coach, the Belles took their hits this 
season. 
Saint Mary's (2-13-1, 1-7 MIAA), 
led by first-year head coach Ryan 
Crabbe, struggled to score goals, 
tallying an average of one per 
match while giving up just over two 
per contest. 
··our record does not reflect it, 
but we are a much better team 
than it shows," Crabbe said 
towards the end of the season in 
October. "I have full confidence that 
these players want to succeed and I 
know they can compete with any 
team that steps on the field against 
them." 
After a slow start to the sea'>on, 
dropping their first three matches 
against tough non-conference 
opponents, the Belles rebounded by 
winning the North Central tourna­
ment for the second year in a row. 
The Belles took out Mount Mercy 2­
0 in the first round before knocking 
off host North Central in a shootout 
to claim the championship. 
The conference schedule, howev­er, proved unkind to the Belles as they dropped their first four con­tests, including a double-overtime loss at Hope College. Saint Mary's picked up its only win in MIAA competition at home with a 4-0 result against Trine University. 
··one thing I have been most proud of with this team this season is the fact that they continue to show up every day and work hard to get better," Crabbe said in October. "Even with the frustration of our lack of results on the field in terms of wins, these players contin­ue to compete every time they are out on the field." 
Senior Lauren Hinton led the team with five goals and two ac;sists, earning a spot on the All­MIAA team. Junior Micki Bedinger was right behind her with three goals and two assists on the season. 
Volleyball 
After establishing a reputation as one ofthe most disciplined and con­sistent teams in the MIAA last year, the Belles welcome the arrival of Toni Kuschel as their new head coach. Kuschel will follow in the footsteps of coach Julie Schroeder­Biek, who guided Saint Mary's to an 18-11 (9-7 MIM) season. 
Schroeder-Biek wac; a member of the Belles' coaching staff since 1986 and served as head coach for 14 seasons before being named the athletic director of Saint Mary's College. Kuschel, a Minnesota native, has served in a variety of 
coaching capacities at the high 
school, Junior Olympic and colle­
giate levels. 
"We are very excited for 
[Kuschel] to come on board and 
become a part of our department," 
Schroeder-Biek said. "She has a 
true passion for coaching and will 
bring great energy to the program." 
The Belles' record was an 
improvement over the previous 
sea<>on's 6-10 mark in league play 
(fifth place) and 12-17 overall, and 
the squad demonstrated giant leaps 
in consistency and team effort. 
Standout junior hitter Lorna 
Slupczynski paced the offense with 
a team-high 3.14 kills per game, 
while freshman setter Danielle 
Brink added a .323 attacking per­
centage and 8.25 a~i'it'i per game, 
both team highs. 
Both Slupczynski and senior hit­ter Cathy Kurczak earnt-'<1 All-MIAA honors for their efforts. Kurczak's 34 blocks lead the team. Kurczak departs alongside fellow senior Kaela Hellmann, who finished sec­ond on the team in both kills and service aces. 
..1 was really excited to see what [Hellmann and Kurczak] brought to the squad during their final sea­son," Schroeder-Biek said. "They have both been key players since their first year and stepped up their play every year." 
Cross Country 
Led all season by junior Megan McOowry, the Belles finished fourth in the MIAA and 17th at NCAA Regionals with a young team this 
season. 
"The difference for me this sea­son is due to summer training," McOowry said. "I was able to come in with a good base and then my teammates have helped push the pace at workouts this season." 
McClowry also earned second team All-MIAA honors for the Belles at the conference meet. 
One of the highlights of the Belles season was hosting the MIAA Jamboree early in the season. This race was the Belles first home meet since 2002. 
··1 was so excited to finally have a home meet," senior captain Caitlin Brodmerkel said. "The Saint Mary's cross country team i'i such a great group of women and we have a dif­ficult time getting people to see that since we always compete so far from campus." 
Brodmerkel was able to set a personal record at the Calvin Invite for the Belles, and attributed much ofher success to summer training. 
"I actually spent my summer in a rural village in Uganda," Brodmerkel said. "Therefore, my ofT-season training consisted of early morning runs on the dirt roads of Uganda as the sun rose." 
Swimming 
Saint Mary's was led by under­
classmen throughout a season filled 
with ups and downs, finishing 4-7 
in the regular season and fifth in 
the MIAA Swimming and Diving 
Championships. 
··1 think our season went great 
thi., year," freshman Eva Cavadini 

said. ··our team is a great team and 
we have a lot of fun togetl1er, which 
is one of the most important things 
when it comes to swirruning." 
Cavadini, along with sophomore 

Maggie Williams and freshman 
Audrey Dalrymple, led the Belles, 
both individually and on relay 
teams. Dalrymple recorded the best 
time for the Belles in four different 
events, and Williams and Cavadini 
each posted team-best times in 
three events. 
All three swimmers were also 

members of the top 200-and 400­
yard medley relay teams for the 
Belles. The 400-yard medley relay 
broke the school record during the 
MIAA Championships, a moment 
that Cavadini said was the best of 
the year. 
"We had been trying all year to break that record, and we knew we could but I think we needed the extra energy that comes at a big meet like conference to help push us to get that record," Cavadini said. "It was one of the best feelings I have ever had at a swim meet." 
Dalrymple achieved the best indi­vidual success, qualifying for the "B" cut at nationals for Division III 
in both the 100-and 200-yard breaststroke, becoming the first Belle to compete in the NCAA Championships. She finished 26th in the 100 breaststroke and 17th in the 200 breaststroke to finish the season. 
..[Dalrymple] i., a great worker," Belles coach Ryan Dombkowski said. "I look for big things from her." 
Tennis 
The Belles fell in the opening round of the MIAA Conference tournament last weekend to Albion, but bounced back to win their next two matches over Adrian and Olivet to finish in fifth place. 
··A highlight for me was our con­ference match against Albion," head coach Dale Campbell said. "We had played them previously and lost, and our match in the tour­nament was much closer. It showed me that we had gotten better as a team, improved our doubles play, and could rise to the occasion in a big moment." 
Junior Camille Gebert was able to 
finic;h off her undefeated season at 
No. 2 singles, earning 18 wins on 
the season. This was the second 
consecutive seac;on a Belle finished 
the season undefeated at No. 2 sin­
gles as sophomore Jillian Hurley 
also won every match last sea')()n. 
Hurley was named to the first 
team All-MIAA, while Gebert 
earned second team honors. This 
was the second straight year for 
both to earn po~;tc;eac;on honors. 

"I don't believe it was a surprise, 
but [sophomore] Jessica Kosinski 
had a great season and improved 
her game and mental toughness 
throughout the year," Campbell 
said. "[Sophomore] Franca Peluso 
played better late in the year and 
broke into the singles lineup. Jillian 
Hurley was named first team All­
Conference at No. 1 and Camille 
Gebert was second team All­
Conference and went undefeated in 
our conference at No. 2." 

Kosinski made the move from No. 
4 singles last season to No. 3 this 
year for the Belles (11-10, 4-4). 

"My goal when starting this sea­
son was to play No. 3 singles," 
Kosinski said. ··1 worked extremely 
hard in try-outs to prove I deserved 
the spot." 
Softball 

Although a season that started out with great promise ended with­out a playoff berth for the talented Belles, they finished the 2009 sea­son knowing they left it all on the line every time they took the field. 
Saint Mary's (22-10, 6-6 MIAA) began the season on a tear, sweep­ing its first two opponents in back­to-hack doubleheaders and win­ning six of its first eight games. But after dropping eight consecutive games -including six conference contests -the Belles were virtually eliminated from postseason play. 
The Belles were led all season by the outstanding pitching of fresh­man standouts Monica Palicki and Angela Gillis. Palicki finished the year with 10 wins, an ERA of 3.15 and an opponent's batting average of .269. Gillis completed her sensa­tional collegiate debut with 12 wins, 
2.19 ERA, and 49 strikeouts. 

"[Gillis] is just one of the most composed pitchers I think I've ever seen," head coach Erin Sullivan said. "If someone gets a hit off her, you can see it in her face tlmt she wants to get the next out. She never overreacts, she's never overemo­tional." 
Perhaps the greatest accomplish­ment of the year came midway through the season when the Belles swept nonconference opponent Robert Morri'i in a day-night dou­
bleheader. The victory in the night­
cap marked the fourth-straight sea­
son that the Belles won at least 20 
games, a feat that can be attributed 
to the leadership of Sullivan in her 
fourth year in the position of head 
coach. 
"My seniors, from the day they 
got here as freshmen, have just 
changed the program and set a 
new tone for us," Sullivan said. 
Seniors Ashley Fu.•.;aro and Katie 
Rashid fmished their remarkable 
careers with a total of 100 victories 
in four seasons, a Saint Mary's soft­
ball record. 
Golf 
For the fourth time in program 
history, Saint Mary's will be com­
peting at the NCAA Division III 
Championships. In the third and 
final qualifying round of the MIM 
Championship, the No. 22 Belles 
held off a surge from Olivet to 
clinch an automatic bid to the 
national tournament. 
··clinching the national champi­
onship bid was one of our main 
goals this season, like every sea­
son," head coach Mark Hamilton 
said. "We really worked hard this 
season to get a cohesive group that 
shared the same mindset and goals. 
"[Sophomore] Emily Gore finally recovered from what seemed like eight months of injury and illness to play her best golf when we needed it," Hamilton said ...The effort of the entire team cannot be stressed enough, but we did have some strong individual leaders." 
At the fall MIAA Championships sophomore Rosie O'CAlnnor became the fifth Belle in the past six years -and the youngest Saint Mary's golfer -to earn MIAA Season Medalist honors, edging out Lindsay Pipkin of Olivet by one stro~e. Senior Perri Hamma fin­ic;hed with a 17 4 on the weekend to tie for seventh place. Freshman Natalie Matuszak and Gore both finished with two-day totals of 175 to tie for ninth place. 
"This young team is in the begin­ning stages of creating it's own legacy, they have only scratched the surface of what they are capable of," Hamilton said. 
In the second round of MIAA National Championship qualifying this spring, the team stayed on track for a bid to represent the MIAA, taking a one-stroke lead over Olivet with a 332. Sophomore Mary Kate Boyce shared medalist honors on the day with an 80 while Gore shot an 82 for fifth. 
The Belles will compete this week for the Division III national champi­onship in Port St. Lucie, Fla. 

September 23 November1 December6 January3 February7 MarchB-15 March30 April24-25 
Volleyball wins its Soccer's season Swimming and diving Basketball tops Swimming and Tennis takes a After volleyball Golf qualifies for tenth match of the comes to a placed fourth at the No. 1 Hope for diving loses its spring trip to coach Julie the NCAA season by beating disappointing TYR Invitational as the first time in third dual match Orlando and Schroeder-Biek Championships 

freshman Audrey 
Kalamazoo 3-1. close in a 6-o MIAAplay in a row, this time goes 4-4 in its accepted the by winning the 
Dalrymple placed 
shutout against 91-84. to Olivet College eight matches. position of Athletic three-round 
second in the
Calvin in the first 161-139· Director, Toni MIAA Qualifier.
20o-yard breaststroke
round ofthe MIAA Kuschel of
finals.

Tournament. Minnesota will take over the position. 
Septemb~r October November December January February March April May 
September6 October11 November15 December January1o February28 March17 April2o May~ 
Cross Countiy Soccer suffers its sixth Junior Megan Basketball wins Making its first Freshman Tennis Tennis ends its
29-30 
opens the season defeat in a row as it is McClowry led the Basketball loses both its sixth straight ever appearance in pitcher Angela dominates season by with a fourth shutl)ut by Calvin 4-0. cross country team at MIAA game to the MIAA Gillis throws a Trine with a winning the
of its games at the place finish at the Sophomore Rosie the NCAA Regionals Franklin College start the season Championship no-hitter as the 9-0 victory MIAA Hokum Karem O'Connor represents \\-ith a 59th place as it defeats Game, basketball's Belles top after the match fifth-place
Tournament to drop Relays. the golf team well by finish as the team season ends in a Goshen College was postponed match against
its record to s-6. Alma 69-47. earning MIAA Season took 17th. 77-47 defeat to 11-0. for three weeks. Olivet 8-1. Medalist honors at the Hope. 
MIAA Championships. 

Friday, May 15, 2009

page 36 The Observer + SPORTS 
Notre Dame: 
Volleyball falls just short in Big East championship; Men's swimming earns conference crown in last race; 
] 
'/ :~ 
)~ 
I 
I 

I 
';
,! 
I 
;J 
) 
·{•I 
I I 
( : 
•, '..... 
;~ 
'f 
i 
'{ 
:~ 
I { ( ( 
( 
t 
I 
r 
·t 
•f 
' 
•I 
·( d 
( I 
~ 
I 
<" 
I 
I 
' 
I 
f 
~ 
f 
~ 
( 
f 
f 
I 
t 
$ 
I ( 
' 
Observer Sta.4f Report 
Volleyball 
Despite finishing fifth in the Big East regular season standings, the Irish came within two games of claiming the conference crown, falling in a close match to Louisville in the Big East champi­onship game. 
"We continued to improve as a team as the year went on," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "And that allowed us to have a really strong finish." 
Notre Dame's Big East tourna­ment run included a victory over Big East regular-season champi­on St. John's, 3-1 (23-25, 25-20, 25-21' 27-25}. 
"I feel like we had a really strong finish and were playing really good volleyball at the end of the year," Brown said. 
The Irish started the season in four nonconference tournaments, going 5-7 in early play. One of those defeats, though, was a tight loss to then-No. 4 California. Notre Dame fell to the Golden Bears 3-2 (25-17, 21-25 20-25, 25-23, 16-14). 
After the nonconference tour­naments, Notre Dame got down to business in Big East play. The Irish won their first three confer­ence matches before falling to Cincinnati on Oct. 5. Notre Dame went 6-4 the rest of the way in conference play, and dropped a 3­1 decision to Long Beach State in a nonconference match. 
Once the conference tourna­ment .started, though, the Irish turned up their level of play. The Irish beat Connecticut 3-0 (25-19, 25-19, 25-22), before downing the Red Storm and ultimately falling to the Cardinals, 3-1 (25­23, 28-26, 15-25, 25-22). 
Brown said the late-season suc­cess was mainly a result of her team finally getting healthy. 
"We were just able to kind of tweak the lineup a little bit and get more comfortable," she said. "We lost a couple of matches early on because we didn't have the depth at that point." 
Junior outside hitter Christina Kaelin led the Irish on offense, averaging 3.25 kills per set, with 
a .258 hitting percentage. Kaelin returned to the Irish lineup in 2008 after sitting out 2007 due to injury. 
"As the season went on, she just became more and more con­fident in what she could do," Brown said of Kaelin. 
Also making an impact for the Irish on offense was freshman outside hitter Kristen Dealy. Dealy was second on the team with 2.79 kills per set, with a .1 77 hitting percentage. 
"I think Kristen's greatest asset is that she's a really strong all­around player," Brown said. "In particular, her passing was so important for us." 
Notre Dame should be poised for improvement in 2009, losing only two seniors to graduation. Senior middle blocker Justine Stremick spent the early part of the season recovering from an ACL injury, but came on at the end to lead the team with 1.11 blocks per set. 
"She was just getting in the groove of things," Brown said. "As the season went on she got more and more comfortable so that by the end of the season she was playing the way we knew she could." 
The Irish will also lose senior outside hitter Mallorie Croal, who played in only 11 matches this season due to injury. Brown, though, said that Croal still found a way to help the Irish win. 
"There's no question that Mallorie is one of the best leaders we've ever had," Brown said. "And the way that she could con­tinue lead the team even when she wasn't on the court was just amazing." 
Overall, Brown said the early outlook for next sea..<>on was posi­tive. 
"Obviously we're very opti­mistic," she said. "I think that everything is in place for us to have a very strong season." 
Cross Country 
The Irish had a successful 2008 campaign that ended with both teams competing in the NCAA championships. 
The men and women both fin­ished fourth at the Great Lakes Regional, good enough for at­large team bids for nationals. The men finished 19th overall at the NCAAs and the women finished 29th. 
"The highlight for our team was our performance at the regional meet to qualify for the NCAA championships," Irish women's coach Tim Connelly said. "Our goal each year is to qualify for the NCAA Championships and run well there, so we accomplished part ofwhat we had hoped to." 
Notre Dame hosted two meets in 2008, the Nov. 19 National Catholic Championships and the Oct. 3 Notre Dame Invitational. Junior Lindsey Ferguson and sophomore Paul Springer each finished first in the Catholic Championships while senior Patrick Smyth led the men's team with a filth place finish in his first race of the year in the Notre Dame Invitational. 
Smyth paced the Irish men for the rest of the season, finishing second at the Big East champi­onships and first at the Great Lakes Regional. He placed 1Oth at the NCAA.-, to earn his third cross­country All-American selection. 
For the women, Ferguson made a name for herself early in the season and continued to lead the Irish at each race. 
"Lindsey had a very consistent, solid season," Connelly said. "Hopefully next year she will be able to continue to perform at a high level throughout the season and fmish with a great race at the NCAA Championships." 
Ferguson finished 13th at the Big East championships to earn her second all-conference honor and led the Irish at the NCAAs with a 99th place finish. 
Both teams were young in 2008; the men will lose only three runners to graduation and the women just two. Both will still have stars in 2009, including Ferguson and sophomore Marisa Treece for the women and all-Big East junior Jake Walker and freshman Joe Miller on the men's side. 
"With the bulk ofour team back next year, some of our younger runners continuing to develop and the addition of several fresh­men contributors, we would expect to be back at the NCAA and improve on this year's per­formance next fall," Connelly said. 
Men's Swimming 

It took a dramatic last-second finish, but the Irish walked away the 2009 season with their sec­ond consecutive Big East title. 
The 400-yard freestyle relay team of juniors John Lytle and Andrew Hoffman, senior Danny Lutkus and sophomore Joshua Nosal defeated top-seeded I .ouisville to clinch the crown for Notre Dame. 
"We managed to fight back and win in the most dramatic fash­ion," senior breaststroker Daniel Rave said. "I think Louisville was not expecting us to swim as well as we did, and they were expect­ing a rather easy win." 
After being predicted to finish almost seven seconds behind the Cardinals and suffering a regular season loss a few weeks before, the Irish were able to pull off the upset. 
During the regular season, the Irish went 4-5, earning crucial victories over Pittsburgh, Miami (Ohio}, and Cleveland State. 
'The last four years showed me that teamwork exists, and even though I am alone during my race, I am supported by a team," Rave said. "Whether it is through racing someone during practice or by seeing others having great races during meets, your team­mates influence you." 
The Irish will return several key swimmers from this year's squad, and should be in good position to compete for the third consecutive conference championship. Last season's most valuable players MacKenzie LeBlanc and John Lytle will be back, and hope to lead Notre Dame to another champioinship. 
"It's a long season and there are a lot of ups and downs," sen­ior diver Michael Bulfm said. "In the end we needed to make sure that we had put ourselves in the right position to win the Big East and have a good shot at sending people to the National Championships." 
After a season with big wins and upsetting losses both, the Irish men's swimming and diving team walked away conference champions and with high hopes for next season. 
Women's Swimming 

Notre Dame capped off its record-extending 13th consecu­tive Big East title this season with NCAA championship berths from three athletes. 
Though sophomore swimmers Amywren Miller and Samantha Maxwell and junior diver Natalie Stitt boasted tremendous individ­ual efforts, first-year Irish coach Brian Barnes said it was the teamwork that was emphasized from the start that had the biggest impact on his team. 
"It wasn't easy coming into this team in August with no familiari­ty with the program, but the team really embraced me," Barnes said. "I am so lucky that I have a motivated group who believes in what I believe in, and we are going to continue to learn and grow." 
A clean sweep of the Dennis Stark Relays' 12 events at the Rolfs Aquatic Center gave the team its ftrst win the season. The Irish won each of the 10 races and both diving competitions to post a record-setting 280 points. 
"I knew we had several poten­tial All-Americans swimming in the pool over at Rolfs," Barnes said. "While the long-term goal is setting times that will be competi­tive at the national champi­onships, we are always compet­ing to win." 
After posting a 3-3 record in dual meets and finishing third in the Ohio State Invitational in early December, Notre Dame posted a Big East meet perform­ance in mid-February that can only be described as dominant. 
The Irish set 11 school records and beat runner-up Louisville ­which had edged Notre Dame in dual meet competition in January -by nearly 150 point-,, all while extending the longest champi­onship winning streak in Big East competition for any sport. 
Maxwell set school and Big East records in the 200-yard breast­stroke. Miller's 22.37 -second time in the 50 free made her the fastest female Notre Dame swim­mer ever. Junior Megan Farrell set the school's 200 IM mark. Sophomore Katie Casey made her own mark in the 200 butterfly record books and Stitt won both diving event..'i. 
"All season we have talked about swimming well and being confident and working like a team," Barnes said. "It takes more than one or two stars to win a title, and at the Big East cham­pionships we performed like a team and won like a team." 
Rowing 
The Notre Dame women's row­ing team was a force to be reck­oned with in the Big East again this year. 
The biggest meet of the year up to this point, the Big East champi­onship, was a success for Notre Dame. The Irish placed first out of eight teams overall, and placed either first or second in all races that weekend. They finished with 112 points, which was far above second-place Syracuse at 97 points. 
The Irish also fared well in sev­eral big regattas, including the San Diego Crew Classic, where 



September15 September2t October25 November t November 26 December1 
Women's soccer Volleyball falls to FoothaU opens the ·Pitt~burgh upSL"ls Men's basketball HtKfkt---y rises t6 No. l rises to the top spot vVcst~rn Michigan 3-2 in season 6-2 with a a:J-7 football at home in starts the season 6~o in tht~ rankings after in the polls after the t1na1 ofthe Golden victory at Washington. quadruple overtime before losing to opening the season starting the season Dome InvitationaL 36-33· top-ranked North 10-3-2. with six wins. Carolina 102-87 in the 
Maui Invitational Final. 

September Oct(>her Novemher ~ · December 
September13 September19 October 14 October26 November 24 Nouember 29 December7 
lTS('' · .h • · .,,
Football ends Third-ranked After beating No. 18 With a 6-o victory over Senior Patrick Smyth .•. , cmp mnzes 1~...-, Women's soccer suffers its two-year drought men's soccer plays Rutgers 3-1, women's Seton Hall on senior finish{,'£ in 10th place dominance over Notre first loss ofthe season in against Michigan with to a double soccer's 17-0 record is day, women's soccer at the NCAA Dame with a aB-3 the NCAA Championship to a :35-17 .ictory over overtime, scoreless the best start in finishes the regular Championships. victory at the Coliseum. North Carolina 2-1. the Wolverines. tie against No.5 St. program history. season unbeaten and 
John's. untied for the first time in program history. 
.
.. 
Friday, May 15, 2009 
The Observer • SPORTS page 37 
Year in Review 
Sandman, Fortner help young nzen's golf team mature; Men's track wins second consecutive league crown 
the second varsity eight finished 
fifth overall in the JV Grand Final. 
In a three-team competition 
between in-state rivals Indiana 
and Purdue earlier in the year. 
Notre Dame was able to capture 
victories in four out of the five 
races. 
The Irish have found success 
this season, and head coach 
Martin Stone has had a simple 
formula all year: "To go faster 
than the year before and be fast 
enough to win the Big East." 
The team is repeatedly working on conditioning and strength, always searching for that physical edge on the corn petitur. The next step is to be fast enough to com­pete in the NCAA Championships, which is the ultimate goal for the crew. 
As is the case for any successful team, the Irish have had excellent leadership, especially from the seniors. "I think all the seniors have shown themselves to be leaders at one point or another," Stone said. "They are all very passionate about the sport and work to see the program suc­ceed." 
Some of these seniors were rec­ognized for their performance both on the water and in the classroom. Erica Copeland, a member of the second varsity eight crew, was given The Top Gun Award as well as the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Rockne Student-Athlete Award. Sophomore Emily Crosby and junior Braegan Padley were named to the Rosenthal Leadership Academy. 
The Irish are still in-season, with the South/Central Sprints in Oakride, Tenn. coming up on graduation weekend and possibly the NCAA Championships in Cherry Hill, N.J. to follow. 
Men's Golf 
As Notre Dame looks back on a season marked by both success and failure from its young team, it welcomes with open arms sen­ior Josh Sandman, who will return to the team for a fifth year after missing the 2008-2009 sea­son due to injury. Sandman is the team's only senior and holds the program record for scoring aver­age. 
''I've been fortunate enough to watch him in so many stages of development," Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. "He's my first play­er to have gone through a full 
four years, as I arrived in the 
spring of 2005. It's been such a 
thrill for me to watch him grow, 
not only becoming a top player 
and leader on our team but also 
how he has grown.as a student 
and as a person." 
Sandman, who missed the fall 
and spring seasons due to back 
surgery, watched a.•;; a young Irish 
squad endured a tumultuous sea­
son. Junior Doug Fortner, the 
only upperclassman who started 
consistently, was the rock for a 
team experiencing growing pains 
with his team-leading 74.24 
stroke average. Freshman Max 
Scodro emerged as a solid colle­
giate golfer, picking up medalist 
honors at the UNCG Bridgestone 
Intercollegiate and four top-10 
finishes. Both Scodro and Fortner 
earned All-Big East honors for 
their efforts. 
Notre Dame shared defeat 
along with its successes. Youth 
and inexperience hurt the Irish 
this season, but the veteran pres­
ences of Sandman and Fortner 
allowed the younger golfers to 
mature quickly. 
"[Sandman] has meant expo­nentially more to our program than his scores," Kubinski said. ''I'm not even sure how to meas­ure his contributions. He has not only related to each and every one of our younger players but has been able to contribute to their growth. He has never given any attitude toward younger play­
ers, as if to say, 'I'm important,' or 'I'm older.· Quite the contrary." 
With Scodro, Fortner and Sandman returning alongside a very strong sophomore class highlighted by Jeff Chen, the future is bright for Notre Dame. 
Women's Golf 
Coming into this season, the Irish women's golf team had a tough act to follow from their 2007-2008 campaign. The defending Big East Tournament champions took to the links in September to try and replicate their success with some new faces on the roster, and Irish coach Susan Holt was happy with the way the team came together in the fall. 
"In the fall, we got acclimated to a new team," Holt said. "Everyone was getting used to the new line up." 
It wasn't long before Notre Dame experienced some success with the new team. On Sept. 29 at 
the University of Colorado 
Tournament, the Irish set a pro­
gram record for scoring on their 
way to winning the tournament. 

"The win in Colorado was huge 
for us," Holt said. ''(The tourna­
ment win! was significant for the 
team because it gave them confi­
dence." 

The spring season brought a 
new challenge for the Irish. 

Before the season started, Holt 
set some lofty goals for the team, 
including finishing nationally­

ranked in the top 15 and winning 
the Big East Tournament again. 

The Irish carne up short on both 
ofthose goals, but still came away 
with a successful regular season. 

"We played tougher competi­tion on some difficult courses," Holt said. "Plus it rained in just about every tournament, but I still feel good about where we're at right now." 
On April 21, the Irish finished second at the Big East Tournament and qualified for a spot in the NCAA Tournament. Notre Dame competed at the NCAA Central Regional at Ohio State this past weekend, ending its season with a 16th place fm­ish. 
Leading the Irish this season was senior captain Usa Maunu. Maunu was one of four Irish golfers named to the All-Big East team after the Big East Tournament, and finished first individually in the conference 
tournament. 
Junior Annie Brophy, sopho­more So-Hyun Park and fresh­man Becca Huffer were also named to the All-Big East team for the Irish. In addition to taking home All-Big East honors, Huffer was voted as the Big East Freshman of the Year. 
With the success of the la.<;t few seasons, the Irish women's golf program appears to be on the upswing. 
"We've got a lot of talent right now and some good players com­ing in the new few years," Holt said. "I think it's a sign of things to come." 
The Irish will be returning four of the five major contributors on next year's team, led by Huffer and 2008 All-American So-Hyun Park. 
Men's Track 
When the athletes of the men's track and field team look back at the 2009 season, they will most 
likely remember their comeback 
victory over Louisville to win the 
Big East Championship. 

The Irish repeated as the Big 
East Champions at the outdoor 
championships in Philadelphia, 
Pa. on May 3 when they squeaked 
past I.ouisville by just half a point. 
Irish coach Joseph Piane thinks 
that the 2009 season will be well­
remembered by the team. 

"Winning the Big East 
IChampionship] was special," 
Piane said. "Corning from behind 
to win on the last event, that was 
something even more special." 

The Irish met Piane's pre-Big 
East Championship challenge of 
scoring in every event on their 
way to claiming the champi­
onship. 

After finishing second at the indoor Big East Championships in New York City on Feb. 22, the Irish started a tough outdoor schedule that often put them against some of the nation's top competition. Throughout the sea­son, Notre Dame butted heads against ranked opponents like Arizona State, Stanford and top­ranked Texas A&M. 
The Irish currently have quali­fied 20 athletes on both the men's and women's teams to send to the NCAA Regional. Of those 20 ath­letes, Piane was especially proud of the efforts of senior hammer thrower Jeff Mensch. Mensch won the individual title for ham­mer throw at the Big East 
Championship improving on his personal best by five meters in the process. 
"[Mensch's improved] astro­nomically." Piane said. "To improve by about 16 feet like that is really a special effort." 
Fellow senior Daniel Clark claimed All-Big Ea'st llonors with a third place finish in the 1500­rneter. Senior Patrick Smyth added another impressive fmish in the 5000-meter to finish third and take home All-Big East Honors. 
The Irish will return the majori­ty of their team for next year in the hopes of a third straight Big East Championship. 
"We're graduating 31.5 points out of the 130.5 we scored [in the Big East Championship]," Piane commented. "That means we have quite a few points coming back next year which is good." 
The Irish will have one more event beginning today, the Georgia Tech Invitational, before the NCAA Regionals in Louisville, Ky. on May 29. 
Women's Track 
The Irish women's track and 
field team capped off a successful 
year with a fourth place finish at 
the Big East Championship in 
early May. The 2009 season was 
highlighted by the efforts of sen­
iors Mary Saxer and Joanna 
Schultz. 
Schultz was ranked in the top 
10 nationally in the women's 400­
meter, an event she won at the 
Big East Championships. In addi­
tion to taking the top spot in the 
400-meter, Schultz also placed 
sixth in the 400-meter hurdles on 
her way to earning first team all­
conference honors. 
Saxer won the pole vault at the 
Big East Championship on her 
way to All-Big East honors for the 
filth time in her career. Irish track 
coach Joseph Piane praised 
Saxer's performance while at 
Notre Dame. 
"This year she was ranked No. 1 in her event," Piane said. "But now I think she's down to sec­ond." 
Saxer set the Notre Dame women's pole vault mark last sea­son with a vault of 4.06 meters. She is also one of the Notre Dame's three indoor All­Americans with a good chance of being named an outdoor All­American with a strong showing at the NCAA Regional on May 29. 
The Irish have already had 20 members of the men's and women's track and field teams qualify for the NCAA Regional. They still have one more chance to add more qualifiers to that list today at the Georgia Tech Invitational. 
All year Notre Dame has been competing against some of the toughest talent in the country. The Irish traveled to events in Tempe, Ariz. and Palo Alto, Calif. to take on some of the nation's elite. Piane said the team should be even more competitive next year. 
"(The team] is pretty young," Piane said. "We're bringing back a lot oftalent to improve." 
Some of the young talent includes sophomores Kelly Langhans in the 800-meter, Marissa Treece in the 1500-meter and Kali Watkins in the 100­meter hurdles, all of whom fin­ished in the top 10 in their events at the Big East Championship. 

January1o  January17 February 8  February12 February19  March22  April3-4 April18  April25  MayS-9  
Men's  Women's  Junior Becca  Men's  Both the men's  Fencingfinishes second  Baseball  After playing in  Men's  No. 5 women's  
basketball beats Seton Hall 88-79 to run the team's home court winning streak to 45 games.  basketball rises to No. 10 in the polls by winning 15 of its first 17 games.  Bruszewski hits key buckets in the final minute of women's basketball's 62-59 victory overNo.25 DePaul.  basketball ends a seven-game losing streak by upsetting No. 5 Louisville 90-57­ and women's fencing teams rise to No. 1 in theUSFCA Coach's Poll.  at the NCAA Championships behind Penn State. Minnesota ends the women's basketball season in the first round of the NCAA Tournament, 79-71.  sweeps three gamesm two days from Villanova.  the first half of the Blue-Gold spring football game, sophomore Golden Tate goes 3-for-3 against West Virginia as the baseball team  lacrosse ends the regular season 13-0 by beating Ohio State 14-8 in front ofover 30,000 far.s.  tennis advances to the third roundofthe NCAA Tournament after defeating UIC and Michigan at home.  
winsS-6.  
January  February  March  Apnil  May  
January 30-31 February 15 March8 March21 March28 March31 April21 May3 May1o 


Hockey splits a Women's tennis The Hockey wins Given a No.1 The men's Junior Doug Men's track and field wins No.13 home-and-home against suffers its first loss seventh-ranked theCCHA seed, hockey basketball Fortner leads the the Big East Outdoor Maryland Michigan. ofthe season in men's lacrosse Championship loses to No. 4 season ends at men's golf team Championships by half a upsets men's 
the semifinals of team tops No. 3 by defeating · Be~idji St. Madison Square as he shoots a point over Louisville. lacrosse in the
January23 
the Indoor North Carolina Michigan 5-2. 5-l m the Garden as Penn final round 66 to first round of
Both the men's and women's Senior Ryan Hoff scores 
NCAA State tops Notre finish tied for 
Championships to . 9-7athome. the NCAA
track and field teams take first six goals to lead the No. 2
Toumament. Dame in the second at the 
No.1 Tournament
place at the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team to a 
NIT Semifinals Big East
Northwestern. 7-3.
Invitational. 67-59· Championships. GWLL Championship. 


FOUR YEA 
IN REVIE


'; 
'' Friday, May 15, 2009 The top 10 Observer sports stories from the 2005-2009 acadernic years page 38 


. 
\ 
\ 
'\ 
.~ 
.. , 

I 
; 
I 
! / 
~ ,,·~ 
'' 
2005 Notre Dame-USC lives up to hype
1 

Football endures
2 
disastrous season 
IRISH INSIDER 
_...,~.A~"<'·N ~~N--"~~=......-.._,..,_~..•.-.·.· ...,.,.,.,•.·.·.v.·.•.~~-:;:;:.;,~~;:; 
History rewritten 

5 
1Gody, Brey earn 
Big East honors 

By leading the con­ference in scoring with 
23.3 points per game and pulling down 11.3 rebounds in Big East play, Harangody earned the conference 
player  of the  year  
award.  
Brey  earned  the  

coach of the year tro­phy after leading the Irish -picked to finish ninth in the preseason poll -to a second place Big East regular season finish. 

In the worst start to a season in Notre Dame history, the Irish limped to an 0-5 record. It all started with a 33-3 home loss to Georgia Tech. 
The debacle contin­ued with identical 38­0 losses to rivals Michigan and USC. The Irish won their last two contests to finish 3-9 but did not come close to earning a trip to a bowl game. 
Fal/2007 
October 15, 2005 
ESPN's College Gameday came to campus and more than 40,000 people packed Notre Dame Stadium for Friday night's pep rally. The No. 1 Trojans entered the game with 27­game winning streak, and three con­secutive wins over the Irish, who took the field wearing green jerseys. 
The Irish took a 21-14 halftimes lead on a Tom Zbikowski punt return, but a 45-yard run by future Heisman win­ner Reggie Bush knotted the game at 21. 
Notre Dame quarterback Brady 
3 
6 

...........l!loM ~--~ 
Cud~ »tuff Irish i.n .:wte"ttilll" ' &>Uo. ;,.,atm.t t~'>~ 

NelV facilities 
9 
planned 


·~to~Jci)UC«*.r r~ 
~·"'""'
fa..~ 
::!!P:?-~ 


~~,-~.~ 
~~....... 

:~at \t.al')"• llof>td S.iww_.,.~'~ !'l>ktit., -:~nb lor mt'l'lif18'i ~"""\)'0~**--~·(·"""'lf't.,~' 

iL-~~~~ ::~:( . 
0~~~­
:-~~~ 



leers to go NCAA title gatne 
After winning its first CCHA title a year ago, the hockey pro­gram continued its resurgence under coach Jeff Jackson. 
The Irish just sneaked into the NCAA Tournament but capitalized by qualify­ing for the rtrst Frozen Four in school history. They then topped Michigan to advance to the title game, where they fell to Boston College. 
April 10, 2008 
Hanks lVins hvo Hermanns 
After hosting Irish athletic events for over 40 years, the south dome of the Joyce Center will receive a renovation this summer and reopen in October as the "Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center." 
New facilites for lacrosse, soccer, track and hockey are either under construction or in the works. A new softball stadium was also completed last spring. 
October 6, 2006 
Winning the award -given annually top the top men's and women's soccer play­ers -in 2006 and 2008, Hanks cemented her status a'i one of the game's greats. 
She is only the fourth player to win the award twice, and Lo;; the only Division I women's player to finish her career with more than 73 goals and 73 assists, posting 84 and 73, respectively. 
January 9, 2009 
Quinn scored on a five-yard run with 
2:04 left to give the Irish a 31-28 lead, and Notre Dame was a defensive stop away from one of the biggest wins in school history. 
Facing fourth-and-nine from his own 26, though, USC quarterback Matt Leinart connected with receiver Dwayne Jarrett for a 61-yard pass that just got past the outstretched hand of Irish cornerback Ambrose Wooden, Jr. 
Three plays later, Leinart scrambled and was knocked out of bounds as the cbck ticked down to zero. Notre Dame 
SlVarbrick takes 
4 

over AD position 
On June 1, then­=;;;;_.____S!~QRTS __......::;;;, Athletic Director 
1 

...,._ ..,,_,*' Kevin White A n..w ~aM>u uollpPfti : l>miltut.. announced that he 
....-;..-:Jrv.-'1""""~.....,........ -~-~~:.;:.: ___....-.-..tJlt~<".l' 
E;.o? --E::::: '>Chool:. would be leaving 

ll~~=~= ,; · ~~;;~:~~i~:isaat:; 
Swarbrick was hired as the 12th athletic director in the school's history. He _...,._,,{>~ :-~w--was previously a 
l.m·atl,. S.u>ta{]Mol lbil NO ' A~'t r<t~~~h ,..a..,,4 
,.;;_,,, ,. . , . . .· ,",.,., ......uN d-,., lsi;h lawyer instrumental in the Indianapolis 
sports seen~.
iii 
July 16, 2008 



Football snaps
7 

bo-wl losing skid 
Notre Dame earned its first bowl victory

IRISH 1NSI DER 
Christmas Eve 
against Hawaii. 
Quarterback Jimmy Clausen com­pleted 22-of-26 pass­es for 406 yards and five touchdowns, both Irish bowl records. Receiver Golden Tate had six catches for 177 yards and three score as the duo shared MVP honors. 

~~il :~;~-.~:-~~!~~~ ·#~~~ 
December 24, 2008 

10Fencing fini~hes second hvtce 
coach Charlie Weis raised his arms in victory on the sidelines, and students began streaming onto the field to cele­brate the supposed victory. 
The officials, though, intervened, putting seven seconds back on the clock and spotting the ball at the Notre Dame one-yard line. They said the ball should have stopped when Leinart fumbled out of bounds. The Trojans took advantage of the opportunity as Leinart snuck into the endzone with three seconds left to walk away with the 34-31 win. 

=--·--·--~S.fOBJS __.....1
-
Buc~e; ~poll NCAA Ch.l.npiunship dt«m~ 'E"~-· • $ <t~-==~ ~~.o"e:~ 5-~~ 
~~-=-.:-;::~~~~~~ 
Biting the Bulldogs 
,..,_,-t ... __ 
--­
After two fourth place finishes in 2006 and 2007, the Irish finished just short in the NCAA championships in 2 008 and 2009, falling to Ohio State and Penn State, respectively. 
Notre Dame has finished in the top four nationally every year since 1994, with national championships in 1994 and 2003. 
March 17, 2008 

•( 

Friday, May 15, 2009 
The Observer+ TODAY page 39 
CROSSWORD 
Across 38 Maestro 1 Laugh-a-minute Koussevitzky 8 So-so poker 39 Grows pale 
holding 40 Twisted 15 In an unoriginal 41 Court figures way 
44 Like rivals, often 16 Circus 49 Not much, with performer, e.g. "a" 
17 Kind of strength 53 Tourist guide 
18 Toy trains 54 Vitamin C 
19 Swallow source 
20 Food label for 55 Make like new, the health-as a bathtub conscious 56 Nicely tan 
21 Electric device 
57 Kitchen device with terminals 
first patented in 23 News on the 
1921bus. page 58 Court figures
26 Ingredient in many Down toothpastes 
Wife in "8 27 Spit for a kebab 
Simple Rules for 32 Be doomed Dating My 
36 Obtain service Teenage from Daughter" 
37 Felt bitter 2 Ready to do anguish business 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

3 Chinese dynasty during which trade with Portugal began 
4 Give out 
5 Flu symptom 
6  Like the pop  
group the  
Pussycat Dolls  
7  Burning  
substance  

8 Representative of Hollywood 9 Where to wear an armilla 1 0 Platte River tribe 11 Immobilizes 12 Where gobs go 13 "One day _ all make sense" 14 Doctor's prescription 20 Be of assistance 
22 Popular computer logic/guessing game 
23"Young Frankenstein" woman and others 
24 French versifier 25 Burrow: rabbit:: holt: 27 Subject of ~Toots" by Bob Considine, 1969 28 High in the French Alps 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Manny Nosowsky  
29 Following  41 Slinkys or Magic  48 Part of a Latin  
obediently  8 Balls, once  101 conjugation  
30 Scrub  42_ gin fizz  50 Not do one darn  
31 Substantial  43 Surgical tube  thing  

51 -Neisse Line 33 Gray blanket 44 Trolley 52 Dries, as hay
45 Round sandwich

34 Pitchfork part 54 Ranch 
46 Prefix with dose

35 Occasion to drop (former Western one's arms 47 Buds White House) 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS OAY: Catc Blanchett, -lO; Ttm RodL 4K Rol:lt'rl 7.ell~<.'l.'i:is. 57· (ieor~.l!' LtK:a<., M 
ll;tpp~ Buthd:l!-" Venture l>ot of your (lV.1t Wl>rld and lit;cover lt<W pl;K~s. J~k ami in lercsts. Thi ~ ~~ :1 l<."artllllf.l: year, one l<:l expenence nil yon Cllll and apply it to '1\'ltM rrn• h:w..­l:!e<'lt \V~•rkmp ~hard to accomph~h The cll.lnpes and rcfom1~ Y•"~U mcorporatc wtll makl! a fhth..
'f\'nc<· Your lllllllb..'t" an· 1-1. lo. 23. 29, :u. 45 ..n 
ARIES (March 2l ·April 19): Don't nux IIJI ymtr plan~ ix'l.'<lllSt> Wll!(,t>ue is callSill!( y('tll gnef. A prnhlcm "Ill ~\uh if yon lei ~·our j)l"TS<mal hie h<l\'e an eH.:-d on your pn>f~s~ton:.l or vK:e wrsa. f'mhuf.l pressure 011 somcos1c you low .......nh-.o.:kflll: ** 
T,\URUS (April 20 May :!il)· StQp bt'iiiJ! p;t~si'<~~ wltcu yon uo.:"d to be a~gressiw. \\i;1i11nJ;: for :rt>IIJ.C(l!lo: ds.c to 111111.:e a do."Ct~nu wtl!nvl re:;ult 111 what's best for \'l>U [f vou aren't willin~ lo compwmbo: ur take ou ~ometbin~: new, YllU willlx:-pa~sed hy. ***** 
GEMINI (May ll·Imw 20). Show your worth by \'Xpn:~sm~ your itk+as ami .. before yon 
know il. vou wl!l wcaUm!o! tht• shi.lh Smlii.'Oik! vou haw w:mtcrl to worl. witb \\·iU fl<lti;;c 
wh:ott ymi arc dom!( and ~.-iJ1nMk<" a lll:ndi.cial ,,j!!~t"'tion. A bmines~ In(' or uctworkin~ 
wilt pa) off. *** 

CANCER Otllll' 21 Jttly ~2): Yuum:.y t~"t"lliko.~ hidm)! out hut thai won't rcsuJw My of rJw tsstles yt>n\e lxo.cn facin11 1:1ke a bands on :1J'fll'l.~h Now 1s tlf11 It~<: flrue In (Jill Up Wtlh JlCOflle or ~llnallolls rbai are nnl: wnrki.t1~ til! you. *** 
LEO Otlly 2.' .;\uF ::!2): f.)(m"t g1"t' 111m kt othel'$ ta~ the l~a<l (>II a ~~ndin~ Jlfi.1.J(.>c1 or 
.:onccm. You may IX' f(IO busy havin~t fuu tt> notice th:~t ~<)flle('Hle i.~ htkit1jl. .ac:lv:uU:age of you .I)Qn't spend l.'asll tllllli."ccss:trily. * * * 
VIRGO (An~. ::u. Sep1. 22); '1:-lke ;K:liou before u's ltlo lat~, l;ijlbt for your ri~hts marl for 
whal you w;~ut. You c<UJ em~ nnt on top but only tl )'Oil ha\·e the gumption to pla"·e your 
name in the hal. Participation will allow you lo reach he1ghts that otherwise would dude 
you.***** 

LIBRA (Sept, 2H>ct. 22): Uo!~e:>ty with re!!ard to your abilities will help you find your 
m.:bc, Tryin~ to buy your way into ~on~<.'ihmt~ won't work. Yuu have to lmw what it lake> 1o1et there with talent, skiU and knowledj!e. ** 
SCORPIO (Oct. ::!3 Nm·. 21): A creauve or tmuso.:d projecrtbat you haw been devekltliug needs cbanpes 111 ordt'f to nwic tr miJinsiream ;md user friendly. 'f.tl.k'> win t~o wd1 aud <:outmcts can be IW~iared :aud siw~t'(l Keep Jlcrn.mal and flrvfess:itmal nmu~,-s .....,,arnte 
**** 

SAGfiTARJUS (No, .., 22-De~ 21): You must spe-nd more time hl.tddin~ your e<(Utty l.c:Ulll~ tluuS(s nl'k ()f stll)' ~~ J>aoa.: will. not hml$ tl1t prohh you ne<:d to $11J;taltl vout btc~;fyle. U you)lave d~ribed wh:u y()tl h.ave f() offer ina<-,'ll.r<~tcly. exped adeal fo fx ~bu.k.ed . *** 
CAPRICOR."i (l:>cc. ~2 Jan. 19): f~u~ uulov~ \'ncs, hobbies or s<Xializ.ing. Cbanjle your l~ation or visit a plac(' you've Ul~\'Cr lx-cn bdore. Tltt· kanul!{! ex))l'1'icnce will he wordt tt in rerm~ of dw people you lliC."et. *** 
AQUARnJS (Jau. 20.fcb J8) Rc{b.ink 1~•st rclatiou~bips and wceti oUI 1he llCI11lle whn aren't gi'l-·ing hack. Con.~ider who be~t fits your lit'Nyie. Don't lose ~i~.ht of your ~oats btx:ause \otuconc di'<Courngc~ you. A new friendship will give you hope fnr thing5 to ctlltle. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19 Man:h 10): l.>!nd a heltllllg hand loa ~roiiJ1 Y'JU !Iehew 111 lfs a new be tinniuF. so don't waste tune on \\'lull's !~hind. Focus on the future. Y011 can tum somethmg. you vohulleer for into a paying contract. *** * 
Hm.M:~y IJahy: You are <:ap:thle of briti!!Ul!l about dulu~tes tb:ctt will have <Ill lJIJllliC! on thow arouud you. You are S<.'ft!'.tti'-''-', <.'l.lnnJ!. auclio llult' with whai's n:qmred lo m<~mtalll onft.'f. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA
www. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
tRICKYT ~ 


JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARG!RION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 




J I [ II 
WHAT THE: SCULPTOR WAS KNOWN FOR. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J I I [] 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

HIS rI I I JOF rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow} Yesterday's IJumbles: FLOUT OFTEN DEAFEN THRIVE Answer; Mom didn't answer the phone because she was -ON THE "LINE" 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and n1ail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Narne ______________________________________~----­Address _______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip____________ 
--------. 
5) 
Friday, May 15, 2009 page 40 

-------------------~---­
--~--------------­


OUTSTANDING SENIOR ATHLETES 
Leaving their mark 


. ' 
WU YUErrhe Observer 

Irish netminder Jordan Pearce led the nation in wins, goals against average
:.~..~ 
~··~ and shutouts in 2008 as Notre Dame won its second CCHA Championship. 
~ < 
i' Pearce becomes u1inningest goalie in Notre Dame history 


By MATT GAMBER Sports Editor 
Ask Jordan Pearce about rewriting the Irish hockey record books, and he'll smile, brush it off, and say the next goaltender in line will top his eye-popping career num­bers. 
Ask him about his astronomical grade­point average and otherwise impressive accompli<>hments off the ice, and he'll sound the same, saying academics have always been a top priority. 
Even ask him about his obvious snubbing by the CCIIA's coaches, who only chose him as an honorable mention to the all-confer­ence team. He'll laugh again. sing the prais­es of the flrst-and second-team choiees, and tell you he's just happy to be playing in the CCHA championship. 
"He always stays at an even keel, and it really helps him," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "Humble and quiet -great goalies are generally that way. They're una<>.suming." 
From backing up All-American David Brown for two years to leading the Irish to another CCHA semifinal appearance, Pearce has done it all with the same level­headed demeanor that has helped him enjoy so much success. 
"He doesn't have to talk or have people talk about him, he just does it with his num­bers and the wins," junior defenscman Kyle Lawson said. "He lets his play speak for itself, and I think there's a lot to be said about that. He's somebody who doesn't need to go out and boa-;t about himself or have that cockiness about him. 
"You can say what you want, but Jordan Pearce is going to be Jordan Pearce, no matter what happens." 
And what exactly does that mean? 
"He comes to work every day with the same attitude, the same demeanor," Jack.,on said. "He works hard and competes hard every day, and he doesn't complain. lle just shows that level of humility and yet strength in character and mental toughness that you hope every goaltender can devel­op." 
Man on tire 

Nothing i<; more important in tournament hockey than hot goaltending, or so the old saying goes. 
So with four shutouts in his last five games leading up to the CCIIA champi­onship -including two in Notre Dame's CCHA quarterfinal sweep of Nebraska­Omaha -was there any playoff goalie hot­ter than Pearce? 
"No," senior captain Erik Condra said before the CCHA Championship. "He does­n't get enough credit. When playoffs hit, your goaltender needs to be your best play­er, and he defmitelv was over the weekend. He stepped it up, and he was unbelievable." 
That's been a familiar story over the pa<;t two years for Pearce, who, after riding the pine for two sea<;ons, earned the starting gig a<> a junior. To say he ran with it would be an understatement. 
Pearce's career goals-against average (1.97), save percentage (.919) and winning percentage (.680) are all tops in the pro­gram's history, and he set the career wins record (57) in Saturday's 1-0 victory, when 
see PEARCE/page 34 

By FRAN TOLAN Senior Staff Writer 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum first saw senior forward Kerri Hanks play when she was just 10 years old. Apparently, Hanks -who has 83 goals and 7 3 assists in her Notre Dame career -was a natural. 
"She was just a shorter version of what you see now," Waldrum said. "She was always very competitive and from a very young age, you could see she had some special ability." 
Waldrum, who like Hanks hails from Texas, said the state's soccer community is very tight-knit and he met Hanks through her family. 
"Our friends were friends with her parents and I coached in camps with her brother," Waldrum said. "It's just a small world out there but that's how we got our eyes on her." 
Hanks said she was not even com­pletely sure how she came to know her future coach. 
"It was just a family connection, one family to another to another," she said. "It's kind of hard to explain." 
Regardless of how the two met, though, they teamed up at Notre Dame to put together four of the best seasons in Irish history. 
Just missed 
Hanks played just two years of soc­cer at Allen High School before deciding to compete exclusively on 
United States national teams. She was recruited to come to Notre Dame as a freshman in 2004, the year the Irish last won their most recent national championship. But Hanks said she elected not to join the team that fall because she was busy "trav­eling." 
"Kerri's actually very modest," Waldrum said. "What she was actu­ally doing after high school was play­ing with the U.S. [Under-191 national team when they won it all." 
Hanks arrived at Notre Dame in the spring of 2005 but only after the Irish put the finishing touches on a 24-1-1 championship season. Hanks did not win a national title during her time on campus. 
Individual accolades 

Since joining the Irish, Hanks has had an almost unparalleled career. 
She was a second-team All­America selection as a freshman before becoming the youngest-ever Hermann Trophy winner as the top player in the country as a sopho­more. That season, she joined former North Carolina great Mia Hamm as the only other player to lead the nation in both goals and assists. 
This season, Hanks has reached a new milestone virtually every week. When she recorded two assists in an NCAA quarterfinal win over Florida State last Friday, Hanks moved past Hamm into a tie for second place on 
see HANKS/page 34 







