
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Beah speaks about war experiences 
Author, activist fought as a child soldier in the Sierra Leone civil war for four years 
By LIZ LEFEBVRE News Writer 
Ishmael Beah, author of "A Long Way Gone: Memoirs of a Boy Soldier," spoke Monday night in McKenna Auditorium about his experiences before, during and after civil war in his native Sierra Leone. Beah stressed in his presentation that he and his fellow country­men did not lose hope in the face of violence. 
Beah's life in rural Sierra Leone was interrupted by civil war when he was around 12 years old. After losing his entire immediate family in the fighting, Beah was pic-ked up by rebel soldiers and forcefully recruited as a child soldier in 1992. 
"We all knew that you would be killed if you didn't fight or follow orders," Beah said of his time as a soldier. 
During the war, Beah men­tioned how he and the other children had to live through their fear to survive. Because staying aliye meant that they had to kill, Beah noted how the child soldiers had to nor­malize their experiences. 
"To live, someone else had to die on your behalf," Beah said. 
see BEAH/page 4 



Students visit six Holocaust sites over break 
History course focuses on origins on anti-Semitism, rise of National Socialism 
from public life under National Socialism, the euthanasia action, Reichskristallnacht, ghettoization, deportation and the concentration and death camps," according to Spicer. 
Amber Rosenberg, a student in the class who went on the trip said that the Holocaust hit close to home. 
"I decided to apply for the class because my fainily was fairly involved with the Holocaust and I've always been really interested in learning more about it," she said. "My grandma lived in Krakow when Poland was invaded and my grandpa did some undercover work for the 
Republic and their exclusion see HOLOCAUST/page 4 

By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
While some Notre Dame stu­dents jetted off to exotic loca­tions to spend their Spring Break, a group of students ventured halfway around the world to explore various sites commemorating the Holocaust. 
The trip was in conjunction with a class focused on the Holocaust taught by visiting professor of history Fr. Kevin Spicer. 
The course "includes study of the origins of anti-Semitism, the rise of National Socialism, German Jews in the Weimar 


NDSP detains man in cell phone theft 
Observer Staff Report_ 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) arrested a man who fled campus after stealing a student's cell phone Wednesday March 4, accord­ing to Dave Chapman, assis­tant director of NDSP. 
The man was detained on Notre Dame Avenue after a student reported his cell phone stolen in the Hesburgh Library, he said. The student gave a description of the adult male, which allowed NDSP to catch the man off­campus. 
Th.e man was charged with a Class 0 felony after the 
police recovered the stolen cell phone, Chapman said. 
Chapman said the student left his cell phone unattend­ed on a table in the second floor of the Library. The stu­dent told police he saw the man take the phone from a distance. 
"The subject yelled, 'hey that's my phone,"' Chapman said. "But the guy took off and left the Library." 
Chapman said the student immediately called NDSP and gave a description of the man, which led to the recov­ery of the phone. 
see THEFTIpage 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
GreeND kicks off recycling 
•

carnpatgn 
By CASEY KENNY 
News Writer 
GreeNO and the Office of Sustainability will kick off the sec­ond-annual Recyclemania cam­paign Tuesday· as part of a nationwide competition and movement to promote recycling. The competition will continue until April3. 
"The campaign seeks to give the community an increased awareness of how we acquire waste and promote recognition that recycling is an integral part of maintaining sustainability," sophomore Regina McCormack,-a GreeNO committee member, said. 
Last year's Recyclemania cam­paign included a 10-week cam­pus-wide competition to see which residence hall could recy­cle the most materials. 
"Data will still be compiled to measure the volume of· recycled materials that the Notre Dame· campus generates during the three-week campaign," McCormack said. 
"This year the campaign is more educational in nature with the purpose being to raise gener­al awareness of the need to recy­cle," she said. 
The Recyclemania campaign will conclude with an art show competition in which the resi­dence halls will enter creative sculptures or statues constructed of recycled materials. The art­work will be displa¥ed and 
see GREEND/page 4 

Campus celebrates St. Patty's Day 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 
Notre Dame students returned to campus Sunday looking forward to a fun St. Patrick's Day celebration Tuesday. 
Senior Olivia Vervaeke plans to celebrate her last St. Patrick's Day at Notre Dame by going out. 
"I've never been able to go out on St. Patrick's Day before," Vervaeke said. ''I'm excited." 
"I'll be going out, to a friend's house at first. Then probably some place in South Bend," Vervaeke said. 
While skipping class is 'pop­ular for quite a few of Notre Dame's students on St. Patrick's Day, Vervaeke is planning on being present in classes. 

''I'm planning on going to class, and then begin cele­brating afterwards," she said. 
Popular destinations for students Tuesday will include Corby's Bar, Fiddler's Hearth, and off-campus houses. 
For some students, the hol­iday's inconvenient mid-week location means all work and no play. Freshman Greg Woods will be among those staying in. 
''I'll be studying. I have an exam on Thursday," Woods said. 
Freshman Olivia Covangelo will also be hard at work. 
"I have physics homework due p.t 10 p.m., so I'll be busy," she said. 
McGlinn resident assistant 
Katie Begerow will be on 
duty on-St. Patrick's Day and 
plans to step up precautions. 
''I'll be keeping a more 
watchful eye," Begerow said. 
"[St. Patrick's Day] has a rep­
utation." 
This St. Patrick's Day will 
not be as celebrated as it 
would be if the holiday were 
on a weekend, according to 
Begerow. 
"It's not a given that every­one will go out," Begerow said. "Many students have ·exams during the days fol­
lowing St. Patrick's Day." 
However, she's not too 
upset about not being able to 
participate in the festivities. 
"It'd be cool to go hang out 
somewhere, but oh well. It's 
my job." 
see DAY/page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Missing 


Music 

Over break, I was trying to find a new pair ofjeans when I noticed that the radio station the store was broadcasting was playing a Melee song. This filled me with joy. 
I'm sure 

many of you Kaitlyn Conway are now rack­ing your brains, trying Assistant Scene 
to find the sig­
Editor 

nificance in that. A song by Melee? Who's that? A long lost band from the 80s? The newest sensation? Why, I simply must buy their CD on iTunes imme­diately! 
... Okay, maybe not the last part, but let me enlighten you a little. Melee is a contemporary band, no worries, and a very good one at that. They're an alternative rock group, with emphasis on the piano. And wonderful. Completely wonderful. Their first album is a little rough around the edges, but the second is full of feel-good songs that'll bring a smile to your face any day. I first found out about this wonderful band when they ope:t1ed a concert I was at, and it was love the moment Chris Cron (the lead singer) jumped up on the piano stool for "Frequently Baby." This band should be all over the airways, and yet I've heard them on the radio maybe all of twice. Although, Melee is doing better than most of my favorite bands-their song "Stand Up" is on the sound­track for Sydney White. 
However, this has brought me back to a problem that has long plagued me. Why are so many bands that are so good get absolutely no airtime, while I hearTaylor Swift and Carrie Underwood every twenty seconds? No joke, when "Before He Cheats" was new, I heard it on the radio twice in fifteen minutes. And I flipped stations while I was home, and heard "Love Story," beginning to end. Yes, on two different stations. 
Now, I'm not saying that these artists don't have their merits and aren't enjoyable, butlet's give some other artists some airtime! Now, maybe I'm not listening to the right stations, but I have never heard fan­tastic artists like Mae or Anberlin on the radio. How about Motion City Soundtrack? Jack's Mannequin? The Red Jumpsuit Apparatus? The only airtime I've heard these guys get has been on Pandora or Last FM. 
The question I pose here is WHY. These artists are all brilliant ­some are probably better than what we hear day in and day out! And yet the same songs remain on the air, played time and time again until I'm singing along despite the deep desire to plug my ears. Bands like Melee get left behind so that "the popular songs" can be played every fifteen minutes. Wouldn't want us to forget the words, now, after all. 
So, radio stations and anyone else, really, broaden your horizons. There's more out there than what we listen to every day, and it's a shame it can't make the broadcast playlist more than once in a blue moon. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kaitlyn Conway at 
kconway2@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as professional publica­tion and stives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 17, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE GREEN OBJECT? 

Brian Dolinar  Mary Clare Murphy  Jennifer Henzler  Johanna Kirsch  Chelsea Carey  
junior Siegfried  junior Lyons  sophomore Welsh Family  junior McGlinn  sophomore Badin  
"Soy lent Green. "  "Flubber, because that's how I roll ... or  "Harry Potter's eyes.~·  "Yoda's lightsaber in action. "  "Money. I'm a product of America."  



bounce?" 


IAN GAVLICK/The Observer 

Notre Dame cheerleader Kelsey Ingram, center, performs during a timeout as the men's basketball team defeated Rutgers 61-50 in the first round of the Big East Tournament in Madison Square Garden in New York on Tuesday, 
March 10th. 
OFFBEAT 
Police arrest growling man on drug charges 
MANSFIELD, La. Authorities arrested a 32­year-old Texas man on drug charges on Thursday after construction workers saw him on his hands and knees, eating mud and growling like a dog. A woman who accompanied the man from Texas told investigators he had been wandering around the complex and eating dog food. 
Sheriff's Lt. · Horace Womack said a small bottle of PCP, a half-pound of marijuana and one-fourth ounce of crack cocaine were seized during the m!Ln's arrest. 
The man was nooked with possessing all three drugs with intent to distrib­ute them. He was placed in a cell where jailers at the DeSoto Detention Center could keep an eye on him. 
'My name is Rip Van Winkle and I can't sleep' 
CORVALLIS, Ore. -An Oregon man says people usually think he's joking when he introduces himself as Hip Van Winkle. But that's the name on his birth certificate. Really. Van Winkle told the Corvallis Gazette Times that his father and grandfather were nicknamed Rip, but his dad made things oflicial for his son, figuring the nickname would eventually stick to him too. 

Now, he has a little fun with it. 
"I went to the doctor's oflice," the 37 -year-old con­tractor said. "My name is Rip V~n Winkle, and 1 can't sleep. 
He owns and operates Rip Van Winkle Residential Contract and Hepair, and prides himself on being able to fix almost anything. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0:: 
1.&.1 :::1: 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 

0,,,,,,,
,,,,,,,
....I 
~ 
< 
(.) 
0 
*

HIGH 73 HIGH 68 HIGH 54 HIGH 42
.... 

LOW 44 LOW 44 LOW 30 LOW 25 IN BRIEF 


St. Patrick's Day Mass will be celebrated at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart today at 5:15 p.m. The presider will be Most Hev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C., Bishop of Peoria. The Folk Choir will pro­vide the music for the Mass. 
The Notre Dame Folk Choir will give a concert titled "Songs of Saints and Scholars" today at 
6:45 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse lounge. The choir will perform its newest collection of Irish sacred music. The concert is free and open to the public. 
Finance professor Carl Ackerman will lead a Senior Transition Seminar on personal finance Wednesday at 6 p.m. The seminar will be held at Legends. 
Brittany Maier and the Notre Dame Hand Bell Choir will per­form Wednesday at Washington Hall in a concert to support Disability Awareness Month. The concert will begin at 7 p.m. and is open to faculty, staff, and stu­dents. Parking and shuttle service will be available at Stepan Center. 
Efren Rivera Ramos, professor of law at the University of Puerto Rico, will deliver a lecture titled "Territory, Citizenship, and Rights: The Challenges of Overcoming American Colonialism in Puerto Rico" Thursday at 4 p.m. The lecture will be given in 200 McKenna Hall and is open to the public. It is part of the Institute for Latino Studies' lecture series titled "Caribbean Flights: From the First Colonial Cities in America to Metropolis U.S.A." 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 
0,,,,,,,
,,,,,,, 

~ 
HIGH 49 HIGH 
50 

LOW 30 LOW 
39 

Atlanta 71 I 46 Boston 48 I 32 Chicago 71 I 44 Denver 70 I 38 Houston 81 I 53 Los Angeles 73 I 53 Minneapolis 56 I 35 New York 53 I 37 Philadelphia 55 I 36 Phoenix 87 I 60 Seattle 48 I 40 St. Louis 75 I 49 Tampa 80 I 60 Washington 56 I 41 
Tuesday, March 17, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Diversity.survey nearly co111plete 
I 

Task force recommends increasing awareness of multicultural events 
meeting Monday. 
Diversity Representative Brigitte Githinji said that her task force sent out a survey to multicul­tural and interna-• tiona! students to 
•

get their opinion on how well they have been integrated into University life. She said that she will be able to bet­ter understand the sentiment of those students once the survey is completed Sunday. 
"So far what I see is a lot of people are not happy with the advertising," 
Githinji said. "Clubs do exist to bring awareness for certain cul­tures but nobody attends [their meetings) because the University doesn't advertise." 
She said because students don't realize that these clubs are open to everyone, the clubs "feel more exclusive than inclu­sive." For example, only African American students tend to attend meetings for African American clubs. 
One question that the survey asked was "Would you still come to Notre Dame now that you know what it's really like?" Githinji said. 
She said that most people said that they would still come, but "only because it is a good insti­tution." 
Githinji said that once the final results come'in, the task force will meet to decide what needs to be done. She said that right now, she sees "advertising and forcing people to branch out" as key issues. 
CLC also discussed steps ways to improve the· relationship between off-campus students and the University. · 
Student body president Bob Reish said the task force dedi­cated to this relatiol}ship divided their mission into two parts: the relationship between rectors 
SUMMER IN MAINE 
Males and Females. Meet newfriends. Travel! Teach yourfavorite activity 
Tenn~  Swim  
Wate~i  Softball  
Gymnastics  Archery  
Silver Jewelry  Rocks  
English Riding  Soccer  
Copper Enameling  Pottery  
Basketball  Lacrosse  
Field Hockey  Offke  
Theater Costumer  Photo  

and more... 
June to Augusl ~dential Camp. Enjoy oorwebs®. Applyooline 
TRIPP LAKE CAMProrGiris: 
1-800·997·4347 www.tripplakecamp.com 
Residence Life and Housing (ORLH) and four resident assis­tants in order to see how the Medical Amnesty Policy would impact students on a practical leve.,. 
The Medical Amnesty policy would protect students who have been drinking from getting in trouble while helping an intoxicated friend who is hurt or sick. 
Resident assistants provided information about the current policy that "as soon as there is an ambulance in the picture, students are automatically sent to Res Life," according to Koski. Koski said there was discussion about creating "something con­crete" that resident assistants could hand to students if they have been "Res Lifed" and don't know what to do. 
The students could "fill [it] out and talk to someone about what to do when you are in the ResLife hearing to make sure you are presenting your story correctly," said Koski. 
Koski also said there was a lot of discussion about the image of ORLH and how it affects student decisions. 
"While a lot of students may feel that most of the time ResLife will act in a way that they will consider just, that's not enough to make them air on the 

SMC first year 'fine' after being hit by car 
Observer Staff Report 
A Saint Mary's first year stu­dent was hit by a vehicle while crossing U.S. Highway 933/U.S. Highway 31 on her bicycle around 6:15 p.m. Monday night. 
Karen Johnson, vice presi­dent. of Student Affairs, said the student was "doing fine" and was expected to be released later that night, according to a statement released by Gwen O'Brien, Director of Media Relations fot Saint Mary's. 
The first year student was not seriously injur.ed, suffer­ing only minor cuts and bruis­es, Johnson said. 
St. Joseph County police, Notre Dame Security Police and Saint Mary's Department of Safety and Security all responded to the scene. 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
SaTintMa~'srevannps 
student government 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Campus Life Council (CLC) dis­cussed improving the relation­ship between multicultural and international students and the rest of the University at its and off-campus students and the relationship between the University and off-campus stu­dents. 
Badin Hall Rector Sr. Denise Lyon said that because of inter­actions at hall Mass, hall dances or hall sports, the task force decided that rectors do not need to have a formal role with off­
Council campus students. 
"Clubs do exist to bring awareness for certain cultures but nobody attends [their meetings] because the University doesn't advertise." 
Brigitte Githinji representative Diversity Council 
"As it stands now, it is not part of the rec­tors' role to be in a formal relation­ship with off cam­pus stu­dents, although almost one hun­dred per­cent of the rectors are in a relation­ship with 
some of the off campus stu­dents," Lyon said. 
Reish said his task force has comprised a list of questions to ask universities similar to Notre Dame about their off-campus 
relationship in order to get a better idea of w h a t should be done here at Notre Dame. 
He said such ques­tions being a s k e d include: Does each university guarante.e housing· and if so, for how m a n y years? Is 
"As it stands now, it is not part ofthe rectors' role to be in a formal relationship with off campus students, although almost one hundred percent ofthe rectors are in a relationship with some of the offcampus students.'' 
Sr. Denise Lyon rector Badin Hall 
conservative side when they are in a situation like this," Koski said. 
In other CLC . news: 
+The Web site that will provide information about off-campus hous~ ing is in its final stages and is aimed to be fin­ished within the next few weeks. 
uStudent body vice president Grant Schmidt said he has fig­ured out who is in charge of agen­
there a specific individual responsible for off-campus life? If so, are they a university-paid official? Is there specific off­campus housing sponsored by the university? 
Chief executive assistant Karen Koski reported her task force had a meeting with a rep­resentative from Office and da.nd.edu, and plans to meet with the organizer in order to improve the Web site. He said after looking at Web sites from other schools, he wants to make the Web site "more appealing" with "better search features." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu@nd.edu 


By ASHLEY CHARNLEY and 
SARAH MAYER 
News Writers 
Student body vice presi­dent and chair of the Constitution Committee­Sarah Falvey presented the newly amended Student Government Association (SGA) Constitution to the Board of Governance (BOG) Monday, which passed the new document by unani­mous consent. 
The new constitution eliminates BOG and trans­fers the BOG's former responsibilities to SGA. 
"I think the biggest change you will notice is that there will no longer be a BOG next year. Essentially, the SGA will be absorbing BOG," Falvey said. 
The changes also short­ened the constitution. 
"We cut it down from sev­enty pages to thirteep. pages," Falvey said. 
The new constitution also states that a student can hold only one executive position during a school year. 
"The idea behind that was to spread around kind of the wealth of the leadership on this campus, to encour­age a lot of involvement, and also to prevent our stu­dents from getting over­whelmed in performing their duties to the best of their abilities," Falvey said. 
Now that the constitution has passed through BOG, it will now be presented to the student body for a vote. Students will be able to log onto their PRISM accounts from Tuesday morning until Monday, March 23 to place their votes, Falvey said. 
"It's not actually required that we send it to the stu­dent body, but the commit­tee felt it was the right thing to do," Falvey said. 
If the constitution fails to be passed by a majority of the student body, then it. will be considered "null and void" for this year and the next amendment process will be lef~.. up to next year's committee, Falvey said. 
Student body vice presi­dent Sarah Falvey present­ed her research regarding keeping the Student Center 
open until midnight on weekdays and 2 a.m. on weekends. 
"We looked at peer insti­tutions and what amenities and services they have," Falvey said. "Some have post offices, game rooms, tanning salons and all kinds of things." 
Falvey is sending a letter to the director of Student Involvement, Patrick Daniel, proposing the changes to the Student Center after comparing Saint Mary's to other women's colleges who have longer student center hours. 
Three Dance Marathon committee members pre­sented two separate co­sponsorships. Sophomore Mary Reilly, a member of the technology and letter writing committee, sopho­more Katie Fadden, a mem­ber of Executive Council and first year Erin Chastain, a member of the letter writing committee, asked for co sponsorships for paper, envelopes and stamps for the letter writ­ing campaign. 
"We ask each person to compile a list of addresses to send to their families," Fadden said. "We raise money to Riley and people donate knowing all the money is going to Riley. We really want to keep the costs of stamps and paper down." 
The second co sponsor­ship was concerning night of the event costs. 
"We are getting food donated but it does not cover the cost of all the food with teachers and Riley parents coming," Fadden said. 
Funds are needed for out­staffing security, building services to clean up and a tip for a Deejay. 
Other BOG news: 
+Adriana Rodriguez, rep­resenting the Student Diversity Board, announced that the Diverse Student Leadership Conference is this week.· More students are registered this year than ever before. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu and Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
page4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 17, 2009 
GreeNO 
continued from page 1 
judged in the Dooley Rooin of the LaFortune Student Center on April 2. Prizes constructed of recycled materials will be awarded. 
Students will notice many posters and displays advertising the Recyclemania campaign in the residence halls, dining halls and throughout the campus this week. 
"The posters and displays fea­ture campus celebrities such as Fr. Hesburgh, athletes, popular professors and other well­known individuals," McCormack said. They "aim to show that recycling is not just necessary, but can also be fun." 
As part of Recyclemania and to further promote recycling and 
Holocaust 
continued from page 1 
Allies and then escaped Germany before Hitler came to power." 
Including this trip as a part of the class is an essential aspect of studying the Holocaust, Spicer said. 
"Although traditional class­room study is important, the uniqueness of the Holocaust may only be fully understood through visiting the historical sites," Spicer said. 
Rosenberg said that the class has, thus far, focused on the history of the Nazi party and anti-Semitism. 
"We were sort of setting the stage for how the Nazis were able to carry out the Holocaust," said Rosenberg. "We're talking about the people who worked in the Concentration camps the murderers really" 
While in Europe, the stu­dents visited four different sites. 
"I mean it was strange to be there and see it all. It was like we were stepping back in time," said Rosenberg, "We visited six camps, three of which were pretty intact and three of which were complete­ly destroyed and just memori­als." 
The class began their trip with a visit to the former ghet­to in Warsaw, Poland. At this location, there were various memorials, a Jewish Cemetery, as well as a synagogue. 
Next, the group journeyed to Lublin, where they visited three different death camp memorials. Of these three, one camp, Majdanek, was also a concentration camp. 
"At Majdanek we saw a mausoleum with a huge basin of human ashes. And it really sort of hits you that those were normal people who died and there were so many of them," said Rosenberg. 
Theft 
continued from page 1 
"I want to commend the student for calling us right away," Chapman said. 
He said quick action by the student as well as NDSP led to the capture of the man. 
Chapman said campus thefts of this nature are rare. 
"It happens infrequently, but it does happel)," he said. 
sustainability on campus, GreeNO will put on continuous short 15-minute visual presenta­tions, titled Recycling 101, on March 19 and 31 in the Montgomery Room of LaFortune. Viewers will learn the "value of recycling, items which can and cannot be recy­cled, and how each individual's recycling efforts can make a dif­ference." 
GreeNO will host a St. Patrick's Day party to kick off Recyclemania Tuesday from 10 
a.m. to 3 p.m. on Fieldhouse Mall. 
"There will be cookies, drinks, free reusable cups, recycling dis­plays and a raflle of prizes con­structed of recycled materials and everyone is invited," McCormack said. 
Contact Casey Kenny at ckenny@nd.edu 
The students also visited Krakow, which is well known for its role in the movie "Schindler's List." While there, students saw Oskar Schindler's actual factory and the infa­mous death camp Auschwitz. 
The final stop on the tour was Prague, where the group toured the Theresienstadt ghetto memorial and muse­ums. 
After the trip, Rosenberg said the power of the event started to sink in. 
"Just to see the memorials and everything, you can't even begin to comprehend the mag­nitude. 6 million people were killed," she said. 
This was not the first year that Spicer has taken students to Europe to visit Holocaust sites. 
'This was the fifth time that I have offered a similar travel program related to my course on the Holocaust. Due to finan­cial concerns, I altered the travel schedule to exclude vis­iting Berlin," said Spicer. 
Without the visit to Berlin, more time was opened up to explore other venues that were closer to ones previously visited. 
"Instead the travel program this year also included visits to the death camp memorials at Treblinka and Belzec -both within 2 hours driving distance of Lublin." 
Now that the class has returned for the second half of the semester, its focus will shift to the topics of the evolution to genocide in Nazi-occupied Europe, the perpetrators of the Holocaust, the Jewish resist­ance and the Nuremberg Trials. 
Although the trip dealt with heavy issues, Rosenberg said that the overall experience was a good one. 
"It was an intense trip but we had a lot of fun too so it was a good balance," sh~ said. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 
Beah 
continued from page 1 
"You dehumanize yourself when you kill someone else." 
Beah was removed from fighting and placed in a United Nations-sponsored rehabilitation program in 1996. After attending a con­ference in New York about worldwide violence toward children, Beah was able to eventually come to the Urrited States to finish high school and graduated from Oberlin College in 2004. 
Beah began work on his book during his college years as media coverage of the war in Sierra Leone began in the United States. 
Beah saw this coverage as sensationalized and present­ed without any human con­text. The media conveyed a sense of hopelessness in Sierra Leone, which Beah worried would cause people to disregard the situation there. 
"Sierra Leone was never a hopeless country," Beah clar­ified. "Nothing can be done if you write something off as hopeless. Issues can be easily put off without human con­text -if you don't humanize an issue, people don't pay attention to it." 
Frustrated with the media coverage and worried that people did not fully under­stand what happens during war, Beah published his book in 2007 to humanize the con­flict and to help people understand both how chil­dren were dragged into the war but also brought out of the fighting. 
"I wanted to try to help people understand how young boys in a peaceful society could grow up in such madness," Beah said. 
While growing up, Beah learned the importance of oral tradition and story­telling. Most importantly, he learned the function of pur­pose and clarity with.in a story. 
"When you destroy the facts of a story, you destroy its purpose. You need to have a purpose for telling a story. My purpose was to tell that [atrocities of war] were hap­pening to human beings with same human tendencies as everyone else. We are all capable of losing our human­ity." 
"I will never forget what happened, but you learn to live .with it. You ean find good things out of horror, and you can appreciate what it is just to wake up and be alive," Beah said. 
Beah is currently working in the Human Rights Watch Children's Division, as well as with UNICEF and the United Nations. 
Contact Liz Lefebvre at elefebvr@nd.edu 
Day 
continued from page 1 

Sophomore Katrina Corcoran will spend her St. Patrick's Day working at Recker's. 
"I have the 10 p.m. to mid­night shift," said Corcoran. She's not too worried about celebrators, though. 
"I worked Halloween, and it wasn't too bad," said Corcoran. Like many others, Corcoran isn't too sure about the rest of her night. 
However, Corcoran is excit­ed for St. Patrick's Day. 
"I love St. Patrick's Day because we're the Home of the Irish," Corcoran said. 
Contact Amanda Gray at 
agray3@nd.edu 
Proprietors 
Warren & Lind<i

~occo's 
Restaurant 
:Jirs/Or.tJ;ina./71zza in 7oa'Jn / 
Since 195t 
Specializing in ltafi;m Enrrees 
Tues.-Thurs.: 5:00PM • 11:00 ?M Fri. • S.U.: S:OO PM ~ 1:00AM $37 North SL loui!i • South Ber-d. IN 
574-233-2464 
Open on Graduation Sunday, May ~ 7th. 4-1 Opm 


Enjoy the good life when you live off campus at a very reasonable price! 
3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Off-Street Parking Located Close to Notre Dame 
Only $350 per month~ per student! 
*Our townhomes rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 



ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, March 17, 2009 COMPiLED FROM THE 0BSERVE~S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Reformist pulls out of Iran election 
TEHRAN -Iran's most prominent reformist, former ]='resident Mohammed Khatami, pulled out of the race against the country's hard-line president Monday, saying he didn't want to split the pro-reform vote in upcoming elections. 
Khatami's entry into the race against President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad a month ago boosted the hopes of some among the reformists, who favor improving ties with the West and liberalizing Iran's conservative Islamic government. 
But two other prominent reformists entered the race for the June 12 election after Khatami. One of them, former Prime Minister Mir Ilossein Mousavi, is a former hard-liner who Khatami has said has a bet­ter chance of siphoning conservatives' votes. With Khatami pulling out, Mousavi is now seen as the leading reformist candidate. 
Israeli-Palestinian negotiations fail 
JERUSALEM -The fate of the Israeli­Palestinian contliet has beeome a collection of moving part-; that somehow need to come togeth­er in a single package: an Israel-l-lamas prisoner swap. a truce for Gaza. and new governments on both sides of the firing line that could pursue peace. 
Prospects for success decreased significantly on Monday, when Egyptian-mediated talks for a prisoner swap -exchanging a captured Israeli soldier for hundreds ofjailed Palestinian militant'> -Pnded without agreement, according to Israeli ollicials. dashing hopes that a deal was close. 
Surh a swap could have helped pave the way for a longterm Israel-llamas truce deal that in turn might have opened the Gaza Strip's bloekad­ed borders to allow for reconstruction after Israel's punishing offensive there. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Evangelist faces abuse allegations 
LITTLE ROCK -California lawyer Danny Davis has wanted to separate jailed evangel­ist Tony Alamo from the abuse allegations that trail his ministry. 
"There is a man and there is the myth," Davis said. "He has become a myth in the character of this monstrous felony accusa­tion." 
That's what Davis told The Los Angeles Times in 1991 while representing Alamo in a child-abuse case that never went to trial. Now, almost 20 years later, the Beverly Hills lawyer apparently will defend the aging evangelist against federal charges that could leave him behind bars until his death. 
Governors discuss Olson's parole 
ST. PAUL -Gov. Tim Pawlenty sent a letter Monday to California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger asking him to prevent former 1970s radical and longtime fugitive Sara Jane Olson from returning to Minnesota to serve her parole. 
Pawlenty urged Schwarzenegger, a fellow Hepublican, to consmer the requests of the St. Paul Police Federation, the Los Angeles Police Protective League and the Los Angeles City Council to keep Olson in California after her release from prison, which is scheduled for Tuesday. 
Olson, once known as Kathleen Soliah, has been serving time in California for her role in the attempted pipe-bombings of Los Angeles police officers and a fatal bank robbery near Sacramento in the 1970s. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Ind. debates unemployment insurance 
INDIANAPOLIS Indiana Senate Republicans have proposed a plan designed to fix the state's bankrupt unemployment insurance fund by increasing employer taxes overall, reducing benefits for some jobless people and tightening eligibility require­ments. 
"Our effort is to make changes in the sys­tem that are gradual but does put us on a def­inite path to solvency in our unemployment insurance trust fund," Senate Tax Chairman Brandt Hershman, R-Monticello, said Monday. 
Vermont begins gay marriage hearings 
Protesters fill state capital as lawmakers debate new bill to replace civil union law 
Associated Press 
MONTPELIER, Vt. ~ Nine years after it played host to a bitter fight over civil unions, Vermont's Statehouse is again a gay rights battleground. 
More than 200 same-sex marriage opponents, cheer­ing and wearing buttons that read "Marriage -A Mother & Father for Every Child," converged Monday on Montpelier as lawmakers began,a week's worth of hearings on a bill that would allow gay and lesbian couples to marry. 
If approved, Vermont would join Massachusetts and Connecticut as the only 
U.S. states that allow gay marriage. 
The measure would replaee Vermont's first-in­the-nation civil unions law with one that allows mar­riage of same-sex partners beginning Sept. 1. Civil unions, which eonfer some rights similar to marriage, would still be recognized but no longer granted after Sept. 1. 

Supporters cast the debate as a civil right'> issue, saying a civil unions law enacted by the state in 2000 has fallen short of the equality it prom­ised same-sex couples. Its appeal has declined, too: In rendering m{ln and women tense public meetings. hearing. 2001, the state granted 1,876 interchangeable and destroy­More than a dozen law­Robinson, a lawyer who civil unions, compared with ing the connection between makers who voted for civil worked on the court case that only 262 last year. children and marriage. They unions lost their seats in the led to the creation of civil 
Passing a gay marriage bill want the question put to vot­ensuing election. unions, told the Senate "is one of the most important ers in a referendum. On Monday, opponents Judiciary Committee that civil civil rights issues of our Legislative leaders organized by churches and a unions were a "painful com­time," said Greg Johnson, a announced two weeks ago pair of anti-gay marriage promise" that left gay couples Vermont Law School profes­that they intended to pass the groups flooded the hallways feeling like second-class citi­sor who testified before the bill -titled "An act relating of the Capitol and packed into zens. state Senate Judiciary to civil marriage" -before a committee room for a strat­"It's the fact of that separa­Committee on Monday. adjourning in May, and they egy session with Stephen tion itself that does the harm. 
While the bill won't guar­have scheduled hearings to Cable, president of Vermont And that really does affect antee federal benefits, sup­get testimony on the legal, Renewal. every member of the commu­porters say it would provide social and practical implica­Supporters wearing lime­nity," she said. societal recognition, improve tions ofit. green buttons that read Statehouse security was access to health benefits and A public hearing is sched­"From Legal Hights to Equal beefed up for the day, but eliminate one of two obsta­uled for Wednesday night at Rights" numbered about 50. there were no arrests or cles to federal protections the Capitol, which was the Beth Robinson, chairwoman problems -other than a such as Social Security sur­epicenter of the fight in 2000, of the Vermont Freedom to scramble for seats in a 60­vivor benefits. when the issue divided Marry Task Force, said her seat committee room, which 
Opponents say gay mar­Vermont and partisans side was focused on showing forced some people to listen riage would undermine tradi­endured hate mail, threaten­its strength in numbers on to the hearing from a hall­tional male-female marriage, .ing telephone messages and Wednesday for the public way. 

.. 
SOUTH AFRICA 

SouthAfrica tries new Mass translation 
halted its insistence on Latin. years. But instead of pulling back in 
Associated Press 

Before Communion, for example, the face of their mistake, they are 
JOHANNESBURG -A new transla­the prayer "Lord, I am not worthy to continuing to use the liturgy. tion of the Roman Catholic Mass that receive you" becomes "Lord, I am Distribution of the prayers has is to be introduced worldwide in a not worthy that you should enter fueled debate over whether the new few years is getting an accidental under my roof." "One in being with translation -meant to more closely trial run in South Africa, where some the Father" becomes "consubstantial follow the original Latin text -will parishioners are complaining it's too with the Father" in the Nicene creed. help deepen parishioners' prayer life hard to understand. And the congregation's response to or alienate them from the church. 
The controversy comes as Pope the greeting that opens Mass with "I think the church has been very Benedict XVI travels Tuesday to the priest saying "The Lord be with lucky that the South Africans jumped Cameroon on his first papal pilgrim­you," changes from "And also with the gun because it's showing the age to the continent that has the you" to "And with your spirit." Vatican that there is going to be a fastest growing congregation of In a misunderstanding, some South worldwide problem when these new Catholics. African church leaders started using translations are put into effect," said 
Critics say the new, more literal the new versiop prematurely in some Thomas Reese, a Jesuit priest and word-for-word translation is part of parishes, even though the English­senior fellow at the Woodstock an attempt to roll back the progress language prayers won't be approved Theological Center ai Georgetown made decades ago when the church for global use for at least a couple of University. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, March 17, 2009 
Juryselectionbeginsinabortioncase 
Hoang: Constraints 
Potential members told they must set aside their personal views 
make writing easier 
Associated Press 
WICHITA -Potential jurors in a criminal trial of one of the nation's few late-term abortion providers were told Monday to set aside their personal views about abor­tion, and at least one was 
dismissed after she said she couldn't. 
"This trial is not a debate about abor­tion," Assistant Attorney General Barry Disney said as jury selection began in Sedgwick County District Court. "It is not about whether abor­tion is right or wrong.... This trial is about whether the 
defendant has violated the law." 
Dr. George Tiller is charged with 19 misdemeanors alleg­ing he failed to obtain a sec­ond opinion for late-term abortions from an independ­ent physician, as required by Kansas law. If convicted, the Wichita doctor could face a year in county jail or a fine of $2,500 for each misdemeanor charge. 

and abortion-rights support­ers also plan demonstrations. 
Disney told prospective jurors that prosecutors and defense attorneys agree that Tiller performed the 19 late­term abortions and that he was required to obtain a sec­ond, independent opinion. Jurors need only decide whether Dr. Ann Ktisfin Neuhaus, who provided Tiller with second opinions, had a financial or legal relationship with him, Disney said. 
One potential juror was dis­missed after saying she was biased against Tiller and would find it hard to let go of her anti-abortion views. 
Another was let go after saying he has seen too much about the case in the media. A third man was dismissed because he did not under­stand English well. 
Jury selection was to con­tinue Tuesday. 
Kansas law allows late­term abortions if two doctors agree that. it is necessary to save a woman's life or pre­vent "substantial and irre­versible" harm to "a major bodily function," a phrase that has been interpreted to include mental health. 
Prosecutors contend Tiller broke the law because he had a financial relationship with Neuhaus, who has been granted immunity from pros­ecution and could testify. 
Magrane 
Pet Medical Center 

Tiller and his clinic have been a target of abortion opponents for decades. His clinic was bombed in 1985, and an abortion opponent shot him in both arms in 1993. 
His attorney Dan Monnat hinted at the defense strategy 
'This trial ... is not about whether abortion is right or wrong . ... This trial is about whether the defendant has violated the law. ,, 
Barry Disney assistant attorney general Kansas 
while ques­tioning potential jurors by say­ing Tiller has never "know~ ingly or intentionally" been finan­cially affiliat­ed with the doctor who provided sec­ond opinions. 
Wichita was the site of the 45-day "Summer of Mercy" event staged by Operation 
Rescue in 1991. Those mass demonstrations and clinic blockades led to more than 2,600 arrests. One of those 
arrested,  the  Rev.  Pat  
Mahoney,  was  back  in  
Wichita  on  Monday  for  
Tiller's trial.  

"This case not only impacts Wichita, but it impacts the nation," Mahoney said. 
Abortion opponents plan prayer vigils during the trial, 

and ends with chapter ten.
Notre Dame Graduate Hoang prefers to write under 
constraints. She said that it
Joins Leading Area Veterinary Hospital eliminates the infinite possibili­
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Lily Hoang, assistant profes­sor of English at Saint Mary's College, is no typical writer. She boasts of putting more of an emphasis on form rather than plot and calls writers' block a "myth." 
Hoang, who teaches in the English and Women's Studies Departments, shared excerpts from her work Monday in Stapleton Lounge to Saint Mary's students and faculty. She read from two of her published works, "Parabola" and "Changing." 
She also gave a sneak pre­view into her newest book, "Evol~tionary Revolution," a science fi~;tion novel that will be released in 2010. 
The reading was the second event in the Women's History Month series co-sponsored by the English and Women's Studies Departments. Professor Jennifer Zachman, introduced Hoang at the start of the event, described her colleague as a "ceaseless writer" who has two published works, an e-book and two more books that are cur­rently in the publishing phase. 
Hoang began her readings with an excerpt called "A Father, A Daughter" from "Parabola." The book's unique title references the parabolic constraints of the story. The book begins with chapter ten 
ties of other creative writing that cause writers' block. 
Magrane Pet A4edical Center Welcomes: 

Before reading, Hoang gave a disclaimer to her work. ''I'd like to start with some-
Keith Kitson Logu~, DVM 
Dr. Logue is a graduate of University of Notre Dame and Purdue's School of Veterinary medicine. 

Alun1ni Association 
Dr. Logue brings a wealth ofexperience in emergency and ctitical care medicine-care of the sickest pets, to our experienced staff. 

honors two students 
Conveniently located to N.D. in the Edison Lakes Business Park (Mishawaka) 

divinity candidate from Bastrop, Texas, have been selected recipients of the Notre Dame Alumni 
8 minutes from Notre Dame, directly east on Angela I Edison Road 

~ow 'Leaslug CFor 2009-2010 ~pp!J croday 
CfAmited Space 5\vaDable!U 
• 6ffarmg lihe !Best~ ~-lD cronl 
• $99 CFor 1 • !f1onths 'Rpt 'Witk 12 ,.,Dtb 'Lease! 
• $300 6ft' 1 • ~tha ~t 'With 9 !f1ontb 'Lease! 
•Cfree .7\ppUcation Cfn 'Por Students 'Witb 'J.!>.! • C6tose 'J'oC6amput 
eastle'Point
Apartn1en.~~ PAoae: ts., • ., 272-811.11 11...: (574) n:~-•u.4 

"Caring.fiJr.}!(Jur pet is caring.fiJr afinnizv member and fj(wl privileged to work with a great team to carefi;ryour pel. II'!tether lwaltl~v or ill." Special to The Observer To schedule an appointment call: 574.259.5291 
Matthew Gelchion, a senior
Email questions to kklogue(i(magrancPMC.com 

from Bayonne, N.J., and Sophia Barbato, a master of 
thing kind of normal and then progressively get weirder," said Hoang. "And when I said that it [the writing] is kind of weird," said Hoang. 'Ttneant that it is weird." 
True to her word, Hoang's "A Father, A Daughter" was not traditional. Instead of being centered on a plot, it was a description of the relationship between a father and a daugh­ter. 
Hoang continued the reading with two short pieces from her book "Changing." · 
After reading from her pub­lished works, Hoang continued with the first ten pages of her unpublished science fiction novel. The novel is also under a eonstraint, although it is the most unconstrained of all of her works, Hoang said. 
"Evolutionary Revolution" is based on Neutral Milk Hotel's album "Aeroplane Over the Sea," Hoang said. 
The novel takes place in two times. One is prehistoric time with two species of man and the earth is only water. One species of man is the mermen who live under the water, the other, women called men who fly over the water and live on the moon. 
The other, more recent time setting, features a girl named Chloe who wakes up with wings on her thighs and a two-headed boy. 
During the set of readings, Hoang received several bursts of laughter from the attentively listening audience. 
The event ended with a ques­tion and answer session between Hoang and her stu­dents and fellow faculty mem­bers. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Council. Gelchion currently is serving 

· as a resident assistant in Fisher Hall and senior mentor for Freshmen in Discipleship, Evangelization, and Service (FIDES) through Campus Ministry. In this role, he leads a group o{" seven first-year 
Association's 2008-09 Distinguished Student Award and Distinguished Graduate Student Award for their out­standing academic perform­ance and service to the University. 
The students will be recog­nized at a luncheon in their honor April 24 on campus. 
A political science and soci­ology double major, Gelchion has compiled a 3. 95 grade point average and was named a Notre Dame Presidential Scholar last year. His commit­ment to service began with the Freshman Peer Leaders program fm· which he helped plan and lead a confirmation retreat for high school stu­dents in South Bend. He also served as a Mass leetor in the Basilica and joined the Notre Dame Boxing Club to help raise money for the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. Last year, he chaired the Spiritual Committee on the Junior Class students in weekly discussions of faith, and helped plan the Class of 2009 retreat. He also is a mentor on the Lifeworks Dream Team, a group that helps instill confidence and inspiration in students in local schools. 
Barbato has demonstrated exemplary service through Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns, including conduct­ing interviews for Summer Service Learning Program candidates during the last three years. In addition to leading the interview process, she facilitates follow-up dis­cussions with the undergradu­ate students who participate. Because of her natural ability to make students comfortable, Barbato also was asked to interview student applicants for the Latino Leadership Internship Program, and she led the. Holy Cross Mission in Education Seminar in January. 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Tuesday, March 17, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,216.97 -7.01 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,198 86 1,590 390,811,536 

NASDAQ -· '" -···· 1,49:1~9? ...... ~n~'+8 ,J:/YSEal1l[;~lllilli1kr~~1il~llli!!Iilllfililfl!li 
S&P 500 753.89 -2.66 
NIKKEI (Tokyo)"-· •7,0,iiDS'iU)tJII\i]fi( 
FTSE 100 (London) 3,863.99 +110.31 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP INC (C) +30.90 +0.55 2.33 BK OF AMERICA (SAC) +7.29 +0.42 6.18 S&.P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) ·0.30 ·0.23 75.86 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) ·1.95 -0.16 8.03 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.29 +0.066 2.95 13-WEEK BILL +15.79 +0.030 0.22 30-YEAR BOND +2.53 +0.093 3.77 S·YEAR NOTE +2.19 +0.041 1.91 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.} +1.10 47.35 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -8.10 922.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +3.00 88.50 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 98.2450 EURO 1.2978 CANADIAN DOLLAR 
' 1.2713 BRITISH POUND 1.4083 
IN BRIEF 
Lending to businesses fell in January 
WASHINGTON -The government said Monday that lending to businesses from the top banks getting bailout funds fell in January despite the billions of dollars the banks received in government support. 
The Treasury Department said in a monthly report that lending on regular business loans and on business loans backed by real estate both declined in January, compared to December. The findings were based on reports filed by the top 21 recipients of rescue money from the government's $700 billion financial bailout fund. 
The report attributed the decline in loans banks made to businesses in January to weak­ening demand on the part of businesses, reflecting the dismal economy. 
"Demand ih commercial loans and commer­cial n~al estate continues to be limited by the economic downturn, as businesses remain cautious in taking on new debt obligations," Treasury said in the new report. 
Government aids small businesses 
WASHINGTON -President Barack Obama freed billions of dollars to help the nation's small businesses on Monday, hoping to get credit f1owing again to Main Street, not just Wall Street. lie heaped praise on the little guys of American industry, often overshad­owed in the blitz of government bailouts. 
The centerpiece of Obama's latest plan will allow the government to spend up to $15 billion tlj buy the small-business loans that are now choking community banks and lenders. That, in turn. could allow those banks to start lending money again to small companies to invest, pay bills and stay afloat. 
"You deserve a chance. America needs you to have a chance," Obama said in an appeal to all those who run small businesses or hope to one day. 
Obama's effort was, at one level, funda­mental to helping the economy rebound. Small businesses have created about 70 per­cent of the new jobs over the past decade, and as their credit lines have dried up, so has their ability to thrive or survive. 
Obama vows to block AIG bonuses 
President speaks out against company's spending after receiving bailout money 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Joining a wave of public anger, President Barack Obama blistered insurance giant AIG for "recklessness and greed" Monday and pledged to try to block it from handing its executives $165 million in bonuses after taking billions in fed­eral bailout money. 
"How do they justify this outrage to the taxpayers who are keeping the com­pany afloat?" Obama asked. "This isn't just a matter of dollars and cents. It's· about our fundamental values." 
Obama aggressively joined other officials in crit­icizing American International Group, the company that is fast becoming the poster boy for Americans' bailout blues. 

The bonuses could con­tribute to a backlash against Washington that would make it tougher for Obama to ask Congress for more bailout help -and jeopardize other parts of the recovery agenda that is dominating the start of his presidency. Thus, the presi­dent and his top aides were working hard to distance themselves from the insur­er's conduct, to contain possible political damage and to try to bolster public confidence in his adminis­tration's handling of the recession-pounded small Later, White House do is administer this thing broader economic rescue businesses. But first, he spokesman Robert Gibbs going forward," he said. effort. said, he had a few words to said the administration A call to AIG's corporate 
David Axelrod, senior say about AIG. He lost his would modify the terms of a headquarters in New York adviser to Obama, said in · voice at one point and ad­pending $30 billion bailout seeking comment was not an interview with The libbed, "Excuse me, I'm installment for AIG to at returned immediately late Associated Press that there choked up with anger least recoup the $165 mil­Monday. was no question that the here." It was just a light lion the bonuses represent. On a separate track, New bonuses and the public's aside, but he meant the That wouldn't rescind the York Attorney General anger over them could run sternness of his remarks to bonuses, just require AIG to Andrew Cuomo said many things off the rail. come through. account for them different­Monday he would issue "People are angry because "This is a corporation ly. subpoenas for information they've seen exhibit after that fmds itself in financial Axelrod called the bonus­on the bonuses after AIG exhibit of irresporrsibility distress due to recklessness es "spectacularly tone­missed his deadline for pro­and people walking away and greed," Obama deaf." viding details. Cuomo said with money in their pock­declared. He said the administra­his oflice would investigate ets," he said. "It's under­He said he had directed tion hoped the tough talk whether the employees mined the discussion that Treasury Secretary Timothy would result in voluntary were involved in AIG's we have to have." Geithner to "pursue every action on the part of AIG near-collapse and whether 
Obama had scheduled a legal avenue to block these and its bonus recipients, the $165 million in bonus speech Monday to bonuses and make the although that remains an payments were fraudulent announce new help for American taxpayer whole." open question. "All we can under state law. 
Madof£ wife may need to forfeit assets 
Associated Press "I don't think it's unusual ... given lion home bought in 1979 in the magnitude of the fraud," she Montauk is jointly owned by the cou­
NEW YORK-Prosecutors probing said. "It would be unusual if they ple. Bernard Madoff's massive fraud are didn't go after whatever assets they The government also said Madoff determined to leave his wife with can get." and his wife should forfeit: almost nothing after telling a Bernard Madoff, 70, has been liv­-$10 million in furnishings for all Manhattan court that they consider ing in a small cell at the of the homes, along with accounts in more than $100 million in assets, Metropolitan Correctional Center in Ruth Madoff's name that hold $17 most of it listed in her name, the lower Manhattan since he pleaded million in cash and $45 million in fruits of her husband's crimes. guilty Thursday to securities fraud, securities. 
The government even included a perjury and nine other charges. He -"Bull," a $7 million yacht in $39,000 Steinway piano and $65,000 could be sent to prison for up to 150 France and its $1.5 million boat slip, in silverware, both owned by Ruth years at a June sentencing. and "Little Bull," a $320,000 Madoff, in items it said it will try to If prosecutors get their way, the Montauk boat, all in Ruth Madoff's force the Madoffs to forfeit. The list Madoffs will have to give up all their name, as well as a $2.2 million fish­was in a three-page document filed assets, including three properties ing boat in Palm Beach, Fla., that is in U.S. District Court late Sunday. listed solely in Ruth Madoff's name; in Madoff's name. 
Brenda Sharton, a lawyer with a a $7 million Manhattan penthouse -A 1999 Mercedes SLK convert­Boston firm representing several bought in 1984, an $11 million Palm ible in Florida, a 2001 Mercedes sta­burned investors, said the govern­Beach, Fla., home purchased in tion wagon and a 2004 Volkswagen, ment's aggressive approach with 1994 and a $1 million home in Cap estimated to be worth a total of Ruth Madoff isn't surprising. d' Antibe, France. Another $3 mil-$25,000. 

page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 17, 2009 
IRAQ 
U.S. military shoots down Iranian drone 
AssQciated Press 
BAGHDAD -U.S. jets shot down an Iranian unmanned surveillance aircraft last month over Iraqi territory about 60 miles northeast of Baghdad, the U.S. military said Monday. 
A U.S. statement said the Ababil 3 was tracked for about 70 minutes before U.S. jets shot it down "well-inside Iraqi airspace" and that the aircraft's presence over Iraq "was not an accident." 
An Iraqi official said the Iranian aircraft went down near the Iraqi border town of Mandali. He spoke on condi­tion of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk to the media. 
J'he Ababil is believed to have a maximum range of about 90 miles and can fly up to 14,000 feet. It is pri­marily designed for surveil­lance and intelligence-gath­ering. . 
U.S. officials have fre­quently accused the Iranians of supplying weapons, train­ing and money to Shiite extremist groups opposed to the U.S. military presence and to .the U.S.-backed Iraqi government. 
lr<}n has denied links to militant groups inside Iraq and says the instability in this country is a result of the 
U.S. "occupation." The Iranians consider the pres­ence of about 140,000 U.S. troops in a neighboring country as a threat to their national security. 
In Baghdad, a U.S. soldier was fatally injured during combat operations Monday, the U.S. said in a statement. No further details were released. 
It was the first combat death reported by the U.S. military in Baghdad. this month and the first among 
U.S. 
forces nationwide since March 7, when a soldier was killed in the Tikrit area. 

U.S. 
casualties have dropped sharply since Iraqi soldiers and police have taken a greater role in secu­rity. President Barack Obama ha:s pledged to withdraw all 

U.S. 
combat troops from Iraq by September 2010. 


American combat troops are due to leave bases in Baghdad and other cities by June 30 under an agreement that provides for all U.S. forces to leave the country by the end of 2011. 
Prime Minister Nouri al­Maliki told The Associated Press on Sunday that U.S. troops may stay in some areas that are not completely secure even after the June 30 date. 
He did not identify those areas, but U.S. and Iraqi troops are still trying to secure Mosul, the country's third-largest city where al­Qaida and other Sunni mili­tant groups remain active. 
Also Monday, a 12-year-old girl was killed when American soldiers fired at a vehicle speeding toward them and Iraqi police near Mosul, said the U.S. military. The military said the girl was standing about 100 yards (meters) behind the vehicle and was struck by a round. 
But Iraqi police said the girl was shot while in a car with her father. The discrep­ancy could not be immediate­ly explained. 
Meanwhile, an Iranian opposition group said Monday that Iraqi tr.oops tightened their siege of a camp north of Baghdad where about 3,500 of their members have been based for about 20 years. 
The People's Mujahedeen said Iraqi troops have pre­vented food and fuel from reaching Camp Ashraf for the past six days -despite written guarantees by the Iraqi government that it would guarantee human rights of the residents. 
But Iraqi national security adviser Mouwaffak al-Rubaie branded· the allegations "totally baseless." He said People's Mujahedeen mem­bers had taken over a build­ing belonging to the Iraqi army and were preventing soldiers from entering it. 
"They have a huge propa­ganda machine all over the world and are known to exaggerate things," added al-Rubaie, whom the People's Mujahedeen said was behind the alleged crackdown. 
Iran and the United States consider the People's Mujahedeen a terrorist group and Tehran has stepped up pressure on the Iraqis to close the camp. Iraq took over security for the camp from the U.S. on Jan. 1. 
But the Iraqi government promised the U.S. that it would not force the group's members to leave against their will. 
The People's Mujahedeen opposed Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi during the 1979 revolution but fell out with the clerical regime that replaced him. Saddam Hussein allowed the group to set up a camp during the I.ran-Iraq war for staging raids across the border inside Iran. 
U.S. troops disarmed the fighters and confined them to Camp Ashraf after the 2003 U.S.-led invasion that top­pled Saddam. 
Also Monday, residents of the Kurdish town of Halabja marked the 21st anniversary of the March 16-17 poison gas attack by Saddam's forces against Kurdish sepa­ratists. 
The 1988 attack killed thousands of people and was the biggest use of chemical weapons against a civilian populated area in history. 
Local officials and victims' relatives placed wreaths on a monument to the dead. 
"The anniversary has become etched in the memo­ry of many people," said Aras Abbadi, who lost 21 rel­atives in the attack. "Every year, we wait for the anniversary and condemn that deplorable attack com­mitted by a dictatorial regime against its own peo­ple." 
Another participant, Mariam Saleh, 59, pointed to a photograph on display that shows a truck full of victims. 
"My family was in that truck," she wept. 

's"YourFllturem Don't LeaveltUp to Luck! 
our lnvestme~~ Services Pt1partment c~r help yQu decide which investments are suitable for you. 
Contact us>for your complimentary" Investment Consultation. 
Today! 

Tuesday, March 17, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 




Texas jail seeks to fix tarnished itnage 
Associated Press 
MONTAGUE, Texas -For months, perhaps longer, the Montague County Jail was "Animal House" meets Mayberry. 
Inside the small brick build­ing across from the courthouse, inmates had the run of the place, having sex with their jailer girlfriends, bringing in recliners, taking drugs and chatting on· cell phones sup­plied by friends or guards, according to authorities. They also disabled some of the sur­veillance cameras and made weapons out of nails. 
The doors to two groups of cells didn't lock, but apparently no one tried to escape -per­haps because they had every­thing they needed inside. 
The jailhouse escapades ­some of which date to 2006, according to authorities­have rocked Montague (pro­nounced mahn-TAYG), a farm­ing and ranching town of sev­eral hundred people near the Oklahoma line, about 65 miles northwest of Fort Worth. 
There were whispers in the past year about an affair between a female jail-er and male .inmate, but folks dis­missed the rumors as small­town gossip. It was not until late last month, when a Texas grand jury returned a 106­count indictment against the former sheriff and 16 others, that the inmates-gone-wild scandal broke wide open. 
The indictment charged Bill Keating, sheriff from 2004 until December, with official oppres­sion and having sex with female inmates. The others indicted include nine guards ­seven women and two men ­who were charged with various offenses involving sex or drugs and other contraband. Four inmates also were charged. 
Local, state and federal authorities are still trying to figure out how this small-town Texas jail was turned into something resembling a frat house. 
The new sheriff, Paul Cunningham, said he was 
stunned while touring the jail for the first time just hours after being sworn into office Jan. 1. He saw partitions made of paper towels that blocked jailers' view into cells, and pills scattered about. 
Cunningham, who had not worked for the county before his election in November, immediately ordered the jail closed and moved the nearly 60 inmates to another institution. 
"It literally scared me -not for myself but for the employ­ees," Cunningham said. "How somebody kept from being killed was beyond me." 
Cunningham, who defeated Keating in the Republican pri­mary last spring, suggested that Keating lost interest in the jail after that and turned his back on the place. 
Separately from the indict­ment, Keating, 62, faces up to 10 years in federal prison after pleading guilty in January to charges he coerced a woman into having sex with him by threatening to jail her on drug charges. 
Keating's attorney, Mark Daniel, called the latest charges against the former sheriff "kind of silly in the face of the federal investigation, like piling on." He declined further comment. 
The investigation began with a tip last fall from inside the jail. 
An official received a hand­written letter on notebook paper from an inmate arrested on charges of kidnapping his girlfriend. The inmate, Luke C. Bolton, said they met in 2007 when she was a jail guard and he was behind bars on another charge. He said their sexual relationship started in a jail shower and continued during her late-night visits to his cell. 
''I'm just reaching out for help to show (the jailer) is a person who abused her power. She broke the law by having sex with me in cell 16 while I was an inmate.... Please help me. I am telling the truth. Everybody knows I am," Bolton wrote, offering to take a poly­graph. 
New Mexico man pleads guilty in attack 
Associated Press 
LUBBOCK, Texas-A New 
Mexico man pleaded guilty 
Monday to mailing threatening 
letters containing suspicious 
powder to dozens of banks and 
federal offices across the country, . federal prosecutors said. 
Richard Leon Goyette, 4 7, of 
Albuquerque, accepted a plea 
agreement with prosecutors and 
pleaded guilty in federal court in 
Amarillo to one count of issuing 
threats and false information 
and one count of making threats 
and hoaxes, the U.S. Attorney's 
Office for the Northern District of 
Texas said in a statement. 
He had faced 64 counts of 
making threats and lwaxes after 
mailing letters from Amarillo to 
52 offices and banks in 11 states 
and the. District of Columbia in 
October. No one was injured and 
the powder was found to be cal­
cium carbonate, a major compo­
nent of blackboard chalk. 
Goyette, who remained in Randall County Jail on Monday, faces up to 15 years in prison, a $500,000 fine and other penal­ties at his May 25 sentencing in 
U.S. district court. 
"We felt that was a fair offer and it was in the best interest of justice," said Brooks W. Barfield Jr., Goyette's attorney. "He's cer­tainly regretful and certainly feels bad for any distress or anxi­ety he may have caused anyone." 
Goyette was working for a New Mexico energy provider at the time of his Feb. 2 arrest. 
Authorities have said Goyette was apparently upset about los­ing more than $60,000 in Washington Mutual Bank stock he ~ld when the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation took it over in late September. The next day, the FDIC sold the bank's deposits, branches and loan ·portfolio to JPMorgan Chase & Co. for a small fraction of their combined value, documents 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, March 17, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 

The same Church, but not mine 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, lN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDITORS: Matt Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: !an Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631~8839 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students ofrhe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns presenr rhe views of rhe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor musr be signed and must include conracr information. 
QuestiflliS regarding Obsm1er policies should be directed to Editor in Chiefjnm Maz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Thcomav('r (USPS 599 2-4000) i!. published Mond;ty 1hrough Friday ~cept during exam and vacmon periods. A subscription to l1K: Orncrvcr is $100 for nne ;K;;u:kmic year; $5) for one senleirer. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining HaH Send 3ddrcss corrections to: 
Notre Dame, I~ 46S56.om TheObseTVcr 
Periodical posragt" paid at Notr-e Dam¢ P.O. Box 779 and add.ition.t.l m.Uiing offia-s. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre D.:~me, IN 46)56-0779 
1"hc ~rvc-r 1$ a member of the ~ted Ptess. AJI reprod.w.:tion righrs arc reserved. 
I've been in Europe for six months now, but the most fulfilling Mass I've been to was three weeks ago. It was Ash Wednesday and my Austrian host sister and I went to evening Mass in the Stephansdom, the Vienna Cathedral. 
I stared at the rafters, the goth­ic arches and stained-glass windows point­ing towards God, in their magnifi­cence effectively all but forgetting little me sitting inside on the makeshift bench above the con­crete floor. From my football-field-away seat, I tried to catch a glimpse of' the bishop as hn consecrated the Eucharist and blessed the ashes. I couldn't see most of it, but what I missed I still caught on the IIDTVs lining the cathedral's interior column~. · 
It wasn't the beauty of' the building, the prominence of the presider, or the convenience of the transmission of the message that spoke to me dur­ing this mass. Rather, what really got me was the void that remained in my spiritual fulfillment even after all of that grandeur. 
The songs keyed that in most of all; wide-ranging, dramatic choral pieces composed by Austrian greats. These pieces are beautiful and unquestion­ably genius, but they are not Church music. Not to me, at least. 
I grew up in Georgia, where the 

Jackie 
Mirandola 
Mullen 
Chlorofilled Cardboard 

number of Catholics has significantly increased in the last 20 years, but is still a minority. Friends consistently reminded me that Jesus could save me if I would only become Christian and leave behind my Catholic ways (not an· embellishment). 
My parish was built in the 1970s, a true child of Vatican II. I had never sat in a Church with just one aisle down the center, a church without carpet, or a church with altar deco­rations faneier than the bronze lining on our glass altar table. The glass stood for transparency and inelusion, reminding you as you looked through it to the parishioners on the other side that w11 are all one body, one people. 
Our songs re!1ected this unity through their sing-a-long ability (SAA, if you will). On a seale of one to 10 in SAA, I think American Southern Catholie churches would get an average of about nine, while Austrian churches ehime in at about a two. For reference: NO's dorm masses range from 8.5-10 depending on the dorm, and thn Basilica's SAA is eloser to Austrian churches. 
So as I sat there in the­Stnphansdom, wishing I could SA (sing along), I thought of what we would be singing then at homn. One of my favorite Church songs comes only on Ash Wednesday, so I always look forw&rd to it: "We rise again from ashes, from the good we've failed to do/We rise again from ashes, to create ourselves anew/If all our world is ashes, then must our lives be true?/And off'ering of ashes, an offering to you ... " 
I sat there and sang silently in my hnad. The symbolism of Ash Wednesday is beautiful, that we admit and accept our humble begin­nings, end, and our sins in between, but we offer that to God, who is the deeper meaning in our "world of ashes." The Vienna bishop conveyed just that message in his homily, but it didn't reach me like the song from home did. 
Although the Catholic Church is universal, the Church I experience in Austria is not the Church I know at home. European Catholicism as a whole tends to be more awe-inspir­ing and less personal, but this vari­ance does not exist strictly at inter­na,tional borers: many American Catholics prefer large churches with grandiose music and strict tradition. I'm not saying there is anything wrong with that, both forms of wor­ship are beautiful and deeply spiritu­al. 
But that's still not the Church that I grew up in. It's not the Church that shaped my faith and still today pro­vides me with a sense of belonging. So much of religious fulfillment rests in the community and the atmos­phere ol' worship. I continue to f'ind comFort in the ,uniformity of the Catholic Mass, in its familiarity, but I somehow remain a guest in these European Churches and not a mem­ber. 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a junior History and German major currently studying abroad in Innsbruck. Austria. She is sorry that this column has such a low SAA. She can be reached at jmirando@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY 


QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports John Tierney Sam Werner Liz O'Donnell Mike Gotimer Laura McCrystal Molly Sammon 
'You must not lose faith in humanity.
Graphics Scene 

Humanity is an ocean; ifafew drops of
Madeline Nies Jess Shaffer "Ninety percent ofeverything is crap. " 

the ocean are dirty, the ocean does not 
Viewpoint 
become dirty. " 
Theodore Sturgeon 
Lauren 
U.S. science fiction writer 

www.ndsmcobserver.~(r)D:l> 
Mahatma Gandhi 
Brauweiler 

Indian political and spiritual leader 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, March 17, 2009 page 11 

The California hospital where they were born calls them "Suleman Babies A to H." Their mother, Nadya Suleman, an unmarried, unemployed 33-year-old grad student, already had six children, ages two to seven, all through in vitro fertilization (IVF). She was surprised when the octuplets appeared after six embryos, conceived by IVF, were placed in her ,. womb. She instantly became Octomom. Reaction, mostly critical, focused on Nadya's "irresponsibility" and the "professional negligence" of a physician who would perform IVF on a single mother of six. 
The case, however, should prompt a reappraisal of the effects of IVF and related tech­niques on the human dignity of all those involved. On Sept. 8, 2008, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith issued, with the approval of Pope 
Right or

Benedict XVI, an instruction on bioethics, "Dignitas Personae" Wrong? (The Dignity of a Person) (DP). DP presents the principles gov­erning IVF and other types of artificial fertilization, as well as new techniques including gene therapy, therapeuth; and reproductive cloning, the use of stem cells. both embryonic and adult, and the attempted hybridization of human and animal genetic elements. Space permits discussion here only of DP's treatment of IVF. 
The opening sentence of DP states the theme: "The dignity of a person must be recognized in every human being from conception to natural death." DP builds on 1-Iumanae Vitae, the 1968 encyclical of Pope Paul VI which affirmed the inseparability on human initiative of the unitive and procreative meanings of the conjugal act. "The transmission of life,'' said DP, "is inscribed in nature and its laws stand as an unwritten norm to which all must refer."(6). The natural law dictates that the "authen­tic context" for the origin of human life is in the con­jugal act, "open to life," between husband and wife. 
(6) The acceptance of IVF is a predictable result of the acceptance of contraception. Contraception seeks to take the unitive without the procreative, while IVF 


In vitro for eight 
takes the procreative without the unitive. 

Hormonal or surgical techniques, however, that remove obstacles to natural fertilization, such as sur­gical repair of fallopian tubes, are encouraged by DP because none of them "replaces the conjugal act." 
(13) But techniques "which substitute for the conju­gal act"(12), are unacceptable, including artificial fertilization, both heterologous (using the sperm of a third party) and homologous (using the husband's sperm). IVF, followed by transfer of the embryo to the womb, is such a technique. 
In IVF, more embryos are produced than are intended to be placed in the womb. Some may be frozen for future use. Those with defects are "dis­carded." (15) More embryos are then placed in the womb than the number of children desired, "to increase the chance that at least one will implant in the uterus." (15) If, however, more implant than are desired, the answer is "embryo reduction" in which the extra children in the womb are "exterminated [by] selective abortion." (21) 
Such a "purely utilitarian treatment" of human life is seen clearly in the genetic diagnosis made before transfer into the womb. "[A]n embryo suspected of having ... defects, or not having the sex desired, or having other qualities that are not wanted [is destroyed]." (22) Such reflects "a eugenic mentality that [measures] the value of a human life only [by] 'normality' and physical well-being, thus opening the way to ... infanticide and euthanasia." (22) "The acceptance of the enormous number of abortions involved in IVF illustrates how the replacement of the conjugal act by a technical procedure ... leads to a weakening of the respect owed to every human being." (16). 
Remember that each embryo is a living human being. IVF affronts the human dignity of the embryo and of Octomom herself. One is treated as an indus­trial product, subject to quality control, and the other as a receptacle for that product subject to fur­ther quality control. . 
"The Church," said DP, "understands the suffering of couples struggling with problems of fertility. [T]he desire [for a child], however, should not override the dignity of [a] human life," nor can it "justify the 'pro­duction' of offspring." (16) And the desire not to have a child cannot justify the abandonment or destruc-
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Bald is beautiful 

In an effort to raise money for can­cer, three Notre Dame girls (that I know oO, including myself, have decid­ed to shave our heads. In doing this, we hope to raise awareness about cancer and the importance of working together. Donations will go towards St. Baldrick's foundation, which in nine years has raised over $50 million for childhood cancer research by shaving more than 72,000 heads in 18 coun­tries and 48 US states. This event allows young cancer patients and sur­vivors to be able to see how many peo­ple really do care. 
I'm sure everyone who is reading this knows someone who has been affected by cancer. Take a second to think about that. That is a lot of people with cancer; even still, more and more people are being diagnosed with can­cer everyday. I am fortunate enough to be healthy and to have the opportunity to become involved with this issue, as are the majority of the students here at this University, including you. Look around at how fortunate we all are. You are in college, at the University of Notre Dame. Each and every one of us has been very blessed with the oppor­tunity to pursue our dreams. Some children with cancer may never have the opportunity to go away to college or even have the chance to apply to college for that matter. Realizing this makes hair seem insignificant. Shaving our heads may help you to realize how fortunate you are, espe­cially since cancer is becoming more and more prevalent. I think there is more to life than appearance; so if shaving my head can potentially save the lives of children, or take a step closer, then by all means, shave my head. 
This is not at all about me though; nor is it about the others who are shaving their heads. It's about every­one we know who has, or has had, cancer. This effort involves all of us and we need to work together. These children need the help of the Notre Dame student body, which is known to work together, to live up to our hype. Together, we could potentially save, or prevent hundreds, hopefully more, from cancer. Who knows, maybe today we are even saving our own children in 15 years. 
So on Friday, March 20, along with junior Molly McCarthy and senior Meghan Keefe, I am shaving my head. I'm asking you all to sponsor one of us. Go to http://stbaldricks.org/, click on "Find a Participant" at the top of the page, and type in one of our names as a shavee: Tiffany Robak, Molly McCarthy or Meghan Keefe, and SPONSOR US. It doesn't matter who you donate to, it all goes to the same cause. If you know anyone else, friends or family, who would be inter­ested in donating to our cause, it would be greatly appreciated if you could forward the information on to them. We think it's worth it, and we hope that you do too. 
Tiffany Robak junior Pangborn Mar.l6 

tion of a chilcl once he or she has been conceived." (16) 
IVF often requires repeated attempts to achieve success. Multiple oocytes (unfertilized eggs) can be taken from the woman and frozen for future use in "artificial procreation." Such is "morally unaccept­able" (19), as are proposals to use frozen embryos for research or treatment of disease; such "would treat the embryos as mere 'biological material' and result in their destruction." (19) 
Adoption of frozen embryos, who could be implant­ed in the adopting woman's womb and carried to term, could give them a chance to live. On the other hand, it would encourage, and materially cooperate with, the IVF industry by making adoption a prof­itable outlet for its "products." DP does not address these concerns, although it describes "prenatal-adop­tion' as "praiseworthy [in its] intention of respecting and defending human life." (19) But then it concludes that, "all things considered, ... the ... abandoned embryos represent a situation of injustice which in fact cannot be resolved. Therefore John Paul II made an 'appeal ... that the production of human embryos be halted, taking into account that there seems to be no morally licit solution regarding the human destiny of the ... 'frozen embryos,' which ... should ... be protected by law as human persons." (19) A more detailed discussion by the Magisterium of the "prena­tal adoption" issue would be helpful. 
The "Suleman Babies A to 1-1" ought to make us think. We can proceed down the path laid out by the contraceptive separation of life from conjugal love. That path leads not only to IVF but to other tech­niques discussed in DP, including embryonic stem cell research wliich taxpayers will now fund by order of President Obama, cloning and other refinements. They involve the acceptance of utilitarian murder on a mass scale. The alternative is to return to the natu­ral law and the recognition of every human being, from conception to natural death, as a person who has, from God, a right to life that transcends the state. 
' 

Professor Emeritus Rice is on the law school faculty. He may be r,eached at 574-633-4415 or rice.l@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TI-IE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, March 17, 2009 
&ot Spring Fever? 
By ERIC PRISTER Scene Writer 

Ahh, springtime is upon us. The sun is shining, flip flops have reentered the fashion scene, and South Quad looks like someone let the convicts out of their cells for the first time in months. Now, in South Bend, that means very little, since pleasant weather lasts about as long as an average high school relationship, but at least the feel of spring has arrived. 
One thing that is con­sistent in South Bend during the spring, just as it is year round, is that one must eat. What better way to celebrate the coming of rebirth and rejuvenation than to style your eating choices around the new season? For those who are forced to eat in the dining hall for every meal, either due to a lack of transportation or a moral obligation to use all fourteen meals each week, these sug­gestions will do yo.u lit­tle good. Honestly, you should skip to the end of the article. But for someone who is looking to spread his or her wings and venture off campus, please contin­ue. 
For the rare Notre Dame student who finds his or her pockets over­flowing with excess 
·money, two choices exist. One, as the bumper sticker sug­gests, you could elect a democrat (which, it seems, has been the favored choice of the majority of the country). Or two, take a valued friend or the object of your affection to The Carriage House Dining Room. While outra­geously expensive, The Carriage House not only offers incredible French cuisine, but also a beau­tifully decorated out­door patio where one can enjoy the sunshine with their slightly over­priced but still extreme­ly delicious food. 
For everyone else who finds money a bit harder to come by, K's Grill and Pub might be an option. Go to K's and order a hot dog, applesauce and potato chips and enjoy your meal in their out­door s-eating area. 
Another option for those who are over 21 is Simeri's Old Town Tap. Simeri's offers excellent sandwiches and other typical sports bar food, along with the option to sit outside at their patio, where live music is per­formed multiple times each week. 
Chipotle. is another favorite which offers outdoor seating. Its bur­ritos and tacos are rea­sonably priced and it is a nice place for a qu_ick off-campus meal, espe­cially since it makes it possible to enjoy your meal and the balmy weather at the same time. 
Restaurants such as Olive Garden, Applebee's and Panera Bread offer Notre Dame students a springtime feel even when the weather changes back to the perma-cloud to which South Bend has grown accustomed. These establishments have created a spring­time feel with the style of food served and the bright and cheerful ambiance of the restau­rant itself. 
The best possible place for Notre Dame students to take advan­tage of the rare but beautiful spring weather in South Bend, though, is none other than Notre Dame itself. Order a pizza from Bruno's or Papa John's, have a Jimmy John's sub deliv­ered, or run to LaFortune and order a seven-dollar-and-fifty­cent footlong from Subway (not as catchy as five-dollar footlong is it?). Take your meal outside with some friends and enjoy the beautiful weather in the most beautiful place South Bend has to offer, under the Golden Dome. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
By JESS SHAFFER 
Scene Editor 

You might have thought that "The Wizard of Oz" was a quain:t, old movie with no real sus­tainable lessons, outside of now-cliches like 'There's no place like home." But who knew that this fashion season "The Wizard of Oz" embodies all that is good, stylish and hip for people in the know. Even after decades have passed, re-watching this Technicolor classic might have ygu reevaluating and realizing that this season's style is "a horse of a different color." 
Dorothy's Ruby Red Slippers 

Pigtails and lacey white socks might have gone out when you graduated nlnmentary school, but Dorothy's flashy accessories are still very in. Huby red slippers come in many forms these days. Shiny new red stilettos nevnr go out of style. Then again, they are not always the most comfy for everyday wear. Experiment with the wide varieties of flat<; out there. When try­ing out thn clean, femininity of a ballet flat, avoid neutrals that will remind you of mundane winter wardrobes. Instead opt for bright colors, like green, yellow, pink and orange. Spring is a time for color, so it doesn't have to be Dorothy's ruby sequined shoes, but you should take a les­son from her book and give flashy acenssories the good ol' college try. You might not be in Kansas any more, but you might likn this new, colorful Technicolor world. 
The Scarecrow's Plaid 

If you only have a fashionable brain, you probably ean't help but noticing the i~flux o~ plaid. This plaid is not just for the eornholds of rural towns but also fo·r hip city streets and cool. casual wear for college students. Plaid doesn't have to be fi>r farmnrs or cowboys. Nor does ·it have to be cognitive of 90s grunge. While it might not be the most overtly posh or haute couture style statnment, it's easy to wear and is cropping up everywhere. Button downs are the most obvious form of plaid, but you'll also find it in dresses, shoes and even pants. Avoid looking to ready for a long day with corn­stalks and shy pairing plaid with things like straw hats or cowboy boots. Instead look for chic, simple, clean lines to go with this, the Scarecrow's, style statement. 
The Tinman's Metallics 
Though the ice of winter has melted, icy metallic have not died with the receding frost. The Tin Man wanted a heart, and though they might not be warm tones, there is a lot to love about metallic. Gold, silver, bronze, as well as icy blues and pinks have been very popular in the last year. Shimmery tops for parties bring the 11irty, fun atmosphere of spring even into the darkest depths of dorm parties, Fever, or Finny's. Be forewarned, the eye-catching nature of metallic may draw attention to less flattering areas of the female form. In ?ther words, with Stacy and Clinton-esque direct­ness, don't wear metallic pants, unless you want an endless amount of attention paid to your thighs, hips and butt. Instead, use metallic to accentuate you assets with sexy tops and fierce icy accessories. Have a heart, and givn metallics a chance. 
The Uon's Ruffles 
The Lion's luscious curls arn remarkably evocative of rullles that can be seen on run­ways in shows and strent corners. Ruffies a_re a_ · hip way to add daring volume to any outht. II you're timid (not necessarily cowardly) like our dear friend the Lion, you can try small amount<; of volume will a small line of ruflles around thn top of a dress or top. For the more adventur­ous, you can employ rufiles all over dresses and tops. Also ruffles are very chlc on accessories. Try ruffies out in a variety of styles and colors, fi1r a fresh, fiirty spring style. 
Contact Jess Shaffer ar jshaffel@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of http://www.twincitiesdiningguide.com 
Enjoy your meal outside in the sunshine of spring. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, March 17, 2009 
page 13 
By CORNELIUS ROGERS Scene Writer 
1) How many Irish guys does it take to screw in a lightbulb? 
Ten. One to hold the lightbulb and nine to drink Guinness until the room starts spin­ning! 
2) A man walks into a bar in New York City on St. Patrick's Day and orders a Guinness. When he receives it, he turns to the man next to him and says "You know, lad. It's time like these that make me remember my childhood in Ireland." 
The man next to him says "I grew up in 
Ireland me'self. Whereabouts are ye from?" 
"Dublin." · 
"You don't say! I'm from Dublin as well. 
What street did you grow up on?" 
"St. Mary's street." 
"St. Mary's street! I grew up on St. Mary's 
street as well." 
The bartender leans over to one of his other patrons and says, "It's going to be a long night. The O'Malley brothers are drunk again." 
3) What do ·you call an Irishman who gets 
drunk and passes out on your porch? Patio Furniture (Patty O'Furniture) 
4) What do you call an Irishman who is so 
drunk he is bouncing off the walls? Rick O'Shea 
5) Three Irish guys walk out of a bar. 
6) An Irish priest is sitting in a confessional booth waiting for people to· come in. Finally, a drunk man stumbles in, on the other side of the wall. The priest can clearly smell the liquor on his breath. The man is silent for a long time. The priest is wondering if he is contemplating his sins or not. Finally, the drunk man says, "Hey, do you have any toilet paper on your side?" 
7) An Irish man came home to his wife one day. 1-Hs wife noticed that the man was much happier than usual. "Honey," she said, "Is there something you want to tell me?" "Yes," 
. he replied, "I found a leprechaun's pot of gold. You hav,e to see it. I put it in the garage." When the wife saw what was in the garage, she told her husband, "That's pyrrhite (fool's gold). You thought you had a leprechaun's pot of gold, but all you really have are a bunch of sham rocks." 
8) An Englishman, an Irishman and a Scotsman were reading a newspaper article about which nationalities' brains were for sale for transplant purposes. An Irishman's or a Scotsman's brain could be bought for £500 but an Englishman's brain cost £10,000. That proves,' said The Englishman, 'that Englishmen are much cleverer than Irishmen or Scotsmen.' 'No it doesn't,' said The Irishman, 'it just means that an Englishman's brain has never been used.' 
Contact Cornelius Rogers at crogersl@nd.edu 

eviZrgoniZ lOViZ8; an lri8;h Plagti8;tl 
-' 
By LILLIAN CIVANTOS 
Scene Writer 

Obviously, Notre Dame is the No. 1 place to be if you want to celebrate anything Irish. So here's some music to help set the St. Patrick's Day mood for you. 
"Johnny Tarr"-Gaelic Storm 
This music defmes the Irish pub song. And we all know how the Irish feel about pubs. 
"Where the Streets Have No Name"' -U2 
U2 is the single most-grossing Irish band of all time, so they should be on any St. Patrick's Day soundtrack. According to some sources, this song is a subtle tribute to Ireland. 
"Come On Eileen" -Dexy's Midnight Runners 
The Celtic-style fiddle in this classic song carries listeners back to the Emerald Isle. Interesting fact: "Come on Eileen" . reached No. 1 when it aired on Irish radio, and held that spot 
for 11 weeks. · 
"Brown Eyed Girl" -Van Morrison 
Another native Irish band, and a hit song about the beautiful Irish women. 
"Danny Boy" -Multiple artists 
This song is the Irish anthem for Irish-Americans. Its bitter­sweet lyrics will stir your soul, no matter which of the many artists' renditions you choose. 
"Green and Red of Mayo" -The Saw Doctors 
The Saw Doctors are an incredible home-grown Irish group. This moving song describes Ireland's natural beauty. and actu­ally mentions St. Patrick. 
"Rebels of the Sacred Heart"-Flogging Molly 
What Irish playlist would be complete without Flogging Molly? Get your blood pumping with this fast-paced Irish­Catholic melody. 
"Molly Malone" -Multiple artists 
Also known as "Cockles and Mussels," this song is another tribute to an Irish girl. It's also an Irish classic, dating back to the 1870s. Some conSider it the unofficial anthem of Dublin city. 
"Breathless" -The Corrs 
One of Ireland's best pop groups sings a catchy, beautiful love song. 
"Sunday Bloody Sunday" -U2 
This song describes the1972 Easter Sunday massacre in h'eland, "Bloody Sunday." 
"Dreams" -The Cranberries 
This lovely melody is by another of Ireland's top musical acts. 
"Isle of lnnisfree" from The Quiet Man 
The Quiet Man is an essential Irish film. It includes beautiful scenery shot in Ireland, and the dynamic acting duo of John Wayne and Maureen O'Hara. This sweet song captures the spir·­it of the Irish countryside. 
"When Irish Eyes are Smiling" -Multiple artists 
The name says itall. Here's hoping that your Irish eyes are smiling today. Happy St. Pat's! 
Contact Liltlan Civantos at lcivanto@nd.edu 



page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 17, 2009 
NBA 

Rockets snap Hornets' 5-game win streak 
Durant scores 25 points as Thunder shock Spurs in Popovich's l,OOOth game as San Antonio's coach 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS-Ron Artest scored all of his 18 points in the second half. and the Houston Rockets overcame the absence of center Yao Ming in a 95-84 victory over the New Orleans Hornets on Monday night. 
Luis Scola and Aaron Brooks each scored 14 points, and Scola had 12 rebounds to help the Rockets end New Orleans' five-game home winning streak. 
Chris Paul had 29 points and 11 assists, while David West had 16 points and 13 rebounds for the Hornets, who've lost two straight. 
Yao sat out with flu-like symp­toms and Dikembe Mutombo started in his place. 
Carl Landry and Von Wafer each scored 12 points and Shane Battier 11 as the Rockets, holding on to the third seed in the Western Conference, prevented the Hornets from passing them in the standings. 
The Hornets appeared to be taking control of the game early in the second half, when alley­oop dunks by Julian Wright and Tyson Chandler highlighted an 8-0 Hornets run to give New Orleans a 55-44 lead. Houston coach Rick Adelman quickly called timeout, and the Rockets returned in far better form. 
Artest, who'd missed his first 11 field goals, got his first points on free throws. then made his next four shots and added an assist on Scola's driv­ing scoop during a 16-2 spurt that put Houston ahead 62-59. 
New Orleans got only five points the rest of the quarter, all from Paul, whose floater as he was fouled cut Houston's lead to 6 7-64 heading into the final period. 
James Posey's 3 to open the fourth quarter tied the game, and the Hornets led 75-73 on Posey's baseline drive with 7:01 to go. . 
Houston responded with an 8­0 run during which Landry swatted away Paul's floater and later hit two free throws. Artest also scored during the surge. 
After West's jumper briefly stopped to run, Artest scored again on a driving layup and Landry dunked on a fast break to make it 85-77 with 3:47 left. The Hornets were stagnant after that, and Chandler fouled out while battling Landry for a rebound with 1:18 to go. 
Despite the absence of Yao, Houston finished with a 38-37 edge in rebounding. Mutombo scored only one point but had six rebounds and blocked Wright three times on drives to the hoop, wagging his finger every time. 
Houston used a 14-3 run, 
highlighted by Landry's two dunks, to take a 34-26 lead early in the second quarter, mostly with Paul on the bench. Houston was shooting better than 54 percent when Brent . Barry's fade ofT the glass gave the Rockets a 39-31 lead, and New Orleans trailed 41-33 when Paul returned with a little under seven minutes left in the 
second quarter. 
The Hornets immediately 
pulled back ahead as Paul 
scored eight points, six on free 
throws. during an 10-0 run. 
The Rockets went about 6:30 
without a field goal during that 
spurt, which Houston finally 
snapped on Scola's short 
jumper to tie the game at 43. 
Paul, who had 10 points in the 
second quarter, added a fade­
away in the final seconds to 
give New Orleans a 4 7-44 lead 
at halftime. 
Thunder 78, Spurs 76 
Kevin Durant scored 25 
points, Thabo Sefolosha added 
12 and the Oklahoma City 
Thunder spoiled Gregg 
Popovich's 1,000th game as San 
Antonio's coach by beating the 
Spurs on Monday night. 
The Thunder didn't lead until 
midway through the fourth 


• quarter, but kept San Antonio to its season low in scoring an·d escaped when Tony Parker missed a 3-pointer from the left side in the closing seconds. 
Popovich could only shrug with his palms of his hands pointed toward the sky as the clock struck zero. 
Parker scored 28 points to lead San Antonio, and Tim Duncan had 14 points and 12 rebounds. Matt Bonner added 10 points. 
Oklahoma City won for the fourth straight time at home. 
Popovich became the 24th coach to reach 1,000 games and only the seventh to do it with one team. Only Phil Jackson (731) and Pat Riley 
(716) had more wins in their first 1,000 games than Popovich, who is 676-324. 
But after a stellar start, San Antonio didn't look much like the team with the second-best record in the · Western Conference. 
The Thunder. who trailed by 17 in the first quarter. took their first lead at 70-67 on Chueky Atkins' 3-pointer from the left wing with 7:37 left. Durant pushed the edge to 76­72 with a jumper from the left wing, and the lead was back to four when Bussell Westbrook answered Parker's two free throws with another jumper at 2:19. 

Popovich stood with his arms crossed as the Spurs' chances slipped away, with Nenad Krstic snagging an offensive rebound in the final two minutes to let Oklahoma City drain· the clock further. 
The Thunder improved to 19­48, moving within one win of last season's win total, by· com­mitting only three turnovers in the second half after a miser­able start. 
San Antonio capitalized on six early giveaways by the NBA's most turnover-prone team to open an early 27-10 lead when Drew Gooden followed his put­back dunk with a jumper from the left elbow to finish a string of eight straight Spurs points. 
But then it was San Antonio that got eareless with the ball. Parker and Duncan combined for seven of the Spurs' nine turnovers in the second quarter, and the Thunder used a 17-2 burst to dose the gap to 38-36 on Jeff Green's layup with 2:52 left before halftime. 
Duncan picked up a technical foul late in the stretch when Derrick Collins whistled the player for saying something to him after a missed jumper along the left baseline. 
The Spurs then rebuilt their lead to 11 before allowing the Thunder to rally baek and tie it at 63 on Durant's jumper to open the fourth quarter. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Houses for the 09-10 school year. If you or someone you care about 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. has been sexually assaulted, visit NOTICES WANTED FoR SALE PERSONAL Support Services for Victims of 
Leasing fast. Rape & Assault at: Oakhill Condo-two bedroom/two SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: "Slightly Stoopid" Concert Tix UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? bath unit available for rent or sale Make a difference in the life of a Friday, 3/20 8 pm Congress Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or http://osa.nd.edu/health­from 6/1/09. child! Summer therapy camp for Theater, Chi. 2 great tix at $80/both. Do not go it alone. safety/assaultl 
children with physical disabilities. Cathy at 574-273-1702 or 574-344-www.kramerhouses.com 
Located on shore of Lake Superior 6468, codell@nd.edu Quizzes on sporcle.com that actual­Will come partly furnished and in Big Bay, MI. Positions available 1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS We have many resources in place ly exist: equipped with fridge, washer/dryer, for Counselors, Waterfront, across from Notre Dame Stadium. to assist you. dishwasher, and fireplace. Instructors for Nature/Arts & -We Didn't Start the Fire (name 
Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, FoR RENT The Foundry features private baths If you or someone you love needs everything mentioned in the Billy Therapists, Food Service, and for every bedroom, washer/dryer, confidential support or assistance, Joel hit) Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, andersonNDrentals.com· fitness center, theater room, tanning please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 
Pool and clubhouse. responsible, and love children. June FREE COMCAST! salon. game room. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. -I'm Too Sexy (name everything Cable ready. 14 through August 9. Salary, room that Right Said Fred is too sexy for) Price negotiable. & board, and experience of lifetime Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­Preleasing for August. For more information, 
provided. Call or write for applica­ing 1 0-month leases. Call 57 4-232-1400 or lease online visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant -Retired Atlantic Hurricanes (hurri­tion and information. Bay Cliff Bluegoldrentals.com www.foundryliving.com Students//Office of Student Affairs cane names no·longer in use) Health Camp, P.O. Box 310, Big website at: 
Contact Jim, ND alum and parent, Bay, Ml49808, (906) 345-9314, e­4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Lux twnhs: 3 bdrms 3 ba, next to St. -Mitchell Report (name every player at (203) 249-1428 or mail BayCiiffHC@aol.com. Visit us Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-Marys $680 moper bdrm. 574-osa:nd.edulhealth-safety/assis­named in the infamous steriods JimMcGuireCT@aol.com at www.baycliff.org 7653. 271-7030 harvey.18@nd.edu tance-for-pregnant-students. report) 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, March 17, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NFL 
NCAA Men's Tennis Division 1 Top 25 
team points 
1 Stanford 87 2 Virginia 86 3 Ohio St. 71 4 Georgia 70 5 Tennessee 66 6 Texas 65 7 Illinois 62 8 Southern California 61 9 Florida 59 10 Mississippi 58 11 Kentucky 55 12 Baylor 53 13 UCLA 50 14 Pepperdine 48 15 Florida St. 47 16 Louisville 45 17 Arizona 42 18 Tulsa 36 19 Wisconsin 33 20 Alabama 31 21 Oklahoma St. 31 22 Washington 31 23 Wake Forest 30 24 Minnesota 29 25 NOTRE DAME 29 
NCAA Women's Golf Division 1. Top 20 
team points 
1 Arizona St. 25 2 UCLA 24 3 Southern California 23 4 Virginia 22 5 Alabama 21 6 Oklahoma St. 19 7 Wake Forest 18 Associated Press 

ed to The Associated Florida player William hours. But as the night
8 Auburn 17 

TAMPA, Press Monday under a Bleakley. The bodies of wore on, their will to
9 Duke 16 

Fla. -Two NFL players Freedom of Information Cooper, Smith and survive appears to
10 Georgia 15 

may have died just a Act request. Bleakley have not been have weakened and the
11 LSU 14 

few hours after their The Coast Guard recovered. effects of hypothermia
12 Pepperdine 13 

fishing boat capsized in report, which redacts Around 5:30 p.m., were likely setting in.
12 Purdue 12 

rough seas and possibly the men's names, says the report said the Schuyler told the
14 Vanderbilt 11 

15 North Carolina 10 before rescuers were the group went roughly group ran into trouble: Coast Guard that one 16 Denver even alerted that they 70 miles -or 62 nau­Their anchor was of the men "freaked
9 

17 Michigan St. 8 and two others were tical miles -to fish stuck. Schuyler told out" and took off his 18 California 7 .lost orr the west coast for amberjack. Besides investigators that he life vest and disap­19 Louisville 6 of Florida, according to the 24-year-old believed it was caught peared that night. 20 Arizona 5 Coast Guard records. Schuyler, also aboard in a coral reef and Another started get­
The lone survivor, the 21-foot Everglades they tried to free it, ting unruly, throwing Nick Schuyler, told the boat were Oakland but water filled the punches and later took Coast Guard that one Raiders linebacker boat and it capsized. off his life jacket, doveNCAA Men's Lacrosse by one, the other three Marquis Cooper, free­Tossed into the frigid under the water and men took off their life agent NFL defensive water, the men man­was never seen again.
Division 1 Top 15 

vests an·d disappeared lineman Corey Smith, aged to grab their life The third man thought during the ordeal that who played for the vests. Schuyler, also a he saw land nearly two began the evening of Detroit Lions last sea­former South Florida days after the boat
team points 

Feb. 28, according to a son, and former player, said they held capsized and decided 23-page report provid-University of South on to the boat for four to swim for it.
1 Virginia 180 2 Syracuse 161 3 Princeton 158 4 Cornell 137 
IN BRIEF

5 NOTRE DAME 133 6 Johns Hopkins 129 Stallworth investif,!ated Attendance down at Phillies' Cole Hamels 7 Maryland 128 for killing pedeslrian Big Ten Tournament out with elbow injury
8 North Carolina 127 

MIAMI BEACH, Fla. -Miami INDIANAPOLIS -Ticket sales CLEARWATER, Fla. -World
9 UMBC 101 

Beach police are awaiting the toxi­fell about 15 percent for this Series MVP Cole Hamels left
10 Duke 100 

cology report for Cleveland year's Big Ten men's basketball training camp Monday and t1ew
11 Georgetown 84 

Browns wide receiver Donte tournament, and organizers to Philadelphia to have his left
12 Hofstra 78 

Stallworth before releasing infor­blamed the drop on the struggling elbow examined by Phillies team
13 Massachusettes 61 

mation into his car accident that economy. physician Dr. Michael Ciccotti. 
14 Loyola (Md.) 56 

killed a pedestrian. The Indiana Sports Corp. says "He's had a little bit of a per­
15 Navy 49 

Police spokesman Juan Sanchez that 68,098 tickets were sold for sistent soreness in his elbow. We said Monday that the routine blood the four-day tournament at do not believe it's serious," work had not made it to the lab Conseco Fieldhouse in Indianapolis Phillies general manager Ruben yet. Sanchez said results are that ended Sunday. That is down Amaro Jr. said. "But at least at expected to be released by the end from last year's 80,012. this time we thought it was
around the dial 

of the week. Purdue's appearance in the important for Dr. Ciccotti to 
Authorities said Stallworth was championship game Sunday check him out and see if there's headed toward the beach when he against Ohio State didn't boost the anything more serious than we hit 59-year-old Mario Reyes with crowd figures. The game drew think it is."
NCAA Basketball 

his Bentley on Saturday morning 12,526 fans, down from 14,579 The 25-year-old left-bander
Notre Dame vs. UAB 

on a busy causeway linking Miami last year when Wisconsin defeated made his first Grapefruit League
9:00 p.m., ESPN2 

and Miami Beach. Illinois at Conseco, which holds start Wednesday. He pitched in Stallworth was cooperating 18,345 fans. an intrasquad game Sunday andMLB with police and no charges have Sports Corp. spokesman John didn't report any pain during 
been filed. A message seeking Dedman says the strength of the four innings.
Chicago Cubs vs. Los Angeles Dodgers 

comment was left on the voice­event shows in that the attendance Hamels feels tightness in his
3:05 p.m., MLB.TV 

mail of his agent, Drew drop wasn't greater considering elbow between innings and after Rosenhaus. the extent of the recession. he's finished pitching for the day. 

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS 
MEN'S DIVING 
Divers' season comes to end 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame ended its diving season this past weekend at the NCAA Zone Meet at the University of Minnesota after no Irish diver advanced to the NCAA Championships. 
Although the Irish didn't send a diver to the NCAA Championships for the second consecutive season, the young Notre Dame squad did post a strong performance in the meet. 
"It was a pretty solid perform­ance," Irish coach Tun Welsh said. "It's always a very, very, very tough meet, but our young divers per­formed well. There was a lot to build on." 
Notre Dame senior captain Michael Bulfin, who was an All­American in 2008 after scoring for the Irish at the NCAA Championships, was hampered by an illness that led to a 23rd place finish in the preliminary heat of the 1-meter event with a score of 
257.45. However, he was able to rebound with an 11th place finish in the 3-meter event with a score of681.25. 
Sophomore Eric Lex had an impressive showing, leading the Irish with a score of 603.05 off the 1-meter board, which was good enough for 11th place. He fol­lowed it up with a 17th place finish off the 3-meter board with a score of 632.90. Lex and Bulfin were the only two Irish divers to advance to the finals in the 3-meter event. 
Junior Caleb Dunnichay finished one spot behind Lex in the 1-meter event with a score 587.35. Sophomore Nathan Geary also made the finals for the Irish in the 1-meter, finishing 18th with a score of 564.20. Sophomore Wes Villaflor continued to improve, posting a score of 239.50 in the 1­meter event and the 258.25 in the 3-meter event. 
Although the Notre Dame diving team is done for the season, the Irish swim team returns to action at the NCAA Championships on March 26 in College Station, Texas. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 


Tuesday, March 17, 2009 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles off to fast start after trip to Florida 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sporrs Writer 

Saint Mary's started off its season with a string of victo­ries over break on a trip to Fort Myers, Fla. playing in the Gene Cusic Classic. The Belles went 9-1 for the week, one of their most successful starts to the season in school history. 
"I was very happy with our play this week. Our defense was solid and our pitching was fantastic," Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. 
Saint Mary's played dou­bleheaders each day in the tournament, opening the week with two victories on Mar. 8. The Belles took down Drew University (N.J.) 3-2 in the morning on junior Ashley Peterson game-winning RBI to plate junior Maureen Healy. Freshman pitcher Angela Gillis stuck out five and allowed zero walks in her first collegiate action. The Belles finished off the day with a 5-2 win over Wheaton College (Mass.). Peterson and senior. Ashley Fusaro hit back-to-back home runs to secure the win. Fusaro's shot was the 15th of her career. Freshman pitcher Monica Palicki allowed only six hits over the seven innings and had four strike­outs in the game. 
On Monday, Mar. 9, the wins kept coming for the Belles. Palicki led the team to a 5-0 win over Worcester Polytechnic Institute, allow­ing only two hits and striking out five. Peterson and Healy went 3-4 in the game with Peterson knocking out her second home run in two days. Later in the day, the squad won an 11-1 victory over Wheelock (Mass.). Gillis pitched her second collegiate win, allowing only one run and striking out five in six innings before freshman Symone Pompey closed out the game. 
Day three saw Saint Mary's record move to 6-0 with wins over SUNY Oswego and Fitchburg State. The Belles won 10-2 over SUNY Oswego in six innings before the game ended due to the 


DRUMMERS NEEDED 
WANT TO BE A PART OF THE NOTRE DAME GAMEDAY TRADITION? DON'T HAVE TIME FOR THE MARCHING BAND? 
r, ~~~JOIN THE NOTRE DANIE -nr-:~~~ 
d. c : BAGPIPE BANDI ¢_fi-~..--' 

• 
TIME COMMITMENT IS APPROX_ TWO HOURS A WEEK PLUS SATURDAY MORNINGS DURING FOOTBALL SEASON (DON'T WORRY, YOU WILL NEVER MISS A KICKOFF) 

• 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR ALL DRUMS (SNARE, BASS, TENOR) 


CONTACT DAVE WARTKO FOR MORE INFORMATION 
dwartko@nd.edu 
mercy rule. Four players had mulit-hit games, led by Lauren Enayati, who went 3­
3. Palicki gave up five hits in six innings with one walk. Against Fitchburg, Gillis moved her record to 3-0, allowing only four singles with eight strikeouts. 
The Belles suffered their first loss Wednesday after­noon against Rensseelaer Polytechnic Institute (N.Y.). going 1-1 for the day with a win versus Elms (Mass.). They won 3-1 over Elms led by Enayati going 3-4 from the plate. Gillis allowed just three hits while striking out five. RPI beat the Belles 14­4, but Peterson continued her impressive start to the year, going 4-for-4 offensive­ly with a double and a triple while scoring a pair of runs. Palicki got her first career loss, putting her at 3-1. 
Saint Mary's finished up their season with a pair of wins on Thursday against Curry and Bowdoin Colleges. They won 5-0 over Curry with five Belles having multi­hit games, including Fusaro going 4-4 and scoring two runs. Palicki allowed only three hits and struck out four in the win. In their final game of the week, Enayati hit a bases-loaded triple in the top of the seventh to break a scoreless tie and give the Belles a 3-0 lead. Two batters later, Peterson drove in Enayati for the fourth run of the game. Gillis improved her record to 5-0, allowing four hits over seven innings with zero walks. 
Looking back on their first week of play, Sullivan was more than satisfied with her team. 
"We really had a team effort to win nine of our 10 games. Everyone on this team has a role and con­tributed greatly to our per­formance. Ashley Peterson and Ashley Fusaro were incredible both offensively and defensively. Hayley Bojorquez kept us in our first game by throwing out a run­ner at home from right field, which she did twice during the week." 
It's hard to say what our best win was this week, but I 
was especially happy with our games against Wheaton and Bowdoin," Sullivan, a 2004 Saint Mary's graduate, said. "Both schools have excellent programs and we had to play our best to beat both teams." 
Saint Mary's looks to keep their luck going as they open their home play with a dou­bleheader against Goshen College at 3:30 today. Goshen didn't have a· team last season, so the Belles are unsure of what to expect from this rookie team. 
"We have more experience, but they will definitely chal­lenge us," Sullivan said. "I ain hoping to keep trying out different line-ups and batting orders in these early non­conference games in order to prepare for our conference opener on March 30." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselOI @saintmarys.edu 

Tuesday, March 17, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish finish 12th at LSU 
"We missed a lot of puts scores in red numbers. The ByALEXWEST and made a lot of mistakes." third round team total of 288 

News Writer 
Holt said. "You make a couple was tied for the fourth lowest 
of mistakes and you find mark in the program history. 

Three frish players shot a yourself in a position that you Holt hopes that her team 1-under in the third round of shouldn't be in." . takes away some reality of the LSU Cleveland Classic on Huffer led the Irish with a the type of competition they Sunday, but the Irish squan­54-hole total of 217 to finish are playing against this sea­dered several shots, and fin­in a tie for 16th for the tour­son. ished 12th. Freshmen Becca nament. Also adding to the "We need to perform better Huffer, sophomore So-Hyun Irish's total last weekend or we will continue to fall Park, and senior captain Lisa were sophomore Katie short of the mark," she said. Manunu each carded a 1-Conway and junior Annie To add to the Irish's frus­under 71 for the third round. Brophy who added third trating weekend, travel prob­
Coach Susan Holt was dis­round scores of 78 and 76 lems caused the Irish to appointed with her team's respectively. arrive back in town a day performance. "It was an easy Sunday marked the second later than expected, missing course, but it served as an time that Huffer had scored the prime practicing condi­equalizer for all the teams." under par in her career. The tions Monday. The Irish travel Holt said. "We didn't take first time came back in to Austin, Texas next on advantage of [the course]". September on the final day of Wednesday for this weekend's 
Despite posting the good the Mary Fossum Invitational. Betsy Rawls Invitational. scores, Holt believes that all · Sunday also was the second of the players will say they time this season that the Irish Contact Alex West at could have performed better. have had three players with awest@hcc-nd.edu 
WOMEN'S ROWING 
Rowers aim for successful year 
By CHRIS MASOUD News Writer  gram," Stone said to und.com. Led by recently-selected senior captains Lauren Buck ·  iors will do a great job of leading our team this year." A three-year varsity veteran  
and Christine Trezza, the  and two-time monogram win­ 
The Irish are poised to  Irish hope to make a state­ ner, Buck has earned recogni­ 
repeat the success of last sea­ ment this Saturday when t~ey  tion as a member of the Big  
son· as they begin their quest  compete against a much­ East Academic All-Star Team  
for a sixth consecutive Big  improved Michigan State  each of the past two seasons.  
East championship.  team.  Not to be outdone on the  
Notre Dame is coming off an  Since the 2006-07 season,  water or in the classroom,  
outstanding season in 2008  Buck and Trezza have been  Trezza has been selected as a  
that saw the Irish finish the  rowing together on the varsity  member of the Big East  
season ranked 18th overall in  eight boat for the Irish, while  Academic All-Star Team each  
the nation. the third-straight  also rowing on the same  of her first three years on the  
year the team ended the sea­ novice boat during their  varsity squad for her scholas­ 
son ranked.  ·freshman season in 2005-06.  tic accomplishments.  
Irish head coach Martin  · "Lauren and Christine have  Anchored by a talented cast  
Stone is fully con.fident in his  distinguished themselves  of veterans and supported by  
varsity rowers who he said  throughout their career and it  the raw talent from key  
can make a serious impact  is a tribute to their leadership  underclassmen, the rowing  
through the regular season  abilities and the respect that  team aims to chop the waves  
and beyond.  they have from their team­ to the NCAA Championships  
"We have an outstanding  mates that they have been  in May.  
group of seniors on this year's  selected captains for this sea­ 
team who want to leave a  son," Stone said. "Lauren,  Contact Chris Masoud at  
lasting legacy in our pro- Christine and all of our sen­ cmasoud@nd.edu  

ND WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
NO TRACK AND FIELD 
Notre Dallle vvraps up indoor season 
with an eighth-place finish in
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
the 400-meter run. Smyth,
Sports Writer 
in the 3000, also placed ' eighth, which was good 
j
The Notre Dame track and enough for his sixth All­
' 
field team wrapped up their American honor. Saxer fin­
' 
indoor season over break ished ninth with a height of with the Alex Wilson 4.05 meters and Schipper Invitational March 6 and 7, finished fourteenth. as well as the NCAA Schipper sang the praises Championships over the of teammate Patrick Smyth weekend. and his importance this sea­
The event, held at Loftus son. Sports Center, was a "last­"I think major credit for chance" meet for athletes to the team's success this1sea­punch their ticket to nation­son needs to be credited to als. At this two-day event, senior Patrick Smyth of the 95 athletes from all over the distance corps," said country set NCAA qualifying · Schipper. "Smyth truly marks. exhibits what Notre Dame 
For the Irish, pole-vaulters track and field idealizes. Mary Saxer and Matt When you train around ath­Schipper had already letes like Patrick Smyth punched their ticket to every day, success becomes a NCAAs, and junior Joanna habit. The people you put Schultz and senior Patrick around you become your Smyth joined them this week­family." end. Matt's brother Kevin The meet marks the official Schipper, who was hoping to end to the indoor season, so qualify as well, just missed the Irish will now gear up for the mark with a jump of 5.07 outdoors. The first meets, on the pole vault. Sophomore the Arizona State Invitational Greg Davis finished second in and the Stanford Invitational, the weight throw with a are both scheduled for March mark of 18.26 meters. 27-28. The team will be 
The four qualifiers made building up for the outdoor the trip down to College Big East Championships Station for the NCAA champi­beginning on the first of May. onships this past weekend. At the meet, Schultz earned Contact Chris Michalski at her first All-American honor jmichal@nd.edu 

Notre Dame records three wins over break 
By NATHANIEL LEE 
News Writer 
The 9th ranked Notre Dame Women's Lacrosse team turned in an impressive string of vic­tories during Spring Break, beating No. 13 Dartmouth and No. "15 James Madison as well as Hofstra to improve to 6-1 on the season. 
Senior attack standout Jillian Byers, who recently set Notre Dame's all-time scoring record, notched her 200th career goal while leading the team through the games. Adding to her .accolades w<~,s Byers' selection as Big East Offensive Player of the Week. 
"The spring break teams mean a lot for our national pic­ture, they are all good teams," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "Treating it like a business trip and staying focused is the key to winning." 
Starting off the break was a trip to New Hampshire to face Dartmouth. The Irish got off to a slow _start, allowing the Big Green to score the first six goals of the contest, and failing to record a shot until 17:34 left in the first half. The Irish turned up the pressure, though, forcing turnovers in the mid-field, and sophomore Ansley Stewart notched the first goal of the contest for Notre Dame with 10:37 left in the first half. As the opening stanza wound down, the Irish continued to turn up the inten­sity, and cut the Dartmouth lead to 8-5 by halftime . 
After the break, Notre Dame came out with guns blazing in the second, and tallied eight unanswered goals to snag a 13-8 lead with 14:04 to go. Dartmouth never recovered and Notre Dame took the con­test 16-11. Pacing the Irish was Byers' three goals two assists and Junior Gina Scioscia's three goals one assist. Stewart, along with fel­low sophomores Kailene Abt's and Kaitlin Keena's had two goals apiece. Senior Erin Goodman picked up the win in net for the Irish. 
"I have been watching Jillian for four years now, and she is a great athlete," Coyne said of Byers. "She reads the play so well." 
Next, the squad met James Madison as they travelled to su-nny Orlando, Fla. The Dukes jumped out early, hold­ing a lead of 6-3 halfway through the first. The team traded goals before Abt notched two in a row, tying the contest. As the clock wound down in the first half, James Madison scored again twice to take a 9-7 lead into halftime. Once again the Irish came out of the break aggressively, going on a four-goal run with scores from Scioscia, Byers, Blaney and sophomore Jackie Doherty. 

Up on the Dukes 11-10 with 
19:52 left in the Game, Notre Dame built on its lead and took the contest 16-12, with Goodman earning another solid win in goal. 
The Irish came home to round out the break, hosting Hofstra at the Loftus Sports Center last Saturday. The Pride got on the board first, but Notre Dame had quick answers from Blaney and Byers. The teams traded goals, until the Irish scored three unanswered to take a 9-5 lead with 10:26 left in the half. Hofstra surged in the final minutes, but Blaney scored again in the final seconds to take a 10-8 lead into the break. 
Notre Dame opened the sec­ond with a 4-1 run, but Hofstra answered again to cut the lead to two goals. The Irish held on and took the high-scoring con­test 17-15 for their 5th straight win. Goodman tallied seven saves for another win between the pipes. Byers led the Irish with six goals and one assist, and Scioscia notched four goals and two assists. 
Coyne said that the offensive outburst was a result of hard defensive work to take the ball away from opponents. 
"Turnovers are what we have been working on in practice," Coyne said. "Our game plan is in part forcing opponents to lose possession and capitaliz­ing on those opportunities by staying focused." 
The Irish will look to contin­ue their winning ways as they host Rutgers tonight at the Loftus Sports Center at 7:00 pm. The Scarlet Knights (3-3) will be the first Big East oppo­nent for the Irish, and are coming off a 24-1 thrashing at the ends of No. 1 powerhouse Northwestern. 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at 
nlee5@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 17, 2009 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish pick up road wins 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
A week-long road trip to warmer weather proved more than satisfying for the Irish who came away with victories over Duke and South Florida before dropping their final match against Georgia Tech this past week. 
"Spring break is always great for us because we get to practice and play outside for the first time all season," senior captain Kelcy Tefft said. "It's a difficult adjust­ment 'but I think everyone played really well." 
Last Wednesday, No. 4 Notre Dame continued their winning ways, downing conference foe South Florida 5-2 in Tampa, Fla. 
The Irish jumped out early clinching the doubles point behind 8-4 victories by the No. 2 ranked doubles team of Tefft and freshman Kristy Frilling and the team of juniors Cosmina Ciobanu and Kali Krisik. The doubles squad of junior Colleen Rielley and freshman Shannon Mathews also won their match to complete the sweep. 
Notre Dame did not sit idly on its lead, putting the match out of reach after the third singles match by claiming the decisive fourth point. 
Frilling claimed the first victory in singles play with a 6-2, 6-0 result in the No. 2 singles match. Mathews followed with a 6-2, 6-3 win in the No. 5 match before Ciobanu clinched the match for Irish with a dominating 6-0, 6-1 victory in the No. 4 match. 
Thursday, the Irish extended their winning streak to eight games with a comeback victory over the No. 3 Blue Devils in Orlando. 
"This win proves to us that we have a very strong singles line­up," Tefft said. "Getting the dou­bles point is very important,1mt it also shows us that we can win big matches even if we lose that first point." 
In the doubles competition, Notre Dame dr:opped its first two matches to fall behind 1-0, failing to clinch the doubles point for the first time since its loss to top­ranked Northwestern back in February. 
This time the Irish found a way to bounce back. 
In the closest match of the day, Teffi edged her opponent 7-6, 7-6 in the No. 1 singles match to even the score at one. 
Tefft's close win sparked a vig­orous Notre Dame comeback that saw the Irish go 5-1 in singles play to take the match convinc­ingly. 
Frilling and Ciobanu followed suit with 6-4, 6-2 and 6-1, 7-6 wins, respectively, to put the Irish on the cusp of victory. Mathews and Krisik then put the Blue Devils away with 6-3, 6-3 and 6­3, 6-2 victories, respectively. 
Saturday, Notre Dame ran into an opponent who was more than up to their challenge. The Yellow Jackets proved too much, defeat­ing the Irish 4-3 in Atlanta. 
Notre Dame got off' to a similar start as they had in previous out­ings claiming the doubles point behind victories from the squads of Tefft/Frilling and Ciobanu/Krisik. 
Unfortunately, things didn't go the Irish's way in the singles com­petition. 
Tefft and sophomore Kristen Rafael were the first to fall put­ting Notre Dame behind 2-1. Ciobanu answim~d with a 6-3, 6­1 victory to tie it up at two. 
After Frilling dropped a tough, three-set match to her opponent, Mathews answered with a 6-1, 6­0 victory to pull back to within a tic with only one match remain­ing. 
Krisik dropped the final match of the day in three sets to her opponent, ending Notre Dame's 
· eight match winning streak. 
Disappointed, but not discour­aged, Tefft said this loss will help the team in the long-run. 
"Three matches in four days is a lot, but it is what wn will have to. do at NCAAs," she said. "I think it was good for us to see three tough teams that close together to show us what kind of' shape we need to be in for the NCAA tournament. It was a tough loss, but I think we can learn a lot from it." 
The Irish will return home this Friday to face No. 27 Vanderbilt at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 
MLB 

Pudge signs 1-year 
contract with Astros 
Associated Press 

KISSIMMEE, Fla. -The Houston Astros and catcher Ivan "Pudge" Rodriguez are closing in on a $1.5 million, one-year contract, a person familiar with the talks told The Associated Press on Monday. 
The deal would contain $1.5 million in performance bonus­es based on games and plate appearances, the person said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the agree­ment had not yet been announced by the team. 
"There isn't anything certain yAt. Right now the only team I have is Puerto Rico," said Rodriguez in Spanish in Miami before meeting Venezuela in the World Baseball Classic. "There's interest, but I haven't received a call yet. Let's wait and see what happens in the coming hours or days." 
Houston needed a veteran catcher to replace Brad Ausmus, who became a free agent and signed with the Los Angeles Dodgers. The Astros have several young catchers in camp who need time to develop. Houston used Ausmus, J.R. Towles and llumberto QuintAro at the position last season. 
It appeared earlier that QuintAro would be the starter this season, but he'll likely move to a backup role. 
Rodriguez's talks with Houston were first reported by espn.com. 
"It's very important for me (to be a starter) because I feel good enough to play every day," Rodriguez said. "I feel very good, ready to play a whole season." 
He added that his splay with Puerto Rico probably boosted his bid to find a regular-sea­son team. 
"It hAlps a lot for some play­ers like myself, who still don't have a job. I think this Classic has been a very important fac­tor." 
Florida also had inquired. Rodriguez helped the Marlins win the 2003 World Series. 
"There was some interest and we'll leave it at that," Marlins vice president of baseball operations Larry Beinf'est said. "Obviously, we have a lot of' affection for Pudge and what he did in '03. There was interest there, and he made p,nother choice, and that's the way it goes. Hopefully, it works out for him." 
The 37-year-old, a 137time Gold Glove winner, began last season in Detroit, was traded to the Yankees in July and hit .276 with seven homers and 35 HBis in 115 games. 

Wemiy emf lucy • Aprif 17 
~ an initiative from the Office of the President to promote constructive 19i]UNJVI!RSITVOF 
&> DEBARTOLO issues of race, class. ethnicity, religion, and gender through the arts. ~NOTRE DAME PfRI'ORMING A~ISCENTER 
Office ofthe Pteaident 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, March 17, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NO SOFTBALL 
Irish -split 10 ga111es over break 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish have a long way to go as they head into Big East play. 
_Notre Dame (8-10) split its 10 games over spring break, winning three of four at the UNLV Invitational in Las Vegas before dropping three of five at the Judi Garman Classic in Fullerton, Cal. The squad made a pit stop in Los Angeles in between the two invites, losing to No. 5 UCLA. 
"We accomplished a lot of good things and had a lot of great individ­ual performances," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "But we went out there to make a name for our­selves and we didn't do that. We wanted to win all10 ball games." 
The trip started well enough for the Irish, with two Mar. 7 wins -a 7-0 shutout ofTexas Tech and a 5-2 decision over UC Santa Barbara. 
Sophomore Sadie Pitzenberger stood out for the Irish with a total of six hits on the day, but the day ended in a slightly unusual way. The Gauchos threatened in the sev­enth with the Irish up 5-2, putting two runners on with no outs, but it was over with one swing. Freshman Alexa Maldonado caught a fly ball in center field and relayed it to sophomore Katie Fleury at sec­ond. She then tossed it to junior first basemen Christine Lux, who stepped on first for a triple play to end the game. 
On the second day in Las Vegas, the Irish defeated Texas Tech 5-0 but fell 5-3 to UNLV. 
... 
Junior transfer Alexia Clay had her first hit in an Irish uniform with a two-run triple in the bottom of the second, and sophomore pitcher Jody Valdivia did not allow a hit until the sixth inning. She gave up just two hits and a walk while fan­ning seven. 
The second half of the trip fea­tured games against four Top-15 teams. Notre Dame's win over No. 9 Oklahoma on Mar. 12 was its first over a Top-10 team since 2005. 
Gumpf said the high level of com­petition would help her team improve. 
"For the most part we did a heck of a job," she said. "It has made us a better team because we know what we need to do to win, and I think we'll be able to do that." 
In the Garman Classic, though, the Irish defense cost the team. 
On Mar. 12, the Irish lost an extra-inning game 1-0 to Penn State. Senior pitcher Brittany Bargar took a no-hitter into the sixth inning and gave up only two hits overall, but the winning run scored after Penn State's Sam Hovanec reached on an error and was singled home. 
In the win over Oklahoma, the Irish had a 3-1 lead committed three errors in the seventh inning that allowed the Sooners back into the game. Lux scored the winning run in the bottom of the frame on an error by Oklahoma pitcher Allee Allen. 
In a loss to No. 12 Arizona on March 14, the Irish allowed five unearned runs to cross the plate on two errors . 
Gumpf said the defensive strug­gles should not be a problem in the longrun. 
"It's only a concern of mine if it becomes a concern for them," she said. "I think the more we get out­side, the more we'll improve." · 
The Irish ended the trip with a 3­0 loss to No. 6 Arizona State. They hung with the defending national champions for most of the game, but were not able to capitalize on opportunities and stranded seven runners on the day. 
"Our production is really half big, half small," Gumpf said. "We're going to take whatever they give us. We did a great job of taking advan­tage of situations against Oklahoma and Texas Tech. But we weren't colisistent enough with that. We fell short." 
The Irish will host a double-head­er against Toledo in their home opener Wednesday. 
Note: 
+Sophomore Brianna Jorgensborg was named Big East Player of the Week on March 9 fol­lowing her performance in the UNLV Invitational. She went 5-for-9 in the four-game stretch with three triples and two home runs. She was also the first Notre Dame player ever to triple in three straight games. 
"She came out and literally hit the cover off of the ball," Gumpf said. "She played the way not many peo­ple do over a weekend." 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers@nd.edu 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
NCAA regulates tournament travel 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Cheese? Check. Parkas? Check. Cards for Euchre? Check. If ever a car pool were in order, now is the time for Marquette and Wisconsin fans. 
With three conferences getting seven teams in the NCAA tournament, another two sending six and rules about who can play each other when and where, there was just no way to keep everyone close to home. And don't think the NCAA selection committee didn't try. 
"Somebody has to go West, and some West team has to go East," said Xavier coach Sean Miller, whose Muskateers are joining Wisconsin, Marquette, Florida State and Cornell out in Boise, Idaho, a place you really can't get to from here -not without a connecting flight or two, anyway. 
''I'm just happy we're going somewhere." 
Ever since Maryland, Georgetown and George Mason -Washington, D.C.­area schools separated by about 30 miles -wound up in the same regional bracket in Boise in 2001, the NCAA has done its best to keep teams as close to home as possible. Instead of locking schools into regional group­ings, four teams are now put into a "pod," and two pods are placed at each first­round site. The teams go back to their assigned regionals the second week­end of the tournament. 
The goal is to limit the travel for schools and their fans, not to mention cut down on the number of classes players miss. And in many cases, it works. North Carolina is playing in Greensboro, N.C., the first weekend, about as close to home as it gets without being in its own gym. Villanova can practically walk to its first-round game at the Wachovia Center. 
But the NCAA still has that rule prohibiting teams from the same conference from meeting before the regional final and another preventing a team from playing on its home court, which makes for some interesting mixing and matching. That's how Arizona, Arizona State and Utah all wound up in Miami for the first round, while UCLA is flying clear across the country to Philadelphia. 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 17, 2009 
MEN'S GOLF 
Golfers earn top finishes on break 
By NATHANIEL LEE 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's tennis team kicked (}f the season with a tough lineup of non-league opponents on their spring break trip to Orlando, Fla. 
dropped only one set through then entire match. Hurley beat Karen Ginsburg 6-3, 6-0, while Gelbert took her match 6-2, 2­6, 6-0 and Kosinski won 6-1, 6­
3. At No. 5 singles, Belles sophomore Jessica Camp domi­nated twelve straight games to win 6-0, 6-0. Once again, the 

By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sporrs Writer 
The Irish covered 4.000 miles in four days, picking up two top­five finishes in the process. Hardly what you'd call a break. 
In what was possibly its finest set of performances of the sea­son, Notre Dame scratched out a second-place finish at the Palmas del Mar Intercollegiate in Humacao, Puerto Rico, on Wednesday, before taking fifth place at the Border Olympics in Laredo, Texas, over the week­end. In Puerto Rico, junior Doug Fortner earned his fourth career top-five finish after carding a one-under 215 to take a share of fourth place. 
Irish head coach Jim Kubinski sees the re;;ults as a confirma­tion of his maturing team's potential. 
"Our guys are realizing they have the physical skills to com­pete with any team in the coun­try," Kubinski said. "They're a talented and young group. It's one thing to walk around saying you can compete with the best. Our guys are starting to believe it now." 

The team opened its spring break tour with a trip to the Palmas del Mar Golf Club in Humacao. Shooting an uneven 299 in the opening round at the par 72, 6,931-yard Flamboyan Course, Notre Dame rallied behind Fortner's second-round 68 that placed the squad in third at the end of two rounds. Fortner's rocky final-round 76 was offset by sophomore Connor Alan-Lee's scintillating, career­best 68, vaulting Alan-Lee to 11th and the team into second. The Irish finished with a 12­over par 876 (299-284-293) to claim runner-up honors, six shots behind tournament cham­pion Virginia Commonwealth in the ten-team field. 
Fortner fmished tied for fourth with a one-under par 215 (71­68-76), and Alan-Lee's four-over 220 placed him 11th (77-75-68). Sophomore Jeff Chen and fresh­man Chris Walker each shot fmal-round 75s to end up shar­ing 15th at six-over par. Chen battled a 103-degree fever to earn his best fmish of the sea­son. Freshman Max Scodro took his fourth top-30 finish in five career events, finishing in 22nd with a 224, while sophomore Dustin Zhang rebounded from an ope'ning-round 80 to end with a 226 in 26th place. 
After Wednesday's finish. the Irish traveled 4,000 miles between three flights to get to the Laredo Country Club (par 72, 7,241-yards) for Thursday's practice round. Despite jet lag and fatigue, Notre Dame opened the tournament with scores of 303 and 289, good enough for 5th for Friday's 36-hole start. 
"I think they played more on adrenaline that first day," Kubinski said. "After all the travel and the 11 hours out on the course, they turned in a 289. Pretty impressive. They're get­ting better. They're believing." 
A final round 299 gave the Irish a 27-over-par 891 on the tournament, putting the team in fifth place, fourteen strokes behind champion Baylor in the field of sixteen. 
Chen followed his. Palmas del Mar performance with an 11th­place finish after carding a 5­over 221 (77-72-72) for the weekend. Kubinski praised Chen's consistency and maturity after his solid outings last week. 
"[Jeff1 has been the steadiest player on our team," Kubinski said. "He took advantage of his opportunities early on, and it was like a light bulb turning on. You could just see his confi­dence grow almost immediate­!y. " 
Fortner (75-72-77) and Zhang (76-73-75) each turned in eight­over par 224s to fall to 26th place in the field of 88. Scodro tied for 42nd place at 12-over par 228 (75-78-75), while Alan­Lee finished in 64th with a 18­over par 234 (81-72-81). Walker, who competed as an individual participant for the Border Olympic, ended his weekend tied for 77th at 21­over par (237, 76-83-78). 
Notre Dame returns to the links this weekend at the Schenkel E-Z-Go Invitational in Statesboro, Georgia. The tour­nament will be held March 20­22 at the Forest Heights Country Club. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles open season in Or lando 
The Belles compiled a 4-4 llurley/Gebert record through Thursday Heed/Kosin ski under the direction of first year teams took head coach Dale Campbell. home the wins, 
"I think we fared pretty well at 8-3 and 8-0, on this trip given our experi­respectively. ence," Campbell said. "It was a "We have good team effort, especially really been since we played a lot tougher improving as a teams than we usually face at team," stated this point early in the season." Campbell. "Our 
In their season opener, the goal is to win Belles rolled over St. Franeis the conference (Ill.) <J-0. Sophomore .lillian championship, Hurley won at No. 1 singles 6-and if we g~~t 
and 
In their next two matches, the Belles were edged 5-4 by Haverford and fell to No. 22 College of New Jersey 8-1. Against Haverford the top two doubles teams were barely bested, with the first Belle win coming at No. 3 doubles behind sophomore Mary Theresa Lee and Camp's 8-4 win. Reed, 

"We have really been improving as a team. Our goal is to win the conference championship." 
Dale Campbell Belles coach 
Camp and soph­omore Laura Arnold all picked up wins in singles. 
Against New Jersey, Gebert snagged the only win defeat­ing Stefanic Haar 6-2, 6-4. In their final match of the trip, tlw Belles 
bounced baek with another dominating performance over Lincoln University, <J-0. 
"I think we played best against New Jersey," stated Campbell. "They arc a really good ranked tnam. and I saw a lot of players stepping up to face the challenge." 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nleeS@nd.edu 

1, 6-2, followed by junior Camille (;ebert's 6-2, f>-1 and sophomon~ Jessica Kosinski's 6-1, 6-0 wins at No. 2 and No. 3 .singles. IIurlcy and Geb()rt captured No. l doubles 8-3, while Kosinski and Sophomore Betsy Rend teamfld up for the No. 2 doubles win. 
On the second day of compe­tition, Saint Mary's beat Aquinas 7-2 before falling to 
Bethel <J-0. Hurley won her first match at No. 1 singles (>-3, 6-0 before falling to Bethel's Ayda Ardila 6-2, 6-2. In the second spot, Gebert dnl'eated Aquinas' Emily Decker h-2, 6-1 before falling to Bethel 6-0, 6­
1. Hurley and Gebert dofeated Aquinas' top doubles team 8-3 before falling to Bethel's host pair 8-0. 
Saint Mary's bounced back with another dominating 9-0 win over Bryn 
Mawr, though. The Belles 
better every week we will be abln to contend with the best teams in the MIAA." 
The Belles hit a tough stretch and dropped their next three matches of the trip, first falling to St. Scholastiea 7-2. 1\arning wins for Saint Mary's were Gebert at No. 2 over Paula Beckerman 6-3, 6-4 and Camp defeating Natalie Urick 6-2, 6­1. 


-

Tuesday, March 17, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NIT 
continued from page 24 
Tuesday at 9 p.m. in the Joyce Center. How do the Irish feel about that? 
"Numb is a good word," sen­ior guard Kyle McAlarney said. "But I've tried to focus on, 'Let's win the NIT.' It's something spe­cial. You can put a banner up here. Getting to the NCAA Tournament was something we wanted to accomplish, but I think we had a good grip on reality when things really weren't going that well." 
Things really weren't going well for the Irish when they lost seven-straight games over the span of 26 days in January and February -a prolonged losing streak that was the main reason the Irish were practicing during the NCAA Tournament Selection Show on Sunday instead of watching it to see where they would be seeded. 
Notre Dame's fate was sealed last week when the Irish were knocked out in the second round of the Big East tourna­ment.· After a sloppy first round 61-50 win over Rutgers, Notre Dame fell to the Mountaineers 74-62. The Irish dug themselves a 18-point halftime lead, and despite a second-half rally, couldn't recover. 
"I think I knew going all the way through February that this could be our destiny," Irish coach Mike Brey -said. "I think when you were up against the wall coming off a seven-game losing streak, you're very realis­tic about where you could end up at the end of the day." 
Brey added: "Certainly we're disappointed we're not in the NCAA, but you can't get dis­tracted by that." 
The distractions have certain­ly died down in the past week. Now, there is no more specula­tion, no more what-if scenarios to play out for Notre Dame to get into the NCAA Tournament. It's happened, the Irish didn't make it in, and for the team and its fans, it's painful. 
The healing process begins tonight against UAB, and so does the chance to hang a championship banner in the Joyce Center, though hardly the banner the Irish and their fans expected to see hanging at the beginning of the season. All that's left to do is play. 

"We had time to digest this," senior forward Zach Hillesland said.. "When we lost to West Virginia, the writing was pretty much on the wall that we were probably not going to make the NCAA Tournament. When we finally found out it was just, 'Let's go and get ready now, let's get ready to play."' 
After saying their goodbyes to the home fans following their 74-55 win over St. John's, Notre Dame's four seniors will play at home, at least one more time. 
"It's a little weird," McAlarney said. "You think at senior night, 'Wow this is probably my last game here,' but it could play into our hands a little bit and we're on our home court, so we're going to keep it going as long as possible." 
If the Irish kept it going as long as possible, they'd end up back at Madison Square Garden playing for the NIT title to earn a small amount of redemption and consolation during such a tough season. 
"At least from the standpoint of being a senior, it's win or your career is over," Hillesland said. "Playing with these guys the past four years has been a great experience and something I'm not ready to end right away." 
Student tickets will be distrib­uted at Gate 3 beginning at 7:30 
p.m. The first 1,000 students in attendance, with a·Saint Mary's, Holy Cross or Notre Dame stu­dent 10 will receive a free tick­et. All other tickets will cost $5. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
UNC 
continued from page 24 
but we didn't play well." 
There wasn't much time for the Irish to celebrate the win, as the squad had to travel to Bethesda, Md. to take on Bucknell. Corrigan, however, was confident in his team's ability to focus. 
"By the time we got to the Bucknell game, I knew our guys would be ready to play," he said. "I was concerned because Bucknell's a very good lacrosse team, but I wasn't concerned that we were going to overlook them or that our guys would still be celebrating the win frorri Sunday. We had moved on pretty well, the guys were pret­ty focused." 
The Irish, though, started slow, trailing 4-2 midway through the third quarter. Four straight goals gave Notre Dame the lead for good, though. This time, sopho­more midfielder Scott Brenneman notched a hat trick, the first of his career. 
Corrigan said that, while he thinks his offense still has room to grow, he was happy with the bal-. anced scoring. So far this year, six Irish players have tallied hat tricks. 
"If they take away one thing, it should give us something else," Corrigan said. "So, if as you go through the season they defend one guy or one particular action, it gives you something else on the other side of the field." 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 


Notre Dame Apartments 
Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Off-Street Parking Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our town homes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 

up just one hit over six innings, striking out a career­
Texas 

high seven. Miller (1-2) threw continued from page 24 two innings of one-run ball to 
earn the victory, and junior it's a very successful trip," Steven Mazur (2-1) picked up Irish coach Dave Schrage said. his first save of the year with "The biggest and most consis­a perfect ninth inning. tent thing is that we played Sullivan went 9­good defense for all nine 2 a year ago 
games, and our pitching was and hadn't lost "[The 2-I win against the victory in a fairly strong. And our hitting in his last 15 game the Irish
Oral Robers] was
started coming around at the appearances, never trailed.
really a statement
end of the trip." and Schrage Notre Dame Notre Dame's road swing said that victory game for us saying, then traveled to began at the Rice Classic in was ·a major San Antonio and
'Hey, we could beat 
Houston, where the Irish confidence beat Grambling
anybody.,,,
edged Oral Roberts -a team boost to his State twice -3­receiving votes in most polls squad. 2 last Tuesday -2-1 on March 6.· The next day, Dave Schrage and 10-7 
"It really set the tone for our the Irish were Wednesday.
Irish coach 

The Irish finished the Rice Classic on March 8 with a 7-3 win over Washington State, a team Schrage said could be one of the best in the Pac-1 0 conference by season's end. Junior Eric Maust (2-0) threw seven solid innings, giving up two earned runs in picking up 
Junior center-

fielder A.J. Pollock blooped a jam-shot into left field for a single and the game-winning RBI with two· outs in the bottom of the ninth after the Tigers tied it in the top half of the inning off Mazur, who then earned the victory. Freshman Steve Sabatino (1-0) struck out nine Tigers the next day for his firstccareer victory. 
Notre Dame saw its three­game win streak snapped by Illinois State lefty Ryan Copeland in a 3-2 loss Thursday in the opener of the Irish Baseball Classic in San Antonio. But the Irish recov­ered, scoring 28 runs over's their next three games to beat Trinity 11-8 and sweep a dou­ble-header with Texas-Pan American 10-7, 7-2. 
"We talked to our team, and whether we have to win 2-1 or 11-8 ... Each game is differ­ent, and that was kind of exhibited on this trip," Schrage said. "We had both kinds of games to deal with, and our kids responded." 
Notre Dame hasn't entered its home opener -which is today at 5:05 p.m. against Ball State (9-7) -with double­digit wins since 2004, when the Irish started 13-2 and won a school-record 51 games in capturing the Big East's regu­lar season and tournament titles. 
Today's contest begins a .stretch· of seven-straight home games for Notre Dame, which hosts Valparaiso (5-9) tomor­row before opening Big East play Friday against Seton Hall (7-5), with whom the Irish will play three games in three days. 
"We always look forward to playing at home in front cif our fans," Schrage said. "It's a place we've had success, and we're excited to have a little stretch here of having some home games." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
trip," Schrage said. "We faced [Jerry] Sullivan, who's one of the top pitchers in the country, and to be able to beat him ­[sophomores] Cole Johnson and Todd Miller matched him pitch-for-pitch, and we had some timely hitting. That was really a statement game for us saying, 'Hey, we could beat anybody.'" 
Senior shortstop Jeremy Barnes drove in the. winning run in the bottom of the eighth, and Johnson (1-0) gave blanked 9-0 by national power Rice as the Owls batted around in both the third and fourth innings, scoring five and four runs, respectively. All-American Ryan Berry, the reigning national pitcher of the week, threw a two-hit shutout for his second straight complete game. 

"We had the one bad inning and other than that, we ran into a really good pitcher there,'' Schrage said. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 17, 2009 
CCHA 
continued from page 24 
petition during a 5-0 rout Friday that included four first-period goals. The No. 8-seeded Mavericks (15­17-8, 8-13-7-3) played Notre Dame close on Saturday but fell 1-0 as the Irish swept the best-of-three series and earned the right to play Northern Michigan in Friday's 4:35 
p.m. semifinal at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit. 
"We played a tough team," ' Jackson said. "I thought in the sec­ond two periods [Friday night] and all three periods tonight it was an even hockey game. We really only handled them in one period out of six. I think that they deserve a lot of credit for the way they competed here." 
The Irish buried the Mavericks in the first period Friday. Sophomore left wing Calle Ridderwall's unas­sisted goal just two minutes in proved to be the game-winner. 
Sophomore center Ben Ryan made it 2-0 five minutes after Ridderwall's tally on a power play goal off assists from senior captain Erik Condra and sophomore defenseman Ian Cole. 
With just over four minutes to go in the period, freshman right wing Billy Maday scored his 15th goal of the season off a brilliant pass from juniol' defenseman Kyle Lawson, Junior right wing Ryan Thang, fresh off a right ankle injury that had kept him out since Feb. 6, gave the Irish a 4-0 edge. two minutes later with a quick wrist shot from the left circle. 
"Our guys were flying in the first period," Jackson said. 'That's as good a period as maybe we've played all season long. We were buzzing." 
The Mavericks pulled starting goalie Jerad Kaufinann in favor of Jeremie Dupont to start the second frame, but that wouldn't help them get past Pearce, who was flawless in making 30 saves. Sophomore right wing Ryan Guentzel capped the scoring late in the third period by putting home his own rebound. 
Pearce stole the show again on Saturday, when senior center Justin White's goal 2:30 into the game proved to be the difference. Kaufmann left his net \o try and play a puck out of the Nebraska­Omaha zone, but junior left wing Dan Kissel got to it and centered it to White, who flicked it into the still­vacated cage. 
"It's been our bread and butter a lot this season, these fast starts," White said. "We try to prepare as well as we can, so anytime we can get that first one, it's big for us." 
For the second straight night, Pearce made 30 saves and record­ed a shutout, his school-record and NCAA-leading eighth of the season and the 12th of his career, which ties him with 2007 grad David Brown. Pearce also leads the coun­try in wins with 28, and Saturday night's victory was the 57th of his career -another new Irish record. 
"It's a great honor," Pearce said. ''I'm sure the way this program is going, it's going to be broken by the next goalie that comes through. At least I have it for now, and it's nice to have." 
Some of Pearce's shutouts this year have been the products of Notre Dame's stifling defense and its domination of opponents, but Saturday, Pearce had to make spec­tacular save after spectacular save not just to keep his shutout intact, but to send the Irish on their way to Detroit. 
The Mavericks had several chances on rebounds, but Pearce stopped every one -even as sticks were flying and players from both teams were colliding into him. He made saves with his glove, blocker, stick and even his skate on one wrap-around opportunity in the third period. 
"Tonight he just looked like he wasn't going to give up a goal," Jackson said. "He had that look about him and that confidence like there was nothing getting by him tonight." 
Notes: 
+Northern Michigan (18-16-5, 11-12-5-3), the No. 6 seed, beat host Miami (Ohio) on consecutive nights to advance to thi<> weekend's CCHA semifmals. After the third­seeded RedHawks (20-12-5, 17-7­4-2) won Friday's opener 3-2, the Wildcats earned a 3-2 overtime win Saturday before winning the series with a 3-1 victory Sunday. 
+The second CCHA semifinal will feature Michigan, the No. 2 seed, and Alaska, the No. 4 seed, in an 
8:05 p.m. matchup. The Wolverines (28-10-0, 20-8-0-0), the nation's No. 3 team, swept Western Michigan 5­2, 6-1, while the Nanooks needed three games to dispose of Ohio State. First-team all-conference goaltender Chad Johnson made a season-high 43 saves in Alaska's 1­0 series-clinching victory Sunday. 
+The winners of Friday's two semifmals will play in the CCHA Championship at 7:35 p.m. Saturday at Joe Louis Arena. The losers of Friday's contests will play at 3:35 p.m. to determine the tour­nament's third-place team. Last year, Notre Dame lost to Miami (Ohio) in its semifinal before failing to Northern Michigan in the conso­lation game. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Selection 
continued from page 24 
not," McGraw said. "We're playing at home, that's the important thing to me. I don't think seeds are that impor­tant. 
The Irish play the winner of No. 2-seed Texas A&M and No. 15 seed Evansville if they win. 
The bracket brings family and former teammates togeth­er. While at St. Joseph High School, 
Lechlitner "We're playing at try to injure played with home, that's the most each other or 
current injure the prac­
important thing to
Minnesota for­tice players, 
me. I don't think 
ward Kristen we're just Dockery. seeds are important." going hard, try-Lechlitner said ing to be their parents amped up,
Muffet McGraw 
talk, but the ready to play."
Irish coach
girls don't talk Since the 
said practice will intensify and the coaches need to keep an eye on it. 
"Tomorrow will be really physical and intense," she said. "We'll probably have to slow them down a little because they're so ready right now, and they want to play right now. I think we'll have to gauge that and determine how long we want to practice." 
Junior guard Ashley Barlow agreed. 
"We're going to be working 
hard," she said. 
"It's not like 
we're going to 

basketball, and that ·she hopes local St. Joseph fans come to watch. 
"Hopefully get a few more St. Joe fans, parents maybe bringing some of the kids to the game," she said. 
Should Evansville upset Texas A&M, the Irish, if they win, could have a rematch between freshman guard Natalie Novosel and her sister Shannon, a senior at Evansville. The Irish beat Evansville 96-61 on Nov. 19 at the Joyce Center. 
The matchup presents a scary case of deja vu. In 1994, No. 10 seed Minnesota defeat­ed the No.7 seed Irish, 81-76, at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish have a week to rest and practice. McGraw games are at 
home, the Irish will have a different atmos­phere entering an NCAA Tournament game, McGraw said. 
"We're in the dorm, going to class on Friday, we're going to practice regular time, we're in our locker room," McGraw said. "I think a lot of things there are the same. Sometimes you wonder about the whole tournament feel, you know, being in the dorm and playing in the NCAA tour­nament. We might stay in the hotel Saturday night to get a good night's rest, just to make it feel a little more lik'e a tour­nament atmosphere." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Tuesday, March 17, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 28Cap with a Turkish 
pompom 31 Semicircular

5 Dutch_ ·building
1 0 Like horses' extension
hooves 34 Australian
14 Bush not seen 35 American
much nowadays 36 Light wood
15 Toward the Arctic 38 The Buckeyes, for short 
16 Sioux City's locale 39 Skirt 
171.ampblack 41 Italian 18 Measure of 42 Canadian prevention or 44 Union strength? agreements? 19 Superheroes 45 Golf peg battling the evil 
46 Scientologist Magneto 
Hubbard 20 Russian_ 
47 Hill, in Haifa 22 Swiss 
49 Spanish verse 24 Now and again 
51 Operatic 25 Military pooh-movement circa bahs 1900 26 Preceders of xis 55 Danish~­27 Suck's tail? 57 Portuguese _ 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

58 Very much 59 Appetite 
stimulant 61 Collector's suffix 62 Place to order a 
sandwich or espresso 63 Sturdy chiffon 64 Put out 65 Ivan or Feodor 66French_ 57 Spanish_ 
Down 
Iraqi seaport 2 Going on 3 Lake catch 4 Crisis center 
connections 5 Govt. securities 6 Licks soundly 7 White-tailed 
eagle 
8 Takeoff and landing overseers: Abbr. 
9 Brandon Lee's last movie 
10 Boxcars 11 Locale for a 
pioneer family 121s in the red 13 Hamlet. e.g. 21 Part ol the 
Australian coat of arms 23 Outlander in Hawaii 
25 Brand of razors and coffee makers 
27 Buming issue 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puu~e by John Underwoc<l 
29Fashion 40 Slanderer 53 Bouncing off the designer Gucci walls
43 Tiny marcher 30 Ladlas of 54 Speak before 
47 Kind of farmer 
Versailles; Abbr. throngs
48 Leandro's 
31 Not much 55 Agreement
partner in a 32 Double time, for Mancinelli opera 56 '"Tis a pity" one 50 Prized fur 57 Lisa with a 33 Convertible "mystic smile" 
51 "Let's go, 34 Apres-ski drink amigo!" SO Grande 
37 Better trained 52 Hindu wise one opening? 
For answers, call 1-900-285·5656. $1.49 a minute; or, with a credil card. 1-800-814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 38{ilo download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilex:word lor more information. Online subscriptions· Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.comlwordplay. Crosswords lot young solvers: nytimes.com!learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CEUiliRfl'lES BORN ON THIS DAY: Judah l:nc<llander. 40: Lauren Graham. 42: Ber· nard<) Rertoh~<.'<::i, 69: krry Lewi~. 8J 
Happy Birthday: Ton much t'? deal wirb and not cnou!'h rime to make things I'" the war 
ym~ w~~nt.WlH be ~...h~dn:~n~llg:: fh~~ lS a yea~ \\'hCil Y'~lt rn.nst f<lCU&. (:~lllCC'ntnltc ~md httmd 
U1, gtHI!If l<l rlw fM"t tluor. Will mak~ tk hl!(ll,c.,;t tl>tkrem:e t" Y<>Ur rurun: &1 ;~paU<'m that will allow you to $(J<.>ed npthc process of-completion. Your numb<'rs are 4. 12. .I J.:26, 
19. BAS . 
ARIFS (March 2J.·Apri.ll9): Be cardnl With ymrr money A mntrad orcha11<c to IIC!(O l~ltk :t t'~t1et .deal ()t t:.'l.·e~~ h.<lrtt:r iur ~ p:i::t:f)d pa:u...e Wlll aU be tK.~·es.sm-y d you. ·witUt tn put a littk a~tdc. Milk "'"'e mq>n>Wmmll< that will help)<>" to 111ark~t your t<tltllls. 5 ~t;lt> 
TAURUS (April :W··May 20): Dou'tlet your ,h.tbbonmes. keep you frnm a,·compli$hin~ wh.al n~ds to be do.ne. Put yo\tr feehng:s n:sidt" iUJd v.·urk aiong~ide otlleh. even if you dml'l n~ccssanly a~_n.-, Wllh them. Anger will jlCf Y<lU nowl~<.-re..l >tars 
GEMlNl (M~y 21~1une 20); 0<.> w!...ot~,.,.,. ha<l.o he douc wirhmol ha"k. As '""I' "s you let othen; nwd.ttc. or mto.'ftere, r?!l will lose y<:mr pac.: and em! up fon:l!oiug your ori¥inal pl~n. Make de~>Siml' tha! can alfeel yonr pmks"ona! outlook without letting vour emo· timts lake over. .l slars ' 
CANCh'R (June 2J ..Ju1y 22); Dnn'l get "II upset about what's hawcmng arout.Uymt In 1hc c!td, 11 w1ll be I'> ywtr l:..,.,dot tt> "'"'efll mod ml<tpt !(> the cha11~e• that ''"Iold. b:<!OIIotml omhnrsts will kad In nu.st~kes a.ntlmi~haps, settin~;t you badt finauco;tlly and flO%lbly plt~'ilcally. J ~tnrs , 
LBO (July 23·Aus. 22): Von may f<>cllike speudin~ hul y<>u sh<>uldn'l. Low and adwn ll~ nrc .. hkdy too.vcq><>Wcr .Y<~U, n•akiu!tfur ".n excotill)t hilt CX)"'ll<iw day. Think befor~ yt:)U <kClde h:J y.o ov~rh.:1~rd m <UJY '\V:ay. f.).cc~s. \vll1 be y(n.lr ru.t~my. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sep!. 22): Stick to your own rkvke> and 1~1 other' do as they plense. A service t.)l' uie.11 y1>H hn\·c th:al bnugs more h.'!lStu·e tune or comfort to otbcr~ wiU tunt out to be~ lucmtiw investment. Explore the possibilities. 2 stars 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct 22): You can talk your "'"Yin or out of :mytlmtg, Y<.>ur opil1ions will be IJ>k<'n "'nously lind hdt> I<> )tel lhin~~ und<.'t"Way will he ufferc<l You haw lots tt> )!alii h1>111 mtemdillf w·ith p<..",>k fnm.t ((>t'lcn-ut hackjtwnu<h 4 ''a"' 
•
SCORPIO·(Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Vsc your inf!euuity lo come up with whatever solution voto need to mon' fprward wid• a project. Talk I$ not )!oing lo ~et thin)!S do:tne hut actions will. Pu1 your <)tO ~>t(k adnllltf you ueed help and fimsh '"'"'t you begau so lull)! ago. J ;l:~r> 
SAGTITAR!US (Nov. 22-Dec. 21); timolional i•sues will he t!ifhwlt tn avnitl at«l *'P"'t lm~ to deal wl!h.l!'~ bc>l to lei Pd!el); do the talking wlul<: von sort mot what ''"'' mu>l do. End any rdarwnship> that arcti'l worlcil!!! ~stars ·· · · 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-lan. 19): Pulltt•~ether all the people "·hom yt>u fed can .:<.>ntnb. mr t~) v.··bcu ypu ~'{~ut tt:• du. You WlU h<· able-to s.hnpt.:~ the !(leas you have uno st.1met.h.ln~ litUl(thle <~ml e<H1lnlm:: y"ur owio tutu(>!. 4 ''"~ 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20· Feb. 18): Everyon~ wht> kuuws yon IS proud of whal Votl have a<:· complislwd. lltkc ynnr tm~e to cttjoy a httk pea.:e of mind. Low is in the star< so make a gesture to S.l~nd more (i.rn.e w·ith son1wn'~ and yoa will get the re$ponse you want ..t ~tars 
PISCES (Feb. 19··Man:h 20): Don't Jl.d <lllf<r:<. ret UIOVillj!. Sm!I~OII< is ""itin,!!: fm• you (\l waflk $0 he ~.lf she t~).H step: m an! I I.i:lk~; v"·cr. Get your cKf (()~~th~ and ynnr mmd .-l,.-cf ou making. gain~. Don 1t ~h(l\'<' your we:aknes:'i.. 2 st~rs 
Birthday Baby: You are pro)!fessi''" ami" htile btl pushy aud tkm't t~,;k down wh~u laced Wtth O('JX)S~tHm. \(~u arc a drc.a.mcr but wh~n rc.ahty luts, yon kuo,-.· what to do. 
Er1genit~~j: WdJ .>itC:s; eugt.~nird<zst.('nmfor confult•ntinl n:m~ul!(r/itms.. myJf)(1f:(;.~.comfeugn1f<zh1H Rw Eugettii1'5 blog. as-u·omf'l·it"?e.comforftm 

f . 

www. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
THE FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in ·your home. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
PATRICK GARTLAND 
-Make checks payable to: and mail "to: 
JUMBLE 

~J! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 

NEWJUMBlE NMENOO www.jumble.tomlds 
tBOAMEA I
IJ I 
Print answer here: Yesterday's IJumbles; 
Answer: 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Arg1rion and Jeff Knurek 

WHEN THE SMOKE DETECTOR WENT OFF IN THE WEE HOURS, THEY WERE --­
Now arrange the circled leiters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon.

I I 
"[III IIIJ" 
(Answers tomorrow) FRANC ANISE MUSKET FIDDLE What he ended up with when he bumped the doctor's luxury car -"SIDE" EFFECTS 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________~ Address ______________________________________ State ____ Zip._______
City --------~----­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, March 17, 2009 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Staying hotne 
After Big East loss, squad to host UAB in first round of NIT 
By CHRIS HINE Senior Staff Writer 
It's been six days since Notre Dame NCAA Tournament hopes expired when the clock hit zero in its Big East tournament loss to West Virginia. 
Following the game, Notre Dame's players coped with the thought that such a promising season in November -when Notre Dame was ranked No. 9 in the country .,.. would likely end in the Natlimal Invitational Tournament (NIT). 
That thought became a harsh reality on Sunday, when Notre Dame learned it would host Nabama-Birmingham (UAB) in the opening round of the NIT 
see NITIpage 21 


BASEBALL 
Irish win 7 of 9 on Texas trip 
By MATT GAMBER SportS Editor 
With conference play just four days away, Notre Dame seems to be hitting its stride at the right time -and the Irish have their best record after 15 games in five years to show for it. 
The Irish (1 0-5) won seven of nine games on their Spring Break trip to Texas, falling only to No. 7 Rice and Illinois State while topping Oral Roberts, Washington State and Trinity (Texas) in single games. Notre Dame also swept two-game sets with Grambling State and Texas Pan-American. 
"Anytime you can go on the road and win seven of nine, 
see TEXAS/page 21 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

ND n1oves up to No. 3 vvith wins over UNC, Bucknell 
the week, he didn't want to blow the tied for the highest-ranked team goal<> on the day, good for his first worked and how patient he's been 
By SAM WERNER 

North Carolina win out of propor­Notre Dame (5-0) has ever defeated. hat trick of the soa<>on. playing behind Joey Kemp for three Associate Sports Editor 
tion, and that it was too early in the The Irish beat No. 3 Johns llopkim; "I thought we played pretty good years, and I couldn't be happier for season to take rankings very seri­in the 2001 NCAA quarterfinals. team defense the whole day," our team because then~·s no position 
When Notre Dame took the. field ously. Defense wa'i the story of the day Corrigan said. more important than your goal." last Sunday, Mar. 8, against North "It's a nice win," he said. for Notre Dan1e. Despite trailing 4-3 Senior Scott Hodgers made 16 Despite the win, Corrig~ said his Carolina, the Irish were ranked No. "Whether Carolina's a top-three at halftime: the Irish held the Tar saves between the pipes, and wa<> squad still had room to improve on 7 in the country. Now? Notre Dame team or not, I don't know. They lleels scoreless during the third named Great Western Lacrosse offense. has moved up to No. 3 after wins were No. 3 in the country at that quarter, and goals from junior I.ea!,rue player of the week. "Offensively, we didn't play as over the then-No. 3 Tar Heels and time, and that's great. but right now attack Neal Hicks and senior attack "Scott's benn terrific," Corrigan well." he said. "We made some Bucknell during spring break. it's a little bit more of a beauty con­Ryan Hoff gave Notre Dame a 5-4 said. "He really has been. No sur­plays, which is always important, 
While Notre Dame coach Kevin test than a true test of who's No.3" which lead that it would not relin­plise for U'i, but I couldn't be happi­Corrigan said he was pleased with The win over the Tar Heels (6-2) quish. I loft' would score two more er for him becau'iC of how hard he's see UNC/page 21 
HOCKEY 
Team advances in CCHA 
Pearce's back-to-back shutouts pave road to CCHA smzis in Detroit 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Editor 
And the Irish just keep rolling. 
Senior goaltender Jordan Pearce and No. 2 Notre Dame shut out Nebraska-Omaha on consecutive nights at the Joyce Center to advance to the CCHA tournament's semifmals for the third straight time. 
"That's been one of our objec­tives all year," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "To get to Detroit is a big accomplishment for this team. We had a good season, but the real hockey starts now." 
Notre Dame (29-5-3, 21-4-3-3 CCHA) earned the tournament's top seed by winning the regular season title, and the Irish continued their dominance over CCHA com-
see CCHA/page 22 


NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame to take on Minnesota in NCAAs 
Team earns 7-seed, faces Gophers in Joyce Center Sunday 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 

It took a long wait and a lower seed than expected, but the Irish are in the NCAA Tournament. 
Notre Dame got the No. 7 seed in the Trenton, N.J. regional and will face No. 10 seed Minnesota in the first round Sunday at 2:30 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
The players and coaches gath­ered at coach Muffet McGraw's house to watch the selection show, televised on ESPN, and had to wait for the second-to­last game in the last bracket before hearing their name called. 
"You kind of know that you're going to be in, based on the way you've played and the way peo­ple talk you up, but when there's only four spots left, we're getting a little nervous," junior guard Melissa Lechlitner said. "Me and [sophomore for­ward] Becca [Bruszewski] were like, 'Oh my gosh, what if we didn't get in?' It was a little scary." 
The Irish (22-8) got the No. 5 seed in the Big East tournament last weekend, earned a first­round bye and defeated St. John's in the second round before falling in the quarterfi­nals to Villanova. 
"I really thought we'd be a four, five or six and when that had all come out I couldn't remember whether the seven seed had already appeared or 
see SELECTION/page 22 





