
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 44: ISSUE 30 MONDAY, OCTOBERS, 2009 

Chicagoans mixed after 2016 bid fails 
Students from area depressed after losing games to Rio de Janeiro, happy city will save money 
Rio de Janeiro all passed the city By MADELINE BUCKLEY in votes during the first round, 
News Editor 
with Rio de Janeiro eventually winning the bid, according to an 
During his daily ritual of scan­Associated Press report. ning news sites online, junior "I think it's good that [Rio de Steven Ouyang saw something Janeiro] got it, especially Friday morning that shocked because a South American him. After almost four years of country has never hosted the working to bring the 2016 Olympics. From that standpoint, Summer Olympics to Chicago, it's fantastic," Ouyang said. "But the city lost the bid in the first the city has some really big round of voting. security issues to deal with. 
"The favorites were Rio and "It's unfortunate. I was really Chicago, so when Chicago got looking forward to hosting the kicked out in the first round, I Olympics," he said. was really disappointed," Sophomore Mary Glennon, Ouyang, a Chicago-area resi­from the southern suburbs of dent, said. Chicago, said she was also sur­
Chicago had spent almost $50 prised and disappointed when million to bring the Olympics to the area, but Tokyo, Madrid and see CHICAGO/page 3 

Soaked students celebrate close win 
By BRIAN METZ News Writer 
Despite Saturday's freezing rain, the student section was loud and many people stayed for the entire game as the Irish defeated the Washington Huskies 37-30 in overtime. 
'The rain is an unfortunate part of the sport. But it makes the games a lot more exciting, and adds a degree of uncer­tainty," graduate student Nil Valls said. 
However, some students, especially freshmen, weren't ready for the cold. 
see GAME/page 3 



NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Walgreens former chief emphasizes highvalues 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Associate News Editor 
Walgreens former president and CEO Daniel Jorndt spoke to business students and faculty Friday morning about the les­sons of his life and the impor­tance of 
high values in building a business to last. 
Jorndt started his lecture by talking about how 

he first Jorndt began his career in the pharmaceuticals industry -as a delivery boy for a corner store pharmacy in 1950. 
"I didn't know about trade areas or marketing," he said. "I did feel good delivering medi­cines to sick people." 
Jorndt then attended Drake University in Iowa, where he worked at a pharmacy adjacent to "the busiest little whore­house in Des Moines." 
After college, Jorndt went to work for Walgreens, which had first been established in Chicago in 1901. Jorndt rose through the company to 
see JORNDT/page 4 


Walsh Hall celebrates tOOth anniversary 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Marking its 100th anniversary, the Wild Women of Walsh Hall hosted events including a hospi­tality tent, dinner and a Mass that were attended by over 100 alumni as well as a number of present students. 
"Our celebration is not only this weekend, but the entire year will be a celebration," sen­ior Meg Mirshak said. "This is not only about remembering the history of Walsh Hall, but cele­brating the men and women who lived here." 
Sophomore Kelsey Burke said Walsh began the weekend by gathering everyone in a hospi­tality tent for pizza Friday. 
"After the pep rally on Friday all the girls in the dorm, alumni, family and friends were invited to enjoy pizza in the hospitality tent," she said. 
Burke said she has helped with planning of the festivities, which started last spring, and has con­tinued throughout this year. 
"We sent out e-mails to alumni of the Hall saying we had 100 tickets to the game and to please join us," she said. "We were expecting over 100 alumni to attend." 
see WALSH/page 4 
Pinkextensions help raise money 
Group sells creative hair styles to help fight breast cancer 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
For many, sporting a pink hair­do is a bold fashion statement reserved for rock stars and car­toon characters. That trend was bucked this past Friday by the Notre Dame community in sup­port of the battle against breast cancer, as Crowley Music Hall hosted the "Race to Raise the Most for United Health Services." 
Pink hair extensions were sold for $10 and done by employees of Paradigm Salons. The event raised money for United Health Services to provide mammo­grams to women in St. Joseph's County whose insurance does not 
see PINK/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Review of ND grad's 'The Order of Oddfish' page 13 • Insider analysis pullout • Men's soccer page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Blessing in disguise? 
The Second Oty has finished fourth. 
All signs pointed to a winning bid for America's heartland city. After millions of dollars spent on what seemed to be a suc­cessful campaign and visits from an all-star cast including a last minute plea from Ann-Marie Woods the president him­self, Chicago still 
News 
could not bring home 
Writer 
the win. 
Friday's vote by the International Olympic Committee in Copenhagen eliminated Chicago in the first round, leaving the city, IOC members and many Americans shocked and stunned at the disappointing fourth place finish, with Rio de Janeiro ultimately winning the bid. 
But maybe it was a blessing in disguise. Is America, namely Chicago, really ready to play host for the world? 
While some said bringing the games back to United States would help boost confidence and morale, jumpstart the economy, and show the world a new, stronger America, hosting the Olympics could very well have done the opposite. Estimated to have cost $4.8 billion, many Chicago residents feared the implications of turning their city, already struggling to stay afloat in this economic recession, into the 2016 Olympic games site. 
In a poll taken in August for the Chicago Tribune, 45 percent ofChicagoans were opposed to bringing the games to their city altogether, with an alarming 84 percent against the bid, fearing the costs would fall heavily on the taxpayers to fund the games. 
While Mayor Daley touted the games as central to an economic boom for the city, there were no guarantees that the Olympics would have been profitable for Chicago. 
Were Chicagoans really willing to take that risk? It seems the glitz and glamour of hosting the three-week international event overshadowed substantial concerns about what the games could do to the Wmdy Oty. 
With an unreliable, worn-down com­muter system and traffic-logged highways, transportation would have been Chicago's primary problem, something the IOC called to the city's attention prior to the final vote. Everyday life would come to a startling halt for the metropolitan area's 9.6 million resi­dents. 
Hosting the games also meant a series of new building projects and improvements for the city's lakefront and civic centers. While this comes standard for most cities holding the Olympic games, Chicago's his­tory of delayed civic construction projects and the city's already insolvent economy would have magnified the difficulties of this task. 
Finally, an important yet conveniently overlooked feature of bringing the games to Chicago was the inevitable displacement oflocal residents in predominantly poor and working class neighborhoods of the South Side in order to make room for Olympic venues and the Olympic Village. A history of the Olympic games reveals a pat­tern of displacement among cities' poorer inhabitants, and Chicago would not have been any different. 
So instead of grumbling over an unfair vote, be thankful for fourth place and move on. Celebrate with Brazil as they begin the difficult task of welcoming the world to their nation, more broadly their continent, for the first time in the Olympic history. 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and srrives for rhe highesr srandards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make misrakes. If we have made a misrake, please conracr us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, October 5, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE 80's MOVIE? 




Rachel Chisauski  Nicky Mikkilineni  Billy Wardlaw  Meaghan Crowley  Nick Rowek  Matt Hubberd  
freshman  junior  sophomore  junior  freshman  freshman  
McGlinn  Stanford  O'Neill  Lyons  Keough  Knott  
"'Troll2. ,  "'I'm Gonna Get  '"Breakfast  '"Dirty Dancing'  "Which 'Rocky'  '"The Goonies'  
Probably the  You, Sucker.,,  Club.,,  probably.,  was in the  -that was  
worst movie  8OS.?"  alright.,  
, ever made.  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

VANESSA GEMPISffhe Observer Members of the Notre Dame Marching Band shout, "Arrrrgh" during the third quarter "We are ND" cheer during Saturday's football game against Washington. 
OFFBEAT 
school could respond to an outbreak of the undead. The link was taken down late Thursday afternoon. 
Orlando says officials felt the joke "didn't really belong" on the site, which also included plans for deal­ing with hurricanes and pandemics. 

The exercise lays out the university's response to attacks by "flesh-eating, apparently life impaired individuals." It notes that a zombie outbreak might include "documentation or lots of strange moaning." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Nude man accused for pounding on passing cars 
GREELEY, Colo. -A man who told officers he was a medical marijuana provider has been arrested for allegedly standing naked in a Colorado highway, pounding on passing cars and spitting at a state trooper. Dustin Robbins, 27, of Westminster, faces 13 counts including indecent exposure, assault and driving under the influ­ence of marijuana. 
Robbins was arrested Sept. 25 on U.S. 34 east of Greeley. Witnesses told investigators he was cursing at cars and hitting some. 
Two women in their 70s and 80s told deputies a naked man jumped on the hood of their ear, broke win­dows, walked across the roof and jumped off the back. Damage was estimated at $1,200. 
Joke zombie plan removed from university Web site 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. -The University of Florida's response plans for a zombie apocalypse are no longer available for public con­sumption. 
UF spokesman Steve Orlando said Friday the uni­versity removed a link to a disaster recovery exercise, which detailed how the 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

....I 
c( (.) 0 
..... 

63 
46 

HIGH LOW 


IN BRIEF 
An HBO documentary, "Thin," will be shown tonight at in the Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite Museum of Art from 7 p.m. to 9 
p.m. The showing is free and open to the public. 
The New Playwrights Workshop presents "Cargo" and "Scattered Voices" from Oct. 6 to Oct. 11 in the Philbin Studio Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are available for purchase through the box office or at performingarts.nd.edu 
A lecture, "The Plundered Planet and Restoring Natural Order in the Bottom Billion," will take place on Oct. 8 in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center at 5 p.m. Paul Collier, Director of the Centre for the Study of African Economies at the University of Oxford. will lecture. The lecture is free. 
"Breast Cancer," a lecture in the Cancer Care Lecture Series will take place on Oct. 8 in the auditorium at Indiana University School of Medicine -South Bend, located at 1234 Notre Dame Avenue, from 6:30 
p.m. to 8 p.m. The event is free and open to the public, but requires registration at southbendclinic.eom 
A film, "Goodbye Solo" (2008), will be shown on Oct. 9 at the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 6:30 p.m. Buy tickets at the box office or online at performingarts.nd.edu 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 


52 39 

Monday, October 5, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Chicago 
continued from page 1 
she heard Chicago had lost the bid to host the Olympics. 
"It was really exciting for awhile," she said. "I think it would have been really fun." 
Glennon said the possible eco­nomic impact of the Olympics would have been a welcome stimulant to the city's economy. 
"My brother works in archi­tecture and for him, if the Olympics came, it would have opened up a ton of jobs," she said. 
But not all Chicago residents are disappointed the city lost the bid. 
Sophomore Katie Mayka said she had "mixed feelings" about the Olympics coming to Chicago from the beginning. 
"It would have been really exciting but at the same time put a burden on a lot of peo­ple," she said. 
Mayka said the intense plan­ning and construction that Chicago would have put forth to hold the Olympics would have strained the day-to-day opera­tions of the city. 
Junior Tim Castellini said he thinks the city dodged a bullet. 
"A lot of Olympic cities have enormous deficits in their budg­ets after hosting the Olympics and there are always a whole bunch of buildings and struc­tures that go unused after­ward," he said. "In that sense, I'm relieved." 
Although the Olympics would have brought people from all over the world to Chicago, Castellini said he does not believe the economic benefit would have been worth it for the city. 
"So often these Olympic cities put forth tons of money and come out with a net loss," he said. 
But despite his relief, Castellini said Chicago's loss was a big surprise -especially a loss in the first round. 
"One-of my friend's dad was on the board trying to get the Olympics to come to Chicago and he thought all along we were going to get it," he said. "I had assumed this whole time that it wasn't even a question." 
Junior Alyssa Hartsell worked in downtown Chicago this sum­mer, and she said support for the Olympic games was all over the city. 
"I saw so many signs down­town this summer," she said. "There was just so much sup­port. It would have been really cool to be able to witness it and be a part of it." 
Although not entirely disap­pointed Chicago lost the bid, Mayka also said she could not believe the city lost so early in the voting rounds. 
"I had been hearing we were pretty much the favorite," she said. "I was shocked." 
Ouyang said he was surprised because thought President Barack Obama's quick trip to Copenhagen would have influ­enced the votes. 
"The Olympics are such a big deal and Obama went to go pro­cure it for Chicago and for the nation," he said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

Gante 
continued from page 1 
"I wasn't prepared for that -I wore aT-shirt," freshman Kevin Soriano said. "By the fourth quarter I was so cold and soaked." 
However, students agreed that braving the cold was well worth the experience. 
"I was so impressed with the dedication of our fans; they were rewarded with another exciting win," freshman Lauren Jacobi said. 
Soriano said the dramatic wins that have become the Irish's call­ing card this season might be even harder to stomach than the weather. 
"It's so emotionally taxing," Soriano said. "We need to win earlier." 
Throughout much of the con­test, the Irish offense was only effective between the twenties, as Notre Dame was forced to set­tle for field goals early and often. Freshman kicker Nick Tausch put the ball through the uprights five times, three of which came on the team's first three posses­sions. The Irish, however, heated up when they needed to, as quarterback Jimmy Clausen put the ball in the end zone with 1:20 left in the fourth quarter. Clausen, still battling injury, passed for over 400 yards and two scores. 
"Jimmy Clausen is a Heisman candidate," Soriano said. Freshman Tim Konicek said 
the running game was even more vital to the win yesterday. 
"It's so important to have an effective running game, especial­ly in that kind of weather. Robert Hughes played great," he said. 
Konicek said the defense could have played better, but he was also impressed by the dominat­ing play of the defensive line when it mattered most. 
"For the most part, our defense let Washington have its way, but we played so tough with our backs to the goal line," he said. 
Ultimately, Valls said the hard­fought win was much more rewarding than a blowout. 
"Those are the best kind of wins," he said. 
Contact Brian Metz at bmetz2@nd.edu 



.......... ~:~t\\i.~-k:l ~~-~~~;·r.<.<:··p_,>~~ .S .......:. ~-l',...:-;v,}.Q ..._...,.,..,.ac,.. (:n t!ot>~tnol 
*A£ t ·~;~..Hifl;wn~~l'i. ~c~ .L....., '*~""'' ·l:'"~.rr. ·· ,1· -~Suold;h. .......... .fl""i--:_;:.tifi-"':-:i -,..-.: >~~-:::'-:
...,*••*·'llllldll..,.. , . .,,_..~.lf., r.,.w .. li Jt,•""ll,o; '"~h.,,' 
-r.tf!· 
!"u:' !fii!.~oiJ#' -~ ~~ A.t4-T """"""'OO{ ~-~Bo'»litf• 

i •.~~ orttli.l"4oi!-:. ; t~·•·t:U.Ji'!.-'•· ~ ..;::·t :14•.: !5.;'"io!~~~ :totf'U! 41-: Hi 'b ~ ~ _:;__: ~; i;i-";.f :l'r'!"""r~ ;-~;:.w· rtt ;~ ::..;1fjJl\~'d1t~ ,<.!.il"7'! ~·'.tLfi-':1~-~;·:C ~ ':~,-.-~~~-~~~ 'b~ ~.--,'fno. ;;~~,~--~ '·'~~, f." ~<<-!;.:·.-~~..,., --·':.''Q!<:<~~-\t:~~ ·: :>.~'fi~-· ~ t--:-fJ~·· ~· :_~~!~~1., .... ~di ~~u· -~ --"f~li. ~1<-:. n' :i ~u· ..:1.;F~rt...__ r:·. wo:~"HfW'ti ~ _:..,~· :::.TP:~r:. Ht .t.~-1;·, ~-H+~...t it•~'";, ;r:$+ lW' ·~)'j-9,1_~· ·f~ ~li.,.-,.."~'':"1:-·;r ···:~ru.tr:~f ·;t.~i-~$il-~ 

.·.~._,,.
'": 
: ' ~: 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 5, 2009 

Jorndt 
continued from page 1 
become CEO and president, where he oversaw a period of unprecedented expansion of the company. 
"No business can stand still," he said. 
Using the model "crawl, walk, run," Jorndt helped expand Walgreens from 2,821 stores in 1999 to 6,996 stores in 2009. 
Jorndt said he always experi­mented with ideas to help expand Walgreens business, including the institution of a one-hour photo booth and a drive-through pharmacy. 
"You have to keep trying things and experimenting," he said. 
Although the one-hour photo booth took 12 years to perfect, Jorndt said the drive-through pharmacies were an immediate success. 
"A lot of little towns couldn't support a full-size Walgreens," he said. "We had to open five stores in [Evansville, Ind.] to realize McDonald's had already 
Pink 
continued from page 1 
cover the procedure or who cannot afford it. 
Noelle Elliott, Publicity and Concert Coordinator said she wanted to devise a fundraiser that was unique and appealing to the Notre Dame community. 
"You can show your support every day unlike a T-shirt or a bracelet and it goes with every outfit," she said. 
Elliot said the event was received very well, as 365 peo­ple signed up in two days. She said both men and women par­ticipated. 
"Originally we ordered just 300 [hair extensions] but we ordered 100 more and they 


Walsh 
continued from page 1 
A major component that went into planning the cele­bration was collecting history and reflections from members of the Walsh Hall community, Mirshak said. 
"Walsh Hall was the first women's dorm, in 1972, which was the first year of co-educa­tion at the University," she said. 
Included in this weekends events and decorations were posters marking important events in Walsh Hall's history, a poster with pictures of notable alumni and a 20­minute documentary of past and current Walsh residents. 
"We put together a docu­mentary with reflections from both male and female alumni, Fr. Hesburgh, Fr. Blantz and current residents," Mirshak said. "They spoke of their experiences, funny stories, current traditions, the spirit of the hall and the communi­ty." 
Mirshak said one of the rea­sons why they were able to compile the documentary was because the community of the dorm is so powerful. 
"Our community is so strong, who wouldn't want to be a part of it?" she said. 
Sophomore Kate Gerbich, whose mother also lived in Walsh, said community is one of her favorite parts of the 
trained the world on the drive­through." 
Jorndt, citing James Collins' "Built to Last," said the author had discovered "the key ingre­dient to companies lasting a long time was high ideals and high values." 
Jorndt said high values allow the best companies to attract the best people. 
"We believe that honest goods can be sold to honest people through honest methods," he said, citing the Walgreens creed. 
Jorndt said the creed as well as the Rotary International's "four-way test" helped inspire his employees. 
"Real basic stuff, but basic stuff, read over and over, sets the bar real high and is very motivating," he said. 
Jorndt said lonely decisions are the hardest to make, but often lead to better results than something formulated by a committee. 
"The tough ones need an out­lier to fight for it," he said. 
Jorndt said the experiences of explorer Ernest Shackleton, who despite suffering a disas­
have been going like crazy," she said. 
Elliott said the extensions were made of real human hair from India and are curlable and washable. 
"They want it to look nice and blend but be noticeable," she said. "It's removable and won't hurt your hair." 
Many of the participants had their extensions put in as a show of support for family or friends who battled breast can­cer. 
"My aunt successfully beat breast cancer during her preg­nancy so it's a family topic," freshman Hannah Reiser said. "It's something little I can do." 
Others participated because the fundraiser was for a good cause with a fun twist. 
"I thought it was a great 
dorm. 
"My favorite aspect of Walsh is its community and tradi­tion," she said. "With less girls you get to know all of them more." 
The celebration of the 100th anniversary of the residence hall will continue with various events though the year 
trous turn of events did not lose a single man on his expedition to Antarctica, demonstrate this principle. 
"If the ship is sinking, the leader has to go to the front," he said. 
Jorndt said it is always impor­tant to avoid hubris in business, and that despite the title of the James ColHns' book often asso­ciated with top management, no one ever goes from "Good to Great." 
"Once an outfit starts thinking they're great, sell their stock," he said. 
Jorndt also said procrastina­tion is a natural enemy of suc­cess while invoking the saying "do it now. 
"It's part of the human condi­tion," he said. "We all procrasti­nate." 
Jorndt summarized his lec­ture at the end by simply saying thank you to the audience for listening. 
"Thank you. I think it is one of the most underused words in the English language," he said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 


fundraiser," first-year law stu­dent Kendall Loebbaka said. "I haven't been able to look in the mirror but I'm sure it looks awesome." 
Freshman Alyssa Dammann was able to view the end result shortly after participating and was thrilled with her pink locks. 
"I love it!" she said. "I think it's fun and for a good cause." 
The event struck a more per­sonal chord for junior Sarah Ruszkowski, whose grandmoth­er is a breast cancer survivor. She was looking forward to showing her family her new hairdo. 
"[I plan to keep it] at least until I see my Grandma in Thanksgiving," she said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstrykel@nd.edu 
Quality Off·Campus Houses Now leasing for 2010 • 2011 
•
Close to campus •Washers &d~ers 

•
Student neighborhoods •Dishwashers •Securi~ systems 1 2·10 bedrooms 


1 lawn service 
"Celebrating 100 years is so important, it shows just how important the dorm communi­ty is," Mirshak said. "Even with the new dorms that have been built, the old ones are continuing their legacy." 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at edonnel@nd.edu 
We have over 100 properties-seethem atwww.kramerhouses.com for more information call 



(574)234·2436 

P vr-c;:i....-YI/L/~~, P c;(.../~L-<>-:!r" >' 
P~C'I./~ 
AppLy ro-S~ A1-:rr""~L-vvSfA...-VVVLy M~ 20::1..0 -20::1..::1.. 
PUEBLA, IVIE:X:XCC> 
F'all semester pre-r-ned progracn Sprlng s.sH"T"test:er general program INTERNSHIPS 
IVIC>NTER.R.EV, lVI EX:J:CC> 
Business and Engineering courses Beginning thf-ough Advanced Spanish courses 
M EXXCO C:ITV 
Social Science and History \Nlth a Latin An"\erlcan Focus 
XNFORMATXON SESSXON 
TueJsc::lay, Oc:t:CJ~ber 6, 5:30 P"'"" 
204 DEBARTOLO 
.APPLXC.ATX<>N DE.ADLXNE: N<>VEI\oiiBER. 1.5, 2009 APPLY afl;~ http://www.nd.edu/.....ols/Apply/Appty.html 






ORLD & NATION 
Monday, October 5, 2009 CoMPILED FROMTHE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Samoans mourn tsunami victims 
DAPIA -Islanders gathered Sunday to mourn victims of the South Pacific tsunami that obliterated entire villages on the shores of American Samoa and Samoa, leaving at least 176 dead. 
Monsignor Ioane Vito celebrated the first Mass of the day in a 19th century Roman Catholic cathedral on the waterfront of the Samoan capi­tal, Apia, urging the congregation to unify to rebuild from the disaster that devastated the opposite side of Upolu island. 
"Don't dwell on it but rebuild our lives togeth­er as a community," Vito said at the Immaculate Conception of Mary Cathedral. "Pain will unite us, and unity will give us strength." 
Honduras faces anti-jewish claims 
TEGUCIGALPA-A Jewish civil rights organi­zation is expressing alarm over conspiracy theo­ries claiming Jews and Israel aided the ouster of the Honduran president and attempts to dis­lodge him from his refuge in the Brazilian Embassy. 
The U.S.-based Anti-Defamation League cited statements made by ousted President Manuel Zelaya as well as the news director of a radio station that was closed by the interim govern­ment in Honduras and by Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, among others. 
Most of the comments repeat widely circulat­ed rumors that Israeli soldiers -or in some ver­sions, mercenaries -worked with the troops backing interim President Roberto Micheletti, allegedly supplying some form of tear gas used at the embassy and providing other assistance. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Obama to take stance on military gays 
WASHINGTON -President Barack Obama will focus "at the right time" on how to over­turn the ban on gays serving openly in the military, his national security adviser said Sunday. 
"I don't think it's going to be -it's not years, but I think it will be teed up appropri­ately," retired Gen. James Jones said. 
The Democratic-led Congress is consider­ing repealing the 1993 law. Action isn't expected on the issue until early next year. 
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid recent­ly wrote Obama and Defense Secretary Robert Gates asking them to share their views and recommendations on the con­tentious policy. In Sept. 24 letters, Reid also asked for a review of the cases of two U.S. officers who were discharged from the mili­tary because of their sexuality. 

SoCal forest fire destroys 3 homes 
LYTLE CREEK -A fire driven by winds of more than 40 mph destroyed three homes and threatened dozens of others in a rugged warren of mountains and canyons northeast of San Bernardino on Saturday. 
As a huge wall of flames chewed through thick timber and brush in the Lytle Creek area 15 miles northeast of San Bernardino, residents of some 50 homes in its path fled, taking horses and pets with them. No injuries were reported. 
"We do have structures lost, three homes in Swarthout Canyon," said Norma Bailey, a fire information officer with the U.S. Forest Service. The area is not far from Interstate 15, a major route connecting Las Vegas with Southern California. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Teachers take nontraditional approach 
INDIANAPOLIS -An increasing num­ber of teachers without traditional edu­cation degrees are poised to enter Indiana's classrooms. 
Supporters argue that such teachers bring expertise in subject areas that edu­cation schools don't always provide. But critics question whether they're equipped to handle special cases such as helping children who struggle with reading. 
The programs are enjoying strong political support from Gov. Mitch Daniels, a Republican, and President Barack Obama, a Democrat. 

Snatched Tenn. newborn found 
After recovering the baby ofNashville mother, four children taken into protective custody 
Associated Press 

NASHVILLE -A week ago, Maria Gurrolla was cel­ebrating the birth of her fourth child. A blue yard sign announced: "IT'S A BOY!" She visited a local welfare office that helps low-income mothers. 
Then her 4-day-old son was abducted by an attacker who posed as an immigra­tion worker, then stabbed her. The newborn was found safe, but after a brief reunion state officials took the baby away from Gurrolla again, along with her other three children. 
Now Gurrolla is left to wonder when she might see any of them again. A judge will review the case this week to determine when Yair Anthony Carillo and his siblings-ages 3, 9, 11 ­can come home. 
State officials say the chil­dren were taken into cus­tody Saturday for safety rea­sons but have not offered details. A spokesman said a hearing must occur within three days of when the chil­dren were taken into state custody. 
Tammy Renee Silas, 39, was arrested and charged with kidnapping. She waived her initial court appearance in Alabama on Saturday and is expected to be brought to given during a visit that were bloodshot and her face infant, covered in a blanket. Tennessee sometime this morning to a Women, was swollen. Speaking through an week, FBI spokesman Joel Infants and Children, or Gurrolla has told police interpreter, Rodriguez told Siskovic said Sunday. She WIC, office. WIC is a federal that she heard the attacker The Associated Press that was appointed an attorney, program that provides talking on the phone in Silas told him she was but Siskovic didn't know vouchers to women to pur­Spanish, saying, "The job is adopting a baby from a their name and the jail chase approved foods at gro­done" and that the mother cousin who had to go to jail, wouldn't release any infor­cery stores and pharmacies. "was dying." and was going to El Paso, mation. Gurrolla's attacker Authorities have not said Texas, to get the child. 
Police have not released a stabbed her with a knife whether they think anyone He said Silas had a new­motive, but Silas' live-in eight times, mostly in the else was involved. born with her when he boyfriend said she told him neck and chest. When the Police found a surveillance picked her up from the she could not have children attacker briefly walked tape from a local Walmart Huntsville airport Tuesday. and wanted to adopt a child away from Gurrolla, she showing a Kia Spectra with The rental car was returned from a relative who was darted to a neighbor's Indiana tags that appeared in Huntsville, authorities going to jail. house, pleading for help. to have followed Gurrolla. It said. 
Gurrolla, 30, had returned Sometime after that, the turned out to be a rental "She was acting normal home with the. infant and attacker fled with the new­from the Nashville airport, around the baby, and I didn't her 3-year-old daughter on born. and a phone number regis­really see any difference, but Tuesday when she answered Gurrolla was left bloodied tered with the rental led I think she was happy," a knock at the door. from head to toe, a long police to Silas on Friday Rodriguez said from their 
A heavy-set woman with scratch mark on her face. night. one-story home, where a blonde hair claimed she was When she held a news con­Investigators were talking box of baby clothes for a boy an immigration agent and ference Tuesday from the with her live-in boyfriend, overflowed in the dining wanted to know about false hospital to plead for her Martin Rodriguez, when room. "What woman isn't information Gurrolla had baby to be found, her eyes Silas appeared holding the happy to carry a baby?" 

GREECE 

Socialists trounce conservatives in election 
Andreas Papandreou -who founded lawlessness and waste," Papandreou
Associated Press his Panhellenic Socialist Movement said. ATHENS -Greece's Socialists party, or PASOK -and grandfather "We must all believe again we can trounced the governing conserva­and namesake George Papandreou, succ.~ed ... we cannot waste a single tives in a landslide election Sunday, both of whom served several terms day. with voters angered by scandals and as prime ministers. Results from 87.65 percent of votes a faltering economy ousting Prime "We bear a great responsibility to counted showed PASOK winning with Minister Costas Karamanlis halfway change the course of the country. ... 43.93 percent, compared to 34.03 through his second term. We know that we can make it," percent for New Democracy. Turnout Humbled by his New Democracy Papandreou, a former foreign minis­was at 70.44 percent. Voting is com­party's worst electoral performance ter, told jubilant supporters lighting pulsory in Greece, although penalties ever, Karamanlis, 53, resigned as its flares and waving PASOK flags for failing to vote are no longer leader and said a new chief is need­depicting the party's symbol of a enforced. ed for the party founded by his late green rising sun outside his party The result gives PASOK a solid uncle Constantine Karamanlis 35 headquarters in central Athens. majority of 160 seats in the 300­years ago. "I know the potential of the coun­member parliament, bringing the George Papandreou, 57, now fol­try very well, a potential being party back to power after five years lows in the footsteps of his father, drowned by corruption, favoritism, of conservative governance. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, October 5, 2009 
IRAN 


U.N. program sees Iran's cooperation 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN -The visiting head of the U.N. nuclear watchdog set Oct. 25 as the date for his inspectors to check Iran's newly revealed uranium enrichment site and struck an upbeat note Sunday, saying Tehran's con­frontation with the West is shifting gears to more coopera­tion and transparency. 
Though the United Nations has no "concrete proof' of an ongoing nuclear weapons pro­gram, the chief of the U.N.'s International Atomic Energy Agency, Mohamed ElBaradei, said he has "concerns about Iran's future intentions." 
The inspection of the site and the outcome of more nuclear talks later this month with the United States and its allies will be crucial in determining the direction of the six-year stand­off over Iran's nuclear activi­ties. 
"I see that we are at a critical moment. I see that we are shift­ing gears from confrontation into transparency and coopera­tion," ElBaradei said at a news conference in Tehran with Iran's top nuclear official. 

His visit followed a week of intense diplomatic activity sur­rounding Iran's nuclear pro­gram, set off by the revelation that Tehran had been secretly constructing a new uranium enrichment plant just north of the holy city of Qom. On Thursday, Iran and six world powers put nuclear talks back on track at a landmark session near Geneva that included the highest-level bilateral contact with the U.S. in years. 
President Barack Obama's national security adviser said Sunday that Washington was also pleased with the level of cooperation from Iran. 
"The fact that Iran came to the table and seemingly showed some degree of cooperation, I think, is a good thing," James Jones said on CNN's "State of the Union" program. 
"But this is not going to be an open-ended process.... We, the world community, want to be satisfied within a short period of time," Jones added. "So it's not going to be extended dis­cussions that we're going to have before we draw our con­clusions to what their real intent is. But for now, I think things are moving in the right direction." 
France's foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, also talked of a "wind of medium opti­mism." He said "something happened" at Thursday's talks in Switzerland and "we no longer want to talk of sanc­tions." 
ElBaradei was in Iran to set up the U.N. inspection of the enrichment facility near Qom. 
The site sparked serious con­cern, in part because its loca­tion next to a military base and partly inside a mountain adds to suspicions that Iran's nuclear program could have a military dimension. Obama, who accus­es Iran of seeking to keep the site hidden for years before notifying the lAEA about it, has said Tehran's actions "raised grave doubts" about its promise to use nuclear technology for peaceful purposes only. 
Iran, which insists its nuclear work is only for nonmilitary purposes like energy production and medical research, says the site's location near a military base is intended to protect it from potential aerial bombing. 

"It is important for us to send our inspectors to do a compre­hensive verification of that facility, to assure ourselves that it is a facility that is built for peaceful purposes," ElBaradei said, seated beside Ali Akbar Salehi, the head of Iran's nuclear agency. "We agreed that our inspectors would come here on the 25th of October to do the inspection and to go to Qom and I hope and I trust that Iran will be as transparent with our inspectors team as possi­ble." 
The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations said that the permanent members of the U.N. Security Council are studying options for more sanctions if Iran does not fully open its nuclear program to internation­al inspections. 
"But right now we are in a period of intense negotiations," said Ambassador Susan Rice, speaking on NBC TV's "Meet the Press." "It's not an infinite period. It's a very finite period," she said, while refusing to set a deadline. 
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad told ElBaradei that Iran's cooperation with the agency has left no ambiguity over Tehran's nuclear activities. 
"Outstanding issues were resolved due to good coopera­tion between Iran and the agency," state TV quoted Ahmadinejad as saying. "Today, there are no ambiguous issues left." 
But the IAEA says there are still issues that Iran needs to clarify, including alleged studies by Iran on high explosives and a missile delivery system for a nuclear warhead. 
"As I have said many times and I continue to say today, the agency has no complete proof that there is an ongoing weapons program in Iran," ElBaradei said. "There are alle­gations that Iran has conducted weaponization studies. However these allegations we are still looking into and we are looking to Iran to help us clari­fy," he added. 
Iranian officials have chal­lenged Obama's accusations that they sought to keep the new enrichment site hidden, saying a Sept. 21 letter inform­ing the IAEA about the facility was sent a year earlier than required. 
"We disagree with the inter­pretation of Iran.... Iran should have informed the IAEA the day it decided to construct the facil­ity," ElBaradei said. 
The Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty's Additional Protocol requires notification before construction starts. The Additional Protocol, whieh Iran says it stopped implementing in response to U.N. sanctions, also allows intrusive inspections. 
"It is important to us that Iran reapplies the Additional Protocol," ElBaradei said. 
ElBaradei also discussed a plan to allow Russia to take some of Iran's processed urani­um and enrich it to higher lev­els to fuel a research reactor in Tehran. 
Jackson, others at youth's funeral 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -The funeral of a Chicago teen who was beat­en to death on his way home from school drew civil rights leader the Hev. Jesse Jackson and Nation of Islam Minister Louis Farrakhan on Saturday, both calling for an end to youth violence. 
Farrakhan said he came to the funeral because he was "deeply pained" by the death of 16-year-old honor roll student Derrion Albert. The boy was walking to a bus stop after school when a group of teens attacked him during a street fight late last month. 
"Naturally, we wonder why such a beautiful life? Such a future we thought was waiting for this young man," Farrakhan said. "This was a special young man of righteous bearing who God took from us so young." 
Cell phone video footage shows Albert being kicked and hit with splintered rail­road ties. Four teens are charged in his death. 
President Barack Obama is sending U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and Education Secretary Arne Duncan, who once led Chicago Public Schools, to Chicago on Wednesday to meet with school officials, students and residents and talk about school violence. 
"The eyes of the world are watching," Pastor E.F. Ledbetter Jr. told mourners at the Greater Mount Hebron Baptist Church on the city's South Side. "This has affected people all over the globe." 
Mayor Richard Daley, just orr a plane Saturday from an International Olympic Committee meeting in Copenhagen where Chicago lost the 2016 Summer Games, said he would work with police, the community and school officials to break the "code of silence" that happens after street violence. 
Police, ministers and com­munity leaders have been asking people to come for­ward with information about Albert's killing. 
"The code of silence is unac­ceptable in this day and age where we have young chil­dren being killed," Daley said at a news conference at O'Hare International Airport. 

------~~-------­

Monika K. Hellwig 
The People's Theologian 
A .~ymp(tSittm Celebmting Her Lifo tmd \\'lin-ks 
Learn about rhis unique laywoman who was a key player in the inrcllecrual and spiritual life of the People of God. Hear from several contributors of the soon to he released book Monika K. Hellwig: The People's Theologian, as rhey explore rhe many taccts of Hellwig's life and her work as ir applies to current issues. 
4p.m. 
Friday, October 9, 2009 
Stapleton Lounge 
Le Mans Hall 
Saint Mary's College 
Free and open to the public. 
For more iltfonnatiom 
Kat1w Gu thric 
(574) 284-4636 
kguthrit'<4)saintrrwrys.cdu 
CENTER l'OR SPlRlT.UA.LJTY 
S/\IN T 1\iARV'S COLU.GE 
W(lmcn, Wisdmn.and \Vltnes~ 

Getting Acquainted with Catholic Charities 




Catholic Charities USA® 

Fr. Larry Snyder, President ofCatholic Charities USA will discuss: 
• 
The mission ofCatholic Charities 

• 
Getting involved in Catholic Charities 

• 
Professional and entry-level positions 


Tuesday, October 6, 2009  
5:00-6:00 p.m. Pizza Provided  U N I V E R S I T Y n1: N()TRE [)ANlE  
Mendoza College of Business  
Giovanini Commons C, Lower Level  
Mendoza College ofBusiness  

For information contact (574) 631-3277 • Jean.Meade@nd.edu 
Monday, October 5, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,487.67 -21.61 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,024 98 2,027 1,474,899,910 


:,z~~~Ag,~. ···~:lli~~~lmll1111iBttll 
S&P 500 1,025.21 -4.64 
1 
1

NIKKEI (Tokyo)'w ······.·.... 9~~~~~~~;;il1li!llllllii: 1;[11
FTSE 100 (London) 4,988.70 -59.11 
COMPANY "InCHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) -0.22 -0.01 4.52 BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) +0.80 +0.13 16.34 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) ·0.50 -0.51 102.49 CIT GROUP INC (CIT) +10.38 +0.11 1.17 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.85 +0.0270 3.22 13-WEEK BILL -5.26 0.00 0.09 30-YEAR BOND +1.3:1 +0.0520 4.01 5-YEAR NOTE +0.50 +0.0110 2.21 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) ·0.87 69.95 GOLD ($/Troy oz.} +3.601,004.30 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -1.60 79.65 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 89.7650 EURO 1.4604 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0792 BRITISH POUND 1.5961 
IN BRIEF Automaker plans to make house calls 
NEW YORK -Taking a cue from house-call services like Best Buy's Geek Squad, electric carmaker Tesla Motors is launching a mainte­nance plan where mechanics travel to owners' homes or offices to perform repairs and tune­ups. 
Tesla, which makes the $109,000 Roadster electric car, said the plan is convenient for cus­tomers who won't have to bring their vehicle to a showroom, while cutting costs by making a large network of Tesla service locations wmec­essary. 
"You know how there's a Chevy dealer on every block or strip mall? We don't intend to have a footprint like this," spokeswoman Rachel Konrad said. 
But the service won't be cheap. The carmaker will charge vehicle owners $1 for every roundtrip mile its technicians travel, from show­room to garage, with a minimum charge of $100 per trip. 
For the Tesla driver in Manhattan, where the company opened a store over the summer, the cost won't be much. But for Roadster devotees in Honolulu, that's a charge of about $4,800 per trip -not including the cost of repair. 
Hawaii increases solar power 
HONOLULU -Hawaii is clearing the way for homeowners and businesses to put solar panels on their rooftops and get paid for their contribu­tions to the power grid. 
State regulators at the Public Utilities Commission recently issued a 128-page ruling that starts a program allowing small and midsize energy projects to easily sell renewable electrici­ty for use by Hawaii's island power companies. 
Hawaii, the nation's most fossil-fuel dependent state, is one of the first regions in the country to institute this policy, known as a feed-in tariff. It guarantees renewable energy producers a fixed price for their power for 20 years. 
"Your home can now become a power plant, and that signals a turning point in Hawaii's ener­gy trends," said Jeff Mikulina, executive director of the Blue Planet Foundation, founded to sup­port clean energy initiatives. 
The exact rates that will be paid for renewable energy will be set by regulators over the next few months. But this decision commits the state to feed-in tariffs. 




THE OBSERVER 








USINESS 
page 7 

David Letterman blackmailed 
CBS producer plots to overcome debt through extortion of popular TV host 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A CBS newsman who prosecutors said was desperate and deep in debt was charged Friday with trying to black­mail David Letterman for $2 million in a plot that forced the late night comic to acknowledge having sex with some of the women who have worked for him. 
The bizarre case created a messy legal and profes­sional problem for one of CBS' most valuable person­alities. Commentators and bloggers quickly accused Letterman of hypocrisy because he has made a career of mocking politi­cians mercilessly, often for their sexual transgressions. 
From a strictly business perspective, Letterman's revelations on Thursday's show were an immediate success: His overnight rat­ings were up 38 percent over the same night a week ago, the Nielsen Co. said. 

It remains to be seen whether Letterman will suf­fer long-term damage just as his career appears to be peaking. Letterman has taken over as the king of late-night in the ratings this summer, and last week he beat NBC's Conan O'Brien for the first time among young viewers. Show" and frequently ny's harassment policy "and sexual harassment, said 
Robert J. "Joe" appeared on camera with no one has ever raised a Letterman presumably was Halderman, a producer for the host in comedy bits. complaint against him." in a position of power with the true-crime show "48 Last month, Birkitt moved CBS issued a statement a voice in hiring, firing and Hours Mystery," pleaded to Manhattan's upper West Friday: "We think it was promotions. not guilty in a Manhattan Side. There was no answer appropriate for Dave to dis­"So, to the extent that he court as he was arraigned Friday at a phone listed in close the matter publicly as had control over these fac­on one count of attempted her name. he has, and we are continu­tors with the women he was first-degree grand larceny, It was unclear how many ing to cooperate with involved with, he could be punishable by five to 15 women were involved in authorities." subject to liability," he said. years in prison. He was relationships with CBS would not address "I am sure CBS lawyers are released after posting Letterman, 62, who mar­questions about whether reviewing the matter very $200,000 bail. ried longtime girlfriend Letterman faced any disci­carefully." 
Halderman's connection Regina Lasko in March. The plinary actions for relation­Shanti Atkins, president to Letterman was not couple began dating in ships with subordinates. of ELT, a firm that consults immediately clear, but pub­1986 and have a son, Harry, CBS News also declined to on ethics and sex in the lic records show that until born in November 2003. address questions about workplace issues, said August, he lived in Norwalk, All the affairs took place whether Halderman's Letterman, his company Conn., with Stephanie before Letterman's mar­alleged actions call into and CBS could also be vul­Birkitt, a 34-year-old riage, said Tom Keaney, question any of the work he nerable to claims of sexual woman who works on the spokesman for Letterman's has done for the news divi­favoritism by others in the "Late Show" staff and used production company, sion. company if they believe to work at "48 Hours." Worldwide Pants. Keaney David Lande, a New York people got ahead because 
Birkitt was an assistant to also said Letterman "is not City-based civil attorney they were sleeping with Letterman on the "Late in violation" of the compa-whose cases have included the boss. 

Greenspan predicts more unemployment 
ulation," Greenspan said on ABC's combination of the capital assets of
Associated Press "This Week." the economy and the people who run WASHINGTON -Former Federal "I don't actually consider those it. And if you erode the human skills Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan types of actions stimulus programs. I that are involved there, there is a predicted on Sunday that the jobless think that they are essentially pro­real and, in one sense, an irretriev­rate will pass 10 percent and stay grams which support people -able loss." there for a while, and a second stim­essentially their living standards in Looking ahead on the unemploy­ulus plan is not needed now. part. I grant you it has a stimulus ment picture, he said his "own suspi­He spoke favorably of extending effect, but that would be my primary cion is that we're going to penetrate unemployment benefits and tax cred­focus," he said. the 10 percent barrier and stay there its for health insurance, options the Calling the jobs report released for a while before we start down." Obama administration is considering Friday "pretty awful," Greenspan The former Fed chief said he would for helping people laid off during the said he is particularly concerned recommend· that President Barack recession. With more than 15 million with statistics showing the number of Obama focus on trying to get the people out of work, unemployment people out of work for six months or economy going but without doing so reached 9.8 percent in September, more has reached 5 million after much that the government's action the highest rate in 26 years. going up sharply last month. are counterproductive. With growth "This is an extraordinary period "People who are out of work for for the third quarter appearing to and temporary actions must be very protracted periods of time lose reach or surpass 3 percent, taken, especially to assuage the angst their skills eventually," he said. Greenspan said he would not pro­of a very substantial part of our pop-"What makes an economy great is a pose a second stimulus package. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Monday, October 5, 2009 

Town gets rid of tons of rotting meat 
Associated Press 
BRIDGE-WATER, S.D. ­Behind the freezer doors at a meat plant mysteriously aban­doned by its owner, the 44 tons of bison meat managed to hold its own for months, masked by the brutal chill of two South Dakota winters. 
Once the power was cut and spring thaw arrived, nature took over. And enough rotting meat to fill a high school gym did exactly what you'd expect: It stank. 
It stank at the bank. It smelled at the law office. It reeked at the cafe. Even the jewelry store wasn't immune. Everyone in this tiny town could smell it, everywhere they went. A putrid odor so downright nasty the cleaners sent to mop up the gooey mess of liquefied meat -topped by a blanket of swarming white maggots and buzzed by a legion of flies ­gave up after two days. 
"You've also got the city offices, the grocery store and the post office. And then you spread out to the local resi­deuces," said Mayor Marty Barattini, pointing to each place. "This is a small town. We have just over 600 people, so that stench was enough to over­whelm the entire town. Not just this street." 
Fed up with the smell, a brave crew of 18 city and coun­ty workers took matters into their own hands this summer and stormed the plant to haul away the putrid meat and take back their town. What came next was the biggest indignity: Three months after the cleanup, the owner still hasn't paid the $11,151 cleanup bill, and owes about $14,085 in unpaid property taxes on top of it. 
"We tried to work with that guy," said a dismayed Barattini. 
The saga of the smell began in January 2008, when owner Ilan Parente closed Bridgewater Quality Meats and moved the business to Dawson, Minn., as Noah's Ark Processors LLC. He left the boxed kosher bison meat behind, apparently to be sold to a pet food company. It stayed frozen until the electrici­ty was cut off in December for lack of payment. 
When the town about 40 miles away from Sioux Falls began to warm in the spring, the smell began to creep out. Some said the scent was like road kill. The mayor said he spent two tours of duty in Vietnam and could not recall smelling anything as bad. 
"This is worse than rotten bodies," Barattini said. 
The city sent a notice to Parente to remove the caustic cause, and he dispatched two workers who toiled without protective masks, clothing, equipment or access to water or electricity. Defeated by the mess, they quit after two days. 
So city and county officials got permission from the South Dakota Animal Industry Board to go inside and finish. It then became clear that the source of the smell was the meat: 88,420 pounds, according to the scale at the Sioux Falls landfill, where the mess was hauled in five dump trucks and three extra-large trash bins. 
The crews and a skid loader spent two days removing the meat, which had swollen so much that the shrink-wrapped bags had burst, which caused the stacked boxes to topple. Most crew members wore an oxygen mask and hazardous materials suit because of the strong ammonia odor. Crews cleaned the building with lire hoses and doused it with bleach. 
City employee and volunteer firefighter Todd Letcher wore his lire gear. "I don't think any­body should ever do something like that," he said of the job. "That was bad." 
Parente's phone number is disconnected and the attorney representing him, Mike Unke, deelined to comment. A woman who answered the phone at the Minnesota business said Parente is no longer affiliated with it. Hequests for someone to comment went unanswered. 
Parente has said before that he cheeked the meat in May and found it iced over due to a broken water pipe. He's claimed the meat might have stunk but says he never put anyone in danger. 
"I feel bad for the people of Bridgewater who had to live with the smell. But that's really where the extent of my feeling bad goes. It wasn't ever a health hazard to anyone," he told The Daily Republic of Mitchell in July. 
EGYPT 


Pves.urrgeslsraelto resume peace talks 
Associated Press 

CAIRO -Egyptian President llosni Mubarak urged Israel to resume peace talks with the Palestinians where they broke off more than a year ago, warn­ing that the peace process "can't take another failure." 
Israeli-Palestinian negotia­tions tapered off last year and haven't resumed since last win­ter's war in Gaza and the elec­tion of Benjamin Netanyahu as Israeli prime minister. Since then, the two sides have yet to establish a framework to renew talks. The Palestinians want to pick up where negotiations left off, while the hawkish Netanyahu says he is not bound by any concessions his more dovish predecessor made. 
But in an interview published Sunday, Mubarak called on Israel to respond positively to the renewed push for peace and resume talks where they left off. 
"It is unreasonable and unac­ceptable to start from zero," Mubarak told the Armed Forces newspaper. "I told (Israel) that ... settlements are eating away Palestinian land and must stop immediately." 
Mubarak's comments were part of a wide ranging interview published days ahead of the 36th anniversary of the 1973 Arab-Israeli war that opened the way for the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty six years later. 
U.S. President Barack Obama has spearheaded renewed efforts to bring the Israelis and Palestinians back to the negoti­ating table, but key sticking points remain. 
The Palestinians say talks should resume where they left off, and want a complete freeze of Israeli settlement construc­tion in the West Bank. 
Israel has agreed to slow set­tlement building, but has reject­ed a total halt to construction. Israel had pledged to stop set­tlement building in a 2003 U.S.­backed peace plan, but has not done so, claiming that the Palestinians have not carried out their obligations. 
Mubarak said he was opti­mistic that U.S. efforts would bring the two sides back to the table and would usher in wider regional talks to settle the Arab­Israeli conflict. 
"The region is rife with crises, conflicts and tension," Mubarak said. "The Middle East will remain a region of instability in the absence of a peaceful and just settlement to the Palestinian issue. The situation is critical, and the peace process ... can't take another failure." 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

Monday, October 5, 2009 
!suMMER ENGINEERING PROGRAMS I 
FOREIGN STUDY IN LONDON, ENGLA.ND OR ALCOY, SPAIN 


Information Meeting: 
Room 138 DeBartolo Hall 
7:00p.m. 
Application Deadline: November 23 for Summer 2010 
Application On-line: www.nd.edu/ ~engineerI sumlon/apply.html 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
Monday, October 5, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Chinatovvn could get Chinese rep 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Chinatown is likely to get its first Chinese­American representative on the City Council, and a Taiwanese immigrant is headed for city­wide office -a dramatic change for the nation's largest city, which had no Asian­Americans in elected office just eight years ago. 
For the first time in its 150 years, the downtown Manhattan neighborhood, which is one of the biggest Chinese communities outside Asia, could be represented by a Chinese-American. Margaret Chin, whose family emigrated from Hong Kong in 1963, when she was 9, beat incumbent Alan Gerson in a Democratic pri­mary last montl). and is expect­ed to win the seat on the 51­member council in November. 
Chin, a community organizer and immigrant advocate who speaks three Chinese dialects, is heavily favored to beat Republican Irene Horvath. She said it was exciting to finally break the barrier. 
"People want to get involved and want to be part of the mainstream and want to make sure that the community that they come from is represent­ed," Chin said. "The dynamics of the city are changing." 
And John Liu last week won the Democratic primary runoff for comptroller, the city's chief financial officer and one of its top three elected positions. Iiu, whose family emigrated from Taiwan when he was a child, is on his way to becoming the first Asian-American to hold city­wide office in New York City. 
Liu, a Queens councilman, beat fellow Councilman David Yassky in the runoff and is expected to win the Nov. 3 gen­
eral election against lesser­known Republican Joe Mendola. 
Experts say Liu's primary campaign, along with a handful of local races in which Asian­American candidates were run­ning, helped fuel unprecedent­ed enthusiasm among Asian­American voters. 
"There's definitely a sense of excitement -it has an energiz­ing effect that led to a turnout surge," said Democratic strate­gist Evan Stavisky, who is work­ing for Chin and worked for Iiu's past campaigns. 
In Chinatown, Chinese­Americans have run for City Council before -including Chin three times. But several factors, including low Asian turnout in past primaries and multiple Asian candidates split­ting the vote, prevented their victories. 
Asians account for about 12 percent of the city's 8.3 million people, compared to blacks' 25 percent and Hispanics' 27 per­cent. They represent just under 5 percent of registered voters, according to Stavisky's analysis of enrollment data. 
More than 40,000 Chinese and Koreans have registered since the last mayoral election in 2005, according to another analysis by John Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the City University of New York Graduate Center. 
The primary on Sept. 15, when Liu was running in a four-way race and several other Asian-Americans were seeking council seats, brought out many first-time Asian voters. 
An exit poll of 790 Asian­American voters by the Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund found 17 per­cent said it was their first time casting a ballot. Of those polled, 55 percent were Chinese, 30 percent were Korean and 91 percent were foreign-born nat­uralized citizens. 
The night Liu won the runoff, he stood before a diverse room of supporters and described how he and his family had learned early on that the prom­ise of New York City and America was "ifyou work hard, meet your obligations, recog­nize the social responsibility that belongs to each of us, that you will have every opportunity to do better for yourself and your family." 
An analysis of results from the Sept. 29 runoff showed Liu was propelled not only by Asian-American voters but also by strong backing from blacks and Hispanics. He had cam­paigned with black leaders including the Rev. AI Sharpton and highlighted his record on civil rights and racial equality. 
Since Liu made history when he won his council seat and became the city's first Asian­American elected official in 2002, no other Asians have fol­lowed his path. But that is set to change this year, with Chin and possibly two others. 
Liu's council seat is likely to be represented by Yen Chou, who was born in Taiwan. She won the Democratic primary and is favored over Republican Peter Koo, a businessman who emigrated from Hong Kong in 1971, in the general election. 
Also in Queens, Kevin Kim won the Democratic primary for a council seat vacated by Tony Avella, who ran unsuc­cessfully for his party's nomina­tion in the mayoral race. Kim faces a strong Republican chal­lenger, Dan Halloran, in November, but if elected he would be the first Korean­American on the City Council. 


AFGHANISTAN 




Eight U.S. soldiers killed in fighting 
Associated Press 
KABUL -Hundreds of insurgents armed with auto­matic rifles and rocket-pro­pelled grenades stormed a pair of remote outposts near the Pakistan border, killing eight U.S. soldiers and captur­ing more than 20 Afghan security troops in the dead­liest assault against U.S. forces in more than a year, military officials said Sunday. 
The fierce gunbattle, which erupted at dawn Saturday in the Kamdesh district of moun­tainous Nuristan province and raged throughout the day, is likely to fuel the debate in Washington over the direction of the troubled eight-year war. 
It was the heaviest U.S. loss of life in a single battle since July 2008, when nine American soldiers were killed in a raid on an outpost in Wanat in the same province. 
Gen. Stanley McChrystal, ·the top· U.S. and NATO com­mander in Afghanistan, plans to shift U.S. troops away from remote outposts that are diffi­cult to defend and move them into more heavily populated areas as part of his new strat­egy to focus on protecting Afghan civilians. 
U.S. troops used artillery, helicopter gunships and airstrikes Saturday to repel the attackers, inflicting "heavy enemy casualties," according to a NATO state­ment. Fighting persisted in the area Sunday, U.S. and Afghan officials said. 
The Taliban claimed respon­sibility for the attack. NATO spokesman Brig. Gen. Eric Tremblay said the assailants included a mix of "tribal mili­tias," Taliban and fighters loyal to Sirajudin Haqqani, an al-Qaida-linked militant based in sanctuaries in the tribal areas of Pakistan near the Afghan border. 
Afghan authorities said the hostile force included fighters who had been driven out of the Swat Valley of neighboring Pakistan after a Pakistani mil­itary offensive there last spring. 
"This was a complex attack in a difficult area," U.S. Col. Randy George, the area com­mander, said in a statement. "Both the U.S. and Afghan 
soldiers  fought  bravely  
together."  
Details  of  the  attack  

remained unclear Sunday and there were conflicting reports of Afghan losses due to poor communications in the area, located just 20 miles (30 kilo­meters) from the Pakistani border and about 150 miles (230 kilometers) from Kabul. 
A NATO statement said the attacks were launched from a mosque and a nearby village on opposite sides of a hill, which included the two out­posts -one mostly American position on the summit and another mostly Afghan police garrison on a lower slope. 
NATO said eight Americans and two Afghan security troopers were killed. 
An Afghan military official, speaking on condition of anonymity because of security issues. said three Afghan sol­diers and one policeman had been killed in two days of fighting. He also said at least seven Afghan army soldiers were missing and feared cap­tured. 
In addition, provincial police chief Mohammad Qasim Jangulbagh said 15 Afghan policemen had been captured, including the local police chief and his deputy. Jangulbagh estimated that about 300 mili­tants took part in the attack. 
"Kamdesh is one of the most dangerous areas of Nuristan province," he said, noting that the area is across the border from parts of Pakistan where al-Qaida-linked militants operate. 
Jangulbagh said that after Pakistani forces drove mili­tants from most of the Swat Valley five months ago, mili­tants "received orders to come to Nuristan and destabi­lize the situation." 
Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid said mili­tants overran both outposts, but U.S. spokeswoman Capt. Elizabeth Mathias said U.S. troops were holding the out­posts Sunday. She also said a roadside bomb killed a U.S. service member southwest of Kabul on Saturday, bringing the U.S. death toll for the month to 15. 
The fighting occurred in a region where towering moun­tains and dense pine forests have long served as a staging area for Taliban and al-Qaida fighters who move freely across the Pakistani frontier. 
The region was a key stag­ing area for Arab militants who fought alongside Afghan warriors during the U.S.­backed war against the Soviets in the 1980s and is one of the few parts of South Asia where Muslims follow the hardline Wahhabi sect of Islam. 
The weekend fighting was reminiscent of the July 2008 battle of Wanat when an esti­mated 200 militants stormed an outpost defended by about 70 U.S. and Afghan soldiers, nearly overrunning the posi­tion. 
Last week, Army Gen. David Petraeus ordered a new inves­tigation into the Wanat fight­ing due to allegations of mis­management by senior com­manders. 
The Wanat fighting con­vinced U.S. commanders that they should move Western forces away from remote areas where foreigners are unwelcome to more populated parts of the country, closing outposts such as the ones attacked Saturday. 
However, the governor of Nuristan, Jamaludin Badar, complained that more -not fewer -Western troops should be sent to the area to stop infiltration from Pakistan. 
"We had concerns about security in Kamdesh and we have already asked for extra forces," he told The Associated Press. "If there are fewer security forces, this sort of thing will happen again." 
He also complained about a lack of coordination between international forces and Afghans. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, October 5, 2009 
THE OBSERVER Will health care reform 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

be another clunker? 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Oare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Parrkk Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
0FFICf MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmerz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS 0FACE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DEsK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersporrs@gmaiLcom 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaifel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
achamO1@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBsERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Pouc1es 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Edlror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edlrors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief]mn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Trn; Observe!' (USPS 599-2-4000} i~ published Monday duo:ugh Friday.exc-ept duriag .exam and V~tPi::ion perio.d:i, Asubsaipdt~n ~o The Observer is $110 fur one acadtmti,:;: year; $65-for i>nt' Stme.sttr. 
The Observer is [>Ublished at: POSTMASTER ~24 South Dining Hall Sc::nd addtes!i.cotr&~;iollS to: Notr• Dam~ 1N 46;)6,1)7/9 The Obstrv6" 
P"-eriodtcal postag.e p;!J~ .at None: Dam~ P.O.Box779 an4 additional maillng offites, 024 South Dining Hall 
Noue D,..., IN 46;;6..0719 
The Observer is..a mt::mbt:l' ofi:lu-~oclatcd Press. All repruductio11. fights: arc r~rvtti. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint 
Joseph McMahon Lianna Amanda Gray Brauweiler Carly Landon Sports Graphics Laura Myers Mary Cecilia Michael Blasco Mitsch Chris Michalski Scene Maija Gustin 
This summer, the U.S. economy remained mired in a recession as Americans waited in vain for Congress's $787 billion "stimulus" package to take effect. Faced with the increasingly evi­dent failure of its 
Ben Linskey 
massively wasteful spending program, Collegethe federal gov­
Libertarians 
ernment devised a characteristically nonsensical solution: yet another mas­sively wasteful spending program. This time, Congress decided to meddle in the automobile industry with the now­infamous "Cash for Clunkers" program. The government offered car-buyers a $3,500 to $4,500 rebate in exchange for their used vehicles, which car deal­ers were required to destroy. 
The Clunkers program was initially lavished with praise by pundits and the news media -after all, car sales got a boost, consumers got cheap cars and the environment was bound to benefit somehow, even if it wasn't entirely clear how demolishing thousands of functioning cars qualified as "sustain­able." What could go wrong? Well, as it turns out, plenty. With consumers sati­ated by this summer's government handouts, car sales declined precipi­tously last month. Figures released last week show that government-owned General Motors sold a whopping 45 percent fewer cars last month than in September 2008, while the recently bailed-out Chrysler suffered a 42 per­cent loss. In the words of G.M. execu­tive Mark LaNeve, "It was a real post­clunker hangover." 
The cause of this precipitous collapse is no mystery. When federal legislators, rather than markets, set prices, ineffi­ciency is the inevitable result. The short-lived frenzy of the Clunker rebates exhausted demand and robbed 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing for fall break? 
Going home Staying at Notre Dame Going on a service trip Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
dealers of months of potential sales. It would be wonderful, of course, if the federal government .could arbitrarily lower the prices of goods with no nega­tive repercussions, but that's scarcely possible in the reality in which we live. As the Nobel Prize-winning economist Milton Friedman would say, there's no such thing as a free lunch. 
Perhaps the most regrettable part of the Cash for Clunkers debacle is that we're all paying for it. Three billion hard-earned tax dollars were redistrib­uted to those lucky enough to be in the market for a new car in July and August of this summer, while car deal­erships were treated to a momentary burst in sales in return for a decline in demand that could last for months. In the end, only two of the top 10 car models purchased under the program were made by an American manufac­turer. Worse yet, dealers were forced to scrap the nearly 700,000 perfectly good vehicles traded in through the pro­gram. The sheer perversity of this senseless destruction is difficult to com­prehend -why would a "stimulus" program mandate the disassembly of hundreds of thousands of functioning automobiles, many of which could have been resold on the used car market? The highly-touted environmental bene­fits of replacing "clunkers" with new vehicles, meanwhile, have been shown by multiple analyses to be virtually nonexistent. 
In the end, Cash for Clunkers proved to be little more than a boon for a handful of lucky car-buyers and an opportunity for legislators to claim to be "doing something" while haplessly chipping away at the U.S. economy. Members of Congress, of course, never consciously aim to harm the very citi­zens who elected them, but years of misbegotten legislation have proven the inevitability of unintended conse­quences. Programs that look good in the press rarely deliver the predicted benefits. Instead, Washington's efforts to manipulate the U.S. economy consis­tently create economic uncertainty and waste taxpayers' hard-earned money on ill-considered endeavors. 
As the health care reform debate heats up in Congress in the coming days, legislators and constituents will be faced with a crucial question: Can we trust the federal government to extend its reach to a fundamentally important facet of Americans' lives and to intervene in the U.S. economy on an 
_unprecedented scale? If past events are 
any indicator, the answer is no. 
Congress' attempts to intervene in a 
limited sector of the economy with the 
Cash for Clunkers program failed, brin­
ing about a variety of unintended nega­
tive consequences. Its broader effort to 
stimulate the economy has done little 
more than to provide an excuse for 
hundreds of billions of dollars of waste­
ful spending. Grand nation-building 
projects overseas, meanwhile, have 
been even less successful. The lesson 
here is clear: No matter how pure its 
intentions, government is seldom effi­
cient, effective or nearly as wise as it 
thinks itself to be. Cash for Clunkers 
was a harmful (but thankfully tempo­
rary) setback for our economy. Any 
action Congress takes to reform health­
care will likely be permanent. Congress 
has proven that it can't run the auto­
mobile industry, and there's no reason 
to believe it will do any better with the 
medical industry. America can't afford 
a healthcare clunker. 
Ben Linskey is a junior majoring in political science and philosophy. He can be contacted at blinskey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It Pr;tJJS to be obvious, especially iL you have a reputation]or subtlety. " 
Isaac Asimov 
U.S. author 

-
------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------... 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Monday, October 5, 2009 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Som.e defensive suggestions 
The bye-week presents a conundrum for weathered alums whose lives have deteriorated to work and Notre Dame football. (Don't laugh, undergrads. You are staring at your fate.) Is the bye-week a blessing or a curse? "What the hell am I going to do next weekend?" Or, "The boys really need a break --both emo­tionally and physically." That said, the bye-week needs to be used to great advantage if we want to "return to rele­vance." (Skip "return to glory." It's self-aggrandizing and it's not realistic. More than anything, Notre Dame simply needs get back in the college football picture. Hm. Good idea for next year's The Shirt -"Return to Relevance.") 
I'd start at the start: defensive funda­mentals. Huge kudos to the defense for tremendous heart and toughness time after time. However, many of the predica­ments we've escaped resulted from absolutely terrible fundamentals. Chris Polk is not Jim Brown -never will be. 
However, our arm tackling made him look like the pro-football Hall of Farner. The Washington receiving corp continual­ly caught balls because our cornerbacks miss-timed jumps or simply fell down during cross over steps at high speed. 
Again, the team has shown incredible desire and heart. Their gumption can't be questioned. That said, Tenuta and Brown owe it to the guys to spend a lot of time on tackling drills and coverage skills this coming week. I'm sure the defense will cringe when they read this. However, nothing eliminates arm tackles on Saturday more than tackling drills on Wednesday. 
Sorry guys, but I know that after a long look in the mirror, every one of you would agree. 
Jeff Barber alumnus class of 1982 Ocr. 4 


Stuck in the past 
Reading the recent debates over women in the priesthood, one is disappointed to see how many at this University are simply stuck in the past. They seem boxed inside a narrow, ossified way of thinking that we had all hoped was about to give way to a fresh breath of reason and open­ness. They appeal to the ideals of a time they really don't know-a time they certainly were not around to see. From their nostalgic tone, one would think this one epoch of Church history had been the definitive instantiation of Catholicism, an epoch from which progress and advance were unnecessary, if not harmful. 
I'm speaking, of course, about the 1970s. An intolerance toward two millennia of teaching and tradition; a blind obedience paid to the tenets of the feminist movement; an almost servile drive to keep up with the rest of the world in its indiscriminate concept of "equality" ... one would have hoped that we had left these behind along with mullets and bell bottoms. How is it that so many good-hearted young people have been sheltered within the teachings pro­ceeding from that one decade? Just because those hundreds of other decades are different doesn't mean they're bad. Now of course, for some it isn't easy to let go of the past. But at the same time, this is an institution of research and learning, and at some point we need to make way for the future. 
I don't mean to rant. It's just disheartening to see well-intentioned colleagues shy away from the overwhelming justification of the male priesthood simply in order to follow the rigid banner of decades past. People. It's 2009. 
Will Erickson 
senior 
Morrissey Manor Sept. 28 
Cartoon offensive 
In regards to the Oct. 1 SMC Cartoon by Guappone and Krafcik ("Schad and Freude"): Maybe someone forgot that an attack (via cartoon) on some women is an attack on all women (includ­ing girls at Notre Dame and Holy Cross). You are essentially making fun of an institution and its girls that believe in the empowerment of women. How noble of you to pick such a thing to tear down. You would never joke about African Americans in such a way. Why women? And are your artists so narrow minded as to assume that all Saint Mary's girls are the same? Are they so unwise as to label all Saint Mary's girls the same because of the actions of a few? I'm sure many Notre Dame students would not like it if they were all assumed to be pathetic brats simply because that has been my experience with a few. 
Katie Durkin sophomore McCandless Hall Oct. 2 

U-WIRE 

Oballla: still beating his vvar drulll 
It hasn't taken long for Obama to show his true colors on foreign policy. It seemed as if many votes were cast in his favor on the belief that he was some sort of "peace" candi­date. I never was fooled by his rhetoric because I knew his voting history and read his older speeches. Obama was a warmonger, through and through. 
It is sad that the American people Justin Head had to choose between two men who were so horribly misinformed University of on foreign issues, but that was the Mississippioption we were given. However, 
Daily
Obama has left little doubt as to his 
Mississippian
violent intentions with his new chest-thumping rants towards Iran. Speaking on Iran's announcement that it is constructing a second uranium enrichment facility, Obama demanded the country come clean with its true intentions or face a possi­ble U.S. attack. Obama claimed Iran was breaking rules that all nations must follow. The United States is familiar with breaking rules other nations must follow. We did it when we tortured and killed more than 30 prisoners. Obama did it by refusing to prosecute people suspected of violating international law. 
Even so, Iran has admitted that it is constructing a sec­ond uranium enrichment facility for purposes of providing energy to its people. However, that does not mean the country is doing anything wrong. The International Atomic Energy Agency requires the country to report these types of facilities six months before they are operational. The current site is still a year away from being operational. Therefore, contrary to Obama's statement, Iran has not broken any rules. 
The Iranian government also made it clear they would allow the IAEA to inspect the facility. Also, the IAEA still admits there is no evidence of a nuclear program in Iran. Even more important, according to CNN, the United States has known about this "new" facility for several years already. And even with all the hot air coming out of Washington, the U.S. intelligence community still holds the position that Iran is not working on a nuclear weapons program. Even more, according to Newsweek, Obama is consistently updated on the nation's Iranian intelligence. So, it is clear that Obama is receiving the updates that tell him Iran is not working on a nuclear weapon. However, his war rhetoric is still flowing rapidly. 
Ironically, upon Iran following international law and reporting its construction of nuclear facilities as it is sup­posed to, the United States is still threatening them with violence and sanctions. How should Iran disclose this infor­mation? So far there has been no evidence found that shows Iran is working on nuclear weapons. However, our leaders constantly impose sanctions and threaten Iran with violence if they do not turn over evidence of a nuclear weapons program that, all facts held constant, doesn't even exist. 
But, entertaining the idea that Iran might actually have nuclear weapons, would this be cause for huge alarm? If you buy into our government's "Pinky and the Brain" theo­ry that states the Iranian government is purely evil and bent on world domination, it might be an alarming devel­opment. Iflran is as crazy as the United States claims, they would not care that if they did use a nuclear weapon, they would soon be liquefied by a U.S. counterstrike. 
However, judging by Iran's history, they are not this absent-minded. The last war Iran was involved in was the Iran-Iraq war, which was started by Iraq's leader Saddam Hussein in 1980. It is important to point out that the United States backed Iraq in this war by providing them military weapons along with Iranian military intelligence. Therefore, the last time Iran was involved in an external conflict was when they were attacked by Iraq and the United States. However, since 1980, the United States has been involved in more than 30 military forays. We are cur­rently involved in two wars, both of which are illegal under national and international law and were started by our own government against countries that had done nothing to us. 
The United States currently has about 2,200 nuclear weapons on hair-trigger alert: an arsenal that could end life on this planet. Also, we are the only country to ever use nuclear weapons. Our track record shows that our govern­ment is far more violent than Iran's. We should also not forget that Iran is surrounded by nuclear powers: Israel, Pakistan and India. The United States did not threaten these countries with war when they were developing nuclear weapons. Furthermore, Israel has the most pow­erfullobbyist group in Washington that consistently pres­sures our government to be tougher on Iran. 
Seems to me that ifObama didn't want Iran to develop nuclear weapons, he shouldn't threaten them with violence on a day-by-day basis. These accusations are a case of the pot calling the kettle black. 
This column first appeared in the Sept. 29 edition ofthe Daily Mississippian, the daily newspaper serving the University ofMississippi. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER. 
CENE
page 12 
Monday, October 5, 2009 
Notre Dame Grad 
•
Gets 'Odd' lfl First Novel 

By ERIC PRISTER Scene Writer 
A member of the Notre Dame Class of 2000, young adult fantasy writer James Kennedy, in his first novel "The Order of Oddfish," tries to create an 'urban Narnia' which brings the norms of fantasy writing in contact with an entirely new fantasy setting. · 
"One of the other things was that I want­ed a fantasy with a girl protagonist, and I also wanted something 
the most crackpot and unusual. The Odd-Fish represent acceptance according to Kennedy, a mes­sage he thinks shines through in his work. 
"The premise of the Order of Odd-Fish as an order is kind of this messy, rambunc­tious place that is very tolerant and for­
giving in a 
urban," Kennedy said. w a y , " 
"/ wanted to use the
"I had this idea that I Kennedy wanted an 'urban freedom that fantasy said. "There Narnia.' Narnia very affords and use to it are mem­much valorizes country bers of the
illuminate ordinary 
life, and I like city life. Order of So I wanted something experiences like Odd-Fish that was in a city. In moving to a new big who have Narnia, you have talk­broken the
city, finding your
ing animals, so I had law and they talking cockroaches." feet, making friends, seem to Kennedy is referring having a secret. always be to Sefino, a talking drunk, but
Using fantasy takes
cockroach butler, who they tolerate is just one of the many that and heightens it each other's outrageous creatures and makes it more eccentrici­featured in "The Order ties and
vivid and universal."
of Odd-Fish." Another e v e n 
of these characters, Colonel Korsakov, a Russian colonel who makes decisions based on his intestines, is inspired by a pre-existing fantasy charac­ter, something Kennedy did often during the writing of his first novel. 
"I love young adult literature," Kennedy said. "It's something that I'm obsessed with. I wanted to have a character who was guided by some intuition, but I wanted it to be funny and I wanted it to be some­thing that I hadn't seen before. In ["Confederacy of Dunces," by John Kennedy Toole], the main character, Ignatius Riley, he's kind of a prude, but secretly enjoys the depravity of New Orleans. He's always complaining about his valve. It's his excuse for everything. I wanted to have something that was like that, but positive." 
"The Order of Odd-Fish" traces the journey of Jo Larouche, the adopted daughter of a former actress who disappeared for 40 years, only to reap­pear and go back to her old partying lifestyle. At one of these parties, Jo is whisked away by Colonel Korsakov and Sefino to the Order of Odd-Fish, a group of knights who seek to study only 
encourage 
each other's eccen­
tricities." In opposition to the Order of Odd-Fish is one of the villains of the work, the Silent Sisters, who Kennedy likes as a villain due to their respectability. "[The Silent Sisters] have a positive pro­gram and they want to bring about peace," 
Kennedy said. "But it's a program of forced innocence. It shuts down all further growth. I think it's always good in the villains of the book to have something that you can conceive of and conceive of fighting for -it's not just evil. The Silent Sisters have a very positive program, 
but are just going about it in a very destructive way." Beyond this message, humor was also a goal 
for Kennedy in writing "The Order of Odd­Fish," and his combi­
nation of sarcasm and slapstick humor suc­ceeds. "I kind of took 
my cue from Douglas Adams," 
Kennedy said. "I wanted it to be from page to page enter­taining." 
Though diffi­cult to follow at some points, "The Order of Odd-Fish" succeeds in keeping the reader on his or her toes, since nothing about the characters or the plotline can be consid­ered normal. 
"I wanted the work to start in one won­derland and move to another wonderland," Kennedy said. "Every time I would finish a chapter, the plot would change, and I would have to go back and revise every­thing I did before. A certain kind of per­sonality can have it all tied-in and figured out from the very beginning, but that's kind of alien to my spirit and alien to the spirit of the book, which is more free­wheeling." 
Overall, "The Order of Odd-Fish" is somewhat typical in structure, but is so off-the-wall in content and writing that it appeals to those who enjoy stories well outside of the ordinary, but still succeeds in providing a message to its readers. 
"I also wanted to write a fantasy that used the freedom of fantasy but didn't want to use the trappings of it," Kennedy said. "I wanted to use the freedom that fantasy affords and use to it illuminate ordinary experiences like moving to a new big city, finding your feet, making friends, having a secret. Using fantasy takes that and heightens it and makes it more vivid and universal." 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 

NSIDER 
A!.HE 
Monday, October 5, 2009 VtiSERVER Notre Dame 37, Washington 30 (OT) 
Working overtitne 
Clausen leads late touchdown drive as Irish beat Huskies 37-30 in OT 
By JARED }EDICK Sports Writer 
Bringing it down to the wire is becoming a habit with this Irish team, having their last four games come down to the final drive -and this game was no exception. And the one thing the Irish ( 4-1) con­tinue to do is fight until the last whistle. 
''I'm just happy, really happy for these kids," head coach Charlie Weis said. "They just keep on fighting and fighting and fighting." 
This contest had a little bit of everything, three goal-line stands, two late scores, a two-point conversion and overtime dramatics. It is enough to drive a coach and fan-base crazy. 
"I think that the entire game, the ebb and flow of the game, probably the whole game came down to that dou­ble goal line stand," We is said. 
Washington freshman run­ning back Chris Polk appeared to put the Huskies up by two scores for a 30-22 lead with 7:07 left on the clock, but an official review put the ball on the half-yard line. 
"I felt like I got into the end zone," Polk said. 
But the run set the stage for a series of plays that epito­mize Notre Dame's season and living on the edge between victory and defeat. times," Washington head Weis said. tive in overtime on their first "Well, I mean, there's some 
The Irish managed to stop coach Steve Sarkisian said. Clausen's two minute drill drive and Clausen connected inclement weather, and every the Huskies three straight "Obviously it's frustrating touchdown set the Irish up with Tate for a 22-yard pass field goal and extra point he times and appeared to hold when you had an opportunity for a two-point conversion on the first play. Hughes fol­made," Weis said. "Except for Washington to a field goal try like we had there in the attempt to put them up by a lowed up the play with a that one kickoff against the and preserve their hopes for fourth quarter to put the field goal. Junior running touchdown run to put the wind that looked a little bit victory. But a roughing the game in a situation to be a back Robert Hughes took the Irish up 37-30, a score that short, I think he had a pretty snapper penalty on junior two-score game, and we direct snap and forced his would hold up. good day at the office for a nose tackle Ian Williams gave weren't able to do it." way into the end zone Locker was unable to drive freshman." the Huskies another three Junior quarterback Jimmy through a pile of Washington the Huskies down to the end The Irish do not like having downs to try and punch the Clausen went 23-of-31 for defenders, putting the score zone in overtime and the to take all their games down ball into the end zone. The 422 yards and two touch­at 30-27. Irish won their third game in to the wire, but if they keep Notre Dame defense stayed downs. The pass yardage was "I was just driving," Hughes a row by the skin of their on winning them, they will stout, however, and stuffed a career h~gh for Clausen, said. "[The offensive line] teeth. take it. Washington junior quarter­and included a 67-yard picked me up after I scored Locker was 22-of-40 for 281 "Four weeks in a row you back Jake Locker for no gain touchdown pass to junior and were yelling so I knew I yards and a touchdown. He get into the same situation, on third and goal from the wide receiver Golden Tate, a was in." was sacked three times, and the first one doesn't turn one yard-line. The Huskies 77 -yard pass to Tate -a Hughes was the leading including on the overtime out right, turn out the way had to settle for a field goal career long for Tate -and a rusher for the Irish on the drive to put the Huskies in you want it, and now three from sophomore place-kicker 12-yard touchdown pass to afternoon, gaining 70 yards bad position. weeks in a row they've come Erik Folk, leaving the score Kyle Rudolph with 1:20 left in on eight carries with one "We're just clutch," Tate up," Weis said. "There was a within reach at 27-22. the game to give the Irish a touchdown and the two-point said. "We're a clutch team. In lot of bad stuff in the game, 
The double goal-line drive 28-27 lead. Clausen was conversion. the trenches we know what to but I'm going to have a tough was not even the first of the picked off once after a pass The 80 seconds left on the do and we've been doing a time feeling bad tonight." game. In the third quarter the careened off the hands of jun­clock was just enough for good job of that, I think." The Irish take their bye Irish again held the Huskies ior running back Armando Locker and the Huskies as The game could not have next week, before returning out of the end zone on four Allen. they drove down the field to been won without clutch kick­to action Oct. 17 when the plays, regaining the ball on "[Clausen] has taken it to a set up Folk for the game­ing from freshman place kick­University of Southern the turnover on downs. whole different level about tying 37 yard field goal with er Nick Tausch, who hit a California comes to town. 
"I've never seen so many moving in the pocket and six seconds left to send the career-high five field goals on guys get tackled so close to moving from the pocket and game into overtime, 30-30. five attempts, his long being Contact Jared Jedick at the goal-line that many keeping his eyes downfield," The Irish seized the initia-from 40 yards out. jjedick@nd.edu 


player of the game 
Jimmy Clausen Irish quarterback 
Clausen threw for 422 yards and two touchdowns in leading his team to its second consecutive late victory. 
stat of the game 
7 
The number oftimes Washington had the ball within the Irish I­yard line and were stopped from reaching the end zone. 
play of the game 
Robert Hughes' rushing two-point conversion with 1:20 remaining 
Hughes pushed a massive pile of bodies to cross the goal line for a crucial two points late in the game 
quote of the game 

"We're just clutch. We're a clutch team." 
Golden Tate Irish wide receiver on Notre Dame's ability to win close games 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 5, 2009 
report card 
A-
quarterbacks: Oausen made one costly rrtistake that turned into a Washington 
score, but he again showed why he is 
the unquestioned leader of the offense. 
8+ 
running backs: Hughes ran tough, averag­ing 8.8 yards per carry with Allen banged up late, and had a big 25-yard reception that was the longest of his career. 
A-
receivers: Tate made plays all over the field en route to a career-best 244 yards. Parris 
dropped a sure touchdown on a drive that resulted in just a short Tausch field goal. 
offensive line: The line cut down on its 8 penalties and paved the way for a decent day on the ground, but Oausen was sacked three times. 
A-
defensive line: The front four finally made its presence felt, particularly 
around the goal line. Lewis-Moore 
and Johnson each had a tackle for loss and a sack. 
8 
linebackers: Te'o had the best game ofbis young career, making 10 tackles. Neal 
filled in admirably for Fleming with a tackle for loss and a sack. 
c 
defensive backs: McCarthy led the Irish in tackles yet again, but the secondary failed to intercept Locker, who connected 
on 22 of 40 passes for 281 yards. 
A-
special teams: Tausch was flawless in drilling five field goals as the red zone offense sputtered. Turk punted twice but 
averaged a net of just 29.5 yards with 
one touchback. 
coaching: Notre Dame adjusted well on 
the defensive side of the ball to at least 
slow down Washington's offense, and
B+
Charlie Weis called a solid game on offense. 
overall: It may not have been pretty, but a win's a win. The Irish eked out another close one
3.27 
to move to 4-1 heading into the bye week. 
adding up the numbers 
The number of interceptions Jimmy Clausen 
o 
has thrown in the fourth quarter this season to go along with four touchdown passes. 
17 
Total point differential in Notre Dame's last four games (a loss to Michigan and wins over Michigan State, Purdue and Washington). 
Golden Tate's yards per catch in a nine reception, 244-yard performance 
27.1
that included a67-yard touchdown. 
1 0 
Tackles by true freshman linebacker Manti Te'o, who saw the most playing time of his young career in Saturday's victory. 
Consecutive times Notre Dame has defeated 
8 
Washington. After Saturday, the Irish are 8-0 all time against the Huskies. 

There was nowhere for Robert Hughes to go. 
After Jimmy Clausen and Kyle Rudolph connected for a crucial late touchdown (again), the equally important two­point conver­sion looked to be stuffed. The Washington defense hadn't been fooled on the play-fake, and there was no hole in the line for Hughes 

Michael Bryan
to run through. But in a play 
Associate
that epitomized 
Sports Editor 
the resiliency and toughness of this Notre Dame team, Hughes charged into the mass of bodies blocking him from the end zone. And with his legs still moving and the serum of offensive linemen pushing the pile forward, Hughes and the Irish picked up two game­saving points in another display of heart and determination. 
Maybe Hughes and the linemen were just following the example of the defense, which managed to stop the Huskies at the goal line again and again in the second half. With Washington up 24-19 after the Irish offense stalled in the red zone again, the defense was able to keep Jake Locker from scoring twice on runs from inside the one. 
The Huskies offensive line simply couldn't get any push on the Notre Dame defenders with their backs against the wall. Then in the fourth quarter, in case anyone thought the first stand was a fluke, the Irish did it again. And then, thanks to a bizarre penalty, a third time. 
With the home team still down 24­22, Locker again drove down to within inches of the Notre Dame end zone. After the Irish caught Chris Polk in the backfield for a loss, forced an incompletion and brought Locker down at the two, it seemed like another vital goal line stop was complete. 
After Nick Folk apparently put Washington up 27-22, Ian Williams was flagged for roughing the snap­per, a violation that despite its rare appearances is apparently real and enforceable. 
For most teams, that penalty would have been the end of it. The defense had seemingly done its job and held the opponents to a field goal, saving the team from an impossible two-score deficit. I can't imagine how frustrating it would be to be told they would have to go do it again. 
For the third straight time though, the defense stood strong backed up as far as possible. Polk couldn't gain any ground up the middle. Kyle McCarthy and Harrison Smith com­bining on a perfect tackle to keep fullback Paul Homer from six points. Another stop of Locker on a quarterback sneak forced another Folk field goal try. 
In total, Washington had 10 plays within five yards of the end zone and came away with just three points. Seven times the Huskies were at the Notre Dame 1-yard line and were stuffed. 
No one will assert that this is the most physically imposing version of an Irish football team, as anyone who saw them try and tackle Polk will attest to. But in terms of mental toughness, desire to win and leav­ing everything they have on the football field, it's hard to find a wor­thy adversary. 
After four games in a row with endings like Saturdays, some critics will say this team has underper­formed and is lucky. Luck, however, does not make goal line stands, last­minute interceptions or fourth­quarter drives. No matter how it has happened, Notre Dame is 4-1, and given the team's battles with injuries and how easily many of those games could have gone the other way, I think it's difficult to say that record is underachieving. How many of these games does the 2008 team win? The value of this team's maturity and confidence is critical -the confidence level going into overtime Saturday compared to last season against Pittsburgh is night and day. 
And while not a great team yet, it seems like the Irish get closer with every game they play. They have evolved from a team that believes it can win to a team that in any situa­tion believes it will win, and will fight for every inch. 
The bye week will be a huge asset to a team battling injuries all over the offense and probably happy to have a weekend without an emo­tionally draining fourth quarter (I know I am). 
And for all the talk of close games, if the Irish are in it at the end of the game in two weeks, I don't think anyone will be com­plaining. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
5 The number of field goals attempted and made by freshman Nick Tausch. Tausch entered the game 5-for-6 on field goals this season. 
Time of possession for the Huskies on their 10-play, 69 yard drive in the fourth 
9:19 
quarter that resulted in afield goal. 
The number of first-and-goal opportunities for3 the Irish, who failed to register a touchdown in any of those situations. 
{ 
For more matchups and pregame analysis, check out the Irish Insider podcast}
t 
IRISH INSIDER at ndsmcobserver.com/podcasts 
kfltt \wriirt~B'.:f. $.1m1 \'itPi!lltm\tlt.. :ttrkiltttl ll.l.tt~r.. lfJlJ!!I! :Bl!!1d 'illle:d ftrlli'tlll\11$!! !lll!'wa ,!ll'ifr<rui!it:mi ~l!fli) i!lm'!r.r•il"lJ \'l!llilm
?o6cA51 
liD'~ 'X«':ii.'i41nim.Jttm.. 
Monday, October 5, 2009 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 

Defensive line steps up in victory 
ANDREW WEBERfThe Observer 

Junior nose tackle Ian Williams (95) and senior middle linebacker Toryan Smith (49) tackle Washington quarterback Jake Locker. Locker finished with 55 yards rushing in the loss. 
scored in just 65 percent of chances from "After every stop, we feel like we're just 
By LAURA MYERS inside the 20-yard line, and have managed gaining more and more momentum. By the 
Sports Writer a touchdown in only 50 percent. time the fourth down came, we just felt like 
"The key is just to go as low as possible we could do it," he said. 
The quarterback threw for 422 yards. while keeping your feet moving," sopho­ln the fourth quarter of Saturday's game, The receiver caught 244 of those yards. The more defensive tackle the defense made one goal freshman kicker hit five field goals. Ethan Johnson said. "It's all line stop only to have it And the defensive line coach got the about the first step and "We just kept our nullified when nose tackle game ball. staying lower than the Ian Williams was called for 
composure and just
Not only that, but Randy Hart led the fight offensive line. Just make roughing the snapper on
kept believing in each 
song in the Irish locker room after the win. plays. It's not that compli­the ensuing Husky field 
Notre Dame's much-maligned defensive cated." other and we had goal attempt. line was instrumental in three goal line The red zone defense is each other's back.,, McCarthy said the stands against Washington, stopping the something Hart has empha­defense was still confident Huskies in 10 plays from within the Irish 8-sized, players said. despite the fresh set of yard line and allowing just one field goal in "We practiced goal line Kapron Lewis-Moore downs the penalty gave to those drives. stand all through camp, Irish defensive end the Huskies. 
"That was huge," senior.safety and defen­going against our guys," "That's a pretty tough sive captain Kyle McCarthy said. "You can junior defensive end Kerry call, especially in a game credit the defensive line and linebackers Neal said. "Our linemen are bigger than like that," McCarthy said. "But our guys there. They really buckled up their chin­[Washington's), so we felt like we were knew we still had a chance. Coach Tenuta straps and lined up to play some hard­ready for it." always preaches that if you give yourself a nosed football. Those goal line stands in the The linemen credit that readiness to con­chance, good things can happen. Hats off to third and fourth quarters were obviously fidence in themselves and their teammates. our defense, we really came up big there." huge for this game." "We just kept our composure and just Defenders agreed that the fourth quarter 
Hart, who spent 21 years as defensive kept believing in each other and we had stand, during which the Irish stopped the line coach at Washington, came to Notre each other's back," sophomore defensive Huskies six straight times to keep Notre Dame after the 2008 season to coach the end Kapron Lewis-Moore said. "It's just Dame within one score, was crucial. young Irish linemen -two of the three confidence and heart to go out there and "I don't think we've ever had that many starters are sophomores. not give it up." in a row," Johnson said. "But hard work 
So far, the line has struggled in 2009 and Added Johnson: "It was all heart, staying pays off." is currently ranked 67th in the country in low and just wanting it more than Which is why Randy Hart has a new sou­rush defense with 139.6 yards per game. [Washington]." venir. 
However, they are tied for eighth in red With each successive stop, the plays got zone defense. Opponents this season have easier, Lewis-Moore said. Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Notes: Tate's long catches, FG record 
By JARED ]EDICK 
Sports Writer 
+Tate's receptions of 67 and 77 yards were good for his longest and third longest of his career. Tate's 244 yards receiving was a career high. 
+Clausen's 422 yards pass­ing marks the second time he has surpassed 400 yards passing in his career. His previous career-high was 401 yards against Hawaii in the 2008 Hawaii Bowl. 
+Tausch equaled the sin­gle game record for field goals in Notre Dame Stadium with five. He is the first Irish kicker ever to connect on five field goals in a game without registering a single miss. 
+Notre Dame has played in four consecutive games decided by a touchdown or less. It is the first time since the 2000 season that the Irish have had four consecu­tive games decided by a touchdown or less. That last streak was against Nebraska, Purdue, Michigan State and Stanford. 
+McCarthy on playing in Notre Dame Stadium: "It's football and in a game like that it's a huge game, there's 80,000 people and this is Notre Dame so you know there's a whole bunch of fans living and dying with every play. So it's an honor to play in these types of games and I'm just really happy to get out of here with a win." 
+Despite the win, Notre Dame remained in the cate­gory of "Others receiving votes" when the latest Coaches and AP Polls were released Sunday. 
"If you compare apples to apples, I think that we deserve to be there right with everybody else," Irish coach Charlie Weis said Sunday. 
+Junior running back Armando Allen played a lot early against the Huskies, but was removed in favor of classmate Robert Hughes for most of the second half. Weis said that Allen slightly tweaked an ankle injury that had been bothering him ear­lier in the week, but could have played again if needed. 
"I really think that Armando [Allen] could have gone back into the game, but he was starting to be stiff standing on the sideline, and to be honest with you, Robert [Hughes] had it rocking and rolling at the time," Weis said. "If Armando was ready to go back in, I certainly was­n't going to take Robert out when we had momentum with him in there. I think once he got in there and got it going, that wasn't a time to make a switch, even if Armando was as full speed and ready to go." 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
•

scoring SUIDinary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th OT Total 

Washington  7  1 0  7  6  0  30  
Notre Dame  3  13  3  11  7  37  
First quarter  

Washington 7, Notre Dame 0 
Jake Locker 5-yd run (Erik Folk kick) with 10:10 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 56 yards, 4:50 elapsed. 
Washington 7, Notre Dame 3 
Nick Tausch 34-yd field goal with 7:11 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 49 yards, 2:59 elapsed. 
Second quarter Washington 7, Notre Dame 6 
Tausch 40-yd field goal with 14:08 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 58 yards, 5:27 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 9, Washington 7 
Tausch 34-yd field goal with 7:20 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 72 yards, 4:42 elapsed. 
Washington 14, Notre Dame 9 
Desmond Trufanl17-yd fumble recovery (Folk kick) with 4:39 remaining. 
Notre Dame 16, Washington 14 
Golden Tale 67-yd pass from Jimmy Clausen (Tausch kick) with 3:27 remaining. Drive: 3 plays, 78 yards, 1:12 elapsed. 
Washington 17, Notre Dame 16 
Folk 40-yd field goal with :DO remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 53 yards, :51 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 19, Washington 17 
Tausch 21-yd field goal with 12:51 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 76 yards, 2:09 elapsed. 
Washington 24, Notre Dame 19 
Jermaine Kearse 8-yd pass from Locker (Folk kick) with 8:57 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 64 yards, 3:54 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Washington 24, Notre Dame 22 
Tausch 21-yd field goal with 12:51 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 76 yards, 2:09 elapsed. 
Washington 27, Notre Dame 22 
Folk 24-yd field goal with 3:04 remaining. Drive: 19 plays, 69 yards, 9:19 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 30, Washington 27 
Kyle Rudolph 12-yd pass !rom Clausen (Robert Hughes rush} with 1:20 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 63 yards, 1:44 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 30, Washington 30 
Folk 37-yd field goal with :06 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 70 yards, 1:14 remaining. 
Overtime 
Notre Dame 37, Washington 30 
Hughes 1-yd run (Tausch kick). Drive: 2 plays, 
25 yards. 
statistics 
total yards 
Nl) 530 

rushing yards 
NlJ 108 

passing yards 
Nl) 
\\ \~ .2S I 
time of possession 
Nl) "7·3-1
...... 


page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 5, 2009 

Silencing the Daw-gs 
Notre Dame survived its third straight nail biter, as the Irish needed overtime to dispose of Washington in a 37-30 thriller. Junior quarterback Jimmy Clausen led another fourth-quarter comeback to 
vault himself into Heisman contention, throwing for 422 yards -244 to Golden Tate -and two touchdowns to overcome a costly mistake that led to a frrst-halfWashington touchdown. Freshman Nick Tausch made five field goals as the Notre Dame offense struggled to convert in the red zone, but the Irish defense came up huge with two goal-line stands in the final minutes to give the offense a chance to score. The Huskies held the ball for 9:19 in the fourth quarter and took a 27-22lead on an Erik Folk 24-yard field goal with 3:04 to play. Clausen took the Irish right down the field, however, hitting Kyle Rudolph on a 12-yard fade route to give Notre Dame the lead. Robert Hughes' two-point conversion rush proved critical, as the Huskies tied it with a last-second field goal before Hughes plunged 
in for a touchdown on Notre Dame's overtime possession. For more photos, check out the photo gallery at ndsmcobserver.com 
ANDREW WEBERffhe Observer 

Clockwise from top: Notre Dame freshman linebacker Manti Te'o tries to bring down Washington running back Chris Polk, senior offensive lineman Sam Young throws a block, junior quar­terback Jimmy Clausen throws a pass, freshman kicker Nick Tausch connects on one of his five field goal attempts, and senior cornerback Darrin walls tackles Washington's Jake locker. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, October 5, 2009 
page 13 

.. 
By COURTNEY ECKERLE Scene Writer 
Based on the novel "Derby Girl" by Shauna Cross, Drew Barrymore's directorial debut "Whip It!" is nothing in the way of groundbreaking. However, it is a great feel good, endearingly goofy, finding your "bliss" kind of movie, in which big dreams meet a small town. While it sometimes precariously walks the line between endearing and cheesy, as Barrymore herself 
often does, it never slips, and if it does, falls headfirst into funny, fearlessly bypassing what could be obvious and eye-rolling. 
Ellen Page plays Bliss Cavender, a punk-spirited, combat-boots kind of girl growing up in a small Texas town, where she is numbingly forced to take part in backwater beauty pag­eants by her misguided but well­intending mother. She and her best friend, Pash (Alia Shawkat), who fans will recognize from "Arrested Development"= fame, work in a roadside diner where they dream of one day escaping the social hierarchy that reigns triumphant (best line of the movie: "We deserve better vil­lains"). A usual plot, yes, but done as colorfully as some of the derby girls' hair. 
One night, Bliss takes a fate­ful trip to a roller derby exhibition. She tries out for the team, and is surpris­ingly fast despite her Barbie roller skates. She ends up joining a group of hell-on-wheels roller derby femme fatales who call them­selves the "Hurl Scouts." She also finds that she has joined a family as well, one that is the total opposite (although not as much as she thinks} of her beige-and-taupe 50s-print-ad family at home. 
When Bliss makes it onto the Hurl Scouts, they are the worst team in the league, 
and her underdog story merges with theirs as 
they battle their way to the championships. The movie's true heart is in the ensemble of actresses who play the derby girls, as well as their cutoff-jeans wearing coach Razor, played by Andrew Wilson, who definitely inherited his brothers' (Owen and Luke) comedic timing. Barrymore takes a small role in the film as one of Bliss' teammates, playing Smashley Simpson, a lovable goof with an anger manage­ment problem who has almost definitely taken one-too-many blows to the 
head. The one gag­worthy point in 
"Whip It!" is Bliss' love affair with skinny, alter­native, car­toony-eyed, J o h n n y Ramone-type lead singer 
Oliver (Landon Pigg), playing a knight in shining ray-bans gone wrong. 
A sweet love story is usual­ly a must have for any com­ing of age 
tale, but this movie would have fared better without it, or, at the very least, it 
--~,-· 

role that made her an overnight sensation. 
However, she still can't seem to find a charac­ter in possession of a somewhat normal name. Her transformation from passive and resigned­to-the-boring-life Bliss to the doesn't-take-any­crap-from-anyone Babe Ruthless (her roller derby name) is hysterical and completely plausi­ble. 
"Whip It!" is a great lesson in mediocrity gone wrong, but unfortunately the story doesn't hit as hard as the girls do. Overall, it is impressive for Barrymore's first effort behind the camera, although the direction is not its strong suit or where it finds its heart. So while this movie may not be love at first sight, like its characters, it is an underdog movie that has you rooting for it throughout, only to fall short of fantastic in the end. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle ceckerOl@saintmarys.edu 

Whip It! 
Fox Searchlight Pictures 
Director: Drew Barrymore 
should have been more of a back­
Starring: Ellen Page, Marcia Gay Harden, Landon Pigg,
ground story line. 
Andrew Wilson, Drew Barrymore, Juliette Lewis, Alia 
Even with a fantas­tic cast of indie 
Shawkat, Kristen Wiig 
favorites, Ellen Page is 
the true breakaway. Despite being in a simi­lar kind of movie, she steers away from the "Juno" stereotype and plays a much sweeter, less angry role than the 


By LIZ CHATEN Scene Writer 
In my house, Friday nights always meant pizza. Whether Chicago-style or thin-crust, a good slice of pie always brought the family together at the end of a hec­tic week. Although the pizza options on campus -from Reekers, to NDH's make-your-own -certainly satisfy the average pizza craving, here are a few cre­ative pizzas to add to your dining hall rotation. 
Mediterranean Pizza 
My vegetarian pal Andrea always creates imaginative ideas for dinner, including this quirky twist on the Italian classic. Despite its savory taste, this pizza is full of healthy goodness. The protein and fiber in hummus help satisfy hunger pains. Feta adds a bit of calcium and a topping of veggies can sneak a few vitamins and min­erals into your dinner. 
1. 
Grab a pita by the sandwich station. If desired, grill in the Panini maker to add some crispi­ness to your crust. 

2. Spread hummus on top. 

3. 
Top with shredded carrots, red onions, cucumbers, feta cheese crumbles, and chickpeas. Slice and enjoy! 


Mexican Pizza 
Taco Bell, a haven for late-night Mexican munchies, introduced me to this clever twist on a classic. Easily recreated in the din­ing hall, I offer a simple variation on this drive-thru delight. 
1. 
Top a tortilla with a layer of shredded cheese. Place another tortilla on top and grill on the Panini maker to make a quesadil­la-style crust. 

2. 
Top the crust with refried beans, salsa, shredded cheese, diced tomatoes, and any other Mexican fixings you crave. I'm a fan of the chipotle lime sauce at North. Slice and enjoy! 


Treat-za Pizza 
Many junior high sleepovers were spent making this sweet treat. Share this decadent dessert with a friend or two. 
1. Grab a pita by the sandwich station. 
2. Spread peanut butter on top. 
3. 
Spoon chocolate pudding over the peanut butter. 

4. 
Send through the oven at South Dining Hall. 

5. 
Sprinkle powdered sugar on top. Finish with your favorite ice cream toppings: Oreo crumbs, M&Ms, marshmallows or a drizzle of caramel can add a touch of whimsy. 


QUICK TIP: Did you know that you can request olive oil instead of pizza sauce at NDH? By using olive oil, you can cut calories and create a fabulous Margherita pizza of tomatoes, onions and mozzarel­la. 
Have your own dining hall recipe? We would lnve to feature it! E-mailjshaffel @ndedu 
Observer Graphic I MARY CECILIA MITSCH 

page 14 The Observer + CIASSIFIEDS Monday, October 5, 2009 
NFL 
Chicago runs over Detroit as Forte breaks out 
Washington rallies in third quarter to overcome four early turnovers in 16-13 victory over winless Ta1npa Bay 
consecutive wins since a 6-2 
Associated Press 
start in 2007. The Lions won 
CHICAGO -Jay Cutler and one game the rest of that sea­the Chicago Bears weren't son in an epic meltdown that about to let Detroit make it two saw them post the league's first straight wins. 0-16 mark last year. 
Cutler threw two touchdown Coach Rod Marinelli was let passes and ran for another, and go at the end of that season. the Bears pulled away in the He's now the Bears' defensive second half to beat the Lions line coach, and with 31 new 48-24 on Sunday a week after players, he could be excused if Detroit snapped its 19-game he didn't recognize the team on losing streak. the other side of the field. 
Matt Forte ran for 121 yards, What happened early proba­rookie Johnny Knox returned a bly had a familiar feel to him, kickoff 102 yards and the Bears though. headed into their bye with their Slow starters the first three third straight win. games, the Bears immediately 
The Lions were celebrating a fell behind again. win over Washington that Stafford connected on a 45­snapped a slide that matched yarder with Johnson, who beat the second longest in league Zackary Bowman, along the history. This time, they were left side to put the ball on the holding their breath after Chicago 28, and Smith ran it in watching quarterback Matthew from the 1 after two penalties Stafford, the No. 1 draft pick, by the Bears. First, safety Al twist his right knee while being Afalava jumped offsides as sacked in the fourth quarter. Jason Hanson kicked what 
The Lions had a third down would have been a 40-yard on the Bears 6 when he was field goal, giving the Lions a sacked by Adewale Ogunleye, first down instead. Alex Brown forcing Detroit to kick a field got called for a facemask, put­goal that cut Chicago's lead to ting the ball on the 13, and 34-24. Stafford had his leg three plays later, Detroit had a wrapped and Daunte short-lived lead. Culpepper replaced him on Chicago immediately Detroit's next drive, a sobering responded, with Forte bursting had to wonder whether the The loss left Buccaneers tion for the Bucs. He also ran sight for a team that has taken through the line for a 61-yard booing fans would allow the rookie coach Raheem Morris seven times for 41 yards. its share of blows over the run that put the ball on the 5. It coach, his quarterback and the still seeking his first NFL victo­"The young kid didn't do a years. also set up a TO run by Cutler, rest of the team back on the ry, but it's not as if Tampa Bay bad job at all for it being a hos­
With a chance to put together who spun like a helicopter pro­field for the start of the second (0-4) didn't finally have its tile environment like this," said consecutive wins for the first peller after two Lions hit him half. chance after three double-digit Carnell Williams, who ran for time since 2007, the Lions (1-3) as he crossed the goal line with Spurred by an interception by losses to start the season. 77 yards on 16 carries. "We hung in for a half before the Bears' first points in an DeAngelo Hall, the Redskins Mike Nugent missed two first­can't do nothing but go up from Chicago (3-1) pulled away. opening quarter this season. found some of the energy, life half field goals and was 0 for 4 here; we're 0-4. That's how 
Not that this wasn't a painful But it was a painful first half and momentum that had been on the season until making a we've got to look at it." afternoon for the Bears. for them. missing all season. They rallied 37-yarder on the final play of Johnson threw an 8-yard 
Devin Hester left with a Hester was apparently to score on three straight pos­the half, and Aqib Talib's three scoring pass to Antonio Bryant shoulder injury in the second injured after catching a short sessions in the third quarter interceptions lose some of their just 120 seconds into the game, quarter and Knox injured his pass on second down with just Sunday and beat the Tampa glow because he was beaten but that was Tampa Bay's only right leg in the second half, under 12 minutes left. He tried Bay Buccaneers 16-13. down the right sideline on the touchdown. The Redskins, who leaving the Bears thin at wide to juke the Lions' Louis Delmas "At halftime, I was like, if we 59-yard pass from Campbell to entered the game last in the receiver. Before he left the and William James, but instead don't pull this one out, I don't Santana Moss that gave the NFL in third-down defense, game, Knox did a spot-on took a hard hit. He quickly got know what I'm going to do on Redskins the lead for good. allowed the Bucs to convert impression of Hester when he up showing no obvious signs of Monday," Campbell said. "I "I bet he'd give the other just 2 of 13 on Sunday. ran 102 yards untouched up an injury, and it wasn't clear might as well hibernate." three back for that one," "I mean, it was just one of the right side to open the third which shoulder he hurt. It was another narrow win Morris said. those things: Look, we're at a quarter for the second-longest over a bad team, much like the Campbell finished 12 for 22 point in the season where ... we kickoff return in franchise his­Buccaneers 13, Redskins 16 9-7 ugly result against the St. for 170 yards with two touch­had to stand up," said defen­tory. Within the first two minutes, Louis Rams that felt more like down passes and three inter­sive coordinator Greg Blache, 
Forte broke off a 61-yard run the Washington Redskins had a loss two weeks ago. But ceptions. He claimed it was the who gave his players an unusu­that set up Chicago's first given up two sacks and lost a Washington (2-2) nevertheless first three-interception game of ally emotional Saturday night touchdown and added a 37-fumble. has a .500 record, and that his entire football life -includ­speech. "We had to change. We yard TO in the fourth quarter. They had also allowed a doesn't look so bad in print -ing Pee-Wee ball. had to draw a line in the dirt." 
Robbie Gould kicked two field quarterback making his first especially after last week's sky­"It was really frustrating for Publicly, Blache had prom­goals, including a career-high NFL start to throw for a touch­is-falling loss to the Detroit us all. I started looking at the ised a "riverboat gambler" and 52-yarder in the third quarter, down on his first pass of the Lions. game plan, wondering: What "maverick" approach to the and Tommie Harris set up an game. By halftime, they were "It's a good feeling because of else could go wrong?" Zorn defense this week, but he said early touchdown with his first down 10 to a winless team, and what we had to go though all said. "It was, offensively, like he didn't blitz or take any more career interception. Jason Campbell had thrown week, hearing all those things two different halves." chances than usual. 
Stafford threw for 296 yards two interceptions. about losing to Detroit and all Nimble second-year quarter­"Sometimes," he said, "you and Calvin Johnson caught Forget all that talk about that stuff," defensive end back Josh Johnson went 13 for just make 'em think it. You put eight passes for 133, but whether Jim Zorn would last Phillip Daniels said. "So it's a 22 for 106 yards with one the clothes on and look the Detroit still hasn't put together the season. For a while, one great feeling just to be 2-2." touchdown and one intercep-part." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt.,no experience needed,cus­tomer sales/service,574-273-3835 
FoR SALE 
Ford 79 T-Bird, 45k miles, Orig owner, $8,000, 574-299-0925 
FoR RENT 
1 bdrm apartment for rent right off campus. $390/mo. 574-243-7777. 
anderson NO rentals.com. HOUSES 
TICKETS 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232­0964 
Buying NO football tix. GAs. 574· 277-1659. 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu 
I've seen things you people would­n't believe. Attack ships on fire off the shoulder of Orion. I watched C­beams glitter in the dark near the Tannhauser gate. All those moments will be lost in time, like tears in rain. Time to die. 
The end is near. I hear a noise at the door, as of some immense slip­pery body lumbering against it. It shall find me. God, that hand! The window! The window! 
I will have no sleight of hand!! The phone calls ...must ... stop! 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NO's website at: http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu 
I cannot think of the deep sea with­out shuddering at the nameless things that may at this very moment be crawling and floundering on its slimy bed, worshipping their ancient stone idols and carving their own detestable likenesses on submarine obelisks of water-soaked granite. I dream of a day when they may rise above the billows to drag down in their reeking talons the remnants of puny, war-exhausted mankind --of a day when the land shall sink, and the dark ocean floor shall ascend amidst universal pandemonium. 
You've gotta tell them! Soylent Green is people! 


OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERV1CES
Monday, October 5, 2009 
page 15 

USA.Today FoOtball ;f;p:··············. Coaches' Poll. 
1 
2 
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 CintiiJRati 
11 Miami(Fl!l;) 12 PennStat•'·'''"'.·"··''''·· .13 Oklaltoma State 
14 Iowa 
15 Kansas 
16 Missiuippl 
11 Oregon 
18 Missouri 19 Auburn 
20 BYU 21 Oklahoma 22 Nebraska 
23 G~rgiaT•ell·. 
24 South Florida 
25 Wi~o0$in · 
NCAA FoOtbclil'. 
.. . ..iii> !iT 
AP 
1 2 3 
4 5 6 7 8 
g 
10 11 
12 
13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 
22 
23 24 25 
USTFCCCA Men's Cross 
1 2 3 4 5 6 
1 
8· 
9 
around the dial 
NFL 
Green Bay at Minnesota 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 
English League Soccer 
Manchester City at Aston Villa 2:55 p.m., ESPN2 

AP Florida Marlins' Hanley Ramirez, right, is congratulated by teammate Jorge Cantu after hitting a twCHun home run in the fourth inning of a game against the Washington Nationals on Sept. 5. The Marlins won 9-5. 
Ramirez, Mauer to becotne batting chrunps 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Minnesota's Joe Mauer all but locked up his third American League batting title in four seasons, and Hanley Ramirez became the first Florida Marlins player to win a National League batting crown. 
In a year in which home runs increased from last year's average of 2.01 per game to 2.07, there were no 20-game winners on the mound. It was only the sec­ond time that's happened in a non-shortened season since 1900. The other time was 2006. 
Mauer, the only catcher to win anAL batting title, has a .364 average. While Minnesota meets .Detroit on Tuesday in an AL Central tiebreaker that counts in the regular-season statistics, Mauer would have to go 0 for 18 or worse to drop behind Seattle's Ichiro Suzuki, who is second at .352. 
"I'll worry about winning the game before I worry about all of that," Mauer said. "The game is the only thing on my mind right now." 
Ramirez finished with a .342 average and became the first NL shortstop to win a batting title since Dick Groat for Pittsburgh in 1960. 
"It's a lot of work, a lot of dedication. And the coach­ing, they've been on me from Day 1," Ramirez said. 
"I know I have to keep working hard and try to get better. My family will be happy." 
The Yankees' CC Sabathia, the Mariners' Felix Hernandez, the Tigers' Justin Verlander and the Cardinals' Adam Wainwright tied for the major league lead with 19 wins apiece. Sabathia and Wainwright fell short of 20 in their fmal starts. 
"Guys are throwing less innings," Sabathia said. "Pitch counts, things like that. It is tough." 
Kansas City's Zack Greinke led the AL with a 
2.16 ERA, the league's low­est since Pedro Martinez's 
1.74 for Boston in 2000. Chris Carpenter of the 
Cardinals led the NL at 2.24 after missing most of the previous two seasons because of reconstructive elbow surgery and an injured shoulder. 
Verlander led the major leagues with 269 strikeouts, and San Francisco's Tim Lincecum topped the NL for the second straight season with 261. 
St. Louis' Albert Pujols won his first NL home run title, leading majors with 4 7 despite not hitting any in 79 at-bats after Sept. 9. Tampa Bay's Carlos Pena shared the AL home run title with the Yankees' Mark Teixeira at 39. Pena's season ended when he broke two fingers when hit by a pitch from Sabathia on Sept. 7. 

IN BRIEF 
Cubs send hittinS! coach 
Von Joshua to Triple-A 
CHICAGO -The disappointed Chicago Cubs wasted little time making a change, dropping hitting coach Von Joshua after Sunday's season finale while offering him a similar spot at Triple-A. 
Joshua had been promoted from Triple-A Iowa on June 14 when Gerald Perry was fired as hitting coach after 21fz seasons. 
The Cubs were batting .246 the day Perry was fired and finished the season at .255. Chicago lost to Arizona 5-2 Sunday to finish 83-78 after two straight appearances in the playoffs. 
"He will be given the opportunity to go back to his other job in Des Moines," gen­eral manager Jim Hendry said. 
"I told him that it wasn't anything that I was upset with him, he didn't do anything wrong. But when you come up from the system in the middle of the year, if things don't make significant difference in improvement, then obviously in my opin­ion we need to try something different." 
Lions' Stafford suffers leg
injury, leaves Bears game 
CHICAGO -Detroit Lions rookie quarterback Matthew Stafford and receiver Calvin Johnson left during the fourth quarter of Sunday's 48-24 loss to the Chicago Bears because of leg injuries. 
The Lions had a third down at the Bears 6 when Stafford twisted his right knee as he was sacked for an 11-yard loss by Adewale Ogunleye. 
That forced Detroit to kick a field goal, which cut Chicago's lead to 34­24 with 8:15 left. Daunte Culpepper replaced Stafford on the Lions' next possession, and Stafford got the knee wrapped on the sideline. He will undergo more tests in Detroit. 
"If I was feeling a little bit better they would've let me back in," said Stafford, who threw for 296 yards. 
Johnson, who had 133 yards receiving, also left the game late with a leg injury, although the nature of the problem wasn't clear. 
Texans have three_players 
out ill against Raiders 
HOUSTON -Houston safety Eugene Wilson was inactive against the Oakland Raiders because of an illness, and two other Texans were available ·to play but were also ill on Sunday. 
Houston had the NFL's first con­firmed case of swine flu earlier this week in tight end Anthony Hill. The other players got sick on Saturday night and Sunday morning, but the team did not confirm any other cases of swine flu. 
Running back Chris Brown was available but not feeling well and did­n't play. Linebacker Xavier Adibi was also ill but played on special teams. 
"Eugene got very sick last night, it continued through this morning, so there was no way he could play," coach Gary Kubiak said. "We're mon­itoring the situation. It's something that's hit us in the past four days and we just have to work through it." 

page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, October 5, 2009 Monday, October 5, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 

NFL 
Marshall's late TD lifts Broncos over 'Boys 
Texans tear it up against reeling Raiders; Oakland QB Russell continues to struggle in 29-6 loss to Houston 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Champ Bailey knocked away the potential tying touchdown pass from Tony Romo to Sam Hurd with 1 second left and the Denver Broncos escaped with a 1 7-10 win over the Dallas Cowboys on Sunday. 
On fourth-and-goal from the 2, Romo dropped back and found Hurd cutting over the middle, but Bailey reached around and swat­ted the pass away at the last sec­ond, giving the Broncos their first 4-0 start since 2003. 
The Broncos took the lead on Brandon Marshall's 51-yard touchdown catch with 1:46 remaining. 
Romo, ineffective in the second half when the Cowboys' first five drives ended in four punts and an interception by Bailey, found Hurd for a 53-yard gain on fourth-and-3 from the Dallas 27 with a minute left. 
The Cowboys (2-2) reached the 2 on catches by Tashard Choice, Hurd and Patrick Crayton. 
Romo spiked the ball on sec­ond-and-goal, then Bailey knocked away a high pass intended for Hurd before swat­ting away one that looked as if it was right on the money. 
Denver, which has the league's top-ranked defense, held the league's best rushing attack to just 7 4 yards on 25 carries, a 3­yard clip. 
Elvis Dumervil led a pass rush that hounded Romo, dumping him on his back five times for sacks, two by Dumervil, who has eight sacks in the past three weeks. 
Matt Prater's 28-yard field goal with 5:58 left tied it at 10. 
Crayton's 96-yard punt return for a touchdown was nullified because the ball bounced on the goal line before Darcel McBath tipped it back toward Crayton, who picked it up and zigzagged his way downfield. The official immediately ruled it a touch­back, keeping it a 10-7 game with 11:18 remaining. 
Romo was ineffective and con­tinually led his receivers into big hits, none bigger than when Roy Williams was blasted by D.J. Williams with 9:47 left in the game. He also hung up Crayton twice on that drive. 
Broncos coach Josh McDaniels gambled on the last play of the third quarter when he decided to go for it on fourth-and-1 instead of attempting a 4 7 -yard field goal to tie it. 
Linebacker Keith Brooking darted through and met rookie running back Knowshon Moreno head-on and stopped him inches short, giving Dallas the ball to start the fourth quarter. 
Correll Buckhalter wasn't available after injuring his left ankle earlier in the drive, and Peyton Hillis, the battering ram of a back who was stopped at the goal line twice last week in Oakland, watched Moreno get the call. 
The Broncos were trailing 10-0 when safety Renaldo Hill forced a fumble by Romo that line­backer D.J. Williams recovered inside the Dallas 10-yard-line in the second quarter. 
Six seconds later, Kyle Orton threw a pass to Moreno that went through the hands of line­backer Anthony Spencer, pulling Denver to 10-7. 
Before that, little went right for the Broncos, who were whistled for eight flags in the first half. 
Moreno fumbled away his first carry of the second half when DeMarcus Ware came off a block by Daniel Graham and punched the ball loose. Linebacker Bradie James recovered for Dallas at the Denver 27, but Romo quickly gave it back when Bailey made an acrobatic interception at the 6. 
Leasing now for 2010-2011 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 

3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Located Close to Notre Dame 
$300 Signing Bonus for 2010-2011 
lease must be signed before October 10,2009 
Lease for only $350 permonth, perstudent/ 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
call (574) 234-2436 
SUZUKA, Japan -Red Bull's Sebastian Vette! led from start to finish to win Formula One's Japanese Grand Prix on Sunday, reviving his championship hopes. 
Vettel finished ahead of Toyota's Jarno Trulli and McLaren's Lewis Hamilton. Drivers' championship leader Jenson Button of Brawn GP was eighth, a place below teammate Rubens Barrichello. 
Brawn GP all but sealed the constructors' championship. Only a one-two finish by Red Bull in both the remaining races and Brawn finishing pointless can prevent a Brawn champi­onship in its first season. 
A post-race stewards hearing had the potential to seal thfl constructors' title, but fifth­place finisher Nico Rosberg was cleared of eharges that he did not slow when yellow flags wern waved after a late crash. Had he 

Dallas built a 10-0 lead on Nick struggle, with JaMarcus Russell it 22-6. It was Houston's first Folk's 49-yard field goal and completing 12 of 33 passes for safety since the inaugural season Marion Barber's 1-yard run. 128 yards and Darren McFadden of2002. 
finishing with six carries for Jones ran 95 yards untouched Raiders 6, Texans 29 minus-3 yards rushing. on the ensuing kickoff for his 
The problems that have Slaton's first score came on a first career kickoff return touch­plagued the Houston Texans 32-yard run in the second quar­down. He's returned two punts were nowhere to be found on ter that pushed Houston's lead to for scores in his career. Sunday. 13-3. It was the Texans' first Mario Williams got to Russell 
Playing against the Oakland rushing score this season. Slaton in the fourth quarter and forced Raiders can do that for a team. finished with 65 yards rushing a fumble that Houston recovered Steve Slaton scored two touch­and Ryan Moats added 56. on the 20. The Texans came 
downs, Jacoby Jones returned a Slaton scored again on an 18-away empty when Kris Brown's kickoff for a score and the yard catch-and-run that made it 33-yard field goal attempt sailed Texans beat the Raiders 29-6 20-3 later in the second quarter. wide left. Sunday. That score was set up by a Houston had a chance for 
The Texans (2-2) finally found career-long 44-yard reception by another score near the end of the their running game and figured Owen Daniels. first half, but Matt Schaub was out a way to shut down someone Oakland's first turnover came intercepted by Chris Johnson in else's as Houston's NFL-worst when DeMeco Ryans stripped the the end zone. Schaub was 11 of defense held the Raiders to 45 ball from Michael Bush and it 22 for 224 yards and a touch­yards rushing. The Texans were was recovered by Antonio Smith down. allowing 205 yards rushing in the third quarter. The Texans The Raiders added a field goalentering the game. couldn't capitalize. late in the second quarter to eut 
Houston also forced three But Andre' Davis downed the the lead to 20-6. That drive was turnovers and got its first safety punt at the 1 and rookie Brian kept alive when Russell found in almost seven years. Cushing tackled Justin Fargas in Louis Murphy for a 19-yardThe Raiders (1-3) continued to the end zone for a safety to make reeeption on fourth-and-9. 
FORMULA ONE 
Vettel wins Japanese Grand Prix 
been demoted or disqualified, the Brawn GP cars would have had enough points for the title. 
In the drivers' championship, Button's lead over Barrichello was cut by one point to 14, with Vette) just two points further back. 
"It can still be done and its looking mueh better now," Vette! said of his chances in the cham­pionship. "Shame there's only two races to go, but that's life. Anything is still possible and it can change quickly." 
It was Vettel's third win of the season, and first since the British Grand Prix in June. The German started from pole posi­tion and got a strong start to keep the KERS-power boost cars behind him. 
lie had built a 12.5-second buffer over Trulli before the late emergence of the safety car fol­lowing a spectacular crash by Torn Rosso's Jaime Alguersuari, who crashed through a track­side advertising board into a tire wall. 
Even with the running order compacted, Vette! emerged strongly when the safety car was removed, and his victory was not threatened. 
Trulli started second but was overtaken into the first corner by Hamilton, with the aid of the KERS-power boost in his McLaren. 
However Trulli stuck behind Hamilton and after his second pitstop, emerged in front of the McLaren, which had lost a mal­functioning KERS system shortly bp,forehand. 
Toyota has finished second in successive races, but still has not broken through for its first F1 win, meaning Trulli was less than exuberant when he climbed from the car, Pven as Japanese fans reveled in Toyota's strong showing. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 5, 2009 
NFL 
Moss grabs first touchdown of season in victory 
Resurgent Manning outduels Seattle's Wallace in 34-17 win over Seahawks; Colts QB racks up 353 yards, 2 TD 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. -Mark Clayton got open and waited for the fourth-down pass that could keep the Ravens' chances alive. 
Joe Fiacco reached his target inside the Patriots 1 0-yard line 
-....... 
and beyond the first-down mark­er, but Clayton dido't hold on with 2 8 seconds left. New England did-eking out a 27-21 win over Baltimore on Sunday. 
"Flat out drop," Clayton said. "It was a perfect ball. Joe put it on the money. To not come up with it is tough. It cost us the game." 
The Ravens lost left tackle Jared Gaither after a collision that put him on his back for about 10 minutes before he was taken off the field on a stretcher midway through the second quarter. X-rays at Massachusetts General Hospital, where he had tests on his neck and shoulder, were negative. 
Fiacco fell onto Gaither's back as the quarterback was shoved by defensive end Ty Warren. 
"We knew it wasn't serious," Baltimore coach John Harbaugh said. "We'll see how long he'll be out." 
The Ravens failed on another fourth-down play on their next­to-last series as they tried to overcome the first scoring pass of the season from Tom Brady to Randy Moss and a 1-yard touch­down sneak by the quarterback. 
On that fourth-and-1 at the Ravens 45-yard line, Warren stopped Willis McGahee for no gain with 5:09 remaining. 
"That was quite a finish," Patriots coach Bill Belichick said. "Stop them on fourth down twice in the fourth quarter, that's when you've got to be there. Luckily, we were." 
But Ravens players thought McGahee had made the first down. 
"The spots were terrible," Baltimore safety Ed Reed said. 

Moss' touchdown made it 24­14 late in the third quarter, but Fiacco's 13-yard scoring pass to McGahee cut that to 24-21. Stephen Gostkowski's 33-yard field goal gave the Patriots (3-1) a six-point lead midway through the fourth quarter. 
After McGahee came up short, the Patriots punted and the Ravens (3-1) got the ball back with 5:09 left then moved to a fourth-and-4 at the 14. 
"We thought we had them down, but they started coming back," Patriots running back Sammy Morris said. "It was just one of those tough slugfests." 
The game was decided when Clayton dropped the ball and the Patriots ran out the clock as they kept their unbeaten record against the Ravens with their fifth win. 
"We were confident," Baltimore wide receiver Derrick Mason said. "The defense did a great job of holding them and giving us the opportunity to put some points on the board." 
Trailing 17-7 at halftime, the Ravens made it 17-14 when Terrell Suggs hit Brady for a sack and knocked the ball out of his right hand. Dwan Edwards recovered in the end zone for a touchdown with 6:19 left in the third quarter. 
"We kind of had control of the game and then Suggs turned it around," Belichick said. 
But Brady led the Patriots on their next possession, a 79-yard drive ending with his 14-yard touchdown pass to Moss. 
Moss caught 23 scoring passes in 2007, his first season with Brady, who was sidelined for all of last season except for the first half of the first quarter of the opener. 
The Ravens responded with an 80-yard drive, 50 on a run by Ray Rice, who fmished with 103 yards on 11 carries, and the final 13 on the pass to McGahee. 
"We gave up too many big plays and couldn't get off the field on third down," Patriots safety Brandon Meriweather said. "We did a lot of things that good defenses don't do." 
The Patriots struck quickly after Brandon McGowan recov­ered Chris Carr's fumble as he returned the opening kickoff. That led to a 32-yard field goal by Gostkowski. 
Fiacco then led the Ravens on a 15-play, 81-yard drive capped by a 20-yard scoring pass to Mason, who had six catches for 77 yards on the series. 
The Patriots went ahead 10-7 on the next series with a 1-yard sneak by Brady. 
"Head-to-head with Ray Lewis, l certainly wasn't thinking of that one going to bed last night," he said. 
The Patriots made it 17-7 with 
3:57 left in the half on Morris' 12-yard run. 
Lewis complained about rush­ing the passer penalties that helped the drives on which Brady and Morris scored. 
"Without totally going off the wall here, it is embarrassing to the game," Lewis said. "Brady is good enough to make his own plays, let him make the play." 
The Ravens then drove from their 20 to the Patriots 17 with a chance to cut the deficit to 17-14 at halftime. But Leigh Bodden intercepted Fiacco's pass at the 9. 
Seahawks 17, Colts 34 
Peyton Manning is back in his old groove. The clock-beating drives, the milestones, the victories are all 
part of his weekly routine again. Not even those oppo­nents trying to play keep-away can foil the three-time MVP these days. 
Manning led the Colts to touchdowns on four of their first five drives Sunday, tied league marks established by Fran Tarkenton and Dan Marino and extended Indianapolis' regular-season winning streak to 13 with a 34­17 victory over Seattle. 
"We played greatness today," Seattle coach Jim Mora said. "He's one of the finest of all times." 
For Manning, whose trophy case already includes three MVP awards and a Super Bowl ring, it's been possibly his most impressive start in 12 NFL sea­sons. 
On Sunday, he was 31 of 41 for 353 yards, marking the first time Manning has topped 300 yards in four consecutive games. It's also a franchise record. 
By that point, Manning had already reached two other mile­stones. His first TD pass went to Reggie Wayne for a 5-yard score, making Manning and Dan Marino the only quarter­backs in league history to throw 55 TD passes to two different receivers. Manning threw 112 TDs to Marvin Harrison. Marino's two receivers were Mark Clayton and Mark Duper. 
Manning's second TD pass, a 21-yarder to rookie Austin Collie after a brilliant audible, put him alongside Tarkenton for No. 3 on the NFL's career list. Both have 342, trailing only Marino (420) and Brett Favre (469). 
That accomplishment came with a personal touch. 
"Fran and my dad are friends and my dad has told me great stories about Fran Tarkenton," Manning said. "He was a unique player." 
Manning's amazing efficiency is his signature trait. 
In the first half, only three of Manning's 20 passes hit the ground -one was a throw­away, one was batted at the line and one was overthrown. 
Seattle (1-3), which was again missing quarterback Matt Hasselbeck (rib) and left tackle Walter Jones (knee), didn't have the firepower to avoid losing its third straight -or keeping up with Manning's efficiency. 
"With our situation being what it is, it's going to be tough until we get back to full strength," Seahawks coach Jim Mora said. "We have a small margin for error, and we made some errors." 
Manning wasted no time in taking advantage. 
He gave the ball to rookie Donald Brown for a 1-yard scoring run to make it 7-0. Two series later, Manning hooked up with Wayne for a 14-0 lead with 
5:29 left in the half. 

Seattle got on the scoreboard with a 38-yard field goal, but left Manning with 1 minute, 22 seconds to go -too much time to score. Manning took the Colts 78 yards in 79 seconds, with a nifty throw-and-catch to Collie with 3 seconds left. 
"With 9 seconds left, you look at some things and you may not try that with a more inexperi­enced quarterback," Colts coach Jim Caldwell said. "But this guy has been around a long time and he knows how to take care of the ball." 
The Colts sealed the outcome with Joseph Addai's 12-yard run midway through the fourth quarter, two field goals from Adam Vinatieri and a solid defensive performance that lim­ited Seattle to just 49 yards rushing. 
Are you an A&L sophomore planning to Study Abroad? 
Please visit the following site http://aLnd.edu/academir-advising-and-regiJirements/ to successfully complete your application. 
Note: You must receive adean's approval for your application to be completed. 
To see adean make an appointment with: 
Office for Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Phone: (574) 631·7098 

Oeadline:Nov.6,20Q2 


Study Abroad in 
Angers, France 
Information Session 
Tuesday, October 6 7:00p.m. 125 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2009 More Information Available at www.nd.edu/""oisl 

Monday, October 5, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Marshall's late TD lifts Broncos over 'Boys 
Texans tear it up against reeling Raiders; Oakland QB Russell continues to struggle in 29-6 loss to Houston 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Champ Bailey knocked away the potential tying touchdown pass from Tony Romo to Sam Hurd with 1 second left and the Denver Broncos escaped with a 17-10 win over the Dallas Cowboys on Sunday. 
On fourth-and-goal from the 2, Romo dropped back and found Hurd cutting over the middle, but Bailey reached around and swat­ted the pass away at the last sec­ond, giving the Broncos their first 4-0 start since 2003. 
The Broncos took the lead on Brandon Marshall's 51-yard touchdown catch with 1:46 remaining. 
Romo, ineffective in the second half when the Cowboys' first five drives ended in four punts and an interception by Bailey, found Hurd for a 53-yard gain on fourth-and-3 from the Dallas 27 with a minute left. 
The Cowboys (2-2) reached the 2 on catches by Tashard Choice, Hurd and Patrick Crayton. 
Romo spiked the ball on sec­ond-and-goal, then Bailey knocked away a high pass intended for Hurd before swat­ting away one that looked as if it was right on the money. 
Denver, which has the league's top-ranked defense, held the league's best rushing attack to just 7 4 yards on 25 carries, a 3­yard clip. 
Elvis Dumervil led a pass rush that hounded Romo, dumping him on his back five times for sacks, two by Dumervil, who has eight sacks in the past three weeks. 
Matt Prater's 28-yard field goal with 5:58 left tied it at 10. 
Crayton's 96-yard punt return for a touchdown was nullified because the ball bounced on the goal line before Darcel McBath tipped it back toward Crayton, who picked it up and zigzagged his way downfield. The official immediately ruled it a touch­back, keeping it a 10-7 game with 11:18 remaining. 
Romo was ineffective and con­tinually led his receivers into big hits, none bigger than when Roy Williams was blasted by D.J. Williams with 9:4 7 left in the game. He also hung up Crayton twice on that drive. 
Broncos coach Josh McDaniels gambled on the last play of the third quarter when he decided to go for it on fourth-and-1 instead of attempting a 4 7 -yard field goal to tie it. 
Linebacker Keith Brooking darted through and met rookie running back Knowshon Moreno head-on and stopped him inches short, giving Dallas the ball to start the fourth quarter. 
Correll Buckhalter wasn't available after injuring his left ankle earlier in the drive, and Peyton Hillis, the battering ram of a back who was stopped at the goal line twice last week in Oakland, watched Moreno get the call. 
The Broncos were trailing 10-0 when safety Renaldo Hill forced a fumble by Romo that line­backer D.J. Williams recovered inside the Dallas 10-yard-line in the second quarter. 
Six seconds later, Kyle Orton threw a pass to Moreno that went through the hands of line­backer Anthony Spencer, pulling Denver to 10-7. 
Before that, little went right for the Broncos, who were whistled for eight flags in the frrst half. 
Moreno fumbled away his first carry of the second half when DeMarcus Ware came off a block by Daniel Graham and punched the ball loose. Linebacker Bradie James recovered for Dallas at the Denver 27, but Romo quickly gave it back when Bailey made an acrobatic interception at the 6. 
AP 

Broncos cornerback Champ Bailey, left, congratulates wide receiver Brandon Marshall after Marshall scored the game-winning touchdown in the fourth quarter against the Cowboys on Sunday. 
Dallas built a 10-0 lead on Nick struggle, with JaMarcus Russell it 22-6. It was Houston's first Folk's 49-yard field goal and completing 12 of 33 passes for safety since the inaugural season Marion Barber's 1-yard run. 128 yards and Darren McFadden of2002. 
finishing with six carries for Jones ran 95 yards untouched Raiders 6, Texans 29 minus-3 yards rushing. on the ensuing kickoff for his 
The problems that have Slaton's lirst score came on a first career kickoff return touch­plagued the Houston Texans 32-yard run in the second quar­down. He's returned two punts were nowhere to be found on ter that pushed Houston's lead to for scores in his career. Sunday. 13-3. It was the Texans' first Mario Williams got to Russell 
Playing against the Oakland rushing score this season. Slaton in the fourth quarter and forced Raiders can do that for a team. linished with 65 yards rushing a fumble that Houston recovered Steve Slaton scored two touch­and Ryan Moats added 56. on the 20. The Texans came 
downs, Jacoby Jones returned a Slaton scored again on an 18-away empty when Kris Brown's kickoff for a score and the yard catch-and-run that made it 33-yard field goal attempt sailed Texans beat the Raiders 29-6 20-3 later in the second quarter. wide left. Sunday. That score was set up by a Houston had a chance for 
The Texans (2-2) linally found career-long 44-yard reception by another score near the end of the their running game and figured Owen Daniels. first half, but Matt Schaub was out a way to shut down someone Oakland's lirst turnover came intercepted by Chris Johnson in else's as Houston's NFL-worst when DeMeco Ryans stripped the the end zone. Schaub was 11 of 
defense held the Raiders to 45 ball from Michael Bush and it 22 for 224 yards and a touch­yards rushing. The Texans wern was recovered by Antonio Smith down. allowing 205 yards rushing in the third quartP.r. The Texans The Raiders added a field goal entering the game. couldn't capitalize. late in the second quarter to cut 
Houston also forced three But Andre' Davis downed the the lead to 20-6. That drive was turnovers and got its first safety punt at the 1 and rookie Brian kept alive when Russell found in almost seven years. Cushing tackled Justin Fargas in Louis Murphy for a 19-yard The Raiders (1-3) continued to the end zone for a safety to make reception on fourth-and-9. 
Leasing now for 2010-2011 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 

3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher 
Security System 
Located Close to Notre Dame 
$300Signing Bonus for 2010-2011 
Lealie mullt be 5igned before October 10, 2009 
Lease for only$350 permonth, perstudent/ 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
call (574) 234-2436 
SUZUKA, Japan -Hed Bull's Sebastian Vette! led from start to finish to win Formula One's Japanese Grand Prix on Sunday, reviving his championship hopes. 
Vette! finished ahead or Toyota's Jarno Trulli and McLaren's Lewis Hamilton. Drivers' championship leader Jenson Button of Brawn GP was eighth, a place below teammate Rubens Barrichello. 
Brawn GP all but sealed the constructors' championship. Only a one-two finish by Hed Bull in both the remaining races and Brawn finishing pointless can prevent a Brawn champi­onship in its first season. 
A post-race stewards hoaring had the potential to seal tlw constructors' title, but fifth­placn finisher Nico Hosberg was cleared of chargns that he did not slow when yellow !lags were waved aftor a latP. erash. I lad he 
FoRMULA ONE 
Vettel wins Japanese Grand Prix 
been demoted or disqualified, the Brawn GP cars would have had enough points for the title. 
In the drivers' championship, Button's lead over Barrichello was cut by one point to 14, with Vette) just two points further back. 
"It can still be done and its looking mueh better now," Vette! said of his chances in the cham­pionship. "Shame there's only two races to go, but that's life. Anything is still possible and it can change quickly." 
It was Vettel's third win of the season, and first since the British Grand Prix in June. The German started from pole posi­tion and got a strong start to keep the KERS-power boost cars behind him. 
lie had built a 12.5-second buiTnr over Trulli before the late emergence or the safety car fol­lowing a speetacular crash by Torn Bosso's Jaime Alguersuari, who crashed through a track­side advertising board into a tire wall. 
Even with the running order compacted, Vette) emerged strongly when the safety car was removed, and his victory was not threatened. 
Trulli started second but was overtaken into the first corner by Hamilton, with the aid of the KERS-power boost in his McLaren. 
However Trulli stuek behind Hamilton and after his second pitstop, emerged in front of the McLaren, which had lost a mal­functioning KERS system shortly beforehand. 
Toyota has finished second in successive races, but still has not broken through for its first Fl win, meaning Trulli was less than exuberant when he elimbed from the ear, even as Japanese fans reveled in Toyota's strong showing. 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, October 5, 2009 
Brophy 
continued from page 24 
the team looks to her for pro­duction on a regular basis. 
"Becca is just somebody that the team knows is going to put up a good number on the board every round," said Holt, "she is going be there; she's going to show up and get it done." 
The Irish also look to lead­ership from senior captain Brophy, who follows close behind Huffer in stroke aver­age with 75.6. 
"Her team has a lot of respect for [Brophy], as far as the way she goes about the game," said Holt. "She is real­ly competitive, but she is not 
totally consumed by the game." 
The format of the Classic will be a two-day, three-round tournament with two rounds to be played on today and the third to be played Tuesday. 
A shotgun start will begin each day at 8:30a.m. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 
NO CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish place lOth, 16th at Invite 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
Friday's 54th annual Notre Dame Invitational gave both the men's and women's cross country teams a chance to compete against some of the nation's best runners and most competitive programs. 
The men finished the day in 16th place while the women finished lOth. 
As the hosts of Friday's meet at the Burke Golf Course, the Irish looked on their invitational as an opportunity to measure their chances of getting a bid to the NCAA championships event in late November. 
"Overall, the meet was a bit of a sobering experience," junior Mat Abernethy said. "It showed us that we need to refocus our efforts in the weeks to come in order to have a chance at qualifying for the national meet." 
Seventeen ranked teams trav­eled to Notre Dame for the meet, including the defending champion Washington Huskies, Arizona, Arizona State, Florida, Florida State and New Mexico. 
"This was by far the best compe­tition we've seen this season as of yet," Abernethy said. "A number of ranked teams were in the field, and as such the pace was telling." 
The men's team totaled 384 points. Junior Dan Jackson (24:37) finished first among the Irish and 45th overall. Senior Jake Walker, sophomore Joe Miller, junior Ryan Jacobs and sophomore Johnathan Shawel all finished in the top 100 runners for the men's blue division. 
"We entered the meet with expectations to finish in the top five," Jacobs said. "The team walked away from the meet extremely dissatisfied as we expect to compete with and beat the best teams in the nation in every race we run." 
On the women's side of the com­petition, senior Lindsey Ferguson 
(17:08) finished first for the Irish in 15th place and made her best per­formance at the Notre Dame Invitational since joining the team. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles swept twice by non-conference teams 
By BOBBY GRAHAM Sports Writer 
After a canceled tournament this weekend, the Belles dropped two non-conference games Saturday at Anderson University in Anderson, Ind. 
The Belles (7-8, 3-4 MIAA) 
they would have provided the team with a boost of momentum as they head into a week with three tough confer­ence matches, including games against foes Adrian and Trine. 
This weekend's leaders for the Belles included Lorna Slupczynski, who notched 19 kills, 13 digs and 2 blocks in the two matches, and Andrea Sasgen who contributed 10 kills, 2 blocks and 2 aces. 
Despite the rough weekend outing, the Belles will look to regain some momentum this Tuesday as they host the annu­al Dig for the Cure match. 
"We will be trying to raise money for the Susan G. Komen breast cancer research founda­tion," Belles' coach Toni 
lost their first "We will be selling 
game 3-0 to t-shirts and deserts Transylvania 
and taking pledges 
before losing 3­0 again to host for our average Anderson. amount ofdigs before 
Despite the 
and during our game 
fact that these 
next Tuesday.,,
games bear no significance in the Belles' 
Toni Kuschel 
MIAA standing, 
Belles coach 
Kuschel said. "We will be sell­ing t-shirts and deserts and tak­ing pledges for our average amount of digs before and dur­ing our game next Tuesday." 
The event will be hosted during the Belles' match with MIAA rival Calvin. 
Kuschel 
emphasized the importance of the cause and said she hopes as many people as possible will show up to support the fight against breast cancer. 
"It should be a fantastic event and we are hoping to have a lot of support," she said. 
Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 
Junior Marissa Treece (17:38), sophomore Rachel Velarde, junior Erica Watson, senior Beth Tacl, junior Theresa Cattuna and fresh­man Rebecca Tracy all finished in the top 100. The women's team totaled 288 points. 
"We would have liked to have a better showing but it was still a good starting point to the season," Ferguson said. 
Despite not placing as high as they had desired on Friday, it helped to set the rest of the season in perspective as they prepared themselves to qualify for nationals. 
"We know what our competition will be like, how they will race, and what we need to do in order to beat them," Treece said. "We have a very positive outlook coming out of this weekend, even if we did not perform to the level we had hoped for." 
The next event for both teams is the Pre-National Meet on Oct. 17 in Terre Haute, Ind. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

Leasing now for 2010-2011 
Notre Dame Apartments 

2 Bedroom, 1 ,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Only Three Blocks from Campus 
$300Signing Bonus for.2010-2011 
Lease must be signed before October 10, 2009 
Leases start at only $350 per month, per student/ 
View the floorplan at www.kramerhouses.com 
call (574} 234-2436 
For Gay, lesbian, Bisexual Hlluestioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday. October 6 
7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. 316 Coleman Morse 
The Core Council invites gay. lesbian. bisexualS questioning members of the Notre Oame family. along with their friends and allies. to an informal yathering at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is Welcome and Confidentiality is Assured 

Coffee andRefreshments Wt118e Served 

Monday, October 5, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
• 
Swimming Pool, Sun Deck, Hot Tub liNii!~N ··UigkSpeed Wireless Internet and Comcast and-~ketball Court Premium Clble included 

• 
On$ite ~illlllgement and 24/7 Maintenance • On Site Manllgement and 24/7 Maintenance 

• 
Ort"Site ~urity Officer • On SiteSecurityOfficer ·,\~~.'"' ·. 



IJE & ICLO'J:,· 
A PRIME CAMPUS HOUSING COMMUNITY 
Deluxe Walk-to-Campus Student Apartments 
...,u,~... ,,,. the Art Br(\nd New High Line Fitness Center and Community Club House 
Free Tanning Beds 
• Private Balconies and Free Parking 
• 
Swimming Pool, Tennis Court) 24 Hour Fitness.Center, Basketball Court 

• 
Free 'nhuiingBeds 

• 
Ftee Washer and Dryer in each unit 


SMC GoLF 

Belles grab MIAA tournament win 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
No. 2 Saint Mary's continued its MIAA dominance tllis weekend as it won the fourth and final regular season conference jamboree with a team score of 327 at Blackthorn Golf Club in South Bend. 
The Belles set a course record a'i well as beating out conference foe Olivet's previous record by seven strokes. 
"We came out on top Saturday which is a great victory given the conditions of the day," Belles cap­tain Perri Hamma said. "The weather was dill'icult but we played hard and won." 
Olivet took second Saturday, just two strokes behind Saint Mary's. Hope came in third with 331 before Trine in fourth with 356 and Calvin two strokes back for fifth. Albion took sixth with 36 7, followed by Alma with 374 and Kalamazoo with 389. Adrian rounded out the day in ninth with a 402. 
Hope's Megan Scholten was the medalist with a low round score of 77, a course record for an individ­ual MIAA round. 

Freshman Martyna Mierzwa led the Belles with a 79 to put her in second place, followed by junior Mary Kate Boyce in third with a 78. Sophomore Natalie Matuszak and junior Rosie O'Connor each took a share of ninth with rounds of 84. 
Hamma took fifth for the Belles and 17th overall with a score of 87. 
Saturday's win places Saint Mary's 17 strokes over Olivet to lead the MIAA heading into the conference tournament next week­end. 
"Seventeen strokes is a good cushion for the final tournament on Friday and Saturday," Hamma said. "It is important that we don't get too comfortable in that lead though. This course is a good course to make a move so we need to play smart and well to maintain our lead. A win this fall is really impor­tant to our spring season." 
The MIAA teams participate in three spring contests to determine the conference's automatic entrance into the NCAA tourna­ment, where the Belles placed 1Oth this past spring. 
The Belles held the conference title from 2002-2005, but have fall­en to Olivet the last three seasons. Their conquest for the title will con­tinue Friday and Saturday at Bedford Valley Golf Course in Michigan hosted by Hope. 
"The team's goal is to get out there Friday and Saturday and back up all our hard work this sea­son with another win," Ilamma said. "But most importantly we all want to have fun in the last event of the fall." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Junot Diaz 
World View is an initiative from the Office of the President to promote constructive F:*ilUNJVlRSITYOf 
~DEBARTOLO 

dialogue about issues of race, class, ethnicity, religion, and gender through the arts, ~NOTRE DAME ~ l'fRfO!!MINGARTSCfNTER 


Monday, October 5, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
SMC SoccER 
Belles rout vvorst teatn in MIAA 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
After a failed first attempt, the Belles notched their first MIAA conference victory with a 6-0 blowout win over Trine Saturday. 
Saint Mary's l4-7-1, 1-1 MIAA) jumped out to an early lead, netting its first goal just 16 minutes into the match when senior mid­fielder Colleen Ferguson found the back of the net. It was Ferguson's second goal of the season. 
Senior forward Katy Durkin was next for the Belles, scoring the second goal of the match, before adding another in the sec­ond half. Durkin's goals against the Thunder gave her four on the season, making her the Belles' leading scorer. 
Sophomore defender Taylor Paton gave Saint Mary's a comfortable 3-0 lead heading into halftime after receiving a pass from classmate Bridget Ronayne and burying a low shot inside the right post. 
The second half offered more of the same from the Belles, who controlled the game from start to finish. After Durkin's goal in the 56th minute, senior Sam Smogor scored her first goal of the season five min­utes later off an assist from Paton. 
Ronayne capped the scor­ing with a successful penal­ty kick in the 73rd minute. 
Once again the Belles got a solid performance in net from senior Patty Duffy. She made a save on the only first-half shot from the Thunder before giving way to freshman replacement Adele Bruggeman. Duffy's save brings her tally to 57 for the season. Bruggeman recorded her sixth save of the season on the Thunder's lone shot of the second half. 
Saint Mary's kept the offensive pressure on for most of the game, outshoot­ing Trine (0-11-0, 0-2 MIAA) by a margin of 23-2. The Belles also won the corner kick battle, winning 11 without surrendering one to the Thunder. 
The Belles will now turn their attention to two more conference home games, the first coming against Calvin Tuesday. Saint Mary's will then face Alma Saturday before a final non-conference matchup with Elmhurst Oct. 14. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 
Leaders 
continued from page 24 
Ocampo, has led the Irish to a fifth place finish at the Gopher Invitational and a sixth place finish at the Mason Rudolph Championship already this year. 
"Now we are a year older and wiser and of course Josh is back play­ing for us," Kubinski said. "I think everyone is comfortable and confi­dent." 
The two-day, 54-hole tournament begins Monday at 9 a.m. with 36 holes. The final round will be played Tuesday, and Notre Dame hopes to prove a point to its com­petition by the end of it. 
"The guys feel like they are one of the best teams in the country, and are preparing to show every­one," Kubinski said. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Aces 
continued from page 24 
really good and it made it tough for them to do that. 
"One of our goals that the team came up with was to have a better ace-error ratio than Villanova. It's a big goal considering that's a strength of theirs. I like that the team competed and stepped up to that challenge." 
The first game remained close throughout and the lead changed several times. Neither team ever led by more than four. It finally ended on a service ace by senior setter Jamel Nicholas, who finished with four aces on the day. 
"I think we played with a lot of poise and confidence and we didn't get tight thinking that it would be closer than we thought it would be," Brown said. "I think it was the poise and confidence that came through at the end of that game." 
The second and third games were not as close, as the Irish got off to big leads and were able to maintain those 

Washington, D.C. 
Information Meeting 
Tuesday, October 6 7:00P.M. 117 Hayes-Healy 


throughout the sets. 
"Both teams were playing well [in game one]." Brown said. "We didn't have any serving runs, and then we did in two and three which helped us to go for a lead and have more success." 
Senior outside hitter Serenity Phillips and sopho­more outside hitter Kristin Dealy both recorded double­doubles in the match. Phillips had 11 kills and 10 digs while Dealy had 13 kills and 12 digs. Each also contributed to Notre Dame's serving success. 
"[Dealy] was good in every aspect," Brown said. "She was good defensively, she took some great swings and she had several serving runs. She was on her game and that was certainly a big key to our suc­cess." 
Notre Dame maintained its lead in the Big East, with Cincinnati right behind. Villanova, which swept DePaul on Friday, is now lOth. 
The Irish have almost week off before taking on Cincinnati Saturday at 2 p.m. and Louisville Sunday at 5 p.m. Both games will take place at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

e  Interested in Africa?  
~~~~  Interested in challenges and issues of developing nations?  
~~~~  Interested in Sub-Saharan Post Conflict Transformation?  
Don't miss this study abroad opportunity through the School for International Training (SIT)!  
Information Session:  Semester and Summer Options.  

Uganda Information Session 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009 207 DeBARTOLO HALL 5:30 PM 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR All SESSIONS IS NOVEMBER 15, 2009 
..-----------------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 5, 2009 
Clark 
continued from page 24 
they certainly came out with a different attitude in the second half." 
Seton Hall (4-5-1. 1-3-1) struck early with a goal from Brayan Martinez in the 19th minute. 
However, that was all the offense Seton Hall could muster. The Irish defense held the 
Pirates to just 
"Even in the games 
two shots on 
we've lost, we've
goal and seven overall shots. played very well in The second 
the second half In the
shot on goal, 
games we've won the
also by Martinez, was goals have come in saved by sen­
the second half 
ior goalkeeper 
as well."
Philip Tuttle. 
The Irish were unable to Bobby Clark score in the 
Irish coach 
first half, but came out fast in the second period. Senior midfielder Michael Thomas scored in the 51st minute on a penalty kick to tie the game at one. 
"The first goal always gets it back," Clark said. "The longer the game goes the more excited the other team becomes." 
Senior midfielder Justin Morrow secured the game with a shot from 35 yards in the 71 st minute. The shot went right through the hands of Seton Hall goalie 
Early 
continued from page 24 
Henderson ran a give-and-go off junior Rose Augustin before taking a short-ranged shot that squeezed through the hands of the Mountaineer goalkeeper. 
After that, West Virginia (4-4­4, 1-2-1) mounted a comeback that had the Irish back on their heels. After a shot from 35­yards out that hit the crossbar, West Virginia capitalized on the rebound by touching the ball just past Irish senior goalkeep­er Kelsey Lysander to tie the game just before halftime. 
Early in the second half, West Virginia struck again. This time, the slippery weather con­ditions, rather than the Mountaineers, proved too much to handle on the play. Lysander, seeming to have a beat on the long distance Mountaineer shot, slipped as she was moving laterally to make the save, allowing the ball to sneak just inside the far post. 
But the Irish would not be denied a victory. Just minutes after the go-ahead goal, senior defender Haley Ford hit back. After a cross from Augustin that was mishandled by the Mountaineer keeper, Ford raced in and sent a header into the back of the net to regain momentum and hope for the Irish. 
As regulation came to a close, Notre Dame really turned up 
Paul McHenry and into the goal. 
"It was very well shot by Justin," Clark said. "Their goalkeeper played exception­ally well throughout. I think if he looks back he'll think if he had moved his feet a little quicker or if he had gotten his body behind it, it might have hit his body. It was a very good strike." 
After scoring most of their goals in the second period, 
the Irish have earned a repu­tation as a sec­ond half team. 
"We had to chase the game, which we do in quite a few games," Clark said. "Even in the games we've lost, we've played very well in the sec­ond half. In the games we've won the goals have come in the second half as well. It's 
good in that. it shows the team has drive, determina­tion, they perform, they have good fitness. But it's hard to spot why we don't score ear­lier." 
The win moves the Irish into a third-place tie with Georgetown in the Big East Blue Division, while Seton Hall dropped to seventh. 
"Like every game, if we're going to do what we did the last two years, win the league, there's not a lot of 
the pressure offensively. Augustin once again found her­self in the middle of the action after receiving a ball over the top from junior Julie Scheidler, but sent a diving volley just over the crossbar. 
With under a minute to play, Henderson swung in a cross that found freshman Tereza Stastny in the center of the box, but her header deflected off the post before being cleared out. 
The Mountaineers couldn't hold off the Irish for much longer. From the opening kick­off in overtime, Notre Dame took the ball straight down the field where sophomore Molly Campbell's cross found Knaack on the back post for the game­winner. 
Against Pittsburgh (6-2-4, 1­0-4), an equally effective Irish offense was unable to break through for a goal in the muddy conditions. Junior Nikki Weiss got the start in net for the Irish, recording a career-high four saves in her first career com­plete-game shutout. 
The tie breaks the Irish's four-game Big East winning streak on the season. However, Notre Dame remains atop the conference standings with 13 points. 
The Irish will continue its string of road contests with two more conference showdowns against No. 13 Rutgers Friday and at Seton Hall Sunday. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1 @nd.edu 
room," Clark said. "It's pret­ty clear what we've got to do. The win was very impor­tant." 
The Irish will continue their conference schedule as they travel to Marquette Wednesday. That game is scheduled to start at 8:05 p.m. 
Note: 
uSophomore defender Aaron Maund and freshman midfielder Dillon Powers will return to Notre Dame earlier than expected. 
The two left the Irish on Sept. 15 to play for the United States at the Under­20 World Cup in Suez, Egypt. The Americans lost 3-0 to Germany, defeated Cameroon 4-1 and lost 3-0 to South Korea. Their overall score of three did not qualify them to move on to the next round in the tournament. 
Clark said Maund and Powers were scheduled to land in New York early this morning but there is no deci­sion yet about whethere they will play at Marquette. 
"We've got to see where they are with their academ­ics," Clark said. "The big thing is with Internet you can catch up and do a lot, and the professors have been very helpful. 
"So the first question is academically can they make the trip to Marquette. Obviously we would love to have them but the academics come first." 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

Cold Cut Combo 
$5.00 Footlongs Available 
OFF CAMPUS! 
(Including Locations Below) 
Snite Museum of Art 
Annen berg Auditorium 
Monday, October 5, 7 p.m. Screening of documentary film, THIN, followed by a discussion of related 
topics 

Tuesday, October 6 lecture and book signing by artist Lauren Greenfield have been canceled 

For more information call 631-5466 or visit WW\III.nd.edu/-sniteart 

Monday, October 5, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Across 30 Emergency removal of
1 Fastener that people. for short
may have a Phi!Hps head 31 "Rise and _!" 
6 "One more thing 32 "Paper or M plastic?" item 
10 Eject, as 16-35 How something Across may be done. nostalgically
14 Tara's Scarlett 39 Old competitor
15 Factory whistle of Pan Am
time 40 Heeded the
16 Material from a alarm
volcano 41 _and proper
17 Roger Bannister was the first 42 Mensa-eligible 20 "You've got mail" 43 Area west of the co. Mississippi 21 Trudge (along) 45 Regardless of 22 Sheeplike 48 500 sheets 231n the proper 49 VIsitor ln "District manner 9" 24Agents' 50 Little vegetables customers that roll 
26Women's 51 Pitchfork-shaped quarters, in Greek letter sultans' homes 
54 Features of 29 Fan sound yawts or ketches 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

58 Essayist's  
59 Suffix with billion  
60 Fabric  
introduced by  
DuPont  
61 Poetic nights  
62 Use a spyglass  
63 Sport with  
shotguns  
Down  
Couch  
2 Part of a sneeze  
after "ah·ah-ah  
..  
3 Fide! Castro's  
brother  
4 "To_is  
human ••."  
5 Indian beads  
used as money  
6 Really bother  
7  Ear-busting  
8 Drunkard  
9 Marine_  Puzzle by Fred Plscop  
(presidential helicopter) 10 liny slice of pie 11 Politico Sarah 12 Long jump or 1 00-meter dash 13 Peddlers peddle them 18Woes 19 Fabrics with wavy patterns  31 Part of a mall 32 Italian port on the Adriatic 33 Closely related 34 Rubies, emeralds, etc. 36 Thin layer 37 "Dang!" 38 E-mail often  42 Risks being caught in a radar trap 43 Bog fuel 44 ROdeo ropes 45Willem of Spider-Man movies 46 Run off to the justice of the peace  48 Direct, as for information 50 Whittle down 51 Heap 52·-gin flzt. 53"Money_ everything!" 5540 winks 56 Expire  
23 Art--(1920s­ caught in filters  47 Patrol car waller  57 Noah's vessel  
'30s style)  


For answers, call 1·900+285·5656. $1.49 a minute; or. with a credit
24 Doorbell 
card. 1-800·814·5554.
25Queue 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday26 Test the weight crosswords from !he last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. of AT&T users: Text NYTX to 366 to download puzzles. or visit nytlmes.comlmobllexword for more information.
27 Swear to 
Online subscriptions; Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past
28_avis 
puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).29 Predecessor of Share Ups: nytimes.comtwordplay. bridge Crosswords lor young solvers: nytimes.comlleamlngtxwords. 

CF.LERRlTIES BORN ON TfiiS (}X\" Radlltd l.c!p.ll ('o<)k • .lO. Alicia SilWf>l(>~l<"..lk StNI" Sarandun.li:~, A!ll>e Rkt·, liS 
Uappy Bh1bday: \buit<•w 1<1 '"' 'lli<lrt"r at~! ltl<W eihcienlt<l come om ""'''P Opporh.u>i· ties a~ ~~~!,.hug JY>nr w~:t:y, '!ii) recogni.t.e \Vhat\ hem!? offered and dun~• fear what Het!d'* to he don~ to ~d wl'l!!'t'C ·y~'n waul $(~ ~J.1. h i~ an ~t\tcrt..~uus ye.fit ahe~d '!U) •km'l mi~~ out or fa\l 
l.,hmd [.,,·au;eymi~W 'wtftlm~t. Your tmmk" are2, II. 15. !.l. :!8.37,40 
ARIW; 1Msrt>b 21-Aprll l\11: As >0011 os you become ron ><-'11""'· you will cud up in a dis· pute nver sorndltiug 1M! doeStfl really mailer. MJShaps or mjury due I<> Jlllf~lllcl><:<. l«.·k of toler-~u~ee Qr tlt':mg earekS:s will t'tm~ eJlKll'lnna! stre-~~-* * * 
TAURUS I April 20-:\.Jlly 11)): f)(m'l be (o<>led by auy"'"' !l!ill.;!llg b•!l prmtlt>e' Y.m lhlW as noud1 h> t.>!kr wilh<•Jl nil the mmcce>~l!l'Y iluff aud )'<lU s!Mild tl<: J,mmd tbat you'""' sn dllcrenl. Svnl<>O!re impottmtl "111 n."<'O!llliZ< yonrtalent *** 
GVMfNI (May 21-J•nte ZOo: Get the '''lr" hy ~OU.JI to a11 e•"<111 you fed will amtnlolk I<) Yi11tr J'r<•ltlCliVity or ;,,pil\' you to •lc·wk1• a tilkl~. l:l<•ft wasle Y<'lll' tin~<: w<lrlilll!' toward St'!UteOf~e else\ goal_ "tt,u11 interest sOtlK"t}ft:e in a f~lrtn.~o.~lup th.a1 can ehun~e Y'"t.r ~latus 
**** 

('ANCF.R tJilil<> 21-July ll): You haw tl>e e!WI')I.Y ~) C(ta!t '<ll:ndbiup 'lll.'dal f<)f wur friend• mid !muily. A<-'OllWt•~ti\)11 y<:>U lnw With "''I!INI~<' you "''I''"'' will brill~ at!o1rt a lligbt-r 111<:<1111<' iJT vash~ Dnn~llct your pride stq1 you l'rmn ac<:eptin~ what you deserve. ** 
l.f'.!> tjuly 2.\-,-\og. 211: Don't!l"t sid..-tmck\Od lly all the tbillj!S <1U your I<Hi<lli>t Yon sbc>UI(I be elljo)'i.n)l lire monl<nt, the ~pat-e you are <-1ttrently in. the I""J'lle ar<~md you and tl1e rdaum..trips you are devdopm~-Irs a rre•t t!ay to put a~ide li:>r fmllll"'fill!l. a11d plea•=. 
***** 

vuu;o iAog.l-.1-Sept. lll: l'ut yomwlf on the line. No maner wlmt you do it will tum out in your J;W(>r. Ymuc insijilirtid ~nd pr;i<.1kal way ofdealin~ with peopk will ensure tl~at )Oil willl>elmJli!)'Wi.ih!heomcmlll<'. •·** 
UDRA tSept.l.\.Ot'l.lZ): '11te mon~eut Yt'>U llll>ddk m the aftoin. nf <~hers. you will t"' cbashs..>d. Now 1s not the time to poillllhe finger btU il i~ a 1"'11«-'f lmre to ·ocork onoue of ymll' ~.reatiw Jlt•':)«h, ar ~l!lf.Uilj)tnWt.ll<'\11 ot ltpdalil>~ y~\Uf look. *** 
S<~ORPIO(Od.l.'l-1\iuv. 21.•: Achanjl< inlhc ways'"'~~'"'"' lre!lb y(»l will come ••• sur· pri~~. Rc><:iprocate lilld COliS~kr l'•rtlll'nllf!. at ><.~m: lim~r< date. Taking 011a chall<uge I<>· !l"tllcr will 11•1kt llw task !~lllru~<l much e~skr. 
SA(<ITfARJllS IN<»'. 22-lkc. Zll: NO! vveryQtle willtbink 1hc s;uuc way you dQ •11<1 ibi' C<llllca<lto au cml>arrassill~. •ituat1011. Slick dose to home <lr with Jl<.'Ojlle who koow you wdl ;m<i <,!Jare ymll' "Pinions.***** 
('A.I"'UCORN ilke. :U·Jan. l'h: P011't kl trivialm~l!<'rs nti11 V<lllr '~'v whell , . .,,1 have''' mucllj'oing. f<Jr yr>R A lmle inwnnity and hard work will help};"" mm·y,»ll' ll<ltn•' mto S<.>ll>~:thmr. spc'<'I11CUl~r. Speud a lit!k l.ime a.rnlll\O!leY <111 yourwlt and your af~..,araucc ** 
AQl'AIUl'S •Jan.lU-I'eb.lS.I: YiJururemono• will push you tofmda way'" u~<:htdc the llJing.~ you tt;t"<l to enjoy tulo your biN)! ..:hednk and help you avuid !lre people aud old 
habit• !hal int.li~I!Ced you nep.atwely. Yoot inmitlve m<i¥.hl Wtll lead to au ellfl<'hmg, <lisci· 
plined lifestyle.**** 

I'IS<'f:S <h.'b. 19>-Manb UH: Dm1'f dtanw your plat" l..,e ..u~ '"m""'l" haH>pWd to~" in a <tilkreut direcli<'<iL it may I>< timet<> mak" a lew dt.1nge• m )!O\Il' !lCr>Oiml!ife aud lo ,.,... mun<l youn<etf With l""'l'le wtth whom}.,,., h"w more iu ,·oumom. *** 
Uirtbda) llaby: You are illlnitiw and "'''mr<-,lid. Yoo Utkc ewryillilll! y<>u do "'-'110if>ly ami will alwoy~ do more tlla11 fei.Jilired \bit win friend> eoslly 
tJug~mtJ'.< ncb ,fiU<s: ;,.genifli<ut.wmjr>r ''"'ifh/>:lllilllnmsulfati<>m. my.~f:"fJ('E' ,{'f.Jmfcugenlah~.i,1fm-.£~(~tmi(~ ·.~· hl¥>g. a.'i.m.}(ltb'h:t,eom ft'ii"" .filtt 
JUMBLE 

~J! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
FUTLE 
1 

rJ 

i\:12009 Tribune Madia &lrvlces. Inc.. 
All Rights Reserved, 
YATHS 

[] [ j I I 
tWEREVS I

IIJ II 

JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

TO SOME:, THE: 6ANKE:R'S SON WAS WORTH A L.OT, TO OTHE:RS HE: WAS --­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer here: [I I I I I I l I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday's I Jumbles: AIDED OPIUM NICELY HAZING Answer: What the street artist drew ­AN AUDIENCE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Tf9 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ________ State _____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 
I 
PORTS
i Monday, October 5, 2009 
page 24 
r 
t 
MEN'S GOLF 
Squad looks to prove itself at Fighting Irish Classic 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Writer 
The Irish will try to defend their home course today when the Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic tees off at Warren Golf Course. 
In the fourth year of the annual tournament, Notre Dame (18-9) will compete against 14 other teams, including 2008 Classic 
champion and NCAA runner­up Arkansas. In order to beat the No. 20 Razorbacks, the Irish will need to be at their best, which Irish coach Jim Kubinski said is a possi­bility. 
"The guys are playing real­ly well, and have practiced well this week," Kubinski said. "They are definitely prepared. We have put a lot of time in this week, even though it is our golf course." 
Not only has Notre Dame prepared well, but there will be extra motivation in this tournament, Kubinski said. 
"There is a little extra motivation to come out here, on the heels of a great foot­ball win yesterday," he said. "The guys are excited and I know they have some friends and family coming in, so they want to put on a good show." 
After finishing second in the initial Classic, Notre Dame slipped to 8th and then 15th out of 15 teams last year. Kubinski attrib­uted the disappointing last place showing to a void in leadership of the Irish. 
"[The last place finish] came after learning that Josh Sandman, then our lone senior and captain, would not be playing for us the whole year," he said. "The guys really did not know 
MEN's SoccER 
Second Half Success 
Notre Dame rallies to defeat Seton Hall 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame just needed to warm up a little. 
On a cold and rainy night at Alumni Stadium, the Irish (5-4-1, 3-2 Big East) scored two goals in the second half for a come-from-behind 2-1 victory over Seton Hall. 
"I think everyone was a lit­tle disappointed about how we played in the first 45 minutes," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "I think the play­ers knew they hadn't per­formed the way they're capable of. But full marks to them. It's not always easy to pull themselves up and they showed good character and 
see CLARKipage 22 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish set new NCAA record 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
The Irish traveled to Morgantown, W.Va., Friday with an opportunity to cement their name atop the list of elite programs in NCAA history. And that's exactly what they did. 
Junior forward Taylor Knaack's first go.al of the sea­son, which came 41 seconds into overtime, gave No. 8 Notre Dame a 3-2 victory over Big East foe West Virginia and extended the team's conference unbeaten streak to an NCAA­record 56 games. The Irish fol­lowed up that performance with a 0-0 tie against Pittsburgh Sunday, despite out­shooting the Panthers 25-7. 
Notre Dame (8-3-1, 4-0-1 Big East) broke out to an early lead against West Virginia off sopho­more Melissa Henderson's goal 17 minutes into the match. 
see EARLY/page 22 


who the leader was going to be, who was going to step up and play well, or who was going to be in the number one position." 
This year, if the Irish have similar questions, it is due to an abundance of leader­ship. Sandman returned to the team for a fifth year, and he, along with seniors Doug Fortner and Carl Santos-
see LEADERS/ page 21 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish serve up loss to Villanova 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame knew going in to their match against Villanova that it needed to watch out for the Wildcats' above-average serving. 
Apparently no one told Villanova to do the same. 
The Irish (9-4, 3-0 Big East) had eight service aces Sunday as they swept the Wildcats (27-25, 25-16, 25-16). Villanova (12-5, 1-3) had just two. 
"I think that Villanova relies heavily on their serving game and scoring points in runs," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "I think our passing was 
see ACES/page 21 

Experience key as team heads to Windy City 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI Sports Writer 

The Irish will travel to Chicago today for the Windy City Collegiate Classic. 
This will be Notre Dame's first time participating in the tour­nament, although the Irish did compete in the Northwestern Invitational for the 1996-97 season. The Invitational was played on the same course, and the Irish finished fifth. 
Despite the experience on the team from previous years, this season is still young. 
"We are two tournaments in to a 10 tournament season, so we have a ways to go," Irish coach Susan Holt said. 
Notre Damp,'s best finish came in last weekend's Bettie Lou Evans invitational, where it tied Tennessee-Chattanooga for third place. Before that, it struggled in the Mary Fossum Invitational on Sept. 13, tying for 10th in a 17 -team field. 
The Irish will get no relief from the tough competition they have faced so far this year, as the Collegiate Classic features a 15-team field that contains three top-25 programs. Among these are top-ranked Purdue, No. 11 New Mexico and No. 17 Arizona. 
The Irish lineup for the Classic will remain consistent with the previous two tourna­ments, with seniors Annie Brophy and Kristin Wetzel, jun­iors So-Hyun Park and Katie Conway and sophomore Becca Huffer set to play for the Irish. 
Huffer has put up the best numbers so far in 2009, with a team-best stroke average of 
74.4. Even though she is the youngest player in the lineup, 
see BROPHY/page 20 







