
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Multicultural clubs Inust publicize 
University should focus on retaining minority student, task force says 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
A survey of international and multicultural students suggested that multicultural and interna­tional clubs or events need better publicity, Diversity Council Representative Brigitte Githinji said. 
"I noted that people who answered said they had not par­ticipated in any of these events or had not heard of them because they were not well publicized," Githinji said. "Because of this, [the clubs] tend to be more inclu­
see CLC/page 4 


Ne~ buildings seek LEED certification 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 

Notre Dame emphasizing sustainability through the pursuit of Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification for current and future con­struction projects, University architect Doug Marsh said in a lecture Monday night. 
"Buildings have the tough­est impact of the environ­ment," Marsh said. "There is a huge opportunity to posi· tively impact those outcomes by different designs." 
The United States Green Building Council (USGBC) gives LEED certifications based on buildings' innova­tion and sustainability in site planning, water man­agement, indoor environ­mental quality, material use and energy, Marsh said. 
Construction projects cur­rently seeking LEED certifi­cation include Ryan Hall, Stinson-Remick Hall and the Purcell Pavilion addition to the Joyce Center. 
Marsh focused on Stinson­Remick Hall, the new engi­neering building that is scheduled to open in January 2010, to explain the innovations that contribute to LEED certification. 
The building's reduction of 
see LECTURE/page 6 


VOLUME 43: ISSUE 114 TUESDAY. MARCH 31.2009 
No changes made to 
Jenkins, University reject petition to add sexual orientation to protected groups 

By-ROBERT SINGER News Writer 
University of Notre Dame President Father John Jenkins, C.S.C., rejected appeals to add sexual orien­tation to the University's nondiscrimination clause during a discussion Monday with the leaders of the Campaign for Human Dignity about a petition the group submitted earlier this month. 
"From the beginning of the meeting he made it clear that he didn't want to reconsider the nondiscrimination clause," Progressive Student Alliance president Bridget Flores said. 


Mock trial club sends teams to nationals 
Four Notre Dame students won awards at Opening Round competition over the weekend 

By IRENE ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
· Mock trial is one of the more time-consuming activities avail­able at the University, according to Bill Dwyer, the coach of Notre Dame's mock trial team. 
"You know the TCES they pass out to students?" Dwyer asked. "This class is in the top 1 percent of all classes in terms of time spent working for it." 
Mock trial is not only a club but also a credited course. It meets every Thursday night for two hours, and students practice on their own in order to fully grasp the skills taught in class. 
Currently, the clause states the University does not dis­criminate based on "race/ethnicity, color, nation­al origin, sex, disability, vet­eran status or age." 
University spokesman Dennis Brown provided Jenkins' rationale for the University's stand. 
"He explained that our rea­sons for excluding sexual ori­entation from the nondis­crimination clause remain the same now as in 1997," Brown said. "That is,. after careful analysis from both the legal and theological per­spectives, it was determined that adding the clause may 
see PETITION/page 3 
Ryan O'Connor, a senior politi­cal science major, said prepara­tion gets more intense when the spring semester arrives. 
"Fall semester, I practice about four hours a week," he said. "But in the spring when we have most of our competitions, it can be eight or 10 hours a week." 
A mock trial competition con­sists of four rounds. Two rounds are spent presenting the case from the plaintiffs side, and two are spent arguing for the defense, according to O'Connor, who has been accepted into Georgetown University's law school. 
see MOCK/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Student leaders converge on campus 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Student body president Bob Reish said the Intercollegiate Symposium -a conference between student government representatives from Midwest universities that took place at Notre Dame this weekend -is an "investment in the future" for the student body. 
"I think the conference went better than expected for a con­ference in its first year," Heish said. "I think each school brought a different perspective that we could relate to." 
The conference involved six breakout sessions in which rep­resentatives from Vanderbilt University, Washington University in St. Louis, Purdue University, Northwestern University and Notre Dame exchanged ideas 

• about how student government should work, Heish said. Student body vice president Grant Schmidt, who will take his position as student body presi­dent Wednesday, said the sympo­sium offered many ideas for improving student government. "Something Northwestern does really well is offering an evalua­tion of off-campus housing options," he said. 
Schmidt said he has since looked into creating a similar evaluation system for students living off-campus to complete. 
see REISH/page 4 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 31, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Make a 


decision 
Since the onset of the "Odrama," I have been very conflicted as to where I stand on the issue and what I should do. A lot of me thinks that since I am a sophomore, I have no real place object­ing to anything that happens at gradu­ation. But it does make me think, what would I do ifI 
Stephanie DePrez 
were a senior? I think the issue merits examina­Assistaint tion, even ifI am Scene Editor in no position to react. 
I have been in a number of classes where I felt bad, even guilty, for having the gut reaction of "I don't want Obama here." Listening to the mainly one­sided opinions of other students talk about the "embarrassing factions" who are objecting and the "radical, selfish Catholics" who are taking graduation from the seniors, I can see how easy it would be to say, he's coming, it's over, get over it. 
But I came here because Notre Dame is a Catholic university. We've been toe­ing the line of that title for a while, call­ing ourselves a Catholic university with great pride and distinction, so proud that we aren't just one or the other­we have peace<tbly reconciled being a top research university with our com­mitment to education with a Catholic identity. But I think the issue's finally come to a head. That's what this "Odrama" is really about-which comes first, Catholic, or University? 
If we are a university first, then by all means, the President should be speak­ing here! Education and open-minded­ness should come first in all things, and we should operate on a platform of openness to hearing anyone, without questioning speakers who might other­wise be held accountable for positions that are contrary to Catholic doctrine. Ifwe are Catholic first, then why should Notre Dame confer its prestige upon someone who as acted in ways that violate core Catholic doctrine? I think that President Obama coming" here has become such a (national) issue because Notre Dame, Catholic University, has never had to choose its ultimate designation in such apublic, definitive way. 
To listen to students of differing views discuss this topic is to witness negotia­tions between a person speaking Greek and a person speaking Swahili. They get nowhere, because neither really understands where the other person is coming from. All those against Obama receiving an honorary degree are stat­ing that no matter who he is or what the award is for, he holds a position contrary to a "non-negotiable" teach­ing. All those delighted to see Obama speak and receive the degree think this is irrelevant because he's the President and we're a university. 
So the time has come for us to decide. We can no longer live in the limbo of thinking being a Catholic uni­versity can appeal equally to both aspects -somewhere along the line, we must ultimately make a decision. After sitting with this for a week, unsure which attitude I would sub­scribe to, I realized the distinction has already been made by one of Notre Dame's ubiquitous mantras: God, Country, Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE BEST ITEM THAT THE DINING HALLS HAVE TO OFFER? 







Sarah Essaied  Rachel Tran  Tom Pesch  Chase Riddle  Huong Ngo  
freshman McGlinn  freshman Farley  freshman Morrissey  freshman Keenan  junior P.E.  
"The barbecue, or the gyros, or those mini sandwiches with the bacon, turkey, lettuce and tomato."  "Whatever you can smuggle out in your pockets."  "Wajfle batter. Straight, uncooked wajfle batter."  "Chocolate sprinkled doughnuts. ,  "Pita bread. "  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

VANESSA GEMPISfThe ObseNer 

Irish lacrosse player Jake Marmul goes for the ball in the team's 11-6 victory over Bellarmine. They take on Villanova today at 4 p.m. 
OFFBEAT 
Man arrested after opening airplane exit 
NEW YORK-New York City prosecutors have filed criminal charges against an air traveler who got fed up waiting on the tarmac at Kennedy Airport, and tried to open a jet door and get out. Authorities said 60-year­old Robert McDonald, of England, faces reckless endangerment charges for opening an emergency exit hatch as the plane waited out an hours-long delay at JFK. 
20 cat skeletons found at home 
APPLETON, Wis. -A woman was charged with animal abuse after a landlord found about 20 cat skeletons in a home she rented. The eight charges filed Friday against 41-year-old Lorie 

A. Kuehl include five felony counts of mistreat­ing animals. Prosecutors said the landlord entered the home in January after she abandoned it. The landlord found piles of animal feces and cat skeletal remains, some in a plastic garbage bag. 
Teen lights man's pants on fire 
FERNDALE, Mich. ­Police in a Detroit suburb say a teenager has been charged with lighting an unconscious man's pants on fire and causing a third-degree burn to the man's groin. Police in Ferndale, Mich .. said 18­year-old Tyler Quick was arraigned· Friday on a charge of assault. 
Ferndale police Lt. William Wilson tells The Daily Tribune of Royal Oak that Quick was attending a party at the home of a 51-year-old man when the host passed out. 
Information compiled from the .Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0:: LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 

3: 





0,,,,,,,
.... 
,,,,,,,
e
<
(,) 
0 
HIGH 57 HIGH 38 HIGH 50 HIGH 55
..I LOW . 33 LOW 33 LOW 35 LOW 32 IN BRIEF 
A lecture titled "To Cry or Not to Cry: Heritage, Genetic Identity, and the Ambivalence of Belonging in Argentina" will be given today by Dr. Graciela Cabana of the University of Tennessee at 3 
p.m. in 117 DeBartolo Hall. 
The Center for Asian Studies will host a symposium called "The Church in Asia, Part 1: East Asia" today from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium and Great Hall. The symposium aims to explore the past, present, and future of Catholicism in Asia, and will feature three scholars focusing on the Church in Japan, China and South Korea. 
The play "Our Town," by Thornton Wilder will be shown today through Saturday at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 p.m. in Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The play was first published and produced in 1938, and depicts life in Grover's Corners, New Hampshire, transforming the simple events of everyday existence into universal truths. Regular ticket prices: $15 general public; $12 sen­ior/NO faculty/staff; $10 stu­dents. 
The annual Student Peace Conference will be held this Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 3 
p.m. at the Hesburgh Center. Its theme this year is "Perspectives on Peace." Admission is free, but regis­tration is required. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 
e 

HIGH 47 HIGH 
60 
LOW 38 LOW 
40 
Atlanta 62 I 47 Boston 52 I 35 Chicago 55 I 38 Denver 45 I 416 Houston 68 I 60 Los Angeles 68 I 50 Minneapolis 36 128 New York 58 I 38 Philadelphia 59 I 37 Phoenix 79 I 52 Seattle 49 I 40 St. Louis 49 I 37 Tampa 82 I 61 Washington 64 I 39 
Tuesday, March 31, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Petl•ti•on 
"There is a discrepancy 
. ' . INSTITUTE FOR ETHICAL BUSINESS WORLDWIDE

",., . 
.


··'\···"'"" 

CENTER FOR ETHICS AND 
RELIGIOUS VALUES IN BUSINESS NOTRE DAME CHAPTER OF NET IMPACT 
INVITE YOU TC> 
4:15p.m. Frank Cahill Lecture ''Ethical Issues Faced by Young Managers" 
Panel Discussion Participants 
Kerry Doyle, Shanin Dorfueille Chris Chvens, Nicole Phillips 
5:15p.m. 

Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh Award for Exemplary Ethical, Environmental, Social and Governance Practices 
to 

General Electric Company 
Acceptance by 
Keith Sherin Chief Financial Officer General Electric 
Wednesday, April!, 2009 Jordan Auditori~, Mendoza College ofBusiness 

between the way the University responds to hate 
continued from page 1 speech on the basis of race and the way the University responds to hate speech on the basis of sexual orienta­
not allow us to distinguish tion," she said. "We really between sexual orientation wanted to challenge that and behavior, which is a dis-there really isn't a welcoming tinction that we must main-culture for GLBTQ students. tain as a Catholic university." In the past, GLBTQ students 
However, Jenkins did say have felt like the administra­he would be willing to con-tion hasn't responded to hate sider alternative ideas to speech and harassment." make Notre Dame more wei-While they haven't given up coming for the GLBTQ (Gay, on their fight to change the Lesbian, Bisexual, University's nondiscrimina-Transgender and tion clause, the leaders of the Questioning) community, Campaign for Human Dignity according to Dewey. have already responded to 
"Father Jenkins seemed Jenkins' suggestion to form very open to taking steps to alternative proposals. make campus more welcom-Flores listed some ideas she ing for GLBTQ students. He plans to offer University rep­asked us to come up with a resentatives who specialize list of proposals," said sopho-in discrimination issues. more Mary Dewey, chair of "Better publicizing of the the campaign. resources available to GLBTQ 
Flores and Dewey based students who are victims of their argument to Jenkins on harassment and other forms the following points: that of discrimination, so students adding such a clause would can know where they can go, not conflict with Notre separating the channels Dame's Catholic identity, that where students can report the University has a different discrimination from dorm standard for responding to life, offering alternatives harassment targeted at from going to rectors -a GLBTQ students and that the private means by which stu­atmosphere on campus cur-dents can report discrimina­rently prevtmts the University tion -as well as more effec­from living up to the princi-tive response from the pies set forth in ifs Spirit of University about discrimina-Inclusion document. tion," sjle said. 
"We welcome all people, While these ideas would regardless of color, gender, help make the campus more religion, ethnicity, sexual ori-welcoming for all students, entation, social or economic broadening the nondiscrimi­class, and nationality for nation clause would have example, precisely because more substantial effects, of Christ's calling to treat according to the Campaign's others as we deserve to be leaders. treated," according to the "Primarily [the Univ!\rsity] Spirit of Inclusion document. would project the idea that it 
Dewey said they used the is open and willing to admit­document to support their ting GLBTQ students and that request. it is consciously trying to 
"We wanted to emphasize make an atmosphere wei­that the most concrete step coming to students of all sex­the administration could take ual orientations," Flores said. to live up to the ideals the According to law student 

. Spirit of Inclusion represents Kyle Sommer, there is an is to include a nondiscrimi-apparent inconsistency in the nation clause [for sexual ori-implications of including sex­entation]," Dewey said. "We ual orientation in the presented him examples of University's harassment poli­clauses form other universi-cy but not in its discrimina­ties that have sexual discrim-tion policy. While the ination in their nondiscrimi-University must respond to nation clause, particularly St. verbal abuse targeted at Mary's and Boston College. GLBTQ students, it has no 
"We wanted to give him legal obligation to ensure examples of other Catholic that employees are not fired colleges, ways that Notre because of their sexual ori­Dame can still commit to entation, Sommer said. nondiscrimination that are "It has ramifications in still in line with Catholic val-employment discrimination, ues." in admissions, in scholar-
Flores elaborated on how ships and in athletics," he Notre Dame could still retain said. its Catholic identity by broad-The Campaign for Human ening its nondiscrimination Dignity will also pursue club clause. recognition for AllianGeND 
"Notre Dame also says that and OutreachND. because of its Catholic char-"We want to work with the acter, it holds itself to a stan-University so the Spirit of dard higher than civil law," Inclusion can become a reali­
she said. "We think the best ty," Dewey said. way to hold itself to that_ On this point, the two sides standard would be to add found common ground. sexual orientation to the non "Over the past decade, discrimination clause." Notre Dame has made signifi-
In presenting her case, cant strides in making the Dewey cited a perceived dou-campus more supportive for ble standard by the gay and lesbian students, and University in what described we look forward to exploring as a weak reaction to stu-ways in which we can dents who last year wore improve _still more," Brown inflammatory T-shirts dis-said. paraging gay students and a more stern response to racist -·Contact Robert Singer at letters students received. rsinger@nd.edu 



page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 31, 2009 
Mock 
continued from page 1 
This year, Notre Dame sent four teams to regional contests. Three teams qualified to advance to the Opening Round National Competition, which took place last weekend in Hamilton, Ohio. 
Four Notre Dame students won individual awards at the Opening Round competition. Mary Margaret Skelly won an Outstanding Attorney award, while O'Connor, Cameron Shane and Katie Matic won awards for Outstanding Witness. 
Allison Ciesielski, the team's cur­rent president, said she considers the time commitment one of the most challenging a.<;pects of partic­ipating in mock trial. 
"It's a lot of travel on the week­ends and a lot of individual prac­tice time," she said. "The difficult part is becoming proficient at it and finding the appropriate amount of time to devote to it." 
Matic, who was elected team president for the 2009-2010 aca­demic year, said the Mock Trial fosters skills that are helpful in later life. 
"We don't only learn about the law and how to speak in front of people," said Matic, who wishes to study corporate law after graduat­ing from Notre Dame. "We also learn how to think on our feet and make spur-of-the-moment argu­ments in a convincing manner." 
Notre Dame's mock trial team consists of 32 students, 16 of whom participated in the Opening Round National Competition. Many of the students wish to attend law school after they grad­uate from Notre Dame, but some members simply consider the mock trial team to be an impor­tant part of their extracurricular life. 
"Most of them have a serious interest in law school," Dwyer said. "But some of them do not. We have a few pre-med and engi­neering majors." 
Dwyer, who lives and practices law in Chieago, said mock trial is very challenging and that the stu­dents are often not recognized for their efforl'>. 
"It's kind of an underappreciat­ed activity," Dwyer said. "These students spend an enormous amount of time on it and they're very good at it." 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 
Store Your Stun 
1\ftrthe ~imnm1r1 
(all or stop on by & reserve today! 

15141 203-0512 
64l:U Sr;<k Rt><1d S<;u!h ~rnj located at Clewland R<l. & us 20 BY!>"'iS. 7 minuc"' fmm camp'"' 
CLC 
continued from page 1 · 
sive in their nature." 
Githinji also said she would like to see more of a focus on helping multicultural and international students who attend Notre Dame want to stay. Currently, groups are focused-on increasing diversi­ty in the incoming class, but the problem lies in multicultural or international students wishing to transfer, she said. 
"There is nothing focw.sing on keeping the students here," she said. 

Githinji said that from the sur­vey, it seems it is more likely that the multicultural or international students will want to transfer after the first year "because they aren't comfortable." 
"The whole first year is a strug­gle between staying and not stay­ing," she said. 
Githinji said in order to help address this issue, she would like to see more of a "joint effort" between the groups within and outside of Student Government that focus on diversity. 

She said she foresees the task force carrying over to next year. However, recommendations for next year may include the forma­tion of a task force that focuses on retention, rather than recruiting, of multicultural and international students. 
CLC also discussed feasible 



Reish 

continued from page 1 
This system would offer an online store of information about the different apartment com­plexes and housing areas for students who are thinking about moving off-campus. 
Student body vice president­elect Cynthia Weber, who will also take office Wednesday, said the representatives exchanged information about how student­government can connect with the student body. 
"Northwestern has fireside chats which take student gov­ernment into the residence halls," Weber said. "They pro­vide snacks and talk with stu­dents about things, not even necessarily about student gov­ernment. It's a great outreach effort." 
Schmidt said the representa­tives from P1.1rdue said their stu­dent government offers free legal consultations for students, something he said he is interest­ed in pursuing. 
Reish said Purdue's legal offer­ings include "know your rights business cards" and legal ways to apply the idea or the Medical Amnesty Poliey, which would proteet studenlo;; who have been drinking from getting in trouble while helping an intoxi­cated friend who is hurt or sick. 
Chief Executive Ao;;sistant Karen Koski said her task foree was to meet with a representative from the Office of Residence Life and Housing to "get some feedback about our ideas [because) this is definitely going to need to be a collaborative effort." 
Koski said her task force plans to send a survey to hall staffs to determine how the policy would affect them. She also said they plan to create a form with which a member of hall staff could give a recommendation of amnesty when the case is sent to the Office of Residence Life and Housing. 
Koski said her task force hopes to have a recommendation on the Medical Amnesty Policy by the end of the year, but if nothing else, her task force will create an objective report on what they have accomplished this year so that the next administration can decide whether or not they want to continue it. 
Student body president Bob Reish said the task force on the relationship between off-campus students and the University is planning to analyze the informa­tion that it has gathered from other schools similar to Notre Dame and from the student sur­vey in order to decipher what Notre Dame needs. 
resource days devoted to giving out information. 
"It is simple but effective," Reish said. "It would be interest­ing to see if we can follow up with that." 
Weber said student govern­ment will hold the symposium again next year. 
"The conference was under 24 hours and all of us learned a lot in those 24 hours," she said. "All of the universities we invited expressed genuine interest in doing it again." 
Schmidt said he hopes to expand the conference next year and invite more universities to participate, although the eonfer­ence will remain among Midwest schools and "peer insti­tutions" that are similar to Notre Dame aeademically. 
Reish said the University of Chicago and Carnegie Mellon University are schools that could be included next year. 
Next year's conference will most likely be held at Notre Dame as well, but ideally, the schools will eventually rotate in hosting the symposium, Heish said. 
Schmidt said the timing of the conference was especially bene­ficial because both the outgoing student leaders and the incom-
He said they will divide the information into three groups ­students who an~ curr@t.ly living off-campus, students who will be moving off-campus and incoming freshmen -to sec "if there is a progression as a student moves through his or her liffl at Notre Dame." 
Reish said the task force plans to make a recommendation by the end of the year about whether the resources currently in plaee arc sufficient for ofT-campus stu­dents or whether they need to be improved. 
Student body vice president Grant Schmidt said his task Ioree is still working on ideas for improving agenda.nd.edu. He said he will meet with the individ­ual in charge of agenda.nd.edu ­later this week. 
Schmidt also said there is a pos­sibility that a student-built Web site could replace agenda.nd.edu 
'There are several classes that are taking a data base course ... And it's basically a competition to design something similar to what we have with agenda.nd.edu," Schmidt said. 
"We're going to have to look into that a little bit further," Schmidt said. But ideally, one of these student built Web sites could be used, he said. 
Schmidt said his task force aims is to finish its goals by the end of the year. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
ing student leaders were able to participate. 
Reish and the current chief executive assistant Karen Koski attended the symposium along with Schmidt, Weber and the incoming chief of staff Hyan Brellenthin. 
"I think having the old admin­istration and the new adminis­tration there is extremely impor­tant," Schmidt said. 
One of the. most beneficial aspects of the conference was forging personal connections with leaders from other univer­sities, Schmidt said. 
"This was an opportunity to put a face to a name," he said. "We've already gotten an e-mail from the student body president of Vanderbilt." 
Weber said tho symposium helped ereate lines of communi­cation between student govnrn­ment leaders of Midwest univer­sities, and Notre Dame will be able to bennlit from the shared ideas. 
"It's surprising how many issues are parallel at the schools," she said. "Wo got a lot of ideas about how to better serve the student body." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckli:y@nd.edu 
MAKE YOUR COVER LETTER 



STANDOUT· 
& GET YOU THE JOB. 
Team up rdtlt an award-winnin;< writer & professional editor. 
Contact Jennifer Bernstein, Ph.D. at StandOutConsulting@gmail.com 
Other services include: resume refinement essay development &polishing manuscript & article editing 
CENTER FOR APPLIED MATHEMATICS 2009 Nieuwland Lecture Series 
Dr. Charles Westbrook Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (ret.) 
The Role of Combustion in #uturP ~nergy ~..{j~ennrios 
S>OO-~~ 
~:.w.~~·::~ 

Wednesday, April 1, 2009 3:30PM McKenna HaJJ Auditorium 



------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 


ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, March 31, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Sudan's leader, UN chief face off 
DOHA, Qatar-The U.N. chief confronted Sudan's embattled president Monday with demands to allow the return of expelled aid groups to Darfur -and was met with a defi­ant response as Arab leaders rallied to his side to formally reject international war crime charges against him. 
The Arab League declaration is likely to boost Omar al-Bashir's willingness to chal­lenge the West and flaunt his wide support among Arabs in opposing the arrest order by the International Criminal Court. 
Al-Bashir's attendance among other Arab leaders was his boldest public snub of the ICC's decision, bringing him to the same con­ference hall as U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for the summit's opening speeches. Ban's spokeswoman, Michele Montas, said the two men were in the same room, but did not speak or interact. 
No response to N. Korean launch 
SEOUL, South Korea -President Lee Myung­bak said South Korea opposes any military response to North Korea's planned launch of a rocket, while Washington's defense chief said the U.S. won't try to shoot it down. 
The remarks by Lee and U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates appear to reflect con­cerns that any tough reaction could send ten­sions· spiking out of control at a time when the communist regime is warning that even U.N. sanctions would prompt it to quit nuclear disar­mament talks. 
North Korea says it will launch a communica­tions satellite into orbit between April 4 and 8 as part of its space development program. Regional powers, however, suspect the North is using the launch to test long-range missile technology. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Mom guilty of cult starvation death 
BALTIMORE -A former religious cult mem­ber pleaded guilty Monday to starving her 1­year-old son to death after making an unusual deal with prosecutors: If the child is resurrect­ed, her plea will be withdrawn. 
Ria Ramkissoon, 22, also agreed to testify against four other members of the now­defunct religious group known as 1 Mind Ministries. All four are charged with first­degree murder in the death of Javon Thompson. 
According to a statement of facts, the cult members stopped feeding the boy when he refused to say "Amen" after a meal. After Javon died, Ramkissoon sat next to his decom­posing body and prayed for his resurrection. 
Killer in NC rampage was after ex-wife 
CARTHAGE, N.C. -A painter accused of shooting up a North Carolina nursing home may have been after his recently estranged wife during a rampage that killed seven defenseless residents and a nurse tending to their care, authorities said Monday. 
Hobert Stewart's wife was working as a nursing assistant at Pinelake Health and Rehab when he attacked Sunday, not long after the two split, said Carthage Police Chief Chris McKenzie. The breakup was part of a rocky relationship that spread over many years and bookended other failed marriages, according to court documents. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Backers push to save children's home 
INDIANAPOLIS -Advocates rallied at the Statehouse Monday -sending chants of "Save our home!" echoing through the halls -to urge Indiana legislators to keep open a state home for troubled children. 
The State Department of Health wants to close the Indiana Soldiers' and Sailors' Children's Home in Knightstown, saying it costs too much money and that its 115 stu­dents should be moved into traditional schools in May. The state spends about $10 million a year on the facility, and the 53­building campus needs repairs that could cost between $65 million and $200 million. 

Twelve Pakistani die in bloody siege 
Militants sieze police academy and kill six cadets· before blowing up selves 
Associated Press 

LAHORE, Pakistan ­Black-clad Pakistani com­mandos overpowered a group of militants who had seized a. police academy, took cadets hostage and killed at least six of them Monday in a dramatic chal­lenge to the civilian govern­ment that faces U.S. pres­sure to defeat Islamic extremists. 
The security forces stormed the compound on the outskirts of Lahore to end the eight-hour siege by the grenade-throwing gun­men, with three militants blowing themselves up and authorities arresting four, officials said. At least three other unidentified bodies were recovered. 
Pakistan's top civilian 
security official said mili­
tant groups were "destabi­
lizing the country," suggest­
ing the plot may have origi­
nated with Pakistani 
Taliban leader Baitullah 
Mehsud. 

Meanwhile, a Taliban 
member claiming to speak 
on behalf of a shadowy lit­
tle-known group called the 
Fedayeen al-lslam said it 
was behind the attack. 

Earlier this month, gun­
men ambushed Sri Lanka's Pakistan's inability to was all over." the Pakistani Taliban in the 
cricket team in Lahore, prevent the attack Interior Ministry chief northwest -noting that 
killing seven people and appeared to be an intelli­Rehman Malik suggested one of the arrested attack­
underscoring militants' gence failure. Nonetheless, the culprit could have been ers was Afghan -and 
ability to wreak havoc far a massive response was Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, a added that "some rival 
from Pakistan's northwest­quickly mounted Monday, Punjab-based, al-Qaida­country," a usual reference 
ern regions bordering one that included army sol­linked Sunni extremist to India, was trying to 
Afghanistan where al­diers, armored vehicles and group implicated in several derail democracy in 
Qaida and the Taliban have helicopters. other attacks in the coun­Pakistan. 
proliferated. The siege ended after try. "In our country, at our 
Both Lahore attacks fol­security forces cornered Lashkar-e-Jhangvi is one different borders, arms are 
lowed a crackdown on the several militants on the top of several militant groups coming in, stinger missiles 
Pakistani group Lashkar-e­floor of a building in the that operate well beyond are coming in, rocket 
Taiba, blamed for the compound, where the gun­Pakistan's northwest. Some launchers are coming in, 
November 2008 siege in men had held about 35 of them, including Lashkar­heavy equipment is coming 
Mumbai, India, that killed hostages. Afterward, the e-Taiba, have their roots in -it should be stopped," he 
164. There has been specu­security forces fired their the Kashmir dispute with told state TV. "Whoever the lation that Monday's raid guns in the air in celebra­India, and Pakistani spy anti-state elements are, was revenge for the crack­tion, shouting "God is agencies are believed to they are destabilizing the down. great!" have helped establish country." 
The primary victims of "The eight hours were them. The attacks pose a major both attacks were like eight centuries," said Lashkar-e-Taiba has test for the civilian admin­Pakistan's undermanned Mohammad Salman, 23, a denied any links to either istration of President Asif and underequipped police, recruit who had holed up in the Mumbai or cricket Ali Zardari, which has been a militant strategy that the building. "It was like I attacks. distracted recently by polit­appears designed to expose died several times. I had Malik also said the plot ical turmoil involving the state institutions as weak. made up my mind that it may have originated with opposition. 



AFGHANISTAN 

Suicidebomberinpolice outfitkills nine 
Associated Press  the country. President Barack Obama last week announced a new strategy  stood guard at the blast site in Kandahar and ordered journalists not  
DUND, Afghanistan  - A suicide  for the Afghanistan-Pakistan region  to  take  photos, according  to  an  
bomber wearing a police uniform blew  with a goal to "disrupt, dismantle and  Associated Press reporter at the scene.  
himself up inside a police headquarters  defeat" al-Qaida.  The Canadian soldiers refused to let  
in southern Afghanistan on Monday,  In total, there are a record 70,000  Afghan police approach the blast site,  
killing nine people and wounding eight,  international forces in Afghanistan.  the reporter said.  
an official said.  The international Red Cross warned  A  spokesman  for  NATO's  
Five officers and four civilians died in  Monday  that  more  Afghans  and  International Security Assistance  
the attack in Dund district, about 10  Pakistanis will be at risk in coming  Force, Lt. Commander Chris Hall, said  
miles  (15  kilometers)  south  of  months as a result of worsening politi­ troops later allowed photos to be taken  
Kandahar city, the Interior Ministry  cal instability and fighting. It urged the  once media credentials were checked.  
said in a statement.  United States and others to consider  Kandahar is the spiritual birthplace  
The attack comes as the United  the plight of civilians as they step up  ·  of the Taliban and continues to be a  
States prepares to send 21,000 addi­ their military presence in the volatile  militant stronghold. Afghan police fre­ 
tional troops to Afghanistan to bolster  region.  quently suffer from Taliban attacks  
the 38,000 American forces already in  Canadian soldiers and Afghan police  from roadside and suicide bombs.  

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, March 31, 2009 

Center establishes new pro-life fund 
By Amanda Gray 
News Writer 
The Center for Ethics and Culture has established the Notre Dame Fund to Protect Human Life, according to the Center's Web site. 
Center Director Professor David Solomon said he is excit­ed about the Fund. 
"It was set up from an initia­tive of alumni, especially Bill Dotterweich, to increase pro­life awareness on campus," Solomon said. 
Although Notre Dame's cam­pus is quite active in the Pro­Life sector, the Fund is meant to help increase the number of active students. 
Since opening last fall, the Fund has been steadily gaining attention and donations, according to Solomon. 
"We've had two substantial donations, and many, many smaller, but significant, dona­tions," Solomon said. 
These donations help the Fund to Protect Human Life support right-to-life actions on campus. 
According to the Web site, the Fund is "expendable," meaning the funds can be used as soon as needed, to support organiza­tions such as the Right to Life club. However, the Fund is not meant to replace funding for these ventures, but supplement them if their funds run low, Solomon said. 
"Those groups currently receive some minimal University funding, and their fundraising efforts have not 
always been sufficient to sup­port their desired agendas," according to a statement from the Center's Web site. 
"The fund gave substantially to the trip for the Right To Life March in Washington," Solomon said. Funding from the Center for Ethics and Culture allowed Notre Dame faculty members to attend the March for Life for the first time in January. 
The fund also sponsors the Bread of Life dinner each semester, Solomon said. 
"[The dinner] is meant to start conversation between stu­dents and faculty," Solomon said. 
In the future, the Fund hopes to have a two-year volunteer program, according to Solomon. 
"We'd ask recent volunteers to donate two years, and we would give three summers of education," Solomon said. 
The planning committee for the volunteer program will first meet this summer, according to Solomon. 
The Fund is not meant to be negative, Solomon said. 
"We're very eager to make activities a positive addition to campus culture," Solomon said. "We want to move the discus­sion past stereotypes." 
The recent abortion-related decisions in Washington, D.C. make a fund like this one much more relevant, said Solomon. 
"Things are getting tough with regard to early life," he said. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Student body votes through Falvey's new constitution 
By Sarah Mayer 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's College student body passed a new constitution, which student body vice president Sarah Falvey and her committee spent the entire year writ­ing, with 81 percent of the vote last week. 
"It was pretty strongly supported and I am very proud of it," Falvey said. 
The official turnover to the 2009-2010 Board of Governance is April 1. Student body president Mickey Gruscinksi delivered her last commissioners report Monday. 
Gruscinksi said she met with campus information technology personnel about putting a printer in the Student Center. 
"This will be a trial run," Gruscinksi said. "A printer will be placed behind the front desk and students will be able to print from their print limit." 
Students will be limited to 10 pages per printing ses­
sion. Student desk workers will be trained in changing the paper. At the end of next semester, it will be evaluated to see if the print­er should stay. 
"Hopefully it will work out and you will have a printer to print from in the Student Center next year," said Gruscinski. 
Women's studies chair Becki Faunce presented a co-sponsorship asking for funds for three seniors and one junior to attend the North-Central Sociological Conference in two weeks in Dearborn, Mich. 
"Not everyone is a sociolo­gy major, but everyone engaged in some kind of sociological related project, also involving women's studies, economics, and his­tory," Faunce said. 
The three seniors going will present their senior comprehensives to the con­ference. The College sends 
students to  this conference  
every year.  
"This  is  an  incredible  

opportunity to showcase Saint Mary's talents". 
Faunce said. 
Other BOG news 
+Returning Student Activities Board President Michele Peterson said they will accept applications for board members starting this week. 
+Alumnae Chair Emily Perry said there will be a Speed Networking site Wednesday, April 1 in Stapleton Lounge from 6:30­8 p.m. It is an event to pro­vide students a few minutes to talk to professionals in the community to gain net­working skills. 
+Religious Commissioner Sarah King announced sev­eral events to celebrate Holy Week next week. The events include Reconciliation in Regina Chapel next Tuesday and campus-wide stations of the cross in the LeMans Chapel next Wednesday. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Residents begin clean-up 
Associated Press 
FARGO, N.D. -Weary resi­dents of this sandbagged city came together in churches Sunday, counting their bless­ings that the Red River finally stopped rising and praying the levees would hold back its wrath. A brief levee break that swamped a school pro­vided a warning of the kind of threat that still hangs over them in the days ahead. 
Church services that are a staple of life on Sunday morn­ings in Fargo took on greater significance as people gath­ered after a week of round­the clock sandbagging. They sang hymns and held hands, asking together for divine help in avoiding disaster. 
"At a time like this, we need to call on God's providential assistance," said the Rev. Bob Ona, pastor of Fargo's First Assembly of God church. "All of you have been heroic in your efforts. All of you have been pushed past the wall of weariness, exhaustion and numerous frustrations in order to do the right thing ­help people in the name of the Lord." 
The Red River continued its slow retreat Sunday after cresting a day earlier, drop­ping below record level to 
39.88 feet. City officials have said they would breathe easi­er when the river falls to 37 feet or lower, expected by 
Saturday, meaning a lengthy test for sandbag levees that residents hastily constructed last week. 
Fargo faces another test this week as a storm approached with up to a half­foot of snow and powerful wind gusts that could send ferocious waves crashing into and over the already-stressed levees. 
The sandbag effort resumed Sunday as helicopters began dropping 11 one-ton sand­bags into the river to deflect its violent current and keep it from eroding vulnerable areas of the dike system. 
The aerial effort also included an unmanned Predator drone used to watch flood patterns and ice floes and provide high-definition information to teams on the ground. North Dakota has more than 2,400 National Guard troops engaged in the flood fight across the state. 
The helicopter sandbag effort was focused on an area of the river that put another scare into the city during the night when it burst past a levee and submerged a Lutheran school campus. 
Oak Grove Lutheran Principal Morgan Forness said city officials, the Army Corps of Engineers, and the National Guard unsuccessful­ly tried to contain the gushing water after a floodwall buck­led around 1:30 a.m. The water kept spreading and "we couldn't contain it. ... it's inundating all of the build­ings," Forness said. 

"The campus is basically devastated. They fought the good fight. They lost, and there's nothing wrong with that," Mayor Dennis Walaker said. "Those things will con­tinue to happen. I guarantee
it... Crews largely contained the flooding to the campus, pre­venting more widespread damage in nearby areas. School officials also frantical­ly raced to rescue a cockatiel, 
parakeet and tortoises, birds, iguanas and snakes kept at the school as part of its sci­
ence program, while pumping out most of the water in the buildings within 12 hours. 
The flooding at the campus -heavily damaged in the region's 1997 flood -repre­sented the type of disaster that could crop up in Fargo throughout the week, with Walaker calling it a "wakeup call" for the city. 
"The main event is right now, while we have this high­er water. And it ain't over till it's over," said U.S. Rep. Earl Pomeroy, D-N.D., comparing the need for vigilance until the very end to the University of North Dakota's stunning, last-second loss in the hockey playoffs the night before. "And it ain't gonna be over until several days from now." 
Lecture 
continued from page 1 
energy consumption will have the largest impact, Marsh said. Stinson­Remick will contain ener­gy-efficient lighting, solar panels and a heat recovery system for lab fume hood exhausts. 
The heat recovery system will have payback within seven years, but the solar panels will not save as much energy due to the northern Indiana climate, Marsh said. 
"We'll get there," Marsh said about the solar pan­els. "The technology is replacing itself and it's 
becoming  more  and more  
efficient  several  times  
over."  

Stinson-Remick will also feature showers and locker rooms to encourage faculty and staff to bicycle to work, Marsh said. To pro­mote fuel-efficiency, the nine most convenient park­ing spaces will be reserved for fuel-efficient cars. 
The metal roof deck, interior doors and ceiling tiles of Stinson-Remick will be made from recycled materials. 
The University buildings will receive LEED certifica­tion within a year of their opening, Marsh said. 
There are four levels of LEED, determined by the number of points that buildings earn for each 
sustainable innovation, Marsh said. The University is seeking certification, the most basic level of LEED, for buildings already under construction. 
Marsh said Notre Dame would pursue LEED silver, which is a higher level of certification, for three newer construction proj­ects: the Phase I Innovation Park for research, the Stayer Center for Executive Education and the new hockey facili­ty. 
Marsh said University architects must balance the design goals for the cam­pus with the desire to cre­ate sustainable buildings. For example, he said University buildings have always had slate roofs. Slate is a sustainable mate­rial, but it does not earn points with USGBC, Marsh said. 
"[LEEDI is a tradeoff with trying to have a compre­hensive campus," he said. "We can sacrifice some of our design goals to get the credit." 
Sustainability and LEED certification involve a transformation in architec­ture, construction and materials, Marsh said. 
"This is all about trying to create a sustainable environment," he said. 
"Sustainable for  human  
beings  as  well  as  for  our  
planet."  

Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Tuesday, March 31, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,522.02 -254.16 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 513 56 3,276 2,653,565,351 
':11M~!': ,, , " ::ltnl; ~:liiiiiB:!I'ji1 r!tOO~f~~f; 
NASDAQ 1,501.80 -43.40 
•''fi¥SI:,,• •·.•···~~1~~!:r:1~: II'Jil~lltllllllll.l!l;l!llllli: 
S&P 500 787.53 -28.41 ''Nllla'!Pf~Ji;i KiM ;(IJJIII~IIi!lillii10illi!illl\ 
FTSE 100 (London) 3,762.91 -135.94 

COMPANY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
BK OF AMERICA {BAC)  -17.85  -1.31  6.03  
CITIGROUP INC (C)  -11.83  -0.31  2.31  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -3.46  -2.82  78.79  
ANANOAL BULL 3X (FAS)  ·23.50  ·1.49  4.85  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -1.70  -0.047  2.714  
13-WEEK BILL  -4.00  -0.005  0.120  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.44  -0.016  3.602  
5-YEAR NOTE  -4.00  -0.072  1.727  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -3.97  48.41  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -7.60  917.70  
PORK BELLIES {cents/lb.)  ·2.15  83.75  
Exchange Rates  

YEll! 97.6750 EURO 1.3188 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2612 BRITISH POUND 1.4266 

IN BRIEF 
Stocksfall as govt niecfsautomakerplans 
NEW YORK -Wall Street's March rally is on hold after the White House rejected turnaround plans from General Motors Corp. and Chrysler and gave investors an economic reality check. 
Major indexes fell about 3 percent Monday, including the Dow Jones industrial average, which lost about 254 points but finished well off its lows. Financial stocks weighed heavily on the market amid worries that banks will need fresh injections of capital. 
Fears of an automakeF bankruptcy have been looming over investors for months, and the lat­est developments, which included the removal of GM's CEO Rick Wagoner, made the market uneasy not only about the industry, but the overall economy. However, analysts said the pullback, which began with a 148-point drop in the Dow Friday, wasn't surprising after the average surged 21 percent over just 13 days. 
"The market had a very significant rally off the lows," said David Katz, chief investment officer at Matrix Asset Advisors. "We think it's just taking ,a breather." 
Black caucus criticizes Obama's actions 
WASHINGTON Members of the Congressional Black Caucus on Monday criticized the lack of minority participation in the govern­ment's financial bailouts and suggested that President Barack Obama isn't doing much better than his predecessor to ensure diversity. 
Gjving Obama some leeway with only two months in office, the lawmakers voiced their con­cerns during an all-day summit on Capitol Hill that drew several hundred minority-and female­owned business leaders to hear guidance from federal officials such as Federal Reserve Chainnan Ben Bernailke. 
Many said the officials were receptive to the idea of more diversity but short on details for how to make it happen. 
"What I heard today from the administration seemed to be a continuation of the status quo," Rep. Yvette Clarke, D-N.Y., said at a news confer­ence outside the event "It is time that we wake up." 
Rep. Chaka Fattah, D-Pa., noted that no women were in the group of bank leaders who met with Obama last week and warned that the country could end up relying on the same people who cre­ated the need for a rescue ifit doesn't branch out. 

ObamaputsGM,Onysleronshort leash. 
President asserts huge control over auto industry in attempt to change it 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON President Barack Obama asserted unprecedented government control over the auto industry Monday, bluntly rejecting turn­around plans by General Motors Corp. and Chrysler LLC, demanding fresh con­cessions for long-term fed­eral aid and raising the possibility of quick bank­ruptcy for either ailing auto giant. 
Obama took the extraor­dinary step of announcing the government will back new car warranties issued by both GM and Chrysler, an attempt to reassure consumers their U.S.­made purchases will be protected even if the com­panies don't survive. 
"I am absolutely commit­ted to working with Congress and the auto companies to meet one goal: The United States of America will lead the world in building the next generation of clean cars," Obama said in his first extended remarks on the industry since taking office nearly 10 weeks ago. And yet, he added, "our auto industry is not moving in workers and bondholders. banks and installed a new 400,000 industry jobs the right direction fast The administration engi­CEO at bailed-out insur­have been lost in the past enough to succeed." neered the ouster of long­ance giant American year alone, many in 
Obama, flanked by sev­time CEO Rick Wagoner International Group. Michigan. eral administration offi­over the weekend, an indi­Other presidents have Under Fritz Henderson, cials at the White House, cation of its deep involve­forced showdowns with newly named as CEO, announced a short-term ment in an industry that major industries, with General Motors issued a infusion of cash for the once stood as a symbol of mixed results. Harry statement saying it hopes firms, and said it could be American capitalism. Truman's decision to to avoid bankruptcy, but the last for one or both.. Obama's announcement nationalize the steel indus­will "take whatever steps 
Chrysler, judged by the underscored the extent to try on the eve of a strike in are necessary to success­administration as too which automakers have 1952 was ruled unconsti­fully restructure the com­small to survive, got 30 been added to the list of tutional by the Supreme pany, which could include days' worth of funds to large corporations now Court But Ronald Reagan a court-supervised complete a partnership operating under a level of succeeded in busting tbe process." with Fiat SpA, the Italian government control that air traffic controllers' Chrysler Chairman Bob 
1 

manufacturer, or some seemed unthinkable less union three decades later. Nardelli sought to assure other automaker. than a year ago. Since last The latest addition to the customers, dealers, suppli­
GM got assurances of 60 fall, the Bush and Obama list, the once-proud auto ers and employees that the days' worth of federal administrations, often act­industry, has struggled automaker "will operate financing to try and revise ing in concert with the with foreign competition 'business as usual' over its turnaround plan under Federal Reserve, have for more than a genera­the next 30 days" while new management with engineered the takeover of tion, then was further bat­working closely with the heavy government partici­housing titans Fannie Mae tered by the recession and government and Fiat to pation. That would involve and Freddie Mac, seized a credit crisis gripping the secure the support of concessions from its union large stake in several economy. Obama said stakeholders. 

EPAhead announces emissions limit 
Associated Press 

speaking in front of a row of cranes at burned. 
NEWARK. N.J. -The head of the a press conference in Port Newark. Jackson made the announcement at Environmental Protection Agency Jackson estimated that 40 of the a news conference with the Coast wants to limit emissions along the 100 l'argest U.S. ports are located in Guard and other federal and state nation's coastline and within its sea­metropolitan areas that fail to meet officials. ports, just as the agency does along federal air quality standards. One of EPA estimates the new emission­highways, with tougher pollution them is the Port Newark facility, control technology will cost shipping standatds on large commercial ships. which is part of the Port of New York companies $3.2 billion. Jackson said 
EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson and New Jersey-the East Coast's that translates into an increased cost said Monday that the United States largest port complex. of about 3 cents for each pair of and Canada have applied to the The EPA estimates that 90 percent sneakers shipped into the United International Maritime Organization of the ships carrying cargo in and out States. to create a 230-mile emissions control of U.S. coastal ports are based in Gov. Jon Corzine welcomed the pro­area around much of their coastline. other countries. posal and recalled sending Jackson to 
The move is intended to ensure the Ships operating in the proposed Washington, D.C., to lobby for it when shipping industry does its part to zone would face stricter limits on the she headed New Jersey's Department improve the air quality of major sea­sulfur content of their fuel beginning of Environmental Protection. port communities. Ships moving in 2015, and new ships would be Christopher Koch, president of the through the zone would be subject to required to incorporate advanced World Shipping Council, said interna­the tougher emissions standards. emission-control technologies begin­tional shipping companies have par­
"This is an important and long over­ning in 2016, Jackson said. Sulfur ticipated in discussions about the pro­due step to protect the air and water content is directly related to the soot, posed emissions control area and are along our shores," Jackson said, or pollution, emitted after fuel is not opposed to tighter standards. 


THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 
Tuesday, March 31, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 

No confrontation necessary 
P.O. Box 779, None Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHJEF Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriariry 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmerz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 63I-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
. SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO1 @saintmarys.edu 
• PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoinr space is available w all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conract information. 
Quertiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor-in-Chiefjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob:s.:rvu (USPS 599 2-4000) is puhtlslu·d Moruky through F[:iday ex.cept during ' exam and v:ttarion periods. A subscriprioo to The Observer is SilO for om: acadcmtc year: $65 fm one scmcsn:r. 
The Observer is published ar; POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall &nd address corrmions ro: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0"779 Th<Oi=v" Periodical postage paid :n Notre Dame W.Box779 and additional mailing offices, 024 South Dining Hall 
Norrc Dame, IN 46556-on9 

The Obscrvtt is a memhtr ofthe Associated Pres.~. All reproduction rightl< .ne rcscm:d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports John Tierney Michael Bryan Liz O'Donnell Meaghan Veselik Tess Civantos Alex West 
Graphics Scene Madeline Nies Caitlin Ferraro 
Viewpoint 
Lauren 

Brauweiler 
Notre Dame is not a public utility. It has no commitment to honor at its cap­stone ceremony every politician whom the political process deposits in the Oval Office. Nor is there an unbroken custom that, if a president is invit­ed, it must be in his first year. 
Our leaders had to know that their invitation to President Obama would imply a general commen­dation of the man and his policies. In the conflicts over those poli­cies, our leaders have committed, in perception but also in fact, the name and prestige of Notre Dame to the side that is hostile to the imperatives of faith and reason affirmed by the Catholic Church. Our leaders are not only dismissive but also contemptuous toward the Church. The first thing Bishop D'Arcy knew about it was when he was told that Obama had accepted the invitation. 
President Obama is a relentless advo­cate of unrestricted abortion, including the Freedom of Choice Act, which would abrogate all state laws restrict­ing abortion. On his fourth day in office, he overturned the Mexico City Policy that forbade organizations receiving federal funds to perform or promote abortions in other countries. He has restored to the UN Population Fund (the funding that President Bush had stopped because of the Fund's sup­port for forced abortions.) Obama opposes continued federal funding for pro-life pregnancy help centers. He opposes the Hyde Amendment which denies public funding for most abor­tions. At the other end of life, the Stimulus Package foreshadows the rationing of health care for the elderly and unproductive. "[T]he Obama Administration," said Cardinal Francis George, "intends to remove a ... rule for _the Department of Health and Human Services [HI-IS] that [protects] doctors, nurses and others ... who have objections in conscience to ... abortion and other killing procedures ... [S]uch ... would be the first step in moving our country from democracy to despotism." Not surprisingly, Obama's nominee for Secretary of 1-lHS, Governor Kathleen Sebelius, a Catholic, has a strongly pro­abortion record, including persistent . vetoes of restrictions on late-term abor­tions. The abolition of conscience pro­tection could spell the end of Catholic hospitals and drive Catholics out of much of the medical profession. That prospect raises our leaders' honoring of Obama to a new level of scandal and even betrayal. 

The definitive "life" issue arises from Obama's authorization of' JIJIS " to fund and conduct human embryonic stem cell research" (ESCR). Adult stem cells, derived from bone marrow and other sourees, have been used successfully in relieving various injuries and medical conditions. Embryonic stem cells have never suecessfully treated .a human patient for anything. But federal fund­ing would make ESCH a profitable, if useless, industry. 
No moral problems arise in the use of adult stem cells. But every embryo is a living human being. To remove the stem cells kills that embryo. It is, in moral terms, a murder. 
ESCH can be performed on embryos left over from in vitro fertilization. The excuse that "they are going to die any­way" does not justify intentionally killing them any more than it would justify involuntary lethal experiments on condemned criminals. 
ESCH can also be performed on embryos created by cloning. In eloning, the nucleus tlf a somatic cell, which is any cell of the body other than a sperm or egg cell, is inserted into an egg (ovum) cell from which the egg cell's nueleus has been removed. The egg is then electrically stimulated to react as if it had been fertilized by a sperm cell. The result is a one-cell zygote which divides and develops. For the first eight weeks it is called an embryo. The cloned embryo is genetically identical to the donor of the somatic cell. 
Cloning can be reproductive, in which the embryo is implanted in a woman's womb and carried to term, or thera­peutic, in which the embryo is killed by removal of the stem cells for use in research. Both types are condemned by Catholic teaching. See Dignitas Personae (2008), nos. 28-30. 
"[W]e will ensure," Obama said, "that our government never opens the door to the use of cloning for human repro­duction. It is dangerous, profoundly wrong, and has no place in our society, or any society." He opened the door for the worse evil of therapeutic cloning. The Dickey Amendment, which has denied funds for "creation of a human embryo ... for research purposes" or for "research in which a human embryo is destroyed," is being removed. So the Obama Administration will fund the creation of new human beings by cloning for the purpose of killing them and using their stem cells for research. The experiments per­formed by Nazi doctors on concentra­tion camp prisoners were unimagina­tive and primitive by comparison. Our leaders ought not to act like the "good Germans," who were submissive to their Fuhrer, by conferring Notre Dame's highest honors on the perpetra­tor of such an atrocity. 
Apart from the "life" issues, our lead­ers were reckless to commit Notre Dame to Obama in the face of mounting and well-grounded opposition to other Obama policies, including his fiscal delieits and such a stunning expansion of executive power and of federal con­trol over private entities and states that it amounts to a constitutional coup. Unmentioned in the background are the pending lawsuits-not yet decided on the merits by the Supreme Court­that raise serious questions as to Obama's eligibility for the office. 
Our leaders act in what they think is the best interest of Notre Dame. But that is nQ excuse. The invitation should be withdrawn. It implies no personal animosity to suggest that Fr. Jenkins and the other Fellows and Trustees responsible for this fiasco should resign or be removed. 
What would be a proper response? On-site demonstrations would be coun­terproductive. You can petition or write to our leaders. But the appeal should be made instead to a higher authority. An alumnus has suggested that stu­dents, faculty, staff and friends of Notre Dame ought to -and we will -pray a continuous Hosary of reparation at the Grotto during the time of Commencement, from two to four on Sunday, May 17th. This would not interfere with Commencement which is on the other side of campus. It would not be a demonstration or protest. No signs, marches, or disruption. Just peaceful prayer, in silence or aloud, by individuals and families. lfyou can't make it to the Grotto, pray the Rosary during that time wherever you are. Incidentally, Professor Mary Ann Glendon, the Laetare Medal recipient, would make a better use of her time at the Grotto than as a warm-up or wind­up act at Commencement. 
Parking is limited, but you can park off campus and walk to the Grotto. There should be no objection by Notre Dame officials to students, faculty, staff and friends of Notre Dame peacefully going to the Grotto to pray. It makes no difference how many show up. The objective is simply a union of prayer to make reparation and to petition Notre Dame, Our Lady, for Notre Dame, our University. 
Prof Emeritus Rice is on the law school faculty. He may be reached at rice.J@nd.edu and 574-633-4415. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the .author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 

Who do you think will win the NIT? 
Notre Dame Penn State Baylor San Diego State 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When we see men of a contrary_character, we should turn inwaras and examine ourselves." 
Confucius Chinese philosopher & reformer 
THE OBSERVER 

I·EWPOINT
Tuesday, March 31, 2009 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Spread the word to end the word 
Today, March 31, Notre Dame will join over 40 universi­ties worldwide, 100+ high schools and countless citizens in a global effort to bring dignity and respect to people with intellectual disabilities by pledging to end the pejorative use ofthe word "retard(ed)". 
From Stanford to Princeton, Colorado State to American University of Beirut, students are speaking against the dis­crimination and dehumanization faced by people with intellectual disabilities. As the co-founder of this interna­tional "End the R-Word Day", I ask you to join us for rea­sons ofsocial justice. To the 157+million with intellectual disabilities worldwide and their families, the word "retard(ed)" is hate speech. It is a derogatory and dehu­manizing epithet that invokes a history ofinstitutionaliza­tion, shame, and cruelty that continues today. Its effects are parallel to racial slurs though even more dangerous. While ethnic minorities have the capacity ofselfdefense and the ability to demonstrate the fallacies ofthe discrimi­nation they face, those with intellectual disabilities are often unable to do so. Many with intellectual disabilities are defenseless to the hate and prejudice society serves them. · 
Join us and take a stand against hatred and hate speech. As a brother to Olivia, a beautiful young woman with intel­lectual disabilities, I ask you to join us for reasons ofcom­passion. Rather than dismissing her-as "another retard", emulate her capacity to love unconditionally. Take example from her ability to live without hate. Spend one day with her and learn lessons oflife and humanity that no universi­ty could ever teach you. Join us and support the dignity of those like Olivia who understand the mysteries oflove and happiness in a way that the rest ofus never will. 
Whatever your reason may be, join us today in LaFortune and the Dining Halls and pledge your support for more respectful language and a more accepting society. We ask not for your time or your money but rather your willingness change your vocabulary to improve the world for Olivia and others with intellectual disabilities. 
As an advocate and, more importantly, a brother, I thank you. I love you Olivia. 
Soeren Palumbo sophomore Sarin College March30 
Why so serious? 

Recently a letter to the Observer's Viewpoint section by Lori Hoetger was submitted that called into question the ranking of Bookstore Ba..'iketball names. I wanted to take the time to voice my concern over this travesty. I honestly believe, as well as others I have spoken with, that many of these names did not belong on this list. Team names about celebrities like Chris Brown, Rihanna, Donte Stallworth, or Plaxico Burress are not funny. They are absolutely hilarious, and should have been much higher. 
Bookstore Basketball is a time to celebrate the start ofSpring in South Bend (unless you played this weekend), and to review all ofthe recent occurrences in pop culture. As the cap­tain ofthe #7 team "Unlike Rihanna, We Get Our Hands Up on Defense" and last year's #1 "Heath Ledger's Sleeper Pick", I wish to com­plain about the lack offanfare over a seeming­ly unprecedented back-to-back top 10 names. 
In the end, my teammates 0 am unsure about Brett) and I do not support domestic vio­lence or drug overdoses, but we are in favor of laughter. Ifour team names bring a smile to ONE person's face, then I am unbelievably_sat­isfied. It is probably the greatest accomplish­ment in our short lives and I will not have peo­ple who claim to have a sense of humor, but then complain about it, take that away from us. If you think the name is funny, then laugh and move on. Ifyou don't think it is funny, than you're probably one ofthe Darners I see in the Library on a Friday night when I stop into use the bathroom. 
I look forward to next year when we try for an unthinkable Tom Emanski-typ-e "Back to Back to Back" accomplishment. It's not our fault that one fourth ofwomen are involved in domestic abuse or that people can't dismount their high horse and take a joke. In the word's ofthe late Heath Ledger, "Why so serious?" Lori, you're a Senior in College not a Senior citizen. 
Boom, roasted! 

Pat Cassidy junior Dillon Hall March30 
Family ties 

I would like to write in regards to the Pledge to not say the R-word. In my experi­ence, I have heard numerous students discuss tests, professors, and their peers are the r­word ("retarded"), and I never really consid­ered it that offensive until I said the word in front of my grandfather. He immediately chastised my comment because it was an insult that debased an entire group ofinno­cent, wonderful people. He participates in motorcycle rallies in Indianapolis that actual­ly raise significant amounts of money for organizations dedicated to looking for treat­ments and therapies for the mentally handi­capped. He's met many ofthe families who are raising their disabled children, and their kids are just as precious and wonderful as any others. 
In fact, I have just gained a familial rela­tionship with the r-word. My uncle has adopt­ed a 2-year old orphan from China who was born with a devastating cleft palate. Despite having the boy for two years now, he still can­not properly form words, and is predicted to struggle greatly in school whenever he gets enrolled. He is incapable of being successful in any day care because he still communi­cates in varied laughs and exclamations. I do not want my cousin to grow up in a world of put-downs, where he is considered inferior and useless to society just because he was born disadvantaged. There is no justice nor respect in his situation, and as a University preaching the ideals of a tight-knit, accepting community, we should all collaborate to sup­port the disadvantaged, and the first step is to deny that they are the r-word. 
Deborah Olmstead sophomore Welsh Family Hall March30 

Thanks for Holy Half 
This is a quick letter ofthanks to all those involved in working the Holy Half on Sunday. Thanks for arriving early, setting up, taking down, and not merely point­ing runners in the right way-but offering encouragement as they ran by! Your hard work is much appreciated. Thanks also to all the students who came out and supported the runners. Despite the undesirable weather conditions, your presence and support was wonderful and a true sign ofsolidarity among stu­dents. As a first time Holy Half runner I don't think I could have completed the race without you! 
Christine Clack 
sen10r 
off campus March 29 

South Quad Arby' s 
While walking back to my dorm from class the other day, I noticed something peculiar: somebody had etched an Arby's logo out of chalk in the middle of south quad. I did not think much of it at first, but then I got an amazing idea. We should build an Arby's on campus! Not just any­where, but right in the middle of south quad. To some this may sound like a bad idea, but the more I thought about it, the more I realized that building an Arby's on south quad is a good thing to do. First and fore­most, Arby's has delicious roast beef sandwiches, and students will have another food choice to compliment Subway, Sbarro and Burger King. Secondly, south quad will no longer be a wind tunnel. Instead of hitting people, the wind will hit Arby's, making students more warm and con­tent. Finally, I believe that an Arby's on South Quad would be aestheti­cally pleasing. I'm tired of South Quad being a wide empty space, and Arby's will fill that void. Don't worry, there will still be plenty of room to play football or ultimate. 
Kevin Eller freshman Stanford Hall March27 

Unions a necessity 
For decades, collective bargaining has been one ofthe most basic tools that workers can employ to gain a voice and power in the face ofinjustice. Not only do unions have historical legitimacy, but the Catholic Church, The United Nations, and Federal Law all support workers' right to unionize. In order to build a stronger labor movement, however, those interested in economic justice for all should support the Employee Free Choice Act (EFCA). This would allow workers who want a union to bypass the election process and instead sign cards indicating their desire for union representa­tion. This change is vital because in the current system, workers have to wait for months between petitioning ofthe NLRB for an election and the actual voting process. During this time, employers hire anti-union consulting firms, hold captive-audience • meetings, and even fire employees to intimidate others into voting against the union. EFCA would level the playing field and, in the words ofDavid Foster ofthe Blue­Green Alliance, (who spoke on campus last week) "give fairness a fighting chance." 
We at Notre Dame should stand in support ofworkers struggling to organize and form a union. From the HEI hotel workers in California to the building service work­ers here working at Notre Dame, people across the country are fighting for respect on the job and for the right to organize. We can stand publicly in support ofthe right to collective bargaining by signing a petition in support of EFCA (available at freechoice­act.org). We should strive to be a campus that does not merely promote an atmos­phere full orrespect and absent offear, but also one that actively celebrates the right to organize and empowers workers to challenge their employer to be the best it can be. Let us join with other campuses around the country, which are holding rallies and teach-ins as part ofStudent Labor Action Week, and make our voice heard in support ofEFCA and workers' rights. 
Sarah Lyons senior off campus March 29 


Tuesday, March 31, 2009 
So it's DOOM now. Throughout his career, Daniel Dumile adopted a plethora of identities. Starting with Zev he's also been known as VIktor Vaughn, King Metal Fingers, Supervillain, and MF DOOM. But it's and his name may be the easiest part of his art understand. 
In 1991, DOOM showed huge potential as a member the group KMD. Soon after their first album was released, DOOM's younger brother died in a car accident. After 
of near homelessness, DOOM reemerged. Since 's worn a chrome gladiator mask at near every or public appearance without explanation. death and his mask have provided much of for his career. 
DOOM started his brief flirtation with commercial suc:ce!>s 2004. A collaboration with Madlib found a wide audience a short but sold out tour. Three solo albums, a release 
Danger Mouse and a scene-stealing spot on a put DOOM on the verge of breaking into the main Instead of capitalizing on this momentum, DOOM five years creating "Born Like This." For the unfamiliar, it would be easy to give up on album. After one listen, it would be easy to accuse critics 
something that is merely confusing instead of good. tends to shun club beats and typical song embracing short, chorus-less songs, often framed samples taken from comedians, movies or poets. On succes­
listens, a certain brilliance can be found in the cornu­and as stated in the first track, "DOOM's got a plan gonna shake the heavens." 
most accessible song on the album is "Angelz" fea­Ghostface Killah, appropriately going by Tony Starks. originally slated to be released on a full album 
Chro~Hnnn and DOOM songs, it finds its place on "Born Like 
." Both Ghostface and DOOM manage to hold on to 
signature styles without interfering with one another. 
uut~rlllr~: verse is carried by Ghostface. As expected, 
:hr.ctf""" is a testosterone-fueled tour de force for the MC. 
verse counters the first with his slow-and 
that slows the track down without losing interest. 
Across the album, DOOM provides much of the produc­
, allowing the songs to feel consistent without being bor­mg. The beats build song after song, creating a dark envi­ronment and allowing the listener to see the world through the eyes of the mask. 
When DOOM allows others to take a role on a song, they become near perfect. J Dilla's production on "Gazzillion Ear" catches the listener's ear like nothing else on the album. Empress Starhh Tha Femcee's verse on "Still Dope" showcases one of the best female rhymes heard in years. And Jake One's production on "Rap Ambush" is a high point purely for the aggression it provides. 
The center piece of the album is easily "Cellz." Two min­
of Charles Bukowski reciting his poem "Dinosauira, 
acts as the center upon which the album rotates. 
opening two minutes push the listener into the apoc­alypse; Bukowski's craggy voice is played over weary, bleak beats, punctuated by missiles screaming past. Picking up where Bukowski left off, DOOM welcomes the listener to his own personal end of the world. Bukowski's poem and DOOM's verse end in the same way; a small offering hope. 
With "Born Like This" DOOM provides a reason to buy albums again. He has presented the audience with some­thing rare; a collection of songs that need to be understood and enjoyed as an album. Even rarer, he has presented an album which makes this effort worth it. 

s 
Doom 
label: Lex Records 
Recommended Tracks: Cellz, Angelz, 


In 1997, film audiences around the world tearfully watched Rose float away from her beloved Jack as "My Heart Will Go On" wafted into their ears and their hearts. Celine Dion performed the song at that year's Academy Awards and went on to win the Oscar for "Best Original Song." 
. But many people do not remem­ber the modest, inconspicuous who also took the stage that . His song "Miss Misery," fea­ured in the movie "Good Will Hunting," was nominated for the award, but he expressed no appointment when he didn't . In fact, he didn't even want to rform at the Oscars until the rs told him that if he did­do it, someone else would sing 
song for him. 
Except for music buffs and a 
all group of devoted fans, few 
today remember this man, 
his real life story is more trag­
than any fictitious love affair 
at occurred upon a doomed 
And that's not even mention-
his music. 
The man's name was Steven Paul Smith, but for most of his life he was known as Elliott. Elliott 
ith was a talented musician 
o could play the piano, clarinet, bass, drums and harmonica, but his specialty was the acoustic gui­tar. lle had played in two bands during high school in Portland, Ore., and another one while attending Hampshire College in Amherst, but his musical career began in full when he started recording solo work. 
At a time when almost everyone was listening to grunge bands like Nirvana and Mudhoney, Smith was recording wispy. acoustic fantasias with delicately poetic lyrics. After releasing two well-received but not widely circulated albums, director and fellow Portland, Oregon resident Gus Van Sant found Smith and asked him to eontribute to the soundtrack of his forthcoming film, "Good Will Hunting." Five of Smith's songs were included in the soundtrack, including the Oscar-nominated "Miss Misery." 
After that, Smith could avoid the limelight no longer. He released his third album, "Either/Or," with favorable reviews in 1997. and 
oon after appeared on "Late Night With Conan O'Brien." 
The album title "Either/Or" comes from the book of the same name by philosopher Seren Kierkegaard. It is a fitting title for the album, as most of its songs deal with feelings of cynicism, dis­illusionment, and indifference. Smith's lyrics maintain a pretty 
vvJLl~l~Lt,ntun,,u,uv''"'Y• 
for a small glimmer 
last track, "Say Yes." 
That is not to say that every 
song is a creeping acoustic ballad; 
several songs pick up the pace and 
even reach into the realm of pop 
for a bouncier sound. 
Nevertheless, the lyrics remain 
bittersweet. The pervasive dark­
ness is what makes this album so 
hauntingly beautiful. 
Minimal brushstrokes on the 
drums and intricate fingerpicking 
form the backdrop over which 
Smith croons his often enigmatic, 
always enchanting lyrics. Every 
once in a while Smith slips in a 
four-letter word so smoothly 
sweetly that your mother wouldn 

even notice it. He must have had 
himself in mind in "Ballad of Big 
Nothing" when he sang, "Th 
helpless little thing with the 
mouth I Who's always got some­
thing to say." 
Unfortunately, the grimness Smith's poetry had its sources in his own life. His parents divorced when he was a baby, and his step­father allegedly abused him as child. Eventually he went to live with his natural father, but h began experimenting With all.·VllVll!l and drugs in high school, becom­ing more and more dependent on •· them as he became more and more successful in his career. 
He also suffered from depression and began to openly talk abo suicide starting aroupd the that "Either/Or" was released. friends usually managed to him out of it, but he made at one serious attempt to end his own life by jumping off a cliff in 1998. A tree broke his fall and he survived, but his demons had left him. 
After Smith's fifth album he developed a heroin addiction which almost ended his career and his life. He rarely performed in public during 2001 and 2002, and when he did his performances were pitiful as he forgot the lyrics and chords to his own songs. 
Finally he went to the Neurotransmitter Restoration' Center in Beverly Hills and made a remarkable recovery. He seemed· to be perfectly healthy again and was in the process of recording a new album when on October 21. 2003, he died of two stab wounds to the chest. A brief suicide note· was left on a Post-It, but some sus­pected foul play. However, after inconclusive autopsy there was further investigation. 
Whatever the reason of hi death, Elliott Smith continues to be missed by all who knew him, "and his music continues to new and old listeners today. 
Contact Joey Kuhn at jkuhnl@nd.edu 
Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 

Observer Graphic I MADELINE NIES 

-
~~~~~~~~~~:::::===--cc~'horale and instrumental groups like 
page 1 

onstage for a dance contest. A mix of high school seniors (here for Notre Dame's Spring Visitation Weekend) and college students competed for audience approval while dancing to some '90s Latin pop. The winner orders a lieutenant to liter­received thunderous applause, but ally "do something violent." 
no formal award. The film also incorporates sev­Latin Expressions was a night for "Monsters vs. Aliens" oozed eral pop culture refereuc.es, real awards, however. Father Tom its way to number one at the including global warming and Eckert, C.S.C., received the Julian box office this weekend. a parody of "Close Encounters Samora Faculty Award for his dedi­latest computer­of the Third Kind." cation to improving Latin student life mated hit focuses on a Where the film falls short is at Notre Dame. Father Eckert, cur­of monsters assembled in its story. To say the plotlinerently the rector of Duncan Hail, the U.S. military to stop an of the film is predictable 
is started Notre Dame's Latino Student invasion. gross understatement. (At Ministry after his years of working in film features voices by point I would say spoilerMexico, Chile, and Peru. Two Notre comedy stars (Will for anyone who hasn't seen ~ Dame juniors also received the Julian Stephen Colbert, Seth movie, but there is not much Samora Scholarship Award. Rainn Wilson) and oth­spoil.) The protagonist,"Ritmo Latino" is really an accom­one would not expect Murphy (Witherspoon)plishment for La Alianza and all the efer Sutherland, Reese being hit by a meteor, is 
students who participated. The show, ><n"'""'"OOn, Hugh Laurie). to deal with the consequences •. with more than one hundred per­film is co-directed by two of being larger than life. At first formers, has outgrown the campus lative newcomers, Rob she refuses to accept her new 
theaters of Notre Dame and Saint ... ••· and Conrad Vernon, way of life, but eventually she 
Mary's. But it also had no problem .·• ·•·• ·.• only claims to fame are learns to embrace that she 
filling the huge venue at the Century "Shark Tale" and "Shrek 2" different and teams up with Center --the tickets sold out at least · · spective\y. "Monsters vs. other monsters to save the. a half-hour before show time, and for ens" is an upbeat light­world from an alien and his the latecomers seats were a hot com­comedy that is sure to robot. 
modity. Choreographed lighting, a •·''"""''u""'"''m viewers of all ages. There is also a smaller plot­respectable sound system and a sim­chunk of the laughs line of Susan's husband who is ple but sizable stage really made a · come from Seth more concerned with himself professional show. 
Rogen's performance as a than her. Even though it only brainless blue blob, aptly takes the viewer a few minutes · Contact Jordan Gamble at 
named B.O.B. His lack of a to realize this, the protagonist jgamble@nd.edu 
brain allows for mindless does not come to this conclu­humor to pervade throughout sion until the end of the film. 
the film. His antics bounce (pun Viewers expecting any plot 
intended) from the sheer twists from this movie will puerility of forgetting how to surely be disappointed. breathe to a scene where he As for the 3-D animation, I flirts with a gelatin dessert. am unable to pass judgment on Adding to the comedy is Laurie it because I viewed the fibn on as a mad scientist cockroach a regular movie screen. Yet it complete with a menacing did look like Dreamworks was laugh, and Will Arnett as an making a very conscious effort 
aquatic monster reminiscent of to demonstrate their technical the Creature from the Black proficiency. In the first few Lagoon. minutes,. the viewer is bom­barded with 
always said to see what needs to be 

meteors and
ens
done and then just do it." 
paddleballsDirector Skelton has drawn upon 
Dreamworks 
aimed right at his past as well in the creation of this 
the screen. If production and the mindset of the 
Directors: Rob Letterman and Conrad 
the 3-D is characters. "It is personal in terms of 
worth any bang my connection to the material since I 
for its buc was born and raised in New 
then an explo-England," he said. Brandt, who sees himself in George's unbridled enthusiasm for life, also believes that this "Our 
is sure to Town" functions on an even higher 
viewers duck­level as well. "George is sometimes 
ing for cover. related to the greater American 
UltimatelyDream and it's presence in our cul­
the film will ture, as well as the potential of every­
please most viewers of all ages. day life." Brandt said. 
Children will delight in the ani­The FTT department is also using 
mation and the slapst"Our Town" as an opportunity for 
humor. Teens are sure to outreach in the community. Aside 
up on the many pop from using 10 community members 
references. And adults can of various ages and different parts of 
like a kid again and yet appre­the South Bend/Mishawaka area, the 
ciate the political satire. department has created a study guide 
the film may not be and workshop experience with local 
out of this world, its lll';J.u.u<Oa..L high school students. 
ed comedic tone will appeal to Kassie Misiewicz, a theatre youth 
a monster-sized audience. director from Arkansas, will lead this event, titled "Theatre Explosion," that 
allows area students to see the cre­ation process, engage in the produc­tion and increase the reality of the characters and themes. 
Tickets are available through the DPAC Ticket office at 631-2800. 
Contact Elizabeth Kuhn at 
ekuhnl@nd.edu 
MADELINE NlES 1 Observer Graphic 
By JORDAN GAMBLE Assistant Scene Editor 
For the packed house at downtown South Bend's Century Center Friday, Latin Expressions 2009, "Ritmo Latino," did not disappoint. 
The annual performance revue, organized by Notre Dame's La Alianza organization for Latino stu­dents, featured 19 acts by various campus groups, all with a Latino fla­vor. 
The show started with a dance act, the only one sponsored directly by La Alianza. In a mix of ballet and ball­room, 10 dancers acted out a five­minute "West Side Story," complete with blue and red outfits and two star-crossed dance partners. It was a great and dramatic way to begin the evening, since it pulled the audience into a rousing and rather profession­al routine. 
The rest of the show was a mix of group acts and individual dance, singing, or instrument performances by Notre Dame students. Ballet Folkorico Azul Y Oro, Tango ND, La Punta Hondurefia and La Bomba Puertorriquefia all had great dance performances. One performance, called "Danza De Los Viejitos (Dance of the Old Me~" by Ballet Folkorico Azul y Oro, featured four male stu­dents dressed up in ponchos and masks who danced with canes and did a comedy routine set to music. 
Mariachi ND and Coro Primavera presented two heartfelt songs in the first act. 
With Latin Expressions, the Latino students at Notre Dame have a chance to express their cultures, but the annual show also brings in stu­dents of all backgrounds, nationali­ties, and talents. Student groups like Troop ND, First Class Steppers and Project Fresh, which are not neces­sarily Latin groups, lent their usual routines a new flavor. Troop ND per­formed to a mix of several Latin songs in their high-energy dance. In the second act, the men of First Oass Steppers pounded out a routine, and rhymed "Don't think it's crazy" with "First Class guys like Latin ladies," which got a cheer from the audience. The "First Class Chicas" then took the stage for an entertaining work­out-video inspired routine. Wearing sweatbands and running shorts, they urged the audience to get in shape with the help of Latin dance moves. 
The different pe.rformances were strung together by two emcees, sen­iors Maria Moreno and Danny Rosas Alvarez. Besides introducing the upcoming performers, the two were an act all their own. Moreno's obses­sion with telenovelas and Alvarez's scheming to steal Moreno's choreog­raphy were running jokes, but right after intermission, the two also pulled several audience members 

By ELIZABETH KUHN Scene Writer 
Notre Dame's Department of Film, Television, and Theatre presents its final main stage production of the year this week, "Our Town," directed by Jay Paul Skelton. Opening Tuesday, it will run in the Decio Theatre of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center through Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. with a final performance Sunday afternoon at 2:30. 
This week marks only the second time this classic play, written by Thorton Wilder in 1938, will have been performed here at Notre Dame. Mark Pilkington, who continues to teach in the FTT department today, dirP-cted the prP.vious production, per­lbrmed in 1992. 
The show begins as Dr. Gibbs, the father of George Gibbs, delivers a pair of twins, revealing the progression of the play as a reflection of life and all of its intricacies. Its careful examina­tion of tl1e life revolving around Emily Webb and George Gibbs reveals not just an immediate connection between two characters, but the impact that each human being has on each other. 
With this in mind, Skelton chose to focus closely on the interaction of the characters, utilizing a sparse set. Though Wilder specified this bare approach in his writing, Skelton has abandoned the typical ladders for approximately 250 hanging light bulbs, which he hopes will lend the viewers increased insight into the message of the play. 
"Live love life while you have it" summarizes Skelton as he reflects on the message of the play. 
Student stage manager Lisa Tuholski echoes this theme as well. "We don't give ourselves time to think. But every moment of our lives is significant, and I think Thornton Wilder's trying to remind us of that," he said. 
Junior Joe Edmonds said death's role in the play adds significance. "It is only by realizing death is a constant presence that we can see how signifi­cant every moment of our lives is, how even the most seemingly ordi­nary events are as extraordinary as any other," said Edmonds, who plays the character of the Stage Manager. 
After a week of Suzuki and Viewpoints training, the actors have worked together to create a show that they feel the audience will relate to. "This is a play about people," said freshmen Nick Brandt, who plays George Gibbs. "We don't need scenery to show that, we don't want a spectacle. We want you to see your­selves in these character's shoes like we do." 
Many of those involved in the cast and crew have found a personal rela­tionship between themselves and the show. Junior Will Haley, who plays Dr. Gibbs, modeled much of his character upon his grandfather saying, "He 


page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 31, 2009 
MLB 
Phillies' pitching excels in 13-3_ defeat of Ast:.;os 
Braves overcome Red Sox in extra innings; Garza strikes out five and walks one in loss to former team 
Associated Press 
CLEARWATER, Fla. -Chan Ho Park made his final bid for the No. 5 spot in the Philadelphia Phillies' rotation, working effectively into the sixth inning of a 13-3 win over the Houston Astros on Monday. 
Jimmy Rollins, Ryan Howard, Eric Bruntlett all home runs off Houston starter Mike Hampton. Carlos Ruiz also homered, in the sixth inning off of Wesley Wright. 
Park allowed two runs -one earned -on six hits in 5 2-3 innings. The 35-year-old right­hander finished his spring campaign with a 2.45 ERA in five games. 
"He pitched good," Philadelphia manager Charlie Manuel said. "He did a good job." 
Whether it was good enough to win a spot in the rotation is still undecided. Park is com­peting with rookie left-bander J.A.Happ,who has a 3.15 ERA in six games. 
"We haven't made up our mind yet," Manuel said. "Both have pitched pretty good." 
Park signed with the Phillies as a free agent because they offered him the opportunity to compete for a starting job. The team, however, pursued him in part because of his effective­ness in the bullpen for the Los Angeles Dodgers last season. 
''I'm expecting their decision to make me as the starter. That's my goal. That's why I signed with this team." Park said. "I think (my perform­ance this spring) was better than they expected." 
Park gave up a run to the Astros in each of the first two innings before settling down. He retired the final six hitters he faced. 
Park has allowed six runs in 21 1-3 Grapefruit League innings, striking out 25 while walking two. 
"So far, I did my best," Park said. 
Manuel and pitching coach Rich Dubee said they expect to make the decision between Park and Happ in the new day or two. 
"It· comes down to who we think will fit the best," Manuel said. 
Hampton allowed seven runs and seven hits in five innings for the Astros. 
"We kind of took it on the chin today, but that happens sometimes," Houston manager Cecil Cooper said. "Mike (Hampton) has been good all spring, but he got some balls up today and they hit them. That's a pretty good lineup over there." 
Braves 4, Red Sox 3 
Kenshin Kawakami relished the opportunity to match up against fellow countryman Daisuke Matsuzaka. 
Matsuzaka allowed two hits and an earned run over five innings in his return to the Boston Red Sox from the World Baseball Classic. Kawakami gave up a two-run homer to Rocco Baldelli for his only runs, and the Atlanta Braves rallied to beat the Red Sox in 10 innings on Monday. 
More than 30 Japanese media members in the press box made the game a bit more intense for the starters. 
"With so many media, I guess I felt a little more excit­ed," Kawakami said through an interpreter. "If I was in Japan, I'd probably enjoy (the matchup) also." 
Kawakami, who was signed by the Braves this winter after starring in Japan, pitched six innings and gave up four hits. 
Matsuzaka, who was the MVP of the tournament, liked the timing of the pitching pair­ing as he adjusted from the pressure of the WBC to spring training. 
"Luckily today, going up against Kenshin-san on the other side gave me a change to get revved up," Matsuzaka said through an interpreter. "When I'm going up against any Japanese player, whether pitcher or position player, I'm always keeping an eye out on what kind of game they're going to pitch or how they're doing in the batter's box." 
With the designated hitter being used, Kawakami didn't get to hit against Matsuzaka. But the former MVP in Japan certainly showed again this spring that he can get major league hitters out. 
"I felt like I pitched well," said Kawakami, who struck out four and walked two. 
Kawakami has a 1.74 ERA in five Grapefruit League games. 
'He was real good again," Braves manager Bobby Cox said. "He had that knee-buck­ling curve. I don't think any­one had a good swing at it. There aren't too many good hooks around anymore. It's a big weapon for him." 
Matzuzaka walked three but allowed just a single by Garret Anderson in the second inning and a double by Brian McCann in the fourth. One of the two runs that inning was unearned after an error by Boston first baseman Kevin Youkilis. 
Anderson, used as the DH for the second game after 

missing more than three 
weeks with a calf strain, was 
2-for-3 with a double and a 
walk. He was hitless coming 
in. 
"He hit the ball hard three 
times," said Cox, who will play 
Anderson in the outfield dur­
ing Tuesday night's game with 
Houston. "He looks good at 
the plate." 
The Braves tied the game in 
the ninth on a single by Martin 
Prado and won it in the 1Oth 
on a double by Brooks Conrad. 
It was the final Florida home ·game of the spring for the Braves. 
Twins 3, Rays 2 
Matt Garza was focused on 
preparing for the season. 
Pitching against his old team 
was no big deal. 
Garza worked six innings in 
the Tampa Bay Rays· loss to 
the Minnesota Twins on 
Monday. allowing three runs 
and eight hits. He struck ouf 
five and walked one. 
The Twins traded Garza and 
shortstop Jason Bartlett to the 
Rays for infielder Brendan 
Harris and outfielders Delmon 
Young and Jason Pridie 
before last season. Garza went 
11-9 with a 3. 70 ERA with 
Tampa Bay and was the MVP 
of the AL championship series. 
"I really didn't think about 
facing my old team or any­
thing like that," he said. "I felt 
great. I felt lively." 
Rays manager Joe Maddon 
said he enjoyed watching 
Garza grow in his first season 
with Tampa Bay. Garza went 
2-0 with a 1.38 ERA against 
the Boston Red Sox during the 
ALCS. 
"He is one of those starting 
pitchers who stands in the 
dugout when he's not pitching 
and cheers for everybody 
else," Maddon said. "He'll be 
one of the first guys to con­
gratulate somebody when 
they're coming off the field. 
"His confidence is at a very 
high level right now." 
Twins left-bander Glen 
Perkins also is feeling good 
this spring. He gave up four 
hits, struck out four and 
walked one in six shutout 
innings against Tampa Bay, 
lowering his spring ERA to 
1.73. 
Assured of a rotation spot 
entering camp, Perkins 
worked on certain pitches in 
his earlier spring outings with­
out worrying about the results. 
He said the more relaxed 
approach paid off. 
"I think I timed it well as far 
as getting my pitches ready," 
said Perkins, who will have 
one more Grapefruit League 
outing before the regular sea­son begins. "I threw a lot of strikes and pitched well. 
"I've got one more to get ready for the season, but I pretty much feel ready right now. There's always a little thing you can do 0-5 work on. They all count in different ways. I hopefully can get another confidence boost and take it into the season." 
Twins manager Ron Gardenhire said he likely would finalize his bullpen Tuesday. 
Left-bander Brian Duensing yielded a two-run homer to Carlos Pena in the eighth inning. 
"He got a little fastball happy," Gardenhire said of Duensing, who has still had a solid spring with a 1.93 ERA. 
Yankees 3, Blue Jays 1 
DUNEDIN, Fla. -Blue Jays manager Cito Gaston expressed concern about clos­er B.J. Ryan after he pitched a shaky eighth inning in Toronto's loss to the New York Yankees on Monday. 
Ryan gave up one run and two hits, including Angel Berroa 's RBI double to left­center. The left-bander, who skipped the World Baseball Classic to work on his mechan­ics, has a 9.00 ERA this spring. 
Gaston said he might con­sider making Scott Downs the closer and putting Ryan "somewhere else for a while and go from there." He said he 
• wants to see how Ryan does in his final two spring appear­ances. "I haven't checked the veloc­ity yet," Gaston said, "but it looked like it might have been down today. So there are still some concerns about him." Ryan said he's moving in the right direction. "The runs are just (from) pitching behind," he said. "Pitch behind in counts and you get in predictable counts. Aside from that there were some good things that came out of today." Andy Pettitte worked 6 2-3 innings for the Yankees, allow­ing one run and five hits. The left-bander struck out seven and walked none. "He was exceptional today, threw all his pitches," manag­er Joe Girardi said. "His curveball was good, changeup was good, he located his fast­ball well. That's about as good as it gets." 
Rookie left-bander David Purcey went six innings for Toronto, yielding a run and two hits. He walked five and struck out two. 
"He started the game off a little rough," Gaston said, "but I thought he threw the ball real well. His whole thing is control. If he goes out there and throws strikes he usually pitches a good ballgame." 
Mark Teixeira went 2-for-3 with two RBis for New York. 
Rockies 10, Diamondbacks 3 
Jason Marquis hopes this start stops any questions about his abilities. Marquis tossed five solid innings, Brad Hawpe hit a three-run homer and the Colorado Rockies beat the Arizona Diamondbacks 10-3 on Monday. Marquis allowed two runs and three hits. He struggled in his previous three starts, allowing 22 earned runs and 26 hits in 12 innings. "It definitely feels good to get results. It also puts to rest any doubts in my teammates', managers' or coaches' minds," he said. "I went back to my basics and tried to be an ath­lete and let my ability and tal­ent take over and keep the thought process ouf of it." Marquis' only real mistake against the Diamondbacks resulted in a two-run homer by Josh Whitesell in the fourth inning. It was Whitesell's third homer of the spring. "Everything," Marquis said when asked what pitches worked. "I picked the pitch I wanted to throw and tried to be real loose and be an athlete and be myself." Tire Rockies acquired Marquis from the Chicago Cubs in an offseason trade, hoping to get the solid starter he has been during his career. They saw glimpses of that against the Diamondbacks. Conor Jackson and Mark Reynolds were the only others to get hits off Marquis. "I have been working on new deliveries and trying to get consistent, but that should­n't take away from being an athlete," Marquis said. "Sometimes I put thoughts in my head that shouldn't be there on the mound." Todd Helton went 4-for-4 with two doubles for Colorado, raising his spring average to .515. Clint Barmes went 3-for-3 with a double, and Troy Tulowitzki had two hits. Yusmeiro Petit, battling for one of the final spots on Arizona's pitching staff, gave up four runs and four hits in three innings. He struck out one and walked one. Petit allowed all of his runs in the first inning, includ­ing Hawpe's first spring homer. "I missed a couple of pitches and I paid for it," Petit said. "I was able to make the adjustments later." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
One or two roommates needed for brand new 3 BR 3 Bath Condo at Irish Crossings fully furnished. 
$500 per mo. incl. utilities -wire­less, gas, water, electric and park­ing. Private BR!Bath, gym. Ten min walk to campus live min walk to stores. Non-smoker, no pets. 
animalcop01 @gmail.com 
FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
2009/1 0 student rentals Angela St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300­$2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon 57 4-876-3537. 

Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous­es.com 
1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. The Foundry features private baths lor every bedroom, washer/dryer, fitness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. Preleasing for August. Call574-232-1400 or lease online www.foundryliving.com 
li. 
Need off-campus housing for next yea (09-10)? 2,3,4 and 5 bedroom houses avail­able 1/2 miles from campus, NO ALUMNI OWNED. 
As low as $275 per student. Contact on-campus rep at ebar­loh@nd.edu or 1-513-706-9655 
AA 1 Walk to Campus 2-5 bedroom homes 
574-277-0116­Cooreman.com 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: 
http://osa.nd.edu!health­safety/assault/ 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd·.edu!health-safe­ty/assistance-for-pregnant-students. 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, March 31, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 13 
. -· ... ... . ... .. ... 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
NCAA Men's Baseball USA TODAY/ESPN Top 25 
team record points 

1 Georgia (23) 23-3 737 
2 CS Fullerton (3) 18-4 701 
3 Arizona State (2) 19-4 679 
4 Georgia Tech 18·4 636 
5 LSU 21-6 634 
6 North Carolina (1) 20-6 607 
7 Miami FL 20-7 550 
8 Arkansas ... 19-5 523 
9 Rice 17-7 494 
10 Oklahoma 22-6 449 
11 Texas A&M 18-9 412 
12 Baylor 17-6 387 
13 UC Irvine 16·7 383 
14 Texas 17-7 380 
15 Oklahoma State 19-7 319 
16 Virginia {1) 22-4 251 
17 Clemson 18-7 242 
18 East Carolina 20-5 209 
19 Coastal Carolina 19-7 161 
20 Mississippi 16-8 154 
21 Florida 18·8 145 
22 Ohio State 20·4 143 
23 Florida State 16-8 99 
24 New Mexico 24-4 89 
25 San Diego 19-10 86 
NCAA Women's Softball 
ESPN/USA Softball Poll 
team record points 

1 Florida (19) 32·2 498 2 Washington (1) 27-3 476 3 Stanford 29·1 448 4 UClA 24-3 438 5 Alabama 26-4 432 6 Oklahoma 25-8 354 7 Georgia 20-4 353 8 Northwestern 15-7 349 were players from schools Hansbrough, a unani­of the year, is the third 
Associated Press 

9 Arizona State 28-5 340 with little All-America histo­mous pick last season along Oklahoma player to be 10 Tennessee 24-6 332 NEW YORK -Blake Griffin ry, sophomores DeJuan with Kansas State's Michael selected and the first since 11 Michigan 20-9 312 and Tyler Hansbrough spent Blair of Pittsburgh, James Beasley, got 50 first-team Stacey King in 1989. 
12 California 22-7 264 
a lot of time together on the Harden of Arizona State votes and 304 points. This is Wayman Tisdale of the 
13 Ohio State 22-3 263 
court last weekend and and junior Stephen Curry of the fourth straight season Sooners was a three-time 
14 Missouri 26-4 244 
were back together Monday Davidson. the 6-foot-9 forward All-America from 1983-85. 
15 Arizona 28-7 228 
as the top vote-getters on Gritrm: who averaged 21 received All-America recog­"When Coach [Jeff] Capel
16 Louisville 26-3 188 
The Associated Press' All­points and 14.3 rebounds nition. He was a third-team started recruiting me, he
17 LSU 20-6 186 
America team. while shooting 63.5 percent pick as a freshman and was talked to me a lot about
18 Massachusetts 13-6 144 
Griffin, the sophomore from the field, became col­on the second team after his changing the culture of this 
19 North Carolina 26-7 143 
forward from Oklahoma lege basketball's image for sophomore season. program and getting it back 
20 Florida State 22-8 84 
who led the nation in toughness when he Blair is Pittsburgh's sec­to a place where guys like rebounding, was the only returned from a concussion ond first-teamer, joining Wayman Tisdale and Stacey unanimous selection for the only to drive headlong onto Don Hennon in 1958. Curry, King and those guys came team. Hansbrough, the con­the scorer's table. who led the nation in scor­to play," said Griffin, a 
NCAA Men's Lacrosse sensus player of the year He received 71 first-team ing, is Davidson's second as native of Oklahoma City. last season as a junior, votes and 335 points from well. Fred Hetzel was "It's definitely an honor." 
Nlke/lnside Lacrosse Poll 
repeated as a first-teamer the same national media Davidson's first first-teamer Hansbrough, who is in his the day after his Tar Heels panel that selects the week­in 1965. second straight Final Four beat the Sooners 72-60 to ly Top 25. Balloting was Harden is Arizona State's with the Tar Heels, is the 
team record 

advance to the Final Four. done before the NCAA tour­first AP All-America. third North Carolina player Joining them on the team nament. Griffin, the Big 12 player to repeat.
1 Virginia (16) 
2 Syracuse 



3 NOTRE DAME 4 Cornell 
IN BRIEF

5 Princeton 6 UMBC 6·2 Moats accepts Dallas Burress in court Tuesday Purdue faces OU for 7 Hofstra 6-1 police officer's apology to plea on gun charge Women's Final Four spot
8 Maryland 6-3 
DALLAS -NFL player Ryan NEW YORK-Plaxico Burress will OKLAHOMA CITY -Watching
9 Duke 8·3' 
Moats said Monday he accepts the return to court Tuesday in his gun her son Colton's high-school team
10 North Carolina 8-3 
apology offered by a Dallas police possession case as his lawyers and make an unexpected run in the
11 Johns Hopkins 3-4 
officer who stopped him with a prosecutors haggle over a plea deal high school playoffs gave Sherri
12 Brown 7·1 
drawn gun in a hospital parking lot and what punishment the New York Coale a fresh reminder of the
13 Massachusetls 5-3 
as his mother-in-law was dying. Giants star should face for accidental­exhilaration of being the ·underdog. 
14 Navy 7-3 
The Houston Texans-running back ly shooting himself in a crowded It's not a feeling she gets to expe­
15 Colgate 6-3 
said on ABC's "Good Morning nightclub last year. rience much anymore as the head America" that he hopes Officer A law enforcement official with coach at Oklahoma. Robert Powell was sincere in his knowledge of the case said that Her Sooners (31-4) take much apology. Burress and prosecutors have been in more than the No. 1 seed into 
Powell stopped Moats' SUV out­active discussions about a plea deal, Tuesday night's regional semifinal
around the dial 
side Baylor Regional Medical Center but remain at odds over the terms, against sixth-seeded Purdue. in suburban Plano on March 18 with the District Attorney's office There's the added expectation of after the vehicle rolled through a pushing for a stiffer punishment than victory since they'll be playing in red light. Moats' wife, Tamishia, and what defense lawyers believe Burress front of a home crowd in
NBA 

other relatives were also in the car. deserves. The individual spoke on Oklahoma City and then the matter
Chicago at Indiana 

The officer pulled out his gun and condition of anonymity because the of All-America center Courtney
7 p.m., Comcast Sports Net 

threatened Moats with jail as the discussions are ongoing. Paris' national championship guar­player pleaded to be allowed _to go Burress, who fired a bullet into his antee. · NHL inside the hospital. Moats' mother­thigh at a Manhattan nightclub in All that combines to create an in-law, 45-year-old Jonetta November with a gun he'd stuffed in entirely different atmosphere than
Chicago at Montreal 

Collinsworth, died while Powell his waistband, has been charged with what she experienced as her son's
7:30 p.m., Versus 

wrote Moats a ticket and lectured second-degree criminal possession of Norman High School team headed him. a weapon. into the postseason. 

---~ 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 31, 2009 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Calathes enters NBA draft without an agent 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla.-Florida guard Nick Calathes could end his college career without play­ing a single game in the NCAA tournament. 
Calathes announced Monday that he will enter the NBA draft. But he will not hire an agent, which would allow him to return to Florida if he's unhappy with his draft stock. 
The 6-foot-6 sophomore from Casselberry led the Gators in ·scoring this season, averaging 
17.2 points. He also averaged 
5.3 rebounds and 6.4 assists, and was the only player in the nation to average at least 15 points, five rebounds and six assists. 
Calathes' passing ability might be his best asset. Other parts of his game, though, might not fare as well in the NBA. His lack of athleticism and his jumper -he shoots 3­pointers and jump shots with his feet on the ground -could hinder his draft status. 
Florida coach Billy Donovan, who met with Calathes on Sunday night, hasn't said whether he thought his star player was ready for the next level. 
"I don't think it's even about being ready," Donovan said last week. "It's not about that any­more. I think the one thing that people don't understand about the NBA is it's a league of investments. You're making an investment, and a lot of times you're making a long-term investment and hoping your investment gets better and bet­ter and better. 
"It has nothing to do with whether they're ready or not ready.... The decision really comes down to the NBA people in terms of do they think this is a good, quality investment for their company." 
Calathes said Monday that Donovan supported his deci­sion. 
"(He) told me he'd do what­ever he could to help me and my family make an educated decision," Calathes said in a statement. "I love the University of Florida and am leaving my option to return open. This is a great opportuni­ty to take some time, look at my future beyond college, col­lect information and see where I'm at." 
Calathes struggled down the stretch, averaging 11 points in Florida's final six regular-sea­son games, and the Gators missed the NCAA tournament for the second consecutive sea­son. 
Calathes was better in the NIT and even said he didn't want to leave school without playing in the NCAA tourna­ment. It could happen, though. · If Calathes does leave, the Gators would be without both starting guards going into next season. Fellow guard Walter Hodge was the team's lone sen­ior. 
Freshmen Erving Walker and Ray Shipman would be the team's only experienced guards. Star signee Kenny Boynton, one of the nation's top recruits last year, could help fill the void. Donovan likely would be forced to add another guard before next season. 

NHL 
Blue Jackets prepare for playoffs 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio Without looking at a calendar, it's easy to tell it's playoff time at Ken Ilitchcock's house. 
The bills are piling up and so are the dishes. There's a stack of newspapers by the front door. A tower of video" tapes sit by the television, past games awaiting further review by the Columbus Blue Jackets coach. 
Hitchcock is so focused on his team that he's become oblivious to all aspects of nor­mal life. 
"The one thing you find out at this time of the year is that the rest of the world stops," he said on Monday. "All of the things that people do in everyday life, for us, stops. You spend little or no time with it. You exist. It's like you sleep, you come to the rink, you work at preparing your team, you go home and you rest." 
The Blue Jackets, who are in their eighth season but have yet to make the playoffs, woke up Monday morning to find themselves with an unsteady grip on sixth place in the Western Conference with 86 points. Nashville, which Columbus hosts on Tuesday night, is seventh with 84 points. St. Louis holds the eighth and final playoff spot with 83 points -with Anaheim (82), Edmonton (81) and Minnesota (80) right behind. 
Each of those six teams have six games left. 
If the current top eight teams hold onto their posi­tions, it'll mark the first time in 28 years that every team from one division, in this case the Central (Detroit, Chicago, Columbus, Nashville, St. Louis), puts all of its members in the playoffs. 
St. Louis general manager Larry Pleau told NHL.com, "We're hoping that happens again." 
Things are so tight and every point so critical that everybody studies the stand­ings, listens for the late scores and ponders every injury and personnel move. 
For instance, the Predators lost forward Martin Erat to a broken left leg on Sunday in Detroit, felled by teammate Shea Weber's slap shot. Erat will likely be gone for a month. 
"That's a tough loss. Good player," Columbus captain Rick Nash said. But he said this is no time to express sym­pathy. Everybody has injuries. The Blue Jackets are without several mainstays -Fredrik Modin, Jason Chimera, Ole­Kristian Tollefsen, Derick Brassard -and nobody is feeling sorry for them. 
Miss the playoffs and no one remembers that a team was down an important player or two. 
"It's tough when any player goes down, but we need points," Nash said. "We have to worry about what we have to do here." 
After hosting Nashville on Tuesday night, the Blue Jackets return the favor on Saturday night. They play at home against fifth-place Chicago on Sunday before playing at Chicago on April 8, at St. Louis on April 10 and closing the regular season at home against Minnesota on April11. 
St. Louis is the hottest of the six teams fighting for those last three playoff spots, but the Blues are at home for only that showdown against Columbus on April 10. Nashville has won its last three, but no one knows how the Predators will handle the loss of Erat, their second­leading scorer. 
So bunched are the stand­ings that players are paying as much attention to other scores as their own. 
"At this time of year you can't depend on other teams to do you any favors," Blue Jackets center Jason Williams said. "You've got to go out there and basically take care of business your own way." 
Nash, the Blue Jackets' top scorer with 36 goals and 37 assists in 72 games, tries to shut out everything that's happening elsewhere. 
"We're still in a position where we control our own destiny," he said. "We don't have to worry about scores. No one's going to help us. We're going to have to do it ourselves." 
The Blue Jackets made sev­eral costly mistakes in a 5-2 loss to St. Louis on Sunday. With the score tied at 1 in the second period, stellar rookie goaltender Steve Mason whiffed on a clearing attempt up the middle and instead saucered a perfect tape-to­tape pass to Brad Boyes, who buried the gift goal. 
But players cannot live in fear of such gaffes, Columbus defenseman Mike Commodore said. All the players know what's riding on the outcome of each game, but they cannot afford to be so hesitant to do something wrong that they don't do anything right. 

NFL 
Bengals' QB Palmer ready to get on the field 
Choosing offseason rest over surgery to heal his injured elbow, starting QB back in usual throwing routine 
Associated Press  doctors and relying on one and what he said, and it turned out he  ing fun. There was some zip on it. He overthrew me one time, and I  didn't miss any games in 2006. "It's in his nature," Jordan  seize their opportunities this sea­son. The Bengals have had only  
CINCINNATI -Quarterback  was right.  hadn't seen that for a long time. I  Palmer said. "And that's why he's  one winning season since 1991,  
Carson Palmer considers his  "It's  100 percent  and  I'm  was surprised, but it showed me  the man. He's ready to roll, and I  one of the longest streaks of futili­ 
throwing elbow fully healed as he  healthy and I'm happy. Had I gone  he's getting back to the old Carson  think he'll be back and stronger  ty in NFL history, and are coming  
begins offseason workouts with  the other way, I don't know when  now."  than ever. I think he's really excit­ off a 4-11-1 season.  
his Cincinnati Bengals teammates.  I'd be able to throw  Palmer's  ed about this year. It was impor­ Palmer is entering his seventh  
Palmer chose not to have recon­structive surgery for a partially  again, but it would­n't be now."  "'t was important for  younger broth­er, Jordan, is a  tant for him to come into it healthy, and that's where he is  season with the Bengals, who made him the first overall pick in  
torn ligament and tendon in his  Palmer has been  him to come into it  b  a  c  k  u  p  now."  2003 then sat him for a year to  
right elbow, which sidelined l$n for 12 games last season. Instead, he decided to see whether rest  throwing three times a week near his home in south­ healthy, and that's where he is now."  Bengals quar­terback and worked out  Palmer's next step is to get his timing back with a receiving corps that has undergone change. T.J.  learn the league. "There's no more, 'Well, hope­fully next year. Next year we're  
would heal the injury.  ern  California.  with him at the  Houshmandzadeh left for Seattle  going to be better,"' Palmer said.  
Before beginning voluntary workouts on Monday, Palmer said he is back to his usual throwing routine because the elbow is fine.  Several of the Bengals' young receivers have joined him for the  Jordan Palmer Bengals' backup Quarterback  sessions in California. Jordan Palmer was reminded  as a free agent and was replaced by Laveranues Coles. Receiver Chad Ocho Cinco was the only Bengals receiver who missed the  "It's going into year seven and I feel like I haven't really played any football yet. I definitely haven't played in any significant  
The team plans to limit his throw­ sessions, including  of  how  his  voluntary workout on Monday.  games.  
ing during preseason workouts as  Jerome Simpson, a  brother over­ ''I'm not worried about him,"  "I can't wait. I realize the more  
a precaution.  second-round draft pick last year.  came injuries in the past, j.nchid­ Palmer said. "''m worried about  years you put in, the more you  
"I was timid at first," Palmer  "I saw that old Carson Palmer I  ing a severe knee injury in the  the guys we have here."  can't look to next year at any  
said of his decision to rest the  used  to  look  at when I was  2005 playoffs that required recon­ After  Palmer  talked  to  point in the season. The time is  
elbow instead of having so-called  younger," Simpson said .. "He has  structive surgery. Palmer left knee  reporters, he addressed his team­ now.  You  need  to  seize  the  
"Tommy John" surgery. "I was  that strong arm, and he's just  was hurt on his first pass in a  mates. Linebacker Keith Rivers  moment and the year, and this is  
kind of going against a bunch of  throwing the ball around and hav­ playoff loss to Pittsburgh, but he  said the quarterback told them to  our year."  


Tuesday, March 31, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles defeat Calvin in MIAA season opener 
ance both at the plate and on By CHRIS MASOUD the infield. 

Sporrs Writer 
"We came out, and the hitting 
was contagious," Sullivan said. 

As a rule, winning the league "They just kept stroking the opener is at the top of any colle­ball, and we just sucked the air giate coach's list of preseason out of Calvin." goals. For head coach Erin Calvin added some drama in Sullivan and the Belles, that the second game by tying the goal can be checked off the list. game in the top of the seventh 
Saint Mary's (16-2) crushed when a deep pop-fly was mis­Calvin in the MIAA season open­played in the outfield, allowing er. sweeping the Knights in a two runs to cross the plate. doubleheader. The Belles But as they've done all season, opened the day by shutting out the Belles bounced back in the Calvin 8-0 in a five-inning home half of the seventh to exe­slaughter-rule contest, and cute a textbook comeback. wrapped up the sweep with a 3-Sophomore Hayley Bojorquez 2 victory on the back end. scalded a single to left center to 
"It was just really clutch for get on base. Katie Rashid fol­us," Sullivan said. "Our goal is lowed by executing a sacrifice to beat the teams we're sup­bunt, moving Bojorquez over to posed to beat, and Calvin was a second. team we're supposed to beat, A wild pitch moved Bojorquez which we did in pretty convinc­to third, and finally senior Cathy ing fashion. I know that we're Kurczak singled to center to one of those teams that every­drive home the winning run. one's gunning for, but we're Freshman Angela Gillis picked prepared for that." up her ninth win of the season. 
Staying true to her form, Coach Sullivan expressed her freshman pitcher Monica Palicki satisfaction with the team's per­lifted the Belles in their first formance in the league opener. game by tossing a two-hit "I was very happy with every­shutout against the Knights, her thing we did," Sullivan said. fifth of the season. Senior clean­"The only thing I want to up hitter Ashley Fusaro led the improve on is our aggressive Belles at the plate, going 3-for-3 base running. We need to be with two doubles, while short­smart and aggressive, and we stop Maureen Healy captained a can't expect our pitchers to tight defense. always throw shutouts." 
Healy was recently named conference player of the week Contact Chris Masoud at for her outstanding perform-cmasoud@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Tean1 takes on Trine in conference n1atch 
Sophomore Jillian Hurley
By KATE GRABAREK 
defeated senior Laura 
SportS Writer 
McKendry at No. 1 singles by a 
score of 6-2, 6-2. 
The Belles will look to carry Junior Camille Gebert and momentum from an impressive sophomores Franca Peluso and 8-1 win over Alma on Saturday Laura Arnold all were able to into its match today with MIAA earn victories in their first sets foe Trine. by a score of 7-5, and fmished 
The Belles (5-5, 1-0) are off their opponents for three back to .500 for the first time more wins. since returning from their The Belles are looking to spring break trip in Florida continue their success in the when they were 4-4. MIAA they enjoyed last season. 
"I feel like we are doing well "We are hoping to do well in so far," Belles head coach Dale the conference," Campbell Campbell said. "We are at 5-5, said. "We want to be in the 
with three of those losses com­running for the conference title ing to nationally ranked teams. at the end of the season." We are trying to improve on a Campbell also noted that the daily basis." team is working on being more 
One of the highlights for the aggressive in their doubles Belles against Alma (5-6, 0-1) play and get off to quicker on Saturday was the play of starts in their matches in order sophomore Jessica Kosinski. to gain an early advantage. 
"Kosinski had a great come The Belles finished fifth in back on Saturday," Campbell the conference last season with said. "She was able to battle Gebert earning all-conference back and show her tenacity in first team honors and Hurley the match." earning second team honors. 
After dropping her opening Saint Mary's was able to set, Kosinski was able to rally defeat Trine (0-4) last season in the second set and pull out a by a score of 8-1, dropping close one by the score of 7-5 only one set in singles and only 
pushing the match to a third one match in doubles to earn set tiebreaker. the victory. 
Kosinski was able to earn the The Belles will look to con­victory by a score of 13-11 in tinue their success today with the tiebreaker. first serve set for 4 p.m. 
After securing two of the three doubles matches, the 
Contact Kate Grabarek at
other Belle players were able 
kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
to earn victories. 

NBA 
Howard scores 22 in Magic win over Heat 
Jefferson leads Bucks in victory over Nets with 29 points and 10 rebounds; Villanueva puts 20 on the board 
MIAMI -On the night Miami retired Alonzo Mourning's number, Orlando's big man wrecked the party. 
Dwight Howard scored 22 points and grabbed 18 rebounds, passing Wilt Chamberlain as the youngest NBA player to reach the 5,000­board mark, and the Magic kept their grip on the No. 2 spot in the Eastern Conference by beating the Heat 101-95 on Monday night. 
Rashard Lewis scored 21 points, including the go-ahead 3-pointer with 1:32 remaining for Orlando (55-18). which stayed five games behind Cleveland and percentage points ahead of defending champion Boston in the East race. 
Dwyane Wade scored 13 of his 42 points in the fourth quarter for the Heat (39-35), whose edge over Philadelphia for the East's No. 5 seed was trimmed to one game. 
The series has be.en one­sided, with Orlando having won 12 of the last 13 meetings between the clubs. 
This game, most assuredly, was not. 
Hedo Turkoglu scored 16 points, Rafer Alston added 13 and Courtney Lee finished with 10 for Orlando. Mario Chalmers scored 13 points and had seven assists for the Heat, and Jermaine O'Neal added 10 for Miami. 
The loss was especially costly for the Heat. Backup point guard Luther Head broke his left hand during the game and will miss four to six weeks, meaning there likely will be no way he's available for Miami's first-round playoff series. 
There were seven lead changes and four ties in the final 5:49, with Wade-as typ­ically is the case -carrying most of the offensive load for Miami. Three times in a span of 2 1/2 minutes, Wade either had a dunk or a layup that gave the Heat the lead, the last of those coming with 2:52 left and put­ting Miami up 92-91. 
Orlando simply wasn't rat­tled. 
Howard rattled home the sec­ond of two free throws to tie it, Lewis got free for a 3-pointer from near the Heat bench, and Turkoglu found Howard under the basket for a layup that put the Magic up 97-92 with 50.5 seconds remaining. 
Miami got within two on Wade's free throws with 17 sec­onds left, but J .J. Redick answered those with a pair of his own 2 seconds later, and Orlando escaped -spoiling the Mourning party. 
Mourning's friends and family took bets on whether he'd cry during the halftime celebration, and he insisted he wouldn't. 
He was wrong. 
The 43-minute ceremony fea­tured the reading of a letter from President Barack Obama, plus brief speeches from Gov. Charlie Crist, Heat president Pat Riley, Mourning's former 

Georgetown coach John Thompson and fellow former Hoya Patrick Ewing, a longtime mentor. "Just eight short years ago, eight short years ago, I didn't envision this moment happening," Mourning said, moments after the banner bearing his name and No. 33 was raised. "This is probably one of the greatest moments of my life and I'm honored to be here this evening." He was diagnosed with kidney disease in 2000, needed a transplant in 2003, and was told he'd never play in the NBA again. He returned, of course, and got the . NBA championship he spent a career chasing in 2006, when the Heat beat Dallas in six games." I wanted to let you know how proud we all are of your extraordinary career, but also the way you have given back to the community all these years," Obama wrote to Mourning. "You have been, and will continue to be, a great leader. God bless you and your family." As the speeches went on, Mourning's eyes began to water. Tears flowed and his lips trembled when the banner was being hoisted. "Y'all can go and collect your money," Mourning said. It was a night for the Heat to celebrate, coach Erik Spoelstra said before the game, and sure enough, Miami seemed inspired.Orlando led 46-43 after a back-and-forth first half, where the Heat start­ed fast, went ice cold to fall into a double-digit hole, then 
clawed back. Halftime for NBA games that aren't nationally televised are typically 14 min­utes. Monday's was supposed to be 24 minutes to accommodate the Mourning ceremony, but by the time the game actually resumed, roughly the equiva­lent of three halftimes had passed. And once again, when the Magic seemed poised to take control, Miami tried to fight back. Lewis made a 3­pointer with 2:01 left for a 70­63 Orlando lead, but the Heat scored the final six points of the quarter and were only down by one heading into the fourth. 
Bucks 107, Nets 78 
Richard Jefferson had ~9 points and 10 rebounds against his former teammates and the Milwaukee Bucks snapped a season-high, five-game losing streak with a 107-78 victory over the reeling New Jersey Nets on Monday night. 
Charlie Villanueva added 20 points for the Bucks, who kept their slim hopes for a playoff berth alive by snapping a seven-game road losing streak and sending the Nets to their fifth straight loss, matching their season high. 
The win was only the filth in 19 games for Milwaukee, which is four games behind Chicago in the race for the final playoff berth in the Eastern Conference. The Bucks (32-43) have seven games left. 
Chris Douglas-Roberts had 14 points and Brook Lopez added 10 points and 10 rebounds for New Jersey, which suffered its second embarrassing loss in 24 hours. Minnesota snapped a seven-game losing streak by beating the Nets on Sunday. 
That was only a nine-point loss. This one was a blowout, and it was never close after Milwaukee used an 18-0 run in the final 4:51 of the first quar­ter to 32-13lead. 
Jefferson, traded to Milwaukee after last season, started the run with a 3-pointer and added four free throws before it was over. Villanueva had a big slam and six points, and rookie Joe Alexander, who finished with a career-high 16 points, capped the spurt 3­pointer. 
The rest of the game was garbage time, punctuated by boos by the sparse crowd when the Bucks pushed the lead into the 20s and 30s over the final three quarters. 
Nets guards Vince Carter and Devin Harris sat most of the second half, combining for 19 points on 6-of-22 shooting. 
The frustration got to Nets coach Lawrence Frank in the third quarter. He picked up technical foul for arguing a no­call on a layup attempt by Ryan Anderson. 
The Nets futility was never more evident than· early in the third quarter when Bucks cen­ter Dan Gadzuric stole the ball from Trenton Hassell under the Milwaukee basket, dribbled behind his back and dunked. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 31, 2009 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Team to face Baylor at home in second 111atch 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sporrs Writer 
In a bit of deja vu, Notre Dame faces No. 4 Baylor for the second time this season, having defeated the Bears 4-3 in the National Indoor quarterfinals. 
Back in mid-February, Notre Dame (16-2) felt disrespected by its No. 14 ranking, and set to prove the skeptics wrong. Now, No. 2 Notre Dame aims to hold onto its elite status, while, still at No. 4, Baylor (12-4) still hopes to move up a few more spots in the rankings. 
"We had such a tight match [in February], I am sure they are looking to beat us this time around," coach Jay Louderback said. "It should be another close one tomorrow." 
But not only the Baylor team is looking for revenge today. In the match in February, the top Irish doubles duo of senior Kelcy Tefl't and freshmen Kristy Frilling suffered one of only two losses this season. The Baylor duo of Lenka Broosova and Csilla Borsanyi defeated Tefft 
and Frilling 8-0. This time around, the match could hinge on that result. 
"It will be 4-3 again. The key will be the doubles point," Louderback said. "Our one team is definitely looking for­ward to playing them again. They remember that one for sure." 
Notre Dame can count among its advantages the fact that the match will likely be held indoors. Baylor has not played much indoors lately, nor have they played on the road in any of their last six matches, going 6-0 at home. 
Both teams look to get a strong non-conference win late in the year to prepare for the upcoming NCAA tournament. 
"Today the big thing is com­peting well. I know we are matched up and ready to play," he said. "We just have to com­pete well at every position." 
The match begins at 4:30 
p.m. today at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
NASCAR 
Driver Johnson gives testi111ony at tax trial 

ND SOFTBALL 
Irish take on IUPUI at home 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will put its seven-game win streak on the line today against Indiana University-Purdue University at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
The Irish (17 -11) are coming off of a successful Big East road trip in which they won one contest against Georgetown and took two from South Florida. 
In addition to their win streak, the team has won nine of its last 10. 
"We struggled early in the season," senior outfielder Beth Northway said. "But since we started getting on a roll, we're putting the pieces together, and we're looking good now." 
The Jaguars (3-29) have lost their last four games. The team's latest win came in tho form of a 10-1 blowout or Valparaiso on Mareh 23. That victory broke an 18-gamn los­ing streak that dated back to Feb. 21. 
"IUPUI is not a team we can just overlook," Northway said. "This is just as important as a Big East opponent." 
IUPUI does have a potential­ly dangerous offensive attack in the duo of Sarah Oppelt and Mia Ettl. The women have .377 and .345 batting aver­ages, respectively, and Ettl leads the team with five home runs and 14 HBI. 
The Irish offense has been on fire during its win streak, with freshman right fielder Dani Miller and the senior outfielder Northway leading the way. 
Miller has three home runs in her last six games, includ­ing one in the first game against USF, and holds a .421 batting average. Northway, who leads the team with a .483 batting average and a slugging pereentage of 1.034, also homered in that game. 
"The whole team has been hitting really well so far," 
Northway said. "The whole team has been doing extra hit­ting." 
The Irish have now gone deep at least once in each of their past 10 games. 
The game against IUPUI will begin a lengthy homestand for Notre Dame. The Irish will play a total of 10 games in South Bend before traveling to Connecticut on April 11. 
This could bode well for the Irish, who are currently 6-1 at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
"Our facilities this year are so nice, and it makes us appreciate being home," Northway said. "There's noth­ing like playing at home." 
Senior pitcher Brittany Bargar (11-6) will start on the mound for the Irish. Bargar holds a 1.63 EHA in 116 innings pitched. 
The first pitch is scheduled for 5 p.m. today. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers@nd.edu 

Cheerleading & Leprechaun Tryout Information Meeting 
5:30P.M. Apri16, 2009-Gym 2-Joyce Center (above Gate 10) 
Questions: (Sami) smainicr@nd.edu or Qoe) jtsail @nd.edu or (Leprechaun) Juan.MuldoonlO@nd.edu 

!Now Leasing Por 2009-2010 Jf.pp{y 'Today LimitedSpace /lvaiCa6Ce//l 
Offering 'Tfze (]Jest c.Rptta[<R.g.tes in tTcrwn! $99 Por 1"' :Mont/is q(gnt 'Vtht:Ji 12 <M.ontli Lease! $300 O.ffpt ::Mont/is CJ?§nt 'Witli 9 ::Mcmtli £ease! 'Free A.pp6cation Pee PorStuaents 'Witli UD.! ChJse to Campus! 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -NASCAR champion Jimmie Johnson was the leadoff defense witness Monday in the Helio Castroneves tax evasion trial, testifying that a lawyer who is also charged in the case has a sterling reputation in the motorsports world. 
Johnson, a three-time Sprint Cup winner, said Michigan lawyer Alan Miller has many clients in NASCAR and the Indy Racing League, a circuit where the Brazilian-born Castroneves is a top driver. Both Castroneves and Johnson have received financial guidance from Miller. 
"Alan's reputation is about honesty. His character is second to none," Johnson testified in a 10-minute appearance. "He's given me great advice." 
Miller, 71, is charged with conspiracy and tax evasion for allegedly helping Castroneves, 33, and the driver's business manager-sister, 35-year-old Katiucia, avoid U.S. taxes on some $5.5 million from 1999 to 2004. All three face more than six years in prison if convicted. 
Prosecutors rested their case Monday after four weeks of tes­timony, much of it focused on Miller's role in handling finan­cial arrangements when Castroneves was hired by Penske Racing in late 1999. Prosecutors say the deal illegal­ly avoided U.S. taxes on $5 mil­lion of the Penske money, which first was earmarked for a Panamanian shell corporation and then wound up in a Dutch deferred compensation account. 
Johnson, 33, said Miller -a former professional football player and former NFL Players Association lawyer -has rep­resented him for about 12 years and came widely recommended by racing industry leaders. 
"I needed help to grow in my career. Alan was that guy for me," said Johnson, who won his 41st career NASCAH race Sunday at Martinsville, Va. 
The defense case for Castroneves, a two-time Indianapolis 500 winner, and his co-defendants is expected to take about a week. Howard Srebnick, attorney for Katiucia Castroneves, told jurors that evidence will show what the Internal Hevenue Service claims were improper tax deductions were actually payments to their father for his years in Brazil working to promote Helio Castroneves. 
"There was an understand­ing, and a moral obligation on the part of Helio, to pay his father," Srebnick said. 
Castroneves also does not owe U.S. taxes on the $5 million sitting in the Dutch account because he has not yet received it, Srebnick said. Prosecutors claim the taxes were owed because Penske was ready and able to pay Castroneves, who cannot avoid tax just because he didn't accept the money. 
Either way, Srebnick said Castroneves relied on advice from experts like Miller and others for his financial dealings. 
"If the best-known lawyer in the racing community gives you that advice, you follow that advice. That's what Helio did," Srebnick said. 
Aside from his racing career, Castroneves is perhaps best known for his 2007 victory on TV's "Dancing With The Stars" competition. The tax case does not involve his appearance on that show. 

eastle1'oint
Apa t t. 1.•01.1 cl.e_l._d a:r. so•Ut a-oe~ Ill 46637 
r, n1e11 s Pltofte: (574) 212-nu Fax: (57~) .212-uu 
www..d.dau.com 
Tuesday, March 31, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Bookstore 
continued from page 20 
Travis Allen and Luke Nakatsukasa, paved the wave to a dominating second period. 
The girls of Do Something Crazy seemed too exhausted to stand in the late going, and Chris Brown Beat Down clinched a 21-10 victory that was closer than score indicat­ed. Ferocious interior defense from Koch and Hoffman did not let their opponents pick up an easy win. 
Team Jarvis All-Stars 21 ­Team Oink Oink 8 
"No one on the court's got swagga like us," senior Christa Riggins proclaimed when she arrived. 
Swagger, Team Oink Oink had; any degree of teamwork or skill, they did not. The Team Jarvis All-Stars had the skills to back up their boasts, putting on a Globetrotteresque show during their victory. 
"We've got to hip check and throw that can beat us twice." 
"Oh my God! We're still in the mix!" an elated Dropcho said after the match. "We're the craziest team on the island!" 
It was unclear what island Dropcho was referring to. 
MR. JAM 21, The Shankopotomus 4 
An undermanned Shankopotomus squad stood no chance against the offen­sive balance and strong defense of MR. JAM Monday afternoon in the Frank Leahy sectional. 
Right from the start of the game, player-coach, Adam Kiene made it clear that he and his teammates had been looking forward to the game. 
"We've been very excited to get out here and show off our skills," Kiene said. "We came ready to play." 
Lockdown defensive special­ist Joey Sheehan prevented The Shankopotomus from get­ting anything started on the offensive side of the ball. "I 

these girls down," have seri­
"We're the craziest 

senior Mike Pearl of ous 'D-skil­
team on the island." 

the All-Stars lz' with a declared during z warm-ups. Ted Dropcho Sheehan Team Oink Oink commented
Team Jarvis All-Stars 

opened with a blis­tering, seven-second offense that put the All-Stars on their heels. Cramps from Riggins and a pants-related malfunction from senior Claire "Cooler than Miles Davis" 
Hutchinson slowed the Oink Oink offense to a crawl, set off by a game changing fast-break from All-Star senior Fran Tolan. 
"The great white hope," sen­ior teammate Ted Dropcho said of Tolan. 
Senior Casey Wagner scooped up loose balls and hustled for rebounds for Oink Oink, but the team slumped down the stretch to finish the half down 11-3. 
"We just want to finish it up and let that poor girl LHutchinsonl go home," All­Star senior Patrick Keating said. "I think that's what's best for everyone at this point, hon­estly." 
As the second half began, Oink Oink senior forwards Mallorie Croal and Kim Kristoff were swept back by the relentless charge of the All-Stars' innovative "Flying­V" formation. All-Star senior Ryan Frost and the rest of his squad brushed the Oink Oink defense aside to score at will as the game wound down, picking up a victory. 
"Despite our malfunctions, we just had a great time," Kristoff said. 
Riggins qualified the loss, saying, "Just because they can beat us once, doesn't mean 
senior  after game.  the  
On  the  

offensive 
side of the ball JAM jumped out to an early 5-0 lead. Kiene, Sheehan, Rick Helfrich, Matt Thomas, and Matt Lopez all contributed to a balanced JAM attack that was unanswered by Shankopotomus. Kelene said his referring to the RA of the majority of the Journeymen squad from Carroll Hall: five­foot tall Mark McLaughlin. 

The Journeymen started the game with a defensive state­ment when Ben Mall blocked the first Happy Team shot of the game. Journeymen pulled away in the ·first half, opening up an 11-3 advantage at half­
. time. 

In the second half, Mike DeRusso took over the game for several po·ssessions. At one point, DeRusso hit three out­side jump shots on three con­secutive possessions for Journeymen. 
"My stroke just felt good" DeRusso said. "My teammates gave me the ball so I kept shooting." 
The Journeymen next play the tournament No. 1 seed Main Street Pub on Saturday at 4 p.m. 
We Get Beat Worse Than Rihanna 21, It Ain't Worth Winning if You Can't Win Big
10 ­It Ain't Worth Winning could­n't keep up with the up-and­down style of play that We Get Beat Worse Than Rihanna brought to the table, losing 21­
10. Their sagging 2-3 defense managed to contain their opponent's half-court offense at times, but in the end too many turnovers led to a num­ber of fast break points for Rihanna. 
"We aren't as big as other teams so we just like to run up and down, keeping it moving," Rihanna team captain Grant Erickson said. 
The team's man-to-man 
pressure defense forced a number of the turnovers, 
team had a sig­nificant height advantage with  "We weren't intimidated by our  allowing them to go on a 6-0 run to end the  
the majority of players over six  RA or his height. "  game, with all six points  
feet tall. "We had a strong showing,"  Matt Jensen The Majestic Journeyman  coming from layups. Captain Kyle  
Kiene said. "Our  freshman  Berceau led It  

height and strong zone defense pro­vided us with an advantage over our opponents." 
MR. JAM next plays on Saturday at noon at the Lyons courts. 
The Majestic Journeymen 21, Pat Brown and the Super Fun Happy Team 9 
A hot streak by Mike DeRusso and solid team play helped The Majestic Journeymen defeat Pat Brown and the Super Fun Happy Team Monday afternoon. 
Journeymen. coach Matt Jensen was proud of his team's efforts. 
"We came out strong and we achieved our highest goal of victory," Jensen said. "We also weren't intimidated by our RA or his height." Jensen was 

Ain't Worth 
Winning in scoring with six of the team's 10 points. He attributed the loss mainly to a lack of prepa­ration. 
"They were just a lot more prepared than we were. You could tell they had practiced and it really showed in what they were doing on offense," Berceau said. 
Freshman guard Alex Metoxen had a different per­spective on the reasons for the loss. "We just weren't fast enough and we couldn't get the ball to the post, especially to me," he said. "They just couldn't get me the ball." . 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu, Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu, and Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 
Wildcats 
continued from page 20 
the country," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. ''I'm sure it was disappointing to them. We expect a heck of a game from them, and you have to count on a hard fought 60-minute game." 
The Wildcats play a game quite different from Notre Dame's aggressive, attacking style. 
"They control the ball, and they play patiently," Corrigan said. "They take good shots and are very selective in their shot selection. That is chal­lenging as they are not a team that give away posses­sions." 
The Villanova offense is led by senior attack Tim Driscoll, who has tallied a team-high 14 goals in eight matches. Wildcats junior Paul Webber leads the team in points with 19 on nine goals and 10 assists. 
To counteract this conserva­tive nature of Villanova; the Irish must maintain their composure throughout the entire 60-minute contest. 
"We have to be efficient 
offensively," Corrigan said. "We can't trade long posses­sions for short ones, but we have to keep our aggressive­ness and make sure we are attacking the cage to put some pressure on them." 
Such a task is often easier said than done, ·but Notre Dame should be prepared. This season, led by senior goalie Scott Rodgers and his .637 save perc·entage, the Irish have the No. 7 defense in the nation, as well as the No. 7 scoring offense. 
"We are not short on momentum right now; we have not lost yet this year," Corrigan said. "But I don't know how much that will ~ really effect tomorrow. We just have to go in with the mindset of outplaying them and outworking them for 60 minutes." 
If able to do so, Notre Dame will match the best-ever start by the program at 8-0, achieved byJlle team in 1993. Furthermore, the team would also extend the program­record home win streak to 23. 
Faceoff is scheduled for 4 
p.m. today at Alumni Field. 
Contact Dan Murphy at @nd.edu/ saintmarys.edu 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Stanford's Appel scores 46 in win over Iowa St. 
Associated Press 
BERKELEY, Calif. -The Big. Appel is headed back to the Final Four after a low-post per­formance surpassing anything in Stanford's long, illustrious basketball history. 
Jayne Appel had a career­high 46 points and 16 rebounds in the third highest-scoring per­formance in NCAA tournament history, overwhelming Iowa State's helpless defense and securing Stanford's second straight Final Four appearance with a 74-53 victory in the Berkeley Regional final on Monday night. 
Stanford's physically imposing center with neon-pin~ finger­nails and a dancer's grace also surpassed Candice Wiggins' sin­gle-game scoring record for the Cardinal (33-4), leaving little doubt about Stanford's 20th straight victory and eighth Final Four berth. 
Only Drake's Lorri Bauman (50 points in 1982) and Texas Tech's Sheryl Swoopes (47 in 1993) have scored more points in an NCAA tournament game than the 6-foot-4 Appel, who made 19 of her 28 shots before being mobbed by her team­mates at the final buzzer. 
At the Final Four in St. Louis, the Cardinal will meet the win­ner of Connecticut's Trenton Regional final meeting with Arizona State. Stanford is the last team to beat the undefeat­ed Huskies, doing it in last sea­son's semifinal game in Tampa. 
Amanda Nisleit scored 17 points for the Cyclones, who couldn't hit enough 3-pointers to overcome Appel's awe-inspir­ing effort. Iowa State (27 -9) has made the regional final twice, falling short in 1999 and again this season. 
Alison Lacey, who scored 29 points in Iowa State's comeback win over Michigan State in the Berkeley semifinals, managed just two on 1-of-10 shooting against Stanford. 
Appel scored 27 points in the first half, two more than the fourth-seeded Cyclones' entire roster. The junior barely let up in the second half, breaking Wiggins' school record on~ one last low-post move with 1:43 to play. 
The Cyclones' 38-point loss to the Cardinal back in late November didn't prepare them for the rematch. Appel scored just six points in that meeting. 

__j 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 31, 2009 
against Pittsburgh. 

Parmalee said. "He was on transferring from Dayton] was The Irish also hit four home 
the scout team and then got his toughness, and he's looking 
Tight End
Spartans 
runs Sunday against 

moved up last year to be the to get into the mix too." continued from page 20 Pittsburgh, a season high. 
continued from page 20 second tight end, and was The foursome of tight ends Junior Ryne Intlekofer had 
playing eatch-up, so he finally will look to continue Notre dangerous hitters, though. three hits, including his first 
has no limitations, he's com­has an off-season to get in the Dame's recent tradition of suc­Junior Eli Boiki has a .349 career home run. Sophomore 
petitive, and he's productive." system and get some meaning­cess at the position -former average and.five home runs, catcher Cameron McConnell 
Pushing Ragone on the depth ful reps." starters Jo.hn Carlson and leading the team, and a .442 also hit his first homer. 
chart is rising sophomore Parmalee also said junior Anthony Fasano were two of on-base percentage. He has Those hits didn't always 
Joseph Fauria, who saw the walk-on Bobby Burger could the most prolific tight ends in also stolen seven bases in come in timely situations. 
field in three games his fresh­also push for playing time. program history and have nine attempts. Notre Dame stranded 29 base 
man season. "He knows the offense, he's a moved into starting NFL roles. Junior Chris Roberts, hitting runners against the Panthers, 
"He's working hard, all the tough kid, and he's a smart .333, also provides a threat 12 in the second game and 11 
guys are working hard, but kid," Parmalee said. "The Contact Michael Bryan at for the Spartans. in the third game of the 
he's really pushing Ragone." thing that stood out [after mbryan@nd.edu 
The team as a whole, how­series. ever, hits only .248, which is Fortunately for the Irish, perfect for a Notre Dame Spartan pitching has not been pitching staff that has strug­fantastic either. Michigan 

"Final games are being and our system." gled of late. The staff has an State has a 5.55 team ERA 
played, so we're just looking The Irish advanced to the ERA of 5.11 and has walked and has walked 102 batters 
NIT 
forward to finishing our semifinals with a win over 106 batters this season. Irish this season. The Spartans 
continued from page 20 careers at New York City at UAB, a buzzer beater victory pitchers gave up 37 hits to allowed 10 runs on 13 hits to 
one of the most famous are­courtesy of junior guard Tory Pittsburgh this weekend, 30 Illinois Friday and walked six 
everything, we're probably nas in the world." Jackson against New Mexico of them in the final two batters Saturday. The Spartan 
into 125-130 practices," Irish At that arena, Notre Dame and a victory over Kentucky, games. staff pitched well Sunday 
coach Mike Brey said. will face a Penn State (25-11, in the last game coached for Notre Dame's bats, on the against the Fighting Illini but 
"Coming together, going 10-8 Big 10) team that was the Wildcats by Billy Gillispie. other hand, are doing just got no offensive support. 
through the routine, stretch­one of the first teams left out If the Irish win, they'll face fine. Over the past 15 games, First pitch today is sched­
ing ... I've never been into of the NCAA Tournament. either Baylor or San Diego junior center ..fielder A.J. uled for 6:05 p.m. Notre 
that territory." "[They have] great guards," State on Thursday at 7 p.m., Pollock has batted .448. Last Dame will host another non­
Remarkably, Notre Dame Brey said. "But it's not like also on ESPN 2. week, he batted .500, had a conference opponent, Toledo, 
has been able to stay relative­we haven't seen great guards "''m excited that we got out slugging percentage of .854 on Wednesday before facing 
ly healthy over the past six this year, coming out of the [The Joyce Center] with a win and an on-base percentage of Villanova at home in a Big 
months, outside of banged up league we came out of. Really and I want to end it with .560. East series this weekend. 
senior forward Zach good guards, tough under­another win," Irish senior Sophomore third baseman 
Hillesland, who suffers a dif­sized big kid inside in guard Kyle McAlarney said. Greg Sherry has been hot 
ferent injury every game, and [Jamelle] Cornley, who's "The fact that we are very recently as well. Sherry hit Contact Bill Brink at 
has avoided burnout along tough. But a confident team. close to doing that is very .500 (7-14) over the weekend wbrink@nd.edu 
the way. They won 25 games. Ten in exciting. We fought and 
And to listen to the Irish, the Big 10. They go down and clawed to get to this position, practices and the team's atti­win in Florida, they're also so there really is a sense of tude toward each other hasn't playing well." accomplishment for us to get changed much since August. The Nittany Lions will likely to New York, but now it's a 
"Nothing's really different," be ready to face Notre Dame. whole different monster and Hillesland said. "We're having Former Irish assistant Lewis we have to win two games. To a good time like we have been Preston is currently an assis­end it on that note in New the last couple of weeks now. tant on the Nittany Lions York City, that'll be very spe­We're having fun together. bench. cial." You look around the country "There are probably no and a lot of teams' seasons secrets," Brey said. "Lewis Contact Chris Hine at are ending. certainly knows our program chine@nd.edu 



Tuesday, March 31, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
PAT GARTLAND 
You still watch American Idol? This isn't going to work out. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
71 Milk dispenser 72 Mafia dons 73 Capital on a 59­Across 74 "Here's to ...," e.g. 
Down 1 on the Mohs · 
scale 2 Five-star Bradley 3 Hummus 
scooper-upper 4 Cause. of some wrinkles 5 Land-use regulators 6 Like golf greens, frequently 7 Friend who's frangaise 8 Unfocused dread 9 Filet 10 Haberdashery accessory 11 Slacker's bane 12 Musician Brian 
13 Carnival locale 14 1989 Bond girl Bouvier 20 First in a string of 13 popes 
22 Big name in lawn products 
25 Part of L.P.G.A. 26 Wears away 27 Arcade fans 28 Fender bender, 
e.g. 29 Whenever your 
heart desires 30 white 32 "Ouch!" 
33 360 35 Hiker's snack 37 Musher's carrier 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Stephen Edward Anderson 
39 Preparing hash 52 Walked to the 62 Stigma borne by for G.I. Joe, say door Hester Prynne 
42 They're spotted 56 Forum attire 63 Hydrocarbonin tall grass 58 Tic-tac-toe 

suffixes 43 Wide shoe spec 
alternatives 
64 Type44 U.S.M.C. 
59 Key to the city
noncoms 65 Low-rank inits.

recipient, maybe49 Politico Gingrich 60 Singer Sedaka 
66 Steely Dan's 50 One for whom 
stellar seller 
Nome may be 61 Professzor 
home Rubik 67 Top 40 genre 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords . 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Scott Moffatt, 26; Norah Jones, 30; Celine Dion, 41; Paul Reiser, 52 
Happy Birthday: Speak your mind and be open to ideas, activities and events you've never experienced before. Changes to the way you do things or what you do will result in creativity that will enhance the way others see you. Don't be too eager to give away too much; your generosity will be your downfall. Reap the rewards for your hard work. Your numbers are 7, 9, 12, 23, 35, 44,49 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): When it comes to making money or formulating deals, you have to tell it like it is and let everyone know what you want and need to proceed. Positive results will come from taking proper control. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): It's your life and you must be willing to be responsible for the results. Deception is being used in emotional ways to convince you to make unhealthy decisions that will benefit others but not you. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can play the game as well lis anyone, so why are you letting your emotions get the better of you? Call someone's bluff and stop him or her from taking over. You can make the changes necessary for reforms and a better life. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-JuJy 22): Someone you love may be acting childish. Don't get in­volved in idle chatter or gossip that can only cause you problems in the future. Concentrate on getting ahead and doing things your way. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Look for a way to promote your plans. Your ability to communi­cate your ideas and incorporate what others are doing into your own goals will help you build a strong future. Love is in the stars, so combine business with pleasure. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A fast talker may try to convince you to spend on something you shouldn't. Don't get angry, just play it smart and say no. Put your time, effort and hard work into your home and family. 2 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22)~ You can form a good partnership that will enable you to reach your goals faster. Your creative ideas coupled with the drive your partner bas will make you successful. Love is looking favorable and communication will bring results. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Change may be necessary but don't let it be costly. Ifsome­one wants too much, say no. Put your energy to work for you and develop what you need to help you produce the most and the best you can. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You have to look at your personal life and make the right adjustments to achieve happiness. If someone is playing games with you or bringing you down, address the situation instead of running away or ignoring what's going on. 
Show your true worth. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will find it easy to get along with acquaintances but those you are close to will not be as accommodating. Focus on expanding your circle of friends and you will recognize what true friendship means. It's time for change but only you can make it happen. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Emotional matters may escalate if you haven't got a good understanding of the facts involved. Travel and communication will fall short of your ex­pectations. Sit tight until you have a better handle on your situation. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Jumping from one thing to another will unnerve the compe­tition and keep you in the game. You have to be able to keep a secret. Someone may play you for a fool if you believe he or she is really truly on your side. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are charming, engaging and know how to work a crowd. You are a master at getting things done and are gifted and forthright. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address ______________________________________ ,City ________ State ____ Zip______:__ 
JUMBLE 
@2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved, 
[) [ tII 
tTRAPSY 

J [J ) 
1 
Answer:( I I IJ rI I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) "esterday's IJumbles: SWISH EXCEL GOPHER BEHALF Answer: What the plumber improved when he unplugged the sink -HIS CASH "FLOW" 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirton and Jeff Knurek 

1 r~?t · 

WHE:N THE: YINTNE:R L.OST THE: WINE: TASTING C.ONTE:ST, IT AMOL>NTE:D TO --­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD 
Across 
Birthstone for most Scorpios 6 Sir's complement 10 Insignificant type 15 Friend in a sombrero 
16 1970s-'80s Dodge 17 Ancient region with an architectural style named after it 18 Root of all Romance languages 
19 Margin to maneuver 
21 Strain to see over the top 
23 [That makes me a little angry] 
24 Hammer or tongs 
25 Pants half 
28 G.P.S. offering 
31 River of Hades 
34 Honeymooners' 
destination 36 Social finishes? 38 Bum 40 City God 
destroyed with fire and brimstone 
41 Eat humble pie 45 Company 
newbie 46 Classic Jags 47 One's equal 48 ''That's it for 
now!" 51 Hard throws to first base, say 53 Sound of bacon frying 54 Perform, as 
one's trade 55 Real pill 57 Line on a receipt 59 Be a street 
peddler 65 Toothless enemy 68 Terse bridge bid 69 Norwegian coast 
feature 70 Street that may be a U.S. highway 


www. BLACKDOGCOIViiC.COM 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, March 31, 2009 
page 20 
FOOTBALL 
Rudolph, healthy Ragone lead talented tight end group 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Associate Sports Editor 
After· a challenging season that saw the Irish lose sopho­more Mike Ragone to an anteri­or cruciate ligament (ACL) injury and junior Will Yeatman to suspension, Notre Dame appears healthy and reloaded at the tight end position this spring. 
Led by the recovery of Ragone and rising sophomore talent Kyle Rudolph, tight ends coach Bernie Parmalee said this sea­son's depth will help open up the Irish offense. 
"[Last year] we couldn't do what we needed to do, we couldn't use certain packages with multiple tight ends because we only had one," Parmalee said. "The more guys we have at that position, the better we are. We ha:ve three guys ~ight behind Rudolph that really can play some ball and allow us to do more things." 

Rudolph was thrust into the starting position last season as a freshman after the losses of Ragone and Yeatman, and made an immediate impact in the passing game. The tight end set school records for a fresh­man at the position, recording 25 receptions for 262 yards and two touchdowns. 
Parmalee said the main point of emphasis with Rudolph this 
offseason was in the weight room. 
"He's smart, and he's got a lot of talent, and he's gotten stronger. The biggest time to make gains is after that first year, then you can really hold the point of attack," Parmalee said. 
He also praised Rudolph's efforts his freshman year. 
"He was an iron man, you rarely see that in a freshman, coming in playing in this type of 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
The other Final Four 
ND faces Penn State in NIT semifinals in another trip to NYC 
By CHRIS HINE Senior Staff Writer 
This is it for Notre Dame. 

No matter what happens, Notre Dame's long, twisted season will come to an end this week. It could end tonight if the Irish lose to Penn State in the semifinals of the NIT at Madison Square Garden, ten­tatively scheduled for a 9 p.m. tipoff on ESPN 2, or it coul~ end on Thursday, in either an NIT title or a loss in the title game. 
This week will mark the end of a season that began all the way back in August, when Notre Dame took a preseason trip to Ireland. 
"If you counted Ireland and 
see NIT/page 18 offense, starting every game and taking almost every snap," he said. 


The rising junior Ragone also appears healthy and primed for a big season after sitting out last season because of a torn ACL. 
"He's out there practicing like everyone else," Parmalee said. "He goes out there and plays his butt off. He's playing well, he 
see TIGHT END/page 18 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Tea111 tries for record 8-0 start 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 

Undefeated this season and in its last 22 home games, Notre Dame will look to match the best start in pro­gram history today at home against non-conference oppo­nent Villanova. 
The Wildcats (6-2) are com­ing off of a tough loss to Sacred Heart and hope to reverse their fortunes at Alumni Field against the Irish (7-0). 
"They dropped one the other day. I think they out­played ISacred Heart], but Sacred Heart's goalie had a great day. Before that they were ranked in the top 20 of 
see WILDCATS/page 17 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Do Something Crazy falls to Chris Brovvn 
By MICHAEL BLASCO, ALEX WEST, and CHRIS MICHALSKI Sports Writers 
The glittery gals of Do Something Crazy walked onto the court with one goal. 
"Total domination. Nothing less," senior Liz Slawin said. 
But a buttoned-down group of old school street-ballers, the senior fivesome of Chris
.. 
Brown Beat Down, won 21-10, carrying the day with a fast, physical style of play that left Do Something Crazy huffing and puffing down the stretch. 
Senior Kristie Koch of Do Something Crazy lead an early charge, keeping the game close with a concerted offen­sive blitzkrieg that startled the flat-flooted squad of Chris Brown Beat Down. 
"That Kristie is a sharp­
shooter," senior Dan Behrens­said. Koch's senior teammate Rachel Hoffman added at half, "Kristie's carrying the team so much that her back must hurt." 
Do Something Crazy kept the game close in the early going, but a complete break­down in offensive cohesion and repeated turnovers kept them from mounting any size­able run. However, ineffective outside shooting from Chris Brown Beat Down's Josh Bartrom and Brian Slaboch never allowed their squad to take a sizable lead, heading into half up only 11-6. 
A key midrange jumper from Slawin early in the sec­ond incited a Do Something Crazy rally, but Chris Brown Beat Down's solid inside game, headed by seniors 
see BOOKSTORE/page 17 

BASEBALL 
Irish host cold Spartan lineup 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 

Notre Dame has a chance to recover from two straight losses to Pittsburgh over the weekend when it faces Michigan State, who lost three straight to Illinois, today at ·6:05 p.m. at Eck Stadium. 
The Irish (15-10, 2-4 Big East) took the first game of the three-game series behind sophomore Cole Johnson's two earned-run complete game Friday. Notre Dame gave up 29 runs in the next two games to the Panthers' bats. 
Michigan State (7 -17, 0-3 Big Ten) has only scored five runs in its last three ga.mes and none in its last game, a 3-0 loss to the lllini in which the Spartans only managed four hits. They do have some 
see SPARTANS/page 18 









