
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 44: ISSUE 5 . MONDAY, AUGUST 31.2009 

Dillon Hall pep rally returns to campus 
Following last year's cancellation, traditional event to feature new format, entire football team 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Associate News Editor 
After a one-year hiatus, the Dillon Hall pep rally, a 40-year tradition, returns to campus with an updated format featur­ing an array of surprise guest speakers and the entire foot­ball team. 
"The reason it was canceled last year was that everything didn't come together in a time­ly fashion," Dillon Hall presi­dent Kevin Doyle said. "It was a whole bunch of different things but basically it just did­n't come together in time for us to put the rally on and get it up on stage and have everything good to go. This year that is not going to be the case." 

Event director and Dillon Hall resident assistant Keith Ruehlmann said losing the pep rally last year made the dorm leadership even more eager to stage the signature event. 
"You really don't know what you have until it's gone, and when we lost it last year I was really upset about it," he said. 
In years past, the Dillon Hall pep rally was an event primari­ly organized for students. Unlike other pep rallies, usual­ly held in the Joyce Center, it 
see DILLON/page 4 

Cause of fire near LaFortune under investigation 
Friday morningfire forces evacuations; Jenkins thanks community for quick response to incident 
10:45 a.m. 
LaFortune Student Center and several surrounding buildings, including dormito­ries, were evacuated during the time. 
St. Edward's Hall, St. Liam Hall, Nieuwland Science, Cavanaugh Hall, Stepan Chemistry, Breen Phillips Hall and Farley Hall were among the evacuated buildings. 
A University employee was treated at a local hospital for smoke inhalation, but was released the same day. 
Brown said the fire affected 
see FIRE/page 3 


By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
The cause of the fire in a utility tunnel under the area near LaFortune Student Center Friday morning is still under investigation, accord­ing to University spokesman Dennis Brown. 
"There will be work over the next few days on a variety of things -repairing cable television connections, phone and Internet," Brown said. 
The fire was reported around 8:15 a.m. Friday and was extinguished around 

ESS minor grows in popularity 
Students say coursework helps give them valuable experience 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's Education, Schooling and Society (ESS) minor has only existed for eight years, but during that time, it has morphed from a small program of only twelve students to one of the most popular minors in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Nancy McAdams, the pro­gram's undergraduate advisor, said the massive growth in popularity is easy to explain -the minor's subject matter is unique. 
"I think it has filled a need on campus that was there that no one has recognized," McAdams said. "Students want to learn about educa­tion. They come from good educational backgrounds, so that's inspired them to learn about education. Also, a lot of them want to give back to the community, so ESS teaches them how to give back to the community in a very satisfying way." 
The ESS curriculum is com­prised of a combination of tra­ditional lecture classes and a senior-year research compo­nent, where students conduct studies at local schools target­ing specific problems. McAdams said this research is a pivotal part of the minor because it shows students how they can help. 

"It gives them the satisfac­tion of working on real prob­lems, so they feel like they're doing something authentic that will make a difference," she said. 
The minor has about 100 students every year. Although some students who minor in ESS decide not to go into edu­cation, those who plan to will benefit from the strong foun­dation it provides, according to junior Elizabeth Young. 
"The ESS minor is kind of like the sociology of education as opposed to a teacher certi­
see EDUCATION/page 4 

--------. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 



College welcon1es five nevv trustees 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 

Saint Mary's Board of Trustees elected four new members and appointed a student member in June. 
The new trustees include Sr. Maureen Grady, Rose Marie Lopez Jones, Almira Wilson Cann and Carmen Murphy. 
Kristle D. Hodges was appointed as the student trustee. 
Hodges was appointed to serve as the student trustee for the 2009-2010 school year. She is senior at the College, currently majoring in English writing. She also has minors in Religious Studies and Women's Studies. Hodges has served on the Board of Governance since 2007. 
As the student representa­tive, Hodges "is a full voting member so she participates exactly like any other trustee. She attends the com­mittee meetings, the full board meetings, the execu­tive sessions, the whole bit," Susan Dampeer, executive assistant to the president, said. 
"No restrictions are on her that aren't on anybody else." 
see TRUSTEES/page 3 



RecSports hosts 
annual biathlon 
By CASEY KENNY 
News Writer 

Saturday's brisk weather and overcast skies did not prevent over 100 students and faculty members from converging at St. Joe's Lake to participate in RecSports' annual biathlon. 
The biathlon featured several divisions of participants -varsity and non-varsity, individual and team and male and female -and tested the participants' endurance and stamina as they competed in a half-mile swim followed by a two-mile run. 
All participants began the race waist deep in the chilly waters of St. Joe's Lake, then swam to vari­ous buoys and back to the starting point on shore. 
After completing the half-mile swim portion, competitors dried off, changed and continued or tagged their teammate who then completed the running portion of the race -a two-mile run around St. Joe's and St. Mary's Lakes in a figure eight loop. 
RecSports coordinator for spe­cial events Tim Novak said they have sponsored this event for over 20 years and he sees it as a good way to begin the school year. 
see BIATHLON/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Review of Wilco (The Album) page 12 • Notre Dame football wide receiver and offensive line preview page 20 • Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, August 31, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Beautify 

Mod Quad 
I am a resident of Pasquerilla East Hall. "Is that one of those dorms back behind North Dining Hall?" you might ask. 
"That is the farthest possible dorm from me," is another popular response, followed by, "I've never been to Mod Quad. I'm sorry that you have to live back there." 
I am happy, howev­er, to point out some perks of being a PE Pyro. 
PE is the closest girls' dorm to RolfS, and one ofthe closest to the library. We also live next door to Grace Hall, home to the best cafe on earn­pus. 
I've made it to O'Shag in under 5 min­utes, which is probably faster than some of the dorms all the way at the end of South Quad. 
When the weather is bad, PE girls walk through PW on their way to North Dining Hall, therefore only spending one minute outside. Cavanaugh and BP girls have a much wetter or colder walk. 
It does not bother me that PE is less than beautiful in outward appearance. We have air conditioning, big rooms and huge clos­ets. 
Last, but not least, our floors are num­bered 5 through 8. I enjoy living in the only room 819 on campus. 
While some fellow Pyros gaze longingly at Farley or Cavanaugh, I love living on Mod Quad. 
I have just one complaint. 
Landscapers clearly worked hard all summer long to keep campus gorgeous. Did they get lost on their way to Mod Quad? 
Every fall when I return to Notre Dame, I am once again in awe of our beautiful campus. God Quad is bursting with flow­ers, North Quad always has a few new trees and the grass is greener than ever. 
The sidewalks and so-called flowerbeds between the four Mod Quad dorms are lit­tered with decomposing leaves left over from last fall. The rest of the area is cov­ered in weeds and mud. 
I understand that Mod Quad cannot have flowers or grass because not enough sun reaches the walkways between the four dorms. 
I do know that we would all appreciate at least a little bit ofleafblowing. Some mulch would be ideal. An extra special bonus might be some plants or ground cover that grow well in shady areas. 
When it rains, a small lake forms between PE and PW I wish this was an exaggeration, but it does not take much rain to make it ankle deep and unavoid­able. 
I would venture to guess that ifthere was a similar water buildup between Farley and BP, where that beautiful new walkway was built this summer, mainte­nance crews would dig new drainage within a few days. 
This week, maintenance crews will be working hard to make campus sparkle for the first home football game. 
Mod Quad might not be a priority because the flocks of fans will not venture to that far corner ofcampus. But on behalf of the students who call Mod Quad home, we do not deserve to be forgotten. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd. edu 


CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE STUPIDEST RULE IN DU LAC? 







Tom Carnevale  Marques Camp  Cristina Anaya  DeShaun Gasque  Rick Morasse  
sophomore Dillon  senior Keough  senior Howard  junior Alumni  sophomore Alumni  
"You can't walk  "You're  "DuLac? Que?"  "Ifyou have  'That the legal  
on the grass!"  supposed to  sex, you're  age is still 2 I. ''  
read duLac?"  going to hell. "  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

PAT COVENEY !The Observer Members of the Men's Swim team do push-ups to tally the score at the Women's Volleyball game vs. Stanford on Saturday. The Irish beat the No. 5-ranked Cardinal in straight sets. 
OFFBEAT IN BRIEF 
"Graffiti Art Project (GAP)"-Art Exhibition is being held at Crossroads Gallery at Notre Dame Downtown, 217 S. Michogan St. The gallery is open 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., and the exhibit runs until Sept. 30. GAP is the culmination of a summer project with South Bend stu­dents, age 10 to 17. 
"Thin: Photographs by Lauren Greenfield" is run­ning at the Snite Museum of Art through Oct. 18. The exhibit showcases photo­graphs of women with eating disorders at a Florida treat­ment facility. The museum is open 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
"The Brothers Bloom," a film, will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Sept. 6. The film follows two brothers, who just so happen to be expert swindlers, as they take on their last job-a wealthy heiress. Tickets are available online or at the Ticket Office 574-631-2800. 
"The Irish Sublime," a lec­City go for Thrilling record Book of World Records will The British Texel Sheep 
Jackson fans in Mexico Did they? The Guinness loin." 
ture by Professor Terry MEXICO CITY -They decide in a week. Society says the fee paid 
Eagleton, the Excellence in say they beat it. Thousands Thursday is a world record, 
English Distinguished of Mexicans claimed they Farmer pays record price for eclipsing a 205,00-pound 
Visitor, will take place in the broke the record for most ram, intends to breed animal price paid in Australia in 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium people dancing to LONDON -A British 1989. 
on Sept. 4 at 3 p.m. This lec­"Thriller" simultaneously farmer who paid a new Society member John 
ture discusses the place of in one place on Saturday, world record price for a Yates says the ram will likely 
the sublime in Irish culture, which would have been sheep says the animal is the father pedigree lambs worth 
tracing continuities in litera­Michael Jackson's 51st finest specimen he has ever millions of pounds (dollars) 
ture, politics, and aesthetics birthday. seen. for his new owner. 
from the Middle Ages to the "We did it!" organizer Farmer Jimmy Douglas Breeder Graham 
present. A reception will fol­Javier Hildago shouted to shelled out 231,000 pounds Morrison, of Banfi, Scotland, 
low the event. thousands of people wear­($347,000) for the 8-month­says he was staggered by ing black fedoras, white old Texel ram called the price but insists 
To submit information to be 
gloves, aviator shades and Deveronvale Perfection at an Deveronvale Perfection lives 
included in this section of 
The Observer, e-mail detailed
ghoulish face paint, breath­annual sale in Lanark, up to his name. 
less after trying to recreate Scotland. 
information about an event to the groundbreaking 1983 Douglas says the ram has Information compiled 
obsnews@nd. edu video. "a great body and strong from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
1,&,1 
:I: 
!;i 
1,&,1 
3: 
..... 
<C 
(.) 



HIGH 50 HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH 75 LOW 47 LOW LOW LOW LOW 56 




Atlanta 80 I 63 Boston 72 I 55 Chicago 70 I 47 Denver 81 I 59 Houston 92 I 71 Los Angeles 90 I 67 Minneapolis 73 I 51 New York 73 I 59 Philadelphia 71 I 55 Phoenix 107 I 85 Seattle 80 I 59 St. Louis 75 I 50 Tampa 89 I 76 Washington 73 I 59 
------------------------------------, 
Monday, August 31, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Fire 
continued from page 1 
Internet, telephone and cable services in 36 build­ings on campus, and the Office of Information Technology (OIT) has been working over the weekend to restore the services. 

Network access has been restored in most campus buildings but OIT is still working to restore landline services. 
Landline and network service in affected campus buildings will not be fully restored until the end of the day Wednesday, according to the OIT Web site. 
Brown said cell phone service has been restored, but AT&T users might see degraded service when using the phones near the Main Building. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins thanked stu­dents, faculty, staff and emergency personnel in an e-mail to the Notre Dame community Friday. 

Jenkins noted the quick response of Notre Dame, Clay Township and South Bend fire departments and thanked students and facul­ty for evacuating the build­ings quickly and calmly. 
"It is in times of crisis that I am reminded why the Notre Dame community is so special," he said in the e­mail. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at 
mbuckley@nd.edu 


DAN JACOBS!fhe Observer 
Top, a Notre Dame Fire Department truck is parked outside of the LaFortune student center Friday morning. Middle, Notre Dame employees work near the area where the fire originally began. Bottom, firefighters from the Notre Dame and South Bend fire departments respond to the incident. 
Notre Dame Graduate 
Joins Leading Area Veterinary Hospital 


Magrane 

Pet Medical Center 

!vfa}.,rrane Pet Medical Center Welcomes: 


Keith Kitson Logue, DVM 
Dr. Logue is a graduate of University of Notre Dame and Purdue's School of Veterinary medicine. 
Dr. Logue brings a wealth ofexperience in emergency and critical care medicine-care of the sickest pets, to our experienced staff. 
''Caring.lor your pel is caring for a.famizv member and lj(•el privileged to work with a great team lo care fbr your pet, whether healthy or ill. " 
To schedule an appointment call: 574.259.5291 Email (JUestions to kKLoguc(amagranePMC.com 
Conveniently located to N.D. in the Edison Lakes Business Park (Mishawaka) 8 minutes from Notre Dame, directly east on Angela I Edison Road 




Trustees 
continued from page 1 

Dampeer said the trustee­ship committee of the Board nominated each new trustee. The new trustees will serve three-year terms while the student representative will participate for one year. Each representative may be reelected for three terms. 
"There are two classes of members of the Board," Dampeer said. "Class one consists of the president of the Congregation and two other persons appointed by the president of the Congregation. Class two trustees are all other trustees." 
The current chair is John J. O'Connor, and the vice chair is Susan Fitzgerald Rice. 
Grady's professional experi­ence includes nursing and pastoral services. In the past she has served as a director of field ministry, visited the Middle East while working in Lebanon and has worked as a professor of pastoral forma­tion at the Latin Rite Diocese. 
Grady earned her diploma as a registered nurse from Holy Cross School of Nursing, as well as a bachelor's degree from Loyola University. She received her Master's Degree in Pastoral Care and Counseling from the Christian Theology Seminary. She also earned a Doctor of Ministry degree. 
Since 1980, Jones has 
worked as a surgeon with Carmel Surgical Specialists PC in Carmel, Ind. She also worked as a clinical assistant professor of surgery at the Indiana University School of Medicine since 1990. 
She earned a Bachelor's Degree in chemistry from Saint Mary's. She was given her medical degree from the Indiana University School of Medicine. 
Previously a member of the Board, Cann served from 1996 to 1999. She has worked as an ophthalmologist in Pasadena, Calif. 
She received her Bachelor's Degree in chemistry from the College. She went on to earn her Ph.D. at Columbia University. She earned a med­ical degree and her Master's in Business Administration from the University of California. 
Like Cann, Murphy was also re-elected to the Board after a one year break. Murphy served from 1999 to 2008. 
As a local community mem­ber, Murphy has worked in the area as a volunteer. She served on the Indiana University South Bend Arts Foundation Board as well as the Indiana University South Bend Campaign Committee. She has also served on the Family and Children's Cent Foundation Board, The WNIT Public Television Board and the United Way Campaign Board. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Biathlon 
continued from page 1 

"RecSports puts on this event in order to give students, faculty, and staff something fun and produc­tive to do during the first week of classes, and to promote future RecSports events," he said. 
In order to monitor the safety of the event's participants, lifeguards in kayaks and rescue boats were present, as well as members of the Notre Dame Fire Department Rescue Squad. 
"These safety precautions were in place in order to pull anyone out who wants to stop or who is struggling and needs obvious res­cue," Novak said. 
Results from the biathlon and winners from each division were be posted on the RecSports Web site. 
The men's swim team took part in the event. Varsity coach Tim Welsh said it is a fun way for his team to test their skills. 
"It is a fun opening event and everyone enjoys it," Welsh said. "The freshmen are required to do both parts of the biathlon, but everyone is eager to take part." 
Seniors Avery Scott and Aaron Pierre competed together in the team division and were pleased with their performance. 
"We placed a lot better than I thought we would, especially since we were up against a lot of great athletes," Pierre said. "I expect to be getting calls from the coaches pretty soon." 
Scott said he was just happy to fmally have a chance to swim in St. Joe's Lake. 
"It's something I've always wanted to do and I've been look­ing for an excuse to swim in the lake for a while," he said. "I really enjoyed it and, besides, whether I won or lost, I got to shave my chest." 
Contact Casey Kenny at ckenny@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
[assistant rectors] or [Dillon 
rector] Fr. [Paul] Doyle direct­ly." continued from page 1 Dillon resident assistant and 
pep rally scriptwriter Patrick did not include the entire foot­Duffey said the prominence of ball team and cheerleaders. this year's event and the likeli­
Instead, the Dillon pep rally hood of skits being posted on featured humorous sketches, the Internet were also factors some of which drew com­taken into account when edit­
plaints for being offensive. ing the script. However, despite some "The responsibility kind of updates, the traditional format shifted from writing something is not being completely aban­that is representative of Dillon doned. Hall and entertaining to writ­
"We're still having skits," ing something that's represen­Dillon resident assistant and tative of the entire University director of the pep rally T­to really the entire world," he shirt Sean McRoskey said. said. "This will probably be not need to be approved by "Everyone, and not just us, "The first 45 minutes will still filmed and things will proba­anyone. but even people off campus be all pep rally skits, and then bly be put up on YouTube." "Normally Fr. Doyle stays and on blogs like ND Nation after that we'll mix in the Doyle said complaints in the out of it," Ruehlmann said. was mad that it was canceled team." past about offensive humor "He trusts that what we're last year, so they're going to 
In addition, alumni will be often had little to do with the putting into the script will be want to come back and see it," able to attend the event this script, but instead were filed handled in a mature and he said. year, although the primary against improvised jokes that responsible fashion." Ruehlmann said the new for­focus will be on the students. were sometimes in bad taste. Ruehlmann said the mat of the pep rally would also 
"The stage might be bigger "In the past the scripts were scriptwriters had received attract many spectators, but and there will be alumni since never that distasteful," he nothing but support from over the course of the week it is on Friday," Doyle said. said. "A lot of the stuff that Dillon's rector, who announced Dillon will be "pushing adver­"The students will still have gets people in trouble is what the cancellation of last year's tising." In addition to the foot­the front of the audience and happens when people get on pep rally. ball team and guest speakers, the alumni will fill in behind stage and do whatever they "Fr. Doyle knows how impor­the Knights of Columbus will ... It's really not going to feel want." tant this is to the dorm," he be grilling steaks and T-shirts different to the students." Instead, Doyle said the said. "This year he offered us will be sold during the rally. 
However, the larger audi­humor was more "subtle" this an incredible opportunity to "It's bigger, it's changed ence also forced the year. bring it back with a bang." from what it has been, but I scriptwriters to carefully edit "It is more playful banter McRoskey said the enthusi­certainly think that it is going their jokes. than anything else," asm of many members of the to bring in a large crowd, 
"Given the larger audience, Ruehlmann said. "There isn't dorm for the event also helped especially with the added there's been a push to make it anything insulting." lead to its reinstitution. dimension of having the entire more acceptable to the entire Despite rumors that last "What happened last year football team there," audience and not just the stu­year's pep rally was cancelled made people want it even Ruehlmann said. dent body," Ruehlmann said. due to censorship, the more than normal," he said. The Dillon Hall pep rally will "Because we know that we scriptwriters said they had "The pep rally has a 40-year be held Friday, Sept. 4, on have to be more careful with encountered no problems from legacy, we want to keep that South Quad and begins at 5:45 it, we've kind of been editing it the University administration going." p.m. ourselves. And if there's still or from the Dillon Hall staff. Doyle said despite last year's something in the script that Although the writers had con­cancellation, he believes inter­we're a little tentative about, sulted with Dillon Hall's rector, est in the event will be higher Contact Joseph McMahon at we approach either one of the they said the final script did than ever. jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

Dillon 


Monday, Augmt 31, =l 

Education 
continued from page 1 

fication program," she said. "I think it will give me a good background to work with Spanish-speaking children or get involved with ESL classes." 
Senior Tommy Walton said ESS complements his computer science major and has helped him develop a career path. 
"I became an ESS minor because I am studying to be a videogame developer, and I was interested in researching the effectiveness of videogames as educational tools," he said. 
Another benefit of the ESS minor is the variety of electives offered, Young said. 
"I think the ESS minor gives its students a lot of flexibility and freedom to pursue their individual education-related interests," Young said. "Students can take anything from abnormal psychology to Mexican-American history to coaching youth sports and it all counts toward the minor." 
Whatever students' reasons for minoring in ESS, McAdams said choosing to do so will help them in later life, especially if they decide to go into educa­tion and try to improve the education system. 
"I wish I'd had this minor, I would've understood going right into the classroom what is the best way to approach education so that the students will be participating citizens later in their lives," she said. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 




HUGE POSTER SALE 
art • music • film • photography • vintage • humor 
MAGNETS, SHOWER CURTAINS, POSTCARDS, FRAMES, TAPESTRIES AND MORE! 
For A Limited Time Only! 
Monday, August 31 Thru Friday, September 4 9:30am-6pm Dooley Room -1st Floor LaFortune 
A service provided by Student Activities 



Associated Press  1#11  
TOKYO -Japan's opposi­ 
tion swept to a historic victory  
in elections Sunday, crushing  
the ruling conservative party  
that has run the country for  
most of the postwar era and  
assuming the daunting task of  
pulling the economy out of its  
worst slump since World War  
II.  
A grim-looking Prime  
Minister Taro Aso conceded  
defeat just a couple hours  
after polls had closed, suggest­ 
ing he would quit as president  
of the Liberal Democratic  
Party, which has ruled Japan  
for all but 11 months since  
1955.  
"The results are very  
severe," Aso said. "There has  
been a deep dissatisfaction  
with our party."  
Unemployment and defla­ 
tion-and an aging, shrink­ 
ing population -have left  
families fearful of what the~  
future holds.  
Fed up with the LDP, voters  
turned overwhelmingly to the  
opposition Democratic Party of  
Japan, which ran a populist­ 
leaning platform with plans  
for cash handouts to families  
with children and expanding the social safety net.  Yukio Hatoyama, leader  of the main opposition De AP # mocratic Party of Japan, 
"This is a victory for the peo­ smiles in front of a white  board with names of winne r candidates on Sunday. 
ple," said Yukio Hatoyama,  
leader of th~ Democrats and  on pensions and there is a  mented starting in fiscal year  results. Other parties and  
almost certainly Japan's next  shrinking pool of taxpayers to  2013 -and critics say that  independent candidates won a  
prime minister. "We want to  support them and other gov­ will only further bloat Japah's  total of 53.  
build a new government that  ernment programs.  already massive public debt.  The Democratic Party need­ 
hears the voices of the nation."  The Democrats' plan to give  In foreign relations, the  ed to win a simple majority of  
Hatoyama and his party ­ families 26,000 yen ($275) a  Democrats have said they  241 seats in the lower house  
an eclectic mix of former  month per child through jun­ want Tokyo to be more inde­ to ensure it could name the  
Liberal Democrats, socialists  ior high is meant to ease par­ pendent from Washington on  next prime minister. The 300­ 
and progressives -face a  enting costs and encourage  diplomatic issues, though they  plus level would allow it and  
daunting array of challenges,  more women have babies.  have stressed that the U.S. will  its two smaller allies the two­ 
economic and demographic.  Japan's population of 127.6  remain Japan's key ally and  thirds majority they need  
Japan's economy has been  million peaked in 2006, and is  that they want to keep rela­ in the lower house to pass  
hit hard amid the global reces­ expected to fall below 100 mil­ tions good, while also  bills.  
sion and falling demand for its  lion by the middle of the cen­ strengthening ties with their  "It's a historic election in  
exports. The unemployment  tury.  Asian neighbors.  that a clear alternation of  
rate has spiked to a record 5.7  The Democrats are also pro­ Official nationwide results  power has happened for the  
percent and younger workers  posing toll-free highways, free  were expected to be  first time in the postwar peri­ 
have watched the promise of  high schools, income support  announced midmorning  od," said Koichi Nakano, pro­ 
lifetime employment fade.  for farmers, monthly allowances  Monday, but public broadcast­ fessor of political science at  
Incomes are stagnant and  for job seekers in training, a  er NHK projected early  Sophia University in Tokyo.  
families have cut spending.  higher minimum wage and  Monday that the Democrats  "It's hard to know whether  
The country also faces  tax cuts. The estimated bill  would win 308 of the 480  this is going to lead to a real  
threats as its population ages,  comes to 16.8 trillion yen  seats in the lower house to the  change in policy, at least for  
which means more people are  ($179 billion) if fully imple- LDP's 119, citing local election  the short term."  







ORLD & NATION 
Monday, August 31, 2009 CoMPilED FROM THE 0BSERVER:s WTRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Fonner Israeli Prime Minister indicted 
JERUSALEM -Former Prime Minister Ehud Olmert was indicted on corruption charges Sunday, becoming the first Israeli premier to go on trial and highlighting a series of cases that have shaken the public's faith in the political system. 
The charges likely end the three-decade career of a man who just three years ago seemed poised to lead his nation to a bold withdrawal from the West Bank and an aggressive push for peace with the Palestinians. 
Olmert. who was forced to step down because of the case, was accused of illegally accepting funds from an American backer, double-billing for official trips abroad and pocketing the difference, concealing funds from a government watchdog and cronyism. 
Dalai Lama says visit is not political 
TAOYUAN, Taiwan -The Dalai Lama denied any political agenda as he began what he described as a "purely humanitarian" mission Sunday to comfort victims of Taiwan's worst storm, trying to calm fears that he would further anger China by verging into politics. 
Although the Tibetan spiritual leader has trav­eled to Taiwan before, many fear his arrival could hurt the island's improving relations with rival China -the signature issue in the 15-month-old administration of Taiwanese President Ma Ymg­jeou. China has protested the visit. 
The Dalai Lama, who clasped his hands and smiled as he greeted Buddhist followers and sup­porters at the Taoyuan International Airport near Taipei, said his visit would have no political over­tone. 
"I've visited different parts of the world, and I may have a political agenda there ... my visit here is purely for humanitarian concerns," he said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Police extend kidnapping investigation 
ANTIOCH, Calif. -Armed with rakes, shovels and chain saws-, about 20 officers on Sunday combed the backyard of a couple charged with kidnapping and raping Jaycee Lee Dugard and used cadaver dogs to search an adjoining property where neigh­bors say one of the suspects once served as a caretaker. 
Sheriff's deputies and prosecutors from two counties and officers from two city police departments were using the dogs, shovels and other tools to inspect the neigh­boring yard, which sits behind a off-white house with a chain link fence. 
Lee would not elaborate on what kind of evidence investigators were seeking or the nature of the possible crimes involving the second property. 
Two injured in hot tub dming firestonn 
LOS ANGELES -A Los Angeles County Sheriff's official says two people tried to ride out the firestorm in Big Tujunga Canyon in a backyard hot tub and were critically burned. 
Sheriff's spokesman Steve Whitmore said Sunday that the pair "completely_ underesti­mated the fire" and the hot tub provided "no protection whatsoever." 
The two individuals made their way to fire­fighters Saturday and were airlifted out by a sheriff's rescue helicopter. 
LOCAL NEWS 
9-year-old boy leads car chase 
GREENFIELD, Ind. -Greenfield police say a 9-year-old boy led authorities on a half­hour car chase. 
Police got a call of a driver swerving on 
U.S. 40 around 11:30 p.m. Saturday. Authorities chased the car into Henry County before the vehicle was finally stopped about two miles west of Knightstown. 
Greenfield Police Department deputy chief Derek Towle says preliminary reports found that the boy had apparently been angry with his parents before taking off with the family car to go see one of his friends. 
JAPAN 
Japanese election upends long-ruling party 
Liberal Democratic Party loses majority as country faces economic upheaval 

USS Missouri gets shipyard makeover 
Defense, are scheduled to speak at reserve funds and a Department of 
Associated Press 
the event. Defense grant. At least 20 World War II veterans "Rust never sleeps as they say," 
PEARL HARBOR, Hawaii -The are expected to attend, including 89-said Michael Carr, the memorial's "Mighty Mo," the World War II battle­year-old Pearl Harbor survivor president. "It's a big job. It has to be ship best known for hosting the for­Edward F. Borucki of Southampton, done." mal surrender of Japan in 1945, is Mass. Most of the work will be done after heading to the shipyard for repairs. "It's a sentimental journey," the 887 -foot ship is put into a closed 
The USS Missouri, now a decom­Borucki said, who lost 33 shipmates dock and the water around it is missioned vessel called the Battleship when a Japanese torpedo and bombs drained. This will allow workers to Missouri Memorial, will leave its his­hit the USS Helena. paint the entire hull, even parts that toric spot at Battleship Row at Pearl The 65-year-old ship is in good are normally submerged. Some of the 
· Harbor in October. shape, but it still needs to go to Pearl repairs have already begun pierside, 
The move will come shortly after Harbor Naval Shipyard for repairs however. Tourists visiting the ship the vessel on Wednesday hosts a cer­because rust is protruding from peel­now can see scaffolding encircling the emony marking the 64th anniversary ing paint in areas and the teak wood ship's mast. of Japan's surrender. U.S. Rep. Neil deck is warped and bent in others. Memorial officials have started Abercrombie, D-Hawaii, and Ret. Lt. The warship's exterior is due to be warning Hawaii tour operators they'll Gen. Wallace "Chip" Gregson, newly sanded down and repainted in a $15 be shut down for three months start­sworn in as Assistant Secretary of million overhaul paid for by memorial ing mid-October. 
page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS ~onda~August31, 2009 


Daniels 2012 rumors persist 
Associated Press 
BAINBRIDGE, Ind. Republican Mitch Daniels has repeatedly insisted that his 2008 run for a second term as Indiana's governor was his last election and that he's not inter­ested in the "savagery" of a national campaign. 
But like it or not, Daniels' name is being dropped in con­servative GOP circles as some­one to watch in 2012. Many say Daniels is just what the bat­tered GOP needs, a blend of conservative values, cool demeanor and fiscal discipline. 
"Mitch has been steady to the cause, he's stayed principled," said Michael Steele, chairman of the Republican National Committee. "The nation is going to recognize him." 
Some political observers say Daniels is as good a bet as any for a national party reeling from Democrats' solid victory last year and the recent stum­bles of former vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin and two other rising GOP stars -South Carolina Gov. Mark Sanford and Nevada Sen. John Ensign. 
Palin resigned as Alaska's governor abruptly in July, and an independent investigator said he found probable cause she had violated ethics laws by trading on her position as she sought money for legal fees. Sanford and Ensign admitted extramarital affairs. Another perstm often mentioned as a contender, Louisiana Gov. 

Bobby Jindal, was widely panned after he delivered the national GOP response to Obama's first address to Congress in February. 
Given the turmoil, Daniels may not stay on the sidelines, said John Pitney Jr., a professor of politics at Claremont McKenna College in California. 
"If you look at the list of presi­dents who said they weren't going to run for president, it's a long list, .. he said. 
The 60-year-old millionaire governor is equally at home in Washington and Indiana after serving as President George W. Bush's budget director and an adviser to President Ronald Reagan. He earned a reputation in Washington as the "blade" for his efforts to promote fiscal responsibility in Congress and carried that to Indiana, where he took over a state with a $800 million deficit and worked with lawmakers to pass a balanced budget in his first year. The state's fiscal year ended June 30 with a $1.3 billion surplus. 
Republican observers believe his track record in Indiana would resonate with voters weary of billions in federal bailouts for banks and tlw auto industry, and record federal red ink. 
"First of all he's a successful governor. Secondly, he is deeply informed on the subject about which deep information is now particularly needed, and that is budgeting," said conservative commentator George Will. 
''Third, he has an all-purpose general intelligence, and fourth, he is funny. He is a witty man and a graceful writer." 
Daniels is popular with vot­ers, winning Indiana easily in a year in which Barack Obama gave Democrats their first pres­idential victory in the state in 40 years. And he doesn't hesi­tate to speak his mind, criticiz­ing his own party for being too placid and putting politics above policy an.d saying the GOP needs to get in touch with average citizens -something he excels at. 
He's even taken jabs at fellow baby boomers, telling a Butler University commencement crowd, "We were pampered in ways no children in human his­tory would recognize" and chastising his generation for fis­cal irresponsibility. 
· The speech prompted conser­vative columnist Bill Kristol to ask whether the nation is "ready to elect a boomer presi­dent who disdains his own gen­eration, and urges younger Americans to reject boomer vanities and self-indulgence in the name of freedom and great­ness." 
Daniels' businesslike approach to state government -Including a highly criticized move to privatize many state welfare eligibility functions and a 75-year lease of th&lndiana Toll Road to a foreign consor­tium -has caught the eyes of other states looking for savings and revenue-generating ideas. 
Three missing Tex·as boaters rescued at sea 
Associated Press 
PORT ARANSAS, Texas ­Three Texas boaters missing for a week were reunited with their families early Sunday after they were found alive, sitting on top of their capsized catamaran 180 miles from land, the Coast Guard said. 
The crew of the Affordable Fantasy spotted the men Saturday night off Port Aransas and rescued them from their 23­foot catamaran, said Petty Officer 3rd Class Renee Aiello. A Coast Guard boat met them and brought them back to land, where emergency management services crews were waiting for them. They declined medical attention. 
They were identified as Curtis Hall, 28, of Palacios; Tressel Hawkins, 43, of Markham; and James Phillips, 30, of Blessing, who owned the boat. 
The three were reported miss­ing Aug. 22 after they left Matagorda, about 90 miles southwest of Houston, on a fish­ing trip and never returned. Port Aransas is about 130 miles from Matagorda. 
The three went to s,leep that Friday night and were awakened by water coming in, said Shane Phillips, whose husband, James, was relaxing Sunday with his five children. 
''They tried to start the pumps to get the water out," she told the Houston Chronicle. "They would not start." 
They fired off three flares hop­ing to get the attention of work­ers at a nearby oil rig, but no one responded. The boat capsized that night. 
The Coast Guard officials said they survived because they stuck with the boat. The men also rationed bubble gum and crack­ers and used a hose to suck fresh water out of the internal "wash­down" tank. Fishermen often keep such a tank to wash fish slime off their boat when they are out in the salt water. 
"It's not the cleanest, not the greatest and it tasted like diesel," Shane Phillips told the newspa­per. 
The Coast Guard had called off its search Friday after scouring 86,000 square miles of water without fmding them. 
"It's like finding a needle in a haystack out in the Gulf of Mexico," Aiello said late Saturday. "It's obvious they had a will to survive, and they did it for seven days." 
Hall's fiancee, Rebecca Kern, said it was difficult to describe her emotions. 
"It's just been a roller coaster of emotions all week, the not knowing, getting upset and fear­ing for them out there. We weren't going to give up," she said. "We knew they were out there on that boat and we had to bring them home." 

Nl£\\1 ('()lJRSE! 
Between Religion and Literatut·e: Meaning, Vulnerability and Human Existence 
LLRO 40 !07. Crosslist: RLT 40241. ENGL 40157, TH!::C> 40837, UT 73970 
FALL 2009 
Vittorio Montemaggi TR 12:30-1:45 

Taught in English, this course explores how theology and literature can combine to enrich our understanding. focusing on the work of Augustine, Aquinas, Dante, Primo Levi, Dostoevsky and Shakespeare, students will address questions such as: 'How docs the way we use language bear upon our notions of truth?': 'How are the intellect and the imagination engaged by literary texts'?'; 'How docs all this relate to how we think ahout God, human nature, and the relationship hctwecn them?' Such questions will be addressed, in particular, by rcllecting on how the texts studied invite us to think about love, f(Jrgiveness, vulnerability and creativity. · 
Vittorio Montcmaggi has been appoinled hy the-Collcgt.• of Art~< and Letters as the new /\ssistanl Professor of Religion and Likmturt~. l k join:> Notre Dame l'rom the thl!Vcrsity ofCambridge, \Vhcre he n.::.ceived aHA in Theology and Religious Studies, an MPh!! In Europtnm Literature und a PhD in 'fhco!ogy, ami \vhcre he hdd rescan.::h ond teaching poshiiJns ln the two !ldds. 
Monday, August 31, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  9,544.20  -36.43  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,554  95  1,552  1,674,706,581  


CITIGROUP (C)  +3.56  +0.18  5.23  
FANNIE MAE (FNM)  +6.25  +0.12  2.04  
E*TRADE Fin Corp (ETFC)  +13.10  +0.19  1.64  
FREDDIE MAC (FRE)  +7.14  +0.16  2.40  

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE  ~0.32  -0.0110  3.45  
13-WEEK BILL  -7.14  -O.Dl  0.13  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.52  -0.0220  4.21  
5-YEAR NOTE  -1.13  -0.0280  2.46  

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.25  72.74  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +11.50  958.80  
PORK BELUES (cents/lb.)  +.70  76.50  

Exchange Rates  
YEN  93.4250  
EURO  1.4307  
CANADIAN DOLLAR  1.0907  
BRITISH POUND  1.6259  

IN BRIEF 

Wisconsin cigarette tax increases 
MADISON, Wis. -Wisconsin's cigarette tax will go up 75 cents per pack on Tuesday, mak­ing it the fifth-highest tax in the country and the most expensive among neighboring states. 
Securing the higher tax was part of a one­two punch secured by anti-smoking advocates this year. The other was convincing the Legislature to pass a statewide anti-smoking ban that takes effect on July 5, 2010. 
Those who fought for the ban and the tax increase say it provides those looking to quit, like Maurice "Moe" Bird of Waterloo, with more motivation. 
The latest increase, taking the state tax to $2.52 per pack, comes less than two years after a $1 per pack increase in 2008. In April, federal cigarette taxes went up 62 cents to $1.01 per pack. 
Blackwater tapped foreigners 
WASHINGTON -When the CIA revived a plan to kill or capture terrorists in 2004, the agency turned to the well-connected security company then known as Blackwater USA. 
With Blackwater's lucrative government security work and contacts arrayed in hot spots around the world, company officials offered the services of foreigners supposedly skilled at tracking terrorists in lawless regions and countries where the CIA had no working relationships with the government. 
Blackwater told the CIA that it "could put people on the ground to provide the surveil­lance and support -all of the things you need to conduct an operation," a former sen­ior CIA official familiar with the secret pro­gram told The Associated Press. 
But the CIA's use of the private contractor as part of its now-abandoned plan to dispatch death squads skirted concerns now re-emerging with recent disclosures about Blackwater's role. 
The former senior CIA official said he had doubts during his tenure about whether Blackwater's foreign recruits had mastered the necessary skills to pull off such a high-stakes operation. Blackwater's later hiring of several senior CIA officials who were involved in or aware of the secret program showed the blurred lines of using a private contractor for such a highly classified and dangerous project. 



THE OBSERVER 



USINESS 
page 7 

State fairs offer badly needed jobs 
Fairs report record numbers of applicants to tear tickets, serve food, clean 
Associated Press 
FALCON HEIGHTS, Minn. -A year's worth of failed job leads prepared Richard Briggs for anything, includ­ing night shifts as a Minnesota State Fair custo­dian. 
For $8.50 an hour, the out­of-work financial analyst vacuums and cleans bath­rooms in fairground build­ings. Briggs, 38, said he's "something of a curiosity" among his co-workers. 
"You know, they don't hire financial analysts to clean the sidewalks," Briggs said. 
A crippled economy has sent droves of unemployed and underemployed people to fairs nationwide, with many reporting record num­bers of applicants to tear tickets, serve food and clean up after crowds. 
Iowa's state fair closed most of its hiring weeks ear­lier than usual. Colorado's fair is finished hiring but was still getting more than 50 people a day trying to apply as the fair opened last week. In Indiana, about 2,300 people -at least twice as many as usual ­applied for 800 open posi­tions. 
"And the nice thing about it for us is that we got, I found few openings in the work for the first time this ing tickets on one of the guess you could say, many financial sector since. Over year. He has a part-time job fair's parking lots. The 23­overqualified candidates," dinner in June, his wife sug­for 30 hours a week, but year-old from nearby said Andy Klotz, a gested he apply for a job at when he saw a newspaper Roseville wanted to make spokesman for the Indiana the Fair, which he hadn't advertisement for fair jobs, some money before she State Fair. attended since childhood. he decided to apply because moves to New Zealand this 
In Minnesota, more than "It'll get you out of the he "just needed the extra fall. 10,000 people applied for house, and you'll be busy for cash." "This was more like short­the fair's 3,000 jobs. At the 12 straight days," Briggs He was surprised when he term, high intensity and a lot same time more people were remembers her saying. heard about the size of the of fun," Schoenleber said of applying, fair vendors intent After a visit to the State waiting list. the job. on keeping costs down were Fair's employment center, he "I didn't think it would be The high demand for state requesting far fewer got an offer. Though the that tough," he said. fair jobs is occurring at time employees than in years family still has his wife's Jerry Hammer, the general when attendance is up as past. income as a regulatory ana­manager of Minnesota's fair, more people cut back on 
And, more experienced lyst, Briggs said his fair pay­said it's not always like this. travel and look for attrac­fair workers were returning. check has given their budget "I've seen other years tions close to home. The fair had room for just "some breathing space." where we're telling staff to Minnesota set a first-day 1,250 new employees, about "We have a mortgage to go home and tell your record Thursday with more one-third the number of last pay and mouths to feed," he friends and neighbors" than 114,000 attendees. year. said. workers are needed, he said. "We seem to be one of 
Briggs lives in the Twin As the fair opened its 12-The Minnesota State Fair those sectors of the economy Cities suburb of Mendota day run last week, Josh still attracted a large num­that we're doing quite well," Heights with his wife and Chaika was working a day ber of teenagers and 20-said Jim Tucker, CEO of the two stepchildren. He lost his shift as a custodian. somethings. Jessica International Association of job last September, and he's Chaika, 27, signed up to Schoenleber got a job tear-Fairs and Exhibitions. 


Barriers threaten growth of internet 
Associated Press A variety of factors are to blame. University of California, Los Angeles, to 
Spam and hacking attacks force net­watch as two bulky computers passed 
NEW YORK-Goofy videos weren't work operators to erect security fire­meaningless test data through a 15-foot on the minds of Len Kleinrock and his walls. Authoritarian regimes block gray cable. team at UCLA when they began tests 40 access to many sites and services within That was the beginning of the fledg­years ago on what would become the their borders. And commercial consid­ling Arpanet network. Stanford Internet. Neither was social networking, erations spur policies that can thwart Research Institute joined a month later, for that matter, nor were most of the rivals, particularly on mobile devices and UC Santa Barbara and the other easy-to-use applications that have like the iPhone. University of Utah did by year's end. drawn more than a billion people online. "There is more freedom for the typical The 1970s brought e-mail and the 
Instead the researchers sought to cre­Internet user to play, to communicate, to TCP!IP communications protocols, ate an open network for freely exchang­shop -more opportunities than ever which allowed multiple networks to con­ing information, an openness that ulti­before," said Jonathan Zittrain, a law nect -and formed the Internet. The mately spurred the innovation that professor and co-founder of Harvard's '80s gave birth to an addressing system would later spawn the likes of YouTube, Berkman Center for Internet & Society. with suffixes like ".com" and ".org" in Facebook and the World Wide Web. "On the worrisome side, there are some widespread use today. 
There's still plenty of room for innova­longer-term trends that are making it The Internet didn't become a house­tion today, yet the openness fostering it much more possible (for information) to hold word until the '90s, though, after a may be eroding. While the Internet is be controlled." British physicist, Tim Berners-Lee, more widely available and faster than Few were paying attention back on invented the Web, a subset of the ever, artificial barriers threaten to con­Sept. 2, 1969, when about 20 people Internet that makes it easier to link strict its growth. gathered in Kleinrock's lab at the resources across disparate locations. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, August 31, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: !an Gav!ick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asreiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 

Here I stand. Or rather, totter. Teetering on the outer film of the Notre Dame bub­ble, not sure whether to penetrate and join or remain isolated and observe. I'm left still balancing, bereft of a firm deci­sion. Rather, the perennial question lingers: Is it better to be an insider or an outsider? 
This June, I returned from Notre Dame's year-long study abroad program in Innsbruck, Austria. Those of you who read this column last year heard a little about how beautiful and mountainous and European it all was. In case you missed the column: It was all very beautiful and mountainous and European. There, that's my quick plug for Innsbruck. It's a great city, probably one of the most naturally stunning places I have ever seen; check it out. 
Notre Dame ranks third nationally in study abroad participation among its undergraduates, with over 50 percent of students studying in a foreign country at some point in their time enrolled here. That means more than half of us cope with the mixed emotions of return. 
Returning isn't always the piece of cake I thought it would be (although I do have dozens of Health Services pamphlets warning me of culture shock), but it's tough for different reasons than I had assumed. Suddenly at Notre Dame, I'm a 

Jackie Mirandola­Mullen 
Freckled Thoughts 
Observing 
member of a stable eommunity again, no longer adhering to a peripatetic lifestyle in which my "home" base was still some­what shaky, still foreign and unsure. 
Although being an outsider, thrown off my game in a difl'erent cultural context, made me want to feel back on top of it, returning home conversely reminds me of the benefits of that uncertainty. When you are unsure, you are open to alternatives, you observe and try to decide the best course, you take time before thundering headlong into decisions. An increased awareness of your surroundings allows for some of the contemplative reasoning that high-speed lifestyles fly past. 
The remnants of that heightened awareness sit like an intellectual con­science in my head: I find myself here try­ing to reject this familiar comfort-at least to a certain extent. I want to observe my surroundings and people as lucidly and attentively as I did when they were all new and unknown. I want to think about why a city is laid out like it is, where my food comes from, why I use certain words in conversation. 
Yet, I still want to be an insider, a part of the system here. I want to feel on top of my game, I want to know what's going on and have established friends and confi­dence that laughs at uncertainty and flows steadily into solid decisions. 
Can I have both? 
Politicians run into this paradox all the time. Think of Barack Obama and Jimmy Carter, campaigning as "outsiders" for a job of the ultimate insider. You can't be president and have a clear, uninvolved, unbiased perspective on the issues in which you are necessarily involved. An outside perspective by definition means that you are not a part of the goings-on. 
But even the firmly grounded Decider must have some freshness, some ability to momentarily slink out of the "system" and approach our culture and our problems with fresh, uncertain eyes. 
We may not be international dignities here on campus (most of us aren't, at least), but this lack of expertise helps us bring some valuable "outside" perspec­tive. We can utilize our fresh eyes to re­look at the world, even -especially ­from within the comfort of our Notre Dame bubble. Allowing its structure to periodically envelope us with its commu­nal comfort allows us to take the intellec­tual jumps-off-of-cliffs that academics are all about. An established community pro­vides a stable background to the instabili­ty that constant criticism creates. That community is the home that we can leap from and then return to. 
You must be part of a system to under­stand it, but to change it, you have to step outside and observe. I don't want to be a uniform "Domer" now that I've returned from Innsbruck. I want to keep my observer (small 'o') glasses on. But maybe sometimes when my brain needs a rest, I'll take my observer glasses off and let the bubble soothe my weary eyes. 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a senior History and German major. She once explained to her Austrian host parents what chipmunks are. She can be reached atjmirando@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
acharnO 1 @sainrmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include conract information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor-in-Chiefjenn Metz. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tht: ObSC!tvc:t (USPS 5~ 2:-4000) is published: Monday rhrough Friday &cept during exam and va:cation periods. A subscription to The: Observer is $120 for one academic yeat; $65 fut one $emt:iter. 
The Observer is published ar. POsTMASTER 024 South Oining Hall Send address. corm:r:ions to: Notre Dame, IN 46556..0779 The0b5Ctvcr Periodi~ piJstage paid at Nom: Dame ~0. Box779 and additional. mailingu.ffu:cs. 61:4 Smnh Dining Hill 
Notre Dame, lN. 46556.-0779 
T~ Observer i& a member of rhe.&socia!ed Pres&. AU reprnducrion righrs arc 
""""""'­

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Joseph McMahon Matt Gamber Amanda Gray Douglas Farmer Megan Loney Molly Sammon Graphics Scene Mary Cecilia Jess Shaffer Mitsch Viewpoint Lianna Brauweiler 


OBSERVER POLL 
Did you like the Block Party last weekend? 
Yes No Didn't go Mmm,beer... 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Second to agriculture, humbug is 
the biggest mdustry ofour age." 
Alfred Nobel inventor of dynamite 




THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Monday, August 31, 2009 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Business ovvners victim.s too 
As a local business manager and frequent customer of the Chipotle restaurant chain, I was somewhat dis­turbed when I heard that the local carpenters union would be protesting at the opening of their Eddy St. Commons location. This protest is in response to the Chipotle's owners' decision not to use the union in their build out. 
Even more disturbing was the union's gall to come to my place of employment and threaten the same action if we did not choose union carpenters. Organized labor certainly had its place in the early-to mid-20th centu­ry when workers had few (if any) bargaining rights. However, in the last 50 years we have learned that globalization has produced a market where products which are not competitive will not survive. 
It is sad that the union can not sell themselves on the quality of their work or their competitive pricing, but must resort to fear tactics which will surely hurt all parties involved. Let's support our local unions, but let's also support our local businesses in making finan­cially prudent decisions without fear of strong-arm retribution. 
Nick DeMaegd Mishawaka, IN Aug. 28 
UN Article 6.9: Statute on Roollllllate Relations -Sexiling Subsection 
I. In the event of a nightly rendezvous involving two or more parties, there are two ways in which the union is to be handled diplomatically. 
a. 
If the parties involved in the union (hereafter referred to as "the sexilers") have knowledge or sus­picion of said union at least one and a half (1.5) hours prior to the initiation of the union, they are required to provide the roommate (hereafter referred to as "the sexiled") with a period of no less than two minutes in which s/he may gather personal affects from the room to be used which s/he may wish to have for the remainder of the evening. Such affects may include, but are not limited to, laptop computers, computer chargers, cellular devices (including chargers), pillows, blankets, changes of clothing, etc. ~ 

b. 
Ifthe union of the sexilers is more spontaneous in nature, then the sexilers are bound to-at mini­mum -put such aforementioned personal affects immediately outside the door of the room to be used and subsequently to provide the sexiled roommate with enough notice to secure said affects prior to their mysterious disappearance. 


c. Regarding the frequency of said unions: 
i. Two unions (with the same partner) in one week­end is, in general, excessive and unnecessary. 
ii. One union per week is to be the limit, with "spe­cial occasions" providing the opportunity for excep­tion. 
iii. 
The sexiled has the right to oppose said unions if s/he has a test to prepare for or if said unions fall under other circumstances which may be detrimen­tal to the academic standing of the sexiled. 

d. 
Furthermore, if any acts which might lead to the soiling of property common to both the sexiler and the sexiled (i.e. a futon cover) occur, the sexiler is required to clean said property. 

e. 
Failure to comply with the above statute may result in: 


i. Temporary impeachment from the room. 
ii. Subsequent vulnerability to pranking from all affected parties. 
iii. Inordinate amounts of awkwardness. 
Jeremy Lamb sophomore Knott Hall 
Aug. 29 

U-WIRE 


Confidence key, not cockiness 
After a hot and sweaty summer, there is nothing more refreshing than new classes and Oet's be honest) new love interests. I love sitting in class or at work and studiously checking out the prospects for a new year, imagining what they would do to me in bed instead ofpicturing economic principles. There is nothing better than fmding a super hot guy in an Ally Pregulman otherwise underwhelming class or discovering that your co-workers at George a grueling, unpaid internship are Washington gorgeous. University 
Despite all the pro-feminism The GW Hatchet yelling, when it comes to moving from fantasy to reality, girls still melt at a guy who has the balls to approach them. Guys: Regardless of whether you are just starting out at school or a senior with years of experience, you need a game plan. I'm not talking about wearing a shirt to all of your classes on the first day that says, ''I'M SINGLE" with your number on the back (although that could work). There is no better attention-getter than a guy who confidently walks up to me and starts a conversation. 
Ifyou've noticed that cute girl across the room in biology or at that party making eyes at you, take that as her wav­ing a sign in the air and screaming ''I'M INTERESTED." Keep it simple. Catch her as she is walking out of class or across the room with an easy question. When she answers, jump in and remember: KEEP IT SIMPLE. Example script: 
G~y: ;;wer~n't you in human sexuality last semester?" 
Grrl: No... 
Guy: "Oh, well I thought I recognized you. I'm Craig, nice 
to meet you." Girl: "Hi, I'm Ally and I'd like to jump your bones right now." 
Now that last part may not happen-ifit does, you're a lucky guy. But from this point, get to talking. You don't nec­essarily have to ask for her number and how many kids she wants at this moment, or even friend her on Facebook, but next class sit next to her and ask her ifshe'd like to go out for coffee after class. Remember that confidence, not cockiness, is the key. 
Want to meet a cute girl in a new and fun situation? Take an exercise class and offer to help her "study" outside of class -but try to not make it sound sleazy. Exercise class­es are overflowing with flexible, available women who love getting hot and sweaty both in and out of the gym. 
We will all probably end up at some back-to-school par­ties, but trust me when I say you do not need liquid courage to meet or hook up with people at them. My crazi­est first kiss with a guy was at a party, but there was no alcohol involved. Just a little bit of flirtation, an accepted invite to a party, and one courageous guy. 
Really, what it all comes down to is that girls love it when guys do things unexpectedly -new situation or not. Now, don't run up to your TA and start making out with her (although that could be incredibly hot, minus the likely fail­ing grade) but ifa girl is clearly checking you out, do some­thing about it next time! College is all about trying new things and pushing your boundaries, right? Mine wouldn't be nearly as interesting ifthe guys I have met (and those I have pursued) had not taken a chance in a new situation. 
The moral of the story is that it's pretty easy to tell when a girl likes you. We love it when you make the first move, or at least strike up a conversation, and what better time to do so than the first week or two back when a long sum­mer makes everything seem new again, even ifyou are not a freshman? Creativity can produce some pretty satisfying results, so try something new and welcome back to school! 
This column first ran in the Aug. 27 edition ofThe GW Hatchet, the daily newspaper serving George Washington University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

It's Carroll Hall 
Dear SAO and 
Office of 
Sustainability, We, the Vermin of 
Carroll Hall, would 
appreciate it if you 
spelled our dorm's 
name correctly on all 
future posters and 
magnets. Sincerely, 
Mike Sobolewski junior Nick Ruof junior John Sanders sophomore Kristopher Kast junior Mike Hannigan sophomore Jonathan Fisher freshman Keith Marrero freshman Eric Huang freshman Bo Brinkmen freshman Stephen White sophomore Firas Fasheh freshman Kyle Richard freshman Robby Toma freshman Rich Estes freshman Liam Taylor freshman Brian R. Vaio junior Rich Dougherty junior Javier Andres Soegaard senior Li Weijing senior Benjamin Isack sophomore Eric Dowdey freshman Chris Snyder junior Richard Dominguez sophomore Kevin Barsalaux sophomore Zack Stackhouse sophomore James Baffa sophomore Ryan Slaney senior Alexander Bray senior Greg Prokop sophomore Robert Abdo sophomore Matt Jensen sophomore Ryan Angellotti sophomore Connor Hanley sophomore Patrick Shanley sophomore James Jones junior Mike Schmitt 
sen tor 
Preston Carter senior Joseph Grone senior Karl Sanftleben sophomore Mitch Speer sophomore Miao Xue JUniOr 
Chris Lee junior Rich Schroeder junior Sam Russ junior Hugh McDermott junior Odaro Omusi sophomore Cody Borgstrom JUniOr Henry Kim freshman Russell McFall freshman Jason Kippenbrock freshman Andrew Owens freshman Carl Cullotta sophomore David Stieber freshman Michael Weiss freshman Kevin Kray junior Pat Berry JUlllOr Andy Tran 
senior 
Lawrence Runyan sophomore Brendan O'Reilly sophomore John Gately sophomore Nick Tammarine sophomore Kevin Schweitzer senior Scott Garvey senior Luis Murguia freshman Philip Bauman sophomore John Ashley junior Rob Wilson junior Mike DeRusso sophomore Ryan Webster sophomore Michael Cole sophomore Dave Skorup sophomore Jon Rivard sophomore Andy Hills . sophomore Kent Liederbach sophomore Joseph Baroz sophomore Destin Whitehurst sophomore Kevin Donkor sophomore Benjamin Mall sophomore Jiahua Juszczak sophomore Marco Magallon junior Jim Ferlmann junior Santiago Rosado senior Pat Murren 
assistant rector 
Branden Summa freshman Kevin Park sophomore Jim Hrdlicka senior Cody Borgstrom junior Carroll Hall Aug. 29 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Monday, August 31, 2009 

Stuck in the Middle & LBft with Mediucrity 
By RYAN RAFFIN Assistant Scene Editor 
"Don't want to live in the now I Don't want to know what I know" are the lines that kick off the latest full-length effort by Omaha's finest indie band, Cursive. Appropriate words coming from the mouth of Tim Kasher, who has spent the latter part of this decade trying to follow up the critical acclaim he received in the first half. 
2000's "Domestica" and 2003's "The Ugly Organ" made year-end best-of lists every­where, and are widely regarded as two of the best albums ever to be marginally associ­ated with that ugliest of words: "emo." Lyrically, they were about little more than Kasher's life as the singer of Cursive and his failing relationships. However, the way he articulated his self-doubt and self-loathing was noteworthy, and he was rightfully placed among his generation's finest lyricists. 
Cursive's 2006 album, "Happy Hollow," added a horn section to their previously staunchly indie sound, and Kasher turned his lyrical focus to small town environments and Christianity. This was a mistake, as the album was inconsistent at best. So where would they go from there? Back to basics or continuing off into the great unknown? 
The answer is both and neither -sort of. Lyrically, 2009's "Mama, I'm Swollen" is gen­erally along traditional Cursive lines. However, the instruments sound like a sub­dued version of "Happy Hollow" -or to be more accurate, like a marginally angrier ver­sion of Kasher's folk side project the Good Life. The result is an album that sounds indecisive, like the group is treading water. 
In fact, repetition is a huge part of most songs on the album. The aforementioned first track, "In the Now," has no more than half a dozen different lines to the song, which are repeated ad nauseum through its two and a half minute runtime. For a sup­posedly great, prolific lyricist, that's pretty suspect songwriting. The chorus to "I Couldn't Love You" is just "I couldn't love you anymore" repeated four times. It's difficult not to be disappointed when past efforts have made it clear that Kasher is capable of so much more than this. 

When there are lyrics of substance to ana­lyze, it becomes clear Kasher's main concern is reconciling adulthood with being in a band -the ultimate Peter Pan lifestyle. Then of course, self-awareness raises its ugly head on tracks like "Mama, I'm Satan" where Kasher confesses ''I'm writing out a confes­sion I Every record I've written has left me smitten." This is the good stufl', what people listen to Cursive for. 
The jackpot is the final track "What Have I Done?'' where in six minutes, Kasher breaks down his entire career as a songwriter, won­dering if he has accomplished anything of substance. It's almost painful to listen to lines like "I spent the best years of my life I Waiting on the best years of my life I So what's there to write about?" It towers above any of the other songs on "Mama, I'm Swollen," and is among the finest Cursive has ever recorded. 
Musically, much of the album splits the dif­ference between "Happy Hollow" and The Good Life. The lyrics -that is, when there are lyrics -are vintage Kasher. However, the biggest flaw of "Mama, I'm Swollen" is that it feels so safe. Songs like "From the Hips" are good, but there's a nagging feeling that the album could have been so much more. 
So while the songs range from mind-blow­ing to forgettable, the album as a whole evens out to be a rather mediocre set. Maybe from another band this album would have been a pleasant surprise, but Cursive gets graded on a steep curve. They can do far better than this, so why are they resting on their laurels? 
Contact Ryan Raffin at rraffin@nd.edu 

Mama, I'm Swollen 
The Cursive 
Studio: Saddle Creek Recommended Tracks:"What Have I Done?," "From the Hips" 
I ( h 
VI 
) 
There is something so innately clear-cut about the impressionist harmonies ofWilco-a countryside simplicity underpinning a genre­defying expression. 


By COLIN RICH Scene Writer 
America's current mainstream musi­cal landscape reflects an imperma­nence best characterized by single-sat­urated playlists and a hype-ridden media that often fawn over "the next great thing." 
Today's pubescent pop is tomorrow's Vh1 series acouldn't help double-tak­ing after stumbling upon "I Love the New Millennium" last week). Getting to the top proves rel­atively easy when compared with stay­ing on top, and stay­ing power requires a loyal fan base as well as a freshening musical malleability. 
Wilco possesses both of these. Their ability to ground their music in a part­rock, part-folk ether draws fans from both realms and provides the band musical license to explore an expansive stylistic range. Perhaps this lends insight into the band's alternative mag­netism. 
There is something so innately clear­cut about the impressionist harmonies of Wilco -a countryside simplicity underpinning a genre-defYing expres­sion. Similar to their Midwestern roots, Wilco exists as a crossroads for the band's far-reaching influences, ranging from The Band to Brian Wilson to John Coltrane. Beginning with "A.M." in 1995, Wilco's previous works explore outward from this con­fluence down avenues of pop, country, and folk depending on the album (some came to label the band indie over that time as well). Yet to this day their musical peregrinations never stray too far from the harmonic niche Wilco began carving for themselves 15 years ago. 
As Jeff 1\veedy and Co. saddle up to bring us to "Wilco (The Album)," their self-titled and seventh stu­dio album, one would expect 
Contact Colin Rich at crich@nd.edu 
a deeply introspective (perhaps retro­spective) work from a band many con­sider a plinth in the terrain of American alternative rock. 
Yet against this billing "Wilco (The Album)" falls flat. The album begins to compel on the noteworthy third track "Bull Black Nova," a rhythmic and repetitive rock dissonance that juggles a variety of strings and serves as an almost certain jam-platform for live gigs. Tweedy's recognizably soft rasp plays beautifully alongside Feist's melodic guest vocals on "You and I," a gentle swansong about two people try­ing to save their rela­tionship. The pulsing heart of the album, this sweeping sere­nade precedes "You Never Know," a juke­box-ready, Petty­esque single infused with resounding piano and acoustic Americana. Wilco hits a final high with 
a sophisticated pop turn on "Sonny Feeling," a steady, foot-stomping finale laced with Wilco's effervescent country twang. 
Unfortunately "Wilco (The Album)" tells us little about Wilco (The Band). Few if any bands possess Wilco's home-style sound, and for a man whose ability to musically emulate the modem American heartland rivals that of Bruce Springsteen, Tweedy sounds downright bored this time around. 
Wilco deserves acknowledgement for their ability to stay influential and interesting in a mainstream that asso­ciates youth with commercial viability. However, unlike much of the Wilco arsenal, this album strikes with the force of a beanbag relative to the band's historically expectation-match­ing blows. Wilco lacks a passionate foothold from which to make its stand, and though the band's faithful will most certainly download in droves for this latest work, an enthusiastic revisit 
a year from now will be 
rare. 
On to the next 
great thing, 
Vhl. 


Wilco (The Album) 
Wilco 

Studio: Nonesuch Records Inc Recommended Tracks: "Bull Black Nova," "You and 1," and "Sonny Feeling" 


MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Monday, August 31, 2009 
page 11 


By GENEVIEVE McCABE Scene Writer 
Saturday saw the exit of one campus tradition and, perhaps, the entrance of another. 
On a cool August evening, Eric Hutchison and Matisyahu, two very different artists, delivered entertaining shows during first­ever B1 Block Party which place in the B1 parking lot south of Notre Dame Stadium. Held in place of "The Show," the event con­tinued a tradition of bringing noteworthy musical acts to campus within the first two weeks of school. 
Eric Hutchinson and band took the stage following two student bands, Samurai Jim and the Pat McKillen band. A sharply dressed group, Hutchinson and crew delivered an enjoyable, if not overly energetic set. This is not to say that the band was without energy or enthusiasm, but rather Eric Hutchinson's music does not lend itself to a high-energy concert atmosphere. Like so many of his singer/songwriter counterparts, Eric Hutchinson's sound was largely piano driven, somewhat soulful, and catchy 
if not especially noteworthy. 
Hutchinson's sense of humor, shown not only through occasional comments between songs but also in the music itself, made the performance memorable. At one point he delivered a song, which he had made up "during the last song" about audience members who were playing corn hole rather than watching his set. Complete with lyrics about how stupid corn hole is, and whether it ought to be called corn hole or beanbag toss, the song was witty commentary, rele­vant to the student crowd. It also proved that Hutchinson is a very talented and innovative musician. 
Further proof of his innovation and a highlight of the evening was his rendition of "My Girl" by the Temptations, ~ intermixed with "Ignition Remix" by R. Kelly. 
-Matisyahu followed Eric Hutchinson. Judging by the crowd response, most people were there to see this headlining act. He got off to a rocky start, performing several lesser known songs, before hitting his stride with a performance of "One Day." 
A Hasidic Jew, Matisyahu's music has a distinctive religious undercurrent mixed with reggae beats and infectious rap. Matisyahu himself appears an ~ unassuming guy, complete with trademark yarmulke and ear locks. Yet it's 
his singing, rather than his appearance, which is truly amazing. His own ,.. , personal style combine with his style of music to create an artist that has 1perfected the art of being himself. 
The increase in energy level from the audience went a long way toward making Matisyahu's set more enjoyable than Hutchinson's. Even to audi­ence member previously unaware of Matisyahu's work, his live work was surprisingly enjoyable. "One Day" was one of the highl-ights ofti) 
his show. A song about peace and change, it expresses a familiar .., · sentiment of our generation. Adding to its appeal, the ~ reggae sound combined with the overall message to ' • i 
create a song that could easily be mistaken for a Bob . •• .1 Marley song. _( , .. 
1

The climax of the evening was "King without a Crown", the closing song in Matisyahu's *---~t • set. Perhaps Matisyahu's most well known song, the majority of the audience was singing -~ _ '.!.If J and dancing along as Matisyahu twirled around the stage delivering the lyrics "I A:_~ •' " · \ \ give myself to you [God] from the essence of my being, and I sing to my God, these 
• ' 
0 
songs of love and healing." Toward the end of the song, the student body, led by stu-~· . dent body vice president Cynthia Weber, got up and danced on stage. ~~ 
All in all, the B1 Block Party was a fantastic hit, better than any version of "The ~ • " Show" from the past few years. Matisyahu and Eric Hutchinson both delivered memorable performances, and made the audience anticipate future Block Parties to come. 
Contact Genevieve McCabe gmccabe@nd.edu 
Dining Hall Dish 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Scene Writer 
Sandwiches have always been the prototypical lunch food, but they can become boring, espe­cially because people have the tendency to choose the same sandwich over and over again. Here are three hot sandwiches that can add some variety to one's normal lunch menu. 
Frisco Melt 
For those who enjoy Steak 'n Shake food but prefer not to eat at 3 a.m. when Steak 'n Shake is normally consumed, this recipe is helpful. 
Grab one of the pre-made 

grilled cheese sandwiches, open it, and put a hamburger in between the two slices of bread. Then, add another slice of cheese to the sandwich on top of the burger. Finally, mix about 2/3 of a lade! full of Thousand Island dressing to 1/3 of a ladel of French dressing, and put this homemade "Frisco" sauce on top of the cheese to finish off your Frisco Melt. 
Hot Roast Beef and Cheese Grinder 
Remove most of the bread from one half of a sub bun. Split the bun in two, and place on the toaster. While it's toasting, take twelve slices of roast beef. Place six slices, or as many as fit, directly on the Panini press to heat them. Once all six have been placed, flip them over and heat them for a few more sec­onds. 
The bread should be ready by this point, so put the six heated slices of roast beef on the side with the bread removed. Immediately pour copious amounts of shredded cheese on top of the roast beef. Repeat the process with the other six slices, and put them on top of the cheese. Garnish with desired vegetables, preferably lettuce and tomato to balance out the hot sandwich with crunchy, cold vegetables. 
Chipotle Chicken and Bacon Sandwich 
Place two grilled chicken 
breasts on a slice of hearty bread, preferably rye or pumpernickel. Top with two slices of cheese, and then with Chipotle sauce. On the other slice of bread, place desired vegetables, though lettuce and tomato are once again recom­mended. 
Then, grill four slices of bacon directly on the panini press, just like the roast beef in the previous recipe. Add the bacon to the sandwich, and then put the entire sandwich through the toaster to finish the creation. 
Have your own dining hall recipe? We would love to fea­ture it! E-mailjshaffel@nd.edu 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, August 31, 2009 
MLB 

Teixeira's four RBis lead Yankees past ChiSox 
Greinke throws one-hitter and retires last the 22 batters as Royals beat Mariners with three runs in fifth inning 
lSsociated Press 
NEW YORK -Mark Teixeira and the New York Yankees are playing so well, they can focus on Joba Chamberlain's future and still win big right now. 
Teixeira homered and drove in four runs, Johnny Damon also went deep and New York polished off a three-game sweep of the struggling Chicago White Sox with an 8-3 victory Sunday. 
Alfredo Aceves (9-1) provided stellar relief following an abbreviated outing for Chamberlain. With the Yankees determined to limit his work­load, the 23-year-old right­hander was pulled after only three innings and 35 pitches. 
"It's good that we're winning. Because I'm sure if we weren't playing well and we weren't winning, then people would make a bigger story out of it," Derek Jeter said. "But you have to realize that Joba hope­fully is going to be here for a long time, so in the same sense you want to make sure that he's healthy." 
Jeter scored three times for the AL East leaders, who boosted baseball's best record to 82-48. They are 31-11 since the All-Star break, also the top mark in the majors. 
Jermaine Dye homered in the ninth and Scott Podsednik had three hits for the White Sox, who have dropped seven of eight. 
"Well, we came to New York and visited the new Yankee Stadium. It is a very nice ball­park, and the hotel we stayed at was also very nice," manag­er Ozzie Guillen said. "That's all I have to say about these last three days." 
Up next, a three-game series at AL Central rival Minnesota. It will be Chicago's final visit to the Metrodome, where the White Sox are 2-14 in their past 16 games and 88-112 overall. 
"I think the next three games, we're in or we are out," Guillen said. "We have to win the series out there, there's no doubt." 
While the White Sox are fad­ing in the playoff race, Teixeira is making a push for AL MVP honors. The switch-hitting slugger, in his first season with the Yankees after signing a $180 million, eight-year con­tract, has 32 homers and 101 RBis. 
He's reached 30 home runs and 100 RBis for six straight seasons, joining St. Louis star Albert Pujols as the only major leaguers to accomplish the feat. 

Damon's two-run shot off Freddy Garcia (0-2) in the third gave New York a 3-2 lead, but Chamberlain never got a chance to hold it. 
"You've got to realize what they're trying to do -to pro­tect me for a long time," Chamberlain said. "It's hum­bling for me to know that they care that much about me.... I feel good, but I also under­stand this is a process." 
Phil Hughes retired Jayson Nix with two on to end the sev­enth, preserving a one-run lead. 
The Yankees broke it open against Chicago's bullpen in the bottom half, highlighted by Melky Cabrera's RBI double off the left-field fence and Teixeira's high drive that cleared the short porch in right. 
Aceves entered in the fourth and pitched three scoreless innings of two-hit ball to earn the victory. The versatile right­hander has nine wins out of the bullpen, most among big league relievers. 
"He's been huge. As a reliev­er, nine wins, that's incredi­ble," Teixeira said. "Very flexi­ble. Whatever you need from Ace he's going to give it to you." 
The White Sox lost 10-0 on Saturday, when they made three errors and managed one hit against Sergio Mitre and Chad Gaudin. 
After that one, Guillen said everyone in his clubhouse "should be embarrassed." He mixed in a few expletives, but never shouted. 
Before the series finale, Guillen offered similar com­ments. 
"As a group, we all stink right now," he said, adding that the only two members of the White Sox currently earning their paychecks are the train­ers. 
Jeter singled with two outs in the third and Damon drove the next pitch deep into the second deck in right. It was Damon's 24th home run, matching the career high he set in 2006 with the Yankees. 
"We have such a great team from top to bottom," Damon said. 
Damon came out in the sev­enth with cramping in both calves. He was pulled for pinch-hitter Jerry Hairston Jr., who delivered a bases-loaded sacrifice fly. 
''I'm expecting to play tomor­row," Damon said. Teixeira also had a sacrifice fly, in the first. 
Royals 3, Mariners 0 
His team may be in last place, but that hasn't stopped Kansas City ace Zack Greinke from building his case as the best pitcher in the American League. 
Greinke pitched a one-hitter Sunday, allowing only a sec­ond-inning single by Kenji Johjima as the Royals beat the Seattle Mariners. 
Greinke (13-8) retired the final 22 batters after Johjima's two-out, soft single to center field. 
The right-hander leads the majors with three shutouts and six complete games, and his 
2.32 ERA is best in the AL, all substantial arguments for the Cy Young Award. 
It was the best low-hit game of his career -he pitched a three-hitter on April 24 against Detroit. 
"He's just a full-dimensional guy," Royals manager Trey Hillman said. "He's overpower­ing, he misses bats, he knows how to use his defense and that's what he did today. He was just in total command the whole day. Very impressive." 
Last Tuesday, Greinke struck out team-record 15 against Cleveland. He didn't fan any Mariners until the sixth inning and finished with five overall. 
A few days ago, Greinke talked about how Toronto's Roy Halladay and Seattle's Felix Hernandez were economical with their pitches and got more grounders than strikeouts. Greinke talked about saving himself some pitches, and also said the Mariners' hitters made more contact than the Indians' big hitters. 
Greinke has 202 strikeouts this season, making him the first Royals pitcher to reach 200 since Kevin Appier in 1996. 
"This one's a lot of luck, a complete-team effort," Greinke said. "That other one (Cleveland) was as good as I could pitch, as nasty as I could be. Today, everyone just played well behind me." 
Seattle's lone threat was in the second. Bill Hall drew Greinke's only walk with one out and took second on Johjima's single. 
Johjima's ball fell in front of center fielder Mitch Maier. He played it on one hop, holding the runners at first and second. 
The next batter, Jack Wilson, bounced out to short to end the threat. 
"Had I taken another step and dove, there's a chance I could have come up with it," Maier said. "But that's some­thing they teach all the time, if you're diving and you don't have someone backing you up, you better make sure you're going to catch it. If I miss that and it bounces over my head, a run scores and the guy gets at least a double, maybe a triple." 
Greinke said that if he tried to catch it, "more likely than him catching it, it gets by him and they score a run and the ballgame is a different story. He's smart. He knows what he's doing out there." 
Seattle was held to one hit for the 16th time in franchise history, the first since April 8, 2006 by Oakland. It was the lOth individual one-hitter, the last one coming by the Yankees' Ted Lilly on April 27, 2002. 
"That's one of the better pitched games I've seen in a long, long time," Mariners manager Don Wakamatsu said. "Just a clinic today. The guy was almost unhittable. I think you go into a ballgame like this offensively with a guy that struck out 15 in his last appearance, and really the only way you beat a guy like that is try to get his pitch count up. 

"You look up on the board in the last inning, on his 113th pitch it's 96 miles per hour, and with that he complements it with a 65-66 mph curveball with command," he said. 
Ryan Rowland-Smith (2-2) went a career-high eight innings for the Mariners, allowing five hits and three runs. He walked one and struck out a career-high seven. 
Rowland-Smith matched Greinke for much of the after­noon except for one bad inning-the Royals' three-run fifth. 
Alberto Callaspo opened with a double that left fielder Michael Saunders had trouble finding in the sun. Miguel Olivo's RBI single with one out made it 1-0. 
Maier walked with one out, David DeJesus singled home a run and another scored on a wild pitch. 
Greinke fanned Josh Wilson to end the sixth for his first strikeout of the game. That began a string in which Greinke struck out three of four hitters. Hall was his 200th strikeout. 
"It feels good," Greinke said. "It's really, really hard to do. But people do it." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES Needed for 2009 Fall Season -The Stanley Clark School, a south side elemen­tary/middle school is located north of Erskine Golf Course on Miami Street. Soccer referees are needed for 5-6th grade and 7-8th grade girls and boys soccer matches. Pay is $37 per game to licensed refer­ees. If interested, please contact Caryn MacKenzie, Athletic Director, at Stanley Clark School at 574-291­4200. 


LOST & FOUND 
LOST: Silver ring with gold cross and anchors in or around Rockne. 
J. Denn esc 631-3999. 

FoR RENT 

Unfurnished House for rent. 2 bedrm fenced yard 2 car garage. 1 mile to campus. 219-575-0550 leave a message. 
Charming,clean 3 brm, 3 full bath house available for football week­ends. $700 for two nights. Cali Liane 57 4-287-2822 or 57 4-309­4158. 
Home for rent football weekends. Walk to stadium, sleeps 6-10. williamckelly@gmail.com 


TICKETS 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232­0964. 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
Businessman buying season GA tickets. 574-277-1659. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 

PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dames website: http:1/csap.nd. edu EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRITING ACT, Inc. invites you to participate in an essay-writing study. Limited number of participants so register soon to secure a spot. www.act.org/essaystudy 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
"DH is maddddd chill.' 
"222 is so nice right now.' 
Highlights of The Observer Fantasy Football Draft: Larry Johnson in the fifth round. Rohnie Sykes in the 14th round, followed by Martin Gramatica in the 15th and David Akers in the 16th. All by the same team. 
Nice pick Jenn: Jeremy Shockey in the eighth. 
Since 2004, Martin Gramatica has attempted a grand total of 24 field goals. He made 18 of them. 






OUND THE NATION 
Monday, August 31, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER:S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NSCAA/ ADIDAS Division 1 Women's Soccer Rankings 
team 

1 North Carolina 
2 NOTRE DAME 
3 Portland 
4 Stanford 
5 Florida State 
6 Texas A&M 
7 Florida 
8 Penn Stale 
9 UCLA 
10 Virginia 
11 Duke 
12 Southern California 
13 Illinois 
14 West Virginia 
15 San Diego 
16 Georgia 
17 Minnesota 
18 Colorado 
19 Santa Clara 
20 Boston College 
21 Oklahoma State 
22 Missouri 
23 Rutgers 
24 Washington State 
25 Texas 
points 
824 761 740 736 682 668 
594 
567 543 436 426 412 314 296 292 257 235 
229 
226 203 195 186 157 150 132 
previous 
1 
3 
4 
2 
6 7 10 12 5 9 16 
8 
17 14 13 18 19 
RV 
22 23 11 24 20 21 15 


NSCAA/ ADIDAS Division 1 Men's Soccer Rankings 

team  points  previous  
1  Maryland  25  1  
2  North Carolina  24  3  
3  Wake Forest  23  2  
4  Akron  22  9  
5  St. John's (N.Y.)  21  4  
6  Creighton  20  5  
7  Indiana  19  6  
8  California  18  12  
9  Northwestern  17  7  
10  UIC  16  11  
111  South Florida  15  8  
111  Connecticut  14  14  
13  NOTRE DAME  13  18  
14  Tulsa  12  16  
15  UC Irvine  11  10  
16  UC Santa Barbara  10  22  
17  Dartmouth  9  20  
18  Loyola (Md.)  8  15  
19  UCLA  7  RV  
20  Michigan State  6  17  
21  St. Louis  5  21  
22  Michigan  4  13  
23  Cal Poly  3  23  
24  Boston University  2  RV  
25  Louisville  1  RV  


Golf World/NIKE Division 1 Men's Golf Rankings 
team points 

1 Texas A&M 25 2 Arkansas 24 3 Georgia 23 4 Michigan 23 5 Arizona State 21 6 Southern California 21 7 Washington 21 8 Oklahoma Stale 21 9 TCU 17 10 Georgia Tech 16 

around the dial 
WOMEN'S TENNIS Venus Williams vs. Vera Dushavina 7 p.m., ESPN 

NFL Minnesota Vikings vs. Houston Texans 8 p.m., ESPN2 
LITTLE LEAGUE WORLD SERIES 

Associated Press 
SOUTH WILLIAMSPORT, Pa. -Andy Rios couldn't wait to get home to Southern California to have some french fries. 
There's a big victory meal upcoming back in Chula Vista. 
Bulla Graft's sharp single scored the go-ahead run in the fourth inning and Kiko Garcia pitched three-plus scoreless innings of relief to lead California to a 6-3 victo­ry Sunday over Taoyuan, Taiwan to win the Little League World Series. 
With the U.S.-partisan crowd on their feet, Garcia closed out the victory by striking out Yu Chieh Kao, completing a comeback from a 3-0 deficit. The California fans yelled "USA! USA" 
"We knew we could come back," said the 13-year-old Garcia in between laughs with his teammates. "We always do." 
They're surely celebrating in the San Diego suburbs after California secured the fifth straight Little League championship for the United States. 
After a wild celebration around Garcia, the Californians invited Taiwan to accompany them on the customary victory lap around Lamade Stadium on a sun-splashed afternoon. 
But  the  championship  
banner  belonged  to  
California.  

"It seems San Diego comes 
IN BRIEF 
Chiefs struggle as Flowers,
Cassel suffer injuries 
KANSAS QTY, Mo. -The winless, wor­ried and wounded Kansas City Chiefs launched a short work week Sunday while awaiting medical tests on quarterback Matt Cassel and cornerback Brandon Rowers. 
Cassel limped offthe field and out of sight after he was sacked on the third play of Saturday night's dismal 14-10 loss to Seattle, and the extent of his injury was uncertain. The same was true for Rowers, who returned aninterception 28 yards for a touchdown before hurting his shoulder early in the first half 
Wide receiver Devard Darling ai'>o was helped to the sideline in the third quarter with an apparent leg injury. 
Coach Todd Haley said he would discuss the injuries "at a later date." A team spokesman said Sunday there might be additional information following a practice on Monday that figured to be tough and demanding following what was by far the most di<;appointing of Kansas Oty's three preseason losses. 
so close all the time. The Padres come close and don't win. The Chargers come close and don't win," man­ager Oscar Castro said. "It was nice to do it for the city." 
Castro sought to shield his team from the pressure of the tournament as they advanced, forbidding them to surf the Internet for the last three weeks to prevent them from seeing the media exposure back home. 
Victory on Sunday looked in doubt early. Wen Hua Sung and Chin Ou hit back­to-hack homers in the third to give Taiwan a 3-0 lead. 
California scored a run in the third before surging ahead in the fourth. Seth Godfrey drove in a run on a sacrifice fly before Nick 

Hoosier coach suspends
players for season opener 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.-Indiana coach Bill Lynch suspended defensive tackle Deonte Mack and linebacker Ian Reeves on Sunday and will hold them out of Thursday night's season opener against Eastern Kentucky. 
Lynch said in a statement issued by the athletic depart­ment that both players violated team rules. He did not elaborate. 
Mack, a junior, started nine games last season and finished with 21 tackles, 21f2 sacks and one fumble recovery. He has played in 23 games over the past two seasons after redshirting in 2006. 
Reeves, a sophomore, played in all 12 games last season, start­ing one as a fullback. 
Neither player was listed on the team's two-deep depth chart, which was released Friday. 
Conlin scored on a wild pitch. 
Even Vice President Joe Biden, who attended the game, was impressed, standing and clapping as his three granddaughters looked on. 
Later, Taiwan walked slug­ger Luke Ramirez with two outs to bring up Graft. The 12-year-old second baseman hit a 1-1 pitch to right to score Rios from third. 
Taiwan loaded the bases in the fifth off two hit batters and a walk, but Garcia escaped the jam after getting Ou to ground into an inning­ending double play. Rios snagged the bouncer, tagged the runner going to third before throwing to first to get Ou. 
Bengals s~gned Smith three 
games Into preseason 
CINCINNATI -Offensive tackle Andre Smith signed a contract Sunday with the Cincinnati Bengals, ending an impasse that dragged on a month into the preseason. 
The Bengals originally planned to have Smith start at right tackle, but he has missed three preseason games. He was in Cincinnati and agreed to the deal shortly before the start of a late afternoon practice, allowing him to get back on the field. 
The Bengals finish their preseason schedule with a home game against Indianapolis on Thursday. It's unclear whether the rookie will be ready to play in that game. 
"We'll ease him into practice, see where his conditioning level is and see where he is this week," coach Marvin Lewis said. "We haven't made a decision about Thursday and won't know until after Wednesday." 

,­
page 14 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, August 31, 2009 
1 I I I 
I 
mom ACTMnEI
lAD 
IAO.ID.EDU 
401 Accounting Association 402 Actuarial Science Club 
301 Africa Faith & Justice Network 

601 African Students Association of Notre Dame and SMC 403 Africana Studies Club 
302 Alumni Student Club 
303 Amateur Radio Club 
501 American Cancer Society Club 
404 American Chemical Society 

405 American Institute of Aeronautics & Astronautics (AIAA} 
406 American Institute of Architecture Students, (AlAS) 
407 American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE) 
502 American Red Cross Club 
408 American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE} 

409 Arne. Soc. of Mechanical Engineers/Soc. of Automotive Engineers 
410 Anthropology Club, Notre Dame 
602 Asian American Association 
603 Asian International Society 411 Association of Women in Mathematics 
701 Bagpipe Band 
702 Ballet Folklorico Azul y Oro 
703 Ballroom Dance Club, Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
304 Baptist Collegiate Ministry 
522 Best Buddies 

503 Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
412 Biology Club 
604 Black Cultural Arts Council 
605 Black Student Association of Notre Dame 
201 Bowling Club, Notre Dame 
606 Brazil Club of Notre Dame 
504 Camp Kesem 
505 Campus Girl Scouts, Notre Dame -Saint Mary's 
305 Chess Club 
306 Children's Defense Fund 
607 Chinese Culture Society 
506 Circle K 104 Class of 2011 -Junior Class Council 
202 Climbing Club, Notre Dame 
001 Club Coordination Council 
307 College Democrats of Notre Dame 
308 College Libertarians of Notre Dame 
507 College Mentors for Kids 
309 College Republicans, University of Notre Dame 

310 Communion and Liberation at Notre Dame (CLU@ND) 
508 Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics 
413 Computer Club, Notre Dame 
705 Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora, El 
203 Cycling Club 
706 Dance Company 
520 Daughters of Isabella 107 Debate Team 
311 Oetachment225 Flyin' Irish, Notre Dame [AFROTC] 110 Dome Yearbook 
509 Domers Mentoring Kids 
414 Economics Club 
415 Entrepreneurship Society 
204 Equestrian Club, ND/SMC 
707 Farley Hall Players 
312 Feminist Voice 
205 Field Hockey Club 
206 Figure Skating Club 
313 Filii Mariae/Children of Mary 
608 Filipino American Student Organization 
708 First Class Steppers 
207 Fishing Club 
314 FlipSide 
510 Foodshare 
416 Forum on Biomedical Ethics 
511 Friends of the Orphans 
609 German Club 
315 Glass Club 319 320 711 321 611 515 417 418 419 712 516 105 901 322 626 612 323 

103 713 519 613 614 615 517 324 325 518 911 521 420 421 209 422 616 326 327 210 212 214 215 423 328 617 424 329 330 331 525 332 333 334 618 425 619 335 336 526 906 714 527 337 620 338 339 715 340 528 341 
621 
512  Global Health ND  
316  Gluten-Free NO  
317  GreeNO  
318  Gulf Coast Action League  
208  Gymnastics Club  
513  Habitat for Humanity  
709  Halftime  
710  Harmonia  
610  Hawai'i Club ­Na Pua Kai 'Ewalu  
514  Helpful Undergraduate Students  


801  Big Brothers Big Sisters  
802  Boys and Girls Club  
803  Catholic Worker House  
804  Center for the Homeless  
805  Dismas House  
806  El Campito, Inc.  
807  Hannah &Friends  
808  Healthwin  
809  Hope Ministries  
810  La Casa de Amistad, Inc.  

House of Music 
Human Rights-NO 
Humor Artists 
Identity Project of Notre Dame (IDND) 
Indian Association of Notre Dame 
Inspire 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE} 
International Development Research Council 
Investment Club 
Irish Dance Club 
Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids 
Irish Gardens 
Irish Rover 
Iron Sharpens Iron 
Italian Club 
Japan Club 
Jewish Club 
Judicial CounciVCiass of 2013 
Juggling Club 
Knights of Columbus, Notre Dame Council, No. 1477 
Korean Student Association 
La Alianza 
Le Cercle Francais (French Club} 
LEAD-NO 
Leprechaun Legion 
Unux Users Group 
Literacy Awareness -Notre Dame 
Liturgical Choir, Notre Dame 
Logan Recreation Club 
Management Club 
Marketing Club 
Martial Arts Institute 
Math Club of Notre Dame MEChAde NO Mediaeval Society of Our Lady of the Lake Men Against Violence 
Men's Boxing Club 
Men's Running Club 
Men's Volleyball Club 
Men's Water Polo Club 
MexicanAmericanEngineers&Scientist/SocietyofHispanicProf. 
Militia of the Immaculata 
Minnesota Student Club of Notre Dame Minority Pre-Medical Society 
Mock Trial Association Model United Nations Club MOTOdomers (MXD) Ms. Wizard Day Program Muslim Student Association of Notre Dame Mustard 
National Alliance on Mental Illness-Notre Dame 
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People 
National Society of Black Engineers 
Native American Student Association of Notre Dame 
NO for Animals 
ND-8 
Neighborhood Study Help Program 
Notre Dame Television (NDtv) 
Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company 
Operation Smile Student Organization 
Orestes Brownson Council 
Organizacion Latino Americana 
Orthodox Christian Fellowship Club 
Park Flyers Pilots Club 
Pasquerilla East Musical Company 
Peace Fellowship -Notre Dame 
Pentathlon Coaches of Notre Dame 
Perspectives 
Polish Club 
COMMUNITY AGENCIES 
811 Little Flower Catholic Church 821 812 Logan Center 822 813 Memorial Hospital & Health System 823 814 Milton Adult Day Service 824 815 Near Northwest Neighborhood Inc. 825 217 426 427 428 429 342 716 529 430 431 432 353 343 433 225 622 218 
723 
108 434 344 345 530 346 435 436 536 347 623 523 219 348 437 101 
438 
717 718 102 531 524 349 719 532 533 624 109 106 534 220 720 350 221 721 439 351 625 722 352 222 
440 
211 223 912 213 216 535 224 913 914 Porn Pon Squad 
Pre-Dental Society 
Pre-Law Society of Notre Dame 
Pre-Professional Society 
Pre-Veterinary Medical Association of UNO/SMC Club 
Progressive Student Alliance 
Project Fresh 
Proponents of Animal Welfare Service 
Psychology Club 
Quizbowl Club of Notre Dame 
Real Estate Investment Club 
Right To Life 
Risk Club 
Roosevelt Institution 
Rugby Football Club 
Russian Club 
Sailing Club, Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College 
Saint Edward's Hall Players 
Scholastic Magazine 
Science Business Club 
Scrabble Club of Notre Dame 
Shades of Ebony 
Slice of Life NO 
Social Justice in American Medicine (SJAM} 
Society of Physics Students 
Society of Women Engineers 
Sociology Club 
Sorin Rifle Team [AROTC] 
Spanish Club 
Special Friends of Notre Dame 
Squash Club, Notre Dame 
St. Xavier Club of Notre Dame (XND} 
Student Association for Women in Architecture (SAWA} 
Student Government 
Student International Business Council 
Student Players 
Student Stand-ups of Notre Dame 
Student Union Board 
Students for Environmental Action 
Super Sibs 
Sustained Dialogue at the University 
Swing Club 
Taking Education Abroad at Notre Dame (T.E.A. NO) 
Teamwork for Tomorrow of Notre Dame 
Texas Club 
The Juggler 
The Shirt Project 
Timmy Foundation 
Triathlon Club 
Troop Notre Dame 
TwiND: the Twin Club of Notre Dame 
Ultimate Club of Notre Dame 
Unchained Melodies 
Undergraduate Women in Business Association 
University Young Ute 
Vietnamese Student Association 
Voices of Faith Gospel Choir 
Wabruda, The 
Waterski Club of Notre Dame 
Women in Politics Club 
Women's Boxing Club 
Women's Ice Hockey Team 
Women's Liturgical Choir 
Women's Running Club 
Women's Water Polo Club 
World Hunger Coalition 
World Taekwondo Federation 
Ill 
u 
> 
= 
E 
a. 
en 
I 

I 7 
en 
I 


::s• 
, 
,G)• c 
~ 
·­
-
>
ftS 
.c E
.. 
0 
co 
0 
("') 
t­
1 
~ 
("') 
CD 
G) ~ 
c
::s 
...... 
0 LL. 
ftS 
..I 
It) 
~ 
("') 
c
·­
~ 
tn 
.... 
u 
ftS
.... 
c 
0 
u 
C\• 
! 
G) 
,.c G)
.... 
en
·­
-
.... 
0 
c 
.a
::s
-
u 
..ftS .2 
m 
c
·­
~ 
0 
0 
..I 
WSND-FM 
SPECIAL GUESTS 
'/'NFI Radio 
002-003 Student Activities Office 004 Legends 902-903 RecSports 
Ronald McDonald Family Room 
904 Athletic Promotions 
SBCSC Partner Up/Read to a Child 
905 First Aid Services Team 
Sisters of the Holy Cross 
907-910 Campus Ministry 
S-0-S of Madison Center 
915 Educational Talent Search 
South Bend Juvenile Correctional Facility 
916 Gender Relations Center 

816  Neighborhood Resources Corporation  826  Sunshine Clubhouse  917  Core Council  
817 818 819  Notre Dame Upward Bound Reins of Life, Inc. Robinson Community Learning Center  820 827 828 829  Take Ten United Religious Community Women's Care Center Youth Service Bureau  918-921 922 923 924  Center for Social Concerns Career Center Undergraduate Admissions Office of Alcohol and Drug Education  
925  Alliance for Catholic Education  

Monday, August 31, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
PGA 
Slocum surprises himself with win at Barclays 
JERSEY CITY, N.J. -Heath Slocum might have been the one player no one expected to win The Barclays. 
He was locked in a tense battle over the final hour Sunday at Liberty National with some of the biggest names in golf-Tiger Woods, Steve Stricker, Padraig Harrington and Ernie Els. 
Even more incredible is that a week ago, Slocum was not even sure he would make it to the opening event of the PGA Tour Playoffs. Having missed the cut, he had to wait until the tournament was over to learn that by the slimmest of margins -two points -he was the No. 124 seed out of the 125 players who quali­fied. 
"My fate was not in my own hands," Slocum said. 
He had his hands around that putter on the 18th green, however, and delivered the biggest shot of his life. 
On the same green where Woods stunned the crowd by missing from 7 feet, Slocum knocked in a 20-foot par for a one-shot victory at The Barclays to get this FedEx Cup bonanza off to a com­pelling start. 
Slocum closed with a 4­under 67 to win for the third time in his career, and first time in four years. The victo­ry, worth $1.35 million, moved him from No. 124 to No. 3 in the FedEx Cup stand­ings, giving him a shot at the $10 million prize next month in Atlanta. 
"It was an 'incredible day, incredible experience," Slocum said. "I was just kind· of lucky to come out on top. A lot of good players. At the end of the day, that putt on the last was magical. I'll remem­her that for the rest of my life." 
It was another finish Woods would like to forget. 
In his first tournament since losing a two-shot lead to unheralded Y.E. Yang in the PGA Championship, the put­ter again cost Woods a chance to win -not only the final round, but all week on greens he could never trust. 
Woods rimmed out a 3-foot par putt early in the round. He twice missed from inside 10 feet on par 5s. And after another clutch shot on the 18th hole, this one a 6-iron from 189 yards to 7 feet with a chance to tie for the lead, the birdie putt slid by on the left. 
"It happens," said Woods, who shot a 67. "Not too many golf courses that you misread putts that badly. This golf course is one." 
The drama unfolded even after some of the stars had left the course. 
Els finished his bogey-free 66 and had his clubs in the trunk of his car when he heard the loud cheer from the 18th green after Woods stuffed his 6-iron close. Then came a groan after the missed putt. Els had his golf shoes in a plastic bag when he was told that Slocum and Stricker, tied for the lead at 9 under had driven into fairway bunkers on the 18th. He quickly changed shoes and headed to the range. 
Stricker caught the lip of the bunker, which left him short of the green, and hit wedge to 10 feet. Slocum also came up short, as did his wedge, leaving him 20 feet from the top of the ridge. 
Slocum raised both arms in the air when his par putt broke gently back to the left and disappeared into the cup. Stricker's putt to force a two­way playoff caught the left lip of the cup. 
In the third year of these playoffs, the FedEx Cup final­ly has a winner that res~em­bles a real underdog. 
"That's what it's all about," Slocum said. "I was sweating it out last week. I didn't even know if I'd be here. I came in here with the attitude that I had nothing to lose." 
He turned into a huge win­ner. 
Slocum, who came into The Barclays at No. 197 in the world ranking, finished at 9­under 275 for the biggest win of his career. His other two victories were opposite-field events, when the best players in the world were competing elsewhere. 
He faced an All-Star cast 
across the Hudson River from Manhattan, and Slocum shined. 
The 35-year-old knocked in a 25-foot birdie at No. 2, the toughest par 3 at Liberty National, then surged into a share of the lead by holing out from 157 yards with a 7­iron for eagle on No. 5. He was steady the rest of the way, especially on the 18th. 
"Anybody here in this field has the potential to win the tournament," Stricker said. "Heath is a very steady play­er. He's a very good player. I don't think we should be sur­prised that he won." 
The surprise came from Woods. 
The world's No. 1 player was lurking most of the day, unable to get any traction while missing so many putts. A 3-footer for ·par rimmed around the cup at No. 4, and he. failed to convert birdie putts on two of the par 55 from inside 10 feet. 
Down the stretch, every­thing changed. 
He made a 10-foot birdie on the 14th, saved par with a 15­foot putt on the next hole, and got in range with pitch to 2 feet for birdie on the 16th. And with everything riding on one shot, he nailed his 6-iron to birdie range. 
Any other week, any other course, Woods making that putt was practically a given. 
This one never had a chance. 
''Usually, he makes it," Slocum said. "Ho-hum for him. I guess you can't make 'em all."­
Els played bogey-free and pulled into a tie for the lead with ~ birdie on the par-3 14th. He might have been hurt using a new driver, after discovering a crack in his other one on Saturday. Els felt his tee shots were getting away to the right, and he did­n't want to risk such a mis­take on the par-4 16th, which played only 287 yards in the final round. He laid up and made par. 
"From where I've come from, where my game has been, where my confidence has been, this is moving in the right direction," said Els, who has not won since March 2008 at the Honda Classic. 
Harrington continued his solid form, getting into the mix for the third straight tournament. He finished with four birdies over the final seven holes, making a long birdie at the 18th. 
The final round featured endless possibilities, except for the guys atop the leader­board. 
Steve Marino and Paul Goydos, tied for the lead at 9 under to start the final round, and Webb Simpson and Fredrik Jacobson, both two shots behind; combined to go 11-over par. Marino shot 77, while Goydos made only one birdie in his round of 75. 


~ ~' 
Our way out of the energy fix: 
• 

an energy m1x. 
Do you have the energy we are looking for? 
Welcome Back Irish! 
The BP Campus Team looks forward to discussin9 opportunities with you this Fall: 
Engineering Industry Day/Fall Career Expo: September 16 Joyct) CGnt(~r Fieldhoust~ 
BP will conduct interviews for full·time ancJ internships on October 7-8 for EnsJineering and Business students. Please make sure you submit your resume wiU1 career snrvic(:-;s ancl completo .a profilE:: at BP's University Rocruiting Site. 
We look forward to you joining BP's Energy Mix! 
bp 
beyond petroleum

bp~com/uscollegecareers 
BP is an equal opportunity employer encouraging diversity in the workplace. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, August 31, 2009 
MLB 

West goes six strong as Marlins top Padres 
Figueroa strikes out career-high 10 Cubs in 4-1 Mets victory; Veteran Byrd leaqs Red Sox to sweep of Blue Jays 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Sean West is mak­ing the most of his second trip to the majors this season. 
John Baker and Cody Ross each drove in two runs, lead­ing West and the Florida Marlins over the San Diego Padres 6-4 Sunday and ending their three-game losing streak. 
West (6-5) won for the fourth time in his last five outings at home. He gave up one earned run in six innings. 
This was the third win in five outings for West since being recalled from Double-A Jacksonville on Aug. 8. He went 3-4 in 10 outings during his first stint with the Marlins from May 23-July 11. 
Chris Coghlan 's leadoff sin­gle started a five-run burst in the fourth inning that made it 5-3. 
Coghlan has 46 hits in August, the most in any month by a National League rookie since Wally Moon had 52 for the St. Louis Cardinals in July 1954. 
"It's all about winning," Coghlan ~aid. "All that stuff is individual and right now we're trying to win games and get to the playoffs and that's the big picture, not how many hits I get." 
West gave up seven hits and struck out seven, tying his career-high of seven strikeouts last achieved against the New York Yankees on June 19. Leo Nunez pitched a scoreless· ninth for his 17th save in 21 opportunities. 
"Today I tried to do a little 

San Diego closed to 5-4 in the eighth when Headley sin­gled, Adrian Gonzalez had a pinch-hit single and Tony Gwynn Jr. had an RBI grounder. 
Coghlan drew a bases-loaded walk in the eighth from Greg Burke. 
"We jumped out to a nice 3-0 lead, Mat was throwing the ball great, and then they strung an inning together," Padres manager Bud Black said. "It was a hard-fought game the rest of the way, we just fell a little short." 
Mets 4, Cubs 1 
Nelson Figueroa had com­mand of all his pitches and that was too much for the Cubs hitters. 
Figueroa struck out a career­high 10 and had an RBI single to lead the New York Mets to a 4-1 victory over Chicago on Sunday. 
"We used all of them. I think that was one of the keys," Figueroa said. "They never could sit on one certain pitch, looking for a slider with two strikes. I was able to throw my fastball and move it around to different spot on the plate. Just really expanded the zone and taking advantage of some of their aggressive swings." 
Figueroa (2-3) allowed one run on six hits in seven-plus strong innings and won his first start since April 27, 2008. Figueroa, who took Johan Santana 's spot in the rotation, got Jake Fox swinging for the second out of the fourth inning for his ninth strikeout of the Tuesday. 
"I pitched OK today. I didn't 
make too many mistakes," 
Zambrano said. "It looked like 
they came ready to hit today. I 
made some good pitches to 
Pagan and (Luis) Castillo and 
they were able to get the head 
of the bat on the ball." 
Trailing 1-0 in the third 
inning, Pagan walked and 
advanced to second on 
Castillo's single. Zambrano 
tried to pickoff Pagan at sec­
ond, but his throw went into 
center field, moving Pagan to 
third and Castillo to second. 
Daniel Murphy and Francoeur 
followed with back-to-back HBI 
singles to give the Mets a 2-1 
lead. 
The Mets added to its lead off 
Zambrano in the fourth inning. 
After getting Fernando Tatis to 
fly out, Zambrano allowed five 
consecutive hits before being 
pulled by manager Lou Piniella 
and booed by the fans. After 
Brian Schneider singled, 
Anderson Hernandez followed 
with an RBI triple. 
With the infield in, Figueroa 
helped himself out with a sin­
gle to score Hernandez. 
Zambrano's outing ended after 
he gave up back-to-back sin­
gles to load the bases. 
Reliever Tom Gorzelanny 
limited the damage by getting 
Murphy to fly out and got 
Francoeur to hit into a lielder's 
choice. 
Cubs manager Lou Piniella is 
concern with Zambrano's 
mechanics. 
"He is opening up his front shoulders. They're getting a ·good look at him, because 
they're not swinging and miss­ing at all. That's usually a pret­ty good indication you're show­ing the ball to the hitter a little prematurely and you're giving the hitter a longer look," said Piniella. 
Red Sox 7, Blue Jays 0 
It was a scene right out of the movies. A former major league right-hander spends the spring and early summer throwing batting practice to his son's team before he returns to the bigs with six shutout innings. 
That's exactly what Paul Byrd did Sunday. 
Byrd, making his first major league start since last September, held the Blue Jays to three hits and the Boston Red Sox completed a three­game sweep with a victory over Hoy Halladay and the Toronto Blue Jays. 
''I'm throwing to a 13 and under team and the Red Sox called and I say, 'I don't know how long I'll take to get ready,"" said Byrd, still Glutch­ing the game ball and wearing the youth league hat in an interview room after the game. 
''I'm just so excited to be back. I want a World Series ring," he said. "Hopefully I can help this team get there. I'll dean toilets if I have to, and I told them that." 
Byrd (1-0), out of baseball after finishing last year with the Hed Sox , signed a minor league contract on Aug. 5. He struck out one and walked three. 
"I think he missed compet­ing," Red Sox manager Terry Francona said. "He's with a team fighting for their playoff life, so he gets to be a part of that, which I think he enjoys." 
The win was the sixth in seven games for Boston, which moved 3 1/2 games ahead of Texas in the AL's wild-card race after the Rangers lost to Minnesota, 5-3, on Sunday. 
Scoring single runs in each of the first four innings, the Red Sox sent Halladay (13-8) to his third consecutive loss for the first time since last April. 
"It's a little tough to pitch when you don't get any runs," Blue Jays manager Cito Gaston said. "We're just not scoring for him, that's all." 
The Blue Jays fell to 0-6 in Fenway Park this year and were swept in a three-game series by the Red Sox for the second time this month, losing at the Rogers Centre Aug. 18­21. 
Toronto lost for the 11th time in 14 games. 
Billy Wagner, acquired by Boston from the Mets for two players to be named Tuesday, pitched one scoreless inning with three strikeouts and one hit in his debut. Takashi Saito , the fourth pitcher, completed the five-hit shutout. 
Halladay, shopped at the July 31st trading deadline before he remained with Toronto, is 3-5 since the all-star break. 
"I felt fine. It's a good offen­sive team. We make a couple mistakes here or there and you don't score runs, it's tough," Halladay said. "Early runs cost you games like that." 

more pitching than throwing,"  game.  
West said. "I wanted to get as  Mets manager Jerry Manuel  
deep as I could because our  was impressed how Figueroa  
bullpen is a lfttle worn out."  attacked the hitters.  
The Padres took a 3-0 lead in  "He is the epitome of getting  
the fourth, helped by West's  secondary pitches over,"  
error. Oscar Salazar led off  Manuel said: "And it also looks  
with a single, Kevin  like to me he's kind of a cere­ 
Kouzmanoff hit an RBI double  bral guy where ·he has a good  
and Chase Headley walked.  memory out there as to what  
Will Venable bunted and West  he did before to get a particu­ 
threw wildly to first, allowing  lar guy out and able to com­ 
Kouzmanoff to score. After  mand his fastball enough to be  
West struck out the next two  able to attack them in different  
batters, Headley scored from  spots."  
third on a passed ball by  Mets leadoff hitter Angel  
Baker.  Pagan had three hits against  
The Marlins bounced back in  his former team as New York  
their half to take the lead.  won just for the second time in  
After retiring the first nine bat­ nine games.  
ters, Mat Latos (4-4) gave up  Brian Stokes pitched a per­ 
consecutive singles to Coghlan  fect eighth inning and  
and Ross Gload to open the  Francisco Rodriguez pitched a  
inning. With one out, Latos  scoreless ninth for his 28th  
walked Jorge Cantu to load the  save in 33 opportunities.  
bases. Baker had a two-run  The Cubs had a chance in the  
single and Ross added a two­ ninth against Rodriguez with  
run double. Latos remains Win­ Kosuke Fukudome on first.  
less in his last four starts.  Right fielder Jeff Francoeur  
"One minute you're on top of  dropped Jake Fox 's short pop  
--...:..­ the world, the next minute you  up, but second baseman Luis  
are down at the bottom," Latos  Castillo recovered the ball and  
said, who grew up in nearby  forced out Fukudome at sec­ 
Margate, Fla. "I left a couple  ond.  
pitches up and didn't make  Starter Carlos Zambrano (7­ 
quality pitches when I needed  6) couldn't get through the  
to. Give them credit,they are a  fourth inning for the Cubs, who  
good hitting team and when I  failed to complete a three­ 
made mistakes, they hit them."  game sweep of the Mets.  
The Marlins avoided getting  Zambrano hasn't won since  
swept by the Padres for the  July 22 at Philadelphia.  
first time since May 13-15,  Zambrano allowed four runs  
2005.  and 11 hits in 3 1-3 innings. It  
"It was a tough weekend for  was his second poor outing  
us and today was nice to sal­ since being activated from the  
vage the series," Ross said.  disabled list with a sore back.  
"We got some timely hitting  In his first start back,  
and some walks when we  Zambrano yielded a season­ 
needed it and it was a good  high eight runs in 4 1-3 innings  
win for us."  of a 15-6 loss to Washington on  


Jnn~~SaintMary's 
llolrl & Suit(~S 

Availability for the following football weekends: 
Nevada 
Washington 
Connecticut 

For information e-mail tstewartcorwin@innatsaintmarvs.com or ca111-800·947·8627. 
Jillion
(;arden I1111 
Ever~hmg. Riqnt where you rtf'i!d 1t~· 

Availability for the following football weekend: Connecticut For information e-mail brooke.gallagher@hilton.com or call574-232-7700. 

Monday, August 31, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Confirmation 
/" 
./
' t 
\ 
\ 
\ 


Sunday, August 30, 4-5 P.M. Thursday, September 3, 5:30-6:30 P.M. Sunday, September 6, 4-5 P.M. 
Line 
continued from page 20 
line coach in Frank Verducci, optimism abounds for a unit that significantly improved last year following one of the worst performances in school history in 2007. 
While four starters from last year's line return, there were still some shuffiing and position battles over the offseason. The biggest change was the switch of senior Eric Olsen from guard to center, where he takes the place of classmate Dan Wenger. 
"Danny [Wenger] was hurt a lot in the spring last year. We started experimenting with [the switch] last spring because he was on the shelf a good part of the spring," head coach Charlie Weis said. "I think we intend to play the best five guys." 
Replacing departed senior Mike Turkovich at left tackle is fifth-year senior Paul Duncan, who missed the entirety of 2008 after surgery on his right hip. Duncan started every game for the Irish in 2007. 
Moving into a permanent starting role in Olsen's vacated spot at right guard is sopho­more Trevor Robinson. Weis said he was impressed with Robinson's work as a freshman and recovering from a shoulder injury last year. 
"I think with our scheme, the guy who gets isolated a whole bunch of times is the right guard," Weis said. "I think we believe that he's a guy that could athletically be in that position to give us the best chance to be successful." 
Returning at the left guard Contact Michael Bryan at and right tackle positions for mbryan@nd.edu 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
share of 20th with a 17 4, and the Belles' lone senior, Perri Hamma, finished 17th with a 172. 
The Belles look to continue their solid start when they next see action at their first home tournament, the O'Brien D-Ill Championship, on Sept. 13 and 14. 
Contact Brendan Corsones at bcorsone@nd.edu 
Earn Extt·a Money, Get Involved, Have Fun! 
Officiate for RecSports 

the Irish are seniors Chris Stewart and Sam Young. The 650-pound tandem returns additional power and leader­ship to an offensive line that already has strength in both areas. 
Wenger's absence from the starting role doesn't spell the end of the senior's contributions for the Irish, but rather should add depth and stamina to this year's unit. 
Weis also mentioned receiving positive contributions from many rotation players in the two deep, specifically junior Matt Romine, who has pushed Duncan for time at left tackle. 
"This is the first time we've had this many guys on scholar­ship on the offensive line," Weis said. "To have 15 guys on schol­arship has put a little different light to it. This is going to be the first time we're going to start with three units who legitimate­ly play left and right tackle, left and right guard and center." 
Leading the veteran group is the new offensive line coach Verducci, who replaced John Latina in the winter. Verducci has over 27 years of coaching experience at both the NFL and collegiate levels, most recently with the Cleveland Browns. 
"Frank provides an excellent background on both the offen­sive line and run game in gen­eral from two perspectives, having coached several years in professional football and at the Division I level -predominant­ly in the Big Ten," Weis said on Verducci's hiring in January. "His experience will be an asset both to our players and our staff." 


lasketball Monday, Oct 5 7pm 
All Meetings In the RSRC Meeting Room Downstairs 
.l1ilW. Il.!.U£ MondttY, Aug 31 7pm Monday, Sept 7 7pm 
Monday, Sept 14 7pm 
Receivers 
continued from page 20 
est one-two punch on the out­sides, and with a blend of experienced returnees and highly touted newcomers at both receiver and tight end, Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen is surely licking his chops. 
Add to that fact that Notre Dame's first opponent, Nevada, had, statistically, the worst pass defense in college football last season, and the general consensus is that Clausen and Co. will have a field day against the Wolfpack on Saturday. 
The Irish are so deep at the receiver position it's almost ridiculous. Realistically, Clausen could complete pass­es to nine different wide receivers -plus three differ­ent tight ends -this season in meaningful action. 
Included in the group behind Tate and Floyd are seniors Robby Parris and George West, junior Duval Kamara, sophomores John Goodman and Deion Walker, and freshmen Shaquelle Evans and Roby Toma. 
Kamara has battled a knee injury throughout camp but will resume full practice today and is slated to play in Saturday's opener. He entered the fall as the favorite for the No. 3 receiver slot, but between his own health and the impressive play from sev­eral young Irish wide outs, it remains to be seen where he'll be listed when Weis releases an updated depth chart on Tuesday. 
It is clear that Evans has worked his way, at the very least, into the third-receiver discussion, and many Irish fans were likely excited by his long touchdown catch in Notre Dame's open practice on Aug. 15. Just how much playing time will be available for Evans remains unclear, but he's staked his claim to this point. 
"We like the fact that he has really good hands and good speed -almost deceptive speed, because he's a long strider. And he's done a good job mentally picking up the system," wide receivers coach Rob Ianello said. "He's play­ing one posi­tion in our 
two-receiver "[Shaquelle Evans cern a few 
set and anoth­months ago
has] done a good job 
er in our regarding Notre three-receiver mentally picking up Dame's depth at set, which has the system.'' the tight end allowed us to position with tax him a little the transfer of
Roblanello
bit mentally, Joe Fauria to and he's done Irish receivers coach UCLA, impres­
a nice job with that." 
Parris and West give Notre Dame a pair of veteran tar­gets with reliable hands, a luxury many teams don't have. Both received more action in 2007 than in 2008, with Parris' reception total dropping from 29 to nine and West's from 21 to one -a reflection of the young talent that has taken over at the position. 
Neither Goodman nor Walker saw game action as freshmen last season, but both have worked their way into the crowded position bat­tle and will likely receive more of an opportunity as sophomores. 
Listed at 5 feet 9 inches, 175 pounds, one might think Toma could use a year to bulk up and transition into the col­lege game. But Weis said Toma, a high school team­mate of super-freshman line­backer Manti Te'o, has impressed so much that he could see the field right away. 
Floyd said earlier this sum­mer that guys like Goodman, Toma and Walker -those who haven't yet played in an Irish uniform -have helped give Notre Dame even more depth at the receiver position. 
"They got at it this sum­mer," Floyd told scout.com. "Getting stronger and faster, and the coaches and the guys that have played like to see that because there's a lot of depth and you have help when someone goes down." 
Though there may have 
been some 
cause for con­
sive perform­
ances in presea­son practice have erased much of that uncertainty. Rudolph is the unquestioned starter after catching 29 passes as a freshman, and junior Mike Ragone is back from a knee injury that held him out of action last season. Former walk-on Bobby Burger, who earned a schol­arship last week after turning heads in camp, will see time as the No. 2 tight end, espe­cially in situations where the Irish need an extra blocker. 
Freshman Tyler Eifert has also worked his way into con­tention for playing time, though he may be a luxury at this point and could be held out of games to preserve a year of eligibility. 
[Eifert is] making it tough for us to want to not play him," Weis said. "He's picked it up mentally and physically he's handled the roles of a tight end, including the block­ing, which has been a very pleasant surprise for us." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Contact: Fr. John Conley 631-7888 or John & Sylvia Dillon 631-7163 
C-M 
Campus Ministt


,.... 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, August 31, 2009 
' 
' ShaiDrock 
' 
continued from page 20

' 
Notre Dame was lifted by exceptional individual accom­plishments, but the team's greatest assets may be its poise and experience. 
"I think I go back to this May when we got to take the team overseas," Brown said. "We went to Italy and had two weeks of training in there that helped the chemistry and helped the team get a little bit stronger. We played against some really big blockers and some players that hit the ball extremely hard, so it wasn't like we were coming in here think­ing we hadn't seen this before." 
Notre Dame now hits the road as it prepares to compete in the Xavier Invitational next week in Cincinnati. The Irish will look to carry over the momentum from this weekend's success as they take on Xavier, Tennessee and No. 16 Michigan. 
"We do have to guard against a letdown," Brown said. "I know the team realizes that they're good, but there's just the emotional high of winning. It's going to be tough." 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

AluiDni 
continued from page 20 
"Our start was much better [than last week]," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "Some of the things we worked on dur­ing the week we improved on." 
Henderson nearly scored again with 18 minutes left in the second half. The Irish sophomore escaped the Ramblers' (0-3) defenders and faced only the Loyola-Chicago sophomore goalie Katie Groesch. Henderson's shot was aimed at the low right corner, but Groesch managed to block it, keeping the Ramblers within striking range. 
Notre Dame's leading scorer helped put the game out of the Ramblers' reach early in the second half with her passing. An apt pass from Henderson to sophomore midfielder Molly Campbell was quickly redirect­ed into the back of net by Campbell, giving Notre Dame a 2-0 lead. 
Notre Dame had 21 shots on goal, whereas Loyola-Chicago only managed six on Irish sen­ior netminder Kelsey Lysander. 
"One of the things we did well was create a lot of shot opportunities, and in the last few years that is something we have accomplished," Waldrum said. "A couple of times even though we created those shot opportunities, we weren't there for rebounds or added oppor­tunities. That is something we need to improve." 
The early-season rust aside, the victory over Loyola-Chicago was the ideal way to close Alumni Field. In its final game, the field was soaked from 24 hours or rain, with standing water at some spots on the pitch. 
"There are a lot of mixed feelings as we move to Alumni Stadium," Waldrum said. "Alumni Field has 20 years of history, and 10 for me person­ally. I will miss the atmosphere of the field." 
Since Alumni Field first opened in 1990, the women's soccer team has amassed a 222-16-4 record. The team currently has a 27 -game win­ning streak at the facility, and has now won its last 30 regular season games. 
Having outscored its two opponents this season 5-0, the Irish have started the season in an impressive manner, yet Waldrum is not satisfied. 
"We are not where we want to be yet," the Irish coach said. "At the same time, I would not want to be at peak form this early in the season." 

Peak form was not needed to rival and defending national top Loyola-Chicago on Friday, champion No. 1 North but may be necessary in Notre Carolina. Dame's next game. The team will christen Alumni Stadium Contact Douglas Farmer at this upcoming Friday against dfarmer1@nd.edu 


·rake 11 FHm Course in the Bro\~'ning Cinerna! 
ltalitln iVtltitJI1tll Ci1te111a 

M 
Taught in English \vith no pre-re<1uisites 
Learn the histm:r ofone (~lthe world~~· mosl reJwn·ned national cinemas. Ana~rze j;rl!atl/lms by Pasmme. Rossellini. Fellini. Paso!ini, Fiw·omi ami crmtemporarrjl!mmokers. UndeJ:-.tand the interaction between fw!itm hh;torr. Jilm lti!itorv, and nalionol identitv. Class meets in Bruwning Cinema in DEPAt'. Fulfills tmiw:rsi~vjliw arrs requirement, FTT intemational.fi!m requirement. and ltoliun Studies electives. !l;structor is an intema!ionally n•cogni:;ed .<uJmlar specializing in the histmy (~lltalian cinema. 
Monday, August 31, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

64 Bed-and· breakfast 65 Dazzling effect 66 Dull, in poetry 67 "Wanna ?" 
68 What light bulbs and bootblacks do 
69 English nobles 
Down 
Atlas page  
2  Critical hosp.  
area  
3  Yank's foe in the  
Civil War  
4  Aunt from  
"Oklahoma!"  
5  Rum and lime  
juice drink  
6  LOL, out loud  
7  Mil. truants  
8  Distant  
9  One leaving  
cash on the  
table?  

1 0 Backs of boats 11 It might be cut 
by an uppercut 12 Jeopardy 13 Adolph who was 
chief of The New York Times from 1896 to 1935 
18 Dairy Queen order 19 Deemed not suitable tor kids 22 Previous 23Wild 24 1944 Jean-Paul Sartre play 26 One of the Wise Men 
29 "Please help me with directions" 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Allan E. Parrish 
31 Boom, zoom and 40 Feature of a 54 Fast-talking vroom May-December 
55 Unaccompanied 32 Cushiony part of 
romance 56 See 39-Down a shoe 41 Deserter 
33 Matt Lauer or 46_ Peanut 58 Completely fill Meredith Vieira 
Butter Cups 
60 Rope-a-dopefor "Today" 47 Fortify with boxer36 They have 
vitamins, e.g.
precincts: Abbr. 61 Suffix with cash
51 Style of Chinese
39 Nancy's 56­cuisine 62 "My gal" of song Down in the 
comics 53 _ incognita 63 60-min. periods 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CEI£RII.11'lK'i BORN ON THIS HAY: Andy ROOdick. 27: Rich Cremin, ,4; Lisa Lit1p,, 36; C<uneron Dial. 37 
Uappy flirthday: Tl1is c~ntum into an imerestm~ rear with lot' of room lor dmll!"' as wdl as •!lcc-,ss. R<"Cvalua~e your ,,orrent Uvint: ammgem.,uts and make allcrdtions to sel your mind at caw and lead youlo l"'rronal in.">C<lom. Make the moves that will bring you happi IK>ss. Ymtr numbc.r'""" 7, 10, 18, 20, 29, 34,45 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill')J: Yon may have to dod~~ '""""""' who" persistently trym)! to pd. yon to take on more .Y(»l have 1<> draw tk line so tbal ymt ,·au \\Wk (>Jl th~ ttllu~s that n~e;on the most to you, lfs tim~ to hdp younelf ** 
lAliRl!S (April lii-May liJ): l:lo a~tytlling that will !;let you out of the house and away fmm any t'Jlllrtwersy that will kad to changes you do not wauL You n<.""'l tin., to tlunk and to plan your n~:>:l mow.Ask son~e<lliC y~lll fmsl for input ***** 
GEMlNliM11y 21-.1._ 20l: 1itkin~ "" aliUlc rc-spu<tslbility is futc if it will bmlj! y<>u per soual bc111:fits l>nt do not "!lll. up for somctbm!l that will dc1cr lrom your own frec>do!n and projaress. You have to he the .1udllc of what's Ul1JJOI1ont to you and wlmt isn't *** 
CANCJ>R t.lunt> 21-Juh 22): You can do so much more ro make vour life !Jdfer if vou ;bare your k~owledge, i1itcnt and d.esires with ;;omeoue wbo wmpf<."uwnt~ you. l.xm't ~by away fn>m t<tkiu!l-on!'-"'"'~.,. r<"iXJllsit>ility 111eK•Wanh will he hu);t<'. *** 
Llo:O t,lul~· 2..1-Aug. 221: Gel tllinp.s out of the way ~~~~~ rowe h<'<-"11 hanging over your bead and you "ill lt>el so much bcfkr. A t~<.'ip.nlmr or lrit'ltd will be able to shed rome li!!flt 011 dte pu;lSibility of something you want lo do. Invesugatc any ~·rol>l~m ytltolmve wuh • coll~a)!toe. 
*** 
\'lRGO !Aug. 2.\·S.pl. 221: Y<.m t·an make soniC major ch;ulpcs personally ao~t to your l10noe !Jon'! be shy when it cmncs l<> presenlmg your ideas or plaits. If's up to you to start the ball rollin!!. Don'f let doubt slowyoodowu. ***** 
UIIJU !St'Jil. l:4ld. 221: llse c-~utkm when making (k.x·isions that will affect ycmr home lik Back away from wmething or ~ltneon<." lO pmtec'l your int=sts and spare yt»tr loved ones F.rief. Unpredictahle adions shou!rl be kep11o a minimum ami di~aprcements avoided. 
** 
SCORPIO !Od. 23-Nov. 21): 11lcrc is an imere~hM opportwtity that ill\'olws trawl. lll"'"'Y, ••• dl\'e,tn.,lll ••1d tryin!l >OI»Ctltitt~. alto!lctl~r different. ;\ cban!lc wollloelp you ~o>ct m11 ofasituatimollwhascauscd you to spin your whoeh for a lou~ tinN?. **** 
SAnrn~\JU.l 'S (Nov, 22-1~. 21 J: You m1y be completely off..bas<: with your as~nmptions atKlmay have tol:mcktrad~ to gel :mytbinp oul of yottr ctu:retrt situation.l'se chanu. mthcr than demands, with the peopl.: who can nuoke a difference to your fmancial funtre. *** 
CAl'Rlf'ORN tO.,..,. 22-Jan. 191: TI1ere is money to he made anti deah 10 be stm<:k if you are fast to take a~tion. You may be under some pressure to <:outril>uto more of your time to family. Juggle your plans to k~ep "veryonc hapr>y. *** 
AQVARlliS 1,!11n, 20-Ftlb. HI): D<'n't g,ive out illfmlllllliou that should be kept a "''''"'*· Build 011 a friotuhhip instead of tryinjt to force " relat:iot~<hip <111 ~<'lll<:Oilc who isn't ready for one. Be flm. wmp;ts,ionate and uudersiauding. *** 
I'ISCI,~'i(Feb. 19·!\tareh 201: A seriou~ connettmn ,·au be made if you vobmtecr or part.ici­
pate in.wurethinja yon fed ~lnln!(ly sbmu. Your views will haw an impa<:l aml tlte pt.~•plc ym1 interc>l wiU be willing Ill Sllf~lort yotll position. **** 
Blrthda~· Btlby: Yon suppof! mtdiiiou, rule; aud regulattons. You are a pcrf«tionist. you ure mlem~l :md y<>u can mnlti ta.<k. 
Eugenin'x lVd! Xiles: euc•mialttsUmtt for('t"'fidetllial <YmsullaTiom. myspnr:e.cam!eugrnia!tw for Eugrnkt'x l>log, aslr!lfltf>'it¥!.camfor ftm 

CROSSWORD 
Across Bogged down 
6 Sword handles 11 _-Magnon man 14 High-speed train from Boston to Washington 15 Stand in a queue lor, say 16 Drink with Grabbin' Grape and Smashin' Wild Berry flavors 17 College professor's 
mantra 20 Splenda rival 21 Short-sheeting a 
bed, TP'ing a house, etc. 22 2K race, e.g. 25 Bloodhound's trail 27 Yoko of "Double Fantasy" 28 Uganda's _ A min 
30 As, chemically 34 G.P.S. offering: Abbr. 35 Highway 
entrances and exits, typically 37 "First, _ harm" 
(medical axiom) 38 Highly collectible 
illustrator 42 Kuwaiti chief 43_orange 44 The upper 
Midwest's Canals 45 Hits the hay 48 Stimpy's cartoon pal 49 Ernie of golf I arne 50 Penny vis-a-vis a dime 52 Gird oneself 54 Finisher of pottery or cakes 57 note (dictionary bit) 59 Lafayette or Orleans 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
JUMBLE 
JroJWJ]JlliJ!
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
I ABOOfj

[] II 
tPYSEDE I
J (] II tKOOPHU t
J I I J I 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

OFTEN FOLLOWS 
WHE=N A BUSINESS 
FI>U..S INTO TI-E REO, 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: [ Jumbles:
Saturday's Answer: 
J I J ( l I I I ) 
(Answers tomorrow) MAGIC BASIC DECENT SEXTON What the single women did when they took a cruise -'MISSED" THE BOAT 

--~----------------------------------------------------------------------­
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
~,.._..-.­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, August 31, 2009 
page 20 
FOOTBALL 
Veteran offensive line settles in, hopes for marked improvement 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Associate Sports Editor 
Statistics and recent success have shown that offensive line experience is one of, if not the most important factors in determining a team's success. Assuming that strong trend holds true, the Irish should be in for quite a season. 
The Notre Dame offensive line returns with the experi­ence of 100 career starts, tied for tops in the nation with Virginia Tech. With an abun­dance of returning starters and veterans and a new offensive 
see LINE/page 17 

Locked and loaded 


Wide receiver, tight end units give Notre Dame increased flexibility 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Editor 
The secret's out -Notre Dame's receiving corps is pretty darn good. 
The wide receiver position undoubtedly boasts more depth than any other on the current Irish roster, and this year's stable of receivers is certainly among the nation's best. Junior Golden Tate (58 receptions, 1080 yards, 10 touchdowns) and sophomore Michael Floyd ( 48 receptions, 719 yards, 7 touchdowns) might pose the country's scari­
see RECEIVERS/page 17 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish upset No. 5 Stanford, finish 2-1 at Shamrock Invite 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 
In one of the most significant victories in program history, the Irish volleyball team defeated No. 5 Stanford in straight sets Saturday to highlight a 2-1 opening weekend at the Shamrock Invitational, which also included a win over Denver Friday and a loss to LSU Sunday. 

The upset win over the Cardinal marks just the second time the Irish have dealt a loss to a top-five opponent, the first since 1993. 
"We have tremendous senior leadership on the team, and I thought all the seniors played really well," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "We played really poised, and we didn't get nerv­ous down the stretch, and I think that's indicative of a team that has experience. It's a huge win for our program." 
The Irish improved their all­time record to 37-7 at the annu­al event. The squad racked six consecutive sets in the win col­umn to sweep Denver on Friday and the Cardinal on Saturday, before falling in straight sets to LSU on Sunday. 
The Pioneers wrapped up the weekend winless in three tries, while Stanford and LSU both 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 

Old stadium closes with a 'W' 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
The ali-day rain stopped just in time for Notre Dame to win the final game at Alumni Field Friday night. Loyola-Chicago challenged the No. 2 Irish on a soaked field, but sophomore forward Melissa Henderson's goal and assist led Notre Dame to a 2-0 victory. 
Contrary to the team's first game, the Irish (2-0) started strong, as Henderson put the scoreboard to use after less than 14 minutes of game time. Junior midfielder Julie Scheidler assisted on the goal. 
see ALUMNI/page 18 finished the showcase with records of 2-1. 


The Tigers opened the invita­tional by falling in five sets to the Cardinal in a hard-fought match, but bounced back to snap Notre Dame's hopes for a three-team sweep. LSU outside hitter Michele Williams was named tournament MVP, finish­ing the event with 37 kills (2.85 per set) and 19 blocks (1.46 per set). 
Despite the loss to the Tigers, the Irish's strong performance this weekend will no doubt turn some heads in the volleyball community. The squad was paced by impressive perform­ances from senior outside hitter Serenity Phillips and sophomore outside hitter Kristen Dealy, both of whom were named to the all-tournament team. 
see SHAMROCK/page 18 
SMC GOLF 
Belles place second at Trine Invitational 
By BRENDAN CORSONES 
Sports Writer 
The Belles were able to pull a second place finish at this weekend's Trine Invitational in Angola, Ind., squeaking by Illinois Wesleyan but falling 24 strokes behind Division II powerhouse University of Indianapolis. 
Saint Mary's was led by freshman Martyna Mierzwa, who shot a 79 on the second day to finish third overall in the tournament with a 155. Junior Mary Kate Boyce came in at ninth overall with a 160 two-day total. 
The Belles closed the first day behind Indianapolis, a lead that only increased as the tournament continued. The individual winner was Indianapolis' Lyndsay McBride, the reigning Division II individual champion, who carded a 148 for the weekend. 
Also in contention for the Belles was sophomore Natalie Matuszak, who finished 11th with a 164. Two strokes back in 13th was junior Rosie O'Connor. Sophomore Christine Brown garnered a 
see BELLES/page 17 


• 
Check out The Observer's Irish Insider podcast at ndsmcobserver.com/podcasts
IRISH INSIDER 

as beat writers Bill Brink, Michael Bryan, Matt Gamber & Sam Werner PODCAST discuss the first half of Notre Dame's 2009 football schedule. 






