College sees increase in fincanical aid applications due to economic recession 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's Office of Admissions has noticed trend changes from pre­vious applicant pools because of the current recession; however, the 1,126 women accepted for the College's class of 2013 marks an increase of about 30 students from last year's figure, Dan Meyer, vice president of enrollment, said. 
"This has been a more challenging recruitment campaign this year due 
see ADMISSION/page 6 
Saint rv1 ary' s Ad rn is s ions 
Applicants = 1 3 3 7 Accepted =11 26 Budget Target =460 First Years '"Diversity= 1'2. 1% from 2008 
'"'Number out of all applicants not out of accepted students 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 
Off-campus transition fair to take place tonight 
a totally new idea. 
By MOLY MADDEN "The seminar about moving off 
News Writer campus has been going on for a 
few years, but all it involved was 
For students who are interested a few speakers and attendance in moving off campus, student was low. We didn't feel like it was government is hosting the Off­as successful as it could be," Gari Campus Transition Fair tonight said. "With the fair we geared it from 8 to 9 p.m. in the LaFortune heavily to students and got them Ballroom. excited about the event." 
"The fair is really going to be a Gari said the fair is meant to one-slop shop !'or students think­appeal to students from all years ing about living off-campus," sen­at the University. ate community relations chair "The freshmen who are think­Gus Gari said. "All the major ing about moving in the future landlords from the area will be can talk to all the landlords and present." just see what's out there and 
Gari. who has been overseeing know their options," Gari said. the event along with the off-cam­"We also have a lot of features for pus council chair Billy Lyman, sophomores and juniors who are said while in the past there getting ready to sign leases." had been a seminar that spoke about living off campus, the fair is see FAIR/page 9 
------------., 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
SMC class quota per hall ignites controversy 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY Saint Mary's Editor 
Room selection quotas that were put in place more than two years ago to help diversify the residence halls at Saint Mary's College have caused some unrest between students and the Department of Residence Life and Community Standards, especially in the ris­ing junior class. 
Slandah Dieujuste, director of the Department, said these quotas were put in place to mix the class years and provide guidance to incoming classes. 
"There is tremendous benefit to [the quotas] as [they allow) our students to engage in strong mentoring relation­ships," Dieujuste said. 
The quotas limit the number of students from each of the classes who can live in each residence hall. For example, there can only be 95 juniors in LeMans Hall. Once this quota is filled, the remaining juniors who need to select rooms must choose one of the other dormi­tories for their residence. 
Some upperclassmen, howev­er, feel the quotas are unfair because they force students to live in halls that normally wouldn't be their first choice. 
Rising junior Erin Malone expressed her feeling on the new room requirements. 
see HALLS/page 6 

~------­
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
Randall Terry once arranged to have a dead fetus sent to Bill Clinton at the 1992 Democratic National Convention. 
This long-time pro-life activist is no stranger to controversy. His life -as an evangelical Christian, later a converted Catholic, once a Republican political candidate and foremost a warrior in the fight against abortion -has been filled with similar appalling actions. 
Terry likes to boast that he's been arrested 40 times, spent a year of his life in jail and had cases before the U.S. Supreme Court. I Ie even states that he has 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 121 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2009 
'We will make this a dm1s' 
Radical activist Randall Terry brings his controversial pro-life 'battle' tactics to Notre Dame campus 
created "the largest civil disobe­
dience movement in America." 
Now, he's come to Notre Dame. 
The decision to invite President 
Barack Obama to give the 2009 Commencement address at Notre Dame and receive an hon­orary Doctor of Laws degree has attracted the attention of pro-lif­ers around the country and world. Calling the situation a "travesty," pro-life leaders have denounced the University and its president, Fr. John Jenkins. 
Terry said he first heard the news after a trip to Rome last month. 
"When I was in Rome [ ... ] I kept walking around, praying, and saying to people that were 
see TERRY/page 4 




SMC increases admissions, creates Web site 
Admissions site to help foster community before incoming class arrives 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College has joined the growing number of colleges and uni­versities who have adapted to the age of the Internet by launching a net­working site for accepted students this year. 
The designing and building of the ''I'm Saint Mary's" Web site began in June of 2008, and the site went live Dec. 15 at the same time as the first round of acceptance letters were sent 
see WEB SITE/page 9 


SUIVeygaugesstudent needs 
On-campus alcohol policy, 'Spirit of Inclusion' were top issues 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS News Writer 
In the spring student survey conduct­ed by student government, Notre Dame undergraduate students were given the opportunity to evaluate the current sta­tus of critical campus issues, as well as voice concerns and opinions about what they want student government to pursue in the 2009-2010 academic year. 
"Th() student survey is a great way for student government to ensure we're focusing our efforts in the right direc­tion," former student body president Bob Reish said. "It doesn't completely guide the actions of our office, but it does make sure we are continually aware of the opinions of the student 
see SURVEY/page 9 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 8, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Loyal Son awakens 
Resurrection will soon be a r,elebrated topic, so imagine ifthe statue with out­stretched anus on God Quad could see and think. Unfrozen in time and displaced across the world, His perceptions might seem a lit­tle skewed-or be uniquely undistorted. 
Here's what might pass through 1-lis, 
Robert Singer 
urn, stoned head: 'The scene is strange, and the cli­
Assistant
mate is fierce, as 
cold as nails. I 
News Editor 
assume I am far 
from the West Bank, 
given the many magnificent temples and the 
prosperous inhabitants who hail from The 
North Face.' By my best estimate, I am in a 
thriving Roman capital near the northern 
border. 
'The daily parchment tells tales ofbitter­ness between Caesar and the local popu­lace. 'Jenkins'-as Caesar is popularly known here-is in a perpetual struggle to satisfY the demands ofvarious sects. He appears intent on maintaining stable rela­tions with neighboring empires. Whether Caesar is banning unpopular artistic rituals, ignoring the cries ofa peculiar minority who protest the visit ofan esteemed emperor from a distant hmd or denying legal rights to an ostracized group ofpeople, his objective is to stave off foreign criticism at any cost. 
"Maintaining order within his empire appears to be another ofCaesar's goals. Even though many citizens live in primitive, cramped living quarters, Caesar lavishly outfits his Praetorian Guard who wear emblems of'NDSP' with self-propelled char­iots, allowing these elite soldiers to make up in mechanized mobility what they lack in personal fitness. 
"I believe a society is judged on how it treats the least ofits people. This city, how­ever, seems to have a confusing policy toward its most unfortunate inhabitants. Lepers appear to be quarantined in two sep­arate prisons, one known as 'Bond Hall' and the other as 'Fitzpatrick.' Although they must serve a painful duration ofservitude by drafting scrolls and making mind-numbing measurements, they are eventually cured of their aflliction and go on to hold respected positions in society. 
"In the temple-crowned with a summit ofgold and peaked with a hallowed statue -anumber ofscribes busy themselves with money changing activities. The site bears vague resembhmce to Herod's Temple in Jerusalem; high priests who dwell in a chamber called the 'Office ofFinancial Aid' appear to extort profits from those who seek to enter the synagogues for moralinstruc­tion. 
"Curiously, in chambers designated for the rabbis to share their wisdom, a miniature replica ofa torture device adorns the walls. I must attribute this custom to the populace's fascination with violence. Indeed, it is the only possible explanation for the over­whelming popularity ofthe two intersecting phmks ofwood designed to accommodate an impaled human body. 
"Most important to the inhabitants is a spectacle ofviolence put on weekly for one season ofthe year in the public forum. It must be the gladiatorial games I have heard about from Rome. The most imposing inhabitants put on shiny pieces ofarmor and crash into one another at high speeds." 
Unfortunately, statues are silent spectators · in reality. But what better way is there to commemorate a resurrection than to cele­brate some ofthe qualities-thought and observation-that made Him fully human? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT UPCOMING MOVIE ARE YOU MOST EXCITED TO SEE? 







Robin Sturgeon  Stephanie House  Waylon Chen  Jenelle Huddleston  Karla Garcia-Huerta  
freshman Lewis  freshman Welsh Family  freshman Stanford  sophomore Lewis  sophomore PE.  
"'Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince!'"  "'Knowing.' I think it's already out but I haven't seen it."  '"Fast and Furious.'"  '"Where The Wild Things Are' ... That's where you'll find me."  "'Harry Potter!"'  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

Woman calls 911 over lack of shrimp In fried rice 
HALTOM CITY, Texas ­A woman called 911 to report she didn't get as much shrimp as she want­ed in her fried rice at a Fort Worth-area restau­rant. Police on Tuesday released the taped emer­gency call, in which the customer is heard telling the dispatcher, "to get a police officer up here, what has to happen?" The customer also said: "He didn't even put extra shrimp in there." 
The upset customer was gone when an officer arrived Monday afternoon. 
TODAY 
a:: 
Restaurant workers said the woman had been denied a refund after leav­ing with her order, then returning to complain. 
Cook June Lee said there was nothing wrong with the meal, and that "some customers are happy. Some are not." 
Man hoping to be deported streaks down street 
PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. ­Authorities said a man claiming to be an illegal immigrant ran naked down a Port St. Lucie street so that he would be sent back to Mexico. Police responded to a home 
Saturday night where they 
found  a  28-year-old  man  
arguing  with  his  
boyfriend.  

Officers told the man, who appeared to be intoxi­cated, that he should go home for the evening, but he told them he wanted to go to jail because he was an illegal immigrant and wanted to go back to Mexico. He then said he planned to punch an offi­cer to get arrested but decided not to after police told him it wouldn't be in his best interest to do that. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 


IN BRIEF 
Campus Ministry, International Student Services and Walsh Hall will host Holy Week Christian Taize Prayer today from 10 to 10:30 p.m. in the Walsh Hall Chapel. The multilingual prayer service will be both communal and con­templative, with song, reading of scripture, intercession and silence. The prayer service is open to the public. 
CEO of DHR International, David Hoffman, will be coming to campus to give a lecture at 7 p.m. in Room 102 of DeBartolo Hall today. DHR International is an executive search firm that specializes in searching for top executives for corporations. 
A lecture entitled "Sex, Death, and a Question of Humor in Moche Art of Ancient Peru" will be held in the Annenberg Auditorium in the Suite Museum of Art from 4 to 5:30 p.m. Thursday. It is open to the public. 
Silent Hours of Prayer will be held from noon to 3 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Friday. The public is welcome. 
There will be Stations of the Cross in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 7:15 p.m. Friday. It is open to the public. 
Easter Sunday Mass will be at noon on Sunday in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. The Notre Dame Folk Choir will provide the music. The public is welcome. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 
e
I I I 

HIGH 53 HIGH 60 LOW 38 LOW 45 
IJ.I 
:c 
~ 
IJ.I 

3: 
..... 
< 
(.) 




0,,,,,,, 
IIIII II 

0 
...1 HIGH 50 HIGH 40 HIGH 57 HIGH 48 LOW 33 LOW 33 LOW 38 LOW 32 
Atlanta 61 I 30 Boston 56 I 37 Chicago 54 I 31 Denver 58 I 35 Houston 76 I 51 Los Angeles 64 I 53 Minneapolis 52 I 31 New York 51 I 37 Philadelphia 54 I 34 Phoenix 75 I 61 Seattle 53 I 43 St. Louis 64 I 38 Tampa 71 I 45 Washington 56 I 35 
Wednesday, April 8, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Men1bers oppose holding forun1 to discuss Oban1a controversy 
By JOHN TIERNEY 
Assistant News Editor 
Newly instated student body president Grant Sehmidt addressed the ongoing eontro­versy over the selection of President Obama as Commencement speaker at his first Council of Representatives (COR) meeting as president Tuesday. 
Schmidt reiterated the state­
ment released by former student body president Bob Reish, who asked that the focus "be redirect­ed back to the class of 2009." 
Reish's state­ment was largely descriptive in nature. 
"Our statement is that there's a general excite­ment on campus," requests from students as a rea­son for interest in a forum. 
COR members were largely opposed to holding a forum on the issue of Obama's Commencement address. 
Among those in opposition was class of 2009 president Joey Brown. 
"If you're honest to [Reish and Schmidt's statement], I don't think you would host a forum," Brown said. 
Director of external affairs Gus 
"J don't see civil dialogue where we're getting something fruitful and productive out of this." 
Gus Gari Director of external affairs 
Schmidt said. "There are also many students that disagree on the decision based on some of the policies of President Obama and how they disagree with the Catholic Church." 
Schmidt asked COR members for their opinions on a proposed student government-sponsored forum addressing the Obama selection. He cited numerous Gari expressed concern that a forum would remove the focus from the graduates. 
"I would hate for it to take away from gradua­tion," Gari said. 
He suggested possibly hold­ing a forum that is 
"divorced from the issue of President Obama coming," he said. "If we do have a forum, we need to be very eareful about the time." 
Gari suggested holding the forum in the fall, at whieh point it would address more general issues of Notre Dame's Catholie identity. 
Student body viee president Cynthia Weber disputed the idea of holding a forum in the fall beeause it would not capitalize on the current surge of student interest in the University's Catholic identity. 
"There won't be as wide a rep­resentation" in the fall, Weber said. 
Weber suggested that holding a forum now would help the firestorm surrounding Commeneement die down. 
"I would argue that giving a formal outlet [to the discussion] would actually calm things down in the long run," Weber said. 
Gari said he could not see a forum calming anything down, at least not ifit were held before Commencement. 
"I don't see civil dialogue where we're getting something fruitful and productive out of this," Gari said. 
Brown said he and the class of 2009 eouncil have largely stayed out of the controversy. 
"We're really wary about releasing statements," Brown said. 
However, Brown said that he and the other three class of 2009 offieers sent a letter to University President Fr. John Jenkins endorsing the deeision. The let­ter of endorsement expresses "a personal belief," Brown said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 


Farmer's market 
comes to campus 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Seven vendors from the South Bend Farmer's Market came to campus for the first time Tuesday afternoon to sell a variety of goods, which included produce, baked goods and handmade jewelry. 
"We want students to under­stand the Farmer's Market exists, and then we want students to sup­port local businesses and be aware of sustainable food," student gov­ernment social concerns commit­tee chair Rachel Roseberry said. 
Roseberry organized the event along with outgoing senators and social concerns committee mem­bers Julie Zorb and Kaitlyn Maloney. 
The South Bend Farmer's Market is open year round in downtown South Bend, and offers goods from more than 50 vendors, Maloney said. 
"It's really well known in the community," Roseberry said. 
Zorb said last fall they had the idea to bring the market to cam­pus, and it finally became a reality this spring. 
"The three of us went to the market practically every Saturday this semester, just talking to ven­dors," Maloney said. 
In choosing which vendors to invite to campus, Zorb said they sought out a wide variety in order to show students that the Farmer's Market offers much more than just vegetables. 
Among the vendors present was Sweet Street, which offered stu­dents free samples of cheese and caramel popcorn as well as home­made peanut and almond butter. 
Sparrow Farm sold handcrafted cards and bookmarks. Another booth, One of a Kind Jewelry, sold handmade bracelets, necklaces, earrings and rings. 
Roseberry said the vendors were happy to educate students about the South Bend Farmer's Market. 
"I think they're definitely excited to see a younger crowd too," Maloney said. 
Roseberry said she was excited with the number of students who visited the market in Lafortune Student Center Tuesday afternoon. 
"We've had a steady stream of people come through," she said. "We've had a great response so 
., ..
tar. 
The social coneerns committee also hopes to hold future events with the South Bend Farmer's Market. 
Roseberry said she plans to organize a larger market on earn­pus next fall, when there will be more local produce available. 
"Eventually we're hoping to have shuttles going from campus to the Farmer's Market," Zorb said. 
The three organizers said they hope that these efforts will encour­age more students to visit the mar­ket in downtown South Bend. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 8, 2009 
Terry 
continued from page 1 
with me, 'The pro-life movement has been overrun, and we have no fall back line,"' Terry said. 
Using a military analogy to describe his mission to end abor­tion, he explained that the move­ment needed a place where troops could regroup, where he could bring new troops into bat­tle and "defend and launch offensives into the enemy camp." 
"And when we came back, and I followed the news of President Obama's invitation, a light went off in my head, that, that's the line," Terry said. It was the "golden opportunity," as he called it, for the pro-life move­ment. 
So Terry packed his bags and moved himself and his family ­his wife and four children -to South Bend just a week after the announcement was made. And he's staying, he said, until the Commencement ceremonies on May 17. 
"We've already got over 20 local volunteers, within the next 10 days we will have six full time staff on the ground. Many local alumni are bending over back­ward to help us because of their outrage at this," Terry said. 
He and his supporters have wasted little time in organizing their response. Saturday, Terry held a press conference at the University's southern gates, and Tuesday he and some 20 volun­teers protested at the Chicago offices of two University Board of Trustees members. 
The protesters visited the offices of Chair of the Board of Trustees Richard Notebaert and University Trustee Arthur Velasquez. 

"We held up large signs [ ... ] and we had a gentleman with an Obama mask. We put red paint on the cheeks of the Obama mask and all over his hands and then streaked the sign he was holding with finger blood, like a crime scene, and the sign he was holding said, 'Thank you for con­firming me,"' Terry told The Observer Tuesday on his way back from Chicago. 
Terry said that he arranged to have a personal meeting with Velasquez. 
"We asked him to use whatev­er influence he could, to cancel Obama's invitation and to have Rev. Jenkins dismissed as the president," Terry said. He also said he asked Velasquez to pray to Mary. 
"He would take a very strong message back to the Board," Terry said. A representative from Velasquez's office could not con­firm the meeting late Tuesday. 
Terry said, and a representa­tive from the Chicago office of Notebaert confirmed, that Notebaert was not in that office Tuesday. 
Now, Terry is shifting his focus to protests on Thursday and Friday. Thursday, his supporters will gather at the corner of Angela and Notre Dame Aves. at the University's gates to protest. Terry said he has coordinated protests around the country ­including ones in Texas, California and Washington D.C. -on Friday. 
Terry said this is only the beginning of protests from now until Commencement exercises in a few weeks. 
"There's a whole plethora of things, some of which I'm not at 
VIOLENCE PREVENTION INITIATIVE 



LUNCH HOUR 
VPI Lunch Hour seeks to connect Notre Dame students with local organizations that work to end violence and promote the healing of survivors. Come learn more about the missions of these organizations from their leaders and how you can help! 
Free Lunch 12:30pm-1:30pm 
April14  Ellen Kyes, Associate Director Prevention Programs and Take Ten Project Coordinator Robinson Community learning Center  
April16  linda Baechle, Executive Director YWCA of Saint Joseph County  
April 22  Annie Envall, Assistant Director SOS of Madison Center The Rape Crisis Center of Saint Joseph County  

liberty to discuss yet," he said. 

One thing is certain, however. Terry will not shy away from employing whatever tactics he deems necessary to get his objec­tives -a cancellation of the Obama visit and the removal of Jenkins-accomplished. 
"We will make this a circus," he said. 
From salesman to activist 

Terry said he hasn't always been involved in civil disobedi­ence, nor has he always had such a strong faith. 
"My upbringing was nominal Christian, practicing pagan," he said. But in 1976 he had "a very strong conversion experience" 
and  became  an  evangelical  
Christian.  
He  attended  Elim  Bible  

Institute in Lima, N.Y., graduat­ing with his diploma in 1981 "with academic honors as the president of the student body," he said. 
In the years following, he was a practicing Christian and worked selling real estate and cars, he said. 
Then, in 1983, he had an expe­rience that led him to a full time job as a pro-life activist. 
"I had a vision in a prayer meeting. I saw a scroll, it was a very unusual experience," he said. "We were praying, about ending abortion, and I saw a scroll rolling down with instruc­tions on what I was to do, to fight against child killing. 
"It had to do with protests, and sit-ins, it was a very new for me, I had no background in that type of activity, and I didn't share the vision with anybody, I just didn't say anything, I was so shocked," 
see TERRY/page 8 


Marketing lecture pairs 
withenviromnental bus 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 

Emanuel Rosen, the author of "The Anatomy of Buzz Revisited," will give a lecture tonight about word of mouth marketing. Rosen is touring with the National Outdoor Leadership School (NOLS), who will be on campus giving tours of an envi­ronmentally friendly bus, Lauren Guzman, co-president of Marketing club, said. 
The lecture, which is hosted by the Marketing Club, will take place in Room 122 in the Mendoza College of Business at 6 p.m. 
Gw..man said Hosen's message is "pertinent, especially today" becausn of the economy. 

"Marketing and advertising is one of the first things that's cut with a business," Guzman said. "It's putting a lot of people out of jobs." 
Rosen will speak about "practi­cal ways to implement your own word of mouth marketing strate­gies," Guzman said. "To make you more marketable, more valu­able ... because it doesn't cost the company anything." 
"The Anatomy of Buzz Revised" examines case studies of companies and organizations that do a good job of word of mouth marketing. Rosen discuss­es NOL'i in the book, Christi van Eyken, NOLS Public Relations and Marketing intern, said. 
"Emanuel wrote this book talk­ing about the different thing that NOLS does to get the word out. We're an organization that does­n't advertise at all," van Eyken said. 
Van Eyken said in his lectures, Rosen talks about how NOLS uses the bus to help generate word of mouth marketing. 
Rosen teamed up with NOLS because he thought it would be a good idea to travel with an organization that he talks about in his book, van Eyken said. 
The bus, which will be located between DeBartolo and Mendoza from 12 to 6 p.m. today, runs on recycled vegetable oil, Guzman said. 
"All of the electronics on board that aren't directly connected to driving safety," such as the lights in the cabin of the bus, the radio and the refrigerator on board, are powered by solar panels on the roof of the bus, van Eyken said. 
There is also a climbing wall attached to the side of the bus, which students are "welcome to come play around on," van Eyken said. 
She said NOLS offers college credit, which Notre Dame has accepted in the past. 
"We're looking for curious peo­ple, for people who are interest­ing in developing leadership in a different way than you have the opportunity to do so on a college campus," van Eyken said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

Gender Relations Center 311 LaFortune RSVP by April 9 at grc@nd.edu or 1-9340 




ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 8 , 2009 CoMPILED FROMTHE OnsERVER:S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Somalian pirates back in action 
NAIROBI. Kenya -For the first three months of 2009, Somalia's notorious pirates faded from the headlines as a massive inter­national naval force moved in, and many observers thought the pirates were running scared. 
Using a new strategy, they are operating further away from warships patrolling the Gulf of Aden. 
That has allowed the sea bandits to come back in force -seizing five vessels over a 72-hour period. 
Castro meets with U.S. lawmakers 
HAVANA-Signaling its willingness to dis­cuss improvPd relations with the Obama administration. Cuba on Tuesday granted three visiting members of the Congressional Black Caucus the first meeting with Fidel Castro by American officials since he fell ill in 2006. 
The surprise meeting came a day after the full delegation of six representatives spent more than four hours talking privately with Cuban President Haul Castro, his first encounter with U.S. officials since formally replacing his brother as head of state nearly 14 months ago. 
President Barack Obama has ordered an assessment of U.S. policy toward the commu­nist nation and some members of Congress are pushing to lift a ban on Americans visit­ing the island. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
911 operator fails to inform police 
PITTSBUHGII -Three police officers killed while answering a call about a woman lighting with her son didn't know the man had weapons, but a 911 operator did. She just didn't tflll anyone. 
The operator, who was hired in November, should have asked for more information and didn't relay even the basic information she had to police dispatchers, the official in charge of county dispatchers said Tuesday. She is now on paid administrative leave and is receiving counseling because supervisors are concerned about her well-being. 
The three officers killed Saturday morning will lie in state at the City-County Building on Wednesday, and all three will be honored at a memorial service Thursday. 
Flight student steals plane 
ST. LOUIS -Federal prosecutors have charged a Canadian flight student with pilot­ing a stolen plane into the U.S. in what they say was a suicide attempt. 
Thirty-one-year-old Adam Dylan Leon was charged Tuesday with transportation of stolen property and illegal entry. 
According to the federal complaint, Leon said he flew the plane into the U.S. expecting to be shot down by military aircraft. The complaint says Leon told authorities he recently was being treated by a psychiatrist. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Bill passes for abortion doctors 
INDIANAPOLIS -A House committee approved a bill Tuesday to require any doc­tor who performs an abortion in Indiana to have admitting privileges at a hospital either in the county where the abortion is to be per­formed or in a neighboring county. 
The House Public Policy Committee passed the bill 8-4 and sent it to the full, Democrat­led House. The bill already has cleared the Republican-ruled Senate. 
Supporters say the proposal would provide better care to patients who might experience problems after abortions. 
IRAQ 
Obama pays Iraq unexpected visit 
President addresses troops and Iraqi officials about end of U.S. combat role in conflict 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD Flying unannounced into a still­dangerous war zone, President Barack Obama told U.S. troops and Iraqi officials alike Tuesday it is time to phase out America's combat role in a conflict he opposed as a candidate and has vowed to end as commander in chie(. 
Iraqis "need to take responsibility for their own country," Obama told hun­dreds of cheering soldiers gathered in an ornate, marble palace near Saddam Hussein's former seat of power. 
"You have given Iraq the opportunity to stand on its own as a democratic coun­try. That is an extraordi­nary achievement," he told the troops, saluting their efforts during six years of American fighting and loss­es. 
Just hours before he arrived, a deadly car bomb exploded in Baghdad, underscoring the continu­ing peril despite a recent decline in violence. But the mood was festive as Obama spoke to some 600 troops, quickly gathered for his visit. Maliki, Obama said he had itinerary that also included U.S. troops from Iraq on a 
Obama met with top U.S. "strongly encouraged" Britain, France, Germany 19-month timetable, commanders as well as Iraqis to take political steps and the Czech Republic. although a force as large senior Iraqi leaders on a that would unite political Aides said Obama chose as 50,000 could remain at visit of a little more than factions, including integrat­to visit Iraq rather than the end of that period to four hours that was con­ing minority Sunnis into Afghanistan, where U.S. provide counterterrorism fined to Camp Victory, the the government and securi­troops are also in combat, duties. largest U.S. military base ty forces. in part because it was close He said that for the next in a war that began in Al-Maliki told reporters, to Turkey and in part year and a half, the 2003 and has cost the lives "We assured the president because of upcoming Iraqi United States will be a of 4,265 members of the that all the progress that elections. "stalwart partner" to the 
U.S. military. Many thou­has been made in the secu­In his remarks to the Iraqis. And yet, he said. sands more Iraqis have rity area will continue." troops, Obama made no "they have got to make perished. American commanders mention of the Afghanistan political accommodations. 
A helicopter flight to the told the president the conflict -where he has They're going to have to heavily fortified Green country is experiencing a decided to commit 21 ,000 decide that they want to Zone a few miles distant relatively low level of vio­additional troops -and it resolve their differences was scrapped, but White lence, although the car was not known whether it through constitutional House aides attributed the bomb explosion in a Shiite came up in his meeting means and legal means. change in travel plans to neighborhood of Baghdad with Gen. Hay Odierno, the They are going to have to poor weather rather than was evidence of a recent top U.S. commander, and focus on providing govern­security concerns. resurgence. Obama flew other officers. ment services that encour­
After a session with from Turkey, the next-to­Obama announced plans age confidence among Prime Minister Nouri al-last stop on an eight-day in February to withdraw their citizens. 

Vermont legislature legalizes gay marriage 
and Iowa -each moved to do so McLain, an expert on family law and 
Associated Press 
through the courts, not legislatures. policy. 
"For a popularly-elected legislature She added that using the civil rights 
MONTPELIER, Vt. -Vermont, the to make this decision is a much more language of equality -the measure state that invented civil unions, on democratic process" because law­in Vermont was dubbed the mar­Tuesday became a pioneer once makers have to answer to the voters riage equality bill -could help make again as the first state to legalize gay every other November, said Eric gay marriage more acceptable else­marriage through a legislature's vote. Davis, a retired Middlebury College where. 
The House barely achieved the political science professor. Opponents said they, too, believe votes necessary to ()Verride Gov. Jim While legislatures debate some of activists will be emboldened in other Douglas' veto of a bill that will allow the same principles, the process may states. The action comes just days gays and lesbians to marry beginning become much more personal. In after the Iowa Supreme court ruled Sept. 1. Four states now have same­Vermont, some of the most gripping that not permitting gay marriage sex marriage laws and other states debate came when gay and lesbian there was unconstitutional. soon could follow suit. lawmakers took to the House floor The Defense of Marriage Act, 
Bills to allow same-sex marriage last Thursday and told their own per­signed into law by President Bill are currently before lawmakers in sonal love stories. Clinton in 1996, defines marriage as New Hampshire, Maine, New York Getting gay marriage approved in a a legal union between a man and a and New Jersey. The three other political, rather than purely legal, woman, and provides that states states that currently allow same-sex forum is a big step, said Boston need not recognize the marriage of a marriage-Connecticut, Massachusetts University law professor Linda same sex couple from another state. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 8, 2009 
Adntission 
continued from page 1 
to economic factors. Let's face it, home values are down, peo­ple are losing their jobs or con­cerned about lost wages, and savings are nearly 40 percent less than this time last year," Meyer said. 
There are three areas where the economy has affected the admissions process this year, he said. 
Application numbers are close to last year's totals, how­ever there has been a greater number of students applying for financial aid. the applicants applying for aid have a greater amount of need than before and students are taking longer to make their fmal decision. 
"We have had more students apply, visit campus, participate in Meet Me at the Avenue and even apply for financial aid but, many families this year are fully evaluating all of their financial options before making a final decision," Meyer said. 
The economy has made fami­lies be much more conscious of the college their daughters will be attending. 
"This has caused us to spend more time on the phone work­ing with families concerning financial issues," Meyer said. 
Meyer said although numbers are not final, they still are hop­ing to make their budget target of 460 first year students in the 2009-10 school year. 
What admissions is looking for in students has not changed. Meyer did say the selection process focuses on academics, but also takes many other factors into account. 
"Clearly we have an academ­ic focus in mind but we also seek to find that applicant who will use her God-given talents to make positive contributions that will enrich Saint Mary's community of scholars," Meyer said. 
These desired applicants include students who are inter­ested in extracurricular activi­ties such as athletics, campus ministry, fine arts and commu­nity service, he said. 
"We want well-rounded stu­dents who also happen to be great students academically," Meyer said. 
In spite of economic factors, on the surface, the incoming class will not be different from past classes in terms of their GPAs and SAT or ACT scores, he said. 
The largest distinction between the class of 2013 and classes that have preceded can be seen in the College's adjust­ments to the financial aid policy in order "to reflect the higher need levels we have encoun­tered with this group of stu­dents," Meyer said. 
The applicant group this year has shown increased numbers in diversity as opposed to previ­ous years. 
Of the current total of 1,337 applicants, 15.6 percent are from diverse backgrounds, comapared to 13.5 percent from last year and 12.5 percent from two years ago, Meyer said. 
Although figures aren't final there is a good chance the Saint Mary's class of 2013 will show an increase in diverse students from the class of 2012. 
"So, with continued success over the next five weeks, the class of 2013 will be one of the most diverse in College histo­ry," Meyer said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Halls 
continued from page 1 
"I understand that Residence Life believes it is only fair for all graduating classes to live in the same dorm, but I in no way agree with them," Malone said. "At many other colleges, there are specific dorms for freshmen where they can be surrounded by many people who are in similar situations as they are." 
Dieujuste said she believes students only find problems with quotas when they are directly affected by them. She said students don't realize they are able to live in LeMans and Holy Cross, the "favored" halls, as underclassmen because the quotas leave space in the residences for them to live there. 
"We sometimes hear from upperclasswomen who have lived in LeMans or Holy Cross during the first or second year should there not be any avail­able spaces in those halls for the incoming first years because they would like to stay in those buildings," she said. "They forget to take into account that they arc in those buildings because of the quota system." 
Some rising juniors are frus­trated with the quotas because of the new requirement that students must live on campus for six semesters before being allowed to move off campus without a special circumstance reviewed by Residence Life. They believe that the quotas should be changed to accom­modate tho larger numbers of juniors who will be remaining on campus in the next school year. 
"Since [living off campusl was taken away from us, we should be compensated in other ways. One of those ways might be to eradicate quotas for juniors by giving them an unlimited amount of spaces in any dorm," Malone said. 
Many juniors have request­ed to live off campus. However, the College believes there arc many benefits to remaining on campus. 
"The residency require­ment was instituted by the President's Cabinet a couple of years ago because we believe that living on campus gives students the opportunity to be fully engaged in academ­ic and student life," Dieujuste said. "Hcsearch has shown that students who live on cam­pus arc much more likely to form strong ties with their col­lege and each other." 
Emily Gregerson, a rising junior, said she would have seriously considered off-cam­pus housing because of the convenience it would offer her. 
"As a nursing major, I will be spending much of my time next year at the hospitals and would have seriously consid­ered living ofT campus had it been an option," Gregerson said. 
Residence Life respects the opinions of the students and are looking into the issue of quotas, Dieujuste said. She said she recognizes how stressful the room selection process can be for underclass­men. 
"While we try to take the needs of individual students into account, we have the hard task of balancing the needs of over 1200 residents. We have gotten some wonderful feed­back about room selection and we'll continue to work to improve the process for our students," Dieujuste said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Attention Seniors! 
Notre Dame's Office ofUndergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the Admissions Counselor is expected to make an itnportant contribution to the recruittnent and selection of the first-year class by managing relations with prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic territory. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and cotnmunication \Vithin the geographic territory, assessn1ent and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions. Additional responsibilities will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment and the Director of Admissions Operations. 
Atnong our candidates, we may seck individuals 'vho will assist with our diversity recruitment efforts. 
Minimum Requirements: Candidates should possess a Bachelor's degree and strong familiarity with all aspects ofacademic and student life at Notre !)arne. Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiastn, diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours, including tnany evenings and Saturday tnornings. 
Plea.re 1\lote: Interl'ieu;.r JJJill be scbed11led C!fier April!0. 
Pn.ferred start date is Jufy I, 2009. 
Application Process: To apply, please visit http://ND.jobs and apply to job #09123. 
'rl1c University of Notre Dame is COlmnittcd to dh~ersity in its sran: faculty, and student body. "'\s such, we strongly encourage applications from tncrnbcrs of rninority groups. \Vnmcn, \·eterans, individuals with disabilities, and others who \Vill enhance our cotnmunity. 
\ \/1"""'(.")"1·"·•
"" ... . .\ .... ::\. 
Wednesday, April 8, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 
Jones 7,789.56 -186.29 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,142 109 2,569 1,992,268,171 


~~~AQ ;;~~8I~';:ii@j·iJ1ftal;i
hfz. 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P 500 815.55 -19.93 NIKKEI {Tokyo) .,..a~asz*ga ili,liliiii FTSE 100 (London) 3,930.52 -63.02 

CITIGROUP INC (C)  +1.47  +0.04  2.76  
BK OF AMERICA (SAC)  ·L60  -0.12  7.36  
S&.P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  ·2.33  ·1.95  81.65  
FINANCIAL BULL 3X {FAS)  ·8.94  ·0.60  6.11  
Treasuries  
lO·YEAR NOTE  ·L02  -0.03  2.909  
13-WEEK SILL  +2.70  +0.005  0.190  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.77  -0.029  3.729  
5-YEAR NOTE  -2.00  ·0.038  LS61  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.90  49.15  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +10.50  883.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  ·0.13  89.68  
Exchange Rates  

YEN 100.5300 EURO 1.3251 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2380 BRITISH POUND 1.4722 
IN BRIEF 
Goldman Ceo: Pay needs overhaul 
WASHINGTON -Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankl'ein says Wall Street compensation needs to be overhauled and hedge funds sub­jected to government oversight to reduce the kind of excessive risk taking that stoked the global financial crisis. 
Lloyd Blankfein, who received compensation valued at nearly $43 million last year, said Tuesday that lessons from the crisis include the need to "apply basic standards to how we compensate people in our industry." 
The chief executive of the Wall Street pow­erhouse suggested a handful of guidelines, including having an individual's performance evaluated over time to avoid excessive risk taking and only paying junior employees most­ly in cash. The percentage of pay awarded as company stock should increase significantly along with an employee's total compensation, he added. 
Public anger over the financial distress and taxpayer bailout of the banking industry spilled over to Blankfein's appearance as pro­testers confronted him at a gathering of the Council of Institutional Investors. The organi­zation represents public, corporate and union pension funds. 
Ellis Park shortens 2009 meet 
LEXINGTON, Ky. -Ellis Park owner Ron Geary is hoping a little racing is better than none. 
The Kentucky Horse Racing Commission approved Geary's plan to slash in half the number of 2009 racing dates at the western Kentucky track, a move Geary said was neces­sary to keep the venerable track alive for at least one more summer. 
Geary hopes by dropping the number of rac­ing dates from 48 to 23, he'll help Ellis Park remain financially competitive with tracks in neighboring states that use revenue from alternative gaming like slot machines to pump up purse prices. 
The track would race four days a week from July 11 to July 26, then two days a week from .July 27 to Sept. 6. 

THE OBSERVER 



USINESS 
page 7 
Storage unit auctions on the rise 
Bidders snap up possessions left behind when owners stop rent payments 
Associated Press 
CHIGAGO -The auc­tioneer slides the steel door up, and a small crowd at the storage facility steps forward for a peek. 
They are here to bid on possessions left behind when the people who rent­ed the storage unit on Chicago's West Side stopped paying for it. 
The bidders are barred from entering the garage or touching its contents, so they stand on their toes to see as much as possible. Some shine flashlights inside, hoping to catch sight of a plasma TV or maybe a leather recliner. 
The scene is evidence of an unusual opportunity: Business is booming in the sale of belongings that owners can no longer afford to keep at the nation's storage units. For buyers, it's a grab bag that can yield either junk or the luxuries of a life left behind. 
The troubled economy is reflected in the items being sold -trendy clothes, high-end appliances and other indicators that the owners were, until recent­ly, well off. 
"What we are selling now is indicative of higher­income people than what Michigan-based business bidders that show up that for a unit in which bidders we were selling in the has seen its number of heard from a cousin, saw could see a washing past," said Hich Schur of auctions rise about 10 per­on the Internet that you're machine, dryer and lawn Schur Success Auction cent in the last year. These going to make a million mower. Services in Colorado days, he's selling off the dollars at auctions," Schur Once in a while, someone Springs, Colo. "Clearly belongings of customers said. gets especially lucky. these are people who fell who have rented storage In truth, the dusty boxes "There was one where on hard times." space for years and until often turn up little of value: they bought the unit and 
There's no specific tally recently paid their bills. old clothes, worn-out fur­moved the boxes and found of storage unit auctions, Neither auctioneers nor niture, worthless docu­a Harley," Schur said. but auctioneers say they bidders are allowed to ments. Auctioneers contin­"For $400 or $500, they are busier than ever. inspect the items until ually warn buyers to bid got a unit with a $10,000 Schur's company has seen after the sale, meaning only on what they can see. motorcycle in it." the number of units it auc­they are often bidding Brook Snyder, the auc­Most bidders avoid look­tions jump from 950 in blindly. tioneer at the West Side ing at their purchases 2007 to 1,250 in 2008. In The reason is simple: storage unit, said his auc­until they are alone. January alone, the compa­Hight up until the auction­tions are typically over in a Instead, they slap their ny auctioned 250 units. eer says "Sold," the items matter of moments, with own lock on the unit and 
"We are hearing from are legally the property of crowds ranging from 20 or return later, sometimes auctioneers across the those renting the space. 30 people to as many as covering items so nobody country that they are see­And with tougher times, 80. sees what they are carting ing an increase," said Chris it's easier to sell the notion On one day, a bidder paid off. Longley, spokesman for the that these units could con­$10 for a unit containing a Many buyers are con­National Auctioneers tain what amounts to small, old television, a cerned about being seen Association. buried treasure. lamp and a few boxes. with something the previ­
Wayne Blair said his "There's a flock of new Another buyer paid $225 ous owner still might want. 


Defense budget plan meets resistance 
Associated Press al foes. Analysts say his challenge is saying the Pentagon's move to add 
to build support in Congress on those four more of the radar-evading 
WASHINGTON-Defense Secretary larger issues instead of the parochial supersonic planes before killing the Robert Gates' proposed budget, interests of individual lawmakers. F-22 program gives Congress extra which axes some multibillion-dollar Defense consultant Jim McAleese time to find more cash for it. weapons projects, is encountering said Gates will face stiff resistance on Recommendations Gates made strong resistance from lawmakers his plan to end production of Monday to cut weapons projects like whose districts stand to lose thou­Lockheed Martin Corp.'s F-22 fighter Lockheed's F-22 jet and Boeing Co.'s sands of jobs during a recession. jets over lawmakers' fears that union military transport C-17 plane may 
Members of Congress and military jobs with salaries between $60,000 mean a substantial loss of U.S. jobs analysts said Tuesday that the poten­and $80,000 will be lost. at a time when the unemployment tial loss of jobs is by far the biggest "That will be the job fight," said rate stands at 8.5 percent, highest in hurdle the administration's plan McAleese, who anticipates that a quarter-century. must overcome as it looks to build Congress will add 16 more of the Hecognizing the sensitivity of more support on Capitol Hill, and they planes to the approved total of 187 layoffs during an economic down­expect some concessions. into the war budget expected turn, Gates said he hoped lawmakers 
Part of Gates' proposed $534 bil­Thursday. Otherwise, the majority of would resist temptations to save out­lion defense budget represents a shift Gates' recommendations should dated systems simply to keep jobs in away from outdated weapon systems pass, he added. their home districts. But some mem­conceived in the Cold War to futuris­Aerospace analyst Richard bers of Congress said they will work tic programs aimed at unconvention-Aboulatia of the Teal Group agreed, to overturn Gates' proposals . 
Wednesday, April 8, 2009
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Terry 
continued from page 4 
Terry said. 
But after several months of prayer and study of scriptures, Terry said his mission to fight abortion became clear. He found­ed Operation Rescue, a pro-life organization, in 1984. 
"And so I started standing in front of abortion mills by myself, I began to recruit people, I began to organize big events, and it grew and grew and grew," Terry said. 
He soon became notorious for his large-scale events and extreme tactics. According to some reports, his protests in front of abortion clinics included him and hundreds of supporters screaming at pregnant women, tossing their bodies against car doors to prevent them from get­ting out, waving crucifixes and screaming "Mommy, Mommy" at the women. When Terry sent command, hundreds fell limp and blockaded entrances to the clinics. 
Terry said that Martin Luther King and the civil rights move­ment has had a strong influence on his work. 
"When I started my pro-life work, I realized that the pro-life movement did not have the impact that it needed if it was going to end child killing," he said. So he turned to a successful movement in America's past for inspiration. 
"I watched a TV series called 'Eyes on the Prize,' about Martin Luther King and the civil rights movement. I read the letter from the Birmingham jail, 1... 1 I read Coretta Scott King's biography," he said. "I realized that if we were going to end child killing, we had to take our instructions from playbooks in the past that had been victorious." 
Since 1984, Terry has been involved in numerous lawsuits, Supreme Court cases, the Terri Schiavo case -serving as a spokesman for the Schindler family -and the battle over gay marriage legislation in Vermont in 2000. The state Legislature legalized gay marriage Tuesday with a veto override, nine years after it became the first in the nation to adopt civil unions laws. 
Terry said his experience in 2000 in Vermont provides a good corollary to his plans for the Notre Dame situation. 
"In 2000. there were groups all over the country that were out­raged at what was happening in Vermont," Terry said. 
"They raised money on it, they sent press releases, they sent fundraising letters, but none of them sent staff or people on the ground in Vermont, none," See Also he said. 
and diluted in their response," Terry said. 
Terry said that Sunday's prayer rally "was a very nice first step, but fell short of the level of outrage that should be displayed." 
Leadnrs of Notre Dame Response have said they wish to respect the academic setting of the University. Terry said they aren't being strong enough. 
"The timidity of thn response does not reflect the gravity of the 
crisis," he said. "When 
someone is in the open 
defiance of the laws of 
He wasn't one to For more pictures, go to God, you openly let the battle be www.ndsmcobserver.com reprove them." 

fought from afar. 
"I moved there, just like I moved here," he said. He set up operations and found volunteers, and claims that he helped change the bill "so it was not as bad as it would have been." 
"The reason I did it was because I knew that what hap­pened in Vermont would affect the nation, affect me. And it's the same thing with South Bend. What happens here will affect the entire nation, will affect the world," he said. 
Bringing the 'battle' to ND 
Terry has made clear his plans to use the Notre Dame situation for the benefit of the pro-life movement. 
"[There] will be two great ben­efits, no matter what happens," Terry said. 
"Number one is, there will be very few if any Catholic universi­ties that commit this type of treachery in the near future," he said. "Number two is that we will so politically tar President Obama with the blood of the babies that he has condemned to die, that in 2012 he will not be able to seduce the Catholic and the evangelical vote like he was able to in 2008." 
Terry was critical of the actions of Notre Dame students condemning the administration's decision, naming the Notre Dame Response coalition in par­ticular. 
The Notre Dame Response group has "proven that they are not equal to the task, and 1... I unfortunately, they are deluded 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 

Enjoy the good life when you live off campus 
at a very reasonable price! 
3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Town homes 
2 1/2 Baths 
Free Internet 
Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Off-Street Parking Located Close to Notre Dame 
Only $350 per month, per student 
*Our townhomes rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 



{574)234-2436 
The "treachery" and 
"betrayal" associated with the Notre Dame situation brings together much that Terry says he has fought against in the past. 
"We've been fighting against treacherous elements of the Catholic Church for years, and this crystallizes the treachery, the betrayal, the cowardice in a way that I haven't seen in years," he said. 
That, plus the opportunity to further the pro-life cause, Terry said, has created "a golden opportunity for the pro-life movement to have a focal point of activity. Not whining, not cyberspace, not sending e-mails, but genuine culture war activity." 
Elections and Supreme Court decisions aside, Terry said this situation "has the potential to rival" the impact of many of his past demonstrations and activi­ties. 
Terry described how oppor­tune the Notre Dame and Obama situation is for his cause in this way: 

"You have the most well­known Catholic university in the Western hemisphere inviting the most powerful political propo­nent of child killing in the Western hemisphere. 
"That's all you need." 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

THE CULTURE OF THE ENEMY: 
A Critique of Huntington from Freud and NietzsdJe 


MARC CREPON 
Professor. Ecole uormc1lr sHfu!rieure(P.tris) Rmarthet~ Centre nalional de Ia red1erche scientifique (CNRS) Pro.fmor Crcpou is co~/Josled by t/;e Ph.D. i11 Liten;!urePrognnu 
WEDNESDAY, APRlL 8, 2009 
8:00 P.M. ROOM C100 THE H ESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
Born on March 30, I 962, Marc Crepon is a philosopher who works at the Centre National de Ia Recherche Sdentifique (France). As a specialist of the German and French philosophies from the 18th-century to the present time, Marc Crepon's area of inrerest deals wirh the relationship between language and community, language and philosophical discourse, language and terror. In this context. he also addresses the challenges Europe is facing today. Marc Crepon's recem publications attracted a high level ofanention, especially his reflection on the ''Clash of Civili7ations." His growing influence on the intellectual scene includes the Unired State \vhere he teaches at Nonhwesrern University. 
Wednesday, April 8, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Web site 
continued from page 1 
to early decision applicants. 
The idea for the Web site was suggested in a discussion regarding ways to increase the number of students who enroll for the fall, or yield of the accepted student population, Assistant Director of Admissions Stephanie Brown said. 
"The purpose of 'I'm Saint Mary's' is to give accepted stu­dents the opportunity to build their own Saint Mary's commu­nity and become part of the existing SMC community before they ever arrive on campus. This, in turn, will help these students to determine if Saint Mary's is truly the best 'fit' for them as they make their final college decision," Brown said. 
As of April 7, the Web site's homepage -iam.saintmarys.edu -stated that 394 students par­ticipate as members of the net­working site. So far, these stu­dents have collectively uploaded 1,672 pictures, post­ed 11,765 notes and set 91 goals for themselves. 
"I think the most popular part of the Web site are the dis­cussion boards. Originally our thought was to have our interns create discussions so the students could participate in the site. However, the accepted students have been the ones to create most of the discussion topics," Brown said. 
Discussions include a wide variety of topics, she said. 
"They have started discus­sions on anything from who is definitely coming to Saint Mary's next year, to who is looking for a roommate, what sports they are interested in at the collegiate level and even how to make the adjustment from the California climate to the Northern Indiana climate," Brown said. 
There are current Saint Mary's students who are involved with the Web site, as well as administrators. The students' duties include addressing questions students have about the Saint Mary's community and student life. There are four students who write weekly blogs about cam­pus life to give the students a glimpse about daily life at Saint Mary's. 
"The Web site is a product of Education Dynamics -former­ly known as Goal Quest -that is a company that specializes in enrollment management prod­ucts for institutions of higher education," Brown said. 
Education Dynamics current­ly lays claim to helping over 1,800 higher education institu­tions including the University of South Carolina, New York University and Columbus College of Art and Design. 
While the Web site is meant to allow students to form a flourishing bond with one another, it is limited to accept­ed students for the incoming class of 2013. 
"The 'I'm Saint Mary's' site is exclusively for accepted stu­dents. Once they have arrived on campus in the fall and get settled in to daily college life, they will no longer have access to the site. Each year the site will be limited to the next accepted class," Brown said. 
In order to limit the access to the Web site, the admissions department sends the company a weekly updated list of accept­ed students, along with their first and last names and e-mail addresses which grant students access to the Web site. 
Although the date for current accepted students to transition out of the network is not yet determined, those who work with the site are planning ahead to make the transition smooth. 
"When that [transition] time comes. we will begin preparing the site for the next accepted class of 2014, and we will be encouraging these students to begin their own SMC social net­works on other sites such as Facebook or MySpace in order to keep this established com­munity going strong," Brown said. 
It is too early to determine the effect of the Web site on enrollment for next year, Brown said, but the Department of Admissions should have a definite idea in late May to early June. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmatys.edu 
the fair," Gari said. 
Gari said they received a lot
Fair 
of help from Sarah Rodts and continued from page 1 the student outreach commit­
tee." 
Gari says the Ballroom will As a whole, Gari says he have booths with the land­hopes the fair is helpful and lords and representatives informative for students who from every major housing have been considering mov­complex in the area, presen­ing off campus and that this tations in the alcoves and fair helps them make the 
representatives from Notre transition a little bit easier. Dame Security Police will be ''I'm really proud of the fact 
on  hand  to  that all  the  
answer questions.  any  "All the major  major off­campus 
"We  have  a  landlords from the  housing 
presentation that is given by  area will be present. "  options will be represent­ 
students about  ed.  Not  all  
moving off cam­ Gus Gari  students are  
pus  and  off­ community relations  always  

campus living and we also have a presen­tation given by a professor from the Law School about signing leases and what your legal rights are," Gari said. "We're aware about students' concerns about crime and safety so that's why we have the police on hand to discuss any of those issues that students might have." 
The goal of the fair is to make as much information available to as many students as possible, Gari said. 
"What we envisioned was a way to get as many resources out there to students. There's a lot of information available but we were able to put it all in one central location with aware of their options so getting these land­
lords all in one spot was a critical aspect that we wanted to accomplish," he said. 
The fair is also meant to be a means of helping students who were not really contem­plating moving off campus realize this is a change they can make with relative ease. 
"For those who think that it's not a possibility, we want them to know that they are not alone," Gari said. "Student government is here to help you and we have these great sources of infor­mation all in once place." 
chair 
Contact Molly Madden at 
mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 


Survey 
continued from page 1 
body." 
A total of 3,609 surveys were received, with 93 percent of those students completing the survey in its entirety, about 100 less than the first survey in the fall of 2008. Former stu­dent body president Bob Reish attributes the decrease in sur­veys to one less e-mail sent out to the student body, but he is optimistic about the turnout. 
"Students completed the sur­veys this semester because they saw the results from last semester," Reish said. 
The feedback from the first survey resulted in the DVD club, the Last Lecture series, the addition of printers to every dorm and a reevaluation of the University's sexual assault policy. 
For this semester's survey, student government individual­ly examined the results of the survey by class year, gender and location, either on-or off­campus. The results of the sur­vey enabled student govern­ment to evaluate the concerns of the student body and assess the disparities in the percent­ages for these factors. Reish said. 
Using both survey questions and free-response sections, student government considered several topics, including on­campus alcohol policies, University sexual assauli poli­cies, sustainability, the University's relationship with the community, off-campus housing and taxi prices. In addition, students raised many other critical issues in free response sections, emphasizing the need for greater involve­ment of the University adminis­tration and student govern­ment in addressing these prob­lems, Reish said. 
A major topic of concern was the on-campus alcohol policy, specifically the Good Samaritan clause, which allows students to intervene and help their friends who are intoxicated and in need of care, without facing punishment if they are intoxicated themselves. 
When asked in the survey "how frequently do you encounter a fellow student who is alone and feeling sick or injured due to alcohol," 33 per­cent of students participating in the survey answered two times per semester or more, a significant percentage of the student body, Reish said. 
"The Residence Life Committee has been research­ing other universities like Notre Dame with similar poli­cies to see how they deal with the issue," Student Outreach Committee chair Sarah Rodts said. "Saint Mary's has the Good Samaritan policy, but Notre Dame does not." 
In addition. as student gov­ernment works with the administration on the 
University's current sexual assault policy as outlined in duLac, an important question in the survey was students' familiarity with the policy itself. 
Forty-six percent of students surveyed said they were "somewhat familiar" with the policy while 15.8 percent said they were "not familiar at all." 
Recognizing that less than half of students expressed they were somewhat familiar with the University's policy, Rodts said this is still not where the student body needs to be. 
The greatest difference between males and females in the survey was in the discus­sion of the University's "Spirit of Inclusion" statement. The University states that "we wel­come all people, regardless of color, gender, religion, ethnici­ty, sexual orientation, social or economic class and nationali­ty." 
When asked if they were aware of the statement, only 
22.4 percent of students had heard of it and knew some­thing about it, whereas 40.7 percent had not heard of the statement at all. Of those stu­dents who did not know about it, 38 percent were female and 50 percent were male, the only difference greater than five percent in the survey. 
Additionally, in both the sur­vey question and free response, students commented on the insufficient support services for gay, lesbian, bisex­ual and questioning students at Notre Dame. 
"This is important because there isn't a club," Rodts said. "The club is usually turned down because [the administra­tion] says there are sufficient support services." 
Student government hopes to continue the student survey in order to make certain each student has the opportunity to have his or her voice heard, Reish said. 
With the change in student government leadership, the 
results of the survey will be evaluated and considered by student body president Grant Schmidt and the 2009-2010 student government. The stu­dent feedback will help outline important issues for the com­ing year and enable student government along with the administration to address the changing needs of the student body. 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 


S...orageBe,lween Notre Dame &
Atrport at the comer o 
Mayflower & EdiSon 
Ca/1574.247. 788
Space 
Lighted &Paved Free Lock with Every Unit 

5x1 0...$169 +DEP 10x10... $269 + DEP 
THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, April 8, 2009 
THE OBSERVER Lay down your stones 
P.O. Box 77'), Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining HaU, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MA!IAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTAIIT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574} 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAIIIT MARY's DESK 
acharnO1 @sainrmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574} 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the studenrs ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisemenrs, is not governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerrers to rhe Editor must be signed and must include comacr infOrmation. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to l.':ditor-in-Chiefjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob~~r (USPS 5-9') 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during tJWn and Vllonion periods. A subM:ription to The Oburvet is $120 for one academit: year; $65 for one semester. 
Tht' Observer is publisficd at: l>OSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send addrCiiS. corn:etiDns to: Nou·c f>;nnc, IN 46556-o-779 TheObsc:rver Periodical posragc paid at Notre Dum: P.O. llrn<779 and additional mailing ofru::.c:s. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dam.,, IN 46556-<JTl'J 
The Observer is a member of rhc Associated Pras.. AD n:pmduo:ion rights arc <acn<d. 
In my role as the current president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, many concerned alumni have called and written me about the upcoming visit of President Obama to Notre Dame as Commencement speaker. While I Cecilia H. don't speak for the 
Prinster
Alumni Association or its 
Guest
Board of 
Columnist

Directors, I do have a unique window on this controversy that has given me cause for reflection. Those who object to the visit cite the grave dif­ferences between Mr. Obama and Notre Dame regarding abortion rights because our Catholic faith unequivocal­ly opposes abortion. However, we must also be mindful of Catholic teaching in other areas pertaining to human dignity in which we have a good deal in com­mon with the president. 
In recent centuries, the Popes and the Bishops have put forth a body of writ­ings-papal encyclicals and bishops' pastora letters -that guide Catholics on matters of social and moral conduct in the world. These official writings, collectively referred to as Catholic social teaching, guide us on the mean­ing of human dignity and other eore Catholic values such as solidarity with the poor, economic justice and the role of markets, caring for God's creation, just war and the challenge of p11aec and the dignity of work and workers' rights. Catholic social teaching embraces mod­ern life "from womb to tomb" and chal­lenges us to ask the hard questions that Jesus would have asked if he walked in our shoes today. 
"Gaudium et Spes" is the Pastoral Constitution on the Church in the Modern World from Vatican II. In it, the protection of life is at the forefront, but the fostering of a dignified life is given equal weight. It speaks of "the sublime dignity of human persons, ... whose rights and duties are universal and invi­olable," and who therefore are entitled to "everything necessary for living a life truly human, such as food, clothing, shelter, ... education [andl employ­ment." Conversely, it condemns "what­ever violates the integrity of the human person, such as mutilation, torments inflicted on body or mind, subhuman living conditions, arbitrary imfrison­ment, deportation, disgracefu working conditions, where men are treated as mere tools for profit." {No. 26) Similarly, in "A Catholic Framework for Economic Life," the U.S. Catholic Bishops give us principles to guide our economic policies which must be judged by how they protect the life and dignity of the human person, especially the poor and the vulnerable. It aflirms that people have a right to the basic necessi­ties of life, including health care, a safe environment, just wages and benefits, decent working conditions and the right to join unions or other workers' associ­ations. 
The passages above n~sonate deeply with issues of human dignity in Catholic Social Teaehing that President Obama is addressing courageously, induding: abolishing the "arbitrary imprison­ment" and "torments inflicted on the body or mind" at Guantanamo, priori­tizing education, jobs and housing and boldly reforming our economic: system to ensure that workin~ people arc not "mere tools for profit. He is tackling health care reform, environmental stewardship and economic seeurity, all of which raise the possibility of a more dignified life for even the least among us. 
In this season of Lent, we are remind­ed that we are all sinners; our world is complex and imperfect; and only God can reconcile our deepest contradic­tions and heal our most painful wounds. Although we disagree with Mr. Obama on some core issues, we must not condemn. We must be like the eld­ers who laid down their stones and walked away from the adulterous woman when Jesus challenged them by saying, "He that has not sinned may cast the first stone." None of us is pure in our adherence to our Catholic princi­ples, and each of us falls short in some way of living up to our Notre Dame ideals. 
President Obama was elected in a free and fair election and is Commander-in-Chief of our nation's military that indudes many Notre Dame alumni and students. Notre Dame has a tradition of inviting Presidents to be Commencement speakers. President Obama has been invited and he will come to Notre Dame on May 17. When he does, we would do well to heed anot~~r of the precepts of "Gaudium et Spes: 
"Respect and love ought to be extend­ed also to those who think or act differ­ently than we do in soeial, political and even religious matters. In fact, the more deeply we come to understand their ways of thinking through such courtesy and love, the more easily will we be able to enter into dialogue with them." 
With this approach. this Commencement will be the beginning of a constructive engagement with the president on the issues where we are aligned as well as on those where we disagree. 
Yours in Notre Dame. 
Cecilia H. Prinster, class of 1976, is president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. She can be contacted at ceylp@yahoo. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Annual war averted 
The "Vagina Monologues" are canceled. I never thought I'd hear those words this spring, and was caught off-guard as I was readying my battle gear for the annual frenzy that takes place every April when the "Monologues" are announced. Considering the current hoop-la about the Obama drama on campus, I expected this year's feud to be nastier than ever. I want to thank the pragmatic women in charge of the play for being sensible and cancelling the show; one culture battle at a time please! 
It's not that I'm necessarily for or against the show. Last year I wrote a letter to the editor that was partially devoted to addressing the issue, stating how I agree with the goal of the show, but believe that the more vulgar skil<> undermine the mes­sage and do more harm than good in challenging violence against women. The "Monologues" in the form last presented represent a type of feminism that I abhor; not a kind that encourages equality in opportunity, status and treatment 
Bleak future 
It matters not that the "Monologues" won't be performed. The Rev. Jenkins, by inviting the anti-Christ Obama to cam­pus, has already succeeded in fracturing for generations the image of Notre Dame as a Catholic and principled university. 
Peter K. Connolly alumnus class of 1955 April? 
through reasoned debate and persuasion, but rather one so polarizing that although it creates lots of discussion, it is only hateful and counter-productive. 
It was a good choice to cancel the show and I applaud those who made the decision. Bravo! At the end of this year's non-per­formance, I'm giving a standing ovation in hopes of an encore no-show next year. Perhaps an academic discussion centered around activities like volunteering at a battered women's shelter or handing out informative literature would be time better spent than rehearsing for and attending a divisive and at times partic­ularly offensive display named after a sex organ. 
Stephen Bant sen10r offcampus April? 

TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Ashley Charnley Michael Bryan Sarah Mervosh Meaghan Veselik Megan Loney Molly Sammon 
Graphics Scene "Once lead this people into war and Blair Chemidlin Joey Kuhn they will forget there ever was such 
"This job requires a lot ofreading." a thing as tolerance." 
to the Editor at 
Viewpoint 
Jenn Metz
Stephanie Vossler 

Editor-in-Chief Former U.S. President Woodrow Wilson 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 8, 2009 page 11 
Enough with Kessler! Hold him accountable 
For an entire academic calendar year I have been writing a column for The Observer. For the same academic calen­dar year I have been reading the editorial comments of the other Observer colum­nists: Professor Rice and Christy Pesavento provid­ing conservative assessments, Andrew Nesi making us all feel stupider by read­ing his insights, Katherine Khorey relating her expe­rience abroad, Daryl Campbell letting us know what it's like to be a graduate student here. And there are other columnists, each worthwhile in their own right. Each, that is, except for one -Bob Kessler and his so-called "House of Stix." House of Stix indeed! I assure you, Bob Kessler, that by the end of this column said house will be taken apart stick by said stick. 
Now I have to interject, in my typical fashion, to preface my words with a sort of disclaimer. I know Bob Kessler well. I became acquainted with him freshman year through our mutual friend Observer columnist Brad Blomstrom and I have spent ample time with him over the past year including a week in the Sodom of the 21st Century. Bob is a good person with a good heart and I enjoy his company. 
But his column -fair reader, that's a different story. The Bob Kessler of "House of Stix" has been allowed to go unchecked, unquestioned and unchal­lenged since at least this past August (and I here acknowledge that he has been writing a column since spring semester 2008 but I have only been reading since returning to campus this year). Bob Kessler has turned the student body of this campus against itself and that is sim­ply uncalled for. Nobody asked Bob Kessler to come in and explain the hook­up culture. Nobody asked Bob Kessler to investigate the Saint Mary's Executive Board stipends. Nobody asked Bob Kessler to tell us how to fmd true love at Club Fever. Nobody asked Bob Kessler to tell us how to best live our lives before we turn the depressing age of 30. But with­out being asked, Bob Kessler callously and brazenly did each of these things. And more things. Many much things, even. 


Now, because of Bob Kessler, we as a Notre Dame student body have become too self-aware (which as we all know from John Connor's personal misery is a dangerous, dangerous thing). I have recently talked to people who at one point in time used to travel to Club Fever every Thursday night and partake in a dance floor makeout (DFM in common parl­ance). But these DFM'ers now are afraid that Bob Kessler will see them at Club Fever and somehow work them into a column in the near future. So not only do they not DFM at Club Fever, they don't even go to Club Fever anymore. They stay home with their doors locked and their 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Partisan hand 
In response to an interview today on FoxNews about the weekend protest, Ms. Kathleen Donahue, Notre Dame junior and spokesperson for Notre Dame Response, a group organizing protests on campus was asked why an invitation to President Obama is any different than an invitation to President Bush, who supports the death penalty. Ms. Donahue condemned the invitation to President Obama with the rationale that abortion is always wrong but inexplicably misrepresented the Church's views on the death penalty as having more "room for leeway" and debate. This state­ment seems to tip her hand that her views suit partisan ends are not con­sistent with the Church's views or a true pro-life agenda. The death penal­ty is an even more egregious affront to life since it is the government tak­ing an active role in snuffing out life. How this can be overlooked while abortion becomes the premier pro-life issue is politics, at best. 
Ellen Burns rhird year law off campus April6 
Be open to the outside world 
Seeing the well-publicized story of hundreds of Notre Dame students demanding that President Obama not be allowed the honor to speak at this year's Commencement address has served as yet another reminder why I have completely severed ties with the institution. 
While I received a terrific, well-rounded education at Notre Dame, I have a hard time looking back fondly on my time there as the shel­tered atmosphere and prevailing attitude of self-righteousness of the institution, to me, seemed oblivious of what lay ahead in the real world. Perhaps it's different now, but when I first entered, our class was told how special we were to be a part of the class at Notre Dame. And when I left. I remember the outcry of many members from the student body regarding the lack of name recognition and worthiness of our Commencement speaker -Condoleeza Rice, then provost of Stanford. During my time there, Notre Dame never seemed too aware of the outside world and those residing in it that may not have the same background or believe in the same things. Seems as if many of today's Notre Dame students wish to see that continued. 
Patrick Wassar alumnus class of 1996 April? 
shutters closed. Bob Kessler can't refer­ence them if he can't see them. It's a sad story and it's one that's spreading. 
Now, because of Bob Kessler, we as a Notre Dame student body are unable to watch "The Late Show with David Letterman" and "Saturday Night Uve" on successive nights without feeling guilty. Another friend of mine, after reading last week's "House ofStix," cried himselfto sleep because he realized how lame he must be to spend Friday and Saturday night watching some high-quality late night entertainment. It didn't matter that he used both Letterman and "SNL" as drinking games and went out to bars after each show ended, therefore upping his factor of being extremely college. Bob has made him conscious of his errors and crushed his spirit. 
Now, because of Bob Kessler, Bob Kessler has become a gigantic figure: a man whom this campus discusses at length. A man who engenders Viewpoint debate. A man who receives Facebook friend requests from people who he does­n't know each time his column prints. "House of Stix" has turned itself from an observational and humorous comment on life at Notre Dome into its own cultural phenomenon dictating the behavior of the undergraduates who inhabit this univer­sity. Bob Kessler has created a beast that cannot be killed. 
You might be wondering why I care so deeply about the negative affects of "House of Stix" and Bob Kessler at Notre Dame if I'll be graduating soon. Well, that's a simple question to answer. I care because what Bob Kessler achieved is exactly what I tried to achieve with my column. From the first moments of this year I called for a higher appreciation of "Full House" and yet I have not heard of one person who has watched any episode of that show to give it another chance. I tried to tear down the pillars of account­ancy and in a complete reversal of my expectations the Mendoza College of Business goes up in the rankings. And don't even get me started on the failure of my Christmas campaign. I attribute the failure of my column to Bob Kessler and the success of his. 
Why is Bob Kessler a celebrity and Andrew Miller only known to his friends? Why is Bob Kessler a hero and Andrew Miller a nobody? Why have I spent my entire column talking about Bob Kessler thereby adding to the fame and notoriety of Bob Kessler? These are questions which I simply can't answer. Questions that will only be answered as the march of time proceeds. But with luck, you and I fair reader can do something to help reverse what could potentially be a dev­astating future for my ego. 
I call upon you, Notre Dame, to join with me in bringing an end to "House of Stix." With luck, we can convince the University to refuse Bob Kessler's diploma come May 17. 
Andrew Miller is a senior English major. He can be contacted at amille15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Work to maintain Catholic traditions 
We write as priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross and as proud graduates of the University of Notre Dame to voice our objection to the University's decision to honor President Barack Obama by invit­ing him to deliver this year's Commencement address and by confer­ring on him an honorary Doctor of Laws degree. 
We wish to associate ourselves with and encourage those courageous students and treasured alumni who, while deeply lov­ing Notre Dame, vigorously oppose this sad and regrettable decision of the University administration. 
It is our deep conviction that Notre Dame should lead by word and deed in upholding the Church's fundamental teaching that human life must be respect­ed and protected from the moment of conception. In so doing the University must take seriously the 2004 instruction of the U.S. Catholic Bishops that "Catholic institutions should not honor those who act in defiance of our fundamental moral principles. They should not be given awards, honors, or platforms which would suggest support for their actions." 
We especially regret the fissure that the invitation to President Obama has opened between Notre Dame and its local ordi­nary and many of his fellow bishops. We express our deep gratitude to Bishop John D' Arcy for his leadership and moral clarity. We ask that the University give renewed consideration to Bishop D'Arcy's thoughtful counsel which always has Notre Dame's best interests at heart. 
The University pursues a dangerous course when it allows itself to decide for and by itself what part of being a Catholic institution it will choose to embrace. Although undoubtedly unin­tended, the University administration's decision portends a distancing of Notre Dame from the Church which is its lifeblood and the source of its identity and real strength. Such a distancing puts at risk the true soul of Notre Dame. 
We regret that our position on this issue puts us at odds with our brother priest in Holy Cross, Fr. John Jenkins, 
C.S.C. Yet, in this instance, for the good of Notre Dame and the Congregation of Holy Cross, we cannot remain silent. Notre Dame's decision has caused moral confusion and given many reason to believe that the University's stance against the terrible evil of abortion is weak and easily trumped by other con­siderations. 
We prayerfully request that Fr. Jenkins and the Fellows of the University, who are entrusted with responsibility for maintaining its essential character as a Catholic institution of higher learning, revisit this matter immediately. Failure to do so will damage the integrity of the institution and detract from all the good work that occurs at Notre Dame and from the impressive labors of its many faithful students and professors. 
We offer these views as we enter Holy Week, recalling the triumph of Christ's holy cross. As "men with hope to bring" we are confident that Notre Dame may yet give true honor to its patroness, and witness to Her Son, through its commit­ment to the sanctity of life. 
Wilson D. Miscamble, C.S.C. Stephen M. Koeth, C.S.C. Gregory P. Haake, C.S.C. Daniel J. Parrish, C.S.C. Michael B. Wurtz, C.S.C. Mark R. Ghyselink, C.S.C. Terrence P. Ehrman, C.S.C. John A. Herman, C.S.C. Ronald J. Wasowski, C.S.C. Vincent A. Kuna, C.S.C. Holy Cross priests April? 

As a television fanatic, springtime is bittersweet for me. It means sweeps month, which is when shows pull out all the stops to get fans to watch. But it also means that networks begin to make decisions about 
shows that are performing Caitlin Ferraro 
badly. And that means shows that are beloved by faithful fans are often sent to the chopping Assistant Scene 
block. Editor 
In the past, shows like "Firefly," "Arrested Development" and "Freaks and Geeks" were cut down in their prime. It seems that every year at least one great television show is axed before it has been given a true chance. This season's fallen comrades already include "Eli Stone," "Dirty Sexy Money" and "Pushing Daisies." And now the grim reaper is looming again for other favorites. 
It seems like ratings are everything ately hoping they can save it somehow. Possibly with a DirecTV deal like they did for "Friday Night Lights?" 
Science fiction shows are also approaching the guil­lotine. Will "Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles" be given the chance to ride on the coat­tails of the likely summer blockbuster film "Terminator Salvation?" Surely the film, starring Christian Bale, will reboot interest in the Terminator universe. If Batman can't save this show, no one can. 
While Joss Whedon's "Dollhouse" did get off to a slow start, shocking revela­tions in episode six have boosted tho show creatively. Here's to hoping that FOX will not end "Dollhouse" and leave viewers hanging with untied mysteries after airing the episodes that have 
already been filmed. The worst situation 
for most networks, but each one has is when networks cancel a show without different standards. For instance, CBS allowing enough time for writers to cre­
It seems that every 
would implode if its shows received ate some sort of resolution. (Although, the numbers a network like The CW year at least one in the case of the recently deceased gets. Ratings differ from network to great television show "Life on Mars," it may have been better network, but some shows are also without the bizarre and lame twist end­
is axed before it has 
held to higher standards based on -ing that Sam is not from 1973 or 2008 you guessed it -money. If a show is been given a true but is actually an astronaut traveling to too expensive to make and it's not chance. Mars in 2035. Huh?) receiving overwhelming ratings, it Another new show in trouble is NBC's 
might be headed to the television heaven in the sky. 
I implore you to pay attention if you want to save a favorite show that might be in danger this season. First up to bat is "Chuck," the action-comedy of a lov­able nerd who has become the CIA's latest asset. Even with huge promos for the 3-D episode during the Super Bowl, "Chuck" just cannot find a faithful follow­ing. It seems like NBC likes the show, so I am desper­
"Kings," which takes place in an alter­nate world where a David versus Goliath-like battle is occurring. "Kings" is an innovative show that com­bines religion and polities in a unique way. But low viewership eombined with huge expenses to create this fantastical world may send the show to the grave before it ever really had a chance. 
Other shows that are in danger include The CW's "Reaper," CBS' "Cold Case" and "Without a Trace," ABC's "In the Motherhood," and NBC's "My Name is Earl." 
So what can you and I do to help save a show you care about? Honestly, not much. You can hope and pray and you should definitely watch the show itself. 
While this might seem obvious, it's harder than you think when prime­time television hours are also prime­time hours for homework. So if you can't watch when the show airs live, use a DVR or watch the show on the aetual network's Web site. 
The next step takes a bit more effort, but is necessary if you are a die-hard fan. If you care passionately about a show in danger, then to make your voice heard you must go above 
and beyond. When CBS' "Jericho" was canceled after just one season, fans went wild. They sent thousands of pounds of peanuts (an inside joke from the show) to the network and, shockingly, they got another season. If this is too dramatic for you, you can also sign online petitions and send letters to the network to try to save a show. 
As the end of the 2008-09 television season approaches fast, enjoy the great episodes to come. I, for one, cannot wait to see what's in store for the island in "Lost," or to see the "Grey's Anatomy" cast's performances as they try to save dying Izzie. But remember: as you watch the season finale of your favorite show, you might actually be watching its series finale. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrarl@nd.edu 
Ifyou care passionately about a show in danger, then to make your voice heard you must go above and beyond. 


THE ASSOCIATE 

By ERIC PRISTER Scene Wrirer 

John Grisham's newest legal-thriller novel "The Associate" is entertaining throughout, but leaves the reader unfulfilled in the end. 
Kyle McAvoy has an extraordinarily difficult life as 

The Associate By John Grisham 
10 Words or Less: Struggling young lawyer is blackmailed. Entertaining, but weak ending. Publisher: Doubleday Length: 384 pages 
a first-year associate at Scully and Pershing, the dnmands nearly total control and surveillance over largest law firm in the world. With a father who is Kyle's life. Wright secures a job for Kyle at Scully disappointed that Kyle has chosen to work on Wall and Pershing, where he is to work and eventually Street, a fledgling relationship with a beautiful fel­steal valuable information. low first-year associate named Dale 
"The Associate" follows Kyle's journey that is forbidden by company policy, from his graduation through his hiring the results of his bar exam pending and and working at Scully and Pershing. The the 100-hour work weeks demanded of book is suspenseful, filled with drama all first-year associates at Scully and and mystery and written in an easily Pershing, Kyle's life seems tough read style. Grisham gives the reader a enough. His biggest problem, however, view into every part of Kyle's life, is that he is being blackmailed by an including his duties as a first-year asso­anonymous organization into stealing ciate in a major law firm. his romantic confidential information from thn l"irm. relationship with Dale and his attempts 
Kyle had been set to graduate from to salvage relationships with his college Yale Law School and begin what should frat brothers. have been a bright future when he was Unfortunately, the ending brings clo­cornered by a group of operatives from sure to nearly nothing in the story. this organization. They brought up a Kyle's role as a double-agent is some­part of Kyle's past that could ruin all what resolved, but many questions are that he had worked for and forced Kyle left unanswered. The book is an excel­to make a decision -work for them and steal lent read almost the entire way through, but it fails secrets from the largest law firm in the world, or to deliver the enjoyment that should come from dis­risk being exposed. covering the truth of the situation at the end. 
The lead agent of those who blackmail Kyle is a man named Bennie Wright (an obvious alias) who Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphics 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE 
In 1995, no one thought that anything more than a short-lived hype would come of Foo Fighters, the solo music project newly formed by Dave Grohl, the goofy looking kid in the background of all of Nirvana's band pictures. The for­
mer Nirvana drummer originally released 1995's "Foo Fighters" as a demo, recording the vocals and near­ly all of the instrumental parts by himself. 
Grohl did not form a band until after the debut album's completion, recruiting bassist Nate Mendel, gui­tarist Pat Smear and drummer William Goldsmith. Nonetheless, the 
and blunt, straightforward lyrics: "Don't want to be can rely on." your monkey wrench I One more indecent accident I I'd "See You" follows as a kitschy, sarcastic pop song, rather leave than suffer this I I'll never be your monkey signifying the resentment in the relationship. As with wrench." "Up in Arms," the ballad "February Stars" features 
"Hey, Johnny Park!" is an excellent soft-spoken lyrics building into final 
example of the Foo Fighters' tendency to use the Pixies' and Nirvana's technique 
"That's my way of

of switching between quiet verses and a loud saying that when I 
chorus. Grohl said in a was young, I didn't Grohlloosely conceived 1997 "Guitar World" 
have big rock heroes, I 
article that this tech­
'The Colour and the nique was influenced by didn't want to grow up Shape' as a concept 

the members of Nirvana and be some bigalbum signifying the "liking the Knack, Bay 
sporting hero." 

beginning and end ofa City Rollers, Beatles and ABBA as much as we 
album produced the three hit singles "This Is a Call," ''I'll Stick Around" and "Big Me," and was nominated for Best Alternative Music Album at the 1996 Grammy Awards. 
However, the 1997 sophomore album "The Colour and the Shape" was the LP that truly solidified Foo Fighters as a band. Although Grohl still performed vocals and guitar as well as drums on many of the songs, the album was a debut for the new members. 
Grohl loosely conceived "The Colour and the Shape" as a concept album signifying the beginning and end of a relationship. The first track, "Doll," features soft vocals and clearly indicates the beginning of the rela­tionship with the lyrics, "You know in all the time that we've shared I I've never been so scared." 
The album moves on to "Monkey Wrench," which deals with being trapped in an unsavory relationship and features a fast-paced guitar riff', a screamy bridge 
relationship. 
liked Flipper and Black Flag, I suppose." 

Sticking with the album's relationship concept, Grohl wrote "Up in Arms," a pop-sounding love song about his wife, Jennifer Youngblood. The song features soft romantic vocals at the beginning, leading into the loud, fast-paced reprise of an honest chorus, "I was the one who left you I Always coming back I cannot forget you girl I Now I am up in arms again." 
A personal favorite, "My Hero," features recognizable percussion and guitar riffs, as well as loud, impas­sioned vocals and lyrics about everyday heroes, "There goes my hero I Watch him as he goes I There goes my hero I He's ordinary." According to Foo Archive, Grohl claimed, "That's my way of saying that when I was young, I didn't have big rock heroes, I didn't want to grow up and be some big sporting hero. My heroes were ordinary people and the people that I have a lot of respect for are just solid everyday people -people you loud vocals with lyrics representing a relationship hanging on by a thread: "February stars I Floating in the dark I Temporary scars I February stars." 
In "Everlong," Grohl introduces a new wave drum beat, well-placed electric guitar riffs and impassioned emotion in the same contrasting loud­soft vocals and lyrics, "And I wonder I When I sing along with you I If every­thing could ever feel this real forever I If anything could ever feel this good 
again." The song follows with a soft atmospheric ballad, "Walking After You," which, according to Grohl in Foo Archive, is "an emotional, sappy song about getting dumped," signifying the end of the relationship. 
The LP features bonus tracks in the extended edition. including four covers: Killing Joke's "Requiem," Vanity 6's "Drive Me Wild," Gary Numan's "Down in the Park," and Gerry Hafferty's "Baker Street." The Seattle-based band's cover of "Baker Street" replaces the famous saxophone solo with a guitar solo that surprisingly does justice to the song. 
The Foo Fighters are still one of the most well­respected alternative rock bands in the music industry, and they have continued to rise to success with such singles as "Times Like These," "Best of You" and "The Pretender." There is no doubt that Grohl and company will "stick around" for a long time. 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at akilpat@nd.edu 

dence hall and the quick construction of 
By ELLIE HALL another. Paths from one side of campus 
Scene Writer to another are re-routed to avoid fenced­
off areas, and it is impossible to go any-
Notre Dame is not the where without hear­same school it was when I ing the rumble of visited campus for the workers and
Notre Dame's natural
first time three years ago. machines. My first impression of the beauty is being The most obvious University was disbelief at example of this trend
sacrificed in a quest
the splendor of the can be seen behind grounds, the number of founded on a principle Welsh Family Hall. trees and the wide Instead of Hyan Hall,
ofspace efficiency. 
expanses of grass. Now, the nearly-completed Notre Dame's natural new women's dormi­beauty is being sacrificed tory, the land next to in a quest founded on a principle of the bookstore used to have a large, space efficiency. In the past year alone, majestic tree, underneath which sat a we've seen the renovation of the Law statue of Jesus the teacher. More trees School, the beginnings of the new CSC lined the pathway from the bookstore to building, the completion of one new resi-McGlinn Hall, and the open area in 
between was a place for games, quiet ness, the planting of a new tree does not study, sunbathing or simple reflection on replace the loss of a 20-year-old oak and 
an  unobstructed sky.  a  small  expanse  of  
Last year, students from  grass cannot compare  
all over campus flocked to this spot to observe a lunar eclipse for this very reason. The University is apparently  The planting ofa new tree does not replace the loss ofa 2o-year-old oak and a small expanse of  to the large field that disappeared. Dr. Seuss's Lorax spoke for the trees, but I speak for the trees,  
running out of room for  grass cannot compare to  the grass and the sky.  
anything but architec­tural beauty. Some University offi­ the large field that disappeared.  The students who chose to come to this University shouldn't be  
cials  are  apparently  forced  to  watch  as  
attempting to ameliorate  buildings replace run­ 

this trend by planting new trees all over ning paths and slowly consume the campus and creating grassy areas where untreated greenery on campus. Notre there were none (the new space in front Dame needs to preserve the natural of Reekers, for example). Although this beauty of the campus as it expands. is commendable and speaks well of Notre Dame's environmental conscious-Contact Ellie Hall at ehall4@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphics 

page 14 The Observer + CIASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 8, 2009 
MLB 
Thome leads White Sox to an opening day win 
Beckett strikes out 10 in seven innings in Red Sox victory; Giants overcome struggles to beat out Brewers 
other way to say it. Jimmy's hit 
Associated Press 
a lot of homers and had a lot of 
CHICAGO -Jim Thome big hits and played a long time, pumped his fist as he rounded but he's still as hungry to do the bases and then came out that as any guy that's ever for a curtain call. Even after all played as long as he has. That's these years, a go-ahead home what sets him apart, I think. run on opening day is some­He's out there grinding every­thing to celebrate. day like he's a rookie." 
Thome hit a three-run homer Winning pitcher Octavia Dotel in the eighth inning, rallying (1-0) struck out the side in the the Chicago White Sox past the eighth after Clayton Richard Kansas City Royals 4-2 Tuesday threw two scoreless innings. in a season opener delayed a Bobby Jenks pitched a score­day because of bad weather. less ninth for the save. 
Chicago trailed 2-1 when Gordon gave Kansas City a 1­Thome hit his 542nd career 0 lead when he connected off home run, connecting with two Buehrle in the second. Chicago outs off Royals newcomer Kyle tied it in the bottom half on Farnsworth. Thome homered Fields' RBI single, and the twice in last year's opener off Royals went ahead in the fifth CC Sabathia, a loss to when Jose Guillen scored on Cleveland. Gordon's forced out. 
"Opening day, there's a lot of That looked like it might be emotions," the 38-year-old enough for Meche, who won 14 Thome said. "No matter how games last season. The right­long you've played the game, hander allowed one run and you still get jittery, you still get seven hits, struck out six with that nervous excitement." no walks and felt he could have 
The White Sox and Royals pitched the eighth. were supposed to play Monday, "I told (manager Trey but a forecast of snow, high Hillman) that," Meche said. winds and cold forced them to "But we have some guys out postpone the game for a day. there who have done it before. The conditions were far from We just fell short today. Get ideal on Tuesday, with a game­them tomorrow and try to win time temperature of 43 degrees the series hopefully." It was a and 20 mph winds blowing rather forgettable afternoon for through the ballpark. Buehrle, who tied Billy Pierce's 
Thome's shot gave Chicago club record by starting his sev­the win on a day when Mark enth opener. That bit of trivia Buehrle struggled, and it aside, the three-time All-Star erased a solid outing by Kansas struggled with his control and City's Gil Meche. consistently found himself in 
"I got behind him 2-0 and I jams.A 15-game winner last 
tried  to  come  season,  he  
back on him with  allowed  two  
fastballs,"  "No matter how long  runs  and  six  
Farnsworth said. "That's what you're supposed to do and I think it was up a little  you've played the game, you still get jittery, you still get that nervous excitement."  hits while strik­ing out three, walking three and hitting two batters over five  
bit. I tried to get  innings. He said  
ahead of him. When you fall behind good hit­ters like that.  Jim Thome Chicago White Sox designated hitter  he was embar­rassed and even apologized to manager Ozzie  
they  make  you  Guillen, yet he  
pay."  was  also  

After years of losing, the relieved. "As bad as I pitched Royals believe better days are and to keep them to only two coming. And for most of the runs, I'm happy about it," afternoon, this looked like one. Buehrle said. A single by 
Meche pitched seven strong Thome helped the White Sox innings, Alex Gordon homered load the bases with none out in and the Royals were in line for the bottom half. Fields hit an the win until Farnsworth (0-1) RBI single, but Jermaine Dye came on in the eighth. was easily thrown out at the 
Josh Fields led off with a bunt plate when he tried to score single and moved to third with from second. Fields, replacing one out on Chris Getz's single. the departed Joe Crede at After Carlos Quentin struck out, third, also saved a run in the Thome homered to center field .fifth when he stabbed Billy and a crowd that had been list­Butler's grounder behind the less went wild, drawing a cur­bag and threw home to force tain call from the slugger. Mark Teahen with the bases 
"He's a bad man," teammate loaded. Jose Guillen then Paul Konerko said. "There's no scored from third on a forced out by Gordon to make it 2-1, but in the end, the day belonged to Thome. 
Red Sox 5, Rays 3 
AL MVP Dustin Pedroia and the Boston Red Sox are off to a fast start. 
Pedroia homered on the sec­ond pitch he saw this season and Josh Beckett struck out 10 in seven innings of two-hit ball to lead the Red Sox to a 5-3 vic­tory over the Tampa Bay Rays on Tuesday in a makeup of their rained-out opener. 
Jason Varitek also homered for Boston in a rematch of last year's AL championship series, which the Rays won in seven games to advance to the fran­chise's first World Series. 
Tampa Bay scored one run off Beckett and two in the eighth off Hideki Okajima before Justin Masterson pitched out of a jam and Jonathan Papelbon got three outs for the save. 
James Shields gave up five runs on seven hits and three walks, striking out two in five innings as the AL champions opened their pennant defense completely overpowered by Beckett. 
The Red Sox right-hander allowed a third-inning single to Akinori Iwamura and Carl Crawford 's sixth-inning double to go with three walks. He struck out Gabe Gross on a 93 mph fastball to end the sev­enth. 
Brisk weather replaced the steady downpour that forced the Red Sox to postpone Monday's game four hours before the scheduled first pitch. The sky was overcast but dry for the makeup, with the wind blowing out toward center. 
The Red Sox changed the tra­ditional baseline introductions by having their players come out of the stands, high-fiving fans on the way to the field. The Boston Pops took over the national anthem from singer Seal, who had been scheduled for Monday but couldn't stick around. 
After the traditional fighter jet flyover, newly elected Hall of Farner Jim Rice drove out in a golf cart with U.S. Sen. Edward 
M. Kennedy. The Massachusetts Democrat, who has been diag­nosed with brain cancer, went to the mound with the help of a cane and bounced a short toss to Rice; (on the second try, he made it on a fly). 
Beckett took care of the first three Rays before Pedroia came up with one out and homered over the Green Monster. Pedroia also walked to start the three-run third, scoring on J.D. 

Drew's groundout before Jason Bay's HBI single and Mike Lowell's run-scoring double. 
But even more welcome for last year's AL wild-eard winner was Varitek's homer around the Pesky Pole in the sixth. The cateher, who turns 37 on Saturday, is earning otT the worst season of his eareer and a drawn-out negotiation with the Bed Sox before signing a cut­rate deal for $5 million with options for 2010 that could make it worth as mueh as $10 million. 
Varitek made his ninth straight opening-day start, most ever for a Red Sox catcher. Left fielder Carl Yastrzemski holds the franchise lead with 15. 
Shields fell to 0-4 with 17 earned runs in 15 2-3 innings in four career appearances at Fenway Park. 
Giants 10, Brewers 6 
Travis Ishikawa hit a three­run triple, Aaron Howand had three HBis and the San Francisco Giants overcame Tim Lincecum's struggles for a 10-6 victory over the Milwaukee Brewers on Tuesday in the majors' final opener. 
Howand, Bengie Molina and Randy Winn homered for the Giants, whose 12-hit battering of Milwaukee's pitching more than made up for the shortest start of Lincecum's career. The NL Cy Young Award winner made it through just three innings, yield­ing three runs, four hits and three walks. 
Milwaukee didn't get much more from Jeff Suppan (0-1). who hit an RBI double but gave up six runs in four innings as the unlikely opening-day starter for a club that lost its top two pitchers from last season's run to the NL wild card. Hickie Weeks and Bill Hall hit run-scor­ing doubles in manager Ken Maeha's debut with the Brewers, who left 11 men on base. 
Joe Martinez (1-0) gave up two runs during two rocky innings in his major league debut, but still got the win when Howand put the Giants ahead 6-5 with his two-run shot in the fourth. 
Hain pelted the Giants' water­front ballpark for most of the morning, but it abated before game time and eventually gave way to warm sunshine, despite bleak weather forecasts. Both managers had made contin­gency plans for a doubleheader Wednesday, when Handy Johnson will make his Giants debut against burgeoning Brewers ace Yovani Gallardo. 
Lincecum, who will formally receive his Cy Young Award on Wednesday night, struck out five after leading the majors in strikeouts last year. But the right-hander never appeared comfortable while laboring through 78 pitches. 
He walked Weeks on five pitches to start the Giants' 1Oth opening day at their park. He also drilled Hyan Braun in the back and threw a wild pitch in the first inning alone, but struck out Prince Fielder and J .J. Hardy to avoid giving up any runs. 
Ishikawa, who won the start­ing job at first base in spring training despite just 45 games of major league experience, lined a shot into the deepest corner of the Giants' outfield in the bottom half, easily reaching third base while Edgar Renteria, Fred Lewis and Pablo Sandoval scored. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 J.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year.  If you or someone you care about  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
FoR RENT  2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast.  WANTED  LosT & FOUND  has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of  Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If  
Rape & Assault at:  you or someone you love needs  
andersonNDrentals.comFREE  Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or  One or two roommates needed for  FOUND: Dental retainer in South  confidential support or assistance,  
COMCAST!  www.kramerhouses.com  brand new 3 BR 3 Bath Condo at  Dining Hall the week of March 29.  http:1/osa.nd. edulhealth­ please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  
--------------­ --------------­ Irish Crossings fully furnished.  Call631-6147 to claim.  safety/assault/  or Ann Firth at 1-2685.  
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer- GRADUATION WEEK TOWN­ --------------­ 
ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com  HOUSE RENTAL-2 bedroom town house, sleeps 6-8, on Ivy Court for  $500 per mo. incl. utilities -wire­less, gas, water, electric and park- PERSONAL  ADOPTION • Loving Domer couple  For more information, visit NDs Assistance for Pregnant  
--------------­ rental Graduation Week. 2 full  ing. Private BR/Bath, gym. Ten min  looking to adopt a baby (babies),  Students//Office of Student Affairs  
2009/10 student rentals Angela  baths, living room, and kitchen. 2  walk to campus five min walk to  $35 Paid Today! New Donors  please call Marie and James  website at:  
St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300­ night minimum $1 ,000.  stores. Non-smoker, no pets.  (w/ad) IBR Plasma Center, 2102 S.  
$2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon  Michigan, South Bend 574-234­ (301 )977 -5069 or (866)202-1424  osa:nd.edu/health-safety/assis­ 
57 4-876-3537.  contact peterlawson@yahoo.com  animalcop01 @gmail.com  9568.  PIN 5448.  lance-for-pregnant-students.  
--------------­ --------------­ --------------­ --------------­ --------------­ --------------­ 
I  

L--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.0 
--, 
I 
I I 
' 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, April 8, 2009 
NCAA Softball RPI Division 1 Top,25 

team record 
1 Florida 34·3 2 Washington 28·5 3 Alabama 27·6 4 Georgia 24·4 5 UCLA 26·6 6 LSU 21-7 7 Oklahoma 27-10 8 Michigan 22·9 9 Kentucky 22"11 10 Northwestern 18•7 11 Arizona 31-7 12 Missouri 30·4 13 Stanford 31-2 14 Ohio State 24·6 15 Arizona State 31·5 16 Tennessee 26·8 17 La.· lafayette 18·7 18 Iowa 27-7 19 Texas 26-11 20 louisville 29-5 21 Florida State 25-11 22 DePaul 16·7 23 UNI 20·8 24 Illinois 18·8 25 Nebraska 25-7 


ITA Men's Tennis Division 1 Ranklngs 
team points previous 
1 Virginia 
2 Mississippi 
3 Ohio State 
4 Georgia 
5 Tennessee 
6 Southern California 
7 Baylor 
8 Stanford 
9 UCLA 
10 
11 ~=~1: .~j!; .. ··••·..·· ... 

12 TexasA&M 13 Texas 14 KentUCky 15 Alabama 16 Aorida Slate 17 Pepperdine 18 Arizona. 19 Boise Slate 20 NOTRE DAME 34 22 


team  points  
1  Arizona Stale  659  
2  UCLA  657  
3  Southern California  620  
4  Oklahoma State  522  
5  Virginia  522  
6  Alabama  508  
7  Auburn  466  
8  Duke  457  
9 10  Wake Forest Georgia  436 430  ::·:~~@{=·  
11  lSU  407  
12  Purdue  404  
13  Vanderbilt  342  
14  Pepperdine  323  
15  North carolina  302  

around the dial 
NBA 

San Antonio Spurs vs. Portland Trail Blazers 7 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 

Tampa Bay Rays vs. Boston Red Sox 7 p.m., ESPN2 
CoMPILED FROMTHE OssERVER.'s WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 

ST. LOUIS -With one final blowout, UConn grabbed the national title and a piece of bas­ketball history. 
Tina Charles had 2 5 points and grabbed 19 rebounds Tuesday night as UConn routed Louisville 76-54 and cap­tured the Huskies' sixth national championship. 
It wasn't just that Connecticut claimed another title. It was how they did it. 
UConn won every one of its 39 games by dou­ble digits, an unprece­dented run in college basketball. 
Charles was the star of the last big win. She commanded both ends of the floor and Louisville, which lost to UConn for the third time this sea­son. had no one who could stop her. 
Coach Geno Auriemma had said before the tour­nament that his junior center would be the key to UConn winning the title. A year after he benched her in the NCAAs for inconsistent play, Charles delivered. 
She was 11-for-13 from the field, and fell just one rebound short of becoming only the sec­ond player ever in a championship game to have at least 20 points and 20 rebounds. 
IN BRIEF 

Clippers forward Randolf 
arrested for drunk driving 
LOS ANGELES -Marion native and Los Angeles Clippers forward Zach Randolph has been arrested for investigation of drunken driving. 
California Highway Patrol Officer Tony Garrett says two officers saw a white Rolls-Royce weaving on Interstate 405 around 2:25 a.m. Monday. 
The officers pulled the car over and identified Randolph as its driver. Garrett says alcohol could be smelled from inside the car and after con­ducting a field sobriety test, Randolph was arrested and taken to the Men's Central Jail in downtown Los Angeles. 
He was later released on $5,000 bail. A message left for a Clippers spokesman was not immediately returned. 
Randolph had 18 points in the Clippers' 88-85 loss to the Los Angeles Lakers on Sunday night. 
Charles was named the outstanding player of the Final Four. 
Maya Moore and Renee Montgomery each added 18 points for the Huskies. 
Angel McCoughtry fin­ished off her stellar career for Louisville with 23 points. Candyce Bingham was the only other Cardinal in double figures with 10 points as Louisville (34-5) shot a dismal 31 percent from the floor. 
Unlike its previous two wins over Louisville, it took about 15 minutes for UConn to begin pulling away from the Cardinals. 
Leading by six, the 
Huskies turned up their defense. Louisville missed 18 straight shots spanning the half as Connecticut turned a 30­24 lead into a 19-point advantage. 
Louisville (34-5) came into its first title game with little pressure. The Cardinals were big underdogs, bidding to 
knock off three No.  1  
seeds  on  their way to  a  
championship.  

The victory put the Huskies in the same class as UConn's other unbeaten teams in 1995 and 2002. Besides Connecticut, only Tennessee and Texas have run through a sea­son without a loss. 

Baseball allowing women to 
participate for Olympic bid 
WASHINGTON -Baseball will be adding a women's component to its bid to get reinstated for the 2016 Olympics, after failing to unite with women's soft­ball. 
The president of the International Baseball Federation, Harvey Schiller, told The Associated Press the change will be made in the next few days. 
"The main reason is the growth of the game, and, obviously, we have a con­stituency which makes up women's base­ball, and they're asking, 'What about us?"' Schiller said in a telephone inter­view Monday. "We want the world to know that we have women's baseball." 
The move comes a few weeks after women's softball rejected baseball's pro­posal for a joint baseball-softball bid. The two sports are among seven competing for two openings for new sports at the 2016 Olympics; the International Olympic Committee will decide in October. 
Blackhawks defeat Blue 
Jackets in 1-0 overtime win 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -The Blackhawks moved a step closer to securing home ice in the first round of the playoffs, while the Blue Jackets earned a valuable point as they inch toward their first postseason berth. 
Nikolai Khabibulin made 20 saves for his second shutout of the sea<;On and the 40th of his career, and rookie Kris Versteeg scored his 22nd of the season with 1:50 remaining in overtime to give Chicago a 1-0 win over Columbus on Sunday night. 
Versteeg skated alone from beyond cen­ter ice to beat Steve Mason, the fellow rookie star who finished with 24 saves for Columbus, with a low shot that bounced off the goalie's stick and into the net. 
"You can't really see much going in on that goalie," Versteeg said. "I was going five-hole and I guess I got lucky and it bounced in. Coming down against a guy like Mason I guess all you can do is shoot and pray to God it goes into the net." 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, AprilS, 2009 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Tar Heels return home to celebrate 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. ­North Carolina saved the last dance for Danny Green. 
The Carolina blue-clad crowd prodded him, and "Jump Around" blared from the speakers in his honor. So, just as he did before four seasons' worth of tip-offs at the Smith Center, the senior shook his hips, dangled his arms and cut loose one last time. 
Whoop it up, Tar Heels, you brought another NCAA championship trophy back to campus. 
Coach Roy Williams' team returned home Tuesday to celebrate the proud pro­gram's fifth national title and first since 2005 with about 13,000 revved-up fans less than 24 hours after beating Michigan State 89-72 in Detroit. 
Thousands of fans poured into the stands and onto the arena floor before the Tar Heels' flight had even landed at nearby Raleigh­Durham International Airport, and they cheered fanatically every time live television footage of the team's motorcade was shown on the giant video boards. 
Last to enter the arena was Williams, who carried in the trophy and the net he helped cut down at Ford Field. 
arena's four video screens, located high above score­boards that read: "Carolina 89, Mich. St. 72." 
"If I'm lucky enough to coach another 20 years, it's going to be awful hard for kids to give me the memories that this club did," Williams said. "But I will always remember not just the wins. I will remember the fun, the laughs and I will remember how lucky Roy Williams was to be their coach." 
This was how nearly everybody figured this sea­son would end, yet the cel­ebration was no less satis­fying for Hansbrough, who returned for his senior season for the chance to claim the title. 
North Carolina (34-4). the first unanimous pre­season No. 1 in the history of The Associated Press Top 25, overcame an 0-2 start to the ACC season to claim another regular-sea­son title and posted dou­ble-figure wins in all six of its NCAA tournament games. 
"There's not much to say -we're national champs," Hansbrough said. "It's the best feeling in the world. When I come back and watch these games here at the Smith Center, I'll always look up there and remember this team and what we were able to 
accomplish 
this year." 
A d d e d 

"I stood up here in 2005 and told you  "There's not much to say-we're national  Frasor: "This is a storybook ending, and I  
how great it  champs.,  couldn't  ask  
was  to  win  a  for more."  
national championship  Tyler Hansbrough  Earlier, Williams met  
for  0 u r  a 1m a  Tar Heels senior forward  with  a  handful  

mater," Williams said. "And I'll tell you right now, winning the second national champi­onship for our alma mater is even sweeter." 
Especially for seniors Tyler 1-1 ansbro ugh, Bobby Frasor and Green. 
They came to campus in the fall of 2005, a few months after the school claimed its previous title, and went on to post a 101­14 record through four years with three regular­season ACC titles and two Final Four appearances. They capped their run with a never-in-doubt victory over the Spartans, who got no closer than 13 points in the second half. 
"We did it. But the way we did it? Isn't that great?" Green asked the crowd. 
Then, the fans pleaded for Green to dance one last time, prompting fellow senior Mike Copeland to hold the back of Green's suit jacket while he danced like a puppet -the trade­mark move that earned him the nickname "Dancin' Danny" -to the 1990s rap song that they play before every tipoff at the Smith Center. 
Later, they showed sea­son highlights on the 
of rerters at 
the team hotel 

before leaving Detroit and said he doesn't have a timetable for when juniors Ty Lawson and Wayne Ellington will decide if they will go to the NBA. 
Though he hasn't spoken to them about the decision, the coach has an idea what they will do, but "not with the conviction that I had last time" when four underclassmen opted for the NBA after winning the 2005 title. 

Williams said he got to bed around 5 a.m. but had so much going through his mind that he just stared at the clock until finally going to sleep around 6:30. Ninety minutes later, he was back up and doing phone interviews and get­ting ready to return home. 
"I told the kids in '05 and last night that North Carolina basketball is Michael Jordan, Phil Ford, Coach Smith," Williams said. "And in '05, I said, 'But now North Carolina basketball is going to be you guys forever.' And that's what I told these guys last night. So that satisfaction of being involved and part of that group is something that you can't take away." 


Sigourney Weaver stars in this true story about a religious suburban 
housewife and mother, Mary Griffith, 
who struggles to accept her young son 
Bobby being gay. What happens to 
Bobby is tragic, and causes Mary to 
question her faith; ultimately, this 
mom changes her views in ways she 
never could have imagined. Also 
starring Ryan Kelly ("John From 
Cincinnati"), Susan Ruttan ("LA Law), 
Dan Butler ("Frasier) and Henry Czerny 
("The Tudors"). Based on the book, 
"Prayers for Bobby" by Leroy Aarons. 
Sponsored by: The Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual &Questioning Students, The Gender Relations Center, Student Government & University Counseling Center 

What is "8uzz" Marketing? ~ 
Lessons on Word-of-Mouth Marketing 
by Emanuel Roten 

Author of National Bestseller uthe Anatomy of Buzz Revisited" 


Wednesday, April 8, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Wallace scores 29 in Bobcats' win over Sixers 
Smith leads Hawks in victory over Raptors; Hornets returning to playoffs after overtime win over Heat 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.-Gerald Wallace scored 29 points, including the final four of the game, and the Charlotte Bobcats beat the Philadelphia 76ers 101-98 on Tuesday night to snap a three-game losing streak. 
Raymond Felton scored a career-high 32 points and the Bobcats recovered after blowing a 20-point lead to improve their faint playoff hopes. 
Coming off their worst loss and offensive performance Sunday in New Jersey, the Sixers overcame one of their poorest starts, only to falter down the stretch. 
Andre Iguodala and Willie Green missed tying 3-pointers in the closing seconds. Andre Miller had 23 points and Louis Williams scored 20 for Philadelphia, which is trying to better its playoff seeding to avoid a first-round matchup with Boston or Orlando. 
lguodala's fadeaway with 1:42 left put Philadelphia ahead 98­
95. After Charlotte's Emeka Okafor hit two free throws, the Bobcats got a defensive stop, then an offensive rebound after 
D.J. Augustin missed a 3-point­er. 
After a timeout, Felton's run­ner was well short, and Wallace picked off the airball and banked in a layup for an 99-98 lead with 28 seconds left. 
lguodala missed a mid-range jumper, and Wallace hit two free throws at the other end. After Iguodala missed a 3, the Sixers got the ball back after a jump ball. But Green missed a 3 from the corner, allowing the Bobcats to finish their home schedule 23-18. 
Charlotte moved within 2 1/2 games of idle Detroit for the final playoff spot with four games left. The Pistons hold the tiebreaker. 
The Bobcats played their sec­ond straight game without starting shooting guard Raja Bell, who said at shootaround that his strained right calf was­n't feeling any better. Bell is likely out until next week, and could miss the rest of the regu­lar season. 
After starting Cartier Martin in Sunday's loss at Detroit, coach Larry Brown went with 6-foot-10 Vladimir Radmanovic at shooting guard after his suc­cessful stint there against the Pistons. 
Radmanovic got into early foul trouble, but it didn't matter early with Felton and Wallace dominating. 
Felton was knocking down jumpers while Wallace was con­stantly beating the Sixers off the dribble and getting to the line. Felton had 23 points in the first half and Wallace 21 as Charlotte built leads of 44-24 and 63-49 at halftime. 
Green, playing with two stitches under his chin after a first-quarter collision, then led Philadelphia's third-quarter dominance. He scored 13 points in the period and Philadelphia outscored Charlotte 32-16 to take an 81-79lead. 
It was a familiar scene for the Bobcats, who blew fourth-quar­ter leads in each of their previ­ous three losses and had a memorable meltdown in Washington last month, blowing a 20-point lead in a damaging loss. 
But this time Charlotte recov­ered, handing the Sixers their own rough defeat. Entering the night a half-game behind fifth­place Miami, Philadelphia is hoping to avoid the sixth seed and a first-round playoff matchup with one of the East's elite teams. 
Hawks 118, Raptors 110 
Josh Smith had 25 points and seven rebounds, and the Atlanta Hawks used 11-for-22 shooting from 3-point range to beat the Toronto Raptors 118-110 on Tuesday night. 
The Hawks (44-34), trying to secure the No. 4 seed in the Eastern Conference, also got 25 points from Joe Johnson and 17 from Maurice Evans. Mike Bibby added 13 points and 10 assists, while AI Horford chipped in 15 points and 12 rebounds. 
Chris Bosh had 21 points and 10 rebounds for his eighth con­secutive double-double and 40th this season, but the Raptors lost their second in a row after winning six straight. 
Shawn Marion had 18 points and six rebounds, Jose Calderon added 16 points and 13 assists, and Andrea Bargnani scored 15 points for the Raptors. 
Smith's block on Bargnani led to Evans's dunk, putting the Hawks up 107-100 with 4:46 remaining in the fourth quarter. Horford then stole the ball from Calderon to set up a 3-pointer by Johnson with 2:57 remaining to make it 112-102, effectively sinking the Raptors' hopes. 
The Hawks went oh a 14-8 run to begin the third quarter, erasing the Raptors' lead and going up 6 7-65 midway through the quarter before a Toronto timeout. The Raptors trailed 85­84 going into the fourth after Smith hit a 3-pointer to put the Hawks in the lead. 
The Raptors, who need to win at least three of their next five games to avoid a 50-loss season for the first time since 2005, now go on the road to play the Indiana Pacers on Wednesday before returning home to take on the Washington Wizards on Friday. 
Hornets 93, Heat 87 
New Orleans is going back to the playoffs, thanks in large part to dramatics from Rasual Butler and David West. 
Butler hit a game-tying 3­pointer with no time remaining in regulation, West hit the go­winning jumper with 8.8 sec­onds left in overtime, and the Hornets stunned the Miami Heat 93-87 on Tuesday night. 
Chris Paul finished with 26 points, nine rebounds and nine assists, and Peja Stojakovic added 24 points for the Hornets (48-29), who not only clinched their postseason berth but stayed thickly in the hunt for home-court advantage in the first round of the Western Conference playoffs. 
Dwyane Wade scored 32 points before getting ejected with 1.4 seconds remaining and Michael Beasley added 25 for Miami (41-37), which remained a half-game ahead of Philadelphia in the race for the No. 5 spot in the East postsea­son chase. The Heat fell three games behind Atlanta for the fourth seed in the East. 
West scored from the top of 
West finished with 20 points for New Orleans, which still could realistically finish any­where from third to eighth in the Western Conference. 
Miami was down six when Wade had a three-point play with 1:51 left. His 3-point shot tied it at 87 with 33 seconds remaining, but the Heat didn't score again. 
The Heat had led for only 12 seconds all night when Wade found James Jones for a 3­pointer with 2:14 remaining in regulation, a shot that put Miami up 71-69. Wade connect­ed with Jones again in nearly the same spot with 1:03 left, and when that 3 swished, the Heat lead was 76-72. 
New Orleans wasn't finished. Paul scored with 13 seconds left to cut Miami's lead to two, and when Wade made one of two free throws with 10 seconds left, the Hornets needed a 3­pointer to tie. 
Butler wound up with the ball on a broken play, and his shot from the right wing swished as time expired. 
For the second straight game, New Orleans struggled to score in the first half. 
Unlike Sunday's home debacle against Utah, it didn't matter. 
The Hornets -who were down 66-39 against the Jazz at intermission two nights earlier -only managed 40 points in the first two quarters against the Heat. Somehow, that was good enough for a 10-point lead, as Miami sputtered through its worst first half of the season. 
Miami held New Orleans to 13 points in the second quarter. Problem was, the Heat scored 

• 
We're magically delicious! • Guess who doesn•t get to study about Europe1s oldest 

• 
Where the only thing green 


structure, the world1sis everything. 
greatest writers, and a 
• 
Where the Fighting Irish & civilization that has lasted 

loving Irish meet. thousands of years? Criminology Minors. 

• 
Snake free for over 1 ,500 

years. • A Joyce that will drive you Wilde for Shaw. 

• 
Don•t hate us because of Colin Farrell. 



IRST Minors study: Minors qualify for: 
+ 
Folklore + Once-in-a-lifetime, fully funded Irish internships;

+ 
Anthropology 


+ Unique Fall, Spring and Summer study

+ 
Dance 


abroad programs in one of the greatesl 

+ 
Political Science 



cities in the world; 
+ 
Sociology 



+ Immersion language Study in the West of 
+ 
History Ireland; 

+ 
Literature + lickets to see Irish concerts, films and distinguished lecturers. 

+ 
Language 


+ 
The only ethnic group that is allowed to pinch you if you don't wear the right color on their feast day. 

For Information email ir!~l:tstM!Ji~s~()nrl.•~d.!! or call 631-3555. 
the key, and the Heat -of 11, their worst of any quarter course -gave the ball to Wade. this season, and managed only But he lost the ball, never get­30 points at the break. Wade ting a shot away, and Stojakovic was 3-for-11 and the rest of the sealed it with a pair of free Heat weren't much better, going throws with 2.3 seconds left. a combined 9-for-24. 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Notre 
Dame Apartments 
Notre Dame Apar~ments are a Notre Dame tradition! 2 Bedroom~ 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Off-Street Parking Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 8, 2009 

NFL 

Vick to return to Kansas 
Associated Press 

RICHMOND, Va. -Michael Vick will head back to a Kansas prison after a judge rejected an effort Tuesday to keep the suspended NFL star in Virginia to work on a new bankruptcy plan. 
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Frank J. Santoro denied a motion Tuesday to require Vick to attend an April 28 status hearing on his case in Newport News. Vick's lawyers had hoped such an order would prompt U.S. marshals to leave him at the Western Tidewater Regional Jail in southeastern Virginia until then. 
Santoro had ordered Vick to testify in person at a hear­ing last week, but the judge ruled Tuesday that he did not need Vick at the next hearing because no evidence will be presented. Vick and his lawyers are developing a new plan for the 28-year-old for­mer Atlanta Falcons quarter­back to pay back his credi­tors after Santoro rejected Vick's Chapter 11 reorgani­zation plan on Friday. 
"It just means he's going to end up back in Leavenworth, and we'll have to deal with the case long distance," said Paul Campsen, one of Vick's bankruptcy attorneys. 

Vick remained in the Suffolk jail late Tuesday afternoon, and it was unclear when he will be returning to the federal penitentiary in Leavenworth, Kan., where he is serving a 23-month sen­tence for bankrolling a dog­fighting ring. Vick is sched­uled for transfer to home confinement in Hampton, Va., on May 21 and for release from federal custody July 20. 
Vick's lawyers have fre­quently lamented that the distance between their East Cost offices and Leavenworth has made his case exceeding­ly difficult to manage. Campsen said someone from Vick's legal team will be traveling to Kansas to work with him bel'ore the status hearing. 
Santoro said Friday that Vick's plan to repay his cred­itors was not feasible, largely because there is no assur­ance that Vick will be able to resume his once-lucrative NFL career. NFL 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

OSU's Griffin going to NBA draft early 
Associated Press 
NORMAN, Okla. Oklahoma forward Blake Griffin will give up his final two years of eligibility and head to the NBA after a soph­omore season that ended with him being recognized as col­lege basketball's top player. 
Griffin announced his deci­sion Tuesday at a campus news conference alongside coach Jeff Capel, saying it was time to take his game to the next level. 
Griffin helped the Sooners win 30 games in a season for only the fifth time in school history, shatter­ing the school records for dou­ble-doubles and ketball's player of the year after leading the nation with 30 double-doubles and 14.4 rebounds per game while also averaging a Big 12-best 22.7 points. In the NCAA tourna­ment, he was even better ­averaging 28.5 points and 15 rebounds to lead the Sooners to the regional finals, where they lost to eventual national champion North Carolina. 
"This is the right decision. In my mind, it's a no-brainer," Capel said. "It wasn't a deci­sion to really debate because it's the right one, and it's the best thing for Blake." 
Griffin got to spend two 
more seasons 
playing along­
side his older 
brother, 

rebounds along "In my mind, it's a Taylor, after 
the way. the two
no-brainer. " 
"It's tough to teamed up to walk away from win back-to­something like Jeff Capel hack state this but at the championships
Sooners coach 
same time. it's a big opportunity and I felt like I was ready for it this year," Griffin said. 
After declaring last year that he would stay at Oklahoma for at least one more season, Griffin said he wanted to be able to con­tribute immediately in the NBA before he would turn pro. 
For him to feel like he was "100 percent sure" that he was ready, he said he'd prob­ably have to be in line to be the No. 1 pick in the draft. Griffin couldn't have done 
much  more  to make his  case  
for that spot.  
He  was  honored  by  The  

Associated Press and several other groups as college bas­in high school. 
At Oklahoma, 
they helped 
rebuild a pro­gram that was on shaky ground because of NCAA sanctions left over from Kelvin Sampson's telephone recruiting scandal. 
Had Griffin decided to stay, it would have added another layer to Oklahoma's unprece­dented feat of having the Heisman Trophy winner and the AP men's basketball play­er of the year in the same year. Sooners quarterback Sam Bradford already passed up the chance to make an early jump to the NFL after his sophomore season, and he and Griffin could have both returned for another year of college. 

Commissioner Hoger Goodell has said only that he will review Vick's status after he is released from prison. 
Vick's bankruptcy plan would have allowed him to keep the first $750,000 of his annual salary. Creditors would get part of any amount over that. 
Santoro also was troubled by the plan's reliance on money from speculative film and book deals to make $1 million in payments that will be due as soon as the plan takes effect, along with mil­lions in other 1~xpenses Vick would soon face. he calculat­ed that Vick would need to earn $7.5 million to $8 mil­lion annually to break even over the next three years. 
But the only income Vick can count on in the near future is tho $10 an hour he will earn in a construction job that is part of his proba­tion. 
Santoro suggested that a new. more realistic bank­ruptcy plan should start with Vick selling one or both of the luxury homes and the three cars he wanted to keep. 

Buoineoo tlr{ajor? 
JntereMed in tllfarketing? 
Jke Oboeroer io looking for otudenfJ, preferably buJinedd majoro, u.,Jw are intereJted in working for the ofdverfioing Department next year. 
Jj intereJted, pleaJe email your reJume to tbea@niedu or mro,trh19@nledu.
I 

Jnterviewo will take place after EaJter Break. 
:I{ow £easing Por 2009-2010 Jlpp(y f!'otfay LimitedSpace }fvaifa6(efI 1 
Offering 11ie (]3est CJ?§nta[(j@tes in fJ'O'Wn! $99 Por 1" :Months <J?gnt 'Vt-itli 12 :Montli Lease! $300 Off1st :Months <l?gnt rwitli 9'Montli Lease! Pree }lppfication Pee PorStutfents 'Vt-itli I.<D. I Cfose to Campus! 

eastle1'oint
Apa t . t 11011. Cle'ftll~d .Rd. 5o"~ Bead, m 46631
-.r. 'llten s PAoae: ,~14) 212-ruo F;uc: (574) n2-1u4 
-Jddau.com 

Wednesday, April 8, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

SMC GOLF 
Belles to start off conference play 
By NATHANIEL LEE 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will begin their conference schedule tomorrow, playing the first round of the MIAA Qualifier. Saint Mary's will play the first of three rounds of the MIAA Qualifier at Blackthorn Golf Course, with the final two rounds played April 24 and 25. This past weekend Saint Mary's withdrew from the Trine Invitational due to weather and travel issues. The Belles were in second place after one round, trailing only MIAA opponent Olivet. 
"We were three strokes behind Olivet. the team we needed to beat last weekend, but we weren't playing our best," head coach Mark Hamilton said. "We are confi­dent that everyone's form is coming together at the right time. and we can win." 
The No. 12-ranked Belles, who finished second in the MIAA Championships in the fall to No. 11 Olivet, also finished second this spring at the Southwestern Invite at Georgetown, Texas. They will host the first round of the MIAA Qualifier at local Blackthorn Golf Course, and hope to seize 
Store Your Stun 
Otf~r the ~>1mmer1 
Call or stop on by & reserve today! 
[5141 203-0512 

6482 Brick Rood. South Bend located at Cleveland Rd. & US 20 Bypa». 7 minutes from campus 
*ANNAff & fiUENDS 
.4..-<Hi¥·~... 
the opportunity playing at a familiar venue. 
"In college, you don't get home matches often so we need to take advantage of that," Hamilton said. "We really need to tee-off well and get good lines in order to take the edge." 
Saint Mary's has been led this spring by the trio of sophomores Hosie O'Conner and Mary Kate Boyce, and senior captain Meredith Fantom. O'Conner, MIAA conference medalist in the fall season, shot an 83 in the first round at Trine. Boyce led the Belles at the tournament with an 82, and senior captain Meredith Fantom shot an 84. 
"Our top player lately has been Mary Kate Boyce, she has been really solid the last couple of weeks and we expect her to continue that," Hamilton said. "Natalie Matuszak and Rosie O'Conner have also been return­ing to form at the right time ~ow:, so we look to be competi­tive. 
The nine MIAA women's golf teams will compete for the league's automatic berth in the NCAA tournament, which will be determined from the first round tomorrow and two rounds in Marshall, Mich. later this month. 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nlee5@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME.,STADIUM 
SMC TENNIS 
Saint Mary's takes on Calvin 
Team looking to improve their record above .500 for the season 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will travel to Grand Hapids, Mich., on Wednesday to face Calvin in hopes of boosting their record above .500 on the season. 
"I am expecting a tough match from Calvin," Belles coach Dale Campbell said. "It may be a battle of who can fight and persevere the most." 
A very hard schedule in the first half of the season has given the team an extra boost as they move into this chal­lenging conference match. This season, the Belles have played three nationally ranked teams who have pre­pared the team for the MIAA schedule. 
"I think that playing those tough teams will give us an advantage in the long run 
NFL 
Raji' s agents dispute claims 
Former BC player accused of failing a drug test at scouting event 
against some of the better teams in our conference, and better prepare ourselves for what lies ahead in the rest of the season," junior Camille Gebert said. 
In terms of the competition that the Knights will provide, Calvin has put together three strong victories against Lincoln, Bryn Mawr and Aquinas. 
"Our team has shown improvement in winning diffi­cult matches," Campbell said. "I am expecting them to come out aggressive in doubles and to be focused against us." 
In practice the girls have changed up their normal rou­tine to better fit what it will take to beat Calvin, last year's conference runner-up. 
"We have been working on improving our fundamentals of doubles play and trying to get off to a good start in matches," Campbell said. 
"Now, Tm happy the truth is out. ,, 
B.J. Raji NFL draft prospect 
when there was no evidence ­there was no substance to believe it," Raji was quoted as saying. "Now, I'm happy the truth is out." 
draft-eligible players, including rumors about test results, begin to circulate every year at this time," the league statement said. "Many of these rumors are cir­culated for self-serving reasons, and they are terribly unfair to the players and their families." 
Raji's agents said their client has not been contacted by the league or a medical adviser 
There is one area of the game in particular that has been emphasized for today's match and for the remainder of the season. 
"In practice we are really focusing on doubles and dou­bles strategy, because win­ning the three doubles match­es is so important," sopho­more Jillian Hurley said. 
Last year · against the Knights, Saint Mary's was unable to claim a victory, but a new team and a new approach might change the outcome this season. 
"We have a much stronger team than last year, so it would be great for everyone to step it up and pull out a 
win," Hurley said.  
The  Belles will  face  the  
Calvin Knights  on  the road  
beginning at 4 p.m.  

Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
regarding a positive test. 
Raji disputed the report in an interview with The Press Democrat of Santa Rosa, Calif., in a story posted on the newspa­per's Web site late Monday night. 
"I couldn't under­stand how this rumor became such a big splash in the media 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The agents rep­resenting one of the NFL draft's top prospects. defensive tackle 
B.J. Raji, strongly disputed a report that the former Boston College player failed a drug test at the league's scouting combine in February. 
In an e-mail sent to The 

the NFL has issued a statement challenging the report initially posted on Sl.com on Thursday. 
The Sl.com report, which did not identify the drug. was attrib­uted to unidentified NFL team sources. The Web site reported that Raji's name will be on a list of players who tested positive. 
In a statement released by the NFL last week, the league said 
Associated Press on Tuesday, Brian Murphy and Mark Humenik referred to the reports as "cowardly" and "malicious," noting their client has not been notified by the NFL of any failed test. 
"The media reports accusing 

B.J. of a failed drug test at the Combine are false," Murphy and Humenik wrote. "Given the cow­ardly attacks and damage to B.J.'s character as a result of these vicious rumors, we sin­cerely hope the responsible par­ties are discovered and held accountable for their actions." 
Murphy and Humenik, based in Irvine, Calif., also noted that neither its 32 teams nor the league office know the results of drug or steroid tests taken at the combine. Instead, players 
who test positive are notified in writing by the independent med­ical advisers who perform the testing. 
"Unfortunately, rumors about 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 8, 2009 
NHL 

Hurricanes route Isles 9-0 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. -The goals came in bunches for the Carolina Hurricanes. So did the records. 
The Hurricanes matched a club mark with their ninth straight victory by giving the New York Islanders the worst beating in franchise history, a 9-0 rout Tuesday night. 
Eric Staal had three goals and an assist, and finished with a club-record fourth hat trick of the season. Cam Ward made 12 saves in setting the team's single-season mark with victory No. 39, and he matched another club mark with his sixth shutout while helping Carolina extend its franchise-record home-ice winning streak to 12. 
"We're playing the right way. We're playing at a high, eom­petitive level. and we're play­ing like a well-oiled machine," Staal said. "When you're confi­dent and when you're doing the right things, you're going to get good results and nights like tonight." 
Erik Cole assisted on all three of Staal's goals and fin­ished with four assists, while Tuomo Ruutu had two goals and Scott Walker, Dwight Helminen, Rod Brind'Amour and Frantisek Kaberle also scored for the Hurricanes. 
They led 3-0 after one period and 6-0 after two and held a 57-12 shots advantage-the widest differential in franchise history -in keeping pace with Philadelphia in the race for the No. 4 seed in the East. Both teams have 97 points, but the Flyers, who beat Florida 2-1, have a game in hand. 
Yann Danis stopped just seven of 10 shots in the first period before giving way to Joey MacDonald, who made 41 saves but allowed six goals for the Islanders. Never before had they lost by more than eight goals -and they hadn't done that since losing 8-0 at St. Louis in 1988. 
"It was just one of those nights when it seemed nothing was going in the right direc­tion," Islanders coach Scott Gordon said. 
The Islanders finished this one with more than twice as many penalty minutes as shots. They didn't hit double figures in shots until there were six minutes left. And by the midpoint of the third peri­od, they had as many shots (eight) as Carolina had goals (eight). 
"I don't have any explana­tion," Danis said. 
Anton Babchuk had four assists and Dennis Seidenberg added three for the Hurricanes. Carolina contin­ued a push for the No. 4 seed in the East by not ovnrlooking thn NIIL's worst team three nights after an emotional win over Pittsburgh that clinchPd a playofl" spot. 
"This could havn been easily a game that we !".ould have taken a night ofT, and thn guys came in and prepared and threw everything at them," Ward said. 
Thnir nine-game winning streak matclwd the mark reached twice by th!) 2005-0(, team that won the Stanley Cup. and Ward broke thn mark for victories set by that season's starter. Martin Gerber. who won 38 before Ward supplant­ed him on his way to thn Conn Smythe Trophy. 
"It's great, but the most important thing is that we're playing some good hockey right now," Ward said. 

Combine the value of a graduate degree with the quality reputation of the University of Louisville and you will gain a solid investment that gives you an edge in today's chaotic market. 
Studies show that those with a master's degree earn on average $400,000 more over their careers than they would with a bachelor's degree alone. Those with a doctoral degree have an in­creased earning potential on average of $1.3 million more over their careers than if they had a bachelor's degree only. 
Invest in your success. Learn more about our graduate programs at: www.graduate.louisville.edu 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~ LOUISVILLEw 
Irs Happening Here. 

The of Louisville is an institution. 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Arizona hires Xavier head coach Sean Miller 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. -Arizona lured Xavier's Sean Miller to Tucson with a five-year con­traet that pays him a base salary of $2 million per year plus a $1 million signing bonus. 
The 40-year-old eoach was introduced Tuesday as the replacement for llall of Famer Lute Olson at a news confer­ence on the basketball court at McKale Centor. 
With his family sitting nearby and Olson looking on. Miller said it was "humbling, very humbling" to take over from a coaeh who had bnen suceessful for so long. 
"It's also what drivns you to eomn and take this opportuni­ty," Miller said. "because very few programs have a single coach with the legacy that coach Olson loft." 
The contract indudes incen­tives that could add as much as $985,000 to Miller's annual salary. Those indude $175,000 for roaching the Final Four and another $375,000 for win­ning the national champi­onship. 
State rules limit the h~ngth of the eontraet. but athletic direc­tor Jim Livnngood said thn school would work to add two more years to the deal after a season or two. If Miller stays also might not be back. 
Miller mentioned Wise by name when he talked about wanting a coaching staff that already knew Xavier's system. 
"I want our staff to be able to teach people like Nic Wise Qur system," the new coach said. 
When Livengood said, "I feel reasonably sure right now that we have a phenomenal head basketball coach," Miller inter­rupted and said, "You should be very sure." 
In five seasons at Xavier, Miller eompiled a 120-47 n~cord and took four teams to the NCAA tournament. Ilis last three teams won the Atlantic 10 ehampionship. In 2008, his Musketeers advanced to the Elite Eight. This year's team made it to the rngional semifi­nals, and he had potentially his best team yet eoming back next season. 
He said it was a wrenching decision to leav£' a place that meant so mueh to him. 
There were reports that he initially turned down the Arizona job before deciding Monday to take it, but he said Tuesday that "I don't know if I flver said no." 
"It just takes some time as the person making the decision to be able to figure out what's right, what's wrong, and take a deep breath and really reflect on it," Miller said. "Jim was 

at Arizona for more at the
"[V]ery few programs
seven seasons. mercy of me just 
he would get a have a single coach trying to take a 
one-time pay­with the legacy that little bit longer, ment of $2.1 not necessarily
coach Olson left."
million. changing my 
The money mind as mueh as comes from Sean Miller making sure funds generat­Arizona coach because this is a 
ed by the ath­letic depart­ment, including booster dona­tions. Still, the contract must be approved by the Arizona Board of Regents. 
In 23 seasons at Arizona, Olson led the Wildcats to four Final Four appearances, win­ning the national champi­onship in 1997. 
But Miller inherits a program that's been in turmoil for two years. Olson took a leave of absence in thn 2007-08 season and was temporarily replaced by Kevin O'Neill. Olson plamwd to return last fall, but shortly before the season began he announced his retire­ment for health reasons. Russ Pennell took over as interim coach. 
"I've known Sean a long time," Olson said. "I think he's a young man of great charac­ter. I think he's a community kind of guy, he's a family kind of guy, and an outstanding coach, obviously. He's stepping in to a tough situation, but I think if you look back on it, we stepped in to a tough situation, too." 
The Wildeats made it, barely, to the NCAA tournament for the 25th consecutive season and made a surprising run to the Midwest Regional semifi­nals before being routed by Louisville. 
Junior Chase Budinger announced Tuesday that he was leaving school to make himself available for the NBA draft. Fellow junior Jordan Hill is expected to do the same. Junior point guard Nic Wise great decision. A 
. new coach shows up here, you want him to be ready to go. 
"I know what the expecta­tions are. I wanted to make sure I was that guy." 
As for his new staff, Miller said he would wait to see if his lead assistant Chris Maek would replace him at Xavier. 
''I'm hopeful that that hap­pens. I think it would be a great choice," Miller said. 
Miller said he would recruit nationally but would not rush to fill available seholarships. 
"We're going to be selective. Most importantly we have to take the players that can do what we want to do," he said. "If that's not the class of 2009, we're going to be patient and take the right ones in the class of 2010." 
He said he planned to work out the remaining Arizona players over the next few days. For Wise, Miller would be his fourth coach in four seasons. 
"One of the things that I take great pride in and our staff will is there's nothing more impor­tant than the players, nothing," Miller said. "It's not even close. If you treat the players the right way, they'll run through a wall for you. If you do every­thing you can to make sure they develop on and off the court, in return the team will build itself." 
Miller recalled playing at McKale as a point guard for Pittsburgh. 
"Sean Elliott had about seven dunks in a row," he said. "It was so loud in this building." 

Wednesday, April 8, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish seek leader at Robert Kepler 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
After disappointing showings in its previous two tournaments, Notre Dame is working to put together a solid showing on Saturday at the Robert Kepler Intercollegiate at Ohio State's Scarlet Course in Columbus, Ohio. 
The Irish, who played four tour­naments in only 17 days last month, hit the links this weekend against softer competition than they have faced this spring. 
Still, Irish Jim Kubinski is hop­ing that his team tees off like a team on a mission. 
''!'d like to see our guys with a little more fire than we've exhibit­ed in our last two events," Kubinski said. "We played soft the last couple of weeks. Win or lose, I'd like to see more Notre Dame spirit, more toughness." 
Notre Dame opened its spring slate with solid showings over Spring Break (second at the Palmas del Mar Intercollegiate, fifth at the Border Olympics), but finished dead last at the presti­gious Schenkel Invitational and were sunk by a late collapse at the FAU Spring Break Championship. 
After the loss of their only sen­ior, Josh Sandman. to injury, the Irish have featured only one upperclassman, junior Doug Fortner, consi?tently in their line­up. Freshmen and sophomores have taken the lion's share of starts throughout the spring, with mixed results. Sophomore Jeff Chen and freshman Max Scodro have each had solid springs. but the team has been inconsistent on the whole. 
Kubinski admitted the lack of a steady leader has been a weak spot for Notre Dame lately. 
''I'm looking for someone to step up with fire and determina­tion and say, 'Follow me. I'll show you how to win,"' Kubinski said. "We need that. A coach can set the tone but players must also push each other." 
The Robert Kepler Intercollegiate features a less demanding field than the Irish have faced in recent tourna­ments. The 7,455-yard, par 71 course, however, is one of the toughest venues in the collegiate circuit and should give a young Notre Dame squad enough headaches. 
The Irish tee off with two rounds Saturday morning, before concluding play on Sunday. The tournaments marks Notre Dame's return to the links after a two­week break. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
NHL 

Rangers i111prove playoff hopes 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The Eastern Conference playoff race is not for the faint of heart. In the course of a night, a period, a shift, postseason hopes can go from likely to lousy. 
The New York Rangers and Montreal Canadiens went head to head Tuesday night, and the fortunes of both changed in a heartbeat. 

Chris Drury scored a pair of goals and the Rangers took advantage of the Canadiens' careless defense and suspect goaltending for a 3-1 victory on Tuesday night. 
If New York wins either of its two remaining games against the Philadelphia Flyers -starting at home Thursday night the Rangers will be in the playoffs for a fourth straight year. 
"We're probably not going to focus on clinching. We're just going to focus on playing a really good game and win," Henrik Lundqvist said after a 24-save effort. 
The Rangers' playoff chances didn't look nearly as good just hours earlier when they limped home on a 1-3-1 skid and found themselves tied in points with the Florida Panthers at the postseason cutoff. New York had a slight edge because of one more win. 
By beating the Canadiens and getting help from the Flyers, who beat Florida 2-1, the Rangers can think about catching Montreal for seventh place instead of worrying about the ninth-place Panthers. 
Drury gave the Rangers a 1­0 lead in the first period and stretched their advantage to 3-1 in the second with his 22nd goal. Canadiens defense­man Mike Komisarek coughed up the puck each time before the New York captain scored. 
The Rangers (41-30-9) can even earn a playoff spot if the Panthers lose once in regula­tion time. 
"It was a big night for us," Lundqvist said. "Going into this game we knew we had to win. 
"We are going to go for it Thursday. It is a big game again. We have a great oppor­tunity to play great now and go into the playoffs feeling really good." 
Nik Antropov shook off a knee injury to get into the lineup and scored with a dive against goalie Carey Price, who played for the first time in four games following a bout with the flu and made 41 saves. 
Canadiens defenseman Mathieu Dandenault scored for the second straight night in a losing cause. 
Doubles 
continued from page 24 

sweep, juniors Kali Krisik and Cosmina Ciobanu won 8-5. 
Getting the Irish their sec­ond point, No. 36 Frilling rolled to a 6-0, 6-1 victory, and Ciobanu followed suit with a 6-1, 6-2 victory to give Notre Dame a 3-0 lead. 
As Notre Dame's season nears its end, lopsided victo­ries like this one bring prom­ise and momentum for the postseason. The team will look to win again in similar fashion Saturday against Texas A&M in their final home match of the regular season. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer@nd.edu 
Before long, both Shannon Mathews and senior Katie Potts had given Notre Dame a 5-0 lead, clinching the victory and the team's 20th win against only four losses. Potts won the closest match of the day, winning 2-6, 6-4, 1-0. 
Giving the Irish a sniff of a sweep victory, Krisik won in three sets, but No. 35 Tefft was upset 2-6, 6-4, 1-0 at No. 1 singles. 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 8, 2009 
Guerrera 
continued from page 24 
points leader with 62 this sea­son, giving her 287 for her career. 
Junior Gina Scioscia and sophomore Ansley Stewart led the Irish attack alongside Byers over the weekend. Scioscia had two goals and three assists against Cincinnati, and Stewart tal­lied a career-high four goals. Against Louisville, Scioscia had three goals and an assist, and Stewart scored two goals of her own. 
Scioscia leads the team in points this season with 63 on 38 goals and 25 assists. and is second in the Big East in points per game. 
Taking over the Irish defense this season is senior captain and preseason All-Big East team selection Shannon Burke. Burke already has posted 34 ground balls and 22 caused turnovers, leading the 
team in both categories and passing her last season stats of 33 ground balls and 32 caused turnovers. 
Dominating the goal for the Irish is goalkeeper Erin Goodman. The senior has made 104 saves out of 302 shots faced this season, allow­ing only 125 goals. Her save percentage of 45.4 percent is ninth in the Big East. two behind Orange goalkeeper Liz Hogan's 46.7 percent. Over the weekend Goodman helped the Irish defense in allowing only 13 goals in the two matches. 
"It's going to be a battle this weekend. It's always a really competitive game and we're really looking forward to it," Coyne said. 
Looking to keep their win­ning streak going over the Easter weekend, Notre Dame will face the Orange in Syracuse on Saturday at 12 p.m. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ND TRACK & FIELD 

Irish shuffle lineup for Ole Miss 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will look to con­tinue its run of solid outdoor showings as the spring season rolls on at the Ole Miss Invitational in Oxford, Miss. The strong field will provide a stiff challenge to a reshuffled Irish lineup. 
Irish coach Joe Piane, in preparation for a meet at St. Antonio College in Los Angeles early next week, will field a depleted lineup for the Ole Miss competition. 
"We'll do fine," Piane said. "We're taking some kids and putting them in places they haven't really competed in before. We're going to get a few more people qualified and prepared for the Big East !Tournament!. That's our goal. That's our focus, and then after that we'll try to get some more people into the NCAAs." 
Still, the competition at Ole Miss will not let Notre Dame pick up any easy wins. A deep and talented field, headed by host Mississippi, will lineup against the Irish. 
"The Ole Miss [Invitational] should be a pretty solid meet," Piane said. "Obviously we're looking out for Mississippi, among some oth­ers. It'll be a very good meet 
with great competition in  a  
great venue."  
The event comes  after  a  

strong opening to the outdoor season for Notre Dame, who took nine individual events at the Mike Pohlein Invitational last week. 
In the women's 10,000­
meter race, sophomore Erica Watson finished first with a time of 36:48, and teammates Emily Wauford and Kari Johnson finished second and third, giving the Irish a sweep of the top spots. 
Freshman Natalie Geiger also had an impressive week­end, winning the 400 and fin­ishing fourth in the 200 sprints. 
For the men, first place fin­ishes went to the 4x400 relay team and also to freshman Jonathan Rincon in the 800. 
Both the men's and women's teams have put up strong numbers in the wake of an indoor campaign that pro­duced two Irish All­Americans. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 

DePaul 
continued from page 24 
"Bargar has kind of been our first game girl and Jody has been the second game girl and it's really been working out for us for the most part," Gumpf said. "A lot of great teams ride one pitcher the entire year, it's awesome to be able to coach two of them. I'm expecting big-time, dominat­ing performances from them on Wednesday." 
Bargar enters today's dou­bleheader with an ERA of 
1.70 and an opponent batting average of .224. She struck out seven last Sunday against Seton Hall. 
Not to be outdone, Valdivia turned in one of her best per­formances of the year on Saturday. The sophomore car­ried a no-hitter against Pittsburgh into the fourth and finished the game with a career-high 14 strikeouts. 
Despite their pitching domi­

nance, the team's greatest success this season has been at the plate, where the Irish have erupted for a combined 31 runs over their last four games. 
Freshman Dani Miller and junior Christine Lux have led the charge for the Irish, com­ing up with clutch hits and taking full advantage of the mistakes of opposing pitchers. Miller leads the team with a .434 batting average and nine doubles, while Lux has belted eight home runs and driven in 29 runs. 
"I just think they're confi­dent right now," Gumpf said. "I don't know if jt's timing or whatever you want to call it. They're swinging the bats really well and they're com­fortable up to bat." 
The Irish will hope to main­tain that confide·nce· at the plate when they take the field at Melissa Cook Stadium today at 4 p.m. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd;edu 
Minors 
continued from page 24 

and only one out. senior Jeremy Barnes grounded into a double play to end the first inning. Unfortunately lor the Irish, that is the closest they would come to scoring again the rest of the way. 
Notre Dame's offense strug­gles came with its inability to adjust to the professional pitch­ing and use of wooden bats. In fact, Casey's single was the only hit recorded by the Irish in the contest. 
In the bottom half of the inning, the Silverhawks wasted little time scoring four runs of their own olf sophomore Todd Miller, who started the game for the Irish. Notre Dame's defense behind Miller also had a shaky inning, making two errors that resulted in two unearned runs. 
After an explosive first inning, the scoring. came to a halt with just one run being scored between both teams in the final 

Junior outfielder A.J. Pollock swings against Toledo in a 11-7 victory at Frank Eck Stadium on April 1. 
six frames. That run came for the Silverhawks in the third inning off freshman reliever Steve Sabatino. 
Notre Dame's bullpen had a strong outing Tuesday, pitching six innings and allowing just one run on four hits. The Irish used a total of six different pitchers for an inning each in relief of Miller. 
Th'e Irish will return to colle­giate play when they take on Cincinnati in a three-game set Thursday in Cincinnati. Notre Dame is currently tied for fourth in the Big East with a 5-4 record, while the Bearcats are tied for ninth at 3-6. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker 1 @nd.edu 

GWLL 
continued from page 24 
Charley Dickenson leads Denver with 30 points on the season. despite tallying just 10 goals. Senior midfield Joey Murray leads the squad in that department with 20. 
The Irish and Pioneers have played two common oppo­nents on the season so far -Bellarmine and North Carolina. Denver beat the Knights 12-9. but fell to the Tar Heels 20-7. Notre Dame, on the other hand. beat both teams 11-6 and 9-7, respec­tively. 
A win would move tho Irish to 3-0 in conference and, with only two additional GWLL games remaining, put them in very good position for the conference playoffs. 
Notre Dame will face off in Denver at 1:30 p.m. on Saturday. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
MLB 

Keppinger leads Astros past Cubs 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON Jeff Keppinger's broken-bat single in the 10th inning ofT closE~r Kevin Gregg gave the llouston Astros a 3-2 victory over the Chicago Cubs on Tuesday night. 
Hunter Pence homered and Michael Bourn had an HBl sin­gle for the Astros, who carried a 2-1 lead into the eighth before Alfonso Soriano hit a long home run off LaTroy Hawkins. 
Ivan Hodriguez opened the bottom of the 1Oth with an infield single down the third­base line, his first hit with Houston after starting the sea­son 0-for-7. Lance Berkman followed with another single ol'l' Neal Cotts (()-1) before Cubs manager Lou Piniella brought in Gregg. 
Hodriguez advanced to third when pinch-hitter Jason Michaels flied out to center. Miguel Tejada was intention­ally walked, loading the bases for Keppinger, who entered as a pinch-runner in the ninth. 
Acquired from Cincinnati last week. Keppinger snapped his bat and stumbled out of the box on his grounder between third and shortstop that scored Rodriguez. 
Houston earned its first win of the season after the Cubs won 4-2 on Monday behind Carlos Zambrano. 
Aaron Miles reached base with two outs in the top of the 1Oth on a throwing error by Tejada at shortstop. Doug Broeail (1-0) retired Soriano for the third out. 
Astros eloser Jose Valverde pitched a scon~less ninth with two strikeouts. He was helped out when Tejada grabbed a grounder by Reed Johnson. spun all the way around and threw out Johnson at first. 
Soriano's homer bounced ofT the railroad tracks atop the wall in left-center. He also homered on the second pitch of Monday night's game. 
Bourn put the Astros on top 2-1 with his HBI single in the sixth. 
Pence tied it at 1 with a homer to left-center in the 
fifth. It landed in a section of Berkman fans who dress up in puma costumes in honor of the slugger's nickname, "Big Puma." The group of more than a half-dozen waved the paws of their mustard yellow and white costumes and jumped around wildly as Pence circled the bases. 
Kaz Matsui tripled later in the inning before Ryan Dempster walked Rodriguez. Dempster got out of the inning when Berkman struck out. 
Ryan Theriot doubled and scored on a single by Derrek Lee in the third inning to make it 1-0 Cubs. 
Dempster sailed through the first few innings and didn't allow a hit until a single by Tejada with two outs in the fourth. 
Dempster, who had a career­high 17 wins and made the All-Star team last season, gave up six hits and two runs with five strikeouts in six innings. 
Angel Guzman struck out two in a scoreless seventh for the Cubs. 


Wednesday, April 8, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
64 _ Bora, wild part of Afghanistan 
65 The Box Tops' Her in Church" 66 Painter's prop 67 Soon to get I Trying to get 68 Ushered I Showed the door 69 Attract I Protract 
Down Fjord I Bargain 
locale 2 Mixer 3 Autobahn auto 4 Holiday display 5 Periodicals not 
brought by a postal carrier 6 Foot part I Go beyond 7 White House adjunct 8 Parched 
9 They may be covered and circled 
1 0 Unwavering 
11 Kemo 
12 Brick baker 
13 Map feature I Start 22 Watch location 24_example 26 Arriving at the 
tail end I Survive 
27 It has four strings 28 Brother of 
Rebecca, in the Bible 29 Some Muppet dolls 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by C.W. Stewart 
30 Burn balm 451ndia's 54 Peter at the 31 Consumed 
Coast ivories 

32 Tire feature 4 7 Necessitate 55 "It's either you " 
33 Submitted, as an 49 Tried entry I Emitted 56 Poverty 
51 Hit so as to 36 Honcho make collapse I 58 Marge's TV 39 Antilles, e.g. Win over daughter 40_Major 52 '60s protest I 59 What Cain did to Skip, as a dance 35-Across
43 Spouse's response 53 From 60 Tired I Total 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CEU:URfTIRS BORN ON Tlll$ DAY: Rusxll Cwwe. 45; Ja.:ki" Cb~~t 55: Fr~nds l'or<l C<>Pl"'la. 70: i}.wid Fto:ost, 7() 
llappy Uirthday: You haw I<> •tay in colllrol. Don'tlct uncertainty cause you to make fast 
and latal deei~iou~ focus on wbu you are as •wll a~ yo\lr ~t<lais Be cli'V<'f. crcatiw lllld 
"t!Uirm> and you •all work !hronr!t any lik·alt~rilljll\lll~h spots. Y<}Uf tmulb<.'fs are 2. 12, 
15. 24. 25, 31, JS 

ARIES fltareh 21-April l9): Yon may t.luuk you kuow what's be~linp. your way hut 
l:i~l-mimne ~:hange,; will fhp rhin;t~ upside down. •·:msin;t )'Ott to scramble. Stay calm and 
ope11 yo11r 1niud to idea> or 'U)ljtestious hcin)t ofJ\:.red. D<>n't allow anyone to cost you h· 
n~nciaHy..l 'tal'$ 

TAl.'Rl'S iAprillO-Mny 20}: Don't wall; away fi:vmltdp beiul! \>{fered. h <'all mak a 
d.tifer<:rri:e ttl the (>Uk<>llle ol a tlevelopin~ deal or llej!ohatmn. Someoll<" is likely to be ,.,at· 
nus of ycnr ~kith or position. Correct any miscom:cptl<ln. 5 stat'\'. 
GEMINl 0\ta~· 21-Jun.-201: Gi~e-atK[.. take will t><: necessarv. Smtl<'\~tc wl!lt r:xpcnttK-.: 
nt ><'tti<>rity m;iy stilk y(>hf plan•. '\'om can wot'k ilt'rlUIId l>ny sltu;,ti<>u y(m fa"<: if ~·on an· 
open :md honest re!!ardintt your plans. A nuiqu.. approach will ~win awro"al. 2 stars 
CANCER tJun~ 21-July ZlJ: Aheritw some <lf the cOitdttioo" you eurrently live With 14·ill 
be a start aud. wiUt a wupk of rcn~wa!!<ms. vt•u shonld be able to at·c11mmoda1c Y<lll! plam for fumn: ~~~ of the space. Good fonuuc em\ be yours if you ;uc adJptahk 4 >~.w -~-­
LEO !July L'>·Aug.lll: Gt•f lnvolved in ac1wities you enjoy nnd yon will dcwlop friend 
ships with pooplc who c~n hdp you get nhcnd. Netwqrkinp. can be OOllC succcssfnlly with 
aut \tillnriuv loo far fmmlwme or woik Don'tmake j:ll'tlmises you ca1mot kLoep 3 >f:II'S 
VIRGO (AOjl. 2J-Sept. 22.1: Anxi~ty may ~etthe better of you if you ltlluw em<llional 
lllatters io esclllale. Let oth~'fs be the ones to come across as err~tic a1kl om of cnmrnl. 
Ba"" your actwns nn fat.ts and pre,ent aHem"!"'"' that can benefit e\·etyoue. 3 ~Iars 
LIDRA <.Sept. 23·Ckt 2:2): You can rmtke smue eJ~traordimuy moves if you stay alert and 
take advnnta?-c of miStake,; and mtshaps. You cannot let your cmottoi!S ~er iu the mtddle of 
a deaL Don't have misplaced sympathy for :>OJneone, 1.1~ )'ffllf nnatz.iuation and yon will 
gam snpport. 3 stu~ 

SCORPIO tOct. 2.'-Nov.lll: 'l11e ad>ice bdn)loffered by smneot~<> dOS¢ may be 11iwn 
in good faith bul it may 110\ lx: valid. Do yo\D' OV.>Jl che<-kin!! before yoo decide to do some· 
thing unorthodox. Don't cave if som<."Que puts pre.ssun: ou you. 4 stars 
SAGJ'rfARllJS (Nov. 22-Dee. 21): You may be s1trpri~d by sonte of the unavoidable 
dmnges that take place in your Jll.'fW!Iallife or wiib regard to your home. Be pn>pared to 
negotiate and talk your wa~· through whate,·er or wb'"-"''Cr cballcuttes you. 2 star« 
CAPRICORN OX>c. 22-Jan. 19): Go over vour financial statements, bills and invest.. 
lllelJts. 11li.'Te is money 10 he saved or madt• by doubkcht-cking e'-~'f)'thing. Aserious de-· 
cision can be made tlliil will alter ymiT financial situation foo:ver. Negotiate a l""ter deal 
fmm a ~trong and wdHnfom~eti position. S stars 
;\QUARUlS (,Jan. 26-F.,b. t8): AQUARIUS {Jau, 20-wb. IS): Youmoy have to rethink 
yotiT strntegy regardinj! pe~onal mal!e~. Somrone may try to lead you to believe that 
things have chau~ed or llmt souwthiug is bei1111 offered tlmt ucmally is not. Gettllt' facts. 
ask questions and don'tmake promises ba'>Cd Olllx:a!'$lly. J stan 
'PISCES i.Fclt. 19-MaiTh 20): Follow !be more <'QIL""-rvativc route. even if it doesn't ~xcilc 
you. Security is what yon must strive for, eSJX'Cially when your economk simatiou is in 
.i;."<lp<tnly, Don't gossip or divulre secrets . .3 st!tN 
Blrtbday Baby: You are optimistic, open and curiou~, Yon are an adn11:ate 101" rdorm and 
f;tir phty. You will alwap stove to do your wry best. 
CROSSWORD 
Across Revenue I Result 6 Many a holiday visitor I Bandit 10 Welcome, as a visitor I Try to make a date with 14 Comedian George 15 1980s Geena Davis sitcom 16 Locale for a seat of honor 
17 1985 Kate Nelligan title role 18 Chickadee's perch 19 Up to the job 20 Condor's claw 21 College asset 23 Glean 25 Oldest U.S. civil liberties org. 
26 At a lecture, say I Surpass in quality 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

29 Steel helmets with visors 34 Daughter of 28­Down 35 Genesis victim 37 Gawk 38 Priest's garb 
39 Choice for a dog, as well as a hint to this puzzle's theme 
41 Half a score 

42 Has rolling in the 
aisles 44 Trick ending? 45Gist 46 Lacking 
inflection 48 Sub I Excel 50 D.C. bigwig 51 False god 52 Grand Canyon 

material 57 Doritos dip 61 "Uh-huh" 62 What a surveyor 
surveys 63 Govt. security 



OKH. 1'1~1'RttSr/ISS, T/MII'()R THIT HVNr! rHI JOSIR H-1'0 WIJAR A INHiNY W/1" # OUR ll.ti!ITIR 6RI/NCN Mill"lNG! OH, .JOY! I HON IIINP liP lOOKING ..S Cllf'l ..S.teNK/HfJ PIP IN 11" Ar ~YlfARS/ 
I I'OUIIP Ill 'HOW TO IWI'I ,/1 CJ/lrHQIJC 1./,_,HIIlSITY I'CR QI./MMIISf' 

I F()UNP Ill f/WtoiJl WIGOI'MONIY! 
swuurl 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
DAVID CAVADINI 
NW (JAN$, II'CI.INI1 THIS 1'1./NNY ClAUS~ 
1'/tOM TNI UNHIRSI1Y STAndll!k 'TNI INriiJ.#CTI.IA/. 1.11'1 01' THI VNHIRSITY SIIOVt/1 liT A/.1. TIMI!IIIIINPYINIP A/'IP SI.ISrAINIIP 61' lit PIYO'I"toN TO TNif TWIN PIOIC'PIJHIS 01' THIOU>GY ANP 
PHI/.O!IOPIH,~ ··-~.WOO~ 
\ 


JUMBLE 

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
I TCHAB t_[) I XJ 
©2008 Tribune Media Servites, Inc. 
Aft Rtghls Reserved. NOPER j  
1  rx  
tRUBECH IJ (]tSMALEYjJ rx  [] 1  

JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRlON 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

'II/HAT THE T~­
AG£:1<5 TUI<N£:0 
INTO AFra< A DIP IN 11-\e OC£AN. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as 

www.BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
DOME PIECE 

1 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

A=r I III Jr xI III IJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: TRULY SOUSE IMMUNE HEALTH Answer: What the businessmen read before breakfast -THE MENU 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City ______________ State _________ Zip______ 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Second in conference on the line as tean1 takes on Syracuse 
matchups, to place them in a Cincinnati and Louisville, by really hard worker, very the Bearcats and seven points
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
tie for second in the confer­scores of 16-5 and 20-8, unselfish, and has definitely (five goals and two assists)
Sports Writer 
ence with the Orange (9-3, 4-respectively. has worked hard to get where versus the Cardinals. Byers' 1 Big East). For her efforts in the victo­she is," Coyne said. "To be five goals at Louisville gave The No. 10 Irish are back on "Syracuse is a huge rivalry, ries, junior defender Hachael honored in the Big East, her 50 for the season, making the field Saturday as they and we've never beaten them Guerrera earned Big East which is a very competitive her the first player in Notre travel to Syracuse to take on in the Carrier Dome, so I defensive player of the week conference, is a true testa­Dame history to score 50 or the No. 8 Orange in their fifth think it's time to start a new honors. Guerrera had nine ment to her hard work." more goals in a four seasons. straight Big East game. tradition," Irish coach Tracy ground balls, two draw con­In both games, senior cap­Earlier this season Byers also 
Notre Dame (11-2, 4-1 Big Coyne said. trols and six caused turnovers tain Jillian Byers led the Irish became Notre Dame's all-time East) has won its last three Over the past weekend, the in the two games. offense with six points (five games, all conference Irish took down both "Hachael [Guerrera] is a goals and an assist) against see GUERRERA/ page 22 


~­
BASEBALL 
Sent down to the minors 
Silverhawks stymie Irish in exhibition win 
-~ By ALEX BARKER Assisram Sporrs Ediror 
Despite striking first off the bat of sophomore David Casey in the first inning, Notre Dame's offen­sive woes resulted in a 5-1 defeat at the hands of the South Bend Silverhawks, the Single-A affiliate of the Arizona Diamondbacks, in the second annual Silver vs. Gold exhibition game. 
Proceeds from the game's tick­et sales were given to the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation, which fights Niemann-Pick Type-C disease. 
The Irish jumped on the Silverhawks in the top half of the first inning when Casey singled to right field to drive home class­mate Golden Tate and give the Irish an early 1-0 lead. 
With runners at the corners 
see MINORS/page 22 

VANESSA I Notre Dame sophomore pitcher Todd Miller delivers against Toledo in an 11-7 Irish win at home on April 1. Miller started Tuesday in the Irish's 5-1 loss to the South Bend Silverhawks. 
page 24 

ND WoMEN's TENNIS 
Irish top Illinois 6-1 on the road 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame reached the 20­win mark against Illinois on Tuesday. The 6-1 victory in Champagne was never in doubt. 
To open the match, the Irish swept the doubles point. The team's doubles domination has been encouraging all sea­son long and yesterday's match was no different. Junior Colleen Rielley and freshman Shannon Mathews earned the first victory 8-3. The No. 3 pairing of senior Kelcy Tefft and freshman Kristy Frilling clinched the doubles point with a 9-7 victo­ry of their own. To take the 
see DOUBLES/page 21 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
ND looks for tenth straight 
By SAM WERNER Associate Sporrs Ediror 
The Irish will hit the road this weekend and try and run their school-record unbeaten start to 10-0 when they take on Denver in the Rocky Mountain Lacrosse Showdown at Invesco Field Saturday. 
No. 4 Notre Dame (9-0, 2-0 Great Western Lacrosse League) will be playing on the road for the first time in three weeks, registering home wins over Bellarmine. Villanova and Air Force in between. 
The Irish defense has been their calling card so far this season, giving up a stalwart 
6.87 goals per game. The unit, led by senior netminder Scott Rodgers was especially stout Saturday against the Falcons, giving up only four goals en route to a 10-4 win. 
Scoring hasn't been much of a problem for Notre Dame either. Averaging 11.56 goals per game, the Irish have four players with over 20 points on the year, and one -senior midfielder Peter Christman ­at 19. Junior attack Neal Hicks leads the team with 26 points and senior attack Ryan Hoff leads the team in goals with 18, with Hicks and jun­ior midfield Grant Krebs elosn behind at 17 eaeh. 
The Pioneers (6-5, 1-1 GWLL) rely on four players for most of their offensive production. Junior midfield 
see GWLL/ page 22 
ND SOFTBALL 

Squad travels to face BigEast leader DePaul 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 
In the Big East, each game is just as important as the next. But when the Irish take on defending confer­ence champions DePaul today, the outeome of the doubleheader will mean just a little bit more to a team coming into its own. 
Notre Dame (21-12, 7-2 Big East) is cun·cntly riding a hot streak, having won U of its last 15 games to rise to third overall in the conf'er­enee. The Irish are coming ol'f' an impressive weekend of play, splitting a double­header with Pittsburgh on Saturday and sweeping Seton Hall on Sunday. 
The Blue Demons (20-8, 8­
1) have picked up where they left off last season, cur­rently sitting atop the Big East rankings. DePaul's 22­game home winning streak just came to an end on Saturday as Seton Hall handed the Blue Demons their first league loss of the season. 
Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said the team will not change its approach to accommodate DePaul's recent success. 
"We pn~ pare for all 15 teams the same way we've been prP.paring all year. and that's just working on the fundamentals," Gumpf said. 
Led by the pitching tan­dem of senior Brittney Bargar and sophomore Jody Valdivia, the Irish will look to maintain their dominance on the mound against a dan­genius DePaul lineup that has amassed 24 home runs this season. 
see DEPAUL/page 22 




