
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND to award eight honoraty degrees 
Recipents who 'made significant contributions to our nation' to be honored at Commencement 

By MOLLY MADDEN NewsWrirer 
Professors Alexandra Guisinger, Nelson Mark and Mike Pries discussed the chal­lenges and the opportunities that the economic crisis has placed before President Obama during "Facing the Obama Administration: Economic Policy," the fourth installment in a lecture series sponsored by Pi Sigma Alpha, the political sci­ence honors society. 
The talk centered on what aspects of the economic crisis the new administration have any control over changing, and the portions of the recovery process are out of the presi­dent's hands. 
"In dealing with the economy, 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Jew-elry sold to benefit local charity 
By ALICIA SMITH NewsWrirer 
Seven local artisans gathered in the Student Center Atrium Tuesday to sell their handcrafted jewelry for Rebuilding Together, a project to rebuild area homes. 
"Just Jewelry for a Just Cause" was a fundraising campaign put on by Saint Mary's Office for Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE). The money raised will be put towards a project that OCSE has sponsored for the past four years. 
"The event is being held to raise money for our sponsorship of a house during the Rebuilding Together project," Carrie Call, director of OSCE, said. 
Rebuilding Together brings members of the South Bend com­munity together to help rehabili­tate local homes, Call said. 
"Rebuilding Together is an annual event during which a selection of homes in a South Bend neighborhood are rehabili­tated. Homes are chosen through an application process and the homeowners must be elderly and/or disabled and/or low income," she said. "Saint Mary's has sponsored a house for the past four years. The volunteer work day is this coming Satur~~Y· April 25 from 8 a.m. to 3p.m. 
According to the R~building Together Web site the program takes place two Saturdays each year and repairs about 25 homes. 
According to the Web site, 
see JEWELRY Ipage 4 

By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Notre Dame will award seven honorary degrees in addition to the honorary doc­tor of laws degree that will be given to President Barack Obama, the University announced Monday. 
The recipients are "distin­guished figures in academia, business, athletics, engineer­ing, law and philanthropy," according to a press release. 
The eight degrees will be awarded at the May 17 grad­uation ceremony. 
"We seek to honor people who have made significant contributions to our nation," University spokesman Dennis Brown said of the recipients. 
Chief Justice of the Indiana Supreme Court Randall T. Shepard will receive a doctor of laws. Shepard has served as chief justice since 1987, and his leadership has led to "dramatic improvements, including successfully break­ing down the language barri­ers in the courts, creating an 
see DEGREES/page 6 

Clockwise from top left, Steve Beering, Myles Brand, Fritz Duda, Patrick Finneran, President Barack Obama, Cindy Parseghian, Don Michael Randel and Randall T. Shepard. 
Panel: Recession presents opportunity 
Professors discuss impact of economic troubles on international community 
the Obama administration has taken on the approach that this crisis is a challenge that they can turn into an opportunity," Pries, a professor of economics, said. "In a time like this, the government can do things that they would not normally do if times were good." 
Pries said, in the current recession, two tools the govern­ment uses are spending and lowering taxes because both actions should stimulate demand. Pries voiced his con­cerns over the recent stimulus package of $800 billion, half of which was tax cuts. ''I'm not too optimistic that this policy is going to turn out the way we want them to. Temporary tax cuts are not 
see OBAMAJpage 3 

Senior seeking funds 
for internship in India 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Wrirer 
Next yf'ar, current Notre Dame senior Katie Dunn hopes to work in India as part of a prosecution team that fights cases of child forced prostitution. 
Dunn first b!leamn acquainted with human trallicking during a Summnr Service Learning Project in Memphis, Tenn. and then worked within the subject again during an International Summer Service Learning Project (ISSLP) in Thailand. 
While she was doing follow-up work on her ISSLP, she was asked to sit on the Notre Dame Law School's Human Trafficking Panel. She also researched human trafficking during her semester abroad in Uganda. 
Dunn hopes to turn her research into action by working as an intern for the International Justice Mission (IJM), which investigates and prosecutes those who deal in child forced prostitution, as well as protects the victims. 
Dunn would spend half of her time working as an administra­tive assistant for the director of the IJM office and the other half 
see DUNN/page 4 


Team sends three to Nationals 
ND/SMC equestrians leave for major competition today 
By ALICIA SMITH NewsWrirer 

After accumulating points throughout the year, three members of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College equestrian team quali­fied for the National Competition which will begin today. 
Notre Dame senior Alexandra Minnis, Notre Dame junior Jennifer Gilardi and Saint Mary's sophomore Celina Tolson placed high enough at 
see NATIONALS/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER COR approves new student leadership positions page 3 • Bookstore basketball finals results page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 

t 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

God and football 
I don't communicate well. 
I know what you're thinking: 
"As an avid reader ofher inside 

columns and softball wraps, I've con­
cluded that Laura Myers is intelligent, 
funny and probably 
very pretty." Laura Myers 
Well, sorry to dis­appoint. 
Assistant
In person, I am 
Sports Editor 

usually none of 
those things. While 
my thoughts are both logical and enter­
taining, I cannot express them to other 
people in any sort of cohesive manner. 
The one person I talk well with is my best friend Michelle. It all started senior year when we played euchre during study hall. We could literally just make eye contact and know what cards the other person had. It was eerie. 
I was on the phone with Michelle over Easter break, and I said something about my New Testament class or my theology major. 
She said, "Do you feel like the more you learn about Christianity, the more it seems ... " 
I finished her sentence: "ridiculous?" 

We couldn't talk for very long but we decided that we'd be able to have a good conversation when I got back to Ohio. 
When I thought about that, I realized something about Notre Dame, or maybe humans in general. 
It is impossible to have a real ebb­and-flow conversation about religion or any other loaded topic. 
If you ask any student, he or she came to ND for two reasons: God and football. Sure, academics might be a reason, but we all gave up on that a long time ago. 
And we talk about football constantly. But when, other than in your theology classes, have you really talked about God? 
I bet not very often, because you can't. People here each have their own experi­ences and beliefs. If someone says any­thing that goes against those beliefs, the other person is immediately too offend­ed to continue the conversation. He or she gets defensive and stops listening to a word the other person has to say. 
So, we keep our conversations light. We talk about the weather, "American Idol," or the Indians creaming the Yankees 22-4. 
Here's a challenge. There are tons of intelligent people here with strong con­victions on all sorts of topics. Pick a friend and have a conversation on something real that you disagree about. Usten to them, and ifyou must disagree, make sure to attack the argument, not the person. 
For example, I have e-mailed Christie Pesavento and hope to have a conversa­tion about her enlightened views of tor­ture that were in yesterday's paper. It will be a challenge for me to attack the argument instead ofpushing her against the wall (all in good fun, right Christie?), but I'll try. 
Here's another challenge. If you know how to play euchre, shoot me an e-mail. I'll blow off my papers to play the great­est game known to man. While we play, we can discuss the merits and limita­tions of Christianity. 
Or the merits and limitations of the defensive switch back to the 4-3. I'm pretty sure I have some solid thoughts on both. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
-----~------­

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 22, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD BE ANY CARTOON CHARACTER, WHO WOULD YOU BE AND WHY? 







Alex Robinson  Barry Campion  Brian Tully  Nate Lee  Katie Taylor  
freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Stanford  Stanford  Stanford  Stanford  LeMans  
"Speedy  "Jerry the  'Tom Pickles  "Spongebob  'Twister from  
Gonzalez because that's  mouse because he's old school. "  because he is ,,gangster.  Squarepants because he likes  Rocket Power because he is  
my childhood."  crabby patties  sexy."  
and a starfish  
named Patrick. "  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 
I Junior Danny McRae, left, hands a yearbook to senior Jane Gayou in the Sorin Room Annex at the Lafortune Student Center on Tuesday, April 21. Yearbooks are being 
OFFBEAT 
Judge orders defendant's mouth taped shut 
POCATELLO, Idaho -A state judge who said he lost patience with an unruly defendant ordered court offi­cials to cover the man's mouth with duct tape. The unusual move was ordered Monday by 6th District Judge Peter D. McDermott during a proba­tion violation hearing for Nicklas Frasure. The 23-year­old Frasure was convicted of felony theft in 2008 and recently released from pric;on. 
During the hearing, Frasure made repeated outbursts and ignored the judge's orders to refrain from interrupting the court. The judge then ordered ba.iliffi:; to silence Frasure. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY a: 
UJ 
!;: ::J: UJ 
3: 
.... 
<C 
(.) 
....0 
HIGH 55 HIGH HIGH 73 HIGH LOW 37 LOW LOW 55 LOW 



Atlanta 67 I 41 Boston 58 I 48 Chicago 55 I 37 Denver 77 I 44 Houston 83 I 60 Los Angeles 69 I 58 Minneapolis 62 I 38 New York 57 I 48 Philadelphia 61 I 48 Phoenix 100 I 69 Seattle 57 I 46 St. Louis 72 I 45 Tampa 81 I 59 Washington 61 I 47 
Inmates on hunger strike over cricket match 
KOLKATA, India Hundreds of prisoners in an eastern Indian jail went on a hunger strike after authorities refused to allow inmates to watch one of India's biggest cricket tour­naments on cable television, officials said on Monday. 
About 500 prisoners in the eastern city of Kolkata had requested cable televi­sion to watch the Indian Premier League (IPL). a Twenty20 cricket tourna­ment being played in South Africa at the weekend. 
Cricket is followed by mil­lions of' people across the country. 
Leaders cower from 'shoe­cide' attacks 
NEW DELI-II -India's politicians contesting in the general election, fearful of shoes hurled at them by dis­gruntled voters, have asked for more security and are erecting metal nets at ral­lies. 
Lal Krishna Advani, the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) prime ministerial can­didate was the latest politi­cian to be at the receiving end Thursday, as an angry party worker threw a slipper at him during an election meeting in a central state. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
A lecture called "Obama Invitation & Religious Freedom" will be presented by professor Rick Garnett in the Sorin Room of LaFortune today at 8 p.m. Curious about your role as a student at our Lady's University in the upcom­ing months? About the role of a Catholic in America today? Join in discussions led by several of Notre Dame's distinguished fac­ulty. 
An Indoor Soccer and Ping Pong RecNight will be held from 7:30 to 9:30p.m. at Roirs RecSports Center tonight. It is open to student and prizes will be given to first and second place winners. 
Professor Christine Stansell, a leading historian of American Women will give a lecture titled "Matrophobia and the Women's Movement: General Tensions in Feminism, 1968­2008" on Thursday at 4 p.m. at the Hesburg Center Auditorium. A Reception will precede the event at 3 p.m. 
Harmonia, Notre Dame's only all female a cappella group will host their Spring Concert on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Tickets are $5 at the door. 
There will be a Tag-Team Poetry Reading Extravaganza Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Hammes Bookstore. The public is invited to enjoy the diversity of poetry from six different members of the creative writ­ing program's faculty, emeriti and MFA students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


HIGH 82 HIGH LOW 53 LOW 
78 50 

Wednesday, April 22, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Council approves new studentleaders 
approved. 

Jean Narnkung was confirmed as the Judicial Council vice pres­ident for peer advocacy, while Marcelo Perez was confirmed as the Judicial Council vice presi­dent for elections. 
After these four confirma­tions, COR members delved into their main topic of discussion, which dealt with budgetary matters. The discussion was closed to the public. 
Upcoming topics of discussion for COR's last meeting next Tuesday include the possibility for a spring concert in the future as well as the dates for 2011's Spring Break, which is tentatively scheduled to fall over Ash Wednesday. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 

By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) approved a number of new students to varied positions at its meeting Tuesday night. 
The first confirmation was Alan Ho, as the Student Business Board's general man­ager. Ho is a junior accounting manager in Duncan. He was unanimously approved in a vote 16-0-0. 
The next student to be approved by the council was Adam Steinbach. He was also approved unanimously as the Executive Controller. 
The judicial council then had two confirmations, both of which were unanimously 
Obruna 
continued from page 1 
going to stimulate spending; the American people are going to take that extra money and save it," Pries said. 
Pries said he did not think the government expenditures were going to produce the results they are intended for. 
"This big spending by govern­ment is really just a transfer to different organizations. It's just like the taxes in the sense that the government is just giving peo­ple more money that they won't end up spending in a way that will stimulate recovery," Pries said. 
Mark, a professor of econom­ics, agreed with Pries that the stimulus package has many faults. 
"A good portion of this stimulus package is not going to be spent until 2010. My personal feeling is that recovery is going to begin in the fourth quarter of this year so this spending will come at a time when we don't even need it," Mark said. 
Mark said his main cause for concern was the precarious situ­ation of the banking system. 
"The banks that are in trouble now are the same banks that were in trouble six months ago under the Bush administration," he said. "If we're not careful, we can end up having no growth for a while if we do not clean up our 


Nationals 
continued from page 1 

Store Your Stun 
over the summer! 

(5141 203-0512 
6481 8rick Rood. Soull't 8<-nd at Clev~land Rd.& US 20 Sypa», 7 minuu" fn>rn <ampu' 
the qualifying competition to make it to Nationals. 
"The Zone Championships were really great. We had four riders going into the day, and three ended up making it on to Nationals with two first places and one second place. Our fourth rider just missed Nationals with a third place," Minnis said. 
According to Minnis, each year, riders compete in 10 com­petitions. Tolson added that throughout these competitions riders must earn 35 points to qualify for Regionals. 
At Regionals, competitors must place in the top two of their riding class to qualify for Zones. In order to qualify for Nationals, the competitors banking systems." 

The problem with the current Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP) is the program is too small and Congress will not allo­cate enough money to adequately fix the problem, Mark said. 
"Because Congress has not been forthright in dealing with this problem, the Federal Reserve has been pushed into fiscal action," he said. 
Mark said the main issue with the banking situation is the prob­lem of the insolvent banks. The banks owe more than what their assets are worth. 
"What I feel we should be doing is closing the insolvent banks and selling their assets to the healthy banks. The taxpayers will have to pay for some of the action but the whole process is very fast and this is an action that can lead to robust recovery," Mark said. 
The problem with this solution is that many of these banks have reached sizes that make them virtually impossible to close, despite how much financial trou­ble they might be in, Mark said. 
"In reality, a lot of these banks are too expensive and too entwined with the international community to close," he said. 
Guisinger discussed the inter­national community and the implications of the crisis. 
"Some of our recovery efforts are best done with other devel­oped countries, such as the European countries. The problem in the long term is that the United States and Europe have different views of what [the] situation should be," she said. 
Guisinger said while the eco­nomic problems were mainly caused by the United States, other countries are feeling the ramifications much worse than Americans are. 
"Americans are much more concerned right now with domes­tic measures but not with meas­ures that would help the interna­tional community at large, such as strengthening the IMF," she said. 
Guisinger said many of the problems and issues on the inter­national level are ones that the Obama administration has no control over and in effect can do very little about them. 
"The U.S. dollar is still in every bank in the world," she said. "If countries decide to switch to a different reserve currency, Obama can't do anything about it." 
One thing that can be con­trolled is deciding what group is going to have to pay for the dif­ference in the short term that could provide long-term effects and bring the economy back up. 
"Somebody's going to take a hit," Pries said. "A whole bunch of money we thought we had is gone. How quickly we resolve this depends on how quickly we see who is going to end up paying. As soon as we do that, real recovery can begin." 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 

needed to place in the top two increasing level of experience." in their class at the Zones com­This is the first year Tolson petition. There are nine Zones has been a member of the team, 
that compete in the National Competition with two riders from each class. Minnis and Tolson placed first in their classes. Gilardi placed second in hers. 
Minnis has been a member of the team for four years, and is currently captain of her class. 
"I am compet­ing in Open Fences," Minnis 
"My favorite part about being on the team is the friendship and camaraderie between team members. We have so much fun at horse shows riding, and cheering each other on." 
Jennifer Gilardi junior 
although she previously com­peted with the University of Cincinnati's team. Tolson will compete in Walk-Trot­Canter at Nationals. 
''I'm excited," Tolson said. "I don't know if it's actually hit me yet. I was really excited when I won my class at Zones, and that was really excit­ing because my 

said. "There are three jumping divisions based on a rider's experience: Novice, Intermediate and Open, in 


We love you!!! 
Mom & Dad (ND /76) Kevin & Annie (ND /04) Brian (ND /08) & Carrie 
family was all there and every­thing. It won't really hit me I don't think until we're actually in Tennessee on Wednesday. I'm really excited to go. I think it will be a lot of fun." 
Gilardi will be competing in the Intermediate Flat division. As a three-year member, Gilardi enjoys competing with the team. 
"My favorite part about being on the team is the friendship and camaraderie between team members. We have so much fun at horse shows riding, and cheering each other on. We all want to do well and win, obvi­ously, but its all really laid back and fun instead of being pres­sure-filled and stressful," she said. 
There are only 18 riders in the county attending Nationals, Gilardi said. 
''I'm really excited to be going to Nationals. It's a goal that so many intercollegiate riders have as they compete throughout the year, so to accomplish it and be one of the 18 riders throughout the country to qualify in my division and compete at Nationals is a huge honor," Gilardi said. 
The riders will be leaving today. The National competition will be held in Murfreesboro, Tenn. April 23 to 26. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO1@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 22, 2009 

Dunn 
continued from page 1 
work'mg with prosecution teams, r<1:nging from makin ~~~: th~ mvestigation proce~ 
. s Will hold up in court to domg research for the team 
l~M interns need to r~ise t~~Ir own funds to cover visas ~~g expenses and airfare fo; 
e year they spend interning 
The cost of one year of living in India is $13,000. She said that one of the most diffi­cult parts of the experience has been finding a way to ~undraise that IS both tactful and informa­tive. 
"The hardest thing, so far 
· 

"I look forward to working with kids who have been through a lot, but hopefully this approach will improve their lives. , 
Katie Dunn senior 
has been trying to mak 
~uman trafficking relevant t~ otr~_Dam~ students without ~oun m~ fli~pant," she said. 
Also.. d~mg tt without makin thed victtms J'!"to stereotype~ an explOltmg them for money." 
Dull:n is looking forward to workmg with children and plans to continue work i~ the fiteld of human trafficking ft
her l . a er
" year-ong mternship ends 
. I loo~ forward to worki~g wtth kids who have been ~~:ough a lot, but hopefully 
~~ a~proach will improve their hves," she said. "And hopefully [it will] prosecute enough people so that h
trafficking is slowly e du~nan 
. ra !Cat­

~o~tact Irena Zajickova at
tzaJtcko@nd.edu 
lisa Russ 

Mabel Mountain Memoria\ Award (Best of BA Show) Katharine cummins Fe Anthony J, Lauc'k Award in Industrial Design 
Charles woodward Fr. Anthony J. Lauck Award in Painting taura zuzolo 
Fr. AnthonY l Lauck Award In Printmaking Anne frazer 

Jewelry 
continued from page 1 

"Rebuilding Together is a non­~rofit.' community-based part­ership of volunteers from local government b .·
h • usmesses and ~~ e~ nonprolits, that rehabilitate e omes of low-income home~ 
owners and improve n . hb
hoods." mg or-Sponsorship of h
$3 500 a ouse costs 
, . and Call said th· although she didn't at 
raise a great deal ef>xpect to 
. o money ev.ery Itttle bit counts. , fhe event was given its n because jewelry was th. amle 
typ . e on y
" e ~~ item sold l~stead of having a big craft fai; With people selling lots or differ ent kmds or erafts we d ··d d ­
focus on 'just J·e~elr,y ·esc~ e t? 
· · · · · • mce 1t 
ratses money for Hebuildi,n rToget~~r, we see that as a 'jus1 cause, Call said. · 2 Each artisan donated at least 0 percent to the B.ebuild' 
Together fund. mg "At le~st 20 percent or each vendors profits will go t d 
Rebuilding Together S owar
donatio .. orne are 
. g more than 20 percent " she smd. · 
Vendors sold all types of jewel­rr There were a variety of ear­nngs, bracelets and necklace Sohme were sterling silver whi~ ot ers were beaded. , 
h For more information about ow ~o ?ecome involved with the ~~mldmg Together project, visit Web site tz~~:~7:rtsjc.org or visit t~e 
o Ice, room 220 in the Student Center. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 
Fr. Anthony J. Lauck Award in Sculpture Madeline Nies Fr. Anthony J. Lauck Award in Graphic Design Sara Schreiber Fr. Anthony J. Lauck Award in·Photography 
Clare Monardo & Sheateen Cleary Chrls and Mary Anne DeCenzo Award for the study ot Art History in Italy 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Notre Dame Apartments 

Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 

2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Off-Street Parking Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly-
View all o~~~r~;amer Properties today w:;~~a%~r'haopartments and houses at 
· uses.com 



(574) 234-2436 

SENIOR BFA 
Audrey Marier 

The Emil Jacques Gold Medal ot Fine Arts Anna Jordan 
The Emil Jacques Sliver Medal of Fine Arts Cassidy Russell 
Radwan and Allan Riley Prize in Studio Art 
Kaitlyn Benoit 

Radwan and Allan Riley Prize in Deslgn 







A EXHIBITION 
Christina Lewis Eugene M. Riley Photography Prize 
Witnam & Connie Greif Award 
David Lee
VIncent Terrell Andrews 
Christina Marie Lewis Kaltlyn Marie Benoit 
Audrey Lynn Marier .Joseph James Curcio 
Haley Rosa Prestifi\ippo Mary Ann Jesse Cassidy Beeman Russell Anna Sutton Jordan 
Efroymson Fund Emerging Undergraduate Artist Award {given by Snite Museum) 
lsl Place  Audrey Marier  
Honorable Mention  Anna Jordan  
Honorable Mention  Cassidy Russell  


2009 MFA\.........., 
The Snite Museum of Art and the Department of Art, Art History & Design CONGRATULATE THE FOLLOWlNG AWARD REC\PlENTS: 
SENIOR BA 
Melissa Yuen with Hortus Deliciarum: Herrad as Creator Radwan and Allan Riley Prize in Art History 
Caitlyn Attmix with Micfw!ange/o's Sleeping Cupid: 'il Cupido per cosa modema non fla pari' Radwan and Allan Riley Prize in Art History 

GRADUATE LEVEL 
Nicole Paxton Giovanm Permeniatis and ltiiiio-Greek Painting in Sixteenth Century venice: 
Madonna Enthroned with Saints Jolm the Baptist and Augvstine 
Radwan and Allan Riley Prize in Art History 
Efroymson Fund Emerging Graduate Artist Award {given by Snite Museum} 1st Place Emily Gustafson 1st Place Allen Chen 
1st Place Fernando Carvalho 



ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 22, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE 0.BSERVEJ.ts WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Mexico names U.S. Ambassador 
MEXICO CITY -Mexico has approved a Cuban-American with expertise in conflict management as the new U.S. ambassador, the Foreign Relations Department said Monday. 
Foreign Secretary Patricia Espinosa told reporters Mexico approved the new U.S. ambassador several days ago, though she did not say who it was. Foreign Relations Department spokesman Victor Aviles later told The Associated Press it was Carlos Pascual. 
Pascual replaces Tony Garza. 
President Barack Obama's administration has yet to formally announce its choice for ambassador to Mexico, which the Senate must approve. 
Second Holocaust will not happen 
JERUSALEM -Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu pledged Monday not to allow Holocaust deniers the chance to carry out a second Holocaust against the Jewish people. 
He spoke at the ceremony marking Israel's annual memorial day for the 6 million Jews killed by Nazis and their collaborators during World War II, but the event fell under the shadow of a U.N. anti-racisim conference in Geneva perceived in Israel as anti-Semitic. 
Netanyahu criticized the president of Switzerland for meeting Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad at the conference. Netanyahu said the Iranian leader, who has called for Israel to be wiped off the map, has denied the existence of the Holocaust. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Craigslist killer apprehended 
BOSTON -A Boston University medical student was arrested Monday in the shooting death in a hotel of a masseuse and the rob­bery of another woman who both advertised their services on Craigslist. 
Phil Markoff, 22, was arrested during a traffic stop Monday afternoon on Interstate 95 in Walpole, south of Boston, Police Commissioner Ed Davis said at a news con­ference to announce the arrest. He is also suspected of being connected to an assault on a Las Vegas exotic dancer in Rhode Island last week. 
Mysterious donor stirkes again 
NEW YORK -The mystery college donor has struck again -this time at Binghamton University in New York, whose financial aid office phone started ringing off the hook as word of an anonymous $6 million contribu­tion spread across campus. 
Binghamton is the latest of at least a dozen universities to receive donations totaling more than $60 million in recent weeks. The gifts have arrived with the same, highly unusual stipulation: not only must the donor must remain anonymous, but not even the college can know who it is or try to find out. 
The recipient colleges seem to have almost nothing in common except this: so far, all are led by women. 
Binghamton announced the gift Monday, though it said the check came to its founda­tion office several weeks ago. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Modified yeast in production 
INDIANAPOLIS-An Indiana biotechnology company announced Tuesday that it has begun producing a genetically modified yeast that prom­ises to make it easier and faster to turn corn cobs, wood chips and a host of agricultural wastes into ethanol. 
Green Tech America Inc. of West Lafayette said its modified yeast ferments both major forms of sugar -glucose and xylose -involved in creating cellulosic ethanol from plant matter. 
The yeast, which arose from research at Purdue University dating back three decades, is a modified form of common baker's yeast that its creators made using recombinant DNA techniques. 
PAKISTAN 



Taliban invites Osama to Swat Valley 
Valley becomes haven for anti-U.S. militants after Islamic law imposed 
Associated Press 
MINGORA -Pakistan was trying to end bloodshed when it let the idyllic Swat Valley fall under Islamic law last week. Instead, it has emboldened the Taliban and prompted an invitation ­however improbable -for Osama bin Laden. 
The local spokesman for the Taliban, which control the valley, told The Associated Press he'd wel­come militants bent on bat­tling U.S. troops and their Arab allies if they want to settle there. 
"Osama can come here. Sure, like a brother they can stay anywhere they want," Muslim Khan said in a two­hour interview Friday, his first with a foreign journalist since Islamic law was imposed. "Yes, we will help them and protect them." 
Khan spoke in halting English he learned during four years painting houses in the U.S. before returning to Swat in 2002. He averted his eyes as he spoke to a female journalist, in line with his strict understanding of Islam. 

Pakistan reacted with alarm to his comments, say­ing it would never let him years. once flocked to enjoy Alpine­In an interview with shelter the likes of bin "We lost the war. We nego­like scenery, is part of the Pakistan's Geo TV, Prime Laden. tiated from a position of area. Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani 
"We would have to go for weakness," said Afrasiab Whether Swat someday was asked about U.S. envoy the military operation. We Khattak, a leader of the proves an alluring haven for Richard Holbrooke's con­would have to apply force Awami National Party, which bin Laden could depend on cerns over the Swat deal. again," said Information governs the province that how threatened he feels in "He doesn't need to worry Minister Qamar Zaman includes Swat. He said the his current location, and about that," Gilani said. Kaira. "We simply condemn region's police force is too how successful the Taliban "This is our country. We this. We are fighting this war underpaid, undertrained and militants are in keeping state know the ground realities against al-Qaida and the underequipped to take on forces at bay there. better than he does. We will Taliban." the militants. U.S. officials said they continue supporting this deal 
But it is far from clear that At the behest of the would work with Pakistan to if peace comes there. I'm the government has the National Assembly, President make sure militants aren't seeing peace is coming means to do much of any­Asif Ali Zardari last week safe anywhere. there." thing in the Swat Valley. signed off on a regulation "With regard to Mullah On Friday, Taliban fighters It agreed to Islamic law in establishing Islamic law Omar and Osama bin Laden, in pickup trucks with black the region -drawing inter­throughout the Malakand this is not a place where they flags rumbled through the national condemnation -Division, a strategic territory should be welcome. We rutted streets of the valley's after trying and failing bordering Afghanistan, and believe ... that violent main city of Mingora, to defeat the Taliban in fight­Pakistan's tribal belt where extremists need to be con­demanding over loudspeak­ing marked by brutal bin Laden has long been fronted," State Department ers that shops shutter their beheadings that killed more rumored to be hiding. The spokesman Robert Wood windows and prepare for than 850 people over two Swat Valley, where tourists said Monday. prayers. 


Attorneys: Whistleblower faked warning 
Associated Press 
SAVANNAH, Ga. -Attorneys for one of the nation's largest sugar producers accused a whistleblower Monday of faking a report that he says he sent to company executives warning them of the dust hazard at a Georgia refinery days before a blast there killed 14 workers. 
Lawyers defending Imperial Sugar in more than 30 lawsuits filed a motion in Chatham County State Court asking a judge to throw out the report and all testimony by Graham H. Graham because he "knowingly provided false testimo­ny." Graham was vice president of operations at the Texas company at the time of the explosion. 
Company attorneys said computer forensics experts hired by Imperial Sugar determined the report, which Graham says he forwarded to top company executives after he wrote it the week of Jan. 20, 2008 -17 days before the explosion -was actually generated three days after the blast. They say Graham never sent the document to anyone other than his wife. 
"They've made a mistake," Graham said Monday. "The allega­tions are wrong." 
Investigators determined the Feb. 7, 2008, explosion at Imperial Sugar's refinery in Port Wentworth, a few miles west of Savannah, was caused by airborne particles of sugar dust that ignited like gunpow­der. Dozens of workers were injured along with the 14 who died. 

Graham, who lives in Houston, referred further questions to his attorney, Philip Hilder, who called the accusation a "maneuver by Imperial Sugar to continuously smear Graham Harris Graham." 
However, Hilder declined to answer questions about when Graham wrote the report and whether he sent it to company exec­utives. 
Mark Tate, a Savannah lawyer who represents the families of 11 victims suing Imperial Sugar, defended Graham as "the hero of this case." 
Tate said Graham testified at an Oct. 14 deposition that several e­mails from before the explosion had vanished from his company laptop. 


page6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 22, 2009 



A NOTRE DAME WITNESS TO LIFE: 
WILLIAM MCGURN 
-Notre Dame Class of 1980 -Former chief speech writer for George W. Bush ~~~~ -Columnist for The Wallstreet Journal 
Exploring the ways in which the University of Notre Dame is of special significance for the pro-life cause globally. 

THURSDAY APRIL 23RD AT 7:30PM DEBARTOLO 155 


Degrees 
continued from page 1 
atmosphere of accountability for judges, and educating the public about the judiciary's role in society," the release said. Shepard was recently appoint­ed to the U.S. Judicial Conference Advisory Committee on Civil Rules by United States Chief Justice John Roberts. 
Myles Brand, president of the NCAA, will receive a doctor of laws. He served as president of the University of Oregon and Indiana University and as chair of the Association of American Universities. Brand is a philosopher and has focused his studies on "the nature of human action," the release said. 
A doctor of humane letters degree will be awarded to Cindy Parseghian, a Notre Dame graduate who founded the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation along with her husband. The Foundation works to find a cure for Niemann-Pick Type C disease, a fatal genetic disorder that affected three out of Parseghian's four children and has raised more than $33 mil­lion to help scientists find the gene responsible for the dis­ease and develop a cure, according to the release. 
President Emeritus of Purdue the University's Board of University Steven Beering will Trustees, will receive a doctor receive a doctor of laws of laws degree. Duda is the degree. Beering served as pres­chief executive officer of a ident of Purdue from 1983 to Dallas-based investment com­
2000 and is cur­ pany,  and  he  
rently the chair of the National  "We seek to honor  owns estate  a  real and  
Science Board. Beering has also served as chair  people who have made significant  investment firm. Before his elec­tion to the  
of  the  contributions to  Board  of  
Association of Medical Colleges  our nation."  Trustees 1997,  in Dud a  
and Association  served  on  the  
of  American  Dennis Brown  Advisory  
Universities. He  University spokesman  Council for the  

spent 10 years as dean of medi­cine and director of the Indiana University Medical Center and currently holds appointments as profes­sor of medicine at Indiana University and professor of pharmacology at Purdue University. 
A doctor of engineering degree will be awarded to Patrick Finneran, vice presi­dent of program management and business excellence for Boeing Integrated Defense Systems. Finneran, a Notre Dame graduate, has "led every military aircraft program at Boeing's St. Louis site," the release said. He served in the 
U.S. Marine Corps for 20 years and has combat service in the Vietnam War. Finneran retired as a lieutenant colonel. 
School of 
Architecture, 
helping to devel­op a "long-term plan for the Notre Dame campus" and influ­encing a return to the gothic theme for new campus build­ings, according to the release. 
President of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Don Michael Handel will receive a doctor of laws degree, as he is "a prolific and internationally prominent historian of music," the release said. Handel taught at Cornell University for 32 years and served as the dean of the university's college of arts and letters. He was appointed president of the University of Chicago in 2000 and led the largest fund-raising campaign in the university's history. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 



Enjoy the good life when you live off campus at a very reasonable price! 3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Town homes 2 1/2 Baths 
Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher 
Security System 
Off-Street Parking 
Located Close to Notre Dame 
Only $350 per month, per student 
*Our townhomes rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 


Sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture. For more information, visit http://ethicscenter.nd.edu 
Wednesday, April 22, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,969.56 +127.X3 
Up: Same· Down: Composite Volume: 
461 55 3,327 3,986,407,410 

AMEX ·.. · :>1j376~\1:9 f~~fj;~;Z NASDAQ 1,643.85 +35.M NYSE 5,339:59': ftitlf.l)4il S&P 500 850.08 +17.69 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8j7:t11.i3 <ll!! tl\00 FTSE 100 (London) 3,987.46 -3.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (SAC) +9.23 +0.74 8.76 CITIGROUP INC (C) +10.20 +0.30 3.24 ANANCIAL BULL 3X (FAS) +19.10 +1.25 7.81 ANANCIAL BEAR 3X (FAZ) -21.32 -2.48 9.15 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.08 +0.059 2.902 13-WEEK BILL +16.67 -0.020 0.140 30-YEAR BOND +1.60 -0.059 3.746 5-YEAR NOTE +3.51 -0.063 1.858 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.63 46.51 GOLD {$/Troy oz.) ·4.80 882.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.33 81.73 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 98.6850 EURO 1.2944 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2355 BRITISH POUND 1.4675 
IN BRIEF 
Furnace issues could cause layoffs 
GARY, Ind. -United Steelworkers represen­tatives are concerned about possible job losses in the wake of blast furnaces being taken off line at U.S. Steel Corp.'s Gary Works and ArcelorMittal's Indiana Harbor West plant in East Chicago. 
U.S. Steel has taken down one blast furnace to investigate a problem and make any neces­sary repairs, company spokeswoman Erin DiPietro said. 
"We are assessing the situation to determine the best course of action for repairs," she said. 
Jerry Littles, president of United Steelworkers Local 1014. said he expected the shutdown of the blast furnace would mean layoffs. 
As the company works through the outages and restarts at Gary Works it plans to adjust production at its Mon Valley Works near Pittsburgh and its Fairfield Works near Birmingham, Ala., she said. 
Pharmacies translate instructions 
ALBANY, N.Y. -Five major pharmacy chains agreed Tuesday to print drug instructions at their New York stores in five languages other than English and indicated that they plan to expand the option to other states. 
The companies are Target, Wal-Mart, Costco, Duane Reade and A&P. The agree­ments will also require the companies to provide oral assistance in more than 150 languages. 
The companies, which together have 700 stores in New York state, agreed with state Attorney General Andrew Cuomo to counsel and provide written translations in Spanish, Chinese, Italian, Russian and French. 
The companies didn't agree to Polish translations, although other pharmacies agreed to that in previous deals with the attorney general. 
Pharmacists in New York must personally provide information about prescription drugs to all patients, orally and in writing, and pharmacies are prohibited from con­ducting business in a way that discrimi­nates against non-English speakers. 
According to census data, more than a million New Yorkers do not speak English. 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

More General Motors workers laid off 
Company cuts positions in order to meet goal of 3,400 announced in February 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -General Motors Corp. started fir­ing 1,600 white-collar workers Monday, continu­ing its effort to slash costs and qualify for more gov­ernment loans on the same day it revealed it spent $2.8 million in the first three months of this year to lobby federal law­makers. 
Meanwhile, Fiat's CEO left Italy to resume criti­cal talks on an alliance with Chrysler LLC. as deadlines draw closer for GM and Chrysler to finish their restructuring plans. 
Both automakers are living on a combined $17.4 billion in govern­ment loans and have said they'll need more money to survive. Chrysler must cut its debt and its labor costs and forge an alliance with Fiat Group SpA by April 30, or President Barack Obama says Chrysler won't get any more help. 

lf GM can swap much of its debt for stock and get concessions from the UAW and Canadian Auto Workers by June 1, the government says it will provide more loans to keep the company going. Bankruptcy financing also is possible if the company determines Chapter 11 is obtained by The fourth quarter of 2008, deadline. CEO Fritz its best bet to achieve the Associated Press. but they rose from the Henderson has said the cuts it needs. Meanwhile, GM said in $2.7 million GM spent in automaker will close 
GM's layoffs this week a government filing that it the third quarter. more factories beyond bring the automaker close spent $2.8 million in the Chrysler LLC, which got five announced in to its goal announced in first quarter lobbying the a $4 billion loan, and par­February. The factories to February to cut 3,400 U.S. government on a ent company Cerberus be closed have not yet 
U.S. salaried positions, range of issues, including Capital Management LP been identified. spokesman Tom the economic stimulus together spent $1.1 mil­"There is no question, Wilkinson said. GM has package, and environ­lion lobbying during the as we look at our revised about 29,000 salaried mental, consumer safety first three months of this plan to go deeper and go workers in the U.S. and health issues. year, according to filings. faster in our operational 
"In these unprecedent­"We're a part of That's down about 50 restructuring, there will ed times, GM is reinvent­arguably one of the most percent from what the be further reductions in ing every aspect of our regulated industries and two spent during the last manpower, people, that business, including our we provide a voice in three months of 2008. are going to affect com­organizational size and complex policy discus­GM has said it will elim­munities, affect plants structure, to create a lean sions," GM spokesman inate 47,000 jobs world­and people, both on and agile company," GM Greg Martin said. wide by the end of 2009, hourly and the salaried North America President GM's lobbying costs fell but the cuts may go side of the business," Troy Clarke said Monday 15 percent from the $3.3 even deeper as the com­Henderson told reporters in an e-mail to employees million it spent in the pany moves toward its Friday. 

Bright Automotive unveils hybrid 
Waters, who developed the battery declined to offer an estimated price of
Associated Press 

pack for General Motors Corp.'s first the vehicle. 
electric vehicle, the EV1, unveiled the Waters said the IDEA will run on bat­NEW YORK -It sounds like a bright IDEA on Capitol Hill in Washington. He tery power alone for 30 miles. At that idea. said the company has applied for a point, it will function like a conventional 
Anderson, Ind.-based startup Bright $450 million loan from a Department of hybrid, drawing on a combination of Automotive on Tuesday unveiled the Energy program designed to help gasoline and an electric battery to gen­IDEA, a 100-mpg plug-in hybrid elec­automakers develop fuel-efficient tech­erate power. He said the 100 mpg fig­tric van that it is looking to sell to fleet nology. ure is an estimate that assumes a fleet customers such as businesses and gov­Waters hopes to begin production of driver averages 50 miles per day. ernment agencies. the vehicle by 2012 and begin supply­Bright Automotive is the latest 
The automaker's goal is to produce ing to fleet customers the following entrant in a growing field of high-tech 50,000 vehicles a year starting in 2013. year. He said the company is targeting automotive startups, many of which The ultimate outcome, it hopes, will be fleet, rather than retail, customers, have placed their bets on pricey, high­millions of dollars in savings in gasoline because fleet customers buy vehicles end vehicles. Tesla Motors, based in and drastically reduced emissions for "on spreadsheets" in large quantities, Silicon Valley, sells the $109,000 fleet users. which helps bring down the cost and Roadster electric car and recently 
"We are ready to provide the neces­eliminates the emotion present in car­unveiled a much cheaper sedan, the sary automotive leadership our nation buying. Model S. EV Innovations unveiled two is calling for," Chief Executive John "We feel there would be a rapid new electric sports cars at the New Waters said in a conference call with adaptation and adoption of vehicles in York International Auto Show earlier reporters. the fleet sector," Waters said. He this month. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, April 22, 2009 
Surviving pirate in custody in NY 

Associated Press 

NEW YORK -The sole surviv­ing Somali pirate from the hostage-taking of an American ship captain arrived in New York on Monday, smiling for a gaggle of cameras and reporters as federal agents led him into custody to face charges in the attack. 
Abduhl Wali-i-Musi (AIIB'-dul wahl-ih-MOO'-sih) was hand­cufl'ed and had a chain wrapped around his waist. His left hand was heavily bandaged from the wound he suffered during the skirmish on the ship two weeks ago. 
The smiling teenager seemed poised as he entered a federal building in a rainstorm, but he didn't say anything in response to reporters' shouted questions about whether he had any com­ment about the pirate episode. 
Wali-i-Musi is the first person to be tried in the United States on piracy charges in more than a century. lle was flown from Africa to a New York airport and taken into custody ahead of a court hearing Tuesday. 
A law enforcement official familiar with the case said that the teenager was being charged under two obscure federal laws that deal with piracy and hostage­taking. The otlicial spoke on con­dition of anonymity because the charges had not been announced. 
The teenager's arrival came on the same day that his mother appealed to President Barack Obama for his release. She says her son was coaxed into piracy by "gangsters with money." 
"I appeal to President Obama to pardon my teenager; I request him to release my son or at least allow me to see him and be with him during the trial," Adar Abdirahman Hassan said in a telephone interview with The Associated Press from her home in Galka'yo town in Somalia. 
The age and real name of the young pirate remained unclear. The mother said he is only 16 years old and is named Abdi Wali Abdulqadir Muse. The law enforcement official says he is at least 18, meaning prosecutors will not have to take extra legal steps to put him on trial in a U.S. court. 
The suspect was taken aboard a U.S. Navy ship shortly before Navy SEAL snipers killed three of his colleagues who had held Capt. Hichard Phillips hostage. 
The U.S. officials said the teenager was brought to New York to face trial in part because the FBI office here has a history of handling cases in Africa involv­ing major crimes against Americans, such as the al-Qaida bombings of two U.S. embassies in East Africa in 1998. 
Ron Kuby, a New York-based civil rights lawyer, said he has been in discussions about forming a legal team to represent the Somalian. 


VIOLENCE PREVENTION INITIATIVE 
NOW IS THE TIME FESTIVAL ON THE QUAD 
Because there is a time for everything -a time for music, a lime for dancing, and most of all, a time to gather and celebrate our commitment to overcome sexual violence 

I 
A KEYNOTE BY DONALD MCPHERSON 
For more than 20 years, Donald McPherson has used ihe power and appeal of sports to address complex social issues. He has created innovative programs. supported comrnunny s<arvice provrders and has facilitated educational seminars and lectures throughout North America. He rs a national leader and advocate for the prevention of sexual and domestic viOlence. 

FRIDAY APRIL 24 2009 6:00-7:30 PM SOUTH QUAD UNDER TENT 
Ra;n Location: Jordan Auditonum. Mendoza College of Business 

Wednesday, April 22, 2009 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

s&Letters St ts 
............-.;.::....,, 
..~ l* J 
Fmnily hit by lllurder­suicide 'see111ed ideal' 

You'1·e int,itecl to a gathe·ring to ma1·k the release ofthe 
JOURNAl-~ OF UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCfi 
'U/edi1estfa~ .)fpnf2211tf {/reat%tiTqf0 :Siiali1Jii11es.ry 3:30-4:45 1ifftesliments serpetf 
Please come join the authors and editors of this year's JUR to discuss the JUR, particular articles, or vour own research. 
-----~· 
College of Arts and Letters Journal of Undergraduate Research is now available in the Great Hall, 1 04 O'Shaughnessy Hall, and Decio. 
Associated Press 
TOWSON. Md. -They seemed like an ideal Long Island family: William Parente was a lawyer, his wife Betty a stay-at-home mom active in the community. Their daugh­ters were well-liked by teach­ers and classmates. 
Friends and neighbors said they never suspected anything was amiss and were dumb­founded to learn the Parentes had died Monday in an appar­ent murder-suicide in a sub­urban Baltimore hotel room. 
Experts say that's typical of family killings. Several similar high-profile cases in recent months have been tied to families' economic woes, though there's no indication that was the case with the Parentes. 
They lived in a neighbor­hood of million-dollar homes in Garden City, N.Y., next to a golf course. William, 59, was a tax and estate planning attorney who commuted to his Manhattan office. Betty, 58, volunteered. 
They were in Maryland to visit older daughter Stephanie, 19, a sophomore at Loyola College in Baltimore. With them was her sister, Catherine, 11, a sixth­grader at Garden City Middle School. 
"I can't tell you how heart­sick I am," next-door neigh­bor Mary Opulente Krener said. "This is the most won­derful family, the most kind and loving family. I'm astounded." 
The Parentes ate breakfast together Sunday morning and an employee of the Sheraton Baltimore North Hotel in Towson saw them together Sunday afternoon. 
On Monday, after they failed to check out of their room on time, a housekeeper found their bodies. · 


Deaths 
of polo 
horses probed 
Associated Press 
WELLINGTON, Fla. -Organ by organ, veterinarians are taking apart 21 prized polo horses to uncover what killed them mysteriously over the weekend during preparations for a match in one of the sport's top championships. Simultaneously, state authori­ties have opened a criminal probe to determine whether the deaths were intentional, a result of negligence or simply a terrible accident. 
With careful cuts to their muscular bodies, the investi­gators look for lesions, fluids, bruises and hemorrhages, any obvious signs of sickness. Th~y're removing the hearts, lungs, livers, kidneys and spleens. and cutting small samples to be tested for tox­ins. The process unfolds much as it would for a dead person. 
State officials believe the horses died from an adverse drug reaction, toxins in their food or supplements, or a combination of the two. Two days after the horses' deaths, authorities say they have not uncovered any crime but con­tinue to investigate. 
"We want to make sure from a law enforcement standpoint that there was no impropriety ... no purposeful harm or laws violated in Florida," said Terence McElroy, spokesman for the state Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, which is handling the case with help from the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office. 
The horses from the Venezuelan-owned team began collapsing Sunday as they were unloaded from trail­ers at the International Polo Club Palm Beach, with some dying at the scene and others hours later. They were set to compete in the sport's U.S. Open tournament ahead of the finals this coming Sunday. and were seen as top contenders. 
While veterinarians work with their scalpels, investiga­tors are interviewing everyone who encountered the horses the day of the game and gath­ering evidence such as feed and supplements from the sta­bles where the horses were kept. 
"Should criminal activity surface, we don't want to be so far behind the eight-ball that we're playing catch-up," said sheriff's Capt. Greg Richter. 
The exhaustive process included more evidence col­lecting Tuesday at the stables used by the Lechuza Polo team, said Dr. Michael Short. the state's equine programs manager who is helping coor­dinate the case. 
The investigation hinges on a combination of interviews with players and groomers, tests of feed and a history of the horses' training regimens, Short said. Information gath­ered there and during the necropsies will help investiga­tors refine their approach to the toxicologies. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 I Wednesday, April 22, 2009 
THE OBSERVER A few thoughts on a special day 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR! Madeline Buckley SPORTS EDITOR: Matr Gamber ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR! Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR! Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER! Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR! Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVE.RTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asreiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631~4543 sports@nd.edu 
• SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DESK 
acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact infurmacion. 
QIU!stWm regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor-in-Chieffenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob~rvcr (USPS 599 2...40:oO) is published Monday through Friday ettept during exam and vacatiOn period!>. Asubsc:riptlon ta The Observer is $l20 for om a~dc:mic year; $65 fOr one semt:5u:r. 
The Observer is publish<:d ar:. POSTMASTfR 024 South Dining Hall &nd address oorrc:ctions to: Norrc Dame, fN 46556-om The: Observer Periodical po:nagc paid at Nom Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offiect>. 024 Saurh Dining Hall 
Notre llimc, lN 46556--0779 
T1u:: Observer is a mcmbcr of rru: Associau:d Prd<&. AJI reproduction righn an­n==!. 
Even though I am far from campus, I have been listening to the spirited disagree­ment over President Obama's participation in Notre Dame's 2009 Commencement. I consider myself a friend and admirer of Notre Dame's, and the criticism and Jeff lmmelt controversy have prompted me to Guest share some Columnist thoughts with you. 
Two years ago I was deeply honored to be asked to give the Commencement address to Notre Dame's class of 2007. I told all those gathered there that day that Notre Dame represented everything that i<> good about this country. I am even more certain ofthat today. 
As I think of the University's commitment to excellence, scholarship and values, I understand the challenge of being one of the nation's preeminent academie institu­tions while holding firm to its Catholic char­acter. I know the tug between those goals invariably invites tensions. But it is precise­ly that dual aim that makes Notre Dame unique in higher education and a valuable voice in the national consciousness. 
I was back on campus last fall as a pan­elist for the forum on sustainable energy, environmental health and the strategies needed to ensure that the human race thrives well into the future. Other places might argue the science and technology, the economics and the practical mea<>ures filr preserving our natural environment. But at Notre Dame -everyone knows-the ethi­cal and the moral, even the spiritual will be central to any complex and difficult discus­sion . 
So why would the CEO of GE, which has its own challenges in a tough economy, stick his nose into this issue? There are two reasons. First, Notre Dame and GE have a long and beneficial relationship. We love recruiting at Notre Dame -we employ 400 Notre Dame graduates, including our chief financial officer, Keith Sherin -and our television network, NBC, has a great rela­tionship with Notre Dame fooiliall. Second, I consider your president, Fr. John Jenkins, to be one of the finest people I have ever met. So I offer these thoughts from those perspectives and with great humility. 
The first is to congratulate those graduat­ing May 17. This is your day. Your family's day, It represents the culmination of a fami­ly's love and support, sacrifice and pride. Don't let others, and these other issues-however important they may seem to be ­take the day's celebration away from you. 
The second thing I think about is what a profound moment thi<> i<> in the life ofyour University. America's first Afi·ican­Ameriean president has selected Notre Dame as one of three universities he'll visit ((-,r graduation eeremonies during his first year in oifice. Thai's an honor, and a deserving one. Where better to go than the home of Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, the man who shepherded the U.S. Civil Rights Movement into law 45 years ago? What a great moment in the life of this nation. And how fitting that Notre Dame graduates will be witness to thic;. 
Here's something else you might consider as you think about those who criticize the selection of the president as your speaker -the opportunities and burdens ofleader­ship, the importance of an organization's core values, and the absolute need to listen carefully to diverse opinion in order to move that organization forward, for it to adapt, to change, be innovative and so con­tinue to lead. 
I manage a company that supplies 25 percent ofthe world's electricity. We oper­ate television networks and movie compa­nies. We manufacture aircraft engines, locomotives, health care equipment, appli­ances and light bulbs. And I can assure you that the bigger you are, the bigger the tar­get you wear. like many CEOs reeently, I have been criticized by the best of them, from The Wall Street Journal to "Fortune" magazine. 
But I also know that leading-by defini­tion -means to be out front, where your actions are more visible, more scrutinized. Not many colleges or universities in America are more visible, more serutinized than Notre Dame. Much ofthe reason this current controversy is so very publie is sim­ply because of Notre Dame's stature in the minds ofAmericans, and not just Catholic Americans. 
Another reason for this debate is that Notre Dame stands for something. And people know it. It's a compliment that those who hold an institution in such high esteem call it into account when they don't think it has lived up to the standard<; they ascribe to it. Arguments naturally arise when com­peting values come into conflict. Faith tradi­tions and the institution's moral compass ean sometimes seem at odd<> with academic freedom, scientific inquiry and societal or cultural movements. Being different isn't easy. And Notre Dame, in striving to be a 

truly great Catholic university, i<> trying to achieve something few other institutions in 
the world have even attempted. 
Part ofgrowing as a leader is to open the doors to divergent opinions, to let critics into the boardroom, and to engage diverse viewpoints and perceptions. Institutions ea.nnot be insular or static. Both Notre Dame and GE have matured and thrived because of a willingness to try things, to explore and to change. 
I know that Notre Dame is a force for good in the world. But sustaining that repu­tation requires a real and earnest engage­ment with tl1at world, a certain level of give-and-take. Notre Dame is an interna­tional enterprise. You cannot bring about positive change in so diverse a world with­out working cooperatively with those who are different, who may disagree with you, but whose perspectives should be wel­comed and seriously considered. 
At the same time, we must adhere to core values-core values that ground each institution at all times. And it's tllose endur­ing values that persist over time, that give an institution the confidence to engage in dialogue and cope with ehallenges without feeling threatened by different points of view. I believe Notre Dame to be an institu­tion that knows itself well enough to wel­come diverse voices and to embrace a lively exehange ofideas without sacrificing its fundamental nature and sense ofgood. 
I encourage you to find and celebrate common ground where it exists. And where tli'ere are differences, remember that good­will and respect are the best ways to foster understanding and that meaningful rela­tionships are necessary to bring about the changes we desire. 
In fact, I encourage you to see com­mencement as an opportunity to open and pursue conversations and strengthen mutu­al beliefs in order to build broader appreci­ation for who you are and what you believe. More than anything else, congratulations to the class of 2009 and their fanillies. It's your day to savor -individually and collec­tively-accomplishments dreamed about long ago. 
Jeff Immelt is the chairman and chief executive officer ofGeneral Electric. He gave the Commencement address at Notre Dame in 2007. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Ashley Charnley Michael Bryan Liz O'Donnell Meaghan Veselik 
Do you like "The Shirt" this year? 

Megan Loney Alex West Graphics Scene "Spring is when/{oufeellike
Yes

Blair Chemidlin Joey Kuhn whistling even wit a shoe full of 
No slush."
Viewpoint UndecidedStephanie Vossler 
Doug Larson 
U.S. Journalist
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT

Wednesday, April 22, 2009 page 11 
My regrets 

It's now time for us as seniors to start thinking about what we could have or should have done differently over the course of our undergraduate years at Notre Dame. For instance, a close friend of mine jokingly told me he has nothing but regrets. Yet my biggest regret involves the columns I didn't write. So instead oftalking about all the things I have loved about Notre Dame, I'm going to make this column a collection of the failed columns I tried to write this year but could never finish. 
First: "Raise High the Stock Portfolios, Investors." 
I wanted to write an elegy to the finan­cial industry last fall and started to do so in a parody of John Milton's "Lycidas." This was as far as I got: 
... Yet once more, o ye bankers, and once more you executives proud, with pay­checks never dwindling, I come to ask of you: How could such things happen? Where have gone the glory days ofour youth, the days of the tech bubble booming with rises economic and complete? Where has gone the security of our economic future? Bitter times and financial con­straints have brought me to this point. The dollar is dead, dead before it had time to fully flourish. Yet what currencies would not mourn with me as I bemoan the demise ofsuch an entity? 

Not all is bad, say some. The optimist comes to a new point in his analysis: "Weep no more, oh guardians ofour wal­lets and purses! For the dollar is not dead though it be sinking to its lower limits. Time will come again when we will rejoice in its power." Thus the golden swah takes leave in better straights than us. He looks out on fresh industries and markets new 000 
Second: "The Redness ofthe Ginger." 
I wanted to write about people with red hair because I have red hair and I feel that ever since the "South Park" episode "Ginger Kids" premiered, us redheads have been inordinately mocked. The title of the column is an allusion to a chapter in "Moby-Dick" and initially the whole col­umn was going to be a parody ofIshmael's lengthy yet meaningful cetological dis­courses in that novel. But again, this is as far as I got: 
oo• What the red-haired child is to the general non-redheaded community has been exhaustively discussed: in an episode of "South Park," in the predominating cul­ture of British society, in whispered rumors that red hair is the proverbial mark of Cain. What the red-haired child is to me has yet remained unsaid. 
Reasons abound as to why the topic of red hair is perennially intriguing. For me, a currently balding redhead, I have reduced the answers I have given in the past to this single idea: It is the redness of the hair which above all things appalls most people. But how can I try to explain what this means; and yet, in some inconceivable, indiscernible way, explain myself I must, otherwise this entire column is for naught. 
There is fear ofthe redhead in our social environment. He is a person that walks among brown and blonde haired peoples different and definitively in the minority. He is a person that stands out in any racial crowd. He is a person that cannot help but make himself aware ofhis inherent super­ficial inferiority. But there must be reasons for these truths; there must be a deter­minable answer as to why ... 
Third: "The Family Band." 
I've always wanted a family band and I wanted to write a column about how best to form one. I planned to talk about how a family band would go through the full range ofrock and roll experiences from booming early success to utter destruction through a lifestyle ofsex and drugs. But I was never able to achieve the right tone and I was only ever satisfied with the first line ("So lately I've decided to form a family band") and the last line ("You know, I just can't handle this right now. I'm never going to form a family band"). Anyone who wants to try to figure out what goes in between these two lines please send me an e-mail. 

So there they are: the three columns I could never write. There was a column I finished about Notre Dame indignation; but it was mean and I only wanted to publish it because ofone joke ("What use is dialogue when both sides ofthe aisle are riding the Loud Bus to Crazy Town?"). I almost wrote columns about excessive hugging, eating dinner in the DH alone and facial hair in college. 
But I didn't. 
And now I realize that my biggest regret in college is not applying to be an Observer Columnist until the fall ofmy senior year. 
I would like to thank any readers I may or may not have, my friends, The Observer for publishing me and particularly Brad Blomstrom and Alex Duffy who always, always got the joke. 
Andrew Miller is a senior English major. He can be contacted at amille15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Redefine torture 
Ms. Pesavento, ture as it was only done because the inter­

Thank you for showing the problem with rogators found he had a paralyzing fear of America's view oftorture ("Torture is in the insects. eye ofthe beholder," April21). Currently In addition, much ofthe intelligence the Justice Department defines torture as received from "enhanced interrogation" "physical suffering and lasting mental has been bad intelligence (including infor­anguish." This definition invites convoluted mation received from one Ibn al-Shaykh al­definitions of"lasting anguish" and ulti­Libi that formed the backbone ofclaims of mately permits some torture. This comes anAl Qaeda-lraq link which we now know in spite ofthe fact that U.S. officials prose­to be false). On the subject oftorture even cuted Japanese interrogators for water CIA reports note, "It is difficult to deter­boarding post-World War ll. Former mine conclusively whether interrogations National Intelligence Director Mike have provided information critical to inter­McConnell is quoted as stating that the dicting specific imminent attacks." Perhaps legal test for torture should be "pretty sim­they ought to do away with torture as a ple": "Is it excruciatingly painful to the practice on purely practical grounds. point offorcing someone to say something Lastly, I would like to respond to your because ofthe pain?'' evocation of9/11 as proofoftorture being 
The policy should be re-worked to state necessary. As enumerated by the 9/11 that ifa practice causes enough mental or commission, the problem with US intelli­physical harm so as to induce lying for the gence gathering has never been a lack of purpose ofstopping the procedure, the information, but rather a coordinated sys­practice is torture. This would, however, tem for sharing and distributing that infor­require an element ofcultural sensitivity. mation in addition to a lack ofadequate Stripping detainees naked, as explained in resources to pursue all leads. CIA documents, was employed to clash Torture is real, objective and wrong. I with culturaVreligious teachings against applaud Obama for aiding in its exposure. expressed sexuality and evoke shame. Further, the practice ofconfining a Michael Lucien detainee with caterpillars (which inter­JWUOr rogators told the detainee were stinging Siegfried Hall insects) could arguably be considered tor-Apri121 
Core values gone? 

Thank you to Edward Cox for his let­I wish to thank Fr. Jenkins for provid­ter "Pick speakers instead" (April 21). I ing the proverbial straw that broke this agree it was a totally stupid decision on alum's back. I will be leaving behind a the part of Fr. Jenkins and the Board to very important part of my life. I hope it chose a commencement speaker who costs Notre Dame millions in donations would totally tear apart the Notre Dame and ultimately Fr. Jenkins his job for Family. I recognize more and more that this totally unnecessary choice. Yes, stu­Notre Dame is much different then dents at Notre Dame today are very dif­when I graduated in June of 1970. ferent from in my day. However, past 
As an owner of a condo purchased to alumni have always been an important be closer to my beloved Notre Dame, I part of the Notre Dame family, and it witness the off campus students of today saddens me that the administration has tearing up our complex with no respect chosen to cut their legs out from or regard for others living around them. beneath them. The letters to the editor show many cur­rent students have lost the core Catholic Ken Koehler values which made Notre Dame the pre­alumnus mier Catholic university in the nation Class of 1970 and quite possibly the world. April21 
If it was you... 
To Christie Pesavento ("Torture is in the going for a swim. First, the CIA operatives eye ofthe beholder," April21): must deprive you ofsleep for the maximum 
In your most recent column, you pre­number of days the memos specifY is sume that the United States should not tor­allowed (11). That shouldn't be a problem ture to acquire intelligence, then argue that since most college students regularly pull the interrogation methods specified in the multiple all-nighters, right? Then you must newly released memos written by Bush's undergo slapping to your face and stomach Justice Department "are hardly the equiva­by CIA operatives, then stand in a cold lent oftorture." Your argument, however, is room for hours while you are periodically flawed in that it is an argument as to what doused with even colder water. Finally, you constitutes torture, but fails to define tor­will be waterboarded, but don't worry, the ture. Since you seem to have trouble defin­memos say that a doctor will be present in ing what torture is, as most people do, I case you need an emergency tracheotomy. offer you a chance at redemption. Only after you undergo these "enhanced 
I will give you the chance to decide ifthe interrogation techniques," will I lend your interrogation methods the CIA has been argument any credence whatsoever. using for years constitute torture, only if you undergo the methods yourself. By your MarcJiorle description of these interrogation tech­sophomore niques, this should be just like walking Siegfried Hall down the halls ofyour high school and/or April21 
Walk-out absurd 
I have a question for Edward Cox ("Pick most students here understand and appre­speakers instead," April21) that he might ciate the honor ofhaving the President find familiar: What were you thinking? Your deliver the closing words oftheir college letter has proved to be ill-informed, disre­careers. spectful and disturbingly cavalier in its sug­Which brings me to your suggestion of a gestion of a walk-out at Commencement. walk-out during Mr. Obama's speech. For Apparently the 14 years you've been absent someone who accused Fr. Jenkins ofturn­as a member ofthe student body have ing "a dignified ceremony into a political allowed you to forget the pride that we circus" mere sentences before, it is difficult share in our identity as Notre Dame stu­for me to wade through your hypocrisy. By dents. Don't get me wrong, I wouldn't want supporting walking out on both President to hear a "stump speech" from a politician Obama and our graduating seniors (for at my Commencement either. However, I whom this ceremony is intended, in case suggest to you that the President ofthe you weren't aware), you suggest a state­United States is no everyday political figure, ment that would be a slap in the face to our and that we can expect something more Commander in Chief and the Oass of 2009, than a cookie-cutter speech from the cam­as well as a shameful embarrassment to the paign trail come May 17 (in case you were University that you somehow call your own. not aware, campaigning traditionally ends lfyou don't mind, Mr. Cox, I will be join­when the election is won, and that occurred ing my fellow students at Commencement in November). and giving all involved the respect that they 
Secondly, your accusation that Fr. Jenkins deserve. Why don't you skip the walk-out planned to "alienate our graduates" by and cut to the chase, joining the extremist choosing "a speaker who repulses halfthe activists and protesters where they belong: student body" is completely off base. In fact, out ofsight, and out of mind. an overwhelming number ofstudents, pri­marily our senior class members, are in Kevin G. Murphy support of President Obama's upcoming sophomore Commencement speech, regardless oftheir Stanford Hall individual political bias. Believe it or not, April21 
...---------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 12 
Wednesday, April 22, 2009 

Assistant Scene Editors 
While you were taking off your mustard­yellow "The Shirt" after the Blue and Gold game, music enthusiasts across South Bend were breaking out their tie-dye shlrts. Among the many prominent alumni who returned for this weekend were the members of home­grown band Umphrey's McGee. The jam band performed to a packed Morris Performing Arts Center last Saturday evening as part of their summer tour promoting their most recent album "Mantis." 
It became evident once Umphrey's McGee took the stage that their technical and intense music style was highly appreciated by Saturday night's patrons. Fans at the con­cert, perhaps influenced by a little more than adrenaline and enthusiasm, provided for an energetic and rowdy atmosphere. Many in the boisterous crowd spastically danced, 
around, and sang along for the entire concert. Umphrey's front man Brendan Bayliss returned the love, remarking "It's good to be home," in reference to the band's motherland. 
The three-hour long concert featured epic improvisational odysseys, with each song averaging about nine minutes long. Umphrey's style of live play has been com­pared to jam bands such as the Grateful Dead and Phish, although the band members cite much more wide-ranging musical influ­ences. It was very easy to discern, from the show's 
· opening notes, that every member of 
Umphrey's McGee is an incredibly skilled musician. In the concert's opening number, "Glory," guitarist Jake Cinninger set the tone with a searing guitar solo. Although guitar 
. solos were most frequent, every member of the band took solos at various points in the concert. Guitarists Bayliss and Cinninger sent the rambunctious crowd into a frenzy with their two part, harmonic guitar solos. The band's dual guitar parts allowed for these synchronized jams as well as solo "conversa­tions," where the guitarists traded riffs back and forth. 
Umphrey's percussion section included both a full drum set, played by Kris Myers, as well as a second ensemble including bongos, djembes, cowbells and chimes, played by Andy Farag. The two combined for a unique fusion of hard rock drumming and exotic beats. Often, the band's numbers featured helter­skelter rhythms and unusual time signatures. Myers's drum set included a double bass pedal, whieh allowed him to use both feet for the set's bass drum and truly lived up to the rock-and-roll eliche "gut-busting." 
Lead singer Bayliss' vocals were satisfactory but bland on many of songs, and they were sometimes hard to hear over the playing of the band. Umphrey's main focus has always been their instrumental prowess, not their lyrics. There was a noticeable laek of singing for much of the eoncert, but the band spoke loud enough through their impas­sioned playing. Still, a few more proper songs eould have enhanced crowd partieipation and broken up the endless stream of solos. 
One of the greatest possible complaints against this concert is one that is really a complaint against the jam band genre itself. 
Umphrey's McGee's style is often described as "pro­gressive improvisation," so naturally, their concerts are going to lack the structure of traditional, three-minute songs with little to no variation from the studio versions. Instead, their songs flow smoothly into one another with almost no breaks and are heavily dominated by solos. These characteris­tics, however, can be either positive or negative, depending on personal preference. 
It is impossible to dis­cuss the full aesthetics of the concert without men­tioning the spectacular light displays. The crew employed all forms of neon spotlights, fog machines and multi-color stage lights, as well as swirling pattern lights on 
the backdrop. These were synchronized with the music for an all-encompassing psychedel­ic experience. The effect was probably the closest thing one can find today (without actually being on acid) to the famous "acid tests" of the 1960s. The visual display further amplified the energy and excitement of the crowd. 
While the band members refrained from talking very much between songs, at one point Bayliss started talking about how his dad had met U2's Bono at the Master's Tournament the week before. He said that they had gotten to talking about 

McGee, and then he announced that 
tarist The Edge was present and .play with the band. Apparently, though, 
Edge" wanted to play drums, not guitar. 
confused crowd cheered as an Edge looka-, 
like, Steve Krojniewski of Ali Baba's Tahini, took the stage and played drums for one song. Although he was not really a U2 mem­ber, Krojniewski played a mean drum set. With him, the band proceeded to cover The Beatles' "Birthday" in honor of one of the band members' friends, showing their sense of humor and versatility of musical styles. 
Although the crowd was energetic and the band played a lively show, the atmosphere was kept somewhat subdued by the "0 ""'"''"' staff at the Morris. The assigned seating hibited fans from moving around much, everybody still managed to have a good time where they were standing. If you're bummed that you missed Saturday night's righteous jam session, though, keep your eyes out for future shows. Umphrey's McGee performs the Bend often, including regular fall shows in St. Patrick's Park. 
Contact Patrick Griffin at pgriffi3@nd.edu and Joey Kuhn at jkuhnl@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I BLAIR CHEMIDLIN 

-------, 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Wednesday, April 22, 2009 
page 13 
--------~ 

By JESS SHAFFER Scene Ediror 
Dear Campus Construction: 
Have you ever had the perfect Saturday morning? Let me set the scene. Morning sun­light is softly gleaming in through the open window. Outside, birds are happily chirping to each other in the distance. You roll over and realize that you don't have to wake and hecti­cally rush to class because it's only 8:30. Instead, you get to pleasantly drift in and out of sleep for the rest of the morning, or even the rest of the day if you want to, because you have nothing to do. You are free to just lounge cozily in your blankets and pillows, enjoying the luxu­ry of a morning spent in bed. 
But alas! As you begin to fade back into sweet weekend dreaming, a lurking menace strikes. Suddenly, the birds are no longer chirping. Instead their sweet melodies have been replaced by a ruckus of drilling, pounding and clamoring, a cacophony of construction. 
That dull drilling sound with the irregular pounding and clanging of hammers is infinitely worse than any alarm clock. You cannot push a button and make it stop. Nor can you toss it against the wall in a fit of hostility. You can shut your windows to the beautiful spring dawn, but still that relentless thudding can be heard, driving you restlessly out of your dreamy state. It has the power to turn the per­fect morning into an irritating start to your day. Soon the soft morning light is an obnoxiously bright burden, and the sweet little birds are annoying nuisances. The start of morning con­struction marks the end of the most poetically blissful moments. 
Situations like these make me wonder and question. Why, oh campus construction, must you toy with my emotions? Yes, I admit, I do like new, shiny things. Of course, I'm all for progress. Nicer facilities, like new bathrooms and new buildings that permit natural light, are duly appreciated. But so is some peace and quiet. So, campus construction, you often leave me torn and confused. 
Not long ago, my clouds of confused emotions parted, and I saw clearly. No matter how much I like new, shiny things, I value two things more: my sleep and Notre Dame tradition. Being woken up by construction equipment that sounds strangely akin to my alarm clock is never fun. And if less sleep is not enough to leave me distracted and wary during my day, the drilling inside school buildings like O'Shag only makes things worse. There are some things that a good cup of coffee just can't fix, and the pounding of power tools in your head is one of them. This is a college campus. If con­struction is so necessary, could we not at least hold off until after 9 a.m. so that we can all enjoy the one time of day (namely 6-8 a.m.) when almost all of the Notre Dame campus population is enjoying some well-deserved rest and relaxation? 
Finally, what was so wrong with my beloved Notre Dame campus in the first place? We can­not continue to exponentially expand unless we want to take over South Bend and, eventually, the world. Last time I checked, though, world domination was not in our mission statement. 

Is nothing holy to you, construction? Every quad, every corner has fallen prey to your beguiling promise of a better future. But it is a future that we will never see. Not only will we all graduate before we can truly appreciate the new additions to campus, it seems like the additions and improvements are never-ending. Is enjoying our campus as it is, wonderful in its traditional form, too much to ask for? When I got my acceptance letter to Notre Dame, the picture of campus had no hard hats or cranes in it. False advertising, I find now. 
These attacks on my sleep and my charming old campus have left me rather angry. You might think that I am merely projecting frus­tration from other areas of my life onto con­struction, or you might think that I am suffer­ing from general teenage angst or pre-exam stress. But you'd be thinking wrong. Campus construction offends every one of my senses. It's an eyesore. The ceaseless drilling makes me long for the earmuffs of winter. Breathing in the fumes coming off newly constructed buildings is none too pleasant. How does that make me feel? Well, along with the unending headache, it makes me feel rather bad and clearly irritable. And, as we all know, these types of things tend to leave a bitter taste in one's mouth. 
What I'm trying to say is that it's you, con­struction, not me. And I just don't know how much longer this self-destructive relationship can continue. It's better if we just be friends. Preferably from a distance. Thanks! 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel@nd.edu 

drenching cross-campus commute. groups are acceptable, most notably prints
By JESS SHAFFER and GENNA McCABE 

Scenesters have spotted several campus of cherries, citrus and even cupcakes. Also
Scene Writers 

standouts particularly deserving of praise deserving an honorable mention is plaid. 
Though the return of dreary weather to in this Campus Rave. One such misty maven Plaid makes peace between the prep and campus has put some people in a rut, it has (definition: female who defi-the punk in us all. What brought out the best in footwear for the nitely knows how to handle makes it so popular is its Notre Dame women. While we may be the South Bend weather while Notre Dame may not versatility. Domer dames fairer sex, there is no doubt that our fash­still looking fabulous) was don such a variety of plaid
be the place where 

ion sense is steps ahead spotted rocking a pair that it is impossible to of our male counter­of fish print rain trends start, ignore the diversity often parts who have been boots. With an hidden on this campus.
but when it comes

trudging through pud­enlarged graphic of a Notre Dame may not be dles in flip flops, not Japanese Koi fish, to rainwear, we the place where trends quite sure what hit these rain boots were start, but when it comes to
are definitely in 

them. Domer Dames not only cute, but rainwear, we are definitely may not do everything expressed a dry sense the know. in the know. When we need right, but we sure know of humor in a particu­a boost, it may help to how to wear a rain boot! larly damp situation. remember that even with 
From brightly colored (By the way, if you happen to be the the thickest permacloud, we can find a sil­solids to patterns of owner of these boot-ilicious boots, ver lining in self expression. And while it plaid and polka dot, the please refer to the contact informa­can often be difficult to remember the "I" rain boots on campus do tion below, so that we might become in "We are NO" when you're surrounded by much in the way of equally fashionable.) people in matching T-shirts, it helps to brightening up even the Another spectacular pattern spot­know that your rain wear is one place indi­most dreadful Notre Dame ted on campus? The flashy flower. vidual style can be shown. weather. We might not Even though the weather is bi-polar, Snaps again to the many rain boot-wear­have many opportunities to . \ its good to know an air of spring is ers. With the downpour of rain also comes wear Jimmy Choos or >:;:.. . ·. still in our step with these sassy the outpouring of distinctive Notre Dame Manolo Blahniks, but · shoes. For the preppy princess, style, born out of necessity coupled with a opportunities abound to . '.· its good to know that a bit of daring from the inner fashion diva. wear flashy wellies. Sadly );:3 love of JCrew and Thank God the bookstore doesn't sell Notre they are not appropriate ,' ·, Vera Bradley can Dame rain boots, because look how we do for the runway, the work­<~ extend to practical when left to our own devices.
• 

place or even life post­things like rain Dome, but rain boots are boots. Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel @nd.edu and the perfect solution to the Even yummy food Genna McCabe at grnccabe@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 22, 2009 
MLB 

Nationals defeat Braves for second straight win 
Yankees beat Athletics in first night game at new stadium; Pirates' pitchers lead team to success over Marlins 
The Nationals, meanwhile, fig­empty rows of premium blue
Associated Press 
ured out a way to take two dou­seats wrapped around the 
WASHINGTON -Thanks to a bles, a single and a walk in the infield. suddenly stout bullpen, the second inning and turn it all into The first four games at the Washington Nationals finally only one run. It didn't help that $1.5 billion palace between New have their first winning streak of after Elijah Dukes led off with a York and Cleveland featured a 2009. double, he was thrown out record 20 homers, leading some 
Adam Dunn homered, trying to steal third. Jesus to start calling the place Coors Washington's beleaguered Flores' RBI double made it 3-1. Field East and criticize it for relievers tossed three scoreless Atlanta starter Kenshin being a bandbox. innings for the second day in a Kawakami (1-2) left after failing Yankees general manager row and the Nationals beat the to record an out in the sixth. Brian Cashman said the team Atlanta Braves 4-3 Tuesday Dunn led off with his fourth probably will commission more night for their second consecu­homer, a shot to straightaway tests to try to determine why tive victory. center off a 90 mph pitch that balls had been sailing out at 
After opening the season 0-7, cut Washington's deficit to 3-2. such an incredible pace. then dropping to 1-10, Dukes reached on third "There wasn't much wind tun­Washington is 3-10. Atlanta has baseman Jones' fielding error, nel. I hit a couple balls that were lost five of six games. and Austin Kearns followed with pretty good and actually they 
Played following a 61-minute a sinking liner that skipped past went nowhere," said ex-Yankee rain delay, this game was filled left fielder Matt Diaz for an RBI Jason Giambi, now back with with all sorts of miscues: three triple that tied things 3-all. Oakland. "It played the same to errors, other misplays in the Reliever Jeff Bennett entered me. I mean, there were some field, a few running mistakes, and got two outs, before giving balls crushed, myself and Robby failed sacrifice bunt attempts up the go-ahead run on pinch­Cano. I didn't see anything out of and more. hitter Josh Willingham 's single the ordinary. It was a night 

Shairon Martis (2-0} went six to left. game and really heavy mist." innings and gave up three runs­Dukes was hardly the only Damon hit the lone long ball two earned. player who encountered prob­Tuesday night, a no-doubter into few games we played here. But "It felt like every time I missed 
Then came the procession of lems on the basepaths. the second deck in right field the last two games it's played they either squared up or broke Nationals relievers: Mike In the fifth, Washington's that would have left almost any like the old Yankee Stadium," a bat or almost took my head Hinckley went 1 2-3 innings, Johnson slid about 10 feet too park on any night. manager Joe Girardi said. off," Eveland said. Julian Tavarez got one out, and early when he was running from The sixth-inning shot off Pettitte (2-0) allowed two runs Gardner also made an out­closer Joel Hanrahan had an first to second on what turned Andrew Bailey gave the Yankees and nine hits in seven innings, standing grab in deep center to adventurous ninth. But after a into a 6-4-3 double play. In the a 5-2 lead, and they held on with no walks or strikeouts. He rob Giambi of a run-scoring walk and double put two run­sixth, Atlanta's Jordan Schafer behind Brian Bruney and Rivera has gone at least seven innings extra-base hit in the first. ners on with none out, doubled to left-center, rounding before a crowd of 42,065. in each of his three starts. "He should have listened to the Hanrahan got the next three second and heading toward It was the 57th time Rivera A chance to pitch in the new ovation and let it drop," Giambi batters. He has converted his third as Dukes slid when he has saved a win for Pettitte, park was a big reason Pettitte joked. last two save chances after arrived at the ball. Schafer tried tying Oakland Hall of Farner returned this season for a $5.5 After spending the past seven blowing his first two of the sea­to get back to second base, but Dennis Eckersley and starter million, one-year contract. He seasons in New York, Giambi son. Dukes threw a strike to Bob Welch for the highest total was 95-42 at the original Yankee received a warm ovation his first 
The Nationals gave away Gonzalez, who relayed to second in major league history, accord­Stadium, winning the finale time up. He couldn't hold back a ninth-inning leads Friday, baseman Anderson Hernandez ing to the Elias Sports Bureau. against Baltimore in September. big smile as he stepped into the Saturday and Sunday against the for the tag on an 8-6-4 putout. "I really didn't know about it," Bruney retired 22 batters in a batter's box and greeted catcher Marlins, precipitating a revamp­And Atlanta's seventh ended Pettitte said. "It's awesome." row before Jack Cust singled Jorge Posada. ing of Washington's relief corps. when Martin Prado was thrown Rivera offered the game ball to with two outs in the eighth and And while Hinckley, Tavarez and out at third by catcher Jesus his longtime teammate, but scored on Mark Ellis ' double, Pirates 3, Marlins 2 Hanrahan were not part of the Flores after trying to advance on Pettitte told him to keep it. He'd trimming it to 5-3. Eric Chavez Jeff Karstens picked up where roster moves, they appear to a pitch in the dirt with Jones at like the record-breaker instead. lined out to second, ending the Ross Ohlendorf left off. have gotten the message. bat. "Defintely special," Rivera inning. Pittsburgh's pitchers are feed­
Martis worked his way in and said. "The most important thing Rivera worked around ing off each other's success these out of trouble -his lone 1-2-3 Yankees 5, Athletics 3 is that we won the game." Suzuki's leadoff single in the days. inning was the second -but he All of a sudden, home runs Kurt Suzuki went 4-for-4 for ninth for his fourth save. Karstens pitched six sharp only allowed runs in the first. He were hard to come by at Yankee the A's, who fell to 5-8 -their There was a nip in the soup­innings, Freddy Sanchez home­got himself in a tight spot with Stadium. worst 13-game start since open­thick air on a 54-degree night, red and the surging Pirates beat two outs by walking Chipper Andy Pettitte and Mariano ing 3-10 in 2001. Their offense which felt more like a Cape Cod the Florida Marlins 3-2 on Jones and Brian McCann , who Rivera had a lot to do with that. might have had something to do fog than spring in the Bronx. Tuesday night. was fitted for a new contact lens Johnny Damon hit the only with the power outage, too. A leadoff walk to Nick Swisher Karstens allowed one run and Tuesday after being bothered by homer in the first night game at Oakland's .304 slugging per­started New York's four-run sec­three hits for the Pirates, who blurred vision in his left eye. the fancy new ballpark and centage coming in was 33 points ond inning. lead the league in ERA and have 
Casey Kotchman delivered an Pettitte pitched New York to a 5-lower than any other big league Swisher advanced to third on won four of their last five games. RBI double to right-center. Jeff 3 victory over the Oakland team. The A's have a major Hideki Matsui 's double off Dana Sanchez finished with three hits. Francoeur then hit a sharp Athletics on Tuesday. league-low three homers, and Eveland (0-1), and with one out "A lot of people doubted us, groundball that shortstop "Everybody was talking about they've gone six straight games Gardner grounded a two-run but we all believe in ourselves Alberto Gonzalez grabbed at the balls flying. If you make your without one. single through a drawn-in and we all believe in each edge of the outfield grass. pitches, balls don't fly out," Still, the 21 combined homers infield, under the glove of a div­other," Karstens said of the staff Gonzalez's throw got past first Derek Jeter said. "I think every­broke a record for the first five ing Ellis at second base. that has a 3.00 ERA so far this baseman Nick Johnson, and two body was overexaggerating after games at a big league stadium. Jeter lined a single off Ellis' season after finishing with an runs scored on the play. four games." There were 20 hit at Cincinnati's glove -a ball that probably NL-worst 5.10 ERA last year. Francoeur was credited with an Brett Gardner came through Great American Ball Park in should have been caught. "That's all that matters right RBI single; Gonzalez was with a sensational catch and a 2003, according to Elias. Damon added an RBI single but now. Enough can't be said for charged with a throwing error two-run single, helping the Fifteen of the 21 here have was thrown out trying to stretch (new pitching coach Joe that allowed the second run, and Yankees beat punchless Oakland been hit to right field. it into a double. Mark Teixeira's Kerrigan); we're more prepared Atlanta led 3-0. in their latest home game with "A lot was made out of the first broken-bat single made it 4-0. than any team in the league." 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED FoR RENT 
Healthcare: Blood Plasma Ctr. International BioResources. hiring: 
Physician Substitutes-Active License Req. (EMT, LPN, RN), Phlebotomists, CNAs, Lab Techs, MedTechs. Grown Oppty! Exciting Fast Paced. 
Resumes: gsobecki@ibior.com 
. ,. 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
2009/1 0 student rentals Angela St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300­$2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon 57 4-876-3537. 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous­es.com 
Off-Campus housing at Dublin Village, Irish Crossings. Now up to $100 off per room per month with an application by May 15. Call CES Property Management at 574-968­0112. 
Professors home near NO avail­able summer session. 574-233­8855 or 574-387-4205 . 
Rental House 1 mile from NO, on TRANSPO route. New kitchen, bath, windows & car­pet. 2 bedrooms, 2 living rooms & dining room. APPLIANCES INCLUDED. 
Call Linda 574-288-0168. 
3 bdrm house for 07/01/09 on Corby, $1600/mo. 
Owners are NO alums. 
Pis call/text 619-804-3359. 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edu/health-safety/assis­tance-for-pregnant-students. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: 
http:1/osa.nd. edulhealth­safety/assauiV 
ADOPTION-
Loving Domer couple looking to adopt a baby (babies), please call Marie and James 
(301 )977 -5069 or (866)202-1424 PIN 5448. 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, April 22, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NCAA Baseball USA TODAY/ESPN Top 25 
team  points  record  
1  Georgia (8)  718  31·8  
2  Arizona State (13)  708  28·8  
3  North Carolina (4)  703  31·10  
4  Texas (2)  638  29·8  
5  Rice (1)  633  27·10  
6  UC Irvine (1)  322  26·10  
7  Georgia Tech (1)  600  26·8·1  
8  LSU (1)  580  28·12  
9  Arkansas  456  26·11  
10  CS Fullerton  441  24·11  
11  Miami (Aa.)  403  26·13  
12  Baylor  402  25·12  
13  Oklahoma  373  29·11  
14  Virginia  372  30·8·1  
15  Mississippi  369  28·11  
16  Florida State  286  25·12  
17  Texas A&M  221  25·14  
18  Cal Poly  215  27·9  
19  Costal Carolina  184  30·9  
20  Clemson  181  . 26-14  
20  Oregon State  181  23·9  
22  TCU  151  . 23·11  
23  Florida  98  26·14  
24  East Carolina  96  28·12  
25  Ohio State  72  29·8  
NCAA Men's Lac rosse  
Nike/lnsid e Lacrosse Poll  
team  point  record  
1  Virginia (15)  295  13-1  
2  Syracuse  276  16-2  
3  NOTRE DAME (5}  271  12-0  
4  Cornell  263  9-2  
5  Princeton  244  16-2  
6  Duke  224  16-3  
7  Johns Hopkins  206  6-4  
8  North Carolina  198  16-4  
9  Hofstra  180  9-2  

10 UMBC 150 9·2 11 Maryland 140 8·5 12 Loyola (Md.) 124 8-4 13 Navy 120 9-4 13 Brown 120 11-2 15 Massachusetts 87 7-4 16 Bucknell 73 8-6 17 Colgate 65 9-4 18 Georgetown 35 6-6 19 Penn State 33 7-5 20 Harvard 24 6-5 
NCAA Men's Golf Golf World/Nike Golf Poll 
team points 
1 Georgia (21) 572 2 usc (2) 540 3 Oklahoma Stale 530 4 Clemson 455 5 Stanford 446 6 Illinois 435 7 Florida 418 8 Alabama 406 9 Arizona State 397 10 Indiana 346 11 Georgia Tech 287 12 Washington 282 13 Texas Tech 276 14 South Carolina 260 15 Texas 241 
around the dial 
NBA Playoffs 
Miami at Atlanta (ATL leads 1-0) 8 p.m., TNT 
NHL Playoffs 
Washington at NY Rangers (NY leads 2-1) 7 p.m., Versus 

===========:-._:::::-.:::-.::::.:···:...-=:: . .::::::-.:.::::~-=:=-~:~==:::=::~:·==== 
NFL 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Michael Crabtree ditched the boot about two weeks ago. 
"I buried it," he said with a sly smile. 
Crabtree's surgically repaired left foot was mostly confined to a pro­tective boot for five weeks, but Tuesday he had black sneakers on both feet as he strolled around a Manhattan office building, no limp in sight. 
"The recovery is going real good," the All­American receiver from Texas Tech said. "My foot is doing well. I feel like I'm taking it one step at a time." 
Crabtree arrived in New York on Monday night and spent Tuesday running around town to promote his first national endorse­ment deal. He recently became the latest star athlete to sign a deal with the sandwich shop Subway, joining Michael Strahan, Michael Phelps and Ryan Howard. 
But the big day is Saturday, when he is expected to be among the first players selected in the NFL draft at Radio City Music Hall. 
The 21-year-old receiver from Dallas spent two sea­sons in college, dominat­ing defensive backs and averaging more than a touchdown per game. From the moment he declared for the draft in January, the 6-foot-1, 215-pound Crabtree seemed a lock to be the first receiver drafted and a top-1 0 pick. 

Not so fast. 

At the scouting combine in February, a routine medical exam revealed Crabtree had a stress fracture in his left foot. No one was more surprised than Crabtree. He thought he was simply sore. 
Suddenly the sure-thing had a huge question mark hanging over him. 
"Tell you the truth I always face those kind of challenges. When I was 
going to college I had a minor setback and I had to sit out a year," he said, referring to his redshirt freshman season brought on because the NCAA was slow to declare him aca­demically eligible. 
"I feel like when things are going too smooth, there's something wrong. [The injury] was nothing but a challenge to me. Everybody made it a big deal. It wasn't a big deal." 
After the fracture was revealed, Crabtree's first move was to cancel his 40-yard dash at the com­bine. The next day he said he'd run at pro day in Lubbock, Texas, and put off having surgery. 

IN BRIEF Villanova 2nard Reynolds Tig_er Woods and members Mas!ic's Howard named NBA 
declares lor NBA draft oflhe White Sox visit Obama defensive player of the year 
VILLANOVA, Pa. -Scottie WASHINGTON -On a day when ORLANDO, Fla. -It's a question Reynolds knows no matter where he met with his Cabinet and visited Dwight Howard will never forget. his basketball career takes him, CIA headquarters, President Barack Early this season, the Orlando he'll always be a Villanova Wildcat. Obama made room for a favorite Magic center was talking to Patrick 
He might just be one in his heart pastime: talking sports with top pro­Ewing and Dikembe Mutombo. The next season, instead of in uniform. fessionals. once great big men were giving 
Reynolds, the Wildcats 6-foot-2 Members of the Chicago White Sox Howard some tips, and Mutombo dynamo point guard, declared for dropped by the White House on asked him a simple question. the NBA draft on Tuesday, but said Monday, as did golf star Tiger Woods. "He said, 'What do you want to be he will not hire an agent and could Obama chatted with players from remembered as, the great clunker decide to return to the Wildcats for his favorite baseball team who were who won the slam dunk contest with his senior season. in the Washington area to play the a Superman outfit on, or do you want 
"If I really wanted to, I could be Baltimore Orioles. to do something better than that?'" like, 'Oh, I'm coming back next Presidential staffers say Obama, an Howard recalled Tuesday. "I said, 'I week,' and I'd feel really good occasional golfer, greeted Woods in want to be one of the greatest play­about that," Heynolds said. "Right the Oval Office. ers.' And he said it starts with now, I think the best choice, the Woods got a tour of the White defense." best decision I can make for myself, House from Marvin Nicholson, an Mission accomplished. is to go out there and do what I've Obama aide who once caddied at the The 23-year-old Howard became been doing throughout my career." Augusta golf course, where Woods the youngest player to win the NBA's 
Reynolds has never shied away tied for sixth place in this year's defensive player of the year award from the tough decision. He came to Masters tournament. Tuesday. Howard was only the fifth Villanova only weeks after backing White House aides said Woods hap­player to lead the league in blocks out of his commitment to pened to be in Washington and was and rebounds in the same season, a Oklahoma. invited to stop by. goal he set in training camp. 
r---------------------------------------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 22, 2009 
NHL 
Red Wings take down BlueJackets 
Crosby starts Penguins' victory over Flyers to strengthen series lead 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Henrik Zetterberg scored two goals and the Detroit Red Wings dominated from start to finish Tuesday night to beat the Columbus Blue Jackets 4-1 and grab a 3-0 lead in their first-round series. 
The first NHL playoff game at Nationwide Arena -in the Blue Jackets' 659th game -was a mammoth letdown for a fran­chise-record crowd of 19,219. 
Dan Cleary had a goal and two assists, Tomas Holmstrom scored 
1:07 in and Johan Franzen added two assists. The Red Wmgs can advance to the confer­ence semifinals with a win Thursday night. 
Chris Osgood's shutout streak of 144 minutes, 27 seconds ended with 3:53 left when R.J. Umberger scored on a backhander off a rebound of Rick Nash's drive. The goal was almost identical to the only other score the Blue Jackets have in the series, when Umberger scored late in the second period of Game 1. 
Osgood, who finished with 31 saves, stopped Kristian Huselius on two prime scoring chances within a minute in the first peri­od, each of which would have tied it. He also gloved a Raffi Torres shot from close range early in the third period as Torres waded in all alone. 
Since an embarrassing 8-2 home loss -with Osgood in goal -on March 7, the Red Wings have won the last four meetings with the Blue Jackets by a com­bined score of 16-2. 
Rookie goaltender Steve Mason had 22 saves for Columbus. 
The last four times the Red Wings hit the road leading a first­round series 2-0, they had lost. Not this time. Not even close. 
A standing-room only crowd roared at the start but the Red Wings got on the board quickly. Holmstrom skated down the left wing and fired a 50-foot shot that Mason deflected. The puck went to Marian Hossa at the right dot, who gained control of it before backhanding a high shot that skipped past Mason off the cross­bar and along the goal line. Holmstrom was there to jam in the rebound. 
After Detroit took eight of the first 11 shots with Columbus looking hesitant and jittery, the Blue Jackets had the next eight shots on Osgood. 
But with less than a minute left in the first period, Franzen's shot from the right wing smacked into defenseman Mike Commodore and Cleary in the crease. Cleary collected the puck, spun and whipped a shot past Mason. 
A weird sequence led to the Red Wings' third goal. Commodore tried to cheek Daniel Cleary but missed, flipping over the short boards and onto the Detroit bench. Moments later, he made contact with Franzen, decking him behind the Columbus goal. But then he added another shot and was whistled for a delayed penalty. The Wings didn't stop skating, however, and Cleary tossed a centering pass to Zetterberg between the circles and his hard shot made it 3-0. 
After Umberger ended the shutout, Zetterberg added an empty-netter. 
The disparity between the two teams' histories was striking. The Blue Jackets were the only NHL team to not make the playoffs until this, their eighth season. 
Columbus has an all-time record of 247-328-43. Detroit, meanwhile, is 288-254-1 --just in playoff games. 
Penguins 3, Ayers 1 
PHILADELPHIA -Sidney Crosby and the Penguins can fin­ish off the Flyers back on home ice. 
A sliding Crosby scored a goal that ricocheted off his skate, his midsection and into the back of the net to spark Pittsburgh to a 3-1 win over Philadelphia on Tuesday night. 
Marc-Andre Fleury was sensa­tional with 45 saves and the Penguins grabbed a 3-1 lead in the Eastern Conference first­round playoff series. 
Tyler Kennedy and Maxime Talbot also scored for the Penguins, who can eliminate the Flyers in five games just like they did in last year's Eastern Conference finals. Game 5 is Thursday in Pittsburgh. 
Crosby had one goal in the first three games and the Flyers defense was doing a solid job of keeping the Penguins captain in check until early in the second. 
He was right where he needed to be on a smart and sensational set-up. Chris Kunitz controlled the puck in the circle when Flyers defenseman Kimmmo Timonen slid on his belly in front of the winger to try and block a shot. Kunitz simply flicked the puck up toward the net over a sprawled Timonen and Crosby came sliding in from the right side to knock in the goal. 
The puck appeared to knock off the inside of his stick, then bounced off his body and into the net with Flyers forward Simon Gagne trailing right him. 
The red light went on and the goal was announced, but the play was reviewed to make sure the goal wasn't scored off Crosby's glove. Crosby stared at the video board like the rest of the 19,883 orange-clad fans, only he was the one smiling when it was announced the goal stood for a 1-0 lead. 
That goal could almost have been enough the way Fleury snagged every flying puck and smothered each one near the goalmouth. Fleury, who stopped 15 shots in the second period, made perhaps his finest save midway through the third when the Flyers were pounding the net with pucks. Jeff Carter, the Nl·ll:s second-leading goal seornr, fired a dose shot that bounced off the post on Fleury's glove side onto the goalmouth and was quickly pouncnd on by the goalie to snuff the rally. 
The red light came on, but the refs instantly waved ofl"the goal. 
That would prove to be a clutch stop only minutes later when Daniel Careillo scored his first goal for the Flyers with 8:16 left that sliced the lead to 2-1. At that point, the Flyers had ouL<>hot the Penguins 41-22. 
The usual sold-out crowd erupted and roared for every check that sent a Penguins player into the boards the rest of the way. 
It was another electric atmosphere that simply didn't matter much for the Flyers once the fmal horn sounded. Now, the Penguins have to hope they can protect the home-ice advantage in Game 5 and keep the series from heading back to Philly. 
Fleury made his first save of the game, then his second, jump­ing out to a much bettnr start than in Game 3 when he allowed goals on the first two shots or the game. He got some insurance in the second period Kennedy avoided tho cheek, broke free in the middle, and backhanded the puck past Biron fbr a 2-0 lead. 

!Now £easing Por 2009-2010 .ft.pp(y rtotfay Limited"Space )fvaifa6felI I 
Offerina 11ie 1Jest rf<!ntafrf?g.tes in tfown! $99 f£or J" :.Montlis rf<!nt '14i'tli 12 :.Montfi Lease! $300 Off1" :Montlis rf<!nt rWitli 9 :.Montfi. Lease! f£ree ;tpplication f£ee !forStudents 'Witfi UD.! CIJ:Jse to Campus! 
eastle1'oint
A f t U011 Cla-.t.<Utt:t Bd. SolltJt .lead IN 46"6"31par, men s l'lloae: (IJ74J 2n-•uo Fa:: (s7.f) 212-•u4 
MLB 

Little League offers 
to pay Dukes' fine 
Nationals' OF makes appearance at Little League opener; fined by team for lateness 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -When out­fielder Elijah Dukes made a per­sonal appearance at a Virginia Little League's season-opening gathering for a little extra cash a few hours before a Washington Nationals game, he turned up late at hi<> day job and was fined. 
Now the Great Falls, Va., Little League -already out the $500 Dukes was promised so he'd show up over the weekend ­says it will raise another $500 to cover Dukes' penalty for failing to arrive at Nationals Park on time. He also was dropped from the starting lineup that day. 
Dukes' 2009 salary with the Nationals is $415,500. He declined to comment about the matter before Washington's game against Atlanta on Tuesday night. 
"We felt terrible, because he was doing work f(Jr us that made him late," Great Falls Little League president .Jim Mraz said Tuesday in a telephone interview. 
The Washington Post first reported on his league's plans to cover Dukes' tine. 
"We're raising the money. We're going to pay the fine. It's not a question of whether he can afford it or not. That's none of our business," Mraz said. "If he was put in a bad light because of us, we should at least pay the 
$500 for him." 
The league planned to have collection jugs at its games start­ing Tuesday night. Any extra money raised will be donated to a little league based near the Nationals' stadium. 
Mraz said another pro athlete who attended Saturday's festivi­ties for the league's 54 teams, Redskins cornerback Justin Tryon, did not receive an appearance fee -nor, Mraz thinks, have other players who participated in the past, such as former Redskins quarterback Mark Brunell. 
Dukes had various off-field troubles, including arrests for assault and marijuana posses­sion, before the Nationals acquired him in a trade with the Tampa Bay Rays before the 2008 season. By all accounl<>, he has not had such problems since joining the Nationals. In January, a judge did threaten Dukes with 90 days in jail if he didn't meet a deadline for paying more than $40,000 in court-ordered child support and alimony to his estranged wife. At the time, a lawyer for Dukes said the player probably would borrow the money to satisfy the court order. 
On Saturday, at the Great Falls Little League's opening day, Dukes gave high-fives to children and spoke to the crowd before leaving. 


The College of Arts and Lcttea·s Invites Faculty and Staff Nominations for the Seventh Annual Arts and Letters Award ot" Appreciation 
-rhc College of Arts and Letters announces its seventh annual Awltrd of Appreciation, lQ be conferred on an outstanding faculty or sta!T mcmhcr from outside the College . 
The Collegt• invites nominations of tacully or statr employees whose work clsl•wherc, in othct· units or d~Jlartmcnb ol' the l.lnh·ersity, contributes immeasurably to the College of Arts and Letters and enriches its life in significant ways. 
A certifi<:Me and honorarium :H:C\)Illp<tny this uwurd. 
Please ;end <Jr enmi I a brief ktter to the Commiuee describing the outstanding contributi<)[ls your nominee ha> nmdc to the lite of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Arts and Lcttcn; A ward of Appreciation Committee c/o Cindy Swonger 
100 O'Shaughnessy Hall s<!m:MJ.1l:Jii£it:r.uL>:4.M 
De!ldlinc Monday, April 27,2009 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
COI.ti\GE 01' ARTS AND L£TTflUi 
Wednesday, April 22, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

NHL 

Hurricaneseven out series with Devils 
Canucks finish first round of playoffs with a 3-2 win over Blues in overtime 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. -Jussi Jokinen deflected in Dennis Seidenberg 's slap shot with 
0.2 seconds remaining and the Carolina Hurricanes evened their series with New Jersey at two games apiece by beating the Devils 4-3 Tuesday night. 
Eric Staal, Ryan Bayda and Chad LaRose also scored and Seidenberg finished with two assists for the Hurricanes, who blew a 3-0 lead but regrouped just in time to avoid a third straight overtime game. 
Jokinen started the dramatic sequence when he tried to stuff a backhander past Martin Brodeur with about 7 seconds remaining. The puck circled around to Joni Pitkanen near the blue line and he passed off to Seidenberg, who unloaded a hard blast from the point that clicked off the Finn's left skate and past Brodeur's low left side as time expired. 
After a review of about 2 minutes, officials determined that the puck crossed the goal line with 0.2 seconds left. An incensed Brodeur, who had been bumped outside the crease by Jokinen seconds before the goal, smashed his stick into the boards. 
David Clarkson scored the tying goal with 11:14 left for New Jersey. Brian Gionta added a goal and an assist, Brendan Shanahan scored his 60th career playoff goal and Brodeur stopped 42 shots for the Devils. 
But when this tightly played series resumes with Game 5 on Thursday night in New Jersey, the Hurricanes will have a momentum boost, after a game they controlled for nearly two full periods nearly slipped away before Jokinen's buzzer-beater. 
Meanwhile, this one had to deflate the Devils, who trailed by three goals in the final sec­onds of the second period only to rally within a split second of forcing OT. 
Gionta got the improbable comeback started when he scored on a breakaway with 
27.8 seconds left in the sec­ond, giving him a goal for th9 second straight game. Shanahan kept it going in~o the third, beating a screened Cam Ward with a wrist shot with 15:39 left, and Clarkson tied it roughly 4 minutes later when he took advantage of a defensive breakdown and snapped a rebound past a sprawled-out Ward. 
Ward finished with 26 saves for the Hurricanes, who domi­nated the first two periods with their best 40 minutes of the postseason. 
Of course, that wasn't neces­sarily saying much. Through three games, the only time the scoreboard showed them ahead was after Tim Gleason's slap shot in overtime won Game 2. 
They were getting next to nothing out of their No. 1 line and there were lingering wor­ries that they were destined to slide into a 3-1 series hole. 

But they scored twice during a 1:03 stretch and put forth their best 20-minute stretch of the postseason -and their top line of Staal, Tuomo Ruutu and Erik Cole got it all started with its first goal of the series. 
Staal put Carolina up 1-0 when he stuffed a rebound past Brodeur for his second goal of the series, and moments later, Bayda came away with a goal when he took advantage of a rare misplay by the NHL's winningest goal­tender. Brodeur stopped a shot, dropped the puck and could only watch as Scott Walker simply took it away from him before setting up Bayda in the sloL LaRose made it 3-0 with 13 1/2 min­utes left in the second when he backhanded his rebound past Brodeur, giving him a goal in two straight games. 
Canucks 3, Blues 2 
Alex Burrows scored his sec­ond goal of the game with 18.9 seconds to go in overtime and Roberto Luongo made 4 7 saves to help the Vancouver Canucks complete a first­round sweep of St. Louis with a 3-2 victory over the Blues Tuesday night. 
Kyle Wellwood also scored for the Canucks, who swept a four-game series for the first time in franchise history. Vancouver won a series before the seventh game for the first time in 12 tries since 1994. 
Brad Boyes and David Perron scored for the Blues, who rallied from a two-goal, second-period deficit thanks to increased traffic around Luongo. But more power play woes doomed St. Louis, which was 0-for-7 with the man advantage and 1-for-23 in the series including a four-minute double-minor midway through overtime. 
The Canucks were outshot 10-1 the first half of overtime. Burrows, whose goal put Vancouver ahead 2-0 in the second period, broke in alone on the right side and squeezed a wrist shot past Chris Mason. 
Ryan Kesler 's four-minute penalty for high sticking when he drew blood near Blues defenseman Mike Weaver 's eye midway through the period gave the Blues, making their first playoff appearance in five years, a chance to extend the series. But St. Louis managed only four shots. 
Vancouver's power play also could have ended it before Burrows' shot silenced a standing room crowd of 19,250 and put the third seed in the Western Conference into the second round. The Canucks won two of their last three overtime games in the regular season, both on goals by Henrik Sedin. 
The Blues dramatically increased traffic in front of the net throughout Game 4, and that pressure plus a sudden increase in urgency helped them rally from a two-goal deficit to tie it in the second period. 
r page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 22, 2009 
I 
I 
NFL 
Teams asking about Boldin 
Upset Cardinals' WR sought after by other teams as draft approaches 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. -The Arizona Cardinals have received inquiries from "quite a few teams" about disgruntled wide receiver Anquan Boldin, and more conversations are antici­pated as draft day approaches. 
But general manager Rod Graves and coach Ken Whisenhunt repeatedly empha­sized at the team's pre-draft news conference Tuesday that they would be happy to keep Boldin and eventually try to sign him to a new contract. 
"Quite a few teams have called but we have no offers from those teams," Graves said. "Anything can evolve from this point through draft day so that's where it is right now." 
Speaking to reporters at his charity event in Florida last week, Boldin appeared open to staying with the Cardinals, a departure from earlier requests to be traded. 
"I didn't say a trade was nec­essary," Boldin said. "I just want something to get resolved. It's something that's gone on long enough." 
Boldin expressed his extreme displeasure in last season's training camp, accusing Cardinals management of failing to follow through on a promise of a new contract and vowing never to re-sign with Arizona. 
Still, he went on to have his third Pro Bowl season in six years in the NFL as the Cardinals advanced to the Super Bowl. 
"We never said we were trying to trade Anquan," Whisenhunt said. "See, that's been the per­ception that's out there. All we've said was that we were willing to listen to ofl'ers." 
Any offer would be weighed against the option of attempting to extend Boldin's contract, Graves said. 
"The ultimate goal is to do what's in the best interest of the team," Graves said. "It's just something that we decided to take a look at, but we feel very highly about him as a player and what he means to our football team. I think that if there were to be consideration of doing any­thing, it would certainly have to be for commensurate value." 
Asked if it would be unlikely to get equal value for a player of Boldin's talent, Graves said, "That remains to be seen." 
"If not, he's an outstanding player that's a member of our football team and we're happy to continue with him," Graves said. 
Arizona would be expected to want at least what Detroit got from Dallas for wide receiver Hoy Williams -a first-, third­and sixth-round round pick. Dallas also got Detroit's seventh­round pick as part of that deal. 
Boldin has two years remain­ing on a four-year, $22.25 mil­lion contract. lie earned $4 mil­lion last season. By comparison, teammate Larry Fitzgerald is in the second season of a four-year, $40 million deal, with $30 mil­lion guaranteed. Fitzgerald and quarterback Kurt Warner have said they would be open to alter­ing their contracts in order to keep Boldin. 
Graves repeated that contract talks with representatives of linebacker Karlos Dansby and safety Adrian Wilson must be resolved before attention would turn to Boldin. That might not be until 2010. 
Whisenhunt brushed aside any possible concerns that Boldin's attitude would be a problem if he is not traded and dons not get a new contract. 
"We've gone through a year, gone through a successful sea­son with Anquan, he's gone to the Pro Bowl," Whisenhunt said. "He's played well for us and I have no expectations of not hav­ing the same thing." 
Meanwhile, Edgerrin James' status with the Cardinals rests on what the team does in this weekend's draft. If Arizona gets a running back with its No. 31 pick, or maybe even one in the second round, expect James to be released next week, some­thing he wanted to happen long ago. 
NBA 

Sixers to make use of veterans off the bench 
Associated Press 

OHLANDO, Fla. -Seldom­used Donyell Marshall's new nickname is "secret weapon," his Philadelphia 76ers team­mates greet with a laugh. 
"If that's what you call play­ing once in 10 games," fellow Sixers reserve Kareem Rush joked. 
For a team built around youth, Philadelphia leaned on aging veterans like Marshall to win the playofl" opener against the Orlando Magic. The Sixers will likely need another strong performance from their bench if they have any chance for a repeat in Game 2 on Wednesday night. 
A 15-year NBA veteran who has played sparingly this sea­son, Marshall was pm·haps the most important -and sur­prising -player during the Sixers' rally from 18 points down to win Game 1. Marshall's 11 points all came in the fourth quartnr, including the tying 3-pointer in the final minute. 
"Hey, I'm always going in with us down 15 points or whatever," Marshall said. "It's easy. I have no conseienee." 
Philadelphia coach Tony DiLeo usnd 11 players against Orlando. The Sixnrs bench outscored the Magic's reserves 42-13, a major reason why 
they now have home-court advantage. 
Louis Williams had 18 points ofl" the bench, and then there was 36-year-old Theo Ratliff banging with Dwight Howard to keep him from getting a few crucial rebounds late. Despite getting dunked on a few times by Howard, Ratliff's box-out ability was enough to earn him a nickname, too. 
"Superbooty beats Superman," teammates teased him after the win. 
"Dwight gets the ball down low it's usually two points," Hatliff said. "You got to do whatever you can." 
The Magic simply want a better defensive efl"ort. 
Once heavy favorites to beat the Sixers. they now find themselves in a pressure­packed game on their home floor before the best-of-seven series shifts to Philadelphia. Orlando coach Stan Van Gundy said his team is still angry at the outcome but it's no time to panic. 
"People are a little more upset than usual," Van Gundy said. "If you're not, there's something wrong with you. We didn't do our job and we lost home-court advantage. My overriding sense in the locker room is that it's a confident group who thinks we're a good team. They're determined to 


FESTIVAL ON THE QUAD 
Because there is a time for everything-a time for music, a time for dancing, and most of all, a time to gather and celebrate our commitment to overcome sexual violence 
Friday April 24, 2009 3:00-S:OOpm SOUth Quad 
Rain Location: Mendoza College of Business Atrium and .Jordan Auditorium 
3:00-4:00 3:00-6:00 6:00-7:30 7:30-8:00 
Dreamworlds 3: a film exploring how music videos and 
the media influence our conceptions of desire, sex, and power 
Campus Corn hole Fundraiser: $5 minimum donation for teams of two people All proceeds will go to SOS of Madison Center; the Rape Crisis Center of St. Joseph County 
Donald McPherson, College Football Hall ot Famer, Activist, Educator and Feminist Keynote Talk: You Throw Like a Girl 
Notre Dame Student Speak Out 


FREE FOOD $5 T-SH IRTS 
Visa and Mastercard accepted as payment 

3ll LaFortune • 574.631.93,10 • grc-nd,edu • grc@nd.edu 
Wednesday, April 22, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Pirates' head catcher out vvithinjury 
Doumit sufferingfrom broken wrist; operation scheduled for Thursday 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -Pittsburgh catcher Ryan Doumit needs an operation to repair a broken bone in his right wrist and will be out for at least 8 to 10 weeks, an injury that signifi­cantly weakens the Pirates at their thinnest position. 
Doumit's operation is sched­uled for Thursday, when pins will be inserted into his broken scaphoid bone to fuse it. 
Doumit, who led NL catchers with a .318 average last season, fractured the wrist bone while batting in Sunday's 11-1 loss to Atlanta. He initially stayed in the game and did not believe the injury was serious, but he began experiencing pain later that night. 
Doumit had an MRI exam on Monday and a CT scan on Tuesday that revealed the frac­ture. He will be re-examined in about a month to determine when he can start rehabilita­tion, which cannot begin until the bone starts to heal. 
'This is something I didn't see coming," Doumit said. "You do everything you can in the off­season to prepare.... To have something like this, it's devas­tating. No one wants to be told they can't play for eight to 10 weeks." 
The injury happened less than a week after Pirates manager John Russell said he hoped Doumit would catch 140 games this season. The Pirates are left with two rookie catchers Jason Jaramillo and Robinzon Diaz, who have a combined 14 major league at-bats. 
The Pirates' improved pitch­ing staff has lowered its EHA from an NL-worst 5.10 last sea­son to 3.06 going into Tuesday's game against Florida and had four shutouts in seven games, but now must work with two inexperienced catchers. 
Jaramillo, 26, was added in an offseason trade with Philadelphia for Ronny Paulino, Pittsburgh's starting catcher in 2006 and most of 2007. Paulino lost his Pirates' starting job partly because of training issues and defensive lapses and now plays for Florida. 
Jaramillo has made only two career starts, including one Monday night against Florida, and is 3-for-8 this season. 
Diaz, 25, was recalled from Triple-A Indianapolis on Tuesday to replace Doumit on the 25-man roster. Diaz, acquired from the Blue Jays in a trade for infielder Jose Bautista on Aug. 25, was 3-for­6 in two games for Pittsburgh last season. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

McElroy shows his skillinspringgame 
Former Alabama backup QB impresses coaches, teammates and fans Saturday 
Associated Press 

TUSCALOOSA, Ala. Alabama coach Nick Saban wouldn't say who will be the starting quarterback in the fall, but he left no doubt after Saturday's spring game that Greg McElroy is the clear leader. 
"He has shown he's far and away our best quarterback right now. He knows that somebody's going to have to beat him out," Saban said after watching McElroy out­play two other contenders in Saturday's spring game. 
McElroy, last year's back­up, is seeking to replace three-year starter John Parker Wilson, who led the Crimson Tide to a 12-2 record and Southeastern Conference Western Division championship last season. 
McElroy completed 16 of 30 passes for 189 yards and two touchdowns to lead the crim­son team to a 14-7 win over 
the white team in the A-Day game. McElroy threw two interceptions. 
The game was played before a near-packed Bryant­Denny Stadium crowd esti­mated by university officials at 84,050. 
McElroy's completions included a 52-yard touch­down toss to a wide open Julio Jones over the middle in the first quarter and a 10­yard scoring pass to Mike McCoy in the second. 
The touchdown pass to Jones excited the large crowd. 
"He got open and made a play. I knew exactly where he was going to be and I guess that's what all the execution over the spring led to and I was excited we got the points out of it," McElroy said. 
While Saturday's game did­n't count in any record books, McElroy said the large crowd made it feel like a midseason game against a conference rival. 
"I mean, it wasn't a relaxed atmosphere. The fans were going wild," he said. 
Defensive lineman Terrence Cody agreed that the crowd influenced the players. 
"It was crazy," Cody said. "The stadium was almost fully packed and it got loud like a real game." 
The only score for the white team came late in the third quarter on a 5-yard run by Ivan Matchett. 
Quarterbacks Star Jackson and Thomas Darrah had their moments but could not move the ball consistently against the stiff Crimson Tide defense. Darrah completed 8­of-22 passes for 113 yards and Jackson was 4-for-13 for 52 yards and threw two interceptions. 
Saban said there's not a clear choice for backup quar­terback between Jackson and Darrah. 
"Those guys are still com­peting," Saban said. He said Jackson and Darrah have both been inconsistent, but he believes they will improve. 
"They are both young guys and I feel both guys who have a good attitude," Saban said. 
Alabama played the spring game without two of its most experienced running backs out with injuries -Mark Ingram (hamstring) and Roy Upchurch (neck). One-time starter Terry Grant rushed 10 times for 27 yards and collectively the crimson and white squads ran for less than 100 yards. The longest running play from scrimmage was a 33-yard end around by receiver Marquis Maze, who also had five catches for 87 yards. 
"We need to improve our ability to run the football. It will help when we get two of our backs back," Saban said. 


CONTROVERSIAL TOPICS IN ETHICS: 
LIVING TOGETHER BEFORE MARRIAGE 
CONDOM AND BIRTH CONTROL DISTRIBUTION IN POORER COUNTRIES BABIES RAISED WITHOUT THE CONSTANT PRESENCE OF 
THEIR MOTHERS WHAT ARE THE SCIENTIFIC FACTS BEHIND THESE ISSUES? WANT TO FIND OUT? THE 5th ANNUAL MIDWEST REGIONAL BIOETHICS 
CONFERENCE MAY 2, 2009 University of Notre Dame, Raclin Carmichael Hall. 1234 

Notre Dame Avenue, Notre Dame, IN Renowned speakers: Eugene Diamond, M.D.• Brian Clowes, Ph.D.• 
A. Patrick Schneider, M.D., and Christopher Mcintire, D.O. 
Registration (lunch included): $20 for Students/Clergy, $50 General Public, $75 Physicians: 4 CME credits available 
Online Registration and info at www.illinoiscma.org/sjbc.html 

For more information or mail-in registration, contact: Thomas Zabiega at tzabiega@hotmail.com or tel. (630) 768-4590 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 22, 2009 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles face first place Hope in MIAA Inatch 
By KATELYN GRABAREK 
Sporrs Wrirer 
The Belles will face a stiff challenge today, facing off against conference leader Hope on the road in a key MIAA bat­tle. 
The Saint Mary's tennis team will travel to Hope (13-5, 5-0) 
for one of its final conference matches before the conference tournament in Kalamazoo next weekend. 
"This season has been great thus far," sopho­more Jessica Kosinski said. "Our team has developed a rela­tionship like none other. We are so unified and 
tougher time with Hope, who is cur­rently undefeated in the conference. 
"Hope is really tough and they will be ready for us," head coach Dale Campbell said. "They have been on a role as of late. Hopefully we can bring our best more improvement in that area. We are learning where we need to improve our games." 
Junior Camille Gebert has been a force at No. 2 singles and No. 1 doubles for Saint Mary's. 
Gebert is 11-2 at No. 2 singles this far this season including 5-0 in MIAA competition. 
"She is a fighter and willing to run all day to win a match," 
"Our team has developed a relationship like none other. We are so unified and together we have what it takes 
to win.,, 
Jessica Kosinski Belles sophomore 
together we have what it takes to win." 
The Belles (7-8, 2-3) are com­ing off a dominant 9-0 win over Trine on Monday, rebounding after losing three straight con­ference matches. 
While the Belles were able to win convincingly over the Thunder, they will have a 
game and give them a close match. We look forward to the challenge." 
Campbell made a few changes to his lineup against Trine to get more aggressiveness at doubles. 
"Primarily, we have improved our singles play," Campbell said. "We are also maturing as a team and competing better mentally although we need Campbell said. "Her fitness level gives her a great amount of confidence." 
After traveling to Hope today, the Belles will travel to Adrian on Saturday before wrapping up their regular season schedule against Olivet on Monday. 
"We are trying to take one 
match at a time," Campbell said. "We are trying not to look too far ahead. We are trying to get better in the next two weeks to compete well at the conference tournament." 
After their match against Hope, Saint Mary's should have an easier road leading up to the conference tournament as Olivet 
"Hope is really tough and they will be ready for us.,, 
Dale Campbell Belles.coach 
and Adrian have com­bined for only two league wins this sea­son. 
"Our num­ber one team goal is to win conference," Kosinski said. "We will do whatever it 
takes to succeed and we are all in this together." 
The Belles will be looking to improve on their fourth place finish in the conference from last season. 
The match against Hope will begin at 4 p.m. today. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
NFL 

Goodell: Vick has paid price 
Commissioner wants to see 'genuine remorse' before reinstating QB 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Va. -NFL commissioner Hoger Goodell says Michael Vick has paid a significant price for doing an "egregious thing" and will have to show genuine remorse and that the experi­ence has changed him in order to get a chance at resuming his career in the league. 
Goodell appeared Tuesday night at Washington & Lee University, engaging in a panel discussion about lead­
ership in sports and taking questions from the audience. 
A l'te rw a rd, Goodell said he has not kept up with Vick's legal issues since suspend­ing him from the league after his con­
"Michael did an egregious thing. He has paid a very significant price for that." 
Roger Goodell NFL Commissioner 
viction in a federal dogfight­ing case. Vick is serving a 23­month prison term and has a team of lawyers trying to set­tle his finances in bankruptcy court. 
A major component of the bankruptcy lawyers' efforts to find a way for Vick to satisfy his creditors is based on his ability to again earn millions in pro football. 
"I don't stay in touch with them," Goodell said after the panel discussion, reiterating that he'll consider Vick's case only after all his legal issues have been resolved. 
"At that point in time, I will want to meet with Michael, I will want to meet with his people, I will want to meet with other professionals to understand: does he under­stand the mistakes he made and is he genuine and have remorse for those actions and is he prepared to handle him­self differently going forward. That will ultimately be my decision," he said. 
Many have speculated that Vick would become a light­ning rod for animal rights groups and others if he is reinstated and added to a team's roster, but Goodell said he think the public will apply the same standard he'll use when determining whether to allow him to return. 

"Our issue is trying to do the right thing and represent the NFL in the best possible way," said the commissioner, whose institution and enforce­ment of a personal conduct policy has seen him send Vick and numerous other stars to the sidelines for off-the-field 
trouble. 

."Michael did an egregious thing. He has paid a very sig­nificant price for that. If he's learned from that and is pre­pared to live a different life, I think the gen­eral public is 
forgiving on that when people are genuine and they show remorse and are prepared to live a different life," he said. "That's something he has to prove to myself and the gen­eral public." 
"Hopefully," Goodell said later, "he's learned from that." 
Vick, 28 and once the NFL's highest paid player with a seven-year contract for $130 million, is scheduled to be released from the federal penitentiary in Leavenworth, Kan., on July 20, but could be transferred to home confine­ment in Hampton as early as May 21. 
Goodell laughed at the sug­gestion that his no-nonsense approach to discipline has earned him a reputation as the sheriff of the NFL, and said it's his least favorite role. But he said he's also learned that taking the game away from misbehaving players is usually effective. 
"Players love to play the game, coaches love to coach the game. You don't want to do that," he said. "Our efforts here are to try to have people avoid making mistakes, not having to discipline them. I'm not trying to reinforce fail­ures; we're trying to create success." 
It's frustrating, he told the audience of about 250, when one player's misdeeds draw a lot of attention and leave peo­ple feeling the league is filled with out-of-control athletes. 
"The thing that I get most frustrated about with our player conduct is that our players are, virtually all of them, are wonderful young men. They do great things in their community and when you have a couple that don't behave responsibly, it reflects poorly on all of them and peo­ple make assumptions about them and stereotype them.... They have to recognize that it's a privilege to play in this league, but that it comes with a responsibility and that responsibility is something to be held accountable for because it reflects on all of us. 
"That shield is something I talk about. Do not reflect poorly on that shield," he said. 
Goodell also said that he thinks the proposal to do away with two preseason games and expand the regu­lar season schedule to 18 games makes sense, especial­ly with the economic down­turn, because the preseason games don't live up to the standard of NFL quality. 
"We're potentially taking two games that are meaning­less and making them mean­ingful," he said, noting that teams will play the same number of games overall. "We have· to create more value for our fans. They're paying for those games right now. They don't like them. They don't reflect well on the NFL. They're not up to the NFL standard. We want to give them a better-quality product, and that's one way of doing that, and it's all within that 20-game format." 



Candide 
THE ROYAL NATIONAL THEATRE VERSION Music by LEONARD BERNSTEIN Book Adapted from Voltaire by HUGH WHEELER In a New Version by JOHN CAIRD Lyrics by RICHARD WILBUR Additional lyrics by STEPHEN SONDHEIM, JOHN LATOUCHE, LILLIAN HELLMAN, 
DOROTHY PARKER and LEONARD BERNSTEIN 
Directed by MARK ABRAM-COPENHAVER Music directed by NANCY MENK Choreography by LAURIE LOWRY Costumes designed by MELISSA B BIALKO Lighting and set designed by MICHAELA DUFFY 
CANDIDE (NATIONAL THEATRE VERSION) is presented through special arrangement with Music Theatre International (MTI). All authorized performance materials are also supplied by MTI. 421 West 54th Street, New York, NY 10019 Phone: 212-574-4684 Fax: 212-397-4684 www.MTIShows.com 

Wednesday, April 22, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

MLB 
Kinsler, Rangers edge Blue Jays on the road 
Associated Press 
TORONTO -The Texas Rangers don't really enjoy facing Roy Halladay but they sure don't shy away from him, either. 
Nelson Cruz and Ian Kinsler each hit two-run homers and the Rangers again roughed up the Toronto ace, beating the Blue Jays 5-4 on Tuesday night. 
"He's a great pitcher," Cruz said. "We really don't want to face him too much but when we have to, we'll get prepared." 
The game was delayed for 10 minutes in the top of the sixth when home plate umpire Kerwin Danley was hit on the head by a broken bat and had to leave the field on a stretcher. 
Danley was taken to a hospital with a possible concussion but did not lose consciousness, crew chief Dana DeMuth said. 
"He was in a lot of head pain and didn't want to talk," DeMuth said. "But he knew where he was and he said he had feeling in everything." 
The Rangers won on the road for the first time in four tries and have won back-to-hack games after losing seven of their previous eight. 
Halladay (3-1) gave up five runs and eight hits in eight innings, walking none and strik­ing out a season-high nine. Five of the eight hits he allowed were for extra bases. 
"The couple of mistakes he made, we made him pay," out­fielder Marlon Byrd said. "That guy battles out there. If you're not ready mentally, he'll just eat you alive." 
In 20 games against Texas, Halladay is 7-7 with a 5.36 ERA, his highest against any AL oppo­nent. He lost his only start against the Rangers in 2008, giving up four runs and 11 hits in nine innings. 
"There's obviously some good hitters in their lineup," Halladay said. 'The tough part is a couple bloops and you can make a mis­take and all of a sudden you're down two or three runs. That's the tough part, they have the ability to hit home runs, espe­cially when you don't make quality pitches." 
Texas opened the scoring in the second with just that mix. Byrd's bloop to right fell for a double and Cruz followed with a two-run shot to left, his sixth. 
Chris Davis drove in the third run with a fourth-inning, two­strike single just beyond short­stop Marco Scutaro and Kinsler added a two-strike homer in the seventh. 
The homer made a winner of right-hander Brandon McCarthy (2-0), who gave up three runs and six hits in six innings. He walked two and struck out two. 
NBA 

James leads Cavs past Pistons 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -The Detroit Pistons couldn't contain LeBron James again. And time, they didn't stop his teammates until it was too late. 
James, showing no regard for a defensive plan Detroit spent three days preparing for him, scored 29 points and Mo Williams added 21 as the Cleveland withstood a stirring comeback for a 94-82 win on Tuesday night to open a 2-0 lead over the Pistons in the Eastern Conference playoffs. 
James added 13 rebounds, six assists and an unforget­table, wind-mill dunk before pulling on his warmups and sit­ting the first 4:45 of the fourth quarter. 
But as Cleveland's star was resting up for Game 3 on Friday night at The Palace in Auburn Hills, Mich., the Pistons, show­ing more fight than they had in two games, closed within 14 and forced Cavs coach Mike Brown to put James and Cleveland's other starters back in. 
Detroit eventually closed within seven on Antonio McDyess' jumper with 3:51 left, but James restored order down the stretch. 
Despite the win, the Cavs, who took 43 free throws to 16 for Detroit, aren't so good. 
"We're getting out of here with a sour taste in our mouths," Williams said. 

Holding a steady 15-point lead in the third, the Cavs pushed it to 64-46 on a 3-point­er by Williams. 
James, who scored 38 points in the opener, then got behind Detroit's defense for a break­away dunk. As he approached the basket, James rose in the lane and circled the ball in front of him before rocking it through the rim. He strutted back on defense as 20,562 fans began to celebrate what appeared to be another Quicken Loans Arena rout. 
But down 79-50 in the first minute of the fourth, the Pistons reserves got Detroit back in it. 
They beat Cleveland's back­ups to loose balls, and before long, a seemingly insurmount­able lead by the Cavaliers was gone in a 27-5 run. 
After McDyess' basket made it 84-77, James, West and Williams each made two free throws apiece to put Cleveland ahead 90-77. 
James then grabbed a rebound, and in one motion fired a pass down the floor to Williams, whose layup officially ended the Pistons' rally. 
Detroit coach Michael Curry wanted his team to be more aggressive with James. The plan was to run defenders at him on the perimeter to keep Cleveland's star from getting into the foul lane, where he destroyed Detroit in Game 1 with short jumpers, layups and easy baskets. 
It worked, but only a little. 

James took only two shots inside the paint in the first half, but he was able to draw fouls and finished with 16 points -6 on free throws -as the Cavs opened a 46-32 lead following a ragged 24 minutes, which included pushing, shoving and three technical fouls. 
The Pistons double teamed James the moment he touched the ball as Hamilton and McDyess pinned him into the left corner. But James was able to pass over the top of Detroit's defense to West on the opposite side. The Cavs swung the ball around to Williams, who knocked down his first jumper and the Cavs started 6-of-7 from the floor to take a quick 12-2lead. 
Cleveland cooled ofT, and with James sitting, the Pistons were able to pull within 30-21. 
Sticking to his routine before big games at home, James was the first player arrive and was on the floor more than three hours before tip-ofT. 
In front of only a few TV pro­duction crew members and a handful of arena workers, James worked with assistant coach Chris Jent and practiced an assortment of shots, moves and free throws he planned to use to counter whatever Detroit had in store. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 22, 2009 
Holla 
continued from page 24 
ing presence of 6-foot-7Joe Fauria. A rising sophomore tight end, Fauria, the tourna­ment MVP, was the leading scorer for Holla Back, despite being double and even triple teamed most times that he touched the ball. 
"We started pounding the boards more in the second half than in the first half, and it became our game," Fauria said. 
Main St. Pub, who has been known for their incredible fast break scoring and accurate shooting, looked to have the game in hand, leading by five 
4 Girls 
continued from page 24 
"Growing up with an older brother you kind of have to acquire those shots in order to survive," Smith said. "So I'm going to attribute it to him." 
But the game's most domi­nant influence came in the form of 4 Girls captain Anna Kammrath, who carried the team on her back from the opening tip to the fmal bucket. Grabbing boards, blocking shots, and scoring at will, Kammrath made her presence felt on both sides of the ball. 
"We had a lot of fun, it was good teamwork, everyone played well despite the slipping and the sliding," Kammrath said. "We really took advan­with only four points left to score, but a tightly packed zone and aggressive defense from Rolla Back's Jonas Gray forced Main St. Pub to shoot from the outside, and they went cold. 
"The weather kind of affected our shots," Main St. Pub senior captain Alex Klupchak said. "We played really well. We had the lead, and then we just couldn't buy a bucket late. They were huge, and there's only so much we could do." 
After tying the game, Rolla Back allowed reigning Mr. Bookstore Carl Andersen, who finished with a game-high seven points, to score the next two, giving Main St. Pub a 19­17 lead, and it looked as though Andersen was going to carry his team to victory. 
Fortner 
continued from page 24 
under). 

Fortner's round of 66 was tied for the third lowest in Notre Dame program history, and did not include any bogeys. The six-under round also tied the program record for the lowest score in a Big East Championship. 
Fortner was followed by freshman Max Scodro, who ~hot better than Fortner in the first two rounds and shot even par on day three, good enough for a tie for seventh place overall. 
Also scoring for the Irish on the third day were sopho­mores Jeff Chen and Connor Alan-Lee, who scored a 73 and a 75, respectively. 
Notre Dame finished behind Big East Champion Louisville, who led the tournament from wire to wire, Marquette, who solidified their second-place finish with a 15-under par third round, and Seton Hall, who finished just three strokes ahead of the fourth­place Irish. 
The Irish now set their sights on the NCAA Regionals, which will start on May 14. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 


tage." 
4 Girls came out fired up from the opening whistle, putting together a 3-0 run to start the game and giving them a lead they would not relinquish. SBPS employed a (wo)man defense to combat the aggressive style of 4 Girls, but the speed and tenaci­ty of Smith and Kammrath proved to be too much in the first half. 
But SBPS went on a run to close the half, putting together a string of buckets to bring them within 3 at the break. Captain Tiz Shadley drained a series of perimeter buckets, while Anne McDonnell was effective inside despite double teams. 
But any momentum SBPS carried into the break quickly evaporated in the second half, as the the weather become a 
But then Gray capitalized on a fast break, and Griffin Nayler hit a jumper that brought the game back to even. Holla Back's other big man, 6-foot-4 Dayne Crist, posted up and scored to give them a one-point lead, and the Fauria put in a lay-up for the victory. 
"We all play together as a team," Fauria said. "There's no MVP, there's no one exceptional player. It's all us playing as a team." 
When asked if his team would return next year to defend their title, Fauria had only three words to say. 
"Hallelujah Holla Back," he said. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
factor. 4 Girls took advantage of their flat opponent, outscoring SBPS 11-5 in the second. 
But the real story of the half came on the opposite side of the ball, where 4 Girls bucked up and exhibited the fundamentals of team defense. Led by the relentless play of forward Jane Fleming and point !,'liard Molly McCarthy, 4 Girls prevented SBPS from putting together any sort of rhythm on oll"ense. 
McCarthy's activity on the defensive sidn of the ball and unselfishness on offense typify the 4 Girls' champion attitude to basketball. The extra pass, the hustle on fastbreaks, the commitment to fundamentals -all characterize this year's Bookstore Basketball champs. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

THE 

BSERVER 

Join the campus organization that brings the news to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's catnpu ses every day. 
We're looking for new staff in all departments. 
Join The Observer staff. Contact us today. 

News Madeline Buckley (mbuckley@)nd.edu) Ashley Charnley (acharnOl@saintmatys.edu) Sports Matt Gan1ber (mgamber@nd.edu) Scene Jess Shaffer Qshaffe1@nd.edu) Photo Ian Gavlick (igavlick@nd.edu) 


Wednesday, April 22, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
19 Captain Queeg's creator 23 Year-end temp 
25 "Love and Marriage" lyricist Sammy 
26 Natural emollient 27 A lot of a car valet's income 28 Buttonless 
shirts, informally 30 "Disgusting!" 32 Get all steamy 33 Flub 
65 Sapphic verses 66 Attack, as with eggs 67 Attack with rocks 
Down 1 Dark 2 Elegance 3 Bite-size 
appetizer 4 Forum greetings 5 Masked 
scavengers 6 One Time? 7 Like a bad dirt 
road 8 " bin ein Berliner" 9 Tom Jones's 
"_a Lady" 10 Job openings 11 Gift of the Magi 12 Come after 13 Key in 18 Shakespeare's 
Sir Belch 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Eugene W, Sard  
34 24/7 auction site  45 Walk of Fame  52 Not suitable  
35 PC whiz  embedment  54 Start of a play to  
36 Regarding  46 Screwy  the quarterback  
37 Halt  47 Steer clear of  56 Storyline  
39 "Go, team!" screamer 40 Whistle-blowers  48 Cook in a wok, maybe 49 Scrabble pieces  57 San _, Italy 58 Nascar airer  
44 Neuter, as a  51 Opposite of  59 In_ (actually)  
horse  express  61 China's Lao- 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nvtimes.com/learnina/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CRI.EBRITJF..S BORN ON THIS DAY: Andie Ma~dowdUI: Tony Danza, 58; l!!~Y l'vp, 62, Chad"' Gn1<1in, 74 
Uappy 8it1hday: Y011 nave to take a strong Jl<1sitioll thi.> year, fl.-1!ardle$> of what every­one around yon dO>.'S. You can build a strong >Upport syl>t~m and positi11n yourself l<>f the future. Strive f11r pert~livn and pra~licality with emphasis on originality and detaiL The lillle extra~ wi.ll belt• >'-'ll stand out and be reC<"!!Ilized '\'onr nt1mbers are 6, !5. 20, 24, 26, J8,4J 
ARIJ.:S tMal'l'h 2l-April19): Not mncb will be out in the O!"'tl for you to s..>c. You rely on your uttuition 111 g11ide y011. K~ep thin~s to yonr5elfto avoid nunm and int.:rferen<:e. 1'mst wlh1t you know a' fa~l. J $Iars 
TAtlJUl$ (April ZO·May ll)}; You h~w a ~han~ to make $001C ;:h~lll!c> 1:>y talkint~ to 1~:ople in a pmitionlo hdp you. A short trip will pay off. 4 stars 
HJ.:MlNI (May lt·June lO): '1:\>u are lx:ilcr off going it alone. You can make a much greater statement if you take char11e and figure thin~~ out for youro;elf. A pnmlem with a younger or older relative or friend will lead you to oo sometltint: lo rdiew llle st11;,'Ss yon've been fl'eling. 2 stars 
CANCJ-:R (June 21-July 22.): Stop procrosiinatill{: when ~'Oil have so mud1 to gain by taking the next step. An iut~re,;tingjJro{JOSlll will come your way. You can make a f?oOO im­pression by suggestill!l unustJal but sin1ple ways to make thin!!• more dficienl, Sstars 
LEO (July l.'-Aug. 22): Listen to what'~ being said rather rhan talcing the spolhf?hl. If you speak too openly alwt~ your plans, you will bee nwosition. Someone may nnl be hon<!s! with you about a coult'l!Ci or finaudal >ttuation. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. l:t-&pt. 22): Caution must re taken when yoo are constdering makinp property or domestic changes or pun:hascs. A chauce to do something romantic will lead to a much bel!cr relatiOlt$WJl -.vith !he person you adore, 3 $!Ius 
UBRA !..&pt. 23·0et. 22): Network all you can. !Xalinr; with chil<ln:u. friends and Ioven; v.~ll prow to i'<' mtereshng and will enable you to take a pmihon of authority. Starl a new interes.Jthat offers you a creative oullet. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oel, l.l-N<W. lt): Yon have to ~et out and inti!TIICI with others if you want to Jlronwte yom project By taklng time ro uunure a personal or business partnership, \'On can develop an ex~elknt rapport that will complement what you are tryiu$ lo accomplis"h. Cor-­rect domestic J)IXJbJem;.. 5 slim; 
SAGITTAIUUS (Nov.22-l)«, 2ll: You'll b.! prone to exag!l'!rnl<' rutd, if you oo, someone will mil yoor bluff pllltii1Jl you in au awkward ami embarrassing position. TI1is is not the time to it-nore "·hat's )!Oi~ 011 around yon. 2 stars 
CAPR(CORN !I>«-22·,Jan. 191: SotlK."tlllC from your past will remind you of something you always wanted h) do. A unique way of approaching somc!hiujt or 5011100~ will gr;lb attention that cauprotll1Jl a deal or proposaL 4 stars 
AQVARWS !,Jun. w.t·eb. lSI: llm:mamty may cause ~lll(li!Ona! issues to rise wthe sur­l'aw. Don't give in to anyone tryill!! In push his or her ideas on you butlx: careful not to let your anger show. 0.,-.,:,'ption is awarent so ch<"Ck facts carefully. J stars 
PISCES (Feb.19-March 10): The more vocal you are. the lllOl'C you will >ecomphsh. You will have a wny of putting things that will oo undeniably dever and should help you win wlmt~ver war you an: waging. Thi;; is a great time for advanc•'llk'nt. looking for work or 
~tnrting ;rx>ur own hit<incss. 3 stars 

Birthday Baby: Y<>ll are "'-'lid a< a 1\'\CK and detennincd 10 follow wlmtcl•er pallt you ciMl<N".. You :n-e stuhlxm.t btl! carin)l. open to Sll~)lestitms but nm 10 eritidsm. You won'! s.:nle f<>f k&s than what VOlt want. 
ft,>Rc.Ect> I>JUI'>I<Y? BEOIIJ(r 
t>ou<;.Et:> WITl-1 <:oLD WATER?' PRVLON&E.P SU.Ef> DEPR.t\/ATioi'J 7 IF I W~E "tJE oF TJ-IQSE P~lS<>I'>lEJ<:S, I CDUU> b0 THAI STAI'JI:>li'JG-oN MY HEAD' 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The. Observer in your home. 
rOPAY: 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
IF YO\J WE~ DIVE oF THoSE PJZ,!SQr-!ER5
'(ov MllTHI f?>E ' fORc.ED TO. 
DAVID CAVADINI 
rHURSPAY: FRIPAY: 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ --­City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
JUMBLE 

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SNAIB 
j 
1 

rr I I 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
~~~~fl)
tLIMNAR t
J I I ] 

t-TUSHIA jJ r [ I I 
Answer here: " ( 

I I I I ]" rI I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's IJumbles: ABIDE SYNOD ABDUCT GUNNER Answer: When Mom sewed the hole in his sock, she considered it a -"DARN" NUISANCE 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
Dan~ Dreamboat just slarr;_med mto Harry ~dsQme 


ONE: MIGHT 'SAY 
THAT THE: MOVIE 
'STAf<'S TUI<NEO 
THE DEMOL-ITION DERBY INTO A--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD 
Across Where to tie the knot 6 "Bearded" bloom 10 Captain Hook's 
henchman 14 Exotic jelly flavor 15"_ a deal!" 16 Boston suburb 17 Is pessimistic 20 Waterborne 
youth group member 21 "I agree completely'' 22 Follows orders 24 Ballpark worker 25 Stuffed mouse, maybe 
29 Diving bird 31 Intergalactic traveler 
32 shui 34 Hellenic H's 38 Is optimistic 41 Eliot of the 
Untouchables 42 Taj Mahal site 43 Hobby knife 
brand 44 Bearded grazer 45 Springing 
bounce in tall grasses, as by an animal, to view the surroundings 
46 Garbage 50 A dwar1 planet, 
now 53 Makes use of 55 Singing 60 Is apathetic 62 March plaything 63 "Hurry!" 64 Frolics 


WWW. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
DOME PIECE 
IARrH PAY JIAS ARRN6P ro rHI .JOY Of' MANY GREEN l 14DifO(':M'I:S. IN ADPIT'ION ro NUS.::::::.. eARrH AWANNess FAIR. r11e R6MAINPER Of' 50/dll 86ND AtSO &AUNCJIEP CA,MFWI'i-MS\ 
FOR PI.ANI!r AWARINESS WIT'H RIPS !'ROM 6ACH /.OCAI­CAMPUS AS I'OIJ.OWS: 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Wednesday, April 22, 2009 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 

Maunu wins Big East individual; team places second 
three-round total of 887, finish­"Six birdies was the best birth­and junior Annie Brophy each Freshman Becca Huffer fin­By MEAGHAN VESELIK ing 11 strokes behind the cham­day present ever," Maunu, who also earned All-Big East honors ished tied for 11th after a four­
Sports Writer 

pion Cardinals' 876. celebrated her birthday Tuesday, for finishing in the top-10. The over 76 final round for a final 
Louisville and Notre Dame said. "The finish was amazing pair tied for ninth with eight­score of 225, and junior Kristin 
Senior Lisa Maunu finished off separated from the rest of the and I couldn't ask for a better over marks of 224. Wetzel finished 23rd with a third her conference career with a field, with both over 20 strokes finish in my last round of the Big This was Park's second con­round of 79, giving her a total of bang Tuesday, winning the Big ahead of Cincinnati and East." secutive All-Big East honor, and 235. East individual championship Georgetown, who tied for third. Maunu's performance was one Brophy's third. The duo's top ten All the Irish can do now is wait and leading the Irish to a second Maunu ended the tournament of only two under-par rounds of performance was still not as suc­for the NCAA selections to be place finish in the conference at one under after shooting a the day, finishing three shots cessful as last year, when announced on Monday, April 27. championship. two-under final round of 70, ahead of Louisville's Sara-Maude Brophy was the medalist and NCAA Regional play will com­
Notre Dame shot a 23-over including an impressive per­Juneau. won by two strokes over Park. mence May 7 at sites in round of 294 in the third round formance on the back nine. She Maunu's three-round total for "Although we didn't win, we Gainesville, Fla., Tempe, Ariz., for its best team score of the bogeyed on the lOth hole to put the tournament was 215, high­defmitely showed some improve­and Columbus, Ohio. tournament, but still finished her at three-over, but rebounded lighted by her 70 in the final ment and things should be in full well behind Louisville's 12-over with birdies on the 11th, 13th, round and 71 in the second. swing come regionals," Maunu Contact Meaghan Veselik at mark. Overall, the Irish shot a 14th, 15th, and 17th holes. Irish sophomore So-Hyun Park said. mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

Crowning the Champs 
Fauria, Gray lead Halla Back comeback over Main St. Pub 
By ERIC PRISTER Sporrs Writer 
In an in1probable upset of the defending bookstore champions, the all-freshman roster of Hallelujah Holla Back defeated top-ranked Main St. Pub 21-19. 
"From day one we decided we were going to be a bookstore team," Hallelujah Holla Back captain Jonas Gray said. "We didn't care about sponsorship, we didn't care about who our opponent was, we just came out and played our game." 
After trailing 11-9 at the break and 17-12 at one point in the second half, Hallelujah Bolla Back went on a 5-0 run which tied the game, led by the impos­
see HOLLA/page 22 


4 Girls and A Guy win 21-13 over South Bend Police Squad in finals 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 
Four Girls and a Guy outhustled and outlasted South Bend Police Squad (SBPS) to cruise to a 21-13 victory in the Bookstore Basketball Women's Championship. Buckets were few and far between, as harsh winds and freezing tempera­tures forced each team to adapt to the elements. 
"Playing in the rain is our game so we were glad when it started, especially in the second half." 4 Girls guard Sierra Smith said. Smith, who finished with 8 points to go along with her tournament MVP honors, hit the game-winning shot, a turnaround jumper in the face of an SBPS defender. 
see 4 GIRLS/page 22 
By ERIC PRISTER Sports Writer 
The Irish shot a two-under 286 on the final day of the Big East Championships, ending at nine-over par on the tournament. good enough for a fourth-place finish. 
After two overall disap­pointing rounds the first two days of the tournament, Notre Dame was able to shoot under par for the first time in the third round and move up from fifth place, where they had finished after each of the first two rounds. 
The Irish were led on the third day by junior Doug Fortner, whose six-under 66 was the second-best individ­ual round of the tournament and helped him finish second overall individually. His 66 came after a solid one-over 

N 0 SOFTBALL & BASEBALL
MEN'S GOLF 

Rain postpones Irish
Golfers take 4th at Big East 

baseball, softball games 

73 on day one and a one­was the individual champion under par 71 in the second of the event, defeating round, enough for him to win Fortner by three strokes with all-Big East honors for the a three-day total of 207 (9­second straight year. 
Louisville's Adam Hadwin see FORTNER/ page 22 
Observer Staff Report 

Hain and travel considera­tions caused the Irish baseball team to postpone the first of a two game series with rival Michigan in Ann Arbor on Tuesday. 
The weather also postponed Notre Damp's seheduh~d soft­ball game against Northwestern. The game will not be rescheduled. · 
The Irish baseball team will make up the game today as a doubleheader at Frank Eck Stadium, with first pitch set for 4:30 p.m. Both games in the non-conference matchup are scheduled for seven innings. 
The Wolverines (21-16, 5-7 Big Ten) will lose a home game as a result of the rescheduling, and be ventur­ing into unfamiliar territory in South Bend -Miehigan has played 12 of its last 14 games at home. 
Hyan LaMarre leads the Wolverines in batting average (.364) and on-base percentage (.473). He also has hit 10 home runs and has 45 HB!s. The team as a whole hits .296. 
Notre Dame has momentum heading into the doubleheader after taking two or three games at home against con­ference leader West Virginia last weekend. 
After a 19-3 Mountaineers thrashing in the first gameof the series, the Irish won both games of Saturday's double­header, using back-to-hack­complete games from sopho­more Brian Dupra and junior Eric Maust in wins over West Virginia 8-6 and 3-0. 




