.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Flu-like illness on the rise amongND students 
fever of at least 100 degrees
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
Fahrenheit, a cough and/or sore throat News Editor 
and an absence of a cause other than 
influenza. ILl can be seasonal flu, 
University Health Services has seen H1N1 or other strains or symptoms of a slight increase in students with an the influenza virus. Influenza Like Illness (ILl) and 26 "We are seeing a slight increase in Notre Dame students have had pre­flu symptoms and they are showing up sumptive cases of the H1N1 virus, earlier," Kleva said. "But the treatment according to Director Ann Kleva. is exactly the same as in past years 
Of 1,922 total student visits to Health and we have not seen serious flu." Services from Aug. 15 to Sept. 9, 414 Kleva said the students with ILl were students presented signs of ILl. Of told to self-isolate, get plenty of rest those students, 144 were tested for and drink fluids for at least 24 hours influenza A, and 26 of those students after their fever breaks. tested positive, which is presumptive She said University Health Services for the H1N1 virus (commonly referred has also seen an increase in the nor­to as swine flu), according to Kleva. mal walk-in population, but many of 
"We have only seen truly mild cases these students are not ill with the flu. of influenza," she said. "The students "There's an increase in the number haven't needed hospitalization and are of colds, allergies and upper respirato­recovering in an average of three to ry illnesses that are unrelated to flu at four to seven days." 
Students with ILl have to have a see FLUIpage 9 
144 
414 
Flu cases at Notre Dame from Aug. 1 5 to Sept. 9 students presented signs of Influenza Like Illness* tested for Influenza A tested positive for2• presumptive cases of HINI virus 
* out of 1,922 total student visits 
JACLYN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 
Future of 
•

economics department uncertain 
ByJOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
The College of Arts and Letters plans to discontinue one of its two economic departments in the next two years, according to College Dean John McGreevy. 
In the future, McGreevy said there will not be two economics departments in the College of Arts and Letters. Currently, the College houses the Department of Economics and Policy Studies and the Department of Economics and Econometrics. 
McGreevy said any action he takes will ensure that the voices of the Economics and Policy Studies professors continue to be heard. 
"We're trying to create the best economics conversation we can have at Notre Dame," McGreevy said. "There are lots of places around the University where we need economists," including at the Kellogg Institute, the Kroc Institute and the Poverty Studies program. 
He said the University has not made a final dedsion on what to do with the Department of Economics and Policy Studies, but that there will not be two department.<> in the future. 
"What I've said in a meeting with both departments is that 
see ECONOMICS/page 6 


Nutritionist Healthydining hall options available 
Eating vegetables, controlling portion sizes can help students avoid the freshman 15 
wide variety of food, one can find healthy alternatives to fried, greasy food." 
But University Nutrition and Safety Manager Jocelyn Antonelli said for some stu­dents, the availability of food is a difficult challenge to con­quer. 
"Students face temptation," she said. "Their eyes are big­ger than their stomach and it's hard to turn away food once you have it on your plate." 
Antonelli said there are a number of ways for freshmen to eat smart in the dining halls. One way is for students to stick to the mindset of think­ing in terms of food groups. 
see HEALTHY/page 8 


Ford Family Program enters second year 

By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Despite the ardent warnings of the teen magazines, movies and television shows about the freshman 15 -commonly thought of as the average weight gain of students during their first year of college ­members of the freshman class say they aren't worried. 
"I've never been that good at gaining weight," freshman Alyssa Borrego said. "I live on the fourth floor so I take the stairs to prevent it." 
Freshman Ian Duncan agreed. 
"I've lost weight since I've gotten here," he said. "Even though the dining halls have a 

By ANN-MARIE WOODS News Writer 
Committed to forming an interdisciplinary alliance of researchers, faculty, students and community members, the Ford Family Program in Human Development Studies and Solidarity begins its sec­ond year with a continued effort to address the chal­lenges faced by those living in extreme poverty throughout the developing world, specifi­cally Sub-Saharan Africa. 
What began as the Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative, a pro­gram created to encourage Notre Dame students and fac­ulty to become engaged in th~ evolving economies in Africa, has grown into an interdisci­plinary program in human development studies, housed in the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
"The Ford Program con­ceives of human development studies as a scholarly effort to understand conditions that affect human welfare, includ­ing economic growth and development, the political and social determinants of the dis­tribution of wealth and oppor-
Children get water at a spring in Uganda. The Ford Family Program see FORD/page 6 at Notre Dame seeks to address poverty In Sub-Saharan Africa. 

INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Course registration redesign page 3 • Women's Volleyball page 24 • Black Eyed Peas album review page 13 • Viewpoint page 10 
Friday, September 11, 2009
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Live like you're alive 
At my high school graduation party, I smiled my way through about a million conversations with people I only pretended to know, but somehow didn't get a chance to 
talk to the one person I wish I would have. 
Stella was a family friend bat­tling breast can­cer. She had an optimistic atti­tude, so I remem­ber being hit with 

reality when my Sarah Mervosh mom told me 
News
Stella probably 
Production
wouldn't get to attend her own Editor child's graduation party. 
Unfortunately, that was all too true. Stella died this week. And on the anniversary of one of the most tragic days in our nation's history, I can't help but consider how pre­cious life really is. 
To be honest, I'm usually too busy thinking about all the work I have to do to appreciate life or the peo­ple around me. I e-mail my grand­parents instead of calling them because I think I don't have time to pick up the phone. Time with friends is usually spent scarfing down meals in the dining hall or drunk at a party. Not exactly quali­ty time. 
But once in a while, life taps me on the shoulder and reminds me that we all don't live to be 100 years-old. I don't have all the time in the world to do all that I want to accomplish and become who I want to be. 
This isn't a "you should live everyday like it's your last" column. I'm not saying that you should drop out of school tomorrow, marry the first person you see walking down South Quad or blow all your money on a lavish vacation. 
You don't have to live like you were dying, but I am suggesting that you live like you're alive. Figure out what makes you feel most alive, and then actively pur­sue it. 
Feeling alive doesn't have to be big and bold. It doesn't have to be skydiving or rock climbing. We can all instill a small fire in our every­day lives by choosing to step out­side of our comfort zones. 
Volunteer in class if you are nor­mally shy. Get a tattoo. Study abroad. Let yourself fall in love. 
We can actively appreciate the positives in life -when a class gets cancelled and you can sleep in, when someone gives you a compli­ment, or when Notre Dame beats Michigan tomorrow. 
If you are reading this column, you have the privilege of being alive, and not everyone is so lucky. So send your grandpa a homemade birthday card. Say "I love you" when you hang up the phone with your mom. Take five seconds to be thankful for this day, this moment, this breath. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at 
smervosh@nd. edu 
CORRECTiONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standarqs of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize thar we will make misrakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR PREDICTION FOR SATURDAY'S GAME? 







Kelsey Sugrue  Tim Scully  Pete Freddoso  Tre Carden  Deborah Olmstead  
sophomore  sophomore  freshman  freshman  JUnwr  
McCandless  Alumni  Dillon  O'Neill  Welsh ~Family  
"/ need the Irish to win or else  "63-o. Notre Dame. ..  "We will trounce them.,  "It will keep us on the edge of  "Shut out. Times 2. ,,  
my father. a die- our seats, but in  
hard Michigan  the end- 
fan. will never  complete  
let me live it  domination.,  
down.,  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

IN BRIEF 

The Kellogg Institute is hosting a conference, "HIV and the Rule of Law: Human Rights at Home and Abroad," today at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The ail-day -event is open to the public but advance registra­tion is requested. 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team is playing Wisconsin tonight at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. The game is part of the three-day Notre Dame/adidas Invitational. For ticket information, call the ticket office at 574-631­7356 or visit the athletic tick­et office Web site. 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team is playing Seattle University tonight at 7:30p.m. at the new Alumni Stadium. The game is part of the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament. For ticket information, call the ticket office at 574-63 1 -7 3 56 or visit the athletic ticket office Web site. 
Man demands to drink possession of marijuana not building housing a flower 
stolen beer before arrest more than 20 grams and shop and LaPierre's second­
The Notre Dame Rugby BAYOU GEORGE, Fla.­smuggling contraband into a floor apartment. 
Football Club is playing the Authorities in the Florida detention facility. A demolition company 
Chicago Griffins on West Panhandle say they arrested Bay County Jail officials moved in to tear down what 
Quad on Saturday from 1 
p.m. to 3 p.m. For more shoplifter who demanded to Linthicum II was in jail and day after the fire. A crew 
a convenience store said Thursday that was left of the building the information, visit the Rugby drink the 12-ounce beer he did not yet have an attorney. from Stark Wrecking Co. 
Club Web site. had stolen before being came back Sept. 4 to clear taken into custody. Cat survives under fire away the rubble and found 
The Notre Dame men's The Bay County Sheriff's debris for 26 days Smoka's head sticking out 
soccer team will play New office says the man told the FRANKLIN, Ohio -A from under 16 feet of debris. 
Mexico on Sunday at 2:00 
p.m. at the new Alumni his job of 13 years and want­found alive, buried beneath cat lost a lot of weight and 
deputy he had recently lost woman's pet cat has been LaPierre says her female Stadium. For ticket informa­ed to drink beer. The man debris 26 days after an Ohio has been gobbling down 
tion, call 574-631-7356. became combative when the fire. Sandy LaPierre says she food to make up for it. She deputy wouldn't let him fm­assumed 1-year-old Smoka says Smoka has some diffi­
To submit information to be 
ish it. had died from the Aug. 10 culty walking but otherwise included in this section of 
George R. Linthicum II fire in Franklin, about 30 seems OK. 
The Observer. e-mail detailed was charged Wednesday miles north of Cincinnati. Information compiled from 
information about an event with shoplifting, battery, The blaze broke out in a the Associated Press. 
to obsnews@nd. edu 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 
0::: 
LLI 
:z:::
=: 
;:LLI ~ 
c( (.) 

HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH 75 LOW LOW LOW LOW 54 








Atlanta 78 I 65 Boston 65 I 59 Chicago 79 I 57 Denver 72 I 52 Houston 82 I 72 Los Angeles 86 I 65 Minneapolis 79 I 62 New York 66 I 62 Philadelphia 67 I 63 Phoenix 105 I 82 Seattle 83 I 60 St. Louis 84 I 62 Tampa 90 /75 Washington 71 I 61 
Friday, September 11, 2009 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Class registration gets an upgrade 

By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 

Notre Dame's Office of the Registrar, student government and Office of Information and Technology (OIT) are working together to update and redesign the course registration process, said Walker Anderson, student government Campus Technology chair. 
"Last year, we brought up course registration redesign," Anderson said. "We discussed it with OIT and the Registrar's office. We want to identify what's wrong with the current system." 
Assistant Registrar Lora Spalding said the Office used student testing as a tool to iden­tify issues with the program. 
"There has been a test group of students who volunteered to let us watch and video tape them as they registered for their Fall 2009 classes," Spalding said. "We also captured all their key strokes and interviewed them about their experience. Another student test group will be used to preview and give sug­gestions to developers from our software provider." 
A committee was put together to analyze the data, Anderson said. 
The major problems found with course registration are selecting classes, appointing fair 
registration start times, finding information on course evalua­tions and syllabi and fitting everything into a workable class schedule, Spalding said. 
"We are always looking at ways to make registration an easier and more intuitive experi­ence for students and so as soft­ware upgrades or feasible sug­
gestions come forward, we are 
always ready to fit them into a 
redesign," Spalding said. "Some 
of the redesign may be small 
improvements, but some, 
because of the upcoming soft­
ware upgrades, may be larger." 
Some improvements have 
already been added, Spalding 
said. 

"Most of the fields in 'Class 
Search' can be sorted -this 
helps to find, among many other 
uses, open classes and instruc­
tors," Spalding said. 

If students are looking for information about a specific class, some of the results from the course evaluations are avail­able as part of 'Enhanced Class Search' results. 
Additionally, based upon a stu­dent government initiative, the Office of the Registrar and OIT are working on making class syl­labi available through 'Class Search.' 
Spalding said changes that will involve tools to help fit a sched­ule together should occur some­time next summer. 
Some of the inspiration for new updates came from other schools, Anderson said. 
"We've looked at [the University of Minnesota] and we want to look at Northwestern, among others," Anderson said. 
Major changes could be any­where from six months to a few years away in this long-term ini­tiative, Anderson said. 
"We're still analyzing our cur­rent system," he said. "We have an idea of providing a more intuitive, streamlined and inno­vated way of taking the stress out of the course registration process." 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

It's""Easy~t Go G,Eee 
AtNotreDame ·.·..· Federal Credit · · Union, enjoy · a variety ofpaperless options with your account including: 
• 
Online Bill P 

• 
Direct Deposit 

• 
Check Imaging 

• 
eStatements 


.. Coming This Fall 
Oxford University Press to publish for Kroc Inst. 
Special to The Observer 
Oxford University Press has accepted proposals from the University Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies to publish a series of books on strategic peacebuilding, begin­ning this fall, and a handbook on religion, conflict and peacebuild­ing in 2011. The books will be written by scholars around the world engaged in p•~ace research, including Kroc Institute faculty. 
The Oxford Studies of Strate~Tic Peacebuilding, a collection of monographs and edited volumes, will be edited by Notre Dame's Seott Appleby, John M. Regan Jr. director of the Kroc Institute; .John Paul Lederach, prof(~ssor of international peacebuilding; and Daniel Philpott, professor of politi­cal seience and peace studies. The first book in the series, "Strategies of Pnaee: 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org Transforming Conflict in a Violent World," is edited by Kroc faculty 
members Philpott and Gerard F. 
Independent of the University 

Powers. 
Strategic peacebuilding, the Kroc Institute's signature concept, is defined by Appleby as "the cre­ation and nurturing, over time, of 
Please recycle The Observer. 
constructive relationships -at every level of society and across ethnic, religious, class and racial 
boundaries -as a means of 
transforming structures and 
social, political and cultural 
dynamics that promote discrimi­
nation, inequality, hatred and war 
and other forms of deadly vio­
lence." 

"The Oxford Handbook on 
Heligion and Pcacebuilding" will 
be edited by Appleby; Atalia 
Orner, assistant professor of reli­
gion, conflict and peacebuilding 
at the Kroe Institute; and David 
Little, formerly of the Harvard 
University Divinity School. 

Heligious or faith-based peace­building, a subfield of peace stud­ies that has reeently gained atten­tion among U.S. and international policymakers, is one of the K.roc Institute's core research pro­grams. While religious extremism is often eitcd as a cause of con­flict, reli~Tion 's role in building and sustaining peace is l(~ss n~cog­nized. The handbook is expect••d to be a significant contribution to greater understanding of the importance of religion, peace and conflict in international affairs. 
founded in 1986, the Kroc Institute is a leading center for the study of the causes of violent conflict and strategies for peace. It offers education in peace stud­ies and strategic peacebuilding at the bachelor's, master's and doc­toral degree levels. 
page 4 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 11, 2009 
SMC holds Red Cross blood drive 
By ANGEL GRAY News Wri[er 
Saint Mary's students vol­unteered for the chance to save a life at a blood drive in the Student Center Lounge Thursday. 
"The blood drive is a unique and very personal way to give back to the community," Assistant Director in the Office for Civic and Social Engagement, Olivia Critchlow, said. 
Olivia, along with student coordinator Lizzy Pugh, planned this week's blood drive with the American Red Cross. 
The drives are well attend­ed by faculty and. staff, Critchlow said. She said last year over 200 units of blood were collected at the drives. 
"One unit of blood could save three lives," she said. 
Critchlow said the blood that the American Red Cross collects will be donated to medical centers and hospitals throughout Northern Indiana. 
Critchlow said all of the 66 appointment slots were filled before the drive began. She said she's hoping to get more staff to assist so they may schedule more appointments. 
Donating takes about an hour with or without an appointment, she said. 
She said students are screened, their vital signs are evaluated, and then it takes roughly 15 minutes to collect a unit of blood. After donat­ing, students are asked to stay so that they can be checked for reactions and have an opportunity to recu­perate. 
Pugh said juice and cookies were provided for those stu­dents that donated. For fur­ther incentive, she said the American Red Cross is allow­ing all donors to enter a raf­fle for a $50 gasoline gift card. 
"I want to help people and I'm 0 positive which is uni­versal and could save many lives," first year Bethany Emenhis said. 
She donated for the first time at Saint Mary's and at least 10 times in total. 
Saint Mary's is planning to host four drives this year. Students who did not donate or were not eligible this time around will have another opportunity in December. Students who were eligible to donate once will most likely be so again, Critchlow said. 
"I try to encourage friends to donate because it's a won­derful feeling," Pugh said. 
Contact Angel Gray at agrayO1@saintmarys.edu 
The Snite Museum of Art 
invites you to a public reception for the fall special exhibitions 


In Praise of Donors; 
Selections from the Dr. and Mrs. R. Stephen 
Lehman CoUection 
Scholz Fam11>1 Works on 
Paper GaJ/ery 
Sep 6 .... Oct 4 

Sunday, Septe111ber I 3 
Fritz Scholder, ContemporaryArtist: Influences 
M!ll)l and Fritz Kaeser MestttMc Studio Gallery 
Sep 6-0a 18 

from 2:00 -4:00 p.m. 
Co-curator of the Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian's retrospective on Scholder, writer and cultural crtttc, Paul Chaat Smith (Comanche) • will speak at 1:30 p.m. 


The reception and galiery talks are f~e and open to the public, 
For more information please call (574).63 LS466 or visit our website at wv..-w,nd.edul-sniteart. 


As PART OF OUR 10-YEAR Al'-:1\;IVERSARY CELEBRATIOJ'\: TilE l:\STITUTI' FOR LATINO STUDIES IN PART.\IERSHII' WITH MECHA AND LA Al.IANZA PRESENTS 
A FORGOTTEN INJUSTICE 
A FILM BY VICENTE SERRANO 
DIRECTOR'S SCREENING MONDAY SEPTEMBER 14, 2009 6:3Q-9:30 P.M. SNITE MUSEUM, ANNENBERG THEATRE 
PROFESSOR KAREN RICHMAN WILL INTRODUCE THE FILM, AND A QUESTION-AND­ANSWER SESSION WITH DIRECTOR VICENTE SERRANO WILL FOLLOW. 
To MAKE ADVANCE RFSERVATIONS OR FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE CALL THE INSTITUTE'S EVENTS OFFICE AT 574-631-3796 OR EMAIL LATINO@ND.EDU. 
A fORGOTTEN INJUSTICE IS TilE IIRST DC )Cli\W'....:TARY TO UNCOVER THF STORY 01 AI.\IOST TWO \111.!.10:\ MI'XICA:\ A.\IERICA:\ liS CITIZE:\S WIIO \VFRE I'ORCI'D OUT OF TilE ll:\ITFD STATES DLIRI:\G TilE GREAT DFPRES..'-;10:\ 1:\ TilE 1930s. TIIESI· PFOPI F \VI:'RF I'ORCID TO LL\\T I'OR 0:\F RFASO:\ A:\D 0:\E :\1.0:\E: TI!FY \\TRF OF .\1FXIC:\:\ DFSU':\T. 1:\ ORDI'R TO AVOID .\1:\KI:\C Till' SA.\11·. .\IISTAKE<.; I:\ OUR U'l-ORTS TO 11:\D A SOLUTIO:\ TO TODAY\ 1.\t\tiC;RATIO:\ I'ROBI.I \1, \\'1 SIIOlii.D TO LOOK BACK :\:\I> LL-\R:\ I'RO.\t A FoRGOTTEN INJUSTICE. 
INSTITUTE for 
~~,. 


Latino Studies 
UNI'If;RSITY OF NOTftE OAMI!: 

THIN: Photographs by Lauren Greenfield 
O'Shaughnessy Galleries 
Aug 2 ···Oct 18 
rhis e~'hiM!<m wm tl<ratb1 by ~ <m#!il <lftd f"<Wj VW:r>er St£-.d• and wat; 
"'A~~ fl~ Wt)mt·r{s t'&~,,m: Ar. k>sliWfl!' t;• the fut"'~"'· f~ r.,xos a,7] ~1("*1/f.'.>;y$, I.Lc. 


Cardinal Mahony to give lecture on campus 
Special to The Observer 
Cardinal Roger M. Mahony, archbishop of Los Angeles, will give a lecture titled "Fostering the Baptismal Priesthood in the 'Year for Priests"' at 4 p.m. Friday, Sept. 18 in the auditorium of the Ilesburgh Center for International Studies at the University. 
Following the Second Vatican Council there has been a rediscovery in Catholic theology of baptism as the foundational sacra­ment of ministry, and a clear­er recognition that ministry is not just for the ordained. The Second Vatican Council relat­ed the baptismal call, the vocation of the baptized, and the office of the ordained to the mystery of Christ, finding in each a reflection of the threefold office of Christ priest, prophet and king. Every vocation and every ministry is rooted in the same reality of Christ and his pres­ence by the gift of the Spirit in the Church. 
Responding to Pope Benedict XVI's invitation to reflect on the priesthood dur­
ing this "Year for Priests," and drawing from his own recent pastoral letter on min­istry, "As I Have Done for You," Cardinal Mahony will identify the foundations for a baptismal priesthood and a ministerial priesthood suited to meet the pressing needs of the Church today. 
Cardinal Mahony was appointed archbishop of Los Angeles by Pope John Paul II in 1985 and was elevated to cardinal in 1991. A native of Hollywood, he is the first "Angeleno" and the third archbishop of Los Angeles to become a cardinal. He received an honorary degree from Notre Dame in 1989. 
One of the cardinal electors participating in the 2005 con­clave that selected Pope Benedict XVI, Cardinal Mahony serves on several committees of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, including those for Liturgy and Pro-Life Activities. 
Cardinal Mahony's lecture is sponsored by the office of Notre Dame's president. Campus Ministry, the Centnr for Social Concerns and the Department of Theology. 
Write News. E-mail mbuckley@nd.edu 

Friday, September 11, 2009 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVEF:S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Riots in Ugandan capital kill 7 
KAMPALA -At least seven people were killed in Uganda when supporters of the tra­ditional ruler of the country's largest ethnic group clashed with security forces in the country's capital. 
AP photographer Stephen Wandera count­ed seven bodies as police and the army clashed with stone-throwing protesters who burned tires Thursday in Kampala. The fatalities all appeared to be civilians. 
Several other people were injured as pro­testers set stacks of tires on fire and threw stones at police vehicles. The security forces responded by firing in the air and at apart­ment blocks from which residents were throwing stones. 
Yemen launches offensive on rebels 
SAN'A-Yemen's government launched a new offensive against Shiite rebels in the north, destroying many of their vehicles and hideouts, an army statement said Thursday. 
Both sides claimed victory, however, in the intense 'day's fighting, which came just a week after the government declared a unilateral cease-fire that fell apart in hours. 
The five-year-old rebellion is led by Shiite tribesmen who complain they are discrimi­nated against and neglected by the govern­ment. The rebels have also accused the state of allying with hard-line Sunni funda­mentalists, whom consider Shiites as heretics. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Panel reviews Harvard scholar arrest 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -Twelve people from across the country have been chosen to serve on an independent panel to review the arrest of a black Harvard scholar at his home by a white police officer, Cambridge officials said Thursday. 
Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Washington D.C.-based Police Executive Research Forum, was tapped to lead a com­mittee that will include Yale Law professor Tracey Meares, former FBI assistant director Louis Quijas and Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles Ramsey. 
City leaders created the panel after the arrest of Henry Louis Gates Jr. triggered a national debate over racial profiling. 
Cambridge Sgt. James Crowley arrested Gates for disorderly conduct at his home July 16 while investigating a possible burglary. The charge was dropped, and Gates alleged he was a victim of racial profiling. 
Ranger teams go to Mexican border 
HOUSTON -Special teams of Texas Rangers will be deployed to the Texas-Mexico border to deal with inereasing violence because the feder­al government has failed to address growing problems there, Gov. Rick Perry said Thursday. 
"It is an expansive effort with the Rangers playing a more high-profile role than they've ever played before," Perry said of the Department of Public Safety's elite investigative unit. 
The forces, dubbed "Hanger recon" teams, are the latest effort "to fill the gap that's been left by the federal government's ongoing failure to ade­quately secure our international border with Mexico," he said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Clergy asks Sens. to back climate bill 
INDIANAPOLIS -U.S. Sens. Dick Lugar and Evan Bayh have received a letter from more than 80 clergy and nuns across Indiana asking them to support legislation to control the gases blamed for global warming. 
Keith Dobyns is an Episcopal minister and physician from Connersville. He says he and retired United Methodist pastor Dennis Shock of Carmel presented the letter in Washington Thursday to senior aides of Republican Lugar and Democrat Bayh. 
Pastors from various Christians denomina­tions, rabbis, Muslim leaders and Roman Catholic nuns have signed the letter. 
Pelosi : Health care to pass this year 
Democrats predict reform legislation to be approved in coming months 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON  
Democratic congressional  
leaders predicted passage of  
health care legislation within  
a few months despite  
undimmed Hepublican oppo­ 
sition, claiming momentum  
Thursday from President  
Barack Obama's speech and  
renewed commitment from  
lawmakers fresh from a  
month of meetings with con­ 
stituents.  
Increasingly, events in the  
Senate Finance Committee  
appeared pivotal, precursor  
to likely votes in both the  
House and the Senate by  
early October. 'Tm confident  
the president will sign a bill  
this year," said House  
Speaker Nancy Pelosi of  
California.  
While effusively praising  
Obama's speech from the  
night before, Pelosi and  
Senate Majority Leader  
Harry Reid of Nevada sig­ 
naled separately the presi­ 
dent may not prevail in his  
call for legislation that allows  
the federal government to  
sell insurance in competition  
with private industry.  
Reid said that while he  
favors a strong "public  
option," he could be satisfied AP  
with establishment of non­House Speaker Rep. Nancy Pelosi of California said health care legislation will  
profit cooperatives, along the pass this year at a news conference on Capitol Hill In Washington on Thursday.  
lines expected to be included  
in the bill taking shape in the  speech, Obama renewed his  reductions in planned  for it. And I'm glad he did."  
Finance Committee.  campaign for passage of his  Medicare spending and tax  Obama accepted the apolo­ 
Pelosi, who has long  top domestic priority.  increases.  gy, telling reporters, "we all  
favored a measure that  Declaring that too many indi­ Obama has said his  make mistakes."  
allows the government to sell  viduals are being denied cov­ approach will not result in  After months of missed  
insurance, passed up a  erage, he said, "It is heart­ higher deficits, but  deadlines caused by internal  
chance to say it was a non­ breaking and it is wrong and  Congressional Budget Office  division and GOP opposition  
negotiable demand.  nobody should be treated  estimates dispute him.  earlier in the year, neither  
As long as legislation  that way in the United States  Most Republicans made  Pelosi nor Reid was willing to  
makes quality health care  of America. Nobody!"  clear during the day that  outline anything more than a  
more accessible and afford­ He also cited new Census  Obama's speech had done  broad timetable for action on  
able, "we will go forward  statistics showing that the  nothing to lessen their oppo­ the legislation. But increas­ 
with that bill," she said.  number of uninsured has  sition. But they were pep­ ingly, it appeared that events  
Democrats are divided over  risen to 46.3 million from  pered with questions about  in the Finance Committee  
the public option in both  45.7 million in 2007.  Rep. Joe Wilson of South  would determine the pace.  
houses, liberals strongly in  In general, the legislation  Carolina, who shouted "You  There, Sen. Max Baucus,  
favor and many moderates  would provide new protec­ lie" at the president during  0-Mont., has said he will con­ 
against it. Critically, though, it  tions to Americans with  the speech.  vene the panel the week after  
appears that any chance for  insurance, help the unin­ Asked if the episode  next to vote on legislation  
Republican support would  sured afford coverage,  embarrassed him as party  that would meet Obama's  
evaporate if legislation per­ require most individuals to  leader, Rep. John Boehner, R­ goal of expanding health  
mits immediate, direct com­ carry coverage and aim to  Ohio, said, "I think that Mr.  care, providing consumer  
petition between the govern­ slow the growth of medical  Wtlson made it clear that he  prutection to those with cov­ 
ment and insurance industry.  costs overall. The measure  said his behavior was inap­ erage, and slow the growth  
On the morning after his  would be paid for through  propriate, and he apologized  of medical spending overall.  


IRAQ 

Kurds call for security after bombing 
other explosives-laden truck was shot as the strapped Iraqi army focuses its
Associated Press and killed before his bomb exploded, efforts on more central areas. BAGHDAD -Kurdish lawmakers according to local officials and vil­Members of Iraqi minority groups are demanded the government step up lagers. bearing the brunt of the violence. security in northern Iraq after a sui­No one immediately claimed respon­"The ongoing terrorist and criminal cide truck bomb flattened a neighbor­sibility for the bombing, but it bore ~he acts in Ninevah are aimed again at the hood in a small village Thursday. hallmarks of al-Qaida in Iraq and Kurds, Turkomen, Shiites and Yazidis killing 19 people and injuring 30 oth­other Sunni insurgents who remain -they are ethnic cleansing operations ers in the most recent in a spate of active in Mosul and surrounding areas in which hundreds of innocent people attacks. in Ninevah province -a region where have been killed," Abdul-Muhsin al­Two suicide truck bombers targeted U.S. commanders have warned that Saadoun, a lawmaker of the Kurdistan the Shiite Kurdish village of Wardek, insurgents appear to be trying to stoke Alliance parliamentary bloc, said at a about 35 miles (55 kilometers) south­an Arab-Kurdish conflict. press conference in Baghdad after the east of Mosul just after midnight~ It follows several other deadly bomb­attack. Local security forces fired on the ings in small villages of ethnic and reli­"We call on the federal government driver of one truck when he refused to gious minorities, indicating that insur­to take the necessary measures to pre­stop, but he was stil1 able to detonate gents are seeking out relatively unde­vent further attacks, find the perpetra­his bpmb. The second assailant in the fended targets to maximize casualties tors and bring them to justice." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 11, 2009 
and discourse among faculty "The key is that we want 
Ruccio said that the different as well as students." everyone [who goes to 
approach of the Department of
EconomicsFord 
The Ford Program will pres­NnindyeJ to work with the stu­
Economics and Policy Studies continued from page I ent a proposal for the minor to dents and faculty at Uganda 
continued from page I helps "make Notre Dame distinc­the College of Arts and Letters Martyrs University in a collab­
tive." tunity, politics and public poli­later this semester, with the orative effort. 
two departments is not the best "Lots of universities only teach cy, religion and culture, health, hope that it will be announced "We want to create a body of 
strategy long-term," he said. neoclassical economics," he said. and human rights," according in the spring semester and learning and knowledge 
The Department of Economics Notre Dame is different "partly to the program's Web site. launched in the fall of 2010, throughout the developing 
and Policy Studies was the pri­because of the Catholic tradition Partnered with Uganda Dowd said. world using the university to 
mary economics department at of social justice." Martyrs University, the Ford In the interim period before university model," Pohlen said. 
the University until the creation "Now students will only get one Program has focused its com­the minor is created, the Ford Looking forward at the 
of the Department of Economics approach and that's a shame," munity engagement goals on Program, in partnership with potential progress the Ford 
and Econometrics in 2003, Ruccio said. the 12 villages that make up the Center for Social Concerns, Program hopes to achieve, 
according to Professor of Without the Department of the nearby parish of Nnindye, offered a special two-week Dowd hopes to see increased 
Economics and Policy Studies Economics and Policy Studies, with the hope of eventually undergraduate class earlier solidarity, partnerships and 
David Ruccio. "there won't be a department expanding beyond the scope of this month taught by Duncan collaboration in order to 
"The University decided in that would be devoted to a con­Uganda to many countries Green, head of research at accomplish the mission of 
2003 to create another econom­versation rather than a mono­throughout the developing Oxfam Great Britain. addressing the challenges con­
ics department," Ruccio said. logue on campus," Ruccio said. world. "The focus of the course was fronted by those living in 
"The majority of people in the Students are less likely to be "We have a special relation­teaching the importance of extreme poverty. 
existing department voted against exposed "to a variety of different ship with Nnindye," Director of active citizens and effective "Most importantly I'd love to 
the idea and the College Council theories, when the department the Ford Program Fr. Bob states," Pohlen said. "I believe see the people in the villages 
voted against the idea. no longer exist<;," he said. Dowd explained. "We have it was successful and students realize goals they have set for 
"The people who wanted to ''That's especially true if sponsored a baseline survey learned a great deal." themselves." Dowd said. 
create a new department went to Economics and Econometrics and focus groups in order to In addition to opportunities "Secondly I would like to be 
the Academic Council and got a teaches all the intro courses," he spark a discussion in the com­for students, the program also able to say that Notre Dame 
positive vote," Ruccio said. said. munity about their most press­encourages Notre Dame facul­students, faculty and alumni 
Of the 21 economics faculty Huccio said the need for differ­ing problems which they iden­ty to get involved through have learned something from 
members in 2003, 16 voted ent approaches in economics tified as water and sanitation, research and teaching. the process and have con­
against the split and five voted in stems from the concept of the lib­health and agriculture and A lecture series initiated last tributed positively to the 
favor, according to Ruccio. The eral arts education. livelihood development:" year will continue throughout process." 
five members who supportP.d the In a liberal arts education, "stu­In collaboration with Uganda the current academic year, Increased research among 
split went to the Department of dents are exposed to critical Martyrs University, the Ford featuring Notre Dame profes­faculty, and exchange pro­
Economics and Econometrics. thinking and the only way to do Program is working together sors who are involved in devel­grams between Notre Dame 
which supports only neoclassical critical thinking is to be exposed to evaluate how they might opment work in their particu­and Uganda Martyrs 
economic theory. to a variety of approaches," he help this community realize lar field. University students are addi­
The 16 members who voted said. their goals, Dowd said. "Notre Dame faculty who tional goals for the Ford 
against the creation of a new McGreevy said that moves to "We have a Ugandan staff specialize in development in Program, Dowd said. 
department remained in the other roles in the University could led by David Nnyanzi, country one way or another will lead Dowd also sees a special 
Department of Economics and allow Economics and Policy director for the Ford Program discussions in an attempt to niche here at Notre Dame, as 
Policy Studies, whose mission Studies professors to have a larg­in Uganda," Dowd said. "They give students the opportunity faith and religion play a cen­
statement is to teach and conduct er impact. are the ones who are really to learn a bit of theory and dis­tral role to the research and 
research in "a distinctive way" "Our ~olleagues in Economics facilitating this. It's not just a cuss international develop­study of this institution. 
that is "related to the Catholic and Policy Studies have much bunch of Americans swooping ment in advance of launching "We want to take the role of 
identity ofthe University." expertise," he said. "We're asking in and taking the lead. Rather, the minor," Dowd said. faith and religion seriously in 
"Economics and Policy Studies where in the University they can we are working closely with The Ford Program also is the development process," 
has a more open or pluralistic have the most impact." our Ugandan colleagues." encouraging any Notre Dame Dowd said. 
approach to economics so lots of McGreevy said the tenure of Rather than offering services faculty members to apply for "We would like to promote 
different theories are taught and Economics and Policy Studies to these communities, the goal research seed grants of up to and support research that 
used in research," Ruccio said. professors will be respected. of the Ford Program is to uti­$15,000, which will help takes a close look at the role 
He said this pluralistic "We can't be fired," Ruccio lize research, teaching and develop a greater understand­faith-based institutions play in 
approach is especially valuable in said. "But from what we've community engagement in ing of the causes of extreme affecting the goals people set 
the current economic crisis, when heard, we have been encouraged order to enable the people of poverty in the developing for themselves and the degree 
the neoclassical approach "has to find another position either Nnindye to achieve their goals. world and point to sustainable to which they realize these 
been most called into question." inside the University or outside "We want them to be agents solutions. goals." 
Ruccio said he believes his the University." of their own change and have "We are calling for collabo­
department "is going to be dis­the hope that they can do this rative research," Dowd said. Contact Ann-Marie Woods at 
solved over the course of the next Contact John Tierney at themselves," Assistant Director "We really want Notre Dame awoods4@nd.edu 
two years." jtiemel@nd.edu of the Ford Program Tony faculty and students working Pohlen said. "We will bring a together with African certain amount of technology, researchers, faculty and stu­resources and research, but dents. This would fulfill one of we will work together with the our goals of building an community to find solutions." alliance across cultures, devot­
Guided by a strong Catholic ed to addressing the problem social teaching foundation and of extreme poverty." a belief in the inherent dignity While research is central to of the human person, the Ford the mission of the Ford Program strives to effectuate Program, students and alumni the collaborative goals in will have many opportunities Nnindye by advancing to get involved and contribute research, teaching and com­to the development work in munity engagement here at progress. Notre Dame and in Uganda. "Our focus, in large part, is 
Dowd said teaching and on research, but we also research are crucial to the believe there is a way to inte­program's initiatives, helping grate research and service," to build a foundation of learn­Dowd said. "I think there will ing in human development be opportunities for students studies. which will augment and student groups to work experiences outside the aca­with us in gathering resources demic environment. necessary. It might be raising 
"We want to enhance and funds that allow us to actually expand the opportunities for work with people in Uganda to our students to study interna­realize their goals. There are tional development in the all kinds of ways that students classroom and find ways to can help, and we welcome that integrate their experience in involvement." developing countries with the In addition to service. the theory that they might learn in Ford Program, in partnership the classroom," Dowd with the Kellogg Institute, has explained. offered two internships to stu­
One way the program hopes dents the last two summers to to achieve teaching and do research and work in the research in the academic envi­villages of Nnindye. ronment is with the creation of' The Center for Soeial an interdisciplinary interna­Concerns and the Gigot Center tional development studies for Social Entrepreneurship minor, whi~h would span are working with the Ford across the colleges, incorpo­Program to create an rating policy with action. International Summer Service 
"In some cases, the classes Learning Project in the may be team taught," Pohlen Nnindye villages as well. explained. "For example, an "The idea is that students engineering professor and an who have completed the Micro economics professor might Venturing certificate program together teach a class on can apply for this site and water issues. This provides for work with small businesses in interdisciplinary interaction Uganda," Pohlen explained. 


Friday, September 11, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,627.48 +38.57 
Up: 2,864  Same: 93  Down: 895  Composite Volume: 1,971,286,608  
eAMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500  1,786.99 2,084.02 61850.81 11044.14  +36.36 +23.63 +18A f +10.77  

NIKKEI (Tokyo) ··10,454~75 . ' i-58~92 FTSE 100 (London) 4,987.68 -I6J)2 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN ·PRICE 
CffiGROUP {C) +0.09 +0.09 4.75 BK OF AMERICA CP {BAC) +0.18 +0.18 17.22 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +1.02 +1.06 104.79 GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) -0.07 -0.07 14.80 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -3.94 -0.1370 3.34 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.00 0.135 30·YEAR BOND ·3.69 ·0.16 4.18 S·YEAR NOTE -3.96 -0.094 2.28 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbL) +0.63 71.94 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.30 996.80 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) +1.73 88.15 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 91.555 EURO 1.4581 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0781 BRITISH POUND 1.6652 
IN BRIEF 
Boeing workers reject union bid 
CHARLESTON -Workers at a South Carolina Boeing Co. plant have voted against continued representation by a union as the company considers the site for a second assembly line for its new 787 wide-body jetlin­er. 
Workers at the North Charleston plant, which makes fuselage sections for the 787, voted 199-68 Thursday against continued rep­resentation by the International Association of Machinists. 
Anyone who wants to challenge the vote has seven days to file an objection before the results are certified, Eslinger said. 
The workers, by a slim margin, voted for union representation when the plant was owned by Vought. Boeing last month bought the plant from Vought for $580 million plus about $420 million in debt forgiveness, 
Aviation analyst Scott Hamilton had told the Post and Courier of Charleston that he expect­ed to vote to decertify the union because the original vote to unionize was close. But he said that won't guarantee a second assembly line. 
Car dealers appeal ruling on emissions 
WASHINGTON -Auto dealers and busi­ness leaders on Thursday appealed a deci­sion by the Environmental Protection Agency that allowed California to establish the nation's first greenhouse gas standards for cars and trucks, setting the stage for a potential attempt to block the global warm­ing rules. 
The National Automobile Dealers Association and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce asked the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit to review the EPA's decision. The EPA in July granted California's request for a waiver allowing it to push tougher air pollution rules. 
The EPA's decision cleared the way for California to implement a 2002 state pollu­tion law requiring tougher fuel efficiency requirements in new cars trucks by 2016. 
California's approach serves as a national model for fighting tailpipe pollution linked to global warming, and the Obama administra­tion is expected to release proposed regula·· tions later this month setting fuel efficiency standards at 35.5 miles per gallon by 2016. 

page 7 

CHINA 

Premier: Too early to end stimulus 
China's leader says country's economy not yet stable; recovery efforts to continue 
Associated Press 

DALIAN -China's eco­
nomic recovery is not stable 
yet and the government will 
continue its massive stimu­
lus despite recent improve­
ments, Premier Wen Jiabao 
said Thursday. 

Speaking on the opening day of a meeting of the World Economic Forum, Wen expressed confidence that China will emerge stronger from the global economic crisis. But he said it still is struggling with the plunge in foreign consumer demand and some indus­tries suffer from unneeded production capacity and backward facilities. 
"The stabilization and recovery of the Chinese economy is not yet steady, solid and balanced," Wen, the country's top economic official, told an audience of 1,000 businesspeople, aca­demics and government officials in Dalian. 
"Some of the stimulus measures will see their effect wane, and it will take time before those long-term polieies show effect," the premier said. "We cannot and will not change our pol­icy direction in the absence of proper conditions." 
Wen announced no new initiatives but said Beijing aims to use its 4 trillion The economy created 6.6 economists say has wasted tal businesses and improv­yuan ($586 billion) stimulus million new jobs from money by focusing on cun­ing energy conservation. to improve Chinese indus­January through July, put­struction of highways and "The government has a try's competitiveness and ting it on track to meet other public works. That clear vision for how the energy efficiency. Beijing's target of 9 million has helped state-owned stimulus money should be 
Wen has issued similar jobs this year, Wen said. industry but little aid has spent," the premier said. warnings in recent weeks, The country's labor minis­gone directly to private Wen also called for global apparently in response to ter, however, said in com­companies which account efforts on 'climate change some economists who say ments reported last month for up to two-thirds of but indicated Beijing might Beijing should consider that as many as 12 million China's economic activity take a tough line at a U.N.. winding down its stimulus. job-seekers might not find and most of its new jobs. climate summit in They say the flood of money work this year. Wen dismissed criticism December, saying devel­could ignite inflation and is Wen said authorities "face of the stimulus as purely oped countries should take crowding out private sector constraints" in boosting focused on spending as "a the lead in making reduc­investment. domestic demand, though simplistic view." He said tions. 
China's economic growth he gave no details. A key only 22.9 percent has gone The United States has accelerated to 7. 9 percent goal of the stimulus is to to construction, while 52.4 said it is committed to from a year earlier in the boost domestic consump­percent went to low-cost reaching a deal to reduce quarter ending June 30, up tion and reduce reliance on housing and programs to greenhouse gases, blamed from 6.1 percent the previ­exports, which economists help the rural poor. for global warming. at the ous quarter. But the biggest say are unlikely to recover He said Beijing has exten­meeting in Copenhagen, improvements have been in to pre-crisis levels for some sive plans for overhauling Denmark, as long as other state industry while a pri­time. individual industries, major polluters such as vate sector recovery has Wen defended the stimu­encouraging the growth of China and India do their lagged. lus strategy, which some high-tech and environmen-part as well. 

Companies sue 'Ellen' over copyrights 
Associated Press 

NASHVILLE -Some of the world's largest recording companies are suing "The Ellen DeGeneres Show," claiming producers violated their copyrights by playing more than 1,000 songs without permis­sion. 
Many of the songs were played during the "dance over" segment of the show. when DeGeneres dances from the stage to the interview area, often through the audience. 
According to the suit filed Wednesday in U.S. District Court in Nashville, when representatives of the recording companie,s asked defendants why they hadn't obtained licenses to use the songs, defPndants said they didn't "roll that way." 
"As sophisticated consumers of musiC, Defendants knew full well that, regardless of the way they rolled, under the Copyright Act., and under state law for the pre-1972 recordings, they needed a license to use the sound recordings lawfully," the suit states. 
Scott Rowe, spokesman for the show's Telepictures Productions, wrote in an e-mailed statement that the company has been working with the record labels for months to resolve the issue and remains will­ing to resolve it on• "amicable and reasonable terms." 
Rowe said the issue does not involve DeGeneres, who on Wednesday was named as the fourth judge on TV's "American Idol." and 
whom Rowe calls "a tremendous music enthusiast and advocate." 
The suit claims the daytime talk show has used copyrighted music without permission since its incep­tion, including "recordings by virtu­ally every major current artist of popular music." It claims the show routinely used some of the most popular songs of the day, which the record labels don't license for day­time television at any price. 
Other songs cited in the lawsuit include Michael Jackson's "Thriller;" The B~ach Boys' "Good Vibrations" and Will Smith's "Gettin' Jiggy \Vit It." 
The suit calls the segment and the music played by the show's own disc jockey "signature elements of the show." 
Friday, September 11, 2009
page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
FRANCE 
Interior minister defends racist-sounding remark 
Associated Press 
PARIS -France's interior minister has been caught on camera making what sound like anti-Arab remarks, infu­riating anti-racism groups, even as he insisted that his words were innocent and misconstrued. 
It's an ugly controversy for Brice Hortefeux, the top law enforcement official and a former immigration minister in a country where tensions between police and minority youths occasionally erupt into violence. 
It's also sensitive for President Nicolas Sarkozy, a longtime friend of Hortefeux, and his conservative govern­ment. 
A video circulating Thursday on the Internet shows Hortefeux at an event last weekend in southwest France for the governing party UMP, having his picture taken with a young party member of North African ori­gin. 
Voices in the primarily white crowd talk of "integra­tion"; one woman says "he's our little Arab." 
Hortefeux is heard saying "he doesn't fit the prototype at all." Then he says, "We always need one. When there's one, that's all right. It's when there are a lot of them that there are prob­lems." 
llortefeux's office released a statement saying the remark was a "reference to the very many pictures that he had just had taken" with local party members. 
"Not a single word by Brice Hortefeux made reference to a supposed ethnic origin of a young activist," it said. 
But llortefeux's critics jumped on the comment. 
Activist group SOS Support for Illegal Immigrants said a top court should look into the remarks, accusing him of "racial hatred." Hortefeux has helped carry out Sarkozy's push to keep out and expel illegal immigrants. 
An umbrella group of black associations in France, CHAN, said it was "shocked by these unacceptable com­ments." 
Gilbert Roger, the Socialist mayor of Bondy, a Paris sub­urb where police have clashed with youths of immi­grant background, said Hortefeux "is so disconnected from reality that he is sur­prised that there is diversity within his own party." 
A top official whom Ilortefeux recently suspend­ed for racist comments, Paul Girot de Langlade, said on France-Info radio, "I hope he joins me soon." 
France has struggled with how to integrate immigrants from its former colonies and beyond, and how to accom­modate its growing minority population. Discrimination was one factor behind an explosion of riots largely by black and Arab young men in neglected housing projects around France in 2005. 
Investigators review tips for Calif. wildfire arson case 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES Investigators trying to solve a giant arson wildfire out­side Los Angeles have bol­stered their ranks in recent days, putting six more homicide detectives on the case as they review dozens of tips from the public about who set the blaze that has ravaged a 250-square­mile stretch of national for­est. 
Investigators still have not found a culprit in the fire that erupted Aug. 26, burn­ing 82 homes and killing two firefighters who died when their truck plunged down a ravine as they fled the flames. 
Their deaths meant that as soon as the fire was identified as arson, the investigation became a homicide probe. 
The fire's single point of origin has been traced to an area near an oak tree at the bottom of a steep ravine next to a curvy mountain road. Investigators report­edly found some kind of incendiary substance but have not disclosed more information. They ruled out lightning as a-cause and said they found no glass, which in rare circumstances can magnify the sun's rays and accidentally ignite a fire. 
The Los Angeles Sheriff's Department is the lead investigative agency, with 10 detectives now on the case -up from four since 
last week. 

A reward of $150,000 is being offered and investiga­tors want to hear from peo­ple with information about the arsonist, or anyone who saw unusual activity on the Angeles Crest Highway around 3:30 p.m. the day the fire broke out. The first reports of flames came shortly afterward. 
About 50 people have called the department with possible information about who set the fire, Lt. Liam Gallagher said. He said they were treating all of them seriously and some might be more helpful than others. 
"We get a lot of good peo­ple with good information, and your usual wingnuts, but each one we have to fol­low," said Gallagher, who is heading up the probe. 
Investigators have left the crime scene, but the high­way remains closed to the public and police tape still surrounds the roadside turnout near where the. fire started. 
Finding the ignition point was a crucial step in the case, said Tom Fee, a pri­vate arson investigator and business manager for the California Conference of Arson Investigators. Further progress will depend on the type of information provid­ed by witnesses or evidence uncovered at the scene. 
"It's a difficult task," said Fee. "The arrests that are made on arson fires are a very low percentage." 
Guy E. "Sandy" Burnette, 
a Florida attorney specializ­ing in arson litigation, said cases are solved as much by old-fashioned detective work as by modern foren­sics. 
"People do stupid things," Burnette said. "They leave something behind. They say something to a friend, or do something that draws atten­tion to themselves." 
Meanwhile, lawmakers were using the wildfire to draw attention to a bill call­ing for a national registry of convicted arsonists. Under a proposal by Rep. Mary Bono Mack, R-Calif., and Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., con­victed arsonists would be required to report where they live, work or go to school. 
The blaze is still chewing its way through rugged backcountry terrain in the San Gabriel wilderness but was 71 percent contained as of Thursday. 
Nearly 4,500 firefighters and 28 helicopters and air­planes were attacking the blaze, and firefighters took advantage of cooler weather overnight to set backfires Thursday near Mount Wilson to further protect a historic observatory there and several communications towers. 
All the while, investiga­tors are plodding away in search for a clue that could lead them to a suspect. 
"These things are very slow and manpower inten­sive," said Gallagher, who is heading up the probe. 
Healthy 
continued from page 1 
"I always feel like a broken record when it comes to vegeta­bles," she said. "People should go to the dining hall and get more servings of vegetables at lunch and dinner." 
Extra helpings of vegetables are a good way of getting a lot of food for few calories in the end. 
"They fill you up at around 25 calories a serving," Antonelli said. "You are giving your 

carbohydrates, but should be cognizant about the different types of carbohydrates. 
"When eating foods from breads and syrup groups, stu­dents should eat high in fiber items and less simple, sugary carbs," she said. 
When considering different types of carbohydrates to eat, Antonelli said to keep in mind the glycemic index. The index ranks carbohydrates according to their effect on the body's blood glucose levels. 
Foods low on the glycemic index increase the blood's glu­cose and insulin levels only slightly, whereas foods higher on the glycemic index can cause greater spikes. 
Antonelli said controlling por­tion sizes is another important aspect of avoiding weight gain. Typical portion sizes are gener­ally smaller than what people tend to think. 
"Pasta is generally over por­tioned," she said. "A standard portion size for pasta is about half the size of a baseball." 
In ordnr to easiest control portions, Antonelli said she rec­ommends using smaller sized plates and bowls. 
"People use 
their eyes a lot, 

..People should go to
body what it so always use the needs and not the dining hall and smallest plates you can get your
as much of what get more servings of 
it doesn't need." hands on." she
vegetables at lunch
With the said. "This way, recent populari­and dinner.,, psychologically ty of low-carbo­you can fill it up." hydrate diets, Antonelli said
Jocelyn Antonelli 
Antonelli said myths about the
Nutrition and Safety 
students can dining halls cir­still eat some Manager culate through 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRf: IJAI\1£ INTERl'\ATIONAL STUDY PRO(;RA!\IS IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall 2010, SPRING 2011, A Y 2010-ll 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Monday, September 14, 2009 
6:00 p.m. 155 DeBartolo 
AJ>plication J)eadlines: NOVEl\18ER 15.. 2009 FOI~ FALL., SPRING, l\NI> ACAOEMIC YEAR 2010-2011 
Applic:ttions AYaihtble Soon at www.nd.edu/-ois 
campus. One of 

these is the rumor that "calorie sprays" are added to vegetables. 
"We don't add anything to salad and vegetables," said Antonelli. "We add an extreme­ly small amount of oil to pasta noodles so they don't stick together, but nothing else." 
Students who have nutrition questions or concerns should consult the UniversHy's food services Web site or contact one of the school's nutritionists for advice. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonne1 @nd.edu 
Friday, September 11, 2009 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Shuttle landing delayed 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. Bad weather prevented space shuttle Discovery from return­ing home Thursday and kept its astronauts circling the world for at least an extra day. 
Mission Control skipped the first landing attempt because of wind and rain. The wind eased but the rain lingered for the second attempt, and officials could not get com­fortable enough with bringing Discovery and its crew of seven back from their space station delivery mission, now stretching 14 days. 
Flight director Richard Jones waited as long as possi­ble before deciding, with just minutes to spare, to give up for the day. 
"Just doesn't look like it's coming together for us," radioed Mission Control. 
"We know that everybody 
worked it as hard as they could," replied commander Rick Sturckow, "and we'll look forward to trying again." 
Discovery's next chance at returning will be Friday at 
5:48 p.m. Forecasters already are dubious; conditions are expected to be even worse than Thursday. The weather improves only slightly Saturday. 
Late Thursday, Jones decid­ed to call up the backup land­ing site in Southern California -Edwards Air Force Base ­for the next go-around. He made it clear that if the weather remains poor in Florida, then the shuttle will be diverted to Edwards. The cross-country ferry trip eats up $1.7 million and just over a week, however, which is why NASA prefers sending shuttles straight to their home port. 
Discovery has enough sup­plies to remain in orbit until Sunday. 
There was a bit of excite­ment earlier in the day when the shuttle astronauts had to steer clear of a mysterious piece of space junk. The debris apparently came from the shuttle or international space station, while the two were still linked. It's believed to have become dislodged during the crew's third and final spacewalk Saturday. 
Specialists did not know how big the piece was -or even what it was -but deter­mined it was going to pass uncomfortably close to Discovery beginning Thursday afternoon. The threat went away after the pilots slightly lowered the shuttle's orbit. 
NASA kept a close watch with two other pieces of space junk during the flight, while the shuttle still was docked to the international space sta­tion. But no dodging was required in those cases. 
Obama heckler could 
gain a political boost 

Associated Press 

WEST COLUMBIA, S.C. ­Rep. Joe Wilson is known as a mild-mannered congressman fond of making short speeches. His shortest got the most attention. "You lie!" Wilson blurted out during President Barack Obama's health care address to a joint session Wednesday night, an outburst that made some supporters shudder even as others believed it could give Wilson a political boost in his conserva­tive hometown. 
"He's the only one who has guts in that whole place. He'll get re-elected in a landslide," said John Roper, an insurance 
agent,  as  he  sat  among  
patrons  at  a  diner  near  
Columbia.  

Still, Southern sensibilities reign in the district the 62­year-old has represented for the past eight years. Added Roper, "He probably shouldn't have said it in that context." 
Wilson apologized to the White House soon after the speech and again Thursday, but did not back away from the issue that prompted his outburst. "People who have come to our country and vio­lated laws, Wf~ should not be providing full health care serv­ices," he said. 
Late Thursday. House lead­ers threatened to bring up a resolution of disapproval or reprimand for his behavior unless he apologizes on the House floor next week, a Democratic official said. The official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss private negotiations on the matter. 
House Majority Whip Jim 
Clyburn said he favors a reso­lution of public disapproval if Wilson doesn't apologize to the House by Tuesday. 
Wilson told WIS-TV "by call­ing the president right away following the speech, I feel that covers the issue the apol­ogy called for, and the response was accepted, and I'm now grateful we can get on to the issue itself." 
Clyburn, whose district adjoins Wilson's, said he was not surprised by the outburst: "I think that's indicative of the combativeness he displays all the time when it comes to poli­tics." 
Wilson's shout came after Obama said extending health care to all Americans who seek it would not mean insur­ing illegal immigrants. 
The House version of the health care bill explicitly pro­hibits spending any federal money to help illegal immi­grants get health care. Illegal immigrants could buy private health insurance, as many do now, but wouldn't get tax sub­sidies to help them. Still, Hepublicans say there aren't sufficient citizenship verifica­
tion requirements to  ensure  
illegal immigrants are  exclud­ 
ed.  

In Wilson's district, many voters said the heckle wouldn't affect their support for him. Some said they wished more politicians would speak their minds -but most said they wished it hadn't happened. 
"Joe was v~ry immature. lie's always been pn~ay under con t r o I. I~ 1n a Iittl e em bar­rassed," said Hoy Smith, a business manager who spoke as he ate breakfast in Cayce. 
Flu 
continued from page 1 
all," she said. 

Kleva said rectors say stu­dents have bPen taking precau­tionary measures against con­tracting the flu. 
"What we really see in dorms is that students are truly prac­ticing what we recommended," she said. "Hnommates of siek students are keeping distances and they're using alcohol-based sanitizers." 
Health Services launched a germ-fighting campaign in August to advise students on correct preventative measures for the flu. 
Students are encouraged to stay at least six feet away from a person with flu symptoms and always cough into their sleeves. 
Additionally. Health Services will be offering free flu shots, vaccinating against the season­al inflwmza virus, from Sept. 22 to Sept. 24. in Stepan Center. 
Kleva said Health Services may get a limited amount of the novel Ill N 1 vaccine later in the fall, and it would bn distributed based on the Centers for Disease Control guidelines for risk factors. 
"The only firm thing at this point is there will be a small amount coming to Indiana by mid-October," she said. "However, it will be the highest priority of people receiving this." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 


THIS WEEKEND IN 
..

~. ; · SIRJ]I[IJillB 
····~· 


THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Noue Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Merz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmeu@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kkingS@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO l @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OssERVERONLIN£ www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is av.Wable ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinionS through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor rDliSt be signed and must include contact information. 
Qt«Stions regarding Observtr policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief]enn Mm. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The: Ob.crvu (USPS 599 2-4000) i• published Mumby rhruugh Fndoy <xcq>< during exam and vacation pc:riods. A ~ptjon 10 The-Ohscrv<:r is $ 120 for ooe academic year; $65 1m on< s<m<SH:r: 
The: Ob.cn":r is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall ~nd addres.; corrections co: 
Nouc O=c, IN 46556-0779 The: Obscrn:r 
l'<riodial ~paid ar Nouc Dame PO. Boz 779 
an<! >ddiuornd moiling offi<... 024 S<>uth Dining Hall 
Norr< Dame:. IN 46556-0779 
The: Observer is • member of.~ Associttcd Pr=. All "'Production righu m rotrVed. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Madeline Buckley Alex Barker Laura McCrystal Mike Gotimer Molly Madden Molly Sammon 
Graphics Viewpoint Jaclyn Espinoza Michelle Maitz 
Scene Adriana Pratt 

Sacrifice of true fans 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team has worked its way the stadium architects provided plans for a larger stadium as into the top five nationally. They've been to the College Cup well, but the smaller stadium was chosen to avoid empty each of the past two years and were minutes away from win­stands. ning the NCAA Championship last season. The men's team "We had to decide if we make it bigger and risk having has played well recently, too. empty seats or do we build it to what would be full," 
So Randy Waldrum and Bobby Clark's squads received a Waldrum said on Sept. 3. "We really like that atmosphere to well-deserved facilities upgrade in the new Alumni Stadium, be full. You don't want to build it so big that it looks half located next to the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Given empty. That won't create the atmosphere." their lofty achievements, it's fitting that they Makes perfect sense. No reason to build a sta­should play in a first-rate stadium. THE dium you can't fill. And we understand that not 
OBSERVER
It's too bad their fans may not be able to every game will have the kind of demand that a watch them. No. 1 North Carolina vs. then-No. 2 Notre Dame, Students trying to see the Irish women play on the Friday night of the first football weekend,
Editorial 
top-ranked North Carolina last week were turned away because there was no room left in the stadium. Paying fans who arrived at the same time got in. 
There's no secret these days that sports are about making money. But this University has a generous endowment and the good fortune of owning a football team with a lucrative television contract that provides all the revenue they could hope for. Are those extra $5 tickets really making an impact? 
Notre Dame's athletic Web site reported that 3,007 fans watched the Irish play North Carolina. But that's not the largest home crowd they've had. In 2008, 3,127 watched Notre Dame win in extra time in the third round of the NCAA Tournament. If you're building a new stadium, why not build it big enough to accommodate all the fans? 
Well, they thought of that. Waldrum told The Observer that 
will bring. But let the students in first. 
Now the season-ticket holders, the loyal fans and supporters of Irish soccer, are just as important, if not more so, than the students. We're not saying limit their access. But you want atmosphere? Students create it. They're loud and boisterous and they know the players. You don't create atmosphere by selling tickets to alums that are looking for something to do after the pep rally while keeping the real fans outside. 
So sacrifice that extra money you make by seJiing the tick­ets and fill the stands with the students. Support the fact that students now care about sports other than football, basket­ball and, more recently, hockey. 
One disgruntled would-be attendee shouted while waiting in line, "Their tickets cost five dollars. Ours cost $48,000!" There's your true fan-and your revenue. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Don't deny the truth behind 'Thin' 
The power of viewing the images of Lauren Greenfield's work, "Thin,"is undeniable; however, many people are unaware of the fact that this well-intentioned work could actually have the power to "fuel the obsession of many women and men with dieting, exercise, and body image," as Morgan C. Caudle stated ("Exhibit Indeed" Sept 8). 
On the one hand, portrayals of painfully underweight women, fighting against their own thoughts that accom­pany disorders, can accurately show the tragedy of this underestimated epidemic that plagues society. On the other hand, a person often will unconsciously ignore the vulnerability of those suffering from a disorder that was just witnessed in Greenfield's work. That person hastily jumps to the conclusion that no one can come away moti­vated by those truthful images created to help. 
Nevertheless, that is the truth of what happens to many of those with eating disorders. Think about this. Picking up a copy of Greenfield's book, and flipping through pages and initially seeing girls who are suffering like you and who are struggling to mute the perpetual propensity of the disorder just like you. Then, those suffering girls transform into girls who have done it better. Reading a story about a girl who made it down to less than 100 calo­ries a day. Thinking how low that number is and if you could be as "good." Walking away with the determination­and new "fuel" to fight your body's needs as you feed your desire. Mind over body taken to a new level. Doesn't sound logical, does it? It is not; the whole exhibit proves that the disorders are not logical. 
Perhaps the exhibit is not dangerous to the mental and physical health of every student at the University of Notre Dame. Nonetheless, do not deny that the barrier standing between someone's battle with an eating disorder and his or her constant thoughts of competitive comparison and the insatiable desire to deny indeed measures as "thin." 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Everything that irritates us about others can lead us to an understanding ofourselves.,. 
Carl Jung Swiss psychologist 

Observer Poll What did you think of the Pep Rally'? Liked it 33%
Vot\:s fl~: rtcnl.ag~t 

Liked it 178 33o/o Didn't Go 172 31% Dido't like it 157 29% 


Recalling my America before 9/11 
"I want my America back!" That common cry nationwide from many attending health care town-hall meet­ings last month epitomized emotional shouting sessions. Their demonstra­tions against so­called socialized health care pro­posals or publicly financed medical treatment alter­natives­described by oth­ers as disruptive obstruction ­allowed civil dis­course to dissolve into chaos. Such sad moments should give us pause today, on the eighth anniversary of the deadly attacks on the World Trade Center towers. IsAmerica really much differ­ent now than from yesterday, a decade ago or even a lifetime past? 
All four of my grandparents emi­grated from Italy in the early 1900s. Their visions of America were of equal opportunities, both economic and social. Despite posted signs that read "No WOPS need apply," my grandfa­thers labored on the railroad lines and in the coal mines, sometimes without pay for a full day's work because the mine yielded shale rather than coal. Yet in their America, after enduring abject poverty in the Great Depression, they successfully raised children whose own children could 

and did work in the White House for 
the President of the United States. 
America today is a time of angry social transition not unlike the period following our Civil War. For the first time in our nation's history, an African-American sits in the Oval Office advocating togetherness and a common national character. Yet for many, his presence marks an end of their America. To them, the America they grew to know is shattered, and they are frightened. It is as psycholog­ically shocking to them, and as sudden a change, as past generations faced with the stock market crash of 1929. the 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor, the Kennedy assassinations during the 1960s or most recently, the 9/11 attacks eight years ago. These fright­ful people know not how to cope in a society they believe has spun out of their control, but how to vocally vent their frustrations. 
Our society seems to stand on full oxymoron alert these days as Americans yearn for the past yet cling onto the present for fear that it too will quickly slip by them. It is as though they are trying to grasp any available limb while being quickly swept down a swollen creek bed. For them, change exposes their fears. Uncertainty isolates their warmth from others. Greed murders all of their human compassion. Many act out with no regard for a greater purpose, one that should unite us rather than morph into disruptive shouting match­es at public gatherings. Above all, they view President Obama as the symbol of their consternation, the focus of their opposition. 
Political parties or ideological philosophies aside, the question we should ask before any of us feels a sense of loss is, "What do I truly love?" Someone once said that where his heart was concerned, he was God. In other words, a quest of the heart in its purest form is a journey of truth. The late Massachusetts Senator Ted Kennedy revealed in death through his writings a steadfast loyalty to help others -despite his own human excesses or personal faults -to make government work for others, especial­ly those for whom little had been given. His love of life earned a friend­ship with and co-sponsorship from conservative Utah Senator Orin Hatch to use the government to provide health care for impoverished, unin­sured children. Together they checked and balanced each other to pass laws with an eye on the greater good over political expediency. 
We are not necessarily summoned to make personal sacrifices like the Greatest Generation in World War II or our active military personnel over­seas today. But we are all called upon to care for our neighbors as we would want to be treated. It is simple to define what can be easily opposed, but rare in today's fast-paced news cycles for many to sail their moral compass­es based on what is best for others. Today we stand on the shoulders of past American generations, but make no sacred effort to solidify that foothold for others who will follow. 
My personal America has always been beyond the sunset, off some­where into tomorrow where the possi­bilities are limitless. I do not cement my feet in current or past comforts because I know conditions always evolve with death, destruction, birth and building. So while our surround­ings or presence may constantly change, America will not if we hold our values high without wavering ... even in the face of adversity like the 9/11 attacks. Therefore, let us pause today to remember the victims of 9/11 and honor the first responders who valiantly sacrificed their lives during their rescue efforts. They embodied the America that never changes, nor can be lost. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton ·s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni. nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Polling and propaganda 
Nate Balmert may not be the best person to be fighting against the perception that the GOP is largely an uneducated party. 
First, I don't know where this magical "10 seat" conjecture comes from. Independent polling group Research2000 shows a 20-point lead for Democrats in Congress with regard to favora­bility, and only right-leaning Rasmussen Reports shows a lead for Republicans in a generic congressional ballot poll. Democracy Corps (nine points), Ipsos-McOatchy (eight points} and Pew (one point) all show a lead for Democrats continuing despite the constant and eerily belligerent fear mongering com­ing from the right, especially with regard to health insurance reform. (The health reform movement has a whole lot more to do with greedy insurance companies than greedy doctors.) 
The more egregious error, however, comes in a reference to a poll done by Zogby and com­missioned by John Ziegler. John Zogby essentially disowned the poll (which was accepted and performed by his group while he was away on a book tour), say­ing that "something, somehow fell through the cracks." The source on that is Carl Bialik of the Wall Street Journal, which I don't think we can refer to as part of the media's vast left wing conspiracy. 
The poll itself was ludicrous on its face. Questions about Palin and McCain's misgivings stretched back about a month or two, while inaccurately worded and obviously biased questions about Obama and Biden stretched back to 1987 and to Obama's first ever campaign. 
Additionally, the sample con­sisted only of Obama supporters. Not a single McCain supporter was asked a single question in this poll. Nate Silver, probably the most reputable pollster from the last election cycle, inter­viewed Ziegler on his website, and the full transcript is avail­able by way of a google search. In it, Ziegler's less-than-noble goals are revealed pretty clearly, and the fact that you're refer­encing this man's heavy-handed borderline push-poll as an example ofthe prevalence of uneducated Democrats i" a pret­ty awesome lesson in hypocrisy. 
Chris Doyen 
semor off-cunpus Sepr. 10 


U-WIRE 
·-" " . 

Universities should accept drinking on campus as inevitable 
Incidents this fall concerning drinking on the University of Utah campus such as the unconscious student found in the Sage Point Residence Halls and the Tasing of an intoxi­cated student at Crimson Nights show the problems and the adminis­trative reaction it precipi­
John Stafford
tates. 
It is important for the U to take measures to curb University of binge drinking for the 
Utah 

sake of student health and 
Daily Utah 
well-being, but the admin­
Chronicle
istration's focus seems to 
be misplaced. Fighting on-campus drinking purely by force has succeeded only in driving it underground in a way similar to 
that of the Prohibition era. The U must 
instead look toward ideas that are concerned with the root of the problem and take meas­
ures to increase student safety. 
The adverse health risks of binge drinking and its level of abuse by the college demo­graphic are startling. According to the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University, nearly one in four full-time students nationwide met the medical threshold for substance abuse or dependence. 
However, the Prohibition era has proven to us the impossibility of eliminating drinking by means of the law alone. Instead, the U and local law enforcement must implement more nonconventional means such as education, prevention and treatment. 
The susceptibility of the college demo­graphic to drinking-related automotive acci­dents has caused schools such as former No. 1 nationally ranked party school University of Colorado at Boulder to implement a free campus shuttle-known there as "night ride" -to deter driving under the influence. 
At Clemson University, a similar service that carries 700 to 1,500 passengers on an average weekend has reduced tickets for driving under the influence by 45 percent, 
according to Clemson Area Transit General 
Manager Al Babinicz. 
"Night ride is great," said David Kizer, a former Clemson University student. "Students are going to drink, you can't stop that. It's nice to have a free ride option to persuade kids not to drive home when last call comes or they leave a party." 
In 2007, Utah had 51 alcohol-impaired driving fatalities. Of that number, 16 were under the age of 21. A free ride service could help to reduce this number and make the U's campus and surrounding areas safer, accord­ing to the U.S. Department of Transportation. 
In the end, it all comes down to individual accountability, awareness and education. It is inevitable that a number of students will drink on campus. We need to make sure that students know when to say when and know when it is necessary to contact medical help if somebody takes it too far. A university ori­entation that includes this sort of information is a good starting point. 
When I left for the U. my father sent me off with this pearl of wisdom: "Have a good time, but don't be too much of a dumbass." 
For anyone who decides to drink, this translates to knowing your limits and being aware beforehand of situations that could get you in trouble, in terms of both safety and legality. Drinking in college, whether you agree with it or not, is about as proven of a cliche as you can find. Writing tickets and "'cracking down" is not going to stop it. Instead, assessing possible dangerous situa­tions, such as drinking and driving, and tak­ing steps toward preventing those situations from occurring, both individually and collec­tively, is the key to ensure it is done as safely as possible. 
This column first ran in the Sept. 10 edition of The Daily Utah Chronicle, the daily newspaper serving the University of Utah. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

page 12 Friday, September 11, 2009 
Ladies and gentlemen, buckle up. I'm about to drop some knowledge, blow your minds, and change your lives. 
As you all know, South Bend weather is atrocious. Winter is a place where dreams and happiness go to die. 
During the months of 
Matt Brown 
January through April there 
Scene

seems to be little to live for Columnist beyond my mom's birthday (Feb, 2, send her a card) and my roommate's 21st. 
The first snowfall is fantastic, and to my Floridian eyes the first real fall is as delicious as a double chuck brownie with chocolate ice cream and chocolate syrup with chocolate milk on the side. 
Snow football, snow forts, snow­men -all good things; not to men­tion sledding and my one goal for this winter: being towed behind a car on a trash can lid. 
However, after going home to open presents in shorts and at-shirt fol­lowed up by a trip to the beach, com­ing back to a place that looks like the post-apocalyptic nuclear winter becomes less and less appealing as the years go on. 
Living in winter just plain sucks, Christmas carols can only carry me so far, and I love Christmas carols. 
My inconsolable rage at the sheer bitterness of the winter was only 
compounded this summer as I stayed on campus. The weather was fantas­tic! It was Notre Dame as it was meant to be enjoyed. I went outside, took a weekend trip or two, saw green grass and the 
trees actually had leaves. 
It was after this idyllic time that I came up with a solu­

heart unfettered by the weight of school. Flawless! 
When we're at school the weather will be nice, we can be outside, enjoy the sun, and not become as pale as Gollum. Plus, with the weather beau­
tiful outside there will be countless opportunities to recreate the volley­ball scene from "Top 
break in June. 
The semester ends at the begin­ning of August. 

There would be a three-week break until the end of AugusU beginning of September. 
For the first time ever, Labor Day would be a holiday and Thanksgiving a weeklong vacation. 
Then we come back for the final stretch taking exams right before Christmas traipsing home with a free 
what better gift 
can you give a 

mother than the news 
that you passed and 
are now a sopho­

more, junior, senior or that you're moving back in? 
The next three months, January, February and March, are our long break. If you really miss the snow, you can visit friends and go snow­boarding. If you are normal, you can come to my house and we'll go sail­ing, or maybe take a cruise to the Grand Caymans, set up a surf shop and just not come back in the spring. 

We will have about a month off while friends from high school are on summer vacation, and honestly who needs more than a month straight of high school again? It's short enough that you enjoy every second spent with them and long enough that you are excited to get back to school and finish up the year. 
I see no downside to this. It may be the greatest idea since sliced bread or the forward pass. Do me a favor think about it. Tell your friends. It'll be legendary. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Matt Brown at 
mbrown@nd. edu 
JACLYN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 
tion. Why doesn't Notr£" 
Dame change 
their schedule so 
we have our sum­
mer break ... 
in winter? 
And boom goes 
the dynamite. Just think 
about it. First day of school 
in the middle of 
April with a 
weeklong summer 

Gun" and spend time "playing with the boys." By finishing just before 
Christmas, students would be home for the holi­days and able to spend quality time with the fam­ily when everyone is sure to be around. Plus, 


JACLYN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 
By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 
The lights rose as five players stood onstage, bare except for their five chairs and a few props, ready to introduce their characters. Terence Wilton played Lear, the Duke of Cornwall and the Duke of Albany. Richard Neale was Edgar and Edmund and Caroline Devlin took the part of Regan and Fool. Rina Mahoney played Goneril and Cordelia and Dale Rapley was Gloucester and Kent. They were dressed simply in plain contemporary garb, except for Lear, who looked every inch a king in a samurai-like robe with a camouflage pattern and a crown that at first glance looked like old Mardi Gras beads. 
Right from the beginning of the action, the extensive and artful use of the few props was incredibly impressive. The three sisters, Goneril, Hegan and Cordelia were each rep­resented by a different colored Pashmina scarf, and the actors created a royal entrance with a drum and thunder with a tin can and rubber band. Those who find Shakespeare stuffy and difficult to compre­hend need not fear this show. The tragedy is at its meatiest when stripped to its bare bones. 
A production of a Shakespearian play with only five actors may seem impossible, and it was definitely enthralling to watch unfold. In a world where we are handed every answer to a question on a movie screen, the bareness and simplicity of ilie "King Lear" stage was a refreshing change that allowed your imagination to fill in the blanks in a way that personalized the performance for each audience member. 
..It's a different kind of challenge [having five actors]. Most of us have to find a jour­ney for two characters or more," said cast member Dale Hapley, who has been acting professionally for 22 years. His characters each grew throughout the performance, cul­minating in the spectacularly sorrowful demise of poor Gloucester. 
Throughout the show it often seemed like one player was chosen for two roles specifi­cally to show the dualities of both charac­ters. Neale, as brothers Edmund and Edgar, was able to change between dandy Edgar and villainous, melancholy Edmund with a sinister furrow of his brow, although the black and red leather Michael Jackson­esque glove he wore as Edmund helped as well. As Edgar, he meekly simpered and later elastically writhed with madness. where as Edmund he spoke strongly and sensually, planting his body so firmly on the stage one would think he wore his almost constant frown from the strain of it. 
Neale was also very impressively able to pull off the admittedly difficult task of hav­ing-a fatal sword fight with himself, where he manipulated a broom handle as aptly as the real thing. The conversations between Edgar and Edmund made the audience for­get that Neale was onstage speaking to him­self. If he performed on the street people would only stare to wonder at the intensity of the conversation between two men, not at a single man having a Gollum-like dialogue with himself. 
Mahoney was able to switch effortlessly between sadistic Goneril and virtuous Cordelia, conveying their contrasting motives as quickly as it took her to switch Goneril's pink Pashmina scarf for Cordelia's white one. Cordelia's voice and movements were much softer than the storm Goneril was trying to raise up with her quiek tongue and actions. 
Wilton captured audiences hearts as King Lear, whom he took from sarcastic bluster­ing to heartbreakingly bonkers after he came to the realization, as most fathers do, that the behavior of his children is com­pletely, and in his case, epically out of his control. 
"I think ["King Lear"] is the most brilliant play, possibly the greatest Shakespeare wrote. It is a play about life, struggles we all have -family, power, poverty-and how we struggle through adversity," said Hapley. 
Whatever adversity is in "King Lear," there is nothing adverse to be found in this performance of it. The Actors from the London Stage have once again brought a mesmerizing, clever and all-around spectac­ular bit of Shakespeare to Notre Dame. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at 
ceckerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



Friday, September 11, 2009 page 13 
The E.N.D. is 
Forgettable 
By NICHOLAS ANDERSON Scene Wrirer 
The Black Eyed Peas are famous for a couple of reasons. Fergie misspells words in lyrics. Will.i.am is the next Bob Dylan, at least accord­ing to Pepsi's recent commercial. There are two other members as well. Between the four of them, they have been a pop powerhouse since the release of 2003's "Elephunk." 
Will.i.am is clearly the leader and creative force in the group. He has come a long way since he signed his first record contract with Ruthless Records. The Black Eyed Peas just released their fifth album, "The E.N .D. (The Energy Never Dies)", approaching their new material in an unorthodox fashion. In their own words, "What is an album when you put 12 songs on iTunes ... There is no album any­more." The band is simply embracing the death of an art form that much of the industry is mourning. 
Not only do 

in Will.i.am's words, "[The album] also the begin­ning of a whole new cultural birth." No one is denying their ability to craft pop songs, but r-e-birthing -a culture is an entirely differ­ent matter. 
Seeing that the group didn't set out to make an album, it seemed unfair to review it as such. Instead, each song was exam­ined on individ­ual merit. The reviews wiJl be given from two perspectives. A: a listener expe­riencing the songs in sequential order on a hi-fi stereo sys­tem. B: an over enthusiastic partygoer whose shirt is a bit too shiny and cologne a bit too strong. 
A: The three leading singles, "Boom Boom Pow," "Meet Me 1-1 alfway," and "I Gotta Feeling," present an interesting variety of music. "Boom Boom Pow" and "I Gutta Feeling" are both obvious club hangers and work as such. However, "Boom 
value in a 
bodies more natu­ral light. It does so by the merits of 
its strong bass line, solid production, 
lyrics. "I 
less impressive. The production sounds excep­tionally repeti­tive and lyrics fall flat. doesn't matter how light heart­ed a song supposed be, listing the days of ....... 
JACLYN ESPINOZA I Observer GraphiC 

the week and throwing around some Jewish phrases does not constitute songwriting. "Meet Me Halfway" introduces the world to a BEP bal­
lad. It's meant as an emo­
guy who moped about a a month too long would write. man. I love these songs! It's like 
is talking about this club! I'm gonna get my dance on! And "Meet Me Halfway" is heavy 
It's like ... heavy. 
A: Three songs come off as strong sin­gles. "Imma Be" is one of the more aggressive songs in their catalogue and the repetition appar­ent within every BEP song doesn't over­stay its welcome, combining for a strong single. 
the Body" 

surpasses mediocre based solely on a sample from The Fresh Prince and DJ Jazzy Jeff. Finally, "Now Generation" ere­
. ates au impr~ssive ·sound by looping compu\er enhanced vocals over a guitar and harmoniCa. It's a mildly successful song that at least pres­ents a new sonic texture resembling a hipster mash-up. 
B: More Black Eyed Peas! They can't make a bad song! They're like the new Beatles, but bet­ter! 
A: There are nine more song on the album, all more or less forgettable. The most disappoint­ing moment is when it becomes apparent that 

"Party All the an Eddie Murphy 
B: I'm just to all The Eyed 
Peas know to 


The E.N.D. Black Eyed Peas 
Label: lnterscope Recommended Tracks: "lmma Be," "Rock the Body," "Now Generation" 
Contact Nicholas Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 
1 2 
3 
4 5 
6 
7 
8 9 
10 1 1 
12 
13 14 
15 
16 
17 

First Down Mash-Ups 
, 


by Colin Rich Rapture Riders -The Doors vs. Blondie 
Earth,Wind &Roses-Outkastvs.EarthWind&Fi~ 
Dec. 4th, Oh What A Night -Jay-Z vs. FrankieValli & the Four Seasons 
Crazy Logic -Gnarls Barkley vs. Supertramp vs. Rockwell 
Short Skirt, London Bridge-Fergie vs.Cake Real Black Poppin'-Cheri Lynn vs. Fat Joe and Nelly 
Beethoven's Fifth Gold Digger-Kanye West vs. Beethoven vs. Walter Murphy 
Fox Problems-Jimi Hendrix vs.Jimi Bo Horne 
vs. Eric B&Rakim Every Change You Make-Tupac Shakur vs.The Police 
..... r-.•. ·-··,:JIG __ ..,_ ..,_.~"< ........ _... 

You're The OneThat I Want In The Next Episode­Snoop Dogg vs. John Travolta &Olivia Newton John 
Janet Jackson vs. Earth, Wind and
Don't Stop-
Fire vs. Sugarhill Gang 

Detox-Amy Winehouse vs. Britney Spears Tequila Lip Gloss-Lil Mama vs.The Champs Walkin' Out Yo Girlfriend-Unk vs.Avrillavignevs.
Toni Basil Tender Umbrella-Rihanna vs. General Public 
B.F. Meets T.l.-Ben Fold feat. Regina Spektor vs.T.l. Celeshake-YtngYangTwinsfeatPitbuHvs.Kool&theGang 
JACLYN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 
Friday, September 11, 2009 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 
Rockies c-ontinue hot streak despite injuries 
Minnesota fails to make up ground on Detroit in AL Central as offense remains ice cold in Toronto 
gle, Giambi laced a two-run 
Associated Press 
double to deep center and 
DENVER -The Colorado Atkins added a two-run Rockies keep losing players homer. and winning games. Just like that, the Rockies 
Starting pitcher Jose had a 5-1 lead. It was more Contreras came out in the than enough. third inning with a strained "You never know how a quadriceps Thursday, his sec­small thing like my bunt can ond start for injured Aaron get something like that going," Cook. said Young, who added two 
No matter, the bullpen and a stolen bases. "I just wanted to makeshift lineup that was try to get everybody excited missing its top two sluggers and pumped up and ready for led the Rockies to their sev­their at-bats." enth straight win, 5-1 over the He succeeded. Cincinnati Reds on Thursday. "The kid lays down a bunt 
"Got to keep the train for a base hit?" Tracy said. going," Eric Young Jr. said. "Speed kills.... Things hap­It's chugging along at full pened from there." steam these days. The Rockies lost Contreras 
The NL wild-card leaders in the third when he strained increased their cushion to 4 his right quadriceps trying to 1/2 games over the idle San beat out a grounder. He was Francisco Giants and crept taken out of the game and is within two games of the first­day to day. place Los Angeles Dodgers in In his absence, Colorado the NL West. The Dodgers also strung together three relievers had the day off. who allowed just three hits the 
By sweeping four games rest of the way. Juan Rincon from the Reds, the Rockies (3-2) pitched three effective wrapped up a 9-1 homestand frames, striking out five to -one of their best in fran­earn the win. chise history. Next, Colorado "What a job by our bullpen," Reds manager Dusty Baker try to win the game yourself." his eighth save in 10 chances. embarks on a nine-game road Tracy said. said. "We get runners in scor­The Twins begin a nine-game "It all starts with pitching trip that includes three in San Giambi has been dialed in ing position and we can't homestand Friday that starts and Cecil pitched a good ball Francisco. since joining the Rockies on make contact or put the ball in with three each against strug­game for us," Blue Jays man­
"We are playing great base­Sept. 1. The slugger that Tracy play." gling Oakland and Cleveland. ager Cito Gaston said. "The ball," Jason Giambi said. ''I'm has taken to calling They'll face the Tigers for guys came out of the bullpen excited that we are doing the "Giambino" now has six RBis Blue Jays 3, Twins 2 three starting next Friday. and shut everything down." little things, moving runners, in six games with Colorado. Minnesota keeps failing to "We're just trying to hang on As the Blue Jays headed to getting big hits when we need "I have a lot of confidence pressure Detroit in the AL and try to gain some ground Detroit after the game, they 
it and getting great pitching. right now and I'm swinging Central. until we play Detroit," starter dressed Cecil and nine other That's what you want to do the bat well," said Giambi, Jose Bautista hit a solo Scott Baker said. "We obvious­rookies in Toronto Argonauts down the stretch." who nearly hit a solo homer in homer, Brett Cecil won his ly don't have a lot of room to cheerleaders costumes for the 
All this despite losing pivotal the eighth, only to have Drew final start of the season and lose any more games, that's for flight. players. Stubbs reach over the wall to the Toronto Blue Jays beat the sure." "This will be a first," Cecil 
With Troy Tulowitzki and Ian bring it back. "I've come in, fit Twins Thursday. The Twins also play a four­said. Stewart sitting out a third right in right away and have "It's a game we needed to game series at Detroit from Baker (13-8) lost for the first straight game with back stiff­gotten results." win, and we didn't do it," Sept. 28 to Oct. 1 . time since July 7, giving up ness, the team again had to Wells (1-4) didn't fare well Morneau said. "That's why One night after the teams three runs, five hits and four rely on a patchwork lineup. against his former team, giv­we're a .500 team." drew 11,159, the smallest walks in 6 2/3 innings. He had 
With their top two sluggers ing up five runs and six hits in Minnesota (70-70), which crowd in the 20-year history of been 7-0 in his previous 11 out, the Rockies went with five innings. began the day 5 112 games Rogers Centre, attendance was starts. Clint Barmes at shortstop, "I made mistakes with slid­back of the Tigers, has not 11,461, the second-lowest this "He still gave us a great Garrett Atkins at third and ers that cost me," said Wells, won consecutive games since season. Toronto averaged chance to win, we just couldn't Young at second. The team who pitched for Colorado last taking three in a row from 12,315 for the four-game get any runs for him," Mauer even gave first baseman Todd season. "The slider cost me -Aug. 30-Sept. 1. The Twins series. said. Helton the day off, starting soft pitches over the plate. went 1 for 9 with runners in Minnesota's Joe Mauer went Toronto went ahead in the Giambi instead. Atkins really jumped on a bad scoring position Thursday and 0 for 4, dropping his major first when Joe Inglett walked 
Still, the lineup produced. pitch." are averaging just 3.2 runs league-leading average to and scored on Adam Lind's 
"It speaks volumes as to the Joey Votto celebrated his during their past 10 games. . 363. double . depth and strength of this 26th birthday with a 2-for-4 "You give up three runs, you Cecil (7-4) allowed two runs Denard Span tied it in the organization," said manager afternoon at the plate, while should have an opportunity to and seven hits in six innings. third with a leadoff homer, but Jim Tracy, whose team is 63-Brandon Phillips had three win," manager Ron Toronto is stopping his season Bautista's fifth homer of the 32 since he took over. singles and a stolen base for Gardenhire said. after he pitched a combined year put Toronto back on top 
Young was just trying to Cincinnati. Phillips' run-scor­"Unfortunately for us, our 142 1/3 innings in the majors in the fourth. jump-start a listless offense ing single in the first was his offense never could· get any­and at Triple-A. Minnesota tied it again in the when he put down a two-out 86th RBI. thing going." "To finish like that, I still fifth when Nick Punto doubled bunt in the third inning. The Reds had a chance to Minnesota is batting .237 (72 have a lot of stuff to work on and scored on Orlando 
His bunt, though, slipped pounce on the Rockies in the for 304) in September. but it's really good, really posi­Cabrera's RBI single but through the fingers of pitcher first inning, but Contreras ''I'm trying my best not to do tive," Cecil said. Toronto moved in front for Kip Wells as he tried to field struck out Wladimir Balentien everything, just to keep it sim­Jeremy Accardo, Jesse good in the bottom half. John it, and the speedy Young easily and Adam Rosales to wiggle ple still," designated hitter Carlson and Shawn Camp each McDonald led off with a dou­beat it out. out of a bases-loaded jam. Jason Kubel said. "But given got one out in the seventh, ble, took third on a grounder 
That got the Rockies going. "That's been a problem for the circumstances, it's kind of Scott Downs pitched the eight, and scored on Lind's sacrifice Seth Smith had an RBI sin-us aJI year, and it was today," hard not to go out there and and Jason Frasor finished for fly. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is S cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content withour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base· appt.,no experience needed,cus· tamer sales/service, 574·273·3835. 
FOOSBALL PLAYERS wanted. Have the best table in the area to play on. Play at a high level. Interested? Call 257·4441 or 339· 2838. Leave message if no answer. Mishawaka address. Ask for D. 
FoR RENT 
ND vs MSU Weekend, Sept. 18,19,20. Rooms in Sacred Heart Parish Hall on campus. $400/per person two nights includes game ticket, bed, parking, K of C Smoker, lunch at Morris Inn tent. etc. All profits go to South Jersey Notre Dame Club Scholarship Fund. Email: Bi11Burns.68@Aiumni.nd.ed or call 
Bill Burns 609·368·1962. 
APARTMENT right off campus. 1-bdrm. $500/mo. all inclusive. 574·243-7777. You have seen the rest • now CHECK OUT THE BEST Open Houses Sun. 9/20/09 4-7. andersonNDrentals.com Start at 203 E. Navarre 
TICKETS 

HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS 
Buy Sell Trade FB lix. Victorytickets.net 574·232-0964. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574·276-8507. 
Desperately need season tix/MSU, BC. Call 574·654·0168 local call. 
PERSONAL 

EARN $50 FOR 1 HR OF WRITING ACT, Inc. invites you to participate in an essay-writing study. 
limited number of participants so register soon to secure a spot. 
www.act.org/essaystudy 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis· tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1·7819 or Ann Firth at 1·2685. For more information, visit ND s website at: http://pregnancysupport@ nd.edu 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES
Friday, September 11, 2009 
page 15 
U.S. OPEN 
NCAA Football AP Top 25 

team record previous 
1 Florida 1·0 1 2 Texas 1·0 2 3 Southern California 1·0 4 4 Alabama 1·0 5 5 Oklahoma State 1·0 T9 6 Mississippi 1·0 8 1 Penn State 1·0 T9 8 Ohio State 1·0 6 9 BYU 1·0 20 10 California 1·0 12 11 LSU 1·0 11 12 Boise State 1·0 14 13 Oklahoma 0·1 2 14 Virginia Tech 0·1 7 15 Georgia Tech 1·0 15 16 TCU 0·0 17 17 Utah 1·0 19 18 NOTRE DAME 1·0 23 19 North Carolina 1·0 21 20 Miami•(t=la.) 1·0 NR 21 Georgia 0·1 13 22 Nebraska 1·0 24 23 Cincinnati 1·0 NR 24 Kansas 1·0 25 25 Missouri 1·0 NR 
NCAA Football Coaches' Poll Top 25 
team record. previous 
1 Florida 
1·0 1 2 Texas 
1-0 2 3 Southern Californ.ia 
1·0 4 
4 Alabama 1~0 
5 5· Penn State 1-0 8 6.' Okla11oma State''r 1-() 
11 
7 Ohio State 
1·0 6 
8 Mississippi 1·0 10 9 LSU 
1·0 9 10 California 
1-0 12 11 Boise State 
1·0 16 
12 BYU 
Ht 24 13 Georgia Tech 1·0 15 14 Oklahoma 
0·1 3 15 Virginia Tech 0·1 7 16 TCU 0-0 17 17 Utah 
1-0 18 18 Nebraska 
1·0 22 19 North Carolina 1-0 20 20 NOTRE DAME 1-0 23 21 Georgia 0·1 •13 22 Miami (Fla.} 1-0 NR 23 Cincinnati 1·0 NR 24 Oregon State 1·0 25 25 Kansas 1-0 NR 
NCAA Women's Tennis ITA Division 1. Rankings 
team . previous 
1 Northwestern 1 2 Duke 3 3 Georgia 2 4 NOTRE DAME 4 5 Baylor 5 6 Miami (Fla.) 6 7 Southern California 9 8 California 8 9 Georgia Tech 7 10 Tennessee 13 
around the dial 
MLB 

Chicago Cubs vs. Cincinnati Reds 
2:20 p.m., WGN 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL Colorado vs. Toledo 9 p.m., ESPN 
IN BRIEF 

Bird confirms extension of 
contract with Seattle Storm 
SEATTLE -Sue Bird has agreed to a multiyear contract extension to stay with the Seattle Storm, keeping the All­Star guard with the only WNBA team she's played for. 
Terms of the deal were not released. The extension was announced right before Seattle played its regular season home finale against Phoenix on Thursday night. 
The former UConn star was the No. 1 overall pick in the 2002 draft and helped lead Seattle to the 2004 WNBA title. She's been a six-time All­Star selection and is the Storm's all-time lead~r in assists. 
Bird recently became the third player in WNBA history to record 3,000 career points and 1,000 career assists. 
Phillies' closer Udge speaks 
out about poor season 
WASHINGTON -Brad Lidge and Charlie Manuel had a meeting to discuss the struggling closer's role with the· Philadelphia Phillies. 
Lidge and Manuel spoke after Wednesday night's game against Washington. The following day, the manager wouldn't say if or when Lidge will get his job back as closer. 
"We're really on the same page with everything. We had a goot! talk," Lidge said. 
Lidge converted all 48 of his save chances last year, including the postseason, to help the Phillies win the World Series. This year, he has 10 blown saves in 38 opportunities. 
"I see him as a closer," Manuel said. 
But with 24 games left in the reg­ular season, he wasn't promising a specific role. Philadelphia began the day with a six-game lead ovPr Florida in the NL East. 
Sean Locklear to play left 
tackle for Seahawks 
RENTON, Wash. -Sean Locklear knows there's added pressure that comes with playing left tackle for the Seattle Seahawks, even if it's just the reverse of what he's learned on the right side. 
But that's why left tackles get the big bucks among offensive linemen. 
"There's definitely going to be some pressure over there. Anyone can attest that's played left tackle and left guard, that those are the two hardest positions to play on the line," Locklear said. "Center, right guard, right tackle, I'm not saying those are easy necessarily, but more guys play that side. That's why left side guys get paid so much." 

Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Serena Williams finally acknowledged what has seemed rather obvious for quite some time: There are four tennis tournaments that truly matter to her. 
"Absolutely. I really play for the Grand Slams," Williams said Thursday, a day before facing Kim Clijsters in the U.S. Open semifinals. 
"Whenever I'm playing elsewhere, I really try. But for me, the Grand Slams -I give it that extra oomph," Williams added. "It's where you can leave history and leave a mark, and that's 
kind of how I look at it." 
She's certainly left her mark lately at major championships, winning three of the past four to raise her career haul to 11 Grand Slam singles titles. The other three women left in the field at Flushing Meadows own a combined total of one: Clijsters won the 2005 
U.S. Open. 

The Belgian hadn't played in the event since -she was injured in 2006, then walked away from the game in early 2007. During her 2 1/2­season sabbatical, Clijsters found it tough to follow her sport close­ly, particularly once her daughter was born. 
"I only just started watching tennis at the start of this year, to be honest," said Clijsters, trying to become the first mother since 1980 to reach a major final. "I didn't really have that much time with a baby running around, and I was happy just to sleep when she was sleeping." 
Still, Clijsters does not need a TV or a DVD to know how it will feel to have Williams on the other side of the net Friday. They last played each other in 2003, yet Williams leaves quite an impression. 
"She's always been able to step it up at the Grand Slams," Clijsters 
said. ''I've seen her play here, and she has that face where she's, like, 'OK, I'm here to do busi­ness."' 
Dating to the start of last year's U.S. Open, Williams' win-loss ledgers at major tourna­ments vs. lesser tourna­ments are striking: 
+At Grand Slam events over that span, Williams is 30-1, for a .968 winning percent­age, including a 10-1 record against top-1 0 players. 
+At all other events, Williams is 21-11 (plus one walkover), for a .656 winning percentage, including a 3-5 record against top-1 0 players. 

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, September 11, 2009 
NFL 

Lawyer may seek list of names from Steelers' QB 
Associated Press 

CARSON CITY, Nev. -The lawyer for a woman who is accusing Ben Roethlisberger of rape is prepared to ask a Nevada court to compel the Pittsburgh Steelers quarter­back to name all the women he has had sex with, court documents show. 
Reno lawyer Cal Dunlap also said that if Roethlisberger's request to waive court rules and speed up the evidence-gathering process is granted, he also should be given immediate access to the quarterback's phone records, Internet com­munications, and names of any women who have claimed improper sexual conduct by the two-time Super Bowl winner. 
The possible demands were included in a lengthy motion filed late Tuesday in Washoe District Court in Reno, in which Dunlap argues against motions by Roethlisberger's lawyer to dismiss the woman's case. 
The motion also says that if a physical or psychiatric examination of his client is allowed by the court, "a reciprocal examination of her assailant in both cate­gories should also be man­dated." 
The woman, a VIP casino hostess, filed the civil suit against H.oethlisberger in July, claiming the quarter­back raped her in 2008 in a penthouse at a Lake Tahoe hotel-casino across the street from a golf course where he was playing in a celebrity tournament. The AP, as a matter of policy, does not identify people who say they have been sexually assaulted. 
The suit also names eight executives or employees of II arrah's Lake Tahoe, alleg­ing they orchestrated a cover-up of the incident. 
Hoethlisberger has denied the allegations, and has claimed in court documents that his accuser is mentally unstable and motivated by money. His lawyers previous­ly said the case could be set­tled if the woman wrote Hoethlisberger an apology and dropped her suit. 
That offer was rejf~cted by Dunlap, who last week said his client would settle if Hoethlisberger admits to rap­ing her, apologizes, and gives $100,000 to a nonprofit agency that helps domestic violence victims. 
On Thursday, Roethlisberger attorney David Cornwf~ll dis­tributed a "remedy request," signed by the woman on July 6, 2009, which he said shows she sought $1.5 million for emotional distress, $1 million for damage to her reputa­tion, and at least $374,000 in medical costs to settle the case before she filed suit. 
Dunlap, reached later in the day, disputed Cornwell's assertion that the woman sought money from Hoethlisberger. The "remedy request," he said, was one page of an application sub­mitted to the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, a form required to preserve her right to pur­sue hostile work environment claims against Harrah's. 
The form includes a refer­ence to the "commission." 
Her suit itself seeks a mini­mum of $440,000 in damages from Roethlisberger, at least $50,000 in damages from the eight Harrah's officials and unspecified punitive dam­ages. 
The woman did not report the incident to police, some­thing advocates for rape vic­tims say is not unusual. She claims she suffered emotion­al and medical problems afterward, and has received 
treatment, including hospi­talization, in the aftermath. 
In a 54-page affidavit made available Thursday, the woman said she reported the assault the next day to Harrah's security chief, Guy Hyder. She also said she was afraid of becoming pregnant, and purchased a "morning after" birth control pill. 
But opposing lawyers counter that the woman bragged about having sex with Roethlisberger and fan­tasized about him. 
In a previous motion, a lawyer for several Harrah's employees included pages of e-mails, reportedly from the woman. In one, she spoofs her own resignation announcement, saying, "She is with Big Ben's child and ... she has relocated to Pittsburgh." 
Cornwell and Dunlap have traded allegations of extor­tion and threats to seek sanctions against each other. 
The barbs continued Thursday. 
In his statement, Cornwell said Roethlisberger was willing to give the woman "a limited benefit of the doubt," given her "unstable mental state and the possi­bility that she is being manipulated by an unscrupulous lawyer." 
"Her lawyer, however, does not deserve and will not receive similar considera­tion," Cornwell said. 
Feed your future 
See how more than 29,000 people are working together to help inspire change. 
Begin at www.pwc.tv 
C 2009 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. All rights reserved. "PricewaterhouseCoopers" refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware l1mited liability partnership) or. as the context requires. the PrlcewaterhouseCoopers global network or other member firms of the network, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 


Friday, September 11, 2009 page 17 
The Observer + SPORTS 

NFL 
49ers Hill prepares for statting QB role 
Associated Press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. ­Shaun Hill didn't play a down until his fourth NFL season. He didn't throw a pass until his sixth. 
But now he's making up for lost time as the starting quar­terback for the San Francisco 49ers, a struggling franchise that will depend greatly on Hill this year to help end a string of six consecutive losing seasons. 
On a team known for great quarterbacks, Hill will be the fifth different player to start a season opener under center for the 49ers in the last seven years. San Francisco plays the defending NFC champion Arizona Cardinals on Sunday. 
It has been a long road for Hill, who had to work his way up from the No. 3 spot since joining the 49ers before the 2006 season. 
"There were times I thought this day would come. There were times I thought it would­n't," he said. "That is just. the ups and downs of my career. But since I have been here, things have worked out pretty well for me and I did feel that this would finally come." 
Hill held off a lukewarm challenge from former starter Alex Smith during training camp and the preseason. 
Hill also played well while starting San Francisco's final eight games in 2008. He led San Francisco to a 5-2 finish after taking over for struggling 
J.T. O'Sullivan. 
The 49ers have been 
impressed with the way the 
eighth-year veteran has taken 
command of the offense. 
"He already has been a suc­cessful player," offensive coor­dinator Jimmy Raye said. "I think you would qualify his play the latter part of last year as being a successful quarter­back. He's a guy that prepares and gets himself involved emo­tionally and physically in the game." 
Coach Mike Singletary didn't announce Hill as the starter until two weeks ago but the players had gotten behind him long before. He won over many teammates with his play last season and has continued to mature as a quarterback and team leader. 
"Shaun Hill is the guy here now and I believe in him," tight end Vernon Davis said. "I have faith in him· and I'm going to be by his side. I believe he has the potential to be the best quarterback in the league and I'm going to back him 100 percent." 
On Sunday in Arizona, Hill returns to the place where he began to make believers of his coaches and teammates last season. 
In his first start of the year in November, Hill threw for two touchdowns and led the 49ers down the field to the Arizona 1-yard line in the final minute before a sideline melt­down prevented San Francisco from scoring before time expired. 
NFL 

Jets GM discusses Favre injury 
Associated Press 

FLOHHAM PAHK, N.J. ­New York Jets general man­ager Mike Tannenbaum admitted Thursday the team should have disclosed Brett Favre's torn biceps tendon on mandatory weekly injury reports over the final third of last season. 
Favre, now with the Minnesota Vikings, said earli­er this week he thought he was hurting the Jets because of the injury and discussed it with the coaches and the front office. He said he would have been willing to sit out, even though that would have ended his streak of consecu­tive starts, which now stands at 269 games. 
Tannenbaum said he should have listed the quarterback as "probable," but didn't because the injury was not severe enough to require daily treatment and there was never any doubt Favre would play. 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said the league was investi­gating. 
"We have just started look­ing into it," he said. "No determinations have been made regarding discipline." 
In the past, such violations usually have resulted in fines. 
Hiding injuries could affect an opponent's preparation and the NFL has stepped up policing such practices. 

"As the GM of this team, I should've handled that differ­ently and listed him on the report," Tannenbaum said. "We didn't, just because he wasn't getting treatment every day and we knew he 

was going to play. But, look­ing back on it now, I should've listed him as prob­able, and we didn't, and I'll take responsibility for that." 
He said he has spoken to Hay Anderson, the NF L's executive vice president of football operations. 
"I'll just say that we'll cooperate with them," Tannenbaum said, "and we'll go from there." 
Favre led the Jets to a 8-3 start and first place in the AFC East. But he threw nine interceptions down the stretch and the team lost four of its last five games, missing the playoffs. 
Favre said Wednesday he felt as though he was harm­ing the Jets with slight misses on some throws. He also said he spoke with Tannenbaum, offensive coordinator Brian Schottenheimer and quarter­backs coach Brian Daboll and the consensus was to finish out the season. Favre didn't mention former Jets head coach Eric Mangini, now 
coaching  the  Cleveland  
Browns.  
"It was a decision that we  

made collectively and Brett was part of it," Tannenbaum said. "We just felt he gave us the best chance to win and that was based on how he was playing and how the team was doing. Again, he was part of that decision, but collectively, we thought that was in the best interest of the team." 
Favre retired after the sea­son, and was later released by the Jets. He came out of retirement -for the second time --last month and signed with Minnesota. 
Also on Wednesday, Favre told reporters he may not be able to play all 16 games with the Vikings this season. The biceps tendon was surgically repaired, but he's playing with a torn rotator cuff and he recently suggested he might have a cracked rib. 
Mangini echoed 
Tannenbaum's comments and 
refused to blame Favre's per­
formance for the Jets' late­
season collapse. 

"With that whole part of the season, I made the decisions that I thought were best for the team at that time," he said. "You take all the infor­mation in and you move for­ward with it. There were a lot of things that I could have done better. There were a lot of things the coaches could have done better, and there are a lot of things as players we could have done better. I don't think winning or losing is ever going to come down to one guy, it's a cumulative thing." 
Schottenheimer said the team never came close to benching Favre. 
"No, I don't think so," he said. "It was one of those things where you're talking about one of the toughest competitors that you'll ever see. I know there were some days where he felt worse than others.... He loves to play and it's hard to keep him off the field." 
Backup quarterback Kellen Clemens said he was aware Favre was in some pain, but was never told he might have to start in the veteran's place. 
"Brett Favre at 85 percent is still better than most, myself included," Clemens said. "Not to mention, he's Brett Favre. He probably would've had to be in a wheelchair or something. I didn't take that personal." 
Clemens added that Favre was limited in practice and took less snaps as the season wore on. 
"I knew just because of th(~ situation with Brett being in some pain, off and on, that as a backup, I had a little bit better chance of playing on Sundays," he said. 
Are you tired of these grey boxes? 
Write Sports. 
Contact Matt at 
mgamber@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 11, 2009 
NFL 
Eagles enter season with high Super Bowl hopes 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA The Philadelphia Eagles could have an undefeated regular season, set records and breeze through the playoffs. 
Nothing matters more than winning their elusive first Super Bowl. Anything less would be considered a failure this season. 
The Eagles have done it all over the last decade except win it all. They've reached the playoffs seven times, made five trips to the NfC championship game and went to the Super Bowl once, only to come up three points short against New England. 
Time could be running out on coach Andy Reid and quarterback Donovan McNabb, who are enter.ing their 11th season together in Philadelphia. Neither has a con tract beyond 2010, and they may have to deliver the team's first NFL title since 1960 to stick around. 
"The only thing I care about is winning and holding up that trophy at the end and winning the Super Bowl," McNabb said. "That's the only thing that matters." 
The Eagles are so desperate to win they brought in Michael Vick to give the offense an extra dimension. The three-time Pro Bowl quarterback is expected to play a leading role in Philadelphia's version of the wildcat offense. Vick isn't eli­gible to play until Week 3 after being reinstated to the NFL following an 18-month prison sentence for running a dogfighting operation. 
Signing Vick was a stunning move for an organization that prides itself on strong morals and has little tolerance for players with character issues. But Reid, with McNabb's sup­port, persuaded owner Jeffrey Lurie to give Vick a second chance. Lurie ago­nized over the decision, but he eventually agreed -not because the Eagles want to become the new landing spot for reformed players, but because Vick could help the team win now. 
"I've often said that we are full pedal to the metal," Lurie said. "And when coach Reid said this man can give us a dimension that we don't have and add another weapon to our offense in unpredictable ways, in partnership with the players that we have and the quarterback we have, then again, (it was) a soul-search­ing tough decision, but some­thing that we think can improve the team and at the same time create social change." 
Make no mistake, winning is the top priority here. Vick gives Reid and offensive coor­dinator Marty Mornhinweg another option and opposing defenses more to worry about. The Eagles scored a franchise-record 416 points last year without Vick or wide receiver Jeremy Maclin and running back LeSean McCoy, the team's first two draft picks. There's no telling what this offense can achieve with this talfmted trio in the mix. 
Star running back Brian Westbrook is determined to prove injuries and turning 30 
won't slow him down. Wideout DeSean Jackson seems poised to build on an outstanding rookie season. McNabb appears at the top of his game, rebounding well from his first career benching last year to lead the Eagles to a 4-1 record down the stn~tch; an unlikely playoff spot as the No. 6 seed; two road playoff wins; and a near-comeback win at Arizona in the NPC title game. 
The key to the offense could be how a revamped line meshes and if the unit stays healthy. The five projected starters didn't take a snap· together in the preseason and left guard Todd Herremans is sidelined with a foot injury. New bookend tackles Jason Peters on the left side and Shawn Andrews on the right replace longtime starters Tra Thomas and Jon Runyan. Shawn's brother, Stacy Andrews, is the new right guard. 
"It will be a process. There will be highs and there will be lows. We'll just make sure there are more highs than lows," McNabb said. "The communication is very key and the chemistry just con­tinues to get better and bet­ter every week. When you fill in new guys in different posi­tions, sometimes it's tough because you have to adjust now from preseason to games, and there are going to be times throughout the game where we are going to look crisp and there are going to be times when we don't. We have to make sure that we capitalize on those mistakes and be able to change some negatives to positives." 
The biggest question marks for the Eagles are on defense. First, the unit lost its on-field leader when seven-time Pro Howl free safety Brian Dawkins signed with Denver in free agency. Next, the Eagles lost longtime defen­sive coordinator Jim Johnson. A highly regarded master­
mind, Johnson passed away in July following a battle with cancer. Then, middle line­backer Stewart Bradley, the signal-caller on defense, went down with a season-ending knee injury. 
Rookie Victor 'Macho' Harris beat out second-year pro Quintin Demps for Dawkins' spot. Sean McDermott, one of Johnson's disciples, takes over the 
coaching duties. Omar Gaither regained his old starting job in place of Bradley. 
"We know what is out there, what we are capable of doing, but come Sunday, it's about proving it," veteran cornerback Sheldon Brown said...When I watch film and I look at our defense, I'm looking for guys I can trust. I need to know what everybody around me is doing. We have nine starters back and I know those players. I know Omar at middle linebacker. I know we have a rookie (Macho Harris) at free safety who has to grow up in a hurry. It's up to everyone to come prepared to do our part and to help in any way we can. That's how you win as a defense and as a team. Everybody helps everybody." 



~ 
4 : ; : ..•....s*
~a~ ·1:r·········o<' , ~ ~~· 'o·••:,rm·. a.*1·1•o·······) n;. .s··~ e·········k; •····.I·,n:
G ·•· ..·.·. ·,. ; .. II I;-~ h i < ...•.. ·. , ··~ • j •• ...••.. '< . ... ,.,.. .• u b •.. 
~ STti()Y ARABIC, l\11HDLE EAST (.»OLITICS,. EGYPTOLOGY,. BlJSINESS,. SCIENCE, ENGINEERING AN() MORE IN THE IIEART OF TilE ARAIUC WORLD ~ ACAilEMIC YEAR AN() SEMESTEI~ OPTIONS ~ STOnY AT TilE AMI':IUCAN l.JNIVJc:RSITY IN CAIRO ~ 1\tiAKE. CONTACTS IN TilE MODERN CAPITAL OF THE !\-1HlDLE EAST ~ EXPERIENCE MOllERN LIFE IN THE DESERT 
Monday., September 14 5:30pm 129 Hayes Healy 
Application Ilendline is Noven1ber 15"~ 2009 
Friday, September 11, 2009 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
n 
THE CLJSHVVA CENTER FC:>I~ Tf..i E s·rut::>V OF 
AMERICAN C~ATI-IOLICISM

u~ _i>r~•sc,"·tts 
NFL 

Bailey laughs off Bengal's taunts 
The l~11r1/en ~~1'· Bl1u.·k RL~Ii;.:ian 
(< >x lhnl. 200R) 
By <·'urtis J. 1--·:vnns L>ivinity SciH>(;( nt lhc University of' <.~hicag:o 
Salu•··,.J'ay. ."o£.'1">U·Itther 12. 201JV 9:(UJ u.tn. noon /1.-;f~·Ko.·•tuut Jlall <.''••;1/.:·•ri<•r C'ontinulng li:t.lucution 
cornerback in Cincinnati this
Associated Press 
weekend. 

ENGLEWOOD, Colo. -Champ The Bengals superstar receiv­Bailey chuckled at Chad Ocho er's tweet Thursday telling Cinco's proclamation that he Bailey "storms coming!!!!!!!!!!" was eager to embarrass the drew a roll of the eyes from the Denver Broncos and their star Broncos' perennial Pro Bowler, 

What have you done for me lately? 
It's never too late to start making a difference in the world. Start today by considering a career at GE, where we're making a positive impact on the planet we live on and the people we share it with through our Ecomagination and Healthymagination initiatives. Whether your interests lie in engineering, finance, manufacturing, marketing and sales, human resources or information technology, we have an opportunity for you to join us in creating a better world for generations to come. 

imagination at work ge.com/careers 
\

Help Notre Dame go green. Please recycle The Observer 
• 

who doesn't check his Twitter 
account all day like Ocho Cinco 
does. 

"I used that thing one time, or my brother did, just to promote our football camp and you know (Ocho Cinco} uses it daily so that's his way of trash talking," Bailey said. ''I'm all for it, what­ever he wants to do." 
Bailey said he enjoys Ocho Cinco's trash-talking and looks forward to getting his best shot. 
"Yeah, I love the way he talks," Bailey said. "The funny thing is he has respect for me and I have respect for him and he knows what he's capable of and I know what I'm capable of. So, it's not like he's talking to belittle you. He's a guy that he's an entertainer and he knows it and he uses that ability to talk to the fullest. 
"And he gets to some people, but he knows he can't get to me." 
Ocho Cinco has embarrassed Bailey before, though. 
Although he was held to three catches for 32 yards the last time these teams faced each other, in 2006, Cincinnati's superstar got the better of Bailey in a game in 2004 ­when he was still known as Chad Johnson and caught seven passes for 149 yards and a 
score. 

"The funny thing is it wasn't a 
bad game, it was a couple bad 
plays," Bailey said. "It was like 
maybe two or three plays that I 
wish I could take out and then I 
had a pretty good game, 
because I know I had a pick in 
that game, and I never lost my 
confidence over that. 

"I just know when you play a 
player like that and a quarter­
back like (Carson Palmer), 
you've got to be on top of your 
game every single play. You 
know, I slipped up a few times." 
The Bengals are expecting Bailey to match up with Ocho Cinco on Sunday no matter where he lines up. 
Bailey wouldn't give away the game plan but said he would love to match up with him all day long. 
Both Bailey and Ocho Cinco are coming off frustrating sea­sons and what better way to kick ofT a bounce-back year than by facing each other in Week 1? 
"Well, every year you're trying to prove yourself, trying to make the team and you know I set my levels so high as far as what I want to be, I want to be the best ever," Bailey said. "And I've got to do that every week, every game, so I'm always out there trying to prove something." 
Bailey acknowledged that he ponders his legacy from time to time. 
"I mean, that's not all 1 think about. l want to win a Super Bowl first and foremost," he said. "But you know along the way I want to perfect my craft and for people to look at me and say, 'He was the best ever.' You know, I've still got a lot of work to do." 
Asked if he still thought he was the best cornerback in the NFL after missing about half of last season with a groin injury, Bailey said: "Well, I don't get hung up on it much. I always try to go out there and be the best at what I do. That is something I learned when I was little, was try to be the best at what you do and not just the best you can be. 
"And whatever people say, that's up to them." 
Including Ocho Cinco. 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 11, 2009 
'. MLB 
' 
.I I Anderson's three RBis lead Braves past Astros
.\ 
'\ 
') 

,\ 
,.. 
•' \ The Mets' struggles continue as Marlins complete sweep with blowout win; Nats edge Phillies behind Desmond's HR 
Marlins missed their season
Associated Press 
high for runs by one and 
HOUSTON Garret amass_ed 16 hits. Anderson drove in three runs, The Mets (62-78) fell 16 Nate Mclouth homered and the games under .500 for the first Atlanta Braves broke out of time since finishing 71-91 in their offensive slump with a 9-7 2004. win over Roy Oswalt and the Playing "in front of a Citi Field Houston Astros on Thursday crowd that was much less than night. the announced attendance of 
Brian McCann had four hits 37,620, the Mets showed why and two RBis for the Braves, they've come apart this season. who chased the Astros' ace Bobby Parnell walked consec­after two innings and finished utive batters with the bases with 16 hits, two shy of their loaded after an error by short­season high. stop Anderson Hernandez and 
Lance Berkman hit a three­Angel Pagan forgot how many run homer for the Astros, who outs there were while running lost for the third time in the bases. Luis Castillo had Oswalt's last 13 starts. another adventure at second 
Houston put two runners on base and New York pitchers with one out in the ninth didn't have a 1-2-3 inning until against Mike Gonzalez, but the ninth.
.. 
' Miguel Tejada grounded into his The Mets held a 30-minute
' 
' third double play of the game. meeting following batting prac­
,,' 
,, Gonzalez earned his 10th save. tice then fell behind quickly. t~ The Braves had averaged The Marlins led 3-0 by the time 
fi 
:~ 1.67 runs and batted .153 in the 19-minute, 40-pitch first their previous six games, but inning was over. led 3-0 after 12 pitches from Chris Coghlan hustled for a Oswalt (8-6). leadoff double when left fielder 
Mclouth hit the second pitch Nick Evans and center fielder of the game into the Astros' Pagan were slow to get to his 
'(
•' bullpen, his second homer of soft liner in the gap. Parnell (3-for only the second time in 12 losing streak. His last win came Desmond drilled a double to the series. Yunel Escobar then 8) walked Johnson and Ramirez games overall. July 26 with the Mets when he center to give Washington a 3-2 doubled to left-center and reached on Hernandez's error Desmond, a 24-year-old beat Houston. lead. scored on Chipper Jones' single to load the bases. Parnell then shortstop who was recalled He allowed two runs in the Dunn's homer, a two-run shot
' 
' 
to right. walked two batters for a 2-0 from Triple-A Syracuse on first on an RBI triple by Chase to left, made it 5-2. Desmond
' 
•, 
McCann ended an 0-for-20 lead. Tuesday, had a fourth-inning Utley and a sacrifice fly by drove his three-run shot to cen­:~ slump with a single and Jones The Mets lead the majors with RBI double and a three-run Howard. In his 7 1-3 innings, ter and sprinted around the \ scored on Anderson's sacrifice 19 bases-loaded walks -three homer to key a five-run fifth. He Hernandez gave up five hits, bases so quickly that he nearlyi fly to left. by Parnell -two more than narrowly missed a home run in struck out two and walked one. caught Dukes, who had been on 
Atlanta added three more in Texas. They've also hit two bat­his first at-bat, flying out to The Nationals tied the score first base. Desmond had to be the second. McCann doubled in ters with the bases loaded, deep center field. at 2 in the third with a two-run coaxed by his teammates into a McLouth to give the Braves a 4-according to STATS LLC. Hernandez (8-10), signed by triple by Pete Orr. After Elijah halfhearted curtain call. 1 lead. Anderson and Adam Ross added an RBI single for the Nationals on Aug. 25 after Dukes bunted for a base hit All eight runs were charged to LaRoche added RBI singles. a 3-0 lead on a fly to shallow he was released by the New with one out in the fourth Blanton, whose streak of 11 
Derek Lowe (14-9) allowed center that appeared to be York Mets, broke a five-game against Joe Blanton (9-7), straight quality starts ended. 

five runs and nine hits in 5 2-3 innings for Braves, but man­aged to win for the second time in five starts. 
Berkman hit his 19th homer off the facade in left center in the third, cutting Atlanta's lead to 6-4. Umpires used instant replay to confirm the ball cleared the yellow line by about a foot. 
The first baseman hadn't homered in 32 games, one shy of the longest drought of his career. 
Florida 13, New York 4 
Nick Johnson drove in four runs and the Florida Marlins beat the listless New York Mets on Thursday night to gain ground on the NL East-leading Phillies. 
Hanley Ramirez and Cody Ross each had three hits and two RBis for the Marlins, who completed their first sweep of the Mets since taking four straight Aug. 30-Sept. 2, 2004, in New York. Dan Uggla hit his 27th homer in the third inning. 
Florida has enjoyed its September trips to New York the last couple of years. Spoilers in 2007 and '08, the Marlins twice dashed the Mets' playoff hopes on the last day with victories. This year they came to the Big Apple with postseason aspirations of their own. 
The Marlins wrapped up a 5­1 trip and moved within five games of Philadelphia, which lost 8-7 at Washington. They also remained 5 1/2 back of the wild card-leading Rockies with 22 games remaining, including six against the Phillies. 
Johnson had two-run singles in the seventh and eighth as the catchable. He also had an RBI double in the fifth. 
Rookie left-hander Sean West, who hit a ground-rule double into the New York bullpen in right-center and scored on Ramirez's single in the fourth, scuffled in the bottom half, giv­ing up two runs. He was pulled two batters into the fifth, allow­ing four runs and six hits. Burke Badenhop (7 -4) pitched two innings. 
Parnell walked five and threw only 56 of his 104 pitches for strikes. 
Pagan turned a routine flyout into an inning-ending double play in the seventh. Castillo spun around aimlessly looking for a ball at his feet after diving for Uggla 's grounder in the eighth, aiding a three-run inning. 
Washington 8, Philadelphia 7 
Ian Desmond homered and drove in four runs in his major league debut, Livan Hernandez pitched effectively into the eighth inning and the Washington Nationals held off the Philadelphia Phillies on Thursday night. 
Adam Dunn hit his 36th homer for the Nationals, who gave up five runs in the ninth before Ron Villone got Ryan Howard to ground into a game­ending double play with run­ners at the corners. Moments earlier, Matt Stairs snapped an 0-for-30 skid with a pinch-hit grand slam. 
Philadelphia's lead in the NL East was cut to five games over Florida, which routed the New York Mets 13-4. The Phillies had won nine straight against Washington. 
The last-place Nationals won 
STUDENTS 

Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training Sessions in September. 
If you have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session 
BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September 13th and Sunday, September 27th, at 7:00pm in Geddes Hall (CSC Building) in BOOl Andrews Auditorium. 
The sessions will last approximately 45 minutes. 
Please bring your driver's license and a pen. 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, 
faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. 
See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
__.­
If you have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Pool you 
may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467 

Friday, September 11, 2009 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 


O'Brien 
continued from page 24 
season returning this year, including juniors Mary Kate Boyce and M IAA Season Medalist and All-MIAA First Team honoree Rosie O'Connor. Also returning this year is sophomore Natalie Matuszak who earned All­MIAA second team honors last fall. 
In their season opener, Saint Mary's took second at the Trine Fall Invitational behind Division II leader University of Indianapolis with a two-round score of 645 to the Greyhounds' 621. 
Freshman Martyna Mierzwa got her season off to a strong start with a final score of 155 after shooting 7 6 the first day and a 79 the second. The Ponzan, Poland, native tied for third in the Invitational. 
Boyce followed her with two-round score of 160 off her 79 then 81 on the second day for a ninth place finish. Matuszak shot an 82 both days to tic her in 11th with a 
162. O'Connor shot an 84 the first day, but came back with an 82 to finish 13th with a 166, and sophomore Christine Brown finished the weekend with a 174 to tie her in 20th. 
Saint Mary's hopes to con­tinue on their successful run since placing tenth at Nationals in the spring, and are working towards recap­turing the MIAA Championship. The Belles held the title from 2002­2005, but have seen No. 10 Olivet in their place the last three seasons. 
Saint Mary's will begin their conference competitions Sept. 17 with a match at Albion. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO1 @saintmarys.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles play host to Invitational 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 

After two straight losses coming at the hands of some tough competition, the Belles hope to rebound when they return home to host the Saint Mary's Invitational this weekend. The tournament is sched­uled to kickoff when Saint Mary's takes on No. 7 Otterbein Friday at 4 p.m. 
The Belles got off to fast start this season when they shutout neighbors Holy Cross 3-0 in their first game. It was a much better start than a season ago when they failed to earn a 
victory until their fifth con­test. 
Since then, Saint Mary's has struggled, albeit against opponents much stronger than what it will see in MIAA conference play. In their last two games, the Belles have been held scoreless in matches against Centre and Transylvania which were both part of the Centre College Tournament. 
Senior forward Katy Durkin and sophomore Katelyn Tondo-Steele are the only two players who have registered goals so far this season. Sophomore midfielder Michelle Leonard and freshman Ashley Morfin 
have accounted for an assist each. 
Senior goalkeeper Patty Duffy has been very good in net for the Belles, recording 23 saves on the season. 
Saint Mary's first oppo­nent of the tournament, Otterbein, will be its tough­est. The Cardinals {2-1) fin­ished last season with a trip to the NCAA Round of 16 and dropped their only 
.·
match this season to a top­20 opponent. 
After Otterbein, the Belles will move on to play Manchester College (1-2) Sunday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
SMC drops match to Trine 
By BOBBY GRAHAM Sports Writer 
Despite their third place finish in last weekend's Capital Tournament, Saint 
Mary's suf­fered a disap­pointing loss to in-state rival Trine at the Angela Athletic Complex dur­ing their con­ference opener Tuesday. 
"Last night's match was a rea1ly tough 
loss," Belles coach Toni "We have to learn to control Kuschel said. "It is always what we can on our side of tough to lose a conference the net and not to push the match at home on your own ball where it can not go," she 
Serving Lunch e"' Dinner Come Dine \Vitlt Our 
Famih1 Ancllk Our Friend!r, 
... 

Tucs·Sar 11·2: 4·9 Closed Sun &MonM.:dittrrancan Cuisine 
Our Stnxitdtifs lndudr Ewruhirr 

Meat Entrees (-.J lkaltl1y \,tgetarian Dishes ~.· ~: krl¢' 
Appetizers •Salads •Sandwiches · Meat Dishes •\tgetarian Selections • Desserts . DineIn •Take Out • Catering • Rcst:n·ations Accepted 
115Dixir \\,iw·' North. ' Soud1 lkml (574) 277-7239 

"Trine did all of the things that we talked about them doing to us in practice. ·· 
Toni Kuschel Belles coach 
court." 
Trine's scrappy play was too much for Saint Mary's as the Thunder won the final two sets to steal a victory from the Belles after they had taken two of the first three. 
"Trine did all of the things that we talked about them doing to us in practice," Kuschel said." 
Additionally, she attributed the loss to some unforced errors that really hurt her team. 

said. 
Kushcel, however, realizes that every cloud has a silver lining. 
"We learned a lot about ourselves during that match," she added. "We did not give up, which shows a lot of men­tal toughness, especially for our freshman." 
The Belles once again received stellar play from senior Lorna Slupczynski, who tied a career high with a spectacular 27 ki11s. 
Saint Mary's will look to rebound from the tough loss when it travels up to Michigan for a faceoff against MIAA rival Adrian College Friday. 
Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Clemson rallies, but falls just short vs. GT 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA -Georgia Tech looked unstoppable. Then it was Clemson's turn. In a game of remarkable twists, the Yellow Jackets finally took control when it mat­tered most. 
Scott Blair threw a touch­down pass early on, kicked a 36-yard field goal with 57 seconds remaining and No. 15 Georgia Tech rallied to beat Clemson 30-27 after squandering a 24-point lead Thursday night. 
Clemson (1-1, 0-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) scored 27 straight points, taking its first lead of the night on Richard Jackson's 53-yard field goal with 11:33 to go. 
But Georgia Tech, which did nothing offensively through most of the second and third quarters, came back to life. The Yellow Jackets {2-0, 1-0) put togeth­er a 69-yard drive to set up Blair's tying kick, a 34­yarder with 5:40 left that made it 27 -all. 
Then, after a holding penalty on Clemson's Thomas Austin wiped out Kyle Parker's 38-yard completion to Jacoby Ford, Georgia Tech got a chance to win it. 
Josh Nesbitt hooked up with Demaryius Thomas for a 39-yard pass, making up for a miserable passing per­formance by the Georgia 
Tech quarterback who com­pleted only 3 of 14 for 8 3 yards with two interceptions. After Thomas' catch, the Yellow Jackets moved into position for Blair's winning kick. 
Blair also threw a wobbly 34-yard touchdown pass dur­ing Georgia Tech's early bar­rage on a fake field goal. 
Parker, a redshirt fresh­man making only his second college start, helped bring the Tigers back from a dis­mal start. He threw for 261 yards and three touchdowns, hooking up with C.J. Spiller on a 63-yarder and Ford on a 77-yarder, sandwiched around a 9-yard scoring pass to Dwayne Allen. 
Spiller rushed for 87 yards and caught four passes for 69 more. Ford had five catches for 109 yards. 
Anthony Allen led Georgia Tech with 127 yards rushing on just five carries, including an 82-yard touchdown on his team's second play from scrimmage that sparked the quick start by the home team. 
Nesbitt threw his first pick on the Yellow Jackets' first snap, but that was about the only thing they did wrong in the early going. The next time they got the ball at their own 18, Nesbitt pitched to Allen, who got a block from Thomas and was gone down the sideline. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 11, 2009 

Adidas 
continued from page 24 

coach Debbie Brown said. "They're teams that play a good schedule, they're win­ning programs." 
Notre Dame (3-3) returns home after posting a 1-2 record at the Xavier Invitational last weekend, dropping the last two match­es in straight sets against Tennessee and No. 7 Michigan. But Brown is confi­dent her players will main­tain their composure as they look to bounce back to their winning ways. 
"It's obviously early in the season, and I think we're try­ing to find the best combina­tion in terms of our lineup and figure out the way to use our athletes to the best of our abilities," Brown said. "The practices have been really good and competitively I think we've done some good things too. It's given us an opportunity to see what spe­cific things we can work on and how we can get better." 
The Irish are 1-7 all-time against the Badgers (3-3), the lone win coming at home in 1987. Competing in the toughest conference in colle­giate volleyball, Wisconsin is one of five teams in the Big Ten not ranked in the top-20 in the AVCA coaches' poll. 
Senior outside hitter Serinity Phillips, who leads the squad with 62 kills over­all and 3.26 kills/set, is confi­dent the Irish can right the ship. 
"It's definitely a mental thing," Phillips said. "We have all the physical capabil­ities to do the best. We're just focusing on certain aspects of the game: serving, just trust­ing each other, and confi­dence." 
This weekend's showcase will mark the first meeting between the Irish and New Mexico State (4-3). Led by sophomore Kelsey Brennan, 
the Aggies are coming off their first WAC regular-sea­son title in 2008 after compil­ing a 15-1 record in league play, including a win at No. 6 Hawaii. 
Amassing a team-high 211 assists as the Irish's lone set­ter, senior Jamel Nicholas believes the team's experi­ence and overall desire to win wilJ be enough to carry them to victory. 
"This is our fourth and final year," Nicholas said. "We've been here, we've seen these kinds of situations now, we're prepared for them, we're just trying to guide the younger girls through it. I think we're all really confident, so we 
just have to come out Friday using a lot of that confidence and get back on track." 
Hoping to add depth to the roster, Brown will be holding open tryouts for the setter position Sept. 21 at 4 p.m. in the Rolfs Recreation Center. Interested students should contact Dawn Mays at 574­631-4840 or dmays1@nd.edu to register by 5 p.m. on Sept. 18. 
The Irish are slated to take the court at 7 p.m. on Friday against Wisconsin and again at 2 p.m. on Sunday against New Mexico State. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

also count on consistent rounds from sophomore Becca Huffer,
MSU 

who was named Big East continued from page 24 Freshman of the Year last year, and junior So-Hyun Park who State for first place at 25-over. took home honorable mention 
Individually, sophomore Becca All-America honors. Huffer led the way for the· Irish As for the Invitational this with a three-round score of 224 weekend, the Irish will use the (eight-over). same lineup as The Irish return last season, the core of their '"/ think our greatest which includes 
team from their asset this year is going Brophy, Huffer, 
16th place fin­Park, senior
to be the depth ofour
ish at the NCAA Kristin Wetzel Regionals a sea­team and the and junior son ago. competitive experience Katie Conway. 
"I think our Park in par­
of our team ... 
greatest asset ticular had this year is great success going to be the Susan Holt last year, lead­depth of our ing all individu­
Irish coach 
team and the als in the tour-competitive nament after experience of our team," said the first two rounds and posting Irish coach Susan Holt. an impressive 4-under, 68 in the 
Leading the way are seniors second round. Annie Brophy, who has the Live scoring of the Invitational third-best stroke average in will be available on Notre Dame history (76.95) and Golfs tat. com has played in all of Notre Dame's 96 rounds since her Contact Chris Michalski at freshman year. The Irish will jmichal2@nd.edu 
they are very excited to visit for "We always have a tough games against IU and Notre schedule, so the past weekend
Memorial 
Dame." was a typical start for us," continued from page 24 After opening the season with Clark said. "Playing the No. 1 
a 5-0 blowout over Michigan, and No. 3 teams is always 7:30p.m. tonight before squar­the Irish struggled against the going to be challenging." ing off against New Mexico Demon Deacons and Red Leading Notre Dame this Sunday afternoon at 2 p.m. Storm. Nevertheless, Clark is weekend is the Irish midfield, 
Although Notre Dame will not not letting those results keep which features a bevy of talent­have a match against the him down. ed upperclassmen in senior Hoosiers, No. 12 Indiana will "In games like this there is Michael Thomas and juniors be the fourth usually a small Matt Armstrong and Jeb team in the margin of error Brovsky. tournament between success "Our playmakers are mainly
"We always have a
and repre­and failure and our central players," Clark sents the tough schedule, so the in both cases lit­said. "Thomas, Armstrong and Irish's tough­past weekend was a tle things pre­Brovsky have done well in this est obstacle to vented us scoop­capacity. I would also say well
typical start for us. ,,
claiming a ing the jackpot," done to [senior defender] John second-con-Clark said. Schaefer who stepped in and secutive Bobby Clark "Having said stepped up after [senior Berticelli title. that, I thought defender] Cory Rellas picked
Irish coach 
The Hoosiers there were peri-up an injury." will face New ods in both Notre Dame's 7:30 p.m. Mexico at 5 games where we match against Seattle follows 
p.m. on Friday before playing played very well." Indiana-New Mexico at 5 p.m. Seattle at 11:30 a.m. Sunday Still, Notre Dame's road to at Alumni Stadium. Sunday will morning. the NCAA Tournament will not feature the Hoosiers taking on 
"[Seattle and New Mexico] get any easier. The Irish's Seattle at before Notre Dame's will present major challenges," schedule is one of the most fmale against New Mexico. ninth-year Irish coach Bobby grueling in the country and Clark said. "I know and respect should push the team to its Contact Michael Blasco at both coaches and know that limit. mblasco@nd.edu 


West 
continued from page 24 

The Irish hold a slight 6-4­1 advantage in their all-time series with the Cardinal, including a 2-1-1 record in neutral site meetings. 
The Irish and Cardinal's last meeting came in last season's College Cup semifi­nal where Notre Dame out­dueled Stanford in a 1-0 thriller. Current Irish sopho­more Courtney Barg scored the game's only goal in the 15th minute and the Irish 
,;.,l 
!i 
,.; 
j, 
(j' 
I, 
defense shut down the Cardinal the rest of the way to earn a berth in the College Cup final. 
Current senior goalkeeper Kelsey Lysander played a full 90 minutes in the win, tally­ing a career-high seven saves in the shutout. 
The Irish are scheduled to play the Broncos tonight at 
7:30 p.m. at Buck Shaw Stadium and will take the field for their match against the Cardinal at 11 a.m. Sunday. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

E-mail Matt at mganll'er@ilO.edu 
( .. 
; ( 

Friday, September 11, 2009 page 23
The Observer+ TODAY 

CROSSWORD 
Across 1 "The loneliest 
guy in town" 16 "Hold on" 17 Handles things 
evenhandedly 18 Important part 
for a jig 19 Cracker shapes 20 Substitute 
acquired by about half a million people a year; Abbr. 

21 Representative 23 Scale start 24 _Fein 25 ~The Bridge on 
the River Kwai" setting 

26 City where Einstein develOped his special theory of relativity 
27 Vinegar: Prefix 28 More fashionable 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
53 Company that makes Styrofoam 
54 Viking stories, e.g. 
57 Took flak for something one said, say 
58 Bedazzlement 
Down Maximum, slangily 2 For whose benefit "the quality of mercy is not strain'd" in Shakespeare 3 Capital of Armenia 4 1979 nuclear accident site: 
Abbr. 5 Hunky-dory 6 Some raiders, 
informally 7 Lodge 6 Charms 
9 
Businessman/en tertainer who was once mayor of Bridgeport, Conn. 
10 "Behold Horse" (William Cooper book) 
11 Targets of remedies 12 Stephen of "Stuck," 2007 13 More itchy, 
maybe 14 Balloonists' doings 
15 Is unobliged to 22 Missing 24 "Beg pardon," in casual talk 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Manny Noaowstcy  
26 Bric·a·~··_  37 Something once  481972  
27WeU  bundled with Microsoft  U.S./U.S.S.R. pact  
29 troquoian  products  49 Ties  
language 31 All lined up  36 Basutoland, today 40 Nally service  51 Bank chains hold them  
33 Fair place  41 Center of a roast  52 Museo contents  
35 Cut rinds, e.g. 36 30.48  42 "Jeopardy!" fodder 45 Dinah's avenger  55 Quaint letter start  
centimeters  in the Bible  ·  56_kwondo  

For answers. call 1~900·285·5656. $1.49 a minute; or. with a credit card, 1·800-814-5554. · Annual subscripttons are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the las! 50 years; 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX lo 386 to download puzzles. or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.comtcrosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips; nytimes.comlwordptay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com!learningtxwords. 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ryan Pbillippe, 35; Amy l.rviJI~ •.'56; Joe 
Perry. 59; Jose Feliciano. 64 

Happy Blrtllday: Focus on incorporaling iJiteresting people into your life. This is a 
year to hve, learn and discover wtuu makes you feel content and happy. A change that 
.. 
yoo face may llOl be to your liking. but you will realize it's exactly what you need. The 
possibilitieure endless. Your numbers are 5,17, 28, :n. 38, 44.47 
ARlES (Ma~b 2l·Apt1119): .Rec~11.11ec:t with someoue from your past and tbc infor. 
marion you gather will help with a current partnership. Your expe:ncnce will save you 
from repeati.ng mistakes. You'll be positioned for success.**** 
TAURUS (Aprll20--May W): Your sensitivity toward otben will belp you pick up im­portant !ignals from colleagues. peers or people you don't know well. llse that infonna, tion to make a decision n:gardin~t your job security. ltlquire into other p<.lssible posi. tions. *** 
GEMINI (May Zl·Jaae lO}; Doll't let negative people: c:onvmce you that thing:> an: 
fallin! apart wbea you are actually sitting in a P"{ty good position. TiiiiCI may be 
changing but that doesn't mean that ~ alterations won't favor you in the e.nd. *** 
CANCER (Jue Zl-Jilly :U): Anytlung you can d.o to make yollf place more comfort 
able and iJiviting should be your goal. Taking care orresponsibilities or problems 
brought on by a family member wiU make your life easier and less slressfuJ. **** 
LEO (luly 13-Aag. U): Don't let your emotious rule your head. An oppornmity !hat is offered may not be tbe ansy.•c:.r, once you look at what it cm.ails. However, it may lead to a n10re efficient and affordable -.ay of doing things. ** 
VIRC..O (AUJ.ll+Sept.ll}: You should be able f.o make a professional move that will free up time to wort on R!mething you enjoy more. A small business nuy be your tidet to f'mancial freedom. Don't spend wilbout knowing what you're getting in return. 
***** 

LIBRA (Sqtt.l3.oct. ~%): aypass &Dyone giving you • hard time and {OC!Is on what brin.-,s yon joy and knowledge. Time speut with people you flnd inspiring wiD lead to an interesting partnenhip. Visit au unusual destinatioo or someone from a different euJ. tura.l background.*** 
SCORPIO (Od. 23-Nov.ll}: A je.&luus peer may withhold iafonuation that ca.n belp 
you get ahead. Don't be afraid to get in~·olved in groups tbaf contribute to your goals. 
You have great ideas but you need to !~bare with people who can help you £tel them up 
and nmnin8-*** 

SAGITTARIUS (No'f'.ll·Dee. :U): You will have to move fast in order to stay ahead of someone with more experience and few scruples. tove is in the stars but, if you think with your hem instead of with your head. you will make a mistake that wi!J cost you emotionally as well as fmancially. *** 
CAPRICORN (llu.ll-Jan. 19): There is a lot you can do to raise your fin.ancial stallls. A contract c:an be developed and signal that wiU promise you sel:llrity as well as a mucb needed cban~e, Don't get an~ry --get moving.*** 
AQUARilJS (Jan. 20·t'eb. 18): You witl have everything under control as long as you immediately addre.ss personal issues involving money. You can cut a deal or enhance your position, enabling you to strive for a goal you had to prcvioulily give up.***** 
PISCES (l.eb. 19·Mardl10): You can strike a deal that's workable but only if you are clear about who will be responsible for what. Oet everylbing in writing. Expect to have to make S()lllt concessions if you want to proceed. ** 
Birtbday Baby: You have leadership potentiaL You are brave and aggre"ive with a fO· llllllltic streak. You are pennasive, S[lOng·willed and a. fast l.earuer. 
30 Sudden light seen through the clouds 
32Catch-22 34 1970s-'80s sitcom setting 35 Using high·flown language 39 "Mother of the believers" 43 *Bonne ._!~ (French cry on January 1) 44 Undershirt, in Britain 46 "You're putting
_,.. 

4 7 Office stamp 48 "Say _"(1940 Glenn Miller hit) 49 Ones in control of their faculties? 50"-Girl Uke You Loved a Boy Like Me" 51 Mount from which people can see far away 



WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 

THE MOBILE PARTY UNIT 
Pickup lines Heard at Fever Last Night 

It doesn•t matter. 
Do you want to know 
I already roofied what rise and strike 
your drink! really means~ 
JUMBLE 

JmJMml! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HECKE j

I I ( II 
©2009 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
[]  (j  
GILOOG  
(J I  tJ  


JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WOP.D GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

WHAT THE: Tlr<EO GARDEN£::£< PLANTED. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer here: [ 
I I I I I I ) 

(Answers tomorrow) ENACT LOGIC UNWISE VARIED
Yesterday's IJumbles: 

Answer: Why the banker didn't have many friends ­HE WAS A"LOANER" 
SCHAD & FREUDE 
THE MOBILE PARTY 
I've always wanted to pick up a townie 

------------------------------------------~------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip__________ 
----~------------------------------------­

Friday, September 11, 2009 page 24 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Team travels west for match up with Stanford 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
Following a tough loss last weekend to top-ranked North Carolina, No. 5 Notre Dame has a chance to redeem itself against anoth­er top-five competitor when it takes a school-record 15­game road winning streak to the Santa Clara/adidas Classic tonight in Santa 
Clara, Calif. 
The Irish will face off against the Santa Clara Broncos Friday night before taking on the No. 3 Stanford Cardinal in a marquee matchup Sunday morning. 
Notre Dame (3-1-0) is 9-5 all-time against Santa Clara (3-2-0), who will provide a solid game for the Irish before their clash with the Cardinal. The Irish and Broncos have a history of 
meeting each other in big games, having met each other three times in the College Cup. In their most recent College Cup matchup, the Irish defeated the Broncos 1-0 in the semifinals en route to their second national title. 
The teams also met last year in South Bend at the Inn at Saint Mary's Classic where the Irish earned a 2-0 victory over the Broncos. 
Senior Jordan Angeli leads a talented Broncos squad in­scoring with five points off two goals and one assist. 
In Sunday's game, the Irish hope to regroup from their last top-five matchup, which ended with a 6-0 loss to UNC in Notre Dame's first game at new Alumni Stadium. The Cardinal (5-0) have looked dominant this season en route to their undefeated record, outscoring their 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Bonte s"Weet honte 
I 
ND returns to ]ACC hungry for victory 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 
Finding themselves in a bit of a rut after losing three of their last four matches, the Irish return to the friendly confines of the Joyce Center to host the Notre Dame/adi­das Invitational. The Irish will welcome any advantage they can get as they face off against Wisconsin and New

1 Mexico State in the three-day event. "Wisconsin and New
. ­'' Mexico State both are peren­nial NCAA Tournament teams, so it's a huge benefit to play both of them," Irish 
see ADIDAS/page 22 opponents by a total of 19-5 in their first five matches. 


However, the Irish will pro­vide the first true test for the Cardinal, who have only played one team currently receiving votes in the NSCAA Top-25 poll. 
Senior Kelley O'Hara leads tb-e Cardinal with 16 points this season off of six goals and two assists. 
see WEST/page 22 
SMC GOLF 

Belles host 
tourney 
at Warren 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 

No. 15 Saint Mary's will compete in its second match of the fall season as they host the O'Brien Division III Championships at the Warren Golf Course at Notre Dame Sunday and Monday. Among the 10 competitors is Methodist University of Fayetteville, NC, who has won NCAA Division III title the past 11 years. 
The Belles took tenth at the NCAA tournament last spring, and have many of their top golfers from last 
see O'BRIEN/page 21 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
r'­
;,; Golfers face strong
I
I. 
,1>-,· 
).: 
field at Invitational 

By CHRIS MICHALSKI 

Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame football team isn't the only team traveling to the state of Michigan this week­end, as the Irish women's golf squad is ofT to Lansing to com­pete in the Mary Fossum Invitational Saturday and Sunday. 
This two-day tournament, previously called the Michigan State Invitational, marks the beginning of the regular season schedule for Notre Dame. The Irish have already teed it up as a team overseas, playing five courses in eight days in Ireland, but that was a friendly competi­tion amongst teammates. 
The team will now enter its first competition when it joins a strong field of 17 other squads including host No. 20 Michigan State, No. 12 Purdue, Indiana, Michigan and Minnesota. 
The tournament came down to the last few holes last year as the Irish finished third with a team score of 27 -over par, their best finish in program history. Michigan State tied with Kent 
see MSU/page 22 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish to face Seattle, UNM 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 

Sitting at a middling 1-1-1 after opening their season against three ranked oppo­nents, the Irish are hoping to prove that they are worthy of the hype entering the season. 
After tying No. 3 Wake Forest and falling to No. 1 St. Johns in Bloomington last weekend, Notre Dame will look to bounce back while hosting the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament at the new Alumni Field. The No. 10 Irish will face Seattle at 
see MEMORIAL/page 22 
Senior Justin Morrow dribbles the ball away from a defender in a 3-0 victory over Providence Oct. 19, 2008. 


.... 
-' 
~ ~-,<--.-­

_.... .. ··----.::~./-_-;-~;-.· t;j),
' 



as b-eat \,;Vrtters Bi!! Bdnk, ~vfichael Bryan. ~~1att Gor·nt1er & Sam V'vsme-i discuss the second half ot Notre Dame's 2009 footbaH echedu!e 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 11, 2009 
COMMENTARY 
Irish need to take this one out back 
When I was 1 0 years old and living in Farmington Hills, Mich., I got braces. For those of you who have never had braces, the idea is an ortho­dontist superglues sharp metal to your teeth. Naturally your gums don't react to this very well. 
I got the braces on a Thursday. That Saturday was the Notre Dame­Michigan game, by 


which time Bill Brink my mouth 
had been 
sliced open Sports Writer and I could-n't eat, talk or smile. Then Michigan beat the Irish 26-22. I can't think of 
a more miserable afternoon that I have endured since. 
Because of my location, Notre Dame-USC was a distant rivalry, one my dad talked about but that didn't hold spe­cial meaning. USC was just another team on the schedule. 
But I was in the heart of Wolverine territory, surround­ed by Michigan grads and fans, so that game was the game of the season. 
Let's hope the Irish think it still is. 
Just as two years ago the teams had similar experiences when the Irish entered the Big House, their circumstances are similar after Week 1 this year. Notre Dame beat up on Nevada, 35-0. Michigan beat up on Western Michigan, 31-7. Irish receiver Michael Floyd and Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson both made opposing defenses look silly. Tate Forcier and Jimmy Clausen both passed well. In the same vein as both teams hit rock bottom in 2007, both teams can use this game to prove they're relevant, not just beating up on weak teams, in 2009. 
Irish coach Charlie Weis said he's not going to talk about the 2007 Michigan game, a 38-0 destruction in Michigan Stadium. 
"The Western Michigan game really wasn't that close, and that's where we're going to spend all our time and energy," Weis said Tuesday. 
Twenty bucks says his play­ers aren't following that. They remember. They remember the first snap going over Armando Allen's head, watch­ing Clausen get sacked seven times, Mike Hart guaranteeing a win and, like Joe Namath in Super Bowl Ill, leading his team there with 187 yards and two touchdowns. 
That's why the Irish players can't approach this game like ESPN and everyone else might. This game isn't about BCS implications. If I'm Charlie, I'm telling the kids to approach this like it's being played in the backyard between kids from rival mid­dle schools, not with 106,201 fans but with zero, with tires for end zones and the road as a sideline. That's how you win this game. 
Can you imagine? Notre Dame and Michigan playing in a vacuum, no fans, no televi­sion, just two rivals? Rich Rodriguez as a 12-year-old describing his coverage schemes? "Okay, Michael over there is incredible. He could catch a greased pig if someone could throw it to him. So we're going to have 10 guys circle around him to cover him. I call it the Halo defense." 
How about 12-year-old Jon Tenuta, running this way and that, teaching zone blitzes before the kids know what a blitz is? "Robinson runs a 3.97 40-yard dash. He could run for two touchdowns on one play. To stop him we're gonna have everyone run directly at him. Forget the rest of the team." 
Corwin Brown could be all­time quarterback so he does­n't have to pick sides. 
I'm not challenging Notre Dame's toughness, nor saying they don't get up for big games. But it's my opinion that if they fuse some fire and revenge into the successful gameplan they employed to beat Nevada, a win over Michigan and successful sea­son will follow. 
By the way, last year doesn't count. It was pouring. Michigan won't turn the ball over six times very often. It was at home. Time for Notre Dame to perform in the Big House. 
"I think because both teams were somewhat question marks going into the opening week and both had sound, convincing wins, it's increased the interest of everyone else as it relates to the game. The trickle down effect is that it permeates to the players," Weis said. "That being said, as a coaching staff we're going to treat that game the same way we're going to treat Michigan State the following week.·· 
Very diplomatic. Hillary Clinton would be proud. 
The players need to take the George Bush approach instead: sprint pell-mell into someone else's backyard and wreak havoc. 
It might just make some poor, misplaced Irish fan smile. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd. edu 
Recycle The Observer. 
fOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Roberson commits during visit 
other top choice was
By MATT GAMBER 
Northwestern. "He wanted to 
Sports Editor 
play big-time football, and just to get into that Notre Dame 

As the Irish lined up in front football environment, to experi­of the student section to sing ence that as a the Alma Mater after recruit is a very Saturday's victory over Nevada, powerful 
··The only way to
associate head coach Corwin thing." that if he had a Brown could be heard shouting Frank, who make [Sean Parker] little more con­at recruits Corey Roberson and runs the ESPN crete answer as
more certain is to 
Sean Parker, who were both affiliate irish­to [how good
go out and win
just a few rows away. sportsdaily.com, Notre Dame will 
,,

"What are you going to do?" said Roberson's some games. be this season], I Brown repeated in reference to only concern think he might the high school seniors' college entering his have committed
Mike Frank 
choices, motioning toward the visit was his -I think they
Irish Sports Daily
scene to his right-the victori­potential role did that well. 
ally every major program in the country. But Parker left South Bend very much interested in the Irish, Frank said. 
"I think they did an oul'itand­ing job," Frank said. "I would venture to say 
ous team swaying as one to with the Irish. "Notre Dame, Our Mother." Because of his 
Roberson answered Brown's size (6-foot-1, 215 pounds), question with a verbal commit­Roberson would be a candidate ment to play for Notre Dame in to play fullback at the college 2010, and, according to Irish level. recruiting analyst Mike Frank, "Knowing he wasn't just Parker could follow suit when going to be a fullback blocking he's ready to make his college people, but a guy who's going choice. to get the football [sold 
Roberson, a bruising tailback Roberson]," Frank said. "Seeing 
out of Newbury  how  [Notre  
Park,  Calif.,  Dame]  was  
committed earli­ "[Roberson] was a  using [James]  
er this week, and Frank said academics were  guy who was very interested in Notre  Aldridge really made him feel more comfort­ 
a  major factor  Dame·s academics. ,,  able."  
in his decision.  Parker, a top  
"He was a guy who was very  Mike Frank  safety prospect from Harbor  
interested  in  Irish Sports Daily  City, Calif., is a  
Notre  Dame's  player  Frank  
academics  - said would like­ 

that was a big thing for him," ly take several more official vis­Frank said, noting Roberson's its, as he has offers from virtu­
There's still 
some things up in the air, and the only way to make him more certain is to go out and win some games." 
Looking ahead, Notre Dame has a large number of high school seniors who have agreed to make oflicial visits to campus at some point this fall. Of the remaining six home games, however, there is one that stands out in terms of recruit­ing importance. 
"When you lo.ok at all the big­time players coming for the USC game, it's really going to be a big weekend," Frank said. "That's just going to be a mas­sive recruiting weekend, and it's really important Notre Dame shows up and plays well." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


SALMON CHASE.ORG 
10K RUN-SK RUN & WALK 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 19,7:30 a.m. 
Runners, walkers and kids of all ages are invited to take part in these great events: 5K Run •10K Run • 5K Walk Guppy Run (ages 2·7) 
Register at www.salmonchase.org or call574-283·1115 for more information. 
page 3 
Friday, September 11, 2009 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Stepping in and stepping up 
Sophomore Kyle Rudolph turns 11nexpected playing time in 2008 into experience for 2009 
mer school and take two classes men, Tyler Eifert and Jake Golic.
By SAM WERNER in addition to offseason workout.'!. "I try to use the experience I 

Sports Writer 

"I felt like they did it the right had last year," Rudolph said. "A way here," Rudolph said. "We lot of times you have older guys How quickly things can change. were able to come up in the sum­trying to teach and it's been a few When Kyle Rudolph first set mer and take a couple of classes years since they've been a fresh­foot on the Notre Dame campus and work out, so we were able to man, going to study hall, and as a freshman last fall, he was get our feet wet in the classroom their first classes and stuff like the third tight end on the depth and not be overwhelmed with that. For me, it was just last fall. chart. By the opener against San football at the same time." So I remember what it's like Diego State, he was listed as the lie said the summer classes being in that situation, so I try starter. made the transi-and make it the 
Thanks to a season-ending tion easier, so best transition injury to original starter Mike that by the time for them possi­Ragone and an eventual suspen­he was forced "He's a hard worker. He ble." sion of backup Will Yeatman, by into duty against In addition to
picked up some weight
the end of the season, Rudolph the Aztecs, bal­helping the found himself as the only tight ancing a full in the offseas()n and freshmen, end on the roster with any sort of class load with got stronger" Rudolph said playing experience. football was no being thrown "My goal from the time I decid­longer an issue. into the fire last
Bernie Parmalee 
ed to come here was to be the "I felt like by year has helped
Irish tight ends coach 
number one tight end when I got that time, you him, too. here," Rudolph said. "For it to had kind of "It definitely actually work out and fall into adjusted to what helped a lot hav­place, I wouldn't say I was sur­it's like and what ing that experi­prised, but I was surprised with you had to do to be successful in ence," he said. "I've been there how few tight ends we did end up the classroom as well as on the before and know what to expect having." field," he said. week to week." 
Irish coach Charlie Weis is Even though Ragone couldn't This year, one of the most pop­known for using sets that feature run the routes himself, Rudolph ular comparisons has been to for­multiple tight ends, and in the said the then-sophomore was mer Notre Dame tight end John past has taken advantage of hav­quick to help him adjust to the Carlson. ing players like John Carlson and Irish offense. "I can't tell you how many pro­Anthony Fasano on the field at "Even in the summer before fall fessors have come back to us and the same time. Without any sort camp started, Mike [Ragone1and said, 'John Carlson,"' Weis said in of depth at tight Will [Yeatman], a press conference earlier this end, the play­they helped me fall. "You really can't get a much book can ..1 worked real hard to tremendously better role model than that one. become very during 7-on-7s," When you say John Carlson, you 
get myselfwhere I 
limited quickly. Rudolph said. are giving some pretty high acco­
needed to be physical­
"We were just "They helped me lades for what kind of person kind of thin and ly, and I picked up on learn the offense [Rudolph] is." couldn't use the and get a head Carlson finished his Notre
the offense pretty
tight end pack­start learning Dame career with 100 catches for 
quickly.,
ages we wanted the Xs and Os." 1 ,093 and eight touchdowns. He to," Rudolph The Cincinnati, was selected 38th overall in the said. Kyle Rudolph Ohio, native fin­2008 NFL Draft by Seattle. Last Even though ished last season year, Carlson led the Seahawks
Irish tight end
the role fell to with 29 catches with 55 receptions for 627 yards him somewhat for 340 yards and five scores. by default, and two touch­"John was very successful here, Rudolph said he did what he had downs. The numbers may not and he's been just as successful at to do to be successful as the jump off the page, but were pret­the next level," Rudolph said. team's starting tight end. ty impressive, considering just a "For me, all my goals have been 
"I worked real hard to get year earlier he was a high school to be like John, so to be com­myself where I needed to be basketball player helping his pared to him is just an honor." physically, and I picked up on the team upset the No. 1 team in Rudolph added that Carlson offense pretty quickly," he said. Ohio. calls him every once in a while to 
But in addition to picking up an Now, Rudolph is one of the check in and see how things are entirely new playbook, Rudolph elder statesmen at the tight end going. also had the fairly significant position, and is intent on passing One area where Carlson matter of adjusting to college life. down the knowledge he picked improved over the course of his Freshmen have to report for sum-up in 2008 to this year's fresh-career, and where Rudolph said he needed to work on, is his blocking ability. Rudolph said that a year in the weight room with strength and conditioning coach Ruben Mendoza helped him invaluably in bulking up and becoming stronger. 

"He's a hard worker," tight ends coach Bernie Parmalee said. "He picked up some weight in the off-season and got stronger." 
Rudolph played last season list­ed at 250 pounds, and is now up to 260 with added muscle. The Elder High School graduate said he also improved his blocking technique. 
"Being on the edge, it's more about working your technique, and your spacing and timing," Rudolph said. 
And how would he assess his blocking performance in the first game of 2009 against Nevada? 
"I did OK," Rudolph said. "There's some things I need to fLx in the run game and even with route-running." 
That being said, Rudolph's biggest talent remains the same. 
"(My biggest strength is] defi­nitely being able to stretch a defense over the middle of the field and create mismatches against linebackers and safeties," Hudolph said. 
Parmalee agreed that, in terms of the pas"sing game, Rudolph is as good as it gets. 
"He's one of the best in the nation at what he does. When you've got a guy that can stretch the defense, and has good hands and good ball skills, it just helps the oflfmse." the tight ends coach said. "And when you've got a guy that size in the middle, it's pretty good for the quarterback." 
Of course, it doesn't hurt to have two elite receivers in Golden Tate and Michael Floyd that can help draw safety attention away from the big tight end. 

"It helps me tremendously 
because it forces teams to put 
safeties over top of them, and if 
you don't put a safety over them 
they'll run right by you," Rudolph 
said. 

In last year's Hawaii Bowl, a 
nearly flawless offensive perform­
ance, the attention the defense 
paid to Floyd and Tate was 
noticeable. 

"A couple of times in the first 
half fof the Hawaii Bowl], once 
you got past the linebackers, the 
whole middle of the field was 
wide open," Hudolph said. 

The Irish hope that Rudolph 
will be able to find that same kind 
of separation in Michigan 
Stadium this Saturday. 

"I expect a very hostile atmos­
phere," he said. "But I'm excited 
to go up there and play at the Big 
House." 

Rudolph added that his 
improved blocking will be espe­
cially important against the 
Wolverine defense, led by defen­
sive end Brandon Graham. 

"They've got a great defensive ·end and good linebackers," 
Rudolph said. "And if you're not 
on top of your game as far as 
technique goes, they'll get the 
best of you." 

Hudolph said he expected the 
atmosphere Saturday to rival the 
game at USC last season, but 
maybe even a notch or two high­
er. 

"I think it's even still on a com­
pletely different level, and I can't 
really compare it to anything," he 
said. 

But, just like moving from third string to starter in three weeks, Rudolph will be sure to take it all in stride. 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 

--~---~---------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 11, 2009 


Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 1-0 AP: 18 Coaches: 20 
5th season at 
Irish Offense vs. Wolverine Defense 
Notre Dame 
career record: 
30-21 
on road: 
11-8 
against UM: 
2-2 



C<H>ef. Coord. Associate HC 

2009 Schedule 

Sept. 5 Nevada-W Sept.12 @Michigan Sept.19 Michigan St. Sept.26 @Purdue Oct. 3 Washington Oct. 17 Southern Cal Oct. 24 Boston College Oct. 31 Washington St. Nov. 7 Navy 
If Saturday's thrashing of Nevada game even more dominant was the against Western Michigan last week, e, was any indication -and general amount of time Clausen had to drop allowing 263 yards through the air to a
Nov.14 @ Pittsburgh 
z opinion is yes, it was -opposing back, scan the field and find the open less-than-spectacular Broncos aerial
Nov. 21 Connecticut 
-defenses will have their hands full man. If the offensive line continues to attack. But the Wolverines' front four ~ with the Irish passing attack all give Clausen a cushion, even the most will test the Irish offensive line, and that
Nov. 28 @Stanford 
C:C 
season. It was no secret heading talented defensive backfields on Notre could result in pressure on Clausen ­

D. 
into the opener that Jimmy Clausen Dame's schedule will be in serious trou­which, in the past, has caused some C had the arm, and the offensive ble. errant throws and poor decisions. 


Head-to-Head 
z weapons, to make secondaries mis-Michigan's pass defense put on an erable. But what made the passing uninspiring performance in its opener EDGE: NOTRE DAME
NDOFFENSE UMDEFENSE Scoring: 35.00 ppg (36th) Scoring: 7.00 ppg (23rd) Total: 510.00 ypg (21st) Total: 301.00 ypg (49th) 
Notre Dame's run game was working as a fullback for some time, it despite several new starters in the front
Rushing: 178.00 ypg (45th) Rushing: 38.00 ypg (11th) 
e, solid, but not dominant, in the always hurts to miss a key starter. seven. True freshman Craig Roh
Passing: 332.00 ypg (lOth) Passing: 263.00 ypg (87th) 
z opener. But the Irish ground attack Armando Allen and Jonas Gray looked impressed at outside linebacker, and
Turnovers against: 0 (I st) Turnovers for: 3 (12th) 
i: will be missing a key component good against Nevada, though, and the sophomore Mike Martin clogged the
Fumbles lost: 0 (Ist) Fumbles rec.: I (26th) 
C/) Saturday when fullback James offensive line opened enough holes for middle effectively at his nose tackle
Interceptions: 0 (Ist) Interceptions: 2 (I2th) 
::::;) Aldridge is held out with a shoulder the team to total 178 rushing yards on position. It'll be interesting to see how
Sacks Allowed: 0 ( I st) Sacks: 2 (34th) 
a:: injury. Robert Hughes, another the day. the Irish front matches up against a big­
T.O.P. for: 33:40 (20th) T.O.P. against: 25:40 (17th) 
C power tailback-turned-fullback, The Wolverines were too much for ger, more talented Michigan defense. z will fill the vacancy, and while Western Michigan to handle on the Charlie Weis said Hughes had been ground last week, allowing just 38 yards EDGE: EVEN
Statistical Leaders 
NDOFFENSE MUDEFENSE fA Not much to go off looked shifty in his one 
Charlie Weis guides an Michigan defensive coor­
Q.B JIMMY CIA.USEN l.BOBIFZEH ~ of here, as Nick touch in the return game. 
immensely talented offense, dinator Greg Robinson 
15-18,315 yds., 4 TO 4 solo tkl., 1.5 TFL, I FF 
Li!j Tausch didn't try a It'll be interesting to see 
and he did a good job against beat Notre Dame as the z
RB ARMANDO ALI..EN CB DONOVAN WARRFN t-field goal and Theo how Notre Dame's young
15 rush, 72 yds., TO 6 solo tkl., I brk-up 
Nevada of not out-thinking head coach at Syracuse B~C 
....1 Riddick only got one specialists (Tausch, 
himself. If Weis continues to last year. But it was the ;t
WR MICHAFL FLOYD l.B STEVIE BROWN :! chance on kick Riddick, snapper Jordan 
stick with what's working -Irish defense, not the ~
4 rec., 189 yds., 3 TO 5 solo tkl. 
frl returns. But so far, so Cowart) handle the pres­which, last week, was the offense, that was the cul-~
WR GOLDEN TATE NT MIKE MARTIN 
5; good, as Tausch was sure of the Big House. 
Clausen-to-Floyd combo-the prit in that contest. 
3 rec., 59 yds. I sack 
perfrect on extra 
Irish should be able to put up
TE KYLE RUDOLPH l.B CRAIG ROH 
0 

z points, and Riddick EDGE: EVEN points. One thing to note: EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
4 rec., 29 yds., TO I TFL, 0.5 sack 



Imagine Charlie Weis marching onto the field at the Big House channeling the mobster thug from the beginning of "The Dark Knight," screaming, "My dogs are hungry!" to the 106,000 fans. Because they are. Throw Xs and Os out the window and focus on emo­tion, which Notre Dame will use to overpow­er Michigan. Now bring Xs and Os back for a second, because Tate Forcier and Denard Robinson create a threat much more danger­-------ous than Colin Kaepernick was. It won't mat­ter too much, though, because Michigan's
Managing 

secondary can't cover both Golden Tate and
Editor 

Michael Floyd. Even ifthey can, Kyle Rudolph burns them on the seam route. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Michigan 24 

Both teams looked impressive in their open­ers, but I'm not sold on Michigan's quarter­backs after one game. The Irish get up early using the vertical passing game to Floyd and Tate, and the defense will force Forcier to beat them with his arm. The Wolverines will fail to establish any offensive rhythym and the Irish playcalling will keep a young
. / 

front seven off guard. Turnovers will keep Michael Bryan this game from being close, as Notre Dame _______ should be in for a fumble recovery and an interception or two. With a national focus on
Associate 

Ann Arbor this weekend the hype for
Sports Editor 

Clausen and Notre Dame will keep building as the Irish roll. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 44, Michigan 17 
• For more matchups and pregame a IRISH INSIDER 
-·· ----~----­

at ndsmcobserver.con
PODCAST ­

Friday, September 11, 2009 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

Michigan 
Wolverines 

Record: 1-0 AP: NR Coaches: NR 2nd season at
Wolverine Offense vs. Irish Defense 
Michigan 


career record: 4-9 at home: 3-5 

Rich Rodriguez against NO: head coach 0-1 



Freshmen Tate Forcier and Denard with far more ability than Nevada did. decisions. The Irish will have to Robinson will likely both see significant Notre Dame's defensive strength, how­wrap up Forcier and Robinson, too, C: time in Saturday's contest, but Forcier is ever, is its secondary. Both Robert as both are quick, elusive and capa-3: both the declared starter and the more Blanton and Kyle McCarthy intercepted ble of turning broken plays into long accomplished passer at this point. He passes last week, and the Irish show­gains once they get outside the pock-;gmade a few big-time throws against cased their depth by rotating several et and pass coverage breaks down. (/) Western Michigan last week, including a players in at corner. The key to the pass Stjll, the edge goes to the veteran (/) perfectly-placed fade that went for a long defense. though, might be the ability of Irish secondary. ­touchdown right up the sideline. The Notre Dame's front seven to pressure the Wolverines also have athletes at receiver Michigan quarterback and force bad EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
The Wolverines held senior starter struggled in the past to wrap up particularly up the middle, Brandon Minor out of the opener power backs-a category into which against the Irish front. The line-C: with a minor injury, but the bruising Minor certainly fits. backers and safeties did a nice 3: back should be ready for Saturday. The Irish defense held a run-based job in run support, but the defen-..,. Carlos Brown averaged over five Nevada offense to 153 yards in the sive linemen will have to hold """' yards a pop in Minor's place, so opener, a solid performance but one their ground more consistently to ~ Michigan has to be confident in its that may have been different had keep the Wolverines from rack-::::C ability to rotate tailbacks. Minor (6-Notre Dame not pulled away early. ing up the rushing yards. ­
z

foot-1, 218 pounds) is the one to Despite the encouraging showing, 
G)

watch, though, as Notre Dame has there were still yards to be gained, EDGE: MICHIGAN 
Notre Dame's kick cov-be dangerous in open space. 
Like Weis, Rich Rodriguez like a Jon Tenuta erage units were among Punter Zoltan Mesko is one of 
is an of1'ensive-minded coach. defense last week -c:: the nation's best a year the best in the country, averag­
And now the second-year fast, aggressive, oppor-(") 3:~ ago, and the Irish showed ing 47 yards per punt last 
I 
man has two quarterbacks tunistic. To shut down o 0 no evidence to the con~ week. And the Wolverines 
with the skill set needed to Rodriguez's spread :I>, trary in the opener. have a fifth-year senior han­
captain his spread offense. attack, the unit will £;;I Michigan does have some dling the placekicking duties, 
How much of the playbook is need a similar perform-2 Z weapons in the return so nerves shouldn't be a factor. 
open to the two freshmen, ance Saturday G) ~ 5! game with a plethora of 
however, remains unknown. m ~ offensive athletes who can EDGE: EVEN 
The Irish -defense played EDGE: EVEN 
2009 Schedule 
Sept. 5 Western Mich. -W 
Sept.12 Notre Dame Sept.19 Eastern Mich. Sept. 26 Indiana Oct.3 @ Michigan St. Oct.10 @Iowa Oct.17 Delaware St. Oct. 24 Penn St. Oct. 31 @Illinois Nov. 7 Purdue Nov.14 @Wisconsin Nov. 21 Ohio St. 
Head-to-Head 
UM OFFENSE NO DEFENSE 
Scoring: 31.00 ppg (43rd) Scoring: 0.00 ppg (I st) 
Total: 439.00 ypg (39th) Total: 307.00 ypg (52nd) 
Rushing: 242.00 ypg (26th) Rushing: 153.00 ypg (56th) 
Passing: 197.00 (65th) Passing: 154.00 ypg (37th) 
Tumo~rs against: I (21st) Turnovers for: 3 {12th) 
Fumbles lost: 0 (1st) Fumbles rec.: 1 (26th) 
Interceptions: 1 (46th) Interceptions: 2 (12th) 
Sacks Allowed: 0 (1st) Sacks: 2 (34th) 
T.O.P. for: 34:20 (17th) T.O.P. against: 26:20 (20th) 
Statistical Leaders 
NEVOFFENSE NO DEFENSE 
QB TATE FORCIER SS KYLE MCCARTHY 
13-20, 179 yds., 3 TD 7 solo tid., INT 
QB DENARD ROBINSON PS HARRISON SMITH 
11 rush, 74 yds., 1 TD 5 solo tkl. 
RB CARLOS BROWN LB BRIAN SMITH 
10 rush, 54 yds. 2 solo tid., 2 TFL, 1 sack 
WRJUNIORHEMINGWAY LB TORYAN SMITH 
5 rec., 103 yds., 2 TD 4 solo tkl., 2 TFL, 1 sack 
TE KEVIN KOGER CB ROBERT BLANTON 
3 rec., 32 yds., 1 TD 2 solo tkl., INT 


As long as Eric Olsen and Jimmy Clausen complete the first center-quarterback exchange of the game without a hitch, this year's trip to the Big House will be better than the one the Irish took two years ago. The Irish look to be the more talented team, especially on the offensive side of the ball, and should be able to put up points if they continue to be aggressive. This game will be a dogfight, but 
Matt Gamber Notre Dame's defensive front will pressure the _______ Wolverines' young quarterbacks into one too many mistakes to help the Irish pull away in 
Sports Editor 
the fourth quarter. But it will certainly be clos­er than the one-sided games of the past two years. 
ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Michigan 21 

I'm going to go out on a limb here -this year's game will go better than Notre Dame's last trip to the Big House. Everyone is saying this game will be close, but I don't really see it. Yes, Tate Forcier and Denard Robinson are tal­ented, but the Irish shut down an even better running quarterback last week in Colin Kaepernick. Expect Jon Tenuta to pressure 
Forcier early and often. On the other side of the 
Sam Werner ball, simply put, Michigan just doesn't have any­one that matches up with Michael Floyd. So either he has another game lik<' last week, or
Associate 
they blanket him and Golden Tate goes off.
Sports Editor 
Michigan's 80 hours of practice this week won't be enough, and the Irish win fairly comfortably. 
ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35, Michigan 14 
1nalysis, check out the Irish Insider podcast 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 11, 2009 


What's your favorite movie right now? I have a lot of favorites, but my favorite recent one would be "The Dark Knight." 
What is the most played song on your iPod right now? I actually don't have an iPod, but I listen to a lot of Usher, some older stuff like Tupac. 
What is your favorite place to eat in South Bend? I have a lot of favorites, but I'd have to go with Olive Garden for the breadsticks. 
If you could have any superpower, what would it be? 
Definitely fly. That or maybe live forever, if that's a superpower. 
Batman or Superman? I'd have to say Superman because I really want to fly, I guess Peter Pan got me started on that. 

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer Irish wide receiver Michael Floyd takes the field in the season opener against Nevada. Floyd had four catches for 189 yards against the Wolf Pack. 
. I; :"] -• i . ·/ ; l i J 

c e t ABC ... 
c )~ ·-~ k u u t. t h c ca s u a I 0 b s e r ·-~ \! i: r s p 0 r t 5 b I 0 g a s
r_: 

Bill Brink and Matt Garnber Live-blog about the Michigan game. 
Go to www.observerspartsblog.wordpress.com 
Friday, September 1 1, 2009 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Hostile Big House awaits Notre Dame 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Associate Sports Editor 
By the numbers, it's the biggest stage in college foot­ball. Michigan Stadium, "The Big House," is the fourth­largest stadium in the world, and has an official capacity of 106,201 screaming fans, a number which usually grows to around 111,000 when counting bands, press mem­bers and stadiurn staff. 
The Big House hosted the largest crowd in NCAA col­lege football history (112, 118) against Ohio State in 2003, and the stadium should be packed with well over 110,000 fans Saturday. So how do the Irish feel about playing in the hostile "maize­out" environment? 
"I remember going there on an unofficial visit and just standing on the M, looking at how big it all was," junior linebacker Brian Smith said. "I love the energy though, and there's nothing more I'd love than to shut some fans up." 
While the defense may be able to draw on the energy in the crowd, the noise Saturday poses significant challenges for any visiting offense trying to relay signals and time snap counts. 
"The better they're doing the louder it gets and commu­nication becomes more and more a problem," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "I think more than anything else when you go on the road, especially to a place like the 'Big House' if you can get on top of 'em early and quie't the crowd, it makes it easier to play." 
Quarterback Jimmy Clausen knows the challenges of play­ing in Ann Arbor -his sec­ond career start was a 38-0 loss in the Big House in 2007. 
"Going to Michigan fin 2007] was kind of tough, you know Michigan fans are crazy and it's loud in there," Clausen said. "I really didn't know what to expect. But going into that game and get­ting beat up like I did was not real fun." 
Clausen also echoed Weis's statements on the importance of a quick start on offense. 
"I just know from our per­spective on offense it's going to be really loud when we go there in the first series," Clausen said. "Especially, we're just going to try to take the ball down the field and 
keep  moving  the  ball  
throughout the  rest of the  
game."  

Renovations will soon up Michigan Stadium's capacity to 108,000, again making it the largest in college football. And while that number is more than Notre Dame would like, it could be worse -the Big House was originally designed with footings that would allow expansions to accommodate over 150,000. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
The Observer's Top 10 Toughest Places to Play ... 
l.TI&er Stadium, LSU 

Doth V•llev is th. nlnth-&.rpst stadium In the NCAA. but pnerally ~1rMd to b. the toudest. Ni&ht lill'n@\ future 92.000 rowdy c.juns that have been tailaatina•U day; Bur Bryant compared ~Vine here to '"belfl8 m~ • drum.• The f«t thlt ~ys It all: The crowd's reiCtion to 1 t.te touchdown ..ainst Auburn in 1988 retist«ed 1s a ..giti~t• Hrthqu.~lte in Bttton Route's sei5molocical hNdquart.n. 
2. Ben Hill Grifftn Stadium, Florida 
The Swamp ls literally built in a ravine b~w around level. addlna to the humidity and no-M pneratma by 90,000 ~tor f•ns. wme day t.mperatures of more than 100 degrees are common, and they'w sold out .very home eame since 1919. From 1990 to 2(X)8 t~ Gators hav. been 106-U. and are 27-2 at home since Urban Mey.r's arrtval 
3.Ohio Stadium, Ohio State 
The Horseshoe is the third-lar,est stadium with a capKity of more than 105,000: there's noM, tradition o1nd the dottint of the 'l' in Ohio. Iowa coach Hayden fry compl.:llned in 198S t~t the field W8$ too loud. and thilt sound meters shoukf ~asure crowd volume Mld ~nttliu thto Buckeyes for ella!ssivt!!' nois. tewh.. 
4.Beaver Stadium, P&nn State 
Ho1ppy Valley usually is less tban welcomin& to visitin& tNms, and due to current !lfflovations In Ann Arbor, BeaW<r Stadium is currentty the largest io football at 107,282. The studtont section hols been r.tnbd the best in th• nation by ESPN t'WO SNsons in a row. 
5. Michipn Stadium, Michiaan 
While the ~rgest (or until renovations are completed. temPorarity the second largnt) stadtum mfootball. Michlg~n doesn't have thto reputation for the toudest fans tn the nation. Nonetheless, the Big House ls easily ~ top-five venue for college footb.tll fOf Its sheer numbers and tradition. 
6.Autzen Stadium, Oreaon 

Freshmen Forcier, Robinson pose dual threats at QB 
and really the goal is to exe­in his hands," Weis said. cute what the coach is asking, "Although he's dynamic as a and to play our defense." runner, he's capable of throw­
Though still a freshman, ing the ball as well." Forcier did get a head start by McCarthy said keeping gap enrolling early and participat­responsibilities and maintain­ing in spring drills with the ing defensive assignments are Wolverines. Weis said that particularly crucial against a experience is one advantage quarterback with Robinson's Forcier possesses over a typi­athletic ability. cal freshman quarterback -"First thing when you him on and it showed last week. film is he has phenomenal 
"Forcier had an impressive speed," McCarthy said. "You opener, showed a lot of poise know, anything -he can take for a freshman," Weis said. a ball and his first touchdown "Good athlete, not only a run was, I think, a broken strong arm, but more than play. So those guys have the that, he showed a lot of poise ability to make something out for his first game." of nothing, which is pretty spe­
Senior safety Kyle McCarthy cial." echoed that sentiment, but he Much like Notre Dame with expressed confidence in Notre Evan Sharpley, Michigan has a Dame's ability to stop the unique luxury with a third­freshman. string quarterback with com­
"One thing was that you petitive game experience. couldn't tell that it was his first Redshirt junior Nick Sheridan collegiate game. He really ran started at times for the that offense well," McCarthy Wolverines last season, and he said. "You see plays where his also received playing time in instincts kind of took over after last week's opener. the play broke down. While Forcier and Robinson 
"He's got the ability and tal­are surely the top two to watch 
again. look at Notre Dame's 2007 ent to take a game over. But I heading into Saturday, By MATT GAMBER "Between the two of those opener, when Tenuta led a think our defense is pretty Sheridan could be a factor if SportS Editor guys, you've got your hands Georgia Tech defense that good, so it will be fun to watch the youngsters struggle. 
full," Irish coach Charlie Weis wreaked havoc on a trio of on Saturday." But as far as Notre Dame's 
The Notre Dame defense said. "I think if you're overly Irish signal-callers. Though Forcier will start for defensive preparation goes, should be confident as can be aggressive, you could leave "I think that it will be inter­the second straight week, much of the focus is on Forcier after shutting out a highly­yourself vulnerable to what esting with some of the stuff Rodriguez has again pledged and Robinson. ­touted Nevada offense led by they do." that the defensive staff will to use Robinson with some "It's going to be a challenge one of the nation's best dual­Finding that balance -going throw at [Forcier)," Weis said. regularity. Robinson led the for us to shut down that threat quarterbacks in Colin after the quarterback without "It won't be the same as it was Wolverines in rushing last offense, as you guys saw last Kaepernick. being reckless -could be the last week, that's all I can tell week with 74 yards -includ­week," McCarthy said. "I think 
But one look at last week's key to stopping Michigan coach you." ing one SportsCenter-worthy they're really clicking on all highlight reel -and specifical­Rich Hodriguez's spread Irish linebacker and special scamper on his first collegiate cylinders. But that's a chal­ly, the performances of attack. Irish defensive coordi­teams captain Scott Smith said snap -but Weis cautioned lenge for our defense, and Michigan freshmen quarter­nator Jon Tenuta is known for the defensive scheme is against labeling him as solely a we're excited to really take backs Tate Forcier and Denard running an aggressive, blitzing designed to put the opposition runner. that to heart." Hobinson -might have the defense that confuses opposing on its heels. "He's fast and athletic, and Irish defensive coaches and offenses, especially those with "That's the plan," Smith said. he's capable of making a big Contact Matt Gamber at players a little worried once young quarterbacks -just "We want to be aggressive, play every time he gets the ball mgamber@nd.edu 

page 8 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 11 , 2009 

Serving Lun<h & Dinner Come Dine With Our ~· 

~~~~~~·~~~-;l)fami~:::~l::.:ricnd~ ~~.. 
Closed Sun & \ton 

Our SptYialties lndude Etquisite ;r~ Meat En~n~es c.~ Ikalthy Veg_cwrian. Dishes "~ ' Appettzers • Salads • Sandw1chcs ,/ •. , Meat Dltihes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts Dine ln • lakt Om • Catering • Restn>ations Aretpttd 115 Dixie \\uy Nartlt, South Bend 
(574)'277-7239 


The."" .Burdre#r o:.ff:II:n...·k R~~.~l.igi<~:~>TI ~--<:»•Kt'i::'<t":d~ :;:.oo:x.) 
' ..

. . . 

IAN GAVLICK/The Observer ~'S<•·J:tur,.,tav . •~•-r•r:•··w.~,.,.~,. I 2. 2:00-Y
Nevada quarterback Colin Kaepernlck is tackled from behind by Irish freshman linebacker Manti Te'o 
9.-0-fl.,u. n;z _ ..... '"''',"<UI /i1-o:i··A•o;•..,,J<._a· ; ..hxiJ < '-r·'l''Jt"'"'. _ffN" i;_ ~.,.t#HJ~ n-,:r 1.1::-J~:it...·"'::<:nt.-..-vn
in the second quarter of Notre Dame's 35-0 victory over the Wolf Pack on Sunday. 
QUICK HITS 
+Michigan and Notre Dame rank first and second in the NCAA in all time winning percentage, television appear­ances and alf-time final composite AP Poll rankings. 
+The Wolverines lead the all-time series against the Irish, 20-15-1. 

+Notre Dame has played in front of sellout crowds 71 of its last 80 away games including Saturday's game. 
+The 35-point vic­tory over Nevada was the largest mar­gin_of the Charlie Wets era. 
+The Irish are one of only four NCAA FBS programs to have never faced a non-FBS opponent since the current setup was estab­lished in 1978. The three other remain­ing schools are USC, UCLA and Washington. 
+The Irish have dropped nine of the last 12 opening 
away games. 


Vour portfolio is on the rise. 
No matter how bad the market getst we're always Investing in you. Because we're only as good as our next generation of innovators, GE invests $1 billion annually in our people and leadership development Add to that our great benefits and tuition reimbursement and you con see how much we~ll value your personal development ond contributions. So invest yourself in one of our opportunities in engineering, finance. manufacturing, marketing and sales. human resources or information technology -you'll build a personal brand that will see great returns in any economy. 


imagination at work ge.com/careers 
' 
lila 





