the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Pastactivismremembered,currenteffortsexamined 
Panel celebrates 40th anniversary of ‘Notre Dame 10’ protest 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Editor’s note: This is the third installment in a four-part series commemorating the 40th anniversary of the Notre Dame 10 and looking at student activism on campus today. The first two parts introduced the Notre Dame 10 and their protest efforts and 
e x am i n ed  U n i v e r sity  
Pr es i dent  Emeritus  Fr.  
Th eo do re H es bu rgh’s  1 5- 

minute rule. 
John Eckenrode said he was just an ordinary student when he was suspended 40 years ago for participating in the Dow-CIA protest. 
see PANEL/page 6 



ROTCholdsDixonChallenge 

By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Crawling under barbed wire, grenade training and respond­ing to the fallout of a bomb all while carrying a 35 pound backpack — just an average test day for Notre Dame’s ROTC Army division. 
Last night, about 100 cadets took part in the annual Dixon Challenge, a two-hour compe­tition incorporating all the techniques the cadets have learned over the semester into a contest fought among the four platoons. 
The platoons completed in four challenges, which consist­ed of a written test, obstacle course, grenade throwing and a simulation that tested the cadets’ knowledge of radio procedures. The challenge, while fun for many of the par­ticipants, is designed to test the cadets’ training. 
“The Dixon Challenge is an important practical test because it is a culmination of the entire semester,” senior Marina Rodriguez said. “We do try and make it fun, though.” 
Rodriguez, who is a cadet captain, oversaw the grenade throw, which involved having the cadets simulate positioning themselves behind a bunker and throwing a “grenade” into a 12-foot circle 20 yards away. Rodriguez said the cadets have spent the semester taking a “Leadership Lab,” which is the basis of their practical train­ing. 
Junior cadet Graham Hoar said he preferred the hands-on training to regular class because it gave him a chance to apply the techniques he had learned. 
“It’s really nice to get away from the classroom,” he said. 
see ROTC/page 4 


Lupus survivor returns to ND for book signing 
By LILY HOUGH 
News Writer 
Notre Dame graduate Sara Gorman will return to campus Thursday feeling healthy and strong as she signs copies of her new book “Despite Lupus: How to Live Well with a Chronic Illness,” in he Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore from 4 to 6 p.m. 
But Gorman hasn’t always felt this good — she was diag­nosed with lupus in 2001 and struggled for years to adjust her post-college lifestyle to the demands of the crippling dis­ease before she was ready to publish a book about it. 
At 26 years old, Gorman was newly married and recently promoted to a facility director at Henninger Media Services — in the midst of her “invincible period” — when lupus hit, she said. 
“It was a shock to the system to be walking around like an 80-year-old with a cane, to not be able to do the things I did a week ago,” Gorman said. 
Lupus is a chronic autoim­mune disease that attacks the body’s organs and tissues, causing severe joint pain and an array of other painful symp­toms. While there is no cure, patients often treat their symp­toms to avoid flare-ups of the disease that can sometimes have fatal complications. But the treatments that Gorman’s physicians recommended meant she’d have to quit her job and put her plans to have a family on hold. But this self-proclaimed high achiever was­n’t ready to give in. 
“I just tried to keep working and pushing through the pain,” Gorman said. “That was my strategy — to not adjust at all. I thought, ‘if I can get over this and just grin and bear it, everything will go back to nor­mal.’” 
Normal never happened. Gorman gave in to working part-time from home, but her health continued to deterio­rate. A new medication offered her hope to restore her health, but made pregnancy impossi­ble, which presented Gorman with a dilemma. 
“I wanted to stay on sched­ule. I wanted kids,” she said. “Postponing my plans was a shock. I was no longer in con­trol.” 
Gorman decided to put her plans for a family on hold and became more aggressive with her treatments. But one adjust­ment was especially hard, Gorman said. Her new medica­tion Cellcept not only prevent­ed pregnancy but also caused her to lose all her hair. 
“At first, I couldn’t cut it,” Gorman said. “It was all falling out and I looked awful, but I thought, if I just hold on to what I used to be, it might go 
see LUPUS/page 9 


Students reflect on their work to effect change on campus 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Editor’s note: This is the fourth installment in a four-part series commemorating the 40th anniversary of the Notre Dame 10 and looking at student activism on campus today. The first three parts introduced the Notre Dame 10 and their protest efforts and 
exami n e d  Univ ersity  
Pre si d ent  Emeritus  Fr.  
Theodore Hesburgh’s  15- 

minute rule. 
Senior Kristi Haas has observed two different kinds of activism on campus during her past three years at Notre Dame. 
see ACTIVISM/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Student Senate page 3  TV masterpieces made into movies page 12  Men’s basketball preview page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Don’t judge 
a movie by 
its unicorn 
As all of the dedicated readers of our classified section should know, “The Last Unicorn” is a great movie. A sports production editor quoted me as saying so in Monday’s paper because he thought my state­ment was ridicu­lous. 
The rest of the office agreed. They laughed as I tried to explain the movie and laughed some more at my fee-Laura Myers ble insistence of how awesome it Assistant is. They protested Sports Editor when I pulled up the opening song on YouTube. The told me not to give them any more ammunition to make fun of me about. 

So obviously I had to write a col­umn. 
“The Last Unicorn” is an animated movie that was released in 1982. It comes from the same animation team that made the recent critical-ly-acclaimed movie “Ponyo.” 
Its plot summary reads: 
“A brave unicorn and a magician fight an evil king who is obsessed with attempting to capture the world’s unicorns.” 
Who wouldn’t be curious after reading that? Plus, the magician is voiced by Alan Arkin, who 27 years later, is still awesome. 
The movie is a classic tale of good versus evil. It introduces the moral conflict of choosing what is right over what is easy or safe. It shows children what it means to be self-sacrificing, and what you can accomplish if you believe. 
Its wacky characters include an evil king, a charming prince, a scary circus ringmaster and the idealistic magician. Kids will love it for the characters, the music and the fanta­sy while adults can delve deeper into its meaning. 
“The Last Unicorn” is great. What’s important about this, though, is that I made that judg­ment after seeing the movie many times. It made an impact on me as a child and my sister even owns it on DVD. 
So, I should not be made fun of by people who had never even heard of the movie just because it’s got a silly title. That’s the same as someone who has never read a Harry Potter book condemning me as a heathen for still wanting my Hogwarts letter. 
Want some justified reasons to make fun of me? I love Bob Evans. I love Christian rock music, Scrabble and craft shows. Grasshoppers scare the bejeezus out of me. I’m from Cleveland. I’m a woman. 
Take your pick of any of those rea­sons, which you have had experi­ence with and understand. I don’t mind taking jeers about any of those items, because they make me who I am (middle aged, apparently). 
Just don’t judge a wonderful movie because of its unicorn. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WOULD YOU RATHER BE FORCED TO GO TO THE MIDNIGHT PREMIERE OF ‘NEW MOON’ OR HAVE NOTRE DAME LOSE ON SATURDAY? 







Ian Johnston  Anna Wanzek  Andrew Steier  Meggan Muller  Maureen Vigland  
freshman  freshman  sophomore  freshman  sophomore  
Keenan  McGlinn  Duncan  Lyons  Walsh  
“If it could  “Well, I might  “I don’t know  “None of the  “I can’t see  
guarantee a  be able to do  what ‘New  above!”  them lose  
win, I would  both.”  Moon’ is, but  another one on  
sacrifice myself  whatever will  Saturday,  
and go to ‘New  bring us a win.”  so ...”  
Moon.’ We need  
the win.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LA/The Observer Students browse fair trade handcrafts from Latin America, Africa and Asia sold by the non­profit organization Ten Thousand Villages in the Great Hall of O’Shaugnessy on Wednesday. 
OFFBEAT 
Police: Mail carrier found drunk, eating noodles 
MARION, Iowa — Police in Marion and postal authorities are investigat­ing the case of a mail carri­er who was allegedly found drunk inside a residence while on the job. Police said the postal worker, 46, was charged with public intoxication Nov. 3 after she was found sitting on the kitchen floor of 95­year-old woman’s house, eating leftover noodles from her refrigerator. 
Police Lt. Steve Etzel said Tuesday that the woman apparently entered the home through an unlocked front door. He said she was in uniform and had mail and a mail-carrying bag with her. 
The woman, a 17-year employee of the U.S. Postal Service, was taken to the Linn County Jail. Marion Postmaster Rick Leyendecker said the woman is currently on unpaid leave. 
Udder shock: Woman finds 650-pound cow in pool 
SPARTANBURG, S.C. — Call it udder shock. A South Carolina woman who heard a giant splash in her back­yard discovered a 650­pound cow had fallen into her swimming pool. WSPA­TV reports that the cow fell into Kathy Wydareny’s cov­ered pool on Monday night. The Anderson resident says the cow belonged to her neighbor. 
Wydareny was startled by a “giant whoosh” and took a flashlight out to investigate. She called 911 after spotting the cow. 
It took five men from the county rescue team to free the cow using a sling. 
Wydareny believes the cow got loose and just kept walking, thinking the pool cover was solid ground. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Friday Gameday 

IN BRIEF 
A performance of Dance: Flamenco Vivo! will take place tonight at 7 p.m. at the Decio Mainstage Theater of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets can be pur­chased online at performin­garts.nd.edu 
The film “Still Walking” will be shown today at 6:30 p.m. at the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets can be pur­chased online at performin­garts.nd.edu 
The Notre Dame men’s soccer team will play Wisconsin-Green Bay today at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. For ticket infor­mation, call 631-7356. 
The Notre Dame men’s bas­ketball team will play Long Beach State today at 7:30 p.m. at the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center. For ticket informa­tion, call 631-7356. 
The Higgins Labor Studies Program is hosting a workshop titled “Rethinking Race, Relationships and Resistance at Work in the Early 19th Century United States” Friday at noon in the Coffeehouse of Geddes Hall. 
The Notre Dame Energy Center is hosting a policy panel discussion Friday at 3 p.m. in 129 DeBartolo Hall as part of its Distinguished Lecture Series. 
Alcoholics Anonymous is host­ing an open meeting sponsored by the Alumni Association in Room 222 of the Hesburgh Library Saturday at 9:30 a.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

sunday monday 

Atlanta 61 / 39 Boston 54 / 34 Chicago 50 / 42 Denver 54 / 30 Houston 72 / 52 Los Angeles 66 / 48 Minneapolis 50 / 40 New York 56 / 45 Philadelphia 59 / 46 Phoenix 78 / 51 Seattle 47 / 45 St. Louis 45 / 40 Tampa 80 / 60 Washington 61 / 50 
STUDENT SENATE 
Dunn clarifies rectors’ role at ND 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
The University looks for strong pastoral skills, educa­tion and experience when hir­ing rectors, Assistant Vice President of Student Affairs Sr. Sue Dunn said at the Student Senate meeting Wednesday. 
Dunn attended the meeting to clarify the role of rectors after Senators discussed the relationship between rectors and students at their meeting last week. 
“Living alongside students in the residence hall and accom­panying them on their journey of faith, the rector counsels 
“Sometimes persons who do a combination of religious education, maybe function in a Catholic parish as a coordina­tor. They might have done spiritual direction counseling,” she said. 
Dunn said the University does not have a preference for religious involvement of rec­tors. Currently, however, 67 percent of rectors are priests, brothers or sisters, her hand­out said. 
Dunn said the University hopes rectors will stay several years once hired. 
“Hopefully a person who is hired is able to have the sta­bility within a hall, so hopeful­ly a person understands that 
and advises, provides critical support, and when necessary, calls students to accountability,” a handout that Dunn gave Senators read. 
Dunn said each year, the University receives more applications for rector positions than are avail­able. 
“We want somebody who has a minimal of a masters edu­cation and three to five years of experience in 
“Living alongside students in the residence halls and accompanying them on their journey of faith, the rector counsels and advises, provides critical suppose, and when necessary, calls students to accountability.” 
Sr. Sue Dunn assistant vice president of Student Affairs 
we would like them to stay at least through three plus years, for con­tinuity for the sake of the hall communi­ty,” she said. 
Hired rec­tors undergo training prior to the begin­ning of the school year, Dunn said. 
“When a person is hired to become a rec­tor,” she said. “They are on campus for several days 
pastoral ministry education,” Dunn said. “Something with a skill set that would enhance their ability to do their [job].” 
Rectors typically worked as high school teachers or pas­toral ministers prior to becom­ing a rector, Dunn said. 
and they get an overview of all things related to student life. 
“In addition to that, then they go through the all hall training. After that all hall training, they’re having week­ly meetings,” Dunn said. “They also have a weekly luncheon with one other mem­ber of senior staff to discuss how things are going.” 
Rectors also continue to grow during their time at the position, she said. 
“One of the things that we try to foster and value throughout the University is that we are all life long learn­ers,” Dunn said. “So [rectors attend] different programs, different workshops. 
“There are opportunities after someone is hired to grow in skills, and then hopefully have ongoing conversations with their supervisors,” she said. “Ongoing conversation to see what are strengths, what are things that could be improved or changed.” 
The Hall Life Survey, which students are asked to fill out each year, also provides feed­back for rectors from students in their dorms. 
Dunn, who previously served as rectress of Lyons Hall, said the survey was important to her. 
“Personally, I took the hall evaluations really seriously,” she said. “I know that how I was between year one and year two, and I think there were some things that I changed.” 
The job of a rector or rec-tress is considered a full time position, Dunn said. 
“There is a possibility that they can do something else on a part-time basis,” she said. “For example, some of the rectors teach one course or two.” 
Working another job on the side is not recommended for first-year rectors, Dunn said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


Team Yellow Tail wins Case Bowl 

By CARLY LANDON 
News Writer 
The final round of the Notre Dame Entrepreneurship Society’s Case Study Bowl took place Wednesday evening in Jordan Hall, with the student team Yellow Tail prevailing over the other two finalists to show its company — a wine brand — offered the best prod­uct and business plan. 
The Case Study Bowl is the Entrepreneurship Society’s signature event, based on the Harvard Business School’s own case study program. The first round happened two weeks ago with six teams competing and the final round was tonight with the top three teams competing for the top prize, Director of Case Studies junior Kyle Fitzpatrick said. 
The other two companies represented by tonight’s top teams were the clothing designer Rogue Status and the lingerie retailer Victoria’s Secret. Final rankings were equally based on both the judges’ scores and audience’s text-messaged reactions. 
“We heard Yellow Tail was a good story and we started investigating it. The more we researched it the more we liked it,” freshman team mem­ber Will Streit said. 
Each team, comprised of three to four members, were given 20 minutes to discuss its company’s history, its current operations, and an examina­tion of strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats — known in the business world as a “SWOT analysis.” 
Following each individual presentation, three University professors serving as judges assessed the performance of each group based on organiza­tion, presentation skills, stage presence and creativity. 
“Basically when we started as a club three years ago we were just a club of 25 students who would get together and talk about cool companies,” Entrepreneurial Society President senior Michael Streit said. “So then we thought this is fun we have a small group here why don’t we take it to a bigger scale and make it into a competition.” 
Sponsored by the Entrepreneurial Society of Notre Dame and Dorm Books, the Yellow Tail team won $1,000 with several audience members also winning prizes such as an iPod nano and Chipotle gift cards. 
Yellow Tail teammates, freshmen from Alumni Hall, David Acton and Tate Kernell, discussed their victory. 
“After working on it almost 20 hours, we wanted the $1,000 and we had fun with it,” Acton said. “So we figured we would reward all our friends if we won so we are going to splurge and probably not use the money as wisely as we could, but maybe next year.” 
“Between hassling profes­sors, judges, and teams to get them to come, getting SAO’s support, I couldn’t have done it without my team, Rina Ventrella, Chris Michalski, Tom Haylon, Andrew Rehagen, Christine Roetezel and John Rocha,” Fitzpatrick said. 
Streit said he hopes the event will help generate even further interest in the Entrepreneurial Society. 
“One thing that’s cool about this is kids are here in sandals and riding bicycles around,” Streit said, “We are having fun and studying business because we like studying business not because we like dressing up in suits. We are really just the cool laid-back business club.” 
Contact Carly Landon at clandon1@nd.edu 


Foreign exchange students share cultures during panel 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s foreign exchange students spread their knowledge of world cul­ture, sharing details such as debunking stereotypes about foreigners, during a panel discussion held in honor of International Education Week at the College. 
The discussion, called “A Bridge of Misunderstanding,” allowed international stu­dents to teach their fellow classmates, as well as faculty and staff, about their native countries. Each student gave a short presentation about their country, dismissing some common misconcep­tions of the American mind­set. 
Saint Mary’s sophomore Chen Chen spoke about China, offering insight into what it’s truly like to live there. 
“The Internet has really changed China a lot. In my opinion, North Korea is more like a hardcore communism country,” she said. “I think most people in China they believe that communism is actually dead in China. They’re practicing the poli­cies like free market in China. It’s interesting to see how it actually goes.” 
Chen was able to correct several misconceptions that students often hold about her country. Contrary to how some view China, she said rights are not withheld from 

First-generation college student receives award 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
For Mariel Rose, a sopho­more at Saint Mary’s, going to college may not run in the family, but “not getting a col­lege education had never crossed my mind,” she said. 
Rose was awarded a $2,000 grant from the Lilly Endowment at its “Realizing the Dream” banquet, which recognizes those who are first-generation college stu­dents. The awards go to stu­dents from 32 independent colleges throughout Indiana. 
Rose said she didn’t apply for the grant, but was approached by April Lane, assistant director of First Year Studies at the College, who told her she met the qualifica­tions. 
“It was really just out of the blue. [Lane] asked if I would like to be considered for it, so I said yes, I was interested,” Rose said. 
Rose said she hadn’t expect­ed to be chosen, and she “did­n’t really think much about it.” 
In honor of those who won the award, there was a ban­quet held on Nov. 7 in Indianapolis. Rose did not attend the banquet, though, because her brother was visit­ing from the Naval Academy. 
For another part of the award, the student is able to pick a teacher from their edu­cational career who was important to them, and in turn that teacher then receives a $1,000 grant from Lilly. 
Rose chose her high school teacher, Linda Porto, a teacher at Trinity School at Greenlawn in South Bend. Porto teaches math, history and Latin. 
“She was an excellent teacher. She got to know me on a personal level, not strict­ly a student-teacher one,” Rose said. “She was always interested in how I was doing, both in and out of class.” 
Rose said she appreciated Porto’s commitment and care for her students and her job. 
“It was clear to me that she loved her job and her stu­dents. She made learning fun for me, and she didn’t always give the answer,” she said. “She made me work to learn on my own which has pre­pared me well for college.” 
Rose said she has never con­sidered any option other than going on to college to continue her education. 
“Growing up, my parents always stressed to me the importance of education, especially higher education because both of them regret not going to college,” Rose said. 
Rose said she has always seen the commitment involved in seeking a higher education. 
“I think a college education is crucial to succeed in today’s world,” Rose said. “Because of that, I have always been ambi­tious and serious about my school work.” 
Rose is currently majoring in biology at Saint Mary’s. She plans to attend medical school after graduation. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 
“Events like this give us a chance to exercise our leader­ship positions within our pla­toons.” 
Hoar also said he liked the Dixon Challenge because it pro­vided an opportunity for his pla­toon to bond. 
“It really brings us all togeth­er,” Hoar said. “It’s much more interactive and it allows us to work together.” 
minorities. 
“Another misunderstanding about China is that minori­ties, they live a hard life in China. I think institutionally China has a lot of privileges, a lot of favors they give to the minorities,” she said. “The well-known ‘one child’ policy 
— it only applies to the Hun said many people often con­fuse Myanmar as a part of China, when in fact it is an independent country. 
Min Hee Lee, an exchange student from South Korea, discussed some common questions she frequently hears. Lee said South Koreans are not as fright-
which is the majority and not any other minorities.” 
Following her presenta­tion, Chen showed a short film depicting daily life in China. 
Another Asian country discussed was Myanmar, the country for ­merly known 
“The Internet has really changed China a lot. In my opinion, North Korea is more like a hardcore communism country.” 
Chen Chen sophomore 
ened as the media portrays them to be, although the tension between the two nations is real. 
Junior Cristina Posadas spoke about Mexico, her native c o u n t r y. Posadas said although some Mexicans do 
as Burma. Sophomore Shwe Yee Phyoe spoke generally about Myanmar, outlining basic information about the culture. She contrasted her culture’s respect for age with what she has experienced in the United States. 
“We really pay respect to our parents and the elders,” she said. “When I come here, it’s hard for me to call the professors names, like the names directly who are older than me because in our cul­ture, if you call your names directly that’s regarded as rudeness.” 
She also discussed some of the common misunderstand­ings about her country. Phyoe have moustaches and som­breros, it is not the norm. 
“Mexico is a very moun­tainous country, and many people who immigrate to the United States from Mexico tend to be people who come from rural communities from the countryside who have lived in isolation from cities or from other towns,” she said. 
The presentation ended with Amira El-Serafy, an Egyptian student. She said Egypt has advanced cities and many other features in common with the United States. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
“We’ve done the Dixon Challenge every year for a while now,” he said. “But this year we incorporated it with other events and made this ‘Warrior Week’ for the Army.” 
“Warrior Week” started Tuesday and lasts until Friday. It consists of a series of physical contests spread over the week with the four platoons trying to win as many as they can. On Tuesday the cadets had a physi­cal training test, Thursday morning they completed a six-mile run and Friday they will convene for “Warrior Night,” where they 


Sophomore “It’s all about team share a meal Michael cohesion. We build up together and 
Ferguson, a sec-announce the 
the platoon by testing
ond-year cadet, winner. O’Keefe 
said he liked the their abilities as a said the platoons events because unit.” covet the prize. they required “The leader of teamwork. the winning pla-
Patrick O’Keefe 
“It brings us toon gets one of all together in senior those belts that 
our platoons while pitting us against one another,” he said. “We all have to work together. On the obstacle course, we all had to organize and pull a truck as a unit.” 
Senior Patrick O’Keefe, S3 Operations and Planning leader of the challenge, said one of the main goals of the night is to strengthen community among the members of the four pla­toons. 
“It’s all about team cohesion,” O’Keefe said. “We build up the platoon by testing their abilities as a unit.” 
O’Keefe said the event usually requires extensive planning, and this year saw even more preparation. 
the professional 
wrestlers wear,” he said. “Ours is almost as cool. It’s a plastic one from Wal-Mart, but winning this week is really more about bragging rights.” 
O’Keefe said the purpose of the week is to lay a foundation for what the cadets will experi­ence in the U.S. Army. 
“All these events are prepara­tion for the military,” he said. “It’s about learning to keep your head and retaining the knowl­edge you need to perform cer­tain tasks so one day when you’re fighting to protect your sons and daughters, you know what to do.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 

World & Nation 
Thursday, November 19, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
European Union to pick president 
BRUSSELS — The European Union is about to pick its very first president, a post conjured up after years of tortuous political machination to give the bloc a unified voice on the world stage. 
But what is emerging from the halls of power on the eve of the historic decision is confusion and cacophony. 
There are still no official candidates, and yet more than half a dozen politicians are said to be in the running. Prospects range from the world-famous Tony Blair to a little-known figure named Herman Van Rompuy, the unassuming prime minister of Belgium. 
Nevertheless, at a dinner Thursday the 27 EU leaders are to pick the president — as well as a foreign minister for Europe — in a ballot that looks more like something between a lottery and a dogfight. 
China vaccinates 1.5 million per day 
HAVANA — China’s health minister said Wednesday his country is vaccinating 1.5 million people a day against swine flu, part of a mammoth effort to reach nearly 7 per­cent of inhabitants of the world’s most popu­lous country by year’s end. 
Chen Zhu told The Associated Press that more than 50 million Chinese have been immunized so far. 
“With initial efforts of containment, actual­ly we not only reduced the impact of the first wave to China, but we also won time for us to prepare the vaccine” now being given to China’s people, Chen said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
New Lutheran group to form 
NEW BRIGHTON, Minn. — The split over gay clergy within the country’s largest Lutheran denomination has prompted a con­servative faction to begin forming a new Lutheran church body separate from the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America. 
Leaders of Lutheran CORE said Wednesday that a working group would immediately begin drafting a constitution and taking other steps to form the denomination, with hopes to have it off the ground by next August. 
“There are many people within the ELCA who are very unhappy with what has hap­pened,” said the Rev. Paull Spring, chairman of Lutheran CORE and a retired ELCA bishop from State College, Pa. 
Shuttle docks at space station 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. — Space shuttle Atlantis arrived at the International Space Station on Wednesday for a weeklong stay, and the astronauts quickly unloaded a huge platform full of spare parts needed to keep the outpost running for another decade. 
So far, all indications are the shuttle made it through Monday’s liftoff just fine, NASA officials said. The astronauts surveyed their ship Tuesday for any signs of launch dam­age, and a quick look at the laser images shows everything in good shape. Experts will continue to analyze the data, as well as the approximately 300 digital photos that were taken Wednesday. 
Atlantis will remain at the orbiting outpost until the day before Thanksgiving, enough time for the two crews — 12 astronauts total 
— to unload nearly 15 tons of spare parts. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Theme park to auction off surplus 
SANTA CLAUS, Ind. — A southern Indiana amusement park plans to auction off hun­dreds of surplus items this weekend, includ­ing bumper boats and antique circus trunks. 
Saturday’s auction will be at Holiday World & Splashin’ Safari in Santa Claus, about 35 miles east of Evansville. 
Hundreds of items will be auctioned, including electric scooters, professional kitchen equipment, costumes, Christmas dec­orations, theatrical lighting, old license plates and an antique oxen yoke. 
Holiday World President Will Koch says the theme park’s clutter could easily be someone else’s treasure. 
UNITED KINGDOM 

British government unveils agenda 
Queen Elizabeth II announces plans for the upcoming session of Parliament 
Associated Press 
LONDON — Royal pageantry met hard-nosed election­eering Wednesday, as Queen Elizabeth II donned the diamond-encrusted Imperial State Crown to announce the government’s plans for the next parlia­mentary session. 
With just months to go until Britain must hold a national election, Prime Minister Gordon Brown is trying to woo voters with populist promises of new social programs and a clampdown on financial sector excess. 
Brown must call an elec­tion to be held by June, and polls suggest his Labour Party will lose that vote, returning the Conservatives to power after 13 years in opposition. 
The queen’s speech, delivered at the ceremonial state opening of Parliament, was one of the opening shots in an extended elec­tion campaign. It included promises of new laws to toughen banking regula­tion, restore public trust in government, cut public debt and preserve social services. As is customary, it was short on details. 

“My government’s over­riding priority is to ensure sustained growth to deliver the House of Commons in ed by mounted members of on measures calculated to a fair and prosperous econ-1642 — he ended up the Household Cavalry. win public support. omy for families and busi-deposed, tried and beheaded. Inside the Lords chamber, The speech included the nesses, as the British econ-Ever since, the monarch packed with lawmakers promise of a law giving reg­omy recovers from the has been barred from and ermine-robed peers, ulators the power to stop global economic down-entering the Commons, so the queen sat on a gilded bankers from pocketing big turn,” the queen said, in the event is held in throne wearing the state bonuses that could destabi­words written for her by Parliament’s upper cham-crown, which is studded lize the financial system. government officials. ber, the House of Lords. with more than 2,000 dia-The government said it 
The annual event is an Lawmakers are summoned monds and is normally kept would cut the deficit in half odd hybrid of politics and from the Commons by an under lock and key in the within four years while regal pomp, a policy speech official known as Black Rod Tower of London. investing in public services, delivered with the help of — but only after they slam The 83-year-old monarch “strengthening the national scarlet-robed Beefeaters, the door in his face to sym-appeared more robust than infrastructure and provid­trumpeters, mounted cavalry bolize their independence. last year, when she was ing responsible investment” and white-plumed body-In another symbol of the suffering from a cold and and eliminating child guards. traditional hostility between back pain. It was her 57th poverty by 2020. 
The queen has no say in Commons and crown, a law-Queen’s Speech — and one Other voter-friendly meas-the content of the speech, maker is held at Buckingham of the shortest, since the ures included free personal and the ceremony is rich in Palace as a “hostage” during new session of Parliament care for needy elderly people, symbolism of the power the ceremony to ensure the will be brief. “guarantees for pupils and struggle between monarchy monarch’s safe return. Facing a perfect storm of parents to raise educational and Parliament. Before the speech, the queen recession, public anger standards” and moves to 
One of the queen’s prede-traveled from Buckingham over lawmakers’ expenses hold parents responsible for cessors, King Charles I, Palace to Parliament in a and an unpopular war in their children’s anti-social tried to arrest members of horse-drawn carriage, escort-Afghanistan, Brown focused behavior. 

Energy-efficiency standards placed on TVs 
lead manufacturers to make energy-sions to be more efficient will be 
Associated Press 

saving TVs for the rest of the nation, phased in beginning in 2011. The 
SACRAMENTO — California regula-just as California’s stringent fuel stan-standards will become even tougher tors adopted the nation’s first energy-dards for cars and trucks forced in 2013, with only a quarter of all TVs efficiency standards for televisions automakers to produce more efficient currently on the market meeting the Wednesday in hopes of reducing elec-models for all of the U.S. efficiency requirements. tricity use at a time when millions of “Once again, California is leading “We have every confidence this indus-American households are switching to the way, and we hope others will fol-try will be able to meet the rule and power-hungry, wide-view, flat-screen, low,” said Noah Horowitz, senior sci-then some,” Energy Commissioner Julia high-definition sets. entist at the Natural Resources Levin said. “It will save consumers 
The 5-0 vote by the California Defense Council. money, it will help protect public Energy Commission is just the latest The commission estimates that TVs health, and it will spark innovation.” effort by the state to secure its place account for about 10 percent of a home’s Some manufacturers warned that in the forefront of the environmental electricity use. The fear is that energy the regulations will cripple innova­movement. use will rise as people buy bigger, more tion, limit consumer choice and hurt 
California represents such a big elaborate TVs, put more of them in California stores, because people consumer market that environmental their homes, and watch them longer. could simply buy TVs out of state or groups hope the new standards will The regulations requiring televi-online. 
dent handbook, all demonstra­tions must be registered in writing with the associate vice continued from page 1 president for Residence Life. The handbook also states that 
“I know so many students protests must be “peaceful and involved in direct service orderly” and not impede the through the Center for Social freedom of the University com-Concerns, and that is a sort of munity. activism,” she said. “And then Emmanuel said one of the there is the kind of activism leading issues she sees on that critiques the structures campus is the fight for the involved in why people need to University to include sexual do direct service. orientation in its non-discrimi­
“That kind of activism is less nation clause — an ongoing visible, but it’s here.” effort by PSA. 
Both types are crucial on a The group most recently college campus, said Haas, submitted a petition asking for who is involved in the Notre the addition of the clause to Dame Peace Fellowship University President Fr. John (NDPF). Jenkins last spring, but they 
NDPF, which works on peace were not successful. initiatives both globally and in “I think the students who are South Bend, co-sponsored dedicated to activism on cam-Wednesday ’s pus put a lot of events com-time and effort memorating the “There’s a certain and heart into 40th anniver-what they are 
Activism 
process you have to
sary of a advocating for,” 
go through to hold a
Vietnam War-junior Bridget related protest march or Flores, also a at Notre Dame member of PSA, 
demonstration on 
in 1969 and the said. 
campus that, I think, 
subsequent sus-But Flores pension of the lowers the amount of said she sees a 
Notre Dame 10. campus activism.” certain apathy 
The 10 Notre in many Notre Dame students Dame students. still demonstrate — even if the were suspended Jackie Emmanuel “I think a lot protests are not on campus. for blocking president of that comes This weekend, a group of recruiters from Progressive Student from igno-about 44 students is traveling the Central rance,” she to Georgia to stage a protest 
Alliance
Intelligence said. “When we near the School of the Agency (CIA) would come Americas (SOA). The and The Dow Chemical Co. in around with the petition to Department of Defense facility the Main Building on Nov. 18, include sexual orientation, a has been an attraction for 1969. lot of students didn’t have any demonstrations because of 
Last year, NDPF also protest-idea that being at Notre Dame suspected human rights viola-ed the CIA’s recruitment could be problematic for a gay tions of SOA graduates. efforts at the fall career fair. student.” Earlier this month, Human 
“We really questioned Notre For sophomore Roman Rights ND staged a demonstra­Dame’s relationship with the Sanchez, daily tion on campus CIA,” Haas said. “This is a college life can to protest the question that has been around get in the way of death penalty. for a long time. It’s something bigger activist “In a place with such Members Notre Dame had to grapple goals. driven students, passed out fly-with in 1969 and even before Sanchez is a ers about the 
people tend to get
that.” member of PSA, death penalty Many student leaders agree MEChA, a wrapped up in thier along with that activism on campus today human rights studies.” posters contain-has changed since the 1960s group that ing information but it is still prevalent, focuses on about the pun-
Roman Sanchez
although maybe less notice-Latino workers ishment. able. in Florida, and sophomore “We picked 
“There’s a certain process the Campus statistics about you have to go through to hold Labor Action the death penal-a march or demonstration on Project (CLAP). ty that we campus that, I think, lowers “In a place with such driven thought would shock people,” the amount of activism on students, people tend to get Human Rights ND president campus,” sophomore Jackie wrapped up in their studies,” Mary Pat Dwyer said while Emmanuel, president of the Sanchez said. “But the whole handing out pamphlets in Progressive Student Alliance action part of activism is a key front of the display. (PSA), said. part of the Catholic faith.” Dwyer said the group focus-
According to du Lac, the stu-Yet Sanchez said students es on various human rights issues but has adopted the death penalty as their primary cause this year. 


“When students have come to join our club, usually there’s not just one issue they focus on, but they see a lot of injus­tice in the world,” she said. 
While student protests occur on and off campus at Notre Dame, student leaders cited reactions to the University’s invitation to President Barack Obama to deliver the 2009 Commencement address as one of the largest student demonstrations in recent years. 
“More than one person last spring told me it was one of the most significant student movements since the1920s when Notre Dame students basically kicked the Ku Klux Klan out of South Bend,” Mary Daly, vice president of Notre Dame Right to Life, said. 
Daly, a senior, was a leader of ND Response, a student coalition organized to protest the University’s invitation to the president based on his abortion views. 
“It was a substantial move­ment compared to other efforts that have been made by students in the past,” she said. 
But Daly said she sees the activities of Notre Dame Right to Life as distinct from other forms of student activism. 
“One facet of what we do is activism, but there is also the educative component,” she said. “The activism that we do with Right to Life is not the traditional form of activism.” 
It has been 40 years since the Notre Dame 10 were sus­pended for the Dow-CIA protest, and while a lot has changed, Emmanuel said she still sees the same level of dedication to social justice in many students on campus. And college campuses are ideal for exploring these issues, she said. 
“In high school, we get some sense of what is going on in the world, but it is really not until college that through meeting new and different people, we see some of the problems that have been occurring in the world that we didn’t notice when you were younger,” she said. “There’s a great atmosphere on college campuses for open-minded­ness.” 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

Dame 10 — the 10 students explore in coming back to That day, Mahoney said the Mahoney qualified for the punished for protesting on-campus for the anniversary students were protesting the draft until the Admissions campus recruitment by the was how much has changed in actions of the CIA and Dow Office wrote to the board continued from page 1 Central Intelligence Agency the past 40 Chemical Co., explaining they were consider­(CIA) and Dow Chemical Co., years. but they were ing Mahoney for re-admission. But his experience shows known for producing napalm, He cited the “The challenge to more con -Now, Mahoney is a criminal how students can take a more a chemical weapon in the founding of the human society is to cerned with defense lawyer and handles active role in Vietnam War. Kroc Institute the University’s many cases in which the death 
Panel 

fgure out how to break
social justice E c k e n r o d e f o r attitude toward penalty is sought. issues, he told “I was on my way to spoke along International dependence on scape-the recruiters. “The challenge to human a crowd at a with Mark Peace Studies goating. The “For the stu-society is to figure out how to 
study for an organic

panel discus-M a h o n e y , as a sign of dents involved break dependence on scape-
signifcance of the
sion in Geddes chemistry test. But I another of the progress, but in this, the goating,” he said. “The signifi-Hall was troubled by the 10, Carl he said he still Notre Dame 10 is that concern was cance of the Notre Dame 10 is Wednesday. Estabrook, a sees many of we were scapegoats.” the failure of that we were scapegoats.” 
war and the sharp

“I was on my member of the the same prob-the University Eckenrode said he still sees way to study contrast between my Notre Dame lems on cam-to respond,” he students on campus today 
Mark Mahoney 
for an organic Catholic upbringing faculty in 1969 pus and global-said. “That was responding to social injustices. 
member of the
c h e m i s t r y and Fr. ly. what we found “I’m sure students here 
and what was going on

t e s t , ” Emmanuel “I approach Notre Dame 10 anguishing and today at Notre Dame feel that Eckenrode said in Vietnam.” C h a r l e s the current that is why some of work they do outside of his decision McCarthy, also wars in Iraq when it came of classroom to work for to join the pro-a faculty mem-and Afghanistan with dismay,” to afterward students stuck peace, alleviate poverty or suf-
John Eckenrode 

testers in the ber at the time. he said. “This is a continuing together and appealed togeth-fering has same meaning for 
member of the

Main Building. “This event conversation.” er as a group.” them as it did for us,” he said. 
Notre Dame 10

“But I was was personally Mahoney said the events of The consequences of the troubled by the difficult for me Nov. 18, 1969 are “like yester-suspension had a profound The fourth part of this series war and the to bring back day.” effect on Mahoney. looks at student activism at stark contrast between my to my parents,” Eckenrode “You don’t have time to post-“When we were suspended, Notre Dame today and runs as Catholic upbringing and what said, “but on the other hand, it pone acting on your beliefs notices went to the draft a companion piece in today’s was going on in Vietnam.” was an incredible part of my and values and attitudes,” he board,” he said. issue. 
The discussion commemo-education at Notre Dame.” said. “You don’t have time to At the time, students were rated the 40th anniversary of The central question postpone living out your exempted from the draft, but Contact Madeline Buckley at the suspension of the Notre Eckenrode said he wanted to dreams. Time flies.” as a suspended student, mbuckley@nd.edu 
The Observer 

Business
Thursday, November 19, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Slot makers face low sales 
LAS VEGAS — Casinos are buying fewer slot machines than they have in a decade as they stretch their spending, a slot machine maker said Wednesday. 
Nick Khin, Americas president for Aristocrat Technologies, Inc., said the four major slot makers combined sold fewer machines during the third quarter than during any period in the last decade. 
“We’re certainly not predicting a significant improvement in 2010,” Khin said, citing con­sumers’ anxiety. “The players that are coming to the casinos need to be a lot more secure than they currently (are) today, with regards to their employment and their income.” 
Khin spoke on a panel Wednesday at the Global Gaming Expo, a four-day industry conference in Las Vegas where the biggest slot makers — including International Game Technology, Bally Technologies, Aristocrat and WMS Industries Inc. 
— and many others in the industry showcase new games and products for casinos. 
Keith Smith, another panel member and CEO of casino operator Boyd Gaming, said replacing slot machines, which cost more than $10,000 each, is more expensive than ever, and casinos must consider other elements to keep customers happy. 
ABC and CBS see higher ratings 
NEW YORK — Country music helped ABC to its best ratings week in more than a year. 
The network, which narrowly lost to CBS for the distinction of America’s most popular TV network last week, aired the Country Music Association awards to 17.2 million people, according to the Nielsen Co. 
ABC also did well with an “In the Spotlight” special in which Robin Roberts interviewed stars including Carrie Underwood and Tim McGraw. 
ABC and CBS dominated the upper reaches of the Nielsen charts; 24 of the nation’s most-watched programs last week were on one of the two networks. ABC is nearing the end of a “Dancing With the Stars” run, so that audience is growing. 
A story line that played out across all three “CSI” franchises was a winner for CBS. All the shows earned a spot in Nielsen’s top 14 programs, with the mother ship, “CSI: Crime Scene Investigation,” getting its biggest audience of the season. 

McDonald’s renovates atmosphere 
Manhattan restaurant brings European-inspired style to fast food 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Danish Modern furniture. Flat-screen TVs. Free Wi-Fi. 
You want fries with that? 
A McDonald’s in midtown Manhattan became the first in the U.S. this fall to undergo a sleek, European-style makeover similar to what McDonald’s has done at thousands of outlets around in France and the United Kingdom. 
The eatery is outfitted with outlets for plugging in laptops, upholstered vinyl chairs instead of Fiberglas seats bolted to the floor, subdued lighting and employees whose all-black uniforms suggest a hip boutique. 
“It’s like a lounge,” said Kimberly Burgess, one of many patrons who did a double take after entering the newly renovated restaurant in Manhattan’s Chelsea section. “It’s so dif­ferent from all the other McDonald’s. It’s beautiful.” 
Franchise owner Paul Hendel said customers have settled down in a restaurant not known for patrons lingering over lunch. 

“We’re becoming a more relevant type of restaurant for the younger crowd,” he said. “They don’t feel ... You want to be able to seat Chelsea outlet is the help redesign its European rushed. They’re reading open your laptop, log on same as any other outlets, Avanzi brought in the newspaper, relaxed.” and get some work done McDonald’s. But the differ-Danish furniture producer 
McDonald’s Corp. while you’re eating.” ences are stark. The walls Fritz Hansen to supply spokeswoman Danya Proud said the are decorated with bold authentic Jacobsen chairs. Proud said that while thou-redesigned European vertical stripes or with But Hansen, the sole sands of the chain’s 14,000 restaurants — along with what looks like a zebra licensed manufacturer of restaurants have been menu items geared toward design but is actually Jacobsen chairs, ended the updated over the last few the customer base in dif-French architect Philippe partnership because years, the Chelsea location ferent countries — have Avanzi’s magnified McDonald’s was also buy-is the first “urban been responsible for thumbprint. Tables are of ing unauthorized copies. redesign” in the U.S. She McDonald’s growth in different sizes to accommo-Proud said the chairs at said “we’ll continue to Europe. date small groups or an the New York store are evaluate” whether more McDonald’s has experi-informal business meeting “modeled after” Jacobsen’s might follow. enced strong sales in the — and Hendel said nearby designs. 
Proud said the redesign U.S. during the recession, workers have started Darren Tristano, execu­was intended “to give our though the chain said this meeting there. tive vice president of customers more of a rea-week that its monthly U.S. There are reproductions Technomic Inc., a Chicago-son to make McDonald’s a sales growth edged down of Danish designer Arne based food industry consult-destination.” in October. European sales Jacobsen’s chairs including ing group, said McDonald’s 
“People are using our were up 6.4 percent for the the Egg chair, a classic of franchise owners have wide restaurants differently month. mid-century functionality discretion in how they dec­today than they did five, McDonald’s does not that would look right at orate their restaurants as 10, 20 years ago,” she said. release sales figures for home on “The Jetsons.” long as brand elements like “People are multitasking, individual restaurants. When McDonald’s first the golden arches are pres-doing more on a given day. The menu at the 186-hired Avanzi in 2006 to ent. 

Kellogg Co. anounces waffle shortage 
Associated Press are stocked at pre-shutdown levels, distributed nationally based on Charles said. stores’ sales histories of the waffles, ATLANTA — Dear Kellogg: Leggo Already customers are noticing Charles said. my Eggo! near-empty Eggo shelves on the “We are working around the clock 
Kellogg Co. says there will be a freezer aisle at many grocery stores. to restore Eggo store inventories to nationwide shortage of its popular Stay-at-home mom Joey Resciniti normal levels as quickly as possible,” Eggo frozen waffles until next sum-says she bought one of the last two she wrote in the e-mail. mer because of interruptions in pro-boxes of Eggos at a Walmart in Eggo first hit the shelves in 1960, duction at two of the four plants that Cranberry Township, Pa., on Monday. and its cult following grew in the fol-make them. The frozen waffles are a favorite of lowing years. Kellogg started using 
The company’s Atlanta plant was her 4-year-old daughter, Julia. the famed slogan “Leggo my Eggo” in shut down for an undisclosed period “We have eight of them, and if we 1972. For years, the waffles have been by a September storm that dumped ration those — maybe have half an a staple for busy moms and college stu­historic amounts of rain in the area. Eggo in one sitting — then it’ll last dents looking for a quick breakfast. Meanwhile, several production lines longer,” said Resciniti, who blogs about This week, news of the shortage at its largest bakery in Rossville, being a mother. “I told my husband that spread quickly on Twitter as shoppers Tenn., are closed indefinitely for maybe I need to put them on eBay.” reported not being able to find the repairs, company spokeswoman Kris Charles didn’t know how long the breakfast food. Fans of Eggos lament-Charles said in an e-mail. Atlanta plant was shut down, but said ed their scarcity on the waffle’s 
It will take until the middle of 2010 that it’s back at full production now. Facebook page, which has more than before shelves around the country The existing stock of Eggos will be 400 members. 
Collegeholdsfourthannualmulti-culturaldancerecital 
Beijing.” Following the open-played “Gallop of Horses.” clean. Phyoe said a tradition of “Lydia,” a French song per-
By ALICIA SMITH 

ing song, several students The recital also included a the festival is to throw water formed by junior Anna Bax, 
News Writer 

showcased their musical tal-variety of traditional dances. on each other. “Adieu Notre Petite Table” or 
ents by playing instruments Guan performed a traditional “By participating I hoped to Goodbye, Our Little Table,” a 
With offerings of dancing, from other cultures. dance entitled “Plum Flower.” share some of Pina Bausch’s French song performed by singing and food, students Amira El-Serafy, a Fulbright Guan said the ideas and a senior Rachel Raska, and came together Tuesday to exchange student taking class-dance was very taste of her “Caro Nome” or “Dear Name” learn about different cultures es at the College this year, pre-symbolic to “I know most people movement and an Italian song sang by sopho­during International Education sented two songs by a well-C h i n a . the Tanztheatre more Ashley Biehl. 
in the audience have
Week at Saint Mary’s College. known musician in her home According to (Dance Theatre) Many students enjoyed par-
never seen a Chinese
“Music and Dance Around country Egypt. Guan, the dance genre,” Fischer ticipating in the event. The World” presented students Karam Salem, a sophomore stands for per-dance before. So said. As a mem-“My favorite part is seeing with an assortment of per-at Holy Cross College, per-s e v e r a n c e ber and officer audience enjoying the per-
participating in this
formances from various cul-formed an original song enti-because “only of the student formance,” Guan said. “When I
kind of events is a
tures. This was the fourth tled “Bridges.” Salem, a native this flower can g r o u p , dance, I always think about year for the of Iraq, played stand the cold very great way to TransPose, [a how I can make everybody feel event. Saint the song on the of winter. dance collective joyful, so I can pass the joy 
introduce my culture
Mary’s junior “My favorite part is piano, and said “Mostly, I group] it was an from my heart to the other 
to the audience. “ 
Jinqui Guan he wrote the want to share opportunity to people. So when I see audi­
seeing audience

was the student song because he my culture. I show what our ences smiling, I am very representative enjoying the believed music performed a Jinqui Guan group is capable happy.” for the event, performance. When I could bridge the piece of Chinese of and demon-With many student partici­
junior
and was gap between his classical dance strate some pants and a large audience, 
dance, I always think

responsible for home country called “Plum i n t e r e s t i n g the event seemed be a success. 
about how I can make

much of the and other Flower” which dance form.” “I think the recital went very planning behind everybody feel joyful, nations. has a very beautiful significa-The event also included a well. It was very successful,” it. Chen Chen, a tion in China,” she said. “It is a variety of songs Guan said. “We 
so I can pass the joy

“I have sophomore at symbol for purity and perse-and arias. Junior had a lot of 
from my heart to the

always been Saint Mary’s, verance. I know most people in Jessica Gorski audience and 
“I think the recital
interested in other people. So when presented a the audience have never seen p e r f o r m e d the performers music and song on the a Chinese dance before. So “Verborgenheit,” went very well. It was were really 
I see audiences 

d a n c e . guzheng, a clas-participating in this kind of a traditional very sucessful. We good. Some of 
smiliing, I am very

Personally, I sical Chinese events is a very great way to German piece. them were pro-
had a lot of audience
dance and play happy.” instrument that introduce my culture to the The piece trans-fessional. It was 
and the performers
piano,” Guan is a cross audience.” lates to so great to see said. “So organ-between a dul-Another cultural dance per-“ S e c l u s i o n . ” were really good.” so many Saint 
Jinqui Guan

izing the recital cimer and a formed was “Tuu Poe Tuu First year Erin Mary’s students 
junior

is something harp. Chen Poe,” which translates into the Marks sang “Se having so much 
Jinqui Guan
that interests played “Liuyang “Burmese Water Festival Tu M’ami,” an talent. Art is a
junior
me and can make me more River,” and said the song Dance.” This dance was pre-ethnic song from bridge that can involved in the arts. I helped “depicts beautiful scenery of a sented by sophomore Shwe Italy entitled “If connect people with the planning for the event river.” Yee Phyoe and junior Ni La. You Love Me” in of different cul­last year, so I felt that I had Other students who played Another symbolic dance, the English. Other songs included tures. This recital really more experience this time.” instruments were junior Emily “Burmese Water Festival “Con Que La Lavare?” or reflects this point.” 
The event began with mem-Puscas on piano and first year Dance” represents washing “With What Then May I bers of Saint Mary’s Chinese Jin Yang on Erhu. Puscas away the sins from the past Bathe,” a Spanish song sang Contact Alicia Smith at class singing “Welcome To played “Arabesque” and Yang year and beginning fresh and by junior Krystina Harcourt, asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

Lupus 
continued from page 1 
back.” 
She soon changed her mind. Gorman needed to move for­ward. Giving in wasn’t giving up, she said. It was “getting it.” 
So she shaved her head. 
“I looked like G.I. Jane,” Gorman said. “But I felt phe­nomenal.” 
Gorman’s new haircut was “a real turning point.” When she adjusted her lifestyle, her health improved. Then the idea for the book came. 
“You want to win over this ill­ness and that’s not what it’s about. It’s about embracing it 
so you can move on,” Gorman said. “I wanted to share my story, that life with lupus can improve and this is how you can do it.” 
Gorman, who was never pas­sionate about writing, said recording her own story “came naturally.” Now published and hitting the shelves, her new book offers hope to those sitting in Gorman’s shoes years ago, encouraging and say if you work hard, listen to your body, and make diffi­cult choices for your body, you can do anything you want,” she said. 
After taking her self-imposed regimen, Gorman’s health has improved dramatically. She hasn’t had a flare-up since 2005, when she began her new treatments. With her new career as an author, she’s also working on an online blog and is returning to her original plans, but much stronger and wiser than before, Gorman said. 
In 2008, she and her hus­band welcomed their first daughter, Deirdre. 
“I felt proud, not just as a mother, but as a fighter,” Gorman said. “I thought, I’m 
“I didnt even know what lupus was when I was here. If I had envisioned in college the things I would go through with lupus, I’d probably want to curl up in a ball and die. It’s great that my alma mater has embraced me and the book.” 
Sarah Gorman author 
readers to embrace their ill­ness rather than ignore it. And the feedback has been “phe­nomenal,” Gorman said. 
“It’s nice to be able to stand up straight and tall and proud doing this my way.” 
The University will be a special stop for her tour, Gorman said. 
“I didn’t even know what lupus was when I was here. If I had envisioned in college the things I would go through with lupus, I’d proba­bly want to curl up and die,” Gorman said. “It’s great that my alma mater has embraced me and the book. It’s such 
an honor to come back, feeling fabulous and with so much behind me.” 
Contact Lily Hough at lhough@nd.edu 

Ark.policemanTasers10-year-oldgirl 
Associated Press 
LITTLE ROCK — A police officer in a small Arkansas town used a stun gun on an unruly 10-year-old girl after he said her mother gave him permission to do so. Now the town’s mayor is calling for an investigation into whether the Taser use was appropriate. 
According to a report by Officer Dustin Bradshaw, obtained Wednesday by The Associated Press, police were called to the Ozark home Nov. 11 because of a domestic distur­bance. When he Youth Shelter in Cecil. 

But McDaniel said he wants Arkansas State Police — and if they decline, the FBI — to investigate the incident. 
“People here feel like that he made a mistake in using a Taser, and maybe he did, but we will not know until we get an impartial investigation,” McDaniel said. 
The state police declined his request Tuesday, saying it only gets involved with criminal investigations — if the officer in question was accused of misconduct or targeted in an internal investi­
arrived, the girl “Her mother told me gation, for was curled up example —
to tase her if I needed 
on the floor, rather than 
to.” 
screaming, the matters of poli­report said. cy. 
Bradshaw ’s Dustin Bradshaw Kim Brunell, report said the a spokes-
police offcer
girl screamed, kicked and resisted any time her mother tried to get her in the shower before bed. 
“Her mother told me to tase her if I needed to,” Bradshaw wrote. 
The child was “violently kicking and verbally combat­ive” when Bradshaw tried to take her into custody, and she kicked him in the groin. So he delivered “a very brief drive stun to her back,” the report said. 
The names of the girl and her mother were redacted in the report. 
Ozark Mayor Vernon McDaniel said Wednesday that the girl wasn’t injured and is now at the Western Arkansas woman with 

the FBI in Little 
Rock, said her office neither confirms nor denies when it’s involved an investigation and declined to comment Wednesday. 
Police Chief Jim Noggle said no disciplinary action was taken against Bradshaw. He said Tasers are a safe way to subdue people who are a dan­ger to themselves or others. 
“We didn’t use the Taser to punish the child — just to bring the child under control so she wouldn’t hurt herself or somebody else,” Noggle said. 
If the officer tried to forceful­ly put the girl in handcuffs, he could have accidentally broken her arm or leg, Noggle said. 
He said a touch of the stun gun — “less than a second” — stopped the girl from being unruly, and she was hand­cuffed, he said. 
“She got up immediately and they put her in the patrol car,” McDaniel said. 
Noggle said the girl will face disorderly conduct charges as a juvenile in the incident. 
The girl’s father, Anthony Medlock, told the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette that his daughter has emotional prob­lems, but that she didn’t have a weapon and shouldn’t have been Tasered. 
“My daughter does not deserve to be tased and be treated like an animal,” said Medlock, who is divorced from the girl’s mother and does not have custody. 
Steve Tuttle, a spokesman for Taser, said it’s up to indi­vidual law enforcement agen­cies to decide when Taser use is appropriate. 
In some cases, a Taser “pre­sents the safer response to resistance compared with the alternatives such as fists, kicks, baton strikes, bean bag guns, chemical agents, or canine response,” Tuttle said in a statement. 
The police chief, who has been Tasered twice himself during training sessions, said his department has never had to Taser a child or elderly per­son before, but that in some instances, that could be neces­sary to ensure safety. 
“We don’t want to do things like this,” Noggle said. “This is something we have to do. We’re required to maintain order and keep the peace.” 

ArmyCorpsofEngineerslaunchesfloodgateproject 
Closure Structure as the key to 
Associated Press 
luring more business owners like 
HARVEY, La. — Mindful that Veitel. the suburban West Bank of New “This is the yellow brick road Orleans has regained its pre-to progress,” Aaron Broussard, Hurricane Katrina population the Jefferson Parish president, and is primed for growth, the crowed Friday at the ground-Army Corps of Engineers is breaking ceremony for what the launching a $1 billion effort to corps calls the West Closure keep the next storm at bay. Structure. 
The new flood protection is As the name implies, the West already having a potentially dan-Bank is west of the Mississippi gerous consequence, though: It’s River and the French Quarter, in encouraging more people to a place tourists pass through move into another bowl-shaped only if they’re on their way to area that experts consider per-swamp tours. So far, it has been haps the city’s most vulnerable spared catastrophic flooding. flank. Katrina passed to the east in 
While New Orleans’ population August 2005, and the West Bank plummeted by 300,000 after was one of the only dry places in Katrina, residents quickly the city after levees failed on the returned to the west bank of the East Bank, the main part of the Mississippi River, many under the metro area. mistaken impression that the But after Katrina, hurricanes area was safer. Rita and Gustav pushed water 

The fact that the West Bank levels dangerously high in canals didn’t flood was mainly chance, on the West Bank. however. Engineers say the “When we had Gustav, we had area’s 250,000 residents are water come in, but it was minor, exposed to surge from a storm thank God,” Veitel said. coming in at just the right angle, Roy Dokka, the executive direc­thanks in part to navigation and tor of the Center for nesses. designed to handle a 100-year tion opens the door for cheaper drainage canals that feed in. GeoInformatics at Louisiana “It’s the only land left for large storm rather than shelter the flood insurance and building 
So the corps broke ground last State University, said up to 70 populations to grow,” said state area for many centuries like lower to the ground. week on the West Closure percent of the West Bank could Rep. Ricky J. Templet, a dikes in the Netherlands. The Army Corps isn’t fazed by Structure, a floodgate and pump be underwater if a monster Republican who represents a Bea’s advice to West Bank the potential for development in system designed to close off those storm were to hit it. swath of the West Bank. “The developers and homeowners: this vulnerable area. canals and bolster the area’s lev-The West Bank project is one of sky’s the limit. On the West Bank, “Build high, build strong because “People tend to build and live ees. two the corps is building to pro-we were the last to get started on the level of protection is not suffi-around the coastal landscape, 
“The levees are a big deal. tect New Orleans, the other being our flood protection. Some peo-cient to build low and weak.” and that’s a natural thing for They’ve got to get them done,” a similar storm surge barrier on ple will be able to sleep at night If anything, though, building Southeast Louisiana regardless said Rosemary Veitel, owner of a the East Bank that closes off the now.” requirements will get more lax of whether you have the risk clothing boutique at the Fountain Inner Harbor Navigation Canal. They shouldn’t sleep too sound-after the levee system is finished. reduction in place or not,” said Park Centre, a new commercial With large areas of the West ly, according to Robert Bea, a Tom Rodrigue, the flood plain Tom Podany, the chief of the development with fake swans, Bank undeveloped pasture, civil engineer with the University manager for Jefferson Parish, corps’ Protection and Restoration spewing fountains and Roman woods and wetlands, the of California, Berkeley, and an said developers most likely would Office in New Orleans. “What statues more at home in Phoenix improved levee system will spur expert on the New Orleans levee wait for the levees to be certified (the levee system) does is recog­or Las Vegas than on the edge of development, especially since system. Bea called the West Bank as acceptable by the Federal nize that’s going to happen and the Louisiana swamp. most of the East Bank is project an example of the corps’ Emergency Management Agency provide for a way to increase 
Local officials see the West crammed with houses and busi-flawed levee building policies, before building. FEMA certifica-their safety.” 

The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, November 19, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

Determinism 
The controversy between free will and determinism continues to rage. In one way, this is unsurprising: The same controversy has raged, in one form or another, for two millennia, and it is clearly a ques­tion near to us in Daniel our understanding 
Sportiello 
of ourselves. In another way, how-Bound ever, that the con-
Variables 
troversy continues is deeply surpris­ing: Since the rise of quantum physics, it has been clear that our world is fun­damentally indeterministic — that nothing, including human action, is bound by determinate laws. 
It was the realization of Pythagoras 
— 
a realization later echoed by Galileo 

— 
that mathematics could be used to measure not just fields and buildings but also the motions of the planets and even music. It was a short step to sug­gest that mathematics could measure all things whatsoever — that the cos­mos, for all of its appearance of irra­tionality, nonetheless obeys a more fundamental order. It was the realiza­tion of Bohr that Pythagoras — and the two millennia of scientists who fol­lowed him — were wrong: The irra­tionality is no less fundamental than the rationality. We live not in a world of mechanism but, rather, in a world of probabilities: Fundamental particles do not even take on determinate posi­tion or number unless forced to do so by interaction — and, even then, their indeterminacy is merely shifted into another part of the system. The achievement of quantum physics is its ability to precisely measure and track this indeterminacy, nothing more. At the most fundamental level, matter is opaque to our understanding: Events not only are not but moreover cannot be predicted with precision. In this realization, one hears the echo of Neoplatonist laughter. 



At the scale of human action, of course, quantum-physical indetermi­nacy tends to average out, yielding the more or less deterministic world that we experience; it is a short step to sug­gest that human action is also more or less determined. This suggestion is tempting — and would be more tempt­ing, were the social sciences capable of predicting human behavior with anything even remotely approaching precision. Of course, this is hardly fair, since the same charge could be leveled against meteorology — and few have ever been tempted to ascribe free will to the weather. This only strengthens the point, however: None of the sci­ences, for all of their progress, seem any closer to capturing the entirety of phenomena in deterministic laws — a goal that seems to move, paradoxical­ly, farther and farther away with time. 
The truth, however, is that consider­ations like these are irrelevant: Indeterminism might be, in one sense, the conclusion of scientific investiga­tion, but determinism is, in another sense, its first principle. 
Scientific investigation of the world seeks the causes of the phenomena that we experience. In seeking the causes of phenomena, however, we assume that there are causes to be found: We assume that the phenomena that we experience did not happen randomly but, rather, had to happen given some conditions more funda­mental. And if we fail to find the cause of some phenomenon, we assume that it is our investigation — not determin­ism — that has failed. 
Kant would have called this a tran­scendental argument for determinism: it is an argument not that determinism is true — and, after all, it is not — but rather that we must assume the truth of determinism in investigating the world in which we live. It is because this point is insufficiently understood, I suspect, that the controversy between free will and determinism continues to rage. Indeed, the insistence upon free will is perhaps best understood as the acknowledgement that our scientific explanation of human behavior will always fall short — as will, for that matter, our scientific explanation of anything whatsoever. 
The acknowledgement that deter­minism fails is only possible insofar as we can specify the determinate extent to which and way in which determin­ism fails — which is exactly what quantum physics does. But it also guarantees that perfect determinism 
— a theory that captures the entirety of phenomena with perfect accuracy — lies at an infinite remove from us. The price for free will is that we live in a world that is, at its most fundamental level, incomprehensible to us. Our knowledge of the world, expressed as it must be in general terms, will always be an approximation — that is, a falsification — of a particularity that no general analysis could ever cap­ture. 
Perfect determinism would be a the­ory simultaneously and paradoxically general and particular; it would be, in other words, God’s knowledge of him­self. Which is to say, of course, that it would just be God — a self-determin­ing determinism forever beyond human ken. The gap between this impossibly perfect theory and us is just the gap between the infinite and the finite — a gap that we cannot ever jump. Whether this renders our ration­ality tragic or merely absurd is, of course, a question for another time. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his second year of the Ph.D. program in philosophy. Listen to his radio show on WVFI every Sunday at 3 p.m. He can be contacted at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News Sports 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Robert Singer Alex Barker OBSERVER POLL 
Irena Zajickova Jared Jedick What are you looking forward to most Megan Loney Barrick Boollman in the next two weeks? 
Graphics Scene 

“What counts is not necessarily the
Blair Chemidlin Alexandra Thanksgiving 

size of the dog in the fight — it's the
Viewpoint Kilpatrick New Moon 

size of the fight in the dog.” 
Stephanie Vossler Last home football game 
Dwight D. Eisenhower 
Other 
former U.S. president 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, November 19, 2009 page 11 
Your GPA and the end of the world 
Each mid-November, just as the perma­cloud settles in over South Bend, the days get depressingly shorter, and due dates for papers and exams start looming on the horizon — the Church starts talking about 
the end of the world.  
And while the Church Fathers who  Fr. Lou DelFra  
set the calendar  
surely couldn’t have  Faith Point  
predicted the weath­ 
er patterns or exam  
schedules of the uni­ 

versity that Fr. Sorin had not yet founded, this talk about the end of the world these days seems somehow to, well, fit. 
“The sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will be falling from the sky, and the powers in the heavens will be shaken. And then they will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds ...” Take out the Son of Man surfing on the clouds, and you pretty much have a South Bend winter. “All of heaven and earth will pass away.” Excellent, any chance we can have that happen before the Orgo Final? 
Of course, beneath the joking is a bit of nervousness. The reminder that the world will end is not feel-good stuff. I personally hope I am long gone before the world blows up. I think I’ll enjoy it more if I can watch it from the afterlife (preferably from the upper level, if you know what I mean), rather than sitting in the attic of Dillon with molten lava bubbling up around me. 
If taken seriously — and there is no indi­cation in the Gospels that we are not meant to take these words seriously — the fact that this world and its history, achieve­ments and evolution will have a termina­tion point, can lead us into fatalism. If all passes, then nothing matters. Why even get up in the morning? 
Yet, fatalism is certainly counter to the spirit that Jesus has been in recent weeks generating within his disciples — one of fearlessness, boldness, zealous work to build up the Kingdom on earth, untiring care for one another. How do we reconcile the two? Can one be boldly committed to the Kingdom of God on earth, against a horizon of impending finality? 
Three spiritual realities help me fit all this cataclysmic talk into the rest of my life and faith. The first positive effect of Jesus’ teachings about the end of the world is that, if all things pass away, then nothing in this life can become so important that it will completely define or determine me. Of course, not money, not the lack of money, not any material possession. But also, not GPA, not career, not others’ perceptions of me. All of these have their immediate importance and impact. But, in the light of Jesus’ end-time teachings, none have the power of final determination of our worth. 

Cultivating such a spirituality can free us from all kinds of entanglements that might otherwise prevent us from loving, and being loved by, God and others. 
Second, when I imagine the end of the world, I must admit that my images are largely determined by scenes from “Independence Day,” and I look forward to updating them after “2012.” I have images of the Dome melting under red-hot magma, all the little towers on the Disney castle shattering into a million pieces and the house where I grew up bursting into non-existence. Again, taken seriously, such thoughts are not going to get me out of bed tomorrow, ready to spread the Gospel. On the other hand, along with the end of the Dome, Disney and my childhood home, the end of human history also means the end of war, world hunger, disease, injustice, poverty, homelessness, fractured relation­ships, abuse, sex trafficking, addictions, mental illness. And while we are absolutely obligated, particularly as Christians, to devote our lives to ending such realities now, there is also something tremendously liberating about knowing that no suffering or injustice is permanent. No limitations we currently experience define the totality of our human existence. All will be taken up in God, where God will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and there will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain, 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

What about the Notre Dame 88? 
As we’ve all heard, this week marks the 40th anniver­sary of the suspension of the Notre Dame 10. In 1969, 10 students were suspended under the “15-minute rule” after protesting Dow Chemical, the CIA and the Vietnam War. These students faced expulsion and arrest, but would not back down in trying to stand up for their morals. As we remember this important event, I ask Notre Dame to also remember the modern-day Notre Dame 10: The 88 people arrested at Notre Dame during a pro-life demonstration last spring. 
In the weeks leading up to President Obama’s com­mencement speech at Notre Dame last May, our campus became the site of one of the largest pro-life demonstra­tions of the year. Thousands of pro-life advocates flocked to Notre Dame to peacefully demonstrate against our decision to invite the pro-choice president to be honored at Notre Dame. 
Among the 88 arrested were an elderly priest, several nuns, Norma McCorvey (Jane Roe of Roe v. Wade), Alan Keyes, Jane Brennan (author of Motherhood Interrupted), and many other non-violent participants in America’s pro-life movement. These brave people prayed the rosary, sang religious hymns and partook in other peaceful means of protest. All were arrested, handcuffed and hauled off to jail, where they spent time in custody. It was even more shocking when the charges were not immediately dropped, and even worse that these people had to return to South Bend to plead “not guilty” and request jury trials. 

Many of these 88 people are still facing jail time. While the St. Joseph County prosecutor is now in charge of the proceedings, Notre Dame still has a prerogative, as the original complainant, to seek that the charges be dropped. Yet Notre Dame has repeatedly refused to seek such leniency or even answer the pro-lifers’ requests for dia­logue. 
It is a shame that public arrests of pro-life demonstrators took place at Notre Dame. The guilt of these arrests at America’s premier Catholic university ought to be enough of a punishment to offset whatever was inflicted on Notre Dame’s property rights. 
As we remember the Notre Dame 10 this week, let us not forget the Notre Dame 88. We should respect all who dare to speak out for Catholic morality, not prosecute them. 
Sean Mullen 
sophomore Keough Hall Nov. 18 
Lighten up 
As a longtime fan of both humor and Mobile Party (not synonymous, but darn close) I fully support the Nov. 13 installment. Considering aforementioned obser­vation that Mobile Party is approximately equal to humor, I am in favor of their work. From what I gather, Mobile Party makes fun of anything and everything that most Notre Dame students consider humorous (or high­ly offensive). Given this standard, I find it equivalently humorous that someone would choose the unfortunate ginger issue to take a stand on (“Ginger Pride,” Nov. 16). 
When Mobile Party makes fun of tools, do you stand up and complain? No. When Mobile Party makes fun of that one chick in the North Face, do you picket? Doubt it (unless that chick is actually you). The point is that these jokes appear in a comic strip intended for your entertainment. Not for you to get your panties in a bind thus dangerously stoking the fire on the carpet up to the already matching drapes into a blazing ging-ferno. Lighten up. And by lighten up I mean go ahead and con­tinue dying your hair to some less offensive color, red really gets my ire up. Long live Mobile humor. 
Mike Kelly 
alum class of 2009 Nov. 18 

for the old order of things has passed away. 
Finally, Jesus’ words about the end-time make it clear that (apart from God, of course) only one thing from this world will endure — us. In this spiritual space, we can hear Jesus’ teachings about our per­sonal, end-time encounter with God in all its sublime simplicity and beauty: When I was hungry, you gave me something to eat. When I was thirsty you gave me drink; naked, and you clothed me. Here is our totality, the summary of our human worth. There is no place here for what we have acquired, achieved career-wise, or gained in the admiration of others. Instead, the sum total of our worth and existence is composed of one thing alone: our ability to feed, give drink, clothe. Here is the ulti­mate liberation of Jesus’ teachings on the end of the world: In the end — and so, too, right now — all that matters is our ability to love the only realities of this world that will remain after all else passes — God and one another. 
This week’s Faith Point was written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, Director of Bible Studies and ACE chaplain. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Terrorists are not Americans 
American Civil Liberties are for Americans. 
Terrorists who have commited acts of war against the United States should not be pro­tected by our sacred rights. No American should have to be assigned to defend the likes of those evil men, and no city (especially the place of victimization) should have to waste precious time and resources trying to get proper justice served. In fact, it is digusting. Terrorists demote themselves to second class citizens the moment they carry out their plans, and we should treat them accordingly. They had no respect for human life or human rights as a combatant, so why should we respect theirs? Justice given should be the justice served. 
Mark Easley 
sophomore Keenan Hall Nov. 18 

Appreciate what you are offered 
Earlier this week, Scholastic published an article examining the issue of whether or not student ath­letes should be awarded a portion of the revenue they bring to the University through private busi­ness deals. The article was a thoughtful considera­tion of the issue, but was unfortunately overshad­owed by one quotation from a member of our foot­ball team. I am going to repeat this quotation in its entirety, simply so everyone who’s behind in read­ing their school publications can experience the full effect: 
“Other student athletes, however, question the notion that receiving a scholarship is enough in return for the money they generate. One member of the football team says, ‘The slaves were provid­ed a house to stay. They were given meals, but in the grand scheme of things they had nothing at the end of the day. That’s a harsh comparison, but it’s essentially modern-day slavery.’” (Scholastic, “Should Student-Athletes Be Paid?,” Nov. 12). 
This metaphor, though acknowledged by the speaker as “harsh,” is both inapplicable and inap­propriate. Let’s accept that the application of this analogy is valid: slaves with a 60 percent success rate would suffer consequences much graver than the occasional tired Observer comic strip or dis­paraging comments from the likes of Mark May. If the unpaid football program were truly ”essentially modern-day slavery,” a 6-4 record would be met with dire retribution. 
It should go without saying that slavery is not a joking matter. Dehumanizing one’s fellow men and women, subjecting them to relentless manual labor and indescribable abuse? Yeah, they don’t get free tutoring or trips to college campuses across the nation. I realize this athlete’s statement may have been offered in jest, but both within the context of the article and in the larger scheme of the issue, it is distasteful and entirely preposterous. His atti­tude toward the privilege of attending and repre­senting Notre Dame (which he chose of his own free will) is unappreciative and deluded. Thousands of people across the country would gladly take his place at this school. Regardless of whether or not student athletes deserve a portion of the profits they bring to this university, at the end of the day they are receiving a valuable, world-class education; I hope this particular foot­ball player is duly appreciative of this opportunity. 
Monica VanBladel 
sophomore 
Farley Hall 
Nov. 17 
The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Thursday, November 19, 2009 
By MATT BROWN, KAITLYN CONWAY, COURTNEY ECKERLE, MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL, JESS SHAFFER, TATIANA SPRAGINS and DECLAN SULLIVAN 
Scene Writers 
Avatar: The Last Airbender 
“Avatar: The Last Airbender,” was a program on Nickelodeon from 2005 to 2008. It was about an “airbender” named Aang who is charged with saving the world from the Fire Nation through his mastery of all four elements — fire, water, air, and earth — which only he can accomplish due to his status as the Avatar. The show proved to be very popular with both young and more mature audiences, and it won multiple awards and critical respect. In early 2007, it was announced that M. Night Shyamalan had been hired to direct a live action version, the first work the director would be directing that he had not written. 
Sex and the City 
Perhaps one of the best TV-to-movie adapta­tions, the fabulous women of “Sex and the City” hit the big screen in the summer of 2008. In fact, the screen adaptation was so successful that Carrie, Samantha, Charlotte and Miranda will return to movie theaters everywhere in the summer of 2010. Making near seamless transi­tion from HBO television to cinema, the bright and glitzy big screen version of “Sex and the City” has all the crucial components of the great success. With the perfect ratio of romance, girl time, drama, comedy, high fashion and a trendy 
soundtrack, the any diehard fan of the show woulddefinitely get a kick out of the remade movie. 


Firefly 

Due to a rabid base of loyal fans the 2002 show “Firefly” was given a conclusion in the 2005 film “Serenity.” In “Firefly,” captain Mal Reynolds is the leader of a ragtag bunch of renegade smugglers in a surprising setting that can only be described as a space western, and even more surprising, it works … flawlessly. With a trigger-happy mercenary, childish pilot, mas­ter mechanic, high -class prostitute, two ex-revolution­ary officers, a priest with mysterious mil­itary connec ­tions, a wacked­
out 
human weapon and sen­sitive doctor all 

on 
the same boat, it is a show filled with hilari­

ous 
interaction and is just plain fun. Fellow fans I leave you with this, I am a browncoat. 


Charlie’s Angels 

Whoever didn’t watch the “Charlie’s Angels” show was missing out. The three beautiful 
completed. As a kid, I watched it multiple times in a row, because I could not get enough of their wholesome good­

triumphing-over evil. A few years ago, I re-
watched this gem of a movie, and it was 
… shall we say, only nostalgically awe­
some? The plot is nonsensical, the one-liners lackluster and the plot does not carry well. The movie is still a classic but far from the quality we’ve come to expect in our movies. 
Lizzy McGuire 
Once there was a lovabl e blond preteen who had a televi ­sion show 
on The 
Disney 
Ch an ne l, 
and her 
name was 
Hilary 
Duff, or 
Lizzy 
McGuire. 
Narrated by 
her cartoon 
alt er-ego, 
Lizzy helped 
young kids 
everywhere 
hash out 
their angst 
and dilemmas 
of elementary 

and middle school life. Then one day, Lizzy graduated, not just from the middle school but also to the big screen. In this wild adventure, she left the bland setting of American suburbs and departed to Rome. Here she conquers her stage fright and also discovers that she has an Italian lookalike who’s a famous pop star. Add an international love interest and the complication of a friend who has always wanted to be a little bit more. With all the drama and cutesy pop music that makes Disney television so addictive, this movie is a successful screen adaptation of the child­hood favorite. 
Star Trek 

Joining the realm of wizards and vampires in pre-release fever, the announcement of a “Star Trek” franchise being revamped into a movie to be directed by “Heroes” creator J.J. Abrams had fans across all generations geeking out. It also brought much deserved attention to a new Captain James T. Kirk, played by Chris Pine, which more shallow -minded trekkies can be totally grateful for. The action goes back to Kirk’s origin in the Federation, and the begin­nings of his famous relationships with Spock, Uhura, Scotty, Sulu and McCoy. So much more than a new spin on an old story, Abrams brought a re-born franchise to the masses as an incarnation of “Star Trek” that fans can wish to live long and prosper. 
Contact Matt Brown at mbrown14@nd.edu, Kaitlyn Conway at kconway2@nd.edu, Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu, Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu, Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd.edu, Tatiana Spragins at tspragin@nd.edu and Declan Sullivan at dsulliv9@nd.edu 

ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, November 19, 2009 page 13 
I’ve walked the halls of Chilton spazzing about my first missed test and cruel gossipy girls, stressfully compared the pros and cons of Dean versus Jess (L ogan 
Adriana Pratt 
was never the one) 
Assistant Scene 
and 
Editor 
waited anxious­ly for my college acceptance letters, calming my nerves with a cup of Luke’s cof­fee. 
I’ve fought with Richard and Emily Gilmore amidst Friday night din­ners, celebrated with all of Stars Hollow when the Dragonfly Inn opened and laughed as I coached Kirk, by far the town’s quirkiest resi­dent, through his first date. 
I’ve even structured this article similarly to Rory’s high school valedic­torian speech, recounting numerous adventures led by the people of Stars Hollow, who 
opened up a world no one wants to leave. “Gilmore Girls,” a show vibrantly poignant, realistic and lovable, created characters that not only entered your life for an hour a week (or two hours daily if you watch the ABC Family re-runs …) but also ingrained them­selves into your heart and mind. 
Kirk was the precursor to “The Office’s” Andy and Dwight. Lorelai was the moth­er and best friend you always came to in times of need. Rory was the girl who, even when she fell apart, kept it all togeth­er. Luke was the soulmate you always saw yourself ending up with. 
The closing of the “Gilmore 
Girls” 
series was like a delicious Thanksgiving feast without the pumpkin pie. It was nice and all, but that pleasantly and slightly robust feeling of glut­tonous contentment was miss­ing. Rory (Alexis Bledel) hopped on the Obama cam­paign trail, Lorelai (Lauren Graham) and Luke (Scott Patterson) reunited and the town said their goodbyes. But as Disney so wisely taught us, a story is not finished until there’s a happily-ever-after ending and too many questions were left unanswered for this story to be complete. 
Even Amy Sherman-Palladino, creator and execu­tive producer of “Gilmore 
Girls,” agrees. 
She and her hus­
band Daniel kind of (screwed),” Sherman-Palladino said. 
Did you read that line care­fully enough? It’s still possible that a “Gilmore Girls” movie could be created. Sherman-Palladino admitted in the same article that she was still in touch with Graham and Bledel and that if there was a good enough story to tell, they would tell it. 
Amy, three years is enough time to think about what kind of story to tell. Before Graham and Bledel get too old and wrinkly, please give them a plot to run with. Bledel’s career is crying for some reinvigoration, especially after her latest flop “Post-Grad.” Sure, Graham’s 
entered the we all know she’ll always be a Gilmore. The characters you created are too fantastic to bury in a series finale and your fans too enthusiastic to leave stranded in the land of what-ifs. 
“Gilmore Girls,” where you lead, I will follow. Any-any­where that you tell me to. Please lead us, your fans, to the movie theatres to see that final perfect wedding between Luke and Lorelai, the union of Rory and her future spouse (hopeful­ly Jess) and a comforting clo­sure for all of Stars Hollow. For Kirk’s sake, give us more Gilmore. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author 



People always want more, keep his family together. last episode . In the last that Will Arnett and ules in order to shoot . especially of things they After the show was can -scene, Ron Howard, who Michael Cera may have Since the end of AD, many can ’t have . They want celled in 2006, AD fans does the narration for the been holding up develop -of the cast members have more time, 
they want more were up in arms. Though it series, is 
pitched an idea ment, but gone onto very successful money, they want more ran for three years and for a show based on the m o s t careers. freedom garnered much critical Bluth family. He replies: “I As of now, the movie and they Genna McCabe acclaim, the show never don ’t see it as a series . seems to be moving for ­w a n t managed to build a solid Maybe a movie .” For ward. Early predictions m o r e fan base, and was thus cut nearly four years fans have a release date of 
Scene Writer 

“Arrested from the air. have hung on those 2011, but with no 
Since the time it was can-three words and cemented script Development. ” Lucky for celled, AD’s cult following it appears or production fans of “Arrested has continued to exponen-that their date it is Development,” more adven-tially, annoying original AD dreams hard to tures with the Bluth family fans who blame its cancel-m a y k n o w . may well be in the cards. lation on low ratings. But finally be For all the 
For those unfamiliar with the fact remains that many coming true. anxious AD fans out “Arrested Development,” it people are hungering for S p e c u l a t i o n there, one thing is tells the story of a once -more. Now the big question about the film has certain: all the cast wealthy family which falls on everyone ’s mind is: been confirmed members are on under police investigation “Will there be a movie?” recently as board and it for possibly shady business The answer appears to be Mitchell Hurwitz, appears that every-practices. In the center of “ Y e s . ” creator and exec-one is very inter ­everything is Michael R u m o r s utive producer, ested in making Bluth, played by Jason about a has gone on this movie a reality. Bateman, the only nor-f i l m record saying he If nothing else, they mal level-headed child start -is working on a know that it will be of the Bluth family. It e d screenplay with a lucrative venture, falls upon him to keep f l y -his co -executive as there has been a his family together i n g producer James constant interest through several years after Vallely. It appears expressed since the 
of hardship . Add a t h e that until recently show went off the couple quirky sib -a i r -the biggest road -air. Oh, and rumor lings, a controlling ing of block for progress is that David Cross mother and a t h e on the film was is so excited, he father in jail and whether all the blue himself. you have the mak -actors were on ings of a hilarious board with a The views sitcom. Yet, through reunion. recent words have con -expressed in this column treachery and Hurwitz insisted that he firmed that all cast mem -are those of the author and accusations, would not go ahead with bers are interested in the not necessarily those of M i c h a e l the project unless all the project . At this point it The Observer. m a n -main actors were com -may prove difficult to Contact Genna McCabe at ages to mitted . Rumors flew arrange everyone’s sched-gmccabe@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

NBA 

HawkswintheirsixthgameinarowbehindJohnson 
Wizards end Cavs’ five-game winning streak; Knicks win second game of the year; 76ers come from behind to win 
The Heat played without Udonis on a jumper. He fouled Stevenson, 
Associated Press 
Haslem, who sat out after falling his old pseudo-rival from postsea-
ATLANTA — Joe Johnson made on his left shoulder in a loss to sons past. He missed another it two straight 30-point games, Oklahoma City the previous night. jumper, with Stevenson in his Josh Smith dominated during a Then, Quentin Richardson sus-face. And then James was whis­decisive first-half run and the tained a lower back strain early in tled for a technical for arguing Atlanta Hawks won their sixth in the third quarter and didn’t that a foul — and not a jump ball the row, beating the Miami Heat return, further cutting into — should have been called when 105-90 on Wednesday night to Miami’s depth. Stevenson’s hand stopped the reclaim a share of the NBA’s best reigning league MVP on a drive to record. Wizards 108, Cavs 91 the basket. 
Johnson scored 30 points on the LeBron James was stymied heels of a 35-point effort against down the stretch by DeShawn Knicks 110, Pacers 103 Portland on Monday. Smith was Stevenson, Antawn Jamison deliv-Al Harrington scored 13 of his all over the stat sheet: 16 points, ered 31 points and 10 rebounds 26 points in the fourth quarter 14 rebounds, seven assists, two in his season debut, and the against his former team, and the blocks and two steals. Washington Wizards beat the New York Knicks beat the Indiana 
The Hawks (10-2) remained Cleveland Cavaliers Wednesday Pacers on Wednesday night to perfect at home and finally night to end a six-game losing snap a six-game losing streak. seemed to awaken the city of streak. Larry Hughes had 22 points and Atlanta to just how good this team Wearing a white protective 10 rebounds, Wilson Chandler might be. The first sellout of the sleeve over the right shoulder that scored 18 points and David Lee season, 18,729, turned out at sidelined him since October, added 17 for the Knicks (2-9), Philips Arena. Jamison looked in midseason who overcame a double-digit 
Michael Beasley led the Heat form from the start, scoring 13 deficit in the final period. Eddy with 21 points. Dwyane Wade was points in the first quarter. Curry scored 10 points in 12 min-held to 15 on 6-of-18 shooting, James finished with 34 points utes in his first game since he tore ending a streak of 23 straight reg-and nine assists, but he scored his right calf muscle on the open­ular-season games with at least only six points in the fourth quar-ing day of training camp. 20 points. ter while shooting 3 for 7. No one Danny Granger scored 30 of his 
The Hawks took control by else scored more than 10 points 33 points in the first half, but outscoring Miami 28-8 over the for Cleveland, which was without fouled out in the fourth quarter final 8 minutes of the first half. the injured Shaquille O’Neal and and wasn’t a factor after halftime. Johnson got things rolling with a Anderson Varejao. Dahntay Jones added 25 points 3-pointer, but Atlanta did most of The Cavaliers had been figuring for the Pacers (5-4), who had won its damage out in the open court out how to play short-handed, five straight. with Smith leading the way. winning five consecutive games Indiana shot 59 percent in the 
He had a thunderous dunk off a heading into Wednesday. But first half, but 24 percent in the steal by Jamal Crawford and lob after racing to a 17-point lead in second. pass from Mike Bibby, and anoth-the second quarter, they allowed The Pacers led 93-80 in the er dunk after Johnson swiped an the Wizards to come back, led fourth quarter before the Knicks errant pass by Wade. Finally, with mainly by Jamison. got hot. Back-to-back 3-pointers the quarter winding down and the He did have help. Gilbert by Harrington cut Indiana’s lead Hawks stretching their lead, Arenas began 3 of 16 — and fin-to 97-96 with 3:56 to play, and Smith bulled his way inside and ished 6 for 22 — but wound up New York finally took the lead on powered right through Jermaine with 18 points, eight assists and a pair of free throws by Hughes O’Neal to bank in a shot and draw six rebounds, and Caron Butler with 3:11 to go. the foul. had 19 points. The Wizards finally Granger fouled out with 1:26 

Smith pumped his fist defiantly got to put all three of their past left and the Knicks leading 101­while O’Neal stared in disbelief, All-Stars on the court at the same 100. New York pulled away from as if wondering what he could do time. there as Granger sat on the bench to slow the Hawks’ forward. He Jamison injured his shoulder with his head down. had 11 points, five rebounds, an during an exhibition game last Granger shot 11 for 14, includ­assist and a block during the run, month against Cleveland, coinci-ing 5 of 6 3-pointers. He did it all, 88-76. The Pacers hung on and and passed to Williams for the pushing Atlanta to a 60-43 half-dentally, and after that healed, he scoring on drives and jumpers led by 11 when he returned to layup on the fast break. time lead. was sidelined with the flu. while still finding time to grab six action at the 6:29 mark. The Bobcats never got off a shot 
Miami cut its deficit to five After Jamison’s jumper put boards. The Pacers shot 59 per-on their final possession. points late in third quarter, but Washington ahead 60-57 midway cent in the first half and led 69-54 76ers 86, Bobcats 84 Stephen Jackson scored 10 of the Hawks reserves helped ice the through the third quarter, James at the break. Lou Williams’ layup with 3.1 his 26 points in the fourth quarter. victory early in the fourth. Marvin went into take-over-the-game The Pacers came out cold in the seconds remaining lifted the Gerald Wallace added 11 points Williams was the only starter on mode for the next 1½ minutes. He second half, missing seven of their Philadelphia 76ers to a come-and 12 rebounds for the reeling the floor as Atlanta quickly made three consecutive 3-point-first eight shots. Hughes made a from-behind victory over the Bobcats (3-8), who dropped their restored its lead to 91-75, holding ers, a personal 9-0 run that gave 3-pointer to cut Indiana’s lead to Charlotte Bobcats on Wednesday sixth straight and fell to 0-6 on the Heat without a field goal until the Cavaliers a 66-60 lead. 71-62. night. the road. Michael Beasley finally scored But Butler and Andray Blatche Jones made a 3-pointer, and Andre Iguodala scored 25 Jackson played his second with 7:22 remaining. Zaza combined for 11 points during a Tyler Hansbrough had a dunk points, Williams had 19 and Elton game for the Bobcats since being Pachulia, Joe Smith, Jamal 16-2 run that put the Wizards and a three-point play during a Brand contributed season highs of acquired with Acie Law from Crawford and Maurice Evans ahead 95-78 with a little more 10-1 run that gave Indiana an 82-19 points, 11 rebounds and six Golden State on Monday for Raja combined with Williams to put the than 6 minutes remaining. Much 63 lead. blocked shots for the Sixers, who Bell and Vladimir Radmanovic. visiting team away. of that stretch came with James New York bounced back with snapped a two-game losing Jackson nearly erased a seven-
This was a rematch of last sea-taking a breather on the sideline. an 11-0 run that included six streak. Rodney Carney had 10 point deficit single-handedly in son’s opening-round playoff When he returned to the court, points by Harrington, but Indiana points for Philadelphia. the fourth quarter. He hit a tough series, won by the Hawks in seven instead of leading a comeback, still led 86-76 at the end of the With the score tied at 84, Boris jumper in the lane and then games. They were swept in the James became part of the prob-third. Diaw missed a baseline jumper drained a 3-pointer to give following round by LeBron James lem. He turned the ball over with Granger committed his fifth foul and Iguodala gathered the Charlotte an 82-81 advantage and the Cleveland Cavaliers. an errant pass. He shot an airball with 11:07 to play and Indiana up rebound. He dribbled to midcourt with 2:09 left. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt., no experience needed, cus­tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835. ——————————————— CHILDCARE Needed for Catholic family, 8-10 hours per week, in Granger, $8 per hour. Must have own transport. 
althoffamy@yahoo.com or 
574-271-0383. ——————————————— 
FOR SALE 
Newly renovated 3 bdrm, 2.5 bath home 1 mi. east of ND. 54250 N. 27th St. New furnace/AC, roof, win­dows, siding, fixtures, carpet, etc. Very nice neighborhood. $127,000. Call 574-386-2763. ——————————————— Custom Irish Tie Dye. Alum busi­ness,free campus delivery www.swirlysensations.com ———————————————­1999 Chevy Cavalier. Call 574-273­8683. ——————————————— 
FOR RENT 
Irish Crossings and Dublin Village 3 and 4 bdr, furnished and unfur­nished. January and June 2010 leases available. www.cespm.info Call 574-968-0112. ———————————————­Ivy Residential condo available Dec.09-May 2010. Call 607-221-5843. ——————————————— 522 Napoleon Street: 1-2 student Nice ktchn,bath,2bdrm,storage Washer/dryer. 5 blks W. off ND Ave. $580/mo+utl (219)629-5483 ——————————————— andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES ——————————————— 4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES OF NATURE AND SERENITY. 9 MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME. $1,200 FOR WEEKEND. CALL GEORGIA PEACH BED AND BREAKFAST @269-357-6979. 

TICKETS 

HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top $$. 574-251-1570 ——————————————— VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232-0964. ——————————————— 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-17819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu ——————————————— 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu ——————————————— Considering Adoption? ND Alums Hoping to Adopt. If you are an expectant mother searching for a family, please see our website at http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro­file.net. ——————————————— 

Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Thursday, November 19, 2009 
page 15 
NCAA Men’s Hockey USCHO Division I Rankings 
team previous 
1 Miami (Ohio) (42) 1 2 North Dakota (2) 2 3 Denver (2) 4 4 Mass.-Lowell (3) 5 5 Cornell 3 6 Michigan State (1) 13 7 Colorado College 10 8 Bemidji State 7 9 Yale 12 10 Alaska Fairbanks 9 11 Massachusetts 14 12 Nebraska-Omaha 11 13 Quinnipiac 20 14 NOTRE DAME 8 15 Wisconsin NR 16 Michigan 6 17 Vermont 15 18 Boston College 16 19 Princeton 19 20 Minnesota-Duluth 18 21 Ferris State NR 22 St. Cloud State NR 23 Colgate NR 24 Boston University 17 25 Merrimack NR 
NCAA Women’s Cross Country USTFCCCA Division I Poll 
team  previous  
1  Washington  1  
2  Villanova  2  
3  Princeton  4  
4  Oregon  5  
5  Florida  3  
6  Colorado  6  
7  West Virginia  7  
8  Florida State  9  
9  Texas Tech  8  
10  Stanford  14  
11  Penn State  11  
12  Syracuse  10  
13  Minnesota  17  
14  Duke  15  
15  Georgetown  12  
16  Illinois  13  
17  Arizona State  16  
18  Iowa State  18  
19  BYU  22  
20  Virginia  19  
21  Providence  21  
22  SMU  25  
23  UTEP  NR  
24  NOTRE DAME  NR  
25  New Mexico  20  



around the dial 
College Football 
Colorado at Oklahoma State 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 
College Basketball 
North Carolina vs. Ohio State 9:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 


Owners don’t always set example 
Associated Press 
Roger Goodell was hang­ing with the common folks last Sunday, enjoying the experience of an NFL game from end zone seats in Tennessee. It was, he would say later, a perfectly fine day to watch football. 
No drunks puking in the aisle next to him. No foul­mouthed fans screaming obscenities in his ear. 
Just an elderly man prancing about, flipping off Buffalo fans with both mid­dle fingers while celebrating the Titans’ 41-17 victory over the Bills. 
Worried about the trash in the stands ruining your game and setting a bad example for your children? 

Make sure they don’t stray near the owner’s box. 
Apparently youthful exu­berance got the better of Bud Adams. The calendar may say he’s 86, but Adams seems to take as much pleasure berating his oppo­nents as he did when he and his Houston Oilers won the first American Football League championship nearly a half century ago. 
And he knows something about the extended middle finger. A lot of people in Houston gave it to him when he carted his team off to Tennessee, leaving behind a mountain of taxpayer debt at the Astrodome. 
Unfortunately for Adams, his in-your-face moment was captured by a fan on video. That led to an obliga­tory fine from Goodell, and an obligatory apology of sorts by way of a prepared statement. 
That’s unusual only because most of the time owners only issue state­ments when they’re heading out of town with their team in the middle of the night or, as Redskins owner Dan Snyder did recently, explain­ing why it was a bad idea for fans to bring signs into the stadium calling him an idiot. 
Out in Los Angeles, Frank and Jamie McCourt have been issuing all kinds of statements, thinking, per­haps, that fans really do care which one comes out of a divorce owning the Dodgers. They don’t, but they do care about the McCourts spending so much money on lawyers that they won’t have enough to sign free agent John Lackey. 
Still, being an owner used to mean never having to explain yourself. If you’ve got enough money to own a team, other people can do it for you. 
Mark Cuban has taken that a step further, if only because he would never get anything done if he had to keep talking about every fine he’s collected or every insult he’s handed out. When the Dallas Mavericks owner feels the need to insult Kenyon Martin’s mother, he sends his regrets on his blog. 
IN BRIEF 
Magic joins Lebron in plan to retire Jordan’s No. 23 
NEW YORK — Magic Johnson would go along with LeBron James’ plan to have NBA players stop wear­ing No. 23. 
James said last week he would change jersey numbers next season in honor of Michael Jordan, and said no other players should wear it, either. 
Critics of his plan said other players before Jordan deserved the honor at least as much, with some using Johnson and Larry Bird as examples. But Johnson said if there was a deci­sion to retire No. 23, he and Bird would “be the first ones to say it should happen.” 
Speaking to a small group of reporters during a video conference, Johnson also praised Kareem Abdul-Jabbar for coming forward with news that he has leukemia, saying his for­mer teammate would help in the fight against cancer. 

Brown’s Quinn fined by NFL for low hit on Suggs 
BEREA, Ohio— Cleveland Browns quarterback Brady Quinn has been fined by the NFL for his low hit on Baltimore’s Terrell Suggs. After throw­ing an interception in Monday night’s 16-0 loss to the Ravens, Quinn dived at Suggs’ knees while trying to bring down cornerback Chris Carr, who had picked him off. Suggs had to leave the game and could miss significant playing time. 
Ravens linebacker Ray Lewis accused Quinn of a cheap shot. 
Quinn understands why the Ravens were mad and can appreciate them questioning his intentions. 
“I can see why they’d be upset,” he said. “But again, he wasn’t even in my vision. I was trying to get to the ball. He cut across my face as I was already try to jump down for the tackle.” 
Quinn dropped his head and threw his body into Suggs’ right knee, think­ing he would be able to bring down Carr. 
Selig discusses playoff schedule and instant replay 
CHICAGO — Baseball plans to cut down on off days during the postsea­son next year. 
Commissioner Bud Selig said Wednesday he’s working on tightening up the 2010 playoff schedule so there will be fewer gaps between games. 
Los Angeles Angels manager Mike Scioscia criticized the current playoff format after the Yankees and Angels played only eight times in 20 days going into Game 6 of the AL champi­onship series. 
Selig also said he would continue to discuss instant replay. It’s not expected to be a major topic when owners have a full meeting Thursday morning, even though there were several missed calls by umpires during the postseason. 
In the past, Selig has resisted the idea of expanded video replay. to judge if home runs have cleared the fence or are fair or foul. 
NFL 
Russellsackedasquarterback 

Associated Press 
ALAMEDA, Calif. — The Oakland Raiders benched former No. 1 overall pick JaMarcus Russell on Wednesday, handing the starting job to journeyman Bruce Gradkowski for the foreseeable future. 
Coach Tom Cable made the announcement of the change following practice as the Raiders (2-7) prepare to play the Cincinnati Bengals on Sunday. Cable said this was not a temporary move, that his plan is to stick with Gradkowski. 
“I don’t want to be like that,” he said. “This is where we’re headed and what we’re going to do. He’ll take this team and go with it.” 
Russell was not in the lock­er room during the media access period and was not available for comment after the decision was announced. Cable said Russell was disap­pointed by the decision but worked hard in practice Wednesday 
Cable said owner Al Davis gave him the autonomy to make the decision on his 
own and supported the move. 
“As we all know, it’s impor­tant to include him in every­thing so he knows what’s going on with this football team,” Cable said. 
Cable had pulled Russell for ineffectiveness in two of the past three games as he grew more frustrated with Russell’s inaccuracy and poor decision-making in his third season in the NFL. 
The Raiders believed Russell would be the quar­terback to turn the strug­gling franchise around when they drafted him No. 1 out of LSU in 2007 and eventually gave him a contract with about $31 million in guaran­teed money. But his career has sputtered from the start. 
He had a lengthy holdout as a rookie before finally signing his deal after the first game of the season. He played briefly down the stretch before getting the starting job a year ago. Russell was inconsistent in his first full season as a starter, but showed some bright signs with a strong finish to the season that included wins over Houston and Tampa Bay. 
Instead of having a break­through in his third season, Russell has regressed and has been booed regularly at home games. He has com­pleted just 46.8 percent of his passes this season, with nine interceptions and five lost fumbles and the second worst passer rating in the league at 47.7. 
Cable said he still believes in Russell’s future even if all signs appear to be pointing to him becoming one of the more notable draft busts. 
R u s s e l l  w i l l  b e  t h e  N o .  2  
q u a r t e r b a c k  t h i s  w e e k  
against the Bengals.  

“This is in no way giving up on the guy,” Cable said. “This is just trying to jump-start this team and really break it down and make a decision based on what gives us the best chance to win.” 
In 28 career games, Russell has completed 51.6 percent of his passes with 17 touchdowns, 21 interceptions and 14 lost fumbles for a passer rating of 65.5. He had started 25 of the past 26 games for Oakland, missing only one last year with an injury. 
The Raiders used top 10 picks the past two seasons to surround Russell with speedy playmakers, drafting running back Darren McFadden and receiver Darrius Heyward-Bey. But Oakland has been unable to generate a big-play offense, scoring just 88 points in the first nine games. 
Russell has particularly struggled on the deep passes he was supposed to be so proficient with because of his big arm. According to STATS LLC, Russell has com­pleted just 2 of 34 passes that have gone more than 20 yards downfield for 85 yards, 
one touchdown and five interceptions. 
“We’ve got guys open, and I think we’re getting better in understanding what we’re doing,” Cable said. “We’ve got to put the ball in their hands and find a way to do that. I think this will give us an opportunity to do that.” 
This will be just the second start for Gradkowski since 2006. He started one game last year in Cleveland, going 5-for-16 for 18 yards and two interceptions for a pass­er rating of 1.0 in a 31-0 loss to Pittsburgh. He started 11 games as a rookie for Tampa Bay in 2006, winning three of them. 
Gradkowski is 17 for 30 for 163 yards and two intercep­tions as a backup in Oakland this season. He tried to lead a comeback last week against Kansas City before his pass in the final minute deflected off receiver Heyward-Bey’s hands and knees before being intercept­ed by Mike Brown around the 10-yard line to seal a 16­10 win for the Chiefs. 
“I thought last week there were some good things and definitely some things to learn from,” Gradkowski said before the decision was announced. “All we can do is keep working and get bet­ter.” 
Gradkowski got limited practice time with the first team for most of the season as the Raiders worked on developing Russell. He got a few more chances last week and now will get the bulk of the time with the first team. He expects that to be a big help this week against the Bengals. 
MLB 

Tracy and Scioscia win manager of year awards 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The Los Angeles Angels could have crumbled when pitcher Nick Adenhart was killed in a car accident in April, overcome by waves of grief and sadness. 
Mike Scioscia kept them moving forward. 
“There wasn’t one defining moment,” he said. “I think as the season started to evolve guys found that sense of pur-Joe Maddon of the Rays were honored last year. 
Colorado was 18-28 and 14 1/2 games behind NL West-leading Los Angeles when general manager Dan O’Dowd dismissed Hurdle on May 29 and offered the job to Tracy. 
“I didn’t immediately say yes,” Tracy recalled. “I asked for 60 minutes to think about it and he told me you can have 60 but you can’t have 61 because he needed some-

pose to play body down in 
“I think as the season
baseball again the dugout to 
started to evolve guys
and they played manage that it at a very, found that sense of night.” very high Tracy was sold 
purpose to play base-
level.” when O’Dowd 
ball again.” 
For his deft told him he just touch during a wanted to see trying season, Mike Scioscia the team play Scioscia won better. He 
Angels coach
the AL Manager 
of the Year award on Wednesday for the second time. Jim Tracy of Colorado was selected for the NL honor. 
Tracy became the second manager to win the award after taking over during the season, joining Jack McKeon for Florida in 2003. Less than an hour after the award was announced, the Rockies said Tracy had been rewarded with a three-year contract. 
“What we’re talking about this afternoon, it’s probably as 

flattering an “But what is more The 53-year­experience as old Tracy was 
intriguing for me is
I’ve come to out of baseball 
what is still out there
realize during before becoming the course of for our ballclub.” the Rockies’ my professional bench coach in career in ath-November 2008. 
Jim Tracy 
letics,” Tracy “With as 
Rockies coach
said. “And obvi­
ously a new contract is extremely exciting. But what is more intriguing for me is what is still out there for our ballclub.” 
Tracy received 29 first-place votes and two seconds for 151 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers’ Association of America. Scioscia got 15 first-place votes, 10 seconds and one third for 106 points. 
The Rockies promoted Tracy from bench coach after Clint Hurdle was fired in late May and won the wild-card race. Scioscia and the Angels paid tribute to Adenhart with thought he 
could take care of that — and the Rockies responded to his steady hand. They went 74-42 the rest of the way, extending the division race to the final weekend before settling for the wild card. 
There was no Rocktober this year — Colorado lost to Philadelphia in the division series — but it was still quite the turnaround for the club and Tracy, who was fired after leading the Pittsburgh Pirates 
to a 68-94 
record in 2007. 
young as we are 
and with as 
much as we grew in such a short period of time, I can’t even begin to tell you how much I’m looking for­ward to the future,” he said. 
Scioscia managed the Angels to their third consecutive divi­sion title during one of his most difficult seasons in the dugout. Los Angeles has earned six postseason berths in the last eight years under Scioscia, who was a catcher for the Dodgers for 13 seasons and retired in 1994. 
The Angels used 14 starting pitchers and played without 
sluggers Torii 
Hunter and 

their fifth AL “But those things Vladimir 
West title in six Guerrero for 
really weren’t about 
years. long stretches “Some things, us. They were about due to injuries. you’re never the Adenhart family.” The team’s prepared for,” biggest chal-Scioscia said. lenge was mov-
Mike Scioscia 
“But those ing past the sor­things really Angels coach row it felt after 
weren’t about us. They were about the Adenhart family and I think as we supported them we found some peace.” 
Ron Gardenhire finished sec­ond in the AL voting for the second straight year and fifth time during his eight seasons as Minnesota manager. He also placed third in 2002, when Scioscia was honored for the first time, but has never won the award. Tony La Russa of the Cardinals, a four-time winner, was a distant second in the NL with 55 points. 
Lou Piniella of the Cubs and Ad enhart’s 
death. 
“For a long time, it wasn’t easy for our club,” Scioscia said. 
Scioscia, who turns 51 on Nov. 27, was credited for giv­ing his players time to grieve while gently insisting on accountability as an early slump lingered. Los Angeles responded by surging to another division title and mak­ing it to the AL championship series, eliminating postseason nemesis Boston along the way. 
The baseball honors contin­ue Thursday with the NL Cy Young Award. 

NFL 
NCAA 
Fewell makes good 

NCAA grad rates improve 
impression on frst day 
Associated Press 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. — The Bills have a new starting quar­terback in Ryan Fitzpatrick. They practiced in pads on a Wednesday for the first time that anyone can remember. 
As for addressing all those false-start penalties the Bills have been committing this season? 
Well, Perry Fewell joked that he threatened to start cutting 300 yards in any of its past seven outings. 
Though Fewell said the job is Fitzpatrick’s on a week to week basis, the quarterback said he’s been told something different. 
“I think right now it’s my job,” Fitzpatrick said. “I think right now he’s handing me the job and I’m going to go ahead and try to take it.” 
Receiver Terrell Owens backed the quarterback 
INDIANAPOLIS — College athletes are still setting records and dispelling myths 
— in the classroom. 
Just like the late NCAA President Myles Brand believed they could. 
The NCAA’s latest gradua­tion numbers show nearly four out of five student-ath­letes earn their diplomas on time, an all-time high, and federal statistics show ath­letes are still more likely to graduate on time than other 
off players’ fin­gers if they jump the snap count in prac­tice. 
However interim his title might be, Fewell made some lasting impressions on his first full day as Bills head 
“I’m probably a little bit more fred up, a lot more emotional I would say.” 
Perry Fewell Bills coach 
switch, noting 
students. 
that Fitzpatrick, 
“The misconception is that 
in his fifth sea-
NCAA student-athletes are 
son, is more 
not good students,” interim 
experienced 
NCAA President Jim Isch 
than Edwards, 
said in a conference call 
who is in his 
Wednesday. “The truth, as 
third year. And 
Myles reminded people, is 
Owens noted he 
that they could perform in 
thought 
the classroom and they out-
Fitzpatrick had 
performed the general stu­
earned the right 
dent body in almost every 
to take over 
measure.” 
coach after Buffalo abruptly  after winning two of three  NCAA statistics show 79  
fired Dick Jauron on Tuesday.  games.  p e r c e n t o f a l l f r e s h m e n  
“We had fun,” Fewell said,  As for the coaching change,  entering school in 2002-03  
who has little time to prepare  Owens shrugged.  graduated within six years,  
for his debut on Sunday, when  “What’s new?” he said,  matching last year’s record  
the Bills (3-6) travel to play at  referring to a Bills team that’s  high. The four-class average,  
Jacksonville (5-4).  switched offensive coordina­ for students entering college  
“I’m probably a little bit  tors in September, when Turk  between the fall of 1999 and  
more fired up, a lot more emo- Schonert was fired. Owens  the fall of 2002, also was 79  
tional I would say,” he said,  added he contacted Jauron to  p e r c e n t , a 1 p e r c e n t a g e  
comparing his  thank him and  p o i n t i n c r e a s e o v e r l a s t  
style to that of  wish him well.  year’s record.  

the ever low-Jauron was 
The federal numbers are 
“He’s got some fre in 
key Jauron. fired after going 
lower, 64 percent for ath­
him and I like what
“Whether (the 24-33 in three­
letes, but still 2 percentage 
players) take he did in the frst plus seasons in 
points higher than the gen-
on those char-Buffalo, and 
eral student body that does 
meeting.” 
acteristics or with the team in 
not have access to all the 
not, I don’t jeopardy of 
assistance provided to stu­
know. I just Ryan Fitzpatrick missing the play­
dent-athletes. 
know that I’m Bills quarterback offs for a 10th 
Federal statistics do not 
going to get the team to try to focus on one game, Jacksonville.” 
Fitzpatrick was among sev­eral players who noticed an immediate difference. 
“He’s got some fire in him and I like what he did in the first meeting,” Fitzpatrick said. “He’s here to kind of break us out of our little funk, and I think he’s a good guy to do it.” 
After spending the past three seasons as the Bills defensive 
straight year. 
include the performance of 
Fewell showed 
transfer students. So if an 
he’s not afraid of trying some­
thing new. He had his players practice in pads, and intends to do so again on Thursday. 
NFL 
Under Jauron, the Bills nor­mally only practiced in pads on Thursdays during a game week. 

Pats won’t address 4th-down play 
“I just felt like Jacksonville is 
a very physical football team, and I felt like going into this 
Associated Press 
week that we needed to have a mindset of being physical,” 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — Bill Fewell said. 
Belichick has heard enough He’s also con-
about his fourth-down decision 
coordinator, centrating on 
that failed. So has Tom Brady. 
“So I kind of got up in
Fewell’s first correcting the 
The Patriots returned 
their face a little bit
big decision, numerous men-
Wednesday for their first prac­
not surprising-and just made my tal errors that 
tice since Sunday night’s 35-34 
ly, came on have cost the 
loss in which their coach went 
presence felt.
offense in an Bills on offense. 
for it on fourth-and-2 from the 
attempt to Buffalo has been 
New England 28-yard line 
spark a unit Perry Fewell penalized 22 
instead of punting with a six­
that’s sputtered Bills coach times for false-
point lead. They fell a yard 
this season.  start penalties,  short and the Indianapolis Colts  
Electing to go  including nine in  scored a touchdown and extra  
with Fitzpatrick over Trent  a 6-3 loss to Cleveland on Oct.  point for the victory.  
Edwards, Fewell said he and  11, and five more against  “Today is Wednesday,”  
the staff believe Fitzpatrick  Tennessee.  Belichick said. “We talk about  
gives the Bills “the best oppor- Fewell said he was ready to  Wednesday.”  
tunity.”  cut off a player’s finger during  His players delivered the  
The switch in quarterbacks  practice, but joked that Bills  same message: The Colts are in  
comes after Edwards was  head trainer Bud Carpenter  the past, it’s time to prepare for  
yanked after having an inter- advised him against it.  Sunday’s game against the New  
ception returned for a touch­ “So I kind of got up in their  York Jets.  
down with 3 minutes left in a  face a little bit and just made  On the fourth-down play,  
41-17 loss at Tennessee last  my presence felt,” Fewell said.  Kevin Faulk appeared to be  
weekend. It was Edwards’ first  Safety George Wilson is no  beyond the first-down marker  
game back after sustaining a  stranger to Fewell’s fiery  when he bobbled Brady’s pass,  
concussion in a 16-13 over- approach, and credited the  which wasn’t perfectly accu­ 
time win against the New York  coach for rallying the players  rate. He quickly gained control,  
Jets on Oct. 18.  during a team meeting prior to  but the ball was spotted just  
Fitzpatrick rallied the Bills  practice.  short of the marker and the  
to beat the Jets and then went  “He’s in control, he made  Colts took over.  
1-1 in two starts. The offense  that impression,” Wilson said.  The quarterback wouldn’t  
has struggled no matter who’s  “He conveyed his message in a  address whether he could have  
called the plays. It ranks 29th  way that guys wouldn’t auto- put the ball in a better place.  
in the NFL in yards gained, is  matically just turn off the  “I’m worried about the Jets,”  
averaging a little over 15  switch. He did a great job of  Brady said. “I think I’d talked a  
points and hasn’t generated  setting the tone.”  lot about the Colts game and I  


athlete enrolls at one school, then transfers to another, neither school receives cred­it if the athlete graduates. 
NCAA officials believe the improving numbers can be attributed to stronger eligi­bility standards for incoming freshmen and a greater emphasis on academics dur­ing Brand’s tenure as presi­dent. 
“I think everyone under­stands how much this has changed the culture on cam­pus and I expect that will continue to be the case in the future,” said Walter Harrison, chairman of the committee on academic per­formance. “I think coaches are clearly more aware of the Academic Progress Rate. They know how it’s calculat­ed, and most importantly they know that they have to do well in the classroom and stay on track to graduate.” 
Female athletes outper­formed their male counter­parts, 88 percent to 72 per­cent, and the only women’s sport to score lower than 79 percent was bowling (74 percent). Women’s basket­ball came in at 83 percent under NCAA guidelines and 64 percent on the federal report. 
The three biggest men’s sports — football, basketball and baseball — all failed to top 70 percent in the NCAA report. 
Men’s basketball and Football Championship Subdivision teams (formerly Division I-AA) had the lowest rates of any sports, coming in at 64 percent under NCAA calculations. Basketball players scored 48 percent on the federal report, while FCS athletes were at 54 percent. Baseball came in at 69 per­cent on the NCAA study, but had 47 percent on the feder­al report. 
Bowl Subdivision teams came in at 67 percent (NCAA) and 55 percent (fed­eral). 
“I’m especially pleased with the progress in baseball and men’s basketball,” Isch said. “Over the last eight years, baseball is up 10 points, and basketball is up 5 points. Football is up 3 percentage points in the bowl subdivision.” 
Of the top 10 teams in the BCS standings, Cincinnati, now fifth in the standings, was the only school to top 70 percent in both reports. 
Texas, which is third in the standings, and Georgia Tech, which is seventh, had the lowest scores. Both came in at 49 percent (NCAA) and 41 percent (federal). 
And half of the top 10 teams in the BCS standings 
— 
Florida, Texas, Boise State, Georgia Tech and LSU 

— 
failed to reach 50 percent in the federal report. 


But Harrison believes the numbers will increase again next year, the first time the NCAA will measure the impact of more stringent eli­gibility standards that require athletes to accumu­late 20 percent of their cred­its toward graduation each year. 
“Next year’s rate I think will show progress but even so, I think this year’s num­bers show we have made real success,” Harrison said. “I want to congratulate our student-athletes for proving the critics wrong.” 

think we’ve all got to move for­ward and understand that we’re playing a great opponent one that really gave our offense a lot of problems the last time we played them and that has a lot of good players. 
“It’s already Wednesday, that game was last Sunday and real­ly that game can’t help us at all moving forward, so it doesn’t really do us a lot of good to waste energy thinking about it or talking about it. We’ve got to just go worry about the Jets.” 
Not as much, though, as they might have earlier in the sea­son. 
Brady had his worst game of the year in the second week, a 16-9 loss at New York. But the Jets (4-5) have lost their last three games and trail the Patriots (6-3) in the AFC East race. 
New England usually bounces back well from big losses — and Sunday night’s against its top AFC rival was huge. 
“It’s tough,” Brady said. “You lose those games and emotion­ally you’re pretty drained and it’s disappointing for everybody, but the reality is there’s a lot of games left for us and we all understand that.” 
The last time the Patriots lost two straight, they were beaten at home by the Colts and Jets in the eighth and ninth games of 2006. Their previous two-game losing streak came in the 14th and 15th games in 2002 — against the Tennessee Titans and the Jets. 
The Patriots know New York can do it again as they try to rebound from the emotional loss at Indianapolis. 
“It takes a lot out of you,” cornerback Jonathan Wilhite said, “but I think just the respect (we have) for the Jets and how good of a team they are, I think we need to focus more on them instead of dwelling on the past.” 
Safety Brandon McGowan said he got over the loss “right after it happened. Like Coach said, ‘the past is the past.’ “ 
Reggie Wayne caught a 1­yard scoring pass from Peyton Manning with 13 seconds left Sunday night despite being guarded closely by Wilhite. Still, the second-year cornerback had a decent game against one of the NFL’s best receivers. 
“There are some things that happen in every game that pretty much a player did what he could do and there’s not always the optimal result on that,” Belichick said. “And then there are other times when players didn’t do what they were expected to do (and) that’s something that you can cor­rect.” 

NFL 
Quinn’s return to feld off to shaky beginning 
Associated Press 
BEREA, Ohio — Brady Quinn’s rebirth as Cleveland’s starting quarterback is already deeply troubled. 
After one game. 
Quinn, who lost his job 10 quarters into the season and got it back five weeks later, inherited a historically bad offense with few playmakers and no direction or identity. In his return on Monday night, Quinn’s seventh career start ended with his sixth loss, a defeat that left him visibly shaken afterward. 
He wasn’t upset about losing to Baltimore or his two intercep­tions, one of which was returned for a back-breaking touchdown. Quinn was distraught by his low hit on Terrell Suggs, a collision that injured the linebacker and led to accusations by Baltimore linebacker Ray Lewis that he took a cheap shot. 
That hurt Quinn. Still does. 
“I’m not going to lie to you,” he said Wednesday. “Definitely, see­ing someone who I’ve known off the field happen like that to him, yeah, it affects you. I’m never out there to do that. It’s tough to shake off, probably more than anything else in that game.” 
Quinn was fined an undisclosed sum by the NFL for the infrac­tion, which resulted in a 15-yard penalty. He apologized to Suggs and the Ravens following the game and plans to reach out to them again. 
“I wasn’t trying to go for him,” Quinn said. “I was trying to go for the ball carrier. Unfortunately, a thing like that can happen. I’m praying for him. Hopefully he’ll be all right.” 
Quinn threw an interception — a pass that caromed off wide receiver Mike Furrey’s hands — to Chris Carr, and while attempt­ing to bring down Baltimore’s cornerback, he dived at Suggs’ legs. The Ravens’ top pass rusher sprained his right knee and is expected to miss several weeks. 
Quinn said he didn’t see Suggs and insists he was just trying to stop Carr. However, he under­stands why the Ravens might be mad at him. 
“I can see why they’d be upset,” he said. “But again, he wasn’t even in my vision. I was trying to get to the ball. He cut across my face as I was already trying to jump down for the tack­le.” 
Quinn received a letter inform­ing him of the fine. He would not divulge the penalty but said it was “a good amount.” 
On the final play of the game, Browns wide receiver Josh Cribbs was flattened by Ravens defensive end Dwan Edwards, who delivered a forearm blow under Cribbs’ chin. Cribbs was carted off the field and spent sev­eral hours in the hospital under­going tests. 
Cribbs had pitched the ball when he was drilled by Edwards. The nasty shot led to speculation that it was done in retaliation for Quinn’s hit on Suggs. 
Cribbs, who did not practice on Wednesday because of a sore neck, said he spoke to Edwards and Lewis on Tuesday and they assured him there was no malice. 
“They reached out to me and let me know that it wasn’t on purpose,” Cribbs said. “It hap­pened all so quick and he (Edwards) thought I was trying to come block him after I pitched the ball. So they assured me they didn’t mean nothing by it and it wasn’t revenge. I’m sure he did-n’t mean to intentionally hurt me. Hopefully he didn’t mean it.” 
Cribbs also said that the deci­sion to lateral the ball and try to score despite being down 16-0 in the closing seconds was not part of the play sent in by Cleveland’s coaches. Browns coach Eric Mangini was criticized for having his team run that play with the game out of reach. 
“It was a call at the line,” Cribbs said. “Brady had let us know to keep the ball alive, that he was going to throw the slant to me at the line and to keep the ball alive. He gave the signal to keep it alive, but it wasn’t a call that came in from the sideline.” 
Cribbs said Mangini apologized to the team for calling a pass on the final play. Cribbs felt that was unnecessary and isn’t upset about what happened. 

NBA 

Lebron plays football too? 
Associated Press 
BEREA, Ohio — If LeBron James truly believes he can help the Cleveland Browns, coach Eric Mangini has an orange helmet waiting for him. 
“I think he should come on down,” Mangini said, smil­ing. “I know he’s pretty busy right now, but if he wants to give it a shot, the guy is gift­ed. He ’s competitive and tough. I’m sure whatever he applied himself to, he ’d probably be good in baseball or soccer or swimming.” 
The NBA superstar, who was an All -State wide receiver in high school, said Tuesday night that if he put the time and commitment into it, he could be a good football player. Mangini agreed, calling James “a freak athletically” and said the 6-foot-8, 260-pounder could be dangerous at tight end, wide receiver or even outside linebacker. 
When the gist of Mangini’s comments was relayed to James, he smiled — but did-n’t take the bait. 
“I had what I had to say, and that was it,” James said before his Cavaliers played at the Washington Wizards on Wednesday night. 
Quarterback Brady Quinn also heard about James ’ football fetish. He would love to have a target to throw to like James in the red zone. 
“That’d be great,” Quinn said. “Tell him to suit up and let us know, we’ll get him working. Obviously he’s an incredibly talented ath-lete. If he wants to try to play a little bit now, we’d be more than willing to pick him up.” 


Browns nose tackle Shaun Rogers isn ’t convinced James could step into the NFL and be able to handle the pounding. 
“I heard that comment,” Rogers said. “I have mixed emotions about that. A great athlete? Yes. A football play­er? No.” 
Rogers then looked into TV cameras. 
“Yeah LeBron, I said it,” he said. “It’s a punishing game. I just don’t think you can step off the basketball court after not going through this year in and year out and just play foot­ball. From that standpoint, I just don’t think it’s possible. You have to weather and condition your body to take this punishment.” 
So what if James had a year to train? Could he do it then? 
“Yeah, he might make a heck of a tight end,” Rogers said. “I’d like to see him out there running down the seam.” 


NFL 

Ryan cries in front of players after close loss 
Associated Press 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — Rex Ryan stepped to the podi­um and motioned for a staffer to hand him something. 
It was a blue box of tissues, and the Jets coach set it down in front of him. 
“I’ve got a new sponsor,” Ryan said Wednesday, fight­ing a grin. “The Jets have Toyota and I’ve got Kleenex, for obvious reasons.” 
Never afraid to hide his emotions, Ryan cried in front of his players during a team meeting Monday morning fol­lowing New York’s 24-22 loss to Jacksonville on Sunday. The story, first reported by the New York Post, has since generated both criticism and praise by fans and members of the media. 
“Everything’s out and some­times you say things to your team and you don’t realize that everybody will find out,” Ryan said. “That’s fine and dandy. One thing I’ll say is I’ll be true to myself.” 
And that means being the guy who boldly declared he would someday lead the Jets to the Super Bowl — some­thing he reiterated Wednesday by saying “I believe I will be a champion here” — and would have a team that the entire NFL would fear. He says what’s on his mind, throwing caution to the wind. Even if it includes shedding some tears. 

“I’m man enough to be me,” Ryan said. 
That means poking fun at himself — and his players. After putting his tissue box down, Ryan took out a piece of paper and took a playful shot at Mark Sanchez, who took some heat for awkward­ly reading from a statement he wrote before his postgame press conference Sunday. 
“Let me go ahead and get this out and read my state­ment I had,” Ryan said, smil­ing. “It says here New England’s pretty good. Any questions? OK.” 
It’s not the first time Ryan has gotten emotional in front 
of his team. He teared up after the Week 1 victory over Houston, and has had several rah -rah moments with his team before games. 
“If I don’t fit the stereotype of coach speak or anything else, so be it,” Ryan said. “I’m going to always be myself.” 
The Jets have lost five of six after a 3-0 start, and take 
on AFC East -leading New England at Foxborough on Sunday. Ryan acknowledged that the team might not have the swagger it did earlier in the season, but the players appreciated Ryan showing his feelings. 
“It’s an emotional game and that just showed his passion,” linebacker Calvin Pace said. “If I was in that situation, I would’ve cried, too, man. I guess when you play a sport like this, sometimes it ’s shocking to see a grown man express emotion.” 
Left guard Alan Faneca said the moment built up quickly and surprised the players, but left them feeling good about their coach, not embar­rassed for him. 
“No offense, but this isn’t high school football any ­more,” Faneca said. “It’s a fun game, but it’s a serious game. It’s a yearlong process and there are a lot of things that get built up and pent up. I’ve cried the year we won the AFC championship with Pittsburgh and went to the Super Bowl. I was bawling after the game because it was my third chance after missing it a few times. Those things build up.” 
Patriots coach Bill Belichick wouldn’t offer a reaction, but was asked if he has ever cried. 
“I’ve coached 35 years, so I’ve probably covered most all the bases,” he said, paus­ing amid laughter. “I think I swore once, too.” 
Added New England quar­terback Tom Brady: “I can’t ever imagine coach Belichick doing that in front of us.” 
While some have argued that the tears showed that Ryan cares deeply, others say it’s a sign of insecurity and weakness — that there’s no crying in football. 
“My response is that a cou­ple of four-letter words come to mind first,” Faneca said. 
Right tackle Damien Woody said it really is much ado about nothing, and the play­ers don’t care what others outside the facility think. 
“You want to win for a coach like that,” Woody said. “Whatever the perception is 
outside is irrelevant. It means nothing. We know how Rex feels about this team and what he was saying. That’s the bottom line. If people out­side of here have a miscon­ception of what happened, then, hey, that’s on them.” 
Many of the players were also disappointed that the scene got out to the public. 
“To be honest with you, that should never have left the meeting,” Pace said. “What happens in-house needs to stay in -house. That being said, I’ve seen head coaches cry after wins and after loss­es. I think they want so much for us and there ’s only so much they can do.” 
When asked if he was sur­prised at how big a deal the story had become, Ryan said he needed to grab a tissue and smiled. 
“It’s more passion than it is anything else,” he said. “It’s driven that way. I have a strong belief in myself and this football team. If that comes out, it comes out.” 


NBA 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — Dirk Nowitzki scored 11 of his season-high 41 points in overtime and the short-handed Dallas Mavericks held on to beat the injury-depleted San Antonio Spurs 99-94 on Wednesday night. 
Nowitzki’s three-point play with 2:28 left in overtime put Dallas in front for good, 92-91. 
After Jason Terry hit a 15­footer, Nowitzki made a 3­pointer on Dallas’ next posses­sion to stretch the lead to 97­91. 
Drew Gooden added 17 points and 11 rebounds before fouling out late in the fourth quarter to help Dallas extend its winning streak to four games. 
Gooden, who finished last season with the Spurs before signing with the Mavericks on July 20, started at center with Erick Dampier out because of an unknown illness. Dallas was also without starters Josh Howard and Shawn Marion because of left ankle injuries. 
Tim Duncan had 22 points and 14 rebounds for the Spurs, winless in four road games this season. 
The Spurs were without starting guard Tony Parker, who aggravated his sprained left ankle in Saturday night’s loss to Oklahoma City. San Antonio also lost guard Manu Ginobili in the first quarter due to a strained left groin. 
With the game tied at 80, Gooden was credited with a basket on a goaltending call against Antonio McDyess with 
1:58 left in regulation to put Dallas ahead. 
Duncan drove to the basket on the next possession and Gooden picked up his sixth foul. Duncan converted both free throws to knot the score at 82 with 31 seconds remaining. 
Nowitzki's tip-in 17 seconds later gave Dallas an 84-82 lead, but Duncan’s jump-hook with 2.3 seconds remaining drew San Antonio even. 
Dallas had a shot to win in regulation, but Duncan blocked Terry’s 19-footer at the buzzer. 
Dallas held 37-35 a lead at the break after a cold-shooting first half by both teams. San Antonio converted 13 of its 38 field goal attempts, while Dallas went 16 for 43. 
The Mavericks carried a 63­59 lead into the fourth quarter, ending the third with six unan­swered points capped by Tim Thomas’ follow with 32 sec­onds left. Gooden scored 11 and Nowitzki had nine in the third. 



Spartans 
continued from page 24 
to work into the game. 
“We were hoping she could move into the post a little bit with her size,” McGraw said. “It gives us another big body in there and she is definitely capable of guarding people.” 
A point of emphasis after last week’s 27 turnovers against Arkansas Pine Bluff has been to limit those mistakes, accord­ing to McGraw, as she did not like the sloppy play she saw at home. McGraw said she hopes that the turnovers were a product of the team coming together while playing their first game of the season. 
“I think we were really slop-
Rydberg 
continued from page 24 
or Santa Clara University, but as a science pre-professional and theology double major intent, she ultimately chose Notre Dame with some urging from her high school track coach. 
“I feel like Notre Dame has the perfect combination of rig­orous academics, successful athletics and service opportuni­ties, and everything is support­ed by a strong faith in God,” Rydberg said. 
As an athlete who participates in a highly individual sport like cross country, Rydberg main­tains a healthy level of team sportsmanship and humility in py in that first game, and I am hoping a lot of it was first game jitters and being anxious and having a lot of open peo­ple,” McGraw said. “So I am hoping that we can settle down tonight and play our normal game.” 

The key to the Irish’s ability to control the ball will be sen­ior guard and captain Melissa Lechlitner, who will be running the point. 
“Lech did a great job taking care of the ball, and hopefully we will have the ball in her hands a lot,” McGraw said. 
The Irish hope to clean up their sloppy play and get their first road win against a tough opponent. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
her personality as she races for optimal team performance. 
“I did not really put pressure on myself to be in the top run­ners; I just wanted to do my best for the team,” Rydberg said. 
Rydberg has been running competitively since middle school with the encouragement of her parents who are both runners as well. 
“Running is refreshing, it allows me to take a break from everything that usually makes me stressed, and at the same time, it is also an exciting chal­lenge,” Rydberg said. “I get to find out how strong I can really be, and there is always an opportunity to become faster, stronger, and better.” 
Rydberg and the rest of the Irish will be vying to show they are faster, stronger and better than the rest of the competitors Nov. 23 as the team races towards its first national title. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

LeFevour leads CMU over Ball State 
Associated Press 
MUNCIE, Ind. — Dan LeFevour threw four touchdown passes, ran for a fifth score and became the all-time leading passer in Mid-American Conference history as he led Central Michigan to a 35-3 victory over Ball State on Wednesday night. 
The senior quarterback ignored a steady rain to complete 25 of 28 passes for 344 yards and no interceptions before taking a seat midway through the fourth quarter. 
He threw touchdown passes of 3 and 11 yards to tight end David Blackburn, 82 yards to Antonio Brown and 10 yards to Bryan Anderson. He also ran 1 yard for a 14-0 lead in the second quarter. 
LeFevour now has 12,000 yards passing, breaking the record of 11,903 established by Byron Leftwich of Marshall from 1999-2002. 
“It means a lot,” LeFevour said. “There are a lot of great quarter­backs who have played here who have gotten a shot at the next level.” 
“Some of them did it in less than four years, so I’m kind of stealing it.” 
LeFevour, who completed 10 of his first 12 passes, was 14 of 17 for 210 yards in the first half. He also rushed eight times for 22 yards in the half. He was perfect after intermission, completing all 11 of his passes for 134 yards and two more TDs. 
Anderson caught four passes for 43 yards, improving the longest active NCAA streak for receptions to 51 games. 
Central Michigan (9-2, 7-0) took a 21-3 lead at the half, and LeFevour’s second touchdown pass was big. It came two plays after the Cardinals (1-10, 1-6) had trimmed the deficit to 14-3 on a field goal by Ian McGarvey with 1:38 to play in the half. 
Two plays after the kickoff, LeFevour found Brown in the right flat. Wide receiver Cody Wilson threw a big block, and Brown raced down the sideline for a 21-3 lead 46 seconds before halftime. 
“That play changed the game,” LeFevour said. “He’s a game-breaker. Our offense and defense were pumped. We were in con­trol.” 
LeFevour threw his first TD pass to Anderson to open the scoring with 10:56 to play in the first period. Ball State then stopped the Chippewas on four straight plays from the 1-yard line, recovering a fumble on the fourth play, but BSU went three and out on its next possession. 
LeFevour directed the Chippewas 43 yards in six plays, racing in mostly untouched from a yard out for a 14-0 lead 6:32 before the half. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

James leads Texas in rout 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas — Damion James scored 18 points and No. 3 Texas continued to break in its talented group of fresh­
men  with  a  73-41 win  over  
Western  Carolina  on  
Wednesday night.  

James, a senior, also grabbed seven rebounds, falling three short of his 39th career dou­ble-double for the Longhorns (2-0). 
Gary Johnson, a junior for­ward who played just 14 min­utes in Texas’ season-opening win over UC-Irvine, added 10 points and seven rebounds. Freshman point guard J’Covan Brown scored 10 points and had his first assists of the sea­son, finishing with three assists against six turnovers. 
Harouna Mutombo scored 10 points to lead the Catamounts (1-1). 
Texas’ freshmen looked nerv­ous Sunday against UC-Irvine, and this one wasn’t without early missteps. But there weren’t as many mistakes — or minutes on the court — as coach Rick Barnes continued mixing and matching young players with veterans. 
Brown’s 21 minutes were the most of the young players. He had an early turnover in the opening minutes and Avery Bradley put up on an air ball on a 3-pointer on his first attempt. But Bradley gave Texas its first lead with a steal and dunk that started a 20-6 run. Johnson scored six points in the spurt. 
Brown was academically ineligible to play last season and is working the rust off his game, but found his shooting touch late in the first half. He made two 3-pointers and a driving, scoop layup at the buzzer that gave Texas a 43-24 halftime lead. 
Brown also got a rude wel­come to college ball when the Catamounts ran him into a hard screen midway through the second half. He stayed on the ground for a few seconds but was able to keep playing. 
Johnson was a prime exam­ple of the luxury of depth Texas should enjoy this season. He played sparingly in the sea­son opener, but was 4-of-4 shooting in 19 minutes against the Catamounts. 
Texas outrebounded Western Carolina 47-32 and held the Catamounts to 26 percent shooting. 
Western Carolina was much more athletic that UC-Irvine, but Texas will take a major step up in competition next week against Iowa in the championship round of the O’Reilly Auto Parts CBE Classic. 
Butler 67, Northwestern 54 
On a good night, it’s going to be tough to beat No. 11 Butler. 
When a team is as short­handed as Northwestern is, it’s almost not a fair fight. 
Shelvin Mack’s 15 points led four Bulldogs in double fig­ures, Gordon Hayward had 14 points and 10 rebounds, and Butler overpowered Northwestern 67-54 on Wednesday night. It was the Wildcats’ first game since announcing Monday that Kevin Coble, the team’s leading scor­er and rebounder the last three years, and Jeff Ryan will miss the rest of the season with injuries. 
“I feel for their situation,” Butler coach Brad Stevens said. “They’re going to get it figured out. They’re going to be a really good team. But three days after, it’s tough. It’s going to take a little time.” 
Michael Thompson led the Wildcats (1-1) with 16, but after making three 3-pointers in the first 8 1/2 minutes he was held scoreless until only 3 1/2 minutes remained. John Shurna added 14 for the Wildcats. 
It was the second victory over Northwestern in two years for the Bulldogs (2-0), but their first in Evanston since 1947-48. Butler has won six of its last seven games against Big Ten teams. 
“Butler’s been good since I was in high school,” Northwestern coach Bill Carmody said. “They’ve tradi­tionally been a very good team, and they’re probably just get­ting their due in the last six, eight years.” 
Butler had to rally from dou­ble figures last year to beat Northwestern at Hinkle Fieldhouse, but there was no such scare this time around. The Bulldogs never trailed, and led by as many as 21 points in the second half. Five players scored nine points or better, and the Bulldogs had 17 assists to 10 turnovers. 


end, just communication,” he said. “There can’t be any 
49ers 
continued from page 24 
against St. Francis, who it defeated 95 -72 Monday. Harangody scored 27 points and had nine rebounds in the game, and senior guard Ben Hansbrough hit 4-of -6 3­pointers and scored 18 points. 
In fact, the Irish made 52 percent of their 3-point attempts, something Harangody attributed to the team’s ball blown assignments.” 
Jackson said the perimeter defense relied on trust. 
“The previous game we trusted each other and got out and defended the 3-point line,” he said. “We have to continue doing what were doing in practice, just chal­lenging all shots.” 
Junior forward Tim Abromaitis scored 17 points on 6-of-10 shooting off the bench, using his size to give the Irish 
movement in “We’re just looking to another the second half. dimension on 
have a good
“We’re just offense. 
possession every time.” 
looking to have “We try to a good posses-move him sion every Luke Harangody around to cre­time,” he said. ate mismatch-
Irish forward 
As successful es,” Jackson as they were said. “With his shooting from size, he can deep, St. get a mis ­Francis was even better — match either way with a The Irish gave up plenty of guard guarding him or a big buckets from 3-point range as man guarding him.” well. St. Francis made 13-of-The 49ers only lost one 19 3-pointers, or 68 percent. starter from last season and 
Harangody said the defense return three that scored dou­could use some improvement. ble -digit points per game. 
“I think there’s a lot of work Forward T.J. Robinson scored to be done on the defensive 11.4 points per game last sea­
s o n  a n d  w i l l  p r o v i d e  
Harangody with  a  challenge  
in the paint.  

Harangody faced a chal ­lenge in the paint against St. Francis, however, and made the best of it. He made eight of his 11 free throws in the game. 
“I think when we saw they got a couple early fouls, and we saw they were physical in the post, anytime we go into the bonus, we might as well take advantage of it,” he said. 
Sophomore forward Eugene Phelps didn’t start a game last year and averaged 3.7 points per game, but he scored 10 against Alaska ­Anchorage during the 49ers’ 86 -65 win Saturday. Sophomore guard Larry Anderson, who averaged 10.8 points per game last season, led the team with 18 against Alaska-Anchorage. 
The 49ers defeated Pepperdine 67 -58 Tuesday night. Larry Anderson scored 15 points in the second half to bring Long Beach State back from a two -point halftime deficit and Robinson had 15 points and 10 rebounds. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
ends their season. Clark said he believes that the NCAA tournament is what the play­ers and the fans will always remember. 
“The one thing that every­one remembers the most is what happens in the NCAA tournament,” Clark said. 
The Irish hope to make some good memories when they begin their NCAA quest tonight at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 

Fort Wayne and run a clinic for the kids and play in front of the Notre Dame fans there, it should be a great situation.” 
But first things first — the Irish (5-5-2, 2-2-2-1 CCHA) must deal with the red-hot Spartans (9-2-1, 6-1-1-0) on their home ice Thursday. Michigan State swept Michigan, the preseason favorite to win the CCHA, in a home-and­home series last weekend. 
“They’re playing with a lot of jam,” Jackson said. “Obviously after the kind of year they had last year, they’re certainly out to prove something. So far they have.” 
The Spartans’ nine wins are the most in the country, and they hold a two-point advantage over Miami in the conference stand­ings. 
“It’s a young team playing with a lot of energy,” Jackson said. “They’re doing much better than people anticipated, and a lot of that has to do with the fact that with youth comes enthusiasm.” 
Notre Dame has struggled to score goals all season, and partic­ularly at even strength. Last weekend’s home series against Northern Michigan was no differ­ent. The Irish lost 3-2 Friday night before stealing a much-needed point with a shootout win after Saturday’s game ended in a 2-2 tie. 
Sophomore wing Billy Maday scored both Irish goals in Saturday’s game, and he also put home one of the two shootout tal­lies. Jackson said he hopes that will jumpstart Notre Dame’s lead­ing scorer. 
“Maybe that’s going to help him play with more confidence,” Jackson said. “I’m hoping that happens to a few other guys, and the sooner, the better.” 
The offense isn’t the only area with question marks for Notre Dame, as Jackson still has not set­tled the goaltender competition between freshman Mike Johnson and junior Brad Phillips, both of whom started once last weekend. Jackson said he’d wait until the team’s Thursday morning skate to finalize his plans in net for the weekend. 
“We’ll continue to play two guys on and off here, at least for the time being,” Jackson said. “The goaltending issue is still up for debate, and I’m not opposed to going with two for the short-term, and potentially the long-term. It’s just going to depend if one of them steps up and separates himself.” 
Tonight’s game in East Lansing, Mich., begins at 7:05 p.m., while Sunday’s contest will start at 4:05 
p.m. at the Allen County War Memorial Coliseum in Fort Wayne. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu
Phoenix 
continued from page 24 
we would have gotten a first-round bye, but that’s where we are, a home round, and that is good.” 
The Irish finished the sea­son with some momentum, defeating then -No. 5 Connecticut in the last game Irish, not the least of which is their habit of finding a way to win. 
“I have always believed that winning and losing are habits,” Clark said. “They are going to come out strong because they know how to win.” 
The Irish hold an all-time 2-1 record against Green Bay, with their last meeting com­ing in 1994. In that game, the 
of the regular season before t y i n g N o . 8 South Florida,  “We played a really strong schedule, there is no doubt about that.  Irish fell 2-1 at home. “We will have to look at what  
N o .  9  That will  they do and be  
Louisville and N o . 2 4 S t .  certainly help us.”  aware of o f t h e i r  some g o o d  
John’s in a run to the Big East  Bobby Clark  players,” Clark s a i d . “ B u t a t  
t o u r n a m e n t  Irish coach  the end of the  
f i n a l s .  A l l  day, it is going  
three Big East  t o  co m e  d own  

tournament games came to what we do to win.” down to a penalty shootout, If the Irish were to advance with the Irish winning the beyond the first round, they first two before falling to St. would meet ninth -seeded John’s in the championship Northwestern (10-4-4) in the match. second round. The Wildcats 
The Irish hope that this are the team that knocked good competition and gritty them out of the NCAA tourna­play will translate into the ment last year, an event that NCAA tournament. still rests in the minds of 
“We played a really strong many of the Irish players. schedule, there is no doubt “There is a lot still linger-about that,” Clark said. “That ing about the loss to will certainly help us.” Northwestern last year,” 
Green Bay (14-2-3) won the Clark said. “Those memories H o r i z o n still linger, and L e a g u e Ithink that will 
Championship b y u p s e t t i n g B u t l e r o n  “Those memories still linger, and I think that  push the play-ers to get pre­pared.”  
p e n a l t y k i c k s 3-2 on Sunday a f t e r t h e  will push the players to get prepared”  The Irish are o n t o p -s e e d e d Akron’s side of  
m a t c h  e n d e d  t h e  b r a c k e t ,  
in a scoreless t i e . T h e P h o e n i x h a v e  Bobby Clark Irish coach  which finished t h e s e a s o n a perfect 20-0-0.  
an  outstanding  T h o u g h  t h e  
attack, accord- bracket and list  

ing to Clark, and are one of of potential foes seems a for-the highest scoring teams in midable one to climb, Clark the country. remains optimistic. 
“They are a very good “I believe that the hardest side,” Clark said. “They have game in our bracket will be only lost two games all sea-tomorrow,” Clark said. “If we son, and that is impressive. take care of this game, I They are also one of the lead-believe that all the other ing scoring machines in the games will take care of them-country. We will not take selves.” them lightly.” This is it for the Irish, as a 
Green Bay poses a unique single loss eliminates them set of challenges for the from NCAA tournament and 



CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Thursday, November 19, 2009 page 24 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Squad welcomes LBSU for frst ever meeting 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Long Beach State finished 15 -15 last season, but in Notre Dame’s eyes, it has the potential to perform a little better than that. 
“Long Beach State, they could be as good as or better than the Big East opponents this year,” senior Irish for­ward Luke Harangody said. 
Senior Irish guard Tory Jackson agreed that the 49ers (2-0), who come to the Joyce Center to face the Irish tonight, could present a chal­lenge like the Irish would face in a conference game. 
“It’s going to be a great, great game, a Big East game for us really,” Jackson said. 
Notre Dame (2-0) put up a good offensive performance 
see 49ERS/page 22 
Gold rush 


VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 

Members of the Notre Dame basketball team huddle during a game against North Florida Nov. 
14. The Irish remained unbeaten on the season with an 86-65 victory over the Wildcats. 
HOCKEY Team faces Spartans in FortWayne 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 
No. 14 Notre Dame hopes a unique weekend schedule that begins with a game tonight at No. 6 Michigan State will cure some of the woes the Irish offense has suf­fered in recent weeks. 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson said scheduling concerns related to foot­ball and basketball games at both schools led to the arrangement of the weekend series, which con­cludes with a second game Sunday in Fort Wayne, Ind. 
“We’re hoping we can get a lot of people out in Fort Wayne and expose the game to our state in a real strong Notre Dame area,” Jackson said. “We don’t like taking too many games off campus, but if we have the opportunity to go to 
see HOCKEY/page 22 


WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish travel to East Lansing for first road game of the season 
team we will play all year. Every so the Irish will try to mix up the team to fall in love with the just been returning to practice 
By JARED JEDICK 

position they have a huge size their defenses to keep the 3, as she believes that will hurt and game action over the past 
Sports Writer 

advantage on us.” Spartans off balance, according their chances to win. few weeks. McGraw is not sure Spartan senior center Allyssa to McGraw. “My worry is that we stand out what contribution she will be 
No. 5 Notre Dame will travel to DeHaan is a whopping 6-foot-9 “I don’t think we can prevent there and shoot too much,” able to make against the East Lansing, Mich., this evening and will present a distinct chal-her from getting the ball at her McGraw said. “Last year we Spartans. to face No. 21 Michigan State in lenge to a smaller Irish defense size,” McGraw said. “We have a were shooting 25 3s and we “Her role right now is very dif­the Irish’s first big road test of trying to keep her from running couple of things we are going to made nine. We don’t want to ferent than last year because of the year in a battle of size versus up a lot of points. try.” have to rely on 3-point shooting, her injuries,” McGraw said. “She speed. “They just present a lot of The Irish must counter we want to be able to score in really has only been practicing 
The Irish (1-0) will face a stiff matchup problems for us,” Michigan State’s size with speed other ways.” for a week and a half. She really test, as the Spartans (1-1) boast McGraw said. “6-foot 9-inches is and strong play from a lineup An Irish player who has shined has a lot of catch-up to do. She is a strong size advantage at somebody we really have nobody loaded with guards. against the Spartans in the past really behind right now.” almost every position. to guard. It is going to be a chal-“Our strength is at the guard is sophomore forward Kellie Not being able to fully utilize 
“They are big,” Irish coach lenge for us.” spot,” McGraw said. “We are Watson, who put up 18 points Watson is a concern for McGraw, Muffet McGraw said. “They are The Irish really have nobody to going to have to score a lot of last year against Michigan State. but she believes she will be able the biggest team we have prevent DeHaan from getting the points.” But Watson has been hampered played, and may be the biggest ball or to guard her one-on-one, But McGraw does not want to lately with a leg injury, and has see SPARTANS/page 21 

MEN’S SOCCER 
ND hosts frst round match 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will play host to Green Bay as they suit up for the first round of the NCAA tournament today at Alumni Stadium. 
No. 19 Notre Dame (10-7-4) received an at-large bid after finishing the season with a string of wins and ties against strong opponents, good enough to grab a spot after fearing late in the sea­son that it possibly could be left out. 
“We are where we thought we would be,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “If we had won the Big East then maybe 
see PHOENIX/page 22 

IAN GAVLICK/The Observer Freshman midfelder Dillon Powers battles to keep possession during Notre Dame’s 3-2 shootout victory over South Florida Nov. 8. 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Rydberg makes debut appearance at NCAAs 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 

A new face will be among the crowd at the women’s NCAA championship cross country meet in Terre Haute, Ind. this weekend as freshman Jessica Rydberg takes the course for the Irish. 
“It is so exciting to be able to race with the best runners in the entire nation,” Rydberg said. “I am not too nervous yet, but I am sure when I get to the meet and see all of the other teams, I will become much more nerv­ous.” 
Rydberg came in second place for the Irish and 10th overall in 21:23.84 at the Great Lakes Regional meet where Notre Dame won for the first time since 2003 and Rydberg received all-region honors. 
“Starting college is a tough transition for a freshman, espe­cially an athlete who is expected to contribute right away, and she had some struggles early like most freshmen do,” Irish coach Tim Connelly said. “She seems to be handling things well now and comes to practice every day, happy, and excited to be running.” 
Rydberg knew she wanted to run in college and looked into possibly attending Duke, Xavier 
see RYDBERG/page 21 





