
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Glendon declines Laetare Medal 
Former U.S. Ambassador to Vatican 'dismayed' that Notre Dame will honor pro-choice Obama 

By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Over 200 people are expected to donate blood in a drive held Monday and Tuesday in LaFortune Student Center, according to Major Tim Dukeman of Notre Dame's ROTC program, which is operating the drive. 
"We are partnering with the American Red Cross and hoping to receive between 100 and 150 pints of blood over the two days," he said. 'The Notre Dame community is so generous in many, many ways and we hope 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Group says $8.2 n1illion is withheld 
By AARON STEINER 

News Writer 
A group of Notre Dame alumni and financial supporters released a statement Monday claiming $8.2 million in dona­tions has been confirmed to have been withheld from the University in response to University President Fr. John Jenkins invitation to President Barack Obama to speak at Commencement and receive an honorary degree. 
The group launched the cam­paign and Web site, replace­jenkins.com, to tally the number of donations withheld April16. 
Dennis Brown, a University spokesperson, said when the announcement about the Obama invitation was made, adminis­trators expected responses ­both positive and negative. 
"There are people who sup­port the invitation and there are people that oppose it," he said. 
He declined to comment on the work of the replacejenkins.com group, stat­ing: "We are not going to respond to every new tactic that is employed by the opponents." 
David DiFranco, an organizer of the replacejenkins.com effort and Notre Dame alumnus, said the $8.2 million figure repre­sents just under 800 donors, all of whom have been confirmed through phone or e-mail 
see DONATIONS/page 9 
ByJENN METZ News Writer 
Mary Ann Glendon declined acceptance of the University's Laetare Medal in a letter to University President Fr. John Jenkins Monday, saying she was "dismayed" upon hearing Notre Dame is conferring an honorary degree upon President Barack Obama. 
Her decision marks the first time the award has been accepted and then declined, according to Julie Flory, a University spokesperson. 
In the letter, which was printed on "First Things," an online journal about religion, culture and public life, Glendon said she was "pro­foundly moved" when she was selected to receive the Laetare Medal. 

Glendon serves as a member of the edi­
torial and advisory board of the jour­nal. 
A former 

u s 
ambassa­dor to the 


Vatican, Glendon Glendon is currently the Learned Hand Professor of Law at Harvard Law School. 
She recalled receiving an honorary degree from the 
University in 1996 and her Commencement speech that year, and said she immediately began work on her Laetare Medal acceptance speech when she was informed of her selection in December 2008. 
She wrote that after she was made aware the principal Commencement address was to be given by Obama she would have to rewrite her speech. 
"I could not help but be dis­mayed by the news that Notre Dame also planned to award the president an honorary degree," Glendon wrote, adding this disregarded the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops 2004 docu­ment titled "Catholics in Political Life," which states Catholic institutions "should not honor those who act in defiance of our fundamental moral principles" and "should not be given awards, honors or platforms which would suggest support for their actions." 
"That request," Glendon wrote, "which in no way seeks to control or interfere with an institution's freedom to invite and engage in serious debate with whomever it wishes, seems to me so reasonable that I am at a loss to under­stand why a Catholic university should disrespect it." 
Noting two "talking points" associated with the Notre 
see GLENDON/page 9 

ROTC expects 200 blood donors 
180 participants registered by Monday afternoon; donations to continue Tuesday in LaFortune 
to see this generosity continue as the blood donated makes a dif­ference for those in need." 
As of Monday afternoon, Dukeman said there had been over 180 people signed up with appointments for donation. This surpasses ROTC's goal of 150 participants. 
"I feel very good about reach­ing our goal, but this just means we raise the bar for next time," Dukeman said. "In an event like this, it is always a great thing to keep increasing the goals." 
While various blood drives are held on campus throughout the 
see BLOOD/page 9 

Peace in Palestine key to U.S. policy 
Scawcroft says Obarna administration must meet challenges with new attitude 
By JIM FERLMANN 
News Writer 
The foreign policy problems that President Obama has to deal with are complex and inter­twined, Lieutenant General Brent Scowcroft said in a lecture, "The Foreign Policy Challenges Facing the Obama Administration," Monday. 
"Seldom has there been a pres­ident faced with such a dizzying array of complicated, if not intractable, problems as those facing President Obama," he said. 
The lecture wa.<; focused mainly on issues that the Obama admin-
see SCOWCROFT/page 9 



Five students assaulted on East Chalfant Street 
Observer Staff Report 
Four male Notre Dame students and one Saint Mary's student reported they were robbed around 11 p.m. Saturday night on the 1200 block of East Chalfant Street, according to a South Bend Tribune report Sunday. 
The students told police a group of seven to 12 men, possibly teenagers, came up to them as they were walking, according to the Tribune. Three of the students said they were punched in the head and the assailants stole their wallets. 
No arrests have been made. Dave Chapman, assistant direc­tor of the Notre Dame Security 
Police (NDSP), said the incident was out of Notre Dame's jurisdic­tion, but they were doing all they could to assist the South Bend Police Department (SBPD). SBPD could not be reached for comment. 
Earlier this year, on March 2, two Notre Dame students were robbed at gunpoint in early morn­ing hours when walking back to campus. The students were walk­ing north on Twyckenham Drive when they were approached by a man with a handgun. 
At the time, Captain Phil Trent of the SBPD told The Observer that students walking to and from cam­pus in early morning hours should exercise caution and walk in groups. 

INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Campus Life Council page 3 + Old2Gold collection begins page 4 +Baseball to take on Illinois-Chicago page 28 • Viewpoint page 12 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Baseball is here 

April is almost over, which means one thing. That's right, the end of the first month of baseball! Yes, we all have been watching closely as our aces flounder, our sluggers whiff, 
and our managers  
lie through their  Andrew Seroff  
teeth about how  
this season will  
be better than  
last. Who will be  Scene Writer  
this year's Rays?  
What division will  

the Wild Card come out of? We're starting to get a clue, but there's still plenty of ball to be played (and if you're Manny Ramirez, teams to be carried). 
As I sit watching baseball (taking breaks between pitches to write fragments of this article), I reflect on what makes the sport so endearing. Other than the number one reason ­the boyish good looks of Matt Holiday, I think I have derived a uni­versal truth buried beneath the steroids and flat-brims: everyone loves statistics. There is nothing like crunching the numbers and mathe­matically calculating who should win, and then watching in horror as your sub-3 ERA pitcher walks the lead-off man. 
That's why the first few weeks of baseball is so fun to watch: every player has a fresh start. ESPN will put up those "Last Season" stats, but what does it matter? It's amazing that a sport with such a long season has such a long off-season as well, giving time for last season zeroes to train to become this season's heroes. Aaron Cook, my favorite ace, gave up a home run to the very first batter he faced, which I suppose means that last season's heroes can also spend that off-season becoming zeroes. His ERA last season: 3.96. His ERA now: 
27. And that's just it. New season­anybody's game. 
Unfortunately, we can't sit and watch baseball all day every day. In the eternal words of Asher Roth, we all "gotta head back to class for a lit­tle bit." Unless you're a Cubs or White Sox fan, we'll all have to settle with watching the Red Sox and Yankees in the evenings, until we can return to our respective domi­ciles with complete access to our teams' games. Oh those poor, dream­er Cubs fans. After saying it a hun­dred years straight, you'd think they'd be sick of saying, "This year's our year." 
Soon, my fellow baseball fans, we will be out in the sun, enjoying some dogs and rooting on the home team. For now, however, take baseball as your Seventh Inning Stretch. Put that paper off another day, or forget about studying for your big finals, and enjoy some of America's favorite past time. Just a couple more innings of academia left, then you have all summer to do whatever you want. And when those dogs are barkin', put your feet up, kick off your shoes, and enjoy some baseball. I know I will. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Andrew Seroff at aserofj@nd. edu 
CORRECTION 

The Monday, April 27 edition ofThe Observer included a Letter to the Editor that was copied from a column by Notre Dame alumnus Kenneth Woodward. Woodward's piece first appeared in the Washington Post on March 30. The Letter to the Editor was also submitted under a false name. These errors were not made apparent to editors until after publication. The Observer apologizes for these errors. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, April28, 2009 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO ATE IT ALL? 






Josh Bell  Henry Shine  Bobby Grahm  Colin Keeler  Charlie Nejedly  Shane Owens  
freshman Stanford  sophomore Stanford  freshman Stanford  freshman Stanford  sophomore Stanford  freshman Stanford  
"Clark Kent.,  "Jon Berkerle.,  ~~Me.,,  "Cookie Monster. ,,  "Frank Stevens. ,  "Beta Theta Kai."  

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

Wis. teen breaks Into cars for money to pay lawyer 
BELOIT, Wis. -A teen allegedly broke into cars to raise money to pay a lawyer to defend him on other charges. A crimi­nal complaint said a resident caught the teen inside his Chevrolet Camaro in his garage about 4:30 a.m. April 16 
and  tackled  him  and  
held him for police.  
Officers found  a  GPS  
system, nine CDs  and  

seven video games in his backpack. The criminal complaint said he took the items to help pay for a lawyer. 
84-year-old man fights off carJackers with groin kick 
TACOMA, Wash. -An 84-year-old man has a black eye, but he still has his car, after fighting off two would-be carjackers. Ted Mazetier said he stopped Wednesday night to help two men with a disabled car when one punched him in the face and demanded his keys. Mazetier said he kicked the man in the groin and the other in the belly. The two men fled as a passer­by stopped to help. 
Police later arrested two suspects for investi­gation of assault. 
Alderman objects to crime themed hot dog stand 
CHICAGO -A Chicago alderman said he doesn't mind that a businessman plans to open a hot dog stand in his ward and hire former convicts to work there, but he does object to the stand's crime-linked theme. Alderman Bob Fioretti said Friday his Second Ward on the city's West Side has major crime problems, so he thinks the stand's name, Felony Franks, is simply not in 
good taste. 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

..... 
ct 
(.) 


0


_. HIGH 63 HIGH 60 HIGH 60 HIGH 67 LOW 45 LOW 49 LOW 43 LOW 47 

IN BRIEF 

A student panel discussion and forum titled "Obama at Notre Dame: Should Notre Dame Honor a Pro-Choice President?" will take place today from 7 p.m. to 8:30 
p.m. in the Carey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Library. This panel is spon­sored by the College of Arts and Letters. 
A Spring concert called "Collegium Musicum" will take place tomorrow from 7 p.m. to 7:45p.m and 8:30pm to 9:15 pm in the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The program will include Renaissance and Baroque sacred music. Tickets are $3 and can be purchased at the door. 
Co-sponsored by the College of Science and the Center for Rare and Neglected Diseases, the "Running for a New Ara: 5K run/1 mile walk" will be held tomorrow at 6 p.m. The race starts at the Hesburgh Library Quad. Help raise money and awareness for Niemann-Pick Type C Disease Research. Register at shop.nd.edu with a fee of $10. 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will show the film, "The Class," Thursday at 9:30 p.m. in Browning Cinema. Purchase tickets online at performingarts.nd.edu, visit or call the Ticket Office at 574-631-2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 62 LOW 40 

HIGH 57 LOW 43 
Atlanta 81 I 58 Boston 90 I 58 Chicago 55 I 52 Denver 63 I 34 Houston 82 I 71 Los Angeles 66 I 53 Minneapolis 61 I 38 New York 79 I 59 Philadelphia 87 I 52 Phoenix 90 I 63 Seattle 56 I 40 St. Louis 69 I 42 Tampa 86 I 66 Washington 86 I 62 


~------~-------------....., 
Tuesday, April28, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Resolution passed for off-campus resources 

Student government encourages University to designate staff contact for increased communication 

The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture and Family Theater Productions Present 
An Evening of Angelus 

at Notre Dame 
Thursday, April 30 at 7 PM Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
............................................................................. 
Directors \Vill be present aftenvards to ans\ver questions. This is a free but ticketed event . 
.... .............. .................. .. .... ... ..... ···-··· ...... ······----t 
57 4.631.2800to reserve tickets. THE FILMS 
SMALL CHANGE A man struggles without his wife, a young girl loses her tooth and a boy reacts the only way he knows how. 
DEFACE When a North Korea man is pushed to the edge by his daughter's senseless death, he risks his life to challenge the oppressive government, making his voice heard through an extreme and unusual action. 
OLD DAYS A coming of age story about a 74-year old woman who reluctantly enters a retirement community and struggles to find her niche within the eccentric residents' social hierarchy, just like the new girl in school. 
IN THE NAME OF THE SON After escaping execution, a Bosnian prisoner of war immigrates to the United States looking to leave his past behind. Years later, the man who spared his life shows up on his doorstep asking for a favor. 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL News Writer 
Campus Life Council (CLC) passed a resolution Monday requesting the University to designate staff to provide sufficient resources for students who live off campus. 
A CLC task force on off-campus stu­dent life found that the University cur­rently provides limited resources to off-campus students, former student body president Bob Reish said. 
"The University aims to create an atmosphere that fosters community," Reish said. "From the University's standpoint, if everyone wanted to live on campus, we really couldn't house everyone." 
Reish said that the task force con­ducted an online poll of students, in which 72.6 percent of respondents said they received their information about off-campus living from students who had previously lived off campus. 
"Students suggested that they believe that it should be equally the role of the University administration and student government," Reish said of the responsibility to provide stu­dents with off-campus housing resources. 
The resolution calls for off-campus students to be given the name of a University staff member to contact when they have concerns about off­campus living. 
"It wasn't specifically a need for a new title or a new position, but an addendum," Reish said. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said that this staff person could provide consistent resources for student government sponsored events for off-campus students. These events include community block parties for students and their neighbors and an information session about security during winter break. 
"Something that we've always dis­cussed is, while student government does this every year, it's not always guaranteed," Schmidt said. 
The University previously eliminated the job position of off-campus coordi­nator because it appeared to promote living off-campus, Reish said. 
The resolution also encourages maintenance of a Web site for off-cam­pus student resources. Reish said that this Web site existed until two years ago, when the Office of Residence Life and Housing removed it. 
"The intent is not that we advocate that students live off campus," Lewis Hall rector Linda Cirillo said. "The thought process is just if we can have a point of contact for someone if they have questions." 
The resolution passed with 12 votes in favor and one vote against it. 
The CLC also discussed the report by the task force for medical amnesty policy review. 
Former chief executive assistant Karen Koski presented the task force's short-term recommendations to clarify misperceptions about the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH) as well as Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) as solely disciplinary entities. 
The task force met with representa­tives from ORLH, NDSP and the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education to form their proposals, Koski said. The report will be sent to these offices, as well as to the CLC and Senate for the 2009­2010 academic year. 
"When it comes to the short-term suggestions to minimize mispercep­tions, a lot of the follow up can be done on the student government end," Koski said. 
Long-term suggestions include a procedural change in which rectors 
can notify ORLH to give special consid­eration to a student who was disci­plined while attempting to seek med­ical attention for a peer. 
"There is no guarantee here," Koski said. "I think there needs to be a lot more collaboration with rectors on this." 
Fr. Pete McCormick, rector of Keough Hall, said that procedural changes are difficult because rectors must be able to make a judgment call in each individual situation. 
"There's a desire to make things no longer grey, to make them black and white," he said. "But sometimes with the work that rectors do, you need that wiggle room." 
Koski said that the task force's docu­ment is not binding in any way, but rather an invitation to continue dis­cussion of the misperceptions of ORLH and NDSP as well as the issue of med­ical amnesty. She said that progress can continue with follow up by student government, and that she has already discussed the issues with Schmidt. 
"This will definitely be addressed next year," Schmidt said. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
For more information, visit http://performlngarts.nd.edu/ 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April28, 2009 




Panel examines history of Church's position on abortion 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
NewsWrirer 
Professors Gary Anderson and Joseph Powers discussed the Catholic Church's historical position on abortion and the power of good dialogue in discussing controversial issues Monday in a panel discus­sion on "Abortion in the Early Church and Rational Debate on llie Issues." 
"In the Greco·-Roman world, the practice of getting rid of unwanted children was not only practiced but was encouraged," Anderson, a pro­fessor of theology said. "This prac­tice and its connection to abortion today can be seen indirectly in the Bible." 
Anderson said that stories in the Bible that are obliquely related to abortion are the stories that involve the elimination of young children, such as the passages in Exodus that speak of the Egyptian pharaoh ordering that all the Israelite male children be killed. 
According to Anderson, the prac­tice of eliminating unwanted chil­dren was commonplace in most cultures for several centuries. 
"Scholars of late antiquity said that members of Greco-Homan societies thought that the Jews and Christian families were off because they kept all their young," Anderson said. "This was not something that was common in that time period." 
Anderson said that while expo­sure was the easiest and most practiced means of getting rid of children during this time period, the Romans did know how to per­form abortions, which were very painful and dangerous. 
"You can imagine that during this time period, an abortion was not a pleasant experience," he said. "But it was practiced; the philoso­pher Plato even said that women over the age of 40 who were preg­nant should abort their unborn child." 
Views and practices such as these carried over throughout the centuries and affected the current debate on abortion. 
"Most people have never read Roe v. Wade," Anderson said. "Abortions, especially ones that allow for the killing of the child up until a day before the baby is to be born, creates a real moral dilem-


rna." 
To combat this dilemma, Powers, a professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, said that most successful way to convince people is through a good debate. 
"As a society, I think we need to argue better," he said. "A university is a great place where you can have rational people come together and discuss different points of view and engage in a good conversa­tion." 
Powers said that starting a debate about issues of faith could mean encountering extreme diffi­culties. 
"In rational debate, the truth is often hard to find," he said. "When it comes to questioning faith, the truth is very difficult to discover." 
Powers said that when applying mathematics and science to faith­ba<>ed questions, it becomes very complex and it is hard to try and prove anything. 
"I find it very difficult where to draw the line when it comes to abortion," he said. "In my mind, an embryo has just as much potential for life as anything else." 
An additional difficulty in arguing on religious issues is that religion tends to deal with issues that have overlapped from the public sphere. Powers brought up the issue of slavery in the United States in the 19th century as a subject that faced similar difficulties when it came to the argument of faith versus rea­son. 

"The Catholic Church needed to come to a new consensus on slav­ery because there had been sup­port for slavery from the Bible," Powers said. "It took a long time to change the views on slavery and it could take a similarly long time to change the views on abortion." 
Powers said that the changing of the Church's perspective on slavery should give hope to supporters of the pro-life cause today. 
"If we continue to argue with faith and fact, the argument will advance," he said. 
Anderson agrees that the slavery model should give hope to oppo­nents of abortion. 
'There will be a development on the issue of abortion," he said. "Pro-life is not just a Catholic issue; it is an issue that encompasses what Christians have been teaching for thousands of years." 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hcc-nd.edn 
Old2Gold collects student donations 
By SARAH MERVOSH NewsWrirer 

Instead of throwing away unwanted belongings at the end of the year, students can donate them to Old2Gold, an annual end of the year yard sale scheduled for May 23 at Notre Dame Stadium. 
"Virtually, Old2Gold will take any items that is useable that a student doesn't need or want anymore," Old2Gold coordina­tor Frank Parker said. 
Commonly donated items include all kinds of furniture, any type of clothing, sports equipment, appliances, carpet­ing and plastic storage con­tainers, Parker said. 
Proceeds of the sale will be divided among 50 local agen­cies that serve the community, Parker said. 
Last year, Old2Gold raised over $70,000 and has raised over $184,000 since its cre­ation, according to its Web site. 
"A key thing about Old2Gold is that the students aren't donating the items to the University, they're actually donating to the agencies," Parker said. "All the money goes to the agencies that are participating." 
Old2Gold's primary collec­tion drive is taking place this week in conjunction with room inspections, but the organiza­tion has already collected enough items to fill 23 large cardboard boxes. 
"Things have been given to Old2Gold all year long, but the actual collection of items start­ed [Monday l with all the wood that's coming out from the lofts that are being taken down," Parker said 
Old2Gold will take straight, non-damaged wood and bun­dle it together to sell. 
Old2Gold has also already begun collecting non-perish­able, unopened food items, which will be donated to the Food Bank of Northern Indiana. 
Last year, 39,000 pounds of food were collected, Parker said. 
This year will be the fifth year Old2Gold has been in place, Parker said. He hopes 
this year will generate more funds than ever before. 
"We're hoping to raise at least $70,000 again this year like we did last year. It all depends on how generous the students here are," Parker said, adding that they have traditionally been very gener­ous. 
For the first few years, Parker said he saw a profit of about $35,000 to $45,000, but that the profit "sky rocketed" last year. 
"We're hoping that it just keeps increasing because the more it increases the more the agencies gain dollars," he said. "And with the economy the way it is, it really helps the agencies keep doing what they are doing for the community." 
Parker said Old2Gold also helps the environment by reusing items that would have traditionally gone straight to a landfill. 
"In years gone by, a lot of the stuff was just thrown out," he said. "Over the four years that we've done this, there has been over 300 tons of mer­chandise diverted from the landfills because we've reused it by selling it to folks." 
Parker said the collection welcomes any item a student does not want, as long as it isn't broken. 
"Giving us a TV that doesn't work, that doesn't help. But giving us a TV that works, that generates funds," he said. 
Last year, there were 5,700 shoppers, mostly from the South Bend community, who came to the sale. 
"We wrapped the stadium last year before 7 a.m.," Parker said. 
There will be an early bird's special for those who wish to enter the sale before 9 a.m., Parker said. 
"We have what we call an early bird sale. Between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m., you have to have an early bird ticket to get in. And we start selling the early bird tickets at 5 a.m.," he said. "From 9 a.m. to 11 a.m., any­body can come in and buy." 
The early bird tickets cost $5, Parker said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


Class hosts first annual Bold Beauty Conference 
SMC students present research, Barbie projects to open dialouge and spread information among women 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Professor Terri Russ's Female Beauty class held the first annual Bold Beauty Conference Monday. The conference featured the collaboration of approxi­mately 30 Saint Mary's students and alumnae on topics dealing with beauty and women. 
The idea for the mini-conference began with Russ, an assistant professor of communications, who said that she wanted the classroom discussion in her course to reach the larger campus. 
In Vander Venet Theater, five Female Beauty course students presented their projects that they researched: Kate Wojan's "Kick Ass Beauties", Caitlin Morrison's "Childhood Beauty Pageants", Elizabeth Flees' "Women's Most Public Private Part", Kristle Hodges' "Black Women's Body Dissatisfaction", and Emily Cusidak's "Kusbach-Plastic Surgery-New Beauty". 
In addition to these five lectures, other students had their projects set up in the neighboring conference rooms. Topics ranged from childhood prostitu­tion in New York City to a Photoshop project that modified images of stu­dents from the class to agree with con­ventional definitions of beauty. 
The most visited display in the room was the table of Barbies that the class had designed as a class project. 
"We have a number of Barbies on display who have been modified to reflect some aspect of women's exis­tence other than that usually presented by Mattei," Russ said. 
Junior Cassie McDonheh, a Women's Studies Major, said she thinks the Barbie display is an important part of the mini-conference. 
"In class we talked about how Mattei plays up how Barbie can be anything, and how this is supposed to be freeing for women," McDonheh said. "In reali­ty, there is no homeless Barbie. Barbie is restricting to what women can and can't be." 
The Barbies that the class created included "Child Prostitute Barbie," "Sexual Fantasy Barbie," "Bridezilla Barbie" and even an ''I'm Saint Mary's Barbie." 
Russ said she believes it is important to open a dialogue among women about beauty. 
"I hope that those attending will begin to see that beauty is a system that surrounds us and creates certain expectations, some of which we know many of which we do not," Russ said. "I hope they will begin to understand that their beauty is their own and they should be defining what is beautiful instead of letting outside others do so." 
According to Russ, next year's con­ference is already being planned. 
"Ideally we will continue to offer the conference each year and add new ele­ments with each new beauty class," Russ said. 
McDonheh said she thinks it is impor­tant for this event to continue. 
"It is important to talk about and spread information about the distortion of beauty in the media, and this confer­ence is especially prevalent since we go to an all-women's college," McDonheh said. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO1@saintmarys.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, April28, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's W1RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Jailed journalist holds htmger sbike 
TEHRAN -An American journalist jailed in Iran for allegedly spying for the U.S. is vowing to remain on a hunger strike until she is freed even though she is "very weak," her father said Monday. 
Roxana Saberi, who has been on a hunger strike for a week, was convicted more than a week of ago and sentenced to eight years in prison after a one-day trial behind closed doors. 
Her parents said they brought her a bou­quet of flowers on Sunday -her 32nd birthday -and were able to visit her again in Evin prison on Monday. 
"Roxana is very weak and pale. She has been on a hunger strike for a week now," her father, Reza Saberi, told The Associated Press. "She is only drinking sweetened water to remain alive." 
Refugees build theater for pope's visit 
AIDA REFUGEE CAMP, West Bank ­Palestinians in a refugee camp near Bethlehem want to receive Pope Benedict XVI in what they say is the most fitting set­ting -next to the towering cement wall that is part of Israel's West Bank separa­tion barrier and borders the camp on two sides. 
They are building an outdoor theater next to the wall for the pope's visit to Aida camp May 13. They say they chose the spot to highlight life under Israeli military occu­pation. 
However, the Israeli government has ordered the construction to stop, saying camp organizers lack the necessary per­mits and that the theater's proximity to the wall poses a security risk. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Low flying plane startles witnesses 
NEW YORK -An airliner and supersonic fighter jet zoomed past the lower Manhattan skyline in a flash just as the work day was beginning Monday. Within minutes, startled financial workers streamed out of their offices, fearing a nightmarish replay of Sept. 11. 
For a half-hour, the Boeing 747 and F-16 jet circled the Statue of Liberty and the lower Manhattan skyline near the World Trade Center site. Offices evacuated. Dispatchers were inundated with calls. Witnesses thought the planes were flying dangerously low. 
But the flyover was nothing but a photo op, apparently one of a series of flights to get pictures of the plane in front of national landmarks. 
Accused killer cannot afford attorney 
BOSTON -The Boston University medical student accused of slaying a 25-year-old masseuse he met on Craigslist owes more than $130,000 in student loans and cannot afford an attorney, according to court papers. 
Philip Markoff, 23, also does not get money from his parents and has been unemployed for a while making him eligible for an appointed attorney paid through public funds, court documents showed. 
"(Markoffi stated he did not receive finan­cial support from his family," said an April 23 document signed by a probation officer. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Workers protest proposed cuts 
INDIANAPOLIS -A few thousand union workers are packing the Statehouse to protest proposed cuts in unemployment benefits. 
The midday rally is the largest held inside the Statehouse this legislative session. 
Republicans who control the Senate have proposed a plan that would increase employer taxes, reduce benefits for most jobless claimants and tighten eligibility standards. They and Democrats who control the House are trying to negotiate a compromise. 
Democratic House Speaker Patrick Bauer of South Bend said at the rally that jobless bene­fits won't be cut. 
Same-sex couples hold -weddings in Iowa 
State becomes third to allow gay marriage; some exchange vows hours after ruling 
Associated Press 
DES MOINES -Same-sex couples in Iowa began hold­ing hastily planned wed­dings Monday as the state became the third to allow gay marriage, a leap that even some supporters find hard to grasp in the nation's heartland. 
Within hours of a state Supreme Court ruling legal­izing gay marriage taking effect, several same-sex couples had exchanged vows on the steps of the Polk County Administrative Building. 
"It's not very romantic is it?" Melisa Keeton joked, referring to the location of the ceremony and the media attention, before marrying Shelley Wolfe. 
The couple were allowed to wed after getting a judge to waive the state's three­day waiting period. The waiver was granted after the couple claimed the wait was stressful on Keeton, who is pregnant and due in August. 
The couple, who will go by the last name Keeton, were married by the Rev. Peg Esperanza of the Church of the Holy Spirit. She later married at least two other couples, all at no Roach, 22, who waited in a state in the heartland, it's ed will hurt Democrats in charge. misting rain to enter the come a long way." the 2010 elections. 
"God sent me here today, office and file their applica­Tom Wittman, 55, of One gubernatorial candi­and I've said OK," said tion. They later got a waiv­Johnston, agreed. date, Sioux City business­Esperanza, a lesbian who er and planned to get mar­"I think it's fine," he said. man Bob Vander Plaats, plans to marry her partner ried as soon as possible "It is an issue of equal has already made gay mar­in October. after seeing how California rights." riage a focal point of his 
On April 3, the Iowa jus­voters last year reinstated a Still, the issue is far from run for the Republican tices upheld a lower court ban on same-sex marriage. settled. nomination. ruling that rejected a state "You just never know Bryan English of the Iowa "This will be a major law restricting marriage to when they'll try to take it Family Policy Center, which issue in the campaign of a union between a man and away," Roach said. opposes same-sex mar­2010," Vander Plaats said. woman. The decision added A poll by the University of riage, said the Legislature Some Republican strate­Iowa to the list of states Iowa taken just before the and Gov. Chet Culver had gists warned, however, that where gay marriage is high court's ruling showed put some "poor county the GOP could overplay its legal, joining Massachusetts 26 percent of Iowans sup­recorders in an awfully hand. They said Iowans and Connecticut. A Vermont port gay marriage. That tough position today" by not largely oppose gay mar­law allowing gay marriage number rises to more than working to block the court's riage but may not consider will take effect in 50 percent when people ruling from taking effect. it a make-or-break issue. September. were asked if they support­The group wants the state "That issue is not a nega­
Officials said the Polk ed either gay marriage or to begin the multiyear tive one for Republicans, County recorder's office had civil unions. process of amending Iowa's but if Republicans let this received 82 marriage appli­"If they want to marry, I constitution to overturn the be the only thing they talk cations from same-sex cou­don't see a reason not to let court decision. about they won't be suc­ples by 4 p.m. them," said Joe Biase, a 31-Culver and majority cessful in 2010," said Doug 
One of them was Alicia year-old college student Democrats have refused, Gross, a former GOP guber­Zacher, 24, and Jessica from Des Moines. "For a which Republicans predict-natorial nominee. 
MEXICO 

Some question response to swine flu 
than $5 billion, Mexico's health secre­image of a country that has the crisis
Associated Press 
tary said Monday that his agency hasn't under control. 
MEXICO CITY -Two weeks after the had the resources to visit the families of "Nobody believes the govermnent any­first known swine flu death, Mexico still the dead. That means doctors haven't more," said Edgar Rocha, a 28-year-old hasn't given medicine to the families of begun treatment for the population most office messenger. He said the lack of the dead. It hasn't determined where the exposed to swine flu, and most apt to information is sowing distrust: "You outbreak began or how it spread. And spread it. haven't seen a single interview with the while the govermnent urges anyone who It also means medical sleuths don't sick!" feels sick to go to hospitals, feverish peo­know how the victims were infected -The political consequences could be ple complain ambulance workers are key to understanding how the epidemic serious. China was heavily criticized scared to pick them up. began and how it can be contained. during the outbreak of SARS for failing 
A portrait is emerging of a slow and Foreign health officials were hesitant to release details about the disease, confused response by Mexico to the Monday to speak critically about feeding rumors and fear. And Mexico's gathering swine flu epidemic. And that Mexico's response, saying they want to failed response to a catastrophic 1985 could mean the world is flying blind into wait until more details emerge before earthquake is largely credited with the a global health storm. passing judgment. But already, Mexicans demise of the party that had ruled the 
Despite an annual budget of more were questioning the government's country since the 1920s. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 28, 2009 
Launch of off-can1pus Web site delayed to Fall 2009 
Director ofExternal Affairs Gari attributes delay to more information available online, including caverage ofEddy's Street Commons 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Student government will launch its new off-campus Web site in the fall instead of at the end of this year as originally planned because the Web site has expanded to cover many aspects of off­campus life, Director of External 
all major housing providers and explain different zoning laws. There will also be resources giving information about signing a lease, budg­eting, utilities, renter's insurance and the landlord­tenant relationship. 
"Indiana actually has the most strict landlord-tenant rules and students don't know that they need to be protected," 
Affairs Gus Gari said. "It
"Indiana actually has 
Gari said. basically goes "It's an ongo­the most strict through all of ing process the Indiana
landlord-tenant rules 
and we realize tenant laws for
and students don't 
that there is a you and the 
lot more infor­know that they need to landlord." mation that we be protected" Another wanted to be aspect that the 
able to provide Web site will
Gus Gari 
for students cover is the which length­Director of expectations of ened our time External Affairs the community frame," he and the said. University for 
The Web site students who was originally live off cam-intended as the online ver­pus. sion of the Good Neighbor "The common misconcep­Guide, which is currently the tion is [I'll move off campus] University's guide to off-cam­so I can drink hard alcohol pus living. But after explor­and so the University can't ing the topic, student govern­do anything to me anymore," ment decided to make the Gari said. But the University Web site about "everything still has authority over stu­off-campus," Gari said. dents who live off campus, 
The Web site, which is ten­he said. tatively named "The Off­"There are still things like Campus Connector," will list men and women can't live in 
the same house. Official uni­versity expectation is that that can't happen," he said. 
Gari also said if a student receives noise violations and a copy is sent to the University, the University can take action. 
The Web site will also con­tain resources for safety and security, from bow to protect cars and houses from burgla­ry to what to do to stay safe while walking down the street. 
Although the Web site has resources for students who live off campus and students looking to make the transi­tion to living off campus, it caters to students who live on campus as well. 
"All students go off cam­pus," Gari said. 
There will also be resources for events and restaurants in the Michiana area, which will help make students more aware of what is available to them in the community, Gari said. 
For example, if a student wants to figure out which restaurant to take his or her parents to on a football weekend, the Web site can serve as a resource. 
"We're toying with the idea of separating it by price. Like, 'Oh, I just want to go grab a quick burger with my roommates' or 'I want my parents to really take me out 
for that nice steak,"' Gari pus life or simply interesting said. events in the South Bend 
Gari said one factor that area. has slowed down the comple­"For example a lot of peo­tion of the Web site is the ple didn't know that last fact that month, Robin Eddy's Street Williams was Commons is here doing a not finished. comedy show," He said that Gari said. he would pre­':4 lot ofstudents "The main fer to include objective here is
didn't know that last 
Eddy's Street to be able to Commons in month, Robin Williams communicate to the final ver­was here doing a students no sion of the matter if they
comedy show." 
Web site so are on campus he would not or off campus," have to take Gus Gari he said. the site down Director of "Communicating to update it to students
External Affairs 
when the what's in the development world around is completed. them and being 
"Eddy's able to give stu­Street dents ... infor-Commons is a really critical mation depending on what part. And then obviously the they are trying to get out of restaurants that are associ­off-campus life." ated with," he said. The Web site should be a 
The Web site will also offer resource for a student who transportation information, wants to move off campus, as including a list of all cab well as someone who is sim­companies' phone numbers, ply worried about how to information about buses stay safe at off-campus par­around South Bend and ties, Gari said. information about trans­"It's really an all-encom­portation to Chicago. passing umbrella project of 
Gari said he plans to have everything off campus," he news and events on the home said. page of the Web site, such as student government events Contact Sarah Mervosh at that have to do with off-cam-smervosh@nd.edu 

THE 


BSERVER 

Join the campus organization that brings the news to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses every day. 
We're looking for new staff in all departn1ents. 
Join The Observer staff. Contact us today. 
News Madeline Buckley (rnbuckley@''nd.edu) Ashley Charnley (acharnOl@saintmarys.edu) Sports Matt Gamber (mgamber@nd.edu) Scene Jess Shaffer (jshaffe1@nd.edu) Photo Ian Gavlick (igavlick@nd.edu) 

Tuesday, April28, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 
Jones 8,025.00 -51.29 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,187 81 2,540 2,618,947,816 
AMEX t;3a3:4g'"[~:'~'Z2j.4o•·· NASDAQ 1,679.41 -14.88 NYSE s,3a9.s~•·1iiil:+7s·.~s 
S&P 500 857.51 -8.72 NIKKEI (Tokyo)' 8,:Z63~4S.Jwf;±37.1l'' FTSE 100 (London) 4,167.01 +11.02 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE MERRILL LYNCH (DWMT) 0.00 0.00 9.46 BK OF AMERICA (BAC) -1.98 -0.18 8.92 5&0 DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -0.95 ·0.82 85.84 FINANCIAL BULL 3X (FAS) -7.80 -0.65 7.75 
Treasuries 10-YEAR NOTE -2.50 -0.075 2.921 13-WEEK BILL -5.26 -0.005 0.090 30-YEAR BOND -0.98 -0.038 3.838 5-YEAR NOTE -4.79 -0.093 1.847 
Commodities 
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.25 49.89 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) ·5.90 908.20 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -3.00 80.80 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 96.5150 EURO 1.3020 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2174 BRITISH POUND 1.4606 

IN BRIEF 
Airtraffic control facility relieson trainees 
WASHINGTON -The nation's busiest air traf­fic control facility in Southern California relies heavily on inexperienced trainees, who are expected to make up more than 40 percent of controllers there later this year, according to a report released Monday. 
The Transportation Department inspector gen­eral report expressed concern about air traffic controller staffing levels at the Southern California Terminal Radar Approach Control Facility near San Diego, as well at the Northern California Terminal Radar Approach Facility near Sacramento. The two facilities handle planes approaching and leaving California air­ports. 
There are currently 76 trainee controllers ­32 percent of the work force -at the Southern California TRACON, the report said. But the Federal Aviation Administration plans to hire another 34 trainees later this year to make up for expected retirements, raising the share of controllers at the facility who are trainees to more than 40 percent. 
Nationally, about 27 percent of the controllers at radar facilities are trainees, the report said. 
Controllers' workload at Southern California TRACON has increased 19 percent since 1997, and overtime has increased nearly 400 percent since 2006, the report said. The facility handled nearly 2.25 million operations last year. 
Democratspush to conclude negotiations 
WASHINGTON -Congressional Democrats pushed to wrap up negotiations on a budget plan that would help President Barack Obama's ambi­tious goal of overhauling the health care system. 
Negotiators from the House and Senate met Monday, and Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad, D-N.D., confirmed details of a tentative pact reached last week that would prevent Senate Republicans from delaying or blocking Obama's plan to vastly expand gov­ernment-subsidized health care. 
The $3.5 trillion plan for the budget year start­ing Oct. 1 embraces several of Obama's key goals, including health care reform, funds for domestic programs and clean energy, and a tax increase for individuals making more than $200,000 a year or couples making more than $250,000. 


Over 1,000 defrauded in Ponzi scheme 
Five officers for Metro Dream Homes company accused oftricking homeowners 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -More than 1,000 people were defrauded out of about $70 million by a group advertising the dream of homeownership in what turned out to be a night­mare Ponzi scheme, feder­al and Maryland officials said Monday. 
Five officers for Laurel, Md.-based Metro Dream Homes company are accused of tricking home­owners into pouring money into the business with the promise that the revenue would be used to pay off their mortgages. The scheme ran from 2005 until October 2007, authorities said. 
Newly confirmed Assistant U.S. Attorney General Lanny Breuer said the charges should send a message to those engaging in mortgage fraud. 
"Our resolve as a group is great," he said at a news conference in Washington. "We will find you. We will prosecute you, and we're going to put you in prison." 
The indictment names company founder Andrew Hamilton Williams Jr., 58, of Hollywood, Fla.; finan­get rich quickly just by tant attorney general. "The name Dream cial officer Michael dreaming, without the Other victims were in Homes was truly a night­Anthony Hickson, 46, of hard work," said Rod California, Delaware, the mare for so many people Commack, N.Y.; president Rosenstein, the U.S. attor­District of Columbia, in the state of Maryland," Isaac Jerome Smith, 46, of ney for Maryland. Georgia, New York, North said Douglas F. Gansler, Spotsylvania, Va.; and vice "Usually, people can Carolina and Virginia. the state's attorney gener­president Alvita Karen achieve that only by Investors were told they al. Gunn, 31, of Hanover, Md. breaking the rules." were investing in ATM Authorities say the con­They had 48 hours to turn Prosecutors say the com­machines, television spirators operated under themselves in. pany marketed the mort­advertising and calling several corporate names, 
Gunn had an initial gage program in seminars card kiosks that would including Metro Dream appearance Monday after­at luxury hotels in raise money for the mort­Homes, Metropolitan noon in U.S. District Court Maryland, Washington and gage payments. But prose­Grapevine LLC and POS in Greenbelt, Md. Her Beverly Hills, Calif. An cutors say those business­Dream Homes. attorney, Elita C. Amato, investor had to put up a es never made any money. Investigators said the did not immediately return minimum of $50,000 for Instead, prosecutors say scheme was elaborate ­a call seeking comment. each home. The company the investments were used early investors whose Other attorneys in the case was then supposed to pay to pay company salaries of monthly mortgage pay­also could not be reached off their mortgages within up to $200,000 and main­ments had been paid by for comment. five to seven years. tain a fleet of luxury cars money provided by later 
A fifth person, Carole More than half the vic­and a staff of 10 chauf­investors assured potential Nelson, 50, of Washington, tims were from the feurs. And company offi­recruits that the program D.C., was named in a doc­Washington suburbs of cials allegedly traveled to worked. Investors were ument normally filed as Prince George's County in the Super Bowl and the told the company made as part of a plea deal. Maryland, said John NBA all-star game with much as $10 million a 
"Some people hope to McLane, a Maryland assis-investor money. month. 

DaimlerAGtogetridofChryslerstake 
Associated Press relations, including limited support the pensions of millions of workers 
for certain dealer financing until and retirees, will be reduced to 
NEW YORK Germany's the end of September 2009, as well $200 million and remain in place Daimler AG said Monday it has as certain guaranties," Daimler through August 2012. reached a deal to get rid of its said in its statement. Daimler said the deal is expected remaining 19.9 percent stake in Under the agreement, Daimler to reduce its second-quarter earn­Chrysler LLC, severing the last tie will forgive $1.9 billion in loans it ings before interest and tax by between the two automakers that extended to Auburn Hills, Mich.­about $700 million. The automaker was formed more than a decade based Chrysler, which it had has recorded billions in losses ago. already written off in its 2008 related to Chrysler since selling off 
The agreement is expected to financial results. most of its stake in the U.S. car­stanch the billions in losses Daimler also agreed to pay $200 maker to New York-based private Daimler has sustained as a result million into Chrysler's pension plan equity firm Cerberus Capital of its stake in the struggling U.S. when the deal takes effect and in Management LP in 2007. automaker, which itself faces a each of the two years afterward. For the fourth quarter of 2008 Thursday deadline to restructure The money will help fund the pen­alone, Daimler said its Chrysler or face possible collapse. sions of former DaimlerChrysler stake pulled its results lower by 
"Following the transfer of the AG workers, Daimler said. some 2 billion euros. The German term sheet into the final definitive The existing pension guaranty of company reported a 1.53 billion agreements, the relationship $1 billion in relation to the Pension euro loss for the quarter. Daimler between Daimler and Chrysler will Benefit Guaranty Corp., the gov­is scheduled to release its first­solely consist of supplier-customer ernment corporation that insures quarter earnings on Tuesday. 
(l ' ,\(\ .,,\'\' (?00!: .8S: lilqA ,vJ;Ll:;ut page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 28, 2009 
Professors recieve grant to research teen obesity 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Two Notre Dame professors have received a grant to research how personalized infqrmation technolo­gy can be used to combat teenage obesity in the South Bend area. 
Corey Angst, an assistant profes­sor of management, and Elizabeth Moore, an associate professor of marketing, were awarded the Hodney F. Gainey community­based research grant, which is given annually to three different groups. Angst said that one of the main aspects of the grant was that it must be centered on helping the community. 
"The idea behind this type of grant is that it's community-based, so we have to have partners in the community willing to work with us on this," Angst said. 
Angst and Moore's partners will be the Memorial Family Medicine Center and St. Joseph County health services. The two professors will use the grant to explore how effective technology-based meth­ods of weight-loss advice, such as text messages and social network­ing Web sites, contrast with more traditional methods, such as pam­phlets. 
"The idea behind the project is that even in underserved regions of the community, these teens end up having access to cell phones," Angst said. "Rather than using the traditional methods such as brochures, we will be sending them texts and directing them to sites such as Facebook." 
Angst said that obesity is a seri­ous problem in the South Bend area, especially in poorer parts of the city that are unable to find fresh produce or obtain inf(>rma­tion about the dangers of obesity. 
"(Obesity is] a huge problem locally," Angst said. "Especially in underserved populations where they have less access to fresh veg­etables and fruit and often times they just aren't privy to much infor­mation about how much obesity we have in lhi<> country." 
Angst said that part of the study will involve talking to adults about obesity and various methods of preventing or reducing it. 
"One of the biggest problems is that there is an 80 percent chance of being obese as an adult if you are obese as a child," Angst said. 
The actual study will entail find­ing willing participants between the ages of 12 and 19 at the Memorial Family Medical Center. About 500 of their teenage patients are obese or at risk for obesity. The team will send them personalized messages to help them learn about obesity and try and lose weight. 
"We will craft specific messages that we will send to them over time," Angst said. "Some will require feedback, like [asking the teenagers to record their eating habits]." 
The study will also direct the stu­dents to social networking Web sites where they can calculate their body mass index and talk to other individuals going through similar problems. This will enable the team to explore how these sites are being used by teens. 
The initial pilot study will take approximately six months. If the study is successful, the researchers would like to follow the teens' progress for up to three years. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 


Students to meet 
pen pals Friday 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
After a semester of writing letters to fourth graders at Warren Primary Center, Saint Mary's students will have the opportunity to meet their pen pals. 
'The Pen Pal Program is an innova­tive mentoring program that partners Saint Mary's College students with fourth grade girls at local Title one schools in a semester long letter exchange," Olivia Bar.eydlo, assistant diroctor of the Office of Qvil and Social Engagement (OC.'lE) and director of the College Academy ofTutoring (001 program said. 
"This year we partnered with Warren Primary Center and had Saint Mary's mentors meet with the girls in small groups once a week to work on self-esteem and social skills activities with them as well as help them write letters to their Saint Mary's pen pals." 
The students will have the opportu­nity to meet their pen pals Friday. 'They will break into small groups to tour campus and meet back in Reinbeaux for lunch," she said. "After lunch, the pen pals will participate in an assortment of teambuilding activi­ties ending with a reflection circle on the Ahmrnae Green where the fourth graders will reflect on their day," she said. 
Barzydlo added that before the filurth graders leave the College, they will receive stationary from their pen pal<; so they r.ontinm~ correspondenm throughout the summm: 
Acr.ording to BarL}'dlo, the PHn Pal Program began in 2CXl6 a<; part of an internship. 
'The program began in 2006 with two students as part of a clinical psy­chology intem<>hip," she said. 'There was such tremendous positive feed­back from the school and tim Saint Mary's students invoived that the OCSE took on the program, permanently giv­ing it to the CAT progrdl11." 
IJke the Pen Pal Program, the CAT program was also ereated in 2006. Armrding to Barzydlo, the CAT pro­gram wa<; created to help at-risk stu­dents from local school<>. 
'The program provides Saint Mary's students to partner with Title one ele­mentary schools in the roles of tutors, teacher's as1>i'itants, mading partners and special program coordinators," she said "It also provides the partner school with physical resoUl'C£S, a<; well as training and cultural events for par­ents, stafl'and r.ommunity members." 
Barzydlo said she is excited that the students finally have the opportunity to meet each other. 
'We're all extremely excited for the big day. You'U see us around C-<'llllpus in bright blue shirts on May 1," Barzydlo said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Mar-Main Apartments 125 West Marion St South Bend., IN 574-233-2098 www.mannatn.com 
All Utilities Included Free Continental Breakfast Fitness Room and High Speed Internet is available at an additional cost 


Tuesday, April 28, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Glendon 
continued from page 1 
Dame response to the criticism directed at the University's decision to invite Obama to campus that imply her "accep­tance speech would somehow balance the event," Glendon wrote that Commencement is "not the right place, nor is a brief acceptance speech the right vehicle, for engagement with the very serious problem raised by Notre Dame's decision ... to honor a prominent and uncompromising opponent of the Church's position on issues involving fundamental princi­ples of justice." 
University spokesperson Dennis Brown said these "talk­ing points" are not direct quotes from Jenkins, but were developed by communications personnel to be used in response to concerns. 
With the news that other Catholic schools are "similarly choosing to disregard the bish­ops' guidelines," Glendon wrote she is "concerned that Notre Dame's example could have an unfortunate ripple effect." 
The former ambassador was announced as the 133rd recipi­ent of the award, the oldest and most prestigious honor given to American Catholics, in a press release March 22 -Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent, for which the Medal is named. 
Glendon would have received the Medal at the 164th University Commencement cer­emony May 17. 
The University's invitation to Glendon to attend Commencement and receive the Medal was extended and accepted before Obama was invited and confirmed as princi­pal speaker, Brown said. 
Jenkins received Glendon's letter as a fax around 9:30 a.m. Monday, Brown said. 
Jenkins issued this response in a press release Monday afternoon: "We are, of course disappointed that Professor Glendon has made this decision. It is our intention to award the Laetare Medal to another deserving recipient, and we will make that announcement as soon as possible." 
In the press release on Glendon's announcement, Jenkins said as a public intel­lectual and a diplomat Glendon "has served our Church and our country." 
"She is an articulate and com­pelling expositor of Catholic social teaching who exemplifies our University's most cherished values and deserves its highest praise." 
In an interview with The Observer in March, Jenkins said Glendon is "probably the most powerful spokesperson for the Catholic viewpoint in our world today." 
He said her presence at Commencement, where Obama will deliver the principal address, would have been a strong representation of the Catholic point of view. 
Shin Inouye, a White House spokesperson, told The Observer Obama is "disappoint­ed by former Ambassador Mary Glendon's decision." 
Obama "looks forward to 
delivering an inclusive and respectful speech at the Notre Dame graduation, a school with a rich history of fostering the exchange of ideas. 
"While he is honored to have the support of millions of people of all faiths, he does not govern with the expectation that every­one sees eye to eye with him on every position, and the spirit of debate and healthy disagree­ment on important issues is part of what he loves about this country," Inouye said. 
In a March 29 statement, Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D' Arcy, who has been openly critical about the Obama deci­sion, said he spoke with Glendon and "encouraged her to accept this award and take the opportunity such an award gives her to teach." 
The Laetare Medal was first awarded in 1883 as an American counterpart to the Golden Rose, a papal honor given since the 11th century. The Medal bears the Latin inscription "Magna est veritas et prevalebit," which translates as "Truth is mighty, and it shall prevail." 
The Medal has been awarded annually at Notre Dame to a Catholic "whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the Church and enriched the her­itage of humanity," according to a University press release. 
The most recent recipient of the medal was actor and activist Martin Sheen. Notable past recipients include President John F. Kennedy and Catholic Worker founder Dorothy Day. 
Glendon is a scholar of law and philosophy and has researched in the areas of bioethics, comparative constitu­tional law and international human rights. The author of many books, including "A Nation Under Laywers: How the Crisis in the Legal Profession is Transforming American Society," Glendon graduated from the University of Chicago Law School, were she served on the law review. 
ContactJenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
Store Your Stun 
OYer rhe summ~ul 
15141 203-0512 
&182 B•kk Rood. South lffild l<Xated •t (levei<U\d R<i& US 20 Byp.>ss, 7 minute1 framcampu.s 


Scowcroft 
continued from page 1 
istration has to deal with in the Middle East, but Scowcroft also discussed a range of related top­ics, including globalization, the antiquated and defunct nature of current international government institutions and the changing face of foreign policy and national con­flict since the end of the Cold War. 
"Partly as a result of our inter­vention in Iraq, many of what we had considered separate and dis­creet problems in the Middle East have become intertwined," he said. "You can't just consider Iraq in isolation from the Palestinian peace process, Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan or even India. It's very difficult to sort them out." 
In his understanding, however, one central issue will affect all others. 
"There is one issue that can do more than anything else to trans­form attitudes in the region: the Palestinian peace process," he said. "It has created a gnawing sense of injustice for everyone; an injustice that is laid for the most part at the feet of the United States. It infuses many of the other conflicts. The sustenance that Hezbollah and Hamas get is largely from the Palestinian issue. Iran feeds off of the Palestinian issue." 
While peace in Palestine will not solve the other problems of the Middle East, "it would change the psychological atmosphere" of the region, he said. 
"It would put Iran back on the defensive," he said. "It would give a sense of relief and comradeship between the Arabs and the United States to pursue these other issues." 
In addition to the Palestinian peace process, Scowcroft said that Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India are the cause of most of the U.S. foreign policy problems in the Middle East. 
ers are concerned about. 
"People want to see the lead­ership at Notre Dame be more consistently adherent to the Catholic doctrine," DiFranco said. "They're not so much con­cerned about Jenkins leaving as they are with who's going to replace him." 
If a more "prudent" president or set of leaders was installed, DiFranco said, participating donors would again support the University. 
Jenn Metz contributed to this report. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
appointments have made a huge difference," Dukeman said. "As for set-up, the American Red Cross does this on a very regular basis so they already had the plan for that, based upon them doing this in LaFortune for the past sev­eral years." 
The blood drive will continue Tuesday from 1 to 7 p.m. in the Grand Ballroom of LaFortune. 
"I just want to thank all of those who made an appointment or are planning on doing a walk in," Dukeman said. "Your generosity is amazing and the success of this event is due to you for taking the time and giving of yourself." 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at edonnel@nd.edu 
Scowcroft commented that the main thing that the United States needs to keep in mind as it begins to withdraw its troops from Iraq is the need for the Iraqi government to maintain stability after the American troops leave. 
"President Ohama has moved a long way from his ~ampaign in his attitude about Iraq,~ he said. "I am fairly confident that he will not let the calendar dictate the pn\icy [for troop withdrawal]." 
Obama should work to change the United States' attitude in for­eign policy decision-making, according to Scowcroft. 
"It won't come easily, but we can bring ourselves to think multi­laterally and to lead, not domi­nate, and go out and listen for suggestions and present our own views," he said. "It is a hard and laborious way to do things, but in the world we have now, it's the best there is." 
Contact Jim Ferlmann at jferlman@nd.edu 
submit information regarding withheld funds using a form on the group's Web site. But DiFranco said they've been care­ful about monitoring the legiti­macy of the reported amounts. 
"People submit amounts online, but nothing's taken unfil­tered," DiFranco said. "Obviously, there's some that start to emerge as bogus." 
DiFranco said that the $8.2 million represents a "one time figure." He explained that the amounts include annual contri­butions that are being withheld for the time being, or estate funds that have been redirected away from the University, for example. 
He could not say when partici­pating donors might again start contributing those funds over the long term, saying the deci­sion has to do with the leader­ship of the University, and an evaluation of University leader­ship is "up to the discretion of the individuals that are with­holding [funds]." 
In addition to the Obama invi­tation, he cited a number of past controversial decisions made by administrators at Notre Dame ­including recent performances of "The Vagina Monologues" on campus -as examples of issues he and the campaigns support-

Blood 
continued from page 1 
school year, Dukeman said the spring is a great time for the event. 
"Obviously we wanted to hold it while the students are still on campus and prior to finals, so the last week of classes works very well for everyone concerned," he said. 
Dukmnan r;redited Lori Caputo, a member of the-American Red Cross, for her efforts in organizing the event. 
"Her vast experience and abili­ties really were the driving force behind this," Dukeman said. 
ROTC has hosted blood drives at Notre Dame for years in conjunc­tion with the American Red Cross. 
"We (ROTC) have several groups of volunteers who help out with events like food drives, clothing drives, and blood drives," Dukeman said. "Our volunteerism does not stop when we get back from schooVwork and take off the uniform." 
In order to prepare for the blood drive, a series of scheduling and coordinating efforts took place between the Notre Dame ROTC and the American Red Cross. 
Students were able to sign up for appointments through an e­mail Dukeman sent out. 
"Getting the word out through ListServ and people scheduling 

Donations 
continued from page 1 
exchanges. 
The majority of the $8.2 mil­lion figure can be attributed to larger number donations, DiFranco said. 
DiFranco said the initial figure is "very conservative," telling The Observer that they want to make sure there's "enough due diligence" paid to verifying the amounts. 
DiFranco said there are numerous other donations total­ing multi-millions of dollars that haven't been confirmed yet. 
The reported amounts not included in the $8.2 million fig­ure "just didn't get to our level of comfort," he said. 
"We don't want to have any false positives," DiFranco said. Alumni and fmancial support­ers of the University are asked to 
{JrNow toking opp/icatioos for next sclwol yeor 
L 
Gourmet ~on~wic~es, ~lo~s &Soups 
~Ius fonfasfi( FAIR TRADE (offees 
Ju~ oWol~ from Campus Open hery Day! 
~~ison ~lozo, 1~31 ~~ison ~~,113-6116 
CREDIT &DEBIT CARDS ACCEPTED! 
(arry Out Avoilo~e 
I I I 
1 $One ~er Yisit $ 
1 fxpires May 2009 
.-..-----------------.-.-, 
$One~erYisit $:I 
fxpires May 2009 1
____________ J 

page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, April 28, 2009 

Military families allow reporters at ceren1onies 

Associated Press 
DOVER, Del. -In the weeks since the Pentagon ended an 18-year ban on media coverage of fallen soldiers returning to the U.S., most families given the option have allowed reporters and photographers to witness the solemn ceremonies that mark the arrival of flag-draped transfer cases. 
Critics had warned that mili­tary families needed privacy and peace activists might exploit the images, but so far the coverage has not caused problems. 
Air Force Tech Sgt. Phillip A. Myers, 30, of Hopewell, Va., who died April 4 in Afghanistan, was the first combat casualty whose return to American soil was witnessed by the news media. He was buried with full military honors Monday after­noon at Arlington National Cemetery, where Defense Secretary Robert Gates joined representatives from all branch­es of the military in paying their respects. 
Air Force civil engineer Maj. Gen. Del Eulberg, who traveled to Dover Air Force Base earlier this month for the return of Myers' body, also attended the ceremony at Arlington, where he presented U.S. flags to Myers' widow, Aimee, his two children, and his parents. 
With permission from Aimee Myers, the military opened the Dover base earlier this month so reporters and photographers could chronicle the return of her husband's body. The mortu­ary there is the entry point for service members killed over­seas. 
The ban on media coverage dated back to 1991, when President George H. W. Bush imposed it during the Persian Gulf War. It was cast as a way to protect the privacy of grieving families, but critics argued that officials were trying to hide the human and political cost of war. 
"I think it was to protect the government's butt," said David Pautsch, who allowed the media to witness the return of his son Jason, an Army corporal from Davenport, Iowa, who was killed with four other soldiers in a bombing in Iraq. 
He said the ban was more about minimizing the political impact of Americans dying over­seas. 
"I think it was a reaction against the second-guessing of our country's mission," he said. 
Since the ban was lifted, 19 families have been asked whether they wanted media coverage of their loved one's return and 14 have said yes. 
"That's a pretty good majori­ty," Lt. Col. Les Melnyk, a Pentagon spokesman, said earli­er this month, when 16 families had been asked and 13 had con­sented. He said, though, that it's still too early to tell whether military families favor the new policy. 
Rose Alexander, a spokes­woman for the Air Force Mortuary Affairs Office, said reporters have been cooperative and there haven't been any problems. 
DeBartolo Hall 

STUDY OATES AND TIMES: 
April30, May 1, 2, 3:7am to 3:00am Midnight Snacks! Exam Dates: May 4-8: Rooms available except when scheduled by the Registrar's office. May 8: DeBartolo Hall closes at 5:00pm. 
See Building Support Personnel ifyou have specific needs: Room 103 or 104. 



Coleman-Morse: April30-May 8: 
finals Week! RmHH-~' nvailohle except when sdtedu/ed by the Registrar's offke. ls1 Floor: 7:00am-4:00am 2"d floor : 7:00am-3:00am 3rd Floor: 7:00am-12am May 8 : Coleman -Morse closes at 5:30pm 
See Building Support Person Room /OJ ifyou have a specific need. 
O'Shaughnessy: April 30-May 8: 7am to 3:00am Non-Technology Rooms only available when not scheduled by Registrar: 204, 206, 207, 208, 209, 242, 338, and 345 
,,~ Good Luck with Finals ·•• 
Spet:ial thank~ to ;ll~xiliary u11J f"ut:ilil}• Operatitm.•, Cumpu,~ Mini.llry and /he Stude11t t:ninn Board. 
FBI adds terrorist to most wanted list 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -An FBI official says a notorious terrorist sus­pected of aiding the insurgency in Iraq will be added to the agency's list of its most wanted terrorists. 
The official said Monday that an FBI committee recommended this month that 73-year-old Palestinian Abu Ibrahim be placed on the list. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because the decision wasn't offi­cial. 
An investigation by The Associated Press had revealed the terrorist was still alive and had fled to Syria. 
Ibrahim has been indicted in the 1982 bombing of Pam Am Flight 830. The explosion killed a 16-year-old boy and wounded more than ·a dozen passengers as the plane headed to Honolulu from Tokyo. 
The FBI official says it could take months for Ibrahim to appear on the list. 
The AP story also raised ques­tions about whether Ibrahim had been involved in the insurgency. 
Efforts are being made, mean­while, to dramatically increase the $200,000 bounty through the Rewards for Justice program run by the U.S State Department. 
More than two decades after he was indicted in Washington, D.C., the FBI is hoping it can finally nab Ibrahim. The bureau has recently ratcheted up efforts to find the suspect, whose real name is Husayn al-Umari. It has released an age-enhanced sketch, the only known picture of Ibrahim ever made public. 
When Ibrahim finally ascends to the list, he'll join some notori­ous company that includes Osama bin Laden and Al-Qaida's No. 2 leader, Ayman al-Zawahiri. Ibrahim would be the 25th per­son on the list. 
While foreign intelligence agencies have pursued Ibrahim for decades, he has mostly remained out of reach, hiding in Baghdad since about 1979. He once ran a terrorist organization in Baghdad named "15 May"­named after the date for which Israel was founded. 
Ibrahim, a devout Sunni who was born in Tripoli, Lebanon, is suspected of carrying out more than two dozen attacks on main­ly American, Israeli and Jewish targets in a career that spans decades. 
After the 2003 Iraq invasion, Ibrahim, a skilled operative, managed to elude coalition forces and moved from Baquobah to Mosul, which attracted insurgents and later became an Al-Qaida stronghold. Intelligence experts believe he slipped into Syria recently, per­haps with his family and his sec­ond wife, Selma. 
STUDY ITALIAN THIS SUMMER 

Complete the first year of Italian in 6 weeks! 
like a double shot of espresso in the morning 
ROIT 10115 is a 6 week, 6 credit course meeting from June 23 until August 6 MTWRF 8:30-10:30/11:00-12:00 


Tuesday, April28, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
New report finds half of adults switch religions 
Associated Press 
The U.S. is a nation of reli­gious drifters, with about half of adults restlessly switching faith affiliation at least once during their lives, a new sur­vey has found. 
And the reasons behind all the swapping depend greatly on whether one grows up kneeling at Roman Catholic Mass, praying in a Protestant pew or occupied with nonreli­gious pursuits, according to a report issued Monday by the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life. 
While Catholics are more likely to leave the church because they stopped believing its teachings, many Protestants are driven to trade one Protestant denomination or affiliation for another because of changed life circumstances, the survey found. 
The ranks of those unaffiliat­ed with any religion, mean­while, are growing not so much because of a lack of reli­gious belief but because of dis­enchantment with religious leaders and institutions. 
The report estimates that between 47 percent and 59 percent of U.S. adults have changed affiliation at least once. Most described just grad­ually drifting away from their childhood faith. 
'This shows a sort of religion a la carte and how pervasive it is," said D. Michael Lindsay, a Rice University sociologist of religion. "In some ways, it's an indictment of organized Christianity. It suggests there's a big open door for newcom­ers, but a wide back door where people are leaving." 
The report, "Faith in Flux: Changes in Religious Affiliation in the U.S.," sought to answer questions about widespread religion-changing identified in a 2007 Pew survey of 35,000 Americans. 
The new report, based on re­interviews with more than 2,800 people from the original survey, focuses on religious populations that showed a lot of movement: ex-Catholics, ex­Protestants, Protestants who've swapped denomina­tional families within Protestantism and people raised unaffiliated who now belong to a faith. 
The 2007 survey estimated that 44 percent of U.S. adults had left their childhood reli­gious affiliation. 
But the re-interviews found the extent of religion-swapping is likely much greater. The new survey revealed that one in six Americans who belong to their childhood faith are "reverts" ­people who left the faith, only to return later. 
Roughly two-thirds of those raised Catholic or Protestant who now claim no religious affiliation say they have changed faiths at least twice. Thirty-two percent of unaffili­ated ex-Protestants said they've changed three times or more. 
Age is another factor. Most people who left their childhood faith did so before turning 24, and a majority joined their current religion before 36. 
"If people want to see a truly free market at work, they real­ly should look at the U.S. reli­gious marketplace," said Luis Lugo, director of the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life. 
Sixteen percent of U.S. adults identified as unaffiliated in the 2007 survey; 7 percent of Americans described being raised unaffiliated, suggesting that many Americans end up leaving their religion for none. 
About half of those who have become unaffiliated cited a belief that religious people are hypocritical, judgmental or insincere. Large numbers said they think religious organiza­tions focus too much on rules, or that religious leaders are too focused on money and power. 
John Green, a University of Akron political scientist and a senior fellow with the Pew Forum, classified most unaffili­ated as "dissatisfied con­sumers." Only 4 percent identi­fy as atheist or agnostic, and one-third say they just haven't found the right religion. 
"A lot of the unaffiliated seem to be OK with religion in the abstract," Green said. "It's just the religion they were involved in bothered them or they disagreed with it." 
The unaffiliated category is not just a destination. It's also a departure point: a slight majority of those raised unaf­filiated eventually join a faith tradition. 
Those who do cite several reasons: attraction of religious services and worship (74 per­cent), feeling unfulfilled spiri­tually (51 percent) or feeling called by God (55 percent). 
The survey found that Catholicism has suffered the greatest net loss in all the reli­gion switching. Nearly six in ten former Catholics who are now unaffiliated say they left Catholicism due to dissatisfac­tion with Catholic teachings on abortion and homosexuality. About half cited concerns about Catholic teachings on birth control and roughly four in ten named unhappiness with Catholicism's treatment of women. 



Florida sheriff pleads not guilty to charges 
Associated Press 
NICEVILLE, Fla. -A sus­pended Florida sheriff pleaded not guilty to money laundering and conspiracy charges on Monday, two days after two of his former deputies were killed by a National Guard soldier they were trying to arrest. 
Okaloosa County Sheriff Charlie Morris and Teresa Adams, his administrative assis­tant, made no comments follow­ing the brief hearing. 
On Sunday, Interim Sheriff Ed Spooner, who was appointed by Gov. Charlie Crist to take over the troubled department just eight weeks ago, met with his department's 300 employees to try and explain what went wrong in the weekend shooting that left two deputies and the man they were trying to arrest for domestic battery dead. 
Another deputy, Anthony Forgione, died in July after he was shot by a suicidal man who had barricaded himself in a home. 
"All the things that keep hap­pening, it's like a scab that keeps getting peeled back over and over," said Larry Carter, the department's senior chaplain. 
FBI agents arrested Morris in February while he was on a gambling trip to Las Vegas. 
Morris and Adams were indicted by a federal grand jury Thursday in a scheme to create fictitious bonuses for depart­ment employees and pocket the money. 
Carter said employees had been preparing a May memorial service for Forgione and trying to put Morris' arrest behind them when Deputies Burt Lopez and Warren "Skip" York were killed. 
Lopez and York had no warn­ing a confrontation would occur when they tried to arrest Joshua Cartwright, 28, in the parking lot of a gun range, Spooner said. The deputies used a stun gun to subdue Cartwright, but he was able to start shooting at them from the ground. 
"Within seconds he sat up and began firing a weapon that came out of nowhere, it was somewhere on his body we assume," Spooner said as employees joined hands in prayer, cried and hugged Sunday night. 
Cartwright was killed in a shootout at a roadblock after a car chase .into a neighboring county. The deputies had gone to a shooting range to arrest him after his wife sought treat­ment for domestic abuse injures at an area hospital. 
Spooner said the deputies had no information to make them think Cartwright would turn his weapons on them. 
"This went from zero to 100 in a matter of minutes. In three minutes it turned from a passive discussion to a shooting, it was one heck of a mess," the sheriff said. 
According to a domestic vio­lence report, Cartwright's wife, Elizabeth Marie Cartwright, 21, told deputies after her husband died that he believed the gov­ernment was conspiring against him and that he had been upset by Barack Obama's election. 
Authorities said the National Guard solider was interested in militias and in weapons train­ing. 
Both deputies were shot in areas not protected by their bul­letproof vests, Spooner said. 
In the chase that followed, Cartwright's truck flipped on its side after spikes at a roadblock punctured the tires. The soldier came out shooting, Spooner said. 

Search continues for missing University of Georgia professor 
Law enforcement agencies nationwide have been asked to join search for man who murdered three on Saturday 
Associated Press 
ATHENS -The manhunt for a University of Georgia professor suspect­ed in the shooting deaths of his wife and two men shifted away from this campus town Monday as the FBI revealed he has a plane ticket for the Netherlands later this week and left behind an empty pass­port wallet. 
George M. Zinkhan has not been seen since the shootings near campus Saturday, and law enforcement agencies nationwide have been enlisted in the search for the marketing professor, authorities said. His relatives also have been working to help Athens-Clarke County police and the FBI to find him, his brother told The Associated Press. 
"We are doing all we can to prevent any additional violence," Chris Zinkhan said in an e-mail. 
Gunfire erupted at a midday gathering of a local theater group at the Athens Community Theater. Killed were George Zinkhan's wife, 4 7 -year-old attorney Marie Bruce, and two members of her theater group, Ben Teague, 63, and Tom Tanner, 40. Zinkhan, 57, disappeared after the shootings in a red Jeep Liberty. Authorities say they don't know what motivated the shootings. 
As classes resumed Monday on the campus where Zinkhan had taught since the 1990s, the university announced that the marketing professor had been fired. As a precaution, university police car­ried assault rifles as they patrolled on foot, but University Police Chief Jimmy Williamson said investigators believe Zinkhan had left Athens, 70 miles east of Atlanta. 
"We feel that he is no longer local," Williamson told reporters, though he declined to say why. "We just don't think he is close by." 
Still, the university's president urged everyone to use caution until Zinkhan is found. 
Delta Air Lines confirmed Zinkhan has a ticket to Amsterdam for May 2, FBI Special Agent Gregory McClendon said in a federal court affidavit as part of a criminal complaint accusing Zinkhan of flight to avoid prosecution. McClendon said Zinkhan might change the date and try to leave early. The documents also include a request for a warrant to arrest Zinkhan and it was signed by a federal magistrate judge. 
The affidavit did not say when the tick­et was bought, although a family friend told investigators that Zinkhan's wife had said Zinkhan had scheduled a trip to Amsterdam. A colleague of Zinkhan's told authorities the professor had recently purchased a phone that could be used internationally. 
Warren French, a UGA professor of business ethics and Zinkhan's longtime friend, said Zinkhan has traveled to Amsterdam twice a year -at Christmas and during summer break -for the last two years. He has taught part-time at the Vrije Universiteit (Free University) since April 2007. 
French said Zinkhan had a voracious intellect, often getting little sleep because he would read through the night. French said Zinkhan succeeded him as head of the school's marketing department in 1994, and held the job for six years. While passionate about his work, Zinkhan never seemed controlled by his emotions, he said. 
"As department head, he caught the flak you normally get from faculty mem­bers and students. He never lost his tem­per. He just seemed to take it," French said. "This is so out of character -for him first of all to get mad and second to ever resort to violence of any type." 
It was after he became department head that Zinkhan met Bruce, who worked there as a student adviser and communications director before she went to law school, French said. 
He said Zinkhan rarely talked about his wife, though he spoke adoringly of their two children. Zinkhan threw a party at their house for Bruce's 40th birthday several years ago, and French said he had dinner at the couple's home last year. 
"They are both free spirits, and as free spirits, they seemed to be happy," French said. 
Police said, after the shooting, Zinkhan dropped his two children, ages 8 and 10, with a neighbor. Athens-Clarke County Police Capt. Clarence Holeman said are the custody of Bruce's brother. 
"I have these children in my house and that's all I can think about now," a woman who answered the phone at that brother's house Monday who identified herself as his wife. She said the family had no further comment. 
Bruce's mother, Betty, declined com­ment when reached by telephone at her home in Augusta. Daisy Phelps, who identified herself as Bruce's aunt and Betty Bruce's sister, said Zinkhan, Bruce and their children had just celebrated Easter with the family. 
"If they were having any type of prob­lems, the family knew nothing about it," Phelps said. 
Phelps said Bruce's friends in Athens also told the family they were not aware of any problems between the couple. 
"We're all torn up about this. It's awfully hard to talk about it because we just don't understand. We don't know why. We don't know," Phelps said, cry­ing. "All we know is my niece is dead." 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 12 Tuesday, April28, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Nom: Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CIIIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmerz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO1 @saintmatys.edu 
Plioro DEsK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

In memory of Kevin 
Kevin Healey was an inspiration and a blessing to everyone he met. His story of making the Dean's List fresh­man year while on full-time chemo is remarkable itself. And yet there was more to it than that. He exemplified amazing courage in the face of his adversity, taking cancer head on and striving to conquer it up until his final hours. When he came back to school for the final time to live a "normal" college life, it was energizing to see his smile. He was so happy to be back at school. He appreciated what he did have, not lamenting at what was hold­ing him back. 
Kevin embodied the drive all parents hope their kid has, and the passion so many aspire to have. He was God's gift to such a great number of people, and it seems unfair that it was short-lived. But that is not how Kevin saw it. He used every opportunity he had to make the most of his time here, and that says a lot about him. Many will remember him for his humor while he was doing well, and his desire to keep on fighting when things went against him. His parents took pride in how their Fighting Irishman believed and fought when he easily could have given up. And they have so much more to be proud of the kid who touched the lives of many people in such a short time. 
Kevin's funeral is Tuesday, April 28 at 10:00 a.m. Thoughts, prayers and lights at Kevin's beloved grotto would go a long way for the family that has been praying for quite a while now. He left a tremendous family behind. May God bless Kevin and the Healey family. Well done Kevin, you fought like a champion today. 
Sean Stefancin freshman Stanford Hall April26 
No bubble here 
The Observer Editorial ("Student response upholds University charac­ter," April 24) on student response upholding University character was well-written. Still, I would like to make a couple of points regarding the article. Although Notre Dame may be seen as a bubble against the world by students living on campus, Notre Dame is part of the real world and therefore subject to the same chal­lenges that afflict anyone or any cor­poration. Trying to blame the big flap concerning Fr. John Jenkins, President Barack Obama and Notre Dame on those living outside the bubble is like blaming the Black Civil Hights Movement on radicals and outside agi­tators. That civil rights issue has been won for the most part and the new civil rights movement is that of pro­tecting life from the moment of con­ception till natural death. What is needed for the movement to make progress is more outside agitators and radicals, not just at Notre Dame but throughout the United States and the world. This is a human rights issue and not in itself a political issue, but it must be played out at least partially in the political arena. 
The pro-life protesters did not on their own choose to make a stand at Notre Dame, Notre Dame decided to set up a situation whereby NO was propelled into the national spotlight. The awarding of the abortion President a public honor at Notre Dame disillusioned many who still held up Notre Dame as the leading Catholic university in the United States, if not the world. Notre Dame knocking itself off the pedestal and dimming the bright light on the hill for all to see is what has caused the major uproar. Perhaps people were expect­ing too much from NO; but having placed itself in support of the abortion President and seemingly lowering the Catholic principles of the University, why wouldn't the editorial board expect pro-life people living outside the bubble to protest at NO as well as protesting the thinking and action of Notre Dame through various forms of the media? 
Brother Bill Mewes, C.S.C. Columba Hall April26 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudenrs of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's CoUege. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managiog Editor, Assistant Managiog Editors and deparrmenr editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to aU readers. The free expression ofaU opinions through leners is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be sigoed and must include contact information. 
Questi1J11S regarding Obrerverpolicies shauld be directedto EditiJr-in-Chief]mn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 5$19 2-4000} is: published Monday through Fridayt~Xcept during ~and vacarian periods. A subscription toThe Ohsc:rvrr ~ $1 ~0 far one-academic yeu; $65 for .one sanestcr. 
The Observet ls published ar: POSTMAST!ffi 024 South Dining Hall Send address correctioru to: 
NQrrt Dame, IN 46:556-077~ TheO~tvtr 
Pt!riodical postage: paid a.t No'i:~ Darn( r.o.Boxm and additional mailiog offtGe~. 02:4 South Dining Hall 
Nou:e Dame-, IN 465j6-()J79 
11k-Obs:erver :is a m~ber ofthe A:siDciatecl P~. All reproduction tighrsan~ reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports John Tierney Douglas Farmer Liz O'Donnell Michael Bryan 
Emma Driscoll Chris Michalski Graphics Scene Madeline Nies Patrick Griffin 
-
Viewpoint ~ Lauren··" Brauweiler 
~ 
i\. 
-. ·tf 


On principles 
While I do not agree with those who would be happy to see the invitation to President Obama to speak at May's Commencement address rescinded, I do admire their courage to stand up for their convictions. To see such an example of principled action in post modern America is indeed refreshing. I encourage those who are opposed to the President speaking to continue their fight long after May of 2009. There are a host of meaningful and substantive follow up actions the protesters can engage in. 
While the list would be too long to list in The Observer, off' the top of my head I came up with a pretty good one: All pro­testers should immediately return any FAFSA scholarship money they have received from the federal government that has been applied to their tuition. Also, any unsubsidized Stafford loans should also be returned, converted to private loans and be immediately subject to interest rates as they were at the time of the loan signing. Ifthere is one thing this controversy is teaching us, it is that principle cannot be com­promised. And from the vehemence of the protesters so far expressed, it would not be hard for anyone to believe that they would return all of this free money they were given from an immoral and unjustifiable federal government. 
Steve McDevitt alumnus class of 2007 April27 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Do not believe that he who seeks to comfort you lives untroubled among tlie simple and quiet words that sometimes do you good. His life has much difficulty ... Were it otherwise he would never have been able to find those words. " 
Rainer Maria Rilke German lyric poet 
Revamp now 
While the Obama controversy stirs in our midst, I am writing today about another grave matter that is reducing the quality of life of a large and silent group of students at the University, especially during finals. 
Yes, I mean that group of silent people that may sit next to you (yes you know who you are!) on the first or second floor of the Hesburgh library while you are taking a cell phone call from your mom or boyfriend, while you are talking obnoxiously and loudly about your friend's relationship, while you are watching fi:tilblog.org and delight­fully guffawing with your neighbors! You are making studying in a respectful, academic environment very difficult, and I ask you politely to stop. 
Interestingly enough, this is the only academic library I've ever been in that seems more like a mess-hall or shopping mall (with books of course) than a reading or learning space. I've talked to the powers that be in the library and they defend the "collaborative workspace" that the first and second floors are supposed to be. They also report that "quiet spaces will be taken into account" when the upgrade happens next year. 
I say: We need an upgrade in manners and common sense this week! Let us take back the library as a quiet study space and remem­ber that there is an entire campus for chattering. I mean, it's a library right? 
Francis Hittinger grad student offcampus April26 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Your parents, they give you your life, but then the.ll try_ to give you their -life." 
Chuck Palahniuk 
U.S. writer 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, April 28, 2009 page 13 
Bring Notre Dame back 
Notre Dame's honoring of President Obama is no surprise. It is a predictable result of a change of course that Catholic universities made four decades ago. In 1967, officials of the leading Catholic uni­
versities met at the Notre Dame retreat at Land O'Lakes, Wisconsin, and declared that: "To perform its teach­ing and research functions effective­ly, the Catholic uni­

versity must have a Charles E. Rice 
true autonomy and academic freedom Right or in the face of 
Wrong?
authority of what­ever kind, lay or clerical, external to the academic community itself." Most Catholic universities, including Notre Dame, soon severed their juridical con­nection with the Church and transferred control to lay-dominated boards of trustees. As Fordham President Leo McLaughlin had earlier observed, one reason was to "make them eligible for federal and state aid." 
At Notre Dame the Fellows have the leading role. "From 1842 to 1967 [Notre Dame] was owned by the Congregation of Holy Cross. In 1967, governance ... was transferred to a predominantly lay Board of Trustees [and] the Statutes of the University created a body ... known as The Fellows. They have ... all power and authority granted by [the charter of the University]. The Fellows are a self-per­petuating body, 12 in number, six ... are [Holy Cross priests] and six ... are lay persons ... [T]he establishment of the Fellows was intended to be a protective mechanism for the University." The Holy Cross priests who are six of the 12 Fellows, if united, can prevent any University action of which they disap­prove. The Fellows also have the duty to maintain the "essential character of the University as a Catholic institution." 
Ex Corde Ecclesiae, the 1990 Apostolic Constitution on Catholic Universities, does not require the Catholic university to have a juridical connection with the Church. But the university does have an "essential relationship" to the Church which "includes a recognition of and adherence to the teachings of the church in matters of faith and morals." It is diffi­cult to imagine a more flagrant disre­spect for those teachings than Notre Dame's bestowal of its highest honors on a person with the record and stated pur­poses of Obama. 
The problem is "truth in labeling." For four decades Notre Dame has promoted itself as a "Catholic university," according to its own private definition rather that that of the Church which alone has authority to define that term. ND 2010, the strategic plan, says the University "must take into account with ... sensitivi­ty and respect the formal teaching role of the Magisterium in the life of the Church." But Notre Dame does not accept Church teaching as binding on the University. The Magisterium is practically irrelevant. Thus, in their April 2, 2008, "statement on the rationale for hiring faculty who will enhance our Catholic mission," Fr. Jenkins and the Provost, Dr. Burish, went on for six pages about keep­ing Notre Dame "truly Catholic" without once mentioning the Catholic Church. That is like explaining the game of base­ball without mentioning the ball. 
Our leaders' pursuit of autonomy from the Church fosters a relativism which has eroded Catholic identity, as in the reduc­tion of Catholic faculty. In the 1970s, before Notre Dame, in 1978, proclaimed itself a "research university," more than 80 percent of the Notre Dame faculty identified themselves as Catholic. In 1986 it was 64 percent. Now it is 53 percent and going south with little prospect for change. 
The Land O'Lakes "autonomy ... in the face of [external] authority" is a fake. Notre Dame accepts the authority of the federal government and dozens of other entities, such as the NCAA, as well as the secular academic establishment. One authority it will not accept is that of the Catholic Church to define the meaning of a "Catholic university." This problem is not peculiar to Notre Dame. "In the United States," said the late Cardinal Avery Dulles, "Catholic universities have been very apologetic, almost embar­rassed, by their obligation to adhere to the faith of the Church. For [Cardinal John Henry] Newman and John Paul II, any university that lacks the guidance of Christian revelation and the oversight of the Catholic magisterium is ... impeded in its mission to find and transmit truth. It fails to make use of an important resource that God in His providence has provided. Surrounded by powerful insti­tutions constructed on principles of meta­physical and religious agnosticism, the Catholic universities ... have too long been on the defensive ... They should proudly reaffirm the essentials of their own tradition." The first step in that reaf­firmation would be to repudiate Land O'Lakes. 
Our leaders do not own Notre Dame. They are temporary fiduciaries with a duty to preserve its Catholic character. They violated that duty by severing it from the Church. And now, as the nation finds itself with a president who, through cloning and embryonic stem cell research, will fund the creation of human beings to kill them, who will end con­science rights for health care personnel, etc., our leaders have a duty to witness to truth. Instead, they have assumed the role of the sycophant by conferring Notre Dame's highest honors on that man in defiance ofthe mandate of the U.S. bish­ops. 
The trajectory from Land O'Lakes to honoring Obama is a straight line. The stakes are high. Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, now Benedict XVI, discussed in 2002 the posting of angels east of Eden with flaming swords to keep man, after the Fall, from eating of the Tree of Life which gave immortality. "[T]o be immor­tal in this [fallen] condition would ... be perdition." People are now, Ratzinger said, "starting to pick from the tree of life and make themselves lords of life and death, to reassemble life ... Precisely what man was ... to be protected from is now ... happening: he is crossing the final boundary ... [M]an makes other men his own artifacts. Man no longer originates in the mystery of love ... but is produced industrially, like any other product." 
"We can," said Ratzinger, "be certain of this: God will take action to counter an ultimate crime, an ultimate act of self­destruction, on the part of man. He will take action against the attempt to demean mankind by the production of slave-beings. There are ... final bound­aries we cannot cross without turning into the agents of destruction of creation itself." 
Our last column presented the sugges­tion of an alumnus that our best response to the honoring of Obama would be a continuous Rosary of reparation and petition at the Grotto during the time of Commencement, from 2-4 p.m. on May 
17. If you can't be there, pray the Rosary wherever you are at that time. Either way, pray to Notre Dame, Our Lady, for our country. And pray that she will bring Notre Dame, her University, back to the Church of her Son. 
Prof. Emeritus Rice is on the law school faculty. He may be reached at 574-633­4415, or at rice.l@nd. edu 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
In defense of Obama's critics 
I must take issue with Levi Checketts' April 24 let­ter ("Liberal Catholicism") for several reasons. First, to pit Catholic "leftists" like Day and Merton against "conservatives" like Ratzinger (who by the way was a major contributor at Vatican II) is a gross simplifi­cation, not at all helpful for debate. Second, to refer to some Church councils as conservative and others as liberal, as if they could be reduced to mere poli­tics, is glib at best. Third, it is very hard to make the case that libertarianism, socialism and anarchism are consistent with Catholic social teaching. Libertarianism does not emphasize solidarity or the common good. Socialism, in its more pure forms at least, does not respect property rights or subsidiari­ty. How does the anarchist deal with this quotation from the catechism: "It is the role of the state to defend and promote the common good of civil socie­ty?" 
Lastly, and most extraordinarily, Checketts seems to imply that Mother Theresa and Pope John Paul II were liberal figures in the Church, and then, through a sort of twisted logic, he argues that, therefore, the decision to invite President Obama to Notre Dame is quite defensible as a legitimate Catholic "leftist stance." I wonder how John Paul II and Mother Theresa (or Dorothy Day for that matter) would feel about being invoked to defend the decision to honor the most fervent abortion-rights advocate ever to occupy the White House. No greater 20th century opponents of legalized abortion can be found. I think that by the mere mention of these names Mr. Checketts has defeated his own argument. 
I do not think the criticisms of Fr. Jenkins should be tossed aside as conservative criticisms of leftism. 
I think defenders of human life, whatever their polit­ical orientations may be, are right to be troubled by this invitation. Notre Dame is a pro-life institution. Does giving President Obama the Notre Dame seal of approval aid him in inappropriate ways? Does it compromise our witness for the dignity of human life? Good could potentially come from this invita­tion, including an increase in fruitful dialogue about how to serve the common good and build a culture of life. But assertions that are historically inaccurate do not help us in our conversations about these vital topics. 
Gregory Barr 
seruor 
Knon Hall 
April27 
Celebrate Mary 
With her refusal to accept this year's Laetare Medal, Mary Ann Glendon displayed by that action what it means to be an outstanding Catholic, which is the pur­pose of the award. Now Father Jenkins is looking at his bench for a second or third stringer to fill the vacancy. Either he will cheapen the award that Glendon has ennobled or he will be hard put to find someone willing to accept the award ... unless he calls on Roland Burris, of course. 
To be chastised is to learn a lesson and sometimes that is the essence of education. Leave it vacant. There is no way to improve on the original choice. 
Richard Toland alumnus class of1973 April27 


~ 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Tuesday, April 28, 2009 

By ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK Assistant Scene Editor 
"Lollapalooza" dates from an early 20th-century American idiom, a word originally meaning "remarkable or wonderful person or thing" and also referring to a large lollipop or "ail-day sucker," part of the festival's original logo. The festival name certainly fits, as Lollapalooza has been remarkable about bringing underground culture to the forefront for nearly 20 years. 
The American music festival was created in 1991 by Jane's Addiction frontman Perry Farrell as a farewell tour for his band. The festival toured North America annually from 1991 to 1997 and was revived in 2003. Poor ticket sales caused the 2004 tour to be cancelled and in 2005, Farrell and the William Morris Agency, along with Capital Sports Entertainment, reimagined Lollapalooza as a week­end destination festival based in Chicago's Grant Park, where it is now held every year. 
Lollapalooza has played a large part in popularizing alternative rock bands over the past 20 years. The 1991 summer tour featured an eclectic lineup, from post-punk like Siouxsie & the Banshees to rap such as Ice-T and industrial music like Nine Inch Nails. 
The festival, independent from mainstream rock, crossed the strict boundaries of popular music at the time and became a cultural festival representative of the newly­formed 1990s counterculture. In its early years, Lollapalooza truly helped to expose and popularize alter­native groups like Nine Inch Nails, The Smashing Pumpkins, Red Hot Chili Peppers and Hole. 
To this day, Lollapalooza remains true to its beginnings and introduces new underground artists to the public. Although the headliners are much better known today than they were at the festival's beginnings, Lollapalooza makes sure to offer underground culture as well as more popular artists in the form of alternative rock and hip hop. 
Lollapalooza continues to reach out to more and more music fans. Last year's festival sold out its Friday night show with record-breaking numbers ready and eager to hear Radiohead, the night's only headliner. This year, Farrell hopes for the same enthusiasm with the chosen headliners. This year's lineup certainly looks very promis­ing, as The Killers, Jane's Addiction, Beastie Boys and Kings of Leon are among the headliners. 
Beastie Boys, well-known for their eclecticism and ten­dency to perform in ridiculous-looking matching suits, pre­viously headlined the festival in 1994. The New York City­based hip hop group just recently revealed that their upcoming new album, "Tadlock's Glasses," will be a com­bination of playing and sampling other music, including a few obscure records. 
Jane's Addiction, the Los Angeles-based alternative rock band fronted by Lollapalooza founder Perry Farrell, reunited for a third time in 2008 but has not released a studio album since 2003's "Strays." The Killers, a Las Vegas-ba..'ied alternative rock band strongly influenced by 1980s post-punk, immediately gained mainstream success with their 2004 debut album "Hot Fuss" and just recently released their third studio album "Day & Age" in late 2008. 
Kings of Leon is a Nashville-based band formed in 2000 by three brothers and their cousin. They have expanded on their initial sound of southern rock, country and blues, now also drawing on post-punk and alternative rock. The family band just released their f(mrth studio album, "Only by the Night" in late 2008 and gained much mainstream success with such singles as "Sex on Fire" and "Use Somebody." 
The 2009 lineup also features British electronic band Depeche Mode and American progressive metal band Tool as headliners. Also in the lineup are several other well­known acts such as singer-songwriter Ben Harper (alonng­with his new band Relentless?), rapper Snoop Dogg, 

Perry Farrell, Lollapalooza's founder, will perform as a headliner with his reunited band, Jane's Addiction this year. 
American experimental-rock band TV on the Radio, British rockers Arctic Monkeys and North Carolinian singer-songwriter Ben Folds. Newer acts will include New York-based indie rock band Vampire Weekend and rapper Asher Roth. 
Lollapalooza will take place from Friday, August 7 to Sunday, August 9. With a laid back atmosphere and excel­lent musical entertainment, the famed summer festival is a fun and relaxing way to spend a weekend with friends. 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 
By MAIJA GUSTIN Scene Writer  tival supports active dialogue between all, from experts to festival attendees, seeking new ways to help the environ­ 
ment. The festival also creates a special team of cleanup  
The Rothbury Music Festival is very young in age but  crew responsible for zero-waste recycling on festival  
grand in stature and mission. The first festival was held at  grounds.  
the Double JJ Ranch in Rothbury, Michigan on 4th of July  The festival is also dedicated to other forms of live enter­ 
weekend in 2008. Even in its first year, Rothbury was a huge  tainment, including theater and circus acts. Musical per­ 
success, drawing an estimated 50,000 attendees. The  formances are integrated with live theatrical performances  
Rothbury experience is unique in its firm dedication to both  at every turn. These may include anything from a  
an exciting live music experience and to creating a better  Masquerade Ball to an aerial performance in the treetops.  
world. It is a festival with a message. It is this dedication  Rothbury also exhibits art created entirely from reused,  
that has drawn some of music's greatest artists, including  recycled and natural materials.  
Bob Dylan, Willie Nelson, Frank Zappa and Trey Anastasio  Rothbury promises to have an exciting sophomore year.  
to such a new festival.  The lineup is impressive, featuring Bob Dylan and His Band,  
Rothbury's 2008 lineup was a tribute to its commitment to  The Dead, The String Cheese Incident, Willie Nelson and  
excellence. Acts such as Zappa Plays Zappa, Snoop Dogg,  Family, The Black Crowes, Damien "Jr. Gong" Marley and  
Widespread Panic, Dave Matthews Band, of Montreal,  Nas, STS9, G. Love and Special Sauce, Broken Social Scene,  
Modest Mouse, Citizen Cope, The Secret Machines, Slightly  Les Claypool, Chromeo, Ani DiFranco, MSTRKHFT, Girl Talk,  
Stoopid, Crystal Castles, Trey Anastasio, Colbie Caillat,  Guster, Flogging Molly, The llold Steady, Zappa Plays Zappa  
Ingrid Michaelson and John Mayer gave Rothbury the fan­ and many more. Hothbury is also showing the same dedica­ 
tastic music experience that it promised.  tion to its green initiatives, offering things such as carbon­ 
Many have compared Rothbury to Bonnaroo, a popular  offset donations for individual travelers and another great  
·music festival in Tennessee. While they share similarities,  Think Tank.  
such as the people and artists they attract, Rothbury doesn't  Hothbury sits near the east bank of Lake Michigan about  
aim to be the new Bonnaroo. Hather, Rothbury aims to revo­ halfway through the state. For those stuck on campus this  
lutionize the music festival by actively incorporating music  summer, the trip is only about two and a half hours and will  
with environmental issues. Rothbury specifically aims to cre­ surely be an exciting addition to any summer in South Bend.  
ate its own social movement towards fighting climate change  Tickets, directions, the full lineup and other important infor­ Photo courtesy of www.cbsrecords-media.com  
and discovering clean energy alternatives. And these goals aren't just talk; Rothbury features a Think Tank and an  mation can be found at the festival's Web site.  The Legendary Bob Dylan will headline the Rothbury Music Festival in its sopho­ 
Epicenter Fair dedicated to these important causes. The fes- Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu .  more year.  

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, April28, 2009 
page 15 

By ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Bonnaroo Music and Arts Festival, Manchester, Tenn., Thursday, June 11 to Sunday, June 14 
This annual festival features an eclectic mix of live musical entertainment, including indie, hip hop, jazz, country, reg­gae, electronica and other alternative music styles, as well as comedy acts. 
Lineup: Bruce Springsteen and the E street Band, Phish, Beastie Boys, Nine Inch Nails, Wilco, Ben Harper and Relentless?, TV on the Radio, Yeah Yeah Yeahs, Public Enemy, Girl Talk, Jimmy Fallon. 
Bumbershoot, Seattle, Wash., Saturday, September 5 to Monday, September 7 
This international music and arts festival held every Labor Day weekend grounds on Pacific Northwest musical talent but also features international artists and includes hip hop and alternative rock styles. The festival also incorpo­rates new arts forms such as poetry slams and break danc­ing. 
Lineup: Sheryl Crow, Modest Mouse, The All-American Rejects, Katy Perry, De La Soul, Raphael Saadiq, Brett Dennen, The Ting Tings. 
Essence Music Festival, New Orleans, La., Friday, July 3 to Sunday, July 5 
Sponsored by Essence Magazine, the festival takes place every July 4th weekend with three days of cultural activities and three nights of musical performances by African-
American artists. Lineup: Beyonce, Maxwell, Lionel Richie, Anita Baker, John Legend. 
All Points West Music and Arts Festival, Jersey City, N.J., Friday, July 31 to Sunday, August 2 
The second annual music and arts festival will feature music, comedy and art 
Lineup: Beastie Boys, Yeah Yeah Yeahs, Vampire Weekend, The National, Fleet Foxes, Tool, My Bloody Valentine, The Ting Tings, Coldplay, MGMT. 
Vans Warped Tour, Various Locations, Thursday, June 26 to Sunday, August 23 
This touring music and extreme sports festival, sponsored by BMX/skateboarding shoe manufacturer Vans, features punk rock, electronica, alternative rock, emo, post-hardcore, metalcore and Christian rock. 
Lineup: Anti-Flag, Flogging Molly, Less Than Jake, The White Tie Affair, TSOL, Flipper. 
Lollapalooza, Chicago, Ill., Friday, August 7 to Sunday, August 9 
This American music festival features alternative rock, hip hop and punk rock bands, dance and comedy performances and craft booths. 
Lineup: Depeche Mode, Tool, The Killers, Jane's Addiction, Beastie Boys, Kings of Leon, Ben Harper and Relentless?, Snoop Dog, TV on the Radio, Vampire Weekend. 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 


By MAlJA GUSTIN Scene Writer 
Pitchfork Music Festival, Chicago, Ill., Friday, July 17­Sunday, July 19 
Held each summer in Chicago's Union Park, this three­day festival features some of the best-established and up-and-coming indie acts. There are also booths with everything from old records to do-it-yourself guides. 
Lineup: Yo La Tengo, The National, The Flaming Lips, Built To Spill, The Black Lips, Grizzly Bear, M83, The Walkmen, Yeasayer and others, with more to be announced soon. 
Summerfest, Milwaukee, Wis., Thursday, June 25­Sunday, July 5 
Calling itself the World's Largest Music Festival, this Milwaukee favorite offers a cheap entrance fee for its main grounds, and offers separate tickets to amphithe­ater shows. 
Lineup: Bon Jovi, Keith Urban, Bob Dylan, No Doubt, Kenny Chesney, The Fray, Conor Oberst, Rise Against, The Offspring, Dropkick Murphys, Barenaked Ladies, Lupe Fiasco, Asher Roth, Kevin Rudolf and others. 
Sasquatch Music Festival, Quincy, Wash., Saturday, May 23-Monday, May 25 
Sasquatch is the Pacific Northwest's preeminent rock and alternative music festival. It presents an impressive array of some of rock's best artists, new and old. 
10,000 Lakes Festival, Detroit Lakes, Minn., Wednesday, July 22-Saturday, July 25 
The 10,000 Lakes Festival is designed especially for people looking for some great music and a fun camping experience. It celebrates green causes and artists inter­ested in being green. 
Lineup: Dave Matthews Band, Widespread Panic, Wilco, Umphrys McGee, Atmosphere, Sharon Jones and the Dap Kings, Cloud Cult and others. 
Rothbury Festival, Rothbury, Mich., Thursday, July 2­Monday, July 5 
This young festival has already turned into a popular venue, due in great part to its dedication to environmen­tal sustainability. Rothbury wholeheartedly celebrates the coming together of music and mission. 
Lineup: Bob Dylan & His Band, The Dead, Willie Nelson & Family, The Black Crowes, Damien "Jr. Gong" Marley & Nas, STS9, G. Love & Special Sauce, Broken Social Scene, Cold War Kids, Chromeo, Girl Talk, Flogging Molly, MSTRKRFT, The Hold Steady and others. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 

Ben Harper will debut his new band, The Relentless7, at both Lollapalooza and Sasquatch this summer. 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 28, 2009 
NBA 
Hawks' team effort earns rare road playoff victory 
Anthony, Nuggets' dominant performance top Wade and the Hornets in New Orleans by a record margin 
to give three chances to close
Associated Press 
you out." 
MIAMI -That notion sug­Bibby's 3-pointer with 4:57 gesting the Atlanta Hawks left was the final dagger, giv­cannot win on the road at ing the Hawks a 10-point lead playoff time? and stopping Miami's last real 
Forget it. shot at a rally. 
The Hawks put that one to Knowing the Hawks would rest -saving their season as want no part of a 3-1 deficit, well. the Heat expected Atlanta's 
Zaza Pachulia -with a best shot. black right eye for his trouble They got it. -finished with 12 points and Weren't ready, either. 18 rebounds, and Atlanta The Heat shot 5-for-23 in raced out to a huge first-half the first 21 minutes, digging a lead and frustrated Dwyane 21-point hole. At one point, Wade endlessly in beating the Miami nearly had as many Miami Heat 81-71 Monday fouls (15) as points (19). night, tying the first-round Wade had four airballs (argu­Eastern Conference playoff ing he was fouled on two). series at two games apiece. and the Heat were unravel­
"It's not over," Hawks coach ing. Mike Woodson said. "We've "He's still going to score got to go home now. We sur­points but we made him work 
vived this trip and we've got on every play," Murray said. to go home and handle our "A total team effort. Every business at home in Game 5." time he got past one guy, 
Mike Bibby scored 15 there was another guy there points, Joe Johnson added 14 to contest." and Josh Smith 13 for the When Pachulia tipped in Hawks. Murray's missed 3-pointer for 
Wade scored 22 points, a 44-23 lead, he looked at his 
doing so on 9-for-26 shooting teammates on the Atlanta and wincing at times from bench and started punching the final quarter. they led by 20 early and by The Hornets opened 4-of-15 back spasms that started in the air. "What the message is really more than that most of the shooting (26. 7 percent) before the first quarter and contin­"Zaza was huge throughout how difficult it is to win one second half. Posey's 3 made it 27-11. ued the rest of the night. the whole game," Woodson game in the playoffs," It was the first time Paul, Denver shot 70 percent in the Jermaine O'Neal scored 20 said. "I mean, 18 rebounds, Spoelstra said. "Each posses­who did not play in the fourth first quarter, taking a 36-15 points and James Jones 12 points for us, and we sion, you have to compete and quarter, had ever scored lead on Jones' 3-pointer. added 19 -10 of them com­needed all that tonight to sur­have an edge to you like it's fewer than 14 points in a The torrid shooting contin­ing in a spectacular first-half vive." your last possession." playoff game. Denver held ued into the second quarter, spurt -for the Heat, who Coincidentally, when New Orleans to only 31.5 per­with Anthony scoring on shot 38 percent and never Pachulia started punching, Nuggets 121, Hornets 63 cent shooting and forced the acrobatic drives and quick led. Miami started to fight. Carmelo Anthony and the Hornets into a franchise play­pullup jumpers. Andersen 
"This is the playoffs," Heat A 19-2 run closed the half, Denver Nuggets looked like off-high 27 turnovers, which added a dunk and even a 15­coach Erik Spoelstra said. with Jones needing only 41 the only ones having fun in led to 41 Nuggets points. foot fade, putting the Nuggets "We just have to focus the seconds to get 10 points-the this party town. David West was the up 46-22. next 48 hours on getting last eight coming in (proba­Anthony scored all of his 26 Hornets' high scorer with 14 New Orleans' frustration healthy, getting our minds bly) never-before-seen fash­points in the first three quar­points, while James Posey began to bubble over. Rasual right, getting prepared and ion, with a pair of four-point ters, and Denver thoroughly had 12. Butler was called for a tech­going up there and getting a plays 11 seconds apart. dismantled the New Orleans Denver shot 57 percent (33-nical for pushing Anthony game." The Heat sharpshooter Hornets 121-63 on Monday of-58) through the first three Carter after Carter fouled him 
It was Atlanta's first road made a 3-pointer with 2:26 night to take a commanding quarters, when Chauncey on a fast break. The infuriat­postseason win in nearly 12 remaining, got fouled by 3-1 lead in their first-round Billups scored all of his 17 ed home crowd began to dis­years, a stretch spanning 13 Solomon Jones and swished playoff series. points. Nene added 13 points parage the officials in unison games, and ended a slide the free throw. The New Orleans Arena was and Dahntay Jones 12. while Anthony's technical free where the Hawks had gotten Miami immediately got the mostly empty by the end of All the starters on both throw made it 49-24. pounded by a combined 132 ball back when Bibby ran the third quarter, when teams were done when the The Hornets went without a points in their most recent over Mario Chalmers, and Denver led 89-50 on its way anticlimactic final period field goal for a span of 7:48 in five playoff games played out­with 2:15 left, James Jones to matching the most lopsided began. the second quarter, scoring side Georgia's capital city. struck again. victory in NBA playoff history. Denver reserve center Chris only on free throws as Denver 
Now the series returns to He connected from the left The Minneapolis Lakers beat Andersen, let go by New kept its lead around 20 Atlanta on Wednesday for side, got fouled by Bibby, the St. Louis Hawks 133-75 in Orleans after last season, had points. Late in the period, Game 5, and all the Hawks made that free throw as well 1956. 11 points and eight rebounds. Kleiza's 3 made it 61-37. need is to defend their home and Miami clawed within 46-Looking twice as quick as Linas Kleiza had 14 points Butler's baseline jumper court twice to get a second­42 at halftime. the Hornets on both ends of and J.R. Smith 12. made it 61-39 at halftime, but round shot against LeBron Even the Elias Sports the court, the Nuggets stifled Denver dominated early for the Nuggets came out of the James and the Cleveland Bureau, which tracks nearly Hornets All-Star Chris Paul, the second straight game and locker room with no dis­Cavaliers. every stat imaginable, didn't whose four points and six this time didn't let up. After cernible letup in aggression. 
"We knew if we didn't come know if Jones' feat had been assists amounted to one of West scored the game's open­Nene's inside basket as he in here and take care of busi­done before. the worst games of his career. ing points, Kenyon Martin was fouled sparked an 11-0 ness today, that the season Either way, it was for The Nuggets can close out dunked on the other end, run that included back-to­could definitely come to an naught. Atlanta's lead was the series at home in Game 5 igniting a 27-6 run. Billups hack 3s by Anthony and end," said Hawks guard Flip never smaller than three on Wednesday night. They had nine points during that Billups. Martin's jumper Murray, who scored 11 after halftime, and the Hawks will if they play as well as span, including a 3-pointer made it 71-41 with 9:16 left points. "This team is too good led by as many as 13 points in they did in Game 4, when and tough mid-range pullup. in the period. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Womans NO dinner ring, size 7. Off-Campus housing at Dublin 3br Clover Ridge Apt. for Summer andersonNDrentals.com FREE ADOPTION -Loving Domer couple $400. 574-272-8027. Village, Irish Crossings. Now up to Sublet. $1000/mth. 404-200-3330 COMCAST! looking to adopt a baby (babies), FoR SALE $100 off per room per month with ---------------please call Marie and James an application by May 15. Call CES 5 bedroom house 105 Marquette. (301)977-5069 or (866)202-1424 Very nice 2-bdrm home, totally Property Management at 574-968-Great neighborhood, refinished PIN 5448. 
FoR RENT PERSONAL
remodeled inside and out. New roof, 0112. hardwood floors. Washer and --------------­windows, siding, gutters, front door. ---------------Dryer. 574-232-6964. If you or someone you care about Nice large deck. New kitchen, Why pay tor 12 months? Now offer-Rental House 1 mile from NO, on ---------------has been sexually assaulted, visit ceramic tile, light fixtures. All new ing 1 0-month leases. TRANSPO route. New kitchen, Professor s home near NO avail-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Support Services tor Victims of appliances. Fresh paint, new carpet, Bluegoldrentals.com bath, windows & carpet. 2 bed-able summer session. 574-233-not go it alone. We have many Rape & Assault at: brand new bathroom, fenced yard ---------------rooms, 2 living rooms & dining 8855 or 574-387-4205. resources in place to assist you. If http://osa.nd.edu/health­with oversized 1-car garage. Nicely room. APPLIANCES INCLUDED. ---------------you or someone you love needs safety/assauiV landscaped. 1.5 miles to NO. Broker HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK. Call Linda 574-288-0168. 3 bdrm house tor 07/01/09 on confidential support or assistance, --------------­owned. $74,800. Amy Ziolkowski, 2800 s/f +base., L.A. w/fp. 4 ---------------Corby, $1600/mo. Owners are ND please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-"I want you to trust me right now. I ReMax 100, 574-360-4800. bdrms,study + finished 3rd fl. Full alums. Pis call/text 619-804-3359. 7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. want you to say to yourself, yeah, ---------------appliances+ W&D,3 porches. 413 Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. ---------------Learn about available assistance I've dated a string of jerks in my life, 3-bed, 2bath condo in quiet neigh-W. Navarre. $1350 + util574-261-2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. 2009/1 0 student rentals Angela at: they were stupid, they were mean borhood. 2 miles east of NO. Unit is 3184 or email escargot55@hot-Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300-http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu to me, but maybe this one's differ-less than 2 yrs. old. For into, 630-mail.com or www.xog.com/proper-574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous-$2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon ent. Maybe I should take a chance." 464-2044 or morourk1 @gmail.com ty/413WNavarre.html es.com 574-876-3537. Actually, I think you have. 

OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, April28, 2009 CoMPILED FROMTHE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 17 
·······························-·----······· ·············----__-_-___:::::.-.::::::::::::::.~ .....============: ==========·····::::.-.......~.­
......_:..::::::::::-::::::::::::::::::: 
NFL 
NCAA Baseball USA TodayjESPN Top 25 
team points 
1 Georgia 718 2 Arizona Slate 708 3 North Carolina 703 4 Texas 638 5 Rice 633 6 UC Irvine 622 7 Georgia Tech 600 8 LSU 580 9 Arkansas 456 10 Cal St. Fullerton 441 11 Miami (Fla.) 403 12 Baylor 402 13 Oklahoma 373 14 Virginia 372 15 Mississippi 369 16 Florida Slate 286 17 Texas A&M 221 18 Cal Poly 215 19 Coastal Carolina 184 20 Clemson 181 20 Oregon State 181 22 TCU 151 23 Florida 98 24 East Carolina 96 25 Ohio State 72 
NCAA Men's Lacrosse USILA Division I Top 20 
team  points  record  
1  Syracuse  152  11-2  
2  NOTRE DAME  149  13-0  
3  Duke  148  12-3  
4  Virginia  131  13-2  
5  Princeton  131  11-2  
6  Cornell  119  9-3  
7  North Carolina  111  11-5  
8  Johns Hopkins  103  7-4  
9  Hofstra  96  11-2  
10  Brown  89  12-2  
11  UMBC  86  10-3  
12  Navy  68  11-4  
13  Loyola (Md.)  62  9-4  
14  Maryland  59  8-6  
15  Massachusetts  43  8-5  
16  Georgetown  41  7-6  
17  Bucknell  40  9-7  
18  Harvard  15  7-5  
19  Colgate  13  9-5  
20  Stony Brook  12  8-5  

NCAA Women's Rowing Division I Top 15 
team points 
1 Yale 494 2 Brown 425. 3 Washington 420 4 Stanford 413 5 Ca llfornIa 400 6 Virginia 366 7 Michigan Slate 327 8 Princeton 321 9 Harvard >314 10 Southern California 280 11 Washington Slate 255 12 Ohio Slate 221 13 Clemson 201 14 Wisconsin 174 15 Michigan 165 
around the dial 
NHL Playoffs 
New York at Washington (Series tied 3-3) 
7:00 p.m., Versus 
NBA Playoffs 
Chicago at Boston (Series tied 2-2) 
7:00 p.m., TNT 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Bill Polian stuck to his usual NFL draft plan and played the board perfectly, with a slight adaptation or two. 
Filling most of the Indianapolis Colts' glaring holes, Polian waited patiently for players such as first-round pick Donald Brown of Connecticut and sixth-rounder Curtis Painter of Purdue to fall right into place, and when he thought that might not happen, he traded up ­twice. 
The result gave Indianapolis a running back to help its sluggish ground game, two big bod­ies to stop the run, a receiver to help replace Marvin Harrison, a corner­back in case Marlin Jackson's recovery from knee surgery is delayed, and a homegrown quarter­back to challenge Jim Sorgi as Peyton Manning's back­up. 
"You want to make sure that you're adhering to the criteria for what you think is important, and we did that," Polian said after the draft ended Sunday night. "We always want to increase our team speed because that's important to us. We wanted to improve against the run, and I think we did that. We, I think, certainly got better in the 
IN BRIEF Purdue signs Croatian 
center Sandi Marcius 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -The Purdue men's basketball program says it has signed center Sandi Marcius, who moved from Croatia to LaPorte, Ind., for his senior sea­son. 
Marcius, who played one season at La Lumiere Academy in LaPorte, will be eligible this fall. 
The 6-foot-9, 240-pound center averaged 15 points, 15 rebounds and seven blocked shots for La Lumiere last season and led the Lakers to a 16-6 record. He played under coach Delray Brooks, Indiana's 1984 "Mr. Basketball." 
Marcius will help the Boilermakers replace Nemanja Calasan, a forward who has used his two years of eligibility after transferring from junior college. 
Purdue coach Matt Painter said in a release Monday that Marcius will add a strong inside presence on offense and defense. 
running game." 
By January, the Colts will have a much better idea of how well they did. 
But Polian has been one of the league's best at min­ing talent in unusual places and sometimes contrary to conventional wisdom. 
The difference this year was that the Colts had dif­ferent needs. 
They wanted someone to share carries with Joseph Addai, so Polian snagged the game-breaking Brown with the 27th pick on Saturday. Brown grew up in New Jersey, became the first UConn player ever drafted in the first round and now gets to play with the league's most mar­ketable Manning, the one with three MVP awards, instead of brother Eli, the one he's rooted for with the Giants. 
"Yes, I was la Giants fan)," Brown said when he was introduced Sunday in Indy. "Obviously, though, I'm not a Giants fan any­more." 
It was just a start. 
Polian was also after big­ger defensive tackles. When they started going off the board early, Polian moved up by swapping sec­ond-round picks with Miami, giving the Dolphins an additional fifth-round choice. The Colts got USC's Fili Moala, a player they believe can stuff the run. 
Jayson Williams tasered 
by police in hotel suite 
NEW YORK -Former NBA star Jayson Williams was zapped with a stun gun by police in his swank hotel suite Monday after the reportedly suicidal athlete resisted attempts by officers to take him to a hospitaL 
Police were called to the hotel in lower Manhattan's Battery Park City neighborhood around 4 a.m. when a female friend reported the former New Jersey Nets player was acting suicidal. 
When officers arrived, the 6-foot­10, 325-pound Williams appeared drunk and agitated, police said. There were empty bottles of pre­scription drugs strewn around his disheveled hotel suite and several suicide notes. 
Officers with the Emergency Services Unit, an elite team trained to deal with emotionally disturbed people, responded and stunned Williams with a Taser after he resis­ted attempts to be hospitalized. 
Boxing. champ Greg
Page dies at age 50 
LOUISVILLE -Greg Page, a for­mer heavyweight boxing champi­on who suffered a severe brain injury in a 2001 fight, has died at his Louisville home. He was 50. 
His wife, Patricia Page, said she found the one-time World Boxing Association champion in his bed Monday morning. Patricia Page said he died of complications related to injuries he suffered in the fight. 
Page told The Associatnd Press her husband "is in a better place now." 
The March 9, 2001, fight left Page in a coma for nearly a week. He then had a stroke during post­fight surgery. He was paralyzed on his left side and received intensive physical therapy. 
Page won a $1.2 million settle­ment in 2007 with Kentucky box­ing officials over the lack of med­ical personnel at the fight. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------­
' · · . , . ' Ii·rfji !•"][) I page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 28, 2009 
MLB 
Wang and A-Rod rehab at complex 
NBA 
Magic hope game-winning shot helps Hedo, Lewis regain touch 
expect that it will be in  'The clock is ticking  Connors said. "There is no dis­ 
extended spring train­ing.  toward the day we're going to get Alex into  comfort. We did some drills that will help bring his  
"We've got a  a game.  velocity  back  to  
timetable, and  where it's got to  
he's getting close." Rodriguez,  Joe Girardi Yankees manager  be." Against the Tigers on Monday  
who had sur­ night, left fielder  
gery  on  his  Johnny Damon was  

right hip March 9, could take in the lineup despite increased live batting practice for the first soreness in his left shoulder. time Tuesday. He might start "I woke up this morning and it playing in minor league games was black-and-blue, which was later this week and the Yankees new," Damon said. "It's tough to expect him to rejoin the team by raise my arms over my head, May 15. but I've had to deal with this for 
"Feels good," Rodriguez said. years now." ''I'm taking it one day at a Damon said the soreness is 
t.
une. " chronic -he spent time on the 
The three-time AL MVP ran DL last year with shoulder prob­the bases for the third time in lems -but Girardi thought five days, and added situational Damon's collision with the drills when taking grounders at Fenway Park wall on Saturday third. probably caused a setback. 
He hit 13 homers on 89 "He's already banged up, and swings in regular batting prac­hitting a wall certainly isn't tice. going to help the healing 
Girardi said Rodriguez has process," he said. "His knee is one more hurdle to clear before sore again as well, and he didn't he plays in a game. even hit that on the wall." 
Buyback location 

& Hours
CASH FOR BOOKS 
•:+t•r• 
Come play 11Take $10k to the Bank" today! 

Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. -A painful playoffs for Hedo Turkoglu and Rashard Lewis is finally showing a little promise. 
The Orlando Magic forwards have not only struggled with kinks in their jumpshots, they have also had injuries and family illnesses on their minds. So it was only fitting that they teamed up on the play that could change the series for the Magic against the Philadelphia 76ers. 
Turkoglu hit a 3-pointer over Thaddeus Young with 1.1 seconds remaining Sunday after Lewis set a pick that forced the switch, evening the first-round series at two games apiece. The Magic hope that will be the confidence boost they need to get them out of their slumps when the best-of-seven series resumes Tuesday in Orlando for a piv­otal Game 5. 
"We got home court again, and we're going to have some fun at home," Turkoglu said. "It's a totally new series now." 
Turkoglu has been limited in the playoffs because of a sprained left ankle, while Lewis has been dealing with serious illnesses to his 1-year­old daughter and brother and is still slowed by right knee tendinitis. 
The pair had been unchar­acteristically erratic until Game 4. They finally showed flashes of the players they were during the Magic's 59­win regular season, when they lead the team in scoring behind center Dwight Howard. 
Turkoglu and Lewis combined to shoot 14-of-26 and each scored 17 points in Game 4. 
Even Magic coach Stan Van Gundy said he's been search­ing for answers to get those two back in rhythm. 
"If I was one of you guys in the media criticizing the coach, my criticism would be directed at my inability to get quality shots for Hedo and Rashard," Van Gundy said. "I haven't been able to find other ways to get Hedo and Rashard going." 
Lewis said his daughter, Gianna, is recovering well after a virus that had doctors confused for about a month. She was in and out of hospi­tals with high fevers and rash­es among other things, and Lewis said his brother is undergoing chemotherapy for cancer. 
Add the pressure behind Lewis' $118 million, six-year contract he signed in 2007 and this has been an especial­ly difficult playoffs. 
"Obviously, family is more important than the game of basketball," Lewis said. "But we got through it, and it's time to get back focusing on the game." 
That could be bad news for Philadelphia. 
The Sixers are in the same position as they were a year ago, when they took a 2-1 series lead on Detroit before losing in six games. Two of the final three games -if neces­sary-are in Orlando. 
Philadelphia coach Tony DiLeo has insisted this team is different, that it is a year bet­ter and wiser and will learn from the mistakes of the past. 
"We're confident. We've played four games and won two and could have won the other two games," DiLeo said Monday in Philadelphia. "We've proven we can win in Orlando. Our team is going to battle to the end. We're going down to Orlando with the mindset to win this game." 
The fact that the series is even close has put the pres­sure on the Magic. 
Orlando began the playoffs considered to be among the contenders in the Eastern Conference, and the Sixers lost six of their last seven games entering the postsea­son. The teams have alternat­ed wins so far. 
The Sixers earned their vic­tories on clutch shots at the end. Andre Iguodala swished a long jumper with 2.2 sec­onds remammg in Philadelphia's 100-98 victory in Game 1. Young's driving layup with 2 seconds left gave the Sixers a 96-94 win in Game 3. 
Still, Philadelphia has to prove it can keep up the pace for a full series. 
"We have a little bit more experience this year," Sixers guard Louis Williams said. "Last year, guys were a little shell-shocked being 2-2. Right now, we are in a 0-0 series going back to Orlando. People are saying that Orlando is head-over-heels better than us. We still have an opportuni­ty to win this series just like they do. We look forward to the challenge." 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, FLA. -New York Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez increased the intensi­ty of his workout and pitcher Chien-Ming Wang threw in the outfield Monday as part of their rehabilitation. 
"The clock is ticking toward the day we're going to get Alex into a game," Yankees manager Joe Girardi said in Detroit before the series opener against the Tigers. "I 
"We need to see him slide," Girardi said. "He hasn't done that yet unless he went out on a Slip And Slide in his yard." 
Wang threw in the outfield for 10 minutes and did sprints as part of a rehab program. He was placed on the 15-day dis­abled list Saturday with weak­ness in his hips. 
Wang, 0-3 with a 34.50 ERA in three starts, is scheduled for a bullpen session Tuesday. 
"He's doing great," Yankees 
vice president Billy 

r---------~-­
Tuesday, April 28, 2009 
NFL 
Campbell tired of Sanchez rumors 
said there had been no recent 
Associated Press 
movement in talks about an 
POTOMAC FALLS, Va. -extension. Then came the Jason Campbell sat on a patio failed attempts to land Cutler with a distant view of the and Sanchez. Potomac River, preparing to "One thing I was kind of host the charity golf tourna­upset about is it makes you ment that bears his name. feel like you're a bad quarter­Choosing his words carefully, back, someone that's not want­he reflected on the sequence of ed or something," Campbell events that nearly led him to said. "But at the same time it ask for a trade from the makes you a stronger person. Washington Redskins. It makes you a stronger quar­
"It definitely was a shock," terback, and through all of this Campbell said, "when I started it's going to help my process." hearing Sanchez talk." Campbell is well-liked by 
Campbell was still the teammates and fans for his Redskins' start-affable person­ing quarterback ality and his Monday, having work in the
"It was definitely a
survived the community. He
shock when I started doesn't raise
second of two attempts by the hearing Sanchez his voice in team's brain talk.,, anger or criti­trust to acquire cize anyone someone else. publicly. He 
He was having Jason Campbell wasn't just a dinner Redskins quarterback name attached 
Thursday night when he first learned that the front office was seriously inter­ested in working a deal to 
select Southern California quarterback Mark Sanchez in the first round of the NFL 
draft. 
Once was bad enough. Twice was too much. Had the Redskins drafted Sanchez, Campbell would have asked for a trade, said a per,.on familiar with the situation who requested anonymity because of the s;.,ositive nature of the svbject. 
Asked if it were so, Campbell dodged the question with a huge smile. 
"No comment, you know," he said. 
Just three weeks earlier, the Redskins tried to trade for Denver Broncos quarterback Jay Cutler. When the deal fell through, there was a clear-the­air meeting between Campbell, owner Dan Snyder, front office chief Vinny Cerrato and coach Jim Zorn. Afterward, Cerrato announced: "We are all on the same page and we are moving forward." 
But Sanchez wasn't on that particular page, at least not in Campbell's mind. In hindsight, Campbell was asked, does that big meeting earlier this month now seem rather pointless? 
"It's an awkward situation," Campbell answered, "just because after the Cutler deal, we did sit down and talk ­and then the Sanchez talk came up." 
The unspoken point is that the Redskins think they can do better. Campbell, a first-round draft pick in 2005, has been nowhere close to Pro Bowl form in his 36 NFL starts, but he has also had to learn three offensive systems in his short pro career because of instabili­ty among Washington's coach­ing staff. 
Last year, in his first year running a West Coach offense under Zorn, Campbell had 13 touchdown passes and six interceptions, with all of the picks coming in the second half of the season when the team collapsed from a 6-2 start to finish 8-8. 
Campbell is entering the final year of his rookie con­tract, but his agent, Joel Segal, 
to the Jason Campbell Leukemia Golf Classic -he actually took the poster child for the event, 8­year-old Sey-J Lansdowne, out to play miniature golf on Thursday. If anything, he's been criticized for not having enough grit to be an NFL play­
er. 
His answers, therefore, politely danced around the questions. Did he feel, for example, that Snyder and Cerrato had been honest with 
him? 
"In this business, it's tough," Camel said. "We had our meet­ing, and what we discussed was between us, and right now I'm looking forward to mini­camp." 
It certainly isn't Campbell's style to throw a proverbial tantrum, as Cutler did when demanding a trade from Denver. 
"If I had acted rebellious or anything, that would have made the situation a lot worse," Campbell said. "It would have affected a lot more people than myself, and I feel that's not right. Those guys I work with every day, lifting weights and sweating, and then the fans that still support 
me." 
Campbell scored one signifi­cant victory Monday. The quarterback saga attracted more reporters than usual to his golf tournament -giving his cause some much-needed publicity. It also overshadowed the news conference held at Redskins Park for Brian Orakpo, the player Snyder and Cerrato took in the first round after they were unable to trade up to select Sanchez. 
The turmoil is over, at least for now. Campbell will be the undisputed No. 1 QB at this weekend's minicamp. 
"Certainly you want to know, especially with minicamp com­ing up, who you got," said receiver Antwaan Randle El, joining Campbell and other teammates on the patio. "It's just been a little bit of a tough battle, more so for Jason, but he's been one of those guys who can go to the fire and come out as gold. We're just glad it's all swept under the rug, or spilled milk, at this point." 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Bay's ninth inning hoine run sends Red Sox to 11th straight victory 
Ankiel's bat supports Pineiro's strong performance for Cardinals 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Jason Bay took another star closer deep. 
The Boston outfielder hit a three-run homer in the ninth inning off Cleveland's Kerry Wood to give the Red Sox their 11th straight win, 3-1 on Monday night. 
Bay fell behind 0-1 before pulling a 99-mph fastball from Wood (0-1) into the left­field seats as Boston extended its longest winning streak since 2006. 
Bay's third hit sent the Red Sox to another drama-filled win. They were coming off an emotional three-game sweep at Fenway Park over the rival New York Yankees, a series that began with Bay connect­ing for a two-run, two-out homer in the ninth off Mariano Rivera. 
In his last four games, Bay has nine hits with two homers and nine RBls. 
Cleveland's Cy Young winner Cliff Lee and Boston knuckle­bailer Tim Wakefield matched strikes and zeros for seven innings. 
Lee went 22-3 last season with the last loss to the Red Sox in Boston on Sept. 23. The left-bander, though, was in award-winning form, allowing five hits in eight innings. He walked none and struck out five, but threw 106 pitches. 
Wood, the former Chicago Cubs All-Star, walked Dustin Pedroia to open the ninth and David Ortiz blooped a single. Bay then pounced on Wood's 
second  pitch for  his  fifth  
homer.  
Wakefield  blanked  the  

Indians on one hit -a first­inning single by Victor Martinez -over seven innings. He walked four, hit a batter and threw one wild pitch. Manager Terry Francona pulled the right­hander to start the eighth for Manny Delcarmen (1-0). 
Jonathan Paplebon gave up Mark DeRosa's RBI single in the ninth before getting his fifth save. 
Wakefield's had the Indians off-balance and Boston catch­er George Kottaras also had a hard time spearing his pitch­es. He had two passed balls that put Cleveland runners in scoring position, but each time Wakefield worked out of it. 
The Indians played the final five innings without manager Eric Wedge, who was ejected in the fourth after calls on consecutive pitches went against Cleveland. 
The Indians got runners to second and third with two outs in the fourth on a hit bat­ter, walk and passed ball. But Wakefield retired Jhonny Peralta on a fly to deep right. 
Cleveland's Grady Sizemore, who received his 2008 Gold Glove in a pregame ceremony, took an extra-base hit away from Kevin Youkilis in the fourth with a diving catch in right-center. 

Cardinals 3, Braves 2 
Rick Ankiel drove in two runs for St. Louis to back another strong outing by Joel Pineiro, who equaled the best start of his career when the Cardinals edged the Atlanta Braves 3-2 Monday night. 
Ankiel had a pair of two­out, run-scoring singles, one in the second inning to push the Cardinals to a 2-0 lead and another in the seventh for a 3-1 edge. 
Pineiro (4-0) went 6 2-3 innings, allowing seven hits and a pair of runs while walk­ing none. He also won his first four decisions for Seattle in 2001. 
Ryan Franklin worked the ninth for his sixth save in as many chances. 
The crowd of 16,379 was the fourth turnout of less than 20,000 in seven games at Turner Field this season. 
Pineiro's lone strikeout came on his final pitch, and it was a big one. The right-han­der whiffed Brandon Jones with the potential tying run at second base before reliever Chris Perez struck out David Ross to end the threat. 
St. Louis (14-6) assured itself of keeping at least a share of the NL's best record, after coming into the night tied with Los Angeles. The Dodgers played later Monday at San Francisco. 
Pineiro also had a hand in the offense, drawing a walk from Peter Moylan and com­ing around to score what proved to be a crucial run on Ankiel's hit in the seventh. 
The run-challenged Braves have struggled to produce offense with a lineup that's missing Brian McCann and Garret Anderson, both on the disabled list. Since starting the season 5-l, they have scored three runs or fewer in nine of their last 13 games. 
No one has been hurt more than Jair Jurrjens (2-2). He's 0-2 over his last three starts, despite giving up just three runs in 20 1-3 innings. He bounced back from a shaky start to go six solid innings against the Cardinals, allow­ing two runs and six hits. 
Casey Kotchman, taking over the cleanup spot for McCann, had three hits but flied out to end the eighth with the bases loaded. 
St. Louis strung together three hits off Jurrjens in the first inning, including Chris Duncan's RBI single with two outs. 
Working a little too carefully in the second, Jurrjens walked two and yielded another run when Ankiel drove a single to right-center. 
Kotchman led off the Braves' second with a double that was barely fair down the first-base line. He came home on Ross' two-out double to center. 
Kotchman helped produce another run in the seventh, doubling into the right-field corner after Chipper Jones led off with a single. Jeff Francoeur drove in Jones with a sacrifice fly. but Kotchman was stranded at second when Jones and Ross struck out. 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 28, 2009 
HORSE RACING 
Quality Road out of Derby 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE -The trainer in Jimmy Jerkens thought maybe, just maybe, Quality Road could compete in the Kentucky Derby even with a quarter crack injury that has slowed down his training the last two weeks. 
The horseman in Jerkens, however, knew otherwise. 
Jerkens scratched the Florida Derby winner Monday after the 3-year-old colt missed a work­out at Belmont Park, knocking one of the favorites out of Saturday's Run for the Roses and further muddying an already cloudy Derby picture. 
"We couldn't train him so we decided we couldn't run him," Jerkens said. "He just isn't sound enough." 
While Jerkens doesn't doubt the quarter crack could be manageable by Saturday after­noon, he didn't want to force the issue and thought a two­week layoff from serious work would be too much to ask. Quality Road's last breeze was April 17 before the injury was discovered. 
"You're just kidding yourself if you think you can go out there and run in the biggest race in the world and haven't trained," Jerkens said. "It's a shame because he's so talent­ed." 
Quality Road developed a quarter crack on his right front foot last week, and Jerkens kept him under wraps while he recuperated. The horse was patched up over the weekend and galloped Sunday on Belmont's training track. While Quality Road appeared to be fine, Jerkens became con­cerned after finding a spot of blood on the newly patched crack. 
On Monday morning, Jerkens noticed the colt's foot was sore and that he was favoring it. 
It was all Jerkens had to see. The son of Hall of Fame trainer Allen Jerkens was looking to send out his first Derby starter but instead will likely point Quality Road to the Preakness or the Belmont. 
"It's devastating," Jerkens said. "He's really sensitive on the quarter. I don't know if you'd ever get a horse into the Derby (again) with his creden­tials. We'll re-patch it but we can't do it until all the soreness is out of it." 
Quality Road has won 3-of-4 starts, including the Fountain of Youth Stakes and the Florida Derby, where he beat another top Derby contender in Dunkirk. 

Quality Road's scratch bumped Join in the Dance ­the fifth-place finisher in the Blue Grass Stakes on April 11 -into the 20-horse Derby field and gives trainer Todd Plet,:her another shot at reaching the infield winner's circle at Churchill Downs. 
Pletcher is 0-for-21 in the first jewel of the Triple Crown and Dunkirk figured to be his only shot this year. Now the Eclipse Award-winning trainer will saddle three, after Advice stunned Square Eddie in the Lexington on April 17. 
Join in the Dance looked ready for the biggest race of the year on Monday, putting together a. solid five furlong workout in 1:00.20 under Hall of Fame jockey Angel Cordero Jr. 
"He's an enthusiastic work horse, so it was good to see 
him  settle  and  work  well  
today,"  Pletcher said.  "He  
should be ready now."  

Even if Join in the Dance will be a bit of a long shot. 
The surer bets -if there are any to be made in one of the most wide-open fields in recent memory -will likely be on Pioneerof the Nile and I Want Revenge. 
Both of those horses, howev­er, still have plenty of ques­tions. Pioneerof the Nile has never run on dirt, and I Want Revenge looked outclassed in California earlier this year before finding his footing in New York while winning the Gotham Stakes and the Wood Memorial. 
The horse is co-owned by lEAH Stables, owners of last year's Derby and Preakness winner Big Brown. 
Michael Iavarone, who pur­chased a share of I Want Revenge after he won the Gotham last month, hardly seems troubled about the prospect of saddling a Derby favorite for the second straight year. 
While Iavarone and trainer Rick Dutrow Jr. opted to put Big Brown on the far outside post to give him a clean trip, Iavarone doesn't think his newest star is going to need it. 
"He can win on any surface from anywhere," Iavarone said. 
Quality Road's foot problems aren't lost on Iavarone. A quar­ter crack discovered before last year's Belmont Stakes affected Big Brown's training and may have led to his mystifying last­place finish. 
"They can be very painful, and certainly it altered the way we tried to get him ready," Iavarone said. "Those things are part of the game but you want to make sure you do right by your horse." 

NHL 
Brashear suspended for six games after hit 
than anyone else on the team's
Associated Press 
roster this season despite miss­
ARLINGTON, Va. -Capitals ing 19 games. His hit on Betts forward Donald Brashear was came after the Rangers forward suspended Monday by the NHL got rid of the puck at center ice. for a total of six games -five for Betts remained face-down for what the league called a "blind­several moments and appeared side hit" on Rangers center Blair dazed as he was helped to the Betts -and will miss Game 7 of dressing room. the teams' first-round playoff Brashear's full suspension will series. be served during this postseason 
In addition to leveling Betts and, if necessary, the 2009-10 midway through the first period regular season. A Capitals of Washington's 5-3 victory at spokesman said neither New York in Game 6 on Sunday, Brashear nor general manager Brashear made George contact with McPhee would Colton Orr in comment on pregame warmups "We're all going to the punish­
and was barred have to step up our ment. 
from one game for Earlier
game and be a little
that. Monday, before 
"Brashear deliv­bit more physical." he spoke to ered a shoulder hit NHL head­to an unsuspecting quarters as
Mike Green
player," said Colin part of the
Capitals defenseman 
Campbell, the NHL's senior exec­utive VP of hockey operations. "It is also my opinion that the hit was delivered late and targeted the head of his opponent, causing significant injury." 
Betts has a broken bone in his eye ~ocket and was ruled out of Tuesday uight's series-deciding game in Wa.<.;hington. He is New York's top penalty-killing for­ward. 
"Bettsie is a huge part or ')Ur team. He brings so many intangi­bles to our team that are so often looked over, so it's going to be tough. But we will all have to step up and rise to the occasion," Rangers forward Brandon Dubinsky said. "Anytime a tough competitor and a teammate goes down, you can use it as motiva­tion." 
Brashear is Washington's top enforcer, accumulating more than 40 more penalty minutes league's inves­
tigation, 
Brashear talked about the upcoming Game 7, saying: "I sure hope I'm going to be part of it." 
Also speaking before Brashear's penalty was announced, Capitals defenseman Mike Green acknowledged what his teammate's absence would mean. 
"He obviously has a presence on the ice and makes guys look behind them when he's on the ice," Green said. "We're all going to h:tve to step up our game and be a liLt\" bit more physical, because we're g"'-11.1{ to be miss­ing that key componeJrt.with him out." 
Brashear's suspension is the second of this series. Rangers coach John Tortorella was forced to sit out Game 6 by the NHL after throwing a plastic drinking bottle at fans during New York's loss at Washington in Game 5. 

Proprietors 
Warren & Linda 
!Jrrsl Orijpiuz./?fzza .in 7CtVn / 
Since 1951 
Specializing ;n Ira/ian Entrees 
Tves. • Thurs.: 5:00 PM • t1 ;00 ?M Fri. ~ Sat.: S:OO PM • 1:00AM 537 No«h St. Louis • South Bend, IN 
574·2:0-2464 Open on Graduation Sunday, May 17th. 4-lOpm. All Credit Cards Accepted 

!Now £easing Por2009-2010 
.Jlpp[y 'Today 
£imitetfSpace .}lvaiCa6Ce!ll 
Offerino 71ie CBest ~ta[<J@tes in Tuwn! $99 'For 1"'1 :Mont/is Cf<.§nt 'Yth'tli 12 :Montli £ease! $300 Offt« :M.ontfis <J?§nt 'Witli 9 :M.ontli £ease! Pree.Jtpplication Pee Por Stuaents 11litli UD.! CtiJse to Campus! 

eastle1'oint 
1410.11 Cl.e.al.-d .Rd. .Soatli .a.Rd, Ill 46631Apar.tnJeiJts .l!"'wae: (ts74J :17:1-8110 1fiiX: (514) :11:1-8114 
wwwaldau.com 
QOOt. IH lho/1 ,VdH;!Jf Tuesday, April28, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

MLB 
Verlander outpitches CC as Yanks continue fall 
Rangers use Young home run to defeat Orioles; Berkman breaks out of slump with round-tripper in Cincy 
runs and six hits as New York Rodney finished off the
Associated Press 
lost its fourth straight game to Yankees by getting Ramiro Pena 
DETROIT -Justin Verlander match the most consecutive loss­to pop out, improving Detroit's pitched like the ace the Detroit es it had last season. home record to 5-1. Tigers need him to be for a He did, though, pitch his first "If we keep putting guys on change. complete game with the Yankees base, we'll start scoring runs," 
The New York Yankees wish and the 27th of his career. He led Girardi said. "We aren't doing it they could say the same about the majors with 10 complete right now, but that will change." CC Sabathia. games last year with Cleveland 
Verlander had a season-high and Milwaukee. Rangers 6, Orioles 4 nine strikeouts and Magglio Sabathia said it was "definite­The Texas Rangers hadn't Ordonez hit a two-run homer off ly" his best outing of the year overcome a deficit of more than Sabathia, leading the Tigers to a and his manager agreed. two runs this season, so when 4-2 win over the Yankees on "I was attacking the zone and I they fell behind by four in the Monday night for their third was able to get swings early in second inning against Baltimore, straight win. the count," he said. two things had to happen: Matt 
"When he's ahead in the count, Detroit got to Sabathia right Harrison needed to pitch better, he's almost unhittable," Detroit away with two hits in the first and the potent Texas lineup had catcher Gerald Laird said. inning, including Miguel to start producing. "Tonight was the Justin we Cabrera's RBI single. Check, and check. expect to see every night." Sabathia was solid over the Michael Young homered, David 
Verlander (1-2) pitched seven­next four innings before allowing Murphy broke a tie with a two­plus scoreless innings, allowing Curtis Granderson's bunt single, run single in the sixth inning and seven hits and no walks. which he struggled to cover, the Rangers rallied to beat the 
The hard-throwing right-han­Placido Polanco's double and Orioles 6-4 Monday night. der resembled the rising star he Ordonez's two-run homer that Harrison (1-2) gave up four was in his first two seasons, not bounced off the top of the right­runs before getting four outs, the pitcher who struggled last field wall. then retired 16 straight batters year and in his first four starts "He really only made three before Robert Andino hit a two­this season. mistakes," Yankees manager Joe out single in the seventh. The up a single to Gregg Zaun before seems that even when I'm strug­
He hadn't pitched at least Girardi said. "The pitch to left-bander allowed seven hits in striking out Andino on a 3-2 gling, I start feeling better and I seven innings without giving up a Polanco in the first, the pitch to seven innings to earn his first pitch. look up at the schedule and we run since late in the 2007 sea­Polanco in the sixth and the one win in four starts. Guthrie allowed three runs, six have a trip in here. It's weird son. to Magglio." 'The night definitely belongs to hits and a walk in five innings. how that happens." 
"That's by far the best I've Verlander gave up a pair of Matt Harrison," Rangers manag­He threw 101 pitches, including Weird? More like a certainty. seen him throw," Yankees slug­singles to start the eighth and er Ron Washington said. "They 3 7 in the first. Houston is 31-15-1 at Great ger Mark Teixeira said. "He was was replaced by Bobby Seay, got four off him in the first two "It definitely wore on me a lit­American, which opened for the throwing 95 (mph) to 99 all who got out of the jam by getting innings, and he settled down, tle bit," Guthrie said of the long 2003 season. night, and you just don't see Johnny Damon to pop up, kept the team in it, gave us a flrst inning. "But I got through it The only surprise for the many starters with that kind of Teixeira to hit a fly to the warn­chance to come back." and had a couple of nice innings Astros was that Roy Oswalt velocity." ing track and striking out Hideki Harrison looked like a different after it. They just put some nice couldn't add to his 23-1 career 
Verlander became the first Matsui. pitcher after the second inning, at-bats together in the fourth mark against Cincinnati. The pitcher in baseball history to Fernando Rodney entered in quite by design. and flfth." right-hander gave up only Joey throw a no-hitter, start a World the ninth and after giving up "I was trying to change the Guthrie needed 21 pitches to Votta's RBI single in seven Series game, be a Rookie of the three straight hits, including Nick tempo of my delivery and attack retire the first two batters and innings, leaving with the game Year and an All-Star in his first Swisher's RBI single, he got a little bit more," he said. "I was had 15 pitches fouled off in the tied. Chris Sampson (2-0) got the two full seasons. bailed out by third baseman able to keep the ball down and I opening inning. In the bottom last four outs, saving a bullpen 
Last year, he was 11-17 with a Brandon Inge, who charged just kind of got in a groove." half, Aubrey Huff singled in a that's missing its closer indefi­
4.84 ERA and was 0-2 with a across the infield to start up a Texas scored all its runs off run for a 1-0 lead. nitely. 
9.00 ERA in his first four starts double play on pinch-hitter Jorge Jeremy Guthrie and Matt Albers Andino hit an RBI single and For the first time in his career, this season. Posada's grounder that scored a (0-1). The Rangers took three of Brian Roberts singled in two Oswalt has gone two straight 
The Yankees gave Sabathia a second run. four from the Orioles to hand runs to make it 4-0 in the sec­starts without beating the Reds. $161 million, seven-year con­"(Inge) made a great play and Baltimore its first home series ond, but that would be the extent He has two no-decisions against tract last winter as a free agent, (Polanco) made a great turn," loss. of the Baltimore offense. them this season despite pitching banking on him to stop skids. Detroit manager Jim Leyland "Sometimes we get in a hole "I know a four-run lead for well. 
They're still waiting. said. "Fortunately, you had the and we don't come back. You these guys ain't nothing," "I want to win, like everyone 
Sabathia (1-2) gave up four right guy running." can't expect us to do it every sin­Harrison said of his teammates. else," said Oswalt, who allowed gle night," Murphy said. "But this "I know they're going to come six hits. ''I'm not pitching 20 team has shown over and over back. At that point. I was just years to go to the Hall of Fame. again that we have that never­trying to hold the lead where it As long as the team wins, that's say-die attitude. We know that was." what I'm here to do." we're never out of any game." Oswalt escaped the Reds' 
Texas closed to 4-1 in the Astros 4, Reds 1 biggest threat in the sixth, when fourth when Hank Blalock dou­Though the plot changes a lit­Cincinnati loaded the bas6s with bled and scored on a single by tle, the outcome never does. No two outs. Marlon Byrd. Young hit his sixth matter how things are going or "Roy Oswalt was the story of homer in the fifth after Murphy who's been slumping, the the game," Pence said. "He hit a two-out single. Houston Astros get to Cincinnati pitched an unbelievable game, 
Orioles manager Dave and win. kept us in it." Trembley then asked Albers to They've been doing it for three Miguel Tejada had three hits preserve the lead in the sixth. seasons. for the Astros, including a single 
"At that point in time, it was Lance Berkman hit his 20th that set up the ninth-inning rally critical to put a zero up right homer at Great American Ball off Cordero. Pence hit a ball into then and there to change the Park, the most by any visitirg the gap in right-center to drive in momentum back on our side," player, and Hunter Pence hit a two runs, and later scored on Trembley said. "It didn't hap­tiebreaking double in the ninth Geoff Blum's sacrifice fly. pen." inning Monday night, leading the "You're going to have days like 
Albers allowed five of the Astros to a 4-1 victory over the that," Cordero said. ''I'm not seven batters he faced to reach Reds. happy about it because of the base. Blalock singled and Chris Pence's two-run double off way Johnny was pitching. He Davis walked before Taylor Francisco Cordero (0-1) broke a gave the team a chance to win Teagarden hit an RBI single. Ian 1-all tie and sent the Astros to the game. He had an unbeliev­Kinsler drew a two-out walk their 1Oth straight win at Great able game, and Oswalt was before Murphy lined a single to American, a streak that started unbelievable against us." center. near the end of 2007 and is the The Astros are without closer 
"It's definitely a situation I longest such stretch in the Jose Valverde, who has spent the wanted to be in right there," majors. last week fighting through a Murphy said. "All you need is a Naturally, Berkman had a strained right calf. The calf was single in that situation; that's all I hand in it, hitting a solo homer in swollen again on Monday, a day tried to do." the sixth off Johnny Cueto. The after he pitched the ninth inning 
Said Albers: "We had the lead, opposite-field shot snapped his of a 3-2 win over Milwaukee. I came in and didn't hold it. I just 0-for-16 slump and left him with The team will see how he didn't make pitches when I need­more career homers (46) and responds to a couple of days off ed to." RBis (127) against Cincinnati before deciding whether to put 
Frank Francisco worked the than any other team. him on the disabled list.· ninth to earn his fifth save and Even when he can't seem to Manager Cecil Cooper plans to third in the series. Francisco got get a hit, he'll hit one here. . use a variety of relievers in the 


Houston first basemen Lance Berkman crosses home plate two straight outs, then hit Lou "It's kind of funny," said closer's role, depending upon after his solo home run in the sixth inning Monday. Montanez with a pitch and gave Berkman, who is batting .17 4. "It which batters are due up. 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 28, 2009 

Maunu 
continued from page 28 
Maunu said. "He was a golf pro for many years before he became a teacher. Also, my older brother was a very good golfer at a younger age and he took me under his wing." 
Playing competitive hockey for 14 years, Maunu has been placing at golf championships since 2003. In 2005, she ranked seventh for junior girls in Ontario. 
"I never really had a coach until I came to college, but my greatest help with my golf game, other than my dad. was my golf pro Dan Campbell," Maunu said. "He ran a lot of junior clinics for the kids at my course and really inspired me to continue with my golf game." 
In her high school career, Maunu earned three varsity letters while also competing in hockey, basketball, volleyball, soccer and badminton. 
Starting her career at Notre Dame, Maunu played in all 10 events for the Irish, scoring in nine of them for the team. She registered a 79.83 scoring average over 29 rounds, and placed 27th at the Big East 
Belles 
continued from page 28 
"We have a better idea of what to expect," Campbell said. "It will be easier for both myself and the team heading Championship. 
"Notre Dame is a wonderful school to play for," Maunu said. "When we go to tourna­ments, you see other teams 
out  having  fun  after  the  
rounds, while  we  arc  in the  
rooms  studying.  This may  

sound horrible, but we are the true student-athletes. A lot of other schools are not able to say that and I take pride in being a student-athlete from the University of Notre Dame." 
Iler sophomore season. Maunu competed in every event again, ranking fourth for the team with a 78.04 scoring average. She tied for 1Oth at the conference cham­pionship, helping the Irish to a second place finish with her 14"over par total of 230. 
Co-captain beginning in her junior season. Maunu earned Big East honors for the second straight season, and regis­tered a career-best 75.34 stroke average, placing her second on the team and recording the third-best ever average in program history. 
Earning the team's "most improved' award as she shaved 2. 7 shots off her soph­omore season average, and tied for fourth at the Big East Championship, helping Notre 
into the tournament knowing a little more about our oppo­nents." 
The Belles are currently in fifth place after the regular season heading into the confer­ence finale. 
"They are close to reaching my expectations," Campbell 
Dame win the conference title. Maunu helped to pace the Irish at the NCAA Central Hegional, shooting a 225 (+9, 73-78-74) and tying for 30th. 
The team's solo senior has once again been making a statement on the course this spring, leading the team to four top-1 0 finishes. 
Maunu f"inished niT her f"inal conference season with her best performance of the year, placing f"irst on tho t(~am and overall with rounds of 74-71­70 for a final total of 215, one below par. 
"This years Big East tourna­ment was a very important one for my team." she said. "I enjoyed winning t.lw individ­ual title, but it dons not satisfy me. We went to tlw tourna­ment to boat Louisville and came up a little short. However, I think the team learned a valuable les­son and are now prepared for NCAA Hegionals and hopefully finals," she said. 
Next up for Maunu is the NCAA tournament. where tho Irish will play in the Central Hegional at the Scarlet Golf Course in Columbus, Ohio, hosted by Ohio State. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiO1@saintmarys.edu 
said. "However we will definite­ly raise the bar. We will ehange quite dramatically over the next year. We will play doubles in a different manner going for­ward." 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgrabaO1@saintmarys.edu 
NHL 
U.S. routs Austria 6-1 to advance at Worlds 
Associated Press 
BEHN, Switzerland --The United States found its ruth­less strnak -eventually ­and beat Austria 6-1 Monday to advance to the second round of the icn hockey world champi(lnship. 
Coach Hon Wilson chal­lenged his team when it hold a 2-1 load al'ter two periods against the Group C outsiders. 
"I think they responded somewhat to my challenge," Wilson said. "We could have put it away fairly early had we scored on some of our widn open chances. We wore a little bit casual." 
Forwards Dustin Brown, Drnw Stafford, Patrick O'Sullivan, Jason Blake and Lee Stempniak, and defense­man Matt Niskanen all scored for the Americans, who also beat Latvia 4-2 Saturday. 
That comeback victory looked more impressive after the Latvians upset 8-time champion Sweden in a shootout after a 2-2 tie in a late game Monday. 
"It's a historic day for us. It's the first win in all the years that we've played Sweden," said Latvia captain Karlis Skrastins, the veteran Florida Panthers defenseman. "If we can beat them we can play against any other team." 
Sweden still advances to the second round with a point earned in the loss. Finland goes through after healing Denmark 5-1. 
The Czech Hepublic also progressed Monday, scoring three times in the opening 13 minutes in its 5-2 win over Norway in Zurich. 
The Americans took the lead at 15:11 in Bern when Brown, the Los Angeles Kings captain, scored after drifting across the front of goal and netting a backhander. 
The United States made it 2-0 midway through the sec­ond after goalie Robert Esche saved a slap shot from Matthias Trattnig. At the other end, Stafford tapped in a loose puck in the crease when Nick Foligno's shot was saved. . 
Esche was stranded out of goal when Austria scored soon after. He misplaced a pass and Markus Peintner scored from beyond the left circle. 
Esche, who plays for St. Petersburg in Russia, had 25 saves for his second win of the tournament. 
Fresh from Wilson's locker room lecture, the two-goal gap was restored 25 seconds into the third when O'Sullivan matched Stafford by scoring for the second straight game. 
t\C' ---­
Tuesday, April 28, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Sophomore Corp named USC starter 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-On the same day sophomore Aaron Corp steps in as Southern California's No. 1 quarterback, the Trojans face several reminders of the talented players they must replace. 
Corp emerged as the succes­sor to Mark Sanchez at the end of spring practice. He'll get a chance to show off his skills Saturday in the team's scrim­mage before thousands of fans at the Coliseum. 
While Corp is on the field, Sanchez and linebackers Rey Maualuga, Brian Cushing and Clay Matthews are expected to give USC four first-round picks in the NFL draft. That trio is featured on the cover of this week's Sports Illustrated. Another linebacker, Kaluka Maiava, is likely to go in the later rounds. 
"This might be one of the biggest draft parties ever," coach Pete Carroll said Friday. "We might have moments of appreciation in there when guys get picked." 
Then it'll be back to business. 
Corp got into just five games last season, but for now, he owns the edge over freshman Matt Barkley. Junior Mitch Mustain is slotted as No. 3 on the depth chart, followed by Garrett Green and redshirt freshman John Manoogian. 
Carroll ticked off Corp's advantages, including knowing USC's system well and his abili­ty to communicate from the sideline to the huddle. 
"He's a very good athlete and is the best runner we've had at the spot since we've been here," the coach said. "He has shown it at numerous occasions and picks and chooses his times really well. He's thrown the ball very well. He came in with a lit­tle bit of an edge and held that." 
Carroll's biggest surprise was seeing Barkley pick up the offense so quickly for someone who graduated from high school a semester early and enrolled at USC this spring. 
"I expect he'll play really well in the spring game and have another big day and show more so why this competition is so close right now," Carroll said. "Mitch Mustain has had a good solid spring but the other guys have kind of stayed ahead of 
h.
un. " 
The most drastic changes will be at linebacker, where USC will feature an all-new look. Sophomore Chris Galippo is the leading replacement in the mid­dle. He was Maualuga's backup last season, but saw little action while Maualuga piled up a team-leading 79 tackles. 
Junior Malcolm Smith, the brother of NFL wide receiver Steve Smith, was Maiava's backup on the weak side. Junior Michael Morgan, who started one game against Oregon last season, backed up Cushing on the strong side. 
"We've had nothing but good stuff from those guys," Carroll said. "It's a very thin group with just a couple kids backing up. It's going to wind up being a very spotlighted position in camp when the freshmen come 
in." 
Movies 
continued from page 28 
helping the Irish (25-16, 10-8 Big East), who play Illinois­Chicago tonight at 6:05 p.m. at Eck Stadium, they've been making amateur films mocking their teammates and coaches. 
"It's been kind of a tradition. They go around and make little skits about each player on the team," junior Billy Bookford said. "They're very creative with what they do. They have creative minds, and they're both good at what they do." 
Pollock and Maust made a video that included skits mock­ing players and coaches from December to late February. To burn Danieli, they filmed him doing routine activities, then spliced the footage together with clips from the rest of his teammates talking about him. The result: A documentary­style feel-good story about Daniell -that he had no idea took place. 
"A.J. and I schemed this out beforehand, and we thought it would be funny to get at Big D and create this story, complete­ly fictional, about Danieli," Maust said. "Just using clips of him and framing clips of him and adding stuff onto it and make him look really silly and ridiculous." 
The two had made a video the previous s.eason, and Pollock said the impetus was the fact that his class never did the traditional freshmen skits. 
"We didn't do it because the seniors gave us like, a day and it was right before finals and we didn't have a chance to get the material together and do it," Pollock said. "We didn't do it and they were all mad at us. We ended up going 28-28 that year and they were blaming it on us." 
The next year, Pollock and a few guys made a video for the seniors. This spring's video was a sequel. 
Maust learned of Pollock's video editing skills when Pollock, a native of Hebron, Conn. and a big Patriots fan, made a video montage of New England's run towards the Super Bowl and showed it to the team. 
"He put together a montage and put it up on YouTube and he was showing the guys and it looked really good," Maust said. 
This year, Pollock kept his video under wraps to keep his teammates in suspense. He and Maust worked hard, some­times harder than they want­ed. 
'Til give A.J. a little attitude on some of my bad days when I have a lot to do and I'm stressed out a little bit," Maust said. 
No one, not even the coach­es, are immune from the duo's mockery. Maust and Pollock took press conference footage of their coach, Dave Schrage, from Notre Dame's athletic Web site and added mock questions to create a faux Coors Light press conference commercial. 
They toed the line with some their videos, Maust said. 
"Due to the nature of what we were doing, some people would be watching the movie with straight faces," he said. 
Pollock agreed. 
"We stepped on some toes," he said. "We got some people pretty good." 
Of their ideas, he said, "We can run it up the flag pole, some people can either salute or remain resolute to it." 
Danieli had an inkling that he might be in for it when Pollock told him he wanted to mess with him in the video. Danieli's response: attempted sabotage. Pollock said Danieli tried to make his own movie to poke fun at Pollock -"Evan doesn't have a movie and he's not capable of making one," he added -and tried to recruit Maust to help. 
"He tried to get [Maust] to turn against me by saying that I really trashed him in the movie and I wasn't going to show him it," Pollock said. 
The result of Pollock and Maust's work was an hour-long collection of skits that took down Schrage, Danieli and the rest of the team. 
Pollock pondered how much the movie would be worth. ''I'd say 12-15 bucks," he said. He paused. "Fifteen. 30 bucks. We're trying to make money here." 
Neither Pollock nor Maust would divulge the future of their production team, but both believed they had potential. 
"You'll just have to wait and see," Maust said. "I don't even know if we know. We might even do something over the summer, I don't know. We don't give any previews." 
Pollock had loftier aspira­tions. He floated the idea of making a feature-length film with a plot and submitting it to the Sundance Film Festival, 
"We have big expectations," he said. "We got some big ideas, we're going to have to sit down and figure out what the best interest is for the Maust and A.J. production company." 
This weekend, Pollock and the Irish took two of three from Louisville on the road. They have home series against Big East opponents Connecticut and South Florida after facing non-conference opponents Illinois-Chicago and Bowling Green this week. 
Illinois-Chicago (17 -19, 11-4 Horizon League) has lost four of its last five games. Sophomore Jason Ganek leads the Flames with a .328 batting average, followed by senior Brandon Harwell at .327. Sophomore Steve McGuiggan has converted 13 of 13 stolen base attempts. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
MLB 
Philadelphia reliever Romero sues supplement maker 
Associated Press  on June 2, barring any Phillies games being post­ pension, but it was upheld by an independent arbitrator.  Romero was suspended in January after testing positive  America where the strict lia­bilities apply to a product's  
NEW YORK -Suspended  poned.  In his suit, Romero is seek­ for androstenedione, a sub­ user and not manufacturer,  
Phillies reliever J .C. Romero  "Testing positive and being  ing compensatory damages,  stance that Mark McGwire  and that's indefensible."  
has filed suit against a nutri­ suspended from baseball was  including being repaid the  used in the 1990s that was  Cornwell is a sports attor­ 
tional supplement manufac­ one of the most painful expe­ $1.246 million of his $4 mil­ later banned by baseball.  ney who has specialized in  
turer alleging an unlisted  riences in my life and ... dam­ lion salary he lost as a result  Androstenedione was not list­ defending athletes in cases  
ingredient in one of its prod­ aged my reputation in the  of the suspension. Romero is  ed as being among 6-0XO's  involving banned substances.  
ucts caused him to test posi­ process," Romero said in  a  also  seeking  undisclosed  ingredients, Romero's suit  In  his  lawsuit,  Romero  
tive for  a  substance banned  statement released by his  punitive damages because he  alleges.  noted the  Ergopharm  and  
by Major League Baseball.  attorneys. "It is  said his repu- Romero said he consumed  Proviant touted the supple­ 
In the suit filed Monday in Superior Court in Camden  my hope that I can finally start  "Professional sports  tation been  has tar- the supplement for about two months before learning he  ment as being "both natural and non-hormonal." He also  
County, N.J., Romero accused Ergopharm and Proviant Technologies as being negli­gent in manufacturing 6-0XO  to put this event behind me and protect the inter­ests of others  testing policies are the only place in America where the  nished as a result of the positive test. Two phone  had tested positive. A month later, Romero and the Major League Baseball Players' Association discovered that 6­ noted that Ergopharm said it followed strict guidelines to "ensure its products live up to every specification neces­ 
and 6-0XO Extreme, the nutritional supplements he took, and for misrepresenting their ingredients. Also named in the suit are  who rely on man­ufacturers and retailers to be honest about their products."  strict liabilities apply to a product's user and not manufacturer. "  messages and one e-mail message left with officials at Illinois­ 0XO Extreme contained banned substances after hav­ing the supplement tested at an independent lab. David Cornwell, one of  sary." Romero accused Ergopharm and Proviant of being negli­gent in both producing the supplement and offering its  
Vitamin Shoppe and General  In suspending  b  a  s  e  d  three attorneys representing  contaminated products for  
Nutrition Centers, stores where Romero said he pur­chased the over-the-counter  Romero, MLB ruled that play­ers are responsi­ David Cornwell Romero's attorney  Proviant were not returned. A spokes­ Romero, argued that base­ball's policy is indefensible because nutritional supple­ sale without proper warning. The suit alleges that Vitamin Shoppe and GNC  
supplements in July. He said  ble for ensuring  woman  for  ments aren't regulated. He  were  negligent for  recom­ 
employees at both stores rec­ whatever supple- GNC, based in  also noted that his client took  mending that Romero buy the  
ommended the supplements  ments they take contain no  Pittsburgh, declined com­ reasonable precautions in an  supplements and assuring  
and assured him that using  banned substances. Posters in  ment, saying the company  attempt to determine 6-0XO  him that they did not contain  
them would  not  lead  to  a  each major league clubhouse  does not comment on pending  didn't contain banned sub­ questionable substances. He  
failed drug test.  offer players a hotline to call  lawsuits. Messages left with  stances.  said he identified himself as a  
Romero, who earned two  to check on supplements.  New Jersey-based Vitamin  "Because sports leagues  professional athlete before he  
wins in Philadelphia's World  Rob Manfred, executive vice  Shoppe were not returned.  and Congress haven't come  purchased a bottle of 6-0XO  
Series victory  over  Tampa  president of labor relations in  Phillies general manager  up with any workable solu­ and  6-0XO  Extreme  at  a  
Bay last year,  was suspended  the commissioner's office, has  Ruben Amaro Jr., declined to  tion, they shift the burden to  Vitamin Shoppe in Cherry  
by Major League Baseball for  previously said Romero that  comment  on  the  lawsuit,  the player," Cornwell said.  Hill, N. J. He said an employ­ 
the first 50 games of this se-a­ did not use the hotline.  except to call it "a personal  "Professional sports testing  ee at the store recommended  
son. He is eligible to return  Romero appealed the sus­ matter."  policies are the only place in  the supplement to him.  

page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April28, 2009 

Course Instructor Feedback 
Completing CIFs 
allows you to see Your feedback 
student feedback 
contributes to the next semester improvement of teaching and 
through the 
learning at N D. Enhanced Class 
The feed back Search (ECS) tool. window for most courses closes the last reading day Sunday, May 3. 
Other courses may
Course Instructor Feedback (CIF) is the system that replaces TCEs close earlier. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
lunch fi Conversation for Gay, lesbian. Bisexual fi Ouestiuning Students at Notre Dame 
Friday. May 1 Noon to 1:30 p.m. 
31B Coleman Morse 
The Cora Council invites gay.lesbian. bisexual &questioning members of the Notre Dame family, along with their friends and allys, to an informal luncheon at the C 
Everyone is Welcome and Confidentiality is Assured. 
Lunch #1;1/ 9e Served 
CORE COUNCil 
HI&Ilk{U£8MIL f!f.!X!Ml. &l)liUiTHWU!i; HUOiHl} 

Pitchers 
continued from page 28 
the team. Sometimes we gang up against the hitters." 
Bargar came into the sea­son after a terrific 2008 in which she set Notre Dame single-season records for wins (30), appearances (54) and innings pitched (291.1 ). She was also named first­team all-Big East and second team all-region. 
She has continued to pitch well this year, posting a 1.61 earned run average in 191.1 innings pitched. The senior is second in the Big East in ERA, and top five in the conference in wins and innings pitched. 
" I expected the success I've had this year with less innings and appearances," Bargar said. "I knew that with Jody coming back, hav­ing really grown in compe­tence and ability, that we'd be splitting the time more even­ly." 
Valdivia currently holds a 
2.56 EHA and has more strikeouts (12 7l than innings pitched (123). She had a solid first year at the collegiate level, going 8-7 with a 3.15 ERA, but she said the experi­ence has made her sopho­more season much better. 
"Freshman year was an experience about getting com­fortable," Valdivia said. "I think sophomore year I came out comfortable in different situations. It gives me confi­dence now that I've seen it, as opposed to freshman year when everything was so new." 
As a team, the Irish strug­gled early in the season, going 8-10 against teams like then-No. 1 Alabama before beginning Big East play. 
"We started out against the best of the best." Bargar said. "We learned a lot about hit­ters and the mental aspects of facing that competition." 
Valdivia has improved markedly since conference 
Rodgers 
continued from page 28 
capable replacement, and asserted himself as a leader on the Irish defense. 
"Between me and [senior defensive captain] Regis IMcDermottJ, we kind of let the younger guys know that we had the tools to be just as good as we were last year," Rodgers said. "Starting in the fall, we just wanted to prove a 
Irish defense, which leads the league in fewest goals allowed at a stalwart 6.23 per game. Rodgers was recog­nized for his impressive play by being named a nominee for the Tewaarton Trophy, given annu­ally to the top collegiate lacrosse in the country. 
"I was mostly shocked that I was in that group of players," Rodgers said. "That's a great group of 21 !nominees]." 
He added, though, that indi­vidual statistics and accolades are not as important to him as wins, which Notre Dame has also had plenty of this season. The Irish are currently 13-0, 5­0 in the Great Western Lacrosse play began, posting a 7-0 record and 1.46 ERA in nine Big East contests. 
"Starting out your season versus the teams Bargar and I did, I wouldn't have wanted to start my season any other way," Valdivia said. "It let me adjust by the time Big East came around to how I'd need to pitch to beat these teams." 
Valdivia stressed the excel­
lent  guidance  she  had  
received from Bargar.  
"I  think  I  lucked  out  

tremendously having someone like Brittney to follow," she said. "She's been nothing but helpful and a model of what you're supposed to be at by senior year." 
After the season comes to a close, Bargar will be stepping into a new position at Sears in Chicago, where she recent­ly accepted a job offer. 
Valdivia will also be step­ping into a new position ­veteran pitcher. 
"I realized that I have to step into Brittney's shoes and guide the two incoming fresh­man pitchers just like she did for me," Valdivia said. 
Bargar said she has no doubt about Valdivia's ability as a leader. 
"Jody's already stepping up into that leadership role," Bargar said. "She'll do an awesome job." 
But for now the two are focused on the present, which includes finishing the season against No. 18 Louisville before the Big East champi­onship and possibly the NCAA tournament. 
"I think our team has set ourselves up for the Big East tournament and we're really rolling and confident going into the end of the season," Valdivia said. 
Added Bargar, "All we care about is putting the team in a position to win every game. We just want to pitch well and look for the W." 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

point that we're not "/wanted to make still have what 
going to be pushed sure our team was it takes to win over as a defense." a national
where we need to be." c h a m p i _
Opposing attacks are certainly hav­onship. ing a tough time Scott Rodgers "We don't pushing over the have the best
Irish senior 
League (GWLL), and ranked No. 2 in both major polls. Notre Dame begins play in the GWLL Tournament this weekend against Quinnipiac. 
"I wanted to make sure our team was where we had to be," Rodgers said. "If we had allowed 13 goals a game, that's OK as long as we're winning." 
All year, the one knock on the Irish has been a soft strength of schedule. Rodgers, though, said that the Notre Dame players haven't wor­ried about it, and think they 
schedule," he 
said. "We 
don't control that; we can only play the games that are on the schedule. We're just going to beat every team in front of us." 
Rodgers pointed to Notre Dame's March 8 win over then­No. 3 North Carolina as evi­dence that the Irish can go all the way. 
"People are starting to under­stand that we're for real, but we still have a long way to go," he said. "We might be the under­dog, but we kind of like being in that position." 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 
Tuesday, April 28, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 

An Appeal to Fr.. John Jenkins and the University of Notre Dame Community 
Far too often the controversy over abortion is treated as though it were simply a conflict over 
differing opinions, a political or philosophical debate-a subject over which people of good will 
may disagree. Surely by now Fr. john jenkins, Notre Dame students, faculty and staff feel as though 
they have heard every argument why President Obama should not give the 2009 commencement 
address and be granted an honorary Doctor of Laws degree. However, there is only one reason why 
Fr. jenkins has a duty to rescind his invitation to Obama and one reason the Notre Dame community 
should caU him to do so. 
Abortion Is a Real Injustice With Real Victims 
When President Obama supports. advocates and facilitates legalized abortion he causes human beings to be put to death. These human beings, innocent unborn children, are not a philosophy or an idea. They are, in fact persons whose lives are destroyed with the sanction of law. We nt-ed to get in touch with this truth. For many, the victims of abortion are not real; they remain distant, remote and unseen. One such victim of abortion is jacob. In 2008 members of our group found him and 23 other dismembered unborn children in a trash dumpster behind an abortion clinic in the Detroit Metro area. Obama proudly promotes the law that allowed jacob to be killed. 
To honor Obama is to turn our backs on the victims of injustice. If the president is permitted to 
deliver the commencement address Notre Dame will say to the world that the atrocity committed 
against jacob, and the SO million others whom he represents, is of no consequence. 
Coffin that containes the 
remains of Jacob and other afX>rtt.-d 
babies killed 
March 2008 at 
the Wom.m Care 
abortion clinic in 
lathrup Village, Michigan. 
Notre Dame would never invite someone to deliver the commencement address who failed to recogni7..e the humanity of another people-group and advocated that they be denied access to jobs. housing. education or health care. Yet Obama's support for legalized abortion is a far worse injustice. Unless Fr. Jenkins rescinds his invitation to Obama. not only will the millions of lives exterminated under Roe v. Wade be ignored. but the tea.chings of the Catholic Church will be ignored as well 
But It's Not Too Late 
Fr. Jenkins -tell Obama he cannot give the commenet.""ment address. Tell bi.m be will not receive an honorary Doctor of Laws degree. Tell him that you and Notre Dame have taken a stand. This is not a matter of refusing to dialogue-it is simply a matter of giving the proper Christian witness. Tell him you h2ve to stand with the outcast Tell him you have decided to do it for an unknown. unwanted unborn child found at the bottom of a dumpster. Tell him you are doing it for jacob. 
Res.ponses to this appedl are welc(:1t'f')e: prolifesociety@execpc.com 
Monica Migliorino Miller, Ph.D. • Citizens for a Pro-life SoCiety 
67919 fjg,ht MiJe Road • South lyon, Michigan 48178 
www.prolifesodety.com 


THE UNIVERSITY 0 F NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY IS INVITED TO ATTEND A MEM0 RIAL MASS ASWE MOURN THE LOSS OF 
-

Kevin C. Healey 
Class of 2011 College ofArts & Letters Sorin Hall 

BASILICA OFTHE SACRED HEART Sunday, May 3, 2009 4:00p.m. 
Rev.John I. Jenkins, C. S.C., Presider Rev.James B. Kin9, C. S.C., Homilist Javi Zubizarreta, Words cif Remembrance 
Concelebrants Welcome 

Tuesday, April28, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
CROSSWORD 
Across 37 Cocoon 1 Wrote an ode to 
occupants 7 China's Chou 
38 Little green men, En·_ 
for short 10 Captain Hook's 
39 Target henchman 
competitor 40 Where a tab is 
14 Cause of weird weather 
inserted 41 Joan of the
15 Press worker's stain 
Blackhearts 42 "Biography"16 Brighton bye-bye network, once17 Augments 43 King Cole was a
18 Wine servers 
merry one 20 Adolescent boy's 45 "Death in 
groW1h 
Venice" author 22 Recurring Thomas 
Woody Allen 
47 Demolition aidtheme 48 "The Witches" 23 Have a go at 
director Nicolas 24 What oil helps 
49 Some Superdissolve 
Bowl Sunday 25 "I Pity the Foor' highlights 
star 52 Africa's largest 26 Brother of Little cityJoe on '60s TV 
55 Bargains tor 27 ·Jingle Bells" leniency 
starter 
57 Dukakls in 1988 31 Little green man and Dole in 34 Soldier's period 1996 of service 59 (0,0) on a graph 36 Isaac's eldest 60 Reach a high 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE ...,.....-,--..-..., 
~~~ .,:::.+:~+;-~ 
61 Grampa Simpson 
62 They can be found in 2Q.. and 55-Across and 10· and 26· Down 
63 Lap dog, informally 64 Window units. briefly 65 Electrician's alloy 
Down 
Did an axel. e.g. 2 Tree with catkins 3 It's observed on 
Oct.24 4 Winkin tiddlywinks. e.g. 5 Make king or 
queen 6 Goofball 7 "Hungarian
Rhapsodiestt composer 8 Animated bug film of 1998 9 Clanton at the 
O.K. Corral 10 Musial's nickname 11 Hetgenberger of 
"CSl'' 12 LAX postings 
-=t-::-t-:':-f"!"to:::-.il~~U··· 1s American
League division ~~~-·~~E~~ 19 Some are
declared ..:,.+~=+"~ 21 J. P. Morgan co. 25 Scratch 26 Dehydration may help bring this on -':'+7+~=+::-t 27 Housecleaning aid -:::+:+::-t=B 28 "This outrage!" 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Pancllo lfarrllon 
29 Source of a 39 Emblem on the 52 AJ who created fragrant oil Australian coat Fearless Fosdick of arms
30"_Nacht" 53 Away from lhe (German words wind
41 Protrude of parting) 44 _ about (circa) 
54 "Out of Africa• 46 •_ Fables"
31 Lhasa author Dinesen 32 Temporary calm 48Gifl on 
55 "Fast Money" 
Valentine's Day 
33 Popular MP3 network player 
49 Chilly 56 Dosage unit
50 Make less chilly Cooperstown 51 Less loopy 58 Battery sfze 35Mel in 
For answers. can 1·900.285·5656. $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800·814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles. or visit nytimes.comlmobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.cornlcrosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytlmes.comtwordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comlleaming/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: David Lascher, 37; Sheena Easton, 50; Ace Fre­hley, 58; Casey Kasem, 77 
Happy Birthday: Pace yourself wisely this year. You will be inclined to offer too much and to get too little in return. Realize your worth, put a price on your time and effort and incorporate a solid budget. With a little confidence, you will see how much respect you gain and how quickly your options grow. Your numbers are 7, 10, 14, 25, 31, 38,46 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You can reinvent one of your talents and turn it into a pros­perous pastime. Step out on a limb and present what you have to offer. It's your no­nonsense attitude coupled with your drive that will attract attention. 4 stars 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Show a little versatility if you want others to consider you a candidate for an activity in which you want to participate. Someone will show an interest in you but don't be fooled --there are strings attached. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can work your charm and get your way. Take on a chal­lenge and you'll receive attention from someone who can make a difference in your life. Don't let demanding individuals tie up your time. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let your emotions cost you financially. Control your spending and your lending. An interesting individual may charm his or her way into your pocketbook, if you aren't careful. You have to say no. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Whether you are learning something new or getting to know someone or visiting a destination you've never been before, there are lessons to be learned that will give you the advantage in other areas of your life. You can express your desires and come out on top. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may think you have everything under control, but don't expect things to run smoothly, especially where work is concerned. Someone will do something unorthodox. By taking a power position, you will send a message that is diffi­cult to deuy. 2 stars 
LmRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take action and you will set yourself apart from the competi­tion. A new look at something you used to enjoy doing will spark enthusiasm, leading to a new hobby, new friends or a new social activity. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone will not be happy if you shirk your responsibili­ties. A change is apparent within a social or networking group to which you belong. If you take a strong position, everyone will know you mean business. 3 stars 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone will want to spend as much time with you as you do with him or her. Plan something special. Changes at home will complement your current lifestyle. An old friend may not agree with what you are doing. Follow your heart. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Spend time with someone who knows how to have fun and you will experience something that can bring you a lot of joy for years to come. Diver­sify and you will be inspired to make some powerful changes at home. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Love must be nurtured in order to keep things running smoothly and your emotions under control. A job opportunity or chance to learn something new will help you realize what direction you should be taking next. Someone from your past will inspire you. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Someone will try to upset you emotionally. Do whatever is necessary to manipulate the situation you face. Now is not the time to give in when, in fact, you should be setting the stage for what's to come. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are strong, compassionate, adaptable, practical, giving and pushy when you want somethin~. You are unafraid of chan~e. 
WWW. 8LACK00GCOMIC.COM 

FORBIDDEN DONUT 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
JEFF KNUREK MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
GANET jI I [ () 
@2009 Tribune Media Selvices. Inc. 
t¥fi II 
tUNTRAB t
J [J ) 
HOW TH~ T~~N'S 
NEW J\.llo,6£NMENOOwww.JVmble.cQI!liC!S 
L..OUO MUSIC. L.~FT OAO.
IAGMANE I 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rJ t J 
suggested by the above cartoon_ 
Answer: "r 1 I I J-[ I I I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: CHAMP DAISY PUZZLE CODGER Answer: What the friends shared during the sad love story -GLUM DROPS 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _____________________________________ City ________ State _______ Zip_________ 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, April28, 2009 
page 28 
BASEBALL 
Fastballs and films 
Irish juniors create short movies when offthe baseball diamond 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
It's a long season for the Irish. Luckily, A.J. Pollock and Eric Maust add some levity to it. 
Sophomore pitcher Evan Danieli knew he might be in trouble, but he didn't know how. But Pollock and Maust had embarked on a cinematic adventure to poke fun at their teammates, and Danieli was next. 
Pollock and Maust have enough on their plates. Pollock leads the team in hitting with a .364 batting average and has six home runs. Maust, a pitcher, has a 5-2 record. But when Maust and Pollock haven't been 
see MOVIES/page 23 

ND WoMEN's GoLF 
Maunu to lead tean1 atNCAAs 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
SportS Writer 
Nearing the end of her sen­ior season, Lisa Maunu won the Big East individual title last week and led the No. 32 Irish to second place overall in the tournament, placing the team in a strong position as they head into NCAA Regionals May 7-9. 
A former hockey player from Canada, Maunu is far from the typical c-ollege golfer. 
A London, Ontario, native, Maunu has been making a name for herself on the Canadian junior golf and hockey scene for quite some time. 
"My father got me into golf," 
see MAUNU/page 22 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles sweep Olivet in finaln1atch before MIAA Tourney 
with the top teams in our con­Scuder 8-2 to give the Belles a Reed was able to drop only son at No. 2 singles, defeatingBy KATELYN GRABAREK ference." 3-0 advantage. two games in her opening set to Giana Guerra 6-2, 6-3. 
SportS Writer 
Sophomore Jillian Hurley and "We are changing our dou­defeat Singer at No. 4 singles. Kosinski was able to defeat 
junior Camille Gebert were able bles' strategy," Campbell said. "We have had some individu­Gruber at No. 3 singles by a 
The Belles wrapped up their to defeat their opponents at No. "We have changed the lineup als definitely improve their score of 6-4, 6-3, while Hurley regular season in fine form 1 doubles by a score of 8-4 to and we are trying to play a games as the season has pro­was able to fight through a Tuesday, netting a 9-0 victory open the match. The sopho­more aggressive style of dou­gressed, and our confidence tough first set to win 7-5, 6-0 at over MIAA opponent Olivet at more tandem of Franca Peluso bles going into the tourney. We level has risen in certain situa­No. 1 to round out the Belles Eck Tennis Pavilion. and Betsy Reed also defeated will have to take chances to tions," Campbell said. sweep. 
"We have had a decent year, Kelsey Singer and Celeste win." "Individually, we have won The Belles will be heading to but want to strive for better Gruber by the same score. Peluso and fellow sophomore some close matches so that Kalamazoo on Thursday to results," head coach Dale Fellow sophomores Jessica Jessica Camp were able to earn should give us some confidence wrap up their season at the Campbell said. "We know we Kosinski and Mary Therese Lee solid wins at No. 5 and No. 6 in a close dual match." MIAA Conference tournament. have the ability, but we have to won at No. 3 doubles over singles, combining to lose only Gebert was able to close out work harder and smarter to be Paige Sedgewick and Leanne two games. her undefeated conference sea-see BELLES/page 22 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
Rodgers waits his turn, then stars in senior year 
By SAM WERNER 
Associate SportS Editor 
Scott Rodgers arrived at Notre Dame as one of the highest rated goalie recruits in the country. But when he got on campus, he had to wait, sitting behind All-American Joey Kemp for his first three years on the team. 
"If you don't play for a while, you kind of question yourself. I wouldn't call it frustrating," Rodgers said of his freshman through junior years. "It was definitely new for me, but I learned a lot of patience." 
This year, Rodgers has cer­tainly made the most of his starting opportunity, playing in all 13 games for the Irish and compiling NCAA-best 6.26 goals against average. Rodgers said the experience of waiting made him appreciate this opportunity even more. 
"Sitting for three years was kind of tough," he said. "But at the same time I was kind of lick­ing my chops for this season to show everyone what I was made of." 
Rodgers said he used his first three years to learn from Kemp, who earned All-American hon­ors three times in his Notre Dame career. 
"Over three years I learned a lot just from watching him," Rodgers said. "He was such a great fundamental goalie, that I picked up just a lot of little things that have helped me this year." 
Initially, Rodgers said he was just trying to prove himself as a 
see RODGERS/page 24 
ND SOFTBALL 
Dynamic duo leads Irish 
By LAURA MYERS 
Assistant SportS Editor 
If pitching really is what wins ball games, the Irish must be pretty confident about the rest of the season. 
Notre Dame's two pitchers are at different points in their careers -senior Brittney Bargar (20-7) is a seasoned veteran, while sophomore Jody Valdivia (14-5) has spent 
2009  adjusting  to  her  
increased role.  
But the two  have in com­ 

mon their success on the mound as well as their cama­raderie off the field. 
"Bargar is always right there to have my back, and I have hers," Valdivia said. "We don't compete. We do have friendly competitions between the pitchers and the rest of 
see PITCHERS/page 24 








