

OLUME 43: ISSUE 107 MONDAY, MARCH 23,2009 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Obama to speak at undergrad commencement 
Jenkins: Obama 'honored' 
Some applaud, others University by accepting condemn announcement 
ByJENNMETZ By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer News Editor 
University President Fr. John Jenkins responded to criticism regarding the The University's announcement that announcement of President Barack President Barack Obama will deliver Obama as the 2009 Commencement the 2009 Commencement address has speaker by clearly making a distinction inspired strong responses -both pos­between honoring the president and itive and negative -from seniors and supporting his political views. student groups. 
Jenkins made it clear in an interview Students are vocalizing support as with The Observer Sunday the well as condemnation of the University does not "foresee circum­University's decision through numer­stances" that would cause Notre Dame ous Facebook groups, blogs and other to rescind the president's invitation. outlets. 
"We have invited the president and Junior Mary Daly. president of Notre he's honored us by accepting," he said. Dame's Right to Life club, said she is The White !louse and the University disappointed in the University's choice announced March 20 the president will of speaker. speak at the May 17 Commencement Although she said she believes it is 
President Barack Obama spoke at Wesleyan University last May in place of Sen. Edward see 0 BAMA/ page 10 Kennedy. He will deliver the Commencement address at Notre Dame on May 17. see REACTIONS//page 6 

Forn1er ambassador to Vatican will receive Laetare Medal 
'Most prestigious honor given to American Catholics' to be presented to Mary Ann Glendon at commencement 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
Former U.S. ambassador to the Holy See Mary Ann Glendon will be the 133rd recipient of the Laetare Medal, the highest award given by Notre Dame. She will receive the Medal during the 2009 Commencement ceremony on May 18, the University announced Sunday. 
The Laetare Medal is called "the oldest and most prestigious honor given to American Catholics," according to a University release, and has been awarded annually since 1883 to a Catholic "whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the Church 
and enriched the heritage of humanity." 
Glendon, who served as ambassa­dor to the Holy See in 2008, is cur­

rently the Glendon Learned Hand Professor of Law at Harvard Law School. She is also the cur­rent president of the Pontifical Academy of Social Sciences, appointed to that position by Pope John Paul II in 1994. She was the first woman to be named presi­dent of one of the major pontifical academies. She also served on the President's Council on Bioethics under President George W. Bush from 2002 to 2005. 

University President Fr. John Jenkins called Glendon "a remarkable woman" who "has lived a life of service to the Church" in an interview with The Observer Sunday. 
"She's probably the most power­ful spokesperson for the Catholic viewpoint in our world today," 

Bald for a cause 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Wear_in9. a pink. bandan~ that satd Cancer !ears me, 6-yPar-old Lauren Pollock. who lost her hair to chPmotherapy, pnered around lwr mother's shoul­dPr to watch as Notre Dame studPnts shaved tlwir hnads to show support !'or child­hood eancer. 
OvPr 100 people shaved their heads and raised an estimatl•d $24.000 for the St. Baldrick's Foundation at the Freshman Class Council's St. Baldrick's Day event. which took place on Thursday and 
see BALD/page 8 


Jenkins said. 
In a press release, Jenkins said Glendon is "a compelling expositor of Catholic social teaching who exemplifies our University's most cherished values and deserves its highest praise." 
Jenkins said Sunday that Glendon's presence at Commencement where President Barack Obama is sched­uled to give the main address ­will be a strong representation of the Catholic viewpoint. 
"In inviting President Obama, we will listen to him. But I think it's important he will listen to oth­ers. And I can't think of a better spokesperson for the Catholic viewpoint than Mary Ann Glendon," Jenkins said. "We're very honored to have her." 
A scholar of law and philosophy, Glendon's areas of academic research include bioethics, com­parative constitutional law and international human rights. She is the author of numerous books, including "A Nation Under Lawyers: How the Crisis in the Legal Profession is Transforming American Society," and "A World Made New: Eleanor Roosevelt and the Universal Declaration of 
see MEDAL/page 6 

Patriotic Holy Cross 
Brother Courtney dies 
By ROBERT SINGER News Writer 
Brother Edward Vincent Courtney. who was a nwmber of tlw Congregation of the Holy Cross for more than five decades. died last Monday in the Dujarin Ilouse at Notre Dame. He was 90 years old. 
Courtney, a veteran of World War II. entered St. Joseph Novitiate in Rolling Prairie, Ind. to begin his religious training follow­ing the war. He made his first vows as Holy Cross brother on Aug. 16, 1947 and three years later, made his final vows at Notre Dame's Basilica of the Sacred Heart, according to the South Bend Tribune. 
llolv Cross Brother Bolwrt Fillm~re, provincial of the Midwest Province. told The Observer that Courtney's experi­ences in World War II motivated him toward a religious voration and a lifetime of patriotism. 
"After the war. he made this decision, which was verv eommon for W\VII veterans," Fillinore said. 'They joined because they saw life in a very different way, and they 
see COURTNEYIpage 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Riding out the storm 

I had been looking forward to Saturday ever since December when I found out Gaelic Storm was coming to campus. I'm kind of a groupie. 
I know the names of Nora Kenney every one of their songs, 
News Wire 

even the 
Editor

instrumental ones. I have a picture of myself with the lead singer, Patrick Murphy, in my dorm room. 
I've seen them play in my home­town, Dublin, Ohio, many times. Despite the fact that my parents and parents' friends are always in the audience, and that, in fact, the majority of the audience is usually my parents' ages, their concerts get pretty rowdy. That's why I assumed that a Gaelic Storm con­cert on a college campus would be even crazier than one directed towards baby boomers. 
Maybe my expectations were a little too high, but how could I not have expected a lot from a concert of my favorite Irish band during the week of St. Patrick's Day on the campus of the Fighting Irish? 
Just before the concert I put on a green shirt and some Gaelic Storm songs, and my friends came to my room to get ready with me. But while I was trying to practice my jig to "Pina Colada in a Pint Glass," my friends were slightly killing the buzz, so to speak. 
"Wait, are you seriously com­plaining about Obama giving the graduation speech?" I asked. 
And it went downhill from there -two of us hate Obama and the other one loves him. 
In the end we all agreed to dis­agree peacefully, and our Irish eyes were smiling once again. But the fact that I've been with my friends non-stop since January, including over spring break, meant that tension was still in the air... 
At the concert, they refused to stand up and clap and dance. What's a Gaelic Storm concert if you're sitting? So, we yelled and sang along from our seats. 
Apparently we were singing a little too loudly because the old man behind us yelled at us to shut up. This would never happen in Dublin, Ohio. The only Gaelic Storm song I wanted to sing at this point was "I Miss My Home". 
My friends say I'm not very good at handling anger. I pout silently. I always think I'm doing them a favor by keeping my mouth shut, but they can't stand what they call my subconscious "pouty face." 
But here's what I took heart in: some of my friends hate Obama. Some friends love him. Some friends won't stand up in a con­cert but still manage to get yelled at. But at the end of the day, when you're making the pouty face, they're your friends, so they'll still love you and forgive you. And that's all you can really ask for. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Nora Kenney at nkenney@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, March 23, 2009 
QUES110N OF THE DAY: How DO YOU FEEL ABOUT PRESIDENT 0BA.MA SPEAKING AT THIS YEAR'S GRADUATION? 







Brian Wysocki  Cherie Ng  Christian Chan  Erika Hansen  Mitchell Hemann  
sophomore  freshman  junior  freshman  freshman  
Fisher  McGlinn  Stanford  McGlinn  Keenan  
'Tm excited ­ "It's getting too  "Why am /not  "/ wish it was  "Never heard  
it makes me  controversial."  a senior this  my  ofhim."  
wish I had  year?!"  graduation!"  
volunteered for  
Commencement  
band.''  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LA/ The Observer An ESPN cameraman films Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen during spring football practice on Friday. 
OFFBEAT 

Clorox offers $5K to wipe out toilet torcher 
SAN FRANCISCO -The Clorox Company is offer­ing a $5,000 reward and a year's supply of toilet cleaning products for tips leading to the arrest of San Francisco's notorious portable potty pyromani­ac. 
The Oakland-based chemical company deployed a "potty patrol" team in the city Friday to make residents aware of its offer marrying mar­keting and community service. 
Since November, more than two dozen construe­tion site toilets have been set on fire in the city, causing an estimated $50,000 in property dam­age and leaving a trail of foul-smelling evidence. 
Woman accused of church theft blames Satan 
ARLINGTON, Wash. ­A woman accused of tak­ing more than $73,000 from the Arlington church where she was an administrative assis­tant blames the devil. Papers filed with a theft charge Wednesday in Snohomish County Superior Court say the 62-year-old Arlington 
from Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY 

..... 
cr: 
(,) 


0 

..... HIGH 52 HIGH 50 HIGH 63 
LOW 40 LOW 40 LOW 43 
woman told detectives "Satan had a big part in the theft." 
The Everett Herald reported the woman was accused of forging the pastor's signature on 80 checks from the Arlington Free Methodist church. She was fired in February 2008. 
She told detectives she used the money to cover household expenses because she couldn't stand the thought of los­ing her home. 
Information compiled 
the Associated 
WEDNESDAY 


HIGH 54 LOW 36 
IN BRIEF 
A lecture hosted by the Theology Department called "The Igbo and their Perception of God, Human Beings and Creation," will take place Monday, Wednesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of Mendoza College of Business. Nigerian novelist and poet Chinua Achebe will deliver the Third Biennial Blessed Pope John XXIII Lecture Series in Theology and Culture. The talk on Mar. 23 will focus on "God," the talk on Mar. 25 will focus on "Human Beings." and the talk on Mar. 26 will focus on "Creation." 
The McBride Lecture: "Protecting the Planet and Creating Jobs: A Win-Win Proposition" on Tuesday will feature David Foster, executive director, Blue-Green Alliance, a coalition of labor unions and environmental organizations. The lecture will take place in Hesburgh Library auditorium at 7:30p.m. 
The 22nd Annual Romero Lecture: "Now I Understand" will take place Tuesday at 7:30 
p.m. in the Eck Visitors' Center auditorium. Journalist Eugene Palumbo, who has covered the Catholic Church in El Salvador since he moved there in 1984 will give the lecture. 
GreenND will host associate vice president and University architect Doug Marsh who will deliver a lecture called "LEED & Sustainable Building at Notre Dame" in Montgomery Auditorium of LaFortune at 7:30p.m. Tuesday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 
HIGH 58 HIGH 56 LOW 38 LOW 38 
Atlanta 65 I 39 Boston 41 I 25 Chicago 57 I 42 Denver 71 I 46 Houston 79 I 57 Los Angeles 70 I 52 Minneapolis 50 I 35 New York 47 130 Philadelphia 49 I 30 Phoenix 90 I 63 Seattle 50 I 38 St. Louis 44 I 25 Tampa 83 I 60 Washington 48 I 32 
--------------, 

Monday, March 23, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
College updates emergency plan
Please join us for: The Third Biennial Blessed Pope John XXIII Lecture Series In Theology and Culture CHINUA ACHEBE "The lgbo and their perception of God, Human Beings, and Creation'' Monday, March 23,2009, 7:30p.m.: "God" Wednesday, March 25, 2009, 7:30p.m.: "Human Beings" Thursday, March 26, 2009, 7:30p.m.: ~·creation" 
All lectures will be in Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 
<> <> 
Sponsored by the Department ofTheology Made possible by a grant from the Dilenschneider Family 

Summer Sessions are open to both 
AI 

male and female students.. 
Enligh~SJfSummer 
at Saint Mary's College 
Want to get ahead and still have time for summer fun? Need to lighten your course load in the fall? 
Enroll in the Saint Mary's College Summer Sessions and take advantage of 
• 
small class sizes that invite conversation and collaboration 

• 
personal attention from professors, not TAs 

• 
avariety of classes, from physiology to photography, including study-abroad experiences 


Many ofthese classes allowyou to earn three credits injust three weeks. 
For more information and to enroll/ visit saintmarys.edu/summertoday! 



-fit­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE l)AMt:, IN 
saintmarys,edu 
Get yoqr surnmer ·>tarted right at one of the Best Ubetal Arts Colleges 
····U.S. NeM & World Report Amer!o'> Blht Co!ieges 2009 

By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
Saint Mary's officials have updated and posted a hazard response plan on the College's Web site. 
The Saint Mary's All Hazard Emergency Response Plan was officially posted in January 2009. The plan has been in the works for several years, and will be updated on a regular basis. 
"It was posted in January, but has been in the works for much longer," Susan Dampeer, the sec­retary to the President of the College, said. "We actually started working on a pandemic flu plan several years ago. As we worked on that plan, we realized that it shoUld be part of a much larger and more comprehensive plan that would address all emergen­cies that might occur at Saint 
. ..

Marys. 
Dampeer was co-chair of the committee, which created the policies. Dave Gariepy, director of security, .was the other co-chair. The committee included repre­sentatives from many different areas of the College. 
The new plan is more in-depth than previous ones and covers all types of emergencies. 
"We had previous plans to han­dle emergencies, but nothing that was all together in one place and easily accessible to everyone," Dampeer said. 
The language of the plan states that it was put in place "to reduce the impact of an emergency on students faculty, staff, visitors, and facilities." 
The plan details the actions members of the College commu­nity must take in order to respond to any emergency that may occur, It includes everything from fires to bomb threats. 
"Recent disasters on college campuses, shootings, fires, etc., have propelled colleges to develop plans like this," Dampeer said. 
The plan states four main prior­ities: "To protect the lives, safety and health of Saint Mary's College and Congregation community members and those who may be vi~iting. To protect facilities, equipment, and services from loss during a continuing emergency event To effectively communicate with all involved throughout the emergency. To provide for the continuation of college operations and services that have been dis­rupted or damaged by an emer­gency," 
The plan classifies different types of emergencies based on the extremity of each individual situation, and each type of emer­gency has a detailed plan of action. 
The policy also includes what to do should an emergency occur within each building on campus. 
"In addition to the full plan, we will also have a very condensed version of what to do in an emer­gency online, in every office on campus, and in .every residence hall room," Dampeer said, "Emergency exit plans will also be posted everywhere. They are ready to go, we are just waiting to receive the holders for them." 
For more information about the new emergency response plan, visit httpJ!www3.saintmarys.edu/ emergency-response-plan. 
Contact Alicia Smith at 
asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
New i111age to appear in Basilica's east chapel 
Special to The Observer 
Among the most arresting a·spects of Maria Tomasula's work is the refulgence-"magic realism," as some critics call it-of her technique. Meticulously rendered flowers, berries, beads, twigs1 rodent skulls and bone fragments fair­ly swell and glow as they bulge from the painted wooden pan­els so vividly that even a fore­runner like Georgia O'Keefe might look twice, and approv­ingly, at them. 
These commonplace objects are often so anomalously arranged in her widely viewed and reviewed oil paintings that the assortments invite a rever­ent attention, much as religious icons are able to do. 
Something like this seems to have occurred to the members of a committee which early last year began searching for an artist to paint a new version of Our Lady of Guadalupe for an eastern apsidal chapel in Notre Dame's Basilica of the Sacred. Heart. 
The committee members were Gilberto Cardenas, direc­tor of the Institute for Latino Studies; Rev. Austin Collins, C.S.C., professor of art; Charles Loving, director of the Snite Museum of Art; Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C., rector of the Basilica; Rev. Richard Warner, C.S,C., director of campus min­istry; and John Zack, University sacristan. 
"The Snite Museum was very pleased to fund the commission of the painting through its Fritz and Milly Kaeser Endowment for Liturgical Art," Loving said. "Fritz Kaeser was an accom­plished photographer and, after retiring from a career as a dancer, Milly Kaeser took up sculpture. It seemed fitting that the commission should be fund­ed by gifts from two artists who were deeply interested in art­works that enhance public wor­ship." 
When they proposed the idea to Tomasula, the Michael P. Grace Professor of Art, she did­n't take long to accept. A natu­ral candidate for the job, she already had drawn deeply on Latin American iconographic tradition for much of her earlier work, and, besides, as the proud product of a Spanish speaking family and neighbor­hood in Chicago, she had been affectionately familiar with the Guadalupan image from earli­est childhood. 
That image, emblazoned by miracle or mystery on St Juan Diego's tilma, or cloak, enshrined in the Basilica of Guadalupe in Mexico City and widely venerated since the 16th century, is ubiquitous through­out the Americas. 
Women advancing in politics, Malveaux says 
Keynote address given for SMC conference 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 

Women's political roles have been elevated following Hillary Clinton's historic primary run, Dr. Julianne Malveaux, the president of Bennett College for Women in Greensboro, N.C., said Friday at the Diverse Students' Leadership Conference held on Saint Mary's campus 
Malveaux was the keynote speaker at the three-day confer­ence, which included workshops on issues of class, politics of dif­ference, feminism, sexual orienta­tion and cultural and religious diversity. 
"We're living in an extraordi­nary moment, where we have seen women's leadership in fasci­nating ways, and have had the opportunity to understand that women in politics will never be seen the same way again," Malveaux said. 
Although Hillary Clinton made great strides for women in poli­tics, she said, women have still not succeeded fully, and need to continue to work towards equality between women and men in poli­tics. 
"We still don't have a woman as president of the United Sates, and it will be some time, I think, before we do," Malveaux said. "Still we have this role model, and this opportunity to think about the way that we can rethink gen­der stereotypes." 
She discussed how gender stereotypes degrade women, and how women allow them to do so. 
"How we use these gender 
stereotypes to talk about a woman, who was at the pinnacle of her game, a senator from New York who has been distinguished and accomplished, who remained the last one standing in a whirl­wind race against the eventual winner, Barack Obama," she said. 
Malveaux urged women to b~ more aggressive and to not allow the use of gender stereotypes. She pointed out that men's attire is rarely noticed in politics, but when Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin was running for the vice presi­dency with Sen. John McCain, the media constantly held discourse over her apparel. 
"When you talk about men you very rarely describe what they have on. A man is just there," she said. "We pay a lot more attention to women's attire than men's attire." 
Malveaux also discussed what she called "fair-share-thinking." Every time you walk into a room, she said, half of the occupants should be men, and half should be women. 
"Some women are ambivalent about women's equality," she said. "We women have been so trained to think about the men, that many of us will ask, well what about the men. It's not real­ly fair." 
Malveaux challenged women to continue to fight for their equality. 
"We should not be so charmed by the progressive nature by the Barack Obama administration that we think that things will sim­ply come to women," she said. "Women will get our share when we fight for it. The fact is that the struggle for women's equality is not over." 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithOl @saintmarys.edu 


IAN GAVLICK!The Observer A memorial for Brother Edward Vincent CoUrtney was placed at the spot alongside Indiana 933 where Courtney once waved to motorists. 
Courtney 
continued from page 1 
thought about life in a very differ­ent way. When you see death and tragedy you think about things very differently." 
Courtney would retain this per­spective for the rest of life. For years, he greeted drivers along Indiana 933 from his lawn chair near Holy Cross College, Tribune reported. Motorists honked and waved as he sat by his display of American flags. 
Courtney not only wanted to remind people of the sacrifices made by servicemen and women overseas, but he also wanted to protect a symbol that was sacred to him. 
Courtney supported a constitu­tional amendment to protect the flag from desecration, Fillmore said. 
One of seven children, Courtney was born on May 2, 1918 in Portland, Ore. Courtney worked with the Southern Pacific Railroad for a year after high school, and in 1941, he joined the army, serving in five campaigns in North Africa and Europe until his discharge in 1956, the Tribune reported. 
"We're very proud of what Brother Edward accomplished through his patriotism," Fillmore said. "As brothers, we're very proud of that." 
Fillmore said one of Courtney's assignments as a brother was to sell subscriptions to Ave Maria magazine across the Midwest. Later in his life, he worked on the staff of Columba Hall as a mail­man and commissioner, and then moved to Dujarie House until his death. 
A funeral Mass for Courtney took place Saturday at St. Joseph's Chapel. 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 


OW HIRING TOUR GUIDE 
FOR THE SUMMER AND NEXT SCHOOLYEAR 
Applications available for pick up in the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. 220 Main Building 
Questions? Contact Beth Giudicessi, egiudice@nd.edu 



ORLD & NATION 
Monday, March 23, 2009 CcHvtPILED fROM T1n OBSERVERS WIRE SERVTCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Chavez calls Obama 'ignorant' 
CARACAS -Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez on Sunday called President Barack Obama "ignorant," saying he has a lot to learn about Latin America. 
The Venezuelan leader said he had been ready to name a new ambassador in Washington when Obama took office, but put that on hold after the new U.S. president accused him of "exporting terrorism" and being an obstacle to progress in the region. 
"At least one could say, 'poor ignorant per­son,"' Chavez said on his weekly television and radio program, adding that Obama "should read a little bit so that he learns about ... the reality of Latin America." 
Chavez's relations with Washington grew · increasingly strained under former President George W. Bush. The Venezuelan president expelled the U.S. ambassador and withdrew his envoy from Washington in September. Top diplomats have yet to be restored at either embassy. 
Group seeks ban on women in media 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia-A group of Saudi cler­ics urged the kingdom's new information minister on Sunday to ban women from appearing on TV or in newspapers and magazines, making clear that the country's hardline rellgious establishment is skeptical of a new push toward moderation. 
In a statement, the 35 hardline clergymen also called on AbdelAziz Khoja, who was appointed by King Abdullah on Feb. 14, to prohibit the play­ing of music and music shows on television. 
"We have great hope that this media reform will be accomplished by you," said the statement. "We have noticed how well-rooted perversity is in the Ministry of Information and Culture, in televi­sion. radio, press, culture clubs and the book 
" lair.. " 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Resort employee suspect in shootings 
HOT SPRINGS, Va. -Authorities in VIrginia were searching Sunday for a resort employee suspected of shooting and killing two of his supervisors in the hotel kitchen while guests ate dinner in a nearby dining room. 
Two kitchen workers were shot and killed around 8 p.m. Saturday at The Homestead luxury resort in the Allegheny Mountains near the West Virginia state line, Bath County Sheriff Larry Norfleet said. No one else was injured, and hotel spokeswoman Carol Stratford said no guests were present at the scene of the shooting. She said she didn't think guests heard the shots because a band was playing during dinner. 
15-year-old killed by police Taser 
BAY CITY, Mich. -Police in Michigan say a 15-year·old boy has died after being Tasered by officers who were trying to break up a fight. 
Police didn't release his name and say state police are investigating. 
A Bay City police news release says offi­cers answered a report of an early morning fight on Sunday. The statement says two males were arguing in an apartment, and one of them "attempted to fight the officers." 
Police say officers Tasered him, and his reaction led them to immediately call for emergency medical help. He was pro­nounced dead at Bay Regional Medical Center. 
LOCAL NEWS 
City officials support housing plan 
FORT WAYNE -City officials have pulled their support for a developer's plan to rejuve­nate a Fort Wayne neighborhood by building rent-to-own housing after the plan drew public opposition. 
Fort Wayne Deputy Director of Community Development Heather Presley announced the decision Saturday. 
The $7.9 million Renaissance Pointe project on the city's southeast side would have consisted of 50 single-family homes. Tenants could have bought the homes at a predetermined price after 15 years under developer Henry Hall's plan. 
Space shuttle moves to avoid debris 
NASA astronauts reorient spacecraft away from 10-year-old rocket body 
Associated Press 

CAPE CANAVERAL Confronted with orbiting junk again, NASA ordered the astronauts aboard the linked space station and shuttle Discovery to move out of the way of a piece of debris Sunday. 
Discovery's pilots fired their ship's thrusters to reorient the docked space­craft to avoid a small piece from a 1 0-year-old Chinese rocket body that was due to pass uncomfortably close during Monday's planned spacewalk. 
Mission Control said keeping the spacecraft in this position for about three hours -· with Discovery's belly facing forward -would result in a slow, natural drag of about a foot per second, enough to get the complex out of the way of the 4­inch piece of junk. 
Space junk has been a recurring problem for the space station, especially recently. Earlie r this month, the three space station residents had to take shelter in their emer­gency getaway capsule when another piece of orbital debris seemed like it might come too close. 
And just last week, right before Discovery's arrival, the space station almost had to dodge yet another piece of junk. The debris -from an old busted-up Soviet satellite -stayed at a safe distance. Saturday night that the ers Joseph Acaba and holds all the solar wings ­
"As far as I know, it's astronauts accidentally Richard Arnold II -will is meant to secure big coincidental that we've inserted a pin upside down use all their strength to spare parts that will be had just a couple in this and got the mechanism see 'if the pin comes loose. needed once NASA's shut­close timeframe," shuttle stuck. But on Sunday, one If all else fails, the jammed tles stop flying. Because of commander Lee of the spacewalkers, platform will simply be all the pin trouble Archambault said in a Steven Swanson, said it tied down with sturdier Saturday, the astronauts series of news interviews. might not have been a tethers, he said. did not have time to deploy 
The latest episode mistake on their part but A hastily assembled additional shelving on the occurred as NASA scram­rather the way the ·system team of experts spent opposite side of the sta­bled to put together a was built. Saturday night and much tion. That work was spacewalking repair plan It was "a lot stiffer than of Sunday trying to figure bumped to Monday's for a jammed equipment we thought it was going to out b.ow best to deal with spacewalk. platform at the s,.pace sta­be," Swanson said. He said the problem. The astro­Swanson and Acaba said tion. he didn't pull very hard on nauts, meanwhile, gath­they do not worry about 
On Monday, spacewalk­the pin. "Now ... it looks ered up a pry bar, a couple space junk when they're ing astronauts will return like if I had just pulled of hammers and other floating outside. to an equipment storage hard on it, it would have tools to force the pin loose. "We have enough other 
•

shelf that jammed during come on down." The storage platform -risks and worries to take Saturday's outdoor excur­So Monday's spacewalk­located on the long space on as we go outside," sion. NASA officials said ers -former schoolteach-station framework that Swanson said. 

N' The space shuttle Discovery sits on the launch pad at Kennedy Space Center before launch on March 11. NASA ordered the shuttle to move out of the way of debris on Sunday. 
AFGHANISTAN 
Suspected militants killed in raid 
joint operations have done little to A coalition statement said five mili­
Associated Press 

dampen anger at international troops tants were killed and four others 
over civilian casualties. were detained during the early 
KABUL -U.S.-led coalition and Such deaths turn residents against morning raid targeting a "terrorist Afghan troops killed five suspected the foreign troops that back Karzai's network" in Kunduz province, close militants during a raid in northern government. But U.S. and NATO offi­to the border with Tajikistan. Afghanistan on Sunday, the coalition cials say militants regularly operate It said one militant was killed in said in a statement. But the local out of homes and portray dead fight­the initial assault on a compound, mayor said his house was targeted ers as civilians to stoke public anger. and the rest died after troops asked and that the dead included his cook Independent confirmation was for noncombatants to leave the build­and driver. impossible Sunday~ as is often the ings and instead were "engaged with 
Civilian deaths in coalition raids case -because of the remoteness of small arms fire." are an increasingly sensitive issue the area. But Abdul Manan, mayor of Imam with President Hamid Karzai in the Abdul Rahman Akhtash, the deputy S.,ahib district, said the raid targeted fight against the Taliban and other provincial police chief, said about his house and killed two of his militants. The raids are often con­300 people gathered to protest the guards, a cook, a driver and another ducted with Afghan forces but the raid. man. 
it though." president accepted. agreement with the Love said the African "I will still go to the com­University's choice of 
Medal
American Recognition mencement ceremony," he Commencement speaker, she Ceremony already has a said. ''I'm not going to avoid will probably still attend the 
continued from page 1 
keynote speaker, but the par­· my own graduation." ceremony. ticipants just want Obama to Diamond said he does not "I haven't completely decid­
Human Rights." "stop by." think Obama will discuss his ed though," she said. 
Glendon graduated from University
Senior Colin Diamond said views on abortion at all, but Toates said she will most of Chicago Law School, where she 
he believes he said he ·likely participate in any 
served on the law review. 
Obama's hopes the protests that may occur in the The most recent recipients of the 
political "I think we all are still president months leading up to the cer­
Laetare Medal include actor and 
positions will try to · emony. 
activist Martin Sheen in 2008, former
stunned about it. I don't 
should have reach out Senior Katie McAnany said ·Notre Dame Board of Trustees chair
think anyone really 
been con­to Catholics she personally does not agree Patrick McCartan in 2007 and jazz
sidered expected to have the in some with Obama's position on 
pianist and composer Dave Brubeck in 
before the way in his abortion, but is still excited to 2006.
president ofthe United 
University speech. hear him speak. 
Other notable Medal recipients
States speak at our
extended Senior ''I'm honored the president include President John F. Kennedy,the invita-commencement. " E m i I y decided to come here to give Catholic Worker founder Dorothy Day,
tion to Toates also the address," she said. "He's a death penalty abolitionist Sister Helen 
speak at said she great speaker a_nd I know he's Prejean and Civil War Gen. William
Spencer Howard 
graduation. fundamen­not coming here to talk about Rosecrans.
president ·
"They tally dis­. abortion." 
The Laetare Medal was established 
really need Notre Dame College agrees with . Although there is a lot of 
in 1883 at Notre Dame as an American to consider Democrats Obama's controversy surrounding the 
counterpart to the Golden Rose, a 
the views of position on University's choice of speaker, papal honor given since the 11th centu­
the person abortion. McAnany said she believes ry. The award is named for Laetare 
speaking," he said. "Frankly, "I don't think he belongs as there is a chance for a posi­
Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent. The I'm disappointed." a speaker at Notre Dame," tive outcome for all involved. 
medal bears the Latin inscription, Although it is a University she said. "I understand that "I think we can use this as 
"Magna est veritas et prevalebit" which tradition to invite the current he's the president, but at the an opportunity to create some 
means "Truth is mighty, and it shall 
U.S. president to speak, same time, his views and his dialogue with Obama," she 
prevail."Diamond said Obama's posi­policy-making are completely said. 
Jenn Metz contributed to this report. 
tion on abortion should have out of line with the miss·ion of caused the University to with-. the University." Contact Madeline Buckley at 
Contact Aaron Steiner at draw the invitation before the Toates said despite her dis-mbuckley@nd.edu 
asteiner@nd.edu 
Reaction 
continued from page 1 
an honor to have the presi­dent speak at Notre Dame, Daly said Obama's strong pro­choice beliefs and support for the Freedom of Choice Act (FOCA) contradicts the Catholic mission of the University. · 
"It is kind of a bummer for seniors, especially those who really don't support or agree with Obama's views," she said. "It's kind of a slap in the face for them. They have been at Notre Dame for four years working for this diplo­ma and here is someone speaking at your graduation who you fundamentally don't agree with." 
Daly said Obama's recent executive order to lessen fed­eral limits on funding for stem cell research also goes against Notre Dame's Catholic identity. 
"To my understanding, most speakers we've had in the past have been in relative agreement with the University," she said. 
DaJy told The Observer Sunday that Right to Life has not yet formulated plans to address the issue, but the group will meet Tuesday to "make definite plans." 
She said many pro-life groups and news agencies have been in touch with her. 
"There are a ton of ideas flying around," Daly said. "But we don't have any deci­sions yet. Those will be com­ing out in a few days."" 
But many students are voic­ing excitement at the prospect of hearing Obama speak at graduation. 
Senior Spencer Howard, president of the College Democrats at Notre Dame, described his reaction to hearing the news with one word: "amazement." 
Howard said most College Democrats are supporters of Obama and campaigned strongly for the presideJ;It during the 2008 !Jlection. 
"I think we all are still stunned about it," he said. "I don't think anyone really expected to have the presi­dent of the United States speak at our commence­ment." 
Howard said the negative reactions from some students and outside groups is to be expected. 
"There is always going to be somebody who's not happy," he said. 
Even though there are stu­dents who disagree with Obama's views and policies, Howard said many of the reactions he has seen rise above political beliefs. 
"Everyone,J've talked to, regardless of party, is pretty excited," he said. 
Senior Brittany Love said she believes the University was not considering politics when making the decision, but rather, looking for a charismatic commencement speaker. 
"He's a great speaker," she 

~said. "And if you look at him overall, he has a great image." Love said she is excited about the Commencement address because she is taking part in the University's gradu­ation ceremony and the African American Recognition Ceremony, which takes place earlier in the day. "We are trying to get him to · come to the ceremony," she said. "We are still working on 




THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Monday, March 23, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 
Jones 7,278.38 -122.42 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 967 87 2,774 85,469,364 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP INC (C) -+0.77 -0.02 2.62 BK OF AMERICA (BAC) -10.68 -0.74 6.19 AMERICAN INTL GP (AIG) -22.22 -0.36 1.26 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -1.67 +1.67 76.71 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.08 +0.0280 2.63 13-WEEK BILL +5.26 +0.01 0.20 30-YEAR BOND +1.16 +0.0420 3.65 5-YEAR NOTE +0.12 +0.0020 1.64 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.55 51.06 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.60 956.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.25 91.50 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 95.9750 EURO 1.3584 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2405 BRITISH POUND 1.4458 
IN BRIEF Gov. plans to buy banks' toxic assets 
WASHINGTON -Struggling to contain the worst financial crisis in seven decades, the Obama administration wants to buy billions of dollars of toxic assets from banks to ease borrowing for con­sumers and businesses. 
Some industry officials familiar with the details said Saturday they expected the approach would try to remove as much as $1 trillion from banks' books. An announcement from Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner could come as early as Monday. 
If banks are not burdened by the soured loans, then they would be in better shape to resume more normal lending. 
According to administration and industry offi­cials, the plan would rely on the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. to sup­plement the government's $700 billion bailout fund. The uproar over the millions of dollars in bonuses for employees at troubled insurance giant American International Group Inc. has dimmed prospects for getting more bailout money from Congress. 
Biden adviser warns against tax on AIG 
WASHINGTON -Vice President Joe Eiden's economic adviser warned Sunday that a congressional plan to tax American International Group Inc. executives' bonus­es may go too far in using the tax code as a tool for retribution. 
President Barack Obama has not said whether he would veto some version of a House-backed plan to heavily tax the $165 million in bonuses. Biden economist Jared Bernstein said it's important to look at what version of the proposal comes out of the Senate. 
"I think the president would be con­cerned that this bill may have some prob­lems in going too far -the House bill may go too far in terms of some -some legal issues, constitutional validity, using the tax code to surgically punish a small group," Bernstein said in a television interview. "That may be a dangerous way to go." 
Democratic and Republican leaders in the Senate also have expressed concern about the plan's approach to dealing with the AIG bonuses. 
Republicans voice concern about budget 
Senators predictfederal bankruptcy ifmeasure passes; Obama dismisses criticism 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON­Congressional Republicans on Sunday predicted a doomsday scenario of crushing debt and eventu­al federal bankruptcy if President Barack Obama's massive spending blue­print wins passage. 
But a White House adviser dismissed the neg­ative assessments, saying she is "incredibly confi­dent" that the president's policies will "do the job" for the economy. 
In a TV interview, Obama himself laughed when discussing the dire state of parts of the econo­my -and ascribed his laughter to "gallows humor." 
White House Council of Economic Advisers chair­woman Christina Romer insisted that the nation's flailing economy will be rebounding by 2010. 
Administration officials -and the president him­self -have taken a cheerier tone despite eco­nomic indicators that are anything but positive. 
"I have every expecta­tion, as do private fore­casters, that we will bot­tom out this year and actually be growing again by the end of the year," Romer said. 
The president, in an interview that aired Sunday on CBS News' "60 a year ago that the least of for the United States," said triple it in 10 years.... Minutes," talked about the my problems would be Sen. Judd Gregg, R-N.H. That is not sustainable. It need to spend taxpayer Iraq, which is still a pretty "There's no other way poses a threat to the basic money to save financial serious problem, I don't around it. If we maintain health of our economy," firms and the auto indus­think anybody would have the proposals which are in Collins said. try. believed it." this budget over the 10-Sen. Richard Shelby of 
"I just want to say that Republicans say year period that this budg­Alabama, the top the only thing less popular Obama's budget is no et covers, this country will Republican on the banking than putting money into laughing matter. go bankrupt. People will committee, said Obama banks is putting money Senate Republicans not buy our debt; our dol­would have to scale back into the auto industry," warned of deficits that lar will become devalued." his budget, given a Obama said with a laugh. could climb to $20 trillion Sen. Susan Collins, a Congressional Budget 
Interviewer Steve Kroft in coming years and a Maine Republican who Office report Friday that asked how that laughter weakened dollar if Obama sided with Obama on his the president's budget might be perceived, given and his Democratic allies $7 8 7 billion economic would produce $9.3 tril­the economy's troubles. get their proposed $3.6 stimulus plan, said she lion in deficits over the 
"There's got to be a little trillion budget plan couldn't support the White next decade -more than gallows humor to get you passed. House plan this time. four times the deficits of through the day," Obama "The practical implica­"It would double the Republican George W. said. "If you had said to us tions of this is bankruptcy public debt in 5 years, Bush's presidency. 

Social Web sites face user complaints 
Associated Press increasingly public with the explo­One big gripe from businesses that 
sive popularity of social Web sites get reviewed on Yelp is that they 
SAN JOSE -Yelp.com prides itself like Facehook, Twitter and don't quite get how it works. on being a site where people can MySpace, as well as niche sites like For instance, some wonder why write reviews about pretty much Yelp, which has more than 5 million users' reviews can seemingly myste­anything and connect with similarly reviews on establishments in dozens riously disappear from Yelp's pages critical peers. Yet as the site grows, of cities. about a business. some of the businesses scrutinized Properly balancing the interests of This irks Leslie Tagorda, owner of on Yelp are turning the tables and various constituencies -and a San Francisco-based Web design griping about the company itself. retaining their loyalty, perhaps company, Flair-Designs. She has 
The complaints highlight an irony through improved channels of com­noticed reviews vanish from the for Web sites that stimulate online munications -will prove key to Flair-Designs page on Yelp over the communities and let users speak whether the sites can grow into past two years. This worries her their minds. As the sites make the vibrant, moneymaking operations because the more reviews she has, world more_ transparent, giving peo­for years to come. the more calls she gets from poten­ple the power to discuss everything Many sites have expanded so fast tial clients, she said. from a great pizza to a bad date, the that explanations about what they When she first noticed. reviews sites' own transparency is often are doing often come late -after disappearing, Tagorda contacted questionable, as consumers and their users have had plenty of time clients who had written the com­businesses struggle to understand to air complaints. Facebook has felt ments, to see whether they had how they operate. such growing pains, and now Yelp deleted them. They said they had 
This tug of war has become is, too. not. 
but I didn't," she said. "She have my rings on," she said. When Griffin introduced from a male student with was so excited that I was "It's just kind of fun dressing Lauren Pollock, she said that dreadlocks to various mem­
Bald 
doing it. And I was like, 'This up or wearing my cute her favorite band was the bers of the football team. 
continued from page 1  is why I'm doing it. This little girl is so nice and she just  clothes. Just to make feel like a girl."  sure I  Jonas Brothers, so later that night, Freshman Class  Freshman Mike Golic said he decided to shave his head  
Friday, said Catherine Soler.  freshman  loved life grateful."'  and she  was  so  Dr. Tim Griffin, oncologist at  a pediatric Memorial  Council made sure to put on some of their music for her  for the event because he has had a few uncles who have  
The  St.  Baldrick's  After  Robak  shaved  her  Hospital in South Bend, gave  enjoyment.  been affected by  cancer and  
Foundation is an organization that raises  head, she said she initially thought,  a speech Thursday night to kick off the  Pollock  said that her favorite color  wanted to help out the cause. "What they're going  
money to cure childhood can­cer by support­ing cancer research and fellowships, according to its Web site. Of the 126 people who shaved their heads, four were women.  "The other day I said to someone, 'I kind of want my hair back.' And he was like, Teah, but so does that little girl."' Tiffany Robak  "People are going to think I'm crazy, like Britney Spears or something." But she said reactions have been over­whelmingly positive, and she does not regret her deci­sion.  event, and intro­duced a few children who were battling, or had beaten, can­cer. "It's wonderful to see them in this environ­ment. You look at their faces and for one of the first times  "What they're going through is far worse than a haircut. If these kids can deal with what they have to deal with on a daily basis, I can suck it up for a haircut."  was pink, like her bandana and the shirt she was wear­ing. She also said she likes to ride her bike and play with her Golden doodle Brady, named after Brady Quinn.  through is far worse than a hair cut," Golic said. "If these kids can deal with what they have to deal with on a daily basis, I can suck it up for a haircut." Freshamn Dayne Crist, who came with Golic to get his head shaved, echoed Golic's sentiments and added, ''I'm just,happy to be here helping out. Soler said she is extremely  
Together, these four women  junior  "The other day I said to  they see that there are people  Mike Golic  Pollock said she was hav­ pleased with how the event turned out, and said it  
raised about $10,000, which  someone, 'I kind of want my  out there who care," Griffin  freshman  ing "fun" at St. Baldrick's Day.  showed the "true spirit of Notre Dame."  
is nearly half of the total  hair back.' And he was like,  said.  Her mother,  "I think it couldn't have  
amount of money that was  'Yeah, but so  does that little  "They still want to act like a  Judy,  said  that  when  her  gone any better," Soler said.  
raised at the event.  girl,"' Robak said.  kid," he said. "When they see  daughter found out that she  "Just to  see  everyone's reac­ 
Junior Tiffany Robak said that she was "freaking out"  She said his comment really made an impact on her, and  fun, when they see excite­ment, when they see people  was going to lose her hair, "That was the saddest thing."  tion, how touched they are and how much they wanted to  
right before she shaved her  now  she  is  even  taking  having a  good time, it really  "It's pretty cool that every­ give to the cause."  
head, but a little girl that was  advantage of her new hair­ has an impact on them."  body would  come  out and  "These kids will be talking  
battling  cancer  came  to  style to emphasize her femi­ And the atmosphere at St.  support [children with  can­ about  this  for  months,"  
watch, and that reminded her  ninity.  Baldrick's Day was definitely  cer] in this way," Judy Pollock  Griffin said.  
why she was doing it.  "It kind of makes me feel  full of fun, with plenty of bal­ said.  
"At one second I thought I  more girly. I wear all my ear­ loons,  streamers,  upbeat  Students who came to have  Contact Sarah Mervosh at  
was  going to pee my pants,  rings  now or I make  sure I  music and smiling faces.  their heads shaved ranged  smervosh@nd.edu  

TilE NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS AND CULTURE PRESENTS THE 4TH ANNUAL CATHOLIC CULTURE FILM SERIES 
IMAGING THE FAMILY IN MODERN CINEMA 
FREE MOVIE SHOWINGS WITH REFRESHMENTS AT LEGENDSU! 
AFTERTHE WEDDING;: MONDAY. tv\ARCH 23, 2(JJ) 7PM AT LEGENDS 
of() HE FOLLOWED BY DISCUSSION LED BY KEVIN IIALEY GRADUAlT Sl1JDENT IN THE0l(X1Y *NOMJNAJ'ED FOR AN Au\IJEM'l' AWARD FOR BEST FOFZEIGN ii\NGUAC!E FltJv\ IN 2JXJ7 
THE ROYALTENENBAUMS. TUESDAY APRIL 14TH, 2(X)9 

7Pl'v1 AT LEGENDS 

TO BF FOI.10\VED BY DiSCUSSION LED BY KATHRYN VVALES PRCX:1RAM COORDINATOR FOR THE CENTER FOR Flli!CS AND C"UU1JRE 


~=~~) ... · 

This year, Ernst & Young has 47 reasons to celebrate. 
Thank you University of Notre Dame. 
We can't wait to welcome our brightest new colleagues. From the moment you walk through the doors, you'll hit the ground running. Look forward to a career that challenges you, offers diverse global opportunities and on-the-job training that will help you realize your true potential. Congratulations on moving forward with the organization BusinessWeek ranks the No. 1 "Best Place to Launch Your Career." 
Katie Begerow Caitlin f'lynn, intern Sarah Kurtzman Anthony Schiazza, intern Jay Vanden Berg Joseph Garigliano, intern Michael Lammie Joseph Seib, intern Amanda Bode Kristen Harchut, intern James Lucas, intern Michael Shannon, intern Daniel Canders James Harig Peter McCormick Kathryn Sheedy, intern Daniel Coyne, intern Michael Harper Mary McLaughlin Andrew Tuckett, intern Luke Derheimer, intern Gabrielle Hernandez, intern Phillip Morley Marshall Turner Joseph Diluia Jennifer Hinckley Michael Nejedly, intern Matthew Wallace Kathleen Donahue, intern Christopher Holland, intern Maria Okeke Kristin Wetzel, intern Steven Drake Michael Hung, intern Meghan Pearl, intern Margot Woolley Jose Duarte Katherine Karlix Kevin Rabil Jeanna Yoon, intern Jennifer Fedvna Kara King, intern Joe Raupp, intern Yaou Zhou Keith Flatley Andrew Kovach, intern Eric Raver 
To launch your career, check out ey.com/us/eyinsight. 
illERNST& YouNG 
Quality In Everything We Do 

The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture Presents the 24th Annual Philip and Doris Clarke Family lecture on Medical Ethics 
A Moral Foundation for the Helping Professions: Medicine, Law, Ministry, and Teaching 

Edmund Pellegrino, M.D. 
Professor Emeritus ofMedicine and Medical Ethics Center for Clinical Bioethics, Georgetown University Medical Center 
Friday, March 27, 2009 4:00PM McKenna Hall Auditorium 

Sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Association and the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture 
America's 224 Catholic colleges When asked Sunday, Jenkins and universities," has launched a said he stands by his position on
Oba01a 
Call or ~tap an by & r<."$erve today! 
(5141 203-0572 

64S11!rick Road, S<>uth ll<!ncl lnmted ~1 C!<>Wiand Bd.b liS 20 Byt><'ss. 1 mi~vl<'' from 
Professor Deborah Lipstadt to speak on Holocaust Denial in the 21st Century: New Forms ofAntisemitism Wednesday, March 25 7:30pm McKenna Hall Professor Lipstadt is the 2009 Provost Distin­guished Lecturer and Dorot Professor ofModem Jewish and Holocaust Studies at Emory University 
Cosponsored by the ND Holocaust Project 


~UN lVERSlTY OF 
"{jj NOTRE DAME 

March 30-Aprill, 2009 Center for Continuing Education (McKenna Hall Auditorium) 
INVITED SPEAKERS 
• 
Htnry Cutran, Natiotta! Unfwsity oJ Ireland 

• 
Yann!s Kevrekld!s, l'!'lnceton Uni'lllrsity 


• Lindo P1lt<o1d, llnivelityof ulifotni.r-Sonta ~ra 
• James Rawlings, Unlvesity of Wlsron!iin 


continued from page 1 
ceremony, to take place in the Joyce Center. The Notre Dame appearance will be Obama's sec­ond commencement address as president; he will speak at Arizona State University on May 13 and the United States Naval Academy on May 22. 
Notre Dame has a long-stand­ing tradition of inviting the cur­rent U.S. president to speak at the University, Jenkins said. 
"Presidents from both parties have come to Notre Dame for decades to speak to graduates about our nation and our world. They've given important addresses on international affairs, human rights, service, and we're delighted that President Obama is continuing that tradition," Jenkins said. 
Some members of the Notre Dame community, and the larger national Catholic community have negatively responded to the announcement, launching cam­paigns to stop the president from visiting the University because of his stances on issues regarding the protection oflife. 
Jenkins made clear the University is not honoring the president for his stances on these issues, but for his leadership. 
"The invitation of President Obama to be our Commencement speaker should in no way be taken as condoning or endorsing his positions on spe­cific issues regarding the protec­tion of life, such as abortion and embryonic stem cell research," Jenkins said. 
These "crucial differences" in positions on the protection of life are not being ignored in extend­ing the invitation to the presi­dent, Jenkins said, but rather can be used as a catalyst for dia­logue. 
"We are not ignoring the criti­cal issue of the protection of life. On the contrary, we invited him because we care so much about those issues, and we hope ... for this to be the basis of an engage­ment with him," Jenkins said. 
"You cannot change the world · if you shun the people you want to persuade, and if you eannot persuade them ... show respeet for them and listen to them," he said. 
President Obama is "an inspir­ing leader who has taken leader­ship of the country facing many challenges: two wars, a really troubled eeonomy, he has issues with health care, immigration, education reform, and he has addressed those with intelli­gence, courage and honesty," Jenkins said. 
Obama's historic election as the first black president in American history adds. to the honor of his acceptance of Notre Dame's invitation, he said. 
"I would say that it's a special feature for us that we will hear from the first African American president here at Notre Dame, a person who has spoken elo­quently and powerfully about race," he said. "Racial prejudice . is a deep wound in America and President Obama has been a healer, so we honor him for those reasons." 
The president will receive an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from the University when he vis­its in May. Jenkins said The Office of the President issues honorary degrees, and he "con­sulted with many people" about the decision. 
Response to Catholic community 
The Cardinal Newman Society (CNS), a group that describes itself in its mission statement as "dedicated to renewing and strengthening Catholic identity at Web site, CNS. www.NotreDameScandal.com, The pope has not released a that includes an online petition to statement regarding the selection Jenkins that reads: "It is an out­of President Obama as Notre rage and a scandal that 'Our Dame's Commencement speaker Lady's University,' one of the pre­and the University's Catholic mier Catholic universities in the identity; Sunday, Jenkins said United States, would bestow such does not think the pope will issue an ·honor on President Obama such a statement in the future. given his clear support for poli­The debate surrounding the cil;"lS and laws that directly con­president's visit to campus pro­tradict fundamental Catholic vides "a positive engagement on teachings on life and marriage." the issues we care about," 
CNS is one of many groups that Jenkins said. has begun campaigns to protest "We want to recognize his very the selection of the president as real and significant accomplish­Commencement speaker. Other ments and his leadership. At the 
organiza­ same  time,  we  
tions, like the  want  to  engage  
Pro-Life Action  "Presidents from both  him in the future, and I think this  
League, have­ parties have come to  occasion will be a  
called for Catholics to urge Notre  Notre Dame for decades to speak to  wonderful time to do that,'' he said. "I think if he is going  
Dame  to  graduates about our  to reconsider his  
withdraw the invitation  nation and our world. ''  views, I think Notre Dame is the  
through post­ best possible place  
ings on their  Fr. John Jenkins  to  begin  that  
Web sites.  University president  process."  

CNS has also faxed a letter to Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy. D'Arcy has been publically critical of the University in the past, specifically regarding the performance of "The Vagina Monologues" on campus. 
Jenkins said he spoke with D'Arcy regarding Obama's visit to campus in May, but he cannot speculate what the bishop's response will be. 
According to the CNS-organ­ized protest Web site, as of 2 p.m. · Sunday, the CNS petition has received over 10,500 signatures. 
CNS' Campus Speaker Monitoring Project, which aims to uphold the United States Conference of Catholic Bishop's (USCCB) 2004 statement titled ."Catholics in Political Life," reports colleges and universities that host "scandalous com­mencement speaker and hon­orees, including advo"cates of abortion rights, stem-cell research, physician-assisted sui­cide, homosexual marriage and women's ordination," according to its Web site. · 
The document released by the USCCB, a group whose purpose is "to promote the greater good which the Chureh offers humankind," according to its Web site and includes an assem­bly of the hierarchy of the United States and the U.S. Virgin Islands who exercise certain pastoral functions on behalf of the Christian faithful of the U.S.,states "The Catholic commu­nity and Catholic institutions should not honor those who act in defiance of our fundamental moral principles. They should not be given awards, honors or platforms which would suggest support for their actions." 
Jenkins said Sunday the critical lines in the statement include that politicians "should not be given awards, honors or plat­forms which would suggest sup­port for their actions" and Notre Dame's invitation is consistent with the 2004 document. 
The president's honorary degree "does not, it is not intend­ed to condone or endorse his position on specific issues regarding life," Jenkins said. "That's not what we're honoring.
.. 

In an April 2008 Wall Street Journal article titled "Catholicism, Inc.,'' Jenkins com­mented on his past encounters with CNS: "The Newman Society has no ecclesiastical standing and no academic standing. For 
· me, it resembles nothing more than a political action commit­tee." 
The University's 
Commencement speaker carries the responsibility of providing graduates with inspiration as they leave Notre Dame, Jenkins said. 
"Our graduates are leaving campus at a time of great chal­lenges. We have special expecta­tions for those graduates -what they will do and how they will lead the world,'' he said. 
Jenkins said he hopes University Commencement speakers instill in graduates "the importance of public service" and "make them aware of the important issues in our world and will inspire them to be lead­ers and active citizens." 
Past Presidential speakers 
Obama will be the sixth U.S. president to be the principal speaker at a Notre Dame Commencement ceremony and the ninth president to receive an honorary degree. 
During his 2008 presidential campaign, Obama delivered an address · to graduates at Wesleyan University in Connecticut last May, filling in for Sen. Edward Kennedy. 
According to a March 20 University press releasii, the last sitting president to give the Commencement address at Notre Dame was President George W Bush, who spoke in 2001. In his address, Bush said· the nation's faith-based organizations were central to the war on poverty. It was Bush's first commencement address after his election to the pr!:Jsidency in 2000. 
President George H.W Bush was the principal Commencement speaker at Notre Dame in 1992. 
In May 1981, President Ronald Reagan was the University's Commencement speaker in his first public appearance after a March 1981 assassination attempt. # 
President Jimmy Carter spoke to 1977 Notre Dame graduates; his speech was what some call the key foreign policy address of his presidency, according to the release. 
President Dwight Eisenhower spoke at Notre Dame in 1960, as the first U.S. president to deliver the Commencement address. 
Then-U.S. Senator John F . Kennedy gave the winter Commencement address in 1950; he is the only president to receive the Laetare Medal, Notre Dame's highest honor, awarded annually to an influential American Catholic. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
~-----------------, 


THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Monday, March 23, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Ball, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink · John Donovan 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
SPORTS EDIToRS: Matt Gamber 
ScENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARy's EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMs AoMINISTRKfOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471. FAX (574) 631-6')27 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-tHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631·5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631·5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO I @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
oBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame dulac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and ~:olumns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe . Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must indude contact infOrmation. 
Q;testiom rq;arding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief]enn Metz. 
POST 0FFICE'INFORMATION 

The Observer {USPS 19? 2-4000) is published Monday .through Friday-e:xa:Pt during exam and Yaa.dun periods. A iUbscriprion ro The Observer .is $J 00for .one .acm:l.::tnic yc:ar. '55 fnl' on~ K:R!Citcr. 
1be Observer i$ puhlished at: 024 South Dining Hall Send address corr«lions to: Notrt Dame. IN 46556-0779 ..'I'hc Obs:c,..er 
Periodical postage paid at Nmrt Damt P.O. llo<779 
and additiowl miiling officrs. Q24 Soud> Dining lf.II 
Nc~re D<l!llc. IN 465-56--0779 

The Obserwr is. a mem~r of tht' Associated Prc5s, All tc:produccion rigb.ts are reserved. 
page 11 

Pro-life for 
absolutely everyone 
Pro-life is a truly loaded term in the world in which we live. Just on hearing these words, people get up in arms, often throwing around labels like "baby killers" and "anti­women." The Catholic Church does teach that human life is sacred -always sacred -"from conception to natural death," as the saying goes. 
But in the well-intentioned fervor of many pro-lifers, the focus often becomes the sacredness of a very particular aspect of life, leaving other very important life issues, excuse the pun, on the roadside to die. While I understand this enthusiasm, I think it distorts the pro-life movement into something almost inimical to the effort to increase respect for all human life. Take, for instance, the following: In the past 30 years, our country has legally executed more than 1,136 of its own citizens convicted of crimes, but our campus anti-death penalty-group is struggling to find interested members. Nearly 4,000 Iraqi civilians were killed by the U.S. bombing campaign in March 2003 alone and the total of Iraqi civilians lost since the war began is now in excess of 90,000. Every three and a half seconds someone in the world -a world which produces enough food to feed all its people sufficiently ~ dies from hunger. Another six million children die every year from easily preventable and completely cur­able diseases like tuberculosis and diarrhea from lack of access to medication and clean water. Don't these people have a right to life too? Who's fighting for them? 
Mit;helle Webb 
senior 
McGlinn 
March 18 

Denunciation of condotns not a solution 
Pope Benedict XVI's arrival in Africa have taken an HIV test within the means of doing just that through "birth 
Cameroon on March 17 marked his first last 12 months. Simply put, it is entirely regulation based on self-observation and 
pilgrimage to Africa as Pontiff. possible that two people could fall in love, the use of infertile periods" (2370). 
Traditionally reticent on the issue of con­marry, be completely monogamous and In any event, I cannot fathom how the 
traception, His Holiness stated in his first still transmit HIV because one of them Church can justifY condemning couples ­
statement on the issue that condoms unwittingly (and unbeknownst to the even married, monogamous ones -to 
were not the answer to Africa's fight other) contracted the virus in his or her inevitable death in order to prevent 
against the AIDS epidemic. The reason? past. And bear in mind that the one ini­something that is allowed by the 
That condoms only "increase[d] the prob­tially carrying HIV need not have engaged Catechism in a different form. In my view, 
lem" and only a "responsible and moral in "irresponsible sex" to contract the the Church's condemnation of contracep­
attitude toward sex" would help fight the virus. Many children are born with HIV or tion would be more appropriately framed 
disease. With all due respect to His contract it through breastfeeding. Other as the prohibition of bearing false wit­
Holiness, he is simply incorrect. people unwittingly contract HIV through ness, i.e., "misrepresenting the truth in 
As an empirical matter, condoms have exchange of blood or reuse of dirty instru­our relations with others" (2464). Bearing 
proven to be the single most effective ments or needles in underfunded medical false witness may be wrong as a general 
(and cost-effective) preventative measure clinics. But even ifthe one initially carry­rule, but sometimes it would be moral to 
for HIV. Moreover, I take issue with the · ing the virus had engaged in "irresponsi­prevent a far greater evil. For example, I 
Pope's premise that the AIDS epidemic is ble sex," his or her partner surely did not doubt that fishermen who ferried Jewish 
solely the result of immoral sexual prac­act in a sexually irresponsible manner. people away from Nazi Germany acted 
tices. Undoubtedly certain sexual prac­In 1968, Pope Paul VI stated in immorally by lying to the S.S. about 
tices (such as having multiple partners) "Humanae Vitae" that the use of contra­whether they had anyone on board. 
substantially contribute to the problem. ceptives was intrinsically evil. It is worth Similarly, while contraception may be 
(Of course, tM multiple-partner phenom­noting that this position represented the wrong as a general rule, I contend that a 
enon is hardly unique to Africa, as any­underwhelming minority viewpoint of the married couple using a condom to pre­
one who has lived in a guy's dorm can 72-member commission begun under vent a possible spread of HIV-especial­
attest.) Pope John XXIII to study the issue: Only ly during an infertile period, where pro­
I have no doubt that greater monoga­four theologian priests, one cardinal and creation is not possible anyway -does 
mous sexual practices would be a vital two bishops dissented from the majority not commit an "evil" act. While I have 
part of slowing HIV transmission. But report that there was nothing intrinsically great respect for Pope Benedict's intellect, 
even those sub-Saharan Africans who are wrong with contraception. But credibility I believe this issue should not be relegat­. "morally responsible" with sex are not as a matter of doctrine aside, "1-Iumanae ed to pontifical fiat. Another 1.3 million 
immune from HIV. Over 22 million people Vitae's" credibility as a matter of moral Africans were infected with HIV last year. 
living in sub-Saharan Africa live with HIV; absolutism is, in my view, severely com­We need a solution to this epidemic. And 
in Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland, promised. In the Church's view, it is fast. 
more than one in five adults are infected. morally repugnant to separate the conju­
Yet due to the lack of testing facilities and gal and procreative elements of sex Brodie Butland 
the prohibitively expensive cost of general through using contraception. I confess I alum 
HIV testing, it is estimated that fewer find this admonition rather odd, given class of2005 
than ten percent of adults in sub-Saharan that the Catechism explicitly approves a March 17 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
What is acceptable? 
Mr. Caruso extols the virtues of what some derisively refer to as cafeteria Catholicism in "Catholocism a Ia carte" (March 20). I refuse to criticize Mr. Caruso for not goose-stepping "page by page through the Catechism." He is entitled to his theological opinions. 
Instead, I want to explore several intellectual difficul­ties with his view. Let us assume that he is correct and that the values of tolerance, understanding and personal freedom ought to guide our religious judgments and actions. The question arises: How can we distinguish between those beliefs and actions we ought to tolerate and those which are unacceptable? I can imagine some easy cases. Imagine a contemporary religion that con­dones human sacrifice. Back in the real world, however, these issues are not so easy. Is homosexual marriage acceptable? Is polygamy acceptable? Should we tolerate the small (but very real) Church of Satan? Should we shun a religious leader if she has the audacity to pro­claim that what she believes is true and that people ought to adopt her creed on pain of hellfire? 
To wit: Should we tolerate intolerance? Mr. Caruso's view is so fraught with these kinds of difficulties and contradictions that he fails to hold to it himself within the context of his own argument where he simultane­ously calls for greater respect and tolerance while bash­ing those who do not share his views. 
Francisco Fernandez del Castillo 
junior 
Fisher 
March20 ·
, 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Sam Werner Becky Hogan Mike Gotimer 
Is your bracket faring better than 'Tm supposed to have a Ph.D.
Laura McCrystal Molly Sammon 
Obama's? on the subject of women. But the 
Graphics Scene 

truth is I ve flunked more often
Andrea Archer Analise Lipari 
than not. I'm very fond of women;
Viewpoint Yes I admire them. But, like all men, I 
Lianna No don't understand them." Brauweiler 
Frank Sinatra 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
singer

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 12 Monday, March 23, 2009 

Reactions to Obama as ND 
Obama selection a betrayal ofNotre Dame's mission 
This past Friday, the University announced that Barack Obama will deliver the annual Commencement address in May. Many students were understandably thrilled at the news that the President of the United States will be Ben Linskey speaking on our cam­pus, but the decision to . Guest invite Mr. Obama [:olumnist deserves serious reflection. The selec­tion of a Commencement speaker is an important decision which carries signifi­cant practical and symbolic implications. Though Barack Obama's lofty political position and worldwide celebrity status will certainly garner significant publicity for the University, the Notre Dame administration has made a serious error. Mr. Obama's policy stances are enough to disqualify him from speaking at our University, but more importantly, Notre Dame's longstanding practice of selecting sitting U.S. presidents as commencement speakers is inappropriate and should be discontinued. 
As a Catholic academic institution, our University hJ!.s a dual mission: the pur­suit of both truth and justice. Notre Dame's mission statement proclaims that "[t]he University seeks to cultivate in its students not only an appreciation for the great achievements of human beings, but also a disciplined sensibility to the pover­ty, injustice and oppression that burden the lives of so many." These concerns should motivate all aspects of life at Notre Dame, especially the Commencement ceremony, which is intended to serve as .a summation of the values and learning instillfld in students throughout thei:c time at the University. Accordingly, the administration has an obligation to choose a speaker who embodies Notre Dame's mission of intel­lectual growth and Christian service to mankind. There are thousands of brave individuals throughout the globe who have devoted their lives to bettering the lives of others by fighting poverty, war and other injustices. The University administration should use the Commencement proceedings as an opportunity to recognize the achieve­ments of these outstanding men and women and hold them up as an example for the Notre Dame community to imi­tate. 
The United States presidency, sadly, has proven itself to be an oflice which is not conducive to the cultivation of virtue in its occupants. Modern presidents have all too often subordinated truth and jus­tice to the worldly concerns of electoral advantage, partisan gain and the accrual of power. Government in general, more­over, is anything but an unqualified force for good. Throughout its history, the United States government has perpetrat­ed numerous acts of unqualified evil, ranging from the legitimation of human slavery to the suppression of peaceful dissent during World War I to the detain­mont of Japanese Americans in intern­ment camps and the use of nuclear weapons on innocent civilians in World War II. This is not to say that our nation's government is inherently evil, but merely to point out the sad and undeniable truth that the coercive power of government, even in the freest country in the world, is often used to perpetrate gravely immoral acts upon innocent people. 
With these facts in mind, it is clear that any person concerned with justice must not simply aequiesce to governmental authority and blindly endorse the actions of political leaders. Rather, we have a moral obligation to remain eternally skeptical of government. The 20th centu­ry presidency was characterized by a parade of senseless wars, rampant abuse of power and a disturbing disregard for our nation's Constitution. Today, the United States is embroiled in two wars in the Middle East and facing a massive economic crisis at home. Our current predicaments are in large part a result of dishonest, corrupt and incompetent lead­ership. Now, more than ever, we must eritically evaluate the actions of our gov­ernment. The University of Notre Dame has a responsibility to instill in its stu­dents the values necessary for good citi­zenship: a concern ~r truth and justice, a healthy distrust of government power and a willingness to question and chal­lenge authority. 
Inviting Barack Obama to speak on our campus sends precisely the opposite message. The University administration is tacitly encouraging students to view the president with respect, awe and admiration simply by virtue of his elec­tion to political oflice. And perhaps most importantly, it is turning a blind eye to Obama's support of state-sanctioned killing in the form of federal support for abortion and embryonic stem cell research, to his continuation of the Bush administration's reckless foreign policy of interventionism and its disregard for civil liberties and to his irresponsible and destructive economic policies. Presidents are not heroes or walking embodiments of moral virtue. They are humans, often deeply flawed, who wield a tremendous amount of power which may be used for good or ill. For this very reason, the·y are the last people who should be addressing Notre Dame students on the verge of graduation. By inviting Mr. Obama to speak at commencement, the University administration is betraying Notre Dame's great mission and doing a disservice to its students. Fr. JenKins, do the right thing and rescind Barack Obama's invita­tion. Notr.e Dame students deserve bet­ter. 
Ben Linskey, a sophomore majoring in political science and philosophy, is co-president ofthe College Libertarians. He can be contacted at blinskey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A pro-life perspective ofthe pfo-life protest against Obama 
I am Roman-Catholic, pro-life and middle-upper class citizen with strong leanings toward the Republican Party. Oh, and one more thing: I am ecstatic that the President of the United States is coming to speak at my graduation Commencement. Within hours of the big announcement on Friday, I was receiving infuriating e-mails from my fellow pro-lif­ers calling for the immediate repeal of President Obama's invitation to Notre Dame. "We must stand against evil," said one message. "He supports gay marriage, which is an affront to the family," read another. "He should not be given this opportunity to confuse our youth." One message went so far as to compare Obama with history's most hated villain. The email read: "The German people supported Hitler because he was dynamic and prom­ised jobs and food. There is more to a man than his charisma." There is al<>o more to a man than his views on the single issue of abortion. Such rash and radical comments not only fail to promote the end of abortion, they undermine the entire pro-life movement. 
In an emergency press release issued by the Pro-life Action League, National Director and Notre Dame alumnus Joe Scheidler made the following statements: "Over the first two months of his administration, Barack Obama has established himself as the most pro­abortion president in U.S. history ... My alma mater should not be providing a platform for this president ... Father Jenkins cannot expect pro-life Catholics to stand back and allow the most pro-abortion president in U.S. history to make a mockery of Notre Dame's Catholic identity." As a pro-lifer myself, I understand where Scheidler is coming from; I, too, am concerned for the pro-life movement under the Obama administration. I simply cannot agree, however, with the idea that Notre Dame, one of the finest academic institu­tions in the nation, should deny the President of the United States a platform to speak sole­ly because of his views on abortion. Obama is not coming to Notre Dame to speak about abortion, nor is his speech supposed to play a pivotal part in the formation of our Catholic identity. 
It is our responsibility, not our Commencement speaker's, to continue to cultivate our Catholic identity and apply it beyond graduation. The role of a Commencement speaker is to welcome college graduates into the real world, arm them with knowledge of complex and evolving issues, and inspire them to be passionate and influential citizens of a global community. I simply cannot think of anyone more qualified to do these things than the leader of the free world, President Barack Obama. 
Thus, to my fellow pro-lifers: let us battle the president on each and every issue perti­nent to life, but let us not undermine our intelligence and our patriotism_by forsaking other important issues in the reckless pursuit of one. The world will not stop turning for the abortion issue to be resolved. We as Catholics are therefore called to be dynamic citizens who take a multi-dimensional approach to making our world a better place; this means lis­tening and learning from influential world leaders such as Barack Obama. To disinvite the President of the United States based on a single issue, even one as important as abortion, would be a disgrace both to our Catholic identity and to this great Catholic University. 
Mark Weber senior offcampus March21 

Obama as speaker an identity crisis 
It has been a Notre Dame tradition to invite new presidents speak at Commencement; many (but not all) presidents have spoken over the last 50 years. However, since the last time a president has spoken at Notre Dame's Commencement ceremony, Catholic institutions have been given clearer guidelines con­cerning the intersection of Catholicism and politics. 
In 2004, the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops approved, nearly unanimously, guidelines for Catholic institutions regarding their religious responsi­bilities in the political realm. The directions state, "Catholic institutions should not honor those who act in defiance of our fundamental moral principles. They should not be given awards, honors or platforms which would suggest support for their actions." The instructions, spelled out in "Catholics in Political Life," primarily address behavior towards candidates who endorse or enable abortion, as President Obama does. The decision of the Notre Dame administration to invite President Obama to speak at Commencement disregar.ds these instructions completely: Not only is Not~ Dame providing Obama with a platform for his ideology, the University is awarding him an honorary law degree. The decision of Catholic bishops should hold within Catholic institutions. I do not intend to say that the academic dialogue of the ethical issues of abortion has no place at a Catholic university. However, Commencement is a ceremonial occasion, not an academic one. The invitation extended to Obama to speak at Notre Dame is not an invitation to participate in any discussion on abortion. It is, if not in fact at least in appearance, a tacit endorsement of his policies. 
This leads me to question why Obama was chosen to speak at commencement. It seems that the University is disregarding-or worse, willfully violating-its call as a Catholic institution to uphold the values of our faith. Are we pandering to the famous and powerful or attempting to increase our prestige through associa­tion? 
Commencement is one of the moments a person will remember for the rest of their life. Setting politics aside, those who made this decision should have asked whether Obama and the values he stands for are the last things that the class of 2009 should take with them from Notre Dame. Even the controversy and divi­sion that surrounds the speaker devalues the occasion, one that should foster unity among all involved. If Notre Dame values its role as a Catholic institution, we need to make decisions that reflect this identity. The invitation of a speaker who openly opposes our values compromises our integrity as a Catholic university. 
Andrew Haley freshman Stanford Hall March 21 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, March 23, 2009 page 13 
Commencement speaker 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Speaker choice goes against Catholic identity 
The fact that President Barack Obama has been chosen to give the Commencement address at the University of Notre Dame shocks and saddens me and deeply shakes the identity of Notre Dame as an institution of catholic educa­tion. The choice of President Obama reflects poorly on the University, as many of the President's policies and ideas fly in the face of what it means to be Catholic. While an outstanding orator and the President of the United States, Mr. Obama's standing as a champion on the issues of abortion rights and embryonic stem cell research makes him a very poor choice to give the Commencement address to our graduates in the spring. 
Supporters of President Obama who also happen to be Catholic may point to their beliefs that Mr. Obama has many other ideas that will help a great number of people across the country, most espe­cially the poor and unemployed. However, based purely on action, Mr. Obama has been able to pass laws, either through legislation or executive order, that both remove federal regulations on embryonic stem cell research and remove restrictions on foreign aid going towards abortion, better known as the Mexico City Policy. 
At a time when our nation is facing a financial crisis -which he is doing all he can to turn around-Mr. Obama has found the time to overturn the laws enacted by President Bush that both re­instituted the Mexico City Policy and put limits on embryonic stem cell research in favor of research into the more success­ful adult and umbilical stem cells. Unfortunately, Mr. Obama has done noth­ing to alleviate the fears of many Catholics, including myself, who feared that he would come through on his promise to Planned Parenthood that he would ensure that passing the Freedom of Choice Act (which would do away with many state laws that require parental notification or consent for minors want­ing an abortion, that allow health profes­sionals to conscientiously object to per­forming an abortion and that force abor­tion practitioners to give women the side effects and possible repercussions of their choice to have an abortion). 
Needless to say, Mr. Obama has acted and plans to act in a manner that directly contradicts the Catholic message of this University. I, as a future graduate of this University, implore the powers that be to find an alternate speaker who better rep­resents the message and mission of the University of Notre Dame. 
Brendan Durr 
sophomore 
Knott Hall 
March 20 

Obama choice unacceptable 
I am a 1988 graduate of the University of Notre Dame who today is ashamed of that designation because of the choice of Barack Obama to deliver the commencement address. Mr. Obama during the presidential campaign made a promise to Planned Parenthood that his first priority as president would be to sign the Freedom of Choice Act, a piece of legislation so horrific that it would immediately strike down all state and federal laws regulating the murder of the unborn, remove licensing requirements for abortion­ists, deny those health care providers who choose to not violate their Hippocratic oath the right to refuse to murder an unborn child or participate in such and force taxpayer funding of the murder of the unborn. Since being elected, Mr. Obama has not wavered in his radical pro-abortion agenda, in keeping with his record in the Illinois senate of deny­ing medical protection to infants surviving botched abortions. It is an undeniable fact that abortion is murder, and so Notre Dame has chosen a man to hold up as a role model who advocates the legal right to murder the most defenseless in society. How particularly ironic it is that a university named for a woman who risked being stoned for adultery in order to give birth to the Savior of the world as an unwed teenager would bestow such esteem upon this vile, hateful man. 
I will be in attendance on commencement day with several thousand others to show my distaste for this decision. We will bring with us the graphic photos of what abortion does to its victims so there can be no doubt about the hatefulness of the man chosen to instruct Notre Dame graduates in how to be a suc­cess in life. I would suggest that if the admin­istration does not want to suffer the embar­rasment of pictures of dismembered children lining Notre Dame Ave. on what should be the happiest day of our newest graduates' lives, they withdraw this invitation immedi­ately. 
Kevin Keane alum class of 1988 March 20 

Fighting Irish no longer fight for justice 
In 1964, Fr. Hesburgh linked arms with Martin Luther King, Jr., standing up for the dignity and equality of every human being. I am proud that my university had a hand in the fight against the evils of racism and helped the nation progress to a point when it could elect an African American president. While Fr. Hesburgh marched in the streets, fighting tirelessly to oppose the marginalization of human beings, the current Notre Dame administration has chosen to honor a man who actively works for the destruction of human life. In May, President Obama, who has strongly supported the Freedom of Choice Act and other heinous pro-abortion legislation, will take the stage in the Joyce Center and will be given an honorary Doctor of Laws degree. Fr. Hesburgh, even in the face of opposition, firmly stood up for the rights of fellow human beings. Fr. Jenkins, on the other hand, has publically declared that the dignity of human beings is expend­able, so long as you can secure the nation's most prestigious gradua­tion speaker. 
Emily Matich junior abroad March 21 
Welcome Obama 

As a Notre Dame alumnus from 2004, I was quite excited to learn on Friday that President Obama will deliver the Commencement address at this year's grad­uation ceremony. I hope that this will be a moment when Notre Dame will fulfill its twin mission of being both a Catholic univer­sity and an elite institution of higher learn­ing. I know that this decision will be met by some with a certain level of disappointment or anger because some of Mr. Obama's posi­tions run contrary to Church teachings. However, I would argue that for Notre Dame to truly be both Catholic and a university, Mr. Obama's opinions must not be shunned but, rather, welcomed. The Catholic leaders of tomorrow must engage others in thought­ful debates. That means that understanding the thoughts and beliefs outside of the Church and hearing Mr. Obama speak is one way to do so, as his opinions are held by a significant portion of the American popu­lace. In conclusion, I would like to congratu­late the class of 2009 (if only a bit early), welcome Mr. Obama to campus and encour­age the lively debate that is worthy of such an esteemed institution as Notre Dame. 
Jacob Baska alum class of 2004 March 22 

An open letter to Fr. Jenkins 
I am writing to express my outrage over the invitation extended to Barack Obama to speak this May at Commencement. What is one of the greatest Catholic universities in the world doing inviting a person who so openly and insistently seeks to institute policies so fundamen­tally opposed to our Catholic values? Central to our Catholic mission is the defense of life at all stages and in all forms. Yet the University is honoring a man who is continually removing limits on embryonic stem cell research and abortion: in short, the most liberal, anti-life President our country has ever seen. If Our Lady's University does not take a stand against such abuse, who will? 
In this era of moral relativism when so-called "Catholics" are open­ly supporting anti-life candidates, why is Notre Dame reinforcing these misguided beliefs. Notre Dame cannot seriously label itself as a Catholic institution any longer if Mr. Obama is allowed to speak at graduation. You cannot be a Catholic and pro-choice, nor can you be a Catholic institution and give honors and awards to pro-choice politicians. Lest you forget, Fr. Jenkins, the U.S. Catholic Conference of Bishops explicitly forbade such invitations in their 2004 document "Catholics in Political Life." They write, "The Catholic community and Catholic institutions should not honor those who act in defiance of our fundamental moral principles. They should not be given awards, honors or platforms which would suggest support for their actions." It seems pretty clear that Notre Dame, having given Barack Obama 1) an award (an honorary degree), 2) an honor (an invitation to speak at Commencement) and 3) a platform (a captive audience of more than 10,000 people), finds itself turning its back on its Catholic identity. It appears, Fr. Jenkins, that three strikes and he's out. 
Liam Larkin senior off campus March 22 
Obama a disgrace 
My 40-year love affair with the University of Notre Dame-as student, alumna and par­ent-came to a sad and abrupt end upon learning the news of the invitation of Barack Obama to receive an honorary law degree and speak at my child's graduation. Everyone knows Obama's stance on the "life" issues and his opposition to what are the teachings of the Catholic Church. In his tenure, he would sign the Freedom of Choice Act, allow partial birth abortion and, most importantly, will appoint at least two Supreme Court jus­tices who will enshrine Roe v. Wade into law for at least another 30-40 years. 
There is a course taught at Notre Dame called "A Faith Worth Dying For." Do we real­ly believe anymore that there are principles which are worth fighting for, perhaps dying for? Or is it all about making compromises with the culture, not appearing "strange" or "out there"? Is our Catholic faith really worth standing up and fighting for or is it just a comfortable, kumbaya, hand-holding-at-the­Our-Father kind of faith? The founders are rolling in their graves, right down the road in Holy Cross Cemetery. Ah, the cross -how inconvenient. 
Mary Mullaney alum class of 1973 March 21 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 14 Monday, March 23, 2009 

Roughly 40 minutes into "I Love You, Man," Jason Segel makes a magnifi­cent entrance onto the screen, wearing a plaid shirt, pink striped sweater and tweed blazer. 
The actor who 

this genre, opened in theaters this weekend. It combines the light hearted romance typical of a chick flick with the physical humor typical of a "frat pack" movie. 
"I Love You, Man" will delight most viewers looking for lots of laughs, because it successfully combines both of these genres by utilizing a cast that is as diverse and fresh as its many jokes. 
The plot of the movie centers on Paul Rudd's dilemma of having no true guy pal. His upcoming wedding forces him to search for a best man, and what ensues is hilarity. 
Coming to the foreground of this film are Rudd and Jason Segel ("Forgetting Sarah Marshall"). Both actors have usually taken supporting roles in most of their comedies (see "Knocked Up"). Their performances as leads are sure to tickle viewer's funny bones. 
The same cannot be said for Rashida Jones, whose character serves less to deliver punch lines and more to remind us that there is some heterosexuality in this film. 
Smaller characters are played by Andy Samberg (sadly not on a boat). 
J.K. Simmons reprising his role as the father figure (see "Juno"), and Thomas Lennon. Adding to the mix are cameo 
I Love You, Man 

Directed By: John Hamburg Starring: Paul Rudd, Jason Segel, Rashida Jones and Andy Samberg 

walks his pug/beagle mix on the beach while wearing Ugg boots. There is also the verbal humor of hearing Paul Rudd's various accents, many of which sound like a leprechaun. 
Elements typical of a romantic come­dy are also present, like when Rudd gets on an answering machine and says more than he should. 
The film is also not afraid to dabble in the realm of the immature, with jokes about pubic hair, oral sex, and, of course, a gratuitous vomit scene. 
However, not all of the jokes in the movie are knee-slappers. The charac­ter of the annoying co-worker Tevin (played by Rob Heubel) appears humor­ous in his first scene, but by the end of the movie, viewers are likely to find him just that: annoying. 
The film also has predictable moments. It does not take viewers long to realize that every time Rudd and Segel's characters are about to part, Rudd will come up with some nonsensi­cal nickname for Segel. But these moments are overlooked in comparison to the many laughs the film delivers. 
While "I Love You, Man" has the humor and warm feelings typical of a Judd Apatow film, it has nothing at all to do with Apatow. Instead it is pro­duced, written and directed by John Hamburg, whose writer credits include "Zoolander," "Meet the 
Parents," and "Along Came Polly" (which he also directed). 
Viewers who enjoyed Hamburg's previous work are sure to find that his latest addition does not disap­point. Other viewers who are unfa­miliar with this type of comedy may still find something funny in this social satire. "I Love You, Man" says while romance may be tricky, bromance is even harder. 
Contact Cornelius Rogers at crogersl@nd.edu 

Image courtesy of movieweb.com Paul Rudd, left, stars in "I Love You, Man," the latest in a recent series of films known as "bromances." In the film, Rudd is searching for a new "bro." 
got his start on the 
Jenn Metz 
too short-lived "Freaks and 
Scene Writer 

Geeks" has finally reached deserved status in Hollywood as leading man material, while redefining that role in his comedic films: playing a guy's guy on the prowl for cougars who just doesn't know when to move on in "I Love You, Man" and a broken-hearted, 
oft-naked puppet enthusiast in 2008's "Forgetting Sarah Marshall." 
Segel has come a long way after his turn as shorts­wearing drummer Nick Andopolis on Judd Apatow's NBC comedy a decade ago. 
Previously shafted with big screen sup­porting roles ­such as one of fel­low Apatow protege Seth Rogen 's friends in "Knocked Up" ­Segel's starring role on the CBS sitcom "How I Met Your 
Mother" (HIMYM) and screenwriting have helped push him into the spot­light. 
With the uncanny ability to make an audience cringe for hours, Segel's turn as Sydney Fyfe in John Hamburg's bro­mantic comedy (that's a word now) continues the trend of redefining tradi­tional masculinity that began with Peter Bretter in "Forgetting Sarah Marshall," a character he wrote for himself. 
Full of wonderful bro moments on man dates and in the "Man Cave," "I Love You, Man" features Segel -a hero of male humiliation comedy ­rocking out to Rush with co-star Paul himself. Fans may remember his tak­ing a memorable trip to Las Vegas with Rogen in "Knocked Up." Then again, neither is Segel, whose man club with Neil Patrick Harris and Josh Radnor on HIMYM has helped the show's ratings skyrocket. 
Segel's Marshall Erikson's rants­like the one about being too big for New York and loving New Jersey in a Price Co. surrounded by T-shirts of 
Full ofwonderful bro moments on man dates and in the "Man Cave," "J Love You, Man" features Segel ­a hero ofmale humiliation comedy -rocking out to Rush with co-star Paul Rudd's bra-deprived Peter Klaven and displaying the ultimate dude confidence, walking his very small dog in calf-flattering Muggs and sporting various man scarves and cardigans. 
dogs -are absolutely priceless and his stel­lar performance week after week makes this writer hope we never find out who the moth­er is. 
His photo in the opening credits cap­tures the ultimate dude moment: leaning back in your chair, smirking at the cam­era and holding a beer. 
In a 2008 interview with The New York Times, Segel said he has drawn a lot of material for his writ­ing from his own life, after listening to 

advice from Apatow to pick up the pen. 
Segel said Apatow told him: "You're kind of a weird dude. The only way you're going to make it is if you start writing your own material." 
Weird, yes. Dude, definitely. 
For his utter willingness to bear it all literally and figuratively on-screen and in-print (spoiler alert?) and his com­fortableness with the role he's cast himself in, Segel, I love you, man. ep writing. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
Contact Jenn Metz atjmetz@nd.edu 

-
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, March 23, 2009 
page 15 

as well as accordion and harmonica play­By GENNA McCABE er. Scene Writer Between jokes about Angelina Jolie and 
Saturday night marked the first time beating Gaelic Storm's nemesis -Celtic Gaelic Storm, the world-renowned Celtic Women -in the charts, Murphy delivered rock band, first made famous by its a fantastic performance. He conquered the appearance in "Titanic," performed at often ridiculously fast lyrics with relative Notre Dame. Even still, they were met with ease. an audience full of fans, both young and Equally impressive was Pete Purvis on old, anticipating a great show. the bagpipes. He gave the music a distinct­
As the band members took the stage, ly Celtic flair with his skilled melodies. 
they were welcomed with  The standout per­ 
a standing ovation before they had played a single  Between jokes about  formance of the night was Jessie Burns on  
note. The concert kicked off with a lively rendition of their song "Scalliwag" from the album "Bring Yer Wellies." From the first, the audience was  Angelina Jolie and beating Gaelic Storm ,s nemesis -Celtic Women -in the charts, Murphy delivered a fantastic performance.  the fiddle. On such tracks as "Death Ride to Durango" and "Floating the Flambeau," Burns was able to display her clear mastery of the  
encouraged to sing and  instrument.  
clap along.  Something about the  

This was not a tall order, considering the light and playful sound of her fiddle made infectious and upbeat nature of the music. an already enjoyable performance particu­
Even the most apathetic audience mem­larly memorable. ber found it hard to keep from tapping his When the band came back on stage for foot. an encore, they performed their song "Kiss 
The band continued Me I'm Irish." The sen­with several songs off timental melody and
And ifnothing else, the

their newest album clever lyrics were espe­"What's the Rumpus?" band succeeded in cially appropriate on a including "Darcy's campus where every­
persuading the audience 

Donkey" and "Slim Jim one likes to consider
that there is nothing 

and the Seven Eleven themselves at least a lit­Girl." more enjoyable than tle bit Irish. 
By mixing instrumental heading down to the All in all, Gaelic Storm songs with light-hearted delivered an enjoyable
local pub for a pint of

ballads, Gaelic Storm kept and fun performance. the audience entertained. beer. They managed to get 
The music was distinct­the majority of the audi­ly Irish in theme. It ence up out of their inducted stories of pretty lasses and amus­seats and dancing -quite a feat consider­ing characters from small Irish villages. ing the large number of older members of 
And if nothing else, the band succeeded the audience. in persuading the audience that there is Although this was the first time Gaelic nothing more enjoyable than heading Storm performed at Notre Dame, one can down to the local pub for a pint of beer. only hope that they will be back soon. 
The show had its fair share of highlights, not the least of which was the witty banter Contact Genna McCabe at of Patrick Murphy, the group's lead singer gmccabe@nd.edu 
By MAIJA GUSTIN Scene Writer 

"It's Blitz!", the third studio album from Yeah Yeah Yeahs, shows the trio experi­menting with their sound. Known for soaring vocals and screaming guitars, Yeah Yeah Yeahs move towards a more synth-heavy pop sound in their latest release. 
"Zero" sounds like typical Yeah Yeah Yeahs fare, but rather than wailing over screaming guitars, singer Karen 0 is wail­ing over synths and a heavy drumbeat. It's energetic and, although different, the synth sounds totally unique to the group. 
In "Soft Shock," 0 departs from her typi­cal hard-edged scream-singing for a softer ballad number. That is to say, a ballad for Yeah Yeah Yeahs. This song is again backed by some synths, but it keeps the melodic intensity of any of Yeah Yeah Yeahs' best guitar-driven songs. 
"Dull Life" is the catchiest song on the album. It's more of a traditional Yeah Yeah Yeahs sound with great guitar-drum interplay and Karen 0 doing her typical thing. Still, it's a great addition to the album. "Shame and Fortune" is done in the same way. A bit of old Yeah Yeah Yeahs mixed in with some new. They both fit perfectly with the sound of the other songs without sticking to the same formu­la. 
"Runaway" is a great ballad-esque 

It's Blitz! 
Yeah Yeah Yeahs Label: lnterscope Recommended Tracks: "Dull L~e," "Runaway'' and "Little Shadow'' 


number featuring some awesome guitars, piano, and string instruments. It's both beautiful and epic, and it defmitely shows off Karen O's unique voice. "Little Shadow" is another nice ballad that fea­tures 0 at her softest as a singer and a cool organ accompaniment. 
If you have the cash for the "It's Blitz! (Deluxe Edition)," a whole extra $3, there are some gems to be found. The deluxe edition comes with acoustic versions of "Soft Shock," "Skeletons," "Hysteric" and "little Shadow." "Soft Shock" is stunning as an acoustic number. Karen O's voice shines, and she really lets the sentiments of the song come out. It is well worth the price. "Hysteric" and "Little Shadow" also make great acoustic songs with some beautiful string parts. 
Many people have called this album a disco-infused rock album, which might be a bit of a stretch -synthesizers do not equal disco. But Yeah Yeah Yeahs have certainly designed an album more suit­able to dancing than their typical releases. They have always been high-energy, but "It's Blitz!" combines that energy with an upbeat and more pop-rock sound. 
"It's Blitz!" may not be Yeah Yeah Yeahs' best album to date, but it's a suc­cessful departure from their typical sound. Their traditional formula has always been blazing guitars, heavy drums, and some great work by Karen 0. Her fantastic voice is still there, and 
drummer Brian Chase never lets up with his intensity. The greatest change is Nick Zimmer stepping away from his guitar to add some synth-sound to the album. 
It's a big change of material for the New York City-based trio. However, they handle their new sound with the same amount of tact and creativity they've always put into their work. 
It proves to be a solid experiment in the band's musical abilities, but fans may miss their old sound. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 

Dining Hall Dis~ 
By CORNELIUS ROGERS 
Scene Writer 
Seeing as I am new to this scene -no pun intended -I would like to point out that I am not the most creative person when it comes to dining hall dishes. What does make me qualified to write here? I like food. A lot. But if you are one of the many readers who find yourself dissatisfied with your dining experience, please write in. The dining hall dish is only as good as you allow it to be. Without further ado ... 
The Little Pesto that Could 
Like to make your own pizza at North? Find the pizza sauce too salty? Find the barbeque sauce an abomination to Italian culture? 
If you answered yes to these questions, then you were one of the many people who enjoyed the pesto sauce served in North Dining Hall last semester. 

I am talking of course about the original pesto. The real pesto. The Pokemon Red and Blue of pesto, not some cheap spin-off. 
This pesto sauce contained two of pesto's key ingredients: crushed basil leaves and pine nuts. As a warning to all those with allergies, a sign was displayed saying, "pesto sauce contains nuts." 
This system worked fine. For a while. Until an undisclosed incident involving an allergic reaction temporarily banned this beloved pesto. 
But the pesto could not remain in exile forever. Recently, the pesto made its return to the dining hall, although without one of its core ingredients. This new pesto con­tained no nuts of any kind. 
Needless to say, it did not have as much flavor as its predecessor. It was described as tasting like "watered-down" pesto or "Pesto-Light." 
Eventually this message reached the ears of some head honchos and a newer pesto was brought in, the one being served cur­rently. This pesto does contain nuts, but surprisingly is not the same as the original. It tastes a little more diluted, but is still a good option for pesto lovers. 
Good toppings with this new pesto are pineapple or pepperoni. This pesto sauce is not too heavy on the calories. So yes, you can still eat it and fit into your overpriced American Eagle jeans. 
For true die-hard pesto fans, comment cards are your hope of salvation. In summa­tion, venture out and try the new pesto sauce and let the dining hall staff know what you think. 
Anything less would be nuts. 
Contact Cornelius Rogers at crogersl@nd.edu 
NBA 

LeBron, Cavs edge Nets for 9th straight win 
Rockets beat Spurs by two on Scola's late layup to knock San Antonio from first in Southwest Division 
Devin Harris the Nets simply hand while being fouled. 
Associated Press 

lacked the firepower to hang His other first-half field goal 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­with the NBA's toughest defensive pushed the lead back into double Long before LeBron James team. New Jersey had its two­digits with 2:12 remaining, and arrived and started Cleveland's game winning streak snapped the Cavaliers led 48-38 at the climb toward the top of the NBA, and fell two games behind break. Zydrunas Ilgauskas was quietly Chicago for the eighth and final The Cavs scored seven straight putting up numbers on some ter­playoff berth in the Eastern to open a 59-40 lead on a jumper rible teams. Conference. by Ilgauskas with 7:45 remaining 
So as Ilgauskas continues to "It's tough. As bad as our in the third and led 71-55 after rewrite the Cavaliers' record shooting was, we still had an three. book, it means so much more opportunity to get back into the that it comes while his team is game," Carter said. "We got it Rockets 87, Spurs 85 doing the same. down to two points but missed The Houston Rockets have lost 
James had 30 points and 11 some easy layups, i.e. myself. We Tracy McGrady, traded away rebounds, and the Cavaliers won had some great looks at some their starting point guard and their ninth straight game, beat­shots, but it was just unfortu­changed their starting lineup 17 ing the New Jersey Nets 96-88 on nate." times this season. Sunday night to tie a franchise James finished two assists shy And with 10 games left, they're record with their 57th victory. of a filth triple-double during the the new No. 2 in the Western 
Ilgauskas added 18 points as winning streak on a night where Conference. the Cavaliers improved the NBA's he was content to let his big men Knocking the Spurs from first best record to 57-13. He had four handle the scoring load early. place in the Southwest Division blocks and passed John "Hot Anderson Varejao finished with for the first time since January, Rod" Williams (1,200) as the 16 points and 11 rebounds, help­Houston capped a furious fourth­Cavs' career leader with 1,202. ing Cleveland outrebound New quarter rally when Yao Ming He already became Cleveland's Jersey 46-37. fired a perfect pass to Luis Scola top rebounder earlier this sea­"He plays at his own pace," the underneath with 11.9 seconds son. Nets' Jarvis Hayes said of James. left to stun San Antonio on 
"These things are always nice, "He was getting his teammates Sunday. but especially when the team is involved in the first three quar­Ron Artest scored 24 as doing well," said Ilgauskas, who ters and slowly got more engaged Houston won its fourth straight "lie popped to the top. I didn't West. The Rockets play the Jazz arrived in 1996. "If you're on a in the game offensively. It's and headed to Utah with a half­see anybody rotate to him, and I on Tuesday before hosting the bad team, you can't enjoy it as tough, he ended up with 30 and game division lead over the just kind of half rotated to him. Lakers on Saturday. much, and this so far has been a it seemed like he was having a Spurs. Not since Christmas have Thought he was shooting the ball "We know the standings special season. A lot of records quiet night, when he was two the Rockets enjoyed at least a and turned to block out and it change hourly," Battier said. "So have fallen." assists shy of a triple-double." share of first place. went right by my head. It was it doesn't really mean much right 
The Cavs weren't especially New Jersey, which never led, "I would say it's been a surpris­just another mental mistake on now." sharp while playing their second cut a 19-point deficit to eight ing climb to first," Rockets guard my part." The Rockets led 51-47 at half­game in two days, but now get early in the fourth quarter. James Shane Battier said. "We've had so Yao finished with 13 points and time behind 13 points from some time off before they host then made consecutive buckets to much ... just malaise this year eight assists. Scola had 19 points Artest, who then scored six of the the Nets on Wednesday in the restore the double-digit cushion with all the injuries we've had and 17 rebounds, scoring five in first eight points in the third to back end of a home-and-home that Cleveland enjoyed most of and lineup shuffies and trades. I the final 30 seconds. stretch the lead to nine. The series. A victory in that one gives the game. The Nets got it down to don't know that too many people "You got to give Luis credit for Spurs answered with a 7-0 run in Cleveland its second double-digit eight again with under 2 lf2 min­thought we would be here today." being open and cutting to the the final1:39 to cut Houston' lead winning streak this season. utes left, but Carter-who had Tim Duncan scored 23 points open area," Rockets coach Rick to one entering the fourth. 
It would also make the Cavs the earlier banked in a shot from and Tony Parker had 22 and 12 Adelman said. Ime Udoka's fastbreak layup winningest team in their history. inside the foul line while being assists for the Spurs, who had While the Los Angeles Lakers with 8:46 remaining tied it at 70 Cleveland went 57-25 in both tripped-missed on a layup on a appeared to start pulling away are poised to claim the top spot in for the first time since late in the 1988-89 and 1991-92. baseline drive and the Cavs went midway through the fourth the West-they're the only team second quarter. He then cleaned 
"It's not the main goal, but any on to win for the 26th time in 31 before the Rockets embarked on in the conference to clinch a post­up Parker's air ball, sank a 3­time you get an opportunity to games. a 10-2 run. season spot thus far-slotting the pointer and hit a jumper to put write your name or write your James took only two shots in Parker tried to put the Spurs other seven playoff teams figures San Antonio ahead by five. Udoka team into the record books, you the first quarter while the Cavs back ahead but misfired on a to go down to the end. finished with 16. should be proud," James said. wore down the Nets inside. tough 7 -footer with 2.9 seconds San Antonio had been the sec­But Aaron Brooks capped 
"I think the franchise, the Varejao and Ilgauskas each left. Matt Bonner clanked a 3-ond-best in the West for more Houston's 10-2 run with a 16­team, the coaches, everybody, scored eight points as Cleveland pointer off an in-bounds pass than two months, though their footer with 1:21 left for an 82-81 everybody that's associated with took a 27-21 lead. The Nets were with 0.3 seconds on the clock that lead was hardly ever safe. The lead. Scola scored the rest for the the Cavaliers-people that work within two points late in the sec­wouldn't have counted anyway. Spurs, Denver, New Orleans, Rockets. the concession stands-every­ond period before James made a Houston executed much better. Portland and Utah are now all The Spurs have lost three of body, we should all be proud pair of free throws, then finally The jewel came on Scola's game­within three games of Houston. four, and Duncan said this one about this," James added. made a field goal on a play that winner, when Yao stood at the top The Rockets have made their was big. "Because it's not promised every showed off his unmatched combi­of the key, raised the ball over his surge without McGrady, who had "It's huge, especially with the year where you get a chance to nation of power and athleticism. head as though he was going to season-ending surgery on his left race as close as it is, and as close set records, franchise records, or He grabbed a defensive shoot, then whipped the ball to knee nearly a month ago. as (the Rockets) are to us," he winning divisions, things like rebound, dribbled the ball up the Scola cutting toward the basket. Since McGrady's last game on said. "Obviously, we came in here that. Great achievement by us." right side of the floor before sud­Yao said he thought he was Feb. 9 --when the Rockets were knowing the importance of this 
Vmce Carter had 25 points and denly cutting into the lane near going to shoot before seeing Scola 4 1!2 games back of San Antonio­game. Just wished it could have nine rebounds, but without the free throw line, driving left at the last second. Houston has won 16 of 20 and bounced a couple of different injured All-Star point guard and dunking it with his right "It was my fault," Duncan said. now trails only the Lakers in the ways for us." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR for 
children w/disabi/ities. Must have strong work ethic and be interested in making a difference in the life of a child. 
$9-$11 hr., 35 hr/wk, summer only. 4 sites in Summit County, Ohio. Must enjoy outdoor activities. Visit www.akroncyo.org to download 
an application from the Careers link. EOE 
FoR SALE 
Condo for Sale 1564 Sq Ft 3 bdr 2 baths 2 car garage Basement Sun Porch Quiet neighborhood 6 mile south of University $130k 574-291-2306 
FoR RENT 
andersonNDrenta/s.com FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offering 1 0-month leases. 
B/uego/drenta/s.com 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. 
Leasing fast. 
Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhouses.com 

1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom, washer/dryer, fit­ness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. 
Pre/easing for August. 
Call 574-232-1400 or lease online www.foundryliving.com 
Lux twnhs: 3 bdrms 3 ba, next to St. Marys 
$680 mo per bdrm. 
57 4-271-7030 
harvey.18@nd.edu 
Need off-campus housing for next 
yea (09-10)? 2,3,4 and 5 bedroom houses avail­able 1/2 miles from campus, ND ALUMNI OWNED. 
As low as $275 per student. 
Contact on-campus rep at ebar­loh@nd.edu or 1-513-706-9655 2009/1 0 student rentals Angela 
St./St. Peters & S.B. Ave. $1300-$2000/mo. Contact Bruce Gordon 57 4-876-3537. AA 1 Walk to Campus 2-5 bedroom 
homes 574-277-0116­Cooreman.com 
Chicago 1 bd and 1 bth condo just north of Millennium Park with 685 sq.It on 36th floor. Views of lake, river and John Hancock building. Hardwood floors. Granite counters and pendant lighting in kitchen. In­unit washer/dryer. 36th floor is the first residential floor stop in the ele­vator bank. Amenities: gym, 24-hour door person, on-site building man­agement/maintenance team, pool, sun deck, media room, onsite dry cleaner and on-site grocery store. Lease parking available in building. Walk to work in the loop or shop­ping on Michigan Avenue. E/ trains to 0 Hare, Midway airport and Lincoln Park are a short walk. 
Lease for $1 ,550 or sale for $279,000. Available July 1. 
Please contact John (NO 04,05) at Unit3605@gmail.com for more information. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa: nd. edulhealth-safety /assis­tance-for-pregnant-students. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http :1/osa. nd. edu/health­safety/assau/11 
Bowl to win. 


Monday, March 23, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 17 
NCAA Women's Jenrmr ,. ITA Division 1 Ranking$ 
team points 

1 Northwestern 91 2 Georgia 84 3 NOTRE DAME 74 4 Duke 72 5 Baylor 67 6 Miami (Fla.) 61 7 Calilornia 60 8 Georgia Tech. 57 9 Clemson 56 10 Southern California 56 11 UClA 53 12 Tennessee 46 13 Stanford 46 14 Kentucky 45 15 North Catolina 44 16 Arizona St. 40 17 Florida St. 36 18 lSU 35 19 Michigan 35 20 Virginia 35 21 Wake Forest 32 22 Fresno St. 30 23 Washington 29 24 Texas A&M 28 25 Boise St. 27 
NCAA Women's Lacrosse IWLCA Division 1. Rankings 
team 

1 Northwestern 
ti'-0 2 Maryland 4--0 3 Duke 5-1 4 Vi11Jinia .:·,.s-1::.. ·'· 5 Penn a.o 6 Syracuse 7 Princeton ~z'-1 8 Georgetown 3~1 9 North Carolina 3-2 10 Vanderbilt zc2 11 NOTRE DAME 4-1 12 Boston University t~2 13 New Hampshire 4•1 14 Cornell . 2~2 . 15 Penn. St. 4-1 16 James Madison 3~0 17 Stanford fiC2 18 Dartmouth 

2-2 

19 Ohio St. 4~1 20 Loyola (Md.} 3-1 
NCAA Men's Hockey USA Today Rankings 
team recdtd 

1 Boston University 29-64 2 NOTRE DAME zs~s•s 3 Michigan 28·10~0 4 Denver 22-10-5 5 North Dakota 24~12~4 6 Northeastern 25•10"4 7 Yale 22~7~2 8 Princeton 
2240~0 9 Vermont (21H1-5 10 Cornell 
.... 20-8-4 11 Minnesota .,:,.,,':::'.(/)
../ ,•.:'':1742~7······ 
12 New Hampshire iF · 19~12•5 
13 Miami {Ohio) !0~12-5 14 St. lawrence 2M1"4 15 Boston College ·ltF13"5 
around the dial 

NCAA Women's Basketball Arizona St. vs. Florida State 7:00 p.m., ESPN2 
2009 World Baseball Classic 

NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

AP The Tennessee women's basketball team was upset by the Ball State Eagles, 71-55 in the first round of the NCAA tournament, marking one of the worst seasons in the forty-two year program history. 
Lady Vols lose in first round of tourney 
Assoeiated Press 

Tennessee also debut, will play Iowa have mattered if Cain 
BOWLING GREEN, Ky. -became the first defend­State in the second was available. 
Tennessee's title defense ing champ to lose its round on Tuesday. Green and backcourt 
ended sooner than opening game in the Porchia Green led Ball mate Kiley Jarrett did 
expected, wrapping up women's tourney. Old State with 23 points, whatever they wanted 
the worst season ever for Dominion won the title Audrey McDonald added against the bigger -but 
Pat Summitt's vaunted in 1985 and failed to 18 and the Mid­decidedly slower -Lady 
program. make the tournament American Conference Vols. Using their speed 
Ball State stunned the the following year. champions dominated to blow by defenders, 
two-time defending "I thought we were the second half to cap­Green and Jarrett were 
national champions 71-tentative, maybe ture the biggest win in able to get into the lane 
55 in the opening round uptight," Summitt said. school history. or find open teammates. 
of the NCAA tournament "But you have to give Shekinna Stricklen had The Lady Vols. mean­
on Sunday night, snap­credit where credit is 17 points for Tennessee. while, appeared to be a 
ping one of the more due and that's to the The Lady Vols shot just step behind all night. 
remarkable streaks in Ball State basketball 35 percent and played "Their guards did an 
college basketball histo­team. They had a lot the second half without awesome job," 
ry. more toughness. They center Kelley Cain, who Tennessee's Angie 
The Lady Volunteers beat us to loose balls. went down in the first Bjorklund said. "We 
(22-11) had never lost in They made shots." half with a knee injury. need to get down and 
the first two rounds of The 12th-seeded The way the Cardinals defend no matter what 
the tournament, going Cardinals (26-8), who fearlessly challenged the and we didn't do that 
42-0 through the years. were making their NCAA Lady Vols, it might not today." 
IN BRIEF Michael Jordan attends 
son's championship game 
PEORIA, Ill. -Michael Jordan celebrated another Chicago basket­ball championship -his son's. 
Marcus Jordan, son of the Bulls' six-time champion, scored a game­high 19 points to lead Chicago Whitney Young to a 69-66 victory over Waukegan in the Illinois Class 4A championship Saturday. 
As Marcus Jordan and his team­mates celebrated on the court after the final buzzer, Michael Jordan stood quietly, clapping his hands with tears in his eyes. 
"Crying?" the NBA great said in response to a reporter's ques­tion. ''I'm not crying. Not for me, anyway." The younger Jordan was key down the stretch after two teammates fouled out, hitting 4 
Rose Hulman's Goslee throws 
school's first perfect game 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind.-Rose­Hulman softball pitcher Jordan Goslee took a perfect game a step further. 
The junior also had a perfect day at the plate in an 8-0 win over Hanover College in Division III action on Sunday afternoon. 
Goslee threw the first perfect game in school history and just the second no-hitter with eight strikeouts in five innings. She also went 3-for-3 from the plate with three singles. 
Rose-Hulman snapped a score­less tie with three runs in the fourth inning and five in the fifth frame to invoke the mercy rule. 
Goslee's perfect game in the second half of a doubleheader fol­lowed a performante that was 
Pacers' Jarrett Jack aids IOS. 
83 win over Charlotte Bobcals 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -From getting into a dispute with a teammate to being benched to shifting to point guard, Jarrett Jack had a busy 24 hours. 
He capped it off by being near­ly perfect. 
A night after getting into an on-court argument with T.J. Ford, Jack replaced Ford at point guard and scored 31 points on 13-of-14 shooting, leading the Indiana Pacers to a dominating 108-83 victory over the Charlotte Bobcats to snap a five-game los­ing streak. 
"We put that behind us. It had nothing to do with it," Jack said of the incident with Ford on Friday that got him banished to the locker room. "I didn't want to 
. · I of 4 free throws in th·e final 3 nearly as strong. She went 3-for-3 come out with the 'I told you so'
Korea vs. Japan 

minutes to seal the victory. from the plate in the opener with stuff. I just wanted to come out
9:30p.m., ESPN 

"Awesome," Marcus Jordan three doubles and four RBis in a and play good basketball and try said. "Just awesome." 10-1 victory. to get off that losing streak." 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, March 23, 2009 
BASEBALL 

ND loses 2 of 3 to Seton Hall 
By BILL BRINK and 
MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Writers 
The Irish dropped two of 
three games this weekend in 
their conference opening 
series against Seton Hall, with 
the Pirates capitalizing on the 
Notre Dame's inability to close 
out innings. Seton Hall batted 
.458 from the plate and scored 
19 runs over the three games 
with two outs. 
The Irish (13-7, 1-2 Big East) 
offense battered Seton Hall 
(10-7, 2-1 Big East) ace Sean 
Black in the conference open­
er, defeating the Pirates for 
their sixth straight win on 
Friday. The Notre Dame lineup 
tallied 16 hits, and four differ­
ent Irish players had multiple 
hits in the game. 
After Black held the Irish 
offense in check through the 
first two innings, Notre Dame 
finally reached the Pirates ace 
in the bottom of the third. 
Senior shortstop Jeremy 
Barnes blistered a two-out 
pitch into the right-center gap, 
scoring juniors David Mills and 
A.J. Pollock, who hustled home from first base on the hit. 
"I was looking curveball 
after what I had seen my first 
at bat, and got one and hit it 
well," Barnes said. 
The Irish held the 2-0 lead 
until the fourth inning, when 
Seton Hall put together a two­
out rally against Notre Dame 
starter Cole Johnson. After 
Notre Dame retired the first 
two batters, the Pirates put 
together a hit batsman and 
three consecutive hits to score 
three runs. 
The Notre Dame offense 
quickly responded, picking up 
four runs in the bottom of the 
inning. Second baseman Mick 
Doyle led off the inning with a 
double, and third baseman 
Greg Sherry was hit by a pitch 
with one out. A Golden Tate 
double tied the game at three, 
and Mills blasted a single 
through the infield to score 
Tate and Sherry. 
A Seton Hall error on a hard 
hit ball by Pollock allowed one 
more Irish run and pushed the 
lead to 6-3. 
The top of the Irish offense 
continued their hot hitting in 
the sixth inning, with the heart 
of the order crushing the ball. 
After a Mills walk, Pollock dou­
bled for his third hit of the 
game, and senior Evan 
Sharpley drove Pollock home 
with a triple. Barnes then sin­
gled to drive home Sharpley 
and put the Irish up §ix. 
Barnes said the speed and 
balance in the Notre Dame 
lineup made life difficult for 
Pirate pitchers. 
"When you have guys at the 
top of the lineup with speed 
getting on base, and big hop­
pers in the middle picking up 
RBI, we're very tough," Barnes 
said. "Even at the bottom of 
the lineup, we've got Greg 
[Sherry] turning it over batting 
almost .400." 
Johnson was impressive over 

seven innings for Notre Dame, . allowing just five hits and four earned runs. The sophomore struck out six and walked two to pick up his second win of 
the year. 
Barnes led the Irish offense, going 4-for-5 at the plate with four RBI. Mills and Pollock each added three hits of their own, and Evan Sharpley had two hits including his first ond and third, and a wild pitch career triple. allowed Mills to score. On the 

The Irish winning streak next pitch Barnes blasted a came to an end on Saturday, as two-run home run over the Notre Dame allowed five left-field fence to tie the score. unearned runs in the seventh The Pirates scored another inning during their 9-4 loss to run in the top of the ninth Seton Hall Saturday. when freshman pitcher 
Senior Keith Cantwell got the Hudgins hit Fontenelli and win for the Pirates, going eight Gusrang doubled to left tQ iimings and giving up four drive him in. Sharpley hit a runs on six hits. solo home run in the bottom of 
"Our focus of what our guys the ninth. need to swing at wasn't good," Seton Hall dominated the Irish coach Dave Schrage said. rubber match on Sunday, "He was getting ahead of his bashing 20 hits off Notre Dame fal§tball, he was moving in and pitchers in a 11-4 win. 
out on us and he  Sophomore  
was his  throwing· change-up  "When you have guys  pitcher Joe DiRocco  
for a strike. When he'd get ahead, he'd throw balls in  at the top ofthe lineup with speed getting on base and  stymied the Notre Dame offense, scatter­ing four hits  
the dirt and he chased." Sophomore Brian Dupra got the loss, giving up nine hits and  big boppers in the middle picking up RBI, we're very tough."  over seven shutout innings. DiRocco kept the ball low in the strike zone and while only  
seven runs but  Dave Schrage  striking  out  
only  three  of  ·  Irish coach  two,  held  the  

them earn~d. 

"Honestly I thought mechanically that was the best he's pitched since he's been here," Schrage said. "His slider today was as good as it's been." 
·Senior designated hitter Chris Affinito had the most productive day for the Pirates. He went 4-for-5 with a run and an RBI. Pollock had two hits and a run to lead the Irish. 
Seton Hall broke open the game with a two-out, five-run rally in the seventh inning. Singles from senior center fielder Matt Smedberg and Affinito put men on first and second, and a throwing error from senior shortstop Jeremy Barnes allowed Smedberg to score when junior outfielder Chris Spagnuolo grounded to short. Espozito doubled and Rogers walked to load the bases. It looked like the inning would end when Fontenelli grounded to short, but Barnes bobbled the ball and everyone was safe. 
"He's made those plays all year and he didn't make them today," Schrage said. "He'll win you more games than he'll lose you." 
Two bases-loaded walks scored two more runs, and the Pirates led 8-3. 
The Pirates touched up Dupra early. Sophomore short­stop A.J. Rusbarsky singled to center and Affinito doubled to the warning track in right-cen­ter, driving in Rubarsky. 
In the second inning Dupra struggled with his control, and the Seton Hall bats didn't help his cause. Junior right fielder Michael Rogers reached on a fielder's choice and junior third baseman Chris Fontenelli singled. Sophomore second baseman Sean Gusrang walked to load the bases. Sophomore left fielder Bobby Abreu then walked, scoring Rogers, and Rusbarsky grounded out to third base to score Fontenelli. 
The Irish tied the score in the bottom of the sixth. Junior right fielder David Mills sin­gled to left to start the inning and junior center fielder A.J. Pollock hit a high fly ball to left that Abreu lost in the sun, causing the ball to drop. Senior first baseman Evan Sharpley grounded out but advanced the runners to sec-
Irish to mostly 
ground balls. 

The Pirates scratched out a run in the top of the third to start the scoring, putting together a walk, an infield sin­gle, and a blooper into left­center field for the first run off junior Notre Dame pitcher Eric Maust. The Irish continued their weekend long theme of giving up two-out hits, but Maust was able to induce a grounder to short to escape a bases loaded jam. 
Seton Hall again loaded the bases in the fourth, putting together three straight singles with one out. After third base­man Greg Sherry made a ter­rific catch on a foul ball behind third, left fielder Bobby Abreu drove home two Pirates with his third hit off Maust. 
For the third straight inning Seton Hall loaded the bases against Maust in the fifth, this time with no outs. A sacrifice fly by the catcher Esposito gave the Pirates a 4-0 lead and chased Maust from the game. 
Seton Hall added another run off of Mills, who came on in to pitch in relief, but the Irish were able to strand two runners and exit the inning down 5-0. 
The Pirates plated four more runs in the eighth off Notre Dame reliever Todd Miller, highlighted by a solo home run by Husbarsky. 
Pollock finally broke the Seton Hall shutout in the bot­tom of the eighth, hitting a laser over the left field fence to score Mills, who had walked. 
Catcher Matt Scioscia and Golden Tate each had RBI sin­gles for the Irish in the ninth. 
The designated hitter and pitcher Mills led the Irish offense and was also their most effective pitcher Sunday. Mills had two hits to lead Notre Dame along with Pollock on the game and gave up one run in two and two third innings of relief. 
Notre Dame hosts non-con­ference opponents Central Michigan and Oakland on Tuesday and VVednesday before returning to conference play next weekend at Pittsburgh. 
Contact Bill Brink a't wbrink@nd.edu and Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Notre Dame Apartments 
Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 
2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments 
Newly Remodeled 
Free Internet 
Free Water 
On-Site Laundry 
Off-Street Parking 
Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our town homes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 
Pacific Coast Concerts 
d-;fJ.i' 


Friday March 27., 2009 • 7:30 pm Morris Performing flrts Center South Indiana 
Tlck4lts on sole now ot Morris Box Offtce, SuperSoonds in Goshen. chorge by phone574/235-9190 or online www.morrisc:enter.org 
Wvlcomqd try Gurley Lvep flutomotlvv & Brandt's Harley Davklson-Wabosh 
NO WoMEN's GoLF 
Golfers place sixth in Texas 
ByALEXWEST Sports Writer 
Windy conditions and a tough course couldn't stop the Irish this weekend, as the squad fin­ished in sixth place at the Betsy Rawls Longhorn Invitational Sunday afternoon. 
The Irish shot a team score of 915 for the three-day tourna­ment played at the University of Texas Golf Club in Austin, Texas. Leading the way for the Irish were sophomore So­Hyunn Park and freshmen Becca Huffer, who finished 23rd and 29th respectively. 
Irish coach Susan Holt said that everyone on the team had solid rounds. 
"We didn't play well, but the conditions harmed a lot of teams," Holt said. 
On Sunday, wind speed 
climbed as high as 30 mph. It said. "When it's all said and wasn't jus,t the Irish who had done, it was a successful tour-
difficulty with the elements, though. as every team saw their scores rise in Sunday's round. 
The Irish scored their best round on Friday with a score of 296, putting them into sixth place. On Saturday, as the 

"We played really well. When it's all said and done, it was a successful tournament." 
Susan Holt Irish coach 
nament." 
Senior cap­tain Lisa Maunu earned a top-50 fin­ished while junior Annie Brophy and sophomore Katie Conway rounded out the Irish team finishing 58th and 62nd, 
wind began to pick up, Notre Dame shot a 308, moving it back into a tie for seventh. After their third round score of a 311, the Irish stood alone in sixth place, ahead of top 25 teams Arizona and Vanderbilt and only 43 strokes behind tournament winner Purdue. 
"We played really well," Holt respectively, out of 91 competi­tors. 

The Irish next travel to Brown Summit, N.C. on April 3rd for the Bryan National Collegiate Tournament at the Bryan National Golf Course. 
Contact Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dallle drops back-to-back lllatches 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI Sports Writer 
The Irish dropped back-to­hack matches over the week­end, getting blown out 4-0 by Boise State and losing a close match 4-3 to Wisconsin. 
Irish coach Bob Bayliss described Saturday's loss to the Broncos as Notre Dame's "worst match of the year." 
Boise State started off by tak­ing the doubles point, putting the Irish in an early hole. The singles matches didn't go any better for the Irish, as No. 22 senior Brett Helgeson, sopho­more Stephen Havens, and freshman Niall Fitzgerald all dropped their matches in straight sets. The rest of the singles matches were aban­doned as Boise State had clinched a 4-0 victory. 
"Against Boise State we seemed to be missing some­thing," Bayliss said. "Perhaps they played too well for us, but I felt that from top to bottom we played soft, with the exception of Dan Stahl, who would likely have won had the matches been played out." 
The Irish fared slightly better the next day against the Badgers, and Bayliss said he 
. felt the effort in that match was "where it needed to be," but the Irish could still not muster a win. 
Doubles teams of Helgeson/Tyler Davis and Fitzgerald/Matt Johnson both lost 6-8, giving the Badgers an early 1-0 lead heading into sin­gles. After Helgeson lost in straight sets at first singles. the Irish found themselves in an early 2-0 hole. Extraordinary efforts from Havens, freshman Casey Watt, and sophomore Daniel Stahl at second through fourth singles sent the Irish back on top 3-2. 
Needing just one win at fifth or sixth singles, the Irish could­n't quite finish out the come­back. Sophomore l).avid Anderson lost in a first set tiebreaker and could not rebound for a win at fifth sin­gles, while Fitzgerald could not handle the left serve-and-volley of Wisconsin's Michael Muskievicz. 
"This match exposed our weaknesses and serves as a challenge for us to find solu­tions to our areas of concern," Bayliss said. "Our doubles needs to improve." 
The Irish will head home and face ofT against a Big East foe, South Florida, for the first time outdoors. The match is sched­uled. for Saturday, March 28 at 1 p.m . 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 


premiere se!lOiar mbOW aovmg BfleCIS identitJ ctllstniCiilll 
B=00-1D=OOPm M8rCh25Hesburuh librarvm011 PrOVided 


ND SOFTBALL 

Team splits doubleheader 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 
The Irish ended a win streak Sunday, but it took only two pitches for the team to start a new one. 
Notre Dame (11-11, 1-1) had won 26 straight over St. John's (9-12, 2-2), but lost the first game of a doubleheader 4-3 against the Red Storm. They won the second game 5­4 due to late inning heroics by sophomores Katie Fleury and Brianna Jorgensborg. 
It looked like the second game would go the same way as the first. St. John's held a 4-3 lead going into the bottom of the seventh and pitcher Kat Lawrence quickly dis­patched the first two Irish batters. 
Sophomore second basemen Katie Fleury then stepped to the plate. She fouled off her first two pitches before taking a ball. Down to her last strike, Fleury launched the next pitch over the left field wall to tie the game. 
"Pressure situations like that are easier, they're more fun," Fleury said. "I was just trying to hit it up the middle to get on base." · 
After Fleury had circled the bases, sophomore Brianna Jorgensborg stepped up and sent the first pitch she saw to dead center, where it bounced off of the scoreboard for the game-winning home run. 
"I couldn't stop smiling as I was running the bases," Jorgensborg said of her first walk-off homer. "You try to act like you've been there before, like it's your job. But 
in such a big moment you just can't help it. You feel giddy." The games marked Notre Dame's first in Big East play. 
"I don't believe we started the Big East season well," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "I don't feel we ever got into our groove. We're lucky we have good hitters who can go out there and make adjust­ments at the end of the game." 
The first game began as a pitchers' duel, as senior pitcher Brittany Bargar (7-6) retired the first six batters she faced and Red Storm pitcher Linzee Sumrall retired her first five. 
The game remained tied at zero until the bottom of the fourth, which Johnson started with a single to center. Senior Christine Farrell came into the game as a pinch runner and advanced to second on a wild pitch and to third on a passed ball. Two outs later, Miller hit a single over the head of the second baseman to score Farrell, giving the Irish a 1-0 lead. 
The Red Storm looked like they would not put up much of a fight against Bargar. Through five innings, only two batters reached second and the squad had gone down in order three times. 
In the sixth, however, St. John's came out swinging. Two singles and three doubles gave the Red Storm all four of its runs. With two on and one out, Bargar was able to induce the last two outs, but not before the damage was done. St. John's led, 4-1. 
"Bargar had six great innings and one bad one," 

Gumpfsaid. 
The Irish did not go quietly, though. In the bottom of the seventh, freshman center fielder Alexa Maldonado hit a single and Kohan followed with a two-run homer. However, Sumrall got Johnson to fly out to end the game. 
The second game went much like the first. Both teams were stifled until the fourth, when the Irish scored two runs on a home run by junior first basemen Christine Lux. 
St. John's responded in the top of the fifth with a four-run inning capped by a three-run home run by Red Storm third baseman Roxy Struble. 
Sophomore Jody Valdivia (4-5) recorded the win for the Irish, giving up only siK hits in the complete game. 
"[Valdivia] did really well," Fleury said. "It makes it a lot easier for the defense when the pitcher is keeping runners off the bases." 
The Irish will be in action again in a non-conference contest against Ball State Wednesday at 5:00p.m. 
Note: 
+The victory in the second game marked the 300th win of Irish coach Deanna Gumpf's career. All 300 victo­ries have been with the Irish. Gumpf, though, said the mile­stone does not mean very much. 
"Honestly. I had no idea," she said. ''I'm focused on the team." 
Contact Laura Myers lmyers2@nd.edu 
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish stun1ble to 18th in E-Z-Go Invitational 
By MICHAEL BLASCO Sports Writer 

After a promising start to the spring season, Notre Dame fal­tered at. the 30th Annual Schenkel E-Z-Go Invitational, finishing Iast in a field of 18 with a 48-over par 912. 
No. 16 South Carolina led the elite field with a one-over 865 at the 6,910-yard, par 72 Forest Heights Country Club in Statesboro, GA. 
The Irish stumbled out of the gate, shooting a tournament­worst 311 in the opening round. Notre Dame never quite seemed to get in a rhythm, carding 298 and 303 in the final rounds to finish twelve strokes behind the seventeenth place finisher, No. 43 Augusta State. 
Irish head coach Jim Kubinski has emphasized the importance of looking beyond statistics when assessing his young team. 
"We're improving with each event regardless of scores," Kubinski said. "Our guys are realizing they have the physi­cal skills to compete with any team in the country. They still need to grow in several mental aspects, and they will." 
Sophomore Jeff Chen lead the team in scoring with an 8­over 224 (77 -7 2-7 5), 50th overall. Chen paced the team for the second tournament in a row after his eleventh-place finish at the Palmas del Mar Invitational last week. Fellow sophomore Dustin Zhang close­ly trailed Chen with a 9-over 225 (79-72-74) on the tourna­ment. Zhang finished tied-for­55th overall. 
Junior Doug Fortner, one of the veterans of the team with senior Josh Sandman out due to injury, finished 87th with a 17-over par...233 (77-77-79). Freshman Freshman Max Scodro shot an 18-over 234, rebounding from his first round 82 with a 77 and a 75 to close the weekend tied-for­88th. At a 19-over 235, sopho­more Connor Alan-Lee sunk to 90th with scores of 77, 78, and 80. 
The eighteenth-place finish marked Notre Dame's worst result of the season. The Irish competed without Kubinski, who missed the tournament with flu-like symptoms. Irish assistant coach Steve Colnitis guided the team in his absence. 
Notre Dame returns to the links on Friday at the Spring Break Championship at Gleneagles Golf Club in Delray Beach, Fla. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 


Attention Fi..st-Yea.. MBA's 
Would you like to earn an $18,000 fellowship for your second year? 
The Williatn G. McGowan Charitable Fund has just awarded the MBA Program a grant that covers $18,000 for the second year for an MBA student! 
Applicants must comply with the following criteria: 
-Must currently be enrolled full-time in the first year ofthe MBA Program -Must currently have at least a 3.0 GPA -Must submit a 500-1000 word essay on the contributions ofWilliam G. McGowan, founder and Chairman of MCI, to today's business world in general or to the telecommunications field in particular -Must submit one letter ofrecommendation from a faculty tnember -Must exhibit attributes such as scholarship, talent, leadership qualities, character and community involvement 
All First-Year MBA's are eligible, excluding those that are already receiving a full tuition scholarship. 
Deadline: Applications are due to Rachel Gerkey in the MBA Office by Friday, April 3, 2009. 
The winner will be announced in early May Contact information: Gerkey.2@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish compete at NCAAs 
By NATHANIEL LEE Sports Writer 
After powering their way to a record-extending 13th consecutive Big East title, the Notre Dame women's swimming and diving team capped off its stellar season at the NCAA national cham­pionships last weekend in College Station, Texas. 
Under the direction of Irish Brian Barnes and div­ing coach Caiming Xie, three athletes took to the pools in the tough national field. 
"The competition at this level is extremely tough," Barnes said. "It is an amaz­ing honor for all of these ath~.etes just to make it this far. 
First in the water for the Irish was sophomore Amywren Miller. In her return to the National Championship meet, Miller swam the 50-yard free in 
22.47, placing her at 26th overall in the preliminaries. She was unable to advance to the finals, though, but ended her second collegiate 
season with a strong show­ing in the tough field. 
"When you swim at this level there's always things you feel like you could have done better, but I just came out to have fun and improve from last year,. which I did," Miller said. "I really fed on the great positive energy of the team this season." 
The next competitor for Notre Dame was junior diver Natalie Stitt, who was com­peting in her first ever NCAA appearance. In the 1­meter event, Stitt tallied a final score of 245.30, good enough to place 32nd. Next she competed in the 3-meter dive, finishing in 32nd again, with a final score of 245.65. 
"I had a few nerves for my first time at this meet," Stitt said. "The field is full of amazing divers, it makes you really want to aspire to be like them." 
The final swimmer for the Irish was sophomore stand­out Samantha Maxwell, one of the nation's top perform­ers all season long, and a school record-holder in sev­eral events. 

In the 100 breast prelimi­naries, Maxwell bested her own school record to set the first-ever sub 1:00 time, tag­ging up in 59.73. In the finals, Maxwell did it again, setting her own mark even lower, swimming a blazing 
59.44 to place 6th, and earn her first ever All-American honor. 
'The girls in thee events are so fast, as soon as a race starts its almost over, so you have to be perfect from the dive to the finish," Maxwell said. "We have been build­ing up to this all season, so I felt more comfortable my second time around." 
In Notre Dame's final event of the season, Maxwell put in another strong effort in the 200 breast, touching in 2:09.62 to snag the 11th spot in the nation. She set yet another Notre Dame record in the process. 
The Irish finished in 31st place as a team with 19 points. 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nlee5@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Da111e -wins two against SEC opponents 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame bested two of the SEC's top teams this weekend, as the No. 2 Irish defeated No. 29 Vanderbilt Friday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion and then defeating No. 12 Tennessee 5-2 on Sunday on the road. 
The tone of Friday's match against the Commodores (5-4) was set early, as all three Irish doubles teams won, earning Notre Dame the first point of the match. 
"We are looking to get all three doubles solid in all of our matches," senior Kelcy Tefft said. 'We're trying to get the right dynamic on all three doubles. It is tough, as it is a long season and you are playing over twenty matches." 
Freshmen Kristy Frilling and Shannon Matthews, and juniors Cosmina Ciobanu and Kali Krisik all won their singles matches, elevating the team to a 5-2 victory. 
"We have some very good four, five and six singles. Every match we expect a lot from them, and they did just that on Friday," Tefft said. 
Come Sunday, the Irish found 
themselves transported from the 
cool climate of South Bend to the 
warm spring of Tennessee. 
Undeterred, the team met the close 
to seventy degrees temperatures 
with strong play against the 
Volunteers (10-3), winning the dou­
bles point once again. 
"Tennessee is really good, and 
playing them outside was very good for us," Tefft said. "Their courts are . a little slower than we are used to, but we looked good conditioning­
wise." 
After the doubles point, Krisik 
quickly gave Notre Dame a 2-0 lead 
with a convincing victory at No. 6 
singles, and Tefft, Ciobanu, and 
Frilling also all won their matches. 
Frilling was forced to come back 
from a large third set deficit, but did 
manage to come back, earning the 
Irish's last point of the match. 
Matthews suffered her first defeat 
of the season in a close match, 4-6, 
6-4,6-3. 
Notre Dame returns home to face 
Indiana on Thursday, as the Irish 
look remain undefeated at the Eck 
Tennis Pavilion on the season. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

NCAA 
continued from page 28 
defensive end. Gophers junior cen­ter Zoe Harper grabbed 13 rebounds herself. 

"Second-chance points are huge for our team," Harper said. "And we knew whoever was going to win the rebounds was going to win the game." 
Notre Dame trailed 42-30 at halftime, but the crowd was reju­venated after the break and it rubbed off on the team. Notre Dame erased a 13-point deficit with 18:08 remaining with an 11-2 run that made the score 50-46 Gophers with 14:34 left. Lechlitner had seven points during the run, including a driving layup while getting fouled that she turned into a 3-point play by making her foul shot. 
"We knew something like this was going to happen but we had to step up and make shots," Gophers coach Pam Barton said. 
Freshman forward Kellie Watson hit a 3-pointer to make the score 53-49, and four foul shots from Lechlitner and freshman for­ward Erica Solomon brought the Irish within two with 10:19 left. Then Ohm started getting hot. She knocked down three 3-pointers in the next three minutes and Minnesota led 64-56 with 7:05 remaining. 
"I just go out there and shoot," Ohm said. "That's my role on the team. When in doubt, just shoot it." 
Senior guard Lindsay Schrader experienced back problems early the second half. Mer grabbing a rebound, Schrader bent over and grabbed her back. She participat­ed in the next defensive series, but eventually fell to the ground and left the game. 
"I think the thing we miss the most, we missed her intensity," McGraw said. "Eight rebounds a game, you miss that." 
It wasn't clear exactly what hap­pened to Schrader's back. 
The Irish pulled within seven twice in the remaining minutes but could not get any closer. The final 
Spring 
continued from page 28 
guard Trevor Robinson, fresh­man linebacker Darius Fleming, early-enrollee corner­back E. J. Banks, and sopho­more receiver Golden Tate. Most of the players will be lim­ited due to injury, but some ­such as Tate, who also plays baseball -have other consid­erations. 
Weis also discussed the new coaches hired for the upcoming season -offensive line coach Frank Verducci, running backs coach Tony Alford, and defen­sive line coach Randy Hart. 
"One of our objectives in the spring time is to get that all worked out and meshed so as we go into training camp and into the season, everyone's set and ready to go," Weis said in a press conference. 
Weis, though, was quick to note that he was still the man in charge. 
"There's one cook," he said. "There are some helpers. There's one cook. Let's get that out of the way now. 
One of the other goals for the spring, Weis said, was to improve an Irish rushing attack that averaged just 3.3 yards per carry last year. 
''I'm a little frustrated in these first couple of days of spring because the way spring is laid out, you get 15 prac­tices, one of them is the spring 

game, then you get three days you can't wear pads," Weis said. "So we've identified as one of the things we really want to, you know, work on right off the bat offensively is our running game. You get a little frustrated in these first two days because when you go with no pads on, to work on your running game, you know, that just doesn't mesh too well." 
Weis said that he has talked with junior running back James Aldridge about the pos­sibility of moving to fullback, where converted linebacker Steve Paskorz is currently the only scholarship player. 
"We've talked to James about if getting toward closer to the end of his career here, and he was buried behind Armando (Allen) or if he got behind Robert (Hughes) and rather than sitting there in third, we talked about using him as a regular fullback," Weis said. 
Weis also addressed the defensive side of the ball, which will be switching from a 3-4 to a 4-3 formation. 
"Really, there is very much familiarity because our will linebacker is really translates into our weak side end, so there's a lot of familiarity with some of these people," he said. "You'll see a couple of people at a couple of different posi­tions." · 
Currently, freshman Kapron Lewis-Moore, freshman Ethan Johnson, sophomore Ian Williams, and junior John Hyan are listed as starters on the defensive line, with early­enrollee Zeke Motta, sopho­more Brian Smith, and sopho­more Steve Filer at linebacker. 

Much speculation has been made as to whether Weis would coach from the press box or from the field. 
"My intent is to coach the game from the field," he said. "That is my intent. Okay? As (Bill) Parcells said years ago, I reserve the right to change my mind, but that is my intent. I talked to peop 
le at the collegiate level and pro level, from Andy Reid right on down. By a very, very large majority, almost everyone I talked to were overwhelming thinking I was thinking way outside the box." 
Notes: 
+Weis announced that Irish alumni Justin Tuck, Bertrand Berry, Jeff Faine, and Heggie Brooks would serve as hon­orary coaches for the Blue­Gold game. 
+Notre Dame held its Pro Day on Mar. 19. Cornerback Terrail Lambert stole the show by posting 40-yard dash times of 4.37 and 4.36. "I was hoping to get a 4.2, but I kind of slipped at the start," Lambert said. "But I'll take a 4.3. It's cool." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Same old problems 
haunt Notre Dame 
The circle ofthi'i season i<> now eompl!-1te. Notre Damn lost 79-71 to Minnesota in the first round ofthe NCAA Tournament because they eouldn't box out, couldn't defend tim 3-point line and couldn't score for extended strntches. 
Irish head eoach Muifet McGraw made that very point herselfa_q soon a_<; she began her opening statement in the postgame news conference. 

"Same old story, every game ... ," she said. "They were very aggres­sive, they attacked us, we got back on our heels and we never really settled in defensively, which, as you all know, ha<> been a problem for us all year long." 
Starting point guard Melissa u~ehlitner echoed McGraw's senti­monL<>. 
"It wa<> our defen<>e; just like coach said. It wa<> tl1e same story all year. We cannot guard people and it wa_<; our defense; plain and simple," Leehlitner said. 
But the really fru<>trating part is how diehe this whole process ha<> become. It's a story anyone who ha.:; witnessed any of Notre Dame's loss­es (and some of their doser wins) ha<> seen played out countless times. 
McGraw goes into the game talk­ing about the work the team has put in at practice on the defensive end and how she feels confident her players have turned the corner. She talks about how they understand who the other team's shooters are and that they need to try to at best contain them. 
Then the game begins and every­thing is forgotten. Junior guard Katie Ohm was clearly the Golden Gophers' distance threat-but she got left alone more often than not and shot 5-of-9 from 3-point land. Minnesota guard Emily Fox led all scorers with 23 poinL<> playing her game unhindered from the Irish defense. 
"The scouting report told us exactly how sne played. She is a great shooter and she can do it off ofthe dribble. She is one ofthe best players on the team," Leehlitner said. "Obviously we didn't look at the scouting report, because she did exactly what we knew she wa.:; going to do. We prepared for it all week long during practice and when it came down to it we didn't get it done." 


In her news conlerenee after the game, McGraw put the onus ofthe poor defensive ellort on herself, say­ing that she has to find a way to get her team to guard better. 
Part of that should come with age, as the Irish return every player from this year's squad and add Naismith National High School Player of the Year Skylar Diggins to the roster for 2009-10. McGraw said she has to change the entire mentality of her team to get them to appreciate their defensive effort.:; for next season. 
'We are a team that feeds off our offense so when we score, we feel good about what we're doing at the other end. We're backwards in that," McGraw said. "We need to get excited about our defense and not worry so much about our offense. I think that's a little bit of immaturity and hopefully they'll learn from that." 
For most ofthis season, this has been the case. McGraw talks often about how her philosophy ofthe game is that she wants to win scor­ing 60 points. But her team has played most ofthe season (especial­ly since Big East play started) trying to out<>hoot opponents. 
Just looking at conference play tin part to avoid counting cupcake games early in the season) the Irish averaged 70.5 points per game in­conference while allowing 67.4 points per game. Those aren't the types of games McGraw wants her team in -and they are the type the Irish have struggled in this season. 
And ifMcGraw doesn't do some­thing to change the mentality ofthi<> team for next season, just get used to more ofthe same. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are thnse ofthe authnr and not necessarily thnse ofThe Obseroer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
jfitzpa5@ndedu. 
minutes turned into a free throw contest, and Minnesota held its edge. 
Ohm's first 3-pointer started a 15-7 run and Minnesota led 25-13 with 10:41left in the first half. The Gophers took advantage of Notre Dame's collapsing defense to draw defenders towards a post player, and then they kicked the ball to an open shooter. 
Ohm hit her second 3-pointcr to give Minnesota a 36-22 lead with 
4:29 remaining. The Irish hit six free throws down the stretch and the half ended with Minnesota ahead 42-30. 
The Gophers shot 62.5 percent from field goal range in the first half, in part because they found open high-percentage shoL'l. The Irish only hit 34.5 percent of their field goals. 

Minnesota also out-rebounded Notre Dame 21-12 in the lirst hall'. Notre Dame had only seven dnfen­sive rebounds, while Minnesota had 16. 
McGraw said the Gophers played with more intensity and had the Irish on their heeL<>. 
"They were very, very physieal and I don't think we've really seen that," McGraw said. "We really just lost our rhythm offensively." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Fencing 
continued from page 28 

Freshman Courtney Hurley and sophomore Ewa Nelip helped nar­row the gap with Penn State on Sunday by posting an impressive sweep of the Nittany Lions in the women's epee pool. Hurley and Nelip took down Penn State's Nina Westman and Anastasia Ferdman to fini'ih play tied for third. 
"They were one step closer to the gold medals," Bednarski said. "Making observations from the out­side, they fenced really very well. They were driving the team forward and that's when the chase started, but they were too far to catch them." 
Bednarski said that the Irish showed tremendous poise for a team carried by youngsters with raw talent and emotions, and that Penn State's superior experience, and the advantage of playing on their home strip, were the only fac­tors keeping his fighters a title. 
"The [Nittany Lions] feel a little bit more comfortable in their own terri­tory," Bednarski said. "They had the public behind them, helping to give them extra adrenaline, extra energy. I will not say that if we repeat the competition, they will be winners. Maybe we can win, even Ohio State. But at this moment they were better and simply won more gold medals. It was a great team and a great competition, and we showed our potential." 
The Irish fencers may have fallen just short in 2009, but the team promises to bring more experience and even more focus to the strip next season. Olympian and silver medalist Gerek Meinhardt and first team All-American Courtney Hurley still have three years of fighting ahead of them, while the rest of the young nucleus can only get better. 
"Each year is different because we don't know who will come to support them next year," Bednarski said. 'We know that we have a core team that is very strong and very young. I'm angry that we lost this chance. They are angry. So let's hope that we can turn this anger into work and skill next year when we will proba­bly compete against Penn State who will try to defend their position." 
Contact Chris Masoud at 
cmasoud@nd.edu 

SMC TENNIS 
ND WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Saint Mary's falls to 
Burke, Byers lead ND laxers 
Indiana Wesleyan 6-0 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Gebert loses in tiebreaker as Wildcats 
Notre Dame senior captains
power past Belles to keep perfect record 
Shannon Burke and Jillian Byers 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sporrs Writer 
Saint Mary's fell 6-0 to No. 15 Indiana Wesleyan Sunday, as the Belles were unable to put a halt to the Wildcats' 8­0 record. 
Belles coach Dale Campbell, though, said the 
out the course of this season. The team consists of all :wphomores and one junior Gaptain, Gebert. 
"This team is gaining experience and should only get better in matches to come," Campbell said. "We expect to win a lot of match­es and do well in our confer­
ence." 
The Belles' 

tough competi­"We gave our best next match is 
team selection, led the Irish 
tion would pro­on the road 
defensive effort while contributing 
effort, but we made 

vide Saint against Alma 
offensively as well. She moves to
too many errors

Mary's invalu­on Mar. 28, 
21 ground balls and 16 turnovers 
able experience against an opponent which opens 
caused this season, the highest 
combination of the two on the
heading into this strong. They MIAA confer­
team so far this season. She fin­
conference play. ence play for
were more 

ished up her junior season fourth
"We gave our both teams. In 
best effort, but consistent." practices this 
in the conference with 1.56 
caused turnovers per game, sec­
we made too w e e k , 
many errors Campbell said 
ond on the team for ground balls 
Dale Campbell

against an his team will 
(33), and first in caused turnovers 
Belles c:oach

opponent this st-rong," Campbell said. "They were more consistent and hit bet­ter volleys in doubles to gain an early lead on us." 
Campbell said that the Wildcats well-rounded squad made them a very difficult matchup for the Belles. 
"They were solid through­out their lineup," Campbell said. "Their players were consistent off the ground and volleyed sharply." 
The high point of this match for the Belles was the number two singles match between junior captain Camille Gebert and Indiana Wesleyan's Lisa Massey, which Gebert lost in the tie­breaker round. 
As a very young team, the Belles have been seeing diverse competition through-be working on 
different things to help their chances of beginning this season's eonference games with a win. 
"We want to continue to improve our doubles play, our movement, and get off to a good start in our next match," said Campbell. "All we can do is control the way we play, not our opponents." In terms of team morale, this weekend's setback from Indiana Wesleyan will not be entirely detrimental to the team's mission. 
"Our team has a great atti­tude, understands that they have to work hard to 
improve every day, and that hard work will pay off." 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 

Enjoy the good life wh•en you live off campus at a very reasonable price! 
3,4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Off-Street Parking Located Close to Notre Dame 

Only $350 per mc•nth, per student! 
*Our town homes rent quickly­
call Kromer Pmperties today 

View all of our town homes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhoLses.com 
(574) 2 4-2436 

L-------------------------~--------------------­
leads the team in points with 44 from her 24 goals and 20 assists. 
Freshman midfield/attack Maggie Tamasitis contributed with three assists and a goal, while freshman defender Kelly Driscoll scored her first two goals for the Irish. Kaitlin Keena, Shannon Burke, Beth Koulup, Shaylyn Blaney, Meredith Locasto, and Maggie Zentgraf each netted one goal for Notre Dame to round out their scoring drive. .... 
Coyne was pleased with Notre Dame's performance Sunday, especially the balance her team showed. 
"Twenty goals and eleven assists is very balanced for any team," she said. "We were able to play everyone on the team today, the fourth of our nine games in which we've been able to do that. I think that says a lot about our presence on the field and our team overall." 
Junior midfield Alex Tickner led the Golden Bears scoring with two goals, followed by one from each senior midfield Ghillie Little and junio·r midfield Alyse Kennedy. 
Notre Dame launched the game with a 5-0 run in the first eight minutes of the play, with goals from Blaney, Byers, Keena, and Abt. Cal got on the board with 
19:03 left in the first period with the first of Tickner's two goals. The Irish responded by netting four more goals before the Bears scored for the second time. Scioscia closed out the half with her first goal, putting Notre Dame at a 10-2lead. 
Scioscia opened up the second half with another goal less than a minute into play, quickly followed by two goals from Abt. Cal's Kennedy scored with 22:36 left to play, but Notre Dame answered with four more goals to increase their lead to 17-3. Cal's final goal came from Little with just under nine minutes left in the period. Driscoll scored twice and Locasto once to lock up the game for the Irish. 
Senior goalkeeper Erin Goodman made two saves in the match, playing 45:26 of the 60 minutes of play. The win was the 31st of Goodman's career, tying her with Irish alum Jen White for the most career wins in Irish his­tory. 
"We have set some goals for ourselves, but individually it is great that different people are stepping up in different games," Coyne said. "We're trying to work on our defense transition, causing turnovers and scoring points off of our defense's work as well. Our team is falling into a rhythm with our team goals and our individual performances and working together on the field." 
Coming up next for the Irish is a string of five conference games, two at home versus Georgetown and Loyola (MD), before traveling to Cindimati, Louisville and Syracuse. 
"Our next games are all Big East, so our focus is on the con­ference, earning our way into the conference tournament, and being the top seed in the tourna­ment," Coyne said. ''There are a lot of Notre Dame teams who have won a Big East champi­onship, and we want to be one of them since we haven't done that yet." 
Notre Dame heads back on the field Friday, March 27 as they take on Georgetown at 8:00 at Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
both had impressive games Sunday as they led the Irish to a 20-4 win over California, moving the Irish winning streak to seven and overall record to 8-1. 
"One of the stand-out perform­ances was Shannon Burke," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "She had one goal, which is a big deal for a defender, but also had five ground balls and five caused turnovers, which is amazing in one game." 
Burke, a preseason All-Big East 
(32). The Maryland native is a key example of the significant impact the Notre Dame defense has made on the field this season. 
Byers led the offensive effort Sunday with five goals and an assist, and ten other Irish players also got in on the scoring act. Notre Dame's all-time points leader moved to 33 goals and seven assists this season, 209 goals and 260 points in her colle­giate career. 
Following Byers was sopho­more midfield Kailene Abt with . four goals and two assists, and junior attack Gina Scioscia with two goals and four assists. Abt moves to 18 goals and three assists this season, while Scioscia 

MEN'S LACROSSE 
ND stays perfect vs. Vermont 

more midfielder David Earl and had a big enough cushion." junior midfielder Grant Krebs Back-to-hack goals from each scored once during the Kelleher cut the Irish lead to 9­run. 3 and a goal from Vermont 
Notre Dame's run helped Irish sophomore attack Derek set the tempo for the game. Lichtfuss made it a five-goal 
"Their pressure worked game at the half. against them," Corrigan said. The Catamounts scored first "We were able to kind of attack in the second half on a goal them a little bit and make from junior midfielder Ryan 
plays."  Gillette  with  
The Irish run  6:25 remaining  
also helped ease coach Corrigan's  "Their pressure  in the quarter.  -third The  
concerns about  worked against them.  Irish ended the  
Notre Dame's offense, but he still thinks there  We were able to kind ofattack them a little  Catamount run nearly three minutes later  
is  room  for  bit and make plays."  when  Hoff  
improvement.  scored his fifth  
"They came out and played  Kevin Corrigan  goal of the game, giving the  
us very aggres­ Irish coach  Irish a 10-5 lead  

Mmsiny, Int'l Student Serv. & A.ctivllies, and Wa/s/1 
CM 
All are invited to..... 
!MdiCingua( 
aize Cliristian Prayer 
Communal and contemplative, with song, reading ofscripture, intercession & silence 
Uniting all Cl1ristians in their common 
search, while always respecring the 
traditions of each individual. 

By MIKE GOTIMER 
Spons Writer 
Notre Dame stayed hot in sweltering Dallas this week, with a 13-7 win over Vermont in the 2009 Patriot Cup at SMU's Ford Stadium. 
Senior attack Ryan Hoff led the way for the No. 3 Irish with a five-goal effort on the day. Four of Hoff's goals came dur­ing a stretch where Notre Dame tallied eight unanswered goals that began in the first quarter and ended early in the second with the Irish on top 9-1. 
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan thought that Notre Dame's aggressive start helped set the tone of the game. 
"We played very well in the first quarter," Corrigan said. "We were very aggressive at both ends and took advantage of opportunities and put the pressure on them in the first 20 minutes." 
The Irish got on the board first when junior attack Neal Hicks found the back of the net just over two minutes into the game. Vermont tied the score at one when senior attack Andrew Kelleher scored the first of his four goals on the day with 9:33 left in the first quarter. . 
Hoff began the' eight-goal run for tho Irish with his fir.o;t. Felfow senior attack Duncan Swezey added two goals and an assist in the run while sopho­sively," Corrigan said. ''I'm still not sure if I see us creating within our offense as much as I'd like to, but I love the fact that there's a lot of people con­tributing." 
Notre Dame cooled off on both ends after the run howev­er, allowing the Catamounts to get back into the game with four unanswered goals. 
"They kept playing hard aqd we got a little frivolous with our decision making," Corrigan said. "We did a good job defen­sively not giving them anything early, but we had to play a lot of it in the seeond, third and fourth quarters. Thankfully, we after three quar­
ters of play. 
After Kelleher notched his fourth goal of the game, Notre Dame opened the lead to 12-6 on goals from Earl and Hicks. Earl finished off the Irish scor­ing and sealed his first career hat trick with 21 seconds left to play. 
Notre Dame will look to extend their undefeated start into conference play as the Irish take on Bellarmine at home in their Great Western Lacrosse League opener on Wednesday. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 



Now £easing Por 2009-2010 }lpp(y q'otfay LimitedSpace}lvaifa6fe!I I 
Offenne rr1i£ <Best CJ?§ntafrJ<g.tes zn 1'crwn! $99lfor 1$1 :Montfis ~nt 1'ttltli 12 :Montli Lease! $300 Off111 :Mont/is ~t Witli 9 :.Montfz Lease! Pree}l.pptication Pee 'ForSttufents 1'ttltli 1/D.! Cfi>se to Campus! 
eastle1'oint 
~ 1.BOU 0.1!li.Latd at. .SO.tJ& .Bad, Ell Uf37
A t

par n1en•.~ ao.a.: «a74J n2-11'1..D l!tiiX: tts14' 212-•:u.4 
www.dd&DICOID 
Morrissey Manor Medallion Hunt 
. . 

. . 
. . 
. 
. 

For those the treasure they wish to find 
Must be modem in both heart and mind 
And further too, if artist they be The goal they will more surely see 
So go, search, both far and wide 
For places that the muse abides 
' 
Return the Medallion to Room 001 in Morrissey Manor between 9:00 and 10:00 PM. 
Before we get too carried away with NCAA seeds and Frozen Four plans, it is impor­tant to take a second and real­ize what this team has already achieved. 
· 
Good. That's taken care of, now on to why the Irish can and should win a national championship. 
The coaching and the talent have been in place all year. This weekend Notre Dame showed it has the ability and poise to win under pressure ­something that other talent­laden Irish teams have been unable to do this year. 
When Northern Michigan's Nick Sirota tied the semifinal game with 1:23 left on the clock, the flashbacks came immediately. Last year Miami .scored a last-minute goal in the same game and eventually won in overtime. This time around was different. 
Jackson immediately called his team over and told them this wasn't going to be a repeat, to stay focused and get control of the game. TwentY­three seconds later sophomore Ben Ryan put the Irish up for good. 
"This group never says die and that's an important asset going into the NCAA Tournament," Jackson said. 
Saturday night they were tested again. Notre Dame was technically the home team, but the maize and blue colored Joe Louis Arena might as well have been in Ann Arbor. The crowd was getting behind the Wolverines who looked well in control with a 2-0 lead. 
Once again there was no panic. The Irish continued to play their style of hockey and it paid off. A flurry of early third period goals shifted momentum towards Notre Dame and gave the Irish a 3-2 lead. When sophomore Calle Ridderwall scored his second goal of the game with nine minutes remaining the first fans started to trickle out. By the time Christiaan Minella buried his team's fifth unan­swered goal it looked like a fire drill. 
A Notre Dame team coming from behind or closing out tight games is not something an Irish fan is used to seeing. But it is a hallmark of a cham­pionship team. The Irish already have one title under their belts, and they looked poised for a second. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd. edu. 
SUMMER IN MAINE 
Males and Females. 
Meet new friends. Travel! 
Teach yourfavorite activity 
Tennis Swim 
Waterski Softball 
G;mnastics Archery 
Silver Jewelry Rocks 
English Riding Soccer 
Copper Enameling Pottery Basketball lacrosse Field Hockey OffiCe Theater Costumer Photo and more•.. Jll!le to Augusl Residential Camp. 
Enjay ourwebsite. Apply ooline 
TRIPP LAKE CAMP for Girls: 1·800·997-4347 www. tnpp!akecamp.com 

CCHA 
continued from page 28 
a matter of being patient enough to generate some scoring chances. Once we caught a break, it turned the tide for us." 
The victory secured Notre Dame, which also won the con­ference's regular season champi­onship, the top seed in the NCAA Tournament's Midwest Regional. The Irish will travel to Grand Rapids, Mich., to play Bemidji State at 7 p.m. on Saturday to open the 16-team competition. 
The winner of that game would play the Northeastern-Cornell winner on Sunday night to advance to the Frozen Four on April 10-12 in Washington, D.C. Notre Dame, as a No. 4 seed and the last team invited to the tour­nament a year ago, advanced all the way to the national title game before falling to Boston College. 
The Wolverines dominated the game until the midway point, scoring twice on Irish senior goaltender Jordan Pearce -who hadn't given up multiple goals in a game since Feb. 20-and keeping the high-powered Notre Dame attack from generating much in the way of scoring chances. 
But when freshman wing Billy Maday redirected a shot from junior linemate Kevin Deeth past Michigan goaltender Bryan Hogan on a four-on-four, the Irish trailed just 2-1 with nearly 30 minutes to play. 
"You keep reminding them, and sometimes it's just the emo­tion of getting that first goal. All of a sudden things change, and everyone starts getting hungrier," Jackson said. "Remaining patient was the key to the game." 
With less than two minutes elapsed in the third period, Ridderwall tied the game, just after the Wolverines had killed an Irish power play, by deflecting a Brett Blatchford shot past Hogan. Ryan struck 50 seconds later, notching the game winner for the second straight night after taking a pass from junior Ryan Thang for an open wrist shot from in close. 
"That was a tough game for Hogie," Wolverines coach Red Berenson said of his freshman netminder, who did stop 29 shots. "It's a goalie's nightmare. The puck was going in too e~ily." 
Not for Michigan, though. Pearce was tested by several Michigan flurries until the Irish doubled with Ridderwall's second goal of the night with just under nine minutes to play. 

Off a pass from Maday, Ridderwall beat a Michigan defender and put a backhander on Hogan from the right side. Hogan looked to have it stopped initially, but Ridderwall poked his own rebound home from a 4-2 Irish lead. 
Junior forward Christiaan Minella closed the scoring with three minutes to play. After sen­ior center Christian Hanson, off a pass from sophomore defense­man Ian Cole, drew the Michigan defense to him on the blue line, he centered it to Minella~-who had a clean wrister from between the circles. 
Pearce, who was named the tournament MVP, took care of the rest, as the CCHA Scholar-Athlete of the Year made 28 saves, including several big ones to keep the game close before the Irish got themselves on the board. 
Ridderwall, Ryan and Cole joined Pearce on the all-tourna­ment team. 
To advance to Saturday's championship game, the Irish first had to top No. 6 seed Northern Michigan on Friday afternoon, topping the Wildcats 
2-1. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Mason 
continued from page 28 
win, and it is a trophy that means a lot to ;myone who has had the chance to play for it. 
This year's CCHA is the toughest conference in the country. The conference will make up 25 percent of the NCAA Tournament and it could easily have been more. Two of the four teams still playing for a national title ­Miami (Ohio) and Ohio State ­didn't even make it to Detroit last weekend. 
Saturday night's champi­onship game more or less decided which team would get a local one-seed in Grand Rapids and which would have to travel to start the tourna­ment. But to Jac).(son and the rest of the Irish that could not have meant less. 
"It's not like basketball. I get surprised when I hear how conference championships don't seem like a big deal," Jackson said. "For them it's all about seeding. In hockey it's a very big deal. Our conference championship is in line with what the Stanley Cup is for the NHL." 


: Infornnation and sign-up meeting : :• Tuesday, March 24, 2009 :• :• 5:00p.m. :• : • 119 O'Shaughnessy Hall : • 
• English ma~ors choose careers in any field that values the ability to read .• write, and analyze with intelligence and subtlety. Some go on to graduate study in literature leading to careers in academia:~ others choose professions such as law, medicine, education, publishing, business, social work, professional writing, library science, journalism, and public relations. 
For more information, or additional times to declare the major, contact: The Department of English 631-7226 · 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall english@nd.edu http://english.nd.edu/Undergraduate/ 


lus{thihk, the next time you find your name in 1he Observer it will be in an article, byline or letter to the editor. (And hopefully not the police blotter.) 


Alex Andre Ashley Armendariz Katherine Bailey Kevin Bartlett Katie Bazemore Brian Becker Michael Benvenuti Megan Bone Erin Borchers Margie Bowen AnneBozik Spencer Bruce Christina Buchanan Laura Buckley Briana Cameron Antonio Caram 
Elizabeth Carnahan EBen Carroll David Charin Joe Chavarria Erica Chenard Rachel Chisausky Reid Cloon Leah Coming Johnny Copp Danny Cruser Laura Curtis CJ David Dan Delaney Erik Ding Katie Donl~y Dugga9.Jt;verage 
L~Finnegan i~hael Fischer

John Fisher; Mediekt~ Erin Flatt~ Katy, TX Michael Frabko Holmdel, NJ Michael F1lt~fna Granger>IN Zach Gaudette Ellie 
Groden 
.Q,............... 
Hughes :TihtJenks BritlnJochems ,rAllan Joseph AmyJurvis 

Hinsdale, IL Bedford, TX Indian Head Park, IL Centennial, CO Roswell, GA Wilder, KY Morristown, 
Pittsburgh~ B 
OmanaNE
...• } 
Fox PS)int,WI. 

·~. 

New Berlin, WI Portsmouth, RI Vienna, VA Dallas, TX Glastonbury, CT Peotone, IL Leawood, KS Double Oak, TX Tulsat OK Helotes, TX San Diego, CA Me Lean, VA Woodbury, MN Centerville, 0 H Havertown, PA ·•·tf' Peachtree City, GA. Brewster, NY 
1 Littleton; CO 
v . \{ ....••. 

Vince Kania Alex Kasparie Rebecca Kibler Brianna Kunycky Marjie Lam Katherine Leach John Leganski Sean Liebscher Patrick Londergan Michelle Lundholm MissyLuttio Alec MacDonell Michael Massman · B~'ld McDonagh Andrew l\1cDonough Caitlin McKenzie John McKissick Christopher .Mertens Mia Michalak Kathleen Monahan Kevin Morris 
Jamie Murray · Brianna Neblung 
M~~ ~::-::~¥ 

Daniel.Pamier 
TixJI Ryan ........£l!Ll)""''".. Scheer ·Schirtzinger Nick Seewald Ian Shields Jodie Sullivan 
Sarah 
Englewood,CO 
KlrcH3¥.ood, M.O );ZtU!itin, TX 
Webster Gr 
OakPark, I 
Walnut Cre~J, CA 
Annapolis, MD 
Libertyville,IL Wheaton, IL Qyincy, IL Yarmouth, ME l\1arlborough, 1V1A Stow, MA Hinsdale, IL Darien, IL Colorado Springs, CO Marshfield, MA Hofrman Estates, IL Boca Raton, FL Indianapolis, IN Kansas City, MO Bryan, OH Arlington 
H · 
, IL Westerville,, Easton, C Safet)' r, FL Collierville,TN .. Colorado Springs, C:O Portland, OR New Canaan, South Bend, IN 



Monday, March 23, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 

---------------·----------------------------------------------------------­
CROSSWORD 
Across 33 Some glazc;d 63 Funnyman Jay Ballet bend 
pottery 64 Morales of 38 _ de France "NYPD Blue" 5 Stogie 39 Philip who wrote 65 The former Mrs. 

10 "Kapow'" 
"GOOdbye, McCartney 14 Optimistic Columbus• 66 School where Aldous Huxley
15 Zee: English:: 40 Joy's partnor taught George :Greek 41 Capital NNW of 
Orwell 16 Seized vehicle Copenhagen 67 "Stop it!" 17 "Dies _. (Latin 42 Funnyman 68 Pricey seating hymn) 
Philips areas 43 Any of the .Ionas 69 Ripped 18 One of 24 for 

Brothers, e.g.

pure gold 45 "Divine Comedy" Down19 Animals that writer
might hear "gee· Light refractor 
47 Attacked 

and "haw" 2 _Doone 48 Lord's Pray·~r cookies
20 What a person 
phrase before

in an emergency 3 Sci-ti writer 
•as it is in 

might have to Asimov 
heaven"

make 4 Pirate costume 
51 Prefix with 
feature23 Portuguese 

national or ~train

colony until 1999 5 Pepsi alternative 
55 Breakfast brand 
6 Apple computer24 Benedict XVI, 

since 1928 that 

e.g. 7 Ex·Spice Girl
hints at the 
HalliWell

28 Snares starts of 20·, 33· a Showing shock
and 43-Acrc·ss

32 Poetic da·DUM. 
9 3:1 or 7:2, e.g.

da-DUM, cia­59 Unilever swab 62 Poet T. S. __ 10 Novelist Emily or
DUM, e.g. 
Charlotte 
11 _ Luthor of 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
"Superman" 12 Mimic 13 Tue. preceder 21 Uncool sort 
"'"'+""+·"'+''-I 22 "This.round's 
25 Formal response ..:.:+=+:~;.~ to "Who's there?" 

B"'=t~::-t':±:+.::t~B..:.:+~'-:+'+.:-1 26 Guy27 Air-conditioning gas 29 Dog food brand 30 Crook, in cop -=-+"+=+'-1 lingo 
-=-t*..~:-1 31 Does the sidestroke or butterfly 
WILLSHORTZ 


Punle by David KW011g 

33Doctrine 44 Dog food brand 56 Double-decker 34 Uke Jupiter, but 
checker46La Brea 

not Zeus 57 Went on
attraction 
horseback35 Do penance 

49 Immune system 
58"Take_a

36 Together, to agent sign"Toscanlni 50 Sun: Prefix 59 Abbr. at the end37 Take five 52 Deceive of a proof41 Rare birth 
occurrence 53 Voice below alto 60 General on a Chinese menu
43Gilpinof 54"Sa ·n "Frasier" thi~. ~oii19 .. : 61 Writer Fleming 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best ot Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or vis!! nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: 1oday's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share lips: nytimes.comlwordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON 1'H1S DAY: Rc'<:se Wi!ltt,Tipoon, .U: Elvis Stojko. .\7; Mat· lllew Modi.!"'· 50: Bob Cost:~~. 57 
Happy Birthday; 'Be cru-d\d no! to let agjlrCSsive actirm be your mam m~thnd nf gettmg )'<>UI' way.ln>kad. use lhou!lllt pahcn'"' and )l~J<Xl lllllllajlem.:nt l'arti<:ipalion may uo! b.: y<>uT tlting hut it wi.ll hdi' you kno"i' b;,1tcr the pcopk with whom you are <lcaliu~. A well muud<:d outh>k will k•d to ronfideu•·e \our nmnbcrs arc 5. 17. 2.3, .H, 36, 41.44 
ARIES (March 21 ·April19): Involvement iumnmnu>ity c\'elllf. or makiuj! arljustnwrus to your o«·n hfestyle will hdp ym1 realize your potential.atld «·hat you can do to make a dtlk'reuce. A~'<Tel!W mdt\'tdual may try ttl cross you \\1th gosstp. **** 
TAURUS (Aprii20"May 20): Rdus.: to let anyone msh you into umking an important decisi•Jn. You have to proliX! your intcres.ls by finding Oll! all you can ocfore yon <kx'idc lo get in,'Oivod. Smnconc from your past may c~use problems for you again. ** 
GEMINI (May 21 "June 20): You ~lllllll!lkc some intricate move~ but, before you do, cou sider the consequences. You are likely to disrupt plans and lose a fncud in the process. Op Jl'>rtunitie~ ill:¢ present but it will be illlj)<)ttaut b\lw yo11 handle urnttCJ> ***** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Cbanp:iug things a bit will shnw others yon can be versatile. r\ 5bm1.trip will bring }'on to a plat:e youumy evrutual!y <:all home. Al~ltt.neNhipmay I>< on the wrFe of • breakdown-do what you must to save it or mow 011, *** 
LEO(July 23-Aug. 22); You des.:rve some &.1w11 time. Look at your options and make a d6Ci.~mn. The choice IS yours nlld the comfort and ;~ati"faetioro you rain ~·ill n<>T be a wa\tc of time. A lov~ relatiousbip i~ lookinl! ~00<!. *** 
VlROO (Aug. 23~Sept. 22): Your mind will he on a job thatu.x•,:L• to lll! done, so jm>t ~et 10 it and do your l>e8l. Srnneone you love mar be disapJ.K)imed wiil1the ded,ions rou make. Try 10 make it up lo hiru or h,,r. *** 
UBRA (Sept. 23 -Oct 22): You can mah' some i!lterestiug_ connections if you tlf:t\l:od or atteud a scmmar or tmdesbow. A new way of dow): things will enhance somellung tlJal you already do IWll. g,ivi.ng you cbc edge wben it comeo~ to perfonnauno. ***** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21}; Don'! let emotionalmattm cause you to llli$S out on some· thing you'w bi.'cn lookiuj! forward to. Youllllvc to indulp.r yourself oucc iu a while. A chang<' of plntl'< will kcefl life interesting and hdp yon clear up so11re of tht• mwcrtainti~ you've ike!J feelin~. ** 
SAOTITARIUS (Nov. 22-De~. 21): Dnn'll\1\'e in to anyone trying to 11et yuu to do ~()Jue1l!ing you !kill'I want !o do. It may change the dyn~unin of your rdahouship bm that is probably owrdu" m1yway, Focu~ on the thiu!;!S you like to do aoo you can book up with ~omeooc with whom you ba\'r: plenty in conunon. **** 
CAPRICORN (Dec, 22-Jan. 19): Someone will not like wluu you are tl)'lll!! to do or tlle chaniles you are making to ihe way you earn your h~in~. Keep things a secret for now. until yon have the r:onfideuc.: aud kuowkdge to >tantlup to any opposition yonmi~bt fac.:. lxm't ~ive in to IJre>sure. *** 
AQUARlUS (Jan. 20-r<eb. 18}; You'll be cmotiollal about a past rdatiouslup Don't )!JVC in because you are atraid of being alone I!\ tmly a matter of !nne be!t'Jre you meet sollte one new. C'..et om and retm\·olvd iu thi11gs you enJOY, *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Y11u may want tl> kwp thing.," "'cn:t. "'l"'<'ially if it will tau~ 'omcont to dmlleng,, you. Focus on dcvdopnwm and smtt<:!!Y· If somct>nc pushes you, push had.. *** 
Birthday Baby: You :tre powerful,"""'"~"'!! and work well wilh otlwn;. You don't mind change. You strive for Jl''ffeetion and quality. 
WWW.8LACK00GCOMIC.COM 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


THE DOME PIECE 
"YIRTUAJ. 
R6AJ./TY'• 
Resl!Fe 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City __________ State ____ Zip_______ 
JUMBLE 

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NALST 

() I [J 
¢)2009 TribUI'Ie Media Servires. Inc. 
i¥fi II I I 
ITROBEHj

(J [ I I 
Answer here: [I I I J" [II I]" 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) 
PUDGY JUMBO JOCKEY EXEMPT
Saturday's Jumbles: 

Answer: How the parents wanted to keep the college grad's room -EMPTY 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Mike Argirion and Jeff Kourek 


Now arrange the circled letlers to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon. 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, March 23, 2009 
page 28 
HocKEY 

Motor City comeback 
Irish score five straight 
Enjoy the Mason Cup, goals to beat Michigan but expect one more and win CCHA crown title to come in April 
DETROIT-With a No. 1By MATT GAMBER ranking, the best record in col­
Sports Ediror 
lege hockey (31-5-3) and an 
appearance in last year's 

DETROIT-Notre Dame need­National ed to do something it hadn't done Champion­all season to accomplish a goal ship game the Irish have had in their sights it's easy to since October, and coach Jeff overlook a Jackson's squad came through. CCHA title. 
No. 1 Notre Dame (31-5-3) Irish coach overcame its first 2-0 deficit of Jefl' .Jackson the season with five unanswered certainly goals to beat No. 3 Michigan 5-2 has not. and capture the program's sec­Expect­ond CCI-lA tournament champi­ations have onship in three years. been high in 
Goals from sophomore for­South Bend wards Calle Ridderwall and Ben all year. The Ryan in a 50-second span in the fans, the third period's first two minutes media and started the Irish onslaught that the team all feel that if the sea­turned a 2-1 lead into a 3-2 son were to end next weekend deficit for the Wolverines (29-11-it would be a disappointment. 0), the conference's No. 2 seed. But that doesn't mean winning 
"That's why you play 60 min­the Mason Cup should be over­utes," Jackson said. "It was just WU YUEffhe Observer looked. It is a diiTicult trophy to 
The Irish pose around the Mason Cup after they defeated Michigan 5-2 in the CCHA Championship see CCHA/page 25 game Saturday night. The win is Notre Dame's second conference title in three years. see MASON/page 25 Dan Murphy 

Senior Staff Writer 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame ousted from NCAA first round by Minnesota 
But all those factors couldn't (20-11) advances to the second McGraw said. going to do."
Team suffers from 

overcome familiar foes -3-point round of the Ohm finished with 15 points. Fox Junior guard Ashley Barlow led early deficit vs. Gophers defense and rebounding -and Tournament See Also was 7 -for-17 from field goal nmge the Irish with 20 point<; on 7 -of-16 Notre Dame's NCAA Tournament against No. 2-and had lbur assists <md four steals shooting. Junior guard Melissa
"Same old

run ended early. seed Texas as well. When junior guard Brittany Lechlitner had 16 points, seven of
By BILL BRINK 

Minnesota senior guard Emily A&M, who problems haunt McCoy got into foul trouble early, them in a second-half run that 
Sports Writer 

Fox had 23 point<; and junior guard beat No. 15-Fox took over and played 38 min­brought the Irish within two. 
Irish."

Katie Ohm hit five 3-pointers during s e e d utes ofgood basketball. The rebounding differential 
The Irish had a home-court the No. 10-seed Gophers' 79-71 win Evansville 80-page 22 "[She's al great shooter, can do it played a large role in the game. advantage. local fans and a second­over No. 7-seed Notre Dame 45 Sunday. oft' the dribblP," Lechlitner said. Minnesota out-rebounded Notre half run that had the Joyce Center Sunday at the Joyce Center. "Same old "Obviously we didn't look at the Dame 45-32 and 34-21 on the jtm1ping and the team down just The Joss knocks the Irish (22-9) story, every game, we can't defend scouting report because she did two points. out of the Tournament. Minnesotc't the 3-point line," Irish coach Mullet exactly what we knew she was see NCAA/page 22 
FooTBALL 

ND starts spring practice 
By SAM WERNER Associate Sports Editor 
Just less than three months after their dominating 49-21 win over Hawaii in the Hawaii Bowl. the Irish were back on the field Friday for the opening of spring practice. 

Starting with Friday's session. Notre Dame will have the NCAA-regulated 15 practices, culminating with the Blue-Gold spring game on April 18. Bt>fore the team took the fiPld. Irish coaeh Charlie Weis met with the media to go over the spring depth chart and his goals for the ofT-season practices. 
Weis first went over the play­ers who would be limited for spring practices. Notable inclu­sions were freshman right 
see SPRING/page 22 


FENCING 

Squad finishes second to Penn St. in NCAAs 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 

Hardy does a team tlmt finishes first ove;·all in Lh() regular soa'lon feel as though it has something to prove, but the Irish fimdng team lnll thn strip on Sunday wanting tn prove a litLIP bit more. 
The Irish fi~n(:ers finished sncond overall at tlw l()(J<J NCAA Fnndng Championship in StatP Collegn, Pmm., finishing with I1-12 wins ow~r tlw weekPml. Thn Nittany Lions, favorod early in the sea'ion to win it all, captured their II th ehampi­onship in the la<>t twnnty years witl1 195 win<>. Hival Ohio State finishnd in third with 16(, wins. 
"We just mobiliznd all the energy, everything to fight," Irish eoaeh Janusz Bndnarski said. "We had a very good season and in general, many teams wantnd to be second. We arP not happy anyway bneau'le we have a bigger appetite, but we have to wait until next year." 
Dnspitn falling short of thf~ir ulti­mate goal, the Irish turnPd in impressive performann~s each day of' the competition on both the men's and wompn's sides. Bv the end oftllP championship, tim s'quad 18atured I 0 All-Anwricans and two silvnr mnda.lisl<>. 
In wompn's fiJi! sophomorP llayl<'y Hneso advanced to thP semifinals wlwn• she upsHt top-sPPdnd Oksmm Dmytruk of Ohio State, 13-11, to advance to the gold medal bout. Heese had to settle for silver, tlmugh, after falling to Penn State's Doris Willette 15-5. 
see FENCING/page 22 







