
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND admits 1,733 early 
Admissions office reports second-highest number ofapplicants in history 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
The University was unsure ifthe struggling economy would cause a decline in the number of appli­cants for the Oass of 2013, but the Office of Undergraduate Admissions was pleased to receive the second-highest number of applications in history, said Dan Saracino, assistant provost for Undergraduate Admissions. 

Students packJACC to cheer on Irish tnen 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
With football season novy over and the winter sports season in full force, even more students have shifted their support of Irish athletics from the field to the court. 
Led by last year's Big East Player of the Year, Luke Harangody, the Fighting Irish men's basketball team has start­ed the 2008-2009 season with an impressive 12-4 record. 
see BASKETBALL/page 4 
However, while the University received about 14,000 applications after the regular action deadline passed about two weeks ago, exceeding last year's number, the economy could be a factor in the decrease in applications from two years ago, Saracino said. 
"Very few schools are reporting record numbers," he said. 
Saracino said he attributes part of the increase in applications from last year to the decision to use the Common Application, which allows students to fill out a general application that will go to several colleges and universities. 
The Admissions Office will be reviewing the regular action appli­cations through March, but they have admitted 1, 7 33 students early action, 200 more students than were admitted under early action last year, Saracino said. 
"We are using the same stan­dards we used last year, and we 
see ADMISSION/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 

Reish, Schmidt plan for end of term 
Student gov't bodies prepare topics to cover during Spring semester"'over Winter Break 
said. 
Reish told The Observer COR members also compiled ideas for what their group will tackle this semester. He said most of the suggestions were not part of the duo's ini­tial campaign. 
Potential topics of discus­sion in COR in the upcoming weeks include a possible increase in the student activi­ties fee to provide funding for a spring concert of lecture series and a reevaluation of the football ticket lottery poli­cies, specifically home game ticket exchange. 
Reish said the student body can expect progress updates from the numerous student 
see REISH/ page 6 


ByJENNMETZ News Editor 
Student body president Bob Reish and student body vice president Grant Schmidt have quite the agenda to complete before their term ends April 1. 
Over Winter Break, the two were at work. making lists of what they hope to accomplish in their remaining months in office, including more resolu­tions passed in the three stu­dent government bodies: Campus Life Council (CLC), Council of Representafives (COR) and Student Senate. 
"If we get a good majority of those done we'll consider ourselves successful," Reish 

Fitness classes free for week 
Smnple period ends Sunday; RecSports online registration starts today 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
Pedaling up hills and down, over straightaways and through to the finish, 20 stu­dents completed the Tour de Rock Wednesday. 
Though snow covered the ground outside and tempera­tures stayed in the single dig­its, in the basement of Rockne Memorial Gym, there was more spandex than sweaters. 
Angela Gallagher, a pedi­atric speech therapist at St. Joseph Medical Center in South Bend by day, teaches three cycling classes at Notre Dame, including the "Cycle N 
see RECSPORTS/page 4 

Activists share stories to begin MLK celebration 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
Saint Mary's College MulticUltural Services and Student Programs hosted a discussion panel Wednesday in order to begin the celebration of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. 
The panelists' discussion focused on the importance of nonviolent protest and community organiza­tions. 
The panelists included Paula Crisostomo, who is portrayed in the movie 'The Walkout," opening in March 2009, Joanne Bland, co­founder and former director of the National Voting Rights Museum and Institute in Se!Ipa, Ala., Lynn Coleman, Assistant to the Mayor of South Bend, and Gladys Muhammad, Associate Director of the South Bend Heritage Foundation. 
Monica Tetzlaff, facilitator and director of the Civil Rights Heritage Center at Indiana University South Bend (IUSB), led the discussion by asking the panelists questions. 
Saint Mary's Assistant Professor of History, Amanda Littauer, gave a brief presentation about the strug­gles of African American women who fought for civil rights at the start of the program. 
Part of the presentation included a showing of he trailer for the film "The Walkout," based ·on Cristomo's story. In 1986, she led a walkout involving Mexican­American students in five East Los Angeles high schools protesting their substandard education. 
see MLK/page 4 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, January 15. 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Secret life of anNDteen 
Look for me Mondays at 8 p.m. and you'll find me plopped on my futon par­taking in my embarrassing, but com­pletely necessary guilty pleasure: watch­ing "The Secret Life of the American 
Teenager." 
Here's a recap for those of you who aren't as unhealth­ily obsessed as I am (That number is probably smaller than you think). 
The show revolves 

around Amy, a painfully na"ive high school freshman who gets knocked up one time at band camp. Ben, an equally na"ive and doubly annoying freshmen, is Amy's boyfriend turned husband, but not the father of Amy's baby. Ricky, the school player, is the father of Amy's baby. He is currently sleeping with the school slut, Adrian while dating Grace, the ultra-Christian, sworn virgin-until­marriage cheerleader. Oh, the drama. 
"The Secret Life" is complete with hor­rendous acting and hard to believe story lines. It is ABC Family's car accident that I just can't peel my eyes away from. With the start of the second season (How did it make it to season two?), I have made a list of the top five most ridicu­lous moments: 
5. When Grace's mentally handicapped brother calls a prostitute (Stifler's mom) and he pays her $200 to be his date for the night. Nothing happens, don't worry... This is only somewhat ridicu­lous because one of the only scenes with decent acting. "" 
4. When Ben confesses his love for Amy after about two weeks of dating... Oh, and he also pictures her in the hall­ways at school after she drops out hop­ing it will make her come back... How she doesn't find this freaking creepy is beyond me. 
3. When Ben and his best friend, Henry are on the phone with Henry's girlfriend trying to guess who she fanta­sizes about when she flies solo. (They think it's Shia Labeouf. Turns out, it's really Henry.) Meanwhile, she's in the car with her mom while she is having this conversation... This was at least amusing, but still a ridiculous conversa­tion to be having with your best friend, your girlfriend and her mom. 
2. When every single one of the high school characters goes to get fake IDs, which are being produced out of an empty classroom in the high school by a 16-year-old boy with a lisp. Each kid gets his br her picture taken through a hole in a large cardboard cutout of the same Nevada driver's license. It actually passes as an ID so that Amy and Ben can legally get married... Sorry, just doesn't happen, or all of us underclassmen would be buying our own beer for this weekend. 
1. When Grace and Ricky are baking cookies together and Ricky seductively licks the dough off of Grace's finger. She then nervously asks (on ABC Family mind you), "Does this count as oral sex?"... Seriously? 
Sadly, she was, and so is this show. But if you can look past the absolute absurd­ity of it, I'll bet that you'll soon be join­ing me in my pathetic addiction. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
There are three errors in the Jan. 14 edition ofThe Observer. Due to an editing error, the headline "Meeks drops 54 in Kansas rout" is incorrect. Meek.Yplays for Kentucky. Due to a reporting error, in the arricle titled "Two for the show," Christine Sinclair was said to play for Portland Srate. She played for The University oEPortland. Due to an editing error in the article tided "Incomplete Irish squad impresses," Coach Joe Piane's name was mispelled. The Observer regrets these errors. 
Sarah Mervosh 
News Wzre Editor 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE BEST THING YOU RECEIVED FOR CHRISTMAS? 




Deepali Doddi Eric Fahrenbach Michael Chieffo Richard Roggeveen Tim Ryan 
Second-year law freshman jf'eshman senior freshman off-campus Knott Siegfried St. Ed's Keenan 
,
"A guitar. "Notre Dame "7o-degree "An iPod "Trans-Siberian 
,
sunglasses." weather. Touch." Orchestra 




OF'FBEAT 
Police say NJ man posed as female veterinarian 
VINELAND, N.J. ­Police say a New Jersey man posed as a female animal doctor, ran an ille­gal veterinary practice and set up a phony rescue agency that may have duped pet lovers out of thousands of dollars. Vineland police arrested 26-year-old Daniel C. Tyee on Friday and charged him with practicing medi­cine without a license. He is being held on $10,000 bail. 
Police say he ran a busi­ness called South Jersey Small Animal Rescue, 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
.... 
ct 
(,) 



0 
HIGH 4 HIGH -4 HIGH 2 HIGH 20
..... 

LOW -6 LOW -20 LOW 2 LOW 13 


Atlanta 37 I 14 Boston 15 I 1 Chicago -1 I -12 Denver 43 I 28 Houston 57 I 33 Los Angeles 81 I 49 Minneapolis -3 I -19 New York 20 I 5 Philadelphia 23 I 9 Phoenix 75 I 47 Seattle 55 I 39 St. Louis 13 I 0 Tampa 65 I 38 Washington 29 I 12 
falsely identifying himself as Dr. Danielle Smith, a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania veterinary school. 
Police say he inoculated pets and offered small animals for adoption for a fee. He also solicited donations, claiming the agency was a nonprofit. Authorities say it was not. 
Gun goes off in Utah restroom, shatters toilet 
CENTERVILLE, Utah ­The man escaped with a few cuts to his arm, but the toilet made out much worse. 
Police say a man's gun 
fell out of its holster while he pulled up his pants after using the bathroom at a Carl's Jr. restaurant Tuesday. The gun fired · when it hit the floor and 
shattered the commode. 
A few shards of porce­
lain cut the man's arm, 
and a woman in an adja­
cent restroom who was 
frightened by the noise 
reported she was having 
chest pain. Both people 
were checked at the scene 
and released. 
No charges are being 
filed. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
tickets." 
IN BRIEF 
University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh will speak about his friendship with Dr. Martin Luther King and his own experiences in the civil rights movement today at 7 
p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. 
This week's SUB Movie, "Body of Lies," will be shown tonight at 10 p.m and Friday and Satruday at 8 
p.m. and 10:30 p.m. in 101 DeBartolo Hall. 
Josh Dorfman, the founder and CEO of Vivavi will deliv­er a lecture titl~d "Peering into the Green Future: The Trends and Innovations Forgin an Abundant Society in Balance with Nature" Friday from 10:40 a.m. to 
12:10 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
The Student Activities Office will host Late Night Ice Skating Friday from 9 
p.m -11 at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. The event is free to Notre Dame students with an ID. 
"Brian Brushwood: Bizarre Magic" show, which will take place Saturday from 9 p.m. -11 in Washington Hall, is free and open to students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. 
RecSports is offering a pro­motion called "Try it, you'll like it." Fitness classes are free until Sunday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event 
SUNDAY MONDAY 
*&..* * 
*
* *~** 

Observer The statues of the late Fr. Ned Joyce and University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh weren't spared from this week's near constant snow­fall. 



Thursday, January 15, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Ru:m_ Runner's changes na:m_e 
Popular bar leaves the franchise, becomes J& SPot-of-Gold Bar and Grill 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
Students who tried to head out for 75-cent well drinks at Rum Runner's last night may have been surprised to find a plastic sign reading J & S Pot-of-Gold Bar and Grill covering the usual tropical­themed sign. 
The Bar and Grill, owned by Shirley and John Witmer of Niles, Mich., which became a Rum Runner's franchise in 2002, is no longer associated with the Raleigh, 
N.C. based company. 
Shortly after the new year, the Witmer's dropped the brand name, in favor of their legal business name, according to a recent article in the South Bend Tribune. 
J & S Pot-of-Gold Bar and Grill manager Casey Constant was quot-
Write n. 

ed by the Tribune saying the Rum Runner's franchic;e "required three to fotrr nights a week of [the duel­ing pianos] to maintain the fran­chise name. 
However, at the 236 S. Michigan St. location, the dueling pianos show only took place on weekends while there was occasionally other local entertainment scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday nights. 
"In a major metropolitan area you could do that every night. But we see a lot of regulars who go out the same night every week so you need to change it up," he told the Tribune. 
The restaurant is still going to host a live piano bar show on Saturday and Sunday, with the entertainment starting at 8 p.m. and the doors opening at 5 p.m., according to the voice mail mes­sage received when calling the location. 
It will also continue to offer 75­cent well drinks on Wednesday nights and Thursday will be $2.50 You-Call-It with no cover charge. There will also be karaoke on both nights. ' 
The location's hours will remain the same: opening at 5 p.m. on Wednesday, Thtrrsday and Friday and 6 p.m. on Saturday with a clos­ing time of 2 a.m. The restaurant is closed Sunday, Monday and Tuesday night. 
A new Web site is under con­struction according the voice mes­sage, but anyone interested in the entertainment schedule can call the location at (574) 288-5977. 
Ifyou're a diehard Rum Runner's patron and want to genuine fran­chise entertainment, the nearest location is in Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
LIZ HARTERfThe Observer Pot-of-Gold Bar and Grill, formerly part of the Rum Runner's franchise, will remain in the same location. 



Prof. backs Bush on Iran-Israel 
Special to The Observer 
The reported derision of President Bush to deny Israel's request for assistance in bomb­ing Iranian nuclear facilities was helpful not only to the stability of the Middle Eastern region, but also to the maintenance of inter­national law, according to Mary Ellen O'Connell, Robert and Marion Short Professor of Law in the Notre Dame Law School. 
The New York Times reported on Jan. 10 that President Bush had denied a secret request by Israel last year for specialized bombs to be used for an attack on Iran's main nuclear complex. 
"The reports say the president acted out of concern that bomb­ing would further destabilize the Middle East," O'Connell said. "It is important to note that such bombing would also violate international law. The U.S. issue with Iran is over violating the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. 
"We have been telling Iran it has serious obligations undnr international law. But there is no obligation more serious than the prohibition on the use of force. Supporting that obliga­tion is the surest way to a more stable Middle East. The presi­dent acted wisely," she conclud­ed. 
O'Connell. author of "The Power and Purpose of International Law," has written and leetured on international legal regulation of the use of force and con11ict and disput(~ resolution, _especially peaceful resolution of disputes prior to an escalation to armed conf1ict. Partieularlv interested in the possibility of a classical revival in international law, she has been active in the American Society of International Law, the International Institute for Humanitarian Law, the International Law Association. and the Council on Foreign Relations. 

.------------------­
page4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 15, 2009 
Adnlission 
continued from page 1 

found that there were 200 more students that we wanted to admit," he said. "We are pleased with the early action applicanl<>." 
The average ACT score was 33 and the average SAT score. com­posed of the combined critical reading and math scores, was 1451, Saracino said. These aver­ages are basically the same as the averages for early action last year. 
The st-udents accepted under early action also represent a wide range of ethnic, geographic and socioeconomic backgrounds, he said. 
Saracino estimated that the average SAT score for the accept­ed regular action students will be about 20 points lower. 
"With early action we ·are more selective, more cautious," he said. "Unless a student is clearly admis­sible, we don't admit them, we defer them, meaning we will look at them again with the regular action pool." 
However, Saracino said these averages give only a small glimpse to the profiles of accepted stu­dents. The most important factor in admission to the University, more important than test scores, is academic rigor, he said. 
"We look to see if the student has sought out the most demand­ing course load that their high school offers," he said. "The aver­age number of AP courses taken by admitted students is five." 
Saracino said the uncertain economy could also adversely affect the number of accepted stu­dents who elect to attend Notre Dame. 
"We are wondering how the economy is going to impact the yield, or the percentage of admit­ted students who say yes to you," he said. "Our yield has always been one of the highest in the country." 
The desirable size lor the incom­ing freshman class is 1,985 stu­dents, and the Admissions Ofllce will not accept more studenl<> than in past years in anticipation of a lower yield rate, Saracino said. 
"We don't want to admit too many students and then lind out May 1 that we have too many stu­dents confirmed," he said. 
The safer course is to put more students on the waiting list and then admit them later if the yield is low, Saracino said. 
Despite the economy though, the Office of Financial Aid still guaran­tees that they will meet the demonstrated need of every stu­dent, so the Admissions Ollice can assure admitted students that their need will be met, which will hopefully keep the yield rate up, Saracino said. 
Saracino said many colleges and universities throughout the coun­try are accepting more students as a way to increase the college's rev­enue, but Notre Dame has no plans to increase the student body, despite the construction of new dormitories on campus. 
"My understanding is that the additional housing spaces will be used to create more comfortable situations in other residence halls," he said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 



MOLLY McGOWANfThe Observer Hundreds of students clad in Leprechaun Legion gr~en cheer at the men's basketball game against SC Upstate on Nov. 13. 
Irish 
continued from page 1 

For the rest of the regular sea­son, the Irish are set to face a challenging schedule of oppo­nents including many from the Big East, one of the nation's pre­miere college basketball confer­ences. 
With the team's ranking stay­ing consistently in the top 15, the campus atmosphere is hyped with excitement from the team's success. 
"Our team is amazing," fresh­man Nathan Feldpausch said. "All students should attend the games because it is especially enjoyable to watch a good team play." . 
The student section has been packed during each home game, with the eager fans cramming in to the Joyce Center from court­side to the upper bleachers. 
"It's really exciting to go to the games," Winny 1-Iu said. "The team is doing so well." 
Along with the normal cheers that students chant during foot­ball games, an array of other cheer tactics are also involved at basketball gam~s. 
"You get a cheer sheet that has information on players on the other team," Feldpausch said. "It's usually pretty funny." 
Along with the success of this year's team, the Irish currently hold the longest home winning streak in men's college basket­ball (44 games), a fact that con­tributes to high attendance at the games. 
"It feels like more and more students and fans show up each game, maybe to be a part of his­tory," freshman Garrett Campbell said. 
Currently there are three Big East teams in the top 10 of' the AP Top 25 poll. While the Irish will face two or these three teams on the road, including first-ranked Pittsburgh, the Irish have quality opponents who will make the trek to the Joyce Center 
These teams include fifth­ranked Connecticut, who comes to town on the Jan. 24. 
ESPN will broadcast the UConn game on College Gameday f'rom the Joyce Center beginning at 11 a.m. 
With seven remaining home games, it appears that the atten­dance at the games will only increase. 
'The fans are intense and filled with energy," said Campbell, "The student body is there f'or the team and everyone's pre­pared to let them know it." 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 


RecSports 
continued from page 1 
Sculpt" class offered Wednesday afternoon. 
"It's the most p,ffeetive workout that I've evp,r dmw," Gallagher said aftnr tlw hour­long class had finished. She taught the cycling elass last semester for the first time, but has taught other fitness classes at Notrn Damn for the past eight years. 
The class, one of over 50 fitness classes ofl'ered by RecSports, took the group of 20, mostly women, up three "mountains" in a former rac­quetball court that has been renovated with fans, a sound systp,m and pietun~s of bikers and naturP. scenes on the walls. 
RecSports has invitml Notre Dame students to sample all the courses it offers for frep, through Sunday. St!Jdents can sign up to take a elass for the semester starting today at 7:30a.m. 
Jennie Phillips, the assis­tant director for Fitness and Fitness Facilities in the Office of Recreational Sports, said the University has offered students fitness classes since the mid-1980s. 
Between May 2007 and April 2008, about 3,000 peo­ple participated in fitness classes, she said. 
People come to the elasses for the quality facilities, the enthusiastic instructors and a positive environment. 
"People will come if they are seeing that the classes are effective and they are having fun," Phillips said. 
The weeklong free trial period gives people a chance to experiment with classes like "Zumba," "Triple Threat," "Yoga" and "Cardio Funk," Phillips said. 
This semester RecSports added an "Aqua Drills" class, which consists of exercises in the deep end of the pool at Hockne Memorial. 
The popularity of fitnP.ss classes tends to increase in the spring, Phillips said. 
"Usually second semester we see a great number of participants because people have New Year's resolutions, they are getting ready for spring break and you can't really go outside. The big interhall sports like football are over," she said. 
The most popular classes last year were toning classes, like "Body Sculpt" or "Flex N Tone." Yoga was also a popu­lar class, Phillips said. 
Classes like "Cycle N Sculpt" help students manage stress and keep up their over­all health, including manag­ing weight, Gallagher said. Most students at Notre Dame spend long hours sitting and studying, she said, and taking time off to work out helps the brain function bettor. 
The regular fitness sched­ule begins Monday and most classes will end April 29. For the past five years, RecSports has offered a variety of free fitness classes during study days and final exam week at the end of the semester, Phillips said. 
Online registration begins today at 7:30 a.m. through recsports.nd.edu. Visa and Mastercard are accepted; and cash and checks are accepted at the Rolfs Sports Recreational Center front desk. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at. kriely@nd.edu 

'-----------,) Reminder <­
2009-2010 
Resident Assistant Applications 
MUST BE SUBMITIED BY 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 
16 
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE ONLINE AT: 
ORLH.ND.EDU 

OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
305 Main Building I Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone: 574.631.5878 1 FAX 574.631.3954 I E·Mail: orlh@nd.edu 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, January 15, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Vatican secret confessional opens up 
ROME -One of the Vatican's most secrecy shrouded tribunals, which handles confes­sions of sins so grave only the pope can grant absolution, is giving the faithful a peek into its workings for the first time in its 830-year history. 
The Vatican has long lamented that fewer and fewer Catholics are going to confession, the sacrament in which the faithful can receive forgiveness if they sincerely confess their sins to a priest. 
To combat the decline, the so-called "tri­bunal of conscience" invited the public into the frescoed halls of its imposing 16th-centu­ry palazzo for a two-day conference that ended Wednesday. 
Venezuela severs ties with Isreal 
CARACAS, Venezuela -Venezuela broke off diplomatic relations with Israel on Wednesday to protest its military offensive in Gaza, the foreign ministry announced. 
The decision by President Hugo Chavez's socialist government comes about a week after it expelled the Israeli ambassador in Caracas and seven embassy staff members to protest the Jewish state's actions in Gaza. 
Venezuela "has decided to break off diplomatic relations with the state of Israel given the inhumane persecution of the Palestinian people," the foreign ministry said in a statement Wednesday. 
Israel launched the offensive on Dec. 27, seeking to force the ruling Hamas militant group to stop rocket attacks into southern Israel. Palestinian authorities say strikes have killed more than 1,000 of their peo­ple. Thirteen Israelis have been killed, four by rocket fire from Gaza. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Obama's stimulus now $850 billion 
WASHINGTON -Barack Obama's eco­nomic recovery bill has grown to $850 bil­lion after negotiations with his Democratic allies in Congress, who have rewritten some of the president-elect's tax proposals and may drive the price tag even higher. 
For starters, Capitol Hill Democrats are trying to use the economic recovery bill to extend a tax cut for middle-to upper­income taxpayers despite concerns from Obama's transition team that it won't boost the economy. 
Apple CEO takes medical leave 
SEATTLE -Apple Inc. co-founder and Chief Executive Steve Jobs said Wednesday he is taking a medical leave until June, even though just a week ago the cancer survivor tried to assure investors and employees his recent weight loss was caused by an easily treatable hormone defi­ciency. 
Apple's stock dropped 7 percent. 
Jobs, 53, said in a letter last week that he would remain at Apple's helm despite the hormone problem, and that he had already begun a "relatively simple and straightfor­ward" treatment. But in an e-mail to employees Wednesday, Jobs backtracked. 
"During the past week I have learned that my health-related issues are more complex than I originally thought," he wrote. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Man must serve for decapitation 
INDIANAPOLIS -A former racing mechanic convicted of strangling his estranged wife and decapitating her to make her body hard to iden­tify must serve the 60 years to which he was sen­tenced, the Indiana Court of Appeals ruled Wednesday. 
Michael G. Albrecht had appealed after a Marion Superior Court judge refused to reduce his sentence or grant him a new trial in the 1992 murder of 31-year-old Cynthia L. Albrecht. Both Albrechts had been employed by different own­ers in the now-defunct Championship Auto Racing Teams. 
EGYPT 
Ceasefire negotiations intensify 
Deathtoll exceeds 1,000 as Egypt, Hamas work towards a 10-day ceaseftre deal 
Associated Press 
CAIRO -Egypt and l-lamas are close to a deal for a 10­day cease-fire between Israel and the Palestinian militant group in Gaza, where the death toll from the Israeli offensive exceeded 1,000, officials said Wednesday. 
Egyptian and llamas offi­cials expressed optimism that an agreement for a tem­porary halt in fighting could be sealed soon and present­ed to Israel. But even if all sides sign on, further talks will be needed to resolve contentious disputes over policing Gaza's borders and ensure a longer-term truce. 
"We're working with l-lamas and we're working with the Israeli side. We hope to reach an outcome soon," Egyptian Foreign Ministry spokesman Hossam Zaki told the British Broadcasting Corp. 
Nine Israeli human rights groups accused the army of endangering Gazan civilians and called for a war crimes investigation. The groups wrote to Israeli leaders that the Gaza campaign has left civilians with nowhere to flee. Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor said Israel supports freedom of expression, even if an opin­ion "is not based on any solid evidence and even if it is tainted with political bias." told the BBC, "I am opti­the leadership-in-exile, including 300 children and 
Guerrillas in Lebanon sent mistic now because I think which is largely based in teenagers. said Dr. Moaiya rockets crashing into north­there is no other choice for Syria and is seen as more Hassanain of the Gaza ern Israel on Wednesday for us.... This kind of agreement hard-line. Hamas officials. Health Ministry. The toll the second time in a week, can be done now, and I think however, insist that the included 68 Palestinians who drawing an Israeli artillery now there is good progress movement is unified, and it were killed or died of barrage and threatening to in Egypt. We hope that now was not clear if Hamdan's wounds Wednesday. More drag the Jewish state into a Egypt will contact Israel and tougher tone was a negotiat­than 4,500 Palestinians have second front. talk about all issues." ing tactic or a sign of divi­been wounded, medical offi­
Egyptian and llamas offi­But there were signs sion. cials said. Thirteen Israelis cials held intensive talks in l-lamas' leadership-in-exile Israel launched its offen­have also been killed, four by Cairo. Late Wednesday, Salah had reservations. Osama sive Dec. 27 to halt years of rocket fire from Gaza. al-Bardawil, a Gaza-based Hamdan, a leading l-lamas Palestinian rocket attacks. It Jakob Kellenberger, head l-lamas official, stopped short official in Beirut. said there has said it will press forward of the international Heel of saying l-lamas had accept­were still points l-lamas had until Barnas halts the rocket Cross. welcomed the three­ed the Egyptian proposal. He not agreed to. "We do not fire and receives guarantees hour daily lulls in the fight­told reporters that "we sub­agree with the initiative as it that llamas will stop smug­ing set by Israelis to let mitted our points of view" on stands now," he told Al­gling weapons into Gaza groups send in aid and assist the proposed deal. adding, Jazeera TV. through the porous Egyptian the wounded in Gaza. but he "We hope that this Egyptian The contradictory com­border. said more time was needed. effort will succeed." ments were the latest sign of The offensive has killed at "You must have access at 
Ghazi Hamad, another cracks between l-lamas lead­least 1,018 Palestinians, any time to people who are Gaza-based l-lamas official, ers under fire in Gaza and about half of them civilians, wounded," he said. 


Bin Laden message not seen as threat 
launch a jihad, or holy war, against raise money as part of their ongoing

Associated Press 
Israel and condemned Arab govern­propaganda campaign. The United 
ments as allies of the Jewish state. States promotes an alternative, hope­

WASHINGTON -The White House The audiotape, posted on Islamic ful ideology while continuing to part­said Wednesday that the recent audio­militant Web sites, was bin Laden's ner with over 90 countries to pursue tape believed to carry a message from first since May and came nearly three terrorists wherever they are," Osama bin Laden reflects the "isola­weeks after Israel started its cam­Johndroe said. tion" of the ai-Qaida leader whose paign against Gaza's militant l-lamas The al-Qaida leader also vowed that influence over the terrorist network rulers. the terror network would open "new has waned. "It appears this tape demonstrates fronts" against the United States and 
"Wherever he is, he's in a deep his isolation and continued attempts to its allies beyond Iraq and Afghanistan. hole," Vice President Dick Cheney said remain relevant at a time when al­He said President-elect Barack Obama in an interview Wednesday with PBS' Qaida's ideology, mission and agenda has received a "heavy inheritance" "The Newsl-Iour With Jim Lehrer." "He are being questioned and challenged from President George W. Bush -two does not have much impact on the throughout the world," said Gordon wars and "the collapse of the econo­organization as best we can tell." Johndroe, a spokesman for the my," which bin Laden said will render 
In a new message aimed at harness­National Security Council at the White the United States unable to sustain a ing anger in the Mideast over the Gaza House. long fight against the mujahedeen, or offensive, bin Laden urges Muslims to "This also looks to be an effort to holy warriors. 
page6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, January 15, 2009 
Panel 
continued from page 1 
Another film clip, "Bridge to Freedom," described the voting rights and segregation in Selma, Ala. in the 1960s. African Americans did not have the right to vote in 1965 in Selma, and faced discrimination. 
After the clips, the panelists responded to a series of questions, describing how they became involved in nonviolent protests and community organizations. 

"As a child, you've got to do what your parents do," Bland said. "[MyJ grandmother joined an organiza­tion called the Dallas County Voters League." 
Crisostomo followed in the foot­steps of her parents. Her mother was a community activi'lt. 
"She started taking me with her to her club meetings and her P.T.A. meetings, and then she started introducing me to people who were also active. Pretty soon I was part of a youth group, and in the begin­ning we just wanted to do some­thing to better our community," she explained. 
Coleman grew up in South Bend. Unlike Crisostomo and Bland, his parents were never involved in activism, but he felt drawn to the career path. 
"Oftentimes, you don't get a chance to choose your career. Your career chooses you," he said. 
Muhammad also grew up in South Bend, but saw the violence against the Civil Rights movement on television growing up. 
"My father, he brought us to South Bend because he didn't want 

us to grow up under the Jim Crow 
Laws," she said. "I remember dur­
ing the '60s when they were 
marching with Dr. Martin Luther 
King [ ... ] when they were putting 
the water hoses on people. I got so 
angry [. ..] I wanted to knoek the 
television set on to the floor" 
Her father taught Muhammad that violence was not the answer. 
"My father began to tell me, 'You can't beat them like that. You've go to turn the other cheek.' I learned the non-violent social change." 
Bland told the audience the 
activists were fighting for a difler­
ent kind of freedom. 
"Abraham Uneoln had signed a paper that said we were free, and we were not on the plantation any­more. There were other things that we still didn't have, that that paper that he signed didn't bring. I had that understanding as early as I can remember," she said. 
Panelists ehallenged student<; to graduate and promote nonviolent protests. Crisostomo also encour­aged students to talk to everyone around them, 
"We were talking to everyone. We were taking our demands and on a road show. We were every­where talking to people." 
The panelists agreed that their actions have had an impact on the world today. 
"Obama," Bland said. "lie and Hilary [Clinton] are poster ehildren for the history that I live. I'm very, ·very proud that one of them was elected. I'm even more proud that it was him." 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Heish said two more installments of the popular
Reish 
"Last Lecture" series are in 
continued from page 1 the works, with one tenta­
tively planned for February. government committees, as The dates and speakers will well as updates from the ad­be announced later in the hoc eommittee created by semester. University President Fr. John Over Spring Break, student Jenkins earlier in the year. government plans to issue a Heish is the student repre­second student census after sentative on the suceess of that commit-their survey tee. sent out to stu-
Issues that dents over Fall 
will be raised "A lot ofstudents are Break, Heish 
in upcoming often misinformed said. This time, CLC meetings however, ques­
about the legalities 
include the tions will be 
possible about off-campus more extensive, implementa­parties and and the results tion of a Good will be left to
off-campus living. " 
Samaritan the next admin­Policy at the istrators of stu­University. Bob Reish dent govern­
"We've got-student body president ment. 
ten advice from other university presidents on tho poliey," Heish said. 
The CLC will also work to establish clearer ruins and guidelines for students living off campus, Heish said. 
Discount booklets for busi­nesses in the South Bend area, one of the pair's cam­paign platforms, have been ordered and should arrive this week, Schmidt said. 
Student government ordered 800 discount book­lets, but has yet to decide how to sell or distribute them to students, Sehmidt said. 
An issue 
many students 
have expressed eoncern...over, Heish said, is that of off-campus safety. A student government ad-hoc committee will address the topic in the eoming semester, with hopes to clarify the legalities pertaining to off­campus living. 
"A lot of students are often misinformed about the legal­ities about off-campus par­ties and off-campus living," Heish said. 
Schmidt told The Observer their main goal is raising awareness about the laws of the state of Indiana and the City of South Bend, as well as University regulations outlined in "duLac: A Guide to Student Life." 
Plans for the realization of one of Heish's projects -a colloquium with other col­lege and university student governments -are in the works for a late March or early April event. 
He said many other student governments have expressed interest in coming to Notre Dame to "forge a relation­ship" but Heish said he is still working with the specifies of the conference. 
Some Heish-Schmidt eam­paign promises, like a com­plete online syllabus data­base, were too ambitious to complete in only one term. 
"We hope to leave April 1 with a firm outline of the online syllabus database. We realized it would take much longer time than just one year to develop a sustain­able, online database," Heish said. 
Another initiative that will be left to their successors is plans for an International Showcase, that will most likely be put together next fall. The Showcase would offer student clubs the opportunity to perform together in one venue. 
Schmidt told The Observer a number of groups have already committed to partici­pating in the event. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

Damage in Gaza totals $1.4 billion after Israel attacks 
seized the coastal strip in
Associated Press 

June 2007 and ousted the 
WEST BANK -Israel's forces of Palestinian fierce assault on Gaza 's President Mahmoud Abbas, l-lamas rulers has destroyed who now controls only the at least $1.4 billion worth of West Bank. buildings, roads, pipes, power "You cannot rebuild Gaza lines and other infrastructure without open borders," said in already impoverished terri­Tor Wennesland, the top tory, Palestinian surveyors Norwegian diplomat in the 
estimate. Palestinian territories. 
Arab and Western countries Yet ending Gaza's loekdown will be called on to foot much will require compromises that of the bill to rebuild -whieh seemed impossible before the Palestinian economists say Israeli offensive. could take five years or more. Hamas will have to relin­
The Israeli military says it quish some control by allow­has bombed over 2,500 ing a buffer force to deploy l-lamas-linked targets since on the crossings, most likely 
Dec. 27, including 250 tun­international monitors, nels the militant group used Abbas' troops or both. to smuggle in arms as well as Gatekeepers Egypt and large amounts of weapon Israel say there's no way stockpiles and rocket launch­they'll agree to give Hamas, er squads. viewed as a violent Iranian 
Even with the Israeli offen­proxy, a final say over who sive going full throttle, the and what enters and leaves international community is Gaza. But if they accept a starting to tackle the formida­new border regime with mon­ble postwar challenge. itors, that would inevitably 
Europe's top four fundraisers strengthen the Islamic mili­for the Palestinians -the tants' rule over Gaza. foreign ministers of France In any arrangement, rivals and Norway, the European Abbas and Hamas will have Union external relations com­to find a way to work jointly, Tens of thousands have voys of supply trucks most because of insufficient treat­missioner and the interna­not just to run the crossings been displaeed and the vast days during the offensive, but ment facilities. tional Mideast envoy -are but to oversee reconstruction majority of Gazans depend on aid workers say that's not "It was bad before, it's meeting in Paris on Thursday projects. The two have been food handouts. Power cuts enough to alleviate the crisis. worse now, and it's not get­to discuss Gaza's reconstruc­unable to come up with a are widespread and at least Even before the fighting, ting any better," said Maxwell tion and the possibility of power-sharing formula since 250,000 Gazans have been the blockade was pushing Gaylard, the U.N. humanitari­holding a new donors' confer­Hamas defeated Abbas' Fatah without electricity since Gaza close to the edge. an affairs coordinator for the ence. movement in 2006 parliament Israel launched its offensive, Unemployment had risen to Palestinian territories. 
The last one, held in elections. aimed at halting Barnas rock­nearly 50 percent, with an "Civilians are bearing the December 2007 at a time of Working out such under­et fire at southern Israel. Israeli export ban forcing vir­brunt of this destruction of renewed Mideast peace standings will take time, Sewage levels are rising tually all of Gaza's 3,900 homes and infrastructure." hopes, secured promises of something Gaza's 1.4 million precariously in rickety reser­manufacturers to shut down, Gaylard said that once the $7.7 billion in aid through people may not have. voirs. With nearly 4,000 the U.N. said in December. shooting stops, U.N. erews in 2010. However, donors may Israel says Hamas is using wounded, along with about Cash was scarce because of Gaza could quickly fix press­have a tougher time con­civilians as human shields 1,000 killed, hospitals are restrictions on bringing in ing problems, such as distrib­tributing large sums in the and hiding its weapons in increasingly overwhelmed bank notes, 80 pereent of uting more food and repair­eurrent global financial crisis. civilian areas. But the and the health system is close drinking water was substan­ing some power and water 
Another concern is whether humanitarian crisis is becom­to collapse, aid groups warn. dard, electricity intermittent lines. However, larger proj­a cease-fire deal will lift the ing more pressing every day, Thirteen Israelis also have and tens of millions of gallons ects would be harder to blockade Israel and Egypt according to the U.N. and been killed. of sewage were discharged accomplish if access to Gaza imposed on Gaza after Hamas human rights groups. Israel has allowed in con-into the sea every day is restricted, he said. 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Thursday, January 15, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,200.14 -248.42 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
486 58 3,330 1,899,048,110 

NASDAQ 1,489.64 -59.82 
fi!YSEm;> ·· ·~~11111! IIII'!Miil 'ml:ll,lll) 
S&P 500 842.62 -29.17 
,··NIKKEI (Tbl{yd,'\i itljfJ~I!rml!.li;'!';~lf~B 
FTSE 100 (London) 4,180.64 -218.51 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) -23.22 -1.37 4.53 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -3.15 -2.74 84.37 BJ( OF AMERICA CP (BAC) -4.23 -0.45 10.20 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -5.77 -0.64 10.46 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -3.66 -0.084 2.213 13-WEEK BILL +4.76 +0.010 0.110 30-YEAR BOND -4.04 -0.120 2.890 5-YEAR NOTE -4.69 -0.067 1.361 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.05 37.23 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -11.90 808.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.10 85.10 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 89.1950 EURO 1.3191 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2445 BRITISH POUND 1.4611 
IN BRIEF 
Dismal holiday sales continue into '09 
WASHINGTON -After the worst holiday season in 40 years, retailers face more sales declines in the months ahead as the recession deepens, job losses mount and consumers retrench further. 
Re·tail sales plunged 2. 7 percent in December, a record sixth straight monthly fall, and the first annual drop on govern­ment records dating to 1992, the Commerce Department said Wednesday. Last month's weakness -more than dou­ble what economists had expected -has extended into the new year with bank­ruptcy filings, store closings and more lay­offs. 
"Consumers are in deep hibernation, and there is no sign that they will wake up this spring or that the retail outlook will pick up anytime soon," said C. Britt Beemer, chairman of America's Research Group, a consumer research firm in Charleston, S.C. 
Oil prices rise to $39 a barrel in Asia 
SINGAPORE -Oil prices rose to near $39 a barrel Wednesday in Asia after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said a stimu­lus package could help revitalize the ailing 
U.S. economy. 
Light, sweet crude for February delivery was up 94 cents to $38.72 a barrel by midday in Singapore in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract rose overnight 19 cents to settle at $37.78. 
Bernanke said Tuesday that a $700 billion financial rescue program being discussed by Congress was needed to combat the worst financial crisis to hit the U.S. and the global economy since the 1930s. The stimulus pack­age "could provide a significant boost to eco­nomic activity," he said. 
Traders said low volumes in early Asian trading also helped spur volatility. 
"You're seeing a reaction to Bernanke's COJTiments and an illiquid market retrace toward $40," said Jonathan Kornafel, Asia director for market maker Hudson Capital Energy in Singapore. "We've also come off about $12 without a bounce, so it's a combina­tion of those three factors." 
Madoff continues to avoid jailtime 
Plea negotiations loom while police must take measures to protect investor's life 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Bernard 
Madoff returned to court in 
a bulletproof. vest 
Wednesday and won anoth­
er round in his fight to stay 
out of jail. But a larger issue 
loomed over the court: 
negotiations for a potential 
plea deal. 
Bail fights such as this 
usually carry motivations 
that are never stated on the 
court record, and the secu­
rities fraud case against 
Madoff appears laden with 
them. 
Experts say prosecutors 
may want him in jail to 
increase pressure on him to 
cooperate or to reach a plea 
deal more quickly. Or they 
might want to punish him 
for not cooperating enough, 
while yielding to public 
pressure to make an exam­
ple out of Madoff during the 
nation's economic troubles. 
"Like any defendant, a 
person who is already in 
(prison) has much greater 
incentive to resolve it than 
someone on release who is 
looking at a significant term 
if convicted," said Michael 
Garcia, the U.S. Attorney in 
Manhattan until days before 
Madotrs arrest. 
Madoff has become one of 
the most vilified men in 
America since he confessed 
to stealing $50 billion last 
month in what may be the 
largest Ponzi scheme ever. 
The scandal has touched 
every corner of the world, stant watch of armed Beach, Fla., and France. It "The means of communi­
wiping out life fortunes, guards and video surveil­must be finished..within a cating in the modern world 
decimating charities and lance in case he tries to flee. week. are endless and there's no 
apparently pushing one Madoff did not speak or Prosecutors have been restrictions on any of it," 
investor to commit suicide. show much emotion during making a strong push to Litt said. 
Investors are furious that the hearing, although he have Madoff jailed for mail­But defense lawyer Ira 
he has been allowed to privately conferred with his ing more than $1 million in Sorkin accused the govern­
remain on free on bail while lawyers. He left the court­jewelry ·to relatives and two ment of engaging in 
being accused of such a house and returned to close friends over the holi­"inflammatory rhetoric and 
sweeping fraud. house arrest in his $7 mil­days. Assistant U.S. hyperbole," saying he is 
So angr.Y that authorities lion Upper East Side pent­Attorney Marc Litt said already under such extreme 
have taken measures to house after a judge upheld Wednesday the gifts are fur­restrictions that it would be 
protect Madoff's life. He an earlier ruling that ther proof that Madoff "can­impossible for him to flee or 
arrived in court wearing the Madoff can remain on bail. not be trusted under any set send more valuables. 
bulletproof vest and his Judge Lawrence M. of conditions short of deten­The defense and prosecu­
apartment is also equipped McKenna did take Madoff tion." tion have been waging an 
with a panic button that lawyer Ira Sorkin up on his Litt noted there were no increasingly bitter battle 
allows him to notify security offer to provide an invento­restrictions on Madotrs visi­over the bail package ­
guards of anything suspi­ry of any valuables in the tors, cell phone use, com­partially a result of Madotrs 
cious. homes of Madoff and his puter use, e-mails and tex­perceived lack of coopera­
He is also under the con-wife in Montauk, N.Y., Palm ting. tion. 


Economy off to weak start in '09 
Associated Press In an unprecedented move last Philadelphia, Atlanta, Kansas City 
month, the Fed ratcheted down its and Dallas districts expected contin­

WASHINGTON -The U.S. econo­rate to hover between zero and 0.25 ued weakness or sluggish sales," the my started the new year on weaker percent. The Fed will keep rates in report said. "Expectations were footing as recession-shocked that range at its next meeting on mixed in the Cleveland district, and Americans retren.ched further, forc­Jan. 27-28 and probably for much -retailers in the Boston district were ing retailers to ring up fewer sales if not all -of this year, economists watchful." and factories to cut back production. predict. The Fed also has pledged to This week alone, regional depart­
The Federal Reserve's new snap­use other unconventional tools to ment store chain Gottschalks Inc. put shot of business conditions nation­revive the economy. itself up for sale and said it had filed wide, released Wednesday, suggested The recession, which just entered to reorganize in a Chapter 11 bank­the country's economic picture has its second year, already is the longest ruptcy, discount clothing chain darkened over the last two months. in a quarter-century and appears Goody's Family Clothing also filed for The outlook appears equally dim. likely to be the longest downturn Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, 
"Overall economic activitY" contin­since World War II. , and luxury department store retailer ued to weaken across almost all of Most retailers reported "generally Neiman Marcus Group Inc. said it the Federal Reserve's districts," the negative" holiday sales and are cau-was cutting about 375 jobs. report concluded. . tious about sales prospects in the "Many retailers became convince.d 
To help brace the economy, Fed months ahead, according to the Fed the Grinch did indeed steal Chairman Ben Bernanke and his col­report based on information collect-Christmas," Charles Plosser, presi­leagues have signaled that they will ed between late November and Jan. dent of the Federal Reserve Bank of leave a key interest rate at record­5. Philadelphia, said in a speech low levels for some time. "Many retailers in the Wednesday. 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, January 15, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
Perfecting a playoff 

P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jcnn Metz. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO._EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriariry 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 63 I-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-53!3 
NEWS DESK 

. (574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574} 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS • 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudenrs ofthe Universiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisernenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion .of , the rnajoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Lerrers to the Editor musr be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Oh&crver (USPS 599 2-4000) iB pub~.shcd Monday cluough Friday t-xcc:pt during cum and vacation periods. A sub6criptinn w ~ Observer .is $100 !Or nne academic year~ $')5 for one semesrer. · · """ 
The Observ!!t is published ar: POSTMASTER 024 St>uth Dining Hall Send addre~ rorrections m: Notre Daffi(;, IN 46556-0n9 The Observer Periodical posrage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing ()ffu:es. 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, tN 465'56-0779 
The Observer is: a member of th1: Associa.ted Press. AJI reproduction right.s ate reserved. ­
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Jenn Metz Fran Tolan Robert Singer Sam Werner Sarah Mervosh Scene 
Graphics Mark Witte Mary Jesse Viewpoint Kara King 
Sometimes the simplest solution is difficult to embrace or understand, especially when crowni11g a college football national champion. For more than half a century, an elite group ol' 
college football coaches and jour­nalists "selected" the champions through the AP, UPI or Coaches polls. Yet fre­quently they 
.could not agree 

at season's end. 
Gary Caruso 
Rarely did the top two ranked teams Play each other on • Capitol
Comments

New Year's Day. The system was replete with regional prejudices, closed-minded traditions and excuses. 
Most egregiously though, deserving·· teams were willfully slighted. Such were the 1968, 1969 and 1973 unde­feated Penn State teams. Only after years and enough sports writers lav­ishing imperviousness onto Penn State, did undefeated Joe P.aterno teams finally translate into championships. Ironically, in December 1973, the top six ranked teams were unbeaten although half of them had a tie on their records. Sports writers then, like their counterparts today, incessantly explained away their prejudices with the subjective excuse -lower ranked teams like undefeated Penn State played a weaker schedule. 
Notre Dame has fallen on both sides of those media excuses. In strict adherence to tradition in 1966, the Irish won the championship over an equally talented Michigan State whom they played to a tie in head-to-head competition. More than two decades later, Notre Dame suffered twice on the inconsistent application of the same standard. In 1989, voters used the head-to-head loss to Miami to logi­cally name the Hurricanes national champions. Yet, under the Bowl Competition system in 1993, both major polls listed a one-loss Notre Dame team behind a team they had 
beaten, a one-loss Florida Statn team. .Vot9rs wanted to give Coach Bobby 
Bowden his first national champi­onship using ridiculous excuses like "FSU only lost by a touchdown and on 
Notre Damn's lield." 
Eventually that outdated and closed thinking gavn way to more equitable efforts within the current Bowl Championship Series. A new selection process could only be better il' fnwer voters and more computations selected the king of football. It kept thn bowl system in tact, but still does not always determine the champion through play on the field. Now is the timn for the BCS to morph into the BCP -Bowl Championship Playoff. 
Some propose continuing the bowl series but adding a "plus ono" final game..Others suggest a straight playoff system like with the 24-team Division II system. won this year by the Minnesota Duluth Bulldogs. Thn plus one approach alone is a laeking solu­tion while the Division II schedule is overbearing. The solution is a playoff hybrid that. elevates three bowls on a rotating basis and pits the top four teams against each other with the plus one championship game played a week after New Year's Day. 
This year, imagine the Rose and Sugar Bowls host a semifinal round that produces two teams vying for the championship a week later in the Orange Bowl. Bowl participation would be upgraded and expanded. Four teams would now play head-to-head to determine a·champion. This season, half of the top eight ranked teams with one or less losses could partieipate. The goal to employ is to expand partic­ipation before championship play in the least disruptive manner. The BCP accomplishes that objective. 
The new BCP could also correct cur­rent deficieneies. First, undefeated teams like Boise State or Utah with a so-called "lesser" schedules might play the fourth ranked team in December to determine the fourth place seed in the playoff. No undefeated team should suffer the indignity of being perceived as less than worthy, especially when they win every game of their season. 
Secondly, the BCP should require that a conference present only one eli­gible team for the top four rankings at season's end. That way, four separate conferences and/or independent teams could participate in the two-week play­ofT. Who can contradict the assertion that given this year's bowl results, the PAC 10 may have had the strongest conference and best team with USC by New Year's Day? Imagine the excite­ment and caliber of a Florida-USC spectacle. 
Nothing in this new BCP proposal lessens the existing system except that two fewer teams would play in a bowl since the final two slots would be determined in other bowls a week before the championship game. It is more likely that a team such as Notre Dame with a 6-6 record this year would not be invited to a bowl unless another bowl was established. That is hardly a consideration when determin­ing who plays in a championship play­off. 
Now, the university presidents and bowl sponsors need to weigh the bene­fits of a BCP. Sending the top four teams into a playoff is fair and lucra­tive with more bowls participating in the championship, more teams vying to play for the championship and a more definitive way of crowning the champi­on. The BCP is so simple, even an aca­demic can understand its benefits. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"! like long walks, especially_ when they are taken b!f. peoplewho annoy me. 
Noel Coward English actor 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Dignity consists not in possessing honors, but in the consciousness that we deserve them. " 
Aristotle Greek philosopher 


.. 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Thursday, January 15, 2009 
page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Diversity needed in m.etal 
Dear Mr. Miller, 
Your article in Wednesday's Observer ("A simple plea," Jan. 14) piqued my interest. You see, like your friend Paul, I, too, am an avid listener of heavy metal. And while I agree that there is a cancer growing on the music industry, your characterization of it is wholly inaccurate. 
You claim that the music industry has manufactured genres in order to sell terri­ble music to easily malleable music fans. While this may be true, one of the primary laws of economics is that of supply and demand. Listeners would not be buying this "garbage," as you so subtly referred to it, if there were not a demand for it. Hawthorne Heights would not write songs like Ohio Is For Lovers (arguably the worst musical abortion ever foisted upon innocent radio listeners) were it not for the fact that there are thousands of black-wearing, MySpace­utilizing, poetry-reading Tim Burton-imitat­ing emo fans. 
My second point is this: you say that "genre-fication" is artificial. It may be in some mainstream music, but certainly not in metal. The reason there are so many metal genres is because of the style's rich history and divergent musical paths. A well­versed jazz listener can tell you the differ­ence between early, middle and late-period John Coltrane records, and can discuss the particulars of the subtle musical arrange­ments on Miles Davis' "Kind of Blue." 
Likewise, an educated metalhead can dis­course at length on the variations in style between Cannibal Corpse's early "Tomb of the Mutilated" and the more recent (and succinctly titled) "Kill." The worst examples of industry-based "genre-fication" in metal are insignificant compared to the revolting qualities of American Idol and any given song on pop radio stations. 
At the very worst, you'll hear people at concerts discussing whether a band is deathcore or death metal, or perhaps you'll find a sticker on a CD that deman·ds you purchase it if you like "Slayer, Lamb of God and Mastodon!" Compare this to the last 20 years of pop radio, which have largely been based upon bands saying, "Hey, remember that Nirvana song with the four chords? Let's do that for 12 tracks!" 
In conclusion, dear sir, if you want an example of "genre-fication," avert your eyes from metal and stare into the deep, dark recesses of the pop and rap music industries. Oh, and as for metal being the "most annoying form of music out there," I submit to you every Akon song ever written, which you can frequently hear being blared at 4 a.m. out of the dorm room next to mine. 
Now I'll go back to listening to The Dillinger Escape Plan (mathcore -yes, it's a genre), Opeth (progressive death metal) and Decapitated (technical death metal). 
Patrick Hernandez freshman Dillon Hall Jan. 14 

ND a good em.ployer? 
In Dec., Notre Dame received the 2008 Business of the Year Award from the Michiana Chapter of the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM). Those in the adminis­trative offices, the Office of Human Resources, Bob McQuade and members of the Notre Dame family around the world had reason to celebrate. 
Celebration ... we celebrate the victory for our University as a good business, and "among other things, its staff development and education programs, health care bene­fits." For this, Notre Dame has reason to be proud and to celebrate. 
However, for just one moment, we must remember, according to Pope Pius XI, "in the first place, the worker must be paid a wage sufficient to support him [her] and his [her] family." Beyond health care, beyond staff development, Pius XI tells us, first, the worker must be able to support himself/herself and his/her family. Hence, when workers work mopping floors in office buildings downtown by day and at some building on our campus by night just to eat, they are not earning enough from their work at our University alone to support a family. When mothers barely spend a waking moment with their children because they work the night shift in our academiC buildings and spend the day standing in lines with food stamps and sleeping when they can, we are not paying attention to the worker as a person. 
Pope John Paul II demands (making this not an optional choice), "We must pay more atten­tion to the one who works that to what the worker does. The self-realization of the human person is the measure of what is right and wrong." The question remains then ­does health care (while necessary and impor­tant) make up for the lack of a wage sufficient for living a dignified life -does staff develop­ment fill in the gaps where food stamps and poor living conditions cannot quite reach? 
Hence, Congratulations Notre Dame, for being the Business of the Year of 2008, we are quite proud of you. It is our prayer and hope to the God of the powerful and of those who have not yet realized the power within them­selves that in the coming year you might see what those workers you employ actually live through and experience on a daily basis out­side of your grand buildings, floors perfectly carpeted and walls freshly painted before accepting such an honor. 
We are ND, and are called to a higher stan­dard than this.We may not settle for less than our best when the quality and dignity of human lives are at stake. 
Alicia Quiros junior off campus Jan. 14 
U-WIRE 
File sharing helps more than it hurts 
·The thousands of students who illegally download music ofT the Internet should be feeling a little more secure. That's because last month, the Recording Industries Association of America-a trade group repre­senting the major recording labels in the music industry -announced an 
. end to its relentless campaign of filing expensive lawsuits against college students who engage in online me-sharing. Since 2003, the RlAA has specifically targeted college students because we b are unlikely to fight the charges in court·and will Ro ert 5oave instead settle out of court for $3,000 per case. 
After dozens of lawsuits brought the RlAA bad University of press, including cases where the organization was Michigan found to be suing minors, the deceased, and even Michigan people without computers, the RlAA has finally Dailychanged its tune and is now asking individual Internet service providers to do the policing them­selves. But just because the RlAA is done ripping off college students doesn't mean we should forget that me-sharing is still illegal. It's still pos­sible to get in trouble with Internet service providers because they have the power to slow or stop Internet access for those who are downloading. 
And that's a problem because file-sharing shouldn't be illegal, anyway. 
It's an easy philosophical argument. Stealing music over the Internet just isn:t really stealing. Music is only information, and information can't be stolen in such a way that the original information is no longer avail­able. If you take the disc-the physical disc that the information is on­then you've stolen because the owner no longer has access to that specif­ic disk. 
But just downloading a song online isn't technically stealing because you haven't prevented anyone else from accessing that information. What you did was essentially produce a copy -a copy that is the same as the original in every single way, but is still available to everyone else. 
In response to this line of thinking comes a deluge of criticism that all boil down to this fear: the artists aren't getting credit for their music and they won't be able to make a living anymore, resulting in the demise of the industry. But this fear is unfounded. Despite what the RlAA claims, record sales are not diminishing substantially because of illegal down­loads. The RlAA contends that every illegally downloaded song is lost rev­enue, but just because you downloaded a song doesn't mean you would have purchased it. A 2004 study conducted by economists entitled "The Effect of File Sharing on Record Sales" concluded that "downloads have an effect on sales which is statistically indistinguishable from zero." 
It may even be true that me-sharing is good for the music industry. The online community is a great place for new artists to gain exposure. You may not be willing to buy a CD by a band you've never heard of, but you'd be more likely to download it and listen to it-and then maybe you'll recommend this band to a friend who will buy the CD or go to the band's concert. You might even buy aT-shirt. 
Aside from the possible benefits offile-sharing, another good indication that downloading shouldn't be illegal is that so many people are doing it and very few people think it's wrong. The vast majority of American soci­ety does not break laws, and ifmany people are breaking them it proba­bly means the laws are flawed, not the people. A study conducted by the Solutions Research Group in 2006 found that only 38 percent considered downloading a copyrighted song to be a "very serious offense." Are the people who responded to the survey just immoral thieves? Not really. In the same study, 78 percent of people surveyed said that taking a CD from a store without paying was a very serious offense. Fifty-nine percent con­sidered parking in a fire lane to be very serious. So it's not that people are lawbreakers, it's just that laws against me-sharing are mostly pointless. 
With the RlAA backing off college students, it may be tempting to forget about the legal status of file-sharing. Though fewer lawsuits is a welcome change, there's no reason that anyone should be punished for download­ing, even with a punishment as trivial as a slowed Internet connection. 
Punishing illegal downloading just isn't necessary at all, because· far from stealing, file-sharers are actually giving musicians some positive press -and that's more than can b~ said for the RlAA. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 13 edition ofThe Michigan Daily, the daily paper ofthe University ofMichigan. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE


a score by Jonathan Bepler, a video design by Jacob Pinholster (whose credits
By ANALISE LIPARI 

include "Wicked" and "Spamalot"), and
Scene Editor frequent use of integrated text, dialogue January's offerings at the DeBartolo and protest footage, "underground" Performing Arts Center are off to a reflects the company's love of cross-disci­strong start tonight at 7 when the David plinary, collaborative performance art. Dorfman Dance opens a three-night run Surprisingly, these diverging elements of its latest program, "underground." work together to form a cohesive whole. First performed at the 2006 American "[They] don't feel like artsy indulgences," 
Dance  Festival,  "under- Joy Goodwin wrote in the  
ground" takes its cues from  New York  Sun  after  the  
the turbulence of 1960s poli­tics.  David Dorfman  November 2006 premiere of "underground" at the  
Black, white and shades of  Dance  Brooklyn Academy of Music.  
gray in American activism inspired the company to take to the stage with "under­ "underground'' Tonight  "They feel like building blocks of a lean, highly vis­ceral theatrical experience."  
ground," which is now tour­ing nationally. The program explores the context and activities of the Weather  ?p.m. Decio Mainstage Theatre  In a statement on the com­pany's Web site, Dorfman recalls being a young teenager during the  
Underground with an ener- Weather Underground's high  
getic, rock-heavy score and  profile series of riots, the  
exuberant  choreography.  "Days of Rage" in Chicago.  

"Underground," through the medium of "Although I was only 13," he says, '~too dance, seeks to ask questions about young to be protesting in the Chicago where the lines blur between activism streets, I remember being awed by the and terrorism. Does an idealized political audacity of the Weathermen." end justify violent means? The New York It is in the legacy of the group, however Times has called the program "a brave, -in its "principles, and also in its foibles ambitious departure from the norm," and its regrets" -that Dorfman finds the and it is sure to excite and intrigue audi­inspiration for "underground." "!The ences in the Decio Mainstage Theatre program] will explore the inside world of tonight. political activism; asking the questions: 
"Underground" will engage a variety of when can activism become terrorism ... media throughout the performance. With and is condoned or endorsed 
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 
killing/destruction ever justified?" Weathermen: the 2002 documentary 
The show's run at the Decio Mainstage "The Weather Underground," and the will also feature a "talk back" session 2008 film "Chicago 10." Audiences look­with David Dorfman after each perform­ing for more background on the move­ance. Audiences members will have the ment can watch either film to prepare for chance to speak to Dorfman himself the David Dorfman Dance performance. about the substance and style of "under­David Dorfman Dance is a New York­
ground"  in  based dance com­ 
what will likely  pany which  has  
be a question­and-answer  With a score by Jonathan Bepler, a  performed throughout  
format. David Dorfman Dance will no  video design by Jacob Pinholster (whose credits include "Wzcked" and "Spamalot''), andfrequent use of  Europe and the Americas. In the company's twenty­four year history,  
doubt chal­lenge, engage, and Founded in  integrated text, dialogue and protest footage, "underground" reflects the company's love ofcross-disciplinary,  it has produced both artistic pro­ductions, includ­ing 2004's  
1969, the Weather  collaborative performance art.  "Impending Joy," and community- 
Underground  based dance proj­ 

was an activist-turned-terrorist offshoot or the Students for a Democratic Society. The Weathermen, who took their name from a line in the Bob Dylan song "Subterranean Homesick Blues," are best known for a series of bombings and riots that lasted until the mid 1970s. 
The group resurfaced in the media recently after a connection between then-presidential candidate Barack Obama and William Ayers, a founding member, garnered media attention. 
The Browning Cinema also recently aired two films related to the 
ects both in New York_City and nationwide. 
Performances begin tonight at 7 p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theatre. There are also show~ on Friday at 7 p.m., and Saturday at 2 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. Tickets cost $40 for general admission, $32 for faculty and staff, $30 for seniors and $15 for all students. Contact the box ollice at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at performingarts.ild.edu for more informa­tion. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 


By STEPHANIE DePREZ Assisranr Scene Editor 

It is an honorable thing to celebrate base­ball season. My roommate avidly celebrates hockey season. We all gleefully (if not nerv­ously) await football season. But this, my friends, is the greatest season of all. Basketball season? Oh, no! It's awards sea­son! This fabulous time ofyear comes around every January -the glorious reprieve from the winter doldrums of post-Christmas time. While others are taking down holly and pack­ing up lights, Hollywood is rolling out the red carpet and shopping for diamonds. Competition to win everything from an Oscar to Best Dressed is in the air, and it is the grandest ofspectator sports. 
Awards season begins with the Golden Globes, kicking off the festivities in early January. They usually do a pretty good job of pmdicting the heavy hitters of the Hollywood Super Bowl held the last Sunday in February, the Academy Awards. In between we have the SAGs, the awards given by the Screen Actors Guild. Here's a breakdown of each awards ceremonies. 
The Golden Globes are awards given out by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, or HFPA. Hence all the winners thanking the "Hollywood Foreign Press." But who are these mad men (and women)? They are a group ofabout 90 journali'lts who are based out of southern California and write about ­you guessed it -movies and television. They attend all the usual press conferences and screenings surrounding the promotion of a picture. At the end ofthe year they get togeth­er and vote on the best of the best from televi­sion and motion pictures and host the Golden Globe Awards, which is basicallyjust a big tel­evised charity dinner. The HFPA is mostly funded by the Golden Globes, and they donate the money from the ceremony to various entertainment related charities. The lesson here? Ifa bunch of people witl1 the power to control the critical reception of your film toll you they want to host their own award'> show, you go with it. 
The Screen Actors Guild is thP muon for Actors who, well, do screen work (as opposed to stage), which ranges from movies to video games. They arA the actor's counterpoint to the lovely a.<Jsociation of writers who haltnd Hollywood last year with a strike and left us lacking a Golden Globes ceremony. like the Writer's Guild of America (WGA), SAG has been threatening to go on strike for pretty much the same rea.<;ons as WGA did la.'lt year, with internet rights and compensation for new electronic and alternative forms ofdistri­bution oftheir films. So far there ha.'l been no strike, but SAG is not yet content, and with good reason. Keep your eyes on these guys and let's pray it gets resolved nicely so we won't have another bleak season of never­ending reruns. 
The SAG awards are voted on by over 100,000 members. This is, for all intent'l and purpose, the most democratic award'l cere­mony. It is lbr actors by actors. It includes funky little categories like Best Stunt Ensemble. It also ha.'l my personally favorite categories: Best Comedy Series Ensemble, Best Drama Series Ensemble and Best Motion Picture Ca.'lt. These air Sunday, January 25th. 
Then comes the Big One, the Mother Load of Cinema Award'l: the Oscars! Hosted by thn Academy of Motion Picture Art'l and Sciences, these award'l arP hi'ltorically the most signifi­cant and tim ones people dream of winning. Tllis is the only ceremony with its own broad­ea.'lt of the nominee announcements, whieh will be Jan. 22 at 8:30a.m. The Academy Awards will be held February 22. 
The Academy was founded in 1927 by a bunch of Hollywood big wigs, and has about 6,000 members of producers, directors, actors, art directors and cinematographers. These guys are the cream of the crop in the cinema world and have a legacy longer than the HFPA or SAG, and therefore command the most respect when they decide to dole out awards. Their awards are strictly motion pic­ture oriented, so sorry, Tma, you can't pick up anything here. Unless of course they invent a category called We Thought Tma Fey Needed Another Award, which is always possible. But the real question is, why are they called the Oscars? Well, legend has it Margaret I Ierrick, Executive Secretary of the Academy back in the day, saw one of the first statuettes and said it reminded her ofher Uncle Oscar. 
So there you have it, awards season enthu­siasts. Go forth, now, and watch knowledge­ably, root lien~ely and bask delightedly in all the glitz and glamour ofthe next two months. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, January 15, 2009 
page 11 

Let the 
Browning inema 
If you are a fan of "Twilight," this movie 
be the thing to satisfY your craving for <>nr•thc•" vampire-human love story. Edward Cullen. In film,12-year-old Oskar is the victim of u•'"''"'"'ruu bullying from his intimidating and contde~;certdlrtg peers, but that all changes once he befriends 12-year-old Eli WhO has been Stuck as a nY'D·-TO<>n for many more years than normal. With the of Eli also comes the anival of suspicious pearances and gruesome murders, an indicator what might come when she eventually steps up defend Oskar. Be prepared to find yourself on emotional rollercoaster as you contemplate complex friendship these two children have and the decisions they make as they figure difficulties and their own blossoming love. are $6, $5 faculty/staff and $3 for all students. 
Browning Cinema 
Philip Seymour Hoffman, a chameleon .of whose recent roles have ranged from a officer and division chief for the CIA in 
's War" to a possibly homosexual priest "Doubt," steal<; the show as a theater director "Synecdoche, New York." The movie's title with words by rhyming with the location of movie, Schenectady, New York. Director, Caden Cotard (Hoffman) runs into a midlife crisis when 
wife leaves him, his relationship with a new 
falls apart and his health deteriorates. To 
past these negative baniers he changes loca­
and pours his soul into the production of hi'> 
masterpiece. Audiences will want to both 
and cry in this tragicomedy that tails the life 
a man dealing with the everyday battles of life. 
Tickets are $6, $5 faculty/staff and $3 for all stu-
Debartolo 
Looking for a fast pace thriller with twists and turns? Check ou•t the latest film by award winning director Ridley Scott ,,_,...,...,,..,.""• American Gangster, Black Hawk Down), "Body of Lies." The film pits operative Roger Ferris (Leonardo DiCaprio) against his handler Ed Hoffman (Russell Crowe) when Hoffman goes behind Ferris' back on a counter-terrorist operation in Jordan nearly getting Ferris killed and straining the operative's relationship with the head of the Jordanian General Intelligence Department, Bani Salaam (Mark Strong). Things get tense when Ferris falls in love with a Jordanian hospital nurse, Aisha (Golshifteh Farahani), and she is kidnapped. Tickets are $3. 
3:00 p.m., Elkhart Civic Theatre 
A performance full of danger, humor and a good dose of surprise that will keep audiences intrigued as they follow the story of the famous fictional detective Sherlock Holmes's final adventure. When the King of Bohemia is to be blackmailed by the famous opera Irene Adler, Holmes and his trusty ~'"''""'~'~ Doctor Watson jump into the mix solving and simultaneously trying to win hearts as 
mixed up in this mess of a case. Explore, 
and laugh with these two well-loved 
at the Elkhart Civic Theatre this weflkertd 
an adaptation that promises nothing less 
good dose of quality entertainment. 
Tickets are $13 for adults and $11 for stu­
and seniors. 

This is an easy way to diversify refried beans and tortilla. Melt it 3. For the dressing: mix one By MICHELLE FORDICE your trip to the Mexican bar. in the microwave before wrap­part ranch dressing with the ~ Assistant Scene Editor Popularized by the ever present ping it around the shell. chipotle sauce found by the Taco Bell chain, double-decker Mexican bar and then drizzle in
I Welcome back! Yes, it's time to tacos are a fairly successful Southwestern Chicken Salad a little bit of barbeque sauce. 
put our noses to the grindstone attempt to jazz up the tried and Some sort of southwestern 4. Top with either a crushedI again and carry on with the rest true entree. Thanks to Charlie salad is featured on a lot of taco shell, or grill a flour tortilla ~ ;t of the year. Soon the work is Vogelheim for submitting this menus in restaurants. Here's one in the Panini maker until it is Wgoing to be piling up like the idea. you can pull off in the dining brown and crispy and shred over -~­
1: snow outside, so make sure you 1. Head to the Mexican bar hall. the top (or serve on the side). · use your meals totake a real and select a taco shell and one of Thanks to Charlie Vogelheim1break from the day. the small flour tortillas. for inspiring this recipe and cre­Quick Tip 
School can be stressful; it is 2. Fill it up with your favorite ating the dressing. Crave those chicken poppersf important to take an hour for ingredients: beef or chicken, 1. Fill a bowl with romaine but mRde a New Year's resolu­, dinner, enjoy time with your cheese, lettuce, tomato, salsa lettuce, chicken (either use the tion to eat a little healthier? Use { friends, and take advantage of and beans. If you want to make diced chicken from the Mexican them as a topping to a salad. ~ the chance to eat something it a bit healthier, try using beans bar or shred your own from You'll get to enjoy them while ;· tasty. Endeavor to make sure from the salad bar rather than some of the grilled chicken getting your vegetables, plus you 
your meals aren't just another the refried beans (though they breasts), corn, diced tomatoes, won't need as many or the 
task in the day but something are pretty delicious.). black beans, cheddar cheese and sauces. 
you can enjoy. And as always, 3. Spread a thin layer of bell peppers (you may have to 
Dining Hall Dish is here to help. refried beans onto the tortilla. dice these.) llave your own dining hall 
This week's recipes: 4. Wrap the tortilla around 2. Select a few apple slices, recipe? We would love to feature the taco shell. For another twist, dice them up, and add them to it! E-mail Michelle Fordice at add cheddar cheese on top of the the salad. mfordice@nd. edu. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, January 15, 2009 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
After delay, Pitt holds on to No.1 at home 
Spartans survive scare from upset-minded Nittany Lions; Duke overcomes poor shooting to beat Georgia Tech 
advantage with 8:51 remaining. Fields hit a 3-pointer with 15:18 remaining to make it 50-44 and Biggs scored ahead of Brad Wanamaker's 3-pointer that gave Pitt its first double-digit lead at 55­
44. Young's 3 pu..'lhed it to 60-47. · 
Biggs' career high was 19 points last season, but he wasn't the lead­ing scorer in that game. 
"Is that right?" Biggs, a 6-foot-8 senior, said of his. fir§t team-leading performance. "Well; that's good." 
Among those finally reaching the arena was Steelers wide receiver Santonio Holmes, a former Ohio State player who sat in the student section and wore an "Oakland Zoo" T-shirt, like the 1,500 students who ring the courtside section for each game. 
Michigan State 78, Penn State 73 
Two of the Big Ten's best young point guards dueled down the stretch of a tight game. 
In the end, Michigan State's Kalin Lucas stepped up at the free throw line to stave off a furious comeback by Penn State and counterpart Talor Battle. 
Lucas went 6-of-8 from the line in the final 2 minutes and Raymar Morgan scored 17 points as the seventh-ranked Spartans nearly gave up a 17-point lead before holding on for a victory Wednesday night. 
"We had our hands full," Michigan State coach Tom Izzo said. "We were lucky to win." 
Goran Suton added 13 points and 14 rebounds for the Spartans (14-2, 4-0 Big Ten), who won their 1Oth straight and are off to their , best conference start since 1977­78. 
Down by 17 points with 13:39 left, Penn State (13-5, 2-3) mounted a furious comeback, getting within 71-70 With 1:30 left after an off­balance 3 from Battle. 
He fell to the court as the shot went through the hoop, whipping the crowd into a frenzied chorus of "Let's go State!" 
"That run may not have been as possible without those guys cheer­ing us on, giving us that little extra boost," said Battle, who credited the more athletic Spartans for tir­ing Penn State out early. 
"We had them right there on the ropes," Battle said. 
But the Nittany Lions couldn't break through as Lucas, who fin­ished with 15 points, hit four free throws after Battle's 3. 
Both Battle and Lucas are light­ning-quick sophomore guards who can blow by defenders and create open shots for teanunates. They're two of the top scoring guards in the Big Ten. 
Jamelle Comley led the Nittany Lions with a career-high 26 points, while Battle finished with 20. 
But Lucas had a little more help, with four Spartans scoring in dou­ble figures .. 
In typical Michigan State fashion, the Spartans also outrebounded Penn State 41-24. They controlled the lane, especially during a 26-8 run over the last 11:10 of the first half, which included a 7 -minute field goal drought for Penn State. 
The Spartans seemingly couldn't miss, getting easy drives and hitting open jumpers in taking a 42-29 halftime lead. The lead climbed to 55-38 after Durrell Summers' free throw with 13:39left in the game. 
"We stopped defending, I guess," Battle said. "Coach (Ed DeChellis) was livid at us at halftime." 
DeChellis was a little more sub­dued after the game. 
"I don't know what word we used, but I just wasn't happy with our defense in the first half," he said. "I thought we were playing against them instead of them play­ing against us." 
Penn State played dreadful spurts of interior defense midway through the game before clamping down in the second half, setting up the tense closing minutes between Lucas and Battle. 
Battle hit a jumper to close the deficit to four with 3:33 left. 
Then he darted into the lane before hitting Comley for an open layup to get within 69-67 with about 2:30 left. 
Izzo said his team suffered from offensive lulls, and got frustrated by Battle down the stretch. 
"Yeah, I'm disappointed we're still not finishing," Izzo said. "We have to do a better job of finishing." 
The loss snapped Penn State's seven-game winning streak at home against Big Ten opponents. 
Duke 70, Georgia Tech 56 
Duke picked the right opponent to have a miserable night shooting. 

Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH-The game start­ed late -and, for the second time in four days, so did top-ranked Pittsburgh. 
Tyrell Biggs was Pitt's leading scorer the first time in his career with 16 points, and the Panthers struggled early for the second time in as many games since reaching No. 1 before pulling away to beat South Florida 75-62 on Wednesday night. 
"Teams are going to play us tough," said point guard Levance Fields, who had 11 points and 13 assists. "Everybody expects us to win by 20 or 30 points, but the.(Big East) conference just isn't like that."_ 
Sam Young scored 14 points and DeJuan Blair had 13 points and 18 rebounds to help Pittsburgh (16-0, 4-0) achieve the third-best start in school history. The 1927-28 team went 21-0 and coach Jamie Dixon's 2003-04 team was 18-0 during his first season. 
The start was delayed 20 min­utes by a rush-hour snowstorm that clogged city streets and caused South Florida's bus and the game officials to arrive late. Dixon got within two blocks of the Petersen Events Center, sat for 30 minutes and finally parked because of the standstill traffic. 
"We looked a little laid back ­no more of them Qate starts)," Blair said, smiling. "You've got to get here on time or something. They came out shooting good and our defense was sluggish." 
The Panthers did much the same thing against St. John's on Sunday, leading 41-36 at halftime before going on to win 90-67. 
With Blair constantly helping them get second-chance Jmints, the Panthers shot 29-of-59 (49.2 per­cent)-10-of-18 (55.6 percent) from 3-point range after they came in shooting 34.1 percent. Blair, the nation's leading offensive rebound­er, has 50 rebounds in his last three games -an average of more than 16pergame. 
''I've been waiting for us to get that going, the 3-point shooting," Dixon said. "We're not going to lead the nation in it, but we're get­ting better." 
Dominique Jones and Augustus Gilchrist scored 22 points each and Chris Howard had 13 for South Florida (6-10, 1-3), which repeat­edly had trouble getting more than one shot on any possession. while being outrebounded 37-23. 
The Bulls, playing a No. 1 team for the third time in school history, might have gotten a burst of confi­dence from an 80-58 Win at DePaul on Saturday -only their second Big East road win. But they could­n't sustain several comebacks and finally fell behind by as many as 17. 
"They taught a lesson in how to rebound," coach Stan Heath said. "We would get a defensive stop, you'd think we were in good shape, but Blair would go get it." 
South Florida's other games against No. 1 teams were a 75-39 loss to North Carolina on Dec. 12, 1981, and an 89-72 loss to Cincinnati on Jan. 29, 2000. The Bulls have lost 24 consecutive road games against ranked teams. 
Pitt plays its next five games against teams that are or recently were nationally ranked, starting Saturday at No. 20 Louisville. The Panthers didn't figure to have much trouble against South Florida, which is 8-46 in Big East play, 2-25 on the road. 
But the Bulls hit a succession of off-balance and tough-angle shots to rally from deficits of 7-0, 16-7 and 30-22 to keep the game close, and trailed only 41-39 early in the second half-causing a few nerv­ous fans in the late-arriving crowd of 12,508 to wonder when the real Panthers would show up. 
That happened when Pitt went on a 15-4 run to stretch a 47-44 lead into a more comfortable 62-48 
AP 

Gerald Henderson and Kyle 
Singler scored 19 points each and 
the third-ranked Blue Devils over­
came their worst shooting game of 
the season in their seventh straight 
victory, pulling away for a win over 
sloppy Georgia Tech on Wednesday 
night. 
Duke (15-1, 3-0 Atlantic Coast Conference) was just 23-of-59 from the field, a 39-percent performance 
'that would have been enough to 
get them beat on many nights. Not 
this one. 
Georgia Tech (9-7, 0-3) turned it over 18 times, went only 7-of-19 from the free throw line and start­ed with three straight ACC losses for the sectnd straight season. 
Lewis Clinch hit a 3-pointer that pulled the Yellow Jackets within 46-41 with just over 8 minutes remaining. But Jon Scheyer hit twice from beyond the arc and Henderson also swished a 3, stretching the margin far beyond comeback range for a team of Georgia Tech's limited offensive 
skills. 
Zachery Peacock, with 13 points, was the only player in double fig­ures for the Yellow Jackets, who were a little more accurate from the field ( 41 percent) than they were from the line (37 percent). 
Duke's previous worst shooting effort was a 41 percent against Virginia Tech on Jan. 4. But the Blue Devils, who also started dis­mally at the line, hit enough free throws down the stretch to bury the Yellow Jackets. 
Georgia Tech surprisingly led through most of the first half, build­ing its largest lead when Peacock laid it in off a nifty pass from Lewis Clinch to make it 23-15 about 12 minutes into the game. 


Duke's David McClure and Georgia Tech's Nick Foreman battle for a rebound during the second half of Duke's.70-56 win Wednesday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining HalL Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
andersonN Drentals.com We were both young when I first See the lights, See the party, the That you were Romeo you were Romeo take me somewhere we can saw you ball gowns throwing pebbles be alone FoR RENT FREE COMCAST! 
---------------I'll be waiting all there's left to do is Affordable Graduate and Faculty 3 & 4 bedroom 3 full bath homes I close my eyes I see you make your way through And my daddy said stay away from run Off-Campus Housing. close to campus. Safe And the flashback starts the crowd Juliet 
Neighborhood. cathedral ceilings, You'll be the prince and I'll be the Call for Availability fireplace, 2 car garage, 1Ox20 I'm standing there You say hello princess decks. Call574-232·4527 or 269-And I was crying on the staircase (574)243·2818 or (574)276-6118. 683-5038. From $1, 700/mo On a balcony of summer air Little did I know Begging you please don't go It's a love story baby just say yes 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, January 15, 2009 CoMPilED FROM THE 0BsERVE~s WIRE SERVICES page 13 
Men's Basketball USA Today/ESPN Top 25 
team  points  prel,ious  
1  Pittsburgh  773  1  
2  Duke  729  2  
3  Wake Forest  725  4  
4  Connecticut  660  5  
5  Oklahoma  617  6  
6  North. Carolina  611  3  
7  UCLA  576  7  
8  Syracuse  560  9  
9  .Clemson  528  11  
10  Michigan Slate  503  12  
11  Texas  '421  7  
12  Georgetown  365  10  
13  NOTRE DAME  363  13  
14  Marquette  353  15  
15  Arizona State  328  16  
16  Xavier  279  18  
17  Minnesota  262  19  
18  Butler  256  20  
19  Purdue  182  14  
20  Louisville  173  21  
21  Baylor  159  23  
22  Villanova  110  17  
23  California  109  NR  
24  Michigan  78  NR  
25  St. Mary's {CA)  62  NR  

Women's Basketball USA Today/ESPN Top25 
team points 
1 Connecticut 775 ~ North Carolina 144 3 Oklahoma 701 4 NOTRE DAME 656 5 Baylor 638 6 TexasA&M 600 1 · Stanford 580 

•·8 ·· AUburn 559 8 
9 California 517 9 
10 Duke 516 .,,.. 10 
.....12
11 Louisville 498 12 Virginia 415 14 13 Ohio State 378 17 14 Kansas State 340 18 15 Tennessee 333 11 16 Maryland 326···· 15 17 Texas 292 12 18 Vanderbilt 229 24 19 Florida 203 19 20 Iowa State 180 25 
. 133

21 South Dakota State 23 22 Oklahoma State 95 21 23 Rutgers 75 16 
54 ..

24 Xavier NR 25 Georgia Tech 46' 22 
MIAA Basketball Conference Standings 
.team 


1 SAINT.MARY'S 
2 Hope 
3 Adrian 
4 Alma 
5 Cahtin 
6 Albion 
7 Olivet 
8 Trine 
9 Kalamazoo 


around the dial 
NBA 

Cavaliers at Bulls 
8:00 p.m., TNT 
Suns at Nuggets 
10:30 p.m., TNT 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Associated Press · 
NORMAN, Okla. Heisman Trophy winner Sam Bradford wasn't ready to give up the life of a col­lege quarterback -not without a national champi­onship. 
The third-year sopho­more quarterback will return to Oklahoma next season, passing on a chance to be a high NFL draft pick. 
"I've dreamed about playing at Oklahoma since I was little, and my three years here have been prob­ably three of the best years of my life, and I really feel that there's no need to cut this experience short," Bradford said Wednesday at a news conference. 
'Tm really looking for­ward to coming back and competing for a fourth straight Big 12 champi­onship and another oppor­tunity at a national cham­pionship." 
His return also means another shot at a Heisman Trophy. Archie Griffin of Ohio State is the only play­er to win two Heismans. Florida quarterback Tim Tebow, .the 2007 winner, finished third behind Bradford in the Heisman voting this season. 
For the first time, the top-three vote-getters for the Heisman Trophy will return to college football. 
Tebow announced his intentions Sunday and Texas quarterback Colt McCoy said he'd be back for his senior season long before the Longhorns won the Fiesta Bowl. 
Bradford led the nation with 50 touchdown passes and a quarterback rating of 180.8. He likely would have been one of the first quarterbacks taken in April's draft. 
Instead, Bradford will take another run at a national championship with Oklahoma. .The record-breaking quarter­back led the Sooners to the BCS championship game this season, but they lost 24-14 to Florida. 
"Obviously it's frustrating to end with a loss and I want to come back and fin­ish my career the right way: on a win," Bradford said. "I would~ay it had a little bit of an iiilluence on my decision, but I really tried to keep that out of my mind because that could have limited myself to making the best decision for me." 
Bradford also let it slip that tight end Jermaine Gresham and offensive lineman Trent Williams also decided not to enter the draft early. Defensive tackle Gerald McCoy has also said he'll be back for another season with the Sooners. 

IN BRIEF Jury sides with Burress on 
damage to borrowed car 
LEBANON, Pa. -A Pennsylvania jury has sided with Plaxico Burress in a dispute over how much the New York Giants star should pay in dam­ages for a car he borrowed that ended up getting impounded by New York City police. 
A jury in Lebanon County civil court decided Wednesday that Burress owes $1,700 in damages, far less than the $19,000 sought by the dealer who loaned the car to Burress. 
Burress declined to comment afterward and was followed by a small crowd of fans seeking auto­graphs. 
Burress testified that his agent arranged for the Chevrolet Avalanche in 2005. Burress disputed that he had agreed to make person­al appearances for the dealership. 
New York police later impounded the truck after it was connected to a shooting incident. 
Mets' Santana unsure if 
he'll pitch in WBC 
NEW YORK -Johan Santana is unsure whether he'll be able to pitch in the World Baseball Classic follow­ing offseason knee surgery. 
The two-time Cy Young Award win­ner said Wednesday he'd love to play for his native Venezuela in March, but the New York Mets will deter­mine whether to clear him for the WBC. 
After a brilliant first season with the Mets, Santana had arthroscopic surgery Oct. 1 on torn cartilage in his left knee. He said he feels good and he might report about a week early to New York's spring training camp in Port St. Lucie, Fla., next month. 
Several Mets stars are expected to take part in the. WBC, including David Wright, Jose Reyes, Carlos Beltran, Carlos Delgado, Francisco Rodriguez and reliever Pedro Feliciano. 
Venezuela's first garrie in the WBC is March 7 against Italy in Toronto. 
Irvin calmly chats with 
gunman about Cowboys 
DALLAS -Hall of Fame receiver Michael Irvin says he calmly chatted with a gunman in another vehicle after the armed passenger turned out to be a Dallas Cowboys fan. 
Irvin, who was not harmed, says he was "very afraid." 
A Dallas police report says Irvin was. stopped at a red light Monday night when two men in a truck pulled up next to him. 
The driver rolled down his win­dow, so Irvin did the same, thinking the two men recognized the radio talk show host and television com­mentator. 
The passenger flashed a gun. Then the retired NFL star heard one of them call out his name and men­tioned being a "huge Cowboy fan." 
Irvin says he began talking with the men about the team's disap­pointing 9-7 season and Dallas not making it to the Super Bowl. 
The pair eventually drove off. 


~­
This Weekend at Legends 
lOpm 
Midnight 
SttttiQat.lttcad & 


UUMGft JlftTI!T! 
Orl'fOTftri'&Mr
Thu ­
an 15 




r..LEGENDS NO COVERND,SMC,HCCIDREQP
\!}!; F N 0 T R E DAM E legends.nd.edu 
Thursday, January 15, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Pats' Pioli hired as Chiefs GM 
Architect of New England dynasty hopes to resurrect 2-14 team 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. ­Scott Pioli, who helped build and lead a dynasty in New England, is now in charge of a Kansas City franchise which hasn't won a playoff game in 14 years. 
The 43-year-old Pioli will be introduced on Wednesday as Chiefs gener­al manager, replacing Carl Peterson. 
"He will have complete charge of football opera­tions," Ryan Petkoff, a spokesman for Chiefs chair­man Clark Hunt, told The Associated Press. "He will report only to Clark." 
The fate of coach Herm Edwards and his staff was not immediately known. 
Pioli, who became vice president of player person­nel for the Patriots in 2002 and spent nine years work­ing with head coach Bill Belichick, also interviewed for the general manager vacancy in Cleveland. 
He inherits a young team coming off a 2-14 season, but is stepping into a situa­tion that seems ripe for a quick turnaround. personnel executive in the 
The fan base is loyal, NFL, and we look forward though restive, and the to his leadership in build­team will be playing next ing a championship organi­year in a virtually new sta­zation." dium. Arrowhead, which Patriots owner Robert opened in 1972 and is noto­Kraft praised Pioli as an 
rious for being loud and "integral part of the many rough on visiting teams, is championships the New undergoing a $325 million · England Patriots have cele­renovation, which includes brated this decade." new luxury boxes, wider "Scott is a great evaluator 
concourses and enhanced of talent," Kraft said. "He is amenities in addition to thorough in his evaluations, new practice facilities, an extremely organized and enlarged indoor field and a has done a tremendous job 
brand new mining all state-of-the-possible art head­resources to quarters help coach
"Scott is a great
building. Belichick
evaluator oftalent ... He
In addi-and his staff tion, the has played an important field the players
Chiefs are role in building a 
about $32 needed to
championship tradition 
m i l l i o n win consis­
under the with players that I am tently. He 
salary cap, proud to call Patriots.'' has played extra money an impor­that will tant role in 
Robert Kraft 
come in building a 
Patriots owner
h a n d champi­



y because KC owns the overall No. 3 pick in the draft. Besides that, there are a number of promising young players who Edwards was counting on as the foundation of his rebuilding project. 
Pioli, the son-in-law of Miami Dolphins boss Bill Parcells, has been honored many times for his contri­butions to the Patriots' three Super Bowl champi­onships. With Pioli working with Belichick, the Patriots used an effective mix-and­match of trades, free agent signings and draft selec­tions to dominate the league. In 2007, six players drafted by Pioli and Belichick made the Pro Bowl. 
"We are very excited to welcome Scott to the Chiefs," Hunt said in a statement. "With his proven track record of success, Scott is the finest player 
onship tra­dition with players that I am proud to call Patriots." 
Pioli's NFL career started when Belichick hired him as a pro personnel assistant for the Browns in 1992. Belichick then brought him to New England shortly after he became head coach of the Patriots. 
From 2000-08, the Patriots were an NFL-best 102-42 in the regular sea­son and rang up 14 playoff wins. 
"To sum up in words everything Scott Pioli has meant to this organization and to me personally would be difficult, if not impossi­ble," said Belichick. "From the day I met him, he has demonstrated a passion for football and respect for the game that is second to none." 
A club spokesman con­firmed there had been no determination made on 
Edwards' status. That may have been a point of discus­sion between Pioli and Hunt when they negotiated their deal. Hunt signed off on the rebuilding project that Edwards launched this year and said in training camp he knew it would be a painful process early on. 
And it certainly was. Beset by injury, including season-ending mishaps to the top two quarterbacks, the Chiefs beat only Oakland and Denver and set a number of team records for defensive futili­ty. Their 10 sacks were an NFL-low since the stat was kept beginning in 1981. 
Yet, when he announced the resignation on Dec. 15 of president, CEO and gen­eral manager Peterson, Hunt said he thought Edwards was the best man for the Chiefs program going forward. But he also said the new general man­ager would have "signifi­cant input" into the final decision. 
Edwards' first season in Kansas City was a hit. The Chiefs went 9-7 in 2006 and captured the last wild­card playoff spot. They were routed by Indianapolis, but Edwards was just the fifth man to take two different teams to the postseason in his first year; he also did it in 2001 with the Jets. 
He wanted to begin dis­mantling an aging team and start rebuilding that next season, but ran into opposi­tion from a front office that felt there was enough left for another playoff run. But after an encouraging 4-3 start, age and ineffective­ness at several key posi­tions began creating prob­lems. The Chiefs ended 2007 on a nine-game losing streak. Then Hunt agreed it was time to tear it down and rebuild. 
Now Pioli takes charge of those efforts. 
NFL 
Boldin practices, may play Saturday 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz.-Arizona receiv­er Anquan Boldin practiced Wednesday, and says he will play in Sunday's NFC championship game against the Philadelphia Eagles. 
Boldin, who with Larry Fitzgerald forms arguably the best receiving tandem in football, said a trip to a Dallas chiropractor has greatly improved his strained left hamstring. The injury kept Boldin out of the Cardinals' 33-13 victory at Carolina in Saturday's divisional playoff game. 
''I'll be out there Sunday," he said after practice. 
Boldin said he was able to partic­ipate in all phases of practice, but in shorter spurts than normal. 
He said he expected to be "real effective" in what would be the biggest game of his career. 
"I don't see there being any problems, no hindrances or any­thing like that," Boldin said. 'Til just be myself and resume my reg­ularrole." 
Coach Ken Whisenhunt held out final judgment on Boldin's status until he sees how the receiver does as the week progresses, but the coach was optimistic. 
"lf he continues to progress like we think he is, I have no doubts he would play," Whisenhunt said. 
Boldin injured his hamstring on a 71-yard touchdown pass from Kurt Warner in the second quarter of Arizona's 30-24 wild card playoff victory over Atlanta. He tested the hamstring before the Carolina game and said he would have played if the team's medical staff hadlethim. 
"Would it have been the smartest thing in the world? No," Boldin said, "but that's just me wanting to be on the field." 
Boldin said the hamstring prob­lem turned out to be related to a hip injury that sidelined him for three games last season. 
"I thought it was just a ham­string but the way that my body responded told me that it was something different," Boldin said. 
He flew to Dallas on Monday for treatment from chiropractor Robert Parker, whose patients include Boldin's former teammate Emmitt Smith. As Boldin explained, the earlier injury affect­ed the muscles around the hip and eventually led to the hamstring problem. 
"Muscles shut off, muscles around it worked extra hard," Boldin said. "...Correcting that and getting everything flowing the way it's supposed to helped out a lot. He told me once he set it straight it would be fine." 
Boldin said he would do "as much as they allow me to" in prac­tice this week. 
"We're just playing it by ear right now," he said. "We're going to be smart about it because the ultimate goal is to play on Sunday." 
He scoffed at any suggested that his participation would be limited. "If I'm out there," Boldin said, ''I'm out there." 
Boldin caught 89 passes for 1,038 yards and 11 touchdowns in the regular season, despite missing four games with injuries. 
His facial bones were fractured on a brutal hit from the New York Jets' Eric Smith on Sept. 28. Smith was fined $50,000 and suspended a game because of the hit, although Boldin that it was "just football." 
Boldin had seven plates and more than 40 screws inserted to repair the damage. Still, he missed only two games. 
Such experiences make him grateful to be back. 
''I'm thankful for every day I step out on the field," he said. "I've had a number of injuries that probably could have been career ending, but I've been given a second chance. Every time I step out I think of that." 
He also cherishes another shot at the Eagles, because he felt he did­n't play well in Philadelphia's 48-20 Thanksgiving night rout of Arizona. 
"It's rare you get a second chance at anything," Boldin said, "so I'll make the most of it Sunday." 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 15, 2009 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
No sophon1ore slU111p for Maxvvell 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 

Swimming against the top competition in the country is nothing new for sophomore Samantha Maxwell, who has picked up right where she left off at the end of her stel­lar freshman season. 
A season after setting the Big East record in the 200­yard breaststroke and swim­ming in five events at the Big East Championship, Maxwell has led the Irish with her times in the 100 and 200­yard breaststroke, and has become a central factor on the 200 and 400-medley relays. 
Nationally ranked while swimming for her high school's swim team in Chandler, Ariz., Maxwell was a four-time regional champi­on as well as a Junior National record holder in the 50-yard breaststroke, and earned All-American honors in each of her four high school season. 
In her freshman season at Notre Dame, Maxwell's tal­ent quickly became evident to her coaches and team­mates, swimming in the in the 100 and 200-breast­stroke, the 200 and 400­medley relays, as well as the 200-meter individual medly 
(IM). 
"First off, [being on the team] has provided me with a group of quality team­mates that I can not only train with, but be close friends with outside of the athletic scene," Maxwell said. "It has also put a lot of structure and support into my routine that I would not otherwise have." 
Last season, Maxwell earned the chance to swim all five of her events in the Big East Championships, where she won the 200­breaststroke while setting a league and school record of 2:12.76. Her 100-yard breaststroke won second place with a 1:01.68, earn­ing her a second school record, and helped her team place second in the 200 med­ley relay with a time of 
1:48.84. breaking a third Irish record. Her reign over the pool continued as she received an invite to the NCAA championships, where she placed 30th overall in the 100-breast with a time of 1:02.36 
Maxwell has also made an impact outside of the Notre Dame sports community, as she swam the 100 and 200­breaststroke in the U.S. Olympic Trials. 
"Swimming in these large meets has been really fun," Maxwell said. "Obviously, these meets bring the best competition available, but they also bring great oppor­tunities for swimmers to rep­resent their programs. When you go to meets like NCAAs and Olympic Trials, people take notice of where you are from and its awesome to be able to represent Notre Dame in larger scale meets." 
"Sam is just like any other successful athlete," Irish coach Brian Barnes said. "She is a very hard worker." 
Maxwell's love of swim­ming started at a young age, and grew as she did. 
"My parents put me in swimming because I was awful at every other sport I tried," Maxwell said. "When I started swimming I hated it, and my parents had to bribe me just to finish one lap without stopping. As I grew older and better little by little the sport just sort of stuck. I enjoyed the chal­lenge of trying to move up to the next big meet or get another qualifying time." 
Maxwell's parents weren't the only ones to encourage her to pursue her abilities in the pool. She recalls a coach from home, Dave Tait, as being the most influential person in her swimming career, and who fulfilled the role as her mentor as well as coach. 
"When I was younger, Dave really stepped up and became an awesome coach," Maxwell said. "Through the years we worked very closely together as I learned how to be a better swimmer and he learned how to foster a growing team and help its swimmers crop their talent and be successful. The things he taught me never stopped in the pool, and he helped me learn life lessons as well along the way. This kept me wanting to swim and wanting to be better outside of the pool as well." 
Swimming may not have been Maxwell's favorite sport at first, but now the thought of life without it is strange for her to think about. 
"Life without swimming would be weird," Maxwell said. "The sport takes a lot of commitment and if I was­n't swimming, I would have all of a sudden have a lot of extra time. I'm not sure what I would do with it except maybe sleep." 
At least for now, Maxwell plans on sticking with her sport. Not only does she love the sport itself, but also says her coach and teammates are what make getting in the pool every day worth it. 
"Brian Barnes has stepped into this program and brought a lot of expertise and commitment that this team is really grateful for. It hasn't even been an entire 


season, but it is apparent that he is dedicated to help­ing the girls on our team reach their goals and swim fast," she said. "What is awesome about Brian and his relationship with the girls on our team is that he knows what it takes to get the best out of each person individually and truly cares about their success. The girls on the team also makQ swimming for Notre Dame great. They are so support­ive and work hard to not only push themselves but push their teammates to be better." 
In her sophomore season, Maxwell has shown no signs of slowing down. In the Ohio State Invitational in December, she broke her own school records in the 100 and 200-breaststroke, posting times of 1:01.57 and 2:12.46, respectively. 
Maxwell has proved that she is a force that competi­tors should look out for this season, and in future sea­sons on the Irish team. She has swum against the best, and only hopes to improve. Her goals for the season reflect her commitment to her sport, and to her team. 
"My goals for this season are to go to the NCAA cham­pionships and really try to make an impact there. Last year I competed but didn't make it back for any second swims. This year I would like to be more competitive at that meet and make it back to the finals heats at night." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Pitt's McCoy will enter '09 NFL draft 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH-Record-setting Pittsburgh running back LeSean McCoy is passing up his fmal two seasons of eligibility to enter the NFL draft. 
McCoy broke several of Tony Dorsett's schools records while leading the Panthers to a 9-4 record and into the Sun Bowl. 
McCoy told coach Dave Wannstedt of his decision in a phone call Wednesday. The two met last Friday, but a teary-eyed McCoy couldn't make up his mind. He delayed the decision again Monday. 
"I have frequently played both choices in my mind. I have consid­ered my alternatives and I have prayed," McCoy said in a state­ment issued by the school. "I have made my final decision and will forego my junior season." 
NFL scouts project the 5-foot­11, 210-pound McCoy as a late first-round to early second-round pick. 
Losing McCoy is a major setback to Pitt, which played in its first bowl game and had its first win­ning record in four seasons large­ly because of his running and a strong defense. 
"When you have exceptionally gifted players, you realize the NFL can be a reality sooner rather than later," said Wannstedt, the former Bears and Dolphins coach. "Certainly that is the case with LeSean and we worked to make sure he had all the information needed to make the best decision about his pro prospects." 
McCoy rushed for 1,488 yards and 21 touchdowns this season, and 2,816 yards and 35 TDs in two seasons, or more yardage and touchdowns than former Reisman Trophy winner Dorsett had in his first two Pitt seasons. 
This season, McCoy's top games included 183 yards against West VIrginia, 169 against Notre Dame, 156 against Navy and 149 against Syracuse. 
McCoy had 331 yards in two games against the Mountaineers, including 148 in Pitt's 13-9 upset win in 2007 that kept West Vrrginia out of the BCS title game. 
"One of my goals in coming here was to help my teammates and coaches bring Pitt back to its rightful place among the promi­nent teams in college football," McCoy said. 
In late November, McCoy said he would return to Pitt because he felt he needed more time to mature and had more to accom­plish in college. 
McCoy changed his mind follow­ing a 3-0 bowl game loss to Oregon State on Dec. 31, appar­ently after talking to former Pitt receiver Larry Fitzgerald of the Arizona Cardinals, among others. Fitzgerald, a former Reisman Trophy runner-up, also left Pitt after two seasons. 
Pitt's staff believes McCoy began leaning toward leaving when he got away from his teanm1ates and coaches and returned to his home in Harrisburg, Pa. The team's poor performance -the lowest­scoring bowl in 50 years -appar­ently did not influence his deci­sion. He ran for 85 yards in the loss. 
Coming Soon 
Conference 
a university-wide presentation ofundergraduate research, critical analysis, and creative expression 
http:/ jundergradresearch.nd.edu 

Thursday, January 15, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Pacers, Knicks, Heat top· tOO points in victories 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Danny Granger scored 24 points and made the tying shot late in regulation in the Indiana Pacers' 110-106 overtime vic­tory over the Detroit Pistons on Wednesday night. 
T.J. Ford scored 23 points, and Troy Murphy added 18 points and 13 rebounds to help the Pacers snap a three­game losing streak. 
Hodney Stuckey led Detroit with 30 points, Allen Iverson had 23 points, and Rasheed Wallace added 17 points and 15 rebounds. The Pistons have lost three in a row. 
It was Indiana's first over­time win in five tries this sea­son. 
Murphy's second 3-pointer of the extra period put the Pacers up 103-98 with just under 2 minutes to play. 
Detroit's Antonio McDyess made a layup to cut it 103­100, but Ford came back with a jumper that bounced several times before going in with 
38.5 seconds left to make it 105-100. The Pacers made five of seven free throws in the final 30 seconds. 
The Pacers led 78-77 in the fourth quarter before Detroit's Arron Afflalo made a 3-point­er, then a layup to give Detroit an 82-78 lead. 
Detroit led 92-87 before Indiana's Jarrett Jack made back-to-hack mid-range jumpers to cut Detroit's lead to one at 92-91 with just over 2 minutes left in regulation. 
With Detroit leading 93-91, Jack drove to the basket and missed a layup. He thought he was fouled, and was issued a technical foul for arguing the no-call. Detroit's Tayshaun Prince missed the technical free throw, but Detroit retained possession because of the technical. Iverson missed a long jumper, but Prince rebounded. Prince missed a jumper, and Indiana's Jeff Foster rebounded with 11 sec­onds left to give Indiana a chance tq tie or win. 
Granger hit the tying jumper from near the free-throw line, over Prince with 3. 9 seconds left. Detroit's Richard Hamilton missed an open jumper from the left baseline, but the ball went out of bounds off an Indiana player, and Detroit set up for a final chance with 0. 7 seconds left. Wallace threw up an awkward shot that missed everything, and the game went to over­time. 
Knicks 128, Wizards 122 
NEW YORK -David Lee had 30 points and 10 rebounds, reserve Al Harrington scored 27 points, and the New York Knicks handed the Washington Wizards their sixth straight loss with a victory Wednesday night. · 
Quentin Hichardson added 26 points for the Knicks, who have piled up the points in the first three meetings with the Wizards this season and can complete a season sweep by grabbing the back end of a home-and-home series Friday in Washington. 
Chris Duhon finished with 17 points and nine assists for the Knicks, who averaged 118 points in their two earlier vic­tories over Washington and were even better Wednesday. But they could never shake the Wizards until the final min­utes. New York led by only three before Lee got a layup off an inbounds pass and Richardson followed with a 3­pointer to make it 119-111 with 1:25 remaining. 
Lee, among the league lead­ers in rebounding and field goal percentage, added six assists. He was coming off a 24-point performance in the Knicks' surprising victory at New Orleans on Monday. 
Washington's Nick Young scored 33 points, establishing a career high for the third time in four games, and Caron Butler added 25. Mike James had 20 points, but the Wizards stumbled when he had to leave with five fouls. 
The injury-plagued Wizards have been without Gilbert Arenas and Brendan Hayward all season and then recently lost DeShawn Stevenson (back) and Etan Thomas (torn liga­ment in his left knee). But that's meant more time for Young, who was 13-of-17. 
The Knicks were opening a stretch where 10 of 13 games are at home, but they'd better get the wins early. The last three games, all the first week of next month at Madison Square Garden, are against the Lakers, Cleveland and Boston. 
Both teams had improved defensively lately, but were back to their old bad habits in this one. The Wizards shot 61 percent and the Knicks 59.5 percent in the first half, which ended with New York leading 67-66 behind 21 points from Harrington. 
Washington made eight of its first 12 shots, New York start­ed 8-of-13, and the Wizards were ahead 20-18 with the Bucks squandered several opportunities to tie, first when Richard Jefferson, who had 15 points, threw a pass away then was blocked on the ensu­ing possession by Shawn Marion. 

Cook, meanwhile, went 4­for-4 from the free-throw line in the final 21 seconds to give the Heat a 102-99 lead with 
6.9 seconds left. 
Bucks rookie Joe Alexander, who had hit a layup moments earlier to finish with 13 points, shot an air ball a 3-point attempt and the Heat ran off the final fraction of a second for the victory. 
Marion finished with 14 points and 10 rebounds. Miami also got 21 points from rookie Michael Beasley and 18 points from Udonis Haslem. Andrew Bogut scored 12 points and had 11 rebounds for the Bucks. 
Wade, revered in this town because of his role in taking Marquette to the NCAA Final Four in 2003, could have got­ten plenty of gear from the Bucks' pro shops, which stocked No. 3 Heat jerseys, socks and other memorabilia. 
Early Childhood Development Center, Inc. 
at Notre Dan1e 


Tim Wilson 
Symphony Orchestra  Family Comedian with Stewart Huff  
Beethoven to Brahms  100% Clean &Funny Bob &Tom Comedian  Broadway Musical  
Saturday, Jan. 24  Friday, Jan. 30.  Saturday, Jan. 31  Wednesday, Feb. 11  

·upc:()mine ~h()W§ 
first quarter not even half over. The Knicks led 36-30 after Harrington banked in a 3-pointer as time expired. 
Heat 102, Bucks 99 
MILWAUKEE -Reserve Daequan Cook hit six 3-point­ers en route to a career-high 24 points, and Dwyane Wade overcame a 5-for-20 shooting night with 17 points and 13 assists in the Miami Heat's win over the Milwaukee Bucks on Wednesday night. 
The Heat improved to 3-2 on a seven-game trip even as Wade struggled, starting 0-for­6 from the field, but contribut­ing by distributing the ball. 
It looked to be easy even without the NBA's leading scorer adding his 29.1 average when the Heat took an 84-74 lead with 10:57 to play. But the Bucks came back thanks to 25 points by Luke Ridnour and 16 by Michael Redd. 
Ridnour's basket cut it to 97­93 with 2:09 to play and Wade missed his final four shots with Redd, a fellow Olympian, hounding him. 
Redd added a putback bas­ket to make it 97-95, but the 
and Meet Our Early Childhood Teachers ECDC-ND Open House Dates: Sundav, 2/1/09 ... 1:30-3:00 


page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, January 15, 2009 
'Rincon 
continued from page 20 
run together in practice, along with two other upperclassmen. 
"Our group is really competi­tive," Rincon said. "We all practice together and push each other." 
The four met during Rincon's visit to campus last spring, and he said they made the transi­tion to college easier for him. 
Rincon said the 400-meter race is one of the most gruel­ing events in track. 
"You can't pace yourself like you do for the 800, and you can't burn off the first 200," he said. "It really takes strength and speed and endurance and everything, so it's pretty tough." 
Just like when he runs the event, Rincon is determined not to fade too early in the sea­son. 
"I want to win the Big East in the 400," he said. "It's lofty, and it will be tough, but that's what I've been set on since I got here." 
Rincon did not begin running until his freshman year of high school, but it soon became 
Boards 
continued from page 20 
rebounding team. We've been competent and we haven't been beaten up there too much." 
Then came Louisville, who put up 19 second-chance points and out-rebounded the Irish 48-43 in an 87-73 Cardinals overtime win Monday. 
"I think we held our own there," Brey said. "We didn't out-rebound them, but it was kind of a draw. But it didn't beat us. The offensive board beat us at St. John's and Ohio State. There's two losses where that was really the culprit of it all." 
Louisville grabbed 16 offen­sive boards, but some of those came as a result of long rebounds from missed jump shots. Twice in the second half, Notre Dame was trying to build on a small lead, but long rebounds helped set up three­pointers from Andre McGee and Jerry Smith that cut into the Irish advantage. 
"Sometimes you do the job to bP in position to rebound the basketball and you don't get a good bounce," Brey E!aid. "And then you've got to scramble out and match up and do the best you can. We've made a living ofT of offensive rebound threes. When it happens to us, I can relate. Hopefully, it doesn't hap­pen too much." 
Harangody said there's still no excuse for allowing these types of boards to get away. 
"It's not bad luck. We still need to grab loose balls because that's going to be the difference because a couple of those loose balls they grabbed and then hit some threes," Harangody said. 
Hillesland added: "You've got to focus on every play and it can be tough because sometimes you're natural instinct on the perimeter is when a guy puts up a shot instead of blocking him out you want to go in where you think the action's going to be, which is inside. But a lot of times a ball will come out and those can be backbreaking plays on the. road when a team can get an offensive rebound and knock down a three." 
One constant on the boards this year for the Irish has been Harangody, whether he's grab­bing long or short rebounds, 
·clear that he would be able to 
run at the college level. 
"My coaches in high school 
really prepared me, starting 
junior year, to go to the next 
level," he said. "That's all we 
really talked about." 
Although he went to high 
school in Las Vegas, Rincon 
grew up in a southwest suburb 
of Chicago and his family lives 
in LaPorte, Ind. Because of 
that, he has been a Notre 
Dame fan his entire life. 
"I grew up watching the 
games," he said. "My family 
has had season tickets since 
like the '40s. I've gone to 
games since I was five." 
It was easy, then, to agree to 
come run for the Irish, and 
Rincon said he's glad he did. 
'Tve always wanted to come 
to Notre Dame," he said. "I 
love it. My dorm's a lot of fun, 
we all have a good time. I just 
like the community here at 
Notre Dame. It's really high on 
school spirit, and I really like 
that. I wouldn't want to be 
anywhere else." 
Except, of course, at the fin­
ish line of the Big .East 
Championships. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
offensive or defensive. 
"The rebounding numbers that he has are staggering given that he's playing against NBA bodies," Brey said. "Our league has NBA bodies. Other leagues don't so I think it's impressive what he's doing on the back­board against that kind of length and athletic ability." 
Coming up Saturday, Notre Dame will likely need another strong effort from llarangody and the rest of the Irish, as they take on a Syracuse team that's third in the conference in rebounding margin thanks to Paul Harris (8.3 rebounds per game) and Arinze Onuaku (7.8). That duo gave Notre Dame a handful at the Joyce Center last season, out-rebounding Notre Dame 51-33. 
"Here we go again Saturday with a big front line. Can we do it?" Brey said. "We've got to rebound out of zone, we've got to rebound out of man. Our guards have to help us. When we do that, we always have a chance to win." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Verducci 
continued from page 20 
earning his degree from Seton Hall in 1980. The new coach was not available for com­ment, but is expected to speak with the media along with other new Irish coaches once all vacancies are fiJled. 
Notre Dame is currently in 
NBA 
Celtics abuse Nets in 118-86 win 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Paul Pierce brought the Boston Celtics to the midpoint of the season wHh their third straight win and with hope that they've regained the rhythm that pro­duced a 27-2 start. 
Pierce shook off a cold first half and scored 18 points in the third quarter by going 5­for-5 on 3-pointers to lead the Celtics a 118-86 win over the New Jersey Nets on Wednesday night. 
The current streak follows a 2-7 slump and improved the Celtics' record to 32-9, two fewer wins than they had mid­way through last season when they finished 66-16 and won the NBA championship. 
"I thought we had a really big bump in the road these last eouple of weeks with con­sistency," Pierce said, "some­thing we didn't have a year ago. Maybe it's something we needed to give us a gut eheek. 
"When you go through something like that, you really find ouJ what kind of team you are." 
On Wednesday, the Celtics were the kind of team that got oil' to the best 29-game start in NBA history as they posted their third most lopsided win of the season. " . 
"They kicked us real good," Nets coach Lawrence Frank said. "When talent works hard like tl~.at, you get embar­rassed. 
Pierce led Boston with 22 points two nights after getting a season-high 39 in an over­time win over Toronto. The Nets also won in overtime that night, beating Oklahoma City. 
But the only tie Wednesday was 0-0. And New Jersey's only lead was 13-11 on a 3­pointer by Bobby Simmons. Hay Allen then gave Boston the lead for good with a 3­pointer that made it 14-13 with 5:56 left in the first quar­ter. 
"Even when you're winning, if you're not playing well, or right, for a coach it's not that enjoyable," Boston coach Doc Rivers said. "If you keep doing that, when you need to play well, you won't. But I do think we're turnin-g in the right direction." 
The Celtics led 51-41 at half­time and opened their biggest margin, 112-79, on a basket by Patrick O'Bryant with 3:21 remaining. 
Kevin Garnett scored 20 points for the Cclties. 
The Nets were Jed by Devin Harris with 17 points, while Keyon Dooling and rookies Hyan Anderson and Brook Lopez had 13 eaeh. Anderson made his second consecutive start in place of injured Yi Jianlian after sitting out the previous four games. 
"We really let them control the momentum in the third quarter," Anders{Jn said. "They are a great defensive team (and) definitely altered our shots." 
Pieree went just 2-for-9 and had four points in the first half. But New Jersey's Vince Carter was even worse -1­for-9 with four points in the half. Carter limped off the court with a sprained right ankle with 7:09 left in the first quarter b.ut returned 5 min-

The Office of Multicultural Student Programs & Services would like to applaud the following Multicultural Hall Commissioners for their outstanding work in promoting diversity efforts within the NO residence halls during the first half of the 2008-2009 school year! 
a great opportunity it is·to be a 'Double Domer,"' he said. "Not many guys have the opportuni­ty to walk through the tunnel for nine years at Notre Dame." 
Jappy Oliver spent four years as a coach in South Bend and announced last week that he would be leaving to pursue other coaching opportunities. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
the process of interviewing for a defensive line <>oach and an offensive coordinator. Former coordinator Mike Haywood announced the day before the llawai'i Bowl that he would be leaving to take over as head coach at Miami (Ohio). 
Haywood coached the Irish for five seasons and also played for the blue-and-gold during the mid-1980s. 
"I tell guys all the time what utes later. He finished with four points on 1-of-1 0 shoot­ing. 

The Celtics quickly stretched their 10-point halftime lead by scoring the first seven points of the third quarter and 13 of the first 15. 
With the score 58-41. Pierce made his first 3-pointer of the quarter, Rajon Rondo hit a basket and Pierce sank a free throw. His other 3-pointers put Boston ahead 69-49, 74­53, 81-58 and 84-58. 
"I don't get discouraged by misses," Pierce said of his first-half problems. "When we swung the ball (in the third quarter) I was wide open and stayed aggressive. I thought I was a little tentative in the first half." 
Boston Jed 88-60 after the third period and Pierce rested throughout the fourth. 
Both teams were missing big men. Yi is expected to miss four to six weeks with a bro­ken finger and Boston center Kendrick Perkins sat out his third straight game with a sore left shoulder but is expected to return next week. 
The Nets stayed close throughout the first quarter then lost their shooting touch by missing their first 10 shots of the second. That helped Boston streteh a 30-23 lead after one qu_arter to 41-2 5 before Harris hit a layup with 
5:40 left in the period. The teams meet again on Saturday night at New Jersey. 
"We didn't have too much fight," Harris said. "We've still got a lot of work to do and I look forward to the next game." 

Brandi Allen -Badin Hall Tej Mudigonda-St Edwards. Hall Chelsea Carey·-Badin Hall Lexie Perreras-Badin Hall Danielle Hoehn -Lyons Hall Joseph Scolaro-Morrissey Manor Minyoung Kim-Badin Hall Marissa Villano-Lyons Hall 
Thank you for valuing diversity! Your energy and enthusiasm for diversity and multiculturalism is greatly appreciated by your peers, your rector, and the MSPS staff. Keep up the great work! 

Multicultural Student Programs & services (MSPS) 
'Promoting Equity Through Intellectual Exploration and Cultural Celebration" 
www.nd.11du/-m · 
I
I 
I 
Thursday, January 15, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
BLAcK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


PAT GARTLAND 

THE FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 
Yo dude, I heard you got a girlfriend 
over Christmas break? Yea, I did. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Isn't that where you wanted 
to go for spring break? 
That's pretty convenient. 
WILLSHORTZ 

69 Gang members 70 Comment about a loss 71 Upset 
Down Fully equipped 
and ready to go 2 Kitchen light 3 Emmy and Tony 
nominee Ryan 4 Blood 5 Equips 6 Tiny bit 7 "_Miss 
Clawdy" (#1 R&B hit of 1952) 8 Winter vehicle 9 Guarantee 1 0 "Go ahead!" 11 Korean money 12 Doomsday, with "the" 13 Roman god of 

37 Off-color 38 "Zounds!" 
39 Like some calls 
left on answering machines 42 Diet 43 Leveler 45 Petrify 47 Cub raiser 50 M.P.'s concern 51 Music producer Brian 52 Walked off with 54 NATO member since 1982 57 Comparatively honest 59 Bopper 61 Crucial moment 64 1836 siege site. with "the" 66 Cadre, e.g. 
67 "The Martha Show" of 1950s TV 
68 Scene of Hercules' first labor 

agriculture 19 Lock with no • key? 22 Airport installation 24 Where the Riksdag meets 26 Kraft Foods brand 27 Be a cast member of 28 Cry from someone who's been aggrieved 30 Seek restitution, perhaps 32 Calif. barrio setting 33 Old country-and­western star Travis 34 Over 
ey man, hotels are expensive. It's like a short term investment, ou gotta do what you gotta do 


Puzzle by Jim Hilger 
35 Instrument 48 Neighbor of 58 G.P.S. output: unlikely to be Arizona Abbr. heard at 
49 Tea, e.g.
Carnegie Hall 60 Perfectly 
53 Mount_,
36 1965 #1 hit by second-highest 61 Eventually
the Byrds peak in Africa appear
40 H 41 Search tor water, 
55 Part of Caesar's 
62 bitboast

in a way 44 Fix, as a pool 56 Christener 63Zip cue 57 Company 46 Aida, for one leaders: Abbr. 65 Book after Exod. 
For answers, Gall 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card. 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords lor young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
"'HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJ&WOOibJK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
± 

.. 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
YAILG 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
CLUID 
j
rJ r I I 
..
GATNIC THE: AC.C.OUNTANT 
MAI<I<IE:O He:l< I<IC.H
(I] 
C.L.lE:NT BE:C.AUSE: SHE: WAS--­
www.jumble.com 
I GUAJAR ± 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as
( J ( J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: l I I I I I I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's IJumbles: INKED GLOVE HEARSE HOTBED Answer: What the knitter did when she made the sleeves uneven -"NEEDLED" HER 
EUGENIA LAST
HoRoscoPE 
... 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: LLCool J, 41; Emily Watson, 42; Faye Dun­away, 68; Andy Rooney, 90 
Happy Birthday: Push to finish off whatever is unfinished. It wiU be getting more for less that wiU count in these economic times. As long as you stick to a budget, you will do fine. A pending settlement or contract can be closed but only if you are persistent and fight hard for what you deserve. Your numbers are 6, 11, 19, 21, 29, 37,41 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Your hard work will eventually pay off but, if you are ex­pecting rewards now, you will be disappointed. Do what you can for people who can help you in the future. Look at the big picture. *** 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): If you are willing to stick to your plans and not allow anyone to tempt you to deviate and go over budget, you will succeed. You must be strict and stick to a safe schedule. ***** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't let emotional matters stand in your way. Focus beyond if you want to accomplish. Look at your options and learn by past mistakes and you will inake the right decision. Someone you used to regard highly may be able to shed light on a situation. ** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take action instead of waiting to see what ev~ryone else is going to do. A change may not be your idea of a good time but, once you make the move, you will realize it was long overdue. Emotional matters can be dealt with. **** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Impulsive responses will not get you what you want. Sit back for a change and let others make the first move. A deal can be complete if you take an ap­proach that is different from what your competition is offering. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'U be up and down and emotionaUy erratic if you don't put things in perspective. Rely on your practical sense to get you through whatever di­lemma you face. Once you clear up any uncertainty, everything will work out. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): If you can size down or cut comers, it wiU ease the stress created by overspending. An idea you have may be more marketable than you realize. Talk to someone with experience and you will get good solid advice. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't trust anyone, not even the people closest to you. In­tentional or not, someone will cause you grief by letting unauthorized information leak. A change in a personal relationship will be emotional but to your benefit. **** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may have to take on a second job or develop a 
service that is in demand. Taking a chance or overspending in the process will defeat the purpose. Put travel and dealing with superiors on hold for now. ** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You haVe to go where the money is. It's time for you to take advantage of the situation --as bad as it may be for someone else, it can be a gold mine for you if youoe.re swift to pick up the pieces. ***** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Contracts, legal matters and settlements can all be put to rest if you follow through with what's required of you. Love may be going through some uncertain times but talks should help to rectify any problems you face. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Someone may withhold important information you re­quire to make a decision. Don't let anyone force you to move forward when you aren't certain or ready. Emotional issues will surface, causing confusion and internal problems. 
*** 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, emotional and caring but aren't taken in by anyone who wants a free ride. You are a thinker and a doer. You are discerning. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations, myspace.comleugenialastfor Eugenids blog, astroadvice.comfor fun 

CROSSWORD 
Across Part of a pay-as­you-go plan? · 6 She'll"always 
have Paris" 10 Has obligations 14 Japanese brew 15 "Mighty" things 16 District in Hawaii 17 2008 Olympics 
tennis champion Dementieva 18 Meander, as a 
road 20 That over there 21 Author of 
"SomethinQ Wicked This Way Comes" 

231nventor depicted in "The Prestige" 
25 Long ago 26 Hinged apparatus 29 Walks down the 
aisle 31 Supplicate 33 Reverses course 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Jotn the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip_______ 

,..-----------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, January 15, 2009 
page 20 
FOOTBALL 
Tean1 signs Frank Verducci as new offensive line coach 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 
Notre Dame announced yester­day that veteran Frank Verducci -will be taking over as the new offensive line coach for the Irish. Verducci, who has coached for several colleges and NFL teams in the past 27 years, will replace for­mer line coach John Latina who resigned after four years with the Irish. Verducci comes to South Bend from the Cleveland Browns where 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
• Irish work to improve under the boards against league foes 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
When Rob Kurz graduated last spring, he took his 7.3 rebounds per game with him. Kurz, along with forward Luke Harangody, helped the Irish attain the fourth-best rebound­ing margin in conference play. 
Last season, the Irish out­rebounded Big East opponents by just over three boards per game. This season, Notre Dame is tenth in the league. 
Since Kurz's departure, the Irish have tried to replace his presence on the glass at both errds of the floor, but at times, they have struggled despite hav­ing the league's leading rebounder in Harangody (14.0 per Big East game). 
The Irish lost two games this season that could have been avoided with better rebounding performances -a 71-65 loss to he served as an assistant offensive coach for two years under Romeo Crennel. Crennel and Irish coach Charlie Weis know each other well from their days as coor­dinators with the New England Pattiots. 
"Frank provides an excellent background on both the offensive line and run game in general from two perspectives, having coached several years in professional foot­ball and at the Div. I level," Weis said. 

Verducci has been in the NFL for the past decade with the Cincinnati Bengals, Dallas Cowboys and the Buffalo Bills before joining the Browns. During that time he worked primarily with ofl'ensive linemen and tight ends. 
He has also coached at many major college programs, most notably the ten years he spent at Iowa before leaving for the NFL. In that time, the Iowa offense aver­aged 170 rush yards per game, including three seasons during which the Hawkeyes rushed for over 200 yards per game. 
Notre Dame is hopeful that Verducci can rejuvenate an Irish run game that has been dormant in the past few years. This season, the team averaged only 109 yards per game. In 2007, that number dipped down to 75 yards per game, which was 115th out of 119 FBS schools. 
Along with help in the trenches, Verducci is also expected to help on the recruiting trail. He was a recruiting coordinator during part of his career with the Hawkeyes and is known for roping in big tal­ented players. 
"In addition, the name Verducci in New Jersey high school football is legendary as both his father and uncle were coaching icons," Weis­said. "This should aid our recruit­ing efforts in New Jersey and in the Northeast." 
Verducci grew up in New Jersey and played fullback at U.S. Merchant Marine Academy before 
see VERDUCCI/page 18 

On the rebound 
~t. John's and a 6 7-62 loss to 
Ohio State. In each game, the 
Irish were out-rebounded, and 
dug themselves into a hole by 
allowing crucial offensive 
boards at pivotal moments in 
the second half. 
"[The loss to] St. John's was 
just not paying attention to 
details," senior Zach Hillesland 
said. "The rebounding was the 
big thing there. They got to the 
offensive boards a lot and they 
got a lot of confidence because 
of that." 
After the St. John's loss, Notre 
Dame recommitted itself to 
rebounding and saw some 
improvement. The Irish went 
toe-to-toe on the glass with 
Georgetown in a win at the 
Joyce Center and demolished 
Seton Hall on the boards in 
another victory. 
"I mean, we're never going to 
be a team where you go, 'We're 
plus-10 in a Big East game.' We 
just can't make it be something 
that shreds us," Irish coach 
Mike Brey said. "For the most 
part since I've been here, we've 
just not been this crushing 
see BOARDS/page 18 

MEN'S TRACK 
Rincon excels in first season at Notre Dame 
Middle-distance runner has two wins 
By LAURA MYERS Sporrs Writer 
Jordan Rincon is off to a fast start-and middle, and finish. 
The Irish freshman middle­distance runner h·as won an event at both of the team's meets so far, outrunning sever­al of his upperclassman team­mates. 
''I'm happy with the early success," Rincon said. "I didn't really expect it, but I'm really competitive and I'm a sore loser. I don't like to lose. I push myself at practice all the time. I mean, I knew I could come here and compete, which is all I wanted to do." 
At the Blue and Gold Meet on Dec. 5, Rincon easily won the men's 400-meter race with a time of 48.34, a full second­and-a-half better than the mark needed to qualify for the Big East Championships. 
Rincon followed that with a close win in the 600-meter contest Saturday at the Indiana Opener. He defeated Irish sen­ior Billy Buzaid by .4 seconds to take the top spot. Buzaid finished second. -
Rincon said he and Buzaid 
see RINCON/page 18 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles fall to Albion, 77-72 
Squad suffers first MIAA loss at the hands of the rival Brits 
Observer Staff Report 
Saint Mary's dropped a league contest for the first time Wednesday night as the 
host  Belles  fell  77-72  to  
Albion.  
Saint Mary's went  on  an  

11-1 run midway through the second half to take a 48­4 7 lead. But the Belles could not maintain the advantage. Albion took the lead on its next possession and did not trail for the remainder of the game. 
With the loss, the Belles fell to 8-7 overall, including a 6-1 mark in MIAA action. The Brits, meanwhile, improved to 8-6 overall and 3-3 against conference oppo­nnnts. 
Albion built a nine-point lead late in the first half after going on a 14-4 run. 13 u t the Belles an s\vered shortly before halftime. 
Seniors Meghan Conaty and Erin Nnwsom both eon­verted layups before inter­mission to cut the Albion load to six. 
But the Brits came out fir­ing after halftime and took a commanding 46-37 advan­tage. 
Newsom led the Belles with 18 points and eight rebounds. Freshman guard Patsy Mahoney added 16 points on 6-of-9 field goal 
shooting but it was not enough. 
Albion had a big advantage from the foul line as they made 20 free throws to the Belles' 12. The Brits made 
83.3 percent of their attempts from the line while Saint Mary's converted just 60 percent. 
Along with Newsom and Mahoney, senior Nicole Beier and freshman Kelley Murphy scored in double figurils for Saint Mary's. 
The Belles remain a half­game ahead of Hope for first place in the MIAA standings, and will look to rebound next Wednesday when they travel to take on Kalamazoo. 






