
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 78 FRIDAY. JANUARY 30,2009 

ND Peace Corps service increases 
The University rose from No. 17 to No. 13 in the rankings with 26 alumni volunteers 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Notre Dame jumped four spots in the Peace Corps rankings this year, moving from No. 17 to No. 13 among medium­sized colleges and universities with the greatest numbers of alumni volunteers. 
There are currently 26 Notre Dame alumni serving in the Peace Corps. George Washington University holds the No. 1 ranking, with 57 volunteers. 
This year marks the sixth consecutive year Notre Dame has been one of the top­25 medium-sized universities to produce Peace Corps volunteers. 
The Peace Corps seeks to provide other countries with the assistance of trained volunteers, encourage a better under­standing of Americans, and gain aware­ness of other cultures, according to the organization's Web site. 
Sara Snider, Notre Dame '08, is one of 800 Notre Dame graduates to serve in the Peace Corps since the program began in 1961. She began her service in Mali, located in Western Africa, 6 months ago. 
"I wanted to do at least two years of international service where I wouldn't be teaching," she said. "Also, I wanted to live in community with the people with whom I would be serving." 
Snider has lived in a small, 450-person village in the southern-most region of Mali with a host family for the past four months. 
Peace Corps volunteers develop their own projects aimed at helping their com­munities. As a small enterprise develop­ment volunteer, Snider will spend her time in Mali identifying and addressing 
see PEACE/page 6 


Squashing the competition 
First all-female team to particpate in tournament 
with four female teammates to represent the Notre Dame squash club at a women's tournament. 
So is not sure how she will do now that her competition is female. 
"Girls definitely have that men­tal edge, but when you play a guy who is three times your size, they also have that edge," So said. 
The women's portion of the squash club will leave Notre Dame on Feb. 12 to fly to Harvard University for the three­day College Squash Association National Championships. They 
see SQUASH/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Conunittee to present suggestions to Jenkins 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY News Writer 
The ad hoc committee created by University President Fr. John Jenkins in the fall to address complaints about football game security is preparing to present suggestions for improvement on March 1, Committee chair Stephanie Gallo said. 
In an Oct. 14 article, The Observer reported the Committee was formed in response to complaints of aggressive behavior from police and ushers that overstepped necessary force, which took away from the game day experi­ence. 
Gallo said the Committee has been reviewing over 200 letters and e-mails from alumni, par­ents, employees and fans in order to gauge the extent of the issue. 
"This may not have allowed us to capture each and every story," Gallo said. "But to the degree possible, it allowed us the chance to sample from the population so that we could arrive at some informed gener­alizations that will guide our recommendations." 
The feedback has been both positive and negative, Gallo said. 
"Many people included very helpful suggestions," she said. The Committee also analyzed 
see COMMITTEE/page 6 

SMC fixture, Jones, dies 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Katherine Jones, Holy Cross Hall's former front desk worker, died on Jan. 16 after 18 years of dedicated service to the College and the students whom she came to deeply love and care for. She was 59. 
"She always tried to make every­one feel comfortable," said Bev Moyer, co-worker and longtime friend of Katherine: "She always went above and beyond the duty." 
Katherine worked the 11 p.m. to 7 a.m. shift Sunday through Friday. She fell in love with the residents and the hall was like her home away from home. 
Two senior Residents Assistants, Anna Hoefer, and Sarah Dalton recall fond memories of their time in the hall with Katherine. 
"We always stopped to talk to Katherine. She was always a friendly face," Hoefer said. 
St. Nicholas Day was an espe­cially important day for Katherine. She would go door to door throughout the hall leaving candy for all of the residents, Dalton said. 
"She never forgot our birthdays or Christmas. She always left us cards on our birthday," Dalton said. 
Each of the seniors said Katherine always went out of her way to make residents feel at home. 
In order to help keep Katherine's memory alive, and uphold the feeling of warmth and caring she spread throughout the hall, the RA's said they plan on continuing her holiday traditions. 
see JONES/page 6 
Late Night Olympics to hold 11 sporting events 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
If you are looking for an alternative to crowded dorm parties this weekend, want to show off your ath­letic skills or simply want to help out a good cause, cancel your plans for Saturday night. 
From 6 p.m. on Saturday to 2 a.m. on Sunday, RecSports is sponsoring Late Night Olympics, where teams comprised of mem­bers of brother-sister halls 
see OLYMPICS/page 4 



By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
Kristine So is used to compet­ing with the guys. 
At a squash tournament last weekend, So was the No. 10 seed on the Notre Dame men's squash club team and in her first match, played a man who was five seeds ahead of her and twice her size. 
She said she held her own, but was pretty handily defeated in that match. Only one other woman competed in the whole tournament. 
But three weekends from now, for the first time, So will travel page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Many fortns of chatting 
There are many options when it comes to communicating lately: tex­ting, instant messaging, wall post­ing, Facebook messaging, instant messaging, e-mailing, Google chat­ting. and of course, good old fash­ioned calling. Each one of these keeps us more connected, but some­times I have a difficult time deciding which to choose in certain situa­
tions.  
Although I like  
to think that my  Emma Driscoll  
main preference  
is calling, I have  
definitely noticed  News Writer  
myself more fre­ 
quently sending  
e-mails instead of  

picking up the phone. Calling can be a bit scary or intim­idating at times. 
I used to be pretty opposed to tex­ting because I thought that it was inconvenient to type everything. 
However, I now have a phone with a keyboard, and this has made me far more inclined to text. I am not sure how much other people appre­ciate me sending them texts with the random thoughts that pop up in my head throughout the day, though. 
I also have to admit that I love Facebook messages. There's some­thing about seeing that little num­ber next to my inbox and wondering what somebody has to say to me that is too personal to post but not formal enough to e-mail. I have a Meg Ryan "You've Got Mail" moment (Cranberries playing and all) with every message. There is nothing more disappointing, howev­er, than clicking on my inbox only to discover that the message is a mass message sent to everybody in a ran­dom group that I joined freshman year. 
Instant messaging is good for close friends because it allows you to have extended conversations while also doing something else. I have always felt that instant mes­sage can be a little too weird with people you don't know very well, mainly because it can be so difficult to read tone and to change the sub­ject. 
Google chatting is starting to take over instant messaging for me, but this may be because I check my e­mail constantly. It is very conven­ient, and tends to be more reliable because the people who show up on the chat list are typically checking their e-mail at that moment. 
E-mails always seem formal to me, but they are incredibly conven­ient. 
There is no perfect way to deter­mine which of these methods is most appropriate in any given situa­tion. I have often wondered whether a birthday post is sufficient or whether a text was too lengthy. 
It is hard to know what subliminal message you may be sending to the recipients just by choosing how to contact them. It is all part of the fun of communicating, though, and of trying to figure out how to form and maintain relationships in the twenty-first century. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Aheadline on page 7 of the Jan. 29 edition ofThe Observer misrakenly said the U.S. House and Senate had passed an economic stimulus package. Only the House passed the measure. A headline on page 24 ofthe Jan. 29 edition ofThe Observer misrakenly said Matt and Kevin Schipper are twins. They are brothers; Matt is a junior while Kevin is afreshman. The Observer regrets these errors. 
The Observer + PAGE 2 Friday, January 30, 2009 QUESTION OF THE DAY: How WOULD YOU SPEND $825 BILLION? 







Catherine Hackbarth Jonatha Bell Sandy McShea Stephanie Nienaber
Shea Bettwy 
freshman senior junior senior Walsh Off campus O'Neill junior Walsh 
Alumni "I would buy a "I would spend "!would do "! would spend
'Td spend it on
Stradivarius it on my mom." what the kid it on a huge 
,, my
violin. from 'Blank bakery where 
inauguration
Check' did everything is 
parade."

825,000 times." 

VANESSA GEMPIS!fhe Observer The Notre Dame women's basketball players on the bench cheer on their teammates during their game against Rutgers Tuesday. The team lost the game, 78-68. 
OFFBEAT 

Boy dressed as girl to cheat on exam 
SCHENECTADY, N.Y.­Dressing as a girl to take a high school Regents exam in place of another student landed a 17 -year-old upstate New York boy in some seri­ous detention. Deandre Ellis, 17, of Schenectady was arrested on a felony charge after the incident Tuesday. City school officials said a monitor verifying that each student was taking the prop­er exam suspected some­thing was amiss when the name on the test and the per­son taking it didn't match. 
District spokeswoman Karen Corona said a closer look revealed the test-taker was a boy masquerading as a girl. 
Man tries to take breast implants from ex 
VICTORVILLE, Calif. ­Prosecutors say a spurned lover ambushed his ex-girl­friend and tried to cut out the breast implants he paid for by stabbing her. San Bernardino County prose­cutor David Foy says 28­year-old Thomas Lee Rowley attacked his ex in July 2006 outside her mother's home in Hesperia, some 70 miles northeast of Los Angeles in the Mojave Desert. 
Rowley is on trial in Superior Court in Victorville for attempted murder, assault with a deadly weapon, stalking, burglary, and false imprisonment. 
The 26-year-old woman survived six stab wounds and the punctured breast implants were repaired. 
Rowley's former room­mate Dennis McGill testified this week that the defen­dant wanted to reclaim what was rightfully his. Rowley allegedly told McGill, "''m gonna cut 'em out and get em back." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

Q
..... 


*&.• .,.
c( 
* *-:;n;'"* * 
(.) 
0 

HIGH 13 HIGH 10 HIGH 30 HIGH 29
.... 

LOW 8 LOW 8 LOW 23 LOW 20 
always free. " 
IN BRIEF 
The film "Baghdad High," is being played at 6:30 p.m. today at the Browning Cinema in DeBartalo Performing Arts Center. Filmakers are sched­uled to be present. It is a free but ticketed event. Get tickets at performingarts.nd.edu or call574-631-2800. 
Diavolo will perform Foreign Bodies, an original new work co-commissioned by the University today and Saturday at 7 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, Decio Mainstage Theatre. Tickets for this event are $40, $32 facul­ty/staff, $30 seniors, and for $15 all students. They can be purchased online, or by visiting or calling the Ticket Office at 574-631­2800. 
"Le plus heureux des trois," a play by Eugene Labiche will be performed at 7 p.m. on Friday at the Snite Museum of Art. Although the play wil be in French, an English synopsis will be provided. Tickets are $5 cash only and can be bought at the Center for the Study of Language and Culture, 329 DeBartolo Hall or at the door. 
The film "Happy Go Lucky," is being played at 
6:30 p.m. on Saturday at the Browning Cinema in DeBartalo Performing Arts Center. Purchase tickets at performingarts.nd.edu or call 574-631-2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

MONDAY TUESDAY 
:
. 
.

a.. e.**• * 
* *** 

HIGH 23 HIGH 16 LOW 12 LOW 11 
Atlanta 52 I 30 Boston 36 I 29 Chicago 28 I 17 Denver 36 116 Houston 62 I 39 Los Angeles 70 I 50 Minneapolis 18 I 11 New York 36 I 30 Philadelphia 37 130 Phoenix 70 I 44 Seattle 48 136 St. Louis 38 I 21 Tampa 70 I 63 Washington 40 I 30 
---------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Friday, January 30, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Symposium will examine war, law 
Special to The Observer 
Martin van Creveld, a promi­nent military historian and strate­gist from Israel, and John Robb, a former U.S. special operations officer and expert on the future of war. are the lead speakers for "Of War & Law," a symposium and film festival to be held Thursday to Saturday at the University of Notre Dame. 
Speakers will focus on the dra­matic changes in warfare during the pa<>t 60 years and the result­ing challenges to international humanitarian law. 
"Wars used to be relatively sim­ple -a battle between nation­states with regular armies," said conference organizer Luc Reydams. an assistant profession­al specialist in Notre Dame's Department of Political Science and a faculty fellow of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
"But now everything is blurred, and it's hard to distinguish between war. crime. terrorism. massive human rights violations and even between war and peace itself. In this new context, the laws and treaties designed to protect civilians, wounded and sick com­batant<> and prisoners of war must be re-examined to make sure that they make sense and can be fully implemented," he said. 
The symposium begins at 12:30 
p.m. Feb. 12 with van Creveld's lecture, "The Culture of War," in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. A panel discussion will be held at 7 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, followed by a book signing and film. 
Events on feb. 13 begin at 
12:30 p.m. with Robb's lecture, "The Economics of Contemporary Armed Conflict," in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. A panel dis­cussion will be held at 4 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, followed by a book signing and two films. Two more films will be presented Feb. 14. 
Van Creveld has been on the faculty of the Hebrew University in Jerusalem since 1971. He is the author of 19 books, including "Supplying War," "Command in War," "The Transformation of War," "The Rise and Decline of the State." "The Changing Face of War: Lessons of Combat from Marne to Iraq," and "The Culture of War." 
Robb is a high-tech entrepre­neur and the author of "Brave New War," a ground-breaking book on the Iraqi insurgency, global guerrillas and open-source warfare. 
Other speakers and moderators will include Cecile Aptel. a long­time staff member of the International Criminal Tribunals for Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia; David Cortright, a research fellow at the Kroc Institute; Frederic Megret, the director of the McGill Clinic for the Special Court of Sierra Leone; Mary Ellen O'Connell, Robert and Marion Short Professor of Law at Notre Dame and a fellow of the Kroc Institute; and Jamie Williamson of the International Committee of the Red Cross. 
All symposium events are free and open to the public. More details on the symposium are available on the Web at http://kroc.nd.edu/newsevents'eve nts/upcoming. The six films are free but require tickets. Visit per­formingarts.nd.edu for more information on the films. Call 57 4­631-2800 to reserve tickets. 
lEI hires nevv research center director 
Mark Berends has done work on school organization, class instruction 
Special to The Observer 
Mark Berends, director of the National Center on School Choice (NCSC). has joined the University of Notre Dame's Institute for Educational Initiative (lEI) as the new director of its Center for Research on Educational Opportunity (CREO). 
Berends, who most recent­ly served as associate profes­sor of public policy and edu­
cation at Vanderbilt University's P e a b o d y College, suc­c e e d s Maureen Hallinan, who has directed CREO for ten years. 
Berends has done exten­sive research on school organization and classroom instruction as they relate to 
Among Racial-Ethnic Groups, 1972-1992," "Charter School Outcomes," "Leading with Data: Pathways to Improve Your School" and the "Handbook of Research on School Choice." He will teach sociology courses at Notre Dame. 
"Professor Berends will make a singularly important contribution to the mission of the lEI," says Rev. Timothy 
R. Scully, C.S.C, director of 
"Professor Berends will make a singularly important contribution to the mission of the [Institute for Educational Initiative].,, 
Rev. Timothy R. Scully Director Institute for Educational 
student achievement, paying special attention to disad­vantaged students. He has participated in numerous 
U.S. Department of Education national evalua­tions and has conducted studies investigating the causes and sources of black­white and Latino-white achievement gaps. 
In the 1990s, Berends led the summative evaluation of New American Schools, at the time the largest privately funded reform movement in the nation. His latest books are "Examining Gaps in Mathematics Achievement 
the lEI. "The wealth of expertise and intellectual leadership he brings to CREO, particu­larly in the area of school choice, will enable us to make great strides in our work to give children and families greater access to excellent schools -espe­

cially faith-based schools. l-Ie will build ably upon the work of Maureen Hallinan, whose inspired leadership has built a wonderful foun­dation in the world of high impact educational research." 
Berends will continue in his role as director of the NCSC, established in 2004 through a $13.3 million grant from the U.S. Department of Education's Institute of Education Sciences. The mission of the NCSC is to lead research across multiple disciplines on "how school choice affects individuals, communities and systems." 
"I'm excited about inte­grating the work of CREO and NCSC. In fact, CREO provides a broader umbrella for NCSC because of its emphasis on research on educational opportunity," Berends said of his transition to Notre Dame. "Together the studies that NCSC and Maureen Hallinan have undertaken position CREO to make significant contribu­tions to educational policy and the field of sociology. What's more, they provide a foundation for CREO to bring in additional funding so we can continue this line of research -research that's essential. since issues of educational equity and excel­lence will be critical for years to come." 
Hallinan served as the first director of CREO and was the first director of the lEI upon its founding in 1996. She also is the William P. and Hazel B. White Professor of Sociology, whose research has focused primarily on the sociology of education. Her most recent studies compare students' learning opportuni­ties in Catholic and public schools in Chicago. 
"We have established CREO as a center of excellence for the study of educational inequality, the organization of schools, and the effects of school sector on student out­comes. Mark Berends brings a faith vision and commit­ment to his work that will enhance and strengthen the context in which members of CREO conduct their research and teaching." she says. 

Wed, Jan 28 IThurs, Jan 29 I Fri, Jan 30 
Washington Hall I 7:30 p.m. Full Price $20 I Faculty/Staff $18 I Students $12 
574-631-2800 I www.performingarts.nd.edu 
PRESENTED BY SHAKESPEARE AT NOTRE DAME 




Build Stronger Relationships with Your Family 

Want to better understand your teen? 
How about your significant other? 
Are you interested in what's going on in their lives but find yourself unable to communicate with them? Or are you just looking for some more family time? 
If so, you're not alone! Consider the family communication project in the Family Studies Center to be a great resource! Couples with teens between the ages of 11-16 are encouraged to call: 
Dr. Julia Schatz@ (574) 631 -0954 or Jackie Bauters and Patricia Kriegel@ (574) 631 -0887 
email: tfcptilu@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 30, 2009 
you miss the ball five times, and there's a guy who has


Squash 

been playing for two years, continued from page 1 
and you feel bad you're slow­
ing them down or some­will play in the emerging thing," she said. teams division, against other So knew from experience club-level teams. That makes that the first day on the knowing the strength of their courts can be frustrating, so opponent more difficult, So she and other teammates e­said, because they could be mail and call new players to playing club level players or encourage them so they don't women who were nationally­lose new recruits early on. ranked in high school but Squash is a far more popu­went to a college without a lar game in Canada than it is squash team. in the United States, So said. 
So, who went to high One of the problems with school in Canada, started recruiting women for the playing squash in seventh team was that many of her grade. She noticed the friends didn't know what the squash courts at Rockne game was. Memorial Gym as a fresh­''I've learned to say that it's man, but the club was all kind of like racquetball in a men, and she was too intimi­sense that you hit the ball, dated to go to a practice. there are two people on the 
So, a junior now, decided court ... and you hit the ball last year to just go for it. She against the wall and return grabbed one of her room­it," she said. mates and took her along to But there are more bound­join the club. aries in squash than racquet­
Once acclimated, she and ball, and the ball is smaller her teammates tried to and doesn't bounce as much. recruit other girls. The team "It requires the same sort asked women who were part of agility and speed to keep nament. The Harvard tour­to spend the next few weeks the tournament. of the RecSports squash class up with the game," she said. nament will mark the first of training holding mock The team will probably to join the club and talked to The squash club practices time. tournaments against the make some mistakes, So girls who had competed in on The Rock's squash courts So said she is feeling nerv­men's team. said, and might struggle as racquetball tournaments, three days a week, coached ous and excited about the "The time spent on the they adjust to a completely persuading them to cross by a volunteer who also championships in three court with the guys is a huge new competitive situation. over to squash. teaches the squash class weeks. help," she said. But they will draw on their 
But, So admits, competing through RecSports. "I think we're all really The men's team, with much training and on the pointers against "the guys is a little In the pictures of players excited to be getting Notre more tournament experi­they've received from the intimidating." from years past on the walls Dame out there and the fact ence, has been giving them men's team, So said. 
The team has tried to make of the courts, there seemed that we have coalesced so pointers about their upcom­"I know we are going to try learning the game and prac­to be, now and then, a well, and worked together ing inaugural meet, she said, really hard," she said. ticing easier for women. woman who would travel and really supported each telling them to have fun and "Everyone's really pumped 
"They don't have to go out with the men's team, So said. other, that it's going to be try their best. up and ready to go." on the court and see if they But women have never had another great experience for They know the women's like [the sport] with a guy, an official traveling team, or the team," she said. team is feeling a little unsure Contact Kaitlynn Riely at and then, all of a sudden, competed in a female tour-So and her teammates plan in the weeks leading up to kriely@nd.edu 
Beven said. Fr. Pete McCormick, rec­


Oly01pics 
tor of Keough Hall, who played basketball in high
continued from page 1 
school and has played for 

will compete in 11 different fun ever since, will be play­sports to raise money for ing in the game because he St. Joseph County Special wanted to help out a good 
Olympics, said John Beven, cause. who supervised the plan­"I think Late Night ning of Late Night Olympics Olympics is a great oppor­this year. tunity here on campus for 
The sports offered include students to come together. I innertube water polo, just wanted to be of help," kayaking, bags (also known McCormick said. as corn hole), broomball, Alicia Danto, a freshman volleyball, target golf, an from Howard Hall who is obstacle course and dodge going to be on her hall's 
ball, Beven said. volleyball team, added: ''I'm There will also be three­
excited to see all the differ­on-three basketball, rac­ent events and ... join in on quetball and table tennis, some of them. I'm also 
which will be divided into ready to cheer on the other men's and women's divi­girls from Howard." sions, he said. Beven said this kind of The sports will be played support is very much 
on different locations encouraged because the across campus, from the more spectators each team field house to the aquatic has, the more points they 
center to the Joyce Center, get. Beven said. "One of the ways to score Each team is comprised of points for your team is to brother-sister halls from have people from your hall Notre Dame, however this come to Late Night. Even if 
is the first year in few you're not participating in a years that Saint Mary's has­sport, if you show up, you n't been a part of Late guys get a point," Beven Night Olympics, he said. said. "Say 100 people come 
"This year, they couldn't from your hall, you guys get commit to it because they 100 points." had so many things going Badin Hall freshman 
on," Beven said. Samantha Smith plans to 
While Beven said Late play volleyball for her team Night Olympics is a fun on Saturday. event that helps students "It was something differ­meet people in their dorms ent to do on the weekend and from other dorms, "the Iand] it will be a nice way major purpose is to benefit of getting to know the other St. Joseph County's Special girls in my dorm," she said. Olympics." The winners of each sport 
A basketball game in will receive medals, which 
which rectors and members are provided by the Alumni of the athletic department Association, Beven said. will take on a team from the St. Joseph's County Contact Sarah Mervosh at Special Olympics at 9 p.m., smervosh@nd.edu 





ORLD & NATION 
Friday, January 30, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Koreas declare political agreement 
SEOUL, South Korea -North Korea declared all military and political agreements with South Korea "dead" Friday, warning it would not honor past accords if Seoul contin­ues to push the Koreas to the brink of war. 
The North's Committee for the Peaceful Heunification of Korea accused South Korean President Lee Myung-bak of raising tensions on the Korean peninsula with his hard-line position on Pyongyang. It warned that Lee's stance would only draw "a heavier blow and shameful destruction." 
"The group of traitors has already reduced all the agreements reached between the north and the south in the past to dead documents," the committee in charge of inter-Korean affairs said early Friday in a statement carried by the state-run Korean Central News Agency. 
Mideast hopes U.S. brings change 
HAMALLAH, West Bank -The Obama administration's Mideast point man said Thursday that the Palestinian govern­ment in the West Bank must play a cru­cial role in cementing the shaky Gaza truce so broader peace efforts can be revived. 
The top political leader in Hamas-ruled Gaza said the group's top priority after Israel's bruising offensive was to heal the rift that has led to dueling Palestinian governments. Speaking publicly for the first time since the Jan. 18 cease-fire, Gaza Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh also expressed hope the U.S. would change its Mideast policies. 
Israel lau·nched its devastating three­week military campaign to end year-s of rocket fire on its southern towns, but said toppling llamas was not its aim. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Power outage could last nntil Feb. 
PADUCAH, Ky. -Storm-battered resi­dents of several states hunkered down in frigid homes and shelters Thursday, expect­ing to spend at least a week without power and waiting in long lines to buy generators, firewood, groceries and bottled water. 
Utility companies in Missouri, Kentucky, Ohio, Arkansas and West Virginia warned that the estimated 1.3 million people left in the dark by an ice storm wouldn't have power back before Saturday at the earliest, and at worst, as late as mid-February. 
Recession leaves many homeless 
SAN FHANCISCO -In the first major census of people living on the streets since the recession, thousands of volunteers across the country are fanning out in the thick of night this week to count the most desperate members of their communities. 
On the streets and in shelters, volunteers condueting the count in the wintry dead of night have found an untold numbers of hard-luck stories from those homeless for the first time, working poor victimized by the foreclosure and unemployment crises. 
"I call it the double trouble," said Philip 
F. Mangano, executive director of the United States Interagency Council on Ilomelessness. "You would have to be naive to believe that the loss of over 850,000 homes and over two million jobs wouldn't have an impact." 
LOCAL NEWS 
Jail inmate captured in South Bend 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -Police in South Bend say they have arrested a Newton County Jail inmate who escaped Monday. 
Police spokesman Capt. Phil Trent says 36-• year-old Anthony Ray Fisher was captured on the city's south side after a brief foot chase by officers acting on a tip Thursday afternoon. Another man with Fisher was also arrested.-. Further details weren't immediately available. 
Newton County authorities say Fisher escaped with help from an armed man Monday while he was being taken from the jail to the courthouse in Kentland. 
Blagojevich impeached from office 
Illinois governor first in more than twenty years to be removed from position 
Associated Press 

SPRINGFIELD, Ill. ­Gov. Rod Blagojevich was bounced from office Thursday without a single lawmaker rising in his defense, ending a nearly two-month crisis that erupted with his arrest on charges he tried to sell Barack Obama's vacant Senate seat. 
Blagojevich becomes the first U.S. governor in more than 20 years to be removed by impeachment. 
After a four-day trial, the Illinois Senate voted 59-0 to convict him of abuse of power, automati­cally ousting the second­term Democrat. In a sec­ond, identical vote, law­makers further barred Blagojevich from ever holding public office in the state again. 
"He failed the test of character. He is beneath the dignity of the state of Illinois. He is no longer worthy to be our gover· nor," said Sen. Matt Murphy, a Republican from suburban Chicago. 
Democratic Lt. Gov. Patrick Quinn, one of Blagojevich's critics, was promptly sworn in as gov­ernor. 
Blagojevich's troubles Blagojevich (pronounced I think it's a shame that remarks with historical are not over. Federal pros­blah-GOY-uh-vich) told the with our city and Illinois, references, including ecutors are drawing up an lawmakers. "How can you everybody thinks we're all Pearl Harbor's "day of indictment against him on throw a governor out of corrupt," Gene Ciepierski, infamy" and "The whole corruption charges. office with insufficient and 54, said after watching the world is watching" chant 
Blagojevich, 52, had incomplete evidence?" trial's conclusion on a TV from the riots that broke boycotted the first three The verdict brought to at Chicago's be1oved Billy out during the 1968 days of the impeachment an end what one lawmak­Goat Tavern. "To think he Democratic National trial, calling the proceed" er branded "the freak would do something like Convention in Chicago. ings a kangaroo court. But show" in Illinois. Over the that, it hurts more than They cited Abr.aham on Thursday, he went past few weeks, anything." Lincoln, the Martin Luther before the Senate to beg Blagojevich found himself In a solemn scene, more King Jr. and Jesus as they for his job, delivering a isolated, with almost the than 30 lawmakers rose called for the governor's 4 7 -minute plea that was, entire political establish­one by one on the Senate removal. by turns, defiant, humble ment lined up against him. floor to accuse Blagojevich "We have this thing and sentimental. The furor paralyzed state of abusing his office and called impeachment and 
He argued, again, that government and made embarrassing the state. it's bleeping golden and he did nothing wrong, and Blagojevich and his hel­They denounced him as a we've used it the right warned that his impeach­met of lush, dark hair a hypocrite, saying he cyni­way," Democratic Sen. ment would set a "danger­punchline from coast to cally tried to enrich him­James Meeks of Chicago ous and chilling prece­coast. self and then posed as the said during the debate, dent." Many ordinary brave protector of the mocking Blagojevich's 
"You haven't proved a Illinoisans were glad to poor and "wrapped him­expletive-laden words as crime, and you can't see him go. self in the constitution." captured by the FBI on a because it didn't happen," "It's very embarrassing. They sprinkled their wiretap. 

SWITZERLAND 

Turkey prime minister leaves in fury 
Associated Press 

DAVOS, Switzerland -Turkey's prime minister stalked off the stage at the World Economic Forum red­faced Thursday after reproaching Israel's president over the Gaza offensive by saying "You kill peo­ple." · 
The packed audience, which included President Barack Obama's 
'close adviser Valerie Jarrett, appeared stunned as Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and IsraeJi President Shimon Peres raised their voices and traded accu­sations. Peres was passionate in his defense of Israel's three-week offen­sive against Hamas militants, launched in reaction to eight years 
of rocket fire aimed at Israeli terri­tory. As he spoke, Peres often turned toward Erdogan, who in his remarks had criticized the Israeli blockade of Gaza, saying it. was an "open air prison, isolated from the rest of the world" and referred to the Palestinian death toll of about 1,300, more than half of those civil­ians. Thirteen Israelis also died. 
"Why did they fire rockets? There was no siege against Gaza," Peres said, his voice rising in emotion. "Why did they fight us, what did they want? There was never a day of starvation in Gaza." 
The heated debate with Israel and Turkey at the center was significant because of the key role Turkey has played as a moderator between Israel and Syria. Erdogan appeared to express a sense of disappoint­ment when he recounted how he had met with the Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert days before the offensive, and believed they were close to reaching terms for a face-to-face meeting with Syrian leaders. 
Obama's new Mideast envoy, George Mitchell, will be in Turkey for talks Sunday. 
Erdogan was angry when a panel moderator cut off his remarks in response to an impassioned mono­logue by Peres defending Israel's offensive against the llamas rulers of Gaza. 
"I find it very sad that people applaud what you said," Erdogan said. "You killed people. And I think that it is very wrong." 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Friday, January 30, 2009 
Connnittee 
continued from page 1 
data from past football seasons as well as this season and stud­ied current game day security procedures, she said. 
With this information at hand, the Committee decided to approach the problem of game day security by dividing into three subcommittees that address security, customer serv­ice/hospitality and communica­tions, Gallo said. The subcom­mittees will then each present a report that focuses on its own issue. 
Gallo said she cannot give any details about the ideas that have been presented in meetings thus far, and she said the Committee is only for advisory purposes. Implementation of any sugges­tions will be Jenkins' decision. 
"Once the report is submitted and any opportunities for change are identified, the University will monitor, evaluate and adjust its practices to ensure the game day experience is the very best it can be," she said. 
After reviewing the Committee's proposal, Jenkins will submit a response and cre­ate a staff to make any changes that are deemed necessary. 
"Campus staff will work with each other to continue their efforts to make any necessary changes to our game day policy and practice," she said. 
Gallo said the Committee is committed to making positive changes so that football game day activities run smoothly. 
"The Committee has taken its work very seriously," she said. "Fr. Jenkins has brought togeth­er an impressive group with unique experience and expert­ise that should greatly benefit both the University family and the game day experience." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
Jones 
continued from page 1 
Katherine was forced to quit work about halfway through the fall semester. Not because she wanted to, but because she was under doc­tor's orders. 
"If she could, she would be here," Holy Cross Hall Director Terri Paul said. "She loved working here, loved the residence, loved Holy Cross. It was just such a big part of her life for so many years." 
She was also an active member of Little Flower Catholic Church, located on Ironwood Dr. in South Bend. She spent over 25 years assisting at the church with funeral luncheons. She would work all night at Saint Mary's and then turn around the next morning and go the 
church  to  help  with  the  
funeral  luncheo ns,  Paul  
said.  

Residents of the hall sent 
Peace 
continued from page 1 
needs in the area of commu­
nity development. 
"So far, the women in my village have expressed a desire to become legally rec­ognized in order to better organize and be able to sell their goods as well as apply for funding as an associa­tion," she said. 
Snider said she will assist Malian women market the shea butter they make. She will assist the women's asso­ciation in her village pro­duce better quality shea but­ter and find a buyer for their product. 
Snider said she also enjoys the experience of living in a different culture. 
"Often I would just walk around the village and join in with whatever a group of people were doing. The cul­ture here is such that any­one is more than welcome anywhere and anytime," she said. "It's completely accept­able to invite yourself to any activity." 
The importance of com­munication is one of the biggest things she has learned in Mali, Snider said. She learned French before she arrived, and she is also learning Bambara. a local language spoken by 80 per­cent of Malians. 
The community develop­ment and communication aspects of her service in Mali fulfill Snider's motiva­tions for joining the Peace Corps. 
"Peace Corps is based on cross-cultur.al exchange and relationships built through community an!j that was exactly what I wanted," she said. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
cards to Katherine while she was in hospice.· Also, dona­tions were taken from the students to help Katherine's family pay for the expenses. The girls at Holy Cross also raised money to buy her mass cards for a year. 
"The good that came from this really sad, terrible experience is that everybody 
really  came  together  for  
her," Paul said.  
A  mass  was  held  in  

Katherine '5 memory Wednesday in Le Mans' Holy Spirit Chapel. 
Katherine will be missed in the halls of Holy Cross. She meant so much not only to the people she worked with, but also the residents who passed by the front desk late and stopped to chat with her. For so many years she was a large part of what made Holy Cross so special. 
"This is Katherine's hall. It will always be Katherine's hall," Moyer said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

State glad governor's gone 
Associated Press 

ILLINOIS -People across Illinois who watched former Gov. Rod Blagojevich get the boot Thursday said they hoped removal of the scan­dal-plagued governor helps the state begin rebuilding its image after weeks of ridicule. 
"I figured it was coming," said Darlene Lewis, an investment securities repre­sentative in Chicago, after the state Senate's 59-0 vote. "He needs to be impeached. He's not above the law." 
From Chicago's famous Billy Goat Tavern to south­ern Illinois farm country, many residents said they were -weary after. weeks of watching the state become a laughingstock. 
''I'm in the camp that says, 'Finally.' I'm glad we're moving forward," said Richard Borgsmiller from his farm near Murphysboro. 
By Thursday, Borgsmiller had run out of patience with Blagojevich, believing the governor peddled influence, abused his power and showed "a little bit of arro­gance" by living in Chicago instead of the governor's mansion in Springfield. 
"From the get-go, that was 
something that bothered me," he said. 
At the Billy Goat, Gene Ciepierski considered Blagojevich's impeachment "very embarrassing." 
"[ think it's a shame that with our city and Illinois, everybody thinks we're all corrupt," Ciepierski said after watching the announcement of Blagojevich's fate, which played on all the bar's tele­visions. "To think he would do something like that, it hurts more than anything." 
Some of Blagojevich's for­mer political foes rejoiced ­cautiously. 
"Nobody is happier to see Hod go than I am, but this is not time to celebrate," said Edwin Eisendrath, a former Chicago alderman who lost to Blagojevich in the 2006 Democratic primary. "We have serious and sobering work to do before we firmly close this sorry chapter in our state's history." 
Earlier Thursday, Blagojevich's 47-minute speech to the state Senate played big in Chicago's Loop, where lunch-goers paused in front of a bill­board-sized TV screen fac­ing Daley Plaza. 
Brian David, a student at 
the University of Illinois­Chicago, found the Democrat's bid to save his job unconvincing. 
"[just don't think r believe him at all," David said. 
Chicago attorney Thomas Westgard called Blagojevich 's last stand in Springfield "hilarious and saddening. It's one of those laugh or cry things." 
"It's so shocking you don't know how to react," Westgard said. "He needs to go. They're correct to throw him out." 
At JV's Downtown Bar and Grill in Waterloo, a commu­nity of less than 9,000 peo­ple southeast of St. Louis, off-duty bartender Patrick Meegan nursed a bottle of Bud Light after watching Blagojevich get removed. 
Meegan's only surprise: That the vote was unani­mous, "a clean sweep." 
"I thought there might be a couple of dissenters," said Meegan, who voted for Blagojevich in 2002 but sided with his opponent four years later. 
"He made his plea in front of the Senate, and it didn't work," Meegan said. ''I'm glad this is done. Let's start all over. We're the laughing­stock of the country." 



------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Obama issues critique of Wall Street 
More than $18 billion spent on bonuses while financial sector receives bailout 
Associated Press Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume:  
3,061 73 825 3,141,272,258 WASHINGTON­ 
President Barack Obama  
issued a withering critique  
Thursday of Wall Street  
corporate behavior, calling  
it "the height of irresponsi­ 
bility" for employees to be  
paid more than $18 billion  
in bonuses last year while 
FTSE 100 (London) 4,300.06 their crumbling financial  
sector received a bailout  
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE from taxpayers.  
"It is shameful," Obama +3.49 +3.07 91.00 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) said from the Oval Office.  
FORD MOTOR CO (F) +24.26 +0.66 3.38 "And part of what we're  
going to need is for theCITIGROUP INC (C) +9.86 +0.76 8.47  
folks on Wall Street who  
FIN SELECT SPDR (XLF) +6.71 +0.86 13.67 are asking for help to show  
some restraint, arid showTreasuries  
some discipline, and show10-YEAR NOTE +2.90 +0.077 2.734  •  
some sense of responsibili­ 
13-WEEK BILL -50.00 0.00 0.00 ty."  
30-YEAR BOND + 1.35 +0.040 3.15 The president's com­ 
ments, made with new5-YEAR NOTE  
+3.78 +0.063 1.730 Treasury Secretary  
Commodities Timothy Geithner at his  
side, came in swift . +2.90 43.71 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) response to a report that  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +17.10 769.30 employees of the New York  
PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -0.85 89.45 financial world garnered  
an estimated $18.4 billion  
Exchange Rates in bonuses last year. The  
92.7950 figure, from the New YorkYEN  
state comptroller, drew  
EURO 0.7751 prominent news coverage.  
CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2534 Yet Obama's stand also  
came just one day after heBRITISH POUND 0.6723  
surrounded himself with  
well-paid chief executives  
at the White House. He had  
pulled in those businessIN BRIEF  AP  
leaders and hailed them for  President Barack Obama sp eaks to reporters in the Ova l Office of the White House  
being on the "front lines in  Thursday.  ·  
seeing the enormous prob­ 
Unemployment reaches 25 year high lems in our economy right  executives' salary, bonus  "I mean, I'd like to throw  financial sector, one that  
WASHINGTON -Week by week, the num­now."  pay, incentives, perks, the  these guys in the brig_,"  drew howls of criticism  
bers that measure the economy get worse, The executives who  estimated value of stock  Biden said in an interview  about a lack of transparen­ 
heading toward uncharted territory. appeared with Obama are  holdings and other com­ with CNBC.  cy. 
The Labor Department released figures not leaders of the Wall  pensation.  Obama said he and  Said Obama about Wall  
Thursday showing that the percentage of the Street financial companies  Lashing out at Wall Street  Geithner will speak directly  Street leaders: "There will  
workforce receiving unemployment benefits that the president targeted,  bonuses, Obama said the  to Wall Street leaders about  be time for them to make  
reached a 25-year high in mid-January. The but rather heads of such  public dislikes the idea of  the bonuses, which threat­ profits, and there will be  
raw numbers were the highest since the gov­well-known manufacturing  helping the financial sector  en to undermine public  time for them to get bonus­ 
ernment started keeping records in 1967, and technology giants as  dig out of a hole, only to  support for more govern­ es. Now is not that time."  
although the workforce was much smaller IBM, Motorola, Xerox and  see it get bigger because of  ment intervention as the  Obama said Geithner has  
then. Corning. Still, they get paid  lavish spending. The comp­ economy keeps reeling.  .already had to step in to  
Adding to the grim picture were separate handsomely. ·  troller's report found such  The House just approved  stop one company from  
government reports that showed December . Most of those who stood  bonuses were down 44 per­ an economic stimulus plan  taking delivery of a new  
home sales plunged to their lowest rate since with Obama earned a total  cent, but at aliout the same  that would cost taxpayers  corporate jet it planned to  
recording began in 1963. And orders for big­2007 compensation pack­ level they were during the  more than $800 billion; the  buy even after receiving 
ticket manufactured goods dropped more than age of between $8 million  boom time of 2004.  Senate is considering its  billions of dollars of sup­ 
expected, capping the worst year for manufac­and $21 million, according  Vice President Joe Biden  own version.  port from the government. 
turers since 2001. to a review by The  also chimed in, saying the  Separately, Congress  That bank, Citigroup, can­ 
Associated Press. Those  level of bonuses-"offends  passed a $700 billion plan  celed the deal earlier this  
Obama close to health care win calculations include the  the sensibilities."  last year to shore up the  week.  

Officials investigate peanut butter 
Associated Press has sickened more than 500 people, the nation's food safety system. 
triggered a massive international "I am extremely troubled by 
WASHINGTON -A lab company recall and raised doubts about the reports that the plant tested positive president called to testify before food industry's safety practices. for salmonella numerous times but Congress in the salmonella outbreak Deibel said his company -· Deibel nothing was done to ensure that the investigation said Thursday that Labs Inc. -did not conduct day-to­product did not go on the market," manufacturers "can't 'retest away a day testing for the Blakely plant, but Waxman said. positive result." was asked on occasion to carry out Peanut Corp., based in Lynchburg, 
Charles Deibel, whose labs con­certain tests. He said the company Va., said in a statement it "categori­ducted tests for Peanut Corp. of has turned over bacterial cultures to cally denies any allegations that the America, said that if 100 containers federal investigators. company sought favorable results were tested and only one or two Deibel and the president of anoth­from any lab in order to ship its turned up salmonella, the company er lab, J: Leek Associates Inc.; have products." should "throw the whole lot out." been called to testify Feb. 11 before Deibel said his firm is still pouring 
Federal health officials say Peanut the House Energy and Commerce over records to determine what kind Corp. shipped tainted peanut prod­Committee. The Deibel firm has of testing was done, and at what ucts from its Blakely, Ga., facility been in existence since the 1960s times, for Peanut Corp.'s plant. after retesting them and getting a and has itsmain lab in Chicago. He said his lab tested some salmo­negative result for salmonella. Hep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif., nella cultures that came from the J. 
Peanut butter, peanut paste and chairman of the panel conducting a Leek lab and identified the specific other goods from the plant are hearing into the outbreak, said the variety of the bacteria that was being blamed for an outbreak that investigation shows "major gaps" in present. 
Friday, January 30, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,934.18 +298.76 
WASHINGTON -Democratic lawmakers inched closer Thursday to giving President Barack Obama an early health care victory as they considered extending government-spon­sored health insurance cov,.erage to about 4 million uninsured children. 
The Senate was expected to pass the legisla­tion· late Thursday after Democrats spent much of the day fending off Republican amendments.' The House plans to take up the same measure next week. 
The bill calls for an additional $32 billion over the next 4 1/2 years for the State Children's Health Insurance Pro~ram. Even with the added spending, an estimated 5 mil­lion children still will be without health insur­ance. During his election campaign, Obama called for requiring all children to have health coverage. 
The bill pays for expanding SCHIP by increasing the federal excise tax on cigarettes from 39 cents to $1 a pack. Opponents argued that the tax would hit the poor the hardest. 
Republicans opposed letting states use fed­eral dollars to cover children of newly arrived legal immigrants, saying that the immigrants' sponsors had pledged that those coming to the United States would not be dependent on gov­ornment assistance. 
page 8 
GOPleaders advise changes in policy 
ments for a second two-year
Associated Press 
term, with Steele, Dawson 
WASHINGTON -After and Anuzis in competitive crushing defeats in back-to­positions, while .Blac-kwell hack elections, the top trails. Still, with at least two Senate Republican warned rounds of balloting expected, Thursday that the GOP risks it's possible anyone could end remaining out of power in up with a majority. the White House and Just eight years after 
•Congress unless it better Republicans controlled the explains its core principles to White House and Congress, woo one-time faithful and the GOP ·finds itself out of new loyalists. power and trying to figure 
"Unless we do something to out how to rebound while its adapt, our status as a minori­foe has grown much stronger. ty party may become too pro­The Democratic Party is nounced for an easy recov­empowered by a broadened ery," Sen. Mitch McConnell, coalition of voters -includ­R-Ky., told the Republican ing 'llispanics and young vot­National Committee on ers -who swung behind Thursday. "The President 
' 
' situation is Barack
I I challenging, "Unless we do Obama's call
I 'I but it's far from for change.
something to adapt,
:~ irreversible." Meanwhile,
our status as a
I McConnell Bush left the
' 
' 
' gave a sta.rk minority party may White House assessment of with low job
become too 
where the approval rat­
pronounced for an
Republican i n g s , Party went easy recovery. Republicans wrong and pro­saw their vided a road ranks in
Mitch McConnell 
map for how it Congress
Senator
can right itself grow even 
as he Kentucky and
spoke smaller 
party activists gathered in Washington to choose the next national chairman. 
With voting slated for Friday, four candidates are trying to unseat former President George W. Bush's hand-picked RNC chairman, Mike Duncan of Kentucky. They are: former Maryland Lt. Gov. Michael Steele, for­mer Ohio Secretary of State Ken Blackwell, South Carolina GOP chairman Katon Dawson and Michigan GOP chairman Saul Anuzis. 
A fifth -former Tennessee GOP chairman Chip Saltsman -dropped out of the race on Thursday with little explana­tion, saying only in a letter to RNC members: "I have decid­ed to withdraw ·my candida­cy." 
Saltsman, who ran former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee's failed presiden­tial campaign last year, was considered a long-shot candi­date who several Republican officials said likely wouldn't have had enough support even to be formally nominat­ed had he continued his bid. 
It faltered in December after he drew controversy for mailing a 41-track CD to committee members that included a song titled "Barack the Magic Negro," by conservative comediaa Paul Shanklin and sung to the music of "Puff, the Magic Dragon." Despite criticism, Saltsman didn't apologize and defended the tune as one .of several "lighthearted polit­ical parodies" that have aired on Rush Limbaugh's radio show. 
All of Duncan's challengers have spent the past few months arguing that he sim­ply represents a continuation of Bush; Duncan has argued he has the experience to make necessary changes. 
Republicans say it's all but certain no one will get a -majority on the first ballot when the 168-member RNC votes. Republicans say Duncan leads in endorse-
the party 

finds itself without a standard-bearer. Perhaps even more damaging to the GOP, the slice of the country that calls itself Republican -has shrunk over the past few years as Obama and his Democrats attracted voters of all political stripes. 
Jmplicit in McConnell's message was the concern that the Republican Party under Bush strayed from its beliefs, resulting in drub­bings in two straight elec­tions. 
While McConnell praised Bush as a man of principle, he said: "We can all agree, sad as it is, that he wasn't winning any popularity con­tests. And history shows that unpopular presidents are usually a drag on everybody else who wears their political label." 
McConnell called for the GOP to embrace its conserva­tive principles -and resist diluting its message -to bring people back and attract new rank and file. Still, he added: "It's clear our mes­sage isn't getting out to near­ly as many people as it should.... Too often we've let others define us. And the image they've painted isn't very pretty." 
He acknowledged GOP fears that certain demo­graphics from certain regions have shunned the party. And, he warned: "In politics, there's a name for a regional party: it's called a minority party." 
The Observer + NEWS Friday, January 30, 2009 
EGYPT 
Trucks stranded at Gaza border 
Associated Press 
RAFAH -More than two dozen trucks loaded with food, aid and goods intended for the Gaza Strip werfl stranded on the Egyptian side of the border Thursday, leaving truckers with little to do but sip tea and exude frustration. 
The backlog raises ques­tions about a U.N. appeal announced Thursday which calls for $613 million to help Palestinians recover frtlm Israel's three-week offensive in Gaza and whether new aid will have much effeet until there is a deal to open the devastated territory's bor­ders. 
"The ordinary people here in Gaza are not getting enough help and are not get­ting it quickly enough," said John Ging, the top U.N. oiTi­cial in Gaza. 
lie blamed the aid shortage on the lack of access to Gaza and demanded that the bor­der crossings be opened. 
"There are thousands of tons of assistance generously donated, sitting in Egypt, Jordan and also in the ports in Israel," said Ging. "That aid should be right here, right now, helping the people who need it." 
Israeli Cabinet Minister Isaac Herzog told The Associated Press this week that Israel was letting in the maximum amount of aid that the Palestinians in Gaza can absorb -about 150 trucks per day. 
Israel closed its crossings Tuesday after a bomb attack on the Gaza-lsrael border killed an Israeli soldier. The Israeli military said the bor­der was later reopened, and 174 trucks were let through on Wednesday and 149 on Thursday. 
But the U.N. Relief and Works Agency said aid ship­ments are hitting bottlenecks on Gaza's borders with both Israel and Egypt. The agency is expected to take the lead in Gaza's reconstruction. 
Egyptian officials have not explained why trucks have 
had trouble entering Gaza through the country's Hal'ah border crossing. 
"We don't know why, but it is closed," said an Egyptian border ol'ficial Thursday, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not autqorized to talk to the media. 
The Hal'ah crossing is used primarily to transport med­ical aid and Palestinians seeking treatment, while the al-i\wja commercial crossing some 40 miles (70 kilome­ters) to the south is used to send food aid into Israel, where it will be transported to Gaza, said Mohammed Fayez Arafat, an official with the Palestinian Authority in 
Hal'ah.  lie  said  that  was  
arranged  by  Egyptian  
authorities.  

Egypt and Israel effectively sealed their borders with Gaza in 2007 after the mili­tant Palestinian group llamas seized control of the crowded seaside territory from the Fatah faction led by Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. Israel launched its deadly offensive in Gaza in late December to stop llamas rocket fire into its territory. 
Barnas and Israel agreed to a fragile cease-fire almost two weeks ago, but violence has picked up again in recent days and attempts to forge a longer-term truce have been hampered by dis­agreements over Gaza's bor­ders. 
Barnas has said it will only agree to a longer-term truce if Gaza's border crossings are opened. But Israel does not want Hamas to have con­trol over Gaza's borders, worried that the militant group will use the opportuni­ty to smuggle in arms. 
Washington's new Mideast envoy, George Mitchell, has proposed opening the cross­ings on the basis of a 2005 agreement brokered by the 
U.S. that puts Abbas' people in control of the Rafah cross­ing, with European monitors deployed to prevent smug­gling. 
Egypt has been exploring 

the possibility of including Hamas personnel on a bor­der team supervised by Abbas' Palestinian Authority, but that would require some _form of reconciliation between the bitterly divided 
factions. 
Without a resolution of the 
border issue, the risk of vio­
lence will remain high and it 
will be difficult to get the aid 
into Gaza that its 1.4 million 
residents need to rebuild. 
"Help is indeed needed 
urgently," U.N. Secretary­
General Ban Ki-moon said 
Thursday at the World 
Economic Forum in 
Switzerland. 
He said donations in 
response to the U.N.'s emer­
gency appeal will enable the 
organization and other aid 
groups to meet critical needs 
in Gaza for food, clean water, 
shelter, medicine and basic 
services. 
For now, any additional aid 
runs the risk of simply sitting 
in the back of a truck. 
Ahmed al-Kurd, the llamas 
government minister of 
social affairs in Gaza, noted 
that Egypt is only allowing 
medical supplies through on 
its side of the border. 
"The real demand is lifting 
the siege and opening the 
borders," said al-Kurd. 
"Food shipments cannot stay 
much longer at the borders." 
More than a dozen trucks 
packed with white sacks of 
food were stranded inside 
the Egyptian crossing termi­
nal Thursday. Another dozen 
trucks were lined up outside, 
and the drivers said they 
didn't know when they will 
be allowed in or why they 
were denied entry. 
"We haven't been told 
whether to stay or to leave­
and that's really frustrating," 
said Hassan Mohammed, 35, 
who has been waiting at the 
Rafah terminal for three 
days to deliver flour, rice and 
powdered milk for an 
Egyptian aid organization. 
"We have been waiting for 
nothing. We just need to 
unload our shipment ·and go 
back to Cairo," he said. 


Announcing the Year 2009 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gitl from the Albert Ravarino f-ily, the ltalian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2009 annual competition for tmvel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Gmnts will be made in amounts not to exceed $3.000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and 
undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a tOrmal program of 
summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian lpnguage. literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs tbr foreign study include. but are not limited to: Loyola 
University in Rome. Boston University in Padua. UCLA in Pisa. Miami University in 
Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to · consult the materials on Italian foreign study in Lhe Department of Romance Languages. 343 O'Shaughnessy HalL 
Students arc invited to submit a letter which should include: 
I)  an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree progmm at Notre Dame;  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background. interests. and long-term goals:  
3)  a description of the research project or the program they intend to follow;  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved;  
5)  two letters of recommendation  
6)  a transcript showing all grades and courses completed  
7)  a list ofother sources offunding (being sought or confirmed) for the same project  
(i.e. O!Tice of International Studies, Nanovic Institute. etc.)  
Application Deadline:  Fridlly, March 6, 2009  
Albert Rllvarino Italian Studies Trawl Scholarship  
Program in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
lJniversity of Notre Dame  


page 9 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 30, 2009 

FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF ALL FIRST ROUND GAME Sat., JamJm·y 3 J , 2009 TIMES FOR LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TEAMS. 6:00 Pl\l -2:00 Al\1 
ADDITONAL TIMES WILL BE PROVIDED AT Joyce Center
Late 


THE END OF EACH ROUND. 6.31-6100 
Night 

Be a Real ChaNtpion ~Support Special Olyuzpics!!! All LNO :Hedals Donated hy 
the Notre Dame A.lumni Association 
Olympics 

$1.00 IJonation Requesfe(lat the Door 
XXIII 

Keough/Welsh Family  Fisher/Pangborn  
Volleyball  Team A  6:.10  Bugs  Team 1\  8:15  Volleyball  Team A  6:00  Hags  Team A  8:00  
TeamB  7:00  "leamB  9:00  Team II  NA  TeamB  8:15  
Men's Basketball  Team A  6:00  LN0 Obstacle Course  Team A  7:45  Men's Basl;.ethall  Team A  NA  LNO Ohstade Cou""'  Team A  7:,10  
TeamB  7:00  TeamB  8:45  "Ieamn  NA  Teamll  10:~0  
Women·s Baskethall  TeumA  7:00  Men's Tablt' Te-nni~  Te1emA  7:15  Women's B~•sketball  Team A  6:20  Men ·s 'nahle Tennis  Temn A  8:15  
TeamB  7:00  TeamB  10:30  TeamB  NA  Team I!  NA  
Target Golf  Team A  7:00  "'omen•s Table Tennis  Team A  10:30  1\orget Golf  'Itum A  8:15  \\'ome-n's '18blf' Tennis  Team A  NA  
TeamB  7:45  TeamH  NA  Team I!  NA  Team8  NA  
Team A  9:45  Men's Racquetball  "loam A  7:00  Kayaks  Team A  10:15  Men's Racquetball  Team A  7:20  
Team8  NA  TeamB  7:40  TeamB  NA  TeamB  7:20  
lnnertube Water Polo  Team A  6:15  Women's Racquetball  Tt.'llmA  NA  lnnertubc Water Polo  "learn A  8:(H)  Women's Racquetball  Team A  NA  
Teamn  7:15  'loamB  NA  Team II  NA  Team B  NA  
Broom ball  8:30  Dodgeball  6:45  Broom ball  8:00  Dodgelmll  8:15  
Siegfried/Pasquerilla West  Stanford/Farley  
Volleyball  Tt•amA  6:00  Bugs  TtamA  NA  Volleyball  Team A  6:00  Team A  9:30  
TeamB  NA  TeamB  NA  TeamB  7:00  TeamB  8:15  
Men's Bnsketball  Team A  6:20  LN0 Obstacle Course  TeumA  10:15  Men's Basketball  TenmA  6:1H)  LNO Obstacle Course  Team A  8:45  
Teamn  6:40  TeamB  10:00  TeamB  NA  TeamB  11:00  
Women's Baskethull  TeumA  6:00  ~ten's Table Tennis  "li>llmA  7:00  Women's Bnsk•tball  Team A  6:20  Men's '1\oblc Tennis  Team A  8:30  
Team8  NA  Team B  7:30  Team II  7:00  Team 8  8:00  
Target Golf  Team A  NA  \Vomen's Table Tennis  Team A  NA  Target G<>lf  "learn A  7:(HJ  Women's 'lahle Tennis  Team A  8:00  
Tt-amB  NA  TeamB  NA  TeamB  NA  Te•un B  7:45  
Team A  7:00  Men's Racquetball  Team A  7:20  Kayaks  Team A  7:15  Men's Racquetball  Team A  7:40  
Team 8  8:30  Tcurn B  8:00  Tt'umB  8:45  Team B  7:(H)  
lnnertube Water Polo  Team A  6:00  \Vomen's Racquetball  Team A  7:00  lnnertubc Water l'olo  Team A  8:45  Women's Racquetball  Team A  7:20  
TeounB  9:45  TeamB  7:40  TcamB  NA  TeamB  7:40  
Broomball  8:00  Dodgeball  6:45  llroomball  8:30  Dodgeball  7:45  
Knott/Pasquerilla East  Sorin/Ho\vard  
Volle.1·ball  Team A  6:30  Bags  T<J~mA  9:15  Volleyball  Team A  7:00  !lags  Team A  9:15  
Team II  NA  TeamB  9:45  Tt'amB  NA  TeamB  N.o\  
Men's Basketball  Team A  NA  LNO Obstacle Course  T<amA  NA  Men's Busketball  learn A  (j:OO  LNO Obstacle Course  Team A  8:30  
TeomB  NA  Team B  NA  TcamB  NA  TcamB  l'iA  
Women's Basketball  Team;\  6:40  i\len"s Table Tennis  Team A  8:45  Women's Busketball  Team A  7:20  .Men's Table Tennis  Team A  11:00  
Team II  NA  Team !I  7:30  TenmB  NA  Teamll  NA  
Target Golf  Team A  NA  \Vom(•ll'sTable Tennis  Team A  7:45  Target Golf  Team A  7:45  Women'.-, Table Tt'nnis  Team A  8:30  
TeamB  NA  Team II  8:00  'JeamB  NA  TeamB  NA  
Team;\  7:30  Men's Racquetball  Team A  7:40  Ka~·ak.•  Team A  7:1.5  Mm's Racquetball  Team A  7:00  
Teamll  NA  TeamB  NA  Team II  NA  Team n  NA  
Inncrtubc \Vater Polo  TeomA  6:.m  Women's Ra1.'<1uetball  Tt>amA  7:00  lnncrhobe Water Polo  Team A  8:30  \Vomcn•s Rucqtwtball  Team.<\  7:00  
TeamB  6:45  Team II  7:00  'leamB  NA  Team II  8:00  
Bmomball  12:00  Dodgeball  7:.15  Co-Ree 8t·oomball  12:00  Dodgeball  7:15  
St. Ed\vards/Breen Phillips  Morrissey /Walsh  
Volleyball  leumA  6:30  Bugs  Team A  NA  Volleyball  'leamA  6:00  flags  learn A  8:00  
Team8  7:00  To.arn B  N,\  TeamB  NA  Team II  9:.10  
Men's Basketball  Team A  6:00  LNO Obstacle Course  Team A  11:45  Team A  (.:20  LNO Obstacle Course  Team A  11:30  
Team8  6:00  TeamB  7:45  TeamB  6:20  Team8  12:15  
Women's Basketball  leamA  6:40  Men's Table Tennis  Team A  7:15  Women's Basketball  Team A  6:00  Men's Table Tennis  1eamA  7:00  
Team ll  NA  Team !I  10:15  Tt'nmR  NA  TeamB  7:.10  
Target Golf  Team A  NA  Women's Table Tennis  Team A  10:15  Target Golf  Team A  NA  Women's Table Tennis  Team A  NA  
TeumB  NA  "lOam II  8:45  'leamB  NA  TeamB  I'\ A  
Team A  NA  Men's Racquetball  Tt>.•mA  7:20  Kayaks  TE'nmt\  NA  Men's Racquetball  Team A  7:00  
Team II  NA  TeamB  NA  TeamB  NA  TeamB  8:00  
lnnertubc Water Polo  T'~mA  7:45  Womt'n's Racqul."tball  Tt>ami\  7:20  lnnertubc Water Polo  Team A  10:00  ·women':r, Raequ€'fhall  Tt:~am A  NA  
l'e!omll  6:45  TeamB  7:00  'leamB  NA  1eamB  NA  
Broomball  8:30  Dodgeball  7:00  llroomball  8:00  Dodgeball  NA  
Zahm/Cavanaugh  Keenan-Alumni/Le\vis  
Team A  6:30  Team A  8:00  Volleyball  Team A  7:30  Ilags  Team A  9:15  
'l't<itmB  6:00  "Ieam8  NA  Team II  8:00  leamB  9:00  
Men's Ba~kE"tbaU  Team A  6:20  LN0 Obstacle Course  Team A  10:00  Men's Ba•l..etball  TtamA  6:00  LNO Ohstade Course  Team A  8:00  
TeamB  6:40  TeamB  10:45  "learn II  6:20  TeamB  8:.10  
Women's Basketball  Team A  6:00  ~fen's Table TPnni~  Team A  7:00  Women~s Baskt"tball  Team A  6:40  Meo•.s; Table Tt-nnis  Te;un A  7:30  
Team II  NA  TeamB  7:45  'leamB  6:40  TeamB  10:00  
Target {;olf  Team A  7:15  Womcn"s Table Tennis  Team A  II:IHJ  ltum A  NA  \\'omen's Tablt" Tennis  Team A  8:15  
Team8  7:~0  TeamB  10:45  Team II  NA  TeamB  10:15  
Kuyaks  lhomA  12:00  Men's Racquetball  "loam A  NA  Kayaks  Team A  8:00  Men's Ruc.quetball  Team A  7:00  
TeamB  8:00  Team B  NA  Team R  7:45  Teamll  7:00  
lnnertube Water Polo  Team A  7:30  Women's Racquetball  Team A  7:00  lnnertubc Water Polo  TenmA  7:00  \\.lomPn's Racquetball  Team A  7:40  
TeamB  8:15  TeamB  NA  TeamB  6:30  TeamB  7:20  
Broom ball  12:00  Dodgeball  6:30  Bmomball  12:30  Dodgeball  7:00  
O'Neill-Duncan/McGlinn  Carroll/Badin  
Volleyball  Team A  7:30  Bags  Team A  9:00  Team A  6:00  Bags  Team A  8:00  
TeamB  7:30  TeamB  9:15  TenmB  6:.10  TeamB  NA  
Men's Basketball  Team A  6:20  LNO Obstacle Course  Team A  8:00  Men's Basketball  Team A  7:00  LNO Obstacle Course  Team A  to:.m  
"team I!  6:20  TeamB  10:15  TeamB  6:40  TeamB  7:30  
Team A  6:20  ~fen's Table Tennis  Team A  7:15  \Vonwn's Basketball  Team A  6:00  Me-n's TablE' Tennl~  Team;\  7:00  
Teamll  7:00  TeamB  10:45  Team II  NA  Team I!  7:45  
Target Golf  Team A  7:15  Women's Table Tennis  TE'amA  8:45  Target Golf  Team A  7:30  Women's Table TNtnis  Team A  10:00"  
Team I!  8:00  Team8  10:00  TeamB  NA  Team H  8:15  
Team A  12:30  Men's Racquetball  Team A  7:40  Kuyaks  Te.nmA  8:45  Men's Racquetball  Team A  7:20  
TeamB  8:00  TeamB  NA  TeamB  7:00  Team I!  8:00  
lnnertubc Water Polo  lhomA  6:15  Women's Rarquetball  Team A  7:20  lnncrtube Water Polo  Team A  7:15  Women's Racquetball  Team A  7:20  
TeamB  7:30  TeamB  NA  Team II  6:00  Team 8  7:40  
Broom ball  12:30  Dodgeball  8:00  Broom hall  8:(H)  Dodgeball  6:.m  
Dillon/Lyons  
Volleyball  Team A  6:30  Bags  Team A  8:15  I.JNO XXlll  
Teamn  7:00  TeamB  9:00  
Men'• Ilaskctball  Team A Team 8  6:40 6:00  LNO Obstacle Course  Team A Team !I  12:00 NA  Open Skate from 10 PJVl-12 AlVI ($2 Skate Rentals)  
\Vomt"nts Bnskt·tball  Team A  6:20  ~len's Table Tennis  Team A  7:15  t) PJ\:1 basketball game featuring ND Athletic Department &  
TeamR  7:00  Team II  8:00  
Target Goll"  Team A Team 8  NA NA  Women's Table Tennis  Te~•mA Team I!  11:30 10:.10  Rectors vs. Special Ol,ympians  
Kayaks  Team A  8:~0  Men's Racquetbull  Team A  7:20  Penny \tVars will be taking place at the LNO stage 
TeamH  7:30  TeamB  7:40  
lnnertub< Water Polo  Team A  7:00  \\'omen's Rac,1uethall  Team A  7:20  LNO t~shirts fnr sale  
Team I!  7:45  TeamB  7:40  
llroomball  8:30  Dodgeball  7:30  



page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDJTOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Bill Brink Dan Murphy ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR! Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR! Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROllER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarty 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONUN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chit:[Chris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The O~rvcr (USPS 599 2-4000} is publimc:d Monday throqgh Friday except during exam and vaetdon p<:riods, A. subscription m The Observcr is $100 fur our acad~;:mic year; $55 for qnc semat<:r. 
1bc Observer is published u: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address correaions to: Notre Dame, IN 465-56-0779 TheOb!)Ctvtr Pmodi:cal po!><age paid .at Notre Damt P.O. Boxn9 and addirional mailing offittS. 024 South Dining Halt 
Notre Dame. IN 46556--0779 
The Observer is a member ofthe Associ:ui:d Plt'S$. All reproduction r.igh£S are 
t=M<i 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
Friday, January 30, 2009 

More A&L career help needed 
On Wednesday, the Career Center sponsored a Winter Career and Internship Fair for undergraduate students with representatives from over 100 employers. In a strug­gling economy with an unemployment rate of over seven percent, it's a compliment to the Career Center that stu­dents had the opportunity to network with such a large number of companies at all. 
But the question of the visibility of these opportunities, and whose opportunities are being emphasized, still 
remains. The companies attending the January 28 Career Fair ranged from non­profits like Amate House in Chicago, to con­sulting firms like Clarity Consulting, to financial or accounting firms such as Credit Suisse or Deloitte. Aside from the small number of non-profit organizations, most of the representatives at the fair drew from a 
limited number of industries, focusing mostly on the financial sector, engineering firms, and other similar fields. 
At a university whose largest and oldest undergraduate college is the College of Arts and Letters, the job search can be challenging for those among the 2500 Arts and Letters students who come to the Career Fair looking to capitalize on their skills. 
If the focus of the Fair, however, is on the kinds of jobs and internships that pertain to students in other disci­plines, the process feels that much more daunting. 
on more regionally based

osgERVER
Editorial 
employers who need Arts and Letters students. 
But if students in these majors were unaware of the CIC events, or were unable to attend one 
It's essential that the Career Center avail whatever opportunities it has at its disposal to these students as they continue their job search in the midst of a gripping recession. Where these resources already exist, they must be better and more widely publicized to a greater cross­section of students. 
Hecently, the Career Center sponsored, along with a number of other universities, a series of career fairs, the Career and Internship Connection fairs, in several large 
U.S. cities, including New York, Boston, Chicago and Los Angeles. The CIC events were meant to focus 
in their geographic area, their needs were still 
unmet. 

In order to succeed, these students, like their friends majoring in Accounting or Finance, have to be self-moti­vated. A career adviser can help students through the process of searching for jobs and internships, no matter their major, but hand-holding is not meant to be part of the Center's employees' job descriptions. 
But when students in a variety of majors feel neglected by the services that are meant to help them, or are left ignorant and misinformed of whatever resources may already exist, a breakdown in communication will only result in lost opportunities. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, January 30, 2009 page 11 
We are ... 
Last Saturday, after many years, change fmally came to Notre Dame. What I mean is that for the first time in recent memory, our team lost a major sporting event with­out having the student section chant 'We AreND' during the waning moments of the game. Yes, the Leprechaun Legion took the loss to Connecticut very hard, but the stu­dents as a collective did not utilize the cheer that has become far too prominent following losses. For once, our fans took the loss with grace, but it did not last long. 
By the time Monday rolled around, how­ever, change had abruptly eroded and the student body returned to business as usual inside the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. As the final seconds ticked away in the Irish Men's fourth straight loss, the students began the one cheer that makes me cringe more than any other. 
WE ARE [clap clap] N.D. [clap clap]. WE ARE [clap clap] N. D. [clap clap]. I don't know ifit is because the dozen or 

Bob Kessler 
House ofStix 

so Marquette fans that were present start­ed a similar cheer, but our fans started to proudly proclaim who they are as ifour team had just won the game. Because the Irish hadn't won the game, however, the cheer was unnecessary and incredibly uncalled for. 
Many schools have similar 'we are' cheers, but I would be shocked ifany of their student bodies utilize the cheer in a time of defeat. Penn State makes their whole stadium shake by doing the cheer with a rousing rendition of Zombie Nation during their football games. Our rivals Boston College, Marquette, and USC have all been heard doing it after victories. Nobody can forget Matthew McConaughey using it to inspire his team to victory in the film We Are Marshall. All of these uses are much more appropriate than the way our students utilize it, and all of them show far more class. 
When Notre Dame Students utilize this cheer in defeat it is as if we are trying to proclaim our superiority over the team to which ours has just lost. The cheer inher­ently makes a value judgment over the other student body that somehow we are something that is better than them despite the outcome of the game. It is the Notre Dame students' way of saying, "It's ok that we lost the game because we are smarter than you" or "It's ok that we lost the game because we have better character than you." Regardless of who we are a loss is a loss; on this day we are not the best. The cheer is a blatant assertion of our per­ceived supremacy and when we do it as a student body it says more about what we are than who we are. When we do it in a time of defeat it says that we are cocky and arrogant. 
We collectively think that we are better than schools like Marquette and Michigan State because we have been trained to think that way. During Freshmen Orientation, the students are gathered in the JACC and told by several speakers how special we are. As a part of my Frosh­0, we were taken to Fr. Sorin's grave and given a speech about how special we are. "You didn't choose Notre Dame, Notre Dame chose you" we are told. Notre Dame Students act arrogant because from the moment we step foot on campus, we are told that we are special (which makes us think that we are in some way more spe­cial than students at other schools). 
In doing the 'we are' cheer at a time when we are losing, we become no better than our aspirational peers such as Northwestern and Stanford. I once heard Northwestern fans do a cheer that went, "That's alright, that's ok, we're gonna be your boss someday" and I instantly despised how much arrogance the cheer contained. However, our 'we are' cheer is worse because it doesn't just assume that we are going to have better jobs than the people from the other school, but it assumes that Notre Dame students are somehow better people than they are. This is unacceptable. 
While I cannot stop the student body from doing the cheer any more than I can convince Mike Brey to utilize more of his bench players, I can refuse to do the cheer. When we inevitably lose to Louisville in a couple weeks, I will again contemplate leaving the game early just so I don't have to sit through the cheer, but I will stay. I hope that more students will join me in silence next time one of our teams loses. That would be change I can believe in, and it would show people how special we are. 
Bob Kessler is a senior majoring in political science and economics. You can contact him at rkessler@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Surely you jest 
I grab one Observer everyday with lunch, however today I grabbed two. The fust time I read the headline 'Interhall Ice Hockey is a Joke' I covered it with regurgitated chocolate dairy bev­erage and needed a second paper. Matthew, how can I prove my hockey fanhood to you? Well I am from Buffalo, NY and we don't have much else besides hockey, enough said. So let us com­municate from one hockey die-hard to another. Matthew, you ask for more levels of hockey, I agree, give this man (and this campus) more hockey. Have an 'N league, a 'B' league, and a 'What the puck is going on' league. I would love to play intramural hockey, but I have no equipment, and took ice skating lessons in PE. You're not going to find me on the ice trying the triple-deke anytime soon. However, this is where my opinion dilfers. Lengthening the season would only make it monotonous. With a shorter schedule each game is worth much more giv­ing a playoff style atmosphere to each game. You complain that the season is too short ifyou don't make the playoffs. Quick fix, play better. My biggest issue with your letter is the idea that 'Interhall Ice Hockey is a Joke.' I mean, really? My first interhall ice hockey game was last night: Alumni vs. Zahm. Every Dawg cheered their men to victory with unrivaled intensity. The game lasted for about an hour and a half and ended with an awe-inspiring defeat of Zahm. Everyone left the game knowing that they had seen something great. Even though there were no Flying V's or Knucklepucks, there were lightening saves, dekes that pushed your concept of reality to the brink, and even a brawl. So Matthew, I agree with the notion that we need more hockey, who doesn't, but ifyou can't look forward to this great tradition then the joke is on you. 
Tim Schumer treshman Alumni Hall Jan. 29 

Package for our pals 
Amidst the start of a new semester, a dwin­dling basketball season, and a never-ending, controversial war on parietals, Notre Dame studentc; are consistently identifying one issue as more important than the rest: "the great squirrel quandary," as Mr. Patrick Gill called it in his recent letter. 
I am writing to tell you, fellow Domers, that while your attention to this problem is well­deserved, you are approaching it in the wrong fashion. We must not focus on solving the problem's current symptoms, as Gill sug­gests with the option of a squirrel fight, but rather tackling its causes. Clearly, the squir­rels require an unprecedented action in the form of an economic stimulus package. 
Due to poor speculation and low interest rates (commonly defined as cold and ice), many squirrels have been subject to recent foreclosures of their homes. The number of unemployed squirrels is also higher than it has been in decades as a result of Notre Dame studentc;' attempts at "going green" and thus improving their waste disposal tech­niques. 
We need to get these squirrels back on their feet and in the trees so they can lead produc­tive lives of their own without disrupting ours. I propose that the student senate pass an $80,000 stimulus package immediately. This package would include several miles of underground transport for the squirrels, grants to every squirrel family for investment and down payments on homes, and an increase in the number of fellowships to spur acorn collection and ice removal innovation. 
Of course, this package does need to be paid for. I propose an indirect tax based on flex points -for every twenty flex points spent, one point goes towards the economic stimulus package. Such a deduction will hardly be noticed by flex-point dependent students, and it will quickly provide resources for the squirrels. 
I agree with the previous writers that something needs to be done about the squir­rel program on our esteemed campus, and this package is clearly the most economical solution. If we do not act quickly and boldly, our problems will only get worse. It is our responsibility as Notre Dame students, hold­ers of a legacy, to usher in a new era of peace between ourselves and our furry neighbors. 
Elise Garton 
freshman 
McGlinn Hall 


r--------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 Friday, January 30, 2009 

Scene Writer 

Tonight, the combination of Chicago natives Treaty of Paris and Company of Thieves will fill Legends with their fantastic indie-rock flair. Both bands are just taking off, and the concert promises to be a great one. After tonight, we may very well be able to name Legends as the point where two incredible bands claimed their initial fame. 
Company of Thieves, composed of singer Genevieve Schatz, guitarist Marc Wallach, and drummer Mike Oritz, is a relatively new group. While known in the Chicago area, the band is still looking to make an impression farther from home. Their CD, "Ordinary Riches," will be released in February, and has the potential to be an underdog hit. Schatz has a Sara Bareilles­esque quality to her tone, and one initially expects a piano-pop love ballad to emerge in one of the early tracks. 
But instead, the band rarely uses piano in favor of an edgier, classic combination of drums and guitar, forming a harder indie rock tone. Tracks like "Pressure" and "Oscar Wilde" are sure to make the album popular, at least in some sectors. 
Their sound is fresh, combining good instrumen­tation with great lyrics. The band looks to classic things -like the writings of Oscar Wilde -as their inspiration, and has named the album a tribute to their favorite artists. After the performance here, the band will be touring with Thriving Irony. 
The better-known band of tonight's performance is Treaty of Paris. This group is popular in Chicago, and the odd video for "Waking Up the Dead" has 
By MAIJA GUSTIN Scene Writer 

Tonight the Worldview Film Series will be screening "Baghdad High". This film will be fea­tured at the Browning Cinema in the 

DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at  violence. Hayder aims to be a singer­ 
6:30 and 9:30. It is a free but ticketed event. This documentary tells the moving  Even faced with injury, upheaval,  songwriter and Ali dreams of being an architect. ThPy do not sep, their lives as unfair,  
story of four boys, all close friends, trying to live an ordinary senior year of high school in the center of chaos. These boys were given a video cam­ or death, the boys stilljust want to hang out and talk  although they may hate the people responsible for tearing their nation apart. Rather, they turn to each other to find some glimpse of hope in a situ­ 
era and basic instructions in filmmak­ing to film their lives for an entire year as a video diary. What results is a simple story about four normal boys  about Britney Spears and their own hairstyles.  ation that many on the outside view as hopeless. "Baghdad High" is a glimpse into stories unseen until now, showing more than faceless statistics,  
of differing religions and backgrounds  carrying the message that while  

These songs are fun to listen to, catchy enough that you'll be singing along before the song is done, and fast enough to bop around to. 
who study, love music, and talk about all the problems plaguing teenage boys. All of this, though takes place amidst explosions and gunfire. 
Ifayder, Anmar, Ali, and Mohammad face extraordinary challenges in their lives. Their power may go out for days at a time, they often cannot go to school for fear of leaving their home, and every step they take outside may mean injury by a stray bullet or roadside bomb. Every day, their families have to grapple with the decision to stay in Baghdad or to flee and become a part of 
things may not be great in Baghdad, the people nevertheless survive and find some normalcy in life. 
"Baghdad High" is an I-lBO Documentary Film released last year. It is the brainchild of two jour­nalist/filmmakers who spent a great deal of time in Iraq. Co-producer and co-director Laura Winter is scheduled to be present during the film. It is 88 minutes long featuring English subtitles to accom­pany the Arabic and Kurdish film. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
gained international attention. The band got its beginnings when guitarist Dan Wade and drummer Chris Insidioso met in high school, putting out a CD in 2001 with singer Mike Chorvat joining them. Treaty of Paris as it is now known, with Phil Kosch on guitar and Nick Fonzi on bass, formed in 2004 and put out an EP, Behind Our Calm Demeanors, in 2005. The EP sold well in Chicago. 
The band's first full length CD, Sweet Dreams, Sucker, was formed in collaboration with Andrew McMahon of Jack's Mannequin and Something Corporate fame. The album was released on McMahon's label this past September. Treaty of Paris will no doubt thrill the audience with great songs like "Here Goes Nothing," "Waking Up the 
Dead," and "Rollerskates." 

These songs are fun to listen to, catchy enough that you'll be singing along before the song is done, and fast enough to bop around to. The band has a pop­punk sound, much along the lines of Jack's Mannequin, Motion City Soundtrack and Fall Out Boy. 
Treaty of Paris has toured with Yellowcard, Paramore, Jimmy Eat World, and My Chemical Romance. They will soon be on tour with 
Jack's Mannequin and Fun (the band formed by two former members of the folk-band The Format). They were also on the Vans Warped tour this past June. 
So really, there's only one thing to do tonight. The show will be enjoyable and full of fresh sounds, something to be enjoyed buy both fans of the band and those who are going just because they are curi­ous. 
Contact Kaidyn Conway at kconway2@nd.edu 
5-&::'"Ju~~.~s .l~ z!::'lt~ ­
!tif sdtoo£ dr'.;~ ~... 
(.J5,h-tc..t 

ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

that decision. But even faced with injury, upheaval, or death, the boys still just want to hang out and talk about Britney Spears and their own hairstyles. Their close friendship and the goals they have for their futures give them reason to be optimistic in the face of extreme 




THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, January 30, 2009 
A Look at the Screen Actors Guild Aw-ards 
And the Most Entertaining Speeches 
By STEPHANIE DEPREZ Assistant Scene Editor 
Last Sunday, Hollywood circled the wagons once more for a night of glitz, champagne, and, contrary to popular belief, real food. 
The Screen Actors Guild held their 15th awards show, commonly known as the SAGs, amidst growing discontent with the fact that actors still do not receive residu­als for work in New Media (like the inter­net) and the looming shadow of a possi­ble strike. It was ali laughs, though, except for a few pointed comments, including the speech of Tina Fey, who won the first award of the night. 
The evening started predictably enough, with Fey taking top honors for Outstanding Female Actor in a Comedy Series (no surprise there) and Kate Winslet wining for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role for "The Reader," a she had done at the Golden Globes. 
But things got tricky to predict when Hugh Laurie once again took home the Actor {SAG version of Oscar) for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Drama Series. Most would have pegged this one for James Spader of "Mad Men." Hugh Laurie even comment­ed" t~e'd bet'mBirefOn-Spader; ·and had apparently lost the bet. 
The best moment of the evening was easily Meryl Streep's win for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role. When her name was announced, she looked beyond shocked and immediately started hugging her daughter. 
Streep ran through the aisles, arms raised high in the air like a basketball player whose number had just been announced on the court. She raced up to the stage and accepted her Actor, turned to the mic and explained that she was so sure she wasn't going to win, she didn't even buy a dress. Indeed, she was wear­ing black slacks and a nice black blouse, something one would have easily assumed to be a dress if it were only seen from the waste up. 
The most poignant moment of the evening was Gary Oldman's appropriate­ly understated acceptance of Heath Ledger's award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role. 
Top honors went to Slumdog Millionaire, whose charming stars didn't fail to look completely delighted to even be mentioned. Female lead Freida Pinto looked quite beautiful in a bay blue gown, and the show's lead Dev Patel looked like a normal teenager -too tali and skinny for his own pants. 
Good news for the Notre Dame commu­nity is that "Slumdog Millionaire" film will be coming to the Browning Cinema at the beginning of March. 
Overall the show was predictable but enjoyable. The air of the evening was general relaxation. No one at the SAGs is trying to prove anything, because it is community of actors only. The voting pool of 100,000 picks who they think is best, free of producers and politics. 
Now all eyes turn to February, the Kodak Theater, and the Academy Awards. New co-producers for this year's Oscars promise a show like never before, with a new format and a host who can sing, dance, and spring claws from his knuckles. Hugh Jackman and The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences are gearing up for a great show this year, but for now, the Screen Actors Guild has done just fme. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 

Hugh Laurie as Gregory House in "HOUSE" 
"Thank you. This is amazing. I actually had a hundred dollars on James Spader. This is just not my night. 
"Seven years ago I was making a film in the Namibian Desert, against the advice of my agent, who was convinced that the more films you do, the harder it is to break into television. And I got a few pages of a fax -I was faxed a few pages of a script, it had no title, but I fancy that I knew instantly that this was an extraordinary character who could go the distance. That's a r,omplete lie. I had no idea. And this is absolutely amazing to me now to look back over these last six or seven years. It's been an incredible journey, and made more incredible by my, as it were, traveling companions. 
"With an incredible cast, incredible crew. I'd specilkally like to thank David Shore and Katie Jacobs, who are the hnart and soul of the show. I don't know which i'> which, that's really a casting i<;sue. I'd also like to thank Brandt Joel, Christian Hodell, and lastly, the Guild, the Guild, the Guild, you. Lastly, Brian and Susan Borg who do the craft services on "House." And they do the ftnest cheesy eggs this side of the Rio Grande." 
Meryl Streep as Sister Aloysius Beauvier in "DOUBT" 
"Thank you, everybody. Shh! Well, I didn't even buy a dress! I'm really, really, really shocked! And even though awards mean nothing to me anymore .. .I'm really happy...Okay. 
"I want to thank, oh, so many people. Miramax, Daniel Battsek, and especially Scott Rudin, who just goes out of his way to find interesting things for everybody to do, especially the girls. And, oh, can I just say, there is no such thing as the best actress. You know? There is no such thing as the "greatest living actress." I am in a position where I have secret information, you know, that I know this to be true. I am so in awe of the work of the women this year, nominated, not nominated. So proud of us girls. And everybody wins when we get parts like this." 
Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor n a Sunruuti 
Kate Winslet as Hanna Schmitz in "THE READER" 
"Wow. What a year it has been in movies. I just want to say it's really an honor to be included in what I think is such a remarkable year. And to be acknowledged by my peers in this way, I really feel like everybody should be given a medal. I have to say that because I really believe it to be true. 
I'm a bit lost for words, I'm sorry. Playing Hanna Schmitz was such a blessing, and even though it made me completely insane. And I just want to thank the cast and the crew, both in front of the camera and behind it. I just think that hard work deserves to be acknowledged, and these people really gave 100% of themselves to t~is f~m. And Harvey Weinstein for his commitment, and Stephen Daldry for his dtrectwn and support. And, of course, the late Anthony Minghelia and Sydney Pollack." 

Tina Fey as Liz Lemon in "30 ROCK" 
"I want to thank my daughter, Alice, for being the funniest person in my family; for coining phrases like, "I want to go to there." And sometimes just putting on pretend makeup in the mirror. And she'll turn to me and say, "I look like Barack Obama." She has somehow gotten it in her head that it's a good thing to resemble a famous politician. I don't know where she got that idea. But it kind of is a little stroke of luck ifit happens. 
"And I want to thank Alice for her patience. And some day she'll be old enough to watch "30 Rock" reruns on the Internet, and understand where mommy was going at 6 a.m. every day, for all that time. And she'lllook up at me and say, "What do you mean you don't get residuals for this? 
"I love you, Alice. Take care of me when I'm old and broke!" 
Photos and Speeches Courtesy of sagawards.org 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, January 30, 2009 
NHL 

Ott scores in Stars' 4-2 win over Red Wings 
Islanders, Devils, and Hurricanes all hold on to secure one-goal victories zn third period and overtime 
success rate at home on penalty ing, ended the scoring. Each 
Associated Press 
killing. On the game's first two team gave up four goals in a 
DETROIT -Brad Richards penalties, the Stars went ahead period, Atlanta in the first and had two assists a minute apart 2-0 on goals 1:17 apart. New York in the third. on power plays midway through Ott deflected Richards' shot Danis stopped the first 22 the first period and the Dallas past Osgood for the first, and shots he faced before Zach Stars beat the Detroit Red Wings Richards set up Lehtinen on the Bogosian's slap shot-the rook­4-2 Thursday night. second. Conner beat Osgood on ie defenseman's third goal -cut 
Steve Ott, Jere Lehtinen, Chris the short side late in the first the lead to 4-1 in the first minute Conner and Loui Eriksson put period, leading to the goalie get­of the third. the Stars ahead 4-0 early in the ting pulled. With 13:40 remammg, second period. Conklin gave up a goal to Atlanta's Rich Peverley made it 
Marian Hossa and Andreas Eriksson on the second shot he 4-2 on the power play, using a Lilja scored for the Red Wings faced, then didn't allow another backhander for his fifth goal. during a second period in which as the Stars held on to their big Marty Reasoner's wraparound they almost scored two more lead with a conservative style. made it 4-3 two minutes later. goals, but video review and inci­Entering with an NHL-worst dental contact prevented them New York 5, Atlanta 4 12 points on the road, the from tying the game. Kyle Okposo had his first two­Islanders hadn't won away from 
Chris Osgood gave up two goal game in the NHL, and goalie home since taking a shootout goals on the first five shots he Yann Danis survived a shaky against the Canadiens on Nov. faced and was benched after giv­third period in the New York 24. ing up three goals on 12 shots in Islanders' victory over the Trent Hunter, who missed two the first period. Ty Conklin Atlanta Thrashers on Thursday games due to a hand laceration, replaced him and finished with night. opened the scoring 55 seconds 10 saves. In a matchup featuring two of into the first. His wrist shot pro­
Dallas' Marty Turco had 22 the league's three worst teams, duced his 12th and first since a saves. the Islanders snapped a 14-game Dec. 4 loss at Washington. 
The Stars have won three losing streak on the road (0-13-Okposo, who has four goals in straight and are 5-1-1 in their 1) with their first consecutive three games, made it 2-0. The last seven games, continuing a victories since late November. NHL's seventh overall draft pick purpose. Carolina, which had lost six of surge up from the bottom of the The Thrashers, losers of three in 2006, Okposo scored on the Langenbrunner gave the Devils eight, played just its second Western Conference. Since Nov. straight, dropped to 9-14-2 at power play in the previous two a 1-0 lead with 4:59 left in the home game since Jan. 6 and 30, they are 15-7-3. home. Only the Islanders' 19 games. first period on a short-handed improved to 4-0 against the 
Detroit, meanwhile, is 0-3-1 in points at home are fewer than goal, putting the puck off both of Lightning. its last four games after an 8-0-1 Atlanta's 20. New Jersey 4, Boston 3 Thomas' pads before it squeaked "We talked about it before the stretch padded its lead in the Doug Weight's eighth goal Jamie Langenbrunner scored across the goal line. game, (that) this is a huge 3D­Central Division. chased Thrashers goalie Kari his second goal of the game with Langenbrunner assisted when something games for us," Staal 
The Red Wings were without Lehtonen, who faced just 15 1:11 gone in overtime and the Parise put a shot off Thomas' said, referring to the Hurricanes' Henrik Zetterberg because of a shots, just 13:17 into the game. New Jersey Devils, who allowed back from behind the net with remaining 32 games. "We've got back injury, a day after he signed With 7:21 remaining, Okposo's three straight third-pnriod goals 13:39 left in the second to make to win.... We've got to. bring our a 12-year, $73-million contract. ninth goal, a wrister from the to blow a two-goal lead, beat the it 2-0. consistent work ethic and effort Zetterberg hopes to play bottom of the right circle, gave Boston Bruins on Thursday The Bruins made it 2-1 with every night. Our defense did a Saturday at Washington. New York a 5-3 lead and helped night. 1 7:40 to play in the third when tremendous job tonight of block­
Zetterberg's presence was Danis compose himself. It also Scott Clemmensen stopped 24 Clemmensen went behind the ing shots -they did good with missing at both ends of the ice as made a tough-luck loser out of shots for New Jersey, which won net to play the puck but left it the sticks, real solid. Detroit fell behind 4-0 for the Johan Hedberg, who stopped 17 its seventh consecutive game. there for Chuck Kobasew, who "Obviously, Cam was big. first time this season after a cou­of 18 shots, but was saddled with Tim Thomas made 26 saves for swept it around and into the We're going to need him to be ple of trends were reversed. the defeat since Okposo's second the Bruins, who lost for the fifth post. Kobasew got the rebound the rest of the way." 
Dallas entered the game 30th goal proved to be the difference. time in 21 games. into the net, and Clemmensen Mark Recchi had a goal and an on the power play on the road Ilya Kovalchuk's 21st goal, a Langenbrunner and Zach gloved the puck out of the air, assist, and Ryan Malone also and Detroit had the NHL's best tip-in with 58 seconds remain-Parise scored to give the Devils a but the replay showed that it had scored for Tampa Bay, which 
2-0 lead after two, but Boston crossed the line. was denied its first four-game took its first lead on Dennis Savard scored his 18th of sea­winning streak since November Wideman's slap shot with 6:30 son 7:11 into the third, taking a 2007 and fell nine points behind left. New Jersey tied it on Patrik pass from behind the net on the the Hurricanes in the Southeast Elias' goal with 1:45 to play in side, sliding it over the goal line, Division. regulation. and wristing it between "The margin of error is so 
Boston's Marc Savard had a Clemmensen and the post to tie small now that a loss like this, goal and an assist, and Phil it 2-all. especially to a team we're trying Kessel had a pair of' assists in his to catch, is a huge loss," first game after missing six with Carolina 3, Tampa Bay 2 Lightning center Jeff Halpern mononucleosis. So this is what the Carolina said. "Every loss right now is a 
The Atlantic Division-leading Hurricanes needed to get back big loss." Devils, who had given up just six on track: A return home, a visit Staal capped the critical flurry goals in five games, moved past from the team they always seem of late activity that he started by Washington and into second to beat, and a dramatic goal taking the puck off the stick of place in the Eastern Conference, from their All-Star center. Martin St. Louis. 11 points behind the Bruins. Eric Staal scored with 1:36 Sergei Samsonov whiffed on a 
Elias scored after the Bruins remaining to lift the Hurricanes slap shot from the slot and 
. twice failed to clear the puck out past the Tampa Bay Lightning on couldn't stuff home the rebound . of their zone in the dosing min­Thursday night. Neither could Tuomo Ruutu, but utes, crashing the net and tip­Matt Cullen had a goal and an Staal was parked to goalie Mike 
AP ping a pass from Brian Gionta assist, Chad LaHose also scored Smith's left and snapped the past Thomas; a replay review and Cam Ward earned his 1DOth puck past him for his team-lead­confirmed he did not kick it in on NHL victory for the Hurricanes. ing 21st goal. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
New pop Christian music by Will of Titus available at www.willoftitus.com or 
itunes JOB-HOUSE CLEANING. 
E.ANGELA 288-8904. 
FoR RENT 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-7653. 
Unfurnished 4-bdrm, 3ba,fpl,sky­lights,2-car garage, FR, deluxe appl, avail. August Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038. 
Townhomes at Dublin Village, Irish Crossing, Wexford Place, Ivy Quad. 3 and 4 Bdr. Only a few left for 09/10. CES Property Management. 574-968-0112 CESPM.info 
613 Lafayette Blvd., 

6-bdrm & 2-bdrm houses. $350/person. 
Call 574-876-6333. 

Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast 
Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www. kramerhouses.com 
NOW LEASING. LAFAYETTE TOWNHOUSES. $350/PERSON. 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS. FREE INTER­NET NEWLY REMODELED. 
CALL 574-234-2436 OR WWWKRAMERHOUSES.COM 
Student rentals 2009/2010. St. Peter/SB Ave. Hornes. $1300­$2000/month. 5-7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd floor. Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876­3537. 
ATTENTION: The teams have been picked, the projections made, and the trash talked. With the Clash for the Cup just two days away, the Apparently Forgotten Children will look to shock the Noticeably Favored Club, which is favored by more than two minutes. With just a handful of returners. the underdogs will have to Always Fight Courageously to overtake a squad with 7 of the top 10 horses in the race (according to an exceptionally biased Scouts, Inc. report). 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, January 30, 2009 CoMPilED FROMTHE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NBA 

USCHO/CBS Men's Hockey Top 20 
team  points  record  
1  NOTRE DAME (37)  987  19·3-3  
2  Boston u. (13)  963  18-5·1  
3  Northeastern  867  17-5·2  
4  Cornell  831  14-2-3  
5  Minnesota  79  12-5-5  
6  Vermont  716  14-5-4  
7  Denver  696  15-7-3  
8  Michigan  692  18-8-0  
9  Princeton  582  13-5-0  
10  Miami (OH)  553  14-8·4  
11  Boston College  450  11-8-3  
12  North Dakota  432  15-10·3  
13  New Hampshire  353  11-8·4  
14  Ohio State  347  16-7·3  
15  Wisconsin  279  16-10-3  
16  Minnesota Duluth  271  13-7-6  
17  Colorado Coli.  244  13-9·6  
18  Yale  158  13·5-1  
19  Air Force  97  17-6-1  
20  Dartmouth  67  10·1-2  
CCHA Men's Hocke y  
Conference Standings  
team  record  points  
1  NOTRE DAME  13·2-3  32  
2  Miami  12-5-3  28  
3  Alaska  9-8-5  26  
4  Michigan  12-6·0  24  
5  Ohio State  9-6-3  24  
6  Nebraska-Omaha  8·7-5  24  
7  Ferris State  7-8-3  17  
-.fl  .taft& Superior  4-8-6  15  
9  Northern Michigan  4-10-4  15  
10  Western Michigan  4·9-5  14  
11  Bowling Green  6-11-1  13  
12  Michigan Slate  4-12-2  12  
USTFCCCA Men's Ind oor  
Track and  Field Top 25  
team  points  previous  
1  Oregon  132  19  
2  Arizona St.  130  1  
3  Arkansas  129  6  
4  Florida  12fi  8  
5  Florida St.  104  2  
6  TexasA&M  102  10  
7  Texas  82  3  
8  LSU  79  4  
9  Louisville  73  NR  
10  BYU  71  NR  
11  Kentucky  69  NR  
12  Texas Tech  67  NR  
13  UNI  65  9  
14  Baylor  59  19  
15  Nebraska  56  17  
16  South Carolina  55  NR  
17  Michigan  54  NR  
18  Kansas St.  52  NR  
19  Arizona  51  NR  
20  Georgia  49  NR  
21  Georgetown  48  17  
22  Boise St.  47  NR  
23  Missouri  42  NR  
24  UCLA  41  14  
25  Stanford  40  7  

around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL Valparaiso at Butler 7:00 p.m., ESPNU 
NBA Basketball 
Celtics at Pistons 
7:00 p.m., ESPN 

Associated Press 

DENVER -Carmelo Anthony still has a tiny frac­ture in a bone in his right hand. 
However, it's nothing that a little white athletic tape can't remedy. 
The Denver forward has been cleared by his doctor to play Friday night against Charlotte, provided he tapes up his two middle fmgers to protect the healing hand. 
"No tape, no play," Anthony said after a strenu­ous workout on the court Thursday that lasted around an hour. "That was (the doctor's) quote. Got to listen to that." 
Anthony was injured on Jan. 5 when Indiana center Jeff Foster swatted at the ball, catching a good chunk of Anthony's shooting hand. Anthony played through the second half despite numb­ness. 
Afterward, he found out the hand had a fracture and he'd be out around four weeks. 
Turns out, he's a fast healer. 
"The doc didn't know how well my hand was going to heal," Anthony said. "Today, he was sur­prised at how well it healed. I healed faster than I thought, faster than he thought." 
He was hoping for even more good news Thursday night, but it didn't arrive as Anthony wasn't among the players selected as a 
Western  Conference  
reserve.  
Instead,  teammate  

Chauncey Billups made the squad, his fourth straight All-Star appearance. 
"The only reason why is because of the injury," Billups said of Anthony's exclusion. "It's just an unfortunate situation." 
Anthony realizes the hand is now an open invita­tion for even more swipes from opposing players. 
Not that he's concerned. 

"There's nothing I can do to prevent it but sit out," he said. 
Hardly an option. 
Anthony is sick of sitting on the sideline. He's already missed 1 0 games because of the fractured hand, the team going 6-4 in his absence. 
''I'm so excited to have him back," Billups said. "We need him desperately right now." 
The injury did give Anthony a unique vantage point, picking up on the subtleties of the game. 
"When you sit on the sideline in games, it becomes clearer to you," said Anthony, who's averag­ing 21.1 points and 7.3 rebounds this season. "You start seeing things you probably wouldn't see out there on the court." 

IN BRIEF Felton fired as Georgia
Bulldog basketball coach 
ATHENS, Ga. -Dennis Felton led Georgia on a surprising run through the SEC tournament last season, winning four games in four days to capture the title. 
He won't get that chance this year. 
Felton was fired as coach of the Bulldogs on Thursday, one day after the team dropped to 9-11 and 0-5 in the Southeastern Conference with a 26­point loss to Florida. 
"I thought we needed new leadership at this time and that's why I made the change in the middle of the season," athletic director Damon Evans said. 
Evans called Felton in Gainesville, Fla., on Wednesday night after an embarrassing 83-57 loss to the Gators, and delivered the news during a meet­ing in his office Thursday morning. 
"I wanted to be patient. I think I've shown patience in the past. It came to a culmination for me. I'm not going to say last night was the thing that triggered it. There were a lot of things," Evans said. 
Galaxy expect Beckham 
to return to L.A. in March 
CARSON, Calif. -Galaxy coach Bruce Arena dismissed reports from Italy that David Beckham could stay with AC Milan beyond his current loan. 
"No one ever knows the accuracy of anything," Arena said after practice Thursday. "Everything gets distorted, so we don't concern ourselves with those kind of reports." 
Beckham joined AC Milan in December on a loan that ends March 8. He has start­ed four games and scored twice. 
'Tie's going to be back here March 9," Arena said. ''We've entered into a loan agreement with AC Milan (in which) the player, his agent, AC Milan, ourselves and Major League Soccer understand the guidelines." 
Beckham was quoted in Corriere della Sera on Wednesday as saying he might want to stay with AC Milan beyond March 
8. AC Milan vice president Adriano Galliani said Wednesday that club officials will meet with Beckham's representatives to discuss the possibility of retaining him. 
Cancer strikes Eagles'
coordinator Jim Johnson 
PlillADELPHIA -Philadelphia Eagles defensive coordinator Jim Johnson has had a recurrence of cancer, this time in his spine, team officials said Thursday. 
Eagles trainer Rick Burkholder told The Philadelphia Inquirer and Daily News that Johnson on Monday was diagnosed with melanoma skin c,anc,er that has formed a tumor in his back. Jolmson has begun radiation treatments at Bryn Mawr Hospital, the trainer said. 
The tumor is in tim same area where Johnson's skin cancer was diagnosed in 2001, Burkholder told the newspapers. Johnson also has c,ancer in other areas of his body, Burkholder said, but he declined to elaborate. The team did not otTer a prognosL<>. 
"Who knows where it tracked to from there, but his symptoms came from the spine," Burkholder told The Inquirer. "Now there are some other areas in hi<> body (that have cancer), but I'm not going to get into where else some other ~;tuff is. They will all be treated together. " 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, January 30, 2009 
NBA 

Shaq back in All-Star game 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Shaq is back in the All-Star game. 
After being left out of the NBA's midseason gala for first time in his career last season, Shaquille O'Neal received his 15th All-Star selection Thursday night when the reserves were announced for the Feb. 15 game in Phoenix. 

O'Neal and Suns teammate Amare Stoudemire give the host team two Western Conference All-Stars. 
New Orleans, San Antonio and the Los Angeles Lakers also had multiple players on the West roster, which will be coached by the Lakers' Phil Jackson. 

The Orlando Magic made out best in the East, with Jameer Nelson and Rashard Lewis picked as reserves by the conference's coaches alongside starter Dwight Howard. It's the first time Orlando has had three All­Stars. 
"I was just anxious to find out," Nelson said. "I honestly don't get that way. But me hearing everywhere, 'You're an All-Star, you should be an All-Star, you're having an All­Star year.' So you just want to see if people will give you the respect that other people think you deserve." 
But for the second year in a row, only two of the Boston Celtics' Big Three made the initial roster: Paul Pierce was voted in with starter Kevin Garnett, while Ray Allen was left out. 
Traded to the Suns at last season's deadline, O'Neal endured the worst season of his career and had his record-tying streak of 14 con­secutive All-Star appearances end. Now he's back in the showcase game, and trails only Kareem Abdul-Jabbar with 19 for most appear­ances. 
Abdul-Jabbar, a Lakers assistant, will help coach the West team. 
The 36-year-old O'Neal was averaging 18.2 points and 9.1 rebounds entering Thursday night's showdown against the Spurs. He needs five more points to catch Hakeem Olajuwon for seventh on the NBA's career scoring list. 
O'Neal isn't the only veter­an on a West roster flush with experience. The Spurs' Tim Duncan and the Lakers' Kobe Bryant are each making their 11th appearances, while Dallas forward Dirk Nowitzki was picked for the eighth time and Houston center Yao Ming for the seventh time. 
Carmelo Anthony, who's missed the last 10 games with a broken bone in his right hand, was left off the roster even though he's been cleared to play Friday night at Charlotte. That leaves point guard Chauncey Billups the lone selection from the division-leading Nuggets. 
"I was definitely excited. My next question right directly after that was, 'Did Melo make it?' Of course I'm disap­pointed in that," Billups said. "The only reason why is because of the injury. It's just an unfortunate situation." 
Acquired in a trade with the Pistons on Nov. 3, Billups has given Denver a steady back­court presence. The four-time All-Star is averaging 19.0 points and 6.5 assists. 
If the West team plans to rely on experience, the East might turn to youthful exu­berance. 
Making their first All-Star teams are Nelson, New Jersey guard Devin Harris and Indiana forward Danny Granger, who was snubbed last season but whose play for the injury-depleted Pacers has been extraordinary. 

Granger is fourth in the league in scoring at 25.8 points per game. 
"He's really dedicated him­self as a basketball player," Indiana coach Jim O'Brien said. "Danny really stormed onto the scene and improved at a level that was astound­ing." 
Stoudemire, Yao, Bryant, Duncan and Chris Paul of the Hornets were voted by fans to start for the West. The East starters are Garnett, Howard, Dwyane Wade, Allen Iverson of the Pistons and LeBron James of the Cavaliers. 
Coaches were then required to vote for two guards, two forwards, a center and two at-large reserves. The other picks for the West were Pau Gasol of the Lakers, Tony Parker of the Spurs, Brandon Roy of the Trail Blazers and David West of the Hornets. Filling out the East roster are Raptors forward Chris Bosh and Hawks guard Joe Johnson. 
There was little controversy in fan voting -besides Stoudemire beating out Spurs reserve Bruce Bowen by just 68,000 votes -but the bal­lots turned in by the league's coaches left a bunch of deserving players with a gripe. 
Allen was passed over despite averaging 18.0 points and helping Boston to a 38-9 record. The eight-time All­Star was skipped over last year, too, but was later added by commissioner David Stern as an injury replacement for Caron Butler. 
Deron Williams and Paul Millsap of the Jazz also were left ofT the rosters. So were the Suns' Steve Nash, a six­time All-Star, Mo Williams of the East-leading Cavaliers, Antawn Jamison of the Wizards and AI Jefferson of the Timberwolves. 
NFL 

Players' union quells talk of NFL lockout 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -The NFL play­ers' union plans to pick a succes­sor for the late Gene Upshaw early this year, and sees no rea­son to expect a lockout in two years. 
Owners are opting out of the current labor deal after the 2010 season, however, the union said it didn't anticipate trouble. 
"This is a good thing we have going on between the players and owners," president Kevin Mawae said Thursday in the NFL Players Association's first news conference since Upshaw died in August. "The players don't feel we have to get to that point." 
The five finalists to replace Upshaw, as reported last week by The A'isociated Press, are for­mer NFLPA presidents Troy Vincent and Trace Armstrong; former Bears tackle Jim Covert; Ben Utt, who played for Baltimore and Indianapolis; and Washington-based attorney DeMaurice Smith. 
Mawae, the All-Pro center for the Tennessee Titans, said three candidates will be presented to the union's executive board at its annual meeting in Hawaii in March. An election is scheduled to follow, and serious negotiating with the league won't take place before then. 
"What Gene would have want­ed most was for us to carry on with the business of the union," said acting executive director Richard Berthelsen, the players' longtime counsel. "Our mission is to not only retain the partnership we have with NFL owners, but improve on it. 
"We have seen unprecedented labor peace in our sport and unprecedented prosperity together with the owners. We think have a pretty good thing going," he said. 
It will end, however, after an uncapped 2010 season if the two sides don't negotiate a new col­lective bargaining agreement. Berthelsen presented informa­tion that the union believes con­firms just how prosperous the 32 teams are. 
A union-commissioned study showed the average value of the teams has grown from $288 mil­lion to $1.04 billion over 10 years, an increase of about 14 percent a year. Berthelsen said the average gain in the last year alone was $82.6 million, and he challenged anyone to find an industry "with similar numbers in this economy." 
Noting that 95 percent of the Miami Dolphins sold for $1.1 bil­lion earlier this month -"pretty amazing," he said -Berthelsen added that the average profit was $24.7 million in the last year. That would make for $107 million in average annual return, "a very good return for anybody in any economy." 
With those numbers, the union questions why the owners would be dissatisfied with the CBA ­let alone consider the elimination of a salary cap. Mawae said the cap has worked well for all con­cerned, but that the players won't accept one again if it dis­appears next year. 

OPEN HOUSE 2009-10 SCHOOLYEAR 
at the Early Childhood Development Center at Notre Dame 
Come See Our Program and Meet Our 
Early Childhood 
Early Childhood Teachers 
Development Center, Inc.
ECDC-ND Open House Dates: 
at Notre Dan1c
Sundav, 2/1109 ... 1:.)0-):00 


.------------------­
Friday, January 30, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
TENNIS 
Federer closing in on Sampras 

AP Roger Federer stretches to make a return to Andy Roddick during their semifinal match at the Australian Open. Federer is trying to tie Pete Sampras's record of 14 Grand Slam singles titles. 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia ­Andy Roddick was right there when Pete Sampras won his 14th Grand Slam title. And he was right there again when Roger Federer moved within one victory of matching Sampras' record. 
After a scorching day in which temperatures hit 111 degrees, Federer beat Roddick 6-2, 7-5, 7-5 in more manage­able 91-degree heat Thursday night in the Australian Open semifinals. 
The Swiss star will be play­ing in his 18th Grand Slam final but won't know his oppo­nent until Friday night, when Spanish left-banders Rafael Nadal and Fernando Verdasco meet in the other semifinal. 
Federer will be going for a fourth Australian title. Serena Williams will be doing like­wise, and also going for a lOth Grand Slam singles title. She ended the 15-match winning streak of Olympic champion Elena Dementieva, winning 6­3, 6-4 to set up a final against Olympic silver medalist Dinara Safina. 
This was Federer's seventh straight win over Roddick in a major and put his overall record in this matchup at 16­
2. His loss to Roddick in Miami last year now seems like an aberration. 
Roddick lost to Sampras in straight sets in the quarterfi­nals at the 2002 U.S. Open when he was a 20-year-old emerging talent. Sampras, · then 31 and in his 52nd major, retired after beating Andre Agassi two matches later to win the U.S. Open. 
Roddick won the next year at Flushing Meadows and held the No. 1 ranking in 2003. Federer was about to embark on an astonishing run. 
"I think when Pete did it -I was a part of that one, too ­everyone was saying how kind of)ofty of an achievement it was." Hoddick said. "I don't know if we thought we would see it any time soon. Little did we know (Federer) was going to start it the next year and go after it." 
Roddick is 26, just more than a year younger than Federer. 
"It's like my childhood was Pete, and now it's kind of my grown life is Roger," he said. "I guess Roger is a contemporary of mine, which didn't lessen the affect. I see Pete and Andre and I still. get a little jit­tery. It's crazy to think it's come full circle and the mag­nitude of the numbers (Federer's) accomplished, it's pretty scary if you sit down and go through what it takes to accomplish that." 
Roddick lost 15 pounds dur­ing the offseason and started retooling parts of game with new coach Larry Stefanki so he'd be more competitive against Federer. Yet every time he gave himself half a chance, Federer shut him down. 
"He just came up with shots when he needed to," Roddick said. "That's what he does." 
Serena Williams had little problems in her singles semifi­nal, then combined with sister Venus to win a doubles semifi­nal. They will play for the title Friday against Slovakia's Daniela Hantuchova and Japan's Ai Sugiyama. 
Safina defeated fellow Russian Vera Zvonareva 6-3, 7-6 ( 4) to move into contention for her first major and the No. 1 ranking -two things her older brother, Marat Safin, achieved. 
Federer's focus has been increasingly sharp since he was forced to come back from two sets down to beat Tomas Berdych in the fourth round. In his quarterfinal, he convinc­ingly took down No. 8-ranked Juan Martin del Potro, then did the same against Roddick. 
This was the hottest January day in Melbourne in 70 years. By the time F_ederer and Roddick were on court in the evening, temperatures had dropped and the retractable roof was open. 
· Federer broke twice in the first set. Adding to Roddick's frustration was a call that went against him as Federer served at 4-1, sparking a run­ning discourse with chair umpire Enric Molina. 
A tiebreaker loomed in the second set with Roddick serv­ing at 5-5. That was until Federer upped the ante and won the last 12 points. The pattern was repeated in the third. 
At this sta,ge last year, Federer was deconstructing his loss to Novak Djokovic in the semifinals. He spoke of having "created a monster" with all his success. 
Federer is over the mononu­cleosis that lingered at the start of last year and con­tributed to a season in which he lost the No. 1 ranking he held for 237 weeks. He said he's in much better physical and mental shape, yet still sur­prised how any dip in form is interpreted. 
"If I lose a set or two sets against Berdych, everybody is like, 'Oh, my God, he's not the same anymore,"' he said. "And then you beat Del Potro and everything is back to normal. You don't lose your edge that quickly. It's just not possible." 
He responded to the close shave against Berdych in the best way he knew. 
"Came up with two great vic­tories now and usually that's when I start playing my best: Toward the end of the tourna­ment," he said. "I think this is where you should judge a great player." 
No Spaniard has won the Australian title, but Nadal is clearly best qualified. He's the only man to beat Federer in a Grand Slam final -three times at the French and the five-set epic last year at Wimbledon. 
Federer said he'd have more of an advantage over Verdasco, who has never reached this stage of a major. 
But "playing Rafa is obvious­ly more exciting because of the history we have," he said. "Him being the best player in the world at t-he moment, it would make it a very intrigu­ing match." 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish ready for National Indoor Championships 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 
After a convincing 6-1 rout of No. 32 Ohio State last weekend, the No. 17 ranked Irish head to Fayetteville, Ark. for this week­end's National Team Indoor quali­fying tournament. 
Notre Dame will face off against No. 29 Pepperdine in the first round and, with a win', will advance to take on either No. 17 Arkansas or Oregon in the fmals. 
"The competition should be very good this weekend," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "Arkansas and Pepperdine are both ranked and are always vel"y experienced teams." 
The winner of this weekend's tournament will travel to Madison, Wise. next month to participate in the National Team Indoor championships with 15 other teams from across the cmmtry. . 
Louderback really likes the way his team is coming together so far this season. 
"Our doubles teams have looked very good in practice and the doubles point is always a key in dual matches," he said. "Our lineup is deep in the singles and doubles competitions with a good mix of upper and underclass­men." 
Currently, the Irish's No. 1 dou­bles squad of senior Kelcy Tefft and freshman Kristy Frilling is the top ranked doubles team in the nation. The pair had a very strong fall season finishing with a record of 13-1 and got out to good start this season against Ohio State winning their match 8-3. 
The Irish are really excited about the season that lies ahead of them and, after the early-win­ter layoff, arn just glad to be play­ing real matches again. 
"We were really excited to start playing against last weekend," Louderback said. "This is a team that just really enjoys competing." 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 
NFL 
Bucs hire Jagodzinski as offensive coordinator 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Three weeks after being dismissed by Boston College for pursuing an NFL head coaching job, Jeff Jagodzinski was hired Thursday by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers to be their offen­sive coordinator. 
Jagodzinski, who led Boston College to the Atlantic Coast Conference championship game in each of his two sea­sons, was fired Jan. 7 after being told he would be let go if he interviewed for the New York Jets' coaching vacancy. 
He went on the interview despite the ultimatum and was fired the next day. Th-e Jets job eventually went to Rex Ryan. 
Jagodzinski also was a can­didate to be the San Francisco 49ers' offensive coordinator before accepting the job with the Bucs, who fired coach Jon Gruden and general manager Bruce Allen two weeks ago. 
Raheem Morris, who at 32 is the youngest head coach in the NFL, succeeded Gruden and hired Bill Bates as his defen­sive coordinator last week. The Bucs also announced the hiring Thursday of Pete Mangurian as offensive line coach. 
Jagodzinski led Boston College to a pair of bowl appearances and lost twice to Virginia Tech in the ACC title game during his brief stay with the Eagles. He was an NFL assistant for eight years with the Green Bay Packers and Atlanta Falcons before moving to BC, where he tutored this year's NFL rookie of the year Matt Ryan. 
Technically, he replaces Bill Muir as Tampa Bay's offensive coordinator. In actuality, Gruden -fired after the Bucs finished with four consecutive losses to miss the playoffs fol­lowing a 9-3 start -ran the offense. 
Jagodzinski was a tight ends coach for the Packers from 1999-2003, then spent the next two seasons with the Falcons, serving as tight ends coach in 2004 and offensive line coach in 2005. He returned to the Packers as offensive coordinator in 2006. 
Despite the 45-year-old's success at Boston College, ath­letic director Gene DeFilippo didn't hesitate to fire Jagodzinski after telling the coach he would do so if he met with the Jets, who were searching for a replacement to Eric Mangini. 

-

page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 30, 2009 
Your Pa~~1Jort to 

. 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' ~ 
f -· 
' 
' 
' 
' 
. 
' 
• 
in 2009 
UNDERGRADUATE GRANTS 
Travel & Re~earch Grant~ up to $4,500 App1ieation~ due February l~th. 
Intern~hip & Slervice Grant~ up to $4,500 App1ication~ due February l~th. 
Advanced Language Training Ru.!k~ian or Portugue~e Grant~ up to $7,000 App1ication~ due February l~th. 
GRADUATE GRANTS 
Travel & Re~arch Grant~ up to $5,500 Application~ due March 6th. 
Di~ertation Fe11ow~hi-p~ $16,000 award App1ication~ due March 6th. 
Language Training Study European Language~ _GranTh up to $4,500 App1ication~ due March 20th. 
* 

.NANOVIC 
INSTITUTE 
FOR EURO·PEAN STUDIES 
Que~tion~? Vi~it u~ at 211 Brown~on HaH -right after the gate. E-mai1 nanovic@nd.edu or ca11574-631-5123. More information i~ available online at nanovic.nd.edu/program~. 
Friday, January 30, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC SWIMMING 
SMC set to face Kalamazoo 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Belles swimming and diving team will take on Kalamazoo today at Rolfs Aquatic Center at 7 p.m. This meet, the second-to-last dual meet of the season, will be used to prepare for the MIAA conference champi­onships February 19-21. According to captain Melissa Gerbeth, the team is not quite ready for the awaiting chal­lenges in the championships, 
but the girls  are  working  
hard to get there.  
"Right  now  we  are  still  

somewhat broken down com­ing off of a really intense training trip and continuous hard practices," Gerbeth said. "I think that our team will be ready for Conference at the end of February." 
The Belles are coming off a 167-64 loss to a tough Division II opponent in 

rt k s kn 
l~ll those cynics out there soy opportunity on{y knocks once. Of course that's because they never worked here \Nith us. That's why GE was nomed one of the 8-Bst Places to Launch a Coreer bv,• Busir1ess\A./cck in 2008. \;\fe irwitc you to cxptore opportunities at GE in engineering, finance, manu­facturing, sales and rnorketing, hurnon resources, or inforrnotion technology. 
www.ge.com/careers 
Hillsdale College, but will achieved on a regular basis. look to right the ship and Swimmer Audrey Dalrymple, avenge last year's heart­who set the school record in breaking 145-149 loss to the 200-yard breaststroke, Kalamazoo. and diver Leah As part of the Bocisnky, who
"Right now we are
preparation for set a season the champi­still somewhat broken best on the 1­onships, the meter dive,
down coming offa
Belles (4-5) have been per­
really intense 
took a winter forming espe­training trip to training trip and cially well of Florida. late.
continuous hard 
Captain Mary Daday hopes
practices.,,
Kate Daday felt this will con­this trip was tinue against crucial in the Melissa Gerbeth Kalamazoo, team's devel­against Olivet
Belles captain 
opment so far next week, this season. and especially 
"After our winter training into the MIAA champi­trip in Florida our team real­onships. ly came together physically "I am confident everyone and mentally," Daday said. will work hard, have positive "We pushed each other in the attitudes, and get pumped to water and have become clos­finish the season successful­er as a team." ly," she said. 
The trip has produced results on paper, too, as per­Contact Chris Michalski at sonal best times are being jmichal2@nd.edu 

ND TRACK & FIELD 
Notre DaiTie ready to coinpete in t-wo Ineets 
Irish athletes will compete in Findlay, Ohio in the Findlay Invitational. The Irish are coming off an impressive per­formance at the Notre Dame Invitational where both the men and women defeated Michigan State, Marquette, and Wisconsin. Once again, a number of athletes achieved Big East qualifying marks, including junior Joanna Shultz and freshman Natalie Geiger with times of 24.42 and 24.96 in the 200-meter, freshmen Jordan Rincon and Alex Korenstra with times of 
47.65 and 49.69 in the 400­meters, and brother Kevin and Matt Schipper in the pole vault. 
Furthermore, senior Anna Weber's throw of 19.07 meters achieved her not only a victory in the weight throw, but also an NCAA-provisional qualifying mark. She joins classmate Mary Saxer in the pole vault as the two athletes with NCAA marks. 
In the Indiana Invitational, the Irish will compete against major programs such as Indiana, Michigan, and Purdue. The athletes going to the Findlay Invitation will face tough competitors from smaller, Division II schools such as the University of Toronto, the University of Findlay, and Ashland University. 
The entire Irish team will return home next weekend for Meyo Invitational, which wfll feature Big Ten schools such as Iowa and Illinois and is the last home meet before the Big East Championships. 
Contact Chris Michalski at 
jmichal2@nd.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Irish track and field team is in for a busy few days this weekend, with two meets taking place in two different states. 
The first, the Indiana Invitational, will take place in the Gladstein Fieldhouse in Bloomington, Indiana. Most of the team will compete at this Friday/Saturday event. Friday is devoted mostly to preliminaries, with the women's 60-meter hurdles heats starting things off at 3 p.m., followed by the field events with the weight throw and the long jump at 4 p.m. The finals will take place on Saturday morning, beginning at 9:30 a.m. with the weight throw and the triple jump. 
At the same time, some 




imoginot.ion otvvork 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, January 30, 2009 
Cats 
continued from page 24 
The Irish struggled mighti­ly against Rutgers on both ends of the court Tuesday night. After opening up with four straight free throws, the Irish were held scoreless until the 10:22 mark in the first half while the Scarlet Knights rattled off ·17 straight points. That trend was continued throughout the game, and the Irish could never find their way at either end. 
As for the Cincinnati game, McGraw said she is more concerned right now with fixing the defense. 
"I think we can win scoring 60, but over the last few games it's been creeping up towards 70." 
During Notre Dame's cur­rent funk, the Irish have allowed 75 to Marquette, 67 in the win over St. Johns, 55 to Villanova and 78 most recently against Rutgers. 
The defense will not have any rest going into Saturday's game as it plays one of the most prolific out­side games in the conference in the Bearcats. Cincinnati has already taken 411 shots from beyond the arc {making 129 for a .314 shooting per­centage), compared to only 77 -for-226 for the Irish. 
"[Cincinnati is] going to challenge us. The 3-point defense is not as effective as I'd like it to be," McGraw said. "I think we will be bet­ter -we worked on [3­point] defense in practice this week -but the three is our No. 1 concern." 
The last two ga)lles, perimeter shooting has been the main reason for Notre Dame's defeats. Villanova shot 10-of-27 on Jan. 24 and Rutgers shot 7 -of-14 from 3­point distance on Tuesday. 
The Irish hold a slight advantage over the Bearcats in height -the tallest play­ers to receive significant minutes for Cincinnati this season are 6-foot-1 forwards Michelle Jones and Val Schuster. McGraw said that Cincinnati makes up for this lack of height with athleti­cism in the post. 
"I don't think [size] is going to be a factor because [the 
Cincinnati  posts!  are  so  
physical,"  McGraw  said.  
"They're  a  good matchup,  

they're strong, but they can also step back and shoot threes." 
McGraw said she expects for junior guard Kahla Roudebush to be the Bearcats' most potent offen­sive weapon. Roudebush leads the team with 16 points, in addition to tallying 
4.4 rebounds and 3.1 assists per game this season. 
"Roudebush is a veteran, experienced player," McGraw said. "She'll step up and play well." 
Cincinnati has also added talented freshman guard Shanasa Sanders, who is averaging 7.2 points (third best on the team) and 3.7 rebounds per game. Sanders was named the Big East Freshman of the Week on Jan. 19. 
"They are a very different team than last year," McGraw said. 
The Bearcats are nursing a two-game losing streak of their own, but that is not something to take too seri­ously based on their recent opponents, McGraw said. On Jan. 20 Cincinnati lost 66-50 at No. 6 Louisville and on Jan. 24 it lost 65-34 against top-ranked and undefeated Connecticut. 
Tipoff Saturday is at 2 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 


ITA 
continued from page 24 
Bobby Bayliss said. "Neither [Tulsa], nor anyone else, has yet had the opportunity to prove much." 
The Irish have lost every dual match they have played against ranked teams so far this sea­son. Two of those losses-Jan. 16 against No. 14 Pepperdine and Wednesday~s against No. 11 1-'lorida State -were by a score of 4-3 that easily could have gone the other way. 
"I am proud of the way we are fighting in these close matches and confident that if this continues it will result in wins," Bayliss said. "We are two tiebreakers from being 3-1 with two top-15 wins, so we know we can play with most of the better teams in the coun­try." 
Tulsa (5-1) brings two ranked singles players, including No. 10 Arnau Brugues. He will face senior Brett Helgeson, ranked 20th, in No.1 singles. 
"Brugues is one of the more talented players in college ten­nis, but we believe that lllelgeson] is also in that elite group," Bayliss said. 
The Golden Hurricanes also bring a challenge in doubles, though none of their teams are currently ranked. The Irish have one ranked pair, the No. 37 duo of Helgeson and sopho­more Tyler Davis. 
"Tulsa has historically played great dcmbles and I expect that to be the case this season," Bayliss said. "The reason that they have no ranked teams is that they have several new players who have just arrived this semester and have no col­lege record. Winning the dou­bles point will be a challenge for us." 
The winner of the match between Notre Dame and Tulsa will go on to face the winne.r between No. 19 LSU and No. 21 Texas Tech. The losers of each match will play in a consolation bracket. 
"I have no preference as to whom we will play on Sunday," Bayliss said. "Both teams are very good and ranked much higher than we. For us it will simply be the fifth top-20 team we have faced in our six matches and another opportu­nity to prove ourselves." 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

SMC to face Flying Dutch 
By BOBBY GRAHAM 
Sports Wriler 
For the Saint Mary's basket­ball team, this weekend's game arguably carries more weight than any other they have played up until this point. 

With only six games left in the MIAA regular season, the Belles will travel to Holland, Mich., this Saturday for a con­ference matchup against the nationally-ranked Flying Dutch of Hope College. Since both teams are tied with MIAA best 9-1 conference records, the outcome of Saturday's 
conference will have major ramifications in determining which of the two will end the rPgular season as champions. 
Fatigue could be an issue for 

·Saint Mary's (11-7, 9-1), which, despite winning its last three games, is playing its fourth game in a row away from home. One of those 
games  was  a  thrilling over­ 
time  win  against  Calvin  
Wednesday.  

Hope {15-1, 9·1) is coming off of a 79-42 win against Alma last Wednesday. 
The Belles, interestingly enough, were the only team to hand the Flying Dutch a loss this season. To make sure 
there is a similar outcome Saturday, the Belles will need a strong effort from senior forward and South Bend native Erin Newsom, who leads the team with just under 15 points a game. On the other side of the ball, Saint Mary's must contain Hope's depth on the bench. Sophomore guard Erika Bruinsma has lead Hope in scoring three out of the last six games, despite coming off the bench. 
Tip off is scheduled for 3 
p.m. at the DeVos Fieldhouse. 
Contact Bobby Graham at 
rgraham@nd.edu 


Friday, January 30, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 301h 
10:00 PM I Doors @ 9:30 PM 
' C N DS 
.. ()F NOTRE DAl'v1E 
,.
No Cover 


The Observer + SPORTS Friday, January 30, 2009
~22 
:
. 
~ 
====================================================================================================================================== 
sively. matchup against the Panthers, more losses and just making we haven't been able to do
' 
"You have to prepare your­the Irish overcame an 11-the Tournament can become when we play a few games in
' Pitt
' 
' self for it every game," point second half deficit to difficult. Hight now, the Irish a short period of time," Brey 
' continued from page 24 
f 
i ~ 
Marquette, they really guard­ed me," McAlarney said. "It
' 
was really tough. I thought I had maybe two good looks all game." 
McAlarney said he expects the added attention because teams figure they can beat the Irish if they are able to con­tain him. 
"That's what I've earned, I guess. I'm expecting teams to kind of try and hang their hat on, 'We've got to shut down Kyle on the perimeter and then we'll beat them,"' McAlarney said. "But I dis­agree with that because I think Ryan [Ayers] is going to find it. I think Zach [Hilleslandl is going to find it." 
That would certainly help, even if the pair of senior for­wards found the bottom of the net just a little more than they have been. In Ayers's case, somebody must've stolen his ability to hit a shot one night while he was sleeping. He's a combined 1-for-17 in his last two games. 
But for someone who's made shots at such a high percent­age (despite these last two games, Ayers still shoots 42 percent from the field), a slump like that isn't bound to last long. Ayers said he's iden­tified what he needs to fix with his shot. 
"My mechanics are fine, it's just getting my legs under­neath me and being more smooth. I felt like the rattling in and out means I need more of an arc on my shot," Ayers said. 
As for the third struggling senior, I-lillesland, he knows he has better basketball in him than what he's showed in Notre Dame's losing streak. In Notre Dame's last seven games, Hillesland has scored a combined 19 points. Hillesland was never one to light up the scoreboard, but he knows his team needs more out of him than what he's given of late. 
"For me, it's narrowing my focus and not worrying about, 'Oh I missed that shot, I could've blocked out better there, is coach getting ready to sub me?' or something like that," Hillesland said. 
But despite the recent loss­es, there have been some pos­itives. Even with Notre Dame's offensive woes, the Irish were still in their last two games until the last seconds. Why? Answer No. 1 has been their defense, which just surren­dered 69 and 71 points to Connecticut and Marquette respectively. 
Then there's Luke Harangody, who, with each day, looks more like he'll repeat as Big East player of the year. Harangody scored 24 points against 7-foot-3 Connecticut center Hasheem Thabeet and 29 against Marquette. 
"I think what he does con­tinually is amazing really," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "He's there every night. He's bringing it every night. It's really a great display of con­sistency and toughness and I've told him privately that we certainly appreciate it and I don't want it to go unnoticed." 
Harangody will face another test Saturday in the form of DeJuan Blair and Sam Young. The two Pittsburgh forwards are among the Big East's best, both offensively and defen-
Harangody said of facing the win 82-70. Tory Jackson had 
big  men  of the  16 points and a  
Big East. "It's  career-high 13  
going to be so physical that you're going to have to go as hard as the  "It's going to be so physical that you have to go as hard as  rebounds to lead the late surge. The Irish may need another similar  
next guy ...  the next guy. "  effort  to  take  
"It'd be nice  down  a  
to go, like in those non-con­ference games  Luke Harangody Irish forward  Panthers team that returns many players  
we  had  this  from last year's  
year,  go  up  squad.  

against a 6-5 180-pound guy. At 3-5, Notre Dame is in a Every night, I realize it's not precarious position in the Big going to happen, so I've just East. It's not too late to make got to put up with it." a run and get a decent NCAA In Notre Dame's last Tournament seed, but a few 
aren't trying to think too far ahead and haven't worried themselves by looking at the standings or discussing hypo­thetical situation that would get them in or out of the Tournament. Tip off is sched­uled for 12 p.m. Saturday. The game will be televised on ESPN. 
Notes: 
+To shake things up this week Mike Brey brought his team in for multiple early­morning practices. 
"We've come in, in the morning just to kind of get some reps up and kind of pol­ish some things up that maybe said. 
+ Harangody was asked before practice Thursday if there was one player in the Big East he looked forward to going up against. 
His answer: 

"I would say Hasheem [Thabeet] ... It's such a chal­lenge going up against him because he's such a freak," Harangody said. "Someone asked me to describe it, it's just you think you got your shot up and he just comes out of nowhere." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

Friday, January 30, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 29 One of the Where to get a 

Baltimore good view of a Ravens' mascots hit and run 30 Strips on a table 8 Comic book 31 At the head of series that 
the line 
spawned films in 33 It's unreal 
1994 and 2005 35 Had a 33­

15 Gives last rites Across, sayto, e.g. 
37 Song standard 16 Lightly and with the lyric quickly, in music "Can't you see I'm no good
17 Dr. Ruth, e.g. 
without you?" 18 Prepare to ship 41 Conform 
19 Member of Ia 43 End of a middle familia extensa 
watch 

20 Pop superstar's 44 Rona who wrote informal name "Mazes and since 1997 Monsters" 
22 Wyo. is on it in 47 Far out the summer 49 Best 50 A leading 
23 "Listen Like manufacturer of Thieves" band 
cars 25 They may be 
51 Reference book 
greased 

abbr. 26 Chapter 13? 53 Sinew: Prefix 27 Missouri 54 Funeral home 
relatives item 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

55 New Jersey shopping mecca 57 Be windy 58 Got hitched 60 Food similar to a bannock 62 Uranus's largest moon 63 Alternative to a tanning booth 64 Responded contemptuously 65 Round parts, perhaps 
Down Strong defenses 2 Pretty poor 
chances 3 Love letters? 4 Nurse 5 Hydrocarbon 
endings 6 Just off the bottom, nautically 7 Sandal variety 8 An anchor often faces it 9 Falcon-headed god 1 0 Company whose slogan is "Home away from home" 11 Purchase at a home store 
12 Weak 
13 Small pad 
14 Didn't strike 
21 Move slowly 
24 Counterbalances 
26 An unknown 
quantity 28 Wong of book and film 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Brendan Emmett Quigley 
30 "The Jungle  42 Pioneer's org.  52 Two 55-Downs  
Book" bear  44 Old tournament  55 Half a 52-Down  
32 Kind of rock  events  
34 Mischievous tyke  45 Title transport in  56 Ancient walkway  
36 Way out in the  a 1941 song  59 Women's org.  
country 38 Bop alternative 39 Literally, "white  46 Done, slangily 48 Retires from the R.A.F.  with the motto "God, home and country"  
mountain"  51 Title lady in a  61 "House Call"  
40 Delegates  1933 song  airer  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available lor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword lor more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jenny Lang, 27: Heatha Graham. 38: Oprah Winfrey, 54; Tom Selleck, 63 
Happy Birthday: This year. you must stabilize )'OUr home. family and financial situa­tion and also find som<.':thing to do that makes you happy. Try a hobby or a form of en­tertaimnent that doesn't cost too much bnt will help you relax. You will find it easier to concentrate and thus accomplish the goals you set. Your numbers are I, 8. 15. 22. 36 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get things done, especially ifit will in!1uence your 
reputation. You can1t leaYe anything to chancr or take anything or anyone for granted 
today. It is impotiant to choose your words wisely when communicating about per­
sonal mallers. ·' stars 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can make a life-changing:. professional move. 
Look for the perfect position. This is not the day to sell yourself short but instead the 
time to he hold and wry confident. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Put time and money into your place of residenL'e. Check over your investments and look at any long-term contracts and agreements. You can cut costs if you renegotiate your position. A settlement can be finalize-d. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): If you can see your way to ac,·ept change, you will end up in a hrr better position hy the end of the day. Concentrate on love and you will score big \\'ith someone you meet or with the person you are currently engaged with. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Today you may have to spill the beans and give in to the questions being asked. Ifyou don't. your evasiveness will work against you, making 
you look bad. Be honest and straightforward. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get iu the mood to enjoy and have fun because love is in the stars and you won't \\'ant to miss out on an enjoyable and entertaining time. l\1ake plans to do something special with your partner or attend an event where you can meet a new partner if you are single. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't waste time trying to tix problems you have with family or the people you live with. Nothing will be resolved and arguments will lead to more trouble. Instead, get out and do something you enjoy and you'll meet new friends. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Nothing will go right at home ifyou are pushy. Focus 
011 working to make thi11gs more corrd'ortable or livable hut not at the expense of argu­
ing with s.otm ...one you care about. Put your efforts into what will please the people you .care most about. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be fooling the people around you but 
ifs time you stoppt'd fooling yourself. Decide if your present murse is really what you 
want. A nt"W direction \vill lead to an interesting connt"ction. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You've got e\·eryone's attention so explain how you see things unfolding. You can make good financial dedsions that will help your money grow. Y('U can dose deals, take care of any issues concerning l0ved ones and sign or fommlate C<)ntracts with ease. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't be too tnrsting of anyone who wants to help .you take care of your cash. You are far better off keeping tabs on what is spent and what is invested. A perso11al matter may confuse you if you don't ask lhe right que-s­
tions. 1 stars 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Being argumentative will work against you but taking 
action and showing what you can do will be proof you have what it takes. You'll leave 
an impression that "~II lead to success. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are a good friend and helper and will always do your hestto 
please those around you. You wilt never stand hy watching --you are a participant 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.eomjor ftm. eugeuialast.com for conftdemial couwltarious 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

PATRICK GARTLAND 
rHINK ro MAKE A GOOO Ftr BUr 

www. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 
YEN, rM .JUST REAUY NERVOUS. I 
A 
JUMBLE 
JJW/Mffi)1IK
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BlASS 
± 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
l~i~flJ 
KLACEY

riJ I I 
www.iumble.com 
THEIRE j 
1 

rx I I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

FOL-L-OW~ THE HORS£::5 IN 1\NCIE::NT ROME:. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Print answer here: rxxxxxxxJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: CHAOS SLANT DEPICT UNTRUE Answer: What she wore to her yoga class ­"STRETCH" PANTS 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 0 Enclosed is $120 for one academic year D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ 
.
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
•
' 
J 
..---------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, January 30, 2009 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Stuck in the Pitts 
Cold-shooting Irish squad will try to get back on track against third-ranked Panthers 
By CHRIS HINE Editor-in-Chief 
It's been a four days since Notre Dame's lost its fourth straight to Marquette on Monday, losses marked by the struggles of three of Notre Dame's captains. 
Four days can seem like an eternity when you're strug­gling and that next chance to right yourself seems like it'll never come. That day will finally arrive Saturday when Notre Dame (12-7, 3-5 Big East) travels to take on No. 3 Pittsburgh (18-2, 6-2). 
First there's Kyle McAlarney, who has shot 6­for-27 (22 percent) in Notre Dame's (12-7, 3-5 Big East) last two games, well below his 43 percent average from the field for the season. 
"I think against Connecticut, I had some great looks. I think 
see PITT/page 22 


FENCING 
MEN'S TENNIS 
ND heads to Tulsa for ITANat'ls 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 
Nothing seems to be going Notre Dame's way lately, but the squad will try to change that this weekend. 
The No. 32 Irish (1-3) will travel to Tulsa Saturday to take part in one of 15 ITA National Team Indoors Regional match­es across the country. 
Each regional has four of the nation's top-60 teams, and the winner of each will advance to the ITA National Team Indoor Championships in Chicago. 
The fourth-seeded Irish will begin play Saturday against No. 12 Tulsa, the top seed. 
"This early in the season I doubt if anyone feels their ranking makes them a favorite or an underdog," Irish coach 
see ITA/page 20 

No.1 ranking on the line in Northwestern Dual meet 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 
Standing alone atop the mountain of fencing rankings is no easy task in the NCAA, but the Irish have the opportunity to do just that as they compete in the Northwestern Duals in Evanston, Illinois this weekend. 
The men's fencing team cur­rently shares a first-place rank­ing with Penn State, while the second-ranked women trail the Nittany Lions in the USFCA Coaches Poll. 
"It will be the first encounter with them before we go for a national championship," Irish fencing coach Janusz Bednarski said. "It will be interesting to see how strong we can compete against them. We will see." 
The Irish are coming off a hugely successful weekend at the St. John's University Duals and the New York University Invitational, where the fencers competed without the help of Olympian Gerek Meinhardt. The combination of a talented cast of freshmen and sophomores and an experienced senior line helped the women's team emerge with a record of 5-2 and the men's squad a perfect 7-0. 
According to Bednarski, luck played no part in the young teams' successes early in the season. 
"I think that there arc several reasons for the success," Bednarski said. "We work very hard during the fall, and there was a lot of enthusiasm from the new student-athletes. The creation of this atmosphere helped a lot because they were giving much more." 
Although the Irish lind them­selves pitted against Penn State for the title of undisputed No. 1, Notre Dame will also have to contend with some of the best teams in the country. Temple, 
NO WoMEN's BASKETBALL 
Game key, butnot 'must-win' 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Managing Editor 
Even though Notre Dame has lost three of its last four games -and most recently was embarrassed at home against Hutgers -Irish coach Muffet McGraw said she is reluctant to call Saturday's game against Cincinnati a "must-win." 
"I think it's important that we play better, at least exe­cute the defense bAtter." she said. "I don't wan to call any­
' 
:I 
thing 'must-win' this early in 
l 
~ the season, but certainly a win would be a welcome change. We just want to feel good 
' about how we are playing." 
•I 
' 
see CATS/page 20 ' ' 

Cleveland State, Johns Hopkins, North Carolina, Wayne State, and a bitter Ohio State are expected to be in attendance. The men's team beat the Buckeyes last weekend, while the Irish women fell in a hard­fought battle. 
"We will fence Ohio State once again because of NCAA competition, so they will try to get revenge," Bednarski said. 
But a victory over Penn State this weekend is no guarantee for the Irish to win a national championship. Because of newly instated NCAA regula­tions, the championships will limit the roster size from years past. 
"We are a little bit more tal­ented and we have a bigger bench than Penn State," Bednarski said. "But it will play for them because their first two fencers are from the national team and are very good." 
Nevertheless, Bednarski believes the talented fighters have a great opportunity to make a statement this weekend if they can keep their focus. 
"I think it will come down to the last minute, the last throw, the last bout." 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL 

Forn1er 49er Young officially joins staff 
Observer Staff Report 
1994 Notre Dame gradu­ate and 14-year Nf<L veter­an Bryant Young was hired Thursday as a defensive graduate assistant. 
Young, a defensive line­man who spent his entire career with the San Fransisco 49ers, was named tho NFL Defensive Hookie of the year in 1994 and earned four trips to the NFL Pro Bowl. His ~9.5 career sacks rank as third all-time in 49er history. 
During his time with the Irish, Young led Notre Dame to an astounding 40-8-1 record over four years, 

During his 1993 senior sea­son, Young was named a team captain and elected to the first team All-American team. 
"I'm very excited that Bryant has decided to return home to Notre Dame," Irish coach Charlie Wcis said on und.com. "We're not just adding a future NFL Hall of Famer to our program, we're adding a II all of Fame person." 
Young is replacing Patrick Graham, who was on the Irish staff for the past two seasons, but became the defensive line coach at the University of Toledo earlier in the month. 




