
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Archbishop speaks on religous trends 
Vatican official discusses the secularization of Europe, the Church's shifting role 
By LAURA MCCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
The influence of the Catholic Church in Europe is declining as a result of secularization, said Archbishop Angelo Amato in a lecture Monday night. 
Amato, who was appointed by Pope Benedict XVI last July to oversee the canonization of Catholic saints, delivered Notre Dame's annual Terrence M. Keeley Vatican lecture spon­sored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies. 
Secularization is a trend in which people feel "emancipat­ed from religious bonds," he said. Secularism, a worldwide problem because it does not accept religion as an important reality, is especially apparent in Central and Western Europe, he said. 
With secularization, Amato said that economics, politics, and bio-technology in Modern Europe become detached from religion and morality. 
"In this panorama, the influ­ence of Christianity on social life is greatly weakened," he said. 
While some people argue that Modern Europe does not need to rely on its Christian roots, Amato disagrees. He said the Church has always con­tributed to European civiliza­tion. 
"Europe cannot be under­stood without Christianity," he said. "It loses its originality and identity," 
Amato said he hopes Europe will blend tradition with its modern views so that it will find a greater respect for democracy, freedom, and the dignity of the human being in the future. 
Christianity is therefore not 


Notre Dame a-warded for sustainability efforts 

only a link to Europe's roots, he said. "Europe must profess but it is also a solution for the itself to be Christian." future, he said. Amato said hope for the 
"Christianity is the basis of modern thought and morality," see VATICAN/page 3 
By LIZ LEFEBVRE 
News Writer 
Notre Dame has recently received two honors that high­light the University's commit­ment to increasing sustainabil­ity on campus from Carbonrally.com and the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC). 
The University won $10,000 from a competition held in conjunction with Syracuse University in November as part of NBC's Green Week. In addi­tion to making the Notre Dame-Syracuse football game carbon neutral and increasing recycling on game day, the University also participated in a sustainability commitment 
pledge drive to see  which  
s.chool  could  gain  more  
pledges.  

The drive, sponsored by Carbonrally.com, encouraged students, faculty, staff and alumni to reduce their carbon emissions. 
Notre Dame's pledge count of 1,932 beat out Syracuse's 1,446 commitments. The win­ning pledges have committed to reducing carbon emissions by nearly 48 tons. 
Junior Connor Kobeski, who worked with GreeNO to regis­ter students during Green Week, cited GreeNO as a cru­cial part of the competition's success. 
"GreeNO members' dedica­tion to getting people signed up gave us the edge over 
Syracuse" he said. "A lot of people committed to Carbonrally allowed us to win the competition, and in the same way, a lot of people com­mitted to reducing their car­bon footprints will help us to control climate change." 
Kobeski also noted the importance of this event to increasing Notre Dame's sus­tainability, especially in light of the $10,000 prize. 
"Winning the NBC Carbonrally Challenge will help the Office of Sustainability to make even greater environmental changes across the university." Kobeski said. 
Students can take an active role in helping to make these changes, as the Office of 
ECDC seeking student volunteers 
Center needs help with program for children ages 2 to kindergartern 
By CASEY KENNY 
News Writer 
The Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC) at Notre Dame, on Bulla Road behind the library and directly across from Fisher O'Hara­Grace Graduate Student Housing, is looking for student volunteers for the Spring semester, according to Terri Kosik, the executive director of ECDC. 
Kosik said the center offers a "dynamic, recreational-based program for children from age 2 to kindergarten and utilizes a developmentally appropriate curriculum." 
The 80-90 student volunteers with the program work along­side teachers and assist the children with various activities, she said. 
"Students volunteer 2 hours per week and spend tims with the children in various capaci­ties [from I working on the cur­riculum with teachers, reading stories to children, teaching them to ride bicycles, painting with them [and] pushing them in swings," she said. 
Students work the same schedule each week and, therefore, really get to know the children they are working with, Kosik said. 
"There is a wide range of children in the program from a variety of ethnic backgrounds and socio-economic groups," she said. "The volunteers can choose the age group with whom they feel most comfort­able." 
Kosik said that while volun­
see ECDC/page 4 
Sustainability will accept stu­dent proposals for ways to use the prize money that will increase Notre Dame's sustain­ability. 
To download a proposal form, please visit www.green.nd.edu. All propos­als must be submitted by February 2. 
Notre Dame received a sec­ond honor when it became the first major university to be awarded a chain-of-custody certification from the MSC in order to guarantee sustainable seafood in the dining halls. 
MSC is a global nonprofit organization committed to pro­moting the best environmental choices in seafood through its 
see AWARDS/page 3 

BOARD .OF GOVERNANCE 


St. Mary's to host conference 
· By ASHLEY CHARNlEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's will be host­
ing this year's Indiana 
Residence Hall Organization 
Conference (IRHOC) Maura 
Clougherty, president of the 
Residence Hall Association, 
said at Monday night's 
Board of Governance (BOG) 
meeting. 
The event, entitled "Will 
You Be My Leade'r?" will 
bring almost 100 students 
from all over the state of 
Indiana to campus on Feb. 
6, 7, and 8. The weekend 
will include leadership pro­
grams, and awards will be 
handed out to participants. 
"This IRHOC conference is 
one of the biggest confer­
ences we have had in a long 
time, so we are very excit­
ed," Clougherty said. 
This week the Student 
Academic Council (SAC) is 
holding Religious Studies 
week on campus, student 
body vice president and 
head of SAC Sarah Falvey 
said. There will be a 
Thomas Aquinas Symposium 
on Wednesday night in the 
Student Center Lounge at 7 
p.m., she said. 
University President 
Father John Jenkins will be 
speaking at the event a_bout 
Aquinas' influence at Notre 
Dame, Falvey said. 
"It's really great. 
Especially having just cele­
brated our Saint Mary's her­
itage, our heritage is very 
much shaped by· Aquinas," 
Falvey said. 
see BOG/page 4 

SMC to test security alert system this afternoon 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff will be receiving an e­mail, text message or phone call at 4 p.m. today as the College's Emergency Notification System is tested, according to an e-mail sent to the student body last week. 
Students received the e-mail one week prior to the test date to inform them when the test would be occurring and to explain what students could expect from the test. 

"We try to test at least once per academic year. We do this to make sure the system works properly," vice president of stu­dent affairs Karen .Johnson said. 
The test works by sending a message through the service the College contracts with. The message is sent to students cell phones and their e-mails addresses. 
see ALERTIpage 4 page 2 The Observer + PAGE 2 Tuesday, January 27, 2009 

INSIDE COLUMN 

If I vvere a 

superhero... 
Like any other young college student, sometimes (okay often) I sit back and won­der what I should do with my life. I would prefer something exciting, fulfilling and useful to humanity. A subsequent romp through fantasy land obviously follows this type of life planning. And I've decided, in an ideal (insanely 
Jess Shaffer 
unrealistic) world, I 
would be a super­

Assistant Scene 
hero. 
Editor

Being a superhero is the best of all worlds. You get to use really cool powers, do good by kicking butt, and be useful to society while being loved and adored by all. In addition, you'd get to chill with fascinat­ing and dynamic (and fictitious) characters, who would automatically have to be your friend just because you're a superhero too. It's kind of like dorm life at Notre Dame. Sororities and Fraternities lite; half the "clickiness," twice the fun. 
Clearly, hanging out with Superman, Spiderman, Wonder Woman, X-men, the Hulk and the Fantastic Four would undoubtedly be a mind blowing experience, no explanation needed here. I'd even let in· the Cullen Family and the cast of Harry Potter, who all fight evil and use some remarkable powers doing it. 
Not to be exclusive, but there are some people that would be left out of the Superhero club. Batman for one. Let the huffing and puffing commence, but yes, you read correctly, I did indeed just kick Batman out of the real superheroes' club. To answer your next question yes, I did see the "Dark Knight." And no, being rich, affording an infinite amount of effective gadgetry, training for combat in Asia, sounding dumb when speaking through a voice synthesizer and having the capacity to float a slightly overrated box-office whale does not quality you to be a superhero. 
Maybe he does some pretty good things for mankind. He goes above and beyond, and therefore is a super hero, as in he is extra heroic. But clearly the etymology of superhero is a combination of supernatural and hero. So ultimately, extraordinary crime fighting does not make him a super­hero because he lacks any supernatural heroic capabilities, a.k.a. powers. 
After kicking Batman out of the club, the obvious next step would be, picking a power. If I could pick only one supernatural power, it would have to be flying. Preferably fast flying. Yeah, telepathy, walking through walls, shooting laser beams out of my eyes, being really strong or really fast and apparating are all pretty sweet. But flying is a classic. And I'm all about emulation; it lends a sense of history to innovation. 
So there is my fantasy, superhero life in a nut shell. I'd wake up in the morning, and fly myself to France for a crepe and coffee. Then, during the day I'd assume the identi­ty of a typical Notre Dame student, who occasionally writes Inside Columns for The Observer. After some speedy homework;I'd fly around, saving the world. In my spare time, I'd relax with my close friends, Spiderman and Wonder Woman, maybe play a gaV'le of super intense Apples to Apples. Finally you might ask, who'd my super special main squeeze be? That one's easy. The Human Torch aka Johnny Storm, obviously. He's hot. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error, the articled titled "Villanova pulls off upset" in Monday's issue ofThe Observer it was incor­rectly stated that Notre Dame's previous low point total was 
62. The low point total was 59 against both Vanderbilt and Michigan. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How ARE YOU CELEBRATING CHINESE NEW YEAR? 







Bridget Meade David Schaller Jeremy Way Krystal Holtcamp Samantha Tulisak 
freshman senior senior freshman freshman LeMans Alumni Dillion McCandless LeMans 
"Ordering "Buy an ''I'm going to "Watch 'Mulan' "/ would totally 
,

Chinese food American car. burn incense to and kiss a dance with a 
,

and looking up my ancestors. Chinese man." dragon." 
Chinese swear words." 

A Keough resident signs postcards to his legislators as part of a national campaign against the proposed Freedom of Choice Act. 
OFFBEAT 
Palin fan unknowingly buys effigy with noose 
WEST HOLLYWOOD, Calif. -The maker of a Sarah Palin mannequin says a would-be buyer backed out when he dis­covered its past -as a effigy hung by a noose in a West Hollywood home's Halloween display. 
Professional window dresser ChadMichael Morrisette said the winner of the eBay auction thought he was buying a pro-Palin item until he heard a radio report about it. 
Morrisette created the look-alike mannequin of the Republican vice presi­dential candidate and hung it from his home's roof for Halloween. He removed it early out of safety concerns after the display prompted protests. 
Epic snowball fight flakes out of history 
MADISON, Wis. -When a whistle blew Saturday afternoon, two teams of University of Wisconsin­Madison students pelted each other with snowballs, but the 45-minute battle won't be going down in history. 
Freshman organizer Mike Basak had hoped the epic snowball fight would break a 2006 record set by 3,700 students at Michigan Technological University, but acknowledged Saturday that the turnout at his school was disap­pointing. 
Basak guessed that 2,000 or more students showed up, but other observers put the total at hundreds of students, not thousands. 
_"It was definitely huge and it was a great event," he said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::c 
!;: 
LLI 

3: 
.... 
~

e. 
e.
<C 
**• *
* *• * 
(,) 
0 

HIGH 20 HIGH 25 HIGH 25 HIGH 30
...I 

LOW 12 LOW 18 LOW 18 LOW 17 
IN BRIEF 
The Winter Career and Internship Fair will be held Wednesday from 4-8 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. The event is free and open to stu­dents from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. 
Student· government and the Off Campus Council are hosting an information session Wednesday on alcohol, partying and the law from 8-9:15 p.m. in room 101 of DeBartolo Hall. The event is free. 
University President Father John Jenkins will be the guest lecturer at Saint Mary's annual Thomas Aquinas Symposium Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Student Center Lounge..The event is sponsored by the Center for Academic Innovation. 
The Pi Tau Sigma Mechanical Engineering Honorary Fraternity is sponsoring a blood drive Thursday from 10 a.m. to 
4:30 p.m. in room 217 of Cushing Hall. 
The film "Baghdad High" will be screened Friday at 9:30 p.m. in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. This is a free but ticket­ed event. Call the Ticket Office at 57 4-631-2800 to reserve tick­ets. 
RecSports and the Department of Athletics will host Late Night Olympics XXIII Saturday from 6 p.m. to 2 a.m. Sunday. Events will be held in the Joyce Center (through Gate 3) and Rolfs Aquatic Center. Money raised will go to St. Joe County Special Olympics. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

0. 
***"' 

* * * * 
HIGH 23 HIGH 30 LOW 20 LOW 22 
Atlanta 64 I 48 Boston 29 I 16 Chicago 20 I 6 Denver 30 I 5 Houston 73 I 62 Los Angeles 65 I 45 Minneapolis 12 I -7 New York 29 I 20 Philadelphia 28 I 20 Phoenix 65 I 45 Seattle 42 I 29 St. Louis 20 I 15 Tampa 78 I 58 Washington 30 I 25 
~ 

Tuesday, January 27, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Awards 
continued from page 1 
work with fisheries, seafood companies, scientists, conser­vation groups and the public. By becoming chain-of-custody certified, Notre Dame can now assure that the fish present "in the dining halls came from a fishery that meets MSC's envi­ronmental standards. 
The University has already received 2,000 pounds of MSC­certified Alaska salmon and pollock. 
"This is an area that Notre 


Prof. says Catholic schools in decline 
Enrollment has steadily dropped from its peak 40 years ago 
,, 

and staffing that we have in bility of parents who have chil­
Special to The Observer 

Catholic schools from 90-some­dren. It's the future of our 
As national Catholic Schools percent in the 1960s religious -Church." Week (Jan. 25 to 31) approaches, who by their gift to the church Father Scully directs the work of the state of America's parochial subsidized Catholic schools at the the lEI and is the founder of the schools is in the spotlight, and the time -to 95 percent today lay, Alliance for Catholic Education news is somewhat discouraging. who also subsidize by the gift of (ACE), Notre Dame's signature 
An article this week in the New their salaries, which are lower program that sustains and York Trrnes refers to the proposed than the public sector; but strengthens under-resourced closing of 14 elementary schools extraordinarily higher than the Catholic schools through leader­in the Diocese of Brooklyn, N.Y. as religious who subsidized and ship formation, research and pro­"not the deepest but only the lat­made these schools possible, built fessional service. est of a thousand cuts suffered . , . those schools. Founded in 1994, ACE places as enrollment in the nation's ''I'm afraid to say that I think nearly 200 enthusiastic and faith­Catholic schools has steadily our values have changed a bit in filled young men and women dropped by more than half from the Catholic community. I think annually as full-time teachers in its peak of five million 40 years that despite our increasing underserved Catholic schools ago." resource base, we have other throughout the country. ACE par­
The article refers to "Making expectations for our lifestyle and ticipants earn master's degrees in God Known, Loved and Served: we have other priorities for our education from Notre Dame dur­The Future of Catholic Primary incomes. ing the course of their twp-year and Secondary Schools in the "Study after study of philanthro­teaching commitment. ACE also United States," a major report on py demonstrates a sad reality that established a principal prepara­the future of Catholic education the Catholic community is actually tion program, the ACE Leadership presented by Notre Dame in 2006 quite stingy when it comes·to sup-. Program, in 2001 to form the next to the United States Conference of porting church causes, and that's generation of lay Catholic school Catholic Bishops, saying the study not untrue when it comes to principals, and more recently, the is "widely credited with igniting Catholic schools. I have to add an English as New Language (ENL) the current self-examination" of important caveat, and that is program in order to train and Catholic schools. those parents who make the sac­support Catholic school teachers 
Rev. Timothy R. Scully, C.S.C., rifice are making a huge sacri­who work with ENL students. professor of political science and fice." Both the ACE Service Through director of Notre Dame's Institute Turning the tide will require a Teaching and Leadership for Educational Initiatives (lED. led universal effort, according to Programs prepare more Catholic 
the task force study and says the Father Scully. school teachers and principals decline in enrollment in Catholic "The fundamental shift that has respectively than any other insti­schools is largely due to finances. to occur in the Church in order for tution in the nation. "The principle cause is finan­our Catholic schools to recover the Subsequent to the Notre Dame 
cial," Father Scully said. "First of importance that they have always Ta<>k Force on Catholic Education, all, of course, there has been a held is that we as a Catholic com­ACE has augmented its efforts in huge transition in the faculty and munity have to commit ourselves the areas of research and profes­staff who support the work of this to the work of this apostolate," he sional service to Catholic schools wonderful apostulate. [There has said. "The work of Catholic educa­through its ACE Consulting and been] a complete turnover in tion is the responsibility of all Notre Dame Magnificat Schools terms of the kind of leadership Catholics. It's not just the responsi-initiatives. 
Dame Food Services has been a leader in, and the MSC certifi­cation provides direct recogni­tion of their efforts, as well as the opportunity to explore ways to advance in this area," Jim Mazurek, the director of the Office of Sustainability said 
For more information on Notre Dame's current environ­mental initiatives and to learn how to make Notre Dame a sustainable campus, please visit the Office of Sustainability's Web site at green.nd.edu. 
Contact Liz Lefebvre at elefebvr@nd.edu 


Vatican 
continued from page 1 
future is present in the Catholic Church and the Gospel mes­sage. 
"The attitude of the Church toward contemporary Europe reflects the Gospel teaching of love," he said. "The source of hope for all of Europe is Christ." 
Amato said the Church must proclaim the Gospel and make it present in areas of society such as politics and mass media. 
He said that he is also opti­mistic about the future due to the strong faith of European youth who embrace Christian mentality more than the pre­ceding generation. 
"The solution is that Gospel, to the Christian, be a strong identity," he said. · 
Contact Laura McCrystal at 
lmccryst@nd.edu 



page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 27, 2009 
Big Opportunities ... 
Business Management! 

~-···· 
BOG 
continued from page 1 
In other BOG news: 
+Elections for the new stu­dent body president and vice president will be held Feb. 16­20, elections commissioner Francesca Johnson said. The fo11owing week there will be campaigning for HHA and SDB presidents and vice presi­dents. 
+The Center for Spirituality is hosting a Catholic Common Ground Conversation on evo­lution Jan. 29 in Stapleton Lounge from 4-5 p.m., mis­

sions commissioner Sarah King said. 
+The Hesidence Hall Association (HHA) will be host­ing Little Sibs weekend Feb. 27 and 28, Clougherty said. 
+Student Activities Board (SAB) president Michele Peterson announced that SAB will be showing "Twilight" in Vander Vennet Theater in the basement of the Student Center Feb. 21. The group has scheduled five definite show­ings with a possible sixth viewing if necessary, Times will be announced at a later date, but the group will be dis­tributing "pre-sale" tickets for free to help monitor atten­dance, Peterson said . 
+The next ChicagQ bus trip will be Saturday, March 28, chief of staff Lauren Theiss said. The trip is free for Saint Mary's-·students. The date was changed from the planned trip on March 1 because it is a Sunday. 
+The SMC Monologues have fiflished accepting entries and are now moving into the selec­tion process, women's issues commissioner Becki Faunce said. The event will be held Feb. 28 and Mar. 1 in Vander Vennet Theater at 4 p.m. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Campus Ambassador Position Available Open to Freshmen and Sophomores Only Loqk for us on Campus at the Career Fair and Interviewing February 17 & 18 E-mail: kindra.wray@genmills.com 
GENERAL MlllS 


Announcing the Year 2009 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship . 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family. the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2009 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign. study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3.000. and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year or Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language. literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include. but are not limited to: Loyola 
University in Rorne. Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in t !rbino. Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages. 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students arc invited to submit a letter which should include: 
I)  an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame;  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background. interests. and long-tcnn goals;  
3)  a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow:  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved:  
5)  tv•o letters of recommendation  
6)  a transcript showing all grades and courses completed  
7)  a list of other sources offunding (being sought or confirmed) lorthe same project  
{i.e. Otlice ofInternational Studies, Nanovic Institute. etc.)  
Application Deadline:  Frida~·.  March 6, 2009  
Albert llavarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship  
Program in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
lJnivet-sity ofNotre Dame  





ALERT 
continued from page 1 
addresses. 
The system is in place to make sure that students know when emergency situations occur, Johnson said. 
The College also tests the sys­tem "to make sure everyone is aware of the lit]." Johnson said. The test is run annually, and gives students a taste of what to expect should there ever be a real emergency situa­tion. 
The College has been using the system for the past two years, and Johnson said that 

ECDC 
continued from page 1 
teering at ECDC looks great on a resume, it also a fun way to perform community service and is a great experience for those students planning to teach or majoring in fields such as psychology or pre­medical. 
Students who volunteer often the kinks encountered_ last year have all been worked out. One such kink was when students received alerts that a tornado warning was in effect for the area surrounding the College , during the Spring 2008 semes­ter. Students began calling College security, who informed them that it was a mistake. 

Along with the Emergency Notification System, the College has online resources for stu­dents to use under emergency situations. The Belle Bulletin Board, found on Saint Mary's College Web site, contains information about security alerts, as well as several Web sites and hotlines that students can contact if they are ever vic­
find the experience so reward­ing that they often return the following semester, Kosik said. 
Notre Dame sophomore Bobby Powers participated in the program in the fall semes­ter. 
"It was a lot of fun and a great way to get away from the stress of college life and just be like a kid for a couple of hours," he said. 
Tim Wallace, a sophomore volunteer, agreed. 
tims of a crime. 
The College's Web site also offers insight as to what stu­dents should do if an emer­gency situation should occur. 

It contains information regarding the College's Emergency Response Plan. It also has resources for students andyarents in case of emer­gency. For more information about Students were asked to update their personal informa­tion with the College in order to make sure they receive the notification and Saint Mary's Security will be able to contact students in a timely manner. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

"[It was] really fun and the kids were always laughing," he said. "I got to know the kids really well, as wen as lots of other volunteers," 
Students interested in volun­teering can visit the ECDC Web site at http://www.nd.edu/-esd­cnd/. Summer job and part­time paid positions are also available to students. 
Contact Casey Kenny at ckenny@nd.edu 

WHAT DOES AN ACTUARY REALLY DO? 
Information Session Presented by Allstate Insurance Company 

Thursday January 29, 2009 6:00p.m. 
Allstate. 
Flanner Hall, Room 114 You're in good hands. 
Strong math, computer, analytical, and communication skills are valuable assets for students pursuing an Actuarial Career, but what does an actuary do on an average day? All majors are welcome to attend this session to learn 


about the responsibilities and types of analysis involved in the Actuarial Career. 
Refreshments will be served! 
Wed, Jan 28 IThurs, Jan 291 Fri, Jan 30 Washington • Hall I 7:30 p.m. Full Price $20 I Faculty/Staff $18 I Students $12 574-631-2800 I www.performingarts.nd.edu 
PRESENTED BY SHAKESPEARE AT NOTRE DAME 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, January 27, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Political troubles disrupt Iceland 
REYKJAVIK -Iceland's coalition govern­ment collapsed on Monday after an unprece­dented wave of public dissent, plunging the island nation into political turmoil as it seeks to rebuild an economy shattered by the glob­al financial crisis. 
Prime Minister Geir Haarde resigned and disbanded the government he's led since 2006. Haarde was unwilling to meet the demands of his coalition partner, the Social Democratic Alliance Party, which insisted on choosing a new prime minister in exchange for keeping the coalition intact. 
"I really regret that we could not continue with this coalition, I believe that that would have been the best result." Haarde told reporters. 
Muslims banned from yoga 
JAKARTA, Indonesia -Muslims in Indonesia are banned from practicing yoga that contains Hindu rituals like chanting, the country's top Islamic body said Monday, echoing concerns by some religious groups elsewhere about its effect on their faith. 
Though not legally binding, most devout Muslims will likely adhere to the ruling because ignoring a fatwa, or religious decree, is considered a sin. 
The decision in the world's most populous Muslim state follows similar edicts in Malaysia and Egypt as the ancient Indian exercise gained popularity worldwide in recent years. 
Cleric Ma'ruf Amin said the Ulema Council issued its ruling over the weekend after investigators visited gyms and private yoga classes across the sprawling nation. Amir said those performing yoga purely for health or sport reasons will not be affected. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Father's confession baffles police 
LYNN, Mass. -For months, Ernesto Gonzalez Jr. sat in jail, refusing to say any­thing about the weekend last summer when his 5-year-old son, Giovanni, disappeared. 
Then in November, Gonzalez broke his silence, telling a newspaper reporter a grue­some story: He stabbed the boy to death, dis­membered him in the bathtub, put his remains in plastic grocery bags and dumped them in trash bins around the city. 
The account baffied prosecutors, police and Gonzalez's lawyer-all of whom have said there was no evidence found in his apart­ment to corroborate his story. 
The alleged confession also stunned Gonzalez's ex-girlfriend, Daisy Colon, who had spent more than three agonizing months pleading for word of her son. 
Security tightened for Super Bowl 
TAMPA -At least 20 federal agencies will help local police secure Raymond James Stadium for Sunday's Super Bowl, with duties ranging from protecting air­space and the port to arresting peddlers of counterfeit souvenirs, officials said Monday. 
Because of the massive security effort, the stadium "is one of the safest locations you can possibly be on Super Bowl Sunday in the United States of America," said Milton E. Ahlerich, the NFL's vice presi­dent for security. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Minister pleads not guilty to charges 
UNClE -A minister charged with sexu­ally abusing three teenage boys in his Muncie congregation has pleaded not guilty. 
Defense attorney Steven Bruce says the Rev. Matthew A. Kidd "categorically denies the allegations." About a dozen of Kidd's friends, relatives and church mem­bers attended the hearing Monday in Delaware Circuit Court. 
Kidd, pastor of Freedom Point Apostolic Church in Muncie, made no comment to reporters after the hearing. 
Blagojevich skips first day of trial 
Illinois governor opts to instead make various television appearences 
Associated Press 
SPRINGFIELD -Gov. Rod Blagojevich's impeach­ment trial opened on Monday with a vacant chair reserved for the gov­ernor, who boycotted the proceedings and instead spent the day on the TV talk-show circuit in New York, com­plaining he is being rail­roaded. 
"The fix is in, Blagojevich declared on ABC's "Good Morning America." 
As the Illinois Senate assembled for the first impeachment trial of a U.S. governor in more than 20 years, David Ellis, the House-appointed prosecu­tor, told the chamber that he will show that Blagojevich "repeatedly and utterly abused the powers and privileges of his office." 
In one of his first orders of business, Ellis won approval from the Senate to summon as a witness an FBI agent who oversaw the profanity-laden wiretaps that led to Blagojevich's arrest on corruption charges last month. 
With Blagojevich refusing to present a defense, Illinois senators could vote within days on whether to oust the 52-year-old Democrat on a variety of charges, including allega­his most inflammatory opened with the presiding 40 of the 59 senators -to tions he tried to sell the remarks from the wiretaps judge, Illinois Supreme remove Blagojevich. The 
U.S. Senate seat left vacant had been taken out of con­Court Chief Justice Thomas Senate also could bar him by President Barack text. But when pressed, he Fitzgerald, telling senators: from ever again holding Obama. would not elaborate, and "This is a solemn and seri­office in Illinois. 
State senators main­he insisted he had done ous business we're about Democratic Lt. Gov. tained the trial will be fair, nothing illegal. to engage in." Patrick Quinn would despite Blagojevich's ''I'm here in New York When Fitzgerald asked replace him. attacks on the process. because I can't get a fair whether the governor was The outcome of his 
"We all took an oath to hearing in Illinois," present, there was a long impeachment trial has no do justice according to the Blagojevich said between silence. The seats set aside legal impact on the crimi­law. I know that everyone TV appearances. for Blagojevich and his nal case against is taking the matter seri­NBC's "Today" aired a attorney were vacant. Blagojevich. No trial date ously and that no one will taped interview with Fitzgerald ordered the has been set on those stand in the way of jus­Blagojevich. He was also proceedings to continue as charges. tice," said Senate Minority scheduled to appear on if Blagojevich had entered Practically the entire Leader Christine Radogno, "Larry King Live" and a plea of not guilty. political e_stablishment has a Republican. ABC's "Nightline" on No other Illinois governor lined up against him. The 
In live appearances Monday night and on CBS' has ever been impeached, last of two House votes on Monday on "Good Morning "The Early Show" on let alone convicted in a impeachment was 117-1, America" and "The View," Tuesday. Senate trial. It would take with his sister-in-law the Blagojevich said some of The impeachment trial a two-thirds majority -or only dissenter. 
JAPAN 




Tourists banned from licking fish 
hundreds of frozen tuna looks unique more than 1 million yen ($11 ,000). But Associated Press and interesting for foreign tourists," some tourists touch them and even try said Yoshiaki Takagi, deputy director to hug them." TOKYO -Tourists are known for of the market. "But they have to Fed up, the market decided to acting silly, but licking the tuna? understand the Tsukiji market is a impose the ban. 
Overwhelmed by a growing number professional place, not an amusement So, when on Jan. 5, a premium of misbehaving tourists, Tokyo fish­park." bluefin tuna fetched 9.63 million yen mongers banned all visitors from one One of the more notorious recent -more than $107,000, the highest of the city's most popular tourist desti­cases was that of a tipsy British tourist price in nearly a decade -no tourists nations-the pre-dawn tuna auctions -caught on tape by a Japanese TV were anywhere in sight. The restric­at the world's largest seafood market. crew -who licked the head of a tion was lifted on Jan. 19, despite 
The ban, imposed during the peak frozen tuna and patted its gill. Two some grumbling from the fishmongers. New Year buying season, was front­others, also caught on video, rode The sprawling market dates back to page news before it was lifted last around on a cart used by wholesalers. the 16th century, when the military week. Now, the tourists are back, but "Get out! Get out!" an irate market rulers who had just moved Japan's the debate goes on: Can tourists be official shouted in English. capital to Tokyo -then called Edo ­trusted around the tuna? "Tuna is a very expensive fish," wanted to ensure they had a steady 
"We understand that the sight of Takagi said. "One tuna can easily cost supply of fish. 
_j 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, January 27, 2009 
Senate confirms Geithner as treasury secretary 
Despite personal tax issues, Obama's pick wins confirmation by a vote of 60-34 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -New York Federal Reserve Bank President Timothy Geithner won confirmation Monday as President Barack Obama's treasury secretary despite per­sonal tax lapses that turned more than a third of the Senate against him. 
"Tim's work and the work of the entire Treasury Department must begin at once. We cannot lose a day, because every day the econom­ic picture is darkening, here and across the globe," Obama told the audience before Geithner was sworn into office by Vice President Joe Biden. 
The Senate voted 60-34 to put Geithner in charge of the administration's economic team as it races to halt the worst financial slide in genera­tions. The swearing-in followed less than an hour later, the administration seeking to emphasize that it was wasting no time in trying to address the financial crisis. 
Obama said there had been a "devastating loss of trust and confidence" and that the finan­cial system was in "serious jeopardy." 
In his remarks, Geithner said the new administration would work first to stabilize the financial system and get the economy growing again and then would move to reform the system. 

"We are at a point of maxi­mum challenge for our econo­my and our country," Geithner said to a standing-room only audience in Treasury Department's ornate Cash Room. On hand were Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers, now director of Obama's National Economic Council. 
Referring to Geithner's tax problems, White House spokesman Robert Gibbs said Geithner had made amends ­he has paid the taxes and penalties -and possessed the talent needed to steer the nation out of the crisis. 
Geithner, 4 7, served as undersecretary of the treasury for international affairs during the Clinton administration. As president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, he's been a key player in the gov­ernment's response to collaps­ing financial institutions and the housing and credit markets since last summer. 
The ambivalence dogging lawmakers was reflected in the fact that a third of the chamber voted against Geithner, in large part because of his failure to pay all his taxes on income received from the International Monetary Fund in 2001 and in three subsequent years. 
Ten Republicans overlooked that matter and voted for con­firmation. One Hepublican, Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, told reporters earlier in the day that he would vote yes, only to change his mind and vote no. 
Three Democrats and one independent voted against Geithner's confirmation, including Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., the longest-serving senator in history. 
"Had he not been nominated for treasury secretary, it's doubtful that he would have ever paid these taxes," Byrd said in a statement. 
For the prevailing majority, the real reason for Geithner's likely confirmation appears to be less a matter of bipartisan cooperation than political sur­vival. Lawmakers of all stripes are eager to set the economy in the right direction long before voters judge their progress in the 2010 midterm elections. 
"People make mistakes and commit oversights," said Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah. "Even the most intelligent and gifted ­two adjectives that certainly apply to Mr. Geithner -make errors in their financial deal­ings." 
Even so, not everyone was convinced that the need for a speedy confirmation should trump concerns about the can­didate. Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, didn't buy Geithner's contention that he skipped paying some taxes because he was confused by the complexi­ties of the tax code. 
"They were described by the nominee himself as 'careless mistakes,"' Collins said in pre­pared remarks. "It has become clear to me that this is not merely a matter of complexity leading to mistakes, but of inexcusable negligence." 
Sen. Mike Enzi, R-Wyo., agreed and noted that his is one of the few voices of dis­sent. 
"Nominees for positions that do not oversee tax reporting and collection have been forced to withdraw their nomi­nation for more minor offens­es. They have been ridden out of town on a verbal rail," Enzi told the Senate. "The fact that we're in a global economic cri­sis is not a reason to overlook these errors." 
'The Senate," he scolded, "is not supposed to be a group of 'yes' men." 
It wasn't. Democratic Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa lined up against the nominee, asking how someone of Geithner's "financial sophistication" could innocently not pay the taxes and then head up the agency that oversees the IRS. 
"How can Mr. Geithner speak with any credibility or authori­ty?" Harkin said. 


4-month delay to digital1V approved by Senate 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The Senate on Monday voted unanimously to postpone the upcoming transition from analog to digital television broadcasting by four months to June 12 -setting the stage for Congress to pass the proposal as early as Tuesday. 
Monday's Senate vote is a big victory for the Obama administration and Democrats in Congress, who have been pushing for a delay amid growing concerns that too many Americans won't be 

ready  for  the  currently  
scheduled  Feb.  17  
changeover.  

The Nielsen Co. estimates that more than 6.5 million 
U.S. households that rely on analog television sets to pick up over-the-air broadcast sig­nals could see their TV sets go dark next month if the transition is not postponed. 
"Delaying the upcoming DTV switch is the right thing to do," said Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va., author of the bill to push back the deadline. "I firmly believe that our nation is not yet ready to make this transition at this time." 
The issue now goes to the House, where Commerce Committee Chairman Henry Waxman, D-Calif., has vowed to work with House leaders to bring Rockefeller's bill up for a floor vote on Tuesday. 
President Barack Obama earlier this month called for the transition date to be post­poned after the Commerce Department hit a $1.34 bil­lion funding limit for govern­ment coupons that consumers may use to help pay for digi­tal TV converter boxes. The boxes, which generally cost between $40 and $80 each and can be purchased without a coupon, translate digital sig­nals back into analog ones for older TVs. 
The National Telecommunications and Information Administration, the arm of the Commerce Department administering the program, is now sending out new coupons only as older, unredeemed ones expire and free up more money. The NTIA had nearly 2.6 million coupon requests on a waiting list as of last Wednesday. 


Gaza 
•

recteves UN aid 
Associated Press 

GAZA STRIP -Crouching against piled mattresses in a room crammed with refugees, Bissan Abu al-Eish focused on her homework, blocking out the relentless shrieks of dozens of toddlers and the stench of over­flowing latrines. 
''I'm so happy to be studying," said the 9-year-old girl, bent over the new textbook she received this weekend when classes resumed for 200,000 Gaza children at United Nations facilities. 
Beyond being schooled by the U.N., Abu al-Eish and her seven siblings eat the agency's food, wear its clothing and now live in one of its buildings after their own house was leveled during Israeli bombardments on Gaza. 
Barnas may be politically in charge of the Gaza Strip, but it's to the U.N.'s relief agency that the majority of the 1.4 mil­lion Gazans turn for health care, garbage collection, food assistance and just about every other service usually provided by a state. 
With much of the territory devastated by Israel's latest military offensive, the agency's job is bound to get even bigger. 
Many expect the U.N.'s agency for Palestinians to take the lead in reconstruction, though its role is currently lim­ited to the refugee camps that house more than 1 million of Gaza's population. The U.N. spearheading efforts to rebuild Gaza could open a door to international donors, many of whom don't want to give Barnas money because the group doesn't recognize Israel and is considered a terror organization by the U.S. and European Union. 
It is estimated that $2 billion is needed to repair the 21 ,000 homes damaged or destroyed, along with factories and gov­ernment buildings, in the three­week Israeli attack to end 


Student & Faculty Special
95 
All You· Can Eat Pasta BotNI 
includes a specialty salad Sun -Thur 
llamas' rocket-firing. Fundraising has hardly begun, and the question of how the money will be funneled remains unanswered. 
"We're delivering the services of a state, until the state is established," John Ging, the head of Gaza operations for the 
U.N. Relief and Works Agency, UNRWA, told The Associated Press this weekend. 
At the same time, it must exist side-by-side with Hamas' government -and take care to maintain its neutrality, which some Israelis question . 
In one classroom Saturday, when UNRWA schools reopened, a Palestinian teacher was filmed asking children about their trauma during the war. The unidentified teacher then told the children that Palestinians have to "wage war against them (Israelis) until they leave their land," and asked her students, aged about 8, how they should react. 
Two children in the class sug­gested hurling stones or rockets back at Israel. "Okay," the teacher said, apparently sum­ming up her class' position. "We throw rockets at them, we throw stones at them," she said. 


Parisi's Restaurant 
Italian Cuisine with an Irish View 
1412 South. Bend Ave. (574) 232..4244 www.ParisisRestauran.t.com 
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Tuesday, January 27, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 
Jones 8,116.03 +38.47 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,483 80 1,312 1,825,582,368 

AMEX  l,38i~3~  ]~~,;t~~~~~l  
NASDAQ  1,~§2~~§  +12.17  
NYSE  5,2~~6~!iii i:i~ifi  
S&P 500  836.57  +4.62  

NIKKEI (Tokyo)wrm'"~'''lf9ol':!alll+~ll'~!l'j, 
FTSE 100 (London) 4,209.01 +156.54 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +0.69 +0.57 83.68 BK OF AMERICA (BAC) -3.85 -0.24 6.00 CITIGROUP INC (C) -4.03 -0.14 3.33 PFIZER INC (PFE) -1.80 -1.80 15.65 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.80 +0.021 2.643 13-WEEK BILL +11.11 +0.010 0.100 30-YEAR BOND +1.53 +0.051 3.383 5-YEAR NOTE +1.16 +0.019 1.651 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.74 45.73 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +13.00 910.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.15 80.60 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 89.2950 EURO 1.3139 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2260 BRITISH POUND 1.3939 
IN BRIEF 
Pfizer Inc. purchases rival company 
TRENTON -Pfizer Inc., the world's largest drugmaker, said Monday it is buying rival Wyeth for $68 billion in a deal that will quickly boost Pfizer's revenue and diversification and -if it works as advertised -help the compa­ny become more nimble. 
The deal came as New York-based Pfizer set out a full house of issues: a 90 percent drop in income, a hefty charge to end an investigation, a severe cut in its dividend, a shockingly low profit forecast for 2009 and 8,000 job cuts starting immediately. 
That's all on top of the colossal problem trig­gering this deal: the expected loss of $13 bil­lion a year in revenue for cholesterol fighter Lipitor starting in November 2011, when it gets generic competition. 
Pfizer also plans by 2011 to cut about 8,190 jobs, 10 percent of its workforce, as part of what it expects will be a staff reduction total­ing 15 percent of the combined companies' workers -implying a total job loss ()f almost 20,000. 
Geithner nomination confirmed 
WASHINGTON -New York Federal Reserve Bank President Timothy Geithner won confirmation Monday as President Barack Obama's treasury secretary despite personal tax lapses that turned more than a third of the Senate against him. 
The 60-34 vote put Geithner at the helm of Obama's economic team as it races to halt the worst financial slide in generations. 
In swift order reflecting the urgency, Obama attended Geithner's swearing in Monday evening at the Treasury Department. White House spokesman Robert Gibbs said Geithner has made amends -he has paid the taxes and penalties -and possesses the talent needed to steer the nation out of the crisis. 
Geithner, 4 7, served as undersecretary of the treasury for international affairs during the Clinton administration. As president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, he's been a key player in the government's response to collapsing financial institutions and the housing and credit markets since last summer. 
Automakers to make greener cars 
President Obama invokes regulatory process to ensure compliance by automakers 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Barack Obama wants automakers to make greener cars at a time when General Motors and Chrysler are hanging by the thread of a massive government loan and auto sales have plummeted to their lowest levels in more than two decades. 
Obama's plans could bring smaller cars, more hybrids and advanced fuel-saving technologies to showrooms, but car shoppers will probably pay more upfront because the new rules are expect­ed to cost the hamstrung industry .billions of dol­lars. 
"The consumer needs to understand that they will see significant increases in the cost of vehicles," said Rebecca Lindland, an auto analyst for the con­sulting firm IHS Global Insight. Her firm estimat­ed the upgrades could add $2,000 to $10,000 to the price of a vehicle. 
Obama on Monday directed the Environmental Protection Agency to review whether California and more than a dozen states should be allowed to impose tougher auto emission standards on carmakers to fight greenhouse gas emissions. The Bush coping with an economic Research in Ann Arbor, term, forcing them to pro­administration had recession and auto sales Mich., said he doesn't duce fuel-efficient cars blocked the efforts by the have fallen to their lowest believe the EPA will coveted by more con­states, which account for pace since 1982. approve all the waivers sumers. Roland Hwang, a about half of the nation's Underscoring the hard­asked for by the states. To senior policy analyst with auto sales. ,ships, GM said Monday it do so would be economi­the Natural Resources 
The new president also would slash 2,000 jobs at cally unworkable. Defense Council, estimat­said his administration plants in Michigan and "If the industry is in ed that a more efficient would issue new fuel-effi­Ohio. total shambles, you can car would save its driver ciency requirements to In December, the Bush have any regulation you $1,000 to $2,000 in fuel cover 2011 model year administration signed off warit -it's not doable," costs over its lifetime, off­vehicles. The rules would on $17.4 billion in loans he said. setting some of the be the first step toward a to General Motors Corp. Cole said the additional upfront cost. 2007 energy law that and Chrysler LLC to keep regulations would have to Even with the decline in requires the auto industry the companies afloat. The be implemented "in a way gas prices from last sum­to boost efficiency by 40 automakers are under­that's achievable in the mer's $4 per gallon, percent to at least 35 taking intense efforts to industry." Hwang said, the regulato­miles per gallon by 2020. restructure this spring or Environmental organi­ry programs would "push 
Obama set in motion a face potential bankruptcy. zations said Obama's them in a direction that's new regulatory process at David Cole, chairman of approach would help the going to make them more a time when the nation is the Center for Automotive companies in the long competitive, not less." 

Big name companies cut more jobs 
Associated Press dieted a net loss of at least 2 mil­both companies and workers. 
lion jobs -possibly more -this The mounting toll was visible 
WASHINGTON -The recession is year even if President Barack Monday as roughly 40,000 more killing jobs at an alarming pace, Obama's $825 billi4ln package of U.S. workers got the grim news. with tens of thousands of new lay­increased government spending Pharmaceutical giant Pfizer Inc., offs announced Monday by some of and tax cuts is enacted. Last year, which is buying rival drugmaker the biggest names in American the economy lost a net 2.6 million Wyeth in a $68 billion deal, and business -Pfizer, Caterpillar and jobs, the most since 1945, though Sprint Nextel Corp., the country's Home Depot. the labor force has grown signifi­third-largest wireless provider, said 
More pink slips, pay freezes and cantly since then. they each will slash 8,000 jobs. other hits are expected to slam The unemployment rate, now at a Home Depot Inc., the biggest workers in the months ahead as 16-year high of 7.2 percent, could home improvement retailer in the companies desperately look for hit 10 percent or higher later this U.S., will get rid of 7,000 jobs, and ways to survive. year or early next year, under some General Motors Corp. said it will 
"We're just seeing the tip of the analysts' projections. cut 2,000 jobs at plants in iceberg -the big firms," said Obama called on Congress Michigan and Ohio because of slow Rebecca Braeu, economist at John Monday to speedily enact his recov­sales. Hancock Financial Services. ery plan, warning that the nation "We are seeing no improvement "There's certainly other firms can't afford "distractions" or in lab-or market conditions," said beneath them that will lay off "delays." Sal Guatieri, senior economist at workers as quickly or even quick­With the recession expected to BMO Capital Markets Economics. er." drag on through much of this year, "This year could be as bad as last 
Looking ahead, economists pre-more damage will be inflicted on year in terms of layoffs." 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, January 27, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
The joys of the flesh 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink 
• ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
.. • SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assiscint Managing Editors and deparrrnent editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Ediror must be sighed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday duough Friday except duriug c:um and vacarinn period~. A subscription w'IM Ohsei'VC'r is$100 tOr nne ;u:::ademk: rar; $55 for one semesn;:r. 
The Observer is published ~L POSTMASTER 
014 Sourh Dining Hall Send addtess corrections w: Norre D~me, IN ..(6556-0m The Observer Periodical posragc paid ac Notre Dame P,O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 0"24 South Dining Hall 
Norre Dame. It-! 46556-0n9 
The Observer is .1 member of lhc Associated Press. All teprod.uaion rights arc reserved. 
On the way to choosing not to make theater my main career path, I've had a number of experiences over the years with Very Serious Auditions. 
Those who've been there too know that Very Serious 
Katherine ,
Auditions (hence­
forth defined as Khorey dramatic try outs 
Both Sides 
heavily influ­
Now
enced by the director's core thesis for the performance, such as 
that one for "Alice in Wonderland" in high school where we had to prove our suitability for the play by produc­ing a paragraph of nonsense on our audition sheets) often prove, regard­less of whether one is cast, to be per­sonally enriching and beneficial. 
Having to act like a tormented soul in hell, for instance, turned out to be an incredible stress reliever. 
Anyhow, I recently went to a Very Serious Audition that involved giving one's own take on the director' core thesis (a director's having such a the­sis being of course the key trait of a Very Serious Play). The director in this case was a fellow student, and the play his reworking of a nihilistic "underground" classic. The audition monologue told the story of a sad little boy whose family, friends, and whole world had turned to plastic. The set, it was explained, was envisioned as a jungle of plastic mannequins. 
When I'd finished auditioning, the director asked what I'd thought the story meant. 
"Well, one person is isolated." I struggled for something more clever. "He can't connect. He's surrounded by people made of plastic, and -" 
VS Student Director: "What's wrong with people being made of plastic?" 
Me: "Uh ... they're not alive." Struggle more. "I mean, they're cold. They don't move. They don't breathe, they don't feel, they don't love ... " 
I think I ended there, but given time I could've gone on. It's actually fun to keep considering how many other things plastic people can't do. They can't act, they can't read, they can't cure cancer, they can't write self-dep­recating meta-columns, they can't lis­ten to nnough music to declassify metal, they can't drink Guinness and dance on tables, and, most important­ly, they can't enjoy the Magic Fountain in Barcelona. 
And they can't shift gears and 
• changp, dirP-ction in the middle of a column. Like this. My brothP-r and I visited Barcelona for three days over winter break. I found it a gorgeous, interesting, and occasionally cheap city with relatively good weathe"r, and would recommend it to anyone who has a chance to go. But of all the things you shouldn't miss while you're there, the Magic Fountain outside the National Gallery is pretty high on the list. By day, this is just a normal city fountain in front of a pretty eighteenth-century domed building. But for two half-hour seg­ments each evening, with the aid ol' some colored lights, hidden jets, opera, and lots of coordination, it becomes so much more. Deconstrueted the "Magic" is not very impressive: just color, music, and streams of water. And yet as my brother and I, heeding some very enthusiastic reports on Trip Advisor, made our way through the subway system and up the boulevard at the appointed time, we did so amid a huge and diverse crowd bound cheer­fully for the same destination. And another huge and diverse crowd was already there when we arrived. It was chilly and pattering rain; it wasn't long after New Year's. Still, despite the reasons to go some­where else and stay inside, there must have been hundreds of people there. And of all kinds, too. 
As we passed by a wall, two high school boys standing atop it each 
reached down to help up a female 
companion. We finally found a place 
to stand ourselves, next to a family 
that might have been speaking Polish. 
There were small kids there, but just 
as many if not more equally exeited 
adults. As Americans, my brother and 
I were in the minority. Once the show 
began, the camera flashes from the 
crowd were almost as spectacular as 
the Fountain itself. 
Nothing more than light, color, and sound. But hundreds of people were drawn together and made happy. They enjoyed the Magic Fountain. To apply Modus Tollens, because they did, and exhibited their inner and outer senses in doing so, they were not made of plastic. We were-are­not made of plastic. 
So we can bring a column back around full circle and draw conclu­sions, too. 
And while our having fun at the Magic Fountain may not prove conclu­sively that there's anything wrong with being made of plastic, it does prove that there's something very right about not being. 
And this conelusion, ladies and gen­tlemen, loyal daughters and sons, and especially veteran and aspiring the­ater geeks alike, is just one of the rea­sons why we can never really have too many experiences with Very Serious Auditions. 
Katherine Khorey is a junior study­ing English and Russian abroad at Trinity College, Dublin. She was in fact only signing up to be in the stage crew for Alice, and is still a little miffed that creating nonsense worthy ofLewis Carroll was a prerequisite for lugging sets (especially since Carroll's non­sense really isn't). You may contact her at kkhorey@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports 
Liz Harter Bill Brink Robert Singer Alex Barker Who do you think will win Liz O'Donnell Alex West the Super Bowl? "Look not mournfully into the past. 
Graphics Scene It comes not back aqain. Wisely_ 
Madeline Nies Analise Lipari improve the present. 1t is thine. Go
Arizona Cardinals 
forth to meet the shadowy future, 
Viewpoint 
Pittsburgh Steelers without fear. " 
Lauren Brauweiler 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at Henry Wadsworth Longfellow poet
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Tuesday, January 27, 2009 page 9 
U-WIRE 
More not always better 
Why did you decide-to go to college? 
Sure, you may claim it was to expand your horizons, to make lifelong friends, to learn to live on your own and so on. But beyond these surface reasons, I think most students -and practically all parents -will agree that the niain motivation is to be able to get a solid job somewhere down the line. · 
As much as we're all tired of hearing the phrase "in this econo­
Editorial Board 
my," there is no denying the fact that the ideal job isn't simply going to be waiting for you on the other side of that graduation stage. But that doesn't mean that the answer necessarily lies with more edu­George cation. Washington U. 
Let me preface this by saymg that I myself am planning on enrolling in law school next year: Last semester, at a law school fair, TheGW I wandered around the Smith Center wit.h hoards of other aspiring 
Hatchet 
attorneys. How was it possible that all of us were going to get into law school, much less find jobs three years from now? 
Well, it turns out that for the 2007-2008 school year, 49,082 first-year law students enrolled while 43,518 students received law degrees, according to the American Bar Association. That is a lot of lawyers. 
This would all be well and good --someone has to fuel those lawyer jokes --ifonly the legal job market were immune to the current economic situation. According to CNN.com, the legal job market is shrinking for the first time in history, all while more and more poten­tial attorneys are crowding America's 200 law schools. Anyone else see a problem here? 
It's not just prospective law students that need to step back and think about their next move. With the latest wave of hiring freezes at universities throughout the country, the demand for humanities Ph.D.s is looking downright dismal. The number of job postings for Ph.D.s is down 21 percent, and many recent Ph.D. recipients have spent months sending out dozens of applications to no avail. Some are considering taking jobs where a B.A. or even a GED would have sufficed in order to start paying off their loans. 
So what to do? 
At that same law school fair, when I stopped by the Boston College table, I asked the school's representative what was most important to stress in my personal statement. Without even hesitating, she told me to simply explain why it is that I want to go to law school. If the answer is because I don't know what else to do, or because it just seems like the next step, I should reconsider my plans. But ifI could communicate why I feel strongly about the law as a career, it would be all the admissions office needs to hear. 
That thought is perhaps the one thing keeping me from going into panic mode as I write this column about my future career's bleak outlook. I have always wanted to go to law school, and I am positive that it is what I want to do with my life. I can accept that the com­petition will be intense and that maybe I won't make as much money as I'd like at first, but I will be doing work I elijoy. 
The current job market is about as welcoming as the Metro on Inauguration Day, and I am more than happy to take refuge in law school for the next few years while we all wait for the economy to turn around. But the fact of the matter is that more education no longer guarantees a higher salary --or even a job, for that matter. What it does guarantee is a mountain of loans, which will need to be paid back shortly after graduation, job or no job. 
At least for novv. graduate schools, law schools and business schools are no longer the assumed "next step." If you are sure that you want to devote yourself to a field, then get ready to put up a good fight to make it. Otherwise, chancing the current job market may just be your best bet. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 26 edition of The GW Hatchet, the daily paper ofGeorge Washington University. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

What have you read? 
Ninety-nine percent of Americans over the age of 15 can read, but despite our widespread ability to recognize words on paper, we are at a literary crossroads. The age of print is on its deathbed, and it's not just the end for print journalism but print anything. Barring the "Harry Potter" and "Twilight" series and the books you are forced to muddle through [Of classes, what have you read recently that has been printed and bound? Editorial Board 
If the answer to that question is absolutely noth­ing, you are in the majority. A recent report by the 
University of
National Endowment for the Arts found that 53 per­
Texas 
cent of Americans surveyed hadn't read a book in the past year. 
Daily Texan 
Incongruously, 100,000 more books were pub­lished in 2007 than in 2006, according to a study conducted by The New York Times. So it's not just a reluctance to read that's plaguing the industry but an oversaturation of the market. No one wants to read someone else's story, but everyone wants to tell their own. Just ask Barbara Bush's dog. 
This trouble isn't just relegated to books. Newspaper subscriptions are down and continuing to fall. Media giants like Tribune Co., which filed for bankruptcy this winter, are falt~ring. Also, according to the Times, magazine sales fell 6.3 percent last year. 
This has led to desperate attempts by print media to find demand for their supply, but the market for literature is hard to grasp. We read the fun books and award the good ones, but rarely do we endeavor to take on Mark Twain. Of the 400,000 books published in 2007, "Harry Potter" was voted most popular, and though I've read every "Potter" book and loved them all, I don't think author J.K. Howling will ever walk the halls of Hogwarts with a Pulitzer draped around her neck. 
Another cause for this literary crisis is a change in American culture. As scholar and writer Dana Gioia said, "American culture, conditioned by electronic media and a celebrity culture based on personalities, has given birth to a new kind of author: the amplified bard." 
This dependence on technology affects everyone. I've always loved to read, but I'm finding it harder and harder to read something if it isn't on a screen. Even when I do sit down with a book, by the time I reach page 25, I'm considering opening a new Google tab to check my e-mail instead. 
As long as these "amplified bards" keep clogging America's brainwaves with terrible blogs, movies like "Prom Night" and the comics in this paper, people will continue to look to them as the quick and easy enter­tainment solution. 
Hopefully, people will soon realize that this never-ending flow of shal­low news and ghostwritten biographies is filling their heads with garbage, not knowledge. They need to rediscover classic literature and credible news media that will broaden their minds, not dull them. 
The only answer I have is both quaint and simple, but it encompasses writers everywhere: Write what you know and write it well. If you don't know anything or cannot write, please don't. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 23 edition of the Daily Texan, the daily paper ofthe University of Texas. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, January 27, 2009 

performances, is the atmosphere.Gus
MAIJA GUSTIN 
Van Sant created in his film. The cin­
Scene Writer 
ematogr'aphy feels as though it could 
"Milk," nominated for eight he documentary footage. Van Sant 
Academy Awards including Best and crew successfully place the audi­
Picture, is a hiopic about the first ence in the midst of an historic time. 
openly gay elected politician, Harvey granting them a unique and wholly 
Milk. realistic perspective. 
Sean Penn, who received an Oscar An excellent cast of actors who · nomination for his role, stars as the truly bring their characters to life charismatic San only furthers this feel. Francisco city super-While Harvey Milk's Sean Penn deservedlyvisor responsible for won a Screen Actors passing a revolution-life was admittedly a Guild award for his role ary gay rights ordi-sad one, Penn plays his this past Sunday. nance. public persona as a While Harvey Milk's 
His co-stars, includ-j'ubilation oifthe man life was admittedly a · 
ing James Franco, sad one, Penn plays his 
Victor Garber, Emile and all the messages public persona as a 
Hirsch and the Oscar-he stoodfor. jubilation of the man 
nominated Josh and all the messages he 
Brolin, round out his stood for. 
inspiring performance. He literally transcends the role of 
It is easy to heap praise solely on actor and becomes a mirror to this the cast for the brilliance of the film, man's life. The strides Penn makes· but much of its depth and resonance for the gay community feel like a uni­come from director Gus VanSant and versal triumph, and he is simply writer Dustin Lance Black. Both inspired. received Academy Award nomina-James Franco, who plays Milk's tions as well as nominations from lover Scott Smith, demonstrates seri­their respective guilds, the Directors ous acting chops. He has been unfor­Guild of America and the Writers tunately overshadowed by Josh Guild of America. Brolin's portrayal of the villainous 
Van Sant, known for films like Dan White, ihe man responsible for "Elephant" and "Good Will Hunting," Milk's death. brings a strong eye to this film. He The rest of the supporting cast, undoubtedly wants it to resonate, but headed by Emile Hirsch, mostly pot· never seems to step too ----------tray Milk's friends and far beyond reality. The film is advisor,s and are per-
It is a poignant but true a bittersweet fectly understated. portrait of a great man They neither stand in who has since been for-testament to the Penn's shadow nor gotten by the masses. people who fight for overplay their roles. 
The relatively young and change and a tribute The cast as a whole unknown screenwriter is very deserving of Lance Black gives Van to Harvey Milk their award for Best Sant great material and himself Acting Ensemble at seemingly sticks to the the Critics' Choice truth of Harvey Milk's life. Awards. Neither has tried to avoid Milk's faults "Milk" has been overshadowed this nor build up his assets, and conse-film' season by many of its competi­quently, they have created an image of tors. However, it is rightly deserving a normal but hopeful man struggling of its numerous nominations and, in with greatness. any other year, would surely be a 
Where "Milk" succeeds the most, massive winner. aside from some incredibly strong But its eight Academy Award nomi­,--------------------, nations speak to its excel­
lence. The film is a bitter­sweet testament to the people who fight for change and a tribute to 
Milk 
Directed by: Gus Van Sant 
Harvey Milk himself. "Milk" demonstrates the
Written by: Lance Black 
harm bigotry can produee, to any group of people: and is a glimpse into the
Starring : Sean Penn, James Franco, 
Josh Brolin and Emile Hirsch 
reeent American past. 
It should be seen, 
regardless of personal pol­
itics. 
Contact Maija Gustin at I:======================;;!J mgustin@nd.edu 



ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene Editor 
Sometimes, when two big stars come 
together, there's instant movie magic. 
The inexact science of film chemistry is 
hard to find but easy to recognize -it 
takes a duo like Meg Ryan and Tom 
Hanks, for example, to turn a film about 
AOL users into "You've Got Mail." 
Hollywood legends are often born of 
the best star duos: Spencer Tracy and 
Katherine Hepburn, Fred Astaire and 
Ginger Rogers, or Mickey Rooney and 
Judy Garland are a few. 
But sometimes, despite the star power of the two actors involved, a pair falls a little flat. Claire Forlani and Brad Pitt are both strong actors, but "Meet Joe Black" was a depressing dud. Debra Messing is a solid comedienne, but she and Dermot Mulroney ("My Best ~Friend's Wedding") couldn't spark a compelling romance in "The Wedding 
Date." 
The stars of "Last Chance Harvey," 
Emma Thompson and Dustin Hoffman, 
shouldn't have this problem. Thompson 
is almost criminally underused in the 
film as Kate Walker, a lonely survey 
worker who spends her days at 
London's Heathrow Airport in a frumpy 
uniform, well-aged scrunchy and sad­
eyed expression. Hoffman is perpetually 
uncomfortable as Harvey Shine, a lonely 
American who takes a chance on a 
serendipitous weekend in foggy old 
London with Thompson's Kate. 
But despite both Hoffman and 
Thompson being cinematic heavy­
weights, the pairing never clicks. It's 
due to both actors' talent that the film 
works at all, but the result is an under­
whelming 92 minutes of two people who 
deserve better material. 
Harvey Shine is, by conventional stan­
dards, a loser. His job as a commercial 
music composer is hanging by a thread. 
Last Chance Harvey 
Written and directed by: Joel Hopkins Starring : Dustin Hoffman, Emma Thompson and Eileen Atkins 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE 
His youthful ambition to be a jazz pianist has clearly fallen to the wayside. And his daughter Susan (Liane Balaban) just asked her stepfather, Brian (James Brolin), to walk her down the aisle at her posh London wedding. When he skips Susan's reception to fly home and nail a critical business deal, he misses the plane and subsequently loses his job. 
It's a tough situation for what Hoffman makes out to be a sympathetic charac­ter. Quiet but direct, sometimes smooth but painfully awkward, Harvey barely fits into the new life his daughter and ex-wife are living without him. It's inter­esting to watch Hoffman play with another side of American masculinity, calling to mind both his performance in "Death of a Salesman" and his iconic role in "The Graduate," as though Harvey were an older Ben Braddock with something of a Willy Loman com­plex. 
Simultaneously, writer-director Joel Hopkins gives us Kate, a woman whose friends set her up on blind dates with younger men, and whose mother's incessant phone calls inevitably ruin whatever semblance of a dating life she has left. Thompson is a smart, funny actress, and it's odd to watch her play an uncomfortable frumpster. Still, she handles the role with her usual ease, and her presence really makes the film. 
The setting of "Last Chance Harvey," ironically enough, is the character who deserves better material the most. The city of London barely appears in a film that allegedly takes place there. While the film's advertising would lead a view­er to believe that Britain's capitol plays its own part, the reality is more disap­pointing -even though Paddington Bear makes a cameo. 
The cinematographer succeeds at cap­turing each day's waning light -a sub­tle play on the film's themes of life's pas­sage and late opportunities. 
It's fitting, then, that the film ends on an optimistic sunny morning, with Harvey and Kate walking by the River Thames. 
But with a script that only occasionally reaches real heights -watch for Harvey's speech at the wedding recep­tion -audiences are left 
page II 

SARA FELSENSTEIN Scene Writer 
The Actors from the London Stage· will perform Shakespeare's comedy :·Much Ado About Nothing" this Wednesday, Thursday and Friday at Washington Hall. The performance will feature actors Peter Bankole, Thusitha Jayasundera, Stephen Rashbrook, Joannah Tincey and Charlie Walker-Wise. 
Actors from the London Stage, one of the oldest established touring Shakespeare groups in the world, has been around for 33 years. The company is based in England but produced on campuses nation-wide by Shakespeare at Notre Dame. There are no directors involved in their performances -instead, the group collaborates to determine the best way to portray Shakespeare's text. They tour uni­versities twice a year and will perform at seven different campuses stretching from North Carolina to Hawaii this spring. 
Not only do they bring · 
their acting talents to Much Ado About Nothing Claudio and Hero are students across the due to be wed. 
7.'30 p.m.
country, but they also Don John, however, still spend much of their time Washington Hall conspires to ruin Claudio during the week in uni-Tickets: $20, $I8 faculty/ and Hero's wedding. He versity classrooms, con-staff/ seniors, · sets up a trick to make ducting workshops, text $I2 students Claudio think that Hero is 
readings and stage demonstrations. 
The group is well known in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities, as they have previ­ously perforl!Jed "A Winter's Tale, "Merchant of Venice," "A Midsummer's Night Dream," "Romeo and Juliet" and "Othello," as well as other Shakespeare classics at Notre Dame. 
The AFTLS are known for their mini­malist approach to theater, using only five actors to portray a great number of char­acters, and very few props to help distin­guish between them. Since these five actors compose the entire cast, quick character changes during the show are frequent. Their stage is generally bare, with the exception of one or two objects that are recycled throughout the play to represent different things. 
Because there are few visual aids, the audience must be intim.ately engaged in the performance, hanging on every word and gesture of the actors before them. 
This type of performance gives more freedom to the actors. It can especially be a thrill for Shakespeare lovers who pick up the hints of sarcasm, humor or irony the AFTLS draw from Shakespeare's words with just a slight change of intonation or 
MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 
facial expression. 
However, as exciting as this bare-bones type of performance can be for some, it can also be difficult to grasp for someone who has no familiarity with the plotline of the play. It is a good idea to freshen up on the background of "Much Ado About Nothing" before seeing the AFTLS per­formance. 
"Much Ado About Nothing" takes place in Messina, Italy, where a prince by the name of Don Pedro and his deputies Claudio and Benedict have returned home from a victorious battle. Leonato, the governor of Messina, welcomes the heroes and invites them to stay for a month and attend a masquerade ball. Claudio has fallen in love with Leonato's daughter, Hero. At the masquerade ball, Don Pedro begins wooing Hero on Claudio's behalf, but Don John tells Claudio that his brother -Don Pedro ­is really wooing Hero for himself. Fortunately the misunderstanding is 
short-lived, and soon 
already unfaithful. At the 
wedding, Claudio, who 
was once swooning in love for Hero, refuses to marry her. 
He publicly shames Hero, who faints from the shock. Hero's family decides to have her fake her death, so that Claudio's grief will bring out the truth. 
Claudio greatly repents his actions and agrees to marry any substitute in Hero's place. During his second wedding the sup­posed "cousin" he was meant to marry removes her mask, and Claudio sees tlre beautiful Hero before him, alive after all. The play, one of the Bard's best-loved comedies, then ends happily. 
Whether you're a self-proclaimed Shakespeare fanatic or you simply want to broaden your theater horizons with this uniq'ue performance, go see "Much Ado About Nothing" at Washington Hall this week. 
Performances are at 7:30 on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. Tickets are on sale at the Lafortune box office for $20, $18 for faculty, staff and seniors, and $12 for all students. For more information, visit per­formingarts.nd.edu. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
Image courtesy of collider.com Image courtesy of uhh.hawaii.edu 
Dustin Hoffman and Emma Thompson walk along the Thames in "Last Chance The Actors from the London Stage, seen here in "The Taming of the Shrew," Harvey." The pair play lovable losers who find an unexpected romance. return to Notre Dame this weekend with "Much Ado About Nothing." 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, January 27, 2009 
NI3A 
Shaq scores 29, Suns finish road trip with win 
Jefferson, Timberwolves beat up on injury plagued Bucks; Knicks edge Yao-less Rockets behind Chandler's 18 
Blatche said his knee "buckled on Sunday night, led 78-63 with 
Ass<•ciated Press 
and came back in place" and just under nine minutes to play 
WASHINGTON -Shaquille that X-rays were negative. before the Bucks went on a 13-3 O'Neal had no problem with "It's real sore," Blatche said. run. ba1:k-to-back games at the end "I thought it was something But AI Jefferson stopped it of d road trip, scoring 29 points serious. It should be fine. All I with a strong move to the basket Monday night as the Phoenix know is he hit me, and I went after nearly committing a Suas wrapped up a six-game flying." turnover that made it 83-76. Ea:;t Coast swing with a 103-87 Porter said before the game Hichard Jefferson, who finished wi r1 over the Washington that his team would have to 3-of-15 from the field, hit a Wimrds. -"fight the mentality of being on jumper, but AI Jefferson wasn't 
0' Neal went 10-for-14 from the plane already trying to get finished. thE field, 9-for-10 from the free home," while Wizards coach Ed He-kicked out a pass to Gomes throw line and had eight Tapscott was worried about the for a 3-pointer as the shot dock rebounds in 36 minutes for the "first game home syndrome" expired and after Luke Ridnour Su'ls, who salvaged their trip by after Washington'::; just-conclud­missed a 3-pointer for the whning the last two games to ed West Coast trip. Bucks, Jefl'erson was fouled and fmish 3-3. O'Neal had 19 points As a result, neither team had hit both free throws to push the an:i 11 rebounds in 39 minutes the get-up-and:go to pull away lead back to 88-78 with 1:11 in Sunday night's 104-99 victory in a first half that ended tied at left. ov1~r Atlanta. 51. Jamison and Butler com­Milwaukee never tr.ailed by 
Of course, as coach Terry bined for 39 of Washington's more than five in the first half. Porter put it before the game, it points before the break, while But in the third quarter, the helped O'Neal didn't have to do Nash had an uncharacteristic Timberwolves opened a 10­"aJ the banging he'd have to do four turnovers in the first two point lead when Foye, who had if it was Yao Ming." With natural periods. seven assists, made a nice pass power forward Andray Blatche O'Neal's adventures included through traffic to Gomes a layup and rookie JaVale McGee man­a technical foul for hanging on and Jefferson sank a 16-footer. nhg the paint for the woeful the rim after a first-half dunk, Minnesota pushed it to 14 Wizards, there was no need to and a kiss on the head for minutes later, and the frustra­gi'le O'Neal the night off that Butler after tying up the tion kept building with he's been getting at times during Wizards forward on a drive to Villanueva being called for a back-to-backs this season. the basket. Butler smiled good­technical foul late in the third 
Amare Stoudemire added 22 naturedly -then got the final quarter as the Timberwolves pc·ints and 15 rebounds, laugh as he won the subsequent took a 74-60 lead into the LEandro Barbosa scored 23 jump ball. fourth. points, and Steve Nash had 14 Redd, averaging a team-high pcoints and 15 assists for the Timberwolves 90, Bucks 83 21.2 points, tore the anterior Stns, whose 53-38 rebounding AI Jefferson scored 23 points cruciate ligament and medial advantage helped overcome and had 10 rebounds and Ryan collateral ligament in his left their 17 turnovers. Gomes added 22 points, lifting knee in Saturday's win against 
Caron Butler scored 28 points, the Minnesota Timberwolves Sacramento when he landed on and Antawn Jamison had 27 for over the short-handed Ridnour's foot. The injury puts a the Wizards, but they didn't get Milwaukee Bucks on Monday damper on what's been a sur­AI Harrington replaced him in point attempt. much help as Washington lost night. prisingly better Scott Skiles-led the starting lineup after Mter Luis Scola scored inside for the 10th time in 12 games. It was Milwaukee's first game Bucks' team, which is currently Chandler had averaged just 3.3 to break the tie, Chandler's 3­The rest of the team scored 32 since Michael Redd's season­in eighth place in the Eastern points on 25 percent shooting pointer put the Knicks ahead to points on 17 -for-41 shooting. . ending knee injury. Conference. over his previous three games. stay. 
Neither team had a double­The Timberwolves, winners of While Sessions played well He was 6-of-10 Monday and Robinson led the Knicks with digit lead until the fourth quar­10 of their last 12, snapped a replacing Redd, it was the clear added seven rebounds and three 19 points. David Lee had 17 ter, when O'Neal's layups four-game losing streak in the Bucks were out of sorts assists. points and 13 rebounds. against double teams accounted Milwaukee by relying on looking for someone to consis­Tracy McGrady led Houston Scola had 16 points and 14 for the first and last baskets in a Jefferson, who roamed the paint tently score on the offensive with 20 points in his second rebounds for Houston. t:~-4 run that gave the Suns an freely with Bucks center end. Nine players had points at game back from a left knee The Knicks led by seven early 89-79 lead with 5 minutes to Andrew Bogut missing his sev­the half, but only Sessions had injury. in the second quarter when the play. enth straight game with back reached 10. The Rockets were playing Rockets went on a 12-2 run 
O'Neal literally threw his spasms. without center \'ao Ming (sore behind two 3-pointers from weight around in the game's Randy Foye and rookie Kevin Knicks 104, Rockets 98 right knee) for the second Aaron Brooks and three dunks. final minutes. He pushed Love also each added 12 points Wilson Chandler responded to straight game. Carl Landry slammed home an B latche to the court along the for the Timberwolves. being taken out of the starting Houston led 89-80 with less offensive rebound and an alley­baseline with 4:11 to play and Ramon Sessions had 18 points lineup with 18 points, and the than eight minutes left when the oop pass from Brent Barry. Von was called for a foul, while replacing Redd, Charlie New York Knicks beat the Knicks went on a 14-5 run to tie Wafer's steal and fast-break B latche lay on the floor with a Villanueva added 15 and Houston Rockets on Monday the game. dunk gave Houston a 43-40 left knee injury and had to leave Richard Jefferson 10, but it was­night. Nate Robinson scored nine lead. tbe game. With 1:53 left, O'Neal n't nearly enough. Chandler's 3-pointer with points during the spurt. The Knicks won after trailing threw down a defiant one-hand­Minnesota, which got 39 more than two minutes left gave Chandler had the rest on free through three quarters for the ed dunk that gave the Suns a points from Jefferson in a 109-the Knicks the lead for good at throws, including three after first time this season. They had 12-point lead. 108 overtime win over Chicago 97-96. Chuck Hayes fouled him on a 3-been 0-21. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classificds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

~CLASSIFIEDS 
~  \¥ANTED  FoR RENT  Townhomes at Dublin Village, Irish Crossing, Wexford Place, Ivy Quad. 3 and 4 Bdr.  NOW LEASING. LAFAYETTE TOWNHOUSES.  Well I was raised up beneath the shade of a Georgia pine, And that's home you know.  And its funny how ifs the simple things in life, that mean the most Not where you live or what you drive or the price tag on your  
Only a few left for 09/10. CES  $350/PERSON.  Sweet tea, pecan pie and home- clothes.  
VOLUNTEERS WANTED The Early Childhood Development Center  andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST!  Property Management. 574-968­0112 CESPM.info  3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS.  made wine, Where the peaches grow.  There· s no dollar sign on a piece of mind this I've come to know,  
(ECDC), located at Notre Dame, is lc eking for volunteers. If you would e 1joy spending 2 hours per week wading to preschool children, buUd­ir g with blocks and playing games,  --------------­Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases.  ---------------­613 Lafayette Blvd., 6-bdrm & 2­bdrm houses. $350/person. ·  2.5 BATHS. FREE INTERNET  And my house ifs not much to talk about, But it's filled with love that's grown in southern ground.  So if you agree have a drink with me and raise your glasses for a toast To a little bit of chicken fried,  
p ease attend one of the Volunteer Sign-Up Sessions on either Thursday, 1/29 or Friday 1/30,from 3:00-5:00. Volunteering at ECDC is a wonderful opportunity to support the development of delightful chil­ Bluegoldrentals.com --------------­4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-7653.  Call 574-876-6333. -----------·---­Houses for the 09-1 oschool year.  NEWLY REMODELED. CALL 574-234-2436 OR WWW.KRAMERHOUSES.COM --------------­ --------------­I'm gonna take you on a trip so far from here, I've got two tickets in my pocket, now baby, we're gonna disappear.  --------------­I said, wait a minute, mister, I didnt even kiss her. Dont want no trouble with you. And I know you dont owe me But I wish youd let me  
dren and is an excellent addition to  Misty sunrise in my hometown,  We've waited so long, waited so  Ask one favor from you.  
yJur resume. ECDC-ND is located on the ND campus on Bulla Road, across from 0 Hara Grace F.esidences at the corner of Leahy  ---------------­Unfurnished 4-bdrm, 3ba,fpl,sky­lights,2-car garage, FR, deluxe  2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast  Rows of cotton bout knee high, Mrs. Baker down the dirt road, Still got clothes out on the line, Erwin Nichols there with Judge Lee,  long. I've got two tickets to paradise, Won't you pack your bags, we'll leave tonight,  wont you give me three steps, Gimme three steps mister, Gimme three steps towards the door?  
and Bulla. For more information  appl, avaiL August Call 574-232­ Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or  Playin checkers at the gin,  I've got two tickets to paradise,  Gimme three steps  
please call 631-3344 or  4527 or 269-683-5038.  www.kramerhouses.com  When I dream about the southland,  I've got two tickets to paradise.  Gimme three steps mister,  
v•ww.nd.edu/-ecdcnd  This is where it all begins  And youll never see me no more.  
---------------­ --------------­ --------------­ --------------­ --------------­ --------------­ 
,  




OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, January 27, 2009 CoMPilED FROMTHE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
MLB 
Division I Men's Basketball 
AP Top 25  
team  points  record  
1  Duke  1789  18·1  
2  Connecticut  1694  18·1  
3  Pittsburgh  1647  18·1  
4  Oklahoma  1539  19·1  
5  North Carolina  1529  17·2  
6  Wake Forest  1509  16·1  
7  Loujsville  1351  15·3  
8  .Marquette  1209  :17-2  
,9  ·Michigan State  1136  16·3  
10  Xavier  1084  17-2  
11  Texas  1017  14-4  
12  Clemson  929  17-2  
13  Buller  916  18·1  
14  Arizona State  834  16·3  
15  Syracuse  808  17-4  
16  Purdue  724  15·4  
17  UCLA  544  15·4  
18  Memphis  530  16·3  
19  Illinois  401  17·3  
20  Gonzaga  331  14·4  
21  Villanova  276  15·4  
22  Saint Mary's  246  18·1  
23  Washington  218  15·4  
24  Kentucky  217  16·4  
25  Georgetown  139  12·6  

Division I Men's ESPN(USA Today Poll 
team points record 
1 Duke 774 18·1 2 Connecticut 733 18•1 3 Pittsburgh 706 11~1 ·4 Oklahoma 666 19~1 5 North Carolina 663 1H 6 Wake Forest 636 16·1 7 Louisville 547 15-3 8 Marquette 538 17-2 9 Michigan State 475 16-3 10 Xavier 458 17-2 11 Clemson 425 17•2 12 Texas 402 14·4 13 Butler 384 18·1 14 Arizona State 378 16·3 15 Syracuse 321 17·4 16 UCLA 311 15-4 11 Purdue 267 15·4 18 Saint Mary's 212 18·1 19 Memphis 193 16·3 20 Illinois 181 17-3 21 Villanova 113 15-4 22 NOTRE DAME 97 12·6 23 Georgetown 92 12·6 24 Minnesota S4 17-3 25 Gonzaga 60 14·4 
MIAA Women's Basketball Standings 
team record 
1 SAINT MARY'S 10·7 (IH) 2 Hope 14·1 (8-1) 3 Albion 10·7 (5·4) 4 Calvin 10·6 (5·4) 5 Adrian. 12·5 (5·4) 6 Trine 7-10(4-5) 7 Alma 5-11 (3-5) 8 Olivet . 6-12 (2-7) 9 Kalamazoo 0·15 (0-9) 
around the dial 
NCAA MEN's BASKETBALL 
Kentucky at Mississippi 
7:00 p.m., ESPN 
Purdue at Wisconsin 
9:00 p.m., ESPN 

Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia Andy Murray may have to wait awhile before he's picked again to win a Grand Slam tournament. 
Touted by British book­makers as a favorite at the Australian Open, Murray lost to No. 14 Fernando Verdasco of Spain in five sets Monday in the fourth round. He twice blew a one-set lead and missed chances to break serve in the piv­otal sixth game of the deciding set. He then dropped serve in the subsequent game and was beaten 2-6, 6-1, 1-6, 6-3, 6-4. 
All of which was a big letdown for Murray, who defeated No. 1 Rafael Nadal and No. 2 Roger Federer in an exhibition in Abu Dhabi this month leading to the season's first major. 
"I don't know if I'll be the favorite for a Slam in the next year or so after today" he said. 
Murray went out in the first round last year, the initial victim of Jo­Wilfried Tsonga's sur­prising charge to the Australian Open final. The 21-year-old Scot's bigg~st aim is to end Britain's run of 73 years without a winner of a 
IN BRIEF Steelers land in Tampa
for Super Bowl XLIII 
Hines Ward isn't cutting or turning yet on an injury that sometimes takes weeks and weeks to heal. He's not running pass patterns or sprinting with much speed. 
Not playing in the Super Bowl? Ward can't imagine it, and nei­ther can any of his Pittsburgh Steelers teammates. 
The one question hanging over the AFC champion Steelers as their practice week begins is whether the wide receiver who owns most of the franchise's career pass-catching records will play with a sprained right knee. 
To Ward, there's no question at all. 
"I don't have a brace on, I'm walking around fine," Ward said Monday, not long after arriving with his teammates. ''I'm not going to be 100 percent, I'm not going to trick anybody. 
men's major. 
''I'll try and learn from it ... come back a better player," said Murray, who finished last season with five titles and made a run to the U.S. Open final. "I'm thinking that last year I had a tough loss. This year obviously is a tough loss, as well. I came back stronger last year." 
Nadal had a far easier time, downing 2007 run­ner-up Fernando Gonzalez of Chile 6-3, 6­2, 6-4. He has yet to drop a set ahead of his 
quarterfinal  against  
sixth-seeded  Gilles  
Simon.  

"I am playing well, but 
you never know if it's going to be enough," said Nadal. who had 33 win­ners and just 11 unforced errors. 
Verdasco will meet fifth!seeded Tsonga, a Frenchman who defeat­ed No. 9 James Blake 6­4, 6-4. 7-6 (3) in a night match interrupted by a fireworks display around the stadium to celebrate Australia Day. 
Of the top eight seeded players, Murray will be the only one missing from the quarterfinals at Melbourne Park. Never in the Open era have all eight top seeds filled every spot in a Grand Slam quarterfinal lineup. 
..• 
Duke AP No. 1 for 
first time since 2006 
Duke returned to the top of The Associated Press' colle-ge basketball poll Monday, a place the Blue Devils have been very familiar with in recent years. 
The Blue Devils (18-1) moved up one spot to No. 1, their first appearance there since the final poll of 2005-06. They were ranked on top for at least one week in every season from 1997-98 to 2003-04 and only UCLA's 134 weeks at No. 1 beats Duke's 111 in the 59­year history of the poll. 
"When you have a chance to be voted No. 1 at any time it is an honor you don't take light­ly," Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said Monday. "It is not som.ething you try to keep winning but you try to keep improving. I think it goes with the territory we've been in for awhile." 
NAS CAR champ-ion
Johnson injures hand 
Three-time reigning NASCAR Sprint Cup champion Jimmie Johnson underwent surgery to repair a tendon and nerve after cutting his left middle finger with a kitchen knife Sunday, while preparing to compete in the final segment of the Rolex 24 sports car race. 
A statement released by Johnson on Monday said the injury occurred above the knuckle and happened while the Hendrick Motorsports driver was attempting to cut a small hole in his firesuit in order to" feed a tube from a cooling shirt through a pocket. 
Johnson, whose GAINSCO/Bob Stallings Racing Pontiac Riley finished seventh in the race, flew to Charlotte, N.C., for fur­ther evaluation and outpatient treatment with a hand specialist at Carolinas Medical Center. 
.--------­
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS 
NICAA BASKETBALL 
c:;ottfried out at Alabama 
As mciated Press 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. -Mark Gottfried resigned as Alabama's basketball coach Monday, leaving in the mid­dle of his 11th season amid criticism of both the team's p' ay and the departure of a s1ar player. 
The school said Gottfried will immediately be replaced by assistant coach Philip Pearson. Alabama's next game is at Arkansas on Thursday. 
Gottfried, who played at Alabama, said he quit during a meeting with athletic director Mal Moore. 
"It has been a wonderful decade for me and my family, and I love the University of Alabama, but I feel that it is in the best interests of every­one involved," Gottfried said in a statement released by t 1e university. 
The Crimson Tide's record this year is 12-7, 2-3 in the Southeastern Conference. 
Gottfried's teams have missed the NCAA tournament the last two years, and the coach was criticized over ·the recent departure of point 
guard Ronald Steele, a pre­season first-team AP All­American pick two years ago, who later was hit by injuries. The school blamed Steele's departure on a recent injury, but Steele said there was more to his deci­sion than that. 
Gottfried signed a six-year contract with Alabama in 2005 that made him Alabama's first $1 million basketball coach and gave him a larger salary than that of football coach Mike Shula. The contract ran through 2011 and included a buyout if he were fired, but any financial terms tied to his resignation were not released. 
Moore said the school would begin trying to find a new coach immediately. 
"Out of respect for our players and coaches, I will not comment on the progress of our search until it has concluded," Moore said in a statement. 
The 45-year-old Gottfried took over at Alabama in 1998, replacing David Hobbs. l-Ie began a streak of five straight appearances in the NCAA tournament in 2002. reaching the round of eight in 2004 in the program's deepest tournament run, including a victory over top­ranked Stanford. 
Gottfrie·d hasn't been able to beat state rival Auburn lately. The Tigers have won four of the last five meetings, including an ·85-71 victory on Jan. 17. 
Ilis current team was left short-handed with the depar­ture of Steele following Richard Hendrix's early exit to the NBA after last season. 
Including three seasons at Murray State, Gottfried has a career record of 278-155 for a winning percentage of .642 in 14 seasons. 
Gottfried started 98 straight games at Alabama as a player from 1985-1987. He was known for his 3-point shooting, and the Tide made the NCAA tournament round of 16 all three seasons. 
Pearson, who lettered at Alabama in 1993, became an assistant coach with Gottfried at Murray State in 1997 and joined Gottfried's staff when he took over at Alabama. 
IVILB 
Pettitte signs deal with Yankees 
A.ndy Pettitte takes salary cut to remain with team another year 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Andy t>ettitte's only thought was to :;tay with the New York k'ankees. He had no interest in returning to his hometown Houston Astros. 
Still, the 36-year-old left­bander was bothered when 
the Yankees "Heck, the bottom line wanted to cut 
is I'm a man, and I 
his salary from 
guess it does take a
$16 million to 
$10 million. shot at your pride a . "Heck, the 
little bit. " 
bottom line is I'm a man, and 
Andy Pettitte
I guess it does take a shot at Yankees pitcher 
your pride a lit­tle bit," he said. "But when you put all that aside; I wanted to play for the New York Yankees and, you know, that was the bottom line. I wanted to be there. I wanted to play in that new stadium." 
After months of stalled negotiations, Pettitte and the Yankees agreed Monday to a $5.5 million, one-year con­tract. While the guaranteed money is less than half New York's original $10 million offer, he can make an addi­tional $6.5 million in bonuses: $4.5 million based on innings and $2 million based on days on the active roster. 
"If in fact Andy does in 2009 what he's done before, he'll actually make more money, so in that case we would have no regrets," said the pitcher's agent, Randy Hendricks. "If things would go wrong, we might be in position to say maybe we should have taken the left fork in the road instead of the right fork in the road. But that is, as Andy said, part of life and part of negotiations." 
New York withdrew its first offer in December after agree­ing to a $180 million, eight­year deal with first baseman Mark Teixeira, a contract 
that, combined with agree­ments for pitch­ers CC Sabathia and A.J. Burnett, raised the Yankees' spending spree to $423.5 mil­lion for three players. 
Pettitte met in Texas with gen­eral manager 
Brian Cashman on Dec. 11 and told him he would be will­ing to accept performance bonuses. The sides kept on 
talking. 
"It just got to the point where Randy called me and said, 'I think this is it, buddy,"' Pettitte said. "It didn't take me long to decide because I knew that was where I was going to play." 
Pettitte might 
"It didn't take me long to decide because I knew that was where I was going to play. " 
Andy Pettitte Yankees pitcher 
have been able to get a multi­year deal from another club. 
"I could have made an awful lot more money than what I signed for," he said. 
He joins a starting rotation that already includes Sabathia, Burnett, Chien-Ming Wang and Joba Chamberlain. Phil Hughes, Ian Kennedy and Phil Coke are available in the 
event of InJUries or if Chamberlain shifts back to the bullpen. 
"He's going to be someone a lot of these guys on the block can lean on," Cashman said. 
The deal raised the Yankees' projected opening­day payroll to $196.8 million for 17 players with agree­ments. That doesn't include reliever Brian Bruney, who is in arbitration and will make 
between  $1.1  million  and  
$1.55 million.  
Pettitte  pitched  for  the  

Yankees from 1995-2003, helping them win four World Series titles, then spent three seasons with Houston. lie returned to the Yankees in 2007 a·nd was 14-14 with a 
4.54 ERA last season, his highest ERA since 1999. 
Pitching with a sore shoul­der, he was 2-7 with a 6.23 ERA in his final 11 starts, 
beating Baltimore in the last g·ame at old Yankee Stadium on Sept. 21. 
Cashman doesn't antici­pate any more significant moves for the Yankees dur­ing the offsea­son. He also 
doesn't think the increased spending creates more pres­sure on himself and manager Joe Girardi. 
"I feel the heat. I've always felt the heat. I've never· not felt the heat," Cashman said. "Do I think it's any hotter now than it was before? No. But do I feel it every day? Yeah, I do." 
Tuesday, January 27, 2009 
Creative'Writing at Notte o....,.,, alongwith tlt~ g~nerom~ support ofthe Richard and Catherine SturtR"AD.t EndoWIUent for ExeeUence in English. pr.-s..nts s reading by 
Hanunes Bookstore january28, 2009 7:3opm 
RESIDENT 
ADVISORS 
The Northwestern University College Preparation Prograrn is looking for resident advisors to help guide high school students through a surnmer of learning ancj tun at Northwestern. Earn salary, including rootn and board; vvork vvith bright, rnot.ivat.ed high school students from around the country and abroad; plan exciting events and gain valuable experience while enjoying Northwestern carnpus life and Ct·licago this sun,mer! 
QUALIFICATIONS: con'lplet ion o-f sophornore year of college by June, 2009 a consistent record of acadernic achievement excellent cornrnunication, leadership, rnotivation, and problen,-solving skills previous experience as an RA, tutor·, or camp counselor enthusiasrn and an inter·est in working with high school students a wide range of extracurricular interests and activities a strong sense of responsibility ancl a high level of maturity 
APPLY BY FEBRUARY 13, 2009 For info and t.o request. an application, contact. Betsy Haberl at. 347.. 491...3443 or e-haberl@northwest.ern .edu. 

NC:.JH.TH'WESTERN 
UNlVERSIT"'r' 

Tuesday, January 27, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Build Stronger Relationships with Your Family 
Royals, Greinke agree to new deal 

Penny Wars are taking place now at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center and Rockne Memorial. Get involved and help support your Late Night Olympic team! 

l.Jl.L~~~ 
lAit Nlb~l 

Competing for the cause. Pro;;Bads to bllndit the Sl. Joseph Countv Sp;!r.ial Olyrn;;ies. 
K•t~~~
TEAMS Saturday, January 31. 2009 
Si~gi!~ri 
l\n'1! 
6o.m. to 2a.m.
Sell"'"~' Mt!rls.re-( 
r,.,.,,.;n·t;e<~
hhm 
CJI!O!l KMr:aaf,,!i!f*lli 
C..m! 


~~ =-~=~:·jl>.;l"f\'11: 
~ NOTR 1:' DA\1 F 

Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -The Kansas City Royals stood by Zack Greinke. Now, Greinke is standing by them. 
Delaying a chance to make even more money as a free agent, 'the right-hander 
"I didn't realize there was a cure for what I had, where I just hated being around people," he said. "I was going to get a job where I didn't have to be around people all the time. Mainly, just mowing grass was my 
goal." 
Want to better understand your teen? 
How about your significant other? 
Are you interested in what's going on in their lives but find yourself unable to communicate with them? Or are you just looking for some more family time? 
If so, you/re not alone! Consider the family communication project in the Family Studies Center to be a great resource! Couples with teens between the ages of 11-16 are encouraged to call: 
Dr. Julia Schatz@ (574) 631 -0954 or Jackie Bauters and Patricia Kriegel @(57 4) 631 -0887 
email: tfcptilu@nd.edu 
a g r e e d Monday to a $38 million, four-year con­tract that avoided a salary arbi­tration hear­ing. 
Greinke, the No. 6 overall draft pick in 2002, was rushed to the majors 
because the Royals were desperate for talent. Often moody and uncommunica­tive, he suddenly bolted from spring training in 2006 and went home to Orlando, Fla., thinking he was proba­bly through with baseball. 
But the Royals talked him into seeking treatment for what was diagnosed as social disorder. Former gen­eral manager Allard Baird and ex-manager Buddy Bell spent count­less hours 
with their dis­couraged young pitcher who, in his own words, "just hated being around people." 
Greinke admits it was a struggle. But by 2007, 
'They could've easily pushed me aside, or helped me get back and then dump me off as soon as they could get something for me. " 
Zack Greinke Royals pitcher 
Now his pri­orities are entirely differ­ent. 
"It's just been, like seri­ously, three years of just thinking every day I want to get as good as I can get and help the Royals as much as I can," he said. 
he was back in the big leagues to stay. With a live­ly, biting fastball and good command of three other pitches, he went 13-10 in 32 starts last year, setting career highs in strikeouts (183) and innings (202 1-3). His 3.47 ERA was the best by a full-time Royals starter in 11 years. 
"It was awesome. They could've easily pushed me aside, or helped me get 
backwards to help me." 
The 25-year-old Greinke, just coming into his prime earning years, could have become a free agent after the 2010 season. 
"He may have been the most sought-after free agent in the winter of 2010," gen­eral manager Dayton Moore said. "We went aggressive with Zack and fortunately we got the backing (from ownership) to be able to do this." 
.When he left spring train­ing in 2006, Greinke wasn't even sure why he was so miserable. 
When Moore replaced 
Baird, he maintained the .same hands-on care of Greinke that his predecessor had shown. 
"Yeah, he had some set­backs along the way, which are self-proclaimed by him," Moore said. "A lot of people, and a lot of his teammates helped out, too. It's been a process that everyone's been involved with. But ultimate­ly, Zack's the one who's 
earned this 
opportunity." 
"He may have been the most sought-after free agent in the winter of20IO." 
Dayton Moore Royals general manager 
After earning $1,475,000 last season, Greinke asked for $4.4 million in arbi­tration when he exchanged pro­posed salaries 
with the Royals 
last week. The team offered $3.4 million. 
He gets $3.75 million this year, $7.25 million in 2010 and $13.5 million in each of the final two seasons of the deal. 
Gratitude was not the only reason he wanted to stay with the long-woeful Royals, who have improved their victory total each of the past three seasons. 
"Each year we've improved and it looks like 
we're going to 
continue to," 
back and then he said. "And
"I didn't realize there 
dump me off that's pretty
was a cure for what I 
as soon as exciting for me they could get had, where I just because like I something for hated being around said, three or me," Greinke four years ago
people.,,
said. "But they I didn't see it did everything coming. It's they could, Zack Greinke really taken a 
•,
bent over good turn for
Royals pitcher 
the better. 
"Three years ago I was in the minor leagues, two years ago I was in the bullpen not capable of getting hitters out as a starter. Just coming from being so low in those situa­tions to being, after one good year, a really good deal and the chance to stay with Kansas City for four more years.... It's just really neat to look back at it." 
Kansas City has three players remaining in arbi­tration: outfielder-infielder Mark Teahen, first baseman Mike Jacobs and right-han­der Brian Bannister. 
I I 

WOMEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
1-luskies remain unbeaten 
Asso dated Press 
STORRS, Conn. -Maya Moore had 27 points and 11 rebounds, freshman Tiffany Hayes added a career-high 23 points, and top­ranked Connecticut routed No. 6 Louisville 93-65 on Monday night to remain unbeaten. 
UConn (20-0, 6-0 Big East) has opened with 20 straight wins for the second consecutive season and sixth time since 1994-95. The Huskies have run over their competition this season, winning by an average of 34 points. They beat then-No. 4 Oklahoma in No'!ember, dismantled then-No. 2 North Carolina last Monday, and now blown out Louisville. 
Led by All-American Angel McCoughtry, the Cardinals (19-2, 6-1) were supposed to give the Huskies a challenge in the Big East. She did all she could with 24 points and 13 rebounds, but it wasn't nearly enough as the Cardinals saw their 14-game winning streak come to an end. Louisville was off to its best start in school history. 
Louisville tried to slow down Connecticut's offense by employ­ing a triangle-and-two defense that focused on shutting down Moore and Renee Montgomery and daring the other UConn play­ers to beat them. 
It seemed to work early on as the other Huskies were tentative to shoot, but then Hayes stepped up and hit six 3-pointers. All 
(0 SERVE. INSPIRE. CHANGE. 

AMERICORPS TEACHING OPPORTUNITES 

Florida 
VISIT THE ACADEMY PREP TABLE AT THE NOTRE DAME CAREER FAIR, WED 1/28 
Or contact Kristy: kcraig@academyprep.org 
Louisville coach Jeff Walz could do was smile as Hayes made shot after shot. 
Candyce Bingham's layup with 
4:59 left in the first half gave the Cardinals a 32-31 lead. It would be the last points they'd score before the break as UConn closed the period with a 15-0 run to take a 45-32 lead at the half. 
Louisville had the first four points of the second half to cut the deficit to nine, but then UConn scored 16 straight points to take a 61-36 lead and put the game away. 
Moore, who was given a ball before the game to commemo­rate her scoring 1,000 points faster than anyone in school his­tory, had eight points during the burst. 
The Cardinals would get no closer than 20 the rest of the way. 
The win was UConn's 27th straight in the regular season and 34th consecutive victory at home. 
Tina Charles added 18 points and 10 rebounds, Kalana Greene had 12 and Montgomery 11 as Connecticut put five players in double figures for the ninth time this season. The Huskies only did it seven times all last season. 
Connecticut improved to 6-1 against Louisville with the lone loss coming in the opening round of the NCAA tournament in 1993. The Huskies routed the Cardinals in the regular-season meeting last year before only winning by six in the Big East tournament championship game. 
WOMEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
Clem_son rally falls short in final ininutes 
Associated Press 
CLEMSON, S.C. -Lyndra Littles scored 15 of her 22 points in the second half and No. 19 Virginia held off a late rally to win its sixth straight over Clemson, 75-67 on Monday night. 
The Cavaliers (16-4, 3-2 Atlantic Coast Conference) led 53-38 after Aisha Mohammed's basket with 
14:29 to play and looked ready to cruise. But the Tigers (12-9, 2-5) rallied behind the long-distance shooting of Kirstyn Wright. The sophomore, who hadn't made a 3-pointe"r in Clemson's previous six games, hit three in a row to make it 57-52. 
That's when Virginia's two 20-point-a-game scorers ­Littles and Monica Wright ­took over. Littles had a pair of foul shots as did Wright, the ACC's top scorer at more than 22 points a game. 
Littles added two more buckets and Wright a put­back to extend the lead to 67-58. Clemson got no closer than 6 points. 
Wright finished with 19 points. Aisha Mohammed had 17 points and 11 rebounds for the Cavaliers. 
Lele Hardy led Clemson with 17 points. 
Virginia came in off its second loss in the past three games and hoped to get going early. And with Wright controlling the outside and Mohammed unstoppable beneath the boards, that's exactly what the Cavaliers did. 
After Whitney Hood's bas­ket put Clemson up 10-6 with 14:41 to go, Virginia went on a 24-6 run to take control. 
Mohammed hit an inside bucket to start things off. Wright hit a 3-pointer moments later to put Virginia ahead 13-10. She added 6 more points in the charge, including the a bas­ket with 4:40 remaining that gave the Cavaliers a 30-16 lead. 
Wright had 13 points in the opening period. She was also active on defense with a three of Virginia's four first­half steals. 
The game was the first for both teams since the death of former North Carolina State coach Kay Yow and tributes her great were everywhere at Littlejohn Coliseum. 
Clemson gave out pink cancer awareness ribbons to fans, along with a pink plac­ard with the words, "In Loving Memory of Kay Yow." 
your Pa~~-port to Euro 
e in 2009 
* 
NANOVIC 
INSTITUTE 
FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES 
UNDERGRADUATE GRANTS GRADUATE GRANTS Trave1 & e~eareh Trave1 & e~earch Grant~ u-p to $4,500 -A-p-plication~ due February 13th. Grant~ u-p to $5,500,.. A-pplication~ due March 6th. 
Intern~hi &£ervice Di~ertation Fellow~hi Grant~ u-p to $4,500-A-p-plication~ due February 13th. $16,000 award ,.. A-p-plication~ due March 6th. 
Advanced Lan ua e T rainin Lan ua eTrainin Grant~ u-p to $7,000 ,.. A-pplication~ due February 13th. Granbl u-p to $4,500 "' A-pplication~ due March .20th. 

• > Vi~it u~ at 211 Brownwn Hall -right after the gate.QUe~t1Qn~ • E-mail nanovic@nd.edu or call 574-631-512.3. 
More information i~ avai1ab1e oniine at nanovic.nd.edu/program~. 
Tuesday, January 27, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Knights 
continued from page 20 
tie will determine the game. She also said freshman forward Erica Solomon, who grabbed a career­high 10 rebounds against Vtllanova, will need to compete in the paint. 
"We're going to need her to get 10 [Tuesday] because she's some­one who can go out there and compete with the Rutgers post players," McGraw said. "We real­ly need her to have a good game." 
Those Rutgers post players, McGraw said, are "bigger, faster and more athletic" than Notre Dame. Six-foot-4 center Kia Vaughn averages 6.6 rebounds per game, and Prince, despite being 5-foot-9, grabs 4,.9 per game. 
Junior guard Melissa Lechlitner has amplified her offensive pres­ence this season, but especially of late. She's hitting 47 percent of her 3-point shots and averaging 
11.1 points per game. Lechlitner has scored double figures in three of the last four games. 
"I think she's the most improved player in the confer­ence," McGraw said. "I think she's a little underrated in the conference. I think she's very comfortable with the ball, we're so comfortable with her against pressure handling things. 
"We'd like her to shoot more­it's tough as the point guard. We're trying to get a little more out of transition so she can score more." 
Notre Dame tips off against the Scarlet Knights at 8 p.m. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
No. I 
continued from page 20 
Nelip, senior foil Adrienne Nott, sophomore foil Hayley Reese and junior sabre Eileen Hassett all come off All­America seasons. 
The men's team returns six All-Americans. Senior epeeist Karol Kostka, senior foil Mark Kubik, sophomore foils Steve 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
draw those kinds of fans just to watch a practice." 
The event marked the sec­ond straight year the Irish held an outdoor practice ­though the circumstances surrounding the two differed greatly. 
This Notre Dame team cur­rently boasts a school-best 20-game unbeaten streak that dates back to Halloween. Last year's squad was in the midst of a four-game winless streak when Irish coach Jeff Jackson decided to hold an outdoor practice before a series with Bowling Green -which Notre Dame promptly swept, outscoring the Falcons 10-2 in a pair of blowout victories. 
"Our guys loved it last year even though we were in kind of a tough spell," Jackson said. "I thought with the week off [with no games last week­end] it was a good chance to break up the monotony of a normal day." 
Kubik, Mark's younger broth­er, and Zach Schirtz, senior sabre Bill Thanhouser, and sophomore sabre Barron Nydam have all earned the distinction. 
Newcomers Gerek Meinhardt and Hurley have already made a splash in the world of fencing. Hurley won the 2006 Cadet World Championship in Korea, while Meinhardt joined Kelley Hurley to represent the U.S. in last summer's Olympics. Meinhardt was the youngest fencer to compete for the U.S. in Beijing. 
"We have a very strong team," Bednarski said. "There are so many factors we can't control on such a young team. But anything can happen. We are ready to compete now with the best collegiate teams in the nation." 
The poll was released before the weekend's duals in which 
Doing so can be crucial to a any sunlight. It gets to be team's psyche, especially con­depressing and can kind of sidering that the hockey sea­wear on guys ... To break it son is the longest of any col­up a little bit and have some lege sport. Notre Dame's sea­fun is big." son, for example, could last The Irish goaltenders ­exactly six months -the Irish senior starter Jordan Pearce opened play on Oct. 11 and and junior backup Tom the national championship O'Brien -picked teams for a game is set for April 11. casually competitive scrim­
"When you get to the end of mage. Pearce's gold squad January and early February, topped O'Brien's blue in all 
it  gets  to  three contests.  
be the dog days of the  "To keep the guys  "I went for all offense and it  
season, "  excited to come to the  kind  of  back­ 
Jackson said. "To  rink, to put a smile on  fired," O'Brien said with a  
keep  the  their face and get them  laugh. "It was­ 
guys excit­ed to come to the rink, to put a  to practice hard, it's · good to change up the routine once in a while."  n't a good show­ing, but it's alright. It was a lot of fun any­ 
smile  on  way."  
their face and get them to  Jeff Jackson Irish coach  And not just for the players and the fans.  
practice  Associate coach  

hard, it's good to change up Andy Slaggert, a 1989 Notre the routine once in a while." Dame graduate and two-time 
Senior center Christian monogram winner for the Hanson added: "When you get Irish, laced up his skates and to [this time of the year], you played a few shifts with the get to the rink and by the players -several of whom time you leave you don't see said the "practice on the the Notre Dame men posted five wins against top-10 teams and three for the women. 
This week's USFCA poll is the first of three. The final poll will be released in March, after the NCAA Regional Qualifiers. Notre Dame will return to the strip on Saturday against Northwestern in Evanston, Ill. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
pond" represented a return to their hockey roots. 
"Going out there is just a chance to go play hockey how we played it growing up," White said. "Just messing around, having fun, maybe trying a few things that you normally wouldn't get to do­it's a big thing, definitely, for our mental edge." 
That might especially hold true heading into a huge home-and-home series with No. 7 Michigan this weekend. The Irish host the Wolverines (18-8-0, 12-6-0 CCHA) at 8 
p.m. Friday before heading to Ann Arbor, Mich. Saturday for a game in the always-hostile Yost Ice Arena. 
"If we would have had just two straight weeks of every day coming to the rink, preparing for Michigan, preparing for Michigan, I think you would have gotten to the middle of this week and guys would have been kind of burned out," Hanson said. "I think the coaches did a great job of mixing it up." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
Upcoming World View Events: Where tiad left His Stwes • february 19 fJ!vftleti We fa!!.· MaJcill9 • mrnctors SnaraJ Haju and Valerie Ram will ue aremt 
World View is an initiative from the Office of the President to promote constructive ~UNIVERSITY OF 
DEBARTOlO 
dialogue about issues of race, class, ethnicity, religion, and gender through the arts. WNOTREDAME PERFORMING ARTS CENTER Office of the President 
r---------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, January 27, 2009 
l\tcNeal 
continued from page 20 
to t:tke ... "McNeal said. "And those are shots that I live and die by, and I wouldn't want anybody else taking it but me." 
Notre Dame frantically tried to come back, but fbrced shots down the stretch and Marquette was able to pull away. 
McNeal's three was symbolic of those final few minutes of the game, when Marquette scored key baskets while Notre Dame failed to convert. 
"Getting over the hump, posses­sio r1S at the end, and being a little more poised, I'm disappointed in th~.t down the stretch," Irish coach Mim Brey said. "Because I love how we fought to give ourselves a chance to win both of these games, but deci­sicns when it's a one possession gane, chance to take the lead ... we had empty possessions that hurt us and against these teams you just ca1't have empty possessions." 
For Notre Dame, the story was the sane as it was in its loss Saturday to cc,nnecticut: namely, that Harangody needs help on the offen­siYe end. 
·•r think these two games, we missed some great looks that we usually make, so you can't re-invent the wheel here," Brey said. "You hope the law of averages kick in, but ycu've got to keep shooting them." 
The junior forward provided another player of the year-type elfort -29 points on 12-for-22 shooting to go with 17 rebounds ­but the rest of the Irish were 12-for­44 (27 percent). 
"He can't do it by himself. It showed," said junior guard Tory Jackson, who finished with 10 pl)ints. "He needs help from every­bxly and we let him down today." 
Notre Dame will have a hard time b~ating anybody as long as its go-to s 1arpshooters, McAlarney and Ayers, continue their cold streaks. l\lcAlarney was 3-for-12 while Ayers "'as 0-for-7 against the Golden Eagles. Combined, Ayers and :McAlarney are 7-for-44 (16 percent) in their last two games. Whereas l\1cAlarney missed multiple open l1)oks against Connecticut, Marquette's Dominic James and Maurice Acker just defended bin) well, he said. 
"I was working so hard tonight," McAlarney said. "They did a good j )b tonight of staying with me the whole time. I must've gone back door hundreds of times. Acker and James, really, hats off to them. It's hard when you get a look and after working so hard, I was pretty tired. 1here at one point. It's hard to knock 1hemdown." 
Brey added: "I feel for Ryan Ayers .. He's in a tough stretch. He's got to make shots for us and has." 
Notre Dame's much-maligned defense once again kept it in the ~arne. It held Marquette to just 33 irst-half points and went into the ,ocker room down by three. For most of the second half, the defen­;;ive intensity continued to keep Marquette in check. 
"Defensively, we gave ourselves a chance, these last two games,".Brey said. "It's key decisions and a little more shot making quite frankly." 
The offensive woes prevented the Irish from taking a sizable lead throughout the game, not just in the waning minutes. 
Harangody, almost through sheer force of will, kept Notre Dame close in the lirst half. He had 17 points and eight rebounds while his sup­porting cast struggled to find its touch. 
Harangody used every weapon in his arsenal to score on the Golden Eagles. He hit a 3-pointer to give the Irish an early lead. With Notre Dame down seven, he hit a fade­away jumper from the corner with the shot clock expiring to keep Marquette from getting a bigger lead. 
That trend continued in the sec­ond half, when Harangody went to the fade-away multiple times to try and bail out his teanJmates. 
Even when Notre Dame ....did get a spark, in the form of two second­half 3-pointers from junior guard Jonathan Peoples, and got the crowd on its feet, the Golden Eagles responded. Notre Dame never scored more than five consecutive points the entire second half. 
Contrary to Harangody, McNeal had help. James finished with 15 points (and nine rebounds), Lazar Hayward had 13 and Wesley Matthews had 16. Tory Jackson was the only other Notre Dame player in double figures (10 points). 
Notre Dame is now staring a 3-6 Big East record in the face, as it travels to 6-1 Pittsburgh on Saturday. 
Note: 
+ Brey shook up the starting lineup Monday, as he replaced Ayers and the struggling Zach Hillesland with Peoples and Luke Zeller. Zeller contributed eight points and eight rebounds. Hillesland played only 11 minutes, due in part to a sprained ankle, Brey said. Tyrone Nash also saw his first significant minutes in Big East play. He played eight min­utes, and grabbed two rebounds. 
Conta:ct Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

K-Mac 
continued from page 20 
man season picking up a first­team All-Big East award along the way. Imagine what Ryan Ayers and Zach Hillesland must be going through. 
For Ayers, the basket must look pretty small right now. The senior sharpshooter, who's still above 40 percent for 3-point field goals on the season, has hit one of his last 17 shots. He's not missing badly. A lot of those looks are a quarter-inch too long or to the right, but they're enough to leave Ayers wonder­ing what he has to do to make a basket. 
As for Hillesland, it must seem like ages since he made some­thing positive happen around the basket. You can't fault his aggression. Against Connecticut, he nearly brought the house down in the first half, but his put-back slam rattled out. 
Coming off the bench against Marquette, one of his first touches was a strong drive where two Marquette defenders nearly clothes-lined him as he elevated. No call. And nothing to feel good about for the senior 

t 
Ii 
There's everything you need to get the job done. Srnurt people. A hoppy envi­
ronm.er1t And absolutely nothing to hold you bock That':; why we were named one of the fv1ost Respected Companies by Barron's in 2008. \,Ne_ 
invite you to pursue a career at GE in engineering, finance, monufqcturing, soles and marketing. human resourc.es. or information technology. 
www.ge.com/careers 


who has scored exactly eight points during Notre Dame's four-game losing streak. 
So where does that leave the Irish? Luke Harangody put it best after Monday's game. 
"We're going to find out if our guys are men right now." 
To translate, Notre Dame's next opponent isn't Pittsburgh. Before the Irish ever set foot in the Petersen Events Center Saturday, they're going to have to battle themselves. 
McAlarney is going to have to resist putting extra pressure on himself to hit every one of his few precious op.en looks. Ayers must resist the temptation to return to the passive offensive role he played during his first few seasons in South Bend. Hillesland needs to believe that the next time he attacks the basket will be the time he fin­ishes strong or at least gets that seemingly elusive whistle. 
And the Irish as a team need to do a collective mental check­up. After getting punched in the mouth four consecutive games, do they still believe they're on par with the upper-echelon of Big East teams? There was a lot of bewilderment in the players' voices following Monday's game. 
Yet this is one area to feel confident about as an Irish fan. 

Notre Dame isn't the biggest team. Th.ey're not the fastest. And they're certainly not the most athletic. What the Irish do have, however, is team chem­istry. Every major contributor in the Irish rotation has been in South Bend for at least two-plus seasons, and they genuinely like playing with each other. 
That may not seem like it counts for much in the midst of a depressing four game losing streak, but it's just what the players need right now. 
It's what will help Ayers' shooting return to form. And McAlarney's. It will help Hillesland remember what he can do on the inside. And it will help Notre Dame head to Pittsburgh this Saturday with a sense of opportunity .instead of dread. 
The Irish don't have much of a choice. Responding to this adversity in any other way will push this season, teetering right on the brink, right over the edge. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd. edu 

Tuesday, January 27, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page-19 

CROSSWORD 
Across 38 Thin layer 1 A Turner 39 Parisian 4 Plopped (down) possessive 7 Critic, at times 40 Thanksgiving 
time: Abbr.
12 Seine sight 41 Rocket scientist 
13 Oklahoma city Wernher15 "Boom" Braunpreceder, in 42 Firm up
song 430ne with
16 Unit of cell absolutely no
phone usage: Abbr. 
manners 45 "Awesomel" 
17 Actress Conn 18 Snare again 
46 Limerick land 
47 Part of some Menlo Park joints 21 Start of a Latin 
19 The Wizard of 48 Screenwriter 
101 conjugation Ephron and others
23 Liquid meas. 50 Policy of many 
24 Staff again hotel shuttles25 Show utter 52 Title giver
disrespect for 56 Engine additive
28 Went smoothly 30 Three trios 
59 Medical suffix 
60 Main course only or the lake it's 61 Moses vis-a-vis on the Red Sea 37 Patriotic org. 64 "Look what 
34 City of 100,000+ 
!ll 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~P--I"'!"'I"'!!'"t-::+.::+:+.:+::-t 
-= 
66 Game with matchsticks 67 Biblical landing site 68 Eat by candlelight, say 
69 Whitney after whom Whitneyville, Conn., is named 
70 Pave over 71 Univ. aides 72 Badge flasher: 
Abbr. 
Down 1 Stove feature 2 Skip over 3 Shade of blue 4 Arizona locale 
famous for its red rocks 5 Have with (know well) 6 Prescription abbr. 7 "Norma 8 Technique 9 Rain check? 10 Part of Q.E.D. 11 Criticizes 1411's a wrap 15 Easy pace 20 MS. enclosure 22 Season opener? 25 Balkan native 26 even keel 
27 Monique ou
Dominique 
29 Object of many screams 31 Not final, at law 32 Cabinet dept. 
33 Gallery on the Thames 34 Coup d'_ 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Joe Krozel 
35 Descartes who 45 Made good on, 56 Fight, but not all-thought "I think as a loan out " 46 Those, in Madrid 57 Weight 36 Hasn't left 
48 Unfavorable allowance 58 Backside, 
38 City in California 49 Battery poles slangily or New Jersey 51 Libel, e.g. 60 Jazz singer 53 Dug Simone
40iPodtype 
54 Ancient Roman 62 La preceder41 Actor Kilmer and magistrate 63 Ring setting others 55 "Please 65 Dah's 44 "_ Dieu!" (invoice request) counterpart 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit 
nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BOR:-1 ON TillS DAY: Kirk Franklin, 39; Wayne Gretzky, 48; Ellen DeGeneres. S1; Eddie Van Halen, 54 
Happy Birthday: Be ready to take advantage of every opportunity because this year could be a turning point in your life. You \\ill make new friends. discover new interests and expand your mind as long as you explore every avenue available to you. Don1t sit .. idle and watch life pass you by. Your numbers areS, 8, II, ~3. 31. 36,48 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Getting angry will not get you what you want. You have to set your own standards and stick to your plan of attack ifyou want to be successful. Too much involvement from outsiders will set you back. 4 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take a powerful approach to whatever you do but don't give away your secrets. You h.ave to walk a fine line today if you want things to move in your favor. Someone will use emotional t.:1ctics to cause you to lose focus. 2 Stc.'US 
GEl\UNI (May 21-June 20): Don't get involved with poor choices made by others. You don't want to be blamed by association. Focus on work, your position, your family and the imprclYements you can make in all areas. 5 stars 
CAl"'CER (June 21-July 22): You can make some interesting changes at home that will improve your life and your outlook. Be careful not to let someone talk you into spending money on things you don't really need. Keep it simple. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aog. 22): You may be talked into doing something that is far beyond your means or that can lead to trouble within partnerships. Overreacting tO\mrd some­one you work with ·or must interact with will set the stage for the next phase in your life. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A change in a partnership will be to your advantage, so don't fight the inevitable. Observe others· actions and follow your own path in order to achieve the most. Don't be foolea by a big talker or a tempting offer. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Not everyone is going to get what it is you are trying to do but that cannot slow you down. Arguments can wait -what's important is accomplish­ment. Conservative individuals should be kept in the dark until you have something 
concrete to share. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may have to be a little aggre.ssive in order to bypass the obstacles in your way. Too many questions will leave you in an awkward position. Keep things simple and push as hard as you can to make things happen. Z stars 
SAGITTARillS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): There are changes to be made and options to be put into play. Be adventurous and try something new. The more inventive you are, the further you will go. If you aren't true to yourself, nothing will satisfy you in the end. 4 
stars 
CAPRICORl'l (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Tie up any loose ends before you decide to move on. 1f you need to make a point, now is the time to do so. Right now, the money you make or have should be kept in a safe place for your own benefit and security. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll he a little out of control emotionally, physically and financially. Don't take on too much or promise what you cannot deliver. Keep 
things small and within your reach ifyou want to be successful. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): There has been too much left unsaid to move forward with your plans. Your patience will bring you the answers and the approval you need. Once you have everything and e\·eryone in position, you will be able to move fast. 3 
stars 
Birthday Baby: You are incredibly innovative and imaginative. You are engaging and express yourself well. You are eager.to make reforms. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugenialast.cam for confidential consulrations, 
In)'Spnce.com!eugeuialast for Eugeuia 1S blog, astroadvice .com for fun 
www.8LACK00GCOMIC.COM 
THE fORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
PATRICK GARTLAND 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name~----------------------------------------­
Address _____________________________________ City _______________ State ______ Zip_______ 
JUMBLE 
.JJWJWIID~JR 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KYMOS ± · 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~"~;;l J 
[ J I IMOYGOL j
I [I I I 
www.iumble.com 
I TINOOL j
I I [ [ J 
Answer: Yesterday's 
" 
[X I I]" [IXX) IT 
I Jumbles:  KEYED  GUMMY  (Answers tomorrow) ELICIT FINISH  
Answer:  What she decided when the eye doctor  
asked her out  -TO "SEE" HIM  
The Observer  
P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

'v\'Ht:N HE WAS TOL-D ABOUT THE: HOL-E: IN THE: WAL-L, THE C.OP SAID HE'D--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesd::.y, January 27, 2009 
page 20 
.. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Poor shooting kills Irish in two straight
• 
By CHRIS HINE Ediwr-in-Chief 
For the past few years it's been Kyle \llcAlarney, Hyan Ayers or LUke J-larangody that has delivered the crushing blow on the way to a
.. victory in the Joyce Center. Unfortunately for Notre Dame, it was Jerel McNeal's turn on Monday. ThE Marquette guard scored 27 point!:', including a crucial 3-pointer to put the Golden Eagles (18-2, 7-0 Big East) up five en route to a 71-64 victory over Notre Dame (12-7, 3-5 BigE:tst}. McNeal's 3-pointer came with 
2:13 left as Harangody came out try to alter the shot. But Harangody got there too late. The shot was right on line. 
"TilOse are shots you always want 
see MCNEAL/page 18 
Ice cold 

Team must resist pressure, believe in skills 
Kyle McAlarney may be tough, but he's also human. 
It doesn't matter who you are. 

If you shoot 22 percent below your season average over a two-game stretch, you think about it. 
''I'm doing my best to try 
Greg Arbogast and get open," McAlarney Sports Writer said. "I must 
have gone back door hundreds of times. 1-. gave it my all to get open, but it hurts [to miss shots) because you know it could be a while before you get another [good look]." 
That's McAlarney, a guy who's started games since his fresh-
seeK-MAC/page 18 
Nl) WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Prince and the Scarlet Knights face the Irish at the JACC 
drills," McGraw said. "It was real­so much previously. the Big East. the team. 
By i3ILL BRINK 
ly uplifting for us to see how "I wasn't happy with the The Irish defense has to con­"I don't think it's a situation 
Sports Ediwr 
determined they were. They were defense, and now we're strug­tend with Scarlet Knights junior where we can let her get whatev­just like, let's go. Let's get out gling to score a little it," McGraw guard Epiphanny Prince, who is er she wants because she might A loss gives Notre Dame coach there and let's go," said. third in the conference in scoring get 40," McGraw said. "We don't MuJfet McGraw the itch to play The No. 17 Irish will need that The Irish are 15-3, 4-2 in the average at 20.4 points per game. want that. And the rest of their again, and soon. But Sunday, her practice time before they wei-Big East conference, and have lost McGraw said Prince is versatile team, even though their numbers players felt it too. . come Rutgers to the Joyce Center two of their last three games. and that she's not sure the Irish aren't as good,. they're still capa­
Vl'hen the coaches walked into tonight, three days after losing to Hutgers just dropped out of the can stop the Hutgers guard. They ble." pra.ctice Sunday afternoon, Villanova on the road Saturday. top 25 after losing to DePaul 60-will have to keep tabs on her Despite Prince's skill, McGraw McGraw said the players were McGraw said she worked on 58 Saturday, a loss that broke its because she's the focal point of said winning the rebounding bat­alruady out there practicing. offense during Sunday's practice three-game win streak. The Rutgers' offense, McGraw said, 
"They were out there doing because she focused on defense Scarlet Knights are 11-6, 3-3 in but they can't forget the rest of see KNIGHTS/page 18 
HOCKEY 
I.rish icers take it outside 
Team practices at nearby park to spice up practices before UM 
B:r MATT GAMBER fusociare Spores Ediwr 
The latest signs that the Notre Dame hockey program has arrived were literally on display last Friday, when a few hundred fans gathered to watch the No. 1 Irish practice outdoors at Merrifield Park in Mishawaka. 
"Seeing people lining the rink with signs and kids com­ing up to you for autographs in between your shifts while y,m're drinking hot chocolate --it couldn't be any better," s 3nior center Justin White said. "The support we get f1·om the community is just unbelievable. and it feels real­ly good that we were able to 
see OUTSIDE/page 17 

FENCING 
.. 
A third No. 1 tean1 in the n1ix: men's fencers 
By MICHAEL BLASCO Spores Writer 
Despite graduating one of the most outstanding senior classes in the nation, the Irish feneers haven't missed a beat. 
The Notre Dame men's squad opened the season ranked No. 1 and the women's squad No. 2 in the nation in the first U.S. Fencing Coaches' Association poll of the spring. The men's team joins the women's soccer and men's hockey teams as Irish teams ranked first in the nation this year. 
Notro Dame head coach Janusz Bednarski, who has guided Irish teams to two national championships in his seven years with the program, said that he doesn't put much stock in polls. 
"It's very hard for coaches to predict Iresults I." Bednarski said. ''I've been in this business for so long. There are so many factors we can't control, espe­cially on such a young team. But anything can happen if we make it to the Bloody Four." 
The Irish men are tied for first with Penn State, ahead of Ohio State, Columbia and Princeton in the men's top-five. In the women's poll, Notre Dame trails first-place Penn State; Ohio State, Columbia­Barnard and Harvard round out the women's top-live. 
The Irish, who return 12 All­Americans, feature prodigious talent in both the women's and men's squad. All-Americans junior Kelley Ilurley, her older sister of Courtney and sopho­more Sarah Borrmann earned the mantle of NCAA Champion in epee and sabre, respectively, while sophomore epeeist Ewa 
see NO. 1/page 17 





