the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Panel examines conscience clause 
University professors discuss Church’s perspective on controversial topic of abortion 
By SCOTT ENGLERT 
News Writer 
Notre Dame, especially in light of lasts May’s Commencement address by President Barack Obama and the pro-life rallying that came with it, has delved into the political debate on con­science clauses and continues to examine the issue of abortion through intellectual dialogue. On Thursday, a panel of University professors addressed the posi­tion of the Catholic Church on the topic. 
“We do not regard the inten­tional killing of human beings as heath care,” Orlando Carter Snead, associate professor of law at Notre Dame, said. 
Snead, along with Margaret F. Brinig, professor of law and associate dean at the Law School and Fr. Michael Place, chair of the International Federation of Catholic Health Institutions, spoke Thursday at the McCartan Courtroom in the Eck Hall of Law as part of a panel discussion titled “What Would a Good Conscience Clause Look Like? A Catholic University’s Perspective.” The panel was hosted by the Task Force on Supporting the Choice for Life and the Notre Dame Law School. 
Brinig initiated the discussion by focusing on the personal per­spective of the woman. 
In her extensive research, Brinig found that the most com­mon denominator in abortion cases is a lack of support for the 
see PANEL/page 6 





Carroll Hall to host annual Christmas event 
By SARA FELENSTEIN 
News Writer 
It’s that magical time of year again — Carroll Christmas time. 
Carroll Hall will be hosting its signature annual event, complete with Santa Claus, food, music and plenty of holiday cheer tonight from 
6:30 to 11:00 p.m. 
“A Carroll Christmas” has been a Carroll Hall tradition for 12 years. Even with pending exams and the 
opportunity for outlets of entertainment closer on campus, over 1,000 students made the trip to Carroll Christmas last year. 

The same number is expected again this year, junior Robert Wilson, coor­dinator of Carroll Christmas, said. 
“There are some very good events that are held [by dorms] but I think this is one of the highest-attended ones,” Wilson said. 
Carroll residents have been working on advertising the event over the last week. 
“At the Hall President ’s Council meeting we handed out big flyers for people to post in their dorms. [On Tuesday and Wednesday] from five to seven we were 
outside South Dining Hall handing out quarter page flyers and candy canes, ” Wilson said. “We got rid of 1,400 flyers and 1,400 candy canes [Wednesday.]” 
Wilson said that almost everyone in the dorm takes part in the planning process. 
“We’re a small dorm so we try to get many people involved.” 
The total cost of the event is around $2,400, and The Student Activities Office funds about half, he said. 
Wilson said one of the most popular and well ­known attractions of Carroll Christmas is Christmas Karaoke. A pianist plays popular Christmas songs and students can go up to the front of the room to sing. 
Carroll is also having a toy drive for Hannah & Friends. Bins will be placed at the front doors to accept chil­dren’s toy donations, Wilson said. 
“A Carroll Christmas” tra­ditionally has indoor and outdoor entertainment. Last year there was a tent out­side, but Wilson said the tent was too expensive, and 
see CARROLL/page 4 



Alternative teaching methods increase 

By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Community-based learning, which brings learning outside the University classroom, has seen an increase on campus in the last few years, accord­ing to several professors in the field. 
“Certainly the quality of applications from faculty for community-based research and learning projects has grown in number and depth,” Daniel Lende, assistant pro­fessor of anthropology, said. 
Lende, a proponent of com­munity-based learning on campus, said many disciplines across the board use service as a learning tool. 
“Within anthropology, I think there is an ethos of community-based learning, both because the students embrace service learning and because it’s a good fit with anthropology,” he said. 
Lende was the 2009 recipi­ent of the Rodney F. Ganey, Ph.D. Faculty Community-Based Research Award for his collaborative work in a local community, according to a University press release. 
“Community-based learning can be [applied to] classes … as well as service trips and research — both my own and my undergraduate students’ 
see LEARNING/page 3 





Weekend bus to begin route tonight 
Observer Staff Report 
The new weekend Transpo bus will have its first run this weekend, starting at Library Circle and making its way past area bars and student neighbor­hoods. 
Route 7a begins at 9:40 p.m. Friday and will run until 3:30 
a.m. The bus runs every Friday and Saturday. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said there will be a rib­bon cutting ceremony to send off the first bus at 9:30 p.m. Friday at South Street Station down­town. 
The route will run about every 18 minutes from Library Circle to South Street Station, passing several student bars and neigh­borhoods. Schmidt said the stu­dent government initiative is meant to give students a safe form of transportation off cam­pus on the weekends. 
Schmidt said student govern­ment will make small bus sched­ules for students to keep in their wallets over Christmas Break. 
The new Transpo initiative is a joint effort of student govern­ment, the Office of Student Affairs and Transpo to offer stu­dents a safe way to travel off campus during the weekends. 


Survey reveals views on AIDS 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
In an effort to raise aware­ness of the global HIV/AIDS issue, the results of a student-generated campus survey on the disease were released yesterday in LaFortune as a wrap-up of World AIDS Week. 
The survey, created by the Notre Dame student HIV/AIDS task force, revealed the wide range of opinions of the dis­ease on campus, and it also demonstrated that the disease has personally affected sever­al students. 
Students anonymously com­pleted 2,207 surveys prior to 
see AIDS/page 3 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Irish Insider pullout  Deck the Halls page 12  Volleyball enters NCAA tourney page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, December 4, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Making memories 
Who doesn’t love going home for Thanksgiving? There’s the food, the friends, the family, the anticipation of the Christmas season. Most of all there are the stories. 
I mark each Thanksgiving by Carly Landon a memorable event. There is 
News Wire 
the Thanksgiving 
Editor 

where my cousin hid our Grandma’s famous pie, and all my aunts went into hysteria looking for it, blaming each of the individual children and then threatening to cancel all dessert. 
Or the Thanksgiving where my sister brought home a boyfriend and preceded to break up with him on the flight back to school. I guess he didn’t make the cut. 
There was the year my family almost got kicked out of Cowboys Stadium for being too rowdy and inciting a possible riot (though we often leave out our involvement in event). 
This year marked a whole new form of crazy. 
The first change I found at home was in my older sister. Before I left for school she traded in her boyfriend for a dog. Now she has developed a sort of obsession with the animal, spending lots of money on toys, grooming and classes. 
Yes, since you were wondering, the dog even has a graduation photo from obedience training. My older sister values the intelligence of the dog so highly that she believes her dog is trying to talk. I, on the other hand, believe the wheezing notices she makes do not indicate her ability to communicate but rather a canine form of asth­ma. 
Once the extended family arrived so did the alcohol. My uncle’s friend Jack, my cousin’s buddy Tito, dad brought the most sophis­ticated man in the world, all the gang came. Usually with my family, the best stories begin when the bot­tles are opened. This weekend was no exception. 
Two of my uncles refused to leave each other’s sides, telling everyone they were in a bromance. When my aunt told her husband they were leaving, my other uncle said, “I call shotgun,” thinking that since they were bros, he could go too. 
One of my other uncles attempted to scare one of my guy friends away by first waltzing with him when he arrived and then violating his personal space while telling jokes. 
Later in the night, the men of the family, presumably after too many drinks, decided they needed to do something manly in order to make up for their earlier shenanigans. So they fixed one of the toilets. One problem: It wasn’t broken. Until they started messing with it. 
This week my mom has had the esteemed privilege of dealing with the repercussions of their efforts. One toilet later, we can conclude it was a good Thanksgiving. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT FAMOUS MOV E ROLE WOULD YOU MOST L KE TO PLAY? 








“Audrey  “Robin  “The girl in  “Indiana  “Any of the  “Marcus in ‘The  
Hepburn in  William’s  ‘Step Up’  Jones.”  Bond girls.”  Gladiator.’”  
‘Breakfast at  character in  because she  
Tiffany’s.’”  ‘Flubber.’”  gets to dance  
with Channing  
Tatum.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 

Georgia ‘elf’ jailed over dynamite hoax 
MORROW — A man dressed as an elf is jailed after police in Georgia say he told a mall Santa that he was carrying dynamite. Police say Southlake Mall in suburban Atlanta was evacuated but no explo­sives were found. 
Morrow police arrested 45-year-old William C. Caldwell III, who was being held without bond Thursday in the Clayton County jail. He was not part of the mall’s Christmas staff. 
Police say Caldwell got in line Wednesday evening to have his picture taken with Santa Claus. 
Police say when Caldwell reached the front of the line, he told Santa he had dynamite in his bag. Santa called mall security and Caldwell was arrested. 
Groom Twitters and Facebooks from the altar 
NEW YORK — A Maryland groom has cre­ated an viral story storm after he interrupted his wedding last month to update his Facebook and Twitter accounts from the altar. 
Dana Hanna, who works for a pet Web site, also posted a short video of the ceremony on the Internet. It showed him reaching into his pocket for his phone as the minister was about to pronounce the couple husband and wife. 
The video has had more than 350,000 views. 
“Oh, Dana is updating his relationship status on Facebook,” the minister said as the audience at the wedding laughed. 
After Hanna finished twittering he continued the ceremony. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

today Tonight saturday sunday 
IN BRIEF 
A lecture entitled “Civil Society in Africa” will be given today at noon by Christine Bodewes from the University of London. The lecture will take place in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
The opera Aida will be screened today at 1 p.m. in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $15 for stu­dents. To purchase tickets call 574-631-2800 or visit per­formingarts.nd.edu. 
The film Bright Star will be shown in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 
6:30 p.m. on Saturday. Tickets are $3 for students,$5 for faculty and staff, and $6 for general admission. For more information call 574-631­2800. 
The Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra will perform Handel’s Messiah Saturday at 8 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents, $8 for faculty and staff and $10 for general admis­sion. To purchase tickets visit the box office or call 574-631­2800. 
The annual service project the “Aidan Project” will take place Sunday from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. at South Dining Hall. Volunteers make fleece blan­kets for cancer patients. The event is sponsored by service club Circle K. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
monday tuesday 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Carly Landon at clandon1@nd.edu 


HIGH 

CORRECTIONS 

32 HIGH 26 HIGH 33 HIGH 37 HIGH 35 HIGH 34 
The Observer regards itself as a professional 
publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so 
we can correct our error. 

Atlanta 52 / 38 Boston 50 / 35 Chicago 32 / 24 Denver 34 / 22 Houston 43 / 28 Los Angeles 70 / 43 Minneapolis 26 / 19 
New York 51 / 38 Philadelphia 53 / 37 Phoenix 64/ 39 Seattle 41 / 33 St. Louis 37 / 23 Tampa 61 / 56 Washington 53 / 41 
Friday, December 4, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
College to host Renaissance-themed Madrigal Dinners 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
Renaissance music, jugglers and a boar’s head — all of these point to only one thing: It’s Madrigal Dinners time again at Saint Mary’s College. 
Madrigal Dinners have been a longstanding tradition for Saint Mary’s students and staff. This is the 37th year of the event, and it will occur on campus tonight, Saturday and Sunday. 
The event is similar to a din­ner theatre production. It includes “an evening full of Christmas music, some acting and great food set during the Renaissance period,” Chris Sallak, patron services and mar­keting manager of Saint Mary’s, said. 
The event, Sallak said, con­sists of sacred and secular Renaissance music performed by the women’s and collegiate choir of Saint Mary’s under the direction of music professor, Dr. Nancy Menk. 
Students from the Saint Mary’s theatre department will also be performing, and the Andrews University Early Music Ensemble will provide the instrumental accompaniment. 
The event also consists of jug­glers, a master of ceremonies played by Saint Mary’s Communication Studies profes­sor Dr. Michael Kramer and Renaissance-themed food, Richard Baxter, director of spe­cial events at Saint Mary’s said. 
Included on the menu, he said, are traditional dishes like sea­soned prime rib, Waldorf salad, wassail, cheesecake and Cornish game hen. 
Audience members are encouraged to simply enjoy the show and the food, but they may be called upon to participate in some juggling demonstrations, Baxter said. 
The dinners, he said, take place on Saint Mary’s campus in Regina North Lounge. 
“It’s hard to believe that the Regina North Lounge can be transformed into a medieval 

SMCshowcelebratesChristmas 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
In preparation for the upcom­ing Christmas season, The Patchwork Dance Company (PDC) will present its annual performance of “Christopher’s Christmas” this weekend at Saint Mary’s College. 
“Christopher’s Christmas” is a dance performance open to the public that is presented each year at the College’s O’Laughlin Auditorium. 
When the performance was written 27 years ago, it was first held in at the College, Jennifer Roberts, assistant director of external events, said. 
Since that time, she said, it has become a tradition for the dance company to present this show each year for the students, faculty, staff and local communi­ty members. 
“They come back every year. It’s turned into a tradition over the years to be at Saint Mary’s,” Roberts said. 
The performance, she said, tells a story through dance. With costumes and choreography, audience members follow the journey of a young mouse named Christopher as he attempts to rekindle in his great uncle the spirit of Christmas. 
For loyal attendees of the show, “Christopher’s Christmas” holds a special place in the com­munity during the holiday sea­son. 
“I just think one of the things that is unique about it is it was written by and performed by local dancers and performers to the Michiana area,” Roberts said. “I think it’s just a really fun way to get into the Christmas spirit.” 
Performers include the Patchwork Dance Company members, PDC II dancers, which include college and high school age dancers and apprentice dancers of the company. 
Along with company dancers, open auditions were held for local community members to participate in the program. Adult dancers include instruc­tors from South Bend’s Debbie Werbrouck’s School of Dance. 
According to PDC’s Web site, the company is “a regional, non­profit, contemporary company dedicated to enriching audi­ences through performances and outreach programs. Patchwork performs choreogra­phy of both nationally recog­nized and resident choreogra­phers.” 
The program will be held in O’Laughlin Auditorium On Saturday at 7 p.m. and Sunday, at 2 p.m. Tickets are available for purchase at the door and cost $15 for adults and $10 for students and seniors. A free stu­dent ticket is available with the purchase of a $15 adult ticket. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 


hall, but it magically becomes another place and time,” Baxter said. 
He also notes that the event is appropriate for this time of year. 
“The music, the lighting, the scenery, the costumes, the meal and the manner in which it is served all combine to prepare us for advent,” he said. 
Students are also excited about the event. Angela Wilson, a Saint Mary’s sophomore, will be performing in her second year of Madrigal Dinners. She, along with other performers, will be wearing the traditional Renaissance attire. 
“I love wearing the costumes of period dresses and head­pieces because all of the little 
Learning 
continued from page 1 
work on their senior theses and other projects,” Lende said. 
Philosophy professor Essaka Joshua also teaches community-based courses. 
“The community-based ele­ment of my course runs alongside the more tradition­al elements. We meet as a class on campus in the nor­mal way, and some of these sessions are set aside for project planning and reflec­tion,” she said. 
“‘Reflection’ is a term used in community-based learning to describe the analysis of the experience,” Joshua said. “In my case, we base our reflection on discovering connections between critical and theoretical approaches to disability and what we learn from experience.” 
Students also meet outside of class to complete the serv­ice proj­ects, Joshua kids in the audience get a kick out of it,” she said. “It is almost like a parade for them.” 
She also said this event will be unlike traditional choir concerts. 
“It is a very intimate experi­ence and there are very few times in my singing career that I have been able to sing in such close proximity to the people that I am singing to,” she said, “It is a very different environ­ment than a traditional choir concert.” 
All shows are sold out, and according to Sallak, an estimat­ed 540 people will attend the event. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
to get the job done. It removes what educational­ists call the inert knowledge problem,” Joshua said. “This is where information is absorbed in a traditional way, from books and lec ­tures, and then stays in this form rather than being transferred to the range of contexts in which it is appli­cable. Courses which use community-based learning encourage the transfer of knowledge into real-life situ­ations.” 
She said community-based learning also combines prac­tical, personal and intellectu­al development and gives students a sense of self-satis­faction and personal achieve­ment. 
“More work is required, in the sense of the active involvement,” Lende said. “Basically they have to devel­op and execute a research project. But really I don’t see the time allotment as radi­cally different — it’s just dis­tributed differently over the 
semester.” 
Joshua 
said the 
sai d. T his  “One of the things that are  c o mmun ity  
can create c l o s e b o n d s b e t w e e n  very different about classes that involve community-based learning  a s p e c t o f the courses is personal-l y s a t i s f y - 
t h e s t u -dents. “ O n e o f the things  is the community amongst the students.The students in these classes become  ing. “I t h a t g i v  f e el I a m i n g  
t h a t  a re  friends.”  s o m e t h i n g  
very differ- back to the  
e n t a b o u t c l a s s e s  Essaka Joshua  community. A c a d e m i c s  
t  h  a  t  philosophy professor  hav e  v e r y  

involve communi ­ty -based learning is the community amongst the students. The students in these classes become friends,” she said. 
Joshua said service-cen­tered courses help students in applying knowledge beyond the classroom. 
“Educational theorists have studied the phenomenon of community-based learning and have concluded that it is active and not passive learn­ing. Students are actively engaged in finding out what they need to know in order 
little time, as this is a demanding job, and this is a way that I 
c a n  u s e  m y  ex p er t i s e  t o  
en g a g e  i n  c o m m u n i t y  
a c t i on , ”  sh e  s a i d .  “ I  a l so  

enjoy watching students grow intellectually and per­sonally when they get involved in the community. There are many surprises, so it is never dull, and the resourcefulness of the stu­dents of Notre Dame never ceases to amaze me.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, December 4, 2009 
AIDS 
continued from page 1 
Tuesday. 
According to the survey, 9.6 percent of those who responded personally know someone infected with HIV/AIDS. In addition, 47.8 percent of those who responded believe that the disease affects the Notre Dame community. 
The two open-ended ques­tions at the end of the survey allowed students to express their opinions of prevention the disease. Some students noted the effects of having loved ones who suffer from the disease. 

Not all students who responded, however, believe the disease necessarily is a pertinent topic of discussion for the University. 
“I just don’t feel like this is something that Notre Dame students have to worry about. It’s so rare and if you wear protection you don’t have to worry anyway,” another respondent said. 
The HIV/AIDS task force and the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) cite the wide 
of the disease and to share their personal experiences. 
The responses ranged from ig norance about the issue to per­sonal accounts of living with the disease. 
“I have worked with 

“People in general were pretty interested in the topic [AIDS], and there was a pretty good outreach to the student body in general.” 
Margaret Adams HIV/AIDS task force member 
variety of survey responses as an indication of student interest in the issue. 
“People in general were pretty inter­ested in the topic, and there was a pretty good outreach to the student 
those suffering from AIDS before and the most powerful lesson I learned is that they are still human,” one respon­dent wrote in response to the final survey question. “They deserve respect and dignity just like everyone else. They are still children of God and deserve to be treated with love and kindness.” 
Several other students recounted the personal strug­gles of living with the dis­ease, and others discussed the social stigma surrounding body in general,” Margaret Adams, a sophomore member of the HIV/AIDS task force said. “It was shocking to see some negative comments because it’s a sensitive issue and it’s surprising that there were so many uneducated responses at a university like Notre Dame.” 

Adams said the task force and the CSC will use the results to determine what needs to be done in terms of increasing awareness of the issue on campus, such as providing more education about the disease and increasing outreach from local AIDS ministries to the University. 
Adams said the taskforce will see what the AIDS min­istries need from Notre Dame students to get more students involved with activities and educate people about the issue. 
“We want to use World AIDS Day as a starting off point to raise more aware­ness year-round for the dis­ease because there’s a lot to be done here and in the country all year,” Adams said. “We also want to use the day to recognize the glob­al issue and make sure stu­dents know there are people at Notre Dame and in St. Joseph County affected by HIV/AIDS.” 
In terms of prevention of the disease, Adams said that realistic, practical means must be utilized to effectively stop the spread of the dis­ease, despite the possible dif­ficulties presented by the University’s strong Catholic mission. 
“The Church preaches abstinence, but it’s not a realistic goal to stop AIDS globally. We need to find a balance between faith and practical means for preven­tion,” Adams said. 
On Wednesday night, AIDS Ministries from South Bend provided free, anonymous HIV/AIDS testing for about 20 students, evidencing that people are becoming more aware of their health and the gravity of the disease. 
“We wanted to provide this resource to educate students more about the disease because testing is a factor in prevention and care,” Mike Hebbeler, CSC director for student leadership and senior transition, said. 
In addition, the film “Your Friends and Neighbors, Living with AIDS in South Bend, Indiana,” was shown Tuesday night in the coffee­house in Geddes Hall and was followed by a discussion ses­sion. 
The film profiled three peo­ple living with AIDS in South Bend. 
After the film, Deb Stanley, a community-based learning coordinator who works with AIDS patients, discussed the changing relationship between AIDS ministries and Notre Dame students. 
“Fifteen years ago, students volunteered by working with children whose parents were suffering from AIDS. Now people with AIDS in South Bend are healthy and living because medication and knowledge of the disease have improved,” Hebbeler said. “Students are now tutoring adults with AIDS because they are going back to school and they can pursue their goals.” 
The full results of the sur­vey and more selected stu­dent responses are available on the CSC Facebook page. 
Students can take part in the effort to increase funding for HIV/AIDS in St. Joseph County by visiting the CSC Facebook page. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
Carroll 
continued from page 1 
people tended to stay inside regardless. 
“This year we bought a bunch of fencing, we ’re going to build a fence in through our side door and there’s going to be food out there, a heater, the tree and blow up Santas and snow­men, he said. “And who knows, maybe we’ll get some snow this year.” 
Another attraction of this year’s event is a cookie con­test, Wilson said. Attendees can bring their best home-baked cookies to be judged. Prizes, which include gift cards to Chipotle and Borders, will be awarded to the winners. 
“I think it’s amazing how many people show up and partake in [Carroll Christmas] from other areas of the campus,” Wilson said. “We don’t have a lot of visi­tors besides this one night.” 
Sophomore Michael DeRusso agreed. 
“If you ever come to Carroll, Carroll Christmas is the night to come and see the tight-knit community we have,” he said. 
Contact Sara Felenstein at sfelens@nd.edu 



World & Nation 
Friday, December 4, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

University probes climate data 
LONDON — A British university said Thursday it would investigate whether scien­tists at its prestigious Climatic Research Unit fudged data on global warming. 
Thousands of pieces of correspondence between some of the world's leading climate scientists were stolen from the unit at the University of East Anglia and leaked to the Internet late last month. Skeptics of man-made global warming say the e-mails are proof that scientists have been conspiring to hide evidence showing that global warming was not as strong as generally believed. 
Irish nuns pay for child abuse 
DUBLIN — A major Irish order of Roman Catholic nuns, the Sisters of Mercy, offered Thursday to pay child abuse victims, the gov­ernment and charities a further €128 million ($193.5 million) to compensate for decades of abuse in its schools and orphanages. 
The compensation offer to the Irish Education Department is by far the largest from 18 orders of Catholic priests, brothers and nuns found guilty of chronic child abuse. They ran scores of residential schools, workhouses and orphanages for generations of Ireland’s most deprived chil­dren from the mid-19th century to the 1990s. 
The Sisters of Mercy said in a statement it “wholeheartedly regrets the suffering experi­enced by the children in their care” and hoped this latest offer would show that its nuns were being “faithful to the values of reparation, rec­onciliation, healing and responsibility.” 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Ga. House Speaker resigns 
ATLANTA — Georgia’s powerful House speaker resigned Thursday after a suicide attempt and allegations by his ex-wife of an affair with a lobbyist. 
Glenn Richardson, the state’s first GOP speaker since Reconstruction, had won sym­pathy from even his political enemies when he revealed last month that he attempted suicide by swallowing sleeping pills. But then his ex-wife went on TV and accused him of having “a full-out affair” with a lobbyist while they were still married. 
Richardson did not address that allegation in a brief statement issued through the House communications office in which he said he will leave both his position as speak­er and his House seat on Jan. 1. He did men­tion his recent admission, made in the wake of his suicide attempt, that he has grappled with depression. 
U.S. aid for drug war on track 
McALLEN, Texas — The U.S. ambassador to Mexico said Thursday that programs to provide more than $1.1 billion in equipment and training to help Mexico fight organized crime are on track. 
Ambassador Carlos Pascual’s comments followed the release Thursday of a govern­ment report showing only about $24 million of the aid had been spent by the end of September. Congress appropriated the first $400 million for Mexico as part of the Merida Initiative in June 2008. 
Pascual said expenditures had increased several times since the report was completed and noted that five new helicopters would be delivered to Mexico in a matter of weeks. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Day care crash injures children 
INDIANAPOLIS — Two robbery suspects fleeing police lost control of their sport utility vehicle and crashed into a day care center Thursday, injuring four children and an employee in a shower of bricks and other debris, police said. 
About 18 children were inside the Stepping Stones Child Care when the SUV slammed into the brick building on the city’s north side about 12:15 p.m., Lt. Jeff Duhamell said. 
Kara Hardister, who runs the church-owned day care, said the crash sent bricks and debris flying into a room for 3-year-olds just before their afternoon nap time. 
Senate considers health care bill 
Democrats dominate votes on amendments concerning women’s health, Medicare cuts 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON — Casting  
its first votes on revamping  
the nation’s health care sys­ 
tem, the Senate rejected a  
Republican bid Thursday to  
stave off Medicare cuts and  
approved safeguards for  
coverage of mammograms  
and other preventive tests  
for women.  
The first round of votes  
ended with a fragile  
Democratic coalition hang­ 
ing together.  
Senators voted 58-42 to  
reject an amendment by  
Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz.,  
that would have stripped  
more than $400 billion in  
Medicare cuts from the  
nearly $1 trillion measure.  
It would have sent the  
entire 2,074-page bill back  
to the Senate Finance  
Committee for a redo.  
Republicans said the pro­ 
posed cuts to health insur­ 
ance plans and medical  
providers mean seniors in  
the popular Medicare  
Advantage program will  
lose benefits. And they pre­ 
dicted lawmakers will ulti­ 
mately back away from the  
cuts, once seniors start feel­ 
ing the brunt.  
“Medicare is already in AP  
trouble. The program needs Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., right, and Sen. Barbara Mikulski, D-Md., meet  
to be fixed, not raided to with the press to discuss health care on Capitol Hill Tuesday.  
create another new govern­ 
ment program,” said  Democrats.  vision by Democrat Barbara  voting in favor — Snowe,  
Republican leader Mitch  The votes Thursday came  Mikulski of Maryland and  David Vitter of Louisiana  
McConnell of Kentucky.  after three days of angry  Republican Olympia Snowe  and Susan Collins of Maine.  
Democrats said seniors  debate in which Democrats  of Maine was the first sub­ Thursday’s vote followed  
will not lose any guaranteed  accused Republicans of  stantive ballot in an acrimo­ the heated controversy over  
benefits. The cuts —  stalling to try to kill the bill,  nious debate that promises  a government advisory  
amounting to a 2 percent  and Republicans protested  to go on for weeks.  panel’s recent recommen­ 
slowdown in spending —  that they were only exercis- After that will come an  dation that routine mam- 
will help keep Medicare sol­ ing their right to give the  amendment to restrict  mograms aren’t needed for  
vent by making it more effi­ complex legislation full  abortion funding, except in  women in their 40s.  
cient, they contended. And  scrutiny.  cases of rape, incest or to  Although the advisers’ rec- 
they pointed out that the  The first votes were held  save the life of the mother.  ommendation was nonbind­ 
health care overhaul bill  under a special agreement  Drafted by an abortion  ing, it prompted fears that  
improves preventive care  requiring 60 votes to pre­ opponent — Democratic  the health care legislation  
and prescription coverage.  vail. That tested the coali- Sen. Ben Nelson of  would usher in an era of  
“My colleagues on the  tion Democrats are count- Nebraska — it looms as a  rationing.  
Republican side have  ing on to move President  major challenge for the  The Mikulski amendment  
resorted to the politics of  Barack Obama’s signature  Democrats.  gives the health and human  
fear to preserve a broken  issue. The margin was close  Though Democrats have  services secretary authority  
health care system,” said  on the women’s health  60 votes in the Senate, two  to require health plans to  
Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa.  amendment, which aims to  Democratic senators voted  cover additional preventive  
“What we’re hearing are  safeguard coverage of  against the Mikulski  services for women. The  
scare tactics designed to  mammograms and preven­ amendment — Russ  Congressional Budget Office  
mislead seniors.”  tive screening test under a  Feingold of Wisconsin and  said the amendment would  
AARP, the seniors’ lobby,  revamped system.  Nelson. The measure was  cost $940 million over a  
threw its weight behind the  The 61-39 vote on a pro- saved by three Republicans  decade.  

GUINEA 

Guinea’s president wounded in attack 
health,” Cherif said as military helicopters course and began hinting that he planned 
Associated Press 
and sporadic shooting could be heard in to run for office, prompting a massive 

CONAKRY — A renegade faction of downtown Conakry. protest Sept. 28. Guinea’s presidential guard opened fire Cherif said Camara had left the coun-Toumba is accused of having led the on the African country’s leader Thursday, try’s main military barracks from where presidential guard that opened fire on the slightly wounding him amid rumors of he has been running the country since peaceful demonstrators that had gathered deep divisions within the army nearly seizing power in a military-led coup 11 inside the capital’s national stadium. At three months after a military-led mas-months ago. He headed downtown to a least 157 people were killed and dozens of sacre of protesters at a peaceful rally. military camp housing hundreds of men women were raped by the red beret-
President Moussa “Dadis” Camara was under the control of Abubakar “Toumba” wearing presidential guard who also shot at by his military aide, who heads the Diakite, the president’s aide-de-camp. The assaulted them with bayonets, rifle butts presidential guard, Communications shooting occurred inside the camp. and with pieces of wood. At least 20 Minister Idrissa Cherif said. A statement The incident underscores the deep rifts women were kidnapped and driven away read on state TV said the 45-year-old inside the military clique that grabbed in military trucks to private villas where president had been slightly wounded but control of the nation of 10 million on they were drugged and videotaped while that his life was not in danger. Africa’s western coast just 11 months ago. they were being gang raped over several 
“The president of the republic is still the Camara had initially promised to quickly days, according to three survivors as well president of the republic and he is in good organize elections, but then reversed as several human rights groups. 
page 6 The Observer  NEWS Friday, December 4, 2009 
Panel 
continued from page 1 
mother. 
Brinig believes, therefore, that certain steps that must be taken to assist pregnant women. 
“Preventive conscience clause … also need to be our concern,” Brinig said. Support, she said, can be offered “through prayer, service and sometimes financial help.” 
Place followed Brinig and discussed the Catholic view of moral order. 
“There is an objective moral order … an affirmative response to do good and avoid evil,” Place said. 
He explained how this view is upheld traditionally in the Constitution. 
“There are certain inalien­able rights [for all human life,]” Place said. 
Place also discussed the role of religion in society, citing the post-Vatican II stance on the state-religion interaction. 
“Government ought to pro­vide space for the free exercise of religion and the personal conscience of society,” Place said. 
There are, he said, three principle ways religion influ­ences a state: forming of con­science, advancement of socie­ty through institutional works and a shared moral vision. 

Some people today, however, advocate for a greater separa­tion between religion and gov­ernment. And yet, Place said, even without religion, abortion is still wrong. 
“It is not a religious obliga­tion first, but it is a human obligation,” Place said. “Without life there is no socie­ty.” 
In addition, Place warned of those who use language as a tool, citing the examples of classifying patients as con­sumers and abortion as a basic health right. 
Snead concluded the panel and reiterated the two founda­tional premises of the pro-life argument: that all human beings are created equal and that life begins at the moment of conception. 
Snead described how, under the new administration, gov­ernment policy toward living embryonic stem cells has shift­ed from a policy of “neutrality to destruction.” 
He said he is glad to be part of an institution that shares his view on the dignity of human life. 
“It is my position that public funding should not be used to provide or subsidize abortion funding directly or indirectly,” Snead said. 
Contact Scott Englert at senglert@nd.edu 
Ind. teen strangles, kills younger brother 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Ignoring his younger brother’s plea of “Andrew, stop,” a 17-year-old who told authorities he identi­fied with a television serial killer strangled the boy, dragged the body to his car and drove to see his girlfriend, an Indiana prosecutor said Thursday. 
Andrew Conley of Rising Sun was calm and showed no remorse or emotion as he described strangling 10-year­old Conner Conley as the two wrestled Sunday, a probable cause affidavit said. Conley told investigators he dumped his brother’s body near a park in the Ohio River community about 90 miles southeast of Indianapolis. 
“Sometimes people are just evil,” Dearborn-Ohio County Prosecutor Aaron Negangard said. “This is an evil child.” 
Prosecutors filed preliminary charges of murder against Conley along with a supporting affidavit Thursday. Conley is being charged as an adult and will appear Friday in court, Negangard said. 
Conley’s family did not immediately return messages for comment Thursday. Negangard said Conley had an attorney but none was listed in the affidavit. 
The teen told investigators he had had fantasies about killing someone since he was in eighth grade, including cutting somebody’s throat, and felt “just like” the serial killer Dexter on the Showtime televi­sion series of the same name. He said killing his brother sat­isfied a craving like a ham­burger satisfied hunger. 

“Like I had to ... like when people have something like they are hungry and there is a hamburger sitting there and they knew they had to have it and I was sitting there and it just happened,” Conley told investigators in the affidavit. 
The slaying comes six weeks after 15-year-old Alyssa Bustamante told Missouri authorities she strangled, stabbed and cut a 9-year-old neighbor’s throat because she wanted to know what it was like to kill someone. 
The affidavit in Conley’s case described him killing his broth­er before visiting his girlfriend and other friends. It said: 
The two brothers were wrestling while their parents were at work. Conley put Conner in a headlock, causing the younger boy to pass out and fall to the floor. Conley dragged Conner to kitchen, put on a pair of gloves and choked the younger boy for about 20 minutes until he noticed blood flowing from Conner’s nose and mouth. 
He told investigators the child’s last words were “Andrew, stop.” 

Exec pleads guilty to bribery 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — A California venture capitalist pleaded guilty Thursday to charges that he helped his company land a lucrative deal with New York’s public pension fund by giving nearly $1 mil­lion worth of illegal gifts to state officials. 
Markstone Capital Partners chairman Elliott Broidy made an unannounced appearance in a Manhattan courtroom to admit to a felony charge of rewarding official misconduct. 
Prosecutors said the state invested $250 million in Markstone after Broidy show­ered them with gifts and favors, including trips, pay­outs to friends and relatives, and a secret investment in an 
obscure movie called “Chooch,” produced by an official’s brother. 
“This is an old-fashioned payoff of state officials,” said New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo. “This is effec­tively bribery of state officials, and not just one, but a num­ber of state officials in the comptroller’s office.” 
Broidy is the latest in a string of private equity execu­tives and investment advisers to plead guilty in connection with Cuomo’s investigation of pension fund activities during the tenure of former state Comptroller Alan Hevesi. 
More arrests seem likely. 
Cuomo announced Thursday that four high-level officials in the comptroller’s office had improperly accepted gifts or other lucrative benefits from Broidy. 
He would name only one, the pension fund’s former chief financial officer, David Loglisci, who already faces charges in the case. 
Cuomo said he couldn’t talk about the three others because the investigation was not yet complete. 
However, the Attorney General’s office said Broidy had subsidized five trips to Israel, and one to Italy, by a “very high ranking” official in the comptroller's office in connection with Markstone’s attempt to get business from the pension fund. 
Those trips included first class air travel, luxury hotel suites, a helicopter tour, a car and driver and a security detail, all at a cost of about $75,000. 
The official was not named in court, but state travel records show that Hevesi him­self made several trips to Israel in 2005 and 2006 dur­ing the period when Broidy is alleged to have arranged for travel. The records also show taxpayers picked up some at least some expenses associat­ed with those trips, including $20,894 in airfare. 
Hevesi’s lawyer, Bradley Simon, declined to comment. 
Previously, Hevesi has denied accepting any improp­er gifts or bribes. He resigned in late 2006 after pleading guilty in an unrelated scandal involving the improper use of a state chauffeur and security detail. 
A Broidy spokesman, Christopher Clark, said in a written statement that his client “regrets the actions that brought about this course of events, but is pleased to have resolved this matter with the NYAG and will be cooper­ating in the ongoing investiga­tion.” 
In court Thursday, Broidy described other gifts to high­er-ups in Hevesi’s administra­tion, including an official who he said arranged for him to pay $90,000 to cover his girl­friend’s rent and hospital bills, plus another $44,000 in payments to the girlfriend’s relative. 



The Observer 

Business
Friday, December 4, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

FedEx raises delivery rates 
NEW YORK — FedEx Corp. said Thursday it will raise shipping rates for its Ground and Home Delivery units by an average of 4.9 percent in 2010 — 1 percentage point less than this year’s rate hike. 
FedEx announced in September it will increase shipping rates for Express packages shipped within or from the U.S. by an aver­age of 5.9 percent in 2010, also 1 percentage point lower than FedEx’s rate increase this year. That rate is partially offset by a lower fuel surcharge. 
The company, based in Memphis, Tenn., said Thursday that SmartPost rates also will change, but didn’t specify how. SmartPost is FedEx’s partnership with the U.S. Postal Service. 
All of the rate increases will go into effect on Jan. 4. 
FedEx’s larger rival UPS Inc. also is hiking 2010 ground rates by an average of 4.9 per­cent. The base rate increase for air express and international shipments is 6.9 percent, also offset by a lower fuel surcharge. 
Both package delivery companies’ rate increases are standard and usually announced in the fall. 
Court blocks gold mine project 
RENO, Nev. — A federal appeals court has temporarily blocked construction of a mas­sive gold mine project in northeast Nevada that critics say would harm the environment and ruin a mountain several tribes consider sacred. 
A three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reversed part of an earlier decision denying a preliminary injunction sought by conservationists and tribal lead­ers. The groups had sought the injunction to force Barrick Gold Corp. to postpone digging a 2,000-foot-deep open pit at the Cortez Hills mine 250 miles east of Reno. 
The 17-page ruling issued Thursday in San Francisco said the U.S. Bureau of Land Management failed to adequately analyze the potential for the mine on Mount Tenabo (tuh-NAH’-boh) to pollute the air with mer­cury emissions and dry up scarce water resources. 
GM, Chrysler rethink closings 
Automakers attempt compromise to sidestep legislation; dealers hope to remain open 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — General Motors and Chrysler will reconsider decisions to close thousands of dealer­ships as part of a compro­mise meant to stave off federal legislation that would require them to keep showrooms open. 
The decision by the two automakers, announced Thursday, raises the prospect of new life for some of the more than 3,000 dealerships that were slated to close as part of a broad industry restructuring. Dealers have loudly protested the deci­sions, saying they are unfair. 
The new plans call for face-to-face reviews with dealerships and offer bind­ing arbitration with those who face closure of their showrooms. GM, the largest U.S. automaker, also said it would be more transparent about how it picked the dealers that will close. It will also speed up payments to assist those targeted for shutdown. 
Dealer groups and a key lawmaker questioned the automakers’ latest plans, however, opening the pos­sibility of Congress consid­ering the dealer legislation anyway. The National employees back to work.” cuts are needed to better spending plan expected to Automobile Dealers “Earlier this year, after align their dealer network be considered by the House Association said the GM receiving billions of dollars with much lower demand and Senate later this proposal does not create “a in taxpayer money, for cars and trucks. month, setting up a poten­sufficiently meaningful Chrysler and GM But dealers accused the tial confrontation with the process that provides for a announced they were ter-automakers of closing lots White House. reasonable opportunity for minating more than 3,000 that were still profitable, The White House has dealer reinstatement.” dealerships, many of them and said the auto compa-opposed the legislation 
The dealer group said it profitable small businesses nies weren’t forthcoming over concerns that it could would “continue to work employing thousands of about the criteria they used hamper the attempts by with Congress on the pend-people in communities all to decide who will close General Motors and ing ‘dealer rights’ legisla-across the nation. Their and who stay open. Chrysler to rebound from tion in the event a non-leg-logic didn’t make sense The House passed legis-government-led bankrupt­islative solution cannot be then, and it still doesn’t lation in July that would cies. The federal govern-achieved on this important make sense today,” Van force the companies to ment holds a majority issue which affects thou-Hollen said in a statement. reverse their closure plans, stake of GM and 10 percent sands of people’s jobs and As part of its deep though the Senate has not of Chrysler. lives in their communities.” restructuring this year, GM taken it up. The Obama Talks brokered by 
Rep. Christopher Van has said it will cut 2,400 administration opposes the Congress between the deal-Hollen, D-Md., who has dealers from its 6,000-measure. er groups and the criticized the dealer cuts, dealer network by next fall. If dealers refuse to automakers began in said the GM and Chrysler Chrysler announced similar accept the GM and September, but had stalled plans “still fall short of plans, slashing 789 dealers Chrysler proposals, some over disagreements over what is needed to help as part of its bankruptcy lawmakers could insist that factors like the review reinstate profitable car proceedings this summer. the House-approved legis-process for dealers slated dealers and put their Both automakers say the lation be included in a to close. 


Kentucky farming suffers with recession 
Associated Press 

LOUISVILLE, Ky. — Kentucky’s slumping horse industry appears on pace to be overtaken by poultry farming as the king of the state’s agricultural sector, economists said Thursday. 
In a state where horses are a mainstay of the cultural and eco­nomic lifeblood, the new top perch for chickens in the pecking order 
of Kentucky agriculture once seemed unlikely. 
But the equine sector has been battered by deep recession, and the poultry industry has enjoyed years of steady growth. As a result, University of Kentucky agricultural economist Lee Meyer predicted that receipts from the poultry sector this year would out­pace those from the horse indus­try by about $180 million. 
Meyer said that poultry produc­tion, concentrated in western Kentucky, is expected to generate about $930 million in receipts this year. The equine sector is project­ed to generate about $750 million this year, down from a 2007 figure that exceeded $1.1 billion, he added. 
That projection was seen by for­mer Gov. Brereton Jones, owner of a Kentucky horse farm, as further proof that the state’s horse indus­try is in decline and needs a boost. 
“You can go anyplace around the world and tell people you’re from Kentucky, and the first thing they want to talk about is the Kentucky Derby and the thoroughbred industry,” he said. “We risk losing that if everybody refuses to pay attention.” 
Jones supports expanding gam­bling at Kentucky’s horse racing tracks. A measure to allow video slot machines at tracks passed the Kentucky House but died in a Senate committee during this year’s special session. 
Thoroughbred sales and breed­ing stud fees are the two main income sources for the industry, but have taken a big hit from the global recession, UK economists said at a news conference Thursday that coincided with the Kentucky Farm Bureau’s annual convention in Louisville. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Friday, December 4, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
The Independent, Daily Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Katie Peralta Sam Werner Molly Madden Michael Blasco Megan Boem Molly Sammon 
Graphics Viewpoint 
Jaclyn Espinoza Michelle Maitz 
Scene 
Adriana Pratt 
Weis’ departure handled respectfully 

We all knew for a while that Charlie Weis would not be retained as Notre Dame’s head football coach. 
What we didn’t know was when and how the process would play out, because the last time the Notre Dame administration fired a coach, they botched it. 
The University fired its last coach, Tyrone Willingham, after just three seasons, before he had a chance to develop his recruits and integrate them into his system. After Willingham was fired, then-Director of Athletics Kevin White admitted that school officials had pressured him to let Willingham go against his better judgment. The administra­tion thought they could snag Urban Meyer, formerly the head 
coach of Utah and an assistant at Notre Dame. But then, like Meyer to Florida, things headed south in a hurry. 
This time, so far, they’ve got it right. 
As firings go, Weis’ has gone incredibly smoothly. Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick said the decision was tougher than most would 
imagine, which is understandable given how much everyone wanted Weis to work out as a coach. He was an alum who loved the school, he won in the NFL and he had success in his first two seasons with the Irish. He made Brady Quinn a Heisman contender and a first-round draft pick and led the Irish to two BCS bowls in two years. 
Just what dragged the team into the depths of college foot­ball is tough to pinpoint. The recruits poured in but the wins slowed down. The team looked unprepared to beat teams it was supposed to beat (Syracuse and Navy — twice) and had trouble winning big games. Swarbrick said the direction of the program left him unconvinced that next year would bring significant improvement, so Weis had to be let go. 
It’s important to remember that Weis did not destroy the program by any means. He brought in great recruits, he graduated his players and, for the most part, he kept them out of trouble. Off the field, his work with the Hannah and Friends charity is admirable and will continue to improve lives. 
But, bottom line, Weis did not prepare his talented team to win, and for that reason letting him go was the correct move. 
Swarbrick handled the unsavory situation as best he could. He recommended the move to University President Fr. John Jenkins, who approved it — the way decisions should be made at this level. Swarbrick said he had a dialogue with Weis and informed him of his fate after the Stanford game, in a timely, professional manner indicative of the way this situation has played out. 
By now, the circus that surrounds a coaching change at Notre Dame is in full swing. The media attention focused on 

the Irish program intensifies every move Swarbrick makes. ESPN has camped out near Legends to film updates on the coaching search. Each hour brings new rumors from message boards to usually credible media outlets eager to break the news of who will become Notre Dame’s 29th head football coach. Finding a 
coach who can win at the Division I level is tough in a vacu­um. Under this microscope, it’s near impossible. 
But Swarbrick can’t let that stop him. His decision — and he reiterated Monday that it will be his decision — has to be the right one. 
Swarbrick’s previous involvement with athletics and the contacts he has made over the years should help him evalu­ate all the possibilities, not just those the media has pigeon­holed as candidates with mostly baseless speculation. 
It’s not about a big name, it’s not about an offensive or defensive background and it’s not about getting him — who­ever that may be — here in time for a bowl game. It’s about preparing the team to succeed next year and the program to excel over the next 10 years by molding and motivating tal­ented athletes into a cohesive, productive unit. 
That’s where Charlie Weis fell short, and that’s what the next head coach must do. Now it’s up to Swarbrick to find him. And if what we’ve seen this week is any indication, he will. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Nobody will ever win the Battle ofthe Sexes. There’s just too muchfraternizing with the enemy.” 
Henry Kissinger
U.S. diplomat and scholar 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“We would accomplish many more things if we did not think of them as impossible.” 
Vince Lombardi Former Green Bay Packers coach 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Friday, December 4, 2009 page 9 
Finding family at the Center for the Homeless 

In this column, “The Notre Dame They Know,” I will interview individuals who have been influenced by the University of Notre Dame. 
I will seek to discover the unique role that Notre Dame has played in 
Thomas Bounds 
their life and vocational journey. 

The Notre Dame 
It is hoped that 

They Know 
this column will inculcate a deep­er, more honest and more profound love for Our Lady and Her University. 
Darkness falls on a chilly evening as Transpo Bus 7 halts just East of the Hesburgh Library. Exiting campus, it turns South, passing through South Bend to stop at the South Street Station. 
200 yards further, past empty lots and abandoned buildings, the South Bend Center for the Homeless sits in an old Department Store. 
Inside, past the receptionist’s desk, a waiting area and a chapel, Steve Camilleri reclines at a table in the cor­ner of the bustling cafeteria. 
Sporting dark pants and a polo shirt, the Long Islander from Levittown — think Billy Joel’s better looking younger brother — begins his story over the muted squeals of babies and congenial side-conversations from residents: 
“I was born just outside of New York City. My father was a bartender and my mother worked at a mental health hospi­tal. I went to Notre Dame and graduated in 1994. I did the ACE Program, earned a Masters in Non-Profit Administration, took a job in the Development Office, and got a grant to start NDVision. I vol­unteered at the Center while a student and after, and was invited to be its Director in August of 2004. 
“The Center for the Homeless,” Steve says, “houses 200 residents, 55 of them children, and has provided 45,000 peo­ple with food, shelter, skills training and community living since it opened in 1988.” 
As Director of the Center, Steve is responsible for heading its administra­tive functions and for relating directly with residents. 
“Part of my mission, and the Center’s mission as a whole,” Steve observes, “is to recognize the God-given dignity and worth of each person here. If we can get our guests to see themselves as promise, as potential, rather than as problem, we’ve been a part of something awe­some.” 
The Center’s formal mission is to ‘Break the Cycle of Homelessness.’ “It’s lofty, it’s challenging,” Steve says, “but if we can help one person, one family to do that, that’s a gift to the world.” 
On the spiritual mission of the Center, Steve observes, “I think of Matthew 25: Have you visited the sick, fed the hungry, helped the homeless? In a sense, this is the Gospel incarnate. This work is done to glorify God.” 
Steve encourages others to make the Center a part of their lives. 
“You need to get involved here or any-
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Disappointed with event 
After receiving numerous e-mails from my beloved class of 2010, I decided to attend their Beer Tasting event at Legends on Wednesday night. 
I was promised five to seven beer samples and some food, all for 10 dollars. I wasn’t very inter­ested in the Legends delicacies, seeing as the event didn’t start until 8 p.m., but I was excited about sampling the beers, assuming I would get my money’s worth. 
What was I given, along with my fellow class­mates? About two ounces each of six beers. Maybe a little more. But really. Less than a pint for 10 dollars. Oh wait — let’s account for the price of some barely warm sausage or pretzel I could have decided to eat (I didn’t) at 8:30. So then maybe I should have received seven dollars worth of beer. But I obviously didn’t. 
So may I repeat, for the multitude of seniors who decided — wisely — to save their money and not attend: I paid 10 dollars for a few terrible buf­fet options and one beer. 
Sarah Carruthers 
senior 
Walsh Hall 
Dec. 3 


where that excites your passion to serve because it will ruin you,” he says. “It’s good to be ruined. You won’t look at things the same. 
“That’s what college is about: Being ruined and coming out different than you went in. Becoming a better person who is aware of what’s going on around you, contributing to the common good.” 
Asked about his own reasons for work­ing at the Center, Steve responds, “I love it … People are honest here. Forget about wearing the masks. We don’t have time for that…You have permission here to let yourself be vulnerable. I’m con­stantly amazed by the miracles that hap­pen here. And I shouldn’t be amazed or surprised because they keep happening. But it continues to blow my mind.” 
To illustrate, Steve shares a story about one of his friends, a resident named John. “John stayed here all last winter on Weather Amnesty, a night at a time. John wanted to move in. I said, ‘John, when you sober up.’ This past February, he finally got here. Everyday he would tell me, ‘I’ve got a day of sobri­ety, Steve.’ 
“A day, a week, a month went by. I said, ‘John, when you get to six months, I’ll take you out to lunch.’ On Aug. 14, over lunch, he described the tragic loss of five siblings. One was murdered. He started drinking when he was 13, and hadn’t stopped in over 40 years. 
“I was struck by his story and said, ‘Let’s go out to lunch when you have a year of sobriety.’ He turned to me and said, ‘That’s Valentine’s Day.’ I said, ‘John, you’re my Valentine’s Date, and I don’t think my wife will mind a bit.’ 
“I’m thrilled to take John to lunch on Valentine’s Day. I’m thrilled because he’ll have a year of sobriety and that’s something he hasn’t had in 40 years. I’m looking forward to that more than I’ve ever looked forward to Valentine’s Day. This place is one of the great love sto­ries. I just keep falling deeper in love with it.” 
Chad, a resident sitting at the next table, looks up from his late evening snack to echo Steve’s sentiments: “You guys are more of a family to me than my family has been for a long time,” he comments. “I actually feel like I’m going to do something with my life, starting here. 
“It’s awesome. I love these guys like they’re my family.” 
Tom is a senior living in Morrissey Manor, the greatest of all University dorms. He can be reached at tbounds@nd.edu 
Steve, Director of the South Bend Center for the Homeless, can be reached at scamilleri@cfh.net He encourages you to read anything by Henri Nouwen, especially Bread for the Journey: A Daybook of Wisdom and Faith. Please 
e-mail him if you are interested in 
volunteering at the Center. He, and everyone else, would love to have your help. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
An exercise in futility 

Dear Jimmy, 
You probably don’t know me, so let me introduce myself. My name is Bob Kessler. I have been one of your biggest fans for the past four years. The first time I saw you was on Saturday, April 22, 2006 when you walked past me and my future roommate after entering the upstairs meeting room at the College Football Hall of Fame to make what was probably the biggest announcement of your life — until now. 
Yes, I was there that day. 
When my roommate and I heard that you would be announcing your college choice at the Hall of Fame, we figured that we had to be there for what could be a program-defin­ing announcement. We powered past our hangovers from the previ­ous night of debauchery and made our way through the mean streets of South Bend so that we could stand in the back of the press conference listening to all the bloggers pretend like they had actual inside information about things. 
We watched you walk into the room sporting goofily­spiked hair like Sonic the Hedgehog and wearing enough rings to make the Dark Lord of Mordor jealous. We listened to you talk about national championships and Heisman Trophies (take note of the plural tense), and your hope that you would be in the Hall some day. 
As we left the press conference that day, we won­dered if you would have any chance of achieving the things we hoped you would. We didn’t know what to make of the cocksure 18-year old that Sports Illustrated had previously proclaimed to be “The Kid With The Golden Arm.” For two years after that day, through the painful 2007 season and the maddening 2008 season, we still were never too sure what to think. 
But then, a funny thing happened: You morphed into one of the best quarterbacks in the nation. You threw touchdown passes with pinpoint accuracy. You orches­trated game-winning drives when nobody thought you could. You played with toughness and poise, and were the leader that we had always hoped you would be. You lived up to your word: Charlie Weis was certainly not fired because of you. 
So now you have a choice to make. Someday soon you will step into another conference room to make the biggest announcement of your young life: whether or not you will leave school early to go to the NFL. While I’m sure you have many smart individuals advising you on this decision, I figured that my crack team of Wikipedia researchers could help you out, and offer some items to consider: 

Item One: Peyton Manning, Drew Brees, Tom Brady, Brett Favre, Carson Palmer, Ben Roethlisberger, Philip Rivers, Tony Romo, Donavan McNabb, Eli Manning. At first glance this might appear to be a list of the best and most successful quarterbacks playing in the NFL today. While that might be a true statement, it is also a rela­tively subjective measure. Objectively, there is one thing that all of these men have in common: They all went to college for at least four years. 
Item Two: Ryan Leaf, Andre Ware, Tim Couch, Michael Vick, Todd Marinovich, JaMarcus Russell, Rex Grossman. This is a list of players that have left college early in recent years to pursue their NFL dreams. Think about that. 
Item Three: Trent Dilfer and Mark Rypien. These are the only quarterbacks since 1985 (as far back as my research goes) that have won a Super Bowl after leav­ing college early. Shockingly, the two combined to play for 10 NFL teams over the course of their careers. 
Item Four: Washington Redskins, Oakland Raiders, Buffalo Bills, St. Louis Rams, Carolina Panthers, Seattle Seahawks, San Francisco 49ers. This is the complete list of teams that could potentially draft you in the first half of the first round. 
Item Five: The intangibles. A year from now you could be quarterbacking a bad NFL team to no fanfare, or a tailor could be taking your measurements for your Heisman Trophy suit. You could be riding my fantasy football bench behind Tony Romo, or you could be preparing for a trip to a major bowl game. You could be a footnote to Notre Dame History only vaguely remem­bered years from now by those that saw you play, or you could be a legend beloved by generations of Notre Dame followers. 
All the money in the world cannot make you a legend and it cannot make you beloved. It cannot give you hap­piness or peace of mind. Showing devotion to this University (to the students and alumni that have sup­ported you through the worst three consecutive seasons in Notre Dame history) can give you these things. Leading your teammates through this time of turmoil to the successful season that would undoubtedly await can give you these things. 
One more year can give you these things. 
Bob Kessler is a 2009 graduate who realizes that writing the above column was most likely an exercise in futility. He is the writer of Things Notre Dame Students Like and the17thgrade.com. You can contact him at bob020787@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Friday, December 4, 2009 

By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 
With all the talk both building up and, in many cases, consequently tearing down this fall’s most unsuspecting, wildly successful, “Blair Witch Project” clone, “Paranormal Activity,” a look back at the true roots of documen­tary/horror filmmaking seems to be in 
o r d e r. Contrary to popular belief, the original “Blair Witch Project” had its own inspi­ration. And that film, a hardly known 1998 VHS castaway, “The Last Broadcast,” is the subject of this movie rewind. 
Call it lost in translation, or lost in produc­tion. Either way, some­where along the lines, a groundbreak­ing idea of a film with a pretty solid storyline to boot, became the real mur­der victim in this genre-changing hor­ror of a horror film. Put together a team of cre­ative minds and tell them to come up with a brand new take on the horror genre, then give that idea to an untalented writer only to watch him run off of a proverbial cliff with it. Purposely cast low-grade actors, some of whom can’t even be convincing as ordinary, everyday peo­ple, and put in charge two directors whose spe­cialty is taking movies out back behind a shed and shooting them dead and you’d have “The Last Broadcast” in a nutshell. What a bomb. What a “could have been.” And that’s not even the half of it. 
Steven Avalos and Lance Weiler’s horror/doc­umentary veiled as a documentary of the grue­some murders of two television hosts out in the Pine Barrens in New Jersey, is ruined by its own attempt to amateurishly go about being clever and build up to an all-or-nothing big twist. All it takes is a somewhat keen ear and maybe one partially opened eye to react to the big twist the same way you’d react to seeing blank wall in front of you. Only, a blank wall doesn’t carry with it the tag of “utter disap­pointment.” A blank wall isn’t laughable, or lasting for all the worst possible reasons. No, instead, to be quite honest, it’s not even just the film’s obviousness that kills it, but so many (I’d make a list, but I’ll spare you) other things. To make a long story short, almost everything from beginning to end is what makes “The Last Broadcast” a failure in the truest sense of the word. The end credits are, sadly, one of the film’s highlights. 
But that’s not entirely fair to it. Why look 

back on a movie 11 years old that by all 
accounts should only be remembered as being 
a coveted member of film history’s hall of 
shame? Because of the idea behind the film. An 
idea ruined by terrible production and amateur 
oversight, but an idea that revolutionized film-making. To name a few examples, “The Blair Witch Project,” “Paranormal A c t i v i t y, ” “Poughkeepsie Tapes” and “District 9” all draw their founding idea from the film. For that reason only, it’s worth watching the film — to see where it all started. U l t i m a t e l y, “The Last Broadcast,” in the right hands, not only could have — but would have — been something to remember. It probably could have never achieved the success of “Blair Witch” only because the Internet and its potential for viral marketing hadn’t yet really been discovered, but it could have at least been a cult classic. It could have been a classic, genre-bending, once ­in-a-blue-moon film that leaves a permanent footprint on the film industry. Instead, “The Last Broadcast” 
is somewhere out there straddling the line 
between “never seen it” and “wished I hadn‘t 
seen it.” It’s a tragedy, really, a horrible 
tragedy, as all the while, amidst the backdrop 
of the murders the film is supposedly docu­
menting, we instead watch as the film is mur­
dered by its own maker. 
The Last Broadcast  
Directed by: StefanAvalos and Lance Weiler Featuring: David Beard, Jim Seward, StefanAvalos and Lance Weiler  

 

Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 

The Observer 

Scene
Friday, December 4, 2009 page 11 

By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Associate Scene Editor 

Three hundred paper bags filled with 
sand, tables heaped with cookies, a 
giant tree and … a guy dressed up as 
Mrs. Claus. Yes, it’s time for “A Carroll 
Christmas,” the Far Quad dorm’s signa­
ture event. Its tagline? “If you only 
come to Carroll one time, come to 
‘A Carroll Christmas.’” Hall president Rob 
Wilson, a junior, said 
that close to 
1,000 peo­
ple 
trekked 
to the 
event for 
the 2008 
edition, and 
he hopes the 
mild weather 
will bring big 
crowds this 
year. Earlier in the 
week, residents 
spent several hours 
filling paper bags 
with sand and candles 

before hauling them out in wheelbar­rows to place along sidewalks. The lit candles will mark the path to Far Quad. 
These luminaries go “all the way up to Lyons, because, quite frankly, not that many people have ever been to 
Carroll Hall,” Wilson 
said. 

Wreaths, paper 
snowflakes and artifi­
cial trees decorate 
the dorm’s first 
floor, while a giant 
real tree takes a 
place of honor 
on the front 
lawn. After its 
lighting cere­
mony on 
Friday 
night, it 
will be 
able to be 

seen across the 
lake and even from 
the top floor of the 
Hesburgh Library. 
Residents also judge a cookie-baking contest, picking out their favorites of the entries from students across campus. These batches are part the veritable cookie buffet, along with hot chocolate and cider, which fills at 

least one room of Carroll’s first floor. Other highlights include Christmas 
karaoke and “Santa’s work­shop,” where vis­itors can pose with Santa, Mrs. Claus and some elves — all Carroll residents in costume. 
“There’s not a lot of peo­ple in the dorm — just a hun­dred,” Wilson explained, so each resident takes up some of the work — which includes fresh­man duty as Santa’s elves, tights and all. 
Wilson said that the event is also hosting a toy drive for the charity Hannah & Friends. Visitors can bring along unwrapped toys and place them in the marked boxes before heading inside to get their fill of cookies and karaoke. 
Besides providing yet another place to wear that snazzy sweater from Goodwill, “A Carroll Christmas” gives students an opportunities to stretch their boundaries, so to speak. 
“We’re really proud of the event, and 
we try really hard to get as many 
people as we can to come. A lot 
of people have never 
been out to Carroll 
before.” 
The 
Christmas 
party grew 
out of a 
Hall oween 
haunted house 
tradition, which 
was shut down in 
1997 amid some 
controversy. Carroll 
decided to take up 
another holiday 
event and started with 
the open house that 
has grown over the 
years. 
“I personally think it’s the best Christmas celebration on campus,” Wilson said. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 


By ADRIANA PRATT feeling particularly chipper, buy the Christmas come true. Assistant Scene Editor whole lot. You’ll be asking your neighbors, “How ‘bout them lights?” 4. Stockings Everybody knows Christmas is the 
Dust off those musty boughs of 
2. A Christmas Tree season of giving, so give your 
holly and round up the jingle bells Another traditional staple of the friends the opportunity to shower 
because Christmas time is here. 
holiday season is the Christmas tree. you with gifts by hanging a stocking 
Finals are a bore, but Christmas is 
A real one is preferable, but proba-outside your door. A personalized 
fun. So take all that unnecessary bly unrealistic for both dorm life one is preferable to avoid receiving 
study time and use it to get your 
and the college budget. Don’t worry, awkward gifts clearly intended for 
Whoville on because South Bend 
Target, Meijer and Walmart are your roommate. If your dorm does 
needs a good dose of cheer. As the here to help. They’ve got your mini an anonymous gift exchange, a
two wise men of “Wedding 
glitter trees, twig and berry trees, stocking is the perfect tool to make 
Crashers” said, “Rule Number 76. 
fiber optic trees and even some pre-it easy for an efficient and sneaky 
No Excuses. Play like a champion.” lit palms for those dreaming of drop-off and also gives you that rush The 5 Christmas Decorating Hawaii. However, nothing tops the of anticipation every time you walk Essentials: bittersweet cheer of the Charlie by the door, waiting to see if there’s Brown tree. a prize inside. Give yourself a taste 1.Christmas Lights of the joy you’ll feel on Christmas Yes this might seem obvious, but 3. Fake Snow morning and watch the presents line never underestimate the power of a South Bend’s weather is not living up. good set of lights. String them up to its reputation this year. The around your room, the hallways most white that’s been seen on cam-5. Mistletoe and, hey, maybe even the bath-pus is the premature graying of Mistletoe is like the cherry on top rooms. Energy month is over, so go some stressed out science students’ of your already decked out all out. Many dorms are hosting hair. Time is running out so we are Christmas room sundae. It provides floor-decorating contests this year, calling in the backup. Nothing does the perfect chance to make a move so it’s time to bring your A-game. the trick like a can of fake snow and on that cutie you’ve been eying all Because there’s a wide variety to a bag of some white fluff. Shake up night or to watch two awkward ran-choose from, you’ll need to decide the can and spray the edges of your dos stutter as they discover their which look you’re going for. There window for a frosted look without position under the greenery. Hang a are the always classy and elegant the freezing temperatures and lump sprig from the ceiling and watch the white lights, the fun and spirited some cotton on the windowsills for a magic unfold in true holiday fashion. multi-colored, flashing lights for the nice illusion. Sometimes you have to spunky bunch and big bulbs for the take matters into your own hands to Contact Adriana Pratt at old-school traditionalists. If you’re make your dream of a white apratt@nd.edu 
JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, December 4, 2009 
NBA 

Artest plans youth program 
Associated Press 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. — Although Ron Artest’s streetball games in New York usually included breaks for water or Gatorade, the Queens teenager knew other players who would recharge with Olde English malt liquor. 
Those bad examples stayed in his mind while he went through college at St. John’s and into the NBA, where Artest says he sometimes drank cognac during halftimes early in his career with the Chicago Bulls. 
“You’ve got to watch who you look up to,” Artest said Thursday after practice at the Los Angeles Lakers’ training complex. “I’ve got some people who I wish I would not have looked up to, but I still love.” 
Artest recently made several provocative admissions in an interview with the Sporting News, most notably saying he sometimes drank during games in Chicago, where he spent his first 2½ seasons. He acknowl­edged buying alcohol at a liquor store down the street from the United Center and slipping it into his locker. 
Artest also said he only made his admissions because he plans to begin a youth program in Los Angeles in which he’ll teach others about managing the dangers and temptations of young adulthood. 
“I understand I’m in a situa­tion where I have to be a role model,” said Artest, who has discussed his in-game drinking in speeches to at-risk youth in the past four years. “I’m just in that situation, so that’s some­thing I’m working towards. It’s not something I’m running from, but I have to tell people what I’ve been through, because when it comes up later, I’m not going to want it to be a shock. I tell people what I’ve been through, and I think it’ll help me be more of a role model for the future.” 
In his typically engaging yet enigmatic style of discourse, Artest said his drinking was a result of getting “big-headed,” and having too much responsi­bility too soon in his life as a 19-year-old father. Artest didn’t specify when he stopped drink­ing during games, but spoke in glowing detail of an internal self-improvement process in his mid-20s that left him much more mature. 
“I was living two lifestyles, and they were both going in opposite directions,” the 30­year-old Artest said. “Luckily, my wife took me back.” 
Artest said he has grown up considerably after his stints with Chicago and Indiana, where his involvement in per­haps the most infamous brawl in NBA history in late 2004 cemented his mercurial reputa­tion and resulted in a 73-game suspension. Artest eventually demanded a trade from the Pacers, who shipped him to Sacramento, where the self-healing began. 
“I was slowly cleansing myself in Sacramento,” Artest said. “I was 98 percent cleansed in Houston (last season).” 
Yet early in his first season with the Lakers, Artest again is attracting attention for his eccentric behavior and frank admissions — although Kobe Bryant said it’s nothing that’ll concern the Lakers. 
“What fallout?” Bryant asked. “He ain’t doing that (stuff) here. It’s got nothing to do with us.” 
Indeed, Bryant said Artest gets an “A-plus” as a teammate during his first few months with the Lakers, who signed him as a free agent as the only new addi­tion to last season’s champi­onship-winning roster. Artest has referred to himself as the captain of the Lakers’ defense, and Bryant agrees. 
“He takes things off my plate,” Bryant said, noting Artest’s intensity at practice. “(In previous seasons) I’ve had to be the offensive captain, the defensive captain. ... He’s another person that’s as extremely intense as I am in practice, goes at it even more.” 
Although Lakers coach Phil Jackson hadn’t yet spoken to Artest, the 10-time NBA cham­pion coach said he suspects Artest’s admissions have been “blown out of context.” Although Jackson heard of sim­ilar issues when he was a play­er with the Knicks, he doesn’t believe Artest’s in-game drink­ing could have been more than an occasional, minor dalliance. 
“I just don’t think as a player, you can get away with that type of thing in the NBA,” Jackson said. “Somebody is going to see it. There’s going to be alcohol on your breath. It’s just not going to happen on a day-to­day basis. ... Ron was just talk­ing about the struggles that he’s had in his career.” 
Artest also criticized NBA ref­eree Joey Crawford, and spoke about his still-simmering dislike for Ben Wallace, the Pistons for­ward whose conflict with Artest set off the 2004 brawl that went into the stands. 
“Joey is a good person,” Artest said. “That was a com­ment I probably shouldn’t have made.” 
PGA TOUR 
Rumors continue to swirl around Tiger 
Associated Press 
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. — A potentially explosive news con­ference with an alleged mistress was canceled Thursday and more details trickled out about the car accident that started all the trouble for Tiger Woods. 
The news conference in Los Angeles for Rachel Uchitel, the woman who denied a tabloid report about an affair with Woods, was canceled about an hour before it was to begin. 
High-profile attorney Gloria Allred, who was to make a state­ment about Uchitel’s relationship with golf’s No. 1 player, said it was called off because of “unforeseen circumstances.” Allred said she would have no further comment. 
For the first time since last Friday, when Woods ran his SUV into a fire hydrant and a tree outside his Florida home, there were no news conferences involving police nor any state­ments from Woods on his Web site. 
His last one was Wednesday, when he issued a statement con­ceding that he had “let my fami­ly down.” That followed a report in Us Weekly magazine of a cocktail waitress claiming to have had a 31-month affair with Woods. 
The Associated Press obtained an audio recording of an inter­view the Florida Highway Patrol conducted with Woods’ neigh­bors after the accident. Troopers interviewed Jarius Adam, who called 911, and his sister, Kimberly Harris. 
Harris told troopers that Woods’ mother, Kultida, and mother-in-law, Barbro Holmberg, were at the scene, but the AP could not confirm that. 
A voice that strongly resem­bles Woods’ mother is heard in the background during the 911 call saying loudly, “What hap­pened?” 
A spokeswoman for Holmberg, mother of Elin Nordegren, didn’t know if she was in Florida when the accident happened. 
“I don’t know for sure, but I don’t think so,” spokeswoman Ewa Malmborg said. “I have not been informed about that. She was here again working on Monday again anyway.” 
In the FHP interview, a trooper asked Harris about the women and if they talked to anyone at the scene. 
“The cops came, the Windermere cops came first, then the security guards came,” Harris said. “And then it appears Mr. Woods’ mom, and Tiger’s wife’s mom came out after the fact. I don’t know if they heard the commotion, I don’t if she, his wife, left and came back. But they walked across the grass and were out­side as well.” 
Woods’ peers, meanwhile, went from talking about him to playing in his $5.75 million golf tournament. 
He previously pulled out of the Chevron World Challenge at Sherwood Country Club, an 18­player event that pays $1.35 mil­lion to the winner. Participants spent most of the week taking questions on their sport’s biggest star, most offering support and curious about details and some of the allegations. 
MLB 

Phillies sign Polanco to three-year, $18 million contract 
and this year, but will shift to was willing to play another posi-reduced. He was traded to only a tremendous professional 
Associated Press 

third base, which hasn’t been his tion and I was like, ‘Sure.’ I can Detroit in June 2005 for reliever and a championship-type player, 
PHILADELPHIA — Placido primary position since 2002. He play third base. I played in col-Ugueth Urbina and infielder but he’s a championship-type Polanco is putting aside his Gold replaces Pedro Feliz, who lege, in St. Louis and I also Ramon Martinez. person, and that’s what we’re Glove and switching positions to became a free agent after the played some third here. I feel Polanco batted .285 for the trying to do here, bring champi­have a chance at winning a Phillies declined his $5.5 million pretty confident about it.” Tigers last season with 31 dou-onship-type people, both talent-championship. option. Polanco first joined the Phillies bles, 10 homers and 72 RBIs. He wise and personnel-wise.” 
Polanco returned to the “I always wanted to be here, I in the trade that sent Scott Rolen hit .341 and made the All-Star Polanco gets a $500,00 signing Philadelphia Phillies on never wanted to leave,” Polanco to St. Louis in July 2002. He hit team in 2007. bonus, $5 million next season, Thursday, agreeing to an $18 said. “One of the reasons I want-.297 with 38 homers and 160 “For him to come back to $5.25 million in 2011 and $6.25 million, three-year contract. ed to come back is because it’s RBIs in parts of four seasons in Philadelphia to change positions, million in 2012. The deal 
The 34-year-old free agent pretty obvious the team is com-Philadelphia. Once Chase Utley it’s just one of the things he’s includes a $5.5 million mutual won Gold Gloves at second base mitted to winning. And I want to become the regular second base-about,” Phillies general manager option for 2013 with a $1 million for the Detroit Tigers in 2007 win. That’s it. They asked me if I man, Polanco’s role was Ruben Amaro Jr. said. “He’s not buyout. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
OFF-Campus housing, Irish Crossings and Dublin Village 3 and 4 bdr, furnished and unfurnished. January and June 2010 leases available. www.cespm.info Call 574-968-0112 
——————————————— 
andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES 
——————————————— 

WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt., no experience needed, cus­tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835. 
——————————————— Looking for Student Intern/s for IT Business developing database applications in Health and Government. 20 hrs per week. Paid. 
——————————————— Singers for new pop group. Info 574-261-6857 
——————————————— 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-17819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu ——————————————— If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu ——————————————— Considering Adoption? ND Alums Hoping to Adopt. If you are an expectant mother searching for a family, please see our website at http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro­file.net. ——————————————— "What else do you know about me?" 
“You are a planned organism, the offspring of knowledge and imagi­nation rather than of individuals. You are carefully watched by many people. The unplanned organism is a question asked by Nature and answered by death. You are anoth­er kind of question with another kind of answer." ——————————————— "The human organism always wor­ships. First, it was the gods, then it was fame, next it will be self-aware systems you have built to realize truly omnipresent observation and judgment." "You underestimate humankind's love of freedom. "The individual desires judgment. Without that desire, the cohesion of groups is impossible, and so is civi­lization." ——————————————— 
Go then, there are other worlds than these. 
——————————————— "First of all, what is it really all about? What is it you object to? You want to abolish Government?" "To abolish God!" said Gregory, opening the eyes of a fanatic. "We do not only want to upset a few despotisms and police regulations; that sort of anarchism does exist, but it is a mere branch of the Nonconformists. We dig deeper and we blow you higher. We wish to deny all those arbitrary distinctions of vice and virtue, honour and treachery, upon which mere rebels base themselves. The silly senti­mentalists of the French Revolution talked of the Rights of Man! We hate Rights as we hate Wrongs. We have abolished Right and Wrong." ——————————————— 

Around t eNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Friday, December 4, 2009 
page 13 

NCAA Football Top 25 Coaches Poll 
team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Texas 2 3 Alabama 3 4 TCU 4 5 Cincinnati 5 6 Boise State 6 7 Ohio State 8 8 Oregon 10 9 Penn State 11 10 Iowa 13 11 Virginia Tech 14 12 Georgia Tech 7 13 BYU 15 14 LSU 17 15 Pittsburgh 9 16 Oregon State 18 17 Miami (Fla.) 21 18 Houston 20 19 Southern California 22 20 Nebraska 23 21 Oklahoma State 12 22 California NR 23 West Virginia NR 24 Stanford NR 25 Utah 19 
NCAA Football AP Top 25 

team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Alabama 2 3 Texas 3 4 TCU 4 5 Cincinnati 5 6 Boise State 6 7 Oregon 10 8 Ohio State 9 9 Iowa 13 10 Penn State 12 11 Virginia Tech 14 12 Georgia TEch 7 13 Oregon State 16 14 Pittsburgh 8 15 LSU 17 16 BYU 18 17 Miami (Fla.) 19 18 Houston 25 19 California 21 20 Southern California 24 21 Nebraska NR 22 Oklahoma State 11 23 Stanford NR 24 West Virginia NR 25 Clemson 15 


around the dial 
NBA 
Bulls at Cavaliers 8 p.m., ESPN 
Heat at Lakers 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Athletics aquire two infielders from Cubs 
Associated Press 

OAKLAND, Calif. — The Oakland Athletics acquired third baseman Jake Fox, sec­ond baseman Aaron Miles and cash considerations from the Chicago Cubs on Thursday for three players. 
The Cubs got right-handed pitcher Jeff Gray, minor league outfielder Matt Spencer and minor league righty Ronny Morla. 
The trade gives Oakland added depth in an infield that has been injury plagued in recent seasons. While general manager Billy Beane hopes six-time Gold Glove third base­man Eric Chavez will be healthy after season-ending back surgery, the A’s knew they needed a contingency plan. 
Chavez could now spend a good chunk of his time as des­ignated hitter. The last-place A’s recently signed free-agent third baseman Dallas McPherson to a minor league contract and invited him to spring training. 
Fox gives Oakland versatility considering he also plays the outfield. In two stays with the Cubs this year, he hit .259 with 11 home runs and 44 RBIs in 82 games. He began the sea­son at Triple-A Iowa, batting .409 with 17 home runs and 53 RBIs in 45 games. 
The Athletics were looking for some much-needed pop from the right side, and want­ed Fox. 
“He can hit. We’ve always liked his bat,” assistant GM David Forst said. 
The switch-hitting Miles signed a two-year, $4.9 million contract with the Cubs last winter, then batted a career-low .185 with no home runs and five RBIs in 74 games. He spent two stints on the disabled list, with a strained right shoul­der strain and a hyperextend­ed right elbow. 
“Aaron Miles coming off a disappointing year, we thought this might give him a better chance to make a ballclub and play for the A’s,” Cubs general manager Jim Hendry said. 
“Jake Fox really did a quality job for us and has been with us quite a while. I think we’re giv­ing him a real good opportuni­ty to play more on a regular basis in the American League. He’s too young in his career just to be a bat off the bench. 
We certainly felt like we maxi­mized his value in the trade.” 
With Thursday’s acquisi­tions, Oakland appears to have moved on without former AL Rookie of the Year shortstop Bobby Crosby and perhaps also free-agent second base­man Adam Kennedy. 
Mark Ellis remains Oakland’s second baseman, Forst said. Ellis signed an $11 million, two-year contract in October 2008 that includes a club option for the 2011 sea­son. 
Gray was with Oakland four different times in 2009, going 0-1 with a 3.76 ERA in 24 relief appearances. He also went 2-2 with a 1.54 ERA and a team-high 16 saves in 37 appearances with Triple-A Sacramento. 
IN BRIEF 

More injuries for Colts despite
returns from Hayden, Freeney 
INDIANAPOLIS — Colts defensive end Dwight Freeney returned to practice Thursday and cornerback Kelvin Hayden worked out for the second straight day, meaning both could play Sunday against Tennessee. 
Freeney missed last week’s game with an abdominal injury. Hayden has missed four straight games with a knee injury. 
Indy had 23 players on its practice report, and seven missed both prac­tice days. 
Two players out were receiver Anthony Gonzalez, who hasn’t played since the season-opener, and kicker Adam Vinatieri, who has missed the last six games. 
Other key players who sat out both days include running back Donald Brown (chest), defensive tackle Keyunta Dawson (knee) and left tackle Charlie Johnson (foot). 
UConn defeats Vermont for 
its 46th consecutive win 
STORRS, Conn. — Maya Moore scored 20 points as Connecticut overwhelmed Vermont 84-42 Thursday night in a rematch of last year’s first-round NCAA tournament game. 
Tina Charles added 18 points and nine rebounds, giving her 1,059 rebounds for her career and moving her into second place on the school’s all-time list behind Rebecca Lobo. 
The Huskies (7-0), who beat the Catamounts 104-65 in March on their way to a sixth national title, have won 46 con­secutive games, and 44 in a row at home. All seven wins this season have come by at least 25 points. 
Courtney Pilypaitis led Vermont (4-1) with 20 points. May Kotsopoulos, who had been averaging over 20 points a game, was held to five. 
The defending America East tournament champions beat Boston College and North Carolina State on the road this season. But they were no match for the Huskies. 
Australian Open takes a break
due to strong winds in Sydney 
SYDNEY — Strong winds on the New South Wales Golf Club ocean­side links course have suspended second -round play at the Australian Open. 
Play was stopped early Friday after balls slid off greens. Officials were hoping to get play under way after about a four-hour delay. 
Only several groups of players made it onto the course before the suspension, with co-leader Stuart Appleby parring his opening two holes to remain 6 under. Fellow Australian Scott Hend, who also shot 66 in his first round, had not started play Friday. 
“It’s nothing to do with the golf course, ” tournament director Trevor Herden said. “No matter where you were today you would-n’t be able to play with those wind gusts.” 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, December 4, 2009 
NFL 

Seahawks GM resigns, opens door for Holmgren 
Associated Press 
RENTON, Wash. — Tim Ruskell has been pushed out as president and general man­ager of the Seahawks, leaving the door open for Mike Holmgren’s possible return to Seattle. 
Ruskell announced his resig­nation Thursday, weeks before his five-year contract with the team ends. He asked the team if he was going to be retained so he could begin planning for offseason moves. Owner Paul Allen, the ailing Microsoft Corp. tycoon, and Seahawks chief executive officer Tod Leiweke told Ruskell no, so he left. 
“Obviously there’s great sad­ness today but I will leave here with great memories of this place and the people. It’s been the people for me,” Ruskell said, his voice breaking and holding back tears during a news conference attended by his sister and the team’s staff. 
The team’s ownership gave Ruskell full authority to shape the franchise soon after he arrived before the 2005 sea­son. Seattle made its only Super Bowl that season. 
Since then, he has presided over failed top draft choices, expensive free-agent busts — and the awkward ouster of popular coach and former GM Mike Holmgren at the end of his contract this past January. 
Ruskell brought in his own coach for 2009, Jim Mora. The 4-7 Seahawks are on their way to a second straight season without a playoff berth. Last season they finished 4-12, their worst record since 1991. 
“Quite simply, we didn’t win enough games,” Leiweke said. “I work for a man, Mr. Paul Allen, who has exacting stan­dards.” 
Ruskell understood that. 
“It didn’t happen quickly enough,” he said, “but it was­n’t because we didn’t do it right.” 
Seahawks vice president for player personnel Ruston Webster will serve as interim general manager. 
Leiweke added that he expects Mora to remain the coach, Webster would be a good GM candidate, and “sta­bility is something we will try to push for.” 
No conceivable candidate knows the Seahawks better than Holmgren, who became their longest-tenured and win­ningest coach from 1999-2008. The first four years, he was also their GM. 
Holmgren has declared his desire to return to the NFL after one year away. He took 2009 off as a promise to his wife and family but now says he wants to return to football. He hasn’t specified where, or whether it is to coach or be an executive. 
But the former Super Bowl-winning coach has long covet­ed a second chance to be a GM. He’s often said how much he admires the position Bill Parcells, a good friend and another former coach, now has atop the Miami Dolphins’ franchise. Holmgren still owns a home in the Seattle area. 
When asked whether Holmgren is a candidate, Leiweke said, “I’m just not going to go there. I’m just not going to talk about that today.” 
Ruskell arrived in February 2005 as a veteran of 20 years in scouting following a stint in Atlanta as the assistant GM, when Mora was the Falcons’ coach. Ruskell presided over three consecutive NFC West titles to begin his Seattle tenure, including that Super Bowl season of 2005 when he overhauled the defense and scored a major coup in draft­ing overlooked linebacker Lofa Tatupu. 
But the Seahawks have regressed since then. 
Ruskell was part of the deci­sion that allowed perennial Pro Bowl offensive lineman Steve Hutchinson to leave for Minnesota as a free agent soon after the 2006 Super Bowl; Seattle’s line hasn’t been the same since. 
Ruskell signed running back Shaun Alexander to a $62 mil­lion, eight-year contract with $15.1 million guaranteed even though Alexander was about to turn 30 — an age at which most running backs begin to decline. Just over two years and several injuries later, Alexander was released. 

To replace him, Ruskell spent millions on veteran run­ning backs Julius Jones, T.J. Duckett and Edgerrin James. Jones is fighting for his job with emerging Justin Forsett, a seventh-round draft choice in 2008 whom the Seahawks cut last year then brought back. 



Friday, December 4, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NFL 

Johnson eyes rushing record 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Tennessee running back Chris Johnson appreciates being named the AFC’s offensive player of the month for November. His goals are set just a bit higher. 
He says Eric Dickerson’s single-season rushing record is within his reach. 
Dickerson ran for 2,105 yards in 1984 for the then-Los Angeles Rams. Right now, Johnson is lead­ing the NFL with 1,396 yards with five games remaining. He just fin­ished November with 800 yards rushing for the best month in the league since the NFL-AFL merger in 1970. 
That earned him the AFC offen­sive player for the month Thursday, making him the first player from this franchise to win this award since Steve McNair for October 2003. 
“I’m pleased with that,” Johnson said. “I’m just trying to keep being consistent, keep doing the right thing and continue to keep having good games and hopefully get closer to that record.” 
Consistency has not been a problem for the second-year back out of East Carolina. 
He currently is on pace for 2,030 yards having averaged 
126.9 yards per game this season. He has rushed for at least 125 yards in six straight games, tying the NFL record set by Dickerson and fellow Hall of Famer Earl Campbell (1980). Dickerson tied Campbell in his record-setting season in 1984. 
Johnson already has made NFL history by becoming the first play­er to average 5 yards or better per carry in each of those six games. Jim Brown did that in five games in 1958. 
He has talked about 2,000 yards being a goal of his this sea­son. Jamal Lewis was the last to hit that number in 2003 when he fell short of Dickerson’s mark and finished with 2,066 yards rushing. It’s an elite and short group to reach 2,000 that features Barry Sanders, O.J. Simpson, Dickerson and Terrell Davis with Lewis. 


“I feel like I can get it,” Johnson said of 2,000. 
Titans coach Jeff Fisher knows Johnson is setting his sets high when asked about the running back pushing himself by setting his goals. 
“I know first and foremost he wants to try to win this ballgame, that’s the most important. Anything else that comes off of that is good,” Fisher said. 
Johnson has some extra moti­vation Sunday when the Titans (5­
6) visit Indianapolis (11-0). 
The Colts held him to a season-low 34 yards on nine carries Oct. 11 in a 31-9 loss. Teammate LenDale White split the work with him in that game, getting 10 car­ries for 51 yards. Johnson credits the Colts for a good job defending him but notes the Titans had to turn to the pass after falling behind. 
“I just feel this game, if we can stay close, I’ll have more carries,” he said. 
This will be Johnson’s first game at Lucas Oil Stadium. The Titans sat him last December rather than risk an injury to the rookie in the regular season finale with Tennessee already having clinched the AFC’s No. 1 seed. 
NFL 
Cowboys workers badly injured in fall 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — Two workers doing maintenance on the icy roof of towering Cowboys Stadium slipped and tumbled at least 50 feet Thursday morning before landing on a rain gutter. Authorities said both workers suffered “signifi­cant injuries.” 
The two were working on the top hatch of the retractable-roof venue in sub­urban Arlington around 7:20 
a.m. when they fell, Assistant Fire Chief Don Crowson said. They were not using safety equipment, he said. 
“I know that it is a common practice that you should be wearing safety gear in a high elevated position,” Crowson said. “The reports I have right now is that they were not using safety equipment.” 
One worker lost conscious­ness after breaking a leg and suffering injuries to his head and chest, Dallas Cowboys spokesman Brett Daniels said. He was taken by helicopter to a hospital. The other worker suffered a back injury and was transported by ambu­lance. 
Arlington police spokes­woman Tiara Ellis Richard said the men fell from the top of the upper roof to a lower part. Daniels estimated they fell between 50 feet and 75 feet down to what he called a “parapet.” 
“It’s bigger than your aver­age rain gutter,” Daniels said. “It’s a pretty major channel there around the bottom of the (upper) roof.” 
Although the parapet stopped the men from falling to a lower roof, it likely caused their injuries, Crowson said. 
“They got some pretty good speed up and when they hit that parapet, they suffered significant injuries,” he said. 
There was no immediate word on the workers’ condi­tions from area hospitals, whose officials declined to release information. Crowson said one of the men was in “very, very serious condition.” 
The injured are iron work­ers, according to a statement from Birdair Inc., an Amherst, N.Y.-based contractor that specializes in long-span struc­tures. The company said on its Web site that it was the roof­ing subcontractor for the sta­dium, which features the “largest, longest and steepest retractable roof ever con­structed.” 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, December 4, 2009 
Miami 
continued from page 20 
barometer of where are 
on the season, ” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “If [the team] can’t get up for this, we can’t get up for anything.” 
Notre Dame is riding a five game unbeaten streak into the match-up, wining two and tying three. In total, four of the games went into over ­time. Jackson said the close games could help the Irish in what should be stiff competition this weekend. 
“We’re learning about pressure under fire,” he said. “Hopefully that helps with the times of pressure; we’ll be better in those situations and play a complete hockey game.” 
Playing a complete hockey game is something Notre Dame has struggled with. The Irish defense has surrendered third period leads in two of the 
overtime games during the brief streak. 
“We need to do a better job in the third period of those [close] games because we ’ve had the lead a couple of times and been unable to sus­tain it,” Jackson said. “It is disappointing in some ways with the veteran team that we have, espe­cially on the defensive side, we should be mak­ing more plays in those situations.” 
Notre Dame will need to be on guard for a third period comeback against the RedHawks. Miami has a penchant for tiring teams out throughout a 60-minute game. 
“They are a deep team. Our depth is going to be challenged from the for­wards to the defense, ” Jackson said. “[Miami] can go four lines. Last game [in a 4-4 tie with Bowling Green] was one of the first games where we’ve actually had some pressure from our fourth line.” 
To counter Miami ’s depth, Notre Dame will hope to continue its recent offensive surge. In two of the last three games the Irish have scored four games, their highest goal totals of the season. In those two games, the line of senior center Kevin Deeth, soph­omore wing Billy Maday and junior wing Calle Ridderwall have led the way with a combined five goals and nine assists, including three Ridderwall goals and four Maday assists in the tie with Bowling Green on Nov. 28. 
“I think ever since we put together that line they’ve been successful,” Jackson said. “I’ve been able to put that line back together, and it’s pretty solid offensively. It can really generate some ­thing.” 
Deeth, Maday and Ridderwall will lead the Irish against Miami tonight at 7:35 p.m. and Saturday night at 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Tate 
continued from page 20 
dates Colt McCoy, the Texas quarterback, and running backs Mark Ingram of Alabama and Toby Gerhart of Stanford. The other receiver named to the team was Cincinnati’s Mardy Gilyard. 
“I’m still not happy about the season and the situation right now, but it’s an honor to be mentioned with some of those names and win those awards,” Tate said. “Personally, I still always think I could have done more to put the team in a better position to win, but at the same time, I think some of the things I did helped us win a couple of those games.” 
Tate likely isn’t finished receiving attention for his individual accolades, as he is also a finalist for the Biletnikoff Award, presented each year to college football’s top wide receiver. The other two finalists are Texas’ Jordan Shipley and Bowling Green’s Freddie Barnes. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 



Friday, December 4, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
TRACK & FIELD 

Season opens with Blue and Gold meet Friday 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track and field squad will open its indoor season this Friday in its annual Blue and Gold Meet, held in Loftus Center. 
With cross country just fin­ishing up, this one-day event will give Irish athletes a chance to compete as a team and see where everyone stands physically. 
“This is the first time of the year where everyone gets together as a group, because you have the cross country kids doing something and we have kids working at differ­ent times during the day,” head coach Joe Piane said. 
Notre Dame will be host to DePaul, Detroit Mercy and Marquette, the same schools that were invited the past two years. 
“[The Blue and Gold Meet] is essentially a glorified time trial so we’re looking to see what kind of shape kids are in,” Piane said. “And we’re really interested in the sprinters and field events kids because they have had no opportunities to compete, whereas the cross country kids have been competing throughout the fall.” 
The Irish had success in last year ’s Blue and Gold Meet, with then-senior Mary Saxer qualifying for the NCAA Championships in the pole vault in the first meet of the season. Including Saxer, who ultimately placed third in the Pole Vault in the Championships and was named to the Track and Field All-Academic Team, the Irish lost a total of 18 seniors from last season, including dis­tance runner Patrick Smyth, who placed fourth in the 10,000 meters at the NCAA Championships and was named a First -Team Academic All-American. 
Despite the losses, the Irish also return a variety of tal­ent, including seniors Joanna Schultz and Jaclyn Espinoza, junior NCAA Decathlon com­petitor Justin Schneider and 2009 Big East Pole Vault Champion senior Matt Schipper. Espinoza has been a consistent contributor over the years, reaching the NCAA Finals for three consecutive years and placing third over­all in the discus last year. 
The Irish as a team set the bar high last year, taking first in the Big East Men’s Outdoor Championships and second in the Indoor Championships. The women’s team, despite playing fifth in the Big East Outdoor Championships, sent four athletes to the NCAAs and placed 24th overall, com ­pared to the men ’s 48th place. 
The high jump and pole vault will mark the start of the meet at 5 p.m. followed by the first running events, the 60-meter hurdles, at 6 p.m. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles to face off vs. Trine 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s hosts Trine on Saturday in the MIAA opener for both teams. The Belles look to rebound from a dis­heartening 80-62 loss to Ohio Northern on Wednesday, which dropped Saint Mary’s record to 3-2, while the Thunder come off Tuesday’s 68-50 loss to Indiana Tech at 
NAC 
continued from page 20 
Unlike previous events, the Irish will enter the invitation­al at full strength, which includes two of the most highly touted fencers in the country in sophomores Courtney Hurley and Gerek Meinhardt. Hurley recently returned from 4-2. 
The Belles swept last year’s season series against Trine with two relatively easy victo­ries by margins of 8 and 11, respectively. These wins played a pivotal role in Saint Mary’s second-place finish in the MIAA last year with a 13­3 conference record, while the Thunder finished tied for third but well behind at 9-7. Trine looks to improve on last year’s record with the addi-
Bednarski said. “I know that only a few of them can get a medal, or even the possibility to get a medal, because it’s the strongest tournament on the continent. Now we are swimming in much bigger waters.” 
Nevertheless, Bednarski and the entire coaching staff are excited by the opportuni­ty open to the underclassmen to prove their mettle on the 
Germany “I know that only awhere she 
few of them can get a
captured her third consec-medal ... because it’s 
utive gold the strongestmedal in a 
tournament on the
junior world 
cup in continent.” November. 
But 
Janusz Bednarski 
Bednarski 
Irish coach
believes all of his fencers will be tested in the upcom­ing open tournament, where junior category players will compete against the nation’s elite. 
“It’s hard to predict,” highest level. Rising stars such as fresh­man Lian Osier and sophomore Radmila Sarkisova will have the chance to earn interna­tional recog­nition. 
“A lot of the younger 
fencers are not yet maybe well known in the world or in the country because fencers like Hurley, Meinhardt and others were getting medals at the world championships,” Bednarski said. “But the young group, they will try to show that at the end of the competition they are aspiring to be on the national team.” 
One of the team’s greatest assets is its commitment to teamwork and unselfish play. A strong sense of unity and great team chemistry can only serve the Irish well in the future as they compete against the best teams in the nation. 
“We have a great transmis­sion of experience from the older players to the others. They are helping them a lot. It’s a part of the game also to get older by helping the younger, so the group is very close together and the atmosphere is great. The coaches are helping to build this atmosphere, and we are having a good season so far.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
tion of 11 new freshmen, while the Belles look to live up to the high expectations in the preseason MIAA poll, which had Saint Mary’s at third in the conference behind only defending cham­pion Hope and Calvin. 
The Belles take on Trine at 3 p.m. on Saturday at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
UCF 
continued from page 20 
said. “What’s our identity after we take the punch? We’re going to be in this situation a few times, how do we bounce back?” 
Leading the Golden Knights is junior forward A.J. Tyler, who is averaging 10.3 points and 4.7 rebounds per game. Tyler had 18 points in the big win over Auburn, and earned high praise from Brey. 
“He’s kind of like a Big East guy in my mind,” Brey said. “A couple different guys have to guard him for us. A Scott, a Harangody, a Broghammer, pos­sibly Abromaitis, different guys are going to have to defend it.” 
Leading Central Florida in scoring is 6-foot-3 guard Isaac Sosa, who has averaged 12.9 points per game. Sosa is 20-of­39 from 3-point range this sea­son, and could be a threat to a Notre Dame team that has struggled at times defending on the perimeter. 
Redshirt freshman Dave Diakite has provided the best low-post presence for the Golden Knights, tallying 9.3 points and 7.4 rebounds per game. 
Brey said he wants to see improvement in areas on both sides of the court. 
“I think sometimes we put it on the floor a little too soon,” Brey said of the half-court offense. “I think a strength of ours is passing the ball and when we move it with limited dribbles we stir the defense up more.” 
“Then defensively, a little more ball pressure early in the game. Those are the two things we talked about coming back to work on. And then overall, I think you have to let this group keep playing together.” 
The Irish will tip off against the Golden Knights noon Sunday at Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 




page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, December 4, 2009 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

Notre Dame travels to Ohio State Invite meet 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame joins 14 other schools as they travel to the Ohio State Invite this weekend, a meet that will be modeled after larger tournament meets such as the Big East Conference Championship and the NCAA Tournament meet. 
Irish Coach Tim Welsh looks at this meet as a turning point in 

the season as the “This is the focal Irish prepare for 
meet for our fall
their winter train-

semester,we put a lot
ing trip. 

“This is the of importance on focal meet for our 
what happens here.” 
fall semester, we put a lot of impor­tance on what 

Tim Welsh happens here,” Irish coach 
Welsh said. “We want to learn where we are, and what we need to improve on. It will shape our training trip between semesters, and will tell us the areas we need to emphasize in the weeks in Puerto Rico. This is a significant test.” 
The Irish are 4-1 heading into the Ohio State Invite and are com­ing off of their first conference vic­tory over Pittsburgh. The early portion of the season has been used as a learning tool for Notre Dame, and they will attempt to take those findings and implement them in this meet. 
“This week we have been trying to clean things up a bit,” Welsh said. “We’ve tried to sharpen our technique up a lot, clean up our races so the paces are well placed. We’ve been cleaning things up to make them race ready.” 
Notre Dame will compete against two Big East teams (Pittsburgh and West Virginia) as well as three Big Ten teams, 
including host Ohio State and the always formidable Minnesota. All other schools will only compete in the diving events. 
“All six teams are strong, and we come here to try to beat a cou­ple of them,” Welsh said. “We’re hoping for 
great things in every event.” 
An added bonus of the Ohio State Invite is that the NCAA championships take place in the same pool, so Notre Dame will get a preview of things to come. 
“One of the other plusses is the men’s NCAA championships will be at Ohio State, so this is like a dress rehearsal for the men’s NCAA championships at the pool where that event will be held.” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
NCAA 
continued from page 20 
ment appearance and the fourth meeting of the two teams, with the Bobcats holding a 3-1 edge over the Irish. 
Since her arrival as head coach for the Irish in 1990, Brown has led her team to the national tour­nament 15 times, earning con­secutive bids from 1992-2006. Prior to her arrival, Notre Dame had made only one visit to the tournament. The Irish have an all-time record of 14-16 in NCAA Tournament play, including six trips to the round of 16 and a 1993 finish in the quarterfinals. This year, Brown earned the Big East Coach of the Year honors, her sixth since the Irish joined the Big East in 1995. 
In the team’s last NCAA appearance three years ago, the Irish fell to Wisconsin in the first round. The six seniors on this year’s team were freshmen then and have been working to get back to the tournament for the last two seasons. 
“We’re led by a very motivated group,” Brown said of the sen­iors. 
The class of 2010 has been making its own mark in the Notre Dame and Big East record books this fall. Outside hitter Serinity Phillips made her 1,000th career kill Oct. 10 against Cincinnati, becoming the 18th player in program history to do so. On Oct. 19, she also picked up the Big East Player of the Week Award, and has made 324 kills this season. Classmate Jamel Nicholas, the team assists leader, currently has 3,045 career assists, making 1,096 of the team’s 1,246 this season and placing her with the fifth-most in school history. She is also ranked 27th nationally with 11.16 assists/set. Nicholas and fellow senior outside-hitter Christina Kaelin have each earned their own Big East Player of the Week Awards. 
However, the seniors are not the only ones who have worked to get to where they are this weekend. This Irish team has relied heavily on its underclass­men’s experience throughout the season. 
“There is no one on this team that doesn’t believe in what we can do,” Brown said. “We’re excited to have this opportunity to practice and play this week and to be here this weekend.” 
Standing out among the under­classmen are sophomore outside hitter Kristen Dealy and junior middle blocker Kelly Sciacca. Dealy was named Big East Player of the Week for the week of Sept. 
14. She is second on the team in kills and points with 307 and 349.5, respectively. Sciacca is second in blocks with 90. 
Overall, the Irish rank in the top 50 nationally in hitting per­centage (25th, .258), win-loss (30th, .778), kills per set (36th, 13.86), assists per set (46th, 
12.71) and blocks per set (49th, 2.41). Ohio ranks 11th, 23rd, 19th, 29th, and 15th in those cat­egories, respectively. 
Despite Notre Dame’s statistics and undefeated regular confer­ence season, the team was unable to take the Big East tour­nament title after winning a string of 15 consecutive matches, and lost at Florida Nov. 28, 3-1. Since then, Brown has been doing some fine-tuning on the court. 
“We’ve changed and adjusted some things, have overcome some injuries that were hurting us before and have worked on getting people healthy.” 
The Irish will have to be at their best this weekend as the winner of Friday’s match will face either 13th-seeded Michigan or Niagara Saturday. Positioned in the Stanford Regional, the bottom half of their bracket features Saint Mary’s (Calif.), UC Santa Barbara, Long Island and Stanford, a team Notre Dame already defeated earlier this season. 
Of the 64 teams in the tourna­ment, the Irish have faced nine (Cincinnati, Florida, Florida State, Louisville, LSU, Miami, Michigan, Stanford, and Tennessee) and defeated four (Cincinnati, Miami, Stanford and Louisville). It is also the first time since 2006 that three Big East teams have advanced to the national tournament (Notre Dame, Louisville and Cincinnati). First-and second-round action will occur on 16 campus sites with winners advancing to four pre-determined regional sites. 
Notre Dame will face Ohio University today at 5:30 p.m. in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
“We know there is nothing to save anything for,” Brown said. “We’re going after it and are put­ting our best foot forward.” 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 



Friday, December 4, 2009 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

COLIN HOFMAN, JAY WADE AND LAUREN ROSEMEYER 
THE MOBILE PARTY 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Friday, December 4, 2009 page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Tate caps record-breaking season with All-American honors 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 
It’s been a rough week for the Irish players, but at least one — junior wide receiver Golden Tate — received some good news Thursday, when he was named to the American Football Coaches Association’s All-America Team. 
“It’s not one of the things you sign up for when you sign up to play for Notre Dame,” Tate told The Observer Thursday. “I came in with the mentality that I wanted to play hard and put the team in the best position to win. With myself succeeding ... the two kind of go hand in hand.” 
Tate’s numbers speak for themselves, as he tied or broke six Notre Dame records this season. Tate’s 93 recep­tions, 1,496 yards and nine 100-yard receiving games this year set school records, and his 15 receiving touchdowns tied the Irish single-season mark. He also set Notre Dame career records by eclipsing 2,707 yards and 15 100-yard receiving games. 
“I’ve never really worried about [statistics], just played the game the best I could and try to keep everyone up every week,” Tate said. “Just show­ing up and playing every game hard, I think it helped the team out.” 
Perhaps more impressive than Tate’s numbers are the fact that he posted a signifi­cant portion of them with Notre Dame’s other top receiver, sophomore Michael Floyd, sidelined by injury. 
“I took it as an opportunity to put my name out there and show that I was capable of leading this team with one of the best players in the country out for a few weeks,” Tate said. “I think I did a good job with that, and the coaches did an excellent job designing plays to get me the ball.” 
Tate became the first Notre Dame player to be named to the AFCA All-America Team since 2002, when cornerback Shane Walton earned the honor. Tate was the first Irish offensive player selected to the team since former Notre Dame tackle Aaron Taylor was chosen in 1993. 
Tate was joined on the offensive All-America Team by the likes of Heisman candi­
see TATE/page 16 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

The big stage 
Irish return to NCAA tournament vs. Ohio 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish are back in the NCAA tournament for the first time since 2006 and the 17th time overall, as they take on Ohio University in the opening round tonight. 
“It’s our aim to come here and to advance and to win,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “We’re taking it one match at a time. We know Ohio is a good team and a strong opponent.” 
The Irish received an at-large bid into the tournament after going 14-0 in the Big East regular season but falling to Louisville in the semifinals of the conference tournament. 

The Bobcats (26-6, 15-1 MAC) claimed their sixth MAC title in the last seven years by taking down Western Michigan 3-1 on Nov. 22. This year marks Ohio’s seventh-straight NCAA tourna-PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Sophomore outside hitter Kristen Dealy goes for the kill during Notre Dame’s 3-1 win over Seton Hall see NCAA/page 18 Oct. 31. Dealy and the Irish will take on Ohio tonight in the frst round of the NCAA Tournament. 

FENCING 
Team faces challenge with USFA 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
The Irish look to send a strong message to the rest of the fencing world at the United States Fencing Association (USFA) North American Cup this weekend as they wrap up the individual season of bouts. With intercollegiate play approach­ing, the Irish will compete to raise their individual rankings against the toughest field on the continent. 
“This is the North American Cup, which is bringing all the best fencers from Canada and all the states,” head coach Janusz Bednarski said. “This tournament is like a tryout for the national team, with points going towards world cup tour­naments and world cup cham­pionships, so it’s a very strong tournament.” 
see NAC/page 17 


HOCKEY 

ND takes on No. 1 Miami 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
No. 15 Notre Dame faces the best of the best this weekend in a two -game series against top -ranked Miami (Ohio). 
The No. 1 RedHawks (9-2­5, 6-1-3-1 CCHA) have resided at the top of the rankings for eight weeks now. Notre Dame (7-5-4, 4­2-4-2) travels to the Goggin Ice Center knowing the series is one of the more important of the season. 
“[The two -game series] should be [one of the most important series] when you play the top team in the country. It ’ll be a good 
see MIAMI/page 16 


MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame returns to action against UCF 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish will face one of the toughest tests of their non-con­ference schedule this weekend, hosting Central Florida at Purcell Pavilion on Sunday. 
The Golden Knights are 6-1 in the young season, with an 84-74 win over Auburn the highlight of their year thus far. While this is the first true road game for UCF, Irish coach Mike Brey said he expects his squad to be challenged. 
“I’m very impressed with their team, they’re well coached,” Brey said. “And it’s a group coming out like us early, they’re learning how to win. So you got a confident team com­ing in here on Sunday.” 
Notre Dame (7-1) has responded well to its first loss of the season, a 72-58 defeat to Northwestern in the Chicago Invitational Challenge. Since the disappointing loss, the Irish have rebounded with wins over Saint Louis and Idaho State. 
Brey said after a loss like the one to the Wildcats, he doesn’t focus on the failures in the game but on how the team will bounce back. 
“I didn’t talk about any breakdowns, what we didn’t do. Real simple: I want to see how we bounce back,” Brey 
see UCF/page 17 





