
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Bengal Bouts tickets on sale, fights to begin Feb.15 
Annual boxing tournament trying to raise money for Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh amidst bad economy 
By LAURA MCCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
With a Feb. 15 preliminary round on the horizon, tickets went on sale for the 79th annual Bengal Bouts last week. 
Bengal Bouts is a bo-xing event that raises money for the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. 
This year's Bengal Bouts team has almost 300 mem­bers, according to senior president Mark Weber. 
The novice boxers began training before fall break and have been practicing since the beginning of spring semester, he said. The prac­tices run for two hours, six days per week and consist of conditioning plus five to 10 spars with other boxers. 
"To make it through [the training] is really a rite of 
passage," Weber said. 
The pairings for the prelim­inary round will be posted late next week, after the box­ers are divided into 12 to 14 different weight classes and matched with their competi­tors based on their sparring records, he said. 
The box office estimated selling 3,300 all-session and final round tickets as of Monday afternoon. The box office sells all-session and individual round tickets, but each boxer also sells all-ses­sion tickets, making it diffi­cult to estimate total ticket sales, a representative from the box office said. 
Weber said that the boxing club also hopes to sell tickets in the dining halls at the end of the week. 
Bengal Bouts raised $50,000 last year for the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh, but that 

fundraising goal has become pretty hard," he said. year because of the economic more difficult to meet for this Businesses that have tradi­downturn, Weber said. year's tournament, Weber tionally bought advertise­But Weber said that Bengal said. ments for the tournament 
"The economy's hitting us have decided not to do so this • see BOXING/page 3 

Parking lot snow causes confusion for students, police 
snow melts. Lindsey Appelquist said. cuit around the student spots. ing lot. 
By LIZ HARTER While this happens in most She admitted to parking When she got to the end she "It's a convenience to park 
Saim Mary's Editor parking lots on campus, it is illegally in the lot for a day, noticed that there were a in Regina, but there are all 
most noticeable in Regina but did not get ticketed, couple of cars parked at the those other people on campus 
It happens every year at parking lot, next to Regina something which she attrib­end of the row, where tliere is who walk in the cold, [the Saint Mary's. Large amounts Hall. Here, cars stretch the utes to the cold weather. normally space for a car to people parked illegally) of lake effect snow continu­length of the parking lot "I think that security does pull through to exit the lot. should do the same," she ously dumping on the South where, when the ground is not ticket if it is very cold "You can tell the parking said. "It's a safety ~zard and Bend area covers parking lots not covered with snow, there outside, but if it isn't, they spots would usually be lined it makes the grounds [crewl making it almost impossible is a path between two groups are right on it with the ticket­[where they were parked]," work that much harder plow­to see the painted lines desig­of parking spots. ing," she said. she said. "There was a space ing around the cars. It's a nating parking spaces. This path, and an area near However, the lack of organ­between the snow bank and hassle and it's unsafe." 
When this happens, some the side entrance to the park­ized parking spaces inconven­the parked car, but not Dave Gariepy, director of students deal with the inabili­ing lot, are often blocked with iences some who park or try enough for my car to go the Department of Safety and ty to see where one space cars as students try to park to park in the lot. through. I would have hit my Security at Saint Mary's, said ends and another begins by closer to their dorms. Senior Deanna Molosky car and theirs." security routinely checks the leaving a wide berth between "I don't think it's a bad checked the lot to see if there There was no room to turn parking lots and write cita­their car and the next. Some thing that people want to was a spot open after return­her car around so Molosky tions, but it is harder to do so squeeze into smallt)r spaces. park closer to the dorms ing to campus last week. She was forced to back her car in the winter months. 
And some park in spaces when it is very cold outside," pulled into the side entrance down the row and around the that won't be there when the senior and Regina resident of the lot and made the cir-corner just to leave the park-see PARKING/page 3 
CLCdiscusses off-campus task force 
Council also debates possible implementation ofGood Samaritan policy 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council 
(CLC) continued discussing the possibility of creating a new task force that would focus on the issues of off-campus stu­dents and the possible imple­mentation of the Good Samaritan policy at its meeting Monday. 
Student body president Bob Reish said Fr. Mark Poorman, Vice President of Student Affairs, formed a committee to discuss Notre Dame's sexual assault policy, so CLC no longer needs to focus on it. 
"That still leaves room for the off-campus issue and possibility looking through the Good Samaritan policy," Reish said. 
A Good Samaritan policy would protect students who have been drinking from get­ting in trouble if they try to get help for an intoxicated friend who is hurt or sick. 
Another iss.u.e the CLC dis­cussed was the disconnect between the Universit:? and off­campus students, and the lack of clarity on what kind of responsibility off-campus stu­dents and the University have towards each other. 
"Something that we noticed is that once students make the choice to move off campus, the University feels that that is your decision . . . and you can be as involved or uninvolved as you want to be," said Meg MacCaughey, Student Union Board manager. "There is a disconnect that would be really important to fix so that the uni­versity doesn't feel that once you leave, that's it." 
Fr. Pete McCormick, rector of Keough Hall, said he doesn't intend on ignoring or leaving out off-campus students. but that much of dorm life does not apply. to them anymore. 
''I'm respecting their autono­my once they leave the dorm," he said. "It's not out of a sense of spite." 
see CLC/page 3 

Saint Mary's to host weekend conference 
By SARAH MAYER News Writer 
Saint Mary's students may notice an influx of guests on campus this weekend as the College hosts 115 students from other colleges and uni­versities for the Indiana Residence Hall Organization Conference this weekend, sen­ior Katie Mcinerney said at Monday's Board of Governance (BOG) meeting. 

Mcinerney, a resident advi­sor in McCandless Hall, pre­sented a co-sponsorship ask­ing BOG to help supplement costs of the conference. 
"Based on the economy and other situations, we are having issues," she said. "The prob­lem is, at other schools, col­lege students come and sleep on the floor. Since we are an all women's college they would not let us have boys and girls together on the floor and they told us we had to house them · in a hotel." 
While the hotel fees were incorporated into the price the delegates are paying to come, the College is trying to keep the costs as low as possible so every student can attend, she said. 
see BOG/page 3 

page 2 
INSIDE ·coLUMN 
Lan1enting a laptop 
Laptops. Fun, fantastic, internet producing machines that make our lives easier. We can watch Mamma Mia on DVD, listen to that great new song by Miley Cyrus and even get a paper done (after receiving that absolutely necessary extension). 
Sadly these fabulous activities have disappeared from my daily life because my brilliant servant, my 12" PowerBook G4, finally gave up on me after four years of faithful 
Szymon Ryzner 
service. It was sponta­neous albeit 
Scene Writer 
somewhat expected. My lit­tle silver friend had fallen spectacularly a few 
months back and had a few dents on his metallic exterior. Last week though, the screen became gray, filled with horizontal lines of vari­ous colors, and it kindly requested that I shut it down, and send it off on a burning pyre. 
Instead of having my computer at my side to service my every curiosi­ty I was thrown into a dark mysteri­ous abyss filled with no answers to any questions: Did Katie finally friend me on facebook? Who was that one guy in that one movie, you know with the hair? What is the average life expectancy of a tor­toise? The facts that I would look up and immediately forget were gone from my life, with no substitute for "the google," I was once again unsatisfied in my search for trivial knowledge. 
I don't mind that I lo!H all of my photographs, my music, and every­thing that I had written in my undergraduate years of college. The lack of backing up my creations was my fault ·and the data will be recov­erable at some point in the near future. For my expansive 500 giga­byte external hard drive this is no doubt an existential crisis. I am sim­ply saddened by the loss of my com­puter, nay, my companion. 
I lost more than just time and pro­ductivity, I lost an inanimate object that had been there for me for years. W~spent a semester abroad, traveling to various countries. It was there for me when people said that PCs were better than Macs. It was also a great space heater when my off-campus house was complete­ly devoid of heat. 
Of course, it had no idea that any­thing was going on, it was just a series of circuits, but in that respect aren't we all? Perhaps an outra­geous original price or a frequent recharging are required, but you'll never hear your monitor complain. Only in their untimely death are electronics despised, so why not cel­ebrate their service? 
I recommend that everyone take the time to thank the cell phones, televisions, and computers that pro­vide valuable services year after year without asking for anything in return. •. 
Actually I think I'll just replace my computer and not make a big deal out of it. Darn thing cost me a for­tune. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Szymon Ryzner at sryzner@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irselfas a professional publication and srrives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mis­takes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 3, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS YOUR FAVORITE SUPER BOWL COMMERCIAL? 







Claire Brosnihan  Gary Nijak  Meghan Kibbe  Sean O'Boyle  Shannon Coyle  
sophomore PE  senior Knott  freshman LeMans  sophomore Keough  sophomore Lewis  
"I watched the 'Puppy Bowl' during commercial breaks. Seriously.''  "The one where they hit the koala. Because hitting small animals is awesome.  "The Doritos one, because that's what I do with my snowglobes too. "  "TheE-Trade talking baby commercial, because talking babies are crazy.  "The Po/amalu commercial, because I love his hair."  


IN BRIEF 
A debate entitled "Separation of Church and State" will be held today in room C-1 03 of the Hesburgh Center at 4 p.m. Mark Lilla, Professor of Humanities (Columbia) and author of The Stillborn God: Religion, Politics, and the Modem West, and Daniel Philpott, Associate Professor of Political Science (Notre Dame) will debate important issues of reli­gion, politics and their intersection. 
The Saint Mary's justice educa­tion program is sponsoring a lec­ture series offering a variety of perspectives on human rights.The first lecture in the series will be a panel discussion to be held on today at 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall. Four human rights activists will share their experiences working on behalf of those in need around the world. 
Keenan Hall's annual comedy show "The Keenan Revue" will take place Thursday, Friday and Saturday at 7p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. 

Man in wheelchair allegedly robbery a short time later. Police said a 20-year-old son 
L.A. Theatre Works presents snatches purse Two officers took the man to and bis parenlo;; were arguing 
"The Great Tennessee Monkey COLUMBUS, Ga. a medical center for treat­in a car around 11 a.m. 
Trial" Saturday at 7 p.m. in the Columbus police arrested a ment. Police said the man Sunday. 
Decio Mainstage Theatre of the man in a wheelchair after he then insulted the weight of When officers approached 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. allegedly stole a woman's one officer and then cursed the car, police said the son 
The play is based on original tran­purse early Saturday and and spit in his face. assaulted the officers. After 
scripts of the famous 1925 then spit in an officer's face. The man was charged with police arrested him and two 
Tennessee v. John Scopes "Monkey Police said a 51-year-old man obstruction of an officer and more officers arrived, police 
Trial," which challenged the newly approached a 49-year-old was released from the said the father pulled out a 
passed Tennessee legislature's woman who was reclining on Muscogee County Jail later butcher knife and tried to 
"Butler Act" banning the teaching a couch in the lobby of their that day. stab an officer. 
of evolution in the state's public apartment building with her Police drew their weapons 
schools. Purchase tickets online, brown purse beside her. Stabbing officers a family and the father laid the knife 
visit or call the Ticket Office at Police said the man took the affair down. But police said the 
574-631-2800. purse and tried to get away SEVERN, Md. -Anne mother tried to grab the knife but the woman yelled at him Arundel County Police said a before assaulting the fourth 
To submit information to be 

to return the purse and it was man and his parents assault­officer. 
included in this section of The 

Observer, e-mail detailed inforuza­an elevator and went to his when they responded to a Information compiled from 
recovered. The man got into ed and tried to stab officers 
tion about an event to room but was arrested for report of the family arguing. the Associated Press. 
obsnews@nd.edu. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
=c 
LLI 
3: 

~ 
0.
* *** 
...I 
~ 

~ 
e
< 
(,) 

******
* *
******
* * 

0 

HIGH 21 HIGH 11 HIGH 18 HIGH 27 HIGH 34 HIGH 42
...I 

LOW 8 LOW 0 LOW 72 LOW 21 LOW 31 LOW 31 
Atlanta 46 I 23 Boston 32 I 22 Chicago 20 I 8 Denver 55 I 28 Houston 68 I 40 Los Angeles 84 I 54 Minneapolis 13 I 0 New York 31 I 20 Philadelphia 32 I 20 Phoenix 79 I 50 Seattle 53 I 42 St. Louis 25 I 14 Tampa 60 I 47 Washington 41 I 23 
Tuesday, February 3, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Boxing 
continued from page 1 
Bouts is making an effort to go beyond simply raising money for the Holy Cross missions. 
through the Center for Social Concerns. 
The new ISSLP will send Notre Dame boxers to Bangladesh each summer, cre­ating a more personal relation­ship between the boxing tour­nament and the missions that it 

This past sum­"Instead ofjust supports. The mer, he and documentary
sending money over
four other box­film will be

there, we're trying to 
ers traveled to released in the Bangladesh to form relationships fall of 2009, visit the mis­Weber said. 

with the people and 
sions for the "Our money is

learn from them. " 
first time in earmarked to Bengal Bouts' fund educational history. Mark Weber initiatives in During the tribal villages,"
senior president 
two-week trip, the boxers vis­ited the missions, worked on a documentary film with a pro­fessional camera crew, and paved the way for a new International Summer Service Learning Program (ISSLP) 
BOG 
continued from page 1 
The co-sponsorship also asked for funds to help offset the costs of the programs for the conference and a movie being shown Friday night. 
"The movie will be shown here on campus and everyone can go see it so it will benefit the entire campus;" Mcinerney said. 
After the co-sponsorship was passed, student body vice president Sarah Falvey talked about the Women Honoring Women banquet held in late February. · 
"The banquet is a really great way to honor women faculty and staff," Falvey said. "We already have received nine nominations and we are still accepting them until Feb. 17." 
In other BOG news: 
+Little Sib's Weekend will be Feb. 27-28, Residence Hall Association president Maura Clougherty said. Registration for the event has ended. 
+Student Activities Board coordinator Michele Peterson announced that the movie 
he said. "Instead 

of just sending money over there, we're trying to form relationships with the people and learn from them." 
Contact Laura McCrystal at 
fmccryst@nd.edu 
"Twilight" will be shown the afternoon of Feb. 21 in Vander Vennet Theater in the base­ment of the Student Center. Showings will be at 1:30, 3:20, 5:30, 7:40, and 9:50. While the event is free, stu­dents will need tickets that will be distributed on Feb. 19. 
+Women's Studies majors started a formal petition to make a Women's Studies class required under the General Education require­ments, women's issues com­missioner Becki Faunce said. Those involved people are going around the dorms with petitions and need 250 stu­dent signatures before they turn it in. 
+Sophomore Parents Weekend will be Feb. 13-15, class of 2011 president Meg Griffin said. Over 250 par­ents are planning to attend. 
+Class of 2009 president Jenny Antonelli said plan­ning for commencement and Senior Week has begun. The annual Senior Lunch will be the Monday of Senior Week and all other activities will be planned around it. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @stmarys.edu 
dents who lived off campus
CLC 

decided to live on campus, they couldn't," said Lyon. continued from page 1 Reish said he is going to 
move forward with the council Reish offered many questions and create an off-campus task that a task force dedicated to force at the end of the discus­off-campus issues could sion. answers, such as, "Where does CLC also discussed looking the student go that has ques­further into the . Good 
tions off campus? Is there a Samaritan policy, a policy on University role [in off-campus which the student representa­life]? What are off-campus stu­tives and the rectors had dif­dents responsibilities to the ferent views. 
University?" Student Senate representa­
Sister Denise Lyon, rector of tive Catherine Flynn said she Badin Hall, has talked to said she sees some students 
value in the "It's saying, I want to who were afraid University to get help for
make sure I'm covered
offering themselves or
before I help a student
s o m e friends because involvement who is in distress." they didn't want to off-cam­to get in trouble. pus stu­Car~;oll Hall rec­
Jim Lewis
dents, tor Fr. Jim Lewis 
Carroll Hall rector
because the said he thinks University students who do needs stu-that are prioritiz­dents to live off-campus since ing not being punished over they do not have enough room safety. to house all students. "It's saying, I want to make 
"That was a big eye-opener sure I'm covered before I help to me in terms of my perspec­a student who is in distress," tive on them. I think there is he said. something to the University He said he is concerned that offering some sort of presence the policy ignored more funda­to them because if all the stu-. mental issues. 


Parking 
continued from page 1 
Security will also tow vehi­cles that are considered · traffic hazards or chronic violators. 
"We run into this partic­ular problem every winter when the lots become snow-covered and the parking spaces are not clearly visible," he said. "During warmer weather, when the lines are visible, it is much easier to enforce parking rules." 
If students see a parking violation they would like Security to address, ·how­ever, Gariepy said they can call the Security depart­ment at 574-284-5000. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO1@saintmarys.edu 
"I would also like to see something [that says], 'You are [helping] because it is the right thing to do and somebody's life is in jeopardy,"' Lyon said. "As a Catholic university, there has to be some kind of educational piece. You don't do this so you don't get in trouble." 
In contrast, off-campus stu­dent senate representative Jennifer D'Auria said the fact of the matter is that students do worry about getting in trou­ble. 
"When it comes down to it, students do think that way, and because we qon't want anybody's safety to get hurt, some sort of policy should be implemented," she said. "Not just because you want to get out of trouble but because things are going to happen. [lf1 students do feel like they are getting in trouble and they don't act on it, someone's going to get hurt." . 
Reish said he will email CLC members what he sees as the main issues that were dis­cussed and that members should respond with their top two choices .in order to decide on the new task force. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

Military cominander rejects comparison to Vietnam 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -The top 
U.S. military officer cautioned Monday against comparing the Pentagon's renewed focus on Afghanistan to the Vietnam War, citing terrorism and a non-occupation strate­gy as "dramatic differences" between the two conflicts. 
"Afghanistan is much more complex," said Navy Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
He added: "I certainly rec­ognize -and having been in Vietnam myself -that there are those who make compar­isons. I would be pretty care­ful about that though, for lots of reasons." 
Mullen's comments came as the Pentagon prepares to deploy an additional 15,000 Army and Marine troops to Afghanistan this spring and summer in the Obama admin­istration's military campaign to shut down the Taliban and al-Qaida. 
Ultimately, an estimated 60,000 U.S. troops could be 
in Afghanistan over the next year as Obama starts order­ing soldiers from Iraq. There are currently about 32,000 American troops in Afghanistan. 
Speaking to a Washington meeting of the Reserve Officers Association, Mullen stopped short of predicting how long U.S. troops would remain in Afghanistan. He said the main difference between Afghanistan and Vietnam is that "we are not an occupying force." 
"We have no intention of that," Mullen said. "There isn't any of the 42-plus coun­tries who are there that have that intention.... That said, we cannot send a message to the Afghan people that we are." 
Chief among the concerns, Mullen said, is making sure Afghanistan never again becomes a safe haven for al­Qaida leaders who moved to lawless Pakistan tribal regions in the post-9/11 hunt for Osama bin Laden. 
"We cannot accept that al­Qaida leadership which con­tinues to plan against us every single day -and I mean us, here in America ­to have that safe h·aven i.n Pakistan nor could resume one in Afghanistan," Mullen said. 
Efforts to eliminate govern­ment corruption and develop the poor nation also marks a contrast between the U.S. mission in Afghanistan from Vietnam, Mullen said. 
Defense Secretary Robert Gates met Monday with President Barack Obama, but White House spokesma'n Robert Gibbs would not say whether the two discussed troop levels in Afghanistan. 
Meanwhile, the Pentagon released a long-awaited study Monday describing crumbling security and a peak in vio­lence in Afghanistan in spring and summer of 2008. 
Reacting to the study, House Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton, D-Mo., said in a statement that the situation in Afghanistan is troubling and will need more time and effort. 
"The ,mission in Afghanistan continues to be limited by shortfalls in both military and civilian resources," Skelton said. "The problems are man­ifold: too few trainers and m.entors for the Afghan National Security Forces; per­vasive corruption and a lack of leadership and human cap­ital within the Government of Afghanistan; slow progress in economic reconstruction and in the countermircotics fight; and the ongoing existence of insurgent safe havens along the border with Pakistan, one of the greatest challenges to long-term security in the region." 
The quarterly status report, required by Congress, focused mostly on data avail­able between April and September 2008 but included some year-end details, including: 
+Between January and December 10, 2008, 132 U.S. personnel in Afghanistan died as the result of hostile action, up from 82 in 2007. 
+The Afghan National Army Air Corps is beefi~g up its reconnaissance and gun­
ship fleets and added 27 new helicopters and cargo planes by the end of December. 
+As of December, NATO had provided only 42 Operational Mentor Liaison Teams out of 103 promised to train the Afghan National Security Forces. 
The shortfall of the teams impacts the training of the Afghan forces, the report noted. 
+The annual Failed State Index, published by the Fund for Peace, showed worsening governance in Afghanistan between 2006 and 2008. 
Mullen also said the global financial crisis is threatening 
U.S. security options abroad, forcing a delicate balance between national security and federal budget cuts. 
"I am extremely concerned that in fact one of the outputs of this financial crisis will be an increase in instability," Mullen said. 
He added: "Clearly, in lis­tening to our new president. it's going to have an impact on the budgets in our govern­ment." 

Patrol invffitigatffi quota allegations 
Associated Press 

SANTA ANA-The U.S. Border Patrol on Monday ordered an investigation of allegations by agents in Southern California that they -were given arrest quotas and threatened with punishment ifthey failed to meet them. 
Jeffrey Calhoon, El Centro's chief patrol agent, said he learned the patrol agent in charge of the agency's Riverside station some 100 miles north of the Mexican border gave agents numerical goals for how many suspected illegal immigrants they should arrest in January. 
Calhoon says he has ordered a probe into whether agents were told they would be punished if they failed to meet this target. 
"If there is some threatening behavior, we're not going to toler­ate it," Calhoon said. 
The probe comes after Border Patrol agents in Riverside said they were ordered to arrest at least 150 suspected illegal immi­grants in January or faced having their work shifts changed. 
No one has been suspended during the probe, said Richard Velez, an agency spokesman. 
Calhoon said the agency does use goals to inspire agents, for example, by driving units to com­pete against each other, and often the measuring stick turns out to be number of arrests. But he said setting numeric targets was not common practice -nor one he would recommend. 
"It would not be the normal method of refocusing work effort," he said. 
Agents said the 150-arrest mandate for the station last month was a jump from targets set at the end oflast year to make 100 arrests in each November and December. 
"I don't know if there is a dif­
ference between goals and quo­tas if we have numbers," said Lombardo Amaya, president of Local 2554 of the National Border Patrol Council. "For this reason, I think numbers are out of place." 
Amaya said Calhoon guaran­teed that agents at the 15-person station would not be punished if they didn't make the target. 
T.J. Bonner, president of the National Border Patrol Council -· which represents close to 15,000 Border Patrol agents nationwide -said he wanted to see a fair 
and impartial investigation and appropriate punishment if the allegations were true. 
Immigrant advocates said they worried such quotas could be driving agenL<> to make arrests in heavily populated areas far from the border to keep up their num­bers. Advocates have been send­ing monitors to day labor corners with video cameras to document the arresL<; and have called for a march on Saturday to protest the increased enforcement. 
Emilio Amaya, executive direc­tor of the San Bernardino 
) . 
Community Service Center, ques­tioned whether the Border Patrol might be bolstering efforts inland because of a recent decline in traffic across the Mexican border. 
'They have been very visible," said Emilio Amaya, whose non­profit provides legal services to immigrants. "This was not an issue in the past." 
Oba111a to no_111inate Sen. Gregg for Cabinet 
New Hampshire Gov. John himsnlf. others are Defense
Associated Press 

Lynch confirmed the The White llouse tried to Secretary Robert Gates and 
WASHINGTON "understanding," stopping stay out of the back and Transportation Secretary President Barack Obama just short of promising to forth. But officials there did Hay Lahood. plans to nominate Sen. Judd appoint a Hepublican or an nothing to squelch the The deal spares Gregg Gregg as commerce secre­independent to serve out expectation that Gregg blame· for delivering tary on Tuesday, the White the remaining two years of would be nominated to the Democrats complete control House confirmed on the eve Gregg's term. post. of the Senate and a re-elec­of the announcement as the The deal would give "Obviously, the president tion campaign· in New Hampshire Hepublican Obama his top choice for a has great respeet for Democratic-leaning New disclosed an apparent deal team tasked with steering Senator Gregg," White Hampshire. that would keep his seat out the nation out of recession. House press secretary Lynch's agreement, mean­of Democratic hands. Bepublicans get to keep Hobert Gibbs said Monday. while, shores up his biparti­
"I have made it clear to Gregg's seat for two more ''I'm not going to get into san credentials at a time the Senate leadership on years, retaining the crucial personnel announcements when he's confronting a both sides of the aisle and 41 Senatn seats they nned before we arc there." decades-old budget crisis at to the governor that I would to filibustnr majority ·Getting to a deal took home. not leave the Senate if I felt Democrats. days of negotiating al'ter it The Republican expected my departure would cause And Democrats, who con­became known last week to be named to Gregg's seat a change in the makeup of trol 56 seats and caucus that Obama was consider­is Bonnie Newman, who the Senate," Gregg said with two independents, ing appointing the former served as Gregg's chief of Monday in a statement. The stand a better chance of Budget Committee chair­staff during his time in the White House confirmed the flipping Gregg's seat into man from New Hampshire House. Newman is a veter­Gregg choice on the condi­their ranks in two years by to his Cabinet. an of the Beagan White tion of anonimity because running a candidate against Gregg would become the House. Under the deal, she the announcement had not his rookie replaeement or third Hepublican in the would not run in the 2010 yet been made. an empty seat than Gregg Cabinet, if confirmed. The election. 


Kent. officials rate FEMA's response to storm 
ofnegative feedback Katrina gen­federal disaster policy. response has been very good so
AssQciated Press 

erated. Beshear asked Obama for a far. Her group represents emer­
EDDYVILLE, Ky. -In the first The agency hasn't been tested disaster declaration to free up gency management directors real test of the Obama adminis­the same way it was after the federal assistance Thursday, two from all 50 states. tration's ability to respond to a hurricane, however. days after the storm hit, and "The governor's declaration disaster, Kentucky officials are Gov. Steve Beshear raised Obama issued it hours later. request for an emergency was giving the federal government Kentucky's death toll to 24 on Trucks loaded with supplies turned around very, very quickly good marks for its response to a Monday, meaning the storm has bl'lgan arriving at a staging area by FEMA and the White House," deadly ice storm. been blamed in at least 55 deaths at Fort Campbell, Ky., on Friday said Sheets, who just had her 
Yet more than 300,000 resi­nationwide. And while it also morning, said Mary Hudak, a power restored Monday after dents remained without power knocked out power to more than spokeswoman for the Federal four days without it. "And Monday and some areas had yet a million customers from the Emergency Management Agency. President Obama has spoken to see aid workers nearly a week Southern Plains to the East Coast, On Saturday, Beshear ordered with the governor of Kentucky on after the storm, a fact not lost on it's still considered a medium­all of the state's Army National several occasions throughout the some local authorities. sized disaster, the kind FEMA has Guardsmen into action to distrib­event." 
"We haven't seen FEMA. They traditionally been successful han­ute supplies, many of which came Sheets said she hadn't heard haven't been here," said Jaime dling. from FEMA. .any complaints so far about the Green, a spokeswoman for the The Kentucky disaster will be Beshear has consistently federal response. emergebcy operations center in closely watched, said Hichard praised Obama, a fellow "FEMA and the Kentucky Lyon County, about 95 miles Sylves, professor of political sci­Democrat, for the attention he's National Guard-are doing every­northwest of Nashville, Tenn. ence at the University of devoted to what Beshear calls the thing they can to get things back 
Federal authorities insisted Delaware, particularly because biggest natural disaster to hit his up and running," Sen. Jim they responded as soon as the Obama hasn't yet named the top state. Bunning said. state asked for help and promised FEMA officials, many of whom "We have had tremendous and By Monday, FEMA officials to keep providing whatever aid must go through Senate confir­quick response from President were checking in on supply distri­was necessary. mation. Obama and his administration," bution points in some rural areas. 
FEMA has been under the "lf it's perceived not to be han­Beshear said Monday. "I don't FEMA official Don Daniel stopped microscope since the Bush dled very well, or if the·re's a think any of our folks that have by to ask emergency manage­administration's botched sense that there's insensitivity at dealt with disasters before ever ment officials in Grayson County, response to Hurricane Katrina in the federal level to the plight of recall as quick a response as we who had criticized FEMA's 2005, which Barack Obama and people suffering, I imagine thn got last Wednesday." absence late last week, what they other Democrats made a favorite people President Obama has Trina Sheets, executive director needed. topic on the presidential cam­appointnd to senior positions in of the National Emergency More generators, they told him, paign trail. FEMA was reorgan­FEMA will bo grilled in their eon­Management Association, based to keep essential services such as ized and strengthened after that, lirmation hearings," said Sylves, in Lexington, Ky., said that from hospitals and water supplies run­and it has avoided the onslaught who has written four books on what she's heard, FEMA's ning. 

Join us to celebrate Charles Darwin's 200fh birthday-and to kick off Darwin at Notre Dame, a series of events commemorating the I50th anniversary of On"the Origin of Species. 
Opening Reception Thursday February 5 @ 5:30 p.m. 
upper lobby of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
~UNIVERSITY OF 

WNOTREDAME darwin.nd.edu 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 3, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pakistani gwnnan capture American 
QUETTA, Pakistan -Gunmen seized an American U.N. worker as he rode to work Monday, shooting and killing his driver, U.N. and Pakistani authorities said. His Land Cruiser was found rammed against a wall, punctured by at least one bullet hole. 
The United Nations expressed "extreme shock and dismay" at the rare attack in a region that has largely been spared the al­Qaida and Taliban insurgency wracking much of northwestern Pakistan. 
The government called the abduction of John Solecki, head of the U.N. refugee oflice in the southwestern city of Quetta, a "dastardly terrorist act." But police said it was not clear whether Islamist militants, criminals seeking a ransom payment or members of a regional separatist group were responsible. 
Badminton team to travel to Iran 
WASHINGTON -The Obama administration is sending a women's badminton team to Iran this week as part of a broad bid to engage the Iranian people through educational and cul­tural exchanges, the State Department said Monday. 
Amid a wide-ranging review of U.S. policy toward the Islamic Republic, the trip is the new administration's first foray into such exchanges that began while President George 
W. Bush was in the White House. Past exchanges have involved athletes from other sports, artists, academics and professionals. 
The 12-member team -eight female play­ers and four coaches and managers represent­ing USA Badminton -will be in Tehran from Tuesday until Feb. 9 to participate in the Iran Fajr International Badminton Tournament, which begins on Friday, the State Department said in a statement. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Sailors trained to ward off pirates 
POHTLAND, Maine-With an alarming number of tankers and cargo ships getting hijacked on the high seas, the nation's mar­itime academies are offering more training to merchant seamen in how to fend off attacks !'rom pirates armed not with cutlasses and flintlocks but automatic weapons and grenade launchers. 
Colleges are teaching students to fishtail their vessels at high speed, drive off intruders with high-pressure water hoses and illumi­nate their decks with floodlights. 

Mom of octuplets recieves offers 
LOS ANGELES -The mother of the longest­living octuplets in the U.S. is being deluged with offers for book deals, TV shows and other business proposals, but has not decided what she might do other than care for her children. her newly hired spokeswoman said Monday. 
Hundreds of requests have been made since Nadya Suleman gave birth to six boys and two girls a week ago, said Joann Killeen, president of Killeen Furtney Group, a public relations company. 
"She's the most sought after mom in the world right now," Killeen said. "Everyone wants to talk to her." 
But Suleman. who remained hospitalized with her children Monday at Kaiser Permancmte's Bellflower Medical Center. has­n't decided what she'll do next, Killeen said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man sentenced to 27 years in prison 
CHOWN POINT -A northwestern Indiana man hm; been sentenced to 27 years in prison for killing his former wife in 1990. 
Fifty-two-year-old Rodney Boesel of Gary pleaded f..,'llilty to voluntary manslaughter and to being a habitual ofl'ender last month and was sentencod Monday in a Lake County court. 
He was arrested in 2007 after his daughter said he thrPatened to cut her throat "like he did my mother." Boesel later admitted that he placed Donna Boesel's body in a plastic bag and left it by the Kankakee River. I ler decomposed body was found two yPars later. 

Newest Cabinet member approved 
Holder becomes first African-American attorney general in nation's history 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Eric Holder won Senate confir­mation Monday as the nation's first African­American attorney general, after supporters from both parties touted his dream resume and easily overcame Republican concerns over his commitment to fight ter­rorism and his willingness to back the right to keep and bear arms. 
The vote was 75-21. 
Holder's chief supporter, Sen. Patrick Leahy, said the confirmation was a fulfill­ment of civil rights leader Martin Luther King's dream that everyone would be judged by the content of their character. 
"Come on the right side of history," said Leahy, D-Vt., chairman of the Judiciary Committee. 
Holder becomes the only black in President Barack Obama's Cabinet. Three other African-Americans were named to top adminis­tration positions, but are not Cabinet secretaries. 
Holder was a federal pros­ecutor, judge and the No. 2 Justice Department official in the Clinton administra­tion. Even his critics agreed that Holder was well-quali­fied, but they questioned his changing his once-support­Court has spoken." But he decide whether to prosecute positions and independence. ive position -on the need to added that some restrictions Justice Department officials 
The debate turned parti­detain terrorism suspects on guns could still be legal. who may have violated the san in its first moments, without all the rights of the Holder's confirmation will law in some of those policies when Leahy, expressed Geneva Convention -to one trigger reviews -and and tactics. anger that a few of harshly criticizing Bush changes -to the most con­Holder also could reverse Republicans demanded a administration's counterter­troversial Bush administra­Bush's orders to former pledge from Holder that he rorism policies. tion policies, from interroga­aides not to testify before wouldn't prosecute intelli­"His contrasting positions tion tactics to terrorism trials Congress on their private gence agents who participat­from 2002 to 2008 make me and warrantless surveil­advise discussions on the ed in harsh interrogations. wonder if this is the same lance. U.S. attorney firings. 
Leahy singled out Texas person," Cornyn said. "It Those are some of the To the satisfaction of Republican John Cornyn as makes me wonder what he known issues. Even Holder Democrats and consterna­one who wanted to "turn a truly believes." doesn't know what he'll find tion of some Hepublicans, blind eye to possible law­Cornyn and Sen. Tom when he looks at secret Holder told his confirma­breaking before investigat­Coburn said Holder was hos­memos in the Justice tion hearing, ing whether it occurred." tile to the right of individuals Department O!'fice of Legal "Waterboarding is tor­
"No one should be seeking to own guns, despite a Counsel. ture." The statement to trade a vote for such a Supreme Court ruling last Holder also will have to about an interrogation pledge," Leahy said. June affirming the right to rehabilitate a department technique that simulates 
When Cornyn rose to have weapons for self­that under President George drowning was an impor­announce his vote against defense in the home. W. Bush was criticized for tant signal of a policy Holder, he did not make such Holder said at his confir­injecting politics in hiring change from Bush's view a dnmand. However, he mation hearings: "I under­career officials and firings of that the tactic was legal accused the nominee of stand that the Supreme U.S. attorneys. He'll have to and not torture. 

ENGLAND 



London shut down by snowstorm 
where often found they couldn't -serious accidents. 
Associated Press 

unless they were willing to walk for London's Ambulance Service's oper­
LONDON-It was hardly a blizzard, miles. ations director Hichard Webber said but it still shut down the city that beat "There's no point in going to work the bad weather had put the depart­the Blitz. today," said office worker Caroline ment under severe pressure, adding 
The biggest snowfall to hit London Samuel, 36, after waiting for an that it will respond only to calls from in 18 years idled the city's trademark Underground train that never arrived. people with life-threatening injuries red buses and Underground trains "''m going home." or illnesses. Monday, stranded thousands of airline All five of the capital's airports Some people strapped on cross­passengers, and raised the vexing briefly shut down -with nearly 800 country skis to get around; others question of why a predicted winter flights canceled throughout the day spent the day sledding with their kids. storm caught authorities so unpre­and thousands of passengers strand­Problems extended to France and pared. ed. An international flight skidded off Ireland as well, with airports in both 
Transit officials had nearly a week a taxiway at Heathrow, causing no countries reporting numerous delays to get ready, but they failed to keep injuries. and cancellations and motorists facing things running normally in the capi­The city's extensive bus network icy hazards. tal, which was buried under more was completely closed for most of the Mayor Boris Johnson eonceded that than four inches of snow overnight day and many trains simply didn't London lacked the plows and other and another four inches in the after­run. equipment -mostly because buying noon. Colossal traffic jams clogged roads it is a gamble with big snowfalls so 
Londoners who needed to get some-because of fender benders and more rare here. 
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 3, 2009 

Cold case investigation begins for Ramsey 
Boulder police look into evidence and action taken after 6-year-old beauty pageant contestant was found dead 
Associated Press 
BOUL­DER, Colo. -The slaying of JonBenet Ramsey will be inves­tigated as a cold case with all evidence and actions taken 12 years ago reviewed anew, the police chief said Monday as the department resumed a probe for which it had long been criti­cized. 
Chief Mark Beckner said new technology gives investigators tools they didn't have a decade ago; the 6-year-old beauty pag­eant contestant was found bludgeoned and strangled in the basement of her Boulder home in 1996. 
Police had transferred the probe to the district attorney's office six years ago amid criti­cism of how the case was han­dled. 
"We'd love to solve this case for JonBenet so she can rest in peace," Beckner said at a news conference announcing the shift. 

Police will handle the investi­gation as a cold case, "reviewing everything that's been done, the evidence that's been collected, trying to determine where do we go from here," he said. 
As a cold case, the investiga­tion won't have a full team of detectives working around-the­clock, the chief said. 
"It's going to be an as-we-can type of thing, or as needed," he said. 
L. Lin Wood, an attorney for JonBenet's father, John Ramsey, called the announcement a "positive sign in terms of my hope that the Boulder Police Department will take not only a new review in terms of a cold case review, but that it will go in this time with an objective review." 
Wood and Ramsey have been critical of previous police efforts, saying they unfairly focused on the family and ignored other evidence. 
Patsy Ramsey, JonBenet's mother and John Ramsey's wife, died in 2006 after a long battle with cancer. 
Beckner said he and newly elected District Attorney Stan Garnett agreed that police should lead the investigation again. 
Beckner said he has invited veteran investigators from state and federal agencies to form an advisory task force on the ease. 
"We're bringing in people on this task force that are going to have a fresh perspective," he said. "(They're going to) look at this ease, tell us what they think, challenge us, give us ideas." 
The group will meet in the next few weeks to review the evidence and identify additional testing that might be done. 
At the news conference, Beckner said more than 140 people had already been investi­gated as potential suspects, but none could be definitively linked to the crime. 
Garnett's predecessor, Mary Lacy, last year cleared Jonbenet's family in the slaying, saying male DNA found on the girl's clothing almost certainly came from her killer, and that it didn't match anyone in the fami­ly. 
Beckner informed John Ramsey of the change in the investigation in a letter. Wood said the letter gave no hint that police would back away from Lacy's decision to clear the fami­ly. 
Lacy did not run for re-elec­tion because of term limits. She told The Associated Press that returning the investigation to police was "a great idea." 
"I think that time has resolved any issues that might have lin­gered, but also I think that Mark Beckner has done a very good job," she said. 
Lacy said the reason her office took over the case in 2002 was that the Ramsey family had no confidence in the police. "It was­n't that they were incompetent," she said of the oflicers. 
Lacy said she is "absolutely" hopeful the case will one day be resolved. 
"I believe the DNA (that cleared the Ramsey family) is the most significant piece of evi­dence, and hopefully, as with some cold cases, there will eventually be a hit on it," she said. 
Beckner said "that unknown DNA" will be a big part of the 


Unusual procedure used to donate kidney 
Doctors remove organ through vagina in 'easier than childbirth' operation to reduce pain, scarring and recovery time 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -Surgeons removed a woman's kidney through her vagina so she could give it to her ailing niece, an unusual operation they hope will encourage oth­ers to donate because it reduces pain, scarring and recovery time. 
Doctors at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine said donor Kimberly Johnson, 48, and her niece, Jennifer Gilbert, 2 3, were both doing well following operations Thursday. 
"It was easier than child­birth," said Johnson, who has three children. 
Transvaginal kidney removals have been done before to remove cancerous or nonfunctioning kidneys, and other diseased organs have also been removed through mouths and other orifices. Many donated kidneys are removed laparoscopically, through small keyhole inci­sions. 
But hospital officials think this may be the first time a donor kidney was removed through the vagina. 
The operation left three pea­size scars on the Lexington Park woman's abdomen, one hidden in her navel. Surgeons hope the procedure will lead more women to become donors, said Dr. Robert Montgomery, chief of the transplant division at Johns Hopkins, who led the team that performed the surgery. 
Johnson said the operation was less painful than gall blad­der surgery and she is recov­ering more quickly than Gilbert's father, who gave his daughter a kidney 12 years ago. 

Gilbert, of Baltimore, needed the first transplant because repeated infections had destroyed the kidneys she was born with. She needed the sec­ond after she began suffering chronic rejection. 
Johnson, an assistant sales manager for a St. Mary's County newspaper, said she was able to get out of bed Thursday night, the same day the kidney was removed. 
Quicker recovery and less pain are the key benefits of the new technique, said Montgomery and Dr. Anthony Kalloo, the director of the Division of Gastroenterology at Johns Hopkins and a pioneer of the method of using natural orifices for organ removal. 
Kalloo said more than 300 such surgeries have been per­formed worldwide, mostly gall bladder and appendix removal through the mouth, anus and vagina. Kalloo said there has been some resistance in the medical community because of concerns, for example, that stomach acid could leak into the abdominal cavity in opera­tions where organs were removed through the mouth. 
Dr. Jihad Kaouk, a urologist and director of the Cleveland Clinic's Center for Laparoscopic and Robotic Surgery, is among those con­cerned about contamination. He was not involved in Johnson's surgery. 
"There is the risk of infection having the kidney passing through a contaminated area and then going to another patient who is immunocompro­mised," Kaouk said. "That is the concern we have and we would like to monitor the out­come in that regard." 
In Johnson's case, Montgomery said a plastic bag placed into her abdominal cav­ity through a tiny incision pro­tected the donated kidney from contamination by bacteria and other organisms in her vagina. Johnson was chosen because she has had a hysterectomy, which made the operation eas­ier, but the procedure could be used without affecting women's ability to give birth, he said. 
More than 78,000 people are on the national waiting list to receive kidneys from deceased donors. The need is increasing as diabetes and obesity rise, threatening to further length­en a wait that can last years. In 2007, more than a third of the 16,629 kidneys transplant­ed in the U.S. came from living donors, according to the United Network for Organ Sharing. 
Montgomery said the num­ber of living donor transplants has tripled since laparoscopic removal debuted in 1995, pro­viding an alternative to so­called "shark bite" abdominal incisions. He hopes advances such as the vaginal removal will continue the increase. 
"We think she'll be probably back to her normal activities within a week or two," the transplant surgeon said. Recovery from laproscopic sur­gery typically takes several weeks. "So, that greatly reduces the inconvenience of donating and we're hoping that will encourage more peo­ple to donate." 


Kim Johnson, who donated a kidney to her niece four days earlier, poses for a portrait at a relative's home Monday. 


Announcing the Year 2009 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program 
is pleased to announce the year 2009 annual competition for travel in support of summer 
research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not nonnally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and 
undergraduate students who arc planning to pursue research or a formal program of 
summer sntdy in Italy are invited 10 apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will nonnally be in Italian; will involve the 
study of Italian language, literature, and culture~ and must be applicable to a student's 
degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Kccommendcd programs lor lorcign study include. bUI are not limited to: Loyola 
University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa. Miami University in Urbina. Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages. 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students arc invited to submit a letter which should include: 
I)  an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame~  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests. and long-tenn goals;  
3)  a description of the research project or the program they intend to lollow;  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved:  
5)  two lett~rs ofrecommendation  
6)  a transcript showing all grades and courses completed  
7)  a list ofother sources offunding (being sought or confinned) for the same project  
(i.e. Office of International Studies. Nanovic Institute. etc.)  
Application Deadline:  Friday, March 6, 2009  
Alhert l~avarino  Italian Studies Tr:nel Scholarshi)l  
Program in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hill!  
University of Notre I>amc  

Tuesday, February 3, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,936.75 -64.11 
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,637  107  2,122  1,490,254,962  
NASDAQ  1 494.43  +18.01  



NYse·.,;t~{llfil!lfJIIIrfltBII••• 
NIKKEI•IIb&i~Ji!llf,llii;i!\lt¥1-lllllitlll 
FTSE 100 (London) 4,077.78 -71.86 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (BAC) -8.81 -0.58 6.00 SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) -0.30 -0.25 82.58 CITIGROUP INC (C) +2.82 +0.10 3.65 GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) -4.20 -0.51 11.62 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -4.40 -0.125 2.719 13-WEEK BILL +11.36 +0.030 0.250 30-YEAR BOND . -3.69 -0.133 3.470 5-YEAR NOTE -6.67 -0.125 1.748 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.60 40.08 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -21.20 907.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.23 82.10 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 89.4600 EURO 1.2851 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2458 BRITISH POUND 1.4279 
IN BRIEF 


Stock markets around the world slip 
LONDON -World stock markets finished mostly 'lower Monday, with financial and ener­gy stocks leading the way down as investors prepared for another week of poor earnings reports and gloomy economic data. 
Mter Asian markets slipped, there was little appetite to buy in Europe as faith in a rapid turnaround in the global economy and corpo­rate earnings faded. Britain's benchmark FTSE 100 ended down 1.7 percent at 4,077.78, while the German DAX dropped 1.5 percent at 4,271.04. France's CAC 40 shed 1.5 percent at 2,930.05. 
On Wall Street, some buying in technology stocks lifted the Nasdaq composite, which rose 18.01, or 1.22 percent, to 1.494.43. But the Dow Jones industrial average 64.03, or 0.80 percent, to 7,936.83, hurt by sliding industrial, energy and financial stocks. 
Republicans try to cut spending 
WASHINGTON -Senate Republicans circulated a sweeping plan to drive down the cost of mort­gages by expanding the federal government's role in the industry, officials said Monday night as debate opened on an economic stimulus bill at the top of President Barack Obama's agenda. 
The emerging proposal also relies on a bigger and more widely available tax break for home­buyers than is now available, those officials added as Senate Republicans staked their claim to a dif­ferent type of economic recovery measure than Democrats and the administration favor. 
Democrats already are under pressure from moderates in their own party to scale back spend­ing in the $885 billion bill, and Obama met with party leaders at the White House late in the day to discuss strategy. 
"What we can't do is let very modest differences get in the way of swift enactment of the legisla­tion," Obama said several hours earlier as new layoffs rippled through the economy and the Commerce Department reported an unexpectedly large sixth straight drop in personal spending. 
In the Capitol, Republicans said their goal was the change the bill, not to block it. "Nobody that I know of is trying to keep a package from passing," said Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader. 



THE OBSERVER 





USINESS \ 
page 7 

Banks make it harder to obtain loans 
Despite $700 billion bailout, borrowers still finding it difficult to be approved 

S&P 500 825.44 -0.44 

Associated Press  
WASHINGTON  -Many  
banks have made it harder  
for borrowers to obtain all  
kinds of loans over the last  
three months despite  a  
$700 billion federal bailout  
program and a  flurry of  
other bold moves to stem  
the worst financial crisis to  
hit the country since the  
1930s.  
The Federal Reserve in  
its  quarterly survey of  
bank lending practices  
released Monday. found  
large numbers of banks  
reporting tighter credit  
standards across a broad  
range of loan products  - 
from  credit  cards  and  
home mortgages to busi­ 
ness loans.  
Nearly  60  percent  of  
banks responding to the  
survey said they had tight­ 
ened lending standards on  
credit card and other con­ 
sumer loans, about the  
same share as in the previ­ 
ous  survey released  in  
early November. And about  
80 percent of domestic  
banks said they tightened  
lending standards on com­ 
mercial real-estate loans,  
slightly  less  than  the  
roughly 85 percent that  
reported doing so in the  
previous survey.  
All told, though, the pro­ 
portion  of  banks  that A quarterly survey released by the Federal Reserve Monday found that a significant number  
"reported having tightened of banks reported tighter credit standards for borrowers.  
their lending policies on all  
major loan categories over  the  foreseeable  future  inject $250 billion into  and Ginnie Mae.  
the previous three months  regardless of whether or  banks in return for partial  In its survey, the Fed said  
stayed very elevated," the  not there is stress in the  ownership.  Treasury  roughly  45  percent  of  
Fed concluded.  . credit markets and a deep  Secretary  Timothy  banks raised the  mini­ 
Greg McBride,  senior  recession. Lenders won't  Geithner is exploring other  mum-required  credit  
financial  analyst  at  go back to giving out credit  ways  to  provide relief,  scores  on  credit  card  
Bankrate.com, predicted  like candy anytime soon."  including the· possibility of  accounts and other con­ 
that banks  - whose lax  The  Fed  survey  was  buying rotten mortgages  sumer loans.  
lending  standards  for  based on the responses of  and other toxic assets now  The survey also found  
home  mortgages  con·  51 domestic banks and 23  weighing down banks' bal­ that domestic banks had  
tributed to the financial  U.S.  offices  of  foreign.  ance sheets.  reduced the size of existing  
meltdown -won't be in  banks.  The Federal Reserve has  credit lines for all major  
any rush to loosen lending  The findings come as the  slashed a key interest rate  types of business and con­ 
standards.  government has taken a  to record lows and rolled  sumer customers.  
"Even  when  lenders  series of unprecedented  out radical programs to,  For business customers,  
come back to the market­ actions to bust through a  among other things, pro­ roughly  60  percent  of  
place and become willing  debilitating credit clog and  vide cash loans to banks,  banks reported a decrease  
to lend again, who they  spur banks to lend more  buy mounds of short-term  in the limits on commercial  
lend  to  is  not going  to  freely again.  debt from companies, and  construction lines of credit,  
change," McBride said.  Under the $700 billion  purchase up to $500 billion  and about 50 percent indi­ 
"The tighter qualification  bailout program, enacted  in mortgage-backed secu­ cated a decrease in the lim­ 
standards that we've been  in early October, the gov­ rities  guaranteed  by  its extended to financial  
seeing are here to stay for  ernment has pledged to  Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac  firms.  


Consumers continue to cut spending 
Associated Press "We are very much reliant on what­said they had tightened lending stan­
ever help the government can provide dards on credit cards and other types 
WASHINGTON Consumers through the stimulus package and of consumer loans. slashed spending for an unprecedent­through the efforts of the Federal Greg McBride, senior fmancial ana­ed sixth straight month in December, Reserve and the Treasury Department lyst at Bankrate.com, says banks ­feeding the already painful recession to help the fmancial system." whose lax lending standards for home as millions of households opted to Personal consumption spending mortgages contributed to the financial save rather than buy. dropped 1 percent in December, a meltdown -are in no rush to loosen 
The drop in consumer spending, the sixth consecutive decline that repre­lending standards. economy's key driver, means little sented the longest stretch of weakness "Even when lenders come back to help is in sight for struggling retailers, in a half-century of record keeping. the marketplace and become willing homebuilders and automakers. Spending had declined 0.8 percent in to lend again, who they lend to is not 
The fallout spread Monday when November, even worse than first going to change," McBride said. Macy's Iric. announced it would cut reported, the Commerce Department "Lenders won't go back to giving out 7,000 jobs, almost 4 percent of its reported. credit like candy anytime soon." work force, and take other belt-tight­Separately, the Fed reported that Incomes, reflecting an accelerating ening measures to cope with the drop banks were making it harder for bor­tide of layoffs, fell for a third straight in sales. rowers to obtain all sorts of loans over month in December. The 0.2 percent 
"It is going to be hard to get the the last three months despite the gov­drop followed a 0.4 percent fall in economy going again," said Nigel ernment's $700 billion bailout pro­November that was worse than ini­Gault, chief U.S. economist for IHS gram. Nearly 60 percent of banks tially reported, the Commerce Global Insight of Lexington, Mass. responding to the Fed's new survey Department reported. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, February 3, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 

Obama's new era of responsibility 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWs EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTIS;NG MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MAKAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR 1K CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSiiHANT MANAGIKG EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574} 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
During Barack Obama's lackluster inaugural address, he called upon all Americans to usher in "a new era of responsibility -a recognition, on the part of every American, that we have duties to our­selves, .our nation, and the world, duties that we do not grudgingly accept but rather seize gladly, firm in the knowledge that there is noth­ing so satisfying to the ~pirit, so defining of our character, than giving our all to a difficult task." 
His subsequent actions as presi­dent, however, do not ring true to these words. 
Take, for instance, his decision to shut down the prison facilities at Guantanamo Bay within the next year. While liberals in America and radical Muslims throughout the world cheered, the question of what should be done with the detainees remains woefully unanswered. 
"They're either going to be moved and tried in American courts, tried in mili­tary courts, or they're going to be sent back to their own countries," Vice President Joe Biden said. 
Moving the detainees from one prison to another does nothing more than needlessly endanger Americans by bringing them within our nation's bor­ders. It does not address the criticisms regarding the status of those prisoners who have yet to be charged with a crime, nor does it make explicit how long they will be held until they are tried. Releasing them in the US is out of the question, and the 60 detainees that the Pentagon has already cleared have not been accepted back into their home countries, or any other nations for that matter. Who can blame them, since one man released in 2005 later killed 13 Iraqi soldiers in a suicide bombing and another who was deported to Saudi Arabia has become the deputy leader of a branch of al-Qaeda bordering Yemen. 


One of the primary roles of govern­ment is to provide security for its citi­zens. In his zeal for protecting the "rights" of those who would kill them­selves to harm innocent American men, women, and children, Obama has apparently neglected this vital responsi­bility. 
Another area in which Obama conve­niently forgets his own call for a new era involves his cabinet nominees. First there was the case of Timothy Geithner, now Obama's Treasury Secretary, who faileq to pay over $34,000 in federal taxes over several years until an audit by the IRS in 2006. Then last November Obama's vetting team found more unpaid taxes from 2001 and 2002, and again Geithner wq.s forced to repay them. 
Former Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, Obama's pick for secretary of health and human services, has also run into trouble regarding tax payments. Reports have surfaced showing that he failed to pay over $128,000 in taxes by neglecting to declare the use of a car and driver lent to Daschle by wealthy Democratic fundraiser Leo 1-lindery. Nor did he bother to report the $83,000 in consulting income he earned in 2007. He did, however, claim nearly $15,000 in charitable donations to organizations that do not qualify for deductions. Even more alarming is the fact that Daschle knew that he needed to correct his tax returns since June, but didn't bother to fix the matter until January, nearly a month after his nomination. 
Now I understand why Democrats are always so eager to push for tax increas­es-they themselves don't actually pay for them! If Obama wants ordinary Americans to take up the responsibility creed, he ought to hold his nominees to the same -if not higher -standards. 
But the award for greatest lack of responsibility goes to Obama himself, for failing to uphold his campaign prom­ise to govern in a bipartisan manner. From his very first day in office, Barack Obama began reaching out to Republicans by prohibiting the use of advanced interrogation techniques against captured terrorists, reversing the Bush administration's prohibition of funding organizations that promote and provide abortions overseas, passing the Lilly Ledbetter Act, and signing a series of pro-union executive orders. Most recently, he helped push the $825 bil­lion economic stimulus package through the House without a single Republican vote. 
Even John McCain, the eternal maver­ick, is voicing opposition to the bill while criticizing Obama and his party for their failure to include Republican input in the drafting process. "The Republicans have not been brough't in to the degree that we should be into these negotia­tions and discussions," he said last week, adding that no Republican pro­posal was incorporated into the legisla­tion. 
When Republican Congressman Eric Cantor voiced concerns over Obama's tax policy during a private meeting with Congressional Republicans and Democrats, the President ended the debate with a single phrase: "I won." After all the complaints about Bush's "my way or the highway" approach to governing, the Democrats appear to have embraced it wholeheartedly. At least Bush was bold enough to admit it. 
So much for the era of responsibility. 
Christie Pesavento is a junior and can be reached at cpesaven@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the studenrs of the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON
University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither · institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported aS accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
11u: Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi~hed Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation period.~. A subscripdnn to Th.; Observer ill-$1 (l{l tOr nne academic year; $55 for one_ semcsrer. 
The Observer is published ar: POSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining Hall Send addn:ss correctioru to~ None Dame, IN 1:6556-0779 TheO!mrver ~riodical Posra.gc paid ar ~otre Dam¢ P.O.llox779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Not~ Dame, IN 46556..077' 
The Observer is a membc:r ofthe As.rociated PreiS. All reproductton tights an: res.erved. 


TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Liz Harter Bill Brink Robert Singer Michael Bryan Liz O'Donnell Douglas Farmer 
"One cannot find peace in work or "You can't deny laughter. When it

Graphics Scene in pleasure, in the world or in a 
comes, it plops down in Y.OUr
Madeline Nies Jess Shaffer convent, but only in one's soul." 

favorite chazr: and sta}/S as long as Viewpoint lt wants. · 
W. Somerset Maugham 
Lauren 
English dramatist & novelist Stephen King 
Brauweiler 
horror novelist & screenwriter 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 3, 2009 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Of insults and T-shirts 
For the past four years, my friends and I have attended every home hockey game that was not scheduled during a break in addition to many away games. This Friday, we arrived to the game against Michigan an hour before game time, as per usual, only to find that the game was sold out. After hearing multiple people complain that it was adver­tised online that the doors would open at 7:05, I was a bit confused, and still am, as to how the student section was filled before the doors were set to open. 
In addition, when I arrived at the JACC,there was a line of about 30-40 students, waiting to get into the game, completely oblivious to the fact that they would not be.gaining admission. The ushers, who clearly saw the line out the door and chose to do nothing about the students standing outside in the 9 degree weather which felt like -2. It wasn't until a friend told the ushers that they should probably let the students know the game was sold out before they decided to do anything about the freezing students. 
Not only was the student section sold out over an hour before the game, but it was not necessarily sold out to true fans. Many of the seats were given to students who went to the game strictly to get free t-shirts. Upon walking back from the JACC, students were seen in LaFortune with their free hockey t-shirts, odd since not only was the game not over, but it had yet to start. This problem could easily have been fixed simply by collecting the students' tickets on the way out and reissuing them, but the ushers refused to do this or even to allow waiting students to claim the tickets themselves. The ushers stated that they could not allow us to do this as it was a ticketed event. 
What I find fascinating is that for the past four years whenever games have sold out, .students have always waited outside, taken students' tickets as they were leaving, and entered the game with the used tickets. I know multiple people that have used this method. I find it interesting, that the ushers actually told us that this had never been allowed, when many of the students standing outside had done this before themselves. 
Notre Dame students are not stupid, and we do not appreciate being lied to. After four years of being a loyal fan to the Notre Dame hockey team through good and bad, I am insulted that I was turned away from a game-by ushers that didn't have the decency to tell students the game was sold out until they were forced-because of students that just wanted to get a free shirt. When students are standing in line outside, tell them the game is sold out. And don't go to sporting events to get free stuff and then leave. It's insulting 
both to the team and to the true fans. 
• 


Boss goes vvrong 

Back in 2004, fans witnessed what they would have considered the most offensive Super Bowl halftime show of all time. But now, Bruce Springsteen has tainted the Super Bowl half­time show yet again to a greater extent than Janet Jackson and Justin Timberlake ever could have planned ... err, experienced. Even though the Boss's wardrobe was functioning perfectly fine, he could easily be accused of gratuitous "crotching" which was much more graphic than necessary for the Super Bowl halftime show. What is supposed to be a show that one can watch with the family turned into a disgustingly offending pole dance of sorts in which Bruce Springsteen made numerous lewd gestures unbefitting a renowned star who supposedly has class. He is providing an awful role model to other singers and performers, but more impor­tantly, senior citizens. To whom are our seniors to turn when trying to relate to the younger generation? Because Bruce certainly showed them what not to do. He most aptly demon­strated his shameful behavior while singing "lOth Avenue Freeze Out" into the camera ... with his crotch. I propose that those in charge of the Super Bowl halftime show make sweep­ing reforms to make the show more family friendly. In future years I hope to see Disney take over the halftime show as they like no other know what is best for the nation. We should look to seeing much more family-oriented halftime shows such as those starring the Jonas Brothers, Wiggles, or even Hannah Montana (hopefully she still won't be dating someone, who in some states could be accused of statutory). One can only hope that Bridgestone will revise the halftime show next year to provide more positive role models. 
Brian Conway freshman St. Ed's Feb. 2 
Jamie Engel semor Lyons Jan. 30 


Goals worth one point 
I grab one Observer everyday with lunch. My favorite section, as it is for many people, is the Viewpoint. In the past, there have been many articles I've disagreed with, some I've laughed at, and some that just made me wish I couldn't read. But yesterday, for the first, I came across an article which was, to say the least, just wrong. I am of course talking about Tim Schumer's "Surely you Jest" (Jan. 30) article. To summarize, Tim believes we should add more hockey leagues instead of lengthening the sole inter­hall hockey season. Being a player myself, I feel that the season is a little short and it is also true that the game times are ridiculously late at night. However, Tim's opinions on interhall hockey were not the reason for my alarm yesterday. It was instead, his assertion that Alumni's hockey team managed to beat Zahm's very best Wednesday night. Now, I am fairly cer­tain it was Zahm winning the entire game until Alumni trickled a puck into the net with 30 seconds left. While I understand that a 1-1 tie to the reigning league champs may have felt like an "awe-inspiring defeat" to an Alumni fan, it was, in fact, still at tie. Therefore, I suggest Tim rewrite his viewpoint, focusing on reasons for why a last minute goal in interhall hockey should now be worth two points. 
Michael Murray sophomore Zahm Jan. 30 


Raytheon is (not) unw-elcotne 
Alright boys and girls, we here at the University of Notre Dame have just enjoyed yet another successful career fair! And you know what that means ... that's right. Another letter protesting Raytheon's presence at the fair ("Why is-Notre Dame involved in the arms trade?" Feb. 2), which expresses new thoughts that haven't already been repeated several times. So let's look at some of the points they felt compelled to make: 
1." ... Fr. Jenkins left us with an understanding that his administration would take the issue seriously." It's a good thing that taking an issue seriously means the exact same thing as taking action or making changes. If it didn't, it would be clear that Fr. Jenkins does not at all care for the students or the University. 
2. 
"Organizations like Raytheon serve a narrow conviction that place national self-interest and violent military power above the calling ... of 'human solidarity and concern for the common good.' They inherently contradict what we as a university community have placed as our true mission." I completely agree. Placing our own national self-interest and defense above the University's own concerns is completely uncalled for. It's a good thing Notre Dame doesn't have a popular motto (such as "God, Country, Notre Dame.'') that places our own country's concerns ahead of those of the University. 

3. 
"For Raytheon, the more war and insecurity the better.'' Weapons manufacturers really should learn to make profits outside of when weapons are needed. That way, everyone's happier! Plus, it certainly isn't the case that the weapons Raytheon and other companies supply our country with discourage attacks from foreign ene­mies. If a display of power did protect us a little bit (which is, of course, unrealistic), then we might actually promote the manufacturing of weapons in some cases. Absurd. 

4. 
"But in August 2006 ... nine men ... occupied a Raytheon office and were detained for trespassing. On June 11, 2008 a jury released the entire group in a unani­mous verdict." I am proud to know that we have a jury that was able to release these poor detained men, while neglecting the fact that they were occupying private property on which they had no right to be, and the fact that they would not peacefully leave when asked to do so. Those men certainly were lucky that jury came along. 

5. 
"We call on the Career Center and the University administration to examine more closely who we allow onto our campus to recruit our students." If, as mentioned earlier, Fr. Jenkins doesn't realize that "consider" and "act" mean the same thing, maybe these groups will. 


Well, that's five undeniable points our writers have made in opposition to Raytheon's pre.sence here on campus. It is very important that Raytheon no longer shows up at ND, so that no ND student can try to join Raytheon and do their part in making sure weapons companies act in an ethical manner. Finally, it just so happens that "Currently, Raytheon is the world's fifth-largest weapons manufacturer.'' Coincidence? You decide. See you all next time. 
Douglas Schuda junior O'Neill Feb. 2 




THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 Tuesday, February 3, 2009 
Scene's Best of You Dane Cook on Catholic Mass 

professor and student sitting next 
Lula's opened as an independ-Pursuit (Lula's has a cabinet full ently owned coffee shop in the of board games sure to liven the spring of 1995, two years after most dud of dates). The table­the current owner, Steve Egan, ware was presumably from 14 graduated from Notre Dame. years' worth of thrift stores and Since then, Lula's has hosted garage sales, but that's not a Irish Music Mondays, Slam Poetry result of lack of effort. Tuesdays, acoustic sets from local As for the food, almost every­musicians, and various readings one who has been has a dish to through Notre Dame's Creatiye recommend. A standard favorite Writing Program. ·· is the hummus with warm fresh 


As construction continues on pita and blue corn chips. This the new Eddy StreetCommons, homemade dish is a completely Lula's de.inonstrates a . . ••.. different taste,.. texture, great example of existing Location: and body than the dining Notre Dame/South Bend 1631 Edison hall's. Neither is bad, but community relations. Egan Rd hummus lovers would be describes ~ula'sas 1'~nore . • · remiss not to sample than a restaurant-a cui-Przees: $5-$8 Lula's roasted red pepper tural gathering place that IO words or take on the dish. promotes community and less· The soup has never provides a creative outlet." . . been a disappointment, For almost fourteen years, Outstandzng paired perfectly with Lula's has provided a food, bistro fresh pumpernickel start.ing point for .students atmosphere b~ead. Lastly, the sand­lookmg to get off campus ' w1ches and wraps are and into. th~ community. worth noteworthy. Egan's four Located on Edison Rd., in multiple recommended dishes for between the Backer and visit first-timers are well-cho­the Softball Field, Lula's is ' sen: the house salad, the the easiest and closest off. O-ef}_rall: 4/4 turkey brie sandwich, the campus eatery for an on... . veggie sandwich and the campus student to visit. In artichoke chicken spinach wrap. warmer weather, thewalk would Lula's recently added the take aboutan easy ~(l minutes. Lagtii~ppe Menu (Cajun for some-

Much of Lula's app.eal is its thing ~xtra, like the 13th in a accessibility for those who need baker's dozen). The new menu to study off campus. Providing includes more wraps and salads, free WiFi, users are only asked to and also a breakfast sandwich. cede key tables during busy lunch One of Lula's best features is its hours if necessary. The restau-service. First-time diners might rant does fill up quickly, but out-be put 9fl' by the clear-your-own side of lunch students will find table policy, but it almost seems mostly peact'l and quiet; with eas-right, after such friendly table ily obtained snacks and drinks. service. Orders are placed at the 
The atmosphere iS hard to pin register, where the chalkboard down, coming of(as.something memt is changed frequently, and between a stripped-:elown the food is brought right out to Starbucks and a hole-in-the-wall the table. 
-----'---------­
Mitch Hedberg's 11Sesome Seeds" 


to an older couple as a group of undergrads argue over Trivial 





THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, February 3, 2009 page II 
Assistant Scene Editor 

On the night of Thursday, January 29th 2009, Jeff Tweedy took the stage at the State Theatre for his first appearance in Kalamazoo as a professional musi­cian. With five guitars behind him, Tweedy suspended banter and began his solo show with a rendition of the Woody Guthrie penned, "One By One." · 
The guitar played gently and Tweedy sang as if the words were his own. No longer the wide eyed Belleville 20-something who cut his teeth on punk and traditi-onal country, the father of two solemnly echoed his forbearers' words, "One by one, my hair is grow­ing gray/One by one, my dreams are fading fast away." 
Recently returning from New Zealand, Tweedy appeared to be as healthy as he's ever been. Sometimes noted for his lack of patience on stage, the benevolent Wilco dictator remained in good spirits despite many inappropriate shout-outs from a few over-served individuals among the over 1,000 fans on hand. Tweedy's 20-song set was both eclectic and fresh. 
Reaching all the way back to "Uncle Tupelo's Anodyne," Tweedy played at least a song from every 
Wilco album,  as well  as his own "Loose Fur" tune,  a  
"Sky Blue Sky" bonus track,  a  "Yankee" b-side,  a  
Radiohead cover and four new songs.  

Highlights of the set included Tweedy's two most overtly sociopolitical songs. In "The Ruling Class," Tweedy rhythmically sang "Yeah he's back Jack, shootin' smack, find him if you wanna get down." After a rousing reception of applause, Tweedy smiled asking the crowd "So you like songs about Jesus smoking crack, do you?" Wilco staple "Spiders" arrived as a stripped down version of the usual avant­garde guitar brawl. 
Cheers were shouted, albeit maybe inappropriately, as Tweedy provided a bit of caustic commentary "Spiders are filling out tax returns/ Spinning out webs of deductions and melodies/ On a private beach in Michigan." Much to the delight of Wilco's rabid fan base, four contenders for the. anticipated Spring 2009 release were played. Originally debuted on The Colbert Report, "Wilco The Song" left fans smiling with its "Summerteeth"-esque leanings. 
"I Will" sounded even better than the full band ver­sion performed at Neil Young's Bride School Benefit, while the newly debuted "Solitaire" left something fo be desired. Tweedy relieved many fans when he con­ceded "Don't worry, that woU:t be on the new album." 
The best of the bunch was the introspective "Everlasting Everything," which can be found on YouTube already. Lyrically, the song contains typical Tweedy beauty, revealing itself as a love letter from an unusually sure narrator. 
The first encore began with a shocking rendition of Radiohead's "Fake Plastic Trees." Although the Chicago troubadour cannot produce the same falsetto as his British counterpart, it was a delight to hear America's brilliant front man playing homage to the band across the sea. 
The second and final two-song encore concluded sans public address, witnessing Tweedy remembering his days as a member of the cult worshiped Saint Louis band Uncle Tupelo. Audience members filled the aisles to get as close to the stage as possible as their idol and friend shouted sentimentally above his own guitar, "Everything cuts against the. tide, when you're by my side." 


It was a fitting ending to a show, which featured the · · most amiable and accessible Jeff Tweedy seen, well, ever. Although a bit of the mystery is lost with · Tweedy's new found happiness, fans can only find hope in the recent displays of positivity from their favorite songwriter. Bearded Canadians, "Great Lake Swimmers" provided a suitable opener. Their brand of melodic folk accompanied by sparse instrumentation was a pleasant surprise for many audience members. 
Contact James DuBray at jdubray@nd.edu. 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Walking into the -Decio Mainstage Theater in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) this week­end, many people were simultaneously excited and unsure about the dance company's, Diavolo's, per­formance. Excited, because the company is known to be outstanding, but at the same time unsure of what to expect. 
The DPAC Web site said that Diavolo "[propels] the evolution of dance... to make the arts more integrat­ed within the mainstream of America." It was clear that they were not a traditional dance company, and that the performance would be somewhat abstract. But what exactly were they? 
Judging from the reactions of the audience, (the gasps during the dances and the enthusiastic clap­ping after), the performance was unlike any most people had seen before. Diavolo was a masterpiece of athletic ability, teamwork, expressiveness, and above all, creativity. 
The lingering question among audience members post-performance was: how did they come up with this? 
According to artistic director Jacques Heim, "We get a croissant some espresso, and start talking ... about how we feel today." 
The show began with Foreign Bodies, an original work co-commissioned by Notre Dame. As the cur­tains rose, the audience saw twisting hands coming out of holes in a very large cube. Soon the dancers were popping in and out of the set, constantly mov­ing, it seemed, to their own rhythms. The dance was not synchronized -each dancer was doing his or her own routine, but each contributed to the whole. 
After a few minutes, the cube was broken apart and transformed into three pyramid-shaped figures. The set kept transforming in response to changes in the music and each time it did, the dancers Interact­ed with the set and each other differently. The inten­sity rose as the twenty-minute piece wore on -the dancers were climbing, flipping, and lifting·one another ·up in a display of strength and athleticism. 
L--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The second piece was called Tete en L'Air, which is French for "head in the sky." The theme of this seg­ment was the isolation people feel with the modern world. Each dancer was dressed in a business suit and a hat that partially covered their eyes. The set this time was a large staircase positioned in the cen­ter of the stage. The dancers ran up and down the stairs, crawled across them sideways, and even did back flips off the top of the set into the arms of a few fellow dancers. 
The aura of the dance was reminiscent of a New 
York City street -despite the thousands of people 
around, no one seems to have the time to acknowl­
edge·one another. Similarly, the dancers carefully 
refrained from making eye contact with one another 
to portray this sort of isolation. The effect of the end'\ 
ing was both powerful and ominous. All the dancers 
left the set except one man, who stood on the top. 
The lighting was dark and the man's fedora was over 
his eyes. He falls backwards off the top of the stair­
case into darkness and the music ends. 

The final piece was set on a ship that rocked back and forth -harder at the crescendos, and slower during the more sensitive movements. This was the first piece to offer a significant amount of synchro­nization between the dancers -first between the men, and then the women, but the abstract nature of the show was certainly not lost. The dancers were constantly sliding on and off the set but the· transi­tions were so smooth that one would not even notice they were gone. The 30-minute piece ended as one female dancer reaches into black smoke in total iso­lation, bringing the theme of the show full circle. 
The performance was outstanding, and there was no one dancer that stood out more than another. The irony of the show was that despite its theme of isola­tion in the modern, technological world, every num­ber necessitated an extraordinary amount of team­work and trust from the performers. And there was constant uncertainty about what they would do next that was invigorating to watch. "We put it together 
-like a puzzle," Heim said. "There's an unknown zone every night." 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu. 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 3, 2008 
NBA 

Mavericks down Magic for third straight win 
Wade tallies 32 points and nine assists in win over Clippers; rookie Mayo scores 33 to lead Memphis over Wizards 
tion under the basket. Josh Howard was able to keep the Mavericks in range early, scor­ing 10 points in the first quar­ter. 
Heat 119, Clippers 95 

Dwyane Wade had 32 points and nine assists, Michael Beasley added 18 points and tbe Miami Heat snapped a two-game losing skid by beat­ing the Los Angeles Clippers on Monday night. 
Mario Chalmers scored 15 points, Udonis Haslem added 13 and Shawn Marion-in his first game back after missing five straight with a strained left groin -finished with 11 points and seven rebounds for the Heat, who improved to 15­3 when scoring more than 100 points this season. 
Zach Randolph, back after missing 19 games with a sore left knee, scored 21 points for the Clippers, who've lost six straight and 20 of 22. Marcus Camby and Eric Gordon each added 12 for the Clippers, who had beaten Miami by a single point in each of their last two meetings. 
But Miami controlled this one nearly start to finish, never trailing by more than three points in the early going and holding the lead for the game's final 33:33. 
It was the most points Miami scored at home since beating Utah 121-83 on March 14, 2006. 
Although the Clippers are tied with Washington for the league's worst record -both teams are now 10-38 -this game had significance for Miami. 
The Heat were coming off losses to Indiana and Dallas. And with a road trip to Eastern Conference rivals Detroit and Philadelphia start­ing Wednesday, it's not the ideal time for a midseason swoon, particularly with five teams. already jostling for the No. 4 playoff seed. 
So Wade and Chalmers went to work early, setting the tone. They combined for 16 points in the first quarter as Miami built a six-point lead, and the Heat -buoyed by 56 percent shoot­ing in the half and a 10-point second quarter from Beasley -eased into the break with a 58-47 edge. 
It got dicey, though, late in the third. 
The Clippers held Miami to only two field goals in a four­minute span, and suddenly found themselves down just 77-70 with 3:08 left in the quarter after a pair of free throws from Baron Davis. 
Right on cue, Wade took over, leading a 13-3 run that ended the quarter. 
He hit a pair of 3-pointers and scored nine points in all during the spurt, and after Haslem hit a jumper with two seconds left, the Heat carried a 90-73 lead into the fourth. 
Grizzlies 113, Wizards 97 
Rookie O.J. Mayo matched his career high with 33 points to lead the Memphis Grizzlies to a win over the Washington Wizards on Monday night, their first win in nearly a month. 
Rudy Gay scored 23 and Marc Gasol added 22 points and 11 rebounds for Memphis, which ended a 12-game losing streak -the team's longest since dropping 13 in a row to start the 2002-03 season. The Grizzlies had not won since beating Dallas 102-82 Jan. 4. 
Antawn Jamison had 29 · points and 13 rebounds and Caron Butler scored 21 for Washington, which failed to record its second two-game winning streak of the season. 
Memphis led for much of the game, but did not pull away until a 19-2 run to finish the third quarter, with Gay scoring nine straight points as the 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla.-Dirk Nowitzki had 29 points and six rebounds, Jason Terry had 23 points and the Dallas Mavericks beat the Orlando Magic 105-95 Monday night for their third straight win. 
Josh Howard and Jason Kidd added 13 apiece for the Mavericks, who held Orlando to 3-for-20 shooting from 3­point range. 
Dwight Howard had 35 points and 11 rebounds, and Redo Turkoglu scored 18 lls the Magic ended their three­game winning streak. But that wasn't the worst news of the night for Orlando. 
All-Star point guard Jameer Nelson left the game in the third quarter with a dislocated right shoulder. He was sched­uled to have an MRI on Tuesday. 
And Dallas took advantage in his absence. 
Terry's 3-point play capped a 19-6 run as the Mavericks turned a tight game into a blowout, going ahead 75-57 in the third quarter. Dallas start­ed fast in the fourth, using a 10-4 spurt to take an 87-67 lead. 
A late rally by the Magic cut 
Dallas' lead to 99-90 with 2:29 
remammg on a 3-pointer by 
Turkoglu. But each time 
Orlando nudged closer, 
Nowitzki and the Mavericks 
would answer back. 
It was quite different early. 
Mickael Pi!itrus' layup high­
lighted an 11-4 Magic run, giv­
ing them a 40-33 lead midway 
through the second quarter. 
But Dallas would answer, 
clamping down on Howard and 
getting out on the fast break. 
Forcing turnovers and 
speeding up the tempo, the 
Mavericks closed the half on 
an 18-7 spurt that put them 
ahead 54-47. Dallas' perimeter 
defense was stellar, holding 
Orlando to 1-for-7 shooting 
from beyond the arc in the 
first half. 
It wasn't as easy early in the 
paint. 
Muscling through Mavericks 
at will, Howard nearly had a ·double-double by the end of the first quarter: He h~d 12 points and six rebounds, pow­ering the Magic to a 27-25 
lead. 
But even Howard wasn't per­
fect. 
He was rejected by the rim 
on an alley-hoop attempt in 
the first quarter, falling to the 
floor after misjudging his posi-
AP 



Grizzlies ended the quarter with a 94-81lead. 
The game was Memphis' highest scoring mark of the season, and the Grizzlies' eight turnovers matched a season low. 
Memphis started three rook­ies, a second-year player and Gay, in his third season. Wizards interim ·coach Ed Tapscott said before the game he hoped his veterans would be able to exploit the Grizzlies' youth, and he went so far as to script the first two plays of the game to make sure Jamison and Butler would each get the ball early. They both had 12 points at the end of the first quarter, accounting for all but five of the Wizards' points, but the strategy still left Washington down 32-29 after the first quarter. 
The Grizzlies' youth kept pace with the Wizards, and then bettered them. Mayo also scored 12 points in the first quarter, and hardly slowed his scoring pace. It was Gay, how­ever, who really lifted the Grizzlies with his late third­quarter binge. 
Memphis guard Kyle Lowry left the court early in the sec­ond quarter after a collision with the Wizards' Dominic McGuire, hopping on his left foot out the tunnel to the lock­er room. 

Mavericks point guard Jason Kidd shoots over Mavericks guard Anthony Johnson in Dallas' 105-95 win on Monday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, .,. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for contenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Unfurnished 4-bdrm. 3ba.fpl,sky­Now Leasing. Lafayette UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not I hope the next time I move I get a lights,2-car garage, FR. deluxe Townhouses. $350/person. 3,4 & 5· go it alone. We have many resources real easy phone number, somethingFoR RENT appl, avail. August Call574·232· BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS. Free NOTICE in place to assist you. If you or some­that's real easy to remember. 
4527 or 269·683·5038. Internet Newly Remodeled. one you love needs confidential sup­Something like two two two two two andersonNDrentals.com Call 574·234·2436. Or New pop Christian music by Will of port or assistance, please call Sr. Sue two two two. I would say "Sweet" And FREE COMCAST! Townhomes at Dublin Village, Irish WWWKRAMERHOUSES.COM Titus available at Dunn at 1·7819 or Ann Firth at 1· then people would say, "Mitch, how do 
Crossing, Wexford Place, Ivy Quad. www.willoltitus.com or itunes 2685. For more information. visit NDs I get a hold of you?" I'd say, "Just Why pay for 12 months? Now offer· 3 and 4 Bdr. Only a few left for Student rentals 2009/201 0. St Assistance for Pregnant press two for a while. And when I intJ1 0-month leases. · 09/10. CES Property Management Peter/SBAve. Homes. $1300-JOB-HOUSE Studentsi/Office of Student Affairs answer, you will know you have Bluegoldrentals.com 574-968~0112 CESPM.info $2000/month. 5-7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd CLEANING.E.ANGELA. website at: osa:nd.edulhealth· pressed two enough." 
floor. Contact Bruce Gordon 288-8904. safety/assistance-for-pregnant-stu­4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts Houses for the 09-1 0 school year . 574-876-3537. dents. My apartment is infested with koala . 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-7653. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. If you or someone you care about has bears. Its the cutest infestation ever. 
Leasing fast Houses for rent 2009·1 0. 2·4 bed· PERSONAL been sexually assaulted, visit Support Much better than cockroaches. I turn 613 Lafayette Blvd., 6-bdrm & 2-Contact Kramer at rooms, close to campus, stainless Services for Victims of Rape & the lights on and the koalas scatter. bdrm houses. $350/person. Call 574-234·2436 or steel appliances. Morrissey Basketball: You can't stop Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/hea~h­I'm like, come back! I want to hold one 574-876-6333. www. kramerhouses.com Call Bill: 574-532-1896. them or even hope to contain them safety/assauiV of you, and feed you a leaf. 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, February 3, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
NCAA Men's Basketball l.JSA Today Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Connecticut (28)  20-1  772  
2  Oklahoma (3)  21-1  729  
3  Duke  19-2  682  
4  North Carolina  19-2  670  
5  Plllsburgh  19-2  633  
6  Wake Forest  17-2  609  
7  Louisville  17-3  604  
..a  Marquette  19-2  586  
9  Xavier  19-2  529  
10  Clemson  18-2  487  
11  Butler  19-1  456  
12  UCLA  17-4  400  
13  Purdue  17-4  369  
14  Michigan State  17-4  356  
15  Memphis  18-3  309  
16  Villanova  17-4  298  
17  Texas  15-5  274  
18  Gonzaga  16-4  201  
19  Minnesota  18-3  197  
20  Syracuse  17-5  162  
21  Illinois  18-4  126  
22  Utah State  21-1  106  
23  Arizona ·State  16-5  104  
24  Kansas  17-4  100  
25  Washington  - 16-5  78  
NCAA Men's Basketball  
AP Top 25  
team  record  points  
1  Connecticut {64)  20-1  1,792  
2  Oklahoma (5)  21-1  1,691  
3  North Carolina (3)  19-2  1,639  
4  Duke  19-2  1,563  
5 6  Louisville Pillsburgh  ..  17-3 19-2  1,464 1,427  
7  Wake Forest  17-2  1,409  
8  Marquelle  19-2  1,358  
9  Xavier  19-2  1,176  
10  Clemson  18-2  1,077  
11  Butler  19·1  1,051  
12  Purdue  17-4  961  
13  Michigan State  17-4  876  
14  Memphis  18-3  798  
15  UCLA  17-4  787  
16  Texas  15·5  724  
17  Villanova  17-4  698  
18  Gonzaga  16-4  632  
19  Minnesota  18·3  426  
20  Syracuse  17-5  415  
21  Kansas  17-4  316  
22  Washington  16·5  216  
23  Illinois  18-4  198  
24  Arizona State  16-5  146  
25  Utah State  21-1  99  
Big East Women's  
Basketball Standings  
team  record  overall  
1  Connecticut  1·0  21·0  
2  Louisville  7·1  20·2  



Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Bob Knight could be ready to return to coaching and Monday said Georgia would be a desirable destination. 
"We would have the wherewithal to recruit and be able to compete with anybody," Knight told ESPN on Monday. 
Knight, who resigned as the Texas Tech coach almost one year ago, said he would return to the sideline if offered the right situation. Georgia could be that situation. 
One problem, Georgia hasn't said if it is interest­ed in Knight. 
Athletic director Damon Evans is heading the Georgia search after firing Dennis Felton on Thursday. Evans ultimate­ly will make a recommen­dation to University of Georgia president Michael Adams. 

Adams' friendship with NCAA president Myles Brand could become a factor. As the president at Indiana, Brand fired Knight. Adams is chair of the NCAA executive com­mittee. 
Dick Vitale, ESPN col­lege basketball analyst said Georgia should make his longtime friend an offer "in a heartbeat." 
"I don't even know if he would take a job but I know Georgia has a lot of positives going for it in the scenario there and I think he'd be interested, I really do, but I can't speak for Bob Knight," Vitale said in a telephone interview. 
"To me it's no contest, if Bobby Knight is interested in Georgia basketball it's no contest," Vitale said. "He's so good I'd come with him as an assistant. I'd be his chauffeur." 
Evans named assistant coach Pete Herrmann the interim coach for the remainder of the season. Evans, returning from the Super Bowl on Monday, did not return a phone message. He said Thursday he would use a search firm to help assemble the pool of can­didates. 
The 68-year-old Knight is the all-time winningest men's major college coach with 902 victories in 42 seasons at Army, Indiana and Texas Tech. He resigned as Texas Tech's coach on Feb. 4, 2008, turning the team over to his son, Pat. 
In Knight's six full years at Texas Tech, he led the Red Raiders to five 20-win seasons and four NCAA tournament berths. The Red Raiders advanced to the NCAA Sweet 16 in 2005 but won only one other NCAA tournament game under Knight. 
3 Pittsburgh 6·2 16·4 4 Villanova 5·2 13·8 5 NOTRE DAME 5·3 16·4 6 DePaul 5·3 17·5 7 Rutgers 4·4 12·7 8 Cincinnati 3-4 13·7 9 Marquette 3·4 12·9 10 USF 3·5 16·6 11 Syracuse 3·5 14·7 12 Georgetown 3·5 13·8 13 St. John's 2·5 14·6 14 Seton Hall 2·6 14·7 15 Providence 2·6 8·13 16 West Virginia 1-6 12·8 
around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
No. 13 Purdue at Ohio State 
7:00 p.m., ESPN 
IN BRIEF Perez, Mets reach three­
year preliminary agreement 
NEW YORK -Oliver Perez and the New York Mets reached a pre­liminary agreement Monday on· a $36 million, three-year contract. 
The deal is subject to the pitcher passing a physical, two people famil­iar with the talks said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the agreement wasn't final. The physical is scheduled for Tuesday. 
New York had offered Derek Lowe -another client of agent Scott Boras -a $36 million, three-year contract, but Lowe accepted a $60 million, four-year offer from Atlanta. In addition to Lowe, the Mets also held talks with agents for Tim Redding and Randy Wolf, and agreed with Redding on a $2.25 million, one-year deal. 
With the agreement, the Mets' pro­jected rotation includes Johan Santana, John Maine, Perez, Mike Pelfrey and either Redding, Freddy Garcia or Jon Niese. 

L----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tax returns reveal Selig's
salary to be $17.5 million 
NEW YORK -Baseball commission­er Bud Selig made more than all but three ofhis sport's players in 2007. 
Selig received a raise of about $3 million to nearly $17.5 million that year, according to Major Leagu'e Baseball's latest tax return. 
His compensation was listed at $17,470,491 for the 12 months that ended Oct. 31, 2007, according to the return, which is available at guidestar.org. That was up from $14,515,071 in the prior 12 months. 
MLB's contribution to Selig in its ben­efit plan was $461,540, an increase from $400,999 in the previous return. He got $422,590 in expense account and other allowances, up from $140,603 in the previous fiscal year. 
In 2007, the only players who received higher cash compensation were a trio of the Yankees: Alex Rodriguez at $23 million , Derek Jeter at $22 million, and Jason Giambi at $21.5 million. 
Phelps' sponsors stand 
by the Olympic swimmer 
MILWAUKEE -Michael Phelps doesn't seem to be in much hot water with his sponsors despite being pho­tographed inhaling from a marijuana pipe. 
From apparel company Speedo to luxury Swiss watchmaker Omega, sev­eral sponsors are standing by the 23­year-old swimming phenom -at least for now -and have accepted his pub­lic apology. Other big companies, like Visa Inc., Subway and Kellogg Co., aren't talking yet. 
Experts say if Phelps doesn't stick to the straight and narrow, he could hurt his chances at future endorsements. And there's no guarantee he won't be dropped quietly once the furor dies down. 
Phelps, who won a record eight gold medals at this summer's Olympics in Beijing, acknowledged "regrettable" behavior and "bad judgment" after the photo appeared Sunday in the British tabloid News of the World. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 3, 2009 
NBA 
Lqkers' center Bynutn to tniss 8 to 12 -weeks 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Los Angeles Lakers center Andrew Bynum will miss eight to 12 weeks after tearing the medial col­lateral ligament in his right knee. 
The diagnosis Monday was a relief to Bynum, who initially feared he might be out for the season. Bynum was hurt in the first quarter of Saturday night's win at Memphis when Kobe Bryant drove to the bas­ket,. missed the shot and crashed into Bynum's leg. 
"It's better news than I expected to hear because of the shot that I took," Bynum said before the Lakers played at the Knicks on Monday night. 
Still, it's hard for the Lakers to forget what happened last season, when Bynum was also supposed to be out eight to 12 weeks with a knee injury. The 7-foot, 285-pound center bruised a bone in his left knee and briefly dislocated his kneecap in mid-January. 
Instead of returning in time for the playoffs, he missed the final 46 games of the season and underwent arthroscopic surgery May 21 to remove cartilage debris and smooth some rough spots on the 
underside of his kneecap. Without him, the Lakers lost in the NBA finals. 
Bynum, who was carrying but not using a crutch, noted the eerie similarities between the two injuries. But he's con­fident one aspect will be dif­ferent: This time, he'll be back when expected. 
Bynum hopes his comeback occurs closer to the eight­week mark, which would give him about 10 games to pre­pare for the postseason. Twelve weeks would mean the playoffs had already started. 
Bynum's injury isn't expect­ed to require surgery, and he plans to rest for a week or two before beginning rehab. 
Bynum is the Lakers' third­leading scorer and second­leading rebounder, averaging 14 points, 8.2 rebounds and 
1.9 blocks. Like last season, the injury came as he was stepping up his play. In the five games before hi'J was hurt, he was averaging 26.2 points, 13.8 rebounds and 3.2 blocks and shooting 65.3 per­cent from the field. 
"It's disappointing to him because he again is starting to play like last January excep­tionally well, starting to exert his influence on the games," coach Phil Jackson said. 

NHL 
Ottawa fires coach after just 48 games 
Associated Press 
OTTAWA·-Craig Hartsburg lasted less than one season with the unraveling Ottawa Senators, who suddenly have a revolving door behind the bench. · 
Unable to turn around a team that reached the Stanley Cup finals in 2007, Hartsburg was fired as coach Monday just 48 games into a season in which the Senators have the NHL's third worst record. 
The Senators made their first trip to the finals two years ago and now· are Jij<.ely to miss the playoffs for the first time in 13 seasons. 
The decision to replace Hartsburg with Cory Clouston was made by general manager Bryan Murray after Ottawa lost 7-4 at Washington on Sunday. Hartsburg signed a three-year contract in June. 
"We've made another coach­ing change and now we have to watch the players over the next period of time and decide who stays and who doesn't stay to help us go forward," Murray said. "There will be judgements made before the trading deadline." 
The 39-year-old Clouston, promoted from the AHL's Binghamton Senators, is the team's fourth coach since Ottawa lost in five games to Anaheim in the 2007 finals. He was given a three-year contract. Murray returned behind the bench for the final 18 regular-season games (7-9­
2) after he fired first-year coach John Paddock in February. 
"We kept hoping there would be some change in our performance, which didn't seem to be taking place," said Murray, who coached the club to the finals before taking over as GM. "We just weren't making any progress. We're struggling to keep up." 
Ottawa (17-24-7) is 13th in the Eastern Conference, 14 points below the playoff cut­off. 
The latest coaching change was made less than a week after team owner Eugene Melnyk held a news confer­ence to say he still believed in his club. Talk of a potential switch surfaced in December while the world junior cham­pionships were in Ottawa. Murray's job was also rumored then to be in jeop­ardy. 
Melnyk responded by saying he had "made no decisions with respect to personnel changes," which was hardly a vote of confidence. 
The momentum of the finals appearance carried into last season when the Senators won 15 of their first 17 games. Since then, they have had a losing record and barely man­aged to hang on for a playoff spot last spring. The Senators were swept out of the first round in four games by Pittsburgh. 


Tuesday, February 3, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
No.1 UConn routs No.5 Louisville 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. Connecticut looks pretty com­fortable at No. 1. 
Jeff Adrien scored 18 points and grabbed seven rebounds and the Huskies celebrated their return to the top of the polls for the first time in three years with a 68-51 dismantling of No. 5 Louisville on Monday night. 
llasheem Thabeet added 14 points, 11 rebounds and four blocks as the Huskies (21-1, 10­1 Big East) rolled to their 10th straight victory. Jerome Dyson had 14 points and A.J. Price had 11 points, eight rebounds and three assists as the Huskies had surprisingly little trouble shutting down the red-hot Cardinals. 
Terrence Williams led Louisville (17 -4, 8-1) with a career-high 26 points but got little help. 
UConn became the fourth No. 1 team in as many weeks earli­er in the day, but managed to avoid the pitfalls that sent Pittsburgh, Wake Forest and Duke tumbling out of the top spot. 
Louisville ended Pittsburgh's run at No. 1 with a 69-63 upset on Jan. 17. The Cardinals were hoping to become the first team since Georgia Tech in 1993 to beat two different No. 1s in the same season, but simply could­n't keep up with the Huskies. 

UConn improved to 16-2 all time on the road as No. 1 behind the play of their two big men, who dominated the lane. The Huskies outscored the Cardinals 40-18 in the paint and held Louisville to 34 per­cent shooting. 
The Cardinals had resurrect­ed their season during a perfect January, reeling off nine straight wins -including four against ranked teams. 
Yet with 30 pro scouts on hand to watch the two presea­son favorites in possibly the nation's toughest conference, the Cardinals were manhandled by the Huskies. 
Louisville power forward Earl Clark struggled against whoev­er UConn put on him, finishing with five points on 2-of-16 shooting. Heralded freshman center Samardo Samuels, clear­ly bothered by the 7-foot-3 Thabeet, was held scoreless, missing both of his shots from the field. 
Adrien had no such problems. With the Cardinals sagging to stop Thabeet, Adrien hulled his way wherever he wanted. He hit 7-of-12 field goals and seemed to hit a shot whenever the Huskies needed one. 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Pitt nets easy win against Colonials 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -Pittsburgh 
avoided a letdown in a break 
from Big East play. 
Sam Young had 23 points 
and DeJuan Blair 18 and No. 6 
Pittsburgh beat Robert Morris 
92-72 on Monday night. 
Levance Fields added 12 
points and 13 assists and 
Jermaine Dixon 15 points for 
the Panthers (20-2), who were 
playing their first game while 
not ranked in the top five since 
Nov. 22. 
"You can't look over any 
team," said Fields, "but obvi­
ously this is a game where we 
were heavily favored to win. 
Some of these games are kind 
of trap games that are tough to 
play. But for the most part, I 
thought we did a good job of 
handling it and treating it like 
a Big East game." 
Pitt has won four of five 
since losing for the first time 
this season and falling from 
the No. 1 ranking it held for 
two weeks. 
Jeremy Chappell had 19 . points and added a team-high 
eight assists for the Colonials 
(15-8), who had a nine-game 
winning streak snapped. 
Young is Pitt's leading scorer 
at 18.1 points per game. But 
he had cooled recently, having scored at least that many only three times in his previous 11 games -including a season­low five against Notre Dame on Saturday. Monday, he shot 8-for-11 from the field and 7­for-8 from the free throw line. 
Robert Morris, which has lost all 27 all-time meetings with Pittsburgh, was within 24-22 midway through the first half but the Panthers went on a 29-11 run before the break to take over the game. Pitt scored a season-high 53 first-half points and has scored 185 points the past two games. 
"This is a good win for us against an NCAA tournament team," Pitt coach Jamie Dixon said. "I think that's a team who's going to run away with its league, so I thought we did some very good things." 
The Colonials led with 13 minutes to play in the two team's most recent meeting Nov. 29, 2006, but the Panthers won that one going away, too. 
Rob Robinson had 15 points and Francisco Bateko 13 for Robert Morris, which shot 57 percent from the field but committed 19 turnovers and had only two offensive rebounds. 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Oklahoma denies Summitt milestone 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY -Pat Summitt's 1,OOOth win will have to wait at least another game. 
Courtney Paris' record 112­game double-double streak came to an end, but Whitney Hand matched her career high with 20 points to help No. 2 Oklahoma beat 12th-ranked Tennessee 80-70 on Monday night for the Sooners' 15th straight victory. 
Summitt was denied in her first attempt at reaching the coaching milestone. She'll get another chance on Thursday when the Lady Vols host Georgia. 
''I'm not concerned about a number for me," Summitt said. ''I'm concerned about this bas­ketball team investing in our system and not picking and choosing when they want to play hard." 
Paris had nine points and 12 rebounds and got a standing ovation when she fouled out with 38.2 seconds left. She walked to the bench with both arms raised and wiped away tears as she waved to a standing crowd before taking a seat on the Sooners' bench. 
"It was going to end some­time," Oklahoma coach Sherri Coale said. "My immediate thought was good for her. She doesn't have to carry it around anymore." 
It was the end of a remarkable run that started more than 1,000 days ago in December of her freshman year. It was only the fourth time in Paris' 121 career games that she failed to score at least 10 points and pull down at least 10 rebounds. 
But her teammates had plenty of fight to get the win anyway ­and, just as notably, prevent Summitt from getting it. 
In the 35th year of her storied stay at Tennessee, Summitt was trying to become the first major college coach to reach 1 ,000 vic­tories. And there were times early when it looked like she'd get there. But she was left glar­ing in silence at her team after calling timeout following Hand's steal and fast-break layup that closed an 11-2 Sooners run that put Oklahoma ahead 57-46 with 
13:10 to play. When she finally broke her silence, her instruc­tions came in brief bursts. 
By then, her Lady Vols had already blown a 15-point lead and were threatening to get run out of the game entirely. 
"We are a long way from being a 40-minute team," Summitt said. 
She could only stem the tide for so long. 
A few minutes later, Hand nailed her fourth 3-pointer of the game during a run of nine straight points for the Sooners. Danielle Robinson's fast-break layup pushed the lead to 72-54 and forced Summitt to burn her fmal timeout with 5:53 left. And it was too late to do enough damage after that. 
NHL 

Sheppard maturing in Minnesota 
20-year-old center beginning to contribute to young Wild team 
Associated Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn. -The jump from first to second year for James Sheppard has not been as smooth as he or the Minnesota Wild wanted. 
The 20-year-old center, however, is picking up his play. Sheppard has two goals and two assists in the last eight games, after tallying only two and six in the first 
41. Most importantly for coach Jacques Lemaire and his staff, Sheppard is per­forming fundamentally better on both ends of the ice. 
"At the start of the season we wanted Shep to do certain things, maybe because we counted on him so much," Lemaire said after Monday's practice. "I don't know if he felt some pressure in all this. Then all of a sudden we'd accept what he was doing. And then since we accepted it, last ... six to 10 games, he's been better. 
"We were pushing him before, because we needed him, and there was nothing coming out." 
Sheppard pointed to increased consistency and simply more NHL experience as the weeks and months have passed. 
"There's nothing monumen­tal happening," he said. ''I'm just creating more, and because I'm doing that I'm confident in myself and I'm getting more ice time because the coaches are con­fident in me. That's a huge thing." 

Originally asked to center the second line behind Mikko Koivu, Sheppard must contin­ue developing and improving over the next two-plus months for the scoring­starved Wild to make the playoffs in this crowded Western Conference race. They begin a four-game homestand Wednesday, all against West teams. 
"It's good for me and it's good for them, because we can work together and I can help this team out more than just helping myself," Sheppard said. 
Compounding his early struggles was a complete lack of contributions by the other recent first-rounders on the roster, forwards Benoit Pouliot and Colton Gillies. Pouliot was sent to the minors two weeks ago, and Gillies has only appeared in 27 of the team's 49 games. 
But Gillies has improved lately, like Sheppard. There's nothing on the score sheet to show for it -he has just one goal and three assists so far in his rookie season -except for ice time. 
That is a telling statistic, though. Gillies played 11-plus minutes in last Tuesday's win against Toronto and was sent out for critical shifts in the third period of Saturday's overtime victory at Vancouver. 
"It's just kind of starting to click for me," Gillies said. "I don't know if it's the confi­dence or the video that I do. I 
just feel  a  little  more  pre­ 
pared."  
Lemaire  said  he's  been  

pleased by what he's seen from Gillies over the past two weeks. 
"Often a player will say, 'Well, Coach has got to give me confidence so I get bet­ter,"' Lemaire said. "Well, I heard that many, many, many, many, many, many, many -that's not a record­ing -many times. But when the guy plays well, he gets to play. When the guy does something that you like, and it's not only points, he gets it. It's the confidence when he's on the ice. You see that he knows what he's doing. You know that he's in control and he sees what's coming, and he reacts to that." 
In other news, left wing Andrew Brunette was named captain for February. The honor, seemingly, was sealed when he played through a painful injury to his right knee and extended his streak of consecutive games played -the NHL's current longest -last month. He's now at 502 straight games. 
Also on Monday, forwards Derek Boogaard and Stephane Veilleux were held out of practice due to muscle spasms. Their status, accord­ing to the team, is day to day. Forward Craig Weller is also still out with a head injury. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 3, 2009 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Tressel finds support despite big gatne \Voes 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) -On the driver side door of a pickup truck parked in a suburban drive­way is a magnetic sign that says, "Fear Tressel." 
The plastic looks as weathered and beaten as the sentiment. 
Some Buckeyes fans are no longer convinced that Jim Tressel is all that fearsome. Sure, he still wins 80 percent of his games, has a 7-1 record against Michigan, still wins Big Ten titles and his teams finish in the top 10. Those accomplishments are more than enough to place him among the most famous, and highest-paid, residents of Ohio. 
But in just over two seasons, stinging losses on the national stage to Florida, LSU, Southern California, Penn State and Texas -three of those in major post­season games -have left a vocal minority of fans questioning their ultra-successful coach and his game plans. 
Make no mistake, though, Tressel still has the confidence of his bosses. 
"All I have to say is there are 120 Division I-A schools in this country -and 119 of them would love to have my problems," Ohio State President E. Gordon Gee said of the fallout from the Buckeyes' recent series of high­profile losses. 
Ohio State athletic director Gene Smith went to Tressel last summer and offered to bump the coach's salary $1 million to make him the highest-paid coach in the Big Ten. The raise means Tressel, as of last Sunday, is making $3.5 million per year. 
Ohio's governor, Ted Strickland, is paid $144,831 per year-less than 1/20th what Tressel makes. 
Smith believes that Tressel, who declined to be interviewed, is worth every penny. 
''I've always felt that it was appropriate to keep him right at the top," Smith said of Tressel's salary in comparison to other conference football coaches. "If you look at his body of work, which we always talk about, he's done everything that we've asked him to do. You know all the stats. He's just done a great job for us." 
Tressel, 56, continually swats aside questions about how long he'll coach. Yet his new contract -which goes through the 2012 season-has an interesting addi­tion: If he decides to retire, the university can keep him on as a professor for up to five years. 
That's the first time Tressd has ever acknowledged there might be a life for him after he hangs up his sweater vest. 
Smith doesn't believe Tressel will coach into his 80s like Penn State's Joe Paterno or Florida State's Bobby Bowden. 
NFL 

Super Bowl audience 2nd highest 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-The Arizona­Pittsburgh matchup wasn't considered an ideal one for television, but its finish rivet­ed an estimated audience of 
95.4 million people, second only to last year's game as the most-watched Super Bowl ever. 
Viewership peaked in the fourth quarter, when Arizona took the lead on Larry Fitzgerald's 64-yard catch and sprint to the end zone only to have it snatched back when Santonio Holmes' end zone leap gave Pittsburgh the 27-23 win. More than 100 million Americans were watching between 9:30 p.m. and 10 p.m. EST, according to Nielsen Media Research. 
The game was the third most-watched program in American television history, after the 106 million people who watched the "M-A-S-H" series finale in 198:~ and the 
97.4 million who watched the 
N.Y. Giants end the New England Patriots' bid for an undefeated season in the 2008 Super Bowl. 
"The Super Bowl, once again, proved its ability to capture America," said Dick Ebersol, NBC Universal Sports chairman. 
The NFL's championship is traditionally television's biggest event of the year. Yet between 1998 and 2004, none of the games reached the 90 million mark in view­ers. Each game for the past four years topped 90 million. 

Arizona's first-ever visit to the Super Bowl hadn't drawn much buzz outside of the Southwest. But Pittsburgh, perhaps because of its four Super Bowl wins in six years in the 1970s, has more or a national constituency than the city's size would suggest. Both of its last two Super Bowl trips topped the 90 mil­lion mark, with the Steelers' 1996 loss to Dallas the most popular Super Bowl until it was beaten last year. 
The Super Bowl, long derided as a game that rarely lives up to its hype, now has two classics in two years. 
One measure of how grip­ping the game was: for the first time in the seven years TiVo Inc. has been measur­ing, more people watched the game during the second half than watched the commer­cials. The ads are usually watched more because of people playing them back on digital video recorders, said Todd Juenger, general man­ager or TiVo's research department. 

Tuesday, February 3, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Zellous 
continued from page 20 
"We're going to work hard, 
but she's just that good," 
McGraw said. "Losing [sopho­
more forward! Devereaux 
[Peters]. she would have been 
someone who can challenge 
shots and things." 
Pittsburgh is 16-4 and 6-2 in 
the Big East. The Panthers 
have won live straight and beat 
Marquette by 32 points. Notre 
Dame defeated Cincinnati 66­
50 at home Saturday and is 
also 16-4, but the Irish have a 
5-3 conference record. 
Notre Dame doesn't have a 
go-to scorer this season like it 
did last season with Charel 
Allen. The teams on Notre 
Dame's schedule for the past 
few games have hac! that scorer 
-Laura Kurz, Epiphanny 
Prince and Zellous. McGraw 
said not having that scorer, 
however, helps balance the 
offense. 
"I think when you rely on one 
player, if they have a bad game, 
you can lose," she said. "We 
have a lot of people who can 
step up." 
The last time the two teams 
played, Pittsburgh upset then­
No. 9 Notre Dame in the quar­
terfinals of the Big East tourna­
ment on March 9, 2008. Then­
senior center Marcedes Walker 
scored 18 points and had 13 
rebounds. 
Although Walker graduated, 
Pittsburgh still presents chal­
lenges in the post in the form of 
6-foot-6 freshman center 
Shawnice "Pepper" Wilson. 
Wilson leads the team in 
rebounding with 6.9 per game, 
shoots 50 percent from the field 
and 90.3 percent from the foul 
line. McGraw said junior center 
Erica Williamson will need to 
be effective on defense to limit 
Wilson. 
"I think we'll hope that Erica 
can have a good defensive game against her, because she's a big body in there," McGraw · said. "She's shooting the ball pretty well, she's rebounding well. We've got a lot of work to 
do to contain her." 
Regardless of the challenges Pittsburgh presents, McGraw said Notre Dame's sense of urgency had returned, and that the veterans, senior guard Lindsay Schrader and junior guard Melissa Lechlitner, were spearheading the team's efforts. 
"I think [the urgency's] mostly coming from Schrader and Lech, and I think those two are at that point where they're try­ing to get everybody on their same page," McGraw said. "And I think we're there. I think the freshmen are ready to step up and contribute." 
One of those freshman, for­ward Kellie Watson, con­tributed in a big way against Cincinnati. She hit two 3-point­ers in less than a minute to seal Notre Dame's win. The team, McGraw said, needs the same mindset it had against the Bearcats to defeat Pittsburgh. 
"We have to be ready to com­pete, we got to get on the boards, we got to get loose balls, and we have to do all the little things," McGraw said. 
That mindset, however, can coexist with enjoying the game, McGraw said. 
"I think it's just your attitude and your approach," McGraw said. "I think you can look at things a lot of different ways, and if you choose to be positive I think you will have a lot more fun." 
Notes: 
+A knee injury has bothered freshman guard Natalie Novosel and kept her out of practice Sunday, McGraw said. 
"She's been playing hard, it's just been really painful for her," McGraw said. "She's not going to get over it, so hopefully she can play through it." 
+Freshman guard Fraderica Miller sprained her foot last Wednesday, McGraw said. She was in a walking boot during the Cincinnati game. McGraw said she will not play tomorrow but should be back by the end of the week. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Youth 
continued from page 20 
sophomores fill the rest of the spots in the lineup. 
"Except for Brett Helgeson, everyone is either new or playing in a new position than a year ago," said Bayliss. 
The squad's inexperience in tough play has shown this season, as the Irish have fall­en to four ranked opponents in dual matches. 
"What needs to happen is for us to bring the level we see daily in practice to these matches," Bayliss said. "Sometimes younger guys take time to feel comfortable in tough matches. There is no question about the effort level, but learning to be com­fortable in a dual match can take time." 
However, the underclass­men were instrumental in Sunday's win over No. 20 Texas Tech, their first victory over a ranked opponent. 
In that match, sophomores Sam Keeton and Steven 


VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer Irish junior guard Melissa Lechlitner shoots during Notre Dame's 78-68 loss to Rutgers on Jan. 27. 
L-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Duals 
continued from page 20 
clinch the victory for the Irish. 
The NCAA debut of fresh­man foil Gerek Meinhardt was another highlight for the Notre Dame men; the 2008 Olympian led the team with 16 wins, including match­clinching victories against Cleveland State, Detroit and Ohio State. Senior All­American epeeist Karol Kostka finished the weekend with 15 wins, with a 3-0 mark against Ohio State in one of the tightest matches of the event. Sophomore All­American foil Steve Kubik and freshman epeeist Keith Feldman each posted 14 wins on the weekend. 
"Meinhardt does not need my recommendation for he is one of the best foilists not only in the USA or North America but in the world," Bednarski said. "He has tal­ent, skill and great tech­nique from his club coach Havens and freshman Casey ranked teams in six matches Watt won their singles to start the season) has been matches to push the score to hard on the young team. 4-0, clinching the win and "Many of these guys were ending early the matches of state champions in high •.Helgeson and No. 112 Daniel school and never had to face Stahl, a soph-the level of om ore. com'petition 

Keeton, who "!ask-no, demand day-in and day­missed the fall out that we
-that our guys give 
semester play," he said. 
because of a their all and leave it "But we won't broken wrist, all out on the court. ,, improve play­improved his ing East dual match Overshoe
Bobby Bayliss 
record to 5-0 Tech." with the wiri. Irish coach Bayliss said 
"[Keeton] has quickly made up for lost time," Bayliss said. 
Though the team has fallen several times already this season, Bayliss said the lq,ss­es are a learning opportunity. 
"There can be a tendency when you suffer close set­backs to hold back a bit in order to minimize the pain of a loss," he said. "We cannot allow that to happen. I ask ­no, demand -that our guys give their all and leave it all on the court." 
He also acknowledged that the tough schedule (five 
he has confi­dence in his team despite their youth. 
"My biggest challenge will be keeping everyone happy and finding opportunities for them all," he said. 
The season does not get any easier from here, as the team has No. 33 Duke, No. 14 Michigan, and top-ranked Ohio State on its slate for February. 
But the team's ·growth, win or lose, will probably get a little less painful. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

and the experience from the be a decisive factor in hard 2008 Olympic Games." matches as she competes 
The Irish women made a with true Fighting Irish strong case for a No. 1 rank­character and spirit." ing with three wins over Sophomore All-American ranked teams, including foil Hayley Reese paced all blowouts over No. 1 Penn Notre Dame fencers with 24 State and No. 3 Ohio State. wins. against one loss over 
For the the weekend, women's epee with a match­team, sopho­clinching victo­more captain "Nelip is one of the ry over Ohio and All­State, while
best European 
American senior sabre Ewa Nelip fin­epeeists. ,, Ashley Serrette ished the led her squad weekend with with 23 wins.
Janusz Bednarski 
a perfect 18-0 Sophomore All­
Irish coach 
record, while American freshman sabre and 2008 Courtney National Hurley ended Champion up 17-2. The two have been Sarah Bormann finished 19­nearly unbeatable in 2009, 2, and eclipsed the 100-win with respective 37-2 and 31-mark on her career. 5 records through three The Irish return to compe­events. tition Friday at the Duke 
"Nelip is one of the best Duals in Durham, N.C., European epeeists," before hosting this week­Bednarski said. "She is a end's Notre Dame Duels in great talent and great per­the Joyce Center. fol;lller with a blend of i1ltel­ligence and sporting excel­Contact Michael Blasco at lence. She is fencer who can mblasco@nd.edu 
.----------------------­
Tuesday, February 3, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 18 

Lake Superior (9-11-8, 6­

CCHA 
8-6-1, 19 pts) continued from page 20 Last week: won 2-0, won 
4-2 vs. Michigan State eonference play, though Next week: at Michigan they have played two more Key slat: 12 third-period games (22) than every goals allowed. Only Notre team but Nebraska-Omaha Dame, with seven, has 
(22) and Alaska (24). allowed fewer goals in the 
final stanza than the Alask.a (12-10-6, 10-9-5-Lakers. That has helped 3, 28 pts) them stay in games, as 
Last week: won 4-1, lost evidenced by their six ties 6-2 vs. Ohio State which include two 
Next week: off; at against the Irish. Western Michigan Feb. 13­14 Northern Michigan (9-13­
Key stat: 11.7 penalty 4, 6-10-4-3, 19 pts) minutes per game. The Last week: won 6-5, won Nanooks take fewer penal­4-3 at Western Michigan ty minutes than any other Next week: vs. Bowling team in the league and Green have allowed a confer~ Key stat: 15 third-period ence-best 12 power-play goals. The CCHA's coaches goals by successfully picked the Mavericks to killing 89 percent of their finish fourth, but Northern penalties. Michigan has scored fewer 
third-period goals than No. 4 Michigan (19-9-0, every team but Michigan 13-7-0-0, 26 pts) State. The Mavericks have Last week: won 2-1, lost allowed just nine goals in 3-2 vs. Notre Dame the first period, however, Next week: vs. Lake which is the best in the 
beat them Wednesday and has ilarly, Notre Dame's win over the 

Superior league. been coming on strong lately. Hoyas no longer looks nearly as 
Key stat: eight power­
Big East 
play goals allowed. The Western Michigan ( 7-15­continued from page 20 Wildcats -who have spent most Don't be too surprised if the good. 
Wolverines have killed 6, 4-11-5-1, 14 pts) of the season outside the top 20 The Bottom of the Barrel: St. 
92.2 percent of their oppo­Last week: lost 6-5, lost Marquette (19-2 overall, 8-0 -swoop in and capture a dou­John's (12-9, 3-6), Seton Hall 
nents' power plays, and no 4-3 vs. Northern Michigan Big East): ble-bye for the conference tour­(11-9, 2-6), South Florida (7­
other team has allowed Next week: at Nebraska­The Golden Eagles look poised nament. In addition to the win 14, 2-7), Rutgers (10-12, 1-8), 
fewer than 12 power. play Omaha to make a run at a No. 1 seed in over the Panthers, Villanova DePaul (8-14, 0-9): 
goals in CCliA competition. Key stat: -16 special the NCAA Tournament. They got crushed Cincinnati Sunday. At least the Irish can still look 
teams net. The Broncos their losses out of the way in Louisville, meanwhile, is still in forward to games against three 
No. 15 Ohio State (17-8-have a league-worst spe­non-conference play and look good position despite the loss to of these five bottom-feeders. 
3, 10-7-3-3, 26 pts) cial teams net (power-play like a strong bet to earn two Connecticut. The Irish will look Still, they already lost to St. 
L'ast week: lost 4-1, won and shorthanded goals for byes in the Big East tourney. to avenge their road loss to John's and didn't exactly blow 
6-2 at Alaska and against) of -16. thanks Marquette had one of the best Louisville when the Cardinals DePaul or Seton Hall out of the 
Next week: vs. Not~e mostly in part to the weeks of any team in the coun­come to the Joyce Center next gym. 
Dame league-worst 29 power-_ try with convincing wins at week. Needless to say, the Irish must 
Key stat: 22 third-period play goals they have Notre Dame and against rack up some league wins in the 
goals allowed. Only the allowed. Bowling Green Georgetown. The Middle of the Pack: West next few weeks. But they no 
bottom three teams in the and Ohio State are second­Virginia (15-6, 4-4) Cincinnati. longer have any excuses to lose. 
current standings have worst in killing penalties The New No. 1: Connecticut ( 14-8, 4-5): The ultra-rough part of their 
allowed more goals in the and have allowed 21 (21-1, 9-1): Both of these teams beat schedule is done and they have a 
final period than the power play goals each. After Wake Forest upended Georgetown in the past week, bunch of winnable games 
Buckeyes, who will try to then-No.1 Duke, Connecticut improving their stock while remaining. 
shore up their defense as Bowling Green (9-16-3, 6­inherited the nation's top rank­sending the Hoyas reeling. Th-e Notre Dame can still scale the 
they pursue a spot in the 13-1-0, 13 pts) ing Monday. The Huskies aren't Irish face both of these squads in Big East mountain, but the teain 
top four. Last week: lost 6-1, lost even the top squad in the Big the next few weeks and would will have to do it with wins over 
3-2 at Miami East but they were dominant in actually love to seize their "mid­weak opponents serving as oxy­
Nebraska-Omaha (13-10-Next week: at Northern a win at Louisville Monday night. dle-of-the-pack" label. gen and a few signature victo­
6, 8-8-6-3, 25 pts) Michigan Plus, they still get a chance to ries as its Sherpa. 
Last week: lost 7-1, tied Key stat: 3.6 goals play Marquette. Unfortunately The Mighty That Have Fallen: 
1-1 (lost shootout 2-1) aJl·owed per game. The for the Irish, they have to travel Notre Dame (12-8, 3-6), Note: 
Next week: vs. Wester.n Falcons are the only team to Storrs on Feb. 28 to face the Georgetown (12-8, 3-6) +Irish coach Mike Brey said 
Michigan that has allowed 70 goals Huskies, which could be pretty Both the Irish and the Hoyas before practice Monday that his 
Key stat: seven straight in CCHA play, and their close to peaking by then. looked like potential top-1 0 starting lineup against 
losses or ties. The goals-against average is teams in the beginning of the Cincinnati will be Luke 
Mavericks have not won more than twice that of Others Looking for a Top-Four season but they have now Harangod~ Luke Zelle~ Zach 
since topping Northern Notre Dame's 1. 70. Seed: No. 6/5 Pittsburgh (20-dropped into the dreaded "oth­Hillesland, Kyle McAlarney and 
Michigan 4-3 on Jan. 9. 2, 7-2), No. 5/7 Louisville (17-ers receiving votes" category. Tory Jackson. This is the third 
Since then, they have four Michigan State ( 7-18-3, 4, 8-1), Providence (14-7, 6-3), Even worse news? Neither team different starting lineup for 
losses and three ties, with 4-14-2-2, 12 pts) No. 17/16 Villanova (17-4, 5-is receiving too many votes. The Notre Dame in the last four 
one shootout win. Last week: lost 2-0, lost 3), No. 20 Syracuse (17-5, 5-Irish garnered just seven in the games. 
4-2 at Lake Superior 4): AP rankings and four in the 
Ferris State (11-11-6, 8-Next week: vs. Ferris The Panthers are among the ESPN/USA Today poll. Also, Contact Fran Tolan at 
8-4-1, 21 pts) State best of this group but Villanova since Georgetown has fall~n sim-ftolan@nd.edu 
Last week: won, 7-1, tied Key stat: Eight first-peri­1-1 (won shootout 2-1) od goals. The Spartans' Next week: vs. Michigan league-worst offense (1.65 State goals per game, half of 
Key stat: 89 percent of Miami's average) have penalties killed. The scored the conference's Bulldogs rank No. 3 in all "fewest goals in the open­three special teams cate­ing period. Michigan gories (power play per­State's anemic offense is centage, penalty kill per­the main culprit behind centage, and special teams the disappointing finish for net). Miami is the only a perennial top-four CCHA other team in the top­finisher. three of each category. as the HedHawks rank second Contact Matt Gamber at in each. mgamber@nd.edu 


Specializing in l)eautitlll Color 
HUMP DAY 
Every Wednesday take $10-off color, $5-off cuts 
258-5080 
620 W Edison Rd. Mishawaka, JN www.selonrougeinc.com 
Tuesday, February 3, 2009 
The Observer+ TODAY 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
Across 36 Before too long 63 Marathon handout

Pretense 37 Laptop key 64 Look to be
5 Big name in 38 Margarine grills 
39 Modern 10 Youngster Down
navigational aid, 14 Actress Petty for short Reduce 
15 Light on one's 40 1949 Orson drastically, as feet prices
Welles film 16 Commuter 2 Needing
44 Easy dupes option darning, maybe 
46 Thoroughfare 17 Slugger 3 Fight site 
47 School of Rodriguez 4 Adding, as an
thought18 Foaming at the ingredient
48 Designed to

mouth 5 Samurai, e.g.
increase traction 19 Nocturnal 6 Antiquated
52 Ivan Turgenev 

hunters exclamation
novel ... and a 20 Incentive aimed 

7 Nickname of hint to 20-, 31­

at golden agers Israel's
and 40-Across 23 Massachusetts Netanyahu
56 Squander 

tourist spot 8 Some Ivy 57 Ammo unit
24 Bit of work Leaguers 58 Sicilian hot spot 
25 Powerful Pontiac 9 Insignificant 59 Norse trickster 
26 Key element amount 31 Chocolate-60 In readiness 1 0 Slop container Puzzle by Doug Peterson 
coated candy 61 Power co. 11 Sign of fatigue 33 Light snack 43 Cape Town 52 Arctic mass 35 Hubbub 62 Clinical study 12 "Braveheart" currency
34 Humbly patient 53 "Thumbs-up" getup 45 Chowderhead 
38 He devised the responses

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
13 Overhead RRs 
Trojan horse 48 Jack of "Twin 21 Not duped by 54 Barrett or Jaffe
Peaks"40 Nonsense, to a22 Tolkien brutes Brit 49 Tony winner 55 Spades, for 26 Most of Santa's Lenya example41 Where touch 
mail typists begin 50 Certain navel
27 Creep (along) 56 Diner order, 42"Hmmm ..." 51 Song of David briefly
28 Conceal in the hand 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit 29 "What's the big card, 1-800-814-5554. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
?" 
30 Midday 
AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit 31 Sporty cars, nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past 
briefly 
puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).32 Potentially Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. offensive Crosswords lor young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

MICHAEL MH<USKA 
WWW.8LACKDOG.COM 



PATRICK GARTLAND 
THE FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 
Haha, why's that? Really? A blatant pot joke?

I guess we know why Michael 
We need to try harder before we
Phelps eats twenty thousand. 
ound like The Dome Piece.
calories a day now, huh? 
page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Michael T. Weiss, 47: Christie Brinkley. 55; Brent Spiner. 59; Farrah Fawcett, 6:! 
Happy Birthday: Don't take life so seriously and things will flow better for you this year. There will be support and help from those who care about you and want to see yuu do well. Relax and refuse to get wrapped up in the melodrama. Bide your time, listen to good adYice and work on the relationships that are worth keeping. Your numbers are 2, 6, 13, :o. 23, 31, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will be taken advantage of if you do too much for others. Listen but do not meddle. Your best efforts will come from working for your own benefit, taking care of unfinished business. projects and promises. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't give )lOUr true feelings away with your reactions. You can expect someone to try to take credtt for something you did. Don't get angry but do set the record straight. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone will go behind your back if he or she thinks it will give them a professional edge. There is money to be made but a move or learning a new skill may be required. Someone you least expect will help you. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Use your ingenuity and you will come up with some good ideas for budgeting or bringing in more money. Chances are there is a service you can offer or a craft you produce that can be marketed. Making alterations or sizing down can help ease financial stress. -J. stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't be fooled by what someone is telling you, especially if it has to do with fmances, a professional position or a legal settlement or .:ontract. You have to question everything and everyone if you intend to get what you want. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You need a vacation. The experience will lead you in a whole uew direction --one of exhilaration and prosperity for your future. Love is in the stars and commitment is within your reach. 5 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): It's experience coupled -.·ith your ability to socialize that "~II get you where you want to go. Networking will pay off but don't let it cost you too much. An idea you have wiii be well received. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21); You'Il be tempted by s'omeone who may not be telling you the whole truth. Back up and rethink your priorities. You cannot gh·e time or money to someone else when you have your own projects to pay for and manage. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Additional responsibilities will be a lot to handle but are essential to your own well-being and future. Someone questioning your loyalty may be guilty of exactly what he or she is accusing you of doing. Face any controversy head-on. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Consider what you cau do to increase the value of your home odower your overhead. There is money to be made if you are calculating and quick to make a move. Emotional issues can be dealt with. bringing about greater understanding. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't jump to conclusions or make a hasty decision. Be sure before you make a moYe that will alter your lifestyle or confme you in any way. Rely on past experience to lead you in the right direction. :! stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may be swindled if you let your emotions get;;,_ valved in a money-m.:1.king decision. Find out all you need to know about a job or com­
..
pany changetthat will affect your position. Don't leave an)1hing to chance. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are strong-willed and determined. You are bold and sensitive and always strutd up for the underdog. You like to be in control. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugenia/ast.comfor corifidemial consultations. mvspace.comleugenialastfor Eugenia's blog, astroadvice.comfor ftm 
HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJWJMJJ3)1[R 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
YEDEK 
1 

rJ I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
I I [ II tCLITIE 
WHAT SHf: Df:CID!:D WHEN THE: f:Yf:

J [J I I 
DOCTOR ASKED 

www.iumble.com 
Hf:R OUT. 

HINSIF 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as


I I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer here: 
TO" rI I]" [II] 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Saturday's  Jumbles: Answer:  PROBE BUXOM RACIAL What the weaver left in his estate  BROOCH - 
AN "HEIR" LOOM  

---------------~----------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City ________ State _____ Zip_______ 
j ' 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, February 3, 2009 
page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Stop the leader 
Zellous and red-hot Panthers await ND 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
Notre Dame found its stride on defense Saturday against Cincinnati. And just in time, too, because tonight the No. 19 Irish face senior guard Shavonte Zellous, the Big East's leading scorer, and the No. 22 Panthers at the Peterson Events Center. 
Zellous averages 23.8 points per game, second in the coun­try, and just dropped 31 in a home win over Marquette on Jan. 30. She was also recently named to the Wooden Award watch list. Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said Zellous 

.. 
will get her points and that the 
Irish don't have a defender 
who can guard her. 
see ZELLOUS/page 17 


MEN'S TENNIS 
Young squad still 
learning 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 
If Notre Dame was a teenag­er, it would h~ going through its awkward stage. 
But growing pains are to be expected on a team composed almost entirely by a talented group of freshmen and sopho­mores not used to playing at such a high level. 
"This is a process," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "Learning to compete is as much a learned skill as are one's strokes and shot-mak­ing." 
The team is led by senior Brett Helgeson, ranked No. 20 -the squad's only upper­classman. Nine freshmen and 
see YOUTH/page 17 
HOCKEY ... 

No.2 Irish still lead CCHA, but playoff race heats up 
eight games left in the 28-each host a best-of-three Next week: at Ohio State man-up chances.
By MATT GAMBER 

game conference season, series starting March 6, so Key stat: 1.5 net goals per
Associate Sports Editor 

the league standings are the fight for the No. 8 slot game. With the league's sec­No. 8 Miami (16-8-4, 14-5­taking shape. will also heat up in the com­ond-highest scoring offense 3-1, 32 pts) 
Notre Dame may have lost The top four teams in the ing weeks as the bottom (3.2 goals per game) and top Last week: won 6-1, won its 20-game unbeaten streak final standings receive a four look to move into posi­scoring defense (1. 7 goals 3-2 vs. Bowling Green and its No. 1 national rank­first-round bye in the con­tion to host a first round allowed per game), the Irish Next week: off; at Lake ing, but the No. 2 Irish still ference tournament, and series. have dominated a relatively Superior Feb. 13-4 hold a two-point lead with with three teams within a easy conference schedule to Key stat: 72 goals. The two games in hand over point of each other for that ·No. 2 Notre Dame (20-4-3, this point. Notre Dame also RedHawks were the first CCHA rival Miami. No. 4 seed, that race is cer­14-3-3-3, 34 pts) boasts the CCHA's most effi­team to reach 70 goals in 
With most teams -Notre tainly one to watch. Last week: lost 2-1, won 3-cient power-play unit, scor­Dame included having The next four teams will 2 vs. Michigan ing on 23.5 percent of its see CCHA/page 18 
.. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
In Big East, no rest for weary 
No conference wins in three weeks, but team gets easier track 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Editor 
The good news is the toughest part is over. The bad news is the easier part is also pretty darn tough. It almost seems like the Irish failed to climb Everest so they earned a chance to try scal­ing Mount Kilimanjaro. 
After a five-game losing streak that was probably even more brutal on the Notre Dame play­ers than the fans, the team will travel to Cincinnati Wednesday in search of its first conference 

.. win in over three weeks . Here's a look at the Big East after another week of in-confer­ence cannibalism: 
Still Undefeated: No. 8 
see BIG EAST/page 18 


FENCING 

Both teatnS defeat Penn State at Northwestern 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 

The No. 1 men (17 -0) and the No. 2 women's team (17­
2) combined to go 22-0 at the Northwestern Duels this weekend, knocking off seven ranked opponents in the progress. Both squads posted victories over top-ranked Penn State teams during the Evanston, Ill. event. 
The men, who finished the weekend 9-0, turned in wins over Johns llopkins (23-4), Northwestern (20-7), Cleveland State (24-3), No. 10 North Carolina (21-6), Wayrte Statfl (24-3) Detroit (24-3), Lawrence (27-0) No. 3 Ohio State (15-12) and Penn State (14-13), who currently are tied with the Irish atop the USFCA poll. 
On the women's side, the 
team went 11 ~o with wins against John's Hopkins (25­2), No. 1 Penn State (19-8), No. 8 Temple (19-8), Farleigh Dickinson (24-3), Lawrence (25-2) Wayne State (23-4), Cleveland State (26-1), North Carolina (23-4), No. 6 Northwestern (16-11), Detroit (27-0) and No. 3 Ohio State (17-10). 
On Saturday, the men's team's scintillating 14-13 vic­tory over Penn State set the tone for the Irish. Holding a narrow 13-12 lead late in the match, Notre Dame head coach Janusz Bednarski made a late substitution, placing sophomore Jacob Osborne into the epee lineup. After falling behind 4-3 in a match that needed five touch­es for a win, Osborne picked up two quick touches to 
see DUALS/page 17 




