

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Students discern religious vocations 
Old College residents integrated in Notre Dame community, undergo spiritual formation 

By LAURA McCRYSTAL News Writer 
While many Notre Dame undergraduates search for internships, jobs and graduate schools, they may not be aware that several of their fellow stu­dents are discerning religious vocations. 
Senior Santiago Rosado first thought about priesthood when he was in high school. 
"I was sitting in Mass one day and was like, 'Hey, I bet you could do that!'" he said. "And I thought that was so strange for a high school kid to think that I wanted to find out what was going on there, like why there was this impulse toward priest­hood which isn't pushed in socie­
ty." 
Rosado and senior Britton Synder are applying to enter the Dominican Order this summer. 
Snyder also felt the call to reli­gious life while he was in high school, as he came to a deeper understanding of the Catholic faith. 
"Once I understood that the Eucharist is Jesus Christ, and that Jesus Christ is God, I just wanted to be part of the office that brings Jesus Christ to souls in that way," he said. 
Junior Kelly Mason also hopes to join the Dominican Order as a 
see VOCATION/page 6 
SUZANNA PRATI!The Observer Seniors Britton Synder, left, and Santiago Rosado plan to join the Dominican Order after graduation next year. 


Chipotle gives away free burritos 
Popular Mexican eatery to open Friday; SO percent ofrestaurant's business to comefrom University 
Wednesday event were pleased with the new restaurant, students who were turned away Thursday evening were less than thrilled. 
"This in an outrage," said Michelle Perone, a senior living off campus. "They made us all these promises and now they're not keeping them." 
Xan Schwartz, a freshman from Welsh Family, agreed, and said she did not think the Chipotle staff was doing all they could to serve the students. 
"They can't do anything about the length of the line, but at least they could stay open longer, or pass out burritos or drinks out-
see CHIPOTLE/page 4 By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 


News Writer 
The free burrito events held by Chipotle Mexican Grill's new loca­tion in Eddy Street Commons drew mixed reviews from Notre Dame students. 
The store held a small promo­tional event Wednesday night where students could bring in cards they obtained from the stu­dent government office from 5 
p.m. to 8 p.m. 
However, Thursday the store promised to serve free burritos until 7 p.m. and cut the line off at 5:30p.m. 
While students who attended the 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Professor Sain dies of heart attack 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 

Professor Michael Sain, a 40­year veteran of the Electrical Engineering Department, died Tuesday morning, according to a University news release. He was 72. 
He died of a heart attack in his South Bend home, the release said. 
Sain was of the University's f i r s t chaired professors, and he has authored or c 0 authored about 400 publica­tions. He specialized in statisti­cal control theory and taught several undergraduate classes, including a course that merged theology and engineering. 
Thomas Fuja, chair of the Department of Electrical Engineering said Sain was a pioneer for Engineering research at the University. 
"When Mike joined Notre Dame, it was basically a teach­ing institution, with little or no research activity," Fuja said. "Mike was one of the young lions who, in the 1960's, 

see SAIN/page 3 

Court overturns state voter identification law 
By KATIE PERALTA Assistant News Editor 
From now on, out-of-state student voters can go to the polls without worrying about possession of an Indiana state identification. 
Last Thursday, the Indiana court of Appeals struck down a law requiring voters to have a government-issued photo identification before casting their vote, according to an Associated Press news report. 
The U.S. Supreme Court had ruled the original law constitu­tional last year in a 6-3 ruling. The League of Women Voters challenged the law in state courts, arguing that it violated the state constitution. The case was at first dismissed by a Marion County Court judge, but the League appealed and a panel of judges ruled in its favor, 3-0, the AP reported. 

Indiana governor Mitch Daniels called the ruling "an act of judicial arrogance." 
"It would be one thing if this thing had not already been lit­igated from the bottom up through the federal system, and multiple court rulings ­including the Supreme Court of the United States -hadn't already spoken," Daniels said. 
Critics of the previous law, 
see VOTING/page 6 


TV producer gives lecture 
By LAUREN BALDWIN 
News Writer 

In order to create great TV or art of any kind, you have to dare to suck, said Douglas Lieblein, Emmy­nominated writer and co-executive producer and writer of The Disney Channel's "Hannah Montana." 
"You have to be brave enough as an artist and throw that thing in the back of your head that judges you out," he said. 
After previously pursuing acting, directing and screenwriting, Lieblein found his passion as a half­hour sit-com writer during hi<> time as a writer's assistant. 
"It is a completely different kind of writing that you've never heard 
see HANNAH/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER Irish Insider Insert • What to do before you graduate page 12 • Soccer faces conference foes page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 
..----------­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, September 25, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Destination: Procrastination 
Procrastination -something that everyone does at some point in their college career. It's inevitable. We all have to put off doing something to tomorrow at least once. 
living with three other Amanda Gray girls, I've come 
News
to realize that 
Production
procrastination 
Editor
comes in differ­ent forms, and while I won't name my roommates directly, each of them (including myselO 
takes on a different role. 
The four main groups of procrastina­tion are as follows: 
The "Pro-procrastinator": This is the person that actually enjoys procrastina­tion. knows that they are doing it, and doesn't really care. We'll call this room­mate "Wendy." Wendy has the ability to procrastinate just about anything. Her most amazing feat would have to be procrastinating a 10 page paper until the night before it was due. We were all telling her that she should get started ... about a week before she did. She then got about 30 minutes of sleep when she finally got around to writing it. However, we can't really get angry at her-she knows exactly what she's doing, and she really doesn't care. This is most likely a good thing. 
The "Something-came-up-and-now­I'm -not-doing-my-work procrastinator": This roommate, "Penelope," has the habit of waiting to do things until the night before, which isn't procrastinat­ing, but then comes up with something to do and doesn't do her work, which is procrastinating. She also then gets to stay up all night working on whatever gigantic amount of homework she has to do. The major difference between Penelope and Wendy is that Penelope feels bad afterwards. Not saying that Wendy doesn't care -she just knows what she did and doesn't feel bad after­wards because she chose to do so. 
The "I-don't-want-to-procrastinate­oh, wait-is-that-Sporcle? procrastina­tor": This roommate, "VIrginia," doesn't want to procrastinate, and with her major there is basically no time to do so. However, when Penelope or Wendy whips out a laptop and brings up the time-wasting Web site of www.sporcle.com, VIrginia just can't help herself. Sporcle isn't the only thing, either-The Food Channel and MTV also aid our quad in distractions from homework. Though, quickly VIrginia recovers and gets back to homework -she never really has to pull late nights. 
And the 'Tm-too-involved-and-don't­have-time-to-procrastinate procrastina­tor": This one happens to be me. I would love to be able to procrastinate. Every night I hit the point where I just don't want to work anymore, and would love to sit down and watch The Iron Chef on at midnight. However, my pro­fessors seem to not want me to ever have a life, and no matter how much I work ahead I can't seem to get any time to myself. Professors, ifyou're reading this, give your students a night off every once in a while: we deserve a night to procrastinate and hang out with the awesome people that we live with, but rarely see because of all the work. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and suives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOUR LIFE WERE MADE INTO A MOVIE, WHO WOULD PLAY YOU? 







Christina Harmon  Kelsey Flood  Matt Apker  Mitch Kochanski  Molly Casanova  
senior McGlinn  freshman McGlinn  freshman Fisher  freshman Stanford  junior Farley  
"Angelina Jolie. I love her  "Anne Hathaway because I relate  "Seth Rogen ... but sexier. "  "Paul Rudd because he is  "Sandra Bullock because  
becasue ofwhat she does as a humanitarian for the U.N."  to a lot ofthe characters she plays and she's really well composed"  awesome and I like his style.''  she's super sweet!"  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SARAH O'CONNORffhe ObseNer 
Students walk down the staircases in Jordan Hall of Science after their chemistry 
lab. 
OFFBEAT 
Italian mafia threatens businessmen with crocodile 
ROME -Here's another of the Mafia's trademark offers­you-can't-refuse: pay or be eaten by a crocodile. 
Italy's anti-Mafia police unit said Wednesday it has seized a crocodile used by an alleged Naples mob boss to intimidate local businessmen from whom he demanded protec­tion money. 
Officers searching for weapons in the man's home outside the southern Italian city last week found the croc­odile living on his terrace, said police official Sergio Di Mauro. 
The crocodile, weighing 40 kilograms (88 pounds) and 

1.7 meters (5.6 feet) long, was fed a diet of live rabbits and mice. Di Mauro said. 
He said the suspect, an alleged boss in the Naples­based Camorra crime syndi­cate, used to invite extortion victims to his home and threaten to set the animal on them if they didn't pay or grant him favors. 
Mayor bans police from chasing suspects 
COLUMBIA, S.C. -The mayor of a small South Carolina town says she banned her police officers from chasing suspects on foot after an officer was hurt run­ning after a man. 
Wellford Mayor Sallie Peake said Monday she issued the order in August after the city had to pay for an officer who missed work after chasing a "guy who had a piece of crack on him." She said a drug pos­session charge was not worth the cost to taxpayers. But her written order said she did "not want anyone chasing any suspects whatsoever." 
The decision came after two town-issued cars were totaled within a month, although her order applies only to foot chases. 
Information compiled from the AssodotedPress. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a:: 
I.&J 
:c 
~ 
I.&J 
~ 
~ 
e
c( 
u 


0 

HIGH 75 HIGH 60 HIGH 70 HIGH 75
.... 

LOW 59 LOW 57 LOW 54 LOW 51 
IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team will play Louisville today at 5 p.m. at the new Alumni Stadium. For ticket information, call the ticket office at 574-631-7356 or visit the athletic ticket office Web site. 
The Northeast Neighborhood Council's Annual Back to School Picnic will take place today from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. in the Robinson Community Learning Center parking lot. There will be free food, games and entertainment. The event is sponsored by the Northease Neighborhood Council, Robinson Community Learning Center, Center for Social Concerns and the Divison or Student Affairs. 
The Tokyo String Quartet will perform tonight at 7 p.m. in Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets can be pur­chased at the performing arts Web site or by calling the tick­et office at 574-631-2800. 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team will play Louisville at 1 p.m. Sunday at the new Alumni Stadium. For ticket information, call the ticket office at 574-631-7356 or visit the athletic ticket office Web site. 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team will play Cincinnati on Sunday at 3:30 p.m. at the new Alumni Stadium. For tick­et information, call 574-631­7356 or visit the athletic tcket office Web site. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 



0,,,,,,,

,,,,,,, 


HIGH 59 HIGH 59 LOW 44 LOW 38 
Atlanta 87 I 69 Boston 63 I 42 Chicago 71 I 59 Denver 63 I 46 Houston 84 I 71 Los Angeles 91 I 64 Minneapolis 69 I 54 New York 70/51 Philadelphia 72/52 Phoenix 102/76 Seattle 74/55 St. Louis 73/53 Tampa 92/75 Washington 73/59 

·-~1 
Friday, September 25, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Sain 
continued from page 1 
helped put Notre Dame on the map, research-wise." 
Sain's research has been applied to the criminal justice system in South Bend and Indianapolis as well as to the protection of structures from earthquakes and high winds. 
Yet Fuja said Sain valued his undergraduate students along with his research. 
"Mike was always aware of the primacy of undergraduate teaching at Notre Dame, and he did an outstanding job in the classroom, winning teach-
Plus, we offer GAP 
and MBP Prf....·ection
at very comp 'tive prices. . , Stop in and>'!~ apply today! 

ing awards at the Department, College and University level," he said. 
Sain 's course "Theology and Engineering" was popular and possibly unprecedented, the release said. 
"To integrate what I believe about God with what I think and do as an engineer is the most important thing that has happened to me here at Notre Dame," he once said of the class, according to the release. 
Stain was born in St. Louis, Miss., and received degrees from St. Louis University and the University of Illinois. 
A viewing will be held Sunday from 2 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
at Kaniewski Funeral Home, 3545 N. Bendix Dr., South Bend, IN. A rosary will be held at 4 p.m., followed by words of personal remem­brance. The funeral Mass will be at 11 a.m., Monday, Sept. 28, at Christ the King Catholic Church, with burial at Cedar Grove cemetery following the Mass. 
Charitable donations may be sent to Queen of Peace Ministries, P.O. Box 761, Notre Dame, IN 46556, or to the Women's Care Foundation, 201 Lincolnway West, South Bend, IN 46544. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 


NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
As low as 4.99%APR (Annual Percentage Rate) is available for various financing terms. Rate subject to change without notice. $5,000 minimum loan requirement to obtain 4.99%APR. Certain other restrictions may apply. Refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans do not apply. Offer may be withdrawn at any time. Independent of the University. 


Neighborluxxi hosts backtoschool picnic 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 

The Northeast Neighborhood Council will host its annual back to school picnic Friday evening at the Robinson Community Learning Center (RCLC). 
All off-campus students are welcome to the Back to School Picnic, which is also co-sponsored by the RCLC, the Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns, and ND Student activities. 
"This is a family-friendly event intended to bring stu­
dents together "This is a family and work at with neigh-the center and
friendly event
bors," Jay this is the
intended to bring stu­
Caponigro, the chance for Director of the dents together with them to meet Robinson students."
neighbors"
Community More than Learning 350 Notre Center, said. Jay Caponigro Dame students 
The RCLC is Robinson Community attended the a part of the Center Director picnic last 
Office of Public Affairs and Communication at Notre Dame, but is overseen by an advisory board consisting of Notre Dame students, com­munity residents, university faculty and staff, and pro­gram partners. 
"We have multiple activi­ties for Notre Dame students to engage with the commu­nity and build a sense of trust and collaboration," Caponigro said. 
Caponigro said there will be plenty of activities for children, which will be run by students, representatives of churches and other com­munity members. In addi­tion, members of the Center for Social Concerns, Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) and the fire department will also be on hand. 
"It will be a festive atmos­phere for families and Notre Dame to share a meal and a conversation and get to know each other," he said. 
The picnic is one of the biggest events the RCLC holds that connects the local community with Notre Dame. 
"We've had different events to try to bring togeth­er the community and uni­versity as part of the history of the Robinson Community Learning Center," Caponigro said. "This is kind of our hallmark event for the fall." 
He said the picnic has strengthened over the years as more students have become involved. 
"It's a terrific experience," Caponigro said. "We get so 
many families 
who come to 
y e a r 
Caponigro said he hopes to have a similar turnout for this year's pic­nic. 
"We would be happy any­where in that range," he said. "It certainly fills up our space." 
The Northeast Neighborhood Council creat­ed the event to partner with the university to welcome students back to the neigh­borhood. 
"We want to welcome stu­dents back to campus and let them know they are appreciated," Caponigro said. 
The Northeast Neighborhood Council was created in 1966 and is the oldest continually operating neighborhood association in the history of South Bend. 
The picnic will take place in the RCLC side lot of the RCLC from 5:30-7:30 p.m. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 

Please recycle The Observer 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS Friday, September 25, 2009 
were making fun of people with 

ed about the new location, which is only recently opened to the public. speech impediments, so we ended 
significantly closer than the old "I was very excited to see it and it
ChipotleHannah 
up rewriting the entire last 20 

location in Mishawaka. was beautiful,'' Davidson said. "I continued from page 1 
pages ofthe episode." 

continued from page 1 ''I'm really excited to have a wish it had been here my freshman There are hours and hours of 
Chipotle near campus," Adam year." of or experienced and I fell in love rewriting that occurs while in the 
side," Schwartz said. "Timrc's a lot Woodruff, a senior, said. "However, The student body as a whole with it," Iieblein said. production process. 
ofother things they ean do." I still think it should be in seemed pleased with the new Iieblein discussed how the group "The most time consuming part 
Sol Aguilera, the manager of tho LaFortune instead." restaurant, and even those students of six writers and producers begin is not telling the story; it's telling it 
Eddy StrePt Chipotle, said she and Woodruff also said he was who were turned away said they the Hannah Montana production in a funny way," Iieblein said. 
her staff did all they could to pleased with the way Eddy Street would likely go to Chipotle again in process. Thursday is "crazy day." Half of 
accommodate a<> many students, Commons looked. the future. "We come in eight weeks early, the show is filmed each Thursday. 
whom she estimates will r,ompri<;<J "I think architecturally all the 'Tm just mad because I looked start breaking stories that we think Lieblein and three other writers 
80 percent of the mstaurant's clien­buildings look really nice and I'm forward to getting ChipotlP after my would be good Hannah episodes," work in the writer's room on the 
tele, as possible. excited to have all these stores near class and I got halfWay through the Lieblein said. "We create stories next week's episodes while watch­
"What happ1med is it's going to campus," Woodruff said. line and they told me I r,ouldn't go from the heart ofthe character out­ing a video feed from the stage 
take an hour and a half to get Rachel Davidson, a senior, in," Meghan Pulte, a freshman ward, about how the character is where shooting is going on and 
[inside]," Aguilera said. "And then attended the event Wednesday from Lyons Hall, said. 'Til probably moving forward in life." where the two executive producers 
we'll need to close the restaurant." night and was happy with the expe­still keep going to Chipotle though." If the group can make comedy are. Much collaboration on the 
Both Schwartz and Perone wont rience. Students were also pleasantly out of a serious subject, they have a shooting occurs between the people 
to Hot Box Pizza. a restaurant "Everybody was happy and the surprised with the quality of the story. on the stage and in the writing 
across the street from Chipotle, fOod was delicious," Davidson said. food at I lot Box Piz?.a. They always start out with "Miley room. 
after being turned away from the "You had to come in with little "The pizza we got was really wants blank," but because Miley Friday, the script for the next 
free burrito line. The pizzeria wa<> cards but they started handing out good," Perone said. "And at least Cyrus can't be fihning every hour of week is completed. At 5 p.m., 225 
full ofstudents who were unable to the card<> at the door, so they basi­Hot Box Pizza i•m't making promis­the day, they always have a B story guests come to the studio and the 
obtain a complimentary Chipotle cally wanted to give us free food." es they r.an't deliver." in the episode that she isn't in. other halfofthe show is filmed. 
food item. like Woodruff. Davidson wa<> also A high priority of writers is to "Friday night the show is over. 
Students who were admitted into looking forward to finally seeing Contact Irena Zajickova at consider the effects everything in Big sigh, and start all over again on 
the restaurant said they were exeit-Eddy Street Commons, which was izajicko@nd.edu the episode can have on the young Monday," Lieblein said. viewers. After describing what he does in 
"We know absolutely that every­hi<> job, Leiblein gave advice on how thing Miley does on screen, a six­to break into the business. year-old girl will do at home; we all "If you really want to break into have kids," Iieblein said. "They are the business, learn to type really going to imitate everything she does fast," Lieblein said. "Being a and says." writer's assistant is the easiest way 
After outlining, beating out sto­in. After you have been a writer's ries and ending up with a bunch of assi<>tant, you see another writer's story ideas for the season, the first assistant, and you want to help episode goes into production. them in. I have read every script Lieblein discussed a typical work­that every writer's assistant has week. ever given me." 
"Monday 9 a.m. everybody comes When asked if he has considered in; actors, writers, directors, and going into screenwriting, Lieblein we do a table read. Actors sit replied that he could never give up around the table and they read his job because he loves the atmos­through their scripts," Lieblein said. phere ofthe writer's room. "We're hearing the dialogue for the "When I go to work, I laugh more first time. It changes everything than I ever laughed in my entire when you hear it. 'Oh that joke life," Iieblein said. "What I do for a doesn't work,' and at 10 a.m. the living is too much fun. I've fallen in actors go to the stage to rehearse." love with The Disney Channel and I 
While the actors rehearse, the love working with them." writers get notes, work on produc­Finally, Lieblein said he knew tion and spend the rest of the night Miley Cyrus was a star from the rewriting the script for Tuesday's beginning, but he never could have run-through. expected the phenomenon that 
"Tuesday morning actors are Hannah Montana has turned into rehearsing on stage, and from nine globally. to one we have free time," Iieblein "More people in India watch said. "Our free time is frantically Hannah Montana than in the scrambling to finish next week's United States," Iieblein said. script. We go back to stage and see run-through of script. We see it up Contact Lauren Baldwin at on its feet and we have a visual." lbaldwin@nd.edu 
By Wednesday props are includ­ed in the run-through, and network executives come to give feedback. 
ERASMus BooKs 
• Used Books bought and sold 
This is the time of the week when 
• 25 Categories of Books
huge parts of episodes need to be 
• 25,000 Hardback and 
rewritten based on concerns the 
Paperback books in stock 
network or the Standards and 
• Out-of-Print search service 
Practices Committee have. 
• Appraisals large and small 
"One episode was all about Miley endorsing a product before she 
OPEN noon to six 
tried it," Lieblein said. "When she 
Tuesday through Sunday 
does finally try it, she's allergic to an 
1 027 E. Wayne
ingredient, and her tongue swells 
South Bend, IN 46617 
up so much that she speaks funny. 
232-8444
They were afraid it seemed like we 










ORLD & NATION 
Friday, September 25, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Chavez hopeful about future 
UNITED NATIONS -Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez told the U.N. General Assembly on Thursday that he smells hope not sulfur, a small compliment for Barack Obama given that he branded then President George W. Bush "the devil" when he last addressed the world body in 2006. 
"It doesn't smell of sulfur. It's gone. It smells of something else. It smells of hope and you have hope in your heart," Chavez said during a rambling, 57-minute address where he mentioned close friend and former Cuban President Fidel Castro more than Obama or Bush. 
Ecuador rejects arbitration claim 
QUITO -Ecuador on Thursday rejected as an inappropriate last-ditch effort Chevron Corp.'s attempt to force it into international arbitration so it might share liability in a $27 billion lawsuit over environmental damage in the Amazon rainforest. 
In a statement, the Attorney General's oflice said U.S.-based Chevron was trying to achieve through arbitration what it couldn't in U.S. and Ecuadorean court<;. 
Also Thursday, the judge presiding over the case said he would appeal a court decision ear­lier this week denying his request to be removed from the case because of allegations he was involved in a purported bribery scheme. 
The removal of Judge Juan Evangelista Nunez would delay a verdict that had been expected this year. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Court drops $5 mil. verdict 
RICHMOND -A federal appeals court on Thursday tossed out a $5 miUion verdict against protesters who carried signs with inflammatory messages like "Thank God for dead soldiers" outside the Maryland funeral of a U.S. Marine killed in Iraq. 
A three-judge panel of the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said the signs contained "imaginative and hyperbolic rhetoric" pro­tected by the First Amendment. Such mes­sages are intended to spark debate and can­not be reasonably read as factual assertions about an individual, the court said. 
A jury in Baltimore had awarded Albert Snyder damages for emotional distress and invasion of privacy. The 2006 funeral of Snyder's son, Marine Lance Cpl. Matthew Snyder in Westminster, Md., was among many military funerals that have been pick­eted by members of the fundamentalist Westboro Baptist Church in Kansas. 
Calif. teen arrested for arson 
SAN BERNARDINO-A 16-year-old boy arrested for investigation of arson is under investigation in connection with more than a dozen Southern California wildfires, authori­ties said Thursday. 
The fires had a "commonality," but investi­gators were not releasing any details of how they might be connected, San Bernardino County sheriffs spokeswoman Jodi Miller said. 
None of the fires involved in the investiga­tion led to serious injuries or death, and prop­erty damage was minimal, said Doug McKain, a unit chief with the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana lottery profits drop 17.5% 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana's lottery proceeds dropped by more than 17 percent in the past fiscal year, marking one of the sharpest decline in profits nationwide. 
The state's proceeds from the Hoosier Lottery fell by nearly $40 million, as profits dropped from $217 million in the 2008 fiscal year to $178 million in fiscal year that ended June 30. 
It's unclear whether new slot machines at the state's two horse racing tracks have cut into lottery sales. Lottery officials told The Indianapolis Star that the decline is caused in part by the recession and a lack of big jackpots. 
Protesters riot in Pittsburgh 

March turns chaotic as G-20 opponents and police clash; protesters arrested 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH -Police fired canisters of pepper spray and smoke at marchers protesting the Group of 20 summit Thursday after anarchists responded to calls to dis­perse by rolling trash bins and throwing rocks. 
The march turned chaotic at just about the time that President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama arrived for a meet­ing with leaders of the world's major economies. 
The clashes began after hundreds of protesters, many advocating against capitalism, tried to march from an outlying neighbor­hood toward the convention center where the summit is being held. 
The protesters banged on drums and chanted "Ain't no power like the power of the people, 'cause the power of the people don't stop.'' 
The marchers included small groups of self­described anarchists, some wearing dark clothes {Lnd bandanas and carrying black flags. Others wore helmets and safety goggles. 
One banner read, "No borders, no thanks," anoth­er, "No hope in capitalism.'' A few minutes into the Market restaurant. cross-legged near the offi­Bay, Wis., was carrying an march, protesters unfurled Officers fired. pepper cers, telling them to let the American flag and a "Don't a large banner reading "NO spray and smoke at the pro­protesters through and to Tread on Me" flag. BAILOUT NO CAPITALISM" testers. Some of those join their cause. "This is ridiculous. We with an encircled "A," a rec­exposed to the pepper spray "You're actively suppress­have constitutional rights to ognized sign of anarchists. coughed and complained ing us. I know you want to free speech," he said. 
The marchers did not that their eyes were water­move," Boatwright yelled, to The National Lawyer's have a permit and, after a ing and stinging. applause from the protest­Guild, a liberal legal-aid few blocks, police declared Police were planning a ers gathered around him. group, said one of its it an unlawful assembly. news conference to discuss Protesters complained observers, a second year They played an announce­their response. Officers that the march had been law student, was among ment over a loudspeaker were seen taking away a peaceful and that police those arrested. Its represen­telling people to leave or handful of protesters in were trampling on their tatives were stationed face arrest and then police cuffs. right to assemble. among the protesters, wear­in riot gear moved in to About an hour after the "We were barely even ing green hats. break it up. clashes started, the police protesting," said T.J. Amick, "I think he was totally act­
Protesters split into small­and protesters were at a 22, of Pittsburgh. "Then all ing according to the law. I er groups. Some rolled large standoff. Police sealed off of a sudden, they come up don't think he was provok­metal trash bins toward main thoroughfares to and tell us we're gathered ing anyone at all," said Joel police, and a man in a black downtown. illegally and start using Kupferman, a member of hooded sweat shirt threw Twenty-one-year-old force, start banging their the guild. "It's really upset­rocks at a police car, break­Stephon Boatwright, of shields, start telling us ting because he's here to ing the front windshield. Syracuse, N.Y., wore a mask we're going to be arrested serve, to make sure every­Protesters broke windows in of English anarchist Guy and tear gassed.... We one else can be protected.... a few businesses, including Fawkes and yelled at a line haven't broken any laws.'' It's a sign that they are out a bank branch and a Boston of riot police. He then sat Bret Hatch, 26, of Gr-een of control.'' 



THAILAND 

Experimental vaccine prevents HIV 
previously unsuccessful vaccines -surprised and very pleased by the 
cut the risk of becoming infected with outcome. 
BANGKOK -For the first time, an HIV by more than 31 percent in the "It gives me cautious optimism experimental vaccine has prevented world's largest AIDS vaccine trial of about the possibility of improving this infection with the AIDS virus, a more than 16,000 volunteers in result" and developing a more effec­watershed event in the deadly epi­Thailand, researchers announced tive AIDS vaccine, Fauci said. "This is demic and a surprising result. Recent Thursday in Bangkok. something that we can do.'' failures led many scientists to think Even though the benefit is modest, The Thailand Ministry of Public such a vaccine might never be possi­"it's the first evidence that we could Health conducted the study. The U.S. ble. have a safe and effective preventive Army has long worked with that gov­
The World Health Organization and vaccine," Col. Jerome Kim told The ernment and others to develop and the U.N. agency UNAIDS said the Associated Press. He helped lead the test vaccines and medicines to protect results "instilled new hope" in the study for the U.S. Army, which spon­troops and the general public. field of HIV vaccine research, sored it with the National Institute of The study used strains of HIV com­although researchers say it likely is Allergy and Infectious Diseases. mon in Thailand. Whether such a vac­many years before a vaccine might be The institute's director, Dr. Anthony cine would work against other strains available. Fauci, warned that this is "not the in the U.S., Africa or elsewhere in the 
The vaccine -a combination of two end of the road," but he said he was world is unknown, scientists stressed. 
Associated Press 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 25, 2009 
Vocation 
continued from page 1 
Dominican Sister of Nashville, Tenn., after she graduates. 
Mason was committed to playing soccer in high school, but suffered an injury during her junior year. 
"I had to find something else to focus my attention on," she said. "What that ended up being was Christ, so I started going to daily Mass." 
Mason considered entering reli­gious life after senior year of high school, but chose to come to Notre Dame to play soccer. She did not end up playing soccer, but during her freshman year she also lost the desire to enter religious life. 
Then in December of her sopho­more year at Notre Dame, Mason felt called to pursue a religious vocation. 
"I don't even know how to explain it," she said, "but I just knew [Christ] was saying 'I want you all for my own.' This was the first time I knew it was something real, and it was a call of love, not just of reason." 

Like Rosado, Synder and Mason, Braydn Harsha first felt called to religious life while he was in high school. He wanted to enter a col­lege seminary program, and he is now a sophomore and resident of Old College at Notre Dame. 
The 22 current Old Collegians are discerning vocations to enter the Order of Holy Cross, but they are just as much Notre Dame stu­dents as any other undergraduate, Harsha said. 
"We're very much integrated into the campus, and we're encouraged to have friends that are not from Old College," he said. "It's like a normal dorm, but we start every morning with morning prayer, then we have mass togeth­er every day. We have formation meetings and night prayer togeth­er." 
Old College juniors spend one semester abroad in Leuven, Belgium. During their senior year, they move into Moreau Seminary on campus and become official candidates for the Order of Holy Cross, Harsha said. 
Harsha was attracted to Old College and Holy Cross for its sense of community as well as the structure of a college seminary program. 
"You're learning responsibility, you're learning brotherhood, and you're discerning a vocation along the way," he said. "It's just kind of one step at a time. It's not such a big thing as some people make it out to be." 
Rosado, although not a member of Old College, said his time at Notre Dame has deepened his sense of vocation. 
"I came in with sort of the vague idea of vocation, and Notre Dame has a lot of groups and opportuni­ties to be able to express that inkling toward vocation," he said. 
Rosado said his involvement with Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns, his theology classes and the close-knit community of Carroll Hall influ­enced his decision to pursue life in a religious community. 
Snyder also said professors, friends and priests in the Notre Dame community had an impact on his decision to apply to the Dominicans. 
"Notre Dame is the place where God had it all come together for me," he said. "I would say the most important thing really has been the good friends I have made who have helped me." 
Even after deciding to pursue religious vocations, these four stu­dents will not take fmal religious vows for several years. 
If accepted into their desired religious orders, they will go through one year of a novitiate, during which they learn how to live in religious community and di<>cern whether they want to con­tinue in that order, Rosado said. 
If she joins the Dominican Sisters, Mason will not take her linal vows until seven years after she enters the order. Likewise, Harsha, Snyder and Rosado will not be ordained as priests for sev­era! years if they continue on their current paths. 
"We don't know that we'll be accepted or that we'll be ultimate­ly ordained," Rosado said. "I know plenty of people who have gone into the seminary and been shown great things by God and been led to married life." 
Mason, Harsha, Snyder and Rosado all said they would like to teach in the future, although they are open to work however they are needed by their religious orders. 
Snyder and Rosado said even though they have chosen to work toward priesthood, their current senses of vocation are not final. 
"It sounds great because this is what happened, but it's only after we reflected on our lives and struggled with a lot of different issues," Rosado said. "And obvi­ously it's not over. Vocation is con­tinuous discernment of God's will in your life." 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmmcryst@nd.edu 


Voting 
continued from page 1 
on the other hand, said it dis­enfranchised many groups of voters, such as the poor and the elderly, as well as some minority voters. 
Additionally, according to the AP, critics argued it does not make sense to require those voting in person to present a photo identification while those voting absentee would not have to -especially in light of the fact their ballots are already susceptible to fraud. 
Patrick Bauer, Democratic House Speaker from South Bend, lauded last week's rul­ing, according to the AP report. 
"This voter ID disenfran­chised hundreds if not thou­

sands of voters," he said. "You're supposed to treat peo­ple equally. We felt the whole law was trying to cut down voters." 
Last November, several Notre Dame students, as well as students from other area universities, were turned away for not having a state photo identification at the polling center at Legends. The Observer reported that the problems many students had at the polls stemmed from mis­understandings about Indiana regulations and the proper type of identification required. 
According to a recent South Bend Tribune report, identifi­cation cards from private insti­tutions are not considered valid for voting. Out-of-state students would have had to go to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles to apply for an Indiana identification card. 
paperwork, in addition to for­feiting his home state license, DellaPenna said. 
With last year's election being so radical, and Indiana being a traditionally red state, DellaPenna said he knew his vote would mean more in Indiana than in his home state. lie therefore did not pursue an absentee ballot from Illinois. 
"Overall, the situation was a huge hassle," he said. 
DellaPenna, like other stu­dents turned away from the polls, is pleased with last week's ruling. 
"This change in the law is great because it will prevent situations like mine in the future," he said. "That's good because I'm sure I wasn't the only one who felt frustrated with the process." 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 


Quality Off.Campus Houses Now leasing for 201 0 · 2011 
•Clo~e to cam~u~  •wa~ner~ &a~er~  
•)tuaent nei~noornooa~  •Disnwasners  
•)ecuriW ~~~tern~  •1·10 oearoom~  

•lawn ~ervice 

We have over 100 properties-see them at www.~ramerhouses.com ~r more information call 
(574) ~34· ~ 43~ 
A student who registered for an Indiana identification card would have to relinquish his or her home state identification or drivers license. 
"I had done my homework and still thought it would be possible to get a simpie State ID with a picture as by Indiana law they were required to give it to me for voting purposes," Michael DellaPenna, a sopho­more who was turned away from the polls last year, said. 
"What I wasn't prepared for was giving up my home state's [Illinois] driver's license. The Indiana DMV told me I could only have one or the other," he said. "I didn't par­ticularly want to give up my Illinois DL so I was stuck in a terrible spot." 
To acquire an Indiana driv­ers license, he would have had to pass a drivers test as well as fill out a great deal of 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Friday, September 25, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

Jones 9,707.44 -41.11 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 900 99 2,867 2,256,837,102 
AMEXn:'" (:t!!'1JIJ~!!Jtr 
NASDAQ  21 107.61  -23.81  
NYSE  ••·lill1111!!i!lillllll!~;~~  
S&P 500  1,050.?8  -10.09  
NIKKEI (Tokyo) . £';~~~~  !Jl:;GfOO  
FTSE 100 (London) 5,079.27 -60.10 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C)  -1.99  -0.09  4.43  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -1.10  -1.17  105.01  
BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC)  -2.97  -0.52  16.98  
E*TRADE FIN CORP (ETFC)  -4.89  -0.09  1.75  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -1.08  -0.037  3.38  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.00  0.09  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.50  -0.021  4.17  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.08  +.002  2.38  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -3.08  65.89  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -15.50  998.90  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.18  80.03  
Exchange Rates  
YEN 90.9850 EURO 1.4639 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0910 BRITISH POUND 1.5936 


IN BRIEF 

Treasury to review GM and Chrysler 
WASHINGTON -The inspector general for the Treasury Department's $700 billion bailout fund said Thursday that he will review the decisions of General Motors and Chrysler to close a large portion of their auto dealerships as part of their restructuring plans. 
Neal Barofsky told the Senate Banking, !lousing and Urban Affairs Committee that he will audit the process the two automakers used when they decided to significantly shrink their base of dealerships earlier this year. The companies said the closures were necessary to cut costs and better align their business with lower consumer demand. 
GM is reducing its 6,000-dealer network by about 2,400 dealerships by the fall of 2010 by not renewing franchise agreements and wind­ing down stores with outgoing brands. Chrysler slashed 789 dealers as part of its bankrutpcy proceedings this summer, leaving it with about 2,400. 

Drop in homesales weighs on stocks 
NEW YORK -Investors pulled away from stocks alter an unexpected drop in home sales and a slide in oil prices fanned worries about the pace ofthe economy's recovery. 
Stocks fell for a second day Thursday after the National Association of Realtors said sales of exist­ing homes dropped 2.7 percent in August after jumping 7.2 percent in July. Economists had expect­Pd sales would post their fifth straight monthly increase. 
The market climbed in morning trading following a surprise drop in the number of people seeking unemployment benefits. The housing numbers upended that advance, however, and stocks never recovered. The Dow Jones industrial average ended with a loss of 41 points to bring its two-day drop to 122 points. 
Financial stocks and home builders also lost ground after the hou<>ing munbers. 
A stronger dollar weighed on the market by push­ing commodity prices lower. That hit stocks of ener­gy and materials companies. 
TPchnology shares could see pressure Friday fol­lowing disappointing quarterly results from BlackBerry maker Research In Motion Ltd. The company warned that revenue for the current quar­tnr will fall short of analyst<>' expectations. 
World leaders stress unity 

Global heads speak at United Nations; say economic revival will be slow 
Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS Global leaders on Thursday warned colleagues that coordinated international action to end the world­wide recession and reverse climate change must not fall victim to routine politi­cal divisions and pitfalls. 
"Hecuperation will be slow and time-consuming," said President Zeljko Komsic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, one of the U.N.'s newer nation-states, born from the breakup of Yugoslavia in the 1990s. 
Komsic, speaking at the 
U.N. General Assembly's 64th annual session, called the global meltdown the "worst economic crisis since the founding of the United Nations, especially for poor and sub-Saharan countries." 
Cypriot President Demetris Christofias fin­gered corporate crime and greed as the culprits, denouncing "market law­lessness." 
"Globalization is driven by the pursuit of excessive profits," Christofias said. "As a result the rich are becoming richer and the poor, poorer." 
His remarks echoed those of French President Nicolas Sarkozy on Wednesday, of impressive growth of global economic instability; among non-members of the who condemned "the about 5 percent, only a few but should we not even G-20." behavior of those who still countries have been able to broaden the base further to Japan's Prime Minister continue to grow indecently reduce the proportion of include many nations that Yukio Hatoyama offered a rich, after leading the their population living on are most vulnerable to the mediating role "to forge world to the brink of disas­less than $1 per day," Mills decisions of the few?" systems to rein in the ter." said. asked Kagame. issues of poverty and eco­
For some people, Sierra The president of Rwanda, Bosnia-Herzegovina's nomic disparity, which are Leone's President Ernest another nation bathed in a Komsic had anticipated difficult to coordinate by Bai Koroma said Thursday, bloody genocide in the him: "It become more than simply leaving them to "The impact of the crisis 1990s, said Thursday that obvious that only a strong, market mechanisms, as may be on the size of their the way forward out of eco­multilateral approach can well as excessive money­bonuses; on others it may nomic recession will provide the right answers." making games." be on whether they acquire require expanded partici­Adding support from the Lithuania's President a second car or not. But for pation, beyond the insider developed world, Swiss Dalia Grybauskaite had an the vast number of people, club of the wealthy G-8 President Hans-Rudolf ominous message to belea­particularly in Africa, the nations or even the broader Merz noted that "The G-20 guered taxpayers every­impact of the crisis creates G-20. lacks legitimacy; basic con­where: "With all due life-threatening situations." "Most of the proposals siderations of due process regard for the domestic 
"The benefits of global­fall short of the steps are absent in the sanctions concerns and needs of ization have been negligible essential for the recovery of procedures. The members national taxpayers, we in the majority of develop­low-income countries," of the G-20 are not subject need to adapt to the reality ing countries," said Rwandan President Paul to the same scrutiny. of global complexity, to Ghana's President John Kagame said. Switzerland advocates a respect our common Evans Atta Mills. "The G-20 is now playing level playing field and responsibility and interna­
"Despite almost a decade a crucial role in restoring much better consultation tional commitments." 


Republicans to block health nominees 
potential effects. missive urged seniors to contact Associated Press It's the latest escalation in a polit­lawmakers to ask them to oppose ically charged controversy over it. WASHINGTON-The Senate's top whether the wide-ranging health The Republicans' latest threat is 
Republicans said Thursday they system remake Democrats have retaliation after a federal agencywouldn't allow President Barack written would result in reduced told Humana and other insurers Obama to fill health posts until his benefits and services for seniors. that work with Medicare to imme­administration stops barring insur­The measures -along the lines diately stop such mailings or simi­ers from telling the elderly how Obama has called for -propose lar Internet postings. The order Democrats' health overhaul could hundreds of billions of dollars over came from the Centers for affect their benefits. the next decade in cuts to Medicare & Medicaid Services, 
Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., the Medicare, the federal health pro­known as CMS, which oversees the minority leader, and seven other gram for the elderly and disabled, federal health programs for the Republicans wrote to Health and including in a program that lets poor and elderly.
Human Services Secretary Kathleen private insurers contract with Many Democrats deny that their Sebelius demanding she immedi­Medicare to provide coverage. legislation would cut benefits for ately lift what they called a "gag One such insurer, Humana Inc., seniors, but Congress' top, nonpar­order" that calls on private compa­headquartered in McConnell's tisan budget official said this week nies that contract with Medicare to home state, told its Medicare cus­that proposed cuts to the private stop communicating with their eld­tomers in a recent mailing that the insurers' so-called "Medicare erly customers about the measure's bill could slash their benefits. The Advantage" program could ulti­
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 25, 2009 

SMC sisters share stories of vocation and call to God 
By the time Cavender was
By CAITLIN HOUSELY 
awarded her PhD, she was 
News Writer 
already involved with the congregation. However, the The call to religious life application process for can happen at any time, in Sisters of the Holy Cross any place, over many years, took a while before or within one single revolu­Cavender was accepted to tionary day, according to the order. It was a year after Saint Mary's College nuns receiving her PhD that she Sister Amy Cavender and heard of her acceptance. At Sister Eva Hooker. this time, she was teaching 
Cavender, a professor of at Holy Cross College. "I was political science, and educated by the priests, Hooker, a pro-teaching the fessor of brothers, and English, had "If you find yourself joining the two different pulled [to religious sisters," she calls to reli" said.
life], do afavor to
gious life, but Hooker had 
they now share yourselfand check it quite a differ­a common goal out." ent story. In and lifestyle. eighth grade Cavender did she had a
Sister Amy Cavender
not hear her notion of her call to reli­political science call to reli­
giouslife until Professor gious life. She 
she was study­ing for her PhD in Political Science at Notre Dame. Her career path was teaching, but teaching was­n't the only element of her vocation. So she sought a career that valued her edu­cation and allowed her to become part of a family. The Sisters of the Holy Cross was just what she had in mind. 
While pursuing her teach­ing endeavors, Cavender vis­ited with a Holy Cross Sister, Sister Alice Michelle, every Sunday. Sister Alice Michelle had Multiple Sclerosis, but that never got her down, according to Cavender. Cavender said she was a vibrant person and was unstoppable At this time, Cavender also had a vocation director and a local contact house that she visited one day a week. All of these were factors that lead her to her final decision of joining the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
attended a 

Lutheran boarding school and became mesmerized by her piano teacher, a Lutheran Deaconess, Sister Anna. Although she never talked to Sister Anna directly, Hooker could tell that she was a prayerful person, and a lover of the Bible. 
"That was the seed," Hooker said. 
Eventually, she ended up studying at Saint Mary's College. At 17, Hooker was dazzled by the Sisters of the Holy Cross. However, she had to make a decision about her life quickly because a Notre Dame stu­dent offered her a proposal of marriage at the time. 
Hooker was drawn to the religious order. "I was attracted to the prayer of the church," Hooker said. 
She was interested in the readings of the mystical writers. "I was attracted to 
she said. 
She said she spent much time in the library reading religious writers, especially female writers, during her discernment years. 
Hooker was attracted to a life where women could have their writings published they could teach.. study and read books. She was also pulled toward a community of women praying together. 
Both sisters acknowledged that following through with their call was difficult. It took Cavender two years before she was ready to admit that she wanted to become a nun. 
However, both say that if you have a call, follow it. Regarding the call, Cavender said. "You never know when it is going to strike. 
"If you find yourself pulled [to religious life], do a favor to yourself, and check it out," Cavender said. 
Students who are consider­ing a vocation should pray about it, she said. She also said they should find some­one they trust to talk to about the issue. 
The decision to follow their vocations has changed both Cavender and Hooker's lives. Hooker said she takes more time for contemplation and values beauty more. 
"Beauty is one of the things that moves the soul closer to God," she said. She has made it her goal now to help beauty become a part of someone else's life. 
Sexuality definitely still played a part in Hooker's life, she said. However, it is not the typical sexuality one thinks of in today's society. She said no matter what profession you choose, the way you live your life is still going to be complex. 
the conversations with God Contact Caitlin Housely at they had in their writing," chouslO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
GRC to hold assault prevention training 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 
The Violence Prevention Initiative (VPI), a part of the Gender Relations Center (GRC), will hold Active Bystander Training to help prevent sexual assaults Friday; Heather Rakoczy Russell, Director of the Gender Relations Center, said. 
Active Bystander Training is the first of five signature events for the VPI, Russell said. All of the titles of the events, including Active Bystander Training's A Time to be Silent, a Time to Speak, are inspired by Ecclesiastes 3:1-8. 
There are many goals for Active Bystander Training, Russell said. 
"The hope is to prepare stu­dent leaders to prevent rape and sexual assault at Notre Dame, and to help a friend or survivor of rape or sexual assault, among others," Russell said. "This is the first time for VPI Active Bystander Training. 
"The 2007-2008 academic year was when the GRC formed a VPI Steering Committee to discuss, design and implement VPI at Notre Dame," she said. "The stu­dents on the VPI Steering Committee determined what events might be helpful for the campus community." 
The committee was made up of GRC staff and five undergraduate students, Russell said. VPI had three events last school year. 
Active Bystander Training was added to the event schedule this year, along with one other event, Russell said. 
"So, the hope is to slowly build 'scaffolding' -different kinds of programs around one theme that attract students with varied interests for the common purpose of making campus more safe and knowl­edgeable about how to effec­tively do violence prevention 
on  a  Catholic  campus,"  
Russell said.  
Russell  said  education  

about sexual assault could help stop sexual assault from happening. 
"Like all college campuses, it is difficult to measure the number of incidents of rape and/or sexual assault at Notre Dame, as it is the most under­reported crime. What we know for certain is that near­ly all reported cases of rape and/or sexual assault at Notre Dame involve a situation where one or both people are intoxicated and the alleged perpetrator is known to the survivor," Russell said. "In other words, these are cases of acquaintance rape, not a proverbial stranger jumping out of the bushes -which means, with education, we hope that most of these inci­dents could be prevented." 
The University's Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention (CSAP) released figures about college age sexual assault. 
"College-age students are more likely to be raped than any other age group. According to some studies, it is estimated that as many as one in four college women will experience sexual vio­lence during their college years. While most rapes are committed against women, 10 percent of sexual assault vic­tims are men," according to the CSAP Web site. "Ninety percent of college-age rape victims know the offender. An offender may be a date, friend, or someone the victim knows casually." 
Other events in VPI include Fine Arts Workshop, Sexual Assault Awareness Week, Writing Workshop and a Festival on the Quad. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
Yale professor speaks on importance of moral order of justice 
Lecture addresses zssue of race and human dignity based on crzmes of Apartheid in South Africa 
By ROBERT SINGER 
News Writer 
Moral language containing a concept of justice that describes the rights and duties rooted in human dignity must be used if we are to correctly assess inter­national, domestic and daily conflicts, Nicholas Wolterstorff, the Noah Porter Professor of Philosophical Theology Emeritus at Yale University, said. 
Believing and acting on a moral order of justice based on human dignity is important because of the crimes that occurred in South Africa during the Apartheid era, Wolterstorff said. 
During this era, Afrikaners, the descendents of Dutch set­tlers from the colonial era, excluded Blacks and mixed-race people -known at the time as "Coloureds"-from participat­ing in political life and withheld numerous rights from them. The stated goal was to segregate the races to allow for racial harmo­ny and distinct cultural identi­ties. 
Wolterstorff said he traveled to South Africa in 1976 for a con­ference and listened to the grievances of the oppressed peo­ples after hearing the arguments of the Afrikaners. 
"It was at that point that the so-called Blacks and the-so called Coloureds began to speak up," he said. "After these loud exchanges, there was a kind of muted quality to what the blacks and the colored were saying. They spoke movingly of the indignities daily heaped upon them." 
Wolterstorff said he was sur­prised by the Afrikaners' response. He said they claimed talking about the justice of the situation was irrelevant, because their intentions were good. 
"The response of the Afrikaners took me completely aback," he said. "They did not contest the claims of the Blacks and the Coloureds. Instead, they responded by saying that justice was not the relevant category. Benevolence was the relevant category." 
The Afrikaners justified the oppressive system by citing the many works of private charity they had provided for the Blacks and mixed-race peoples, Wolterstorff said. 
"Then they insisted that the whole system of Apartheid was motivated by benevolence," he said. "The system of Apartheid was aimed at encouraging each nation to find its own cultural identity and language and to flourish in its own way. They spoke scornfully of the American way of mixing everyone up." 
Wolterstorff spoke of a lesson learned from the experience. 
"One reason it is important to have the concept of justice avail­able to us is that it allows us to put a stop to paternalistic benev­olence," he said. 
Wolterstorff explained how rights pertain to justice. 
"I think that a right is always the right to the good of being treated a certain way," he said. 
"Rights are social relation­ships grounded in worth. You can't have rights all by yourself," he continued. "Although you have rights against me, I have rights against you. It's for taking note of the worthy of others and indeed of oneself." 
Rights should do more than ensure people's autonomy, according to Wolterstorfi. They should go beyond protecting the individual liberty of "forming a plan of life and acting on it." He said rights should be based on the worth and human dignity of all people. 
There are two dimensions to justice, according to Wolterstorff, the "agent" dimen­sion and the "recipient" dimen­sion. 
"On the one hand there is the moral significance of what one does, and on the other hand there is the moral significance of how one is done unto," he said. 
"This is what I've come to think. The language of rights is for bringing that recipient dimension of that moral order to speech," Wolterstorff added. 
In the situation of an abused spouse, he said, the agent dimension focuses on the actions of the guilty husband while ignoring the moral claims of the victim. 
"It's not just that he is guilty, she has been wronged," Wolterstorff said. "I think a great deal is lost if we can't call into attention what others have done unto us." 
Wolterstorff said viewing jus­tice in terms of rights allows us to appreciate people's dignity. 
"The second orientation requires that I be open to your worth in that the first does not," he said. "The second orientation requires a de-centering of my self. I am, as it were, no longer in moral control in the situation. I am, as it were, a moral listener in the situation." 
Relating this concept of justice to the Apartheid era, Wolterstorff said the Afrikaners "were so focused on the own goodness and dignity" that they could not see the crimes they were committing against the Blacks and mixed-race peoples. 
Contact Robbie Singer at 
rsinger@nd.edu 

Friday, September 25, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Fed. jury rejects law suit based on Hurricaine Katrina 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -A feder­al jury on Thursday rejected a New Orleans family's assertions that the govern­ment-issued trailer they lived in after Hurricane Katrina exposed them to dangerous fumes, in the first of several trials that could lead to hundreds of similar claims being resolved. 
Five men and three women decided that a trail­er made by Gulf Stream Coach Inc. and occupied by Alana Alexander and her 12-year-old son, Christopher Cooper, was not "unreason­ably dangerous" in its con­struction. One juror saying the plaintiffs' attorneys never had the "smoking gun" that proved their case. 
The jury also concluded that Fluor Enterprises Inc., which had a contract to install FEMA trailers, wasn't negligent. The federal gov­ernment wasn't a defendant in this first of several "bell­wether" trials, which are designed to help the New Orleans court test the merits and possibly settle of other claims over formaldehyde exposure in FEMA trailers. 
Lawyers on both sides wouldn't speculate on how the verdict could affect other cases. A law professor who specializes in toxic tort cases said verdicts in bell­wether trials can steer par­ties toward a mass settle­ment of similar claims. 
Alexander and Cooper lived in a FEMA trailer for 19 months after Hurricane Katrina damaged their home in August 2005. 
Alexander's lawyers claimed elevated levels of formaldehyde aggravated Cooper's asthma and increased his risk of getting cancer. Formaldehyde, a chemical commonly found in construction materials, can cause breathing problems and has been classified as a carcinogen. 
Plaintiffs' attorneys accused Gulf Stream and other trailer makers of using shoddy materials and methods in a rush to meet the Federal Emergency Management Agency's unprecedented demand for 
temporary shelters after hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Gulf Stream denied its trailer jeopardized the health of Alexander and her family. A company lawyer also noted that Alexander took her son off a steroid medication for his asthma for more than two years. 
The jury heard eight days of testimony and deliberated about four hours before delivering its decision. 
Juror Roy Pierce, 43, of Boutte, said he was troubled by testimony about some of Gulf Stream's "in-house practices" but didn't think the evidence supported a verdict against the compa­nies. 
"You didn't have the smoking gun," he said. 
Plaintiffs' attorney Gerald Meunier said he was disap­pointed. 
"We thought we presented a strong case. The jury has spoken on this one," he said. 
Andrew Weinstock, a lawyer for Nappanee, Incl.­based Gulf Stream, said FEMA had purchased thou­sands of trailers from the company since 1992 without receiving any formaldehyde complaints until 2006. 
Weinstock said the compa­ny is pleased with the out­come, but he wouldn't spec­ulate on how the verdict could impact similar cases awaiting trial. 
"If some good came from this, it's that Christopher Cooper is now on the proper asthma medication ... and we're happy for that," he added. 
Pavel Wonsowicz, a UCLA School of Law professor who specialized in toxic tort and products liability cases as a trial attorney in Boston, said verdicts in bellwether trials can steer parties toward settling many others. 
But lawyers typically wait for several cases to be tried, he said. For example, Merck Inc. had won 10 of 15 feder­al and state court verdicts -including four of five in federal court -when it agreed to a $4.85 billion settlement with people who had suffered heart attacks or strokes after taking its painkiller Vioxx for at least 30 days. 
Before the trailer trial started, U.S. District Judge Kurt Engelhardt ruled that a two-year statute of limita­tions bars Cooper's claims against the government. Pierce said he doesn't know if the jury would have reached a different verdict if the government hadn't been dismissed from the lawsuit. 
"It was a tough decision," he said. "It wasn't simple." 
Alexander's trailer was made in 2004 for FEMA to use after a hurricane in Florida, but it wasn't occu­pied until her family moved in after Katrina. Weinstock said during his closing argu­ments that Gulf Stream was­n't obligated to build a "per­fect product." 
"It's a nice piece of equip­ment. It's not the Taj Mahal," he said of the travel trailers, which are smaller than mobile homes. 
Plaintiffs' attorney Mikal Watts said Gulf Stream made an "unreasonably 
dangerous"  trailer  and  
Flour  compounded  the  
formaldehyde  risks  by  

improperly installing it. FEMA relied on the compa­nies to provide safe shelters, Watts added. 
"Frankly, I think they were trying to clean up somebody else's mess, and they should not be held responsible," Watts said of FEMA. 
Weinstock told jurors that formaldehyde is found in safe levels in many prod­ucts, including cosmetics, foods and shampoo. He downplayed the link between formaldehyde and cancer, saying only one sci­entific group has classified the chemical as a carcino­gen. 
Government tests on hun­dreds of trailers in Louisiana and Mississippi found formaldehyde levels that were, on average, about five times what people are exposed to in most mod­ern homes. FEMA down­played formalde?yde risks for months before those test results were announced in February 2008. 
"If these trailers weren't dangerous, would there be 30,000 of them sitting in a field?" plaintiffs' attorney Tony Buzbee said. 
Terrorist suspectbought supplies atbeauty sto!ffi 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -An Afghan immigrant who received explosives training from al­Qaida went from one beauty supply store to another, buying up large quantities of hydro­gen peroxide and nail-polish remover, in a chilling plot to build bombs for attacks on 
U.S. soil, authorities charged Thursday. 
Najibullah Zazi, a 24-year­old shuttle driver at the Denver airport, was indicted in New York on charges of conspiracy to use weapons of mass destruction. Investigators found bomb­making instructions on his computer's hard drive and said Zazi used a hotel room in Colorado to try to cook up explosives a few weeks ago before a trip to New York. 
The extent of Zazi's ties to al-Qaida was unclear, but if the allegations prove true, this could be the first operating al­Qaida cell to be uncovered inside the U.S. since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. Over the past few days, talk of the pos­sible plot set off the most intense flurry of national ter­rorism warnings since the aftermath of 9/11. 
Prosecutors said they have yet to establish exactly when and where the Zazi attacks were supposed to take place. But Attorney General Eric Holder said in Washington, "We believe any imminent threat arising from this case has been disrupted." 
A law enforcement official told The Associated Press on Thursday that Zazi had associ­ates in New York who were in on the plot. 
Zazi was arrested in Denver last weekend and was charged along with his father and a New York City imam with lying to investigators. Authorities said in the past few days that they feared Zazi and others might have been planning to detonate homemade bombs on New York trains, and warn­ings went out to transit sys­tems, stadiums and hotels nationwide. 
Explosives built with hydro­gen peroxide killed 52 people four years ago in the London transit system. They are easy to conceal and detonate, and last week's warnings asked authorities to be on the look­out for them. 
A law enforcement official said Thursday that authorities had been so worried about Zazi -and that his Sept. 10 trip to New York City coincid­ed with a visit by President Barack Obama -that they considered arresting him as soon as he reached the city. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because the investigation continues. 
Zazi left a Denver court Thursday without commenting and will be transferred soon to New York. He and his lawyer have denied he is a terrorist. 
In unrelated terrorism cases elsewhere around the country Thursday: 
-Michael C. Finton, a 29­year-old man who idolized American-born Taliban soldier John Walker Lindh, was arrested after attempting to detonate what he thought was a bomb inside a van outside a federal courthouse in Springfield, Ill., officials said. FBI agents had infiltrated the alleged plot months ago. 
-A 19-year-old Jordanian was arrested after placing what he thought was a bomb at a downtown Dallas sky­scraper, federal prosecutors said. The decoy device was provided by an undercover FBI agent. Federal officials said the case against Hosam Maher Husein Smadi, who is charged with attempting to use a weapon of mass destruc­tion, is unrelated to the Illinois case. 
-Two North Carolina men under arrest since July on international terrorism charges were also accused by prosecutors of plotting to kill 
U.S. military personnel. 
In the Zazi case, a govern­ment motion seeking to deny bail laid out a chronology of the alleged scheme, which prosecutors said had been in the works for as much as a year. The court papers filed in Brooklyn federal court also refer to "others" who bought bomb materials with Zazi. 
According to prosecutors' account, Zazi -a legal U.S. resident who immigrated in 1999 -began plotting as early as August 2008 to "use one or more weapons of mass destruction." That was when he and others traveled from Newark, N.J., to Pakistan, where he received the explo­sives training, prosecutors said. 
UNITED NATIONS \ 
Global leaders: international changes must not be politicized 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -Global leaders on Thursday warned colleagues that coordinated international action to end the worldwide recession and reverse climate change must not fall victim to routine politi­cal divisions and pitfalls. 
"Recuperation will be slow and time-consuming," said President Zeljko Komsic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, one of the U.N.'s newer nation-states, born from the breakup of Yugoslavia in the 1990s. 
Komsic, speaking at the U.N. General Assembly's 64th annual session, called the global melt­down the "worst economic crisis since the founding of the United Nations, especially for poor and sub-Saharan countries." 
Cypriot President Demetris Christofias fingered corporate crime and greed as the culprits, denouncing "market lawless­ness." 
"Globalization is driven by the pursuit of excessive profits," Christofias said. "As a result the rich are becoming richer and the poor, poorer." 
His remarks echoed those of French President Nicolas Sarkozy on Wednesday, who condemned "the behavior of those who still continue to grow indecently rich, after leading the world to the brink of disas­ter." 
For some people, Sierra Leone's President Ernest Bai Koroma said Thursday, "The impact of the crisis may be on the size of their bonuses; on others it may be on whether they acquire a second car or not. But for the vast number of people, particularly in Africa, the impact of the crisis creates life-threatening situations." 
"The benefits of globalization have been negligible in the majority of developing coun­tries," said Ghana's President John Evans Atta Mills. 
"Despite almost a decade of impressive growth of about 5 percent, only a few countries have been able to reduce the proportion of their population living on less than $1 per day," Mills said. 
The president of Rwanda, another nation bathed in a bloody genocide in the 1990s, said Thursday that the way for­ward out of economic recession will require expanded participa­tion, beyond the insider club of the wealthy G-8 nations or even the broader G-20. 
"Most of the proposals fall short of the steps essential for the recovery of low-income countries," Rwandan President Paul Kagame said. 
"The G-20 is now playing a crucial role in restoring global economic instability; but should we not even broaden the base further to include many nations that are most vulnerable to the decisions of the few?" asked Kagame. 
Bosnia-Herzegovina's Komsic had anticipated him: "It become more than obvious that only a strong, multilateral approach can provide the right answers.'' 
Adding support from the developed world, Swiss President Hans-Rudolf Merz noted that "The G-20 lacks legitimacy; basic considerations of due process are absent in the sanctions procedures. The members of the G-20 are not subject to the same scrutiny. Switzerland advocates a level playing field and much better consultation among non-mem­bers of the G-20." 

page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Alron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHoTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMJNISTMTOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmecz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 63!-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
acharnO1 @saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the studenrs ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refu.se advertisemenrs based on content. 
The news is repotted as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obseroer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief]enn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

TI1c O~rvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday o:a:pr during exam and vacuiun period£. A subscripriun (o The: Ohservn is $110 for om academic year: $65 for one il:fflestcr. 
The Observer is publ~d ar: POSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining Hall Send addrc:s.<; .c:orrections Eo: Ntlrre Dame, IN 4.6556-0779 T11e Ob&cFVer Pc.r.iodical po.n:tgr p;:~id .ar Notr~ Dam~ P.O. Box779 and additional mailing offkes. 024 Solltb Dining Hall 
No.., lla=. IN 46556-0779 
The Observer it a member of the Associated Press. AU teproducriou rights art r«rved. 
---~~~~-­
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT 
Friday, September 25, 2009 

Commons a welcome development 
It used to be that the only way for students on campus to Underclassmen with limited means of traveling off campus get some pizza at 2 a.m. on Saturday was to head to the will appreciate the convenience of nearby retail options. basement of LaFortune or wait in long lines at Reekers. But But the Eddy Street Commons shouldn't become the only all that changed this month, when Hot Box Pizza opened at place students go to get out of the bubble, either. Eddy Street Commons. The development project has been nurtured by the 
In fact, all the options for food, drink and shopping will University administration and all tenants must meet grow over the coming weeks as various busi-University-specified criteria. Only a few of the nesses open their doors at the Eddy Street announced businesses are locally owned. A Commons, just a skip and a jump from Notre OTHE quick stroll through the Commons and a drive 
BSERVER
Dame's campus. through downtown South Bend provide very dif­For students, this is a welcome development. ferent views. Notre Dame's campus has long been isolated Let's be clear: the four blocks that constitute
Editorial 
from the surrounding neighborhood -there are only a handful of existing attractions within walking distance that students are interested in -leaving few alternatives to on-campus options for shopping and eat­ing. 
This isolation is a key factor in creating the Notre Dame bubble. 
Students arrive at Notre Dame their freshmen year without a car and most get off campus irregularly at best. The cam­pus bookstore or HuddleMart become some of the only con­venient shopping options, and campus eateries like Reekers are the primary places for late night food. It's nearly impos­sible to break outside the bubble without taking Transpo or a taxi. 
But off-campus shopping and dining just got a lot easier, making getting out of the bubble a lot easier, too. 
Eddy Street Commons will offer something very 
different than the rest of the South Bend area. 
Hot Box Pizza is going to be an excellent alternative to Sbarro, but don't forget about Rocco's for some of the best pizza in town. 
The future Irish pub at the Commons will also undoubtedly be a great place to get a drink, but Fiddler's Hearth in down­town South Bend is a one-of-a-kind place students should also try. 
It's good that students finally have off-campus alternatives that are accessible, but the options at Eddy Street Commons don't represent all of the alternatives the South Bend area has to offer -students owe it to themselves to seek out some of the other businesses the area has to offer when con­sidering going off campus. 
But for now, a steak burrito from Chipotle will do the trick. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The good can be the enem_y of the best 
As G.K. Chesterton was fond of saying, "The good can be the enemy of the best." I will put my trust in the sacred Tradition extending back to Christ Himself that men alone are called to the priesthood, but faith must be paired with reason. I think that there is an intrinsic, natural and beauti­ful difference between men and women. Just as a dance is made more beautiful when the two partners are in sync, so the roles of men and women in the Church are made more beautiful by their God-given complementarity. The role of priests is a sign pointing us toward God's relationship to the Chruch. 
This role of the priesthood fulfills has a powerfully mascu­line aspect which is best exemplified in men. Complement to this is the relationship of the Church to Christ, which is best and naturally exemplified by women. Ilowever, it must be remembered that while not all Catholics are called to the priesthood, we are all are called to be one body in the Church; this means that the role of women is at least as important and possibly more important, because men and women alike must learn what it is to fulfill the role of the Church. 
Priests, bishops, cardinals and the Pope are not the true power or glory of the Church. Granted, they fill a necessary and excellent role within it; but they are merely ministers, standing in for Christ as best they can until heaven, when the Church, the bride of Christ,-will be united with its Bridegroom. This ancient characterization of the Church as bride is important-it reminds us again that woman, the final creation, the "Crown of Creation", is the 
After all, who is the most revered of all humans? Notre Dame, our Mother! She is the image of the perfect union with God we will share in heaven. If anything, we should be more focused on being more like Mary, and imitating her perfect imitation of Christ, than worried about who will take on the temporary role of ministers in the Church. When understood in this light, why would any woman settle for the priesthood when her intrinsic, sacred call is so great? 
Ryan Kreager grad student off-campus Sept. 24 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports John Tierney Laura Myers Laura McCrystal. Michael Blasco Molly Madden Molly Sammon 
Scene Viewpoint Jess Shaffer Michelle Maitz Maija Gustin Graphics 
Jaclyn Espinoza 

Observer Poll 
Votes 
Kyle Rudolph  8:18  
Duval Kamara  195  
Jimmy Clausen  110  
Robby Parris  98  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The best way to predict the future is to invent it. " 
Alan Kay 

U.S. computer scientist 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, September 25, 2009 page 11 
Yom Kippur for Charlie Weis 
As Yom Kippur celebrations culmi­nate in synagogues this weekend to mark the start of the Jewish year 5770, most Catholics know little about the symbols and meanings behind activities that began last Friday with Rosh HaShanah. Yet this week-long observation known as the High Holy Days, but translated in Hebrew as the "Days of Awe," historically has been anything but awesome when evaluating success on the field for Notre Dame head football coach Charles Weis. Going into this, his fifth season at the helm of the Irish, Weis has amassed only a .500 record of 4 wins and 4 losses for games played during the High Holy Days. It pales even in comparison to the year prior to his arrival when ND won both games during the Days of Awe in what otherwise was a mediocre 6-5 season. 
Judaism, like Catholicism, is rooted in long-standing ritual that honors multiple events, repentance and acts of faith. Football statistics only blend with either religious calendar as a way of marking athletic milestones, like calculating how well the Notre Dame basketball team has done when playing on St. Patrick's Day. More importantly, athletic markers mean little in comparison to the solemn ded­ication of Jewish or Catholic worship­pers. 

During the 10 High Holy Days, Jewish tradition teaches that God decides who will live and die during the coming year. The verdict is ren­dered at Rosh HaShanah but sealed on Yom Kippur. As a result, Jews embark upon the serious task of examining their lives for more than a week, repenting for wrongs committed dur­ing the previous year, making amends with anyone wronged and planning their improvements for the upcoming year. That tradition is reminiscent of the many times this season when com­mentators have proclaimed that an Irish loss would negatively seal the fate of Weis' hold on his job. 
Do not mistake, however, our foot­ball Charlie for a similarly spelled, but decidedly more Jewish, Charles Weiss, the Voice of America foreign corre­spondent who also writes for The Jerusalem Post. That Charlie has chronicled Middle Eastern conflicts since the birth of Israel in 1948 ­even attended the trial of Nazi Adolf Eichmann who was considered to be the architect of the Holocaust. Last year Weiss authored the book, "Closing the Books: Jewish Insurance Claims from the Holocaust." His jour­nalistic success, unlike our Charlie's lack of college level athletic prowess, 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Reason: the m.ost im.portant quality 
I'm writing in response to the Sept. 21 article: "Hook ups:", and Sept. 23 article: "Manhood". Before I continue, I want to put out a disclaimer so as to not upset the rest of the women (NO and SMC). And most people who know me describe me as a gen­tleman who has the utmost respect for women, so please don't hold this against me. 
These articles made women sound like whiney 'female dogs'. You think everything is unfair, and revenge is the answer. Life is unfair, and we have people who are unequal. I don't think that is right, but it's true. I respect women more than men, but I don't write about how men mis­treat women, as it happens both ways. 
The first article portrays women as incapable of thinking for themselves. I don't think so, but stating "women don't gener­ally try to [hook up]" suggests they follow without thinking. Is this the point you wanted por­trayed? I doubt it. And the clos­ing line of " ... how about we have a little fun at his expense ... " portrays you as a hypocrite. Suggesting that women do the same thing just to get even? If that is what we've come to, then this is truly a sad day ... 
As for the "Manhood" article, we want equality, but portraying yourself as helpless and having no rights is pathetic. Women fight for equality when it benefits them. Why aren't you criticizing about women not having to sign up for the draft? Currently it's only men. This is one example, but there are others like it. 
Raising the argument about only males being priests is absurd! As a member of the ND community, we see how tradition plays into our lives. Do you have "The Shirt" or walk up the steps of the Dome? My guess is yes and no, since these traditions are important to us. Male priests are also a tradition. I hope this has not offended the campus, as I don't wish to create an uproar, but when writing in a public · forum, think about what you're saying and make sure it's what you want. 
Richard J. Skelton sophomore Keough Hall Sept. 24 

seems to nicely augment the tenants of the Jewish religious calendar. 
Many may argue that some divine force granted our football Charlie a reprieve last week against Michigan State when a Spartan receiver failed to catch a touchdown pass while alone in the end zone near game's end. Was it a gratuitous and favorable verdict coincidentally coming on the day of Rosh HaShanah that simply needs to be sealed tomorrow with a win against Purdue? Or might it be a tease to mask the glaring continuation of Weis' collegiate mediocrity put on full dis­play during the disappointing Irish clock mismanagement within the final minutes of the Michigan game? 
The answer probably lies some­where in between. Weis is still a head coach work in progress, still learning how to manage a staff and system with students rather than mature pro­fessionals. Setting aside the accusa­tions of cheating by the New England Patriots while Weis guided their offense, the strength of that organiza­tion rests with its head coach rather than with the quality of the assistants. If anyone should atone and ask for forgiveness this week, it might be Notre Dame's former athletic director and trustees who eagerly (and many contend blindly) hired Weis twice within two years. Regardless, the Weis contract extends until the Jewish year 5776, or 2015 on the American calen­dar. 
This coming Sunday, the day preced­ing Yom Kippur, marks the eve of the Day of Atonement and the end of the Days of Awe. Although the week began with the life and death theme of Rosh HaShanah, Yom Kippur is a holiday filled with hope for a New Year. Jews believe in a God so compassionate and just to annually accept their prayers beseeching forgiveness. The beauty of their faith is the belief that even at the last minute, a just and good God for­gives their transactions. On Sunday, we and Weis will know the outcome of tomorrow's football struggle with Purdue. It will be yet another day when 1.) Weis must tap dance through more public atonement or 2.) dodge­at least for another week -his sealed verdict. 
In the ranks of college football, only two types of head coaches exist: those who win, and those who atone several times a season. Happy Yom Kippur, Charlie. May you be inscribed and sealed for a good year. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, serves in the Department ofHomeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni. nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The doctrine of m.ale priesthood 
To Fellow Catholics of Notre Dame, 
The issue of women priesthood has been buzzing around the Observer Viewpoint section for the past few days and I would like to offer my input and knowledge to the subject. 
Primarily, many people in and outside of the Church in favor of women priests confound the Roman Catholic priesthood with a particular job or career choice. This is, however, not true and the Catholic Church has never viewed the priesthood as such. 
According to the Catechism of the Catholic Church, "No one has a right to receive the sacrament of Holy Orders. Indeed no one claims this office for himself; he is called to it by God. Anyone who thinks he recognizes the signs of God's call to the ordained ministry must humbly submit his desire to the authority of the Church, who has the responsibility and right to call someone to receive orders. Like every grace this sacrament can be received only as an unmerited gift." (CCC 1578) So, any woman (or man for that matter) who claims a right to priesthood is already unworthy of the priest­hood. 
The Catholic priesthood is a vocation, not a career. One does not choose it, it chooses you. Also, as mentioned before by Mr. Carder in his Sept. 22 letter, the male priesthood is a doctrine of the Catholic Church, and therefore, not sub­ject to change under any circumstances. Other items of Church doctrine (and in some cases, the more essential dogma) include the doctrine of the Trinity, Christ's divine and human nature, the Presence of Christ in the Eucharist, the infallibility of Church statements made ex cathedra and several others. These things are also unable to change. 
Finally, I would like to clear Pope John Paul II's name in offering an excerpt from his apos­tolic letter Ordinatio Sacerdotalis to the bishops of the Catholic Church: "Although the teaching that priestly ordination is to be reserved to men alone has been preserved by the constant and universal Tradition of the Church and firmly taught by the Magisterium in its more recent documents, at the present time in some places it is nonetheless considered still open to debate, or the Church's judgment that women are not to be admitted to ordination is considered to have a merely disciplinary force. Wherefore, in order that all doubt may be removed regarding a matter of great importance, a matter which pertains to the Church's divine constitution itself, in virtue of my ministry of confirming the brethren (cf. Lk 22:32) I declare that the Church has no authority whatsoever to confer priestly ordination on women and that this judgment is to be definitively held by all the Church's faithful." (Ordinatio Sacerdotalis 4) 
P.S. This is, in fact, an ex cathedra statement and is considered by all faithful Catholics to be infallible, as mentioned previously. 
Daniel Quinlan junior St. Edward's Hall Sept. 23 


..----------~--­
page 12 
1 
2 3 4 5 
6 
7 
8 
9 10 11 
12 13 14 15 


Sing-along ~aylist for the Road-trip to Purdue 

Don,t Stop Believing-Journey 500 Miles-The Proclaimers Since U Been Gone -Kelly Clarkson 
IWant You -Savage Garden Come Sail Away-Styx I Believe In AThing Called Love -The Darkness Tubthumping -Chumbawumba 
Summer Girls-LFO l,d Do Anything For Love-Meatloaf Pretty Fly For AWhite Guy-The Offspring Hey Jude -The Beatles The Way -Fastball 
You Give Love ABad Name -Bon Jovi Come On Eileen-Dexy's Midnight Runners Bohemian Rhapsody -Queen 
It's Impossible to craft an all encompassing road-trip sing-along play/1st but Meatloaf, Queen andJourney are a necessity, 90s music a requirement, and 10-minute epic rock ballads are a must/ So get pumped, mumble along loudly with the lyrics, and let everyone on 1-65 know the Irish mean business. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
Friday, September 25, 2009 

Things to Do 

Before 
You 

As the years begin to slip softly by, I find myself growing older, but not up. I look back on my life and wonder what it all really means. Did I bring joy to those around me? Was I able to Matt Brown 
help a Scene Writer 
friend in need? Have I climbed to the top of enough buildings on campus? 
We spend four years here at the great University of Notre Dame and by golly we have an obligation to make them un­freakin-forgettable. And so I give you a list of mellifluous things to do before you graduate. Take it or leave it. Mix it and match it. I give you the power, and with great power comes great respon­sibility ... don't suck. Climb Stepan 
Start small; it's obligatory. Honestly, it's as easy as an easy bake oven. If it takes you longer · · than 15 seconds to get to the top, shame on you sir, shame. Climb the JACC 
A more exciting option. The sweeping panoramic vista will knock you off your feet, trans­porting you to another world. This is a place where the ground is slightly bouncy and slick with dew; where air smells sweeter and colors are more vibrant; where even in the midst of the hellish winter, birds caress you with gentle melodies. And I'm pretty sure you can hear the angelic host rise up in song. 
ra uata 
The Hesburgh Challenge 
Yeah, I said it. Start at the top, work your way down. You can't hide in the bathroom, nervous Nellie. Instead find a spot nestled amongst the books to relieve your thirst. Remember it's a 
marathon not a sprint. 
Paint yourself for a football game 
There is zero percent reason not to do this. You are in college. You are supposed to do silly things. I hear body paint is very slimming. 
Cigars at the Main Steps 
Fellas, this one's for you. Light up with Mary, shoot the breeze with the mother of our Lord, have some bro time with the namesake of the University. I recommend Arturo Fuentes or Romeo y Julietas. Gentlemen, lets not skimp, this is Mary we're talking about. 
Put a Bike in a Tree 
Ah, but can you get it higher · than 30 feet? . · -· 
Get on top of South Dining Hall 
Just think of all that delicious food laid out below you. Unlike North Dining Hall, food is not hidden away in secret rooms, creating a hide and seek game from hell. After a long hard day pretending to study the last thing you want to do is hunt your food like wild game on the savannah. Grappling hook. Go go Gadget legs. Really really ridiculously good jumping ability. Doesn't matter, make it happen. Rule No. 
76: No excuses, play like a cham­pion. 
Run across the Lake 
Normally only possible for Jesus, but thanks to this great University being our own per­sonal slice of Antarctica, you can feel the power. 
Reflection Pool on Home Gameday 
The band marches by at about 9:15, grab your pool floaty (two bucks at Wal-Mart) and your Speedo and come on over. ND is undefeated at home (2-0) while the faithful have flocked to the pool for an "hour of reflection" ... come one come all. I'll be there next week. 
If these are not your personal cup of tea I have enclosed a short additional list for you viewing pleasure: 
Eat at least three pizzas from Reekers in one sitting. Drink in as many girls' dorms as possible in one night. Climb a tree on God Quad. Fisher Regatta. Any dorm event. Eat 10 junior bacon cheeseburgers from Wendy's. Swing on Duck Island. Stargaze on the golf course. Saran-wrap someone to their bed. Soap Stonehenge. Complain about the weather. The possibilities are endless. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Matt Brown can be contacted at mbrown14@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, September 25, 2009 
page 13 


By NICK ANDERSON Scene Writer 
Do you remember February 1, 2004? Like most of you, I was at a Super Bowl party. I don't remember who played that game, but what I do remem­ber is a matter of national importance; a moment that recklessly stole the inno­cence and dignity of our gen­eration. Five years later, it's still hard for me to talk about it. I saw an image of a woman's breast on a 46-inch screen for 9/16 of a second. Thankfully, the FCC is look­ing out for me. 
It's now 2009, more than five years since the dreaded incident; isn't it about time for me to get over Janet Jackson's exposure? The grotesque sight was finally fading from our collective mind when the FCC, like a bureaucrat in a dark suit, came charging in to remind us by reopening the investigation into CBS's potential "recklessness" in the morally deprived display of flesh. 
The fallout from the first investigation was wide reaching. It left CBS $550,000 poorer, increased the maximum fine the FCC was allowed to levy from $27,000 to $325,000 and left an American public with an 18 percent approval rating of 
the FCC's actions. Most importantly, the FCC's actions did noth­ing to increase decency in the general population, and instead left us with a media that fears the wanton distribution of fines on archaic, prim standards. 
The vast majority of fines from the FCC are the result of the airing of "inde­cent" or "profane" material. Material is considered indecent if it "in context, depicts or describes, in terms patently offensive as measured by contemporary community standards for the broadcast medium, sexual or excretory organs or activities." Material is profane when "including language so grossly offensive to members of the public who actually hear it as to amount to a nuisance." 
Enough of the legal-speak, let's dis­cuss some examples. There are two sets of profane words, those that are pre­sumptively profane, and those that aren't so long as the reference is fleet­ing. I can't reproduce any of the words in an alumni-friendly Observer, but the distinctions can be found online. A bare buttocks isn't indecent so long as it isn't touched in any manner. Any sexual organ is always indecent. Racial slurs are not necessarily profane, but can be depending on context. Edited or pixilat­ed material can be indecent if a sexual meaning can be inferred. That clears matters up, doesn't it? 
One can learn a lot about the FCC by examining its lists of received com­plaints. In the first three months of this year, more than 180,000 complaints were filed. In January there were 578. In February there were 505. In March, there were 179,997. What happened in March causing this watershed of com­plaints? Nothing, something happened on the Internet. The Parents Television Council posted a message telling its readers to complain about the March 8 episode of "Family Guy." Was this episode of "Family Guy" indecent? Probably. Was it more indecent than the episodes aired in February and March? Probably not. 
Careful readers may have noticed an oddity by this point in the article. So far, the only acts mentioned as indecent have been sexual. Aren't there other forms of indecency? Like drugs, vio­lence or interrupting a 19-year-old dur­ing her acceptance speech at the VMAs? According to the FCC, those are perfect­ly acceptable. Funny, especially consid­ering the average person is much more likely to have sex than murder someone while shooting heroin. 
A puritanical FCC wasn't a surprise under a neo-con presidency, but it's looking like Obama's hopeful change hasn't made it to the airwaves yet. What society needs is neither outright media censorship nor absolute freedom of speech rights. An intelligent, critical eye on the media is all that is needed. Nothing more, nothing less. 
Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 

Self-Prophecy 
By COLIN RICH Scene Writer 

Every great album possesses a cer­tain timelessness to its artistry. The ability of a listener to place an album in its decade of release should be somewhat offset by a sound that tran­scends immediate musical popularity. Flagrantly identifiable albums borne out of an era in vogue often lack the staying power, or replay value, inherent to those more perma­nent additions to the catalog of truly great works. 
For those out there who believe the best days of music are long behind us, I counter with Built to Spill, the paragon of post-adolescent indie craftsmanship. Contemplative and confident, the best Alternative rock this side of the Atlantic springs from these middle­aged, bearded Boiseans who grew from cult to critical fame during the 1990s. 
Built to Spill's cannonball of electric jams and harmonic dissonance plunges headfirst into the deadening ripple left in the wake of mainstream American rock bands that barely toe their cre­ative waters. The band commands an assaulting guitar arsenal (up to three electrics on some albums) adding an uncommon bang to their pop and an enthralling complexity to their heavier tracks. Their loose balance of forceful and intelligent balladry with sprightly singles reflects not just the mature songwriting but also the skilled musi­cianship of the Pacific Northwest's best rock quartet. 
In 1997, Built to Spill released its untidy masterpiece "Perfect From Now On." Lyrically astute and vibrantly oscillating, this brisk jam reaches greater sonic depth than any rock album of the past 12 years. Receiving much critical acclaim at the end of the 1990s, it remains the focal point of an illustrious 
discography (they have yet to produce a truly un-enjoyable, on-engaging album) that will grow in October fol­lowing the release of their seventh stu­dio album "There Is No Enemy." The length of the songs on "Perfect" (aver­aging upwards of six minutes) allows for blended psych trances, post-punk airiness and front man Doug Martsch's tender, affecting singing to emerge in one elegantly crafted expression. 
"Perfect" derives its eminence from inspiring riffs, a quiet emotionality, and seamless track transition. Martsch's high tones and guitar passion help fuel comparisons to Neil Young, as the feed­back peeling out over the rhythm and strings of the closing minutes of "I Would Hurt a Fly" justifies any such comparison. Selecting standout moments from such a solid disc almost defeats the purpose, but many exam­ples still deserve notice. 
"Stop the Show" builds to a dramatic, but not in the least bit phony, shift from a roaring wash to a quick, clipped pace. Martsch's vocals and sudden tempo switches throughout the album are the icing on the cake. "Velvet Waltz" consists of an entrancing bass line and Martsch's heartbreaking lyrics, proving it to be, musically, the best song on the album. Finally, "Untrustable Part 2" affords one final head-bobbing, foot-shifting jam in con­cluding a top-to-bottom great album. 
Like almost any excellent album, one listen does not do "Perfect" justice (nor does reading this review, really). Repeated listens unravel the thick lay­ers of sound and emotion wrapping this gift to the world of modern rock. Perhaps this explains why one cannot tell upon hearing it exactly when in the last 20 years it was produced. The title of the album proved mysteriously pre­dictive of its resonance, while the album itself remains a pivotal testa­ment to the scarcity of timelessness in 
modern music. 


Contact Colin Rich at crich@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles head to MIAA meet 
"We're hoping to finish third 
By MICHAEL BLASCO this year, second if possible. It 

Sporrs Writer 

should be another competitive 
weekend." 
One week ago, the Belles The Belles are coming off showed they had what it took one of the strongest showings to put themselves near the top in team history at last week's of the MIAA. This week, they Calvin Invitational in Grand have the opportu-Rapids, Mich. Six nity to do just Saint Mary's har­that. "We love to run riers posted 
Saint Mary's and compete. If career-best five­heads to Hope kilometer times,
they bring that 
College in with senior cap­Holland, Mich., competitive spirit tain Megan Saturday for the again, we'll be McClowry's 19:35 MIAA Jamboree. and freshman
successful.,,
The event Julia Kenney's accounts for one 19:51 leading the third of the sea­Jackie Bauters pack. son points in con­"I couldn't be
Head Coach 
ference rankings and should prove a stern test for the Belles, who have finished fourth in the MIAA in each of the past two seasons. 
"This weekend the team is looking to improve upon our previous ranking in the MIAA," coach Jackie Bauters said. 
more proud," 

Bauters said. "I believe it is most likely the best team showing by a squad ever at Saint Mary's. Scorers and non-scorers had lifetime or collegiate [personal records]. It was great to com­pete against such a talented field." 
The Belles will face their stiffest competition from No. 2 Calvin and No. 7 Hope, each of which feature deep and talent­ed lineups. Saint Mary's will need to rely on a group of sophomore harriers behind Kenney and McClowry to make ground in the conference. 
"I want the team to focus on what we did last weekend," Bauters said. "We love to run and compete. If they bring that competitive spirit again, we'll be successful. I'd also like to see our three-six [runners] close the gap a bit with our one-two [runners]. If we can do that, we've got a great shot of achieving our goals." 
The MIAA Jamboree will be the squad's final 5K event of the season and will be the Belles' last chance to pick up MIAA conference points before the MIAA Championships on Oct. 31st. The race will begin at 11 a.m. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Squad hosts second tournament 
By ALEX BARKER Sporrs Writer 

The Belles return home after a tough three-game road trip to host the Saint Mary's Fall Classic Friday and Saturday, marking the second time they have host­ed a tournament this season. 
Saint Mary's (2-5-1) played host to the SMC Invitational Sept. 11, in which the Belles split two games. 
The Belles began the sea­son on a winning note before hitting a rough stretch where they failed to score in three straight contests. Since then, however, things have been looking up. 
Saint Mary's broke the streak with its biggest win of the season in the SMC Invitational with a 5-1 victo­ry over Manchester. Senior forward Micki Hedinger had her best performance of the season, netting two goals in the match. 
After a slip-up against No. 7 Illinois Wesleyan, the Belles took No. 21 Wilmington College to the brink before giving up two 
late goals in the loss. 
In its last game, Saint Mary's took on Hiram in the closest game of the season, eventually battling to a 1-1 
tie after two overtime peri­ods. Senior for­ward Katie Wehrli scored the Belles' goal in the 90th minute to send the game into overtime. 
Saint Mary's has taken on a vast improve­ment from last season's 2-13-1 finish. 
"I feel like our team has gotten a lot closer this year," senior goalkeeper Patty Duffy said. "Last 
men." 
In Ryan Crabbe's second year as the Belles coach, Duffy agreed that there has been a change in the atmos­
"Last season, we were all just trying to adjust to each other along with having a new coach. This year ... I feel like we have all reached a level 
ofcomfort and trust with each other, even with our freshmen. ,, 
Patty Duffy Belles Goalkeeper 
season, we were all just try~ before ing to adjust to each other Sunday 
phere of the team. 
"We still learn new things about our coach­es and our teammates all the time," she said. "But now we don't have to waste time try­ing to read each other. We know what [Crabbe's] expectations are now and we just have to chal­lenge ourselves to meet them." 
The Belles will face Bethel Friday at 5 p.m. 
taking on Marian at 2 p.m. Saint 
Friday, September 25, 2009 
NFL 

Big Easy tnusic, team fits Saints DB Greer 
Associated Press 
METAIRIE, La. -Jabari Greer rattles off the names of Frenchmen Street music clubs with unusual ease for someone who hasn't been in the Big Easy for long. 
It's one example of what the Saints' new starting corner­back is talking about when he says signing with New Orleans "was by far the best possibility for me." 
"It's been incredible and the city of New Orleans, man, everybody knows I love jazz," Greer said after practice this week. "On and off the field, it was just a perfect fit. It was what I was looking for." 
That's not to say Greer didn't fit in at Buffalo, where he spent his first five seasons -and where, incidentally, the Saints will be playing on Sunday. 
"That was a team that gave me an opportunity when nobody drafted me.... I'm grateful for it," said Greer, who Buffalo signed as a rookie free agent out of Tennessee in 2004. 
"Some of my closest friends that I've grown in the league with are still there, so it will be great to see them," Greer said. "It will be even better to com­pete with them, because any time you get to compete with some of your close friends, that brings the level of competition up even higher.... Not only do you want to win, you don't want (them) to win." 
Greer made major strides in his last two seasons with the Bills, starting 23 games and intercepting four passes ­including two last season that he returned for touchdowns. 
"We really love Jabari Greer. He was a terrific player for us, first of all, on special teams and as a starting corner," Bills head coach Dick Jauron said. "Obviously, he's got athletic skills and has a great attitude and an interesting and great personality. So we look forward to seeing him -just wish he wasn't opposite from us.... He's a tremendous young per­son." 
Yet, after the Bills drafted cornerback Leodis McKelvin in 2008, Buffalo no longer needed Greer as badly as the Saints, a team looking to make changes in a defensive backfield lam­basted for giving up too many big plays last season. 
So Greer played out the last year of his contract in Buffalo and moved on to New Orleans, where he is now regarded as the team's top cornerback. 
"He's come in and played with confidence," Saints head coach Sean Payton said. "He can run well. He's got good anticipation.... He's someone that has really fit in well in his first year here." 
Greer is one of several mem­bers of the Saints with former ties to Buffalo, including defen­sive tackle Anthony Hargrove and defensive coordinator Gregg Williams, who was the Bills' head coach from 2001­03. 
Williams said he's curious to see how Greer handles his emotions upon returning to Buffalo. 
"I've been teasing him all week long about: 'Which ones are your untouchable friends? Which are the ones that we're going to go up and hug and kiss and which are the ones that we're going to go out there and smack?"' Williams said. "So, it will be interesting to see him play this week." 
The Saints have been getting informal scouting reports from Greer about some of Buffalo's personnel this week. Greer said he's certain the Bills intend to counter his knowledge of their squad and to try to exploit their knowledge of him. 
"They know that I know who I'm playing," Greer said, grin­ning. "I know their personnel. ... I'm sure they're doing some­thing to game-plan me, to say, 'What used to get Jabari in practice?' So this is just one of those games where, you know, I'm looking at them, they're looking at me, and y'all are looking at us-and it's fun." 
Beyond the football field, fun for Greer often involves live jazz. The musical genre capti­vated him one summer when he was 13 and playing old records he found in the garage of his family's home in Tennessee. The Ohio Players, John Coltrane, Miles Davis and Marvin Gaye were among the performers who got him hooked. 
Greer said he has long been fascinated by other aspects of New Orleans as well, from the food to the old architecture to the festivals and the way peo­ple interact. 
"The culture around here ­it seems so different than any­where else in the world, any­where else I've ever been," Greer said. 

along with having a new coach. This year we have 15 returning players and seven freshmen. I feel like we have all reached a level of com­fort and trust with each other, even with our fresh­
Mary's will begin MIAA con­ference play next Wednesday when it travels to Adrian College. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1 @nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt.,no experience needed,cus­tamer sales/service, 574-273-3835. 
FoR SALE 
Corn Hole, solid wood, dorm size, tailgate size, full size. WI or W/0 bags. Call Brian 574-850-7166. 

FoR RENT 
andersonND rentals.com. HOUSES 
TICKETS 
HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top$$. 574-251-1570. 
Need 2 MSU & USC tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232­0964. 
Buying ND football tix. GAs. 574­277-1659. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND s website at: http:f/pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame s website: http:f/csap.nd.edu 
LET MARK TRANSPORT YOU TO THE PURDUE GAME. ONLY $45/pp ROUNDTRIP. ROOM FOR 11. CALL 574-360-6480. LEAVE 12 NOON ON SATURDAY. 
Never a frown With golden brown Stupendous and unheard-of splen­dors await me below, and I shall seek them soon. I cannot be made to shoot myself!! shall plan my cousin's escape from that Canton mad-house, and together we shall go to marvel-shadowed lnnsmouth. We shall swim out to that brooding 
reef in the sea and dive down through black abysses to Cyclopean and many-columned Y'ha-nthlei, and in that lair of the Deep Ones we shall dwell amidst wonder and glory forever. 


OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES
Friday, September 25, 2009 
page 15 
NHL 

1 2 
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 
12 13 
14 15 16 11 
18 
19 
20 
21 22 23 24 25 
NSCAA/Adidas Men's Soccer Top 25 
team 
Akron North Carolina South Florida Maryland California Wake forest UC Santa Barbara Harvard Louisville UCLA Virginia Duke Indiana Monmouth Dartmouth North Carolina State Creighton St. John's (N.Y:} Boston University Kentucky Michigan State Michigan UC Irvine Cal St. Northridge Brown 

1 
3 5 4 
7 
2 
9 13 16 12 20 11 
a 
19 10 
23 
6 15 14 22 18 RV 17 
NR 
RV 
NSCAA/ Adidas Women's Soccer Top 25 
team  (J~Jey,ious  
1  North Carolina  1  
2  Stanford  3  
3  UCLA  4  
4  Pent!and'  2  
5  Florida State  5  
6  Boston College  6  
7  Wake Forest  8  
8  California  g  
9  Santa Clara  12  
10  Florida  1  
11  Virginia  10  
12  South Carolina  13  
13  TexasA&M  11  
14  NOTRE DAME  14  
15  Purdue  11  
16  Georgia  15  
17  Rutgers  16  
18  Maryland  20  
19  Indiana  22  
20  Kansas  RV  
21  Ohio State  25  
22  UCF  19  
23  St. John's (N.Y.)  RV  
24  San Diego  18  
25  Connecticut  RV  

USTFCCCA Women's Cross Country Top 10 

Associated Press 

GLENDALE, Ariz. Wayne Gretzky's tenure as coach of the Phoenix Coyotes, a period marked largely by on-ice futility, ended abruptly Thursday when the "Great One" announced he would be stepping down amid the financial turmoil surround­ing the team. 
The Coyotes hired former Dallas Stars coach Dave Tippett hours after Gretzky announced his departure, which had been rumored as the bankruptcy court battle between Canadian billion­aire Jim Balsillie and the NHL over the sale of the team dragged on. 
"This was a difficult deci-
IN BRIEF 
sian that I've thought long and hard about," Gretzky said in a statement Thursday on his Web site. "We all hoped there would be a res­olution earlier this month to the Coyotes ownership situa­tion, but the decision is tak­ing longer than expected. 
"Since both remaining bid­ders have made it clear that I don't fit into their future plans, I approached general manager Don Maloney and suggested he begin looking for someone to replace me as coach. Don has worked hard and explored many options. I think he has made an excellent choice, and so now it's time for me to step aside." 
Gretzky, who was due to make $8.5 million this sea­son, coached the Coyotes from 2005-2009, finishing with a 143-161-24 record, and the team missed the playoffs in all four seasons. Gretzky, 48, also owns a small piece of the franchise. 

"As always, Wayne placed the welfare of the team ahead of his own in making this extremely difficult deci­sion," NHL commissioner Gary Bettman said in a statement released by the league. "While the Coyotes have not had the degree of on-ice success that always has been Wayne's objective, there can be no question he has played a vital role in the youth movement that has positioned the Coyotes for success in the future." 
Bettman said the league is hopeful Gretzky will have a prominent role with the Coyotes if the NHL's bid for the team is successful. 

Gretzky was nowhere to be found when Tippett, decked out in a brick-red Coyotes warmup suit, was introduced at a Jobing.com Arena news conference Thursday afternoon. 
Maloney said he had a "first inkling" in June ­about a month after Coyotes owner Jerry Moyes filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy pro­tection -that Gretzky might not return as coach. Maloney said he decided to pursue Tippett, who had been frred by the Dallas Stars in June despite making the Stanley Cup playoffs five times in six seasons. 
team 

1 Washington 2 Oregon 3 Florida State 4 West Virginia 5 Villanova 6 Stanford 1 Princeton 8 Minnesota 9 Georgetown 10 Illinois 
previous 
1 2 
3 5 7 12 4 6 
11 
14 
around the dial 
MLB 
White Sox vs. Tigers 
8:11 p.m., CSN 
NCAA Football 
Missouri vs. Nevada 9 p.m., ESPN 

Forsberg wants another 
shot at playing in the NHL 
STOCKHOLM -Peter Forsberg scored less than six minutes into his comeback game but his hometown team Modo lost 4-2 to Frolunda in a Swedish Elite League opener on Thursday. 
Forsberg beat former NHL goalie Johan Holmqvist just 5:44 in with a shot between the pads that brought the crowd of 6,596 at Swedbank Arena in Ornskoldsvik to its feet. 
"It was a totally bad shot, but that's probably what fooled him (Holmqvist)," Forsberg said. 
Forsberg looked rusty the rest of the way. 
''I'm not happy with anything," he told Swedish Web site HockeyExpressen.se. 
"I have to play better if I'm going back to the NHL. Of course it was nice to score. We'll see if it will be better or worse against Djurgarden." 
Steelers acgJiire new 
owners for Z009 season 
PITTSBURGH-Four new minori­ty owners have joined the Pittsburgh Steelers' revamped own­ership group that is headed by team chairman emeritus Dan Rooney and his son, team president Art Rooney II. 
The team announced the new members of the ownership group Thursday. They are David Tepper, the Paul Sams Family, Ben Statler and Mike Wilkins. Six other minori­ty owners were previously announced, including Hall of Fame receiver John Stallworth. 
The Steelers had been owned equally by the five sons of founder Art Rooney Sr. since the elder Rooney died in 1988, with a smaller share held by the John McGinley family. The group was revamped so Dan and Art Rooney II now hold the 30 percent stake required by the NFL of a franchise's primary owner. 
injuries continue to 
plague Seattle Seahawks 
RENTON, Wash. -Seattle quar­terback Matt Hasselbeck, line­backer Lofa Tatupu and fullback Justin Griffith all were spectators and did not participate in prac­tice. 
The trio were out of practice for a second straight day on Thursday. All three are question marks for Sunday's game against Chicago. 
Hasselbeck has a cracked rib, Tatupu an injured hamstring and Griffith has a sprained knee liga­ment. Coach Jim Mora says Griffith is most likely to play. 
Cornerback Ken Lucas (groin) and defensive tackle Brandon Mebane (cain were both limited in practice, while receivers Deion Branch and T.J. Houshmandzadeh, and offensive linemen Chris Spencer and Walter Jones were full participants on Thursday. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 25, 2009 
MLB 

Ns win puts damper on Rangers' Wild Card hopes 
Reds dump Pirates 4-1 in sparsely-attended contest in Pittsburg as Mariners' Hernandez shuts down Toronto with 11 K's 
Associated Press 

OAKLAND, Calif. -The Oakland Athletics and Texas Rangers have gotten to know each other better this month --as in seven meetings in 11 days. 
Last-place Oakland won five of those games and put a big damper on Texas' wild-card hopes in the process. 
Jack Cust homered to help rook­ie Brett Anderson win his fourth straight start, Oiff Penillngton hit a two-run triple and the A's sal­vaged a split of their four-game series against the Rangers with a 12-3 rout Thursday. 
Eric Patterson drove in three runs, Adam Kennedy doubled twice among his three hits and Rajai Davis had an RBI triple in a balanced offensive attack for Oakland, which sent the Rangers to just their second loss in their last seven road games. 
The A's swept a three-game series at Texas from Sept. 14-16. 
"It's nice to have guys up and down the lineup swinging the bat well," A's manager Bob Geren said. "There are a lot of guys in our lineup now who can run. It's fun, an exciting group. We're uti­lizing every different which way." 
Anderson (11-10), who has struggled for run support much of the year, allowed three runs, one earned, and six hits in 5 2/3 innings. He improved to 8-3 over his last 16 starts. 
It had to be nice to receive all that offense for a change. 
"We're getting guys on base and we're getting hits when we need to," Patterson said. "Usually when you're winning games, it's because you're doing things like that." 
Anderson's strikeout of Craig Gentry to start the third was his 142nd, moving him past Rick Langford for most by a rookie in Oakland history. Langford struck out 141 in 1977. 
"It's pretty special considering some of the great guys who have made their debuts in this uni­form," Anderson said. 
Anderson also leads major league rookies in Ks. He received a standing ovation when he was replaced by Brad Ziegler with two runners on in the sixth. 
David Murphy and Chris Davis each singled in a run for the Rangers, who couldn't do enough to back Scott Feldman on a day when the right-hander didn't have his best stuff'. 
"They're playing good baseball. We thought we had a chance to take three out of the four," Texas manager Hon Washington said. "Coming in that was the worst I felt we had to do." 
The Rangers, who had won three of five following a five-game skid, were trying to earn consecu­tive wins for the first time since they won three straight from Sept. 8-9 at Cleveland, which included a doubleheader sweep. 
"I really give a lot of credit to the A's and what they've had to do as far as the injuries and the way their hitters battle," Rangers catcher Taylor Teagarden said. "They're not necessarily going to beat you with the long ball but they get guys on base and they seem to get those runs in some­how." 
Feldman (17-6) lost to Oakland for the second time in three starL<>. His home defeat to the 1\s -a 9-0 loss -on Sept. 14 ended his career-best seven-game winning streak. 
On Thursday, he got through a 1-2-3 first on 11 pitches but didn't have another clean inning. lie was done after 3 1/3 innings, leaving after Cust's solo homer. 
Feldman also matched his career high with five walks ­three of those coming in Oakland's four-run third. 
"I just stunk today, pretty much to sum it up," Feldman said. 
The A's committed two errors that led to an unearned run for the Rangers in the first. 
Reds 4, Pirates 1 
President Barack Obama's motorcade passed in view of PNC Park in the eighth inning, and mil­itary helicopters buzzed over the ballpark all day. Obviously, some­thing big was going on in Pittsburgh. 
It wasn't the Reds-Pirates game, where a deserted ballpark matched the nearly deserted downtown only a bridge length away. 
Bronson Arroyo limited Pittsburgh to one run over seven innings and the Cincinnati Reds completed their second sweep of the plummeting Pirates in less than a month, winning 4-1 on Thursday to push the Pirates clos­er to a 100-loss season. 



Joey Votto had a two-run double following Drew Sutton's RBI dou­ble and Brandon Phillips singled for his 95th RBI during a four-run third inning against Charlie Morton (4-9) as the Reds won their eighth in a row against the last-place Pirates. The Reds are 15 games ahead of the Pirates in the NL Central standings after falling behind them for one day following an Aug. 22 loss. 
Since then, fourth -place Cincinnati is 21-10 -although it remains one loss away from a ninth consecutive losing season ­and Pittsburgh is 5-25. Five losses by the Pirates in their final 11 games would give them 100. 
PitL'iburgh, long since assured of a record 17th consecutive losing season, has lost six in a row, nine of 10 and 23 of 26 amid the fran­chise's worst September spinout since it went 5-22 in September 1998. 
At least for the Pirates' sake, there weren't many spectators. The paid attendance was 15,892, but the turnstile count was about 3,000 as two bad teams and the G-20 summit held down the turnout. The crowd was so small that the Pirates closed PNC Park's upper deck for the first time since the 38,362-seat ballpark opened in 2001 and allowed fans to sit in the lower level. 
Crowd? The players didn't notice one. 

"It didn't bother me. I still have to do what I do best, and that goes for the team as well," said Lastings Milledge, whose third homer provided the Pirates' only run. "We always want a lot of fans to show up, but at the same time we have a job to do and we take a lot of pride in what we do. I didn't think it really mattered, we still tried to pay hard for the win, regardless of whether there's one fan or 30,000 in here." 
At least the two teams are used to this kind of apathy. They played bf1fore even fewer spectators ---, an estimated 1 ,000 -during the first game of a day-night double­header in Cincinnati on Aug. 31. 
"In a situation where the crowd is loud and it's a hostile environ­ment, you try not to let that affect you," Morton said. "The environ­ment should be relative. All things considered, it should be a non­issue." 
Parking lots near PNC Park were open, but the Pirates said frequent warnings all week about how difficult it would be to travel into Pittsburgh during the two-day summit clearly affected atten­dance. Almost no traffic was per­mitted downtown, where many offices and businesses are closed. 
The smallest turnout at PNC Park is believed to be the estimat­ed 500 who watched an Astros­Pirates afternoon game on Sept. 28, 2006, that was delayed by heavy rain for 3 1/2 hours. 
While thousands of protesters are believed to be in Pittsburgh for the G-20, there were no security issues at PNC Park, although all spectators went through metal detectors or were screened. Not long after the game ended, police threw pepper spray at a group of protesters several miles from the ballpark. 
Arroyo (14-13) didn't need much help as the Reds finished off a three-game sweep in which they outscored the Pirates 26-7. He gave up five hits while striking out four and walking one. 
"I didn't have very good stuff, and I was hoping to get through the first few innings and kind of catch a groove," Arroyo said. 
Arroyo got the four-run inning going by beating out what would have been an inning-ending dou­ble-play grounder. The next four batters got hiL<>. 
"That shows you what hustle and speed will get for you," man­ager Dusty Baker said. 
Arroyo, a former Pirates pitcher, has lasted at least seven innings in all 11 starts since Aug. 1, although his effectiveness is not rellceted by his 4-3 record during that time. 
Francisco Cordero finished up in the ninth for his 39th save in 43 opportunities despite giving up two hit<>. 
Mariners 5, Blue Jays 4 
Felix Hernandez had a season-high 11 strikeouts, Josh Wilson hit a tiebreaking two-run triple in the eighth inning and the Seattle Mariners beat the Toronto Blue Jays on Thursday night. 

Hernandez (17 -5) allowed four runs, three earned, and seven hits in eight innings to improve to 5-0 with a 1. 57 ERA in his last six starts. The right-hander, a candi­date for the AL Cy Young Award, also moved to 10-2 with a 1.99 ERA in 18 road starts. 
Franklin Gutierrez hit a two-run homer for Seattle, which has won six of eight. 
Wilson gave the Mariners a 5-3 lead with a two-out triple to right off left-bander Jesse Carlson (1-6), scoring Adrian Beltre and Bill Hall. 
Vernon Wells singled in a run in the bottom half but David Aardsma pitched around a leadoff walk for his 36th save in 40 chances, ending Toronto's five­game home wimllng streak. 
Blue Jays left-bander Ricky Romero allowed three runs and nine hits in 6 1/3 innings. The rookie has won just once in his last six starts. 
Ichiro Suzuki went 2 for 5 with a pair of singles for Seattle, keeping his average at .355. Suzuki is sec­ond in the AL batting race behind Minnesota catcher Joe Mauer. 
Matt Tuiasosopo hit a sacrifice fly in the second inning and Gutierrez connected for his 17th homer in the third to give the Mariners a 3-0 lead. 
Coming off a complete-game victory against the New York Yankees, Hernandez cruised through the first five innings, allowing just two hits, but he got into trouble when his defense let him down in the sixth. 
Leading off the inning, Aaron !!ill reached second on third base­man Beltre's error. Adam Lind sin­gled and Wells ripped the next pitch over the wall in left for a three-run homer, his 15th. 
Seattle designated hitter Mike Sweeney left with a bruised big toe after taking a pitch off his right fiJOt in the second. Sweeney stayed in initially and ran the bases, eventually scoring on Tuiasosopo's fly ball to center. Ken Griffey Jr. hit for him when his turn came up again in the third. 
CM 
Friday, September 25, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP 
O'Hair's 66 puts him one stroke ahead of Woods 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Sean O'Hair knew he would need some help from Tiger Woods to win the FedEx Cup. He got more than he expected. 
And it was about putting, not points. 
Woods and O'Hair practiced together on the back nine at East Lake on the eve of the Tour Championship, and O'Hair sought some advice on his put­ting from the world's No. 1 player, regarded as among the best in golf with the putter. 
Woods suggested that O'Hair open the face of the club on the way back so that he could release the blade through the ball. It paid off Thursday when O'Hair made enough putts for a 4-under 66 and a one-shot lead over three players -including Woods. 
''I'm going to go chew him out right now," Woods said. 
Woods was joking, for it is typical in this sport for players to help each other even as they're tried to beat each other. O'Hair is the first to concede that his putting has held him back in his five years on tour, and he wasn't afraid to ask. 
"I believe in what he said, and I think it's the key for me to kind of take my putting to another level," O'Hair said. "Getting advice like that from good players is obviously awe­some, but getting it from basi­cally the greatest of all time is pretty cool. 
"I mean, I'm his competition, for him to help me out like he did was very classy, I thought." 
The tip didn't take overnight, but it was good enough on greens that were far more firm than any of the 30-man field could have imagined after so much rain in Atlanta over the last week. 
Woods recovered from a shaky start with three birdies over a four-hole stretch on the back nine for a 6 7, putting him one shot behind with Padraig Harrington and British Open champion Stewart Cink. 
Only eight players managed to break par in the final FedEx Cup playoff event, with a $10 million bonus going to the win­ner. O'Hair is the No. 7 seed, meaning he would have to win the Tour Championship and have Woods finish in a three­way tie for second or worse. 
So far, so good. And so much golf left to be played. 
O'Hair could only imagine what it would be like to try out his putting tip on the 18th green Sunday with a chance to go home with $11.35 million, the combined earnings of the FedEx Cup and Tour Championship. 
"If I do have that opportunity, I hope I have a five-shot lead," he said. 
Woods doesn't regret giving O'Hair the putting advice. 
"It's very simple," Woods said. "You always help your friends. Sean is a friend of mine, and like all my friends, you always try to make their life better somehow. Sean has been strug­gling a bit on the greens this year, and I thought I could offer a little bit of help and insight to how he could change that." 
Woods, who is in the best shape to capture the FedEx Cup as the No. 1 seed, could have used some help early in the round. As O'Hair, Harrington and Cink were setting an early pace, Woods was headed in the wrong direction by failing to save par from a bunker on the par-3 sixth, and making bogey on the eighth from the rough to go 1 over. 
He was six shots behind at one point, then closed quickly. 
"This golf course, you have to be very patient, especially with greens this firm," Woods said. "It's really hard to get the ball close unless you drive the ball in the fairway and have a short iron in." 
U.S. Open champion Lucas Glover had a 68, and only three other players managed to break par -Retief Goosen, Steve Marino and Dustin Johnson, who were at 69. Stricker, the No. 2 seed, was among those at 70. 
It was hard to believe that a course that was closed Monday and part of Tuesday because of 20 inches of rain over the past week could deliver some of the firmest greens on tour this year. Attribute that to a sub-air sys­tem on the greens installed last year, and a hot sun that left players reaching for towels to wipe sweat off their brow. 
"The course was playing fair­ly long, and then the greens are just incredibly firm, probably the most firm we've played all year," O'Hair said. "Maybe The Players Championship is a close second. Kind of ironic since we got so much rain." 
O'Hair was sporty from the rough, too. He made his first birdie with a wedge out of the rough on No. 3 that stopped a foot away, then made another birdie at No. 12 under similar circumstances, from the right rough with just enough spin to stop 2 feet from the hole. 

Cink narrowly made the 30­man field at No. 26 and the sce­narios are too many to count for him to win the FedEx Cup. All he cared about Thursday was breaking par, like so many other players. 
"Under par ... the golf course, considering all that rain we had, it's really dried out, and the greens are like bricks," he said. "You have to be very smart coming into the greens to give yourself any kind of aggressive birdies." 
FORMULA ONE 
Ecclestone urges Renault boss Briatore to appeal ban 
to civilian courts. 
Associated Press 
"He should ask to be heard 
SINGAPORE -Formula One by the court of appeal," boss Bernie Ecclestone urged Ecclestone said. "He should Renault team principal Flavia appeal to the FlA. Briatore to appeal his life ban "If he goes to a civil court ... 
from Formula One for organiz­ing Nelson Piquet Jr.'s crash at the 2008 Singapore Grand Prix. 
Fl returns to Singapore this weekend for the first time since the crash, which was designed to help Renault driver Fernando Alonso win the 2008 race, and Briatore received support Thursday 
7!he goes to a civil court ... somebody will say that he sent a young guy out to what could have been to his death. It wouldn't go down too well. '' 
Bernie Ecclestone Formula One President 
from Fl's most powerful man. 
"In my opinion, it was quite harsh on Flavia,'' Ecclestone said of the life ban imposed earlier this week. "I don't think it was necessary, but I was on the commission (that decided the penalty), so I am probably just as guilty as any­one else." 
Ecclestone is a friend and business partner of Briatore, with a stake in English soccer club Queens Park Rangers. 
The 78-year-old Ecclestone, who controls F1 management, said Briatore should appeal his case through governing body FIA, but would probably not fare well if he chose to take it somebody will say that he sent a young guy out to what could have been to his death. It wouldn't go down too well." 
Renault's two­time world cham­pion Alonso was cleared of any involvement in the scandal, but the team's chances of hold­ing on to the 
s p a n i a r d appeared even 

slimmer, with Ferrari seen as his likely destination. While he has not signed any contract for 
from fellow drivers. The driv­ers were expected to have their regular pre-race meeting on Friday. 
Ferrari driver Giancarlo Fisichella confirmed the Piquet Jr. matter would be discussed. 
Jenson Button was asked Thursday what he thought of Piquet Jr., who was fired by Renault for poor performance before the scandal went pub­lic. 
"I don't know if you can have too much sympathy for a driv­er who crashes on purpose," Button said. 
BMW driver Robert Kubica was surprised Piquet Jr. was granted immunity after delib­erately crashing -an act that endangered other drivers, fans and marshalls. 
"Normally, if you go the police and you say you killed someone but you know some­one else who killed three peo­
ple, you will still 

2010, Alonso said go to jail," Kubica
"I don't know ifyou
Thursday that said. "my mind is can have too much Red Bull driver AP made up" about sympathy for a Mark Webber Bernie Ecclestone talks to Renault team principal Flavio where he will said F 1 could ill Briatore at the Hungaroring circuit near Budapest, Hungary. 
driver who crashes 

drive in 2010. afford another 
on purpose.

Piquet Jr. blow to its repu­That's what he did and what escaped any pun­tation with jaded he has to live with and its very ishment for his fans. difficult for him to come back."
Jenson Button 

role in the scan­''I'm running Williams' Nico Rosberg is
Brawn Driver

dal because he out of patience eager for the upcoming race to acted as a whistle sticking up for the redirect the discussion. blower by making it public. sport and I am sure other peo­"We have this everywhere in 
However, the Brazilian's ple are as well," Webber said. life, in business, sport," chances of returning to F1 "He got himself into a situation Rosberg said. "There are look slim, getting little support that of course he regrets. always going to be individuals who do something illegal. It's a matter of getting them out of the way, which has been done. 
"Its been a negative thing for the sport, but now we will have a great race weekend, we will have a superb race, great action on the track and every­thing will be a thing of the past." 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 25, 2009 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Highlanders, Dawgs hope to jumpstart offenses 
By CHRIS ALLEN, ANDREW 
OWENS, KATIE GABRIEL, 
ALLAN JOSEPH, DOUGLAS 
FARMER and KAITLYN 
MURPHY 
Sports Writers 

Two teams looking to avenge shutout losses last week and pick up their first wins of the season will face each other when Alumni takes on Duncan Sunday. 
· Duncan, in its second season, hopes to take a step towards building a successful interhall campaign. The Highlanders lost 7-0 Sunday against Knott. 
"[Last] weekend's game was tough," sophomore captain Paul Scheel said. "But some good things definitely came out of it." 
The Highlanders hope that some altering of the playbook as well as further seasoning of the freshmen will help them put points on the scoreboard. 
"This week we will tweak our play calling so we avoid those plays we don't run well and we will try to stick to our bread and butter plays," Scheel said. 
Even though the score saw Alumni on the wrong end of a 22-0 outcome against Morrissey last Sunday, the young Dawgs see reason for optimism. 
"Our offense was not as effi­cient as we know we're capable of, although I saw a lot of potential in both the running and passing games," junior captain and quarterback Pat Rushford said. "Our running back was averaging around five yards a pop." 
The Dawgs will be spurred on by the return of Rushford, who was absent in last week's loss due to a mild case of swine flu. 
"That's why our offense didn't really get going," freshman linebacker Ryan Grojean said. "We'll be better this week." 
Both teams are young, and will rely on the fast maturity of freshmen to propel them to bet­ter outcomes than they encoun­tered the first weekend. 
"We learned that the game is really sloppy at first," Alumni freshman receiver Carlos Cortes said. "There weren't that many penalties, but it takes a lot of getting used to." 
Duncan's leadership expects the Dawgs to be pumped up for this weekend's game. 
"I expect Alumni to come out with a lot of intensity and pas­sion as they look for their first win," Scheel said. "We hope to match that intensity and take it to the next level." 
The two teams will meet in what promises to be a hard-hit­ting grudge match at Riehle Fields at 2 p.m. Sunday. 
Keenan vs. Dillon 

Keenan and Dillon meet this Sunday in a battle of teams who had very different beginnings in Week One. 
The Big Red dominated O'Neill in every aspect of the game Sunday, winning 22-0, while the Knights lost a tough battle to Keough, 7-3. 
"The key to beating Keenan is staying focused," Dillon junior captain Jordan Smith said. "That should be pretty easy considering they were in the championship game last year. They are a good team." 
The Big Red rushing attack was able to control the game against O'Neill. The offensive line allowed Smith, freshman Terry Howard and sophomore Eric Herbert to run all over the Mob defense. 
"We need to build on last weekend," Smith said. "We're going to do a few different things in the game and try to show something new." 
The Knights, meanwhile, will need to bounce back quickly if they want a shot at making it back to the championship game. 
A first half score for Keough proved to be enough to top the Knights. The only points for Keenan came from a field goal by junior kicker Pablo Martinez. Its offense will have to work out the wrinkles in order to top the Big Red, who did not give up a point to O'Neill. 
"We made a few adjustments on offense and we worked hard this week in practice," sopho­more captain Terry Mahoney said. 
The Keenan defense does not need to make many adjust­ments. The Knights did not allow Keough to threaten after its initial score, and a pivotal interception by sophomore P.J. McHugh gave the Keenan offense its best chance at a touchdown in the second half. 
"We have to keep it balanced on offense and have the defense do what they did against Keough and we will be fine," Mahoney said. "The team is ready to play Dillon this week." 
The two teams will battle it out Sunday at Riehle Field at 
3:00 p.m. as the Big Red look to stay undefeated while the Knights will try to even up their record at 1-1. 
Fisher vs. Carroll 
Fisher and Carroll will renew a traditional rivalry when the teams face off Sunday. 
Last week, the Green Wave suffered a shutout at the hands of Sorin with a final score of 14-0. Fisher left the field disap­pointed by the season opener after a controversial call by the officials robbed the Green Wave of a touchdown. 
Despite the loss, Fisher is confident it can capitalize on mistakes and report to the field this weekend fully prepared to face Carroll. They are unde­terred by the results of Carroll's first game and are ready to deny the Vermin a second W. 
The Vermin are coming off a close 7-6 win over St. Ed's and are confident that they will be celebrating a continued win­ning record this Sunday night. 
"Our defense is impregnable," sophomore coach Patrick Stanley said. "No one other than the Vermin will be touch­ing [the end zone]." 
Stanley is positive after how both his offense and defense performed last week, not to mention the key play made by junior defensive end Kris Kast. Kast blocked Sorin's extra point, an effort that won the Vermin the game. The entire team is certain that they have both the ability and positive attitude not only to overcome Fisher, but eventually to make the interhall football trophy a home in Far Quad this year. For now though, the Vermin will focus on the task at hand. 
"I know the guys from Fisher really want to get their hands on our [win]," junior quarter­back Brian Vaio said. "But we politely decline." 
Fisher will face Carroll at 

2:00 p.m. Sunday at Riehle 
field. 
Knott vs. Siegfried 
Sunday's match-up between Knott and Siegfried will mark the latest edition of the Mod Quad rivalry as well as open this year's Planner Cup compe­tition. The Planner Cup is the annual competition between the two dorms in a variety of interhall events in which the winner receives naming rights to the hill separating the two buildings. 
The Ramblers won last year's football game as well as the 2008-2009 Planner Cup, but change may be in the air. 
"We lost most of our guys from last year, with only six to eight guys returning," senior Siegfried captain Dex Cure said. "We've got a lot of freshmen who may not understand the rivalry." 
In addition, the Ramblers did not play in the first week of games, so they have a concern that they, especially their younger players, will not be up to speed in the early part of the game. The Juggerknotts aren't going to take anything for granted, though. 
"Siegfried's a very good team," Knott senior captain Aidan Fitzgerald. "But I think we're much improved over last 
year, especially with  some of  
our younger guys."  
Knott  will  look  to  its  

Fitzgerald at quarterback as well as to sophomore running back Houston Clark and senior wide receiver Jeff Skourp for improved scoring in the red zone, which was a concern in last week's 7-0 victory over Duncan Hall. 
The Juggerknott defense, especially the defensive line, will have to continue its impres­sive play to defeat Siegfried. 
The Ramblers will look to ju-nior quarterback Matt Meinert to help solve Knott's stout defense, as well as their defense to contain Fitzgerald and the rest of the Juggerknott playmakers. 
"It seems like it'll be quite a challenge to just put points on the board," said Cure. "Fitzgerald will also be quite a threat at quarterback." 
Both teams are sure to be more motivated than usual because of the magnitude of the rivalry game. 
"''d love to win every game," said Fitzgerald. "But I'd like to win this one a little bit more." 
Siegfried and Knott face off at 

1:00 p.m. at Riehle Field on Sunday. 
Sorin vs. Zahm 
Sorin will aim to replicate last weekend's dominating victory when Sorin and Zahm play each other Sunday. 
The Otters topped Fisher 14-0 as freshman quarterback Ted Spinelli completed two touch­down passes of over 50 yards. 
"Ted is a powerful dual-threat quarterback that can make all the throws," Sorin junior receiver Jon Beckerle said. 
Sorin will need Spinelli to have a similar performance this week, as the team will be with­out sophomore Bobby Sullivan due to a case of turf toe. 
"We'll miss Bobby," Beckerle said. "His being out will limit our ability to use the Wildcat formation." 
If Spinelli has trouble, the defense is confident it will be able to limit Zahm much like it limited Fisher, if not even more so. 
"[Junior defensive end] John Zic was utterly absent in the pass rush in Week One," Beckerle said. "We've done some things to scheme around his struggles so we'll see how that works out." 
Beckerle said the rest of the defensive line, anchored by jun­ior Matt Gamber and freshman Ryan Robinson, was dominant against Fisher. 
In order to overcome the vaunted Otters' defense, Zahm will rely on a new-look offense which has raised hopes for the team after last season's 1-2-1 finish. 
"We're definitely hoping for a championship, but the whole team is revamped, so I just hope we can come out with a good start and build on that," senior captain Jarred Carter said. 
The majority of revamping is on the offensive side of the ball. 
"We have a different set of receivers," Carter said. "The quarterback position might be a concern but we'll see Sunday." 
Junior Jack Peterson will start at quarterback for Zahm. 
''I'm just hoping he can exe­cute," Carter said. "This fs his first year playing interhall foot­ball." 
Carter points to a strong defense and running game to keep Zahm in games while the passing game works out its kinks. 
"lSorin] scored last week with two big passing plays, so we'll try to take that out," Carter said. "We'll shut down their run, force them to pass, and then take that away." 
Zahm will attempt to equal last season's win total Sunday against Sorin at Riehle Field at 
1:00 p.m. 
Stanford v. Keough 
Stanford knows good funda­mentals are the foundation for a successful football season, and the Griffins intend to employ this philosophy in its season opener against Keough Sunday. 
"We're looking to go out there and hopefully put some points on [the] board and keep them from scoring," Stanford senior captain Chris Gill said. "Pretty much just [play] basic football." 
Stanford finished the 2008 season 2-1-1 and Gill was opti­mistic about this year's squad. The Griffins look to many returning players on the defen­sive side of the ball to keep opposing offenses at bay. Stanford's offense is led by a new quarterback, junior Tony Rizzo. 
Gill said the team is more than ready to go. 
"We're excited to play Keough," he said. "Hopefully we match up well against them." 
The Kangaroos (1-0) will look to their cornerbacks and safeties to limit Rizzo and Stanford's traditionally pass­happy offense. 
"Last year, Stanford liked to pass the ball a lot," sophomore captain Ryan Cordell said. "We expect to be tested in our sec­ondary." 
Keough edged Keenan 7-3 last week in a defensive battle, and Cordell expected the same defensive intensity in Sunday's showdown. 
"We did a very nice job on defense, forcing key turnovers and creating a lot of pressure [last week]," Cordell said. "We expect to rise to the occasion." 
Stanford's season will begin against Keough at kick off at 3 
p.m. Sunday at Riehle Field. 
Contact Chris Allen at callenlO@nd.edu, Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu, Katie Gabriel at kgabriel@nd.edu, Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu, Douglas Farmer at dfarmer 1 @nd.edu and Kaitlyn Murphy at kmurph28@nd.edu 
Leasing now for 2010-2011 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 

3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Located Close to Notre Dame 
$300 Signing Bonus for 2010-2011 
Lease must be signed before October 10, 2009 
Lease for only $350 per month, per student! 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
call (574) 234-2436 
Friday, September 25, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish head to Evans Invite 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will travel to Lexington, Ky., this weekend to compete in the Bettie Lou Evans Invitational for the first time in program history. 
The Evans Invite is only the second tournament of the young season. The Irish will try to improve on their lOth-place fm­ish in the Mary Fossum Invitational on Sept. 13. 
There is definitely room for improvement for this year's squad, one that already has plenty of collegiate experience. 
The roster features three sen­iors and no freshmen, with one golfer, senior Annie Brophy, hav­ing played in every match over 
ARENA FOOTBALL 
her three previous years. 
"We made a number of mis­takes in Michigan," coach Susan Holt said. "These are things that should be fixed by now." 
The whole team of seven will be traveling to play on the University of Kentucky Golf Club's Big Blue Course, with those golfers not in the top five to have a chance to compete for a spot in the starting lineup for later tournaments. 
The current five starters are Brophy, senior Kristin Wetzel, juniors So-Hyun Park and Katie Conway and sophomore Becca Huffer. 
This lineup is the same as that of the Mary Fossum Invitational, with the addition of senior Julie Kim and sophomore Katie Allare being entered. as individuals. 
This tournament will be ABare's debut for the Irish. 
The Irish will need their best effort this weekend to compete with the high level of competi­tion in the Invitational, which will feature three top-25 teams (No. 9 Florida State, No. 12 Chattanooga and No. 25 Louisville) in the 15-team field. 
The Seminoles are coming ofT a second-place finish at the Cougar Fall Classic and the Mocs placed third out of 18 in the Golfweek Conference Challenge. The tournament this weekend will be comprised of three rounds, each on separate days and all beginning at 8:30a.m. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal@nd.edu 
NewArena league to be announced 
~~OCT. 9-10 
morriscenter.org • 574.235.9190 
Tickets at the Morris Center Box Office. For group rates, call 1.866.31.GROUP 
IIRow•u TIFAJRI Lt1Gt1 South Bend 1iibune WS.BT":l:~ ~.· 1\Y ,:,win
• * 
EKSorm8t.JIIjD1 1tte. Db<--l""lforyau. ~ ~ 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY -Get the scoreboard warmed up. Arena football is making a comeback. 
A news conference is planned Monday to announce the formation of a new league called Arena Football 1 with teams from the former AFL and arenafootball2 leagues. 
"The owners meetings are Monday morning, and they're really going to line everything out on Monday morning as far as how the divisions go and what teams from the AFL are 
German Language Study Abroad Programs 
Information Meeting 
September 28,2009 6:00p.m. 118 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline is November 15, 2009 www.nd.edu/-ois 

actually going to join Arena Football 1 and what teams from AF2 are going to join," said Troy Thompson, director of operations for the Arkansas Twisters. 
Representatives of the af2 teams in Oklahoma City, Arkansas, and Spokane, Wash.. all confirmed to The Associated Press on Thursday that they intend to participate. Iowa's af2 franchise also plans to send a representative to the meetings. 
"There's still a lot that's going to be finalized over the weekend but everyone's excit­ed about the movement of the league," Oklahoma City Yard Dawgz general manager Christie Cook said. 
The old AFL canceled its 2009 season before eventually folding in August, ending a 22­year run for the high-scoring indoor brand of football that helped launch the career of NFL MVP and Super Bowl win­ner Kurt Warner. Play in af2 was never disrupted, but teams ended the season unsure of what would happen next. 
Leasing now for 2010-2011 
Lafayette Square Town homes 

3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Town homes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Located Close to Notre Dame 
$300 Signing Bonus for 2010-2011 
Lease must be signed before October 1 o, 2009 
Lease for only $350 per month, per student! 
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
call (574} 234-2436 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, September 25, 2009 
The Purple Weasels will try to onship last year with a narrow 12-Offensively, the Bullfrogs are game within striking distance. The avenge the loss of Fr. Joe at 5:00 7 loss to McGlinn in the semifmals. counting on junior Taylor Osicek, two teams seem poised to
Heckle 

p.m. at LaBar Field Sunday. "We want to go back to the sta­sophomores Ryan Cooney and rebound, and Sunday's matchup dium," said Klosterman. Carli Fernandez and freshman will be their first chance to do so.
continued from page 24 

Pangborn vs. Walsh Shut out in their last meeting, Ashley Okonta to take control. Led by senior captain and safety 
"We're in a tougher league this Pangborn looks to continue its this game will be a chance at "Our coaches have worked to Stephanie Wuerdeman, the Babes year, but we still expect to com­success from 2008 when it revenge for the Chicks, led by develop our offense into what is have been training hard in prepa­pete and earn a spot in the play­encounters Walsh Sunday. Both enthusiastic captain, senior Tara probably the most explosive and ration for this season. offs," junior captain Kayla Bishop the Phoxes and the Wild Women Gilbride and new coaches from cohesive unit we've had since "The girls have been working said. are coming off playoff seasons and Siegfried. Badin went to the Stadium," said really hard in practice," said 
To help earn that playoff spot, look to continue their success in "We're turning around Lewis Daniels. Wuerdeman. "We've installed a lot the team returns several key play­the 2009 opener. football," Gilbride said. Their defense is already looking of new plays that we think are ers. Wide receiver will be a strong Junior quarterback Gabby Tate The team lost a substantial powerful, ending their scrimmage pretty tough to cover." point in the offense, as junior leads the Phoxes. Tate and senior amount of senior experience last week with an interception by Similarly, the Pyros have not Kaitlin Robinson and senior Mary standout wide receiver Meghan including some of last season's big sophomore Mary Goodwin. been slacking off in the offseason, Jenkins aid the aerial attack. Bescher spearhead a precision playmakers, including Katie Overall, the team is excited to and are ready to come away with 
On the other side of the ball, a passing offense complemented by Sushinsky and Catherine finally show everyone what the win. tough defense anticipates keeping Tate's scrambling abilities. Guarineri at quarterback. they're made of. "We have very high expectations games low scoring as senior cor­"Meghan is one of the most However there will be plenty of "I don't want to give too much for this year," said senior captain nerback Emily Stewart leads it. amazing athletes I've seen in my young talent stepping up to the away, but anyone who faces us and quarterback Tara Pillai. 
A strong, youthful freshman life," Tate said. "If we could have challenge this year. Some names best be prepared for an offense "Based on how close the games class adds excitement and talent her play almost every position, we to watch are sophomores Lizzy that knows how to put points up were [last year], we think this year for the team's upcoming season. would." Snow and Margot DeBot, playing and a defense that can stand its can be much improved." 
Welsh Family will take on Bescher will likely line up in the both defensive line and ofl'ensive ground," said Daniels. The rebuilding process may Howard at 2:00 p.m. Sunday at slot for most of Pangborn's plays, line, as well as freshman Cavanaugh is also ready for a pose obstacles for both the Pyros LaBar Field. but may take a few snaps under Connaught Blood as a key all­fresh start. They hope to bounce and the Babes. 
center. She will also be a key fac­around utility player. back after a disappointing season "Building our team from the Pasquerilla West vs. Ryan tor for a defense looking to retool Gilbride believes that the Lewis last year to return to the stadium ground up has allowed us to shake 
The established power from last year. defense, with speed and coordina­as they did in 2007. it up and grow stronger than Pasquerilla West plays the newly "We lost a core group of defen­tion, will be the deciding factor in Cavanaugh's defense is led by ever," said the Babes' formed Ryan Hall Sunday. sive seniors but have plenty of tal­Sunday's game. junior Mo Mathias, who has taken Wuerdeman. "Luckily we've kept 
Pasquerilla West features a jun­ented freshmen who should "[Our] defense is going to kick a strong role in leading the line. the greater part of our defense ior-and senior-laden team, fresh replace them," Tate said. some butt," she said. "They're our Their offense is ready to take intact." off its semifinal appearance last The exodus of seniors has done biggest strength." charge, led by senior Erin Dolan "The biggest obstacle will be to year. The Purple Weasels are led nothing to reduce expectations for The game will be kick ofT at 3:00 and junior Holly Hinz. Many fresh­see how we handle adversity and by senior captains and four-year the year. Hopes are high at p.m. at LeBar Field Sunday. men have already stepped up to get into the habit of winning," starters Alyssa Moya and Cynthia Pangborn. fill needed positions, and have Pillai said. "Pasquerilla East has Curley. Junior quarterback "We've been practicing since the Badin vs Cavanaugh done so with great success. not had many wins over the last Simone Bigi and senior offensive first week of school," Tate said. Both Badin and Cavanaugh are "Our goal is always to dominate three years, but most of those lineman Caitlin "Stitches" ''I'd say we're one of the more ready to prove themselves this and to win it in the stadium. We losses have been in very close O'Connell are also sure to make intense teams in the league and season after not living up to their have a legacy to live up to. We'll games, so we need to learn how to an impact. we're all very excited about the expectations last year. Practice win it all this year if we consistent­finish [games]." 
"We are extremely hungry this year." scrimmages gave both teams a ly play with the intensity that Both captains seem conlident in year," senior Cynthia Curley said. The intensity of the Phoxes does taste of what is to come, but this Cavanaugh football is known for," their team's ability to come away "We have a lot of upperclassmen not daunt the Wild Women. Sunday will bring the lirst actual senior captain Sarah Cline said. with the victory. who wanted to get it done togeth­"We're nicknamed the Wild game. Badin and Cavanaugh will play Only one team will do so when er this year and everyone's willing Women for a reason," senior cap­Badin is led by seniors Melissa Sunday at 4:00 p.m. at LaBar Breen-Phillips and Pasquerilla to put in the time to be ready to tain Meghan Hadley said. Yisak and Kelley Daniels. Since it Field. East face off Sunday at 1:00 p.m. play on Sunday." Walsh will look to establish a is the smallest women's dorm on at LaBar Field. 
Ryan Hall, on the other hand, is power running game led by a tan­campus, numbers have often been Breen-Phillips vs. Pasquerilla fielding its inaugural interhall dem of experienced tailbacks. a problem in the past. But this East Contact Tim Singler at team. Despite this, the ladies of They hope the combination of run­year is a different story. The winner of Sunday's match­tsingler@nd.edu, Barrick Ryan are not deterred. ning offense and a bend but not "With a strong group of return­up between Breen-Phillips and Bollman at jbollman@nd.edu, 
"We expect to win every time we break defense will propel them to ing [players I and a slew of talent­Pasquerilla East will taste victory Colin King at cking6@nd.edu, step on the field, and nothing victory Sunday. ed freshmen, we can keep legs for the first time in over a year, as Kevin Baldwin at less," senior coach Justin Smith "Our defense was the strength fresh without sacrificing talent," both were winless in 2008. kbaldwi2@nd.edu, Megan said. "We are going to be the most of last year's team and looks to be Daniels said. "All of our girls are Both the Babes and the Pyros Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu intimidating team in the league, so this year also," said Hadley. starter material and can expect to ended last season with a tie to and Matthew Robison at and have a lot of fun week in and Pangborn and Walsh will com­get significant playing time." their name, and each kept every mrobison@nd.edu 
week out." 
Ryan Hall figures to feature a balanced offensive attack and an assignment based defensive strat­egy. Ryan does not highlight key players, instead adopting a team mentality. While one might expect Ryan to be at a natural disadvan­tage due to this being its initial year, that may not be the case. 
"There are certainly some chal­lenges involved in starting a team from scratch, but this was made easier by some veterans who real­ly have a passion for football," Smith said. "Add to this a talented crop of freshmen and I don't think Ryan has any disadvantages from our competitors." 
Even though the two teams have never played before, there may be the makings of a rivalry. 
"This game is a special game for us because or dorm priest, Fr. Joe, was just relocated to Ryan Hall and we're still pretty torn up about it." Pasquerilla West senior Cynthia Curley said. "He was our biggest football fan." 

pete for their first victory of the season Sunday at 6:00 p.m. at LaBar Field. 
Farley vs. Lewis 
When Farley takes on Lewis Sunday the two teams will both be looking to build upon successful seasons last year as each returns most of its talent. 
Sunday's matchup will be a test for the new Finest quarterback, sophomore Meghan Bastedo, who is supported by an experienced offense which includes junior run­ning back Molly Casanova. 
Farley's defense returns most of its coverage unit in sophomore Katie Smith, junior co-captain Emma Klosterman and senior captain Caity Shepherd. 
Klosterman is confident her Finest squad will give it their all on Sunday. 
"We're going to go out strong, [and] have fun," she said. 
The Finest are coming off a suc­cessful 4-2-1 2008 season, making it within a game of the champi-
WASHINGTON PROGRAM INFORMATION MEETING 
Monday, September 28, 2009 
6:00 PM 217 DeBartolo Hall 
Serving Lunch &Dinner Come Dine Widt Our Family i\nd Be Our Friend! 

Tnts·Sat !1·1: 4·9 Closed Sun &Mon 
Our Sfk'cialtics lndudc tX!!Uisitt Meat En!rees &Healt!~y Vegetarian Dishes 
Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiches Meat Dishes • VegetarianSdections •Desserts Dine In • Take Out • Uttering • Rtsen'ations Accepted 115 Dixie \Vav Nonl1. Soutl1 Bend 
...· ' 
(574) 277-7239 



~-­
Friday, September 25, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
well. He knows it, but he has been practicing well this week and looks
Walker 
like the old Doug coming back to continued from page 24 form." 
IfFortner comes back to form, he Gunior] Connor Allan-Lee can both will do it while facing stiff competi­hit the ball a great distance," tion from 16 teams, including No.3 
Kubinski said. "[Senior] Carl Santos-Ocampo will be fine too. He played at the U.S. Amateur Championships, which is very long and he competed well there." 
The fifth player for the Irish this weekend will be senior Doug Fortner, who struggled to a 
"Basically we are going to play the best teams from the best conferences and it will make us 
better.,, 
Jim Kubinski Irish coach 
Georgia Tech and host Vanderbilt, as well as three other SEC teams. 
"One of the things we are committed to philosophy-wise is we want to be a national team play­ing a national schedule, much like the philosophy of our football team," Kubinski said. "Basically we are 

Leasing now for 2010-2011 
Notre Dame Apartments 

On-Site Laundry 
Only Three Blocks from Campus 
$300 Signing Bonus for 2010-2011 
Lease must be signed before October 10, 2009 
Leases start at only $350 per month, perstudent! 
View the floorplan at www.kramerhouses.com 
call {574} 234-2436 
St. John's 
continued from page 24 
and were the top-seeded team heading into the Big East tour­nament. However, the Irish overturned the Red Storm's lead in the semifinals of the conference championship to secure their 18th consecutive winning season. Three Notre Dame players posted double­digit kills in the win. 
The intensity the Irish have shown this season has proved them to be a tough competitor although not ranked. A consis­tency in playing, depth and strong senior leadership this season have kept this Notre Dame team a force on the court. 
"We're working on being consistent each time we go out to compete and every day in practice as well," Brown said. "Our greatest improvement is in our serving and putting pressure on teams with our serving. We've been working our side of the ball well and that's how we score points. 

"The coaching staff has been pleased with the intensity shown in practice and in our matches. We've been constant­ly evaluating our playing and made some big strides each weekend." 
The Irish take on the Huskies at 7 p.m. today in the Gampel Pavilion in Storrs, Conn, and will play the Red Storm Sunday at 2 p.m. at the Carnesecca Arena, in Jamaica, N.Y. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SMC GOLF 
Belles to face top teams at Depauw 
fifth-place team finish at the team's first meet on Sept. 14. 
"Doug has been a great player for us the last three years," Kubinski said. "He came out of Minnesota last week not playing going to play the best teams from the best conferences and it will make us better." 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer 1 @nd.edu 
By ROBERT GRAHAM 
Sports Writer 
The No. 13 Belles travel to Depauw this weekend for the Depauw University Small College Classic. 
The Classic will be held at the Deer Creek Golf Club in Clayton, Ind. The tournament will see its fair share of ranked teams, among which are St. Mary's, Olivet and No. 9 Depauw. 
Saint Mary's has not finished lower than third place in any event this year, and if they are able to generate some more momentum it would be a huge help as they head into the third MIAA jamboree next week. The Belles currently hold a slim 11-stroke lead in the conference. 
A few days after a dominat­ing performance at the MIAA's first Jamboree of the year, No. 13 Saint Mary's played well once again but fell four strokes short of first place in the sec­ond conference event of the year. Olivet College, another nationally ranked program shot a jamboree best 318, a few stroked better than the Belles' 322. 
Despite a close finish, this Belles squad continues to show promise from upper and underclassmen alike. Freshman Martyna Mierzwa led the Belles for the second event in a row, shooting a team best 79, along with team­mate Natalie Matuszak. Olivet's Megan Rimmel posted the best score of the day with a 
75. Rosie O'Connor, Mary Kate Boyce and Perri Hamma rounded out Saint Mary's top five golfers with scores of 81, 83 and 86 respectively. 
Though first place would have been nice, the Belles are still in prime position in the MIAA and will look to make another move this weekend. 
By giving themselves some breathing room this upcoming week, the Belles may be able see themselves as conference champions. 
Contact Robert Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 
SMC VoLLEYBALL 
Freshman Bodien leads way inwin 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI Sports Writer 
The Belles (6-5, 2-3 MIAA) notched their second straight 3-0 (25-23, 25-15, 25-22) sweep as they took care of Manchester Thursday. 
The match was a non-league game in the middle of a stretch of seven straight MIAA match­es. 
Freshman Stephanie Bodien led the way for the Belles with 
ATHENS, GREECE 
12 kills and a .500 attacking percentage. Junior Andrea­Sasgen matched Bodien with 12 kills of her own. Lorna Slupczynski also had double digit kills with 10 and added 15 digs on defense. 
Senior setter Liana Rohr got playing time in the first set of the non-league game and notched 14 assists for the Belles. 
The Belles seem to be hitting their stride at the right time with back-to-hack convincing wins. 
Belles coach Toni Kuschel expressed pleasure in the team's communication, which was a problem early in the season with the young lineup. 
"We have had a couple of tough losses but our season has been nothing but success­ful," said Kuschel. "Our play­ers are getting better and working hard together every day. That in my book is suc­cess." 
The Belles still have 11 more 
MIAA matches to improve their position in the standings before they enter the tourna­ment. 
The Belles can pass Albion (8-5, 2-3) on Saturday as they visit the Britons. The Belles will then take on (6-8, 1-3) struggling Kalamazoo before they return to the non-confer­ence schedule. 

INFORMATION MEETING 
********************************* 
Monday, September 28, 2009 5:30pm 207 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2009 www.nd.edu/-ois 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichals@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 25, 2009 
Knaack 
continued from page 24 

another to junior midfielder Lauren Fowlkes. 
Against Northwestern, soph­omore midfielder Courtney Barg and junior defender Julie Scheidler stole the show with their first goals of the season. 
The trouble for Notre Dame this season has been getting the defense and the offense on the same page. In each of the Irish's five victories, they have shut out their opponents while scoring at least two goals. 
In their three losses, the Irish have failed to score a single goal and have been outscored 10-0. 
On the bright side, each of Notre Dame's early season defeats has come at the hands of elite opponents. All three teams that have beaten the Irish (North Carolina, Stanford, and Santa Clara) are ranked in the top-10. UNC and Stanford currently hold the top two spots, respectively. 
Looking ahead at the Big East schedule, the Irish will return home for a Sunday matchup with Louisville at Alumni Field. After that, Notre Dame will begin a tough road stretch where they visit West Virginia, Pittsburgh, Rutgers and Seton Hall over a 10-day period. 
The Irish offense has been led this season by the out­standing play of sophomore 
forward Melissa Henderson. 
Her five goals and 11 points 
are a team-high. Fowlkes and 
Augustin are not far behind 
with three goals apiece. 
On defense, senior goalkeep­
er Kelsey Lysander has been 
solid in net. Lysander has 19 
saves on the season and is 
allowing just over one goal per 
game. She also has two 
shutouts on the season. 
Despite Notre Dame's impressive conference streak, Cincinnati will not be an easy ·victory. The Bearcats are on a tear of late having won four 
straight. 
Tonight's kickoff is scheduled for 7 p.m. at Gettler Stadium. 
Contact Alex Barker at 
abarkerl@nd.edu 
Louisville 
continued from ·page 24 
on.. " 
The Irish will have to move on quickly, as the No. 16 Cardinals (5-0-1, 2-0) come to South Bend Friday. Louisville currently leads the Big East Red Division and is one of only two undefeated teams in the conference. 
"We've got every respect for Louisville," Clark said. "They're a strong, hardwork­ing team with a direct playing style." 
Notre Dame played Louisville twice in 2008, losing during the regular season but defeating the Cardinals in the 

BETTER BOWLING NAME: 

Big East tournament. 
The Cardinals are coming off of a 2-0 win over West Virginia and a 5-0 rout of Pittsburgh. 
The Irish offense will have a challenge against Louisville; all five Cardinal wins so far this season have been shutouts, and their tie was 1-1 against UIC. 
Against Cincinnati (5-2, 1-1) on Sunday, the defense will be the ones who need to step up. The Bearcats have scored five goals in two games this sea­son. 
"We're not looking to the Cincinnati game yet because we're putting all the focus on Louisville," Clark said. "When we finish that game, we'll start looking at Cincinnati." 
The Bearcats are currently fourth in the Big East Red Division, though Clark said the low standing does not make them less dangerous. 
"There are no easy games in the Big East," he said. "These are two challenging teams." 
These games mark the first Big East contests for the Irish in the new Alumni Stadium. Clark denied that would give the Irish a significant advan­tage. 
"The home field doesn't win games, players win games," he said. 
The Irish, who are tied for third in the Big East Blue Division, have caught some bad breaks lately, with their two recent losses coming when an opposing player broke a 1-1 tie late in the game. All three losses have been close. 
However, Clark said he does not blame bad luck. 
"You make your own luck," he said. "We've just got to do things better. We've got to work on putting two good games together instead of just one." 
Notre Dame faces Louisville at 5:00 p.m. today and will kick off against Depaul at 3:30 
p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
a& you want. Ll 
D;s.cu&b a& tong Incoming Ca &, 
w t r<C< Ita& Free 
Only u.s. Cettu a ne at any time. Text& and PiX from ~nyo n the pttone ih ~ree. So nearly ttatf ttte tune o 
getusc.com 
~~ U.S.Ce~u\~~ better·
r· 
believe In some 



Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779
THE OBSERVER 
45 Excise via an operation 47 Switch hitter? 49 Coffee-mate 
producer 50 It's unbelievable 51 Went on a 
dinner date, e.g. 52 Shows the ropes 53 TV producer 
Michaels 54 Least accessible 
Down Loose 2 Poet Pablo Neruda, for one 3 Dreamer's opposite 4 It's designed for quick entrances 5 Plugs 6 Chad Mitchell _ (1960s folk band) 7 Director of "Meatballs" and "Stripes" 8 Post boxes' contents 9 Premonish 1 0 Zither with buttons 11 What insulin regulates the metabolism of 12 "1984" superstate dominated by Nee-Bolshevism 13 Like pinto beans 15 Jumble 22 Goes from first to third, say 
25Potte~ 

Friday, September 25, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
WlLLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Patrick Berry  ,.;.  
26 Rap devotee, in  33 Accept, as  43 Unmake  
slang  conditions  changes  
28 Some retinal  34 More boorish  44 "Consider it  
cells  35 Part of a  done"  
29 Disappointing R.S.V.P.'s  caterer's display 36 One who's on  46 Myste~ novel  
30 One hanging  the other side?  element  
around med  37 Entertains  48 Chemical used  
school?  38 Most accessible  to cure animal  
32 Personal writings  41 Attacked  skins  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
FRIDAYS WITH FRAN 2.0 
Aries -Purdon't. Clever, right? You know what is even stupider? Boilermakers. Verdict: 2 stars 
Taurus -The person who came up with this one really had to pee, so they left before they thought of anything. Sorry. Verdict: IOU 
Gemini-Count the number of letters in your name. Multiply by 365, add 1,000. Subtract the year of your birth. This is a stupid number. Find some significance for it this weekend. Verdict: 3 stars 
Cancer -The person who came up with this one decided to hook up with someone instead. Sorry. Verdict: 5 stars for this person 
Leo -Just because it's an away game, doesn't mean you can get away with anything. Verdict: 2 stars 
Virgo -Look to the person to your left. They have a naughty secret. You should find it out tonight. Verdict: 3 stars 
Libra -You will hook up with a certain viewpoint celebri­ty. Don't flatter yourself. You're not that special. Verdict: 1 star. 
Scorpio -South Dining Hall is better than North. There. I said it. Verdict: 5 stars 
Sagittarius -Look to the person on your right. The one that is sniffling? Yeah, you should have gotten that flu shot. Verdict: This little piggy went to St. liam's. 
Capricorn -You are just so beautiful. Please look in the mirror for awhile and reflect on your beauty. Then sigh, and ponder the inequalities of the world. Verdict: 4 stars 
Aquarius-The moon is in the seventh house. And Jupiter is aligned with Mars. Watch out. Verdict: Let the sun shine. 
Pisces -Your non-carnivorous fish in less than a gallon tank is going to die. Sucks. Verdict: 1 star 
SCHAD & FREUDE 
Vi\i A-T'S A 
'Soti..C!AMAk! AfV'/ wA"f.:S'? 

THE MOBILE PARTY 
WlLL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
'If'~ A. G-t..ASS oF 'S>HOUI..btv•T' ,,.. "t'AIC.S 'Bee.~ WITH-A 'SHOT u Bo~t...e.ta.MA~6 R. t To -r AK.t:: t>1lw fU
OF wtttSK.€Y 

0~ 5 .1:141 S1-1-M~ IV
I t-J IT. 
"T""H SJ\J? 
COLIN HOFMAN 

D D  Notre Dame, IN Enclosed is $120 for one academic year Enclosed is $65 for one semester  46556  
Name  

Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip_______ 
JUMBLE 
JJlJJMJ]JllirR
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ESTAC 
j
I [I II 
©2009 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
r~rflxJ 
CLIPES 
I rJ 
b
NEW Jumble iPhooe App go Ill: httpJAcim.1tJm!jeapp
ICUDINT ± 
I I r J I 
Answer here: 

" [II ]" [I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yeste da 's IJumbles: FATAL ACRID BROGUE RENEGE r y Answer: What the medical students considered the lecture on body parts -AN ORGAN RECITAL 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
Bob, will give you trims today 
q 
1.'.) 
A GOOD THING TO 00 IN BAI<BE:I< SCHOOL.. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD 
Across Feature of Psalm 119 9 People work for 
them 14 "How rude!" 15 Call on the 
carpet 16 1997 Jim Carrey film 17 Cuban-born jazz 
great Sandoval 18 Isolated 19 Tracked vehicle 20 City where 
French kings were crowned 21 Spur-of-the­moment 23 Virus's need 24 Swimmer's sound 
25 Onetime popular musician ... or a radio station where he might be heard? 
26 "Ella and !" (1963 jazz album) 
27 Suffix with absorb 28 Sweet loaf 
30 Separate 31 Lowdown 32 First athlete to appear on the cover of nme 
magazine 
36Amigo 
39 Ungentle giants 
40 As bad luck would have it 41 Blubber 42 Caspian Sea feeder 43 Hitch 44 It may get you out of a trap 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-~-'-'+'-+-"-+-"-i 
-=+*~++7-t::-t-=--t-=+~ 
~*~~~~-=+-=+~ 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, September 25, 2009 
page 24 
MEN's SoccER 
Going for T-wo 
Irish to play top Big East teams at home 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Two is better than one. 

No. 25 Notre Dame (3-3-1, 1­1 Big East) will take on confer­ence foes Louisville and Cincinnati at Alumni Stadium this weekend. 
In their first conference games last weekend, the Irish defeated Depaul 2-1 and lost to South Florida by the same score. They have won the first game and lost the second in their past three weekend series. 
Irish coach Bobby Clark said the team played well in the sec­ond game despite the result. 
"You're never satisfied when you don't win," Clark said. "But there's nothing we can do about the result now, so we have to get the lesson and move 
Senior forward Jeb Brovsky kicks the ball during Notre Dame's 2-11oss to New Mexico on Sept. 13. 
see LOUISVILLE/page 22 The Irish play Louisville and Cincinnati this weekend. 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Conference -win streak put to test 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
As they enter the heart of the conference schedule, the Irish aim to keep their 53­game conference unbeaten streak alive when they travel to take on Cincinnati today. 
No. 12 Notre Dame (5-3, 1-0) opened Big East play against DePaul with a dominant 4-0 victory Sept. 18, its 21st straight road victory against conference foes. Two days later, the Irish dispatched Northwestern 2-0. 
Junior midfielder Rose Augustin had two goals in the DePaul contest and was named to the Big East Conference weekly Honor Roll for her per­formance. Junior Taylor Knaack recorded two assists in the game, one to Augustin and 
see KNAACK/page 22 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Whirlwinds look to return to championship 
its final game of the season, the and a talented receiving corps, the Gargula. develop mental toughness. 
By TIM SINGLER, BARRICK championship game at Notre team looks to be an offensive On the other side of the ball, the "Except I'm really the only one BOLLMAN, COLIN KING, Dame Stadium. Despite losing a threat. Senior Demi Heuth will be defense returns numerous experi­who does the heckling. [The other KEVIN BALDWIN, MEGAN few seniors from that successful taking the snaps for the enced players who look to stop seniors] aren't so good at it." 

FINNERAN and MATTHEW team, the Whirlwinds look to be Whirlwinds this season. opposing offenses from scoring. The Whirlwinds will not have an ROBISON 

loaded for a run to the champi­"[Heuth] is key for our offense," Seniors Stephanie Vossler, Kara easy time obtaining a victory. Sports Writers 
onship game again this year. said Schimpf. King, Julia Dombrowski and Howard looks to be a strong team "We lost a lot of seniors," senior The receivers, including sopho­Schimpflead the defense. this year coming off a first-round 
Welsh Family will begin its captain Tara Schimpf said. "But mores Natalie Baldasare and "We have an unconventional playoff loss last season. attempt to return to the champi­we are as strong as ever." Charlotte Seasly and junior Jamie leadership style. It's not leading by Despite having to play in a com­onship game for the third consec­This strength may come on the Gardella, look to assist Heuth and example so much as going to petitive league, the Ducks are utive year when it faces Howard offensive side of the ball for the the offense to reach new heights practice, sitting on the sidelines eager to compete with the best. Sunday. Whirlwind. after the departure of four-year and heckling the other players," 
Last year Welsh Family lost in Featuring a new quarterback starting quarterback Jenni King said. "We're helping them to see HECKLE/page 20 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Squad begins Big East play 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame kicks off Big East competition this weekend with a match Friday at Connecticut and Sunday at St. John's. 
The Irish (6-4) were picked to fmish second according to a Big East preseason poll after previously winning nine tour­nament titles with a regular­season record of 148-21 and falling to Louisville in the final round of the 2008 tournament. 
"Our primary goal is to win the regular [conference]," coach Debbie Brown said. "It keeps us motivated and is our focus going into each oppo­nent." 
The Irish have taken on top­ranked opponents so far this season, including No. 8 Michigan, No. 10 Stanford and No. 18 Florida State. The Irish upset the Cardinal 3-0 on Aug. 30, but fell 3-0 to the Wolverines on Sept. 6 and 3-2 to the Seminoles on Sept. 20. 
"The caliber of play that we've had has greatly benefit­ed us and shown our strength and weaknesses," Brown said. "The level of competition is the best preparation we could have had." 
Friday's match will be the 21st meeting between Notre Dame and Connecticut. The Irish lead the series 18-2 over the Huskies (7-8). In the 2008 regular season finale, Notre Dame came back from a four-point deficit in the fifth set by shocking Connecticut with eight unanswered points to win 3-2 at the Joyce Center. The two teams' last meeting was in the first round of the 2008 Big East championships. The Irish came back from a late three-point deficit in the third set to take the win, pulling off their 11th sweep of the season. 
Sunday Notre Dame heads to Jamaica, N.Y., to go up against St. John's. The Irish lead the series 13-3 over the Red Storm(7-9), winning the first 11 matches of the series before splitting the last four. Last season St. John's defeated Notre Dame 3-2 on Nov. 14 
see ST. JOHN'S/page 21 

MEN'S GOLF 
Wet course to present opportunity for Irish 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will tee off on a sub­merged golf course today. 
The Irish are competing in the three-day Vanderbilt Mason Rudolph Championship in Franklin, Tenn., over the weekend and in the past week and a half nearly six and a half inches of rain have !hllen on the course. 
While the water on the course will change how the Irish play, it may work to the team's advantage. 
"There isn't going to be much roll out there, so the guys who can carry the ball a bit longer Ihave an advantage]." coach Jim Kubinski said. "We have three or four guys who can get good carry distance, so we may have a bit of an advantage and should be able to compete well." 
In his first tournament with the Irish this season, sophomore Chris Walker is a perfect fit for a tourna­ment that turns into a long-ball contest. 
"Chris is one of the longest in the college game, especially when he wants to be," Kubinski said. "He is trying to control his game a bit more this year, and that is good, but he defmitely has the potential to carry the ball out there." 
Walker is not the only deep threat for Notre Dame, Kubinski said. "[Senior) Josh [Sandman] and 
see WALKER/page 21 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 25, 2009 
COMMENTARY 

Improved Oausen has Heisman shot 
In the span of one quarter last week, Jimmy Clausen's job got a whole lot harder. 
Michael Floyd going down on a touchdown catch (sorry Big East and replay officials) in the corner of the end-zone against Michigan State was a crushing loss for the Irish offense. While Clausen has been unbeliev­ably accurate through three games, it helps a lot when you have a receiver doing whatever he wants on the football field. 
The margin for error is a little bigger when you have a Michael Floyd on the outside that can create separation, win every jump ball and score on screen plays. With Robby Parris and Duval Kamara? That margin closes up signifi­cantly. 
"Mike is such a great play­maker," Clausen said this week. "Whenever there's a guy on [him or Golden Tate]. I have faith in both those guys and the rest of the receiving 
.· corps that they're going to 


'make that play, not the DB." The faith in Floyd and Tate is well founded. For the rest of the unproven receiving corps, they must prove they deserve Clausen's trust. Without Floyd as a home­run threat and weapon on the other side, Golden Tate is going to be double-covered as much as possible by opposing defenses. And while Kyle Rudolph, Kamara and Shaq Evans are nice players, for Clausen to continue putting up videogame-like numbers, it's going to be a huge chal­lenge. Heading into Saturday's game, though, there are no reasons to think the junior isn't up for it. Through three games Clausen is second in the nation in quarterback rat­ing, fourth in yards and sec­ond in touchdowns. Despite facing another chal­lenge in a turf toe injury suf­fered in the first half against the Spartans, Clausen looked just as sharp in leading the Irish to a fourth-quarter comeback and a win over the Spartans. "I was hurting pretty much the rest of the game," Clausen said. "But I just had to play and help the team win." It's going to take moments like those, occurring a few more times and in even big­
ger games for Jimmy Clausen to have a shot at the Reisman. But through three games, it's hard to find a more qualified candidate. 
And the challenges of the past week if anything give Clausen a great opportunity to win. If he continues to have a terrific season, voters can't argue that its only because of the array of weapons he has to throw to. 
Voters also love leadership and guts in quarterbacks, two qualities an improved Clausen has shown much more of this year. If the turf toe lingers and the defense continues to give up points, there should be plenty of close shootouts for Clausen to lead come­backs in. 
The schedule also suddenly looks a little more formidable since the start of the season -bad news for the Irish as a whole, but good news for Clausen's Reisman chances. Washington now could be ranked facing the Irish, and Connecticut and Stanford look better than expected. 
While all three Reisman finalists from this past year have returned, through three games none have the oppor­tunity Clausen does. Sam Bradford's first game injury has effectively eliminated him from contention to repeat, and neither Tim Tebow nor Colt McCoy have been partic­ularly impressive early. 
In the end though, wins and performances in big games are what usually ends up win­ning the award. The loss to Michigan certainly hurts Clausen's resume, although its hard to find anything he should have done better in that game. It's going to take a huge game and probably a win over USC. 
The defense and one of the receivers may have to step up to give Clausen a real chance and the wins required to be a real Reisman contender. Through three games, though, no quarterback has been better and few have the opportunity Clausen has if he comes through in the big games left on the schedule. 
The opportunity is there for Clausen to become everything he was supposed to be com­ing out of high school. Three games hardly makes a sea­son, but if the next nine are anything like them, Clausen should find himself in New York come December. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

fOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Visitors in1pressed by MSU vvin 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame was a big hit in the eyes of the three recruits who made ollieial visits to cam­pus for the Michigan State ­but that could have changed rather quickly had Kyle ~cCarthy's late interception not secured a dramatic Irish victory. 
As Notre Dame continues to battle some of the nation's top programs for the country's best prospects, there is no better recruiting tool than winning, Irish recruiting expert Mike Frank said. 
"At the end of the day, the very elite kids want to go play for a winner, a place where they'll win a lot of games and challenge for a national cham­pionship," said Frank, who runs the ESPN affiliate irishsports­daily.com. "Notre Dame needs to show these kids they're an elite school, that they'll be play­ing in these BCS games in the near future." 
Though home games are typi­cally much more important than away games in terms of recruiting, the state of the Notre Dame program -and particu­larly rumors concerning Charlie Weis' future that circulated at the end of last season -is on the radar of recruits whether the Irish are at home or on the road. 
"There are a lot of kids right now keeping a very close eye on Notre Dame and their season," there's a chance he will ­Frank said. "Charlie Weis has Notre Dame would be at the top done a good job, but I think a of his list. lot of players are looking at it "Obviously they're going to and saying, 'Hey, we want to battle Miami, and there's a cou­see if they're going to win ple things to overcome. One is there."' distance, and two is he has a lot 

Saturday's win over the of friends with him that play or Spartans certainly went a long are going to play for Miami," way in securing Frank said. a commitment "That's the from safety hometown prospect David school pretty
''At the end ofthe day. 
Amerson, one of much, and it'll the top players the very elite kids want be tough to on the Irish to go play for a turn that coaches' recruit-down. But if
winner.
ing board. he's going to Frank said make a Amerson, who is Mike Frank switch, it's choosing Irish recruiting expert going to be 
between Notre Dame and North Carolina State, has been quiet since his visit, "which is usually a good indica­tion he's close" to making a decision. 
"From things I've heard, that's probably the case," Frank said. "I think Notre Dame did a great job and he's very impressed with the whole situa­tion. I've got to feel that because he's been so quiet, chances are he's probably in decision mode, or at least trying to figure out what his next step is." 
Defensive tackle Louis Nix remains a prime target despite his status as a Miami verbal commit. Frank said that if Nix were to waver on his decision to play for the Hurricanes -and Notre Dame." 
Defensive 

back Toney Hurd was also very impressed with the Irish program after his official visit. Obstacles to his commitment still exist, however, as Notre Dame remains high on a few other defensive back recruits while only having room for one, maybe two, in this class, Frank said. 
"I think it's just a matter of time and making sure things fall the right way," Frank said. "Hurd's a great player and a great fit, and he'd be hard to pass up. I'd be very surprised if Notre Dame didn't land him if that's the way it works out." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
STUDENTS 
Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training Sessions in September. 
If you have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session 
BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September 13th and Sunday, September 27th,.. at 7:00pm in Geddes Hall {CSC Building} in 8001 Andrews Auditorium. 
The sessions will last approximately 45 minutes. 
Please bring your driver's license and a pen. 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, 
faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business~ 
See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
ifyou have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Pool you 
may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467 
~---­
Friday, September 25, 2009 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Back where it began 
Junior Golden Tate returns to Ross-Ade Stadium, site of his breakout 2007 performance 
numbers the remainder of the six passes for 177 yards and
By MATT GAMBER 
season -three catches for 27 three touchdowns in the 
Sports Editor 
yards in seven games -Hawaii Bowl. defenses could easily bring a There has been much dis­
It was just two years ago safety to his side to lock Tate cussion all week about the that sending No. 23 deep was up and throw away the key. likelihood of defenses begin­the only way for an anemic That's simply not the case ning to roll coverage to Tate's Irish offense to strike down­anymore. With a full grasp of side now that they won't have field -and for an inexperi­both the Irish offense and to worry about Floyd opposite enced freshman receiver to what opposing defenses try to him. That approach may have make a difference in a strug­do to stop it, stopped Tate gling passing game. Tate isn't a two years ago, 
That freshman was Golden track star "This year, from day but he doesn't Tate, now a junior who has sprinting one, I knew I was going believe it will 
evolved from a high school downfield or a Saturday in his 
to get rolled up on
tailback into one of the baseball player return to Ross­nation's most explosive big­(at least not on every now and then. I Ade Stadium. play wide receivers. Tate's Saturdays in think I'm prepared to "I'm more repertoire has surely expand­the fall) wait­prepared to
handle the situation." 
ed since the Golden-Go route ing under a fly deal with it made its debut against the ball. now, Tate Boilermakers on Sept. 29, He's a wide Golden Tate said of the 2007, when Tate hauled in receiver. Irish wide receiver added atten­three passes for 104 yards and "I can run tion from a touchdown to provide a more than one opposing much-needed spark for a route," Tate said. ''I'm ready." defenses. "I dealt with it a lit­then-winless Irish squad. The Irish need him to be, tle bit last year. I was also a 
"I've grown a lot, I can't now more than ever, with little younger and always wor­really even put it into words," sophomore co-starter Michael ried about beating Cover-1, Tate said. "I came in here just Floyd sidelined for the regular which I specialize in. But this knowing I can catch it and season with a broken clavicle. year, from day one, I knew I run, but there's so much more Tate is now Notre Dame's was going to get rolled up on to being a complete receiver. If unquestioned No. 1 receiver -every now and then. I think you're a receiver, everyone a distinction that will attract I'm prepared to handle the sit­can catch the ball." more attention both from uation." 
"But how do you run your quarterback Jimmy Clausen The entire Irish offense, in routes? How and from fact, appears more prepared do you do in opposing to deal with anything the the blocking defenses. Boilermakers will throw at 
game? I think "I like being the guy "I like being 
them. A veteran offensive line that's one thing that I know the ball's the guy that I has given an experienced I'm still learn­know the ball's Clausen time to spread the
going to come to, the
ing on, but I'm going to come ball around, and junior tail­
understanding guy they're going to to, guy
the back Armando Allen has con­the different look at to make plays. " they're going sistently read his blocks well concepts and to look at to enough to make plays in the ways to help make plays," ground game.
Golden Tate
the team Tate said. "It's None of those elements were 
Irish wide receiver
more." always been in place two years ago, when 
That's quite a me and my Tate held his exclusive com­run straight. I went up, made into the marching band after a progression personality." ing-out party in West Lafayette a play, and then he tried it a touchdown against Michigan from Tate's Tate has cer­-a surprise party, so to few more times and I ended State Saturday. freshman campaign, when he tainly earned his status as a speak, judging by Tate's com­up getting in the end zone. The only problem? It wasn't relied on straight speed and top receiver, breaking out in ments. Great feeling -personally, I the home team's band. Damn natural ball skills to beat sin­2008 to tally 1080 yards and "I remember the week of felt like OK, I got the first one Sparty. gle coverage and make tough and 11 total touchdowns. As a practice, I thought I was not out of the way." Tate explained that he was­catches. It worked against an sophomore he played a crucial even in the game plan at all," Tate's first big day offered a n't aware he was in Michigan unsuspecting Purdue second­role in breaking Notre Dame's he said. "[Coach] gave me a glimmer of hope in a dismal State's band's territory, and ary, but judging by Tate's bowl losing streak, catching chance and said pretty much season, which seemed to that he initially jumped to 
immediately cement his status avoid a little girl standing in as one of the faces of this Irish his way -perhaps making the team. Almost immediately, the Superman reference all the "Throw it to Golden!" chants more appropriate. -pleas may be more accurate "I figured if I land on many -began in Notre Dame people, that's better than land­Stadium, and t-shirts pro­ing on one person, but they all claiming "Golden Is Thy Tate" got out of the way. And there and bearing his famous go was," Tate said, pausing for route quickly circulated effect, "the ground." around campus. Maybe Tate's leap into the 
Tate's status as a fan band was just his way of try­favorite may have as much to ing to meet some new people. do with the plays he makes as He is, after all, one of the most it does with the attitude with widely recognized namp,s and which he makes them. faces on campus, and not only 
"I love playing with emotion because of how he performs and actually showing it," Tate on Saturdays. said. "That's one of the ways I It's the same Golden, stay relaxed. Kind of goof Monday through Friday, on the around, mess around a little quad or in the dining hall. bit." "I like to say I'm a people 
Tate is usually one of the person," Tate said. "I love to first Irish players to motion walk around campus and say toward the crowd after a big hi to random people, show play, and he always seems to that I'm not just this athlete be right in front of the student who's tough or too good for section -and the television anyone. I try to treat everyone cameras -smiling as the the same." team sings the alma mater -Tate may be outgoing and particularly the verse "golden confident both on and off the is thy fame." field, but he remains humble 
And that doesn't even enough to recognize the bigger broach the subject of his picture. touchdown celebrations, "I just want to stay within which have certainly been myself and do what I can to noteworthy in the past two help the team," Tate said. weeks. After holding the ball "We've still got a chance to be over the goal line as he special." pranced in for a score against 


Tate stiff-arms a Spartan defender after one of his team-high seven receptions Saturday. The junior tallied Michigan in the Big House, he Contact Matt Gamber at 127 yards in the game, including a 33-yard score that ended in a jump into the Michigan State band. made a Clark Kent-like leap mgamber@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 25, 2009 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 2-1 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
5th season at 
Notre Dame 
career record: 
31-22 
on road: 
11-9 
against Purdue: 
3-1 



2009 Schedule  
Sept.S Nevada-W Sept.12 @ Michigan ­L Sept.19 Michigan St. ­W Sept.26 @Purdue Oct.3 Washington Oct.17 Southern Cal Oct. 24 Boston College Oct. 31 Washington St. Nov. 7 Navy Nov.14 @ Pittsburgh Nov. 21 Connecticut Nov. 28 @Stanford Head-to-Head  
NDOFFENSE PUR DEFENSE  
Scoring: 34.00 ppg (33rd) Scoring: 32.33 ppg (104th) Total: 479.00 ypg (14th) Total: 434.33 ypg ( 1 05th) Rushing: 155.00 ypg (58th) Roshing: 181.00 ypg (102nd) Passing: 324.00 ypg (1Oth) Passing: 253.33 ypg (95th) Turnovers against: 2 (6th) Turnovers for: 7 (29th) Fumbles lost: 1 (13th) Fumbles rec.: 4 (17th) lntetceptions: 1 (9th) Interceptions: 3 (39th) Sacks Allowed: 2 (11th) Sacks: 4 (76th) T.O.P. for: 33:12 (lOth) T.O.P. against: 27:05 (I 11th) Statistical Leaders  
NDOFFENSE PUR DEFENSE  
Q.B JIMMY CLAUSEN IBJASONWERNER 62-91, 951 yds., 9 TD 22 solo, 6 TFL, !NT RB ARMANDO ALI1!N FS TORRI WILLIAMS 59 rush, 326 yds., 3 TD 14 solo, 1 brk-up RB JONAS GRAY lB CHRIS CARilNO 16 rush, 74 yds. 10 solo, 2 TFL WR GOlDEN TATE CB DAVID PENDER 19 rec., 301 yds., 3 TD l3 solo, 5 brk-up TE KYLE RUDOLPH lBJOE HOUAND 13 rec., 162 yds., TD 7 solo, 2 TFL, 1 sack  

HEADT 
Irish Offense vs. Boilermakers Defense 

The loss of Michael Floyd obvi­the first time. in the pocket as he has in the first three C!J ously hurts the Irish passing attack, Lost in all the coverage of Floyd's games. z but Notre Dame still boasts a deep injury is the fact that Jimmy Clausen is a That being said, Purdue's secondary -rotation of talented players at wide bit hobbled by turf toe, which held him has been brutal, and Notre Dame still ~ receiver. The Irish will need proven out of practice until Wednesday. All has plenty of playmakers who should <( veterans Duval Kamara and Robby reports are that Clausen will be set to help Clausen find success through the C. Parris to shoulder more of the load, face the Boilermakers' struggling sec­air. Kyle Hudolph could have a big day Q and John Goodman, Deion Walker ondary Saturday, but the Notre Dame as he emerges as more of a target in z and freshman Shaquelle Evans will quarterback could struggle with the toe Floyd's absence. all likely receive opportunities for enough to prevent him from stepping up EDGE: NOTRE DAME  
Purdue hasn't been any better Fullback James Aldridge is out for the The one thing holding back the Irish c, against the run than it has against third straight week, and while Robert ground game has been some untimely z the pass, so Armando Allen should Hughes has proven to be an able holding calls, so if the offensive line can ::C have another solid day so long as a replacement, Notre Dame didn't use the clean that up, the backs should enjoy a en banged-up ankle doesn't interfere. fullback all that often last week as it good day. One other thing worth noting ::J Jonas Gray could be more of a fac­tried to put Michigan State on the ropes is the blocking ability of Duval Kamara, 0::: tor as the Irish try to take some of early. The Wildcat, likely with Allen and who will see more time on the outside, Q the burden off Allen and compen­Golden Tate, could prove to be impor­which could lead to some big outside z sate for the injuries to Clausen and tant considering the injuries to the runs for Allen. Floyd. offensive unit. EDGE: NOTRE DAME  
Charlie Weis will trouble with the ~ need to scheme around Boilermakers defense, how­ Barry Gallup and Theo yarder that would Riddick have looked solid on have been good from  
j:3 Floyd's absence and be ever, and the ground game 1­aware of whieh should offer refuge should  kick returns, breaking off 50-plus. Maust has Z some good gains that have struggled with his con-8C  
...1 replacement receivers the passing attack take a :! are performing while step back. Weis should lookfd also keeping an eye on to get the ball in the hands D. minor injuries to of Allen, Tate and Rudolph  given Notre Dame nice field sistency but has done a J!: ~ position. Nick Tausch has good job in the past, :C settled in and showed off his and there have been ~ leg strength with a pair of no issues with snaps or  
~ Clausen and Allen. He as much as possible. z shouldn't have mueh EDGE: NOTRE DAME  field goals against the holds to speak of. Spartans, including a 46­EDGE: NOTRE DAME  




Purdue and Notre Dame are in similar 

ThL<> one looks like it will be a shootout in situations heading into tomorrow's 
West Lafayette, and the Boilermakers should game. Notre Dame's run defense has 
be pumped up for the night game. The Irish struggled, especially when in the nickel 
offense will have to adjust to the loss of formation, so expect Ralph Bolden to 
Michael Floyd and need someone to step up take advantage of that. Joey Elliott has 
from the group of Robby Parris, Duval more interceptions than touchdowns, so 
Kamara and Shaquelle Evans. Armando he could struggle against Notre Dame's 
Allen should notch his third straight 100­secondary. Jimmy Clausen played well 
yard rushing game, but Ralph Bolden might after hurting his toe against Michigan Michael Bryan out-rush him. Notre Dame needs to get some ______ State -he won't drop off this week. ______ push out at all out of its front four and better 
Managing Armando Allen keeps it up against Associate tackling from the front seven in order to win Purdue's defense, which is worse against Sports Editor comfortably, which seems unlikely. The game 
Editor 

the run than the pass, ranked 102nd in plan should be similar to Michigan State's in the nation. Big-legged kicker Carson that the Iri<>h defense should stack the box to Wiggs could keep it close, but Notre Dame wins this one. defend the run and be vulnerable to the pass. Final Score: Notre Dame 35, Purdue 31 Final Score: Notre Dame 41, Purdue 34 

For more matchups and pregarTM 
at ndsmcobserver.cCl 
Friday, September 25, 2009 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

Purdue 
Boilermakers
HEAD 
Record: 1-2 

AP: NR Coaches: NR 
1st season at Purdue 

Boilermakers Offense vs. Irish Defense 
career record: 
1-2 
at home: 
1-1 


Danny Hope against NO: 
head coach 0-0 


Gary Nord Donn Landholm Off. Coordinator Def. Coordinator 


2009 Schedule 
Sept. 5  Toledo-W  
Sept.12  @Oregon-L  
Sept.19  N. Dlinois ­ W  
Sept. 26  Notre Dame  
Oct.3  Northwestern  
Oct.lO  @Minnesota  
Oct.17  Ohio St.  
Oct. 24  Dlinois  

Oct. 31 @Wisconsin replaced graduated starter Curtis Painter, Ralph Bolden's success running the front-four has applied has left the "'0 
Fifth-year senior Joey Elliot has Elliot off when given the chance. The lack of pressure Notre Dame's 
Nov. 7 @Michigan
and the Boilermakers have changed the football has afforded Elliot and his corner backs on an island all too C: scheme a bit under first-year coach receivers a bit more cushion as teams try often, which has allowed opposing ::C 
Nov.14 Michigan St. Danny Hope. Elliot has done a decent job to shut down the Boilermakers rushing receivers the space to make plays. ~ 
Nov.21 @Indiana
in his first three games at the helm, attack. That will likely be the case Ultimately, the Irish pass defense will (;; throwing for four touchdowns. The major Saturday, as Notre Dame applied similar only improve if Jon Tenuta's blitzing en concern about the Purdue quarterback is tactics against Michigan State last week, defense can get to the quarterback ­
Head-to-Head
his five interceptions, and the Irish sec­and the Spartans enjoyed a great deal of and force bad decisions. Z ondary will undoubtedly look to pick success through the air. EDGE:EVEN G) 
PUR OFFENSE NO DEFENSE 
Scoring: 36.33 ppg (26th) Scoring: 22.67 ppg {63rd) 
Total: 440.33 ypg (25th) Total: 398.67 ypg (96th) 
Bolden was the nation's leading the box to slow the ground game. Notre Dame's linebackers have 
Rushing: 210.67 ypg (22nd) Rushing: 149.33 ypg (74th)
rusher until Purdue's loss to Bolden has also emerged as a threat struggled to shed blocks, and the "'0 
Passing: 229.67 ypg (52nd) Passing: 249.33 ypg {91st}
Northern Illinois, so the Irish will out of the backfield, and Purdue will fact that the Irish safeties are the C: 
Turnovers against: 9 {107th) Turn overs for: 6 (46th) 
likely have their hands full stopping try to get the ball in his hands as team's leading tacklers illustrate ::C 
Fumbles lost: 4 (87th) Fumbles rec.: 2 (6lst) 
the shifty sophomore. Bolden is aver­often as possible. the fact that the front seven has-::C 
Interceptions: 5 (104th) Interceptions: 4 {20th} 
aging almost seven yards per carry, Elliot has shown the ability to make n't been able to slow opposing C: 
Sacks Allowed: 2 (11th) Sacks: 4 {76th) 
and the Irish failed to stop less-tal­plays with his legs, and while not a backs. There isn't much to sug-en 
T.O.P. for: 22:55 (111th) T.O.P. against: 26:48 (I Oth)
ented backs against Michigan State prototypical rushing quarterback, he gest that will change, especially :5 last week, even when Notre Dame is someone to be accounted for by against a potent rush attack. Z consistently brought extra men into the Irish defense. EDGE:PURDUE G) 
Statistical Leaders 
PUR OFFENSE NO DEFENSE The once-solid Irish kick ing leg. He's already hit a 59­
There's only so much likely be to ride Bolden 
Q.BJOEYEUJOT SS KYLE MCCARTHY
I 
coverage has been of some yarder this season, and if 
Tenuta and Corwin Brown until the Irish prove "'tt 
61-100, 674 yds., 4 TO 19 solo, 1 TFL, 3 INT 
concern since allowing Purdue's anywhere near his can change from week-to­th~y can stop him or (') § 
16 rush, 80 yds., 2 TO FS HARRISON SMl11l 
Michigan to run one back. range, they'll run him out week, but the constant bar­brmg so many guys o 
RB RALPH BOlDEN 14 solo, 1.5 TFL 
I 
The Boilermakers have there and give it a shot. That rage of blitzes just haven't into the box that Elliot l> ~ 
62 rush, 421 yds., 4 TO LB BRIAN SMl11l 
been dangerous in special will make kick coverage even 
worked. That being said, can beat Notre Dame ~ ~ 
8 rec., 127 yds., TO 10 solo, 3 TFL, I sack 
teams, taking a punt to the more important so as to not Purdue's offense could only up top to either Aaron zz 
RB JAYCEN TAYLOR LB TORYAN SMITII 
muster two touchdowns Valentin or Cortez G)~
house last week. Purdue's give Purdue a short field and 
23 rush, 106 yds., 3 TO 7 solo, 3.5 TFL, 1 sack 
~ kicker, Carson Wiggs, is a an easy field goal chance. 
against a MAC opponent last Smith. < 
WRKEI1HSMUH CB ROBERT BLANTON 
l5:: sophomore with a boom-EDGE: PURDUE 
week. Hope's best bet will EDGE:PURDUE m 
17 rec., 222 yds., TO 6solo, INT 

This is another game in which the Irish have an obvious advantage in talent, and yet anoth­er one in which I can see Notre Dame letting its opponent hang around. Until the Irish defense can consistently stop decent offenses, Notre Dame will struggle to put teams away and post impressive blowout wins. The offense will miss Floyd, but unless Oausen and Allen are severely limited by their injuries, the Irish 
Matt Gamber should put up points on a shoddy Purdue ______ defense. Unfortunately, the Boilermakers should do the same, so this one will be closer Sports Editor than some think. It won't take a late intercep­tion, but lrish fans won't be able to fully exhale until late in the fourth quarter as Notre Dame 
gets out of West Lafayette with a victory. 
Final Score: Notre Dame 28, Purdue 20 
nalysis, check outthe Irish Insider podcast ~/pod casts 

This one won't be close, right? I mean, Purdue lost to Northern Illinois last week. Even without Michael Floyd, Purdue just won't be able to keep up with the Irish. Right? Well, not so fast. Michigan State lost to Central Michigan two weeks ago, and the Spartans were a wide­open receiver away from walking out of Notre Dame Stadium with a win last week. That being said, Notre Dame will win this game. 
Sam Werner Armando Allen had a career day against the ______ Boilermakers last year, and he'll do it again Associate Saturday. Notre Dame will use their newfound Sports Editor running game to wear down the Purdue defense, and the other receivers (as well as Kyle Rudolph) will step up enough for Oausen 
to be as effective as he's been all season. 
Final Score: Notre Dame 32, Purdue 21 



I'm not much of a handicapper as far as predicting scores, but I'll definitely be rooting for the Irish against Purdue. I've got a lot of confidence in them; I think they've got great stuff ahead. I really like Coach Weis, I think he's really a talented coach and genuine guy. 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 25, 2009 
(3•0) W 45• I( E. Michigan (1-'2) l 33-30 @ Notre .Dame ·(r~2l y t. 2a:2l N. llfin.ois 
(2... 1) L 16..; 1a·@ .w~shington 
. ;,;'<!;. 

(2-1) L~~-7 @ Clemson 
•·,.·· ,.·..· 
' if 

(1-2) L27-14@Pitt 
Missouri 
Indiana 
@Wisconsin 
Notre Dame· 
@.. Stanford ·Washington·St. 
Wake Forest 


··@USC 
W. Kentucky 

Ifyou could have any animal as a pet, what would it be? 
Definitely a koala bear, it's my favorite animal. 
What is the best vacation place you've been? 
Hawaii, for the bowl game last year 
Pick a side: Kanye or Taylor Swift? 
Taylor Swift, Kanye made a mistake on that 
Favorite movie and TV show? The best movie I've seen lately is The Hangover. My favorite TV show is Grey's Anatomy. 
Favorite stadium besides Notre Dame? 
Oklahoma's Memorial Stadium 
Favorite pre-game song? 
"Make It Funky" by Wiii.I.Am 



2009-2010 Library Workshops 
Hesburgh Libraries 
Copyright Basics University of Notre Dame Wednesday, 1017,4:00-5:30 PM 
Library 101 
Monday, 10/12,4:30-5:30 PM 
RefWorks 
Tul:~sday, 11 / 3, 4;00·5: 30 PM or Wedne~day, 3/J1, 4:00·5:30 PM 
Literature Reviews 
Tut~sday, i1/17,+:00-5:mPM 
Creating Effective Library Assignments 
Wt•<hwsday, l 120, 4:00-5: 30 PM 
Find It In the Newspapers 
'Tuesday, 2/9,4:00-5:30 P;\;1 
Finding Government Information 
Thursday, 2/25, 4:00-5:30 PM 
Finding and Using Images 
Thursdaj'} 3/4,4:00-5:30 PM 
Data Sources 
'Tuesday, 3I 2 3, 4:0()... 5: 30 PM 
Maps/GIS 
Wedrwsrhiv,:4/21, 4:00-5:30 PM 
.1··-c 

For more information and to register: http://www.library.nd.edu/instructionlworkshops.shtml 

Friday, September 25, 2009 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Group effort needed to replace Floyd 
By BILL BRINK Spori:s W~iter · 
Yikes. 
Michael Floyd broke his col­larbone. He's done for the sea­son. What now? 
Jimmy Clausen and the Irish offense still have big-time play­maker Golden Tate. And tight end Kyle Rudolph continues to show just how much of a freak he is. But how do you replace Floyd, both his athleticism and the effect he has on opposing defenses? 
You don't. Instead, according to receivers coach Rob Ianello, you create a Michael Floyd-by­committee. 
"We replace Michael with multiple guys," he said. "Through the use of multiple players we can get the same production that we had from Michael." 
Those multiple players, senior Robby Parris, junior Duval Kamara, sophomores John Goodman and Deion Walker and freshman Shaquelle Evans, will combine to fill Floyd's spot across the field from Tate. Clausen said he thinks they can. 
"We expect all those guys to be as good of a playmaker as Mike, and whenever the ball is thrown their way, for them to go up and get the ball," he said. 
In two-plus games before breaking his collarbone against Michigan State, Floyd had 13 catches for 358 yards and five touchdowns and averaged 119 yards per game. 
As younger players, Parris 
and Kamar.& -c-ontributed, but 
-with the breakout of Tate and Floyd last season, their contri­butions fell off. Parris caught 29 passes for 361 yards and a touchdown in 2007, and Kamara held the freshman receiving touchdown record with four that year before Floyd broke it in 2008. But last year, Parris caught nine passes for 50 yards. Kamara caught 20 for 206 yards and one score. Coach Charlie Weis said that experi­ence, combined with their work in practice, will benefit the offense. 
"Both those guys in particular have worked really, really hard in practice, but now they have an opportunity to have increased roles with hopefully increased production at the same time to put us in position to make sure that they can't roll everything into Golden," Weis said. 
So what will keep defenses from keying on Tate? 
"Somebody on the other side's going to have to step up and make them pay if they decide to roll up to Golden," Ianello said. "If we can get somebody or somebodies that can do that, that will make it tough on them." 
Ianello said he had more trust in his players who had played in the past but then seeing limited action. 
"When you have some guys that have worked through some difficult times and now they are going to a chance to get into the game, I think you as a coach feel like they've kind of been through it a little bit," he said. "And you have a little more con­fidence in them because they've kind of toughed it out." 
Parris said he and the other receivers understood their roles had changed_ as soon as Floyd was injured, but that adjusting to game speed would not be immediate. 
"There's nothing like seeing the speed of the game once we're on the field," Parris said. 
To stay sharp, Parris said, required more mental effort than physical. 
"It hasn't been easy," he said. "It becomes more of a mental game than physical. You just gotta be ready for whatever, that's what the past couple of years has taught me." 
Parris said he told the younger receivers to be ready, that it was their time. He knows. 
''I'm a senior, I've seen every­thing and maybe I can help the younger guys," he said. 
No worries about the depth of the receiving corps from ParriS. 
"Our receiving crew is proba­bly as deep as it has ever been," he said. "Anyone at any time, I think, is ready to play on the field." 
Even in non-receiving roles. Inaello said Kamara has great value as a blocker. 
"Duval has a mean streak. He's got a meanness, a tough­ness to him, and he's big and physical," he said. "Some receivers, college, pro, whatev­er, they do it because it's a nec­essary evil. He takes great pride." 
Kamara switched sides of the 

.. ...;t-;
' . . . 
.., .... . . "f

J"
_, ~'-\-' 
"r 
~"-"'·..:.. 
QUENTIN STENGER!The Observer 

Irish wide receiver Shaquelle Evans tries to break a tackle against Michigan in Notre Dame's 38-34 loss in Ann Arbor Sept. 12. 
field due to Floyd's injury, but and 4.3 yards per carry. Ianello said that wouldn't cause Rudolph said he relishes the problems. opportunity for a larger role in 
"Duval has some reps in that Notre Dame's passing offense. position," he said. "Duval from "That's what you play the the first day he's gotten here has game for," Rudolph said. "You been a very good mental player want the ball in your hands. It for us." doesn't matter how you get it." 
Kamara's blocking has helped · a Notre Dame rushing attack Contact Bill Brink at average 155 yards per game wbrink@nd.edu 
Hope takes reigns at Purdue after Tiller's retiren1ent 

By SAM WERNER Associate Sports Editor 
It's never easy replacing a leg­end. 
Just ask Bob Davie, Ty Willingham and even Charlie Weis. 
Purdue coach Danny Hope has just that task, though, taking over this season for former Boilermaker coach Joe Tiller, who retired at the end of last year after 11 seasons at the helm. 
"Obviously with the great suc­cess we've had at Purdue in the 12 years of the Joe Tiller era, we are going to set lofty goals," Hope said in an interview with purdue­sports.com. "We're following a coaching icon." 
Hope was hired Jan. 1, 2008 as an associate head coach and offensive line coach. He had pre­viously been the offensive line coach at Purdue from 1997-2001 under Tiller. When Hope was hired, it was understood that he would replace Tiller after he retired following the 2008 sea­son. 
During his first stint with the Boilermakers, Hope was regard­ed as one of the best offensive line coaches in the business, and produced NFL linemen Ian Allen, Kelly Butler, Mark Fischer, Brandon Gorin, Matt Light, Gene Mruczkowski and Chukky Okobi. 
"This is a great day for Purdue football," Tiller said in a press release announcing Hope's hir­ing. "We are excited about the 2008 season and beyond. Danny is the perfect choice to take over this program ... I feel very good that he will be my successor." 
Hope had quite a legend to live up to. Tiller put together an 87­62 record with the Boilermakers drive within the Richmond, Ky. including a Big Ten title in 2000. community. 
After leaving West Lafayette in "When you can take your foot­2001, Hope took a job as offen­ball team and part of a day and sive coordinator at Louisville. He save several hundred lives, that's only spent one season with the a no-brainer," he said. "We were Cardinals, though, before taking involved with Backfield in the head job at his alma mater, Motion, a nonprofit group out of Eastern Kentucky. Nashville, and I hope we can do 
Hope compiled a 35-22 record that at Purdue. It involves the with the Colonels, winning the development of inner-city youth Ohio Valley Conference in 2007. as young men." 
So far in 2009, Hope has expe­For his part on the field, Hope 
rienced  mixed  would  like  to  
results. The Boilermakers  "We're going to go out  put an early stamp on his  
are  1-2  with  there and have a ball.  tenure  at  
close losses to Oregon and Northern Illinois,  It's Purdue versus Notre Dame. It's  Purdue with a win over a favored Irish  
as well blowout  as a win  primetime."  squad. "It's  a  great  
over Toledo. Purdue has answered one of  Danny Hope Purdue head coach  rivalry," he said. "The good thing is I think that  

the biggest ques­tions going into the season, though, -finding a suitable replacement for former running back Kory Sheets. Sophomore Ralph Bolden leads the Big Ten in rushing with 421 yards and is averaging 6.8 yards per carry. 
"Now last year, I don't know, he might have had about 30 yards rushing," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "Now he's rushing for 140 yards a game. He's putting up really big numbers. He's got very good speed, and he's a home run threat. And a 'home run threat' means when you give him the ball, that little gallop of his, he can take it to the house every time he touches it." 
With all his success on the field, though, Hope also prides himself on doing his part in the commu­nity. While at Eastern Kentucky, he organized an annual blood our players love 
to play against them. They love to play against us. It brings a lot of energy and a reason to go out there and prac­tice hard, and the guys will be excited." 
The fact that it's a nationally televised night game, Hope said, only adds to its allure. 
"It's big time football," Hope said. "Purdue is Big Ten, and Notre Dame is all big time foot­ball. So we have to make sure that we get ready to play, but we certainly want to seize the moment or there's no sense of being in this. We're going to have a good time with this thing. We're not going to play tight. We're 
-
going to go out there and have a ball. It's Purdue versus Notre Dame. It's primetime." 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 

Welsh Family Hall 








