
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 101 WEDNESDAY. MARCH 4, 2009 

University increases tuition for 2009 
Total student charges rise by 4.4 percent to $48,845 in struggling economic climate 
University assesses the cost of 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
food service and utilities based Assistant News Editor 

on inflation and raises tuition accordingly. 
The University increased "The difficultly for us this tuition for the 2009-2010 aca­year is that we have seen an demic school year by 4.4 per­increase in a lot of our costs, cent -the lowest percent like food," he said. "And then increase since 1960, acc.ording we are faced with a difficult to Executive Vice President choice because we don't want to John Affleck-Graves. decrease the opportunities we 
Tuition is set at $38,477 and provide for the students, like room and board at $10,368, study abroad and research totaling at $48,845, Affleck­opportunities." 
Graves said. In a letter sent to parents of 
"We are aware of the pressure students in February, University families are under, and we President Fr. John Jenkins said wanted to be as conservative as annual increases in tuition are we could be," he said. essential in maintaining the 
When making the budget each year, Affleck-Graves said the • see TUITION/page 4 


State Dept. issues Mexico travel alert 
cotics trafficking routes into and outBy LIZ HARTER 

of America, according to the alert. 

Saint Mary's Editor 
Some cartels have employed auto­matic weapons and grenades, the 

Students planning to travel to alert said. Firefights have also broken Mexico over Spring Break may want out in northern cities like Tijuana, to take note of a travel alert issued by Chihuahua City and Ciudad Juarez, the United States State Department which have trapped U.S. citizens. on Feb. 20. The AP reported the State 
The Associated Press reported Department also issued an advisory there is an increased risk of violence on Spring Break in Mexico. and kidnapping, especially near the The Department warns of the 
U.S. border, but the alert also warns increased violence along the border citizens traveling or living throughout and advises revelers in Matamoros Mexico to be vigilant. and Nuevo Progresso, popular desti­
The alert said "dozens of U.S. citi­nations for spring breakers on South zens have been kidnapped across Padre Island, Texas, to "exercise Mexico. Many of these cases remain common sense precautions such as unsolved." visiting only the well-traveled busi­
The heightened violence stems from ness and tourism areas of border a fight between the drug cartels and the government for control of nar-see MEXICO/page 4 



NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

2 students robbed at gunpoint 
Observer Staff Report 
Two Notre Dame students were robbed at gunpoint when walking back to cam­pus early Sunday morning, police said. 
The students, Christopher Masoud, 18, and Patrick Coveney, 18, were heading north on Twyckenham Drive when they were approached by a man with a handgun, Captain Phil Trent of the South Bend Police Department (SBPD) said. 

Police said the man was described as black, wearing black jeans and a brown hooded sweatshirt and with silver work on his upper front teeth. The man was described as appearing to be about 17 to 22 years old and holding a bottle of liquor. 
Trent said the police report did not say if the stu­dents were intoxicated. 
Both students live in Keough Hall and work for The Observer. Masoud writes for the Sports department and Coveney is photographer. 
Coveney said the man approached them from the front and asked why they were being loud. Coveney said he attempted to pass the man when he pulled out a gun. 
"He took a gun out of his 
see ROBBERY/page 4 


WoodrufftospeakatCommencement 
Noted journalist and BOT member to receive honorary degrees 
By LIZ HARTER 
Saint Mary's Editor 
The Saint Mary's class of 
2009 will hear their 
Commencement address from 
broadcast journalist and sen­
ior correspondent for "The 
Jim Lehrer NewsHour" Judy 
Woodruff. 

Woodruff, a graduate of' 
Duke University, has been a 
friend of Saint Mary's since 
2005 when she moderated a 
conference sponsored by the 
College's Center for 
Spirituality titled "Vatican II 
Forty Years Later: Legacy, 
Leadership and Unfinished 
~Business," according to a press release. 
For more than 30 years, Woodruff has covered politics and other news for CNN, NBC and PBS. She was a senior correspondent for CNN as an anchor for "Inside Politics." 
Woodruff was the chief Washington correspondent for "The MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour" from 1983 to 1993, and from 1984 to 1990, she anchored the PBS series, "Frontline with Judy Woodruff," according to the release. 
In the late 1970s and early 1980s, Woodruff served as a White House correspondent for NBC and was the chief Washington correspondent for the "Today Show" for one year. 
When Woodruff spoke at the College in 2005, Sr. Kathleen Dolphin, director of the Center for Spirituality, told The Observer she worked hard to bring her as the mod­erator for the Vatican II event because she wanted a "high­profile female proctor highly knowledgeable in the Catholic region." 

Woodruff will also receive an honorary Doctor of Humanities degree from the College. 
Like many students, senior Sarah Voss was excited to learn of the speaker for Commencement. 
"[Woodruff] has a really good life story and career," Voss said. "I think she'll be interesting and relate well to our demographic." 
The College announced Deborah Johnson Schwiebert, a 1974 graduate and former chair of the Board of Trustees, will also receive an honorary Doctor of Humanities degree. 
Schwiebert, who graduated 
see WOODRUFF/page 4 



Three new campus buildings planned 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Three major campus building projects are currently under design, including a new student center, a hockey arena and a renovation of the first floor of the Hesburgh Library, according to Executive Vice President John Affieck-Graves. 
Construction will begin on all three of these projects in 2010, he said. 
The new student center, which will be called the Stayer Center, will be located east of the Stepan Center and is estimated to cost about $28 million, Affieck-Graves said. 
"Stayer Center will be tradi­tional, gothic style, built very much along the lines of the recent buildings we've done on campus, like the Law School," he said. 
Affleck-Graves said he is in the process of fmding an archi­tecture firm to design the hock­ey arena, but has an idea of what he would like it to look like. 
"It will have a somewhat goth­ic appearance, but also kind of a fieldhouse look," he said. 
The hockey arena will be located east of the Notre Dame Stadium, near the Melissa Cook Softball Field, and is estimated to cost about $45 million, he said. 
The renovation of the first floor of the Library is expected to cost about $13 million, Affieck-Graves said. 
see CAMPUS/page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Bring the pesto back 
I don't watch 'The Bachelor," but I do procrastinate and thus have been following the drama. And I realized that what happened on the finale actually applies to my life. 
North Dining Hall, you are Laura Myers my Melissa Rycroft. 
Sports
I loved you. I 
Production
really did. I 
Editor
declared it for everyone to hear. But I might have to ditch you. 
There were several reasons for my love: the fact that I can watch Sportscenter during lunch, or that it's okay to be 5'3" at 6:30p.m. The pasta stir-fry, fajita Fridays, breakfast burri­tos. The omelette station and the fro­yo topping station. The pasta room with booths, where I can study with free snacks whenever I want. 
Not to mention it's fun being part of the minority opinion, and ever since Democrats became awesome again ­wait, no, ever since people realized Democrats have always been awe­some -I've been in the majority. Arguing for North gives me a thrill that I haven't had since the days of John Kerry. 
My favorite aspect of North Dining Hall, though, is the pizza station. It reigns above all other food options at either eatery. 
At least, it used to. 
"White or wheat?" 
"Wheat, please." 
"Sauce?" 
"Pesto." 
"Cheese?" 
"A little bit of mozzarella. That's all, 
thanks!" 
That was a daily conversation that I used to have with the friendly student behind the pizza bar. But a few weeks ago, I went to get pizza and there was no pesto. Must have run out, I figured. I got something else. The next day, I went back. There was still no pesto. I commented. The woman behind the counter told me that it was never coming back. 
Apparently, a student had ordered pesto and pizza sauce for his pizza. The employee used the pizza sauce spoon to mix the two, and put it back into the container. The next person in line called him on it, because she was allergic to nuts. 
Just like that, pesto became too big of a risk to have on our pizza line. 
Now, I understand food allergies. My mother has celiac disease, which I'm assuming nine in 10 of you haven't heard of. But I really don't think that pesto is the crisis situation NDH is imagining. 
Full-time employees live around food service. They know this stuff, and they would never mix the two. Student employees usually aren't as sensitive. However, they go to Notre Dame. They're smart. Tell them not to do it. 
Or, maybe we could get a pesto that doesn't have nuts in it. I'm sure they make it. 
Either way, I need you to help me out, North Dining Hall. I just don't love you the way I used to, and I'm eying that younger, prettier food market down south. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact_ Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as professionalpublica­tion and stives for tbe highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 4, 2009 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR SPRING BREAK? 

Shelagh O'Brien  Shane Owens  Nicholas Alonso  Daniel Kesser  Billal Duckett  
freshman LeMans  freshman Stanford  sophomore Zahm  junior Keenan  sophomore Stanford  
"I plan on doing absolutely nothing.,,  'Tm going to attend Tea Partays like it•s my job_,,  "Lotioning up fat sam on the beach.,,  ··1 wanna do hoodrat stuff with my friends.,,  'Won-stop soccer games in Florida. ,,  





IN BRIEF 
Writer and University of Notre Dame alumna Lily Hoang will give a reading at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore tonight at 7:30 p.m. Hoang is the author of three books and cur­rently teaches at Saint Mary's College. The event is free and open to the public. 
The Notre Dame Chamber Players will perform a benefit concert tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Proceeds will go to the South Bend Community School Corporation to purchase musi­cal instruments for schools in the district. Tickets are $10 and can be purchased by calling the ticket office at 57 4-631-2800. 
The ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club will hold a beginning dance class in room 205 of the Rockne Memorial Building Thursday from 7:00 p.m. to 
8:15. The class costs $4 per les­son. 
Notre Dame faculty members will give a presentation titled "In the Wake of the Beagle: Darwin in Latin American 1831-1836" Thursday at 4:30 
p.m. in the Snite Museum of Art. The presentation is offered as an academic investigation of Darwin's "On the Origin of Species" to mark the !50th­anniversary of its publication. The event is free and open to the public: 
The film "Slumdog Millionaire" will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Thursday, Friday and Saturday at 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 
HIGH 46 HIGH 
44 

LOW 33 LOW 
31 


Woman calls 911 three times over McNuggets 
FORT PIERCE, Fla. ­Authorities say a Florida woman called 911 three times after McDonald's employees told her they were out of McNuggets. A police report said 27 -year­old Fort Pierce resident Latreasa L. Goodman told authorities she paid for a 10-piece last week but was later informed the restau­rant had run out. 
She says she was refused a refund and told all sales were final. A cashier told police she offered Goodman a larger portion of different food for the same price, but Goodman became irate. 
Police say Goodman was cited on a misuse of 911 charge. A current phone listing for Goodman couldn't be found. 
Man finds 10 human teeth In recently purchased wallet • 
FALMOUTH, Mass. -A customer shopping at a Walmart told store work­ers he found 10 human teeth in a wallet he was about to purchase. Police said the man found the teeth Saturday when he unzipped a compartment in the wallet. One tooth had a filling. The cus­tomer turned the wallet 
and the teeth over to employees but left the store without giving his name. 
Police investigating the incident told The Cape Cod Times that the teeth belong to an adult, but since there was no blood or gum tissue on the teeth, they would be unable to perform DNA tests. 
A Walmart spokes­woman said the company believes it was an "isolat­
ed  incident,"  but  will  
investigate.  
Information  compiled  

from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

_. 
c( (,) 






0 

HIGH 44 39 HIGH HIGH 52
.... 
LOW 30 28 LOW LOW 34 
HIGH LOW 
51 45 

Atlanta 58 I 38 Boston 43 I 24 Chicago 42 I 28 Denver 49 I 30 Houston 70 I 41 Los Angeles 75 I 56 Minneapolis 39 I 28 New York 37 I 25 Philadelphia 37 I 24 Phoenix 76 I 46 Seattle 54 I 37_St. Louis 34 I 20 Tampa 63 I 39 Washington 29 I 13 
Wednesday, March 4, 2009 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Aranburu receives Kroc Inst. avvard 
Notre Dame alum shares experiences as senior analyst for ICC 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Xabier Agirre Aranburu was presented with the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies' 2009 Distinguished Alumni Award immediately following a lec­ture he gave titled "Make Law, Not War: On the Power of Truth, Law and Justice" Tuesday in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
He discussed his experi­ences as a senior analyst at the Office of the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court {ICC) in The Hague, the Netherlands. The goal of the office is to "deliver jus­tice for the international community of the world," he said. 
The ICC "is an independ­ent, permanent court that tries persons accused of the most serious crimes of inter­national concern, namely genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes," aocording to the ICC website. 
The ICC is separate from the United Nations, the Web site said. 
Aranburu said one of the biggest challenges of the ICC is that it can only deal with a very narrow amount of crimes, and generally people expect them to be able to help in all criminal cases. 

"There are huge expecta­tions for what we do," he said. "We don't deal with any crime. We only deal with the worst types of criminality."· 
Aranburu said this narrow definition is especially diffi­cult because most often, the Court works with people who have experienced great suf­fering and are receiving international attention for the first time. 
"Very often we deal with people who have no experi­ence with any formal [kind] of human justice. These peo­ple are the ultimate forgot­ten people in the planet," he said. 
Because of this, it is so dif­ficult to explain to them why the ICC cannot help them, Aranburu said. 
While the ICC has support in more than 100 countries, with strong support in Europe and Africa, Aranburu said it does not have support from the United States and much of Asia. He said he would like to work on receiv­ing support from more coun­tries. 
Aranburu said as an ana­lyst, his job is to focus solely on dry facts, which are then given to the chief prosecutor. The chief prosecutor decides how to use the information in the trial. 
"I look at· our job like the job of a scientist or the job of 
a doctor where I have to look at a horrible situation of suf­fering ... [and] the best that I can do to help these people is to run the right diagnos­tics," he said. 
For example, he said he might compare the rates of murders of civilians with a chronology of events, to show when the peak violence is occurring and why. 
The ICC is currently wait­ing to hear the verdict of a trial regarding war crimes committed in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Aranburu said it is too early to tell if the ICC will be effective in this case. 
"Courts try cases and cases try courts," he said. 
However, he said he believes international justice has made progress, using the well-known glass-half-full or glass-half-empty analogy to describe his point of view. 
"I believe it is working to some extent," he said. "My view is that the glass is half empty but it is filling up very quickly." 
Aranburu called himself a realist who knows that there is still much work that needs to be done to help bring international justice, but he also said he is optimistic about the futm:e. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Lafayette Square Town homes 

Enjoy the good life when you live off campus at a very reasonable price! 3,4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Off~Street Parking
c 

Located Close to Notre Dame 


Only $350 per month, per student! 
*Our townhomes rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all ofour town homes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 

(574) 234-2436 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group reviews ticket exchange 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 

The Council of Representatives (COR) dis­cussed the home game ticket exchange process during Tuesday's meeting. 
Student body president Bob Reish said it is important for COR to review this past year's statistics to see if the program was successful and to deter­mine if it should be continued. 
The program 1:!-llows stu­dents to purchase additional tickets to home games. 
The process works in two parts. First, ~tudents must bring IDs to a designated location 10 days before the home game and attain a lot­tery number. If the lottery number a stu­dent is given is drawn, then the lottery to those who did not win. This stemmed from the procedure followed by the Student Union Board (SUB), which hosts the lotteries for away games. 
Overall, a consensus was reached that the program should continue. 
"Maybe it was not most suc­cessful this year, but it may take a few years to catch on," sophomore class president Cynthia Weber said. 
Reish added there were a number of factors that possi­bly contributed to the low participation. 
"Two major issues that may have affected the low level of participation in this exchange was the lack of games played during Fall Break and the insufficient advertising of the 
program," he 
said. 
While the 

the student "Some people are program has 
has the right existed before,
concerned that if
to purchase this year was one of the tick­ticket exchanges the first year ets available cannot even reach 50, students were for exchange. in charge of it. 
why even have the 
R, e i s h The Council explained program in the decided to con­there was a first place. " tinue to use maximum of the same 100 tickets per breakdown in
Grant Schmidt
game in the groups as they exchange, a student body vice president did this year, 
number set by the Ticket Office when the program was in its inaugural year. 
The data garnered from the exchange showed students did not always take advan­tage of exchanging their tick­ets after they won. 
Student body vice president Grant Schmidt pointed out that there have been some concerns over these low exchange rates. 
"Some people are con­cerned that if ticket exchanges cannot even reach 50, why even have the pro­gram in the first place," he said. 
COR members expressed interest in seeing the break­down between the usage of the program by undergradu­ate students and graduate students to see which group l\ad a higher participation rate. 
But the data was unavail­able because the lottery is run through student's net ID num­bers, which do not take into account a student's class year. 
Members also made anum­ber of suggestions to help increase the effectiveness of the program. 
One of these suggestions was to limit the number of ID's one student is allowed to bring at a time. Currently, one student is allowed to carry up to four IDs in exchange for four lottery numbers. 
Another idea discussed was the possibility of selling tick­ets unclaimed by winners of which included 
the undergrad­

uate and graduate student 
body populations, and will 
look into devising a system to 
see who is using the _exchange. 
Also discussed at Tuesday's 

meeting was the upcoming 
Intercollegiate Symposiurn, 
which will be held March 
27th. 
Student government repre­

sentatives from 
Northwestern, Purdue,­
Vanderbilt, and Washington 
University in Saint Louis will 
be on campus to discuss a 
variety of topics. 
This conference stems from 

the hope of creating a sort of 
"Ivy League Council" for· the 
Midwest, Reish said. 
The activities of the week­

end will take place in the 
LaFortune Student Center 
and will include three ses­
sions to discuss topics that 
range from ways to cure stu­
dent apathy towards student 
government to off-campus 
relations. 
At the end of the weekend, 

a steering committee will 
examine what else can be 
done for future conferences. 
In other COR news 
+ Katherine Burke was unanimously approved as the SUB manager for the upcom­ing year. Burke said she has many new ideas for SUB, including a battle of the sexes. comedy night. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 4, 2009 
Tuition 
continued from page 1 
quality of education Notre Dame offers. 
"We continue to be com­mitted to our longstanding tradition of offering the highest quality educational experience that has served as the basis for our excel­lent, world-wide reputa­tion," Jenkins said in the let­ter. 
One investment the University will make to improve educational oppor­tunities is reducing the stu­dent-faculty ratio by hiring more professors, Affleck­Graves said. 
But despite the need to raise tuition, Affleck-Graves said the University ensures tuition is set as low as possi­ble given the economic cli­mate. He said the University 

Robbery 
continued from page 1 
waistband, pointed it at my stomach and cocked it," he said. 
Coveney said he ran back 
to campus, so 
the  man  then  
turned  on  
Masoud  and  
asked  for  
money.  

"He pointed the gun at me and said how much money do you have," Masoud said. "I had $11 so I gave it to him." 
Masoud said the man was 
not satisfied with the $11, so he told him to call Coveney, who was still run­ning away, back to the' 




Cain pus 
continued from page 1 
"We can't change the enve­lope of the Library [because the building is already intact,) but one of the hopes is to get more light into the first floor," he said. 
Affleck-Graves said these three projects have rec{lived the necessary funding, enabling the University to begin the initial designs. 
The Stayer Center and the Library renovations have been completely funded, which is why their design is already underway, he said. The University has "some of the money in hand" for the hockey arena, so they are in the pre­liminary process of looking for an architecture firm for that project. 
Affleck-Graves said the University's construction fund­ing policy requires 100 per­cent of the funds to be pledged, and 7 5 percent of the funds to be paid, with the remaining 25 percent due within the next five years, has taken a fiscally conser­vative approach when bal­ancing the budget in the p.ast, and these measures allowed for a low percent increase for tuition this year. 

In his letter to parents, Jenkins said although the struggling economy affected the University, administra­tors will continue to pay close attention to the finan­cial situation. 
"We are monitoring our financial situation closely and will continue to employ a fiscally conservative approach relating to our investments and expenses," he said. "This approach has served us well in the past and will position us to main­tain our firm commitment to the University's mission and values." 
Affleck-Graves said one of the biggest priorities when balancing the budget is financial aid for undergrad-
scene. Masoud said he told 
the man Coveney did not 
have any money. 
"He said 'this isn't good enough,"' Masoud said. "He -pointed the gun at my head." 
Masoud said he threw his jacket and cell phone on 
"He pointed the gun at me and said how much money do you have. I had $II so I gave it to him. " 
Christopher Masoud freshman 
the ground when the attitude of the man completely changed. He said the man claimed he was only upset that the students were loud. 
The  man  put  
the  gun  in  
his  pocket  
and  shook  

hands with Masoud. 
"He completely empathized with me," Masoud said. 
before any work can be dorie. 
"I can't put a spoke in the ground until these three con­ditions are met," Affleck­Graves said. 
Donations fund all University building projects, except for facilities buildings, Affleck­Graves said. 
"Somebody has to say to us, Til give you $5 million,"' he said. 
Several other projects are waiting for funding, so the University cannot start design work, he said. 
Such projects include two new dorms, which will be located east of Pasquerilla East Hall and Knott Hall, a multidisciplinary science engi­neering building and a new art museum. 
lie said he cannot give an estimated start date for these projects because he does not know when funding will come in. Once that funding comes, it will take about 12 to 24 months to design a building and hire an architecture firm for the design. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
uate students. The money allotted to financial aid for the 2009-2010 year increased by slightly less than 10 percent in the budg­et. 
"We still have an absolute commitment to meet the demonstrated financial need of all admitted students," he said. "And we're expecting the class that comes in August to have more stu­dents that need financial aid." 
Affleck-Graves said he has not heard any responses from parents of students about the tuition increase. 
"I think all families are concerned about the increase, but I think they understand the University is doing the best they can to keep tuition as low as possi­ble," he said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
The man then told 
Masoud he should call him 
sometime and put his num­
ber in Masoud's cell phone. 
The man then left, and Masoud said he ran back to . campus. "He was definitely on something," Coveney said. 
Initially, Coveney and 
Masoud said they did not 
report the robbery because 
they had been at a party off 
campus and did not want to 
get in trouble. 
The next day though, the 
students told their rector, 
Fr. Peter McCormick, who 
reported the crime to Notre 
Dame Security Police 
(NDSP). 
"Then we went to the 
So.uth Bend Police station 
and filed a report," 
Coveney said. 
Trent said that particular 
stretch of Twyckenham has 
not been pr-oblematic for 
robberies. 
Woodruff 
continued from page 1 

with a degree in English Literature, has served on the Board of Trustees since 1998, including a term as chair from 2004-2007. She has also served on two presidential search committees, the Madeleva Steering Society committee and has served as both the vice president and president of tho Alumnae Association Board of Directors, according to the release. 
Schwiebert currently serves as the director of communica­tion services at John Deere's World Headquarters facility. 
"It has been my pleasure to serve the College these past 16 years," Schwiobert said in the press release. "My Saint Mary's education transformed my life and being able to give baek to the College has been a real privilege. I am humbled by this wonderl'ul honor and tribute." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Mexico 
continued from page 1 

towns during daylight and early-evening hours." 
Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have sent e-mails to the student body to publicize the alert. 
While some travelers may not take heed of the warning offered by the State Department, fourth-year archi­tecture student Danny Morales had to. 
Morales, along with fellow fourth-year architecture stu­dent Andrew Gim, planned a service trip to. Mexico for themselves and 14 of their fel­low classmates that has since been cancelled. 
While the service project is not an official School of Architecture program, Morales said the School was heavily involved in managing the budget and providing support for the trip, which had been planned since Fall Break. 
"The trip got cancelled a couple of weeks before the warning got sent out," Morales said. "A couple of concerned parents called to ask about the safety precautions of the trip so Andrew and I had to apply through the Office of International Studies [OISJ in order to determine whether the trip was safe enough for the group to go." 
Morales said the University declined their application, though, so the trip had to be cancelled, even though the group had solicited funding from various sources. 
"It caught me off guard because I went on the same trip twice before and we had no problems," he said. 
"Honestly, M-exico has always had this problem of drug car­tels fighting for control, but recently it became much worse and much more publicized." 
While OIS said it cannot com­ment on specific applications, Ray Pelligrini, the Office's budget manager, said each application is reviewed on a case by case basis. 
"Any group of undergraduate students traveling to another country [in a capacity) some­how connected to Notre Dame must be approved by either our office or the pro.vost office," he said. "It could be Canada, it doesn't matter what country it is." · 
The group or individual trav­eling must submit an applica­tion to OIS, and if there are· no travel warnings or aler'ts in the country of travel, the applica­tion can be approved, he said. But if there are warnings or alerts, OIS or the provost's office will review the applica­tion. 
"Sometimes [approval or denial] depends on the exact location they're traveling to, why they're going or what organization they are with," Pelligrini said. 
Morales said it's too late to try to organize a different trip as a group, but hopes the group will be able to go to Mexico next year. 
"We will come back to Mexico next year depending on the violence, but if it gets worse we will search for a safer location to do our service project," he said. "People that have donated to our trip will have the option to get their money back or put it towards a trip next year." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



RUNA~YBAY 
LUXURY 1-2 BEDROOM APARTMENTS ·SAUNA 
·POOL 

<2 LAKES WI WATERFALL 
•VOli.EYllALL BASKETBAlL TENNIS COURTS ·WAlK-IN CLOSETS ·HREPLACES ·WID CONNI'CTIONS ·7 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME 
·FITNESS CENTER 
·HOTTUB 

fNIOY THE A1TRACliVt SURROUNDrNGS AND AFFORDABLE RAHS 
CAll TODAY fOR OUR Sr'ECIALS (574) 256-1350 



Please recycle The Observer. 
·····... ·.. 


ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 4, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE O:nsERVER.'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Building collapses, three missing 
COLOGNE, Germany-Cologne's six-story city archive building groaned then collapsed in a pile of rubble Tuesday as people inside fled in panic. All managed to escape safely but police said three people were feared missing in other damaged buildings nearby. 
The archive building collapsed about 2 
p.m.. ripping open and dragging down parts of two adjacent buildings that contained apartments and an amusement arcade. A huge cloud of dust enveloped the site. 
Parents at a nearby fast-food outlet grabbed their children and ran for their cars. '"I heard a giant bang and then suddenly saw this giant gray dust cloud,"' said Mustafa Goresme, 18, who watched from the restaurant. '"It was like a Hollywood film."' 
'"Everyone was in a real panic,"' said his friend, Mehmet Guerner. '"We didn't know what had happened."' 
New technology awes Iraqis 
KABUL -Mullah Abdul Salaam Zaeef is a former Taliban ambassador to Pakistan. He spent almost four years in Guantanamo. He wears a black turban, has a thick beard -and is never without his Apple iPhone. 
The ultra-conservative Taliban banned modern technology like the Internet and TV during its harsh 1996-2001 rule, but those items have boomed in Afghanistan since the regime's 2001 ouster, helping to bring the country into the 21st century. 
Zaeef, who reconciled with the Afghan government after being released from U.S. custody, says he uses his iPhone to surf the Internet and find difficult locations, employing the built-in GPS. He even checks his bank account balance online. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Man convicted of sexual assault 
LAS VEGAS -A man tracked down after a video of him sexually assaulting a 2-year­old girl was found in the Nevada desert was convicted Tuesday of that attack and another on a 6-year-old. 
Chester Arthur Stiles remained sitting, showed no ·emotion and stared straight ahead as guilty verdicts were read against him for 22 felonies, including sexual assault. He faces multiple life prison terms at sen­tencing, set for May 8. 

Plane crashes into neighborhood 
SAN DIEGO -The pilot of a crippled mili­tary jet that crashed into a San Diego neigh­borhood and killed four people was offered a chance shortly before impact to land at a base with an approach over open water rather than head inland, recordings released Tuesday indi­cate. 
Recordings of conversations between federal air controllers and the pilot of the F/A-18D reveal that the pilot at least twice was offered a chance to put down the plane at the Naval Air Station North Island in Coronado. The base sits at the tip of a peninsula with a flight path over water. 
Instead, the Federal Aviation Administration tapes disclose that the pilot decided to fly the jet, which had lost one engine and was show­ing signs of trouble with the second, to the inland Marine Corps Air Station Miramar, which is about 10 miles north of Coronado. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Uniroyal Holding Inc. wins case 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -A federal judge has ruled that Uniroyal Holding Inc. doesn't owe the city of Mishawaka $3.5 million for the cost to clean up a 43-acre site along the St. Joseph River. 
On Feb. 26, U.S. Magistrate Judge Christopher A. Nuechterlein (NECK-tur-line) granted summary judgment in favor of Uniroyal Holding, saying the city failed to pres­ent sufficient evidence to establish that Uniroyal Holding is liable. 
Mayor JetT Hea says lawyers representing the city are exploring the city's options. 

Immigrant accused in Levy's death 
Police issue arrest warrant for Salvadoran for murder after nearly eight years 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON An arrest warrant was issued Tuesday for an imprisoned Salvadoran immigrant in the killing of federal intern Chandra Levy, nearly eight years after the case captivat­ed the country and fmded the career of a congressman. 
The warrant accuses Ingmar Guandique (gwan­DEE' -kay) of killing Levy on May 1, 2001, as she jogged through Hoek Creek Park in Washington, D.C. Guandique, 27, is already serving time in a federal prison in Adelanto, Calif., for attacking two women in the same park in the weeks following Levy's disappearance. 
""We take solace in the fact that the search for the person responsible has ended and our daughter can finally truly rest in peace,"" Levy's parents, Bob and Susan Levy, said in a state­ment given to The Associated Press. ""Thankfully the indi­vidual responsible for this most heinous and terrible crime will finally be held accountable for his actions and hopefully unable to hurt anyone else ever again."" 
The break was a long­awaited development in an investigation that had gone when she vanished, and a ripped from a magazine. choked her to death, so that cold for years after destroy­man walking his dog found According to an affidavit people nearby would not ing the career offormer U.S. her skull and bones in the supporting the arrest war­hear the struggle. Rep. Gary Condit of park a year later. rant, one of the witnesses Police said her clothing California. Authorities ques­The warrant suggests that said Guandique said that he was strewn from the path, tioned Condit, her congress­the killing was a random act and two male teenagers down a steep hill toward the man, in the disappearance, of violence, and indicates were sitting on a bench in a bottom of a ravine. Her but he was never a suspect interviews investigators con­park smoking marijuana and shoes were unlaced. Her in her death. Condit, a popu­ducted with 12 witnesses cocaine when he saw Levy clothing was turned inside lar Democrat for a dozen gave them some of the evi­jogging. The witness said out. Her tights were knotted years in his district, was dence they needed to pursue Guandique thought Levy into restraints. reportedly having an affair a case. '"'looked good"" and told the '"'It appears that with Levy, and the negative Key to breaking the case two teenagers that he was Guandique wanted Ms. Levy publicity from the case was appeared to be interviews going to ""get her."" naked and incapacitated,"" cited as the main reason for with witnesses who claimed The witness told police the document said. his overwhelming primary Guandique had bragged to that Guandique said the During the attack, Levy loss in 2002. them about killing and rap­three followed her along a scratched him, the affidavit 
Levy was 24 and had just ing women, and in two path and at one point says. To hide that evidence, completed an internship with cases, specifically acknowl­grabbed her and took her the witness said Guandique the U.S. Bureau of Prisons edged killing Levy. And when into the bushes. Guandique instructed his family to tell when she disappeared after investigators searched his allegedly told the witness she police the scratches came leaving her city apartment. jail cell, they made another started screaming and fight­from a fight with his girl­The Modesto, Calif., woman chilling find: a photograph of ing back, at which point he friend if he was ever ques­was wearing jogging clothes the young, dark-haried Levy grabbed her by the neck and tioned. 


Gunmen ambush cricket team, kill six 
Associated Press 

LAHORE, Pakistan -A team of heavily armed gunmen, some trav­eling in rickshaws, ambushed Sri Lanka's national cricket team Tuesday as it arrived for a match, killing six police guards and wound­ing seven players. The brazen attack heightened fears that Pakistan is becoming increasingly unstable. 
The assault bore striking similari­ties to last year's three-day hostage drama in the Indian financial capi­tal of Mumbai. 
Working in pairs, the attackers in Lahore carried walkie-talkies and backpacks stuffed with water, dried fruit and other high-energy food ­a sign they anticipated a protracted siege and may have been planning to take the players hostage. 
The bus sped through the ambush, but the gunmen's prepara­tions indicated they may been plan­ning to hijack the vehicle, Interior Ministry chief Rehman Malik told The Associated Press. None of the gunmen were killed and all appar­ently escaped into this teeming eastern city. 
Even though the bus was pep­pered with 25 bullet holes, none of the cricket players were killed. The attack was among the highest-pro­file terrorist strikes on a sports team since the 1972 Munich Olympics, when Palestinian mili­tants killed 11 Israeli athletes. 
In addition, by targeting not only a major Pakistani city but also the country's most popular sport, the attack was sure to resonate throughout the region, where crick­et has been an obsession since it was introduced by the British dur­ing the colonial era. 
In targeting the sport, the gunmen were certain to draw international attention to the government's inability to provide basic security as it battles militants linked to al­Qaida and the Taliban and faces accusations that it is harboring ter­rorists. 
The attack ended Pakistan's hopes of hosting international cricket teams -or any high profile sports events -for months, if not years. Even before Tuesday, most cricket squads chose not to tour the coun­try for security reasons. India and Australia had canceled tours, and New Zealand announced Tuesday it was calling of its December tour. 


page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 4, 2009 





Man shoots family before killing self 
Wiley, who stabbed first wife to death 20 years ago, was paroled in 2000 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -A man who stabbed his first wife to death more than two decades ago used a Civil War replica rifle to kill his current wife and her son before committing suicide in their upscale suburban home, police said Tuesday. 
Richard Wiley left a 40-page, handwritten suicide note indi­cating he shot and killed Kathy Motes, 50, and Christopher Motes, 17, and saying he refused to go back to prison, Wilmette police Deputy Chief Brian King said. 
Police conducting a well­being check Monday found the three bodies inside their Wilmette home, a parsonage of the family's church, where Kathy Motes worked. 
King said Wiley, 54, apparent­ly killed his wife and stepson Saturday afternoon, then shot himself Sunday night. 
Wiley stabbed his 25-year-old wife, Ruth, to death in 1985, and was convicted and sen­tenced to 30 years in prison two years later, according to news reports at the time. He was paroled in 2000. 
At his murder trial, Wiley said he suffered from a rare mental disease called "intermittent explosive disorder," but the judge rejected his claim that he was insane. Wiley reportedly called police himself after the 1985 killing and was found "leaning over the victim, hug­ging her and crying, 'I'm sorry, I'm sorry."' 

Wiley suggested in his suicide note that he killed Kathy Motes during an argument, then killed her son. 
"It's a kind of a dissertation of the difficulties that Mr. Wiley was having," King said of the note, adding that it included "hints of remorse." 
Authorities believe Wiley shot Kathy Motes around 2:30 p.m Saturday, then shot the teen when he returned home from a Boy Scout meeting later in the afternoon, King said. 
The bodies of Wiley and Kathy Motes were found in a second-floor bedroom, while Christopher Motes was found in an upstairs bathroom; all three had single gunshot wounds to the head, King said. 
The murder weapon. found by Wiley's body in a second­floor bedroom, was a black­powder, muzzleloading Civil War replica rifle that may have belonged to Christopher Motes, a Civil War buff, King said. 
Wiley apparently had sawed off the barrel of the rille, which could take several minutes to load because it requires black powder and a metal ball to be loaded through the muzzle, he said. 
Despite Wiley's criminal histo­ry, King said police had no pre­vious complaints of violence at the Wilmette home and there were no orders of protection against Wiley. 
"There's nothing that predict­ed this level of violence in that home," King said at a news conference. 
But James Morici, who prose­cuted Wiley for the 1985 mur­der, said he remembnred Wiley as intelligent but scary and that he feared Wiley might come after him. 
"I don't know why I felt this way, but I always thought that if anyone I prosncuted was sitting in the penitentiary counting the days, looking to seek me out in revenge, it would be Wiley," Morici said. 
Wiley grew up in relative wealth in Wilmette, attended New Trier Township High School and became known as "a party boy" with alcohol problems, Morici said. 
Wiley met Kathy Motes through their church, First Presbyterian of Wilmette, where she worked as an office coordinator. The pastor, the Hev. Sarah Sarchet Butter, said church members knew about Wiley's past but that "our faith community welcomed and loved him." 
Wiley was unemployed but was a talented carpenter who had built cabinets for the church, Butter said. 
She said Kathy Motes was "beloved of our congregation." 
Christopher Motes' class­mates at New Trier were in shock, District 203 Superintendent Linda Yonke said Tuesday. 
5f"'c.ialb:iog in f>,<>utiful Cnlnr 

HUMP DAY 
Every Wednesday take 
$10~off color, $5-otr cuts 
~; :;~: 

'\·~·;t:·: '\~ 258-5080 
820 W. Edison Rd. Mishawaka, JN 
www.ta~c.com 


~-\.. Penny Saved... Isn't N e;.1rly _-\..s c~ool _-\..s ~.c\_ Five I>ollar Footlong! 
E>"lf"IY I)ny '\'nlnlf' :1\,·:Iif"IHt _..'to.,vnilnbllf' A.t Pn1 ticipntlll.g LocntiOil.S Includlll.g 
J. -o6 South Blf'll.d A.Ylf" "' I)oYvnto........-11 
us 31. N ,., SR ::!:3 @ II Oil."\YOOd "'UP :1\,-:Iall "'IHdiau. Ridglf' "'"\YniD.-:In1t 


Canine DNA tests now available 
Owners, veterinarians able to determine ancestry ofmixed-breed dogs 
Associated Press 
ARVADA, Colo. -When Will Colosimo adopted his dog Allie in 2003, he knew he was get­ting a mutt. She looked like a 
basenji,  but  the  Colorado  
Basenji  Rescue  group  in  
Denver,  from  where  he  

retrieved her, said they didn't think she had any of that small, short-haired breed in her. 
Curiosity got the better of him. 
"We always knew she was beautiful, but we didn't know what all came together to make her," he said. 
There are several types of DNA tests available for deter­mining a mixed-breed dog's ancestry. Colosimo sent away for one that required swabbing the inside of his dog's cheek and mailing the sample to a lab. He learned that Allie, who is 8 or 9 years old, had both German shepherd and dachs­hund blood. 
"It was hilarious," said Colosimo, 45. "So, the German shepherd I can totally see, but dachshund? That's crazy." 
And not uncommon. Veterinarians advise owners that what they see in their dog is not always what they've got. 
"We're really bad guessers at what dogs are," said Martha Smith, Director of Veterinary Medical Services at the Animal Rescue League of Boston. 
The rescue league began using mixed-breed DNA blood testing when it appeared about four years ago, testing a few of its shelter dogs. "We found out from the handful of tests that we ran that we were way off base" in guessing breeds, Smith said. The test "proves dogs are individuals." 

Karin Hendersin, 52, a mar­ket researcher in Denver, can speak to that. Her dog, Splash, resembles a pit bull, a breed banned in the Denver city lim­its. Hendersin recently learned that Splash, with her brown­brindled eoat, is Chinese Shar­Pei, Labrador retriever and Dalmatian -and no pit bull. 
Hendersin thinks the DNA test also helped explain some of the dog's behavior. 
"It explains why she's such a runner," Hendersin said, noting the Dalmatian genes. "We take her to the dog park and a whole herd of dogs will chase her." 
There are two kinds of mixed­breed DNA testing: the inner­cheek swab method, which is a kit that can be bought at stores or online, and a blood-drawn test, which is performed in a veterinarian's office. 
The cheek-swab method, cre­ated by MetaMorphix Inc., a biotechnology company, is offered at two levels: The stan­dard breed test {about $70) can identify from a range of about 50 dog breeds, while the "XL" breed test (about $120) identi­fies from about 100 breeds. 
The blood test identifies genes from a base of 157 breeds, according to the Web site of Mars Inc., the company that offers the test through vets' offices. It costs about $200 but includes a veterinary appoint­ment for reviewing the results. 
Smith advocates for the blood-work test not only because it accesses more breeds but because, depending on the DNA results, some dog owners may need follow-up counseling. 
"Some people might've been happy with what they thought they had, then something like 'Rottweiler' shows up," said Smith. "All of a sudden, they're looking at their dog through a completely different pair of eyes." 
A veterinarian can reassure owners that "the dog you now have more information about is the dog you still love," she said. 
Theresa Brady, a MetaMorphix marketing repre­sentative in Calverton, Md., said the two DNA tests are equally efTective, even though her com­pany's cheek-swab method tests for fewer breeds. 
"DNA is DNA," she said. "The sampling method doesn't make a difference." 
Smith and other vets caution that the DNA tests are "for fun and entertainment" -not for diagnostic purposes. 
"It's just a test for owners," said vet Kelly Best of Arvada Flats Veterinary Hospital, in Colorado. "I don't know that it has any medical benelits at all." 
Even for purebreds predis­posed to certain diseases, their genetic dilution in a mutt makes concern about the dis­eases negligible, she said. 
And no one has come knock­ing on her door asking for the test. 
Smith, however, has run the blood test on many dogs. 
"It's like Christmas day when (clients) get to open their results," she said. "A lot of times people are right, and a lot of times they're wrong." 
Notre Dame Apartments 

Notre Dame Apartments are a Notre Dame tradition! 2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments Newly Remodeled Free Internet Free Water On-Site Laundry Off-Street Parking Only Three Blocks from Campus 
*These apartments rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 

View all of our town homes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 






Please recycle The Observer. 



THE OBSERVER, 




USINESS
Wednesday, March 4, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 6,726.02 -37.27 
Same: 99  Down: 2,536  Composite Volume: 70,750,222  
AMEX NASDAQ  1,321.01  .• J.84  

NYSE #Y"""=""'";"'0'1¥*'4~~34illlll;!~~! ~!i;ll' S&P 500 696.33 -4.49 NIKKEI (Tokyo) FTSE 100 (London) 3,512.09 -113.74 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP INC (C} +L67 +0.02 1.22 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -0.75 -0.53 70.07 GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) -7.76 -0.59 7.01 BK OF AI'1ERICA CP (BAC) +0.55 +0.02 3.65 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOfE +0.65 +0.019 2.938 13-WEEK BILL +15.22 +0.035 0.265 30-YEAR BOND +0.74 +0.027 3.676 5-YEAR. NOTE +1.77 +0.033 1.893 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE (${bbl.) +1.50 41.65 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -26.40 913.60 PORK BELLIES (rents/lb.) -0.55 78.55 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 98.3350 
EURO 1.2538 
CANADIAN DOLlAR 1.2932 BRI11SH POUND 1.4040 

IN BRIEF 
Obama bies to lift nation's confidence 
WASHINGTON -Trying to pump up the nation's confidence, President Barack Obama said Tuesday that Wall Street has been ham­mered so hard that "buying stocks is a poten­tially good deal," and he dispatched top aides to Capitol Hill to defend his plans for pulling the economy out of its deep recession. 
The stock market slipped ever lower, and Republicans suggested Obama was "cooking the books" in rosy recovery predictions. 
After being accused for weeks of being too negative about the economy, Obama recently has shifted to a more positive tone. He and his aides still say recovery won't come quickly, but they are becoming more aggressive in declar­ing that the government's efforts will work. 
They better work, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said. The country faces "a prolonged episode of economic stag­nation" without bold policy moves, he told the Senate Banking Committee. 
Separately, the Fed announced a long-await­ed program to spur lending for autos, educa­tion, credit cards and other consumer loans by providing up to $200 billion in financing to investors to buy up the debt. If the program succeeds, it should help break economy-crip­pling credit clogs and make it easier for Americans to finance purchases large and small at lower rates, Bernanke 'said. 
Government launches new program 
WASHINGTON -The government launched a much-awaited program Tuesday to spur lending for autos, education, credit cards and other consumer loans by providing up to $200 billion in finaneing to investors to buy up the debt. 
If the program succeeds, it should help bust through the credit clogs in place since last year and make it easier for Americans to finance large and small purchases at lower rates, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke told Congress. That, in turn, would help revive the economy, he said. 
Created by the Fed and the Treasury Department. the program has the potential to generate up to $1 trillion of lending for busi­nesses and households. the government said. 
Bernanke testifies over latest bailout 
Lawmakers grill Federal Res.erve Chairman about helping financial markets 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON­ 
Irritated lawmakers grilled  
Federal Reserve Chairman  
Ben  Bernanke Tuesday  
over the latest bailout of  
American International  
Group,  even  as the Fed  
chief warned that an eco­ 
nomic recovery hinges on  
the government's success  
in stabilizing shaky finan­ 
cial markets  and  their  
major players.  
"I share your concern, I  
share  your  anger,"  
Bernanke told the Senate  
Budget Committee. "It's a  
terrible  situation,  but  
we're not doing this to bail  
out AIG or their sharehold­ 
ers.  We're doing this to  
protect our financial sys­ 
tem and to avoid a much  
more severe crisis in our  
global economy."  
The  Treasury  
Department and the Fed  
on Monday threw a  new  
$30 billion lifeline to the  
ailing insurance giant,  
which marked the govern­ 
ment's fourth effort to sta­ 
bilize  AIG  since  
September.  
Both  Democrats  and  
Republicans expressed  
skepticism over whether  
the action would work,  
said they were worried  
that more taxpayer money AP  
will be needed to  rescue Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bemanke testifies before the Senate Budget Committee  
the company and demand­on Tuesday in Washington.  
ed  more  accountability  
and openness.  tern; there was no  over­ "We  really  had  no  concessions, he added.  
Bernanke defended the  sight of the financial prod­ choice," Bernanke said.  "They ought to  ...  have  
government's repeated  ucts division," he said.  "Bankruptcy is just not a  some  kind  of  conse-.  
rescue attempts on AIG,  "This was a  hedge fund  good option."  quence," Wyden said. "The  
saying  "the  failure  of  basically that was attached  But that  did  little  to  American people are in  
major financial firms in a  to a large and stable insur­ soothe lawmakers.  the dark on this issue, and  
financial crisis can be dis­ ance company, made huge  "We're no  better off,"  I think it's time for  some  
astrous for the economy."  numbers of irresponsible  huffed Sen. Jim Bunning,  sunlight. I think that the  
The U.S. will be better  bets, took huge losses."  R-Ky. "The bottom line:  public really  wants  to  
off "moying aggressively"  AIG is so big and sprawl­ the Fed and the Treasury  know why are these peo­ 
to solve economic prob­ ing,  so intertwined with  will leave the door open  ple so important."  
lems because the alterna­ institutions around the  for  more bailouts in the  Sen. Benjamin Cardin,  
tive "could be a prolonged  globe, that its downfall  future."  D-Md., worried about the  
episode of economic stag­ could  set off  a  vicrous  Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore.,  "influx of money to AIG  
nation," Bernanke said.  chain reaction. Upheaval  and others said the identi­ and elsewhere - will we  
Still,  in  the  last  18  on  such  a  global scale  ties of banks and other so­ get the results that we  
months of the financial cri­ would  plunge  the  U.S.  called counterparties that  anticipate?''  
sis, Bernanke said the AIG  economy  deeper  into  do business with AIG and  Bernanke said he was  
episode has made him the  recession, drive up unem­ other bailed-out institu­ hopeful the rescue efforts  
most angry.  ployment and stifle hopes  tions should be made pub­ would  pay  off  and  
"AIG exploited a  huge  for  an economic rebound  lic. Those companies also  improvements would even­ 
gap in the regulatory sys- any time soon.  should have to make some  tually come.  
December 19 81. 



Auto industry fails to entice buyers 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -Offers of huge rebates and tempting low-interest loans weren't enough to entice car buyers out of their bunkers in this economic crisis, causing U.S. auto sales in February to hover near historic lows. 
General Motors' sales tumbled 53 percent from a year earlier, while Ford's U.S. sales fell 48 percent and Chrysler's dropped 44 percent. The major Japanese automakers fared only slightly better. 
Overall auto sales were down 41 percent from February 2008, but up 5 percent from January, according to Autodata Corp. and Ward's AutoinfoBank. January marked the industry's worst monthly performance since 

The increase was a good sign, but it's far less than the usual 14 percent sales bump from January to February, and it doesn't neces­sarily mean sales have hit the bot­tom, said Jesse Toprak, executive director of industry analysis for the auto Web site Edmunds.com. 
"It does mean that there's some life out there," Toprak said. 
Things are so bad that GM, which _marked its worst February sales since 1967, is considering a program to let buyers keep their cars for a time without making payments if they lose their jobs. 
The huge stock market decline helped push down sales, said Mark LaNeve, GM's North American vice president of sales, service'S and marketing. The Dow Jones indus­trial average ended the month at its lowest level in nearly 12 years. 
"People are seeing, tra-cking their investments going down 3, 4, 5 percent a day or a week," LaNeve said. "That doesn't put you in a mood to go out and splurge on a new vehicle." 
Automakers sold 688,909 cars and trucks last month, and there's little they can do to spur sales until the economy recovers, Toprak said. 
"You can spend money on mar­keting or incentives. That's all you can do," he said. "Neither is hav­ing a big impact on sales. That tells us it's really consumer confi­dence and the general negative state of the economy overall caus­ing consumers to postpone making purchase decisions." 

page 8 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, None' Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER 
Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie f!oyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DeSK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoinr@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
{574) 631-4543 sporcs,l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
{574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHoTo DesK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoco@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OssERVERONLIN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edirors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers.The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Lerrers ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chiefjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obsc.:rvcr (USPS 599 1-4000} .is published Momb.y through Friday exctpl during aam 211d VliCUion periods. A subscription to The Observe-r H. $100 for one academic yen--; $55 ((Jt one semester. 
Thei Observer i.s published ar: POSTMASTER 
024 Sourh Dining Hall &:nd addfel>S c:orrectitms m~ 
Nom: O.ame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Pc:riodk:al postage paid ar Notre Dame P.O. Box779 and additional mailing of'fia:s. 02-4 South Dining Hal.l 
Nou< Dame, IN 4655f>On9 
1bt Observer is a member ofthe A..soc.iated Press. All rcptl)duclion riglus arc 
r~rved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Madeline Buckley Matt Gamber Irena Zajickova Eric Prister Alicia Smith Chris Masoud 
Graphics Scene Blair Chemidlin Michelle Fordice 
Viewpoint Stephanie Vossler 



Wednesday, March 4, 2009 


The college experience 
"I guess what I really mean is college is like this four-year period you have when you can try anything -and everything -and if it goes wrong, there's no consequences ... College is the only time in 
Laura
your life ... when you can really Geldermann experiment, and at a certain point, Guest when you leave, 
Columnist 
when you gradu­ate or whatever, everybody's memory like evaporates." 
This is a quote from a character in a book I recently read, "I Am Charlotte Simmons by Tom Wolfe." I think it aptly sums up the way a lot of us feel when we're in college. Many of us arrive at college determined to have the quintes­sential "college experience." I think, on some level, we want to make mistakes and make poor decisions sometimes because we think that that's all part of the experience. We think that the nights we can't remember or the hookups we don't care about are part of what makes us normal college kids. For women, I think this can also mean sacrificing the sorts of meaningful relationships we'd prefer because they're not compatible with what is supposed to be the "college experience." 
In light of viewpoint letters I have read throughout the year, I'm speaking primarily to the women of Notre Dame. I don't have too much to say to the men. I am neither blaming them nor exoner-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

ating them for the way I've observed men and women relating to each other lately. I just want to emphasize to the women of my hall and of this campus that men will give you as much respect 
as you demand from them. Dressing scandalously and matching a guy drink for drink, and going back to his room to 
hook up may get his attention for a night, and it may even seem fun. And many times, it may not have any serious consequences. But at the end of four years, where will it get you? The prob­lem with my character's quote is that our experiences an~ memories from college really don't JUSt evaporate at the end of four years. At the very least, you may graduate wishing you had spent more time trying new things or meeting different kinds of guys. You may wish­you had tried to find more fulfilling relationships in some of the-places that Laura Godlewski pointed out in her let­ter ("Personal responsibility, ladies" March 2). You may wish you hadn't wasted so much time trying to gain the attention of guys you won't end up car­ing about and letting them dictate the terms of your interaction or take advan­tage of you, even if you are under the impression that you are equally in con­trol. 
And at the very worst, we'd be foolish to not acknowledge the times where participating in this culture does have serious consequences. If you read your crime blotters from Officer Keri Shibata you have to know that really bad things do happen on this campus. The connec­tion between serious issues like sexual assault and a college culture that treats sex as casual and not as something to be cherished in marriage may seem attenuated. Clearly there is never, ever an excuse for sexual assault. But the more that women continue to partici­pate in a "college experience" of ran­dom, drunken hookups that doesn't afford you the respect and dignity you deserve or want. the more you put yourselves at risk for horrible and inex­cusable things to happen to you. 
I know when I was here as an under­grad, I felt like I had spent so much time looking forward to college as the best four years of my life, that I didn't even really stop to think about the fact that I'd be leaving some day. But even though it's hard to remember that someday you'll have to leave this place, the day after graduation you will have to wake up as the person you spent four years becoming. Who do you want that person to be? Even if the choices you made didn't end up being particularly traumatic or life-ruining, will the way you lived in college be as glamorous to you then as it is now? 
Laura Geldermann is a third-year law student and assistant rector ofLyons hall. She can be contacted at lgelderm@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing for Spring Break? Going home Staying here Partying somewhere SSJJe Taking my chances in Mexico 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ love deadlines. I like the whooshing sound they make as 
they fly by. 
Douglas Adams English humorist 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 4, 2009 page 9 
A m.eeting -with Father Jenkins 
It finally happened. It took me four years to actually get around to meeting him face-to-face, but I finally did. Father Jenkins holds office hours and I went through all the administraiive rig­marole and, with a little luck, secured 
Drago Flores 

a time slot with our president. 
When I first Guest heard about the Columnist chance to meet him I thought that it would be an excellent way to round off my years here at Notre Dame: go to school for four years, get the presi­dent's blessing, what more could a Domer ask for? But when I got the e­mail confirming my meeting I really did not know how to react. I had to come up with something to talk about! What does one say to the president of the University? Do you sum up your life and ask for suggestions? Do you ask him about his future? I asked my room­mates for advice and in all honesty, considering one is allotted only 8-10 minutes of office time, the best idea we came up with was to play Jenga with Jenkins and maybe have a quick con­versation in the process. 
I asked other friends and eventually some questions emerg.ed that everyone seemed to share: Who is Father Jenkins? What has he done for us? Do you feel like he is reaching out to you? Still, despite all the help, a half an hour before my meeting with him I had no idea which one specific question I ought to ask him ... until about 15 minutes before my scheduled time when ... I don't know ... it just became clear. I knew what I wanted to ask him. So, at about 5:35 or so I walked into Main Building, room 400, and into the office of the president of the University of Notre Dame. 
Suddenly I was face to face with him. He has a nice office, not extravagantly big, really, and surprisingly hidden, tucked away past his secretary. He stood up to greet me and shook my hand, asked me my name, and we sat down. I was nervous at first but his smile was genuine, his questions broad but sincere, and so I quickly became at home. We laughed a bit about the Jenga idea, I told him about my struggle to find a suitable thing to ask or talk;. about, and then I prefaced my question with a statement to the effect of, "Father Jenkins, every one has pride but everyone makes mistakes. Sometimes, the hardest and most test­ing time of someone's character is when they realize they have made a mistake but do not admit to it out of a skewed sense of pride." So my question to Father Jenkins was this: When was one point in life when you knew in your heart that you had made a mistake but did not admit to it out of pride? He answered me first with a lesson: Pride never goes away. Especially as the President he told me that he feels a need to always be correct in his actions. Understandable really, with so many eyes upon him any minor mistake and he would have to deal with the brunt of the criticism afterwards. Father Jenkins was becoming more and more real to me. It may seem strange to say it but I realized then how human he is. Like you or me he has little internal strug­gles on a day to day basis; he struggles with pride and mistakes that we can all relate to. 

Many times in the past I felt that I could not relate to Father Jenkins, as if he were some great bird on a high perch called 400 Main and I would never really be able to see eye-to-eye with. In my experience he l"arely gets the chance to interact on a more per­sonal level with his own students and he always seems to be more interested in the construction around campus. Now after talking with him I realized that I was both right and wrong. Right, because above most things Father Jenkins, to me, is genuinely interested in the growth of the university and its image as a premiere research institu­tion. Wrong, because Father Jenkins can also equally be genuinely interested in a single student's voice. At the meet­ing's end I gave him two gifts: one on behalf of the Japan Club,.the other something to remind him that even peo­ple who look most at peace with their lives have made their share of mistakes in the past. It was a quick meeting, I was out the door by 5:50, but I walked away lighter than ever, with a peace in my heart and a smile on my face. Now I just had to tell my roommates that our robot theory was a bust. .. 
Drago Flores is a senior Finance and Japanese major. He can be contacted at dflores@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


The ethics of parietals 

This past weekend a friend of mine committed one of the worst offences imag­inable -he broke parietals -with his sister! Traveling all the way up from B.C to see her brother, it was too much for her to be allowed to stay on her brother's futon. The nerve! So at 2:43 in the morn­ing, the R.A had called in back-up as he and the Assistant Rector. laid siege to the room until the outlaws surrendered them­selves. The typical arguments were then presented as my friend tried in vane to ascertain exactly the true purpose of pari­etals. Is it not to "prevent guys from hook­ing up with girls?" How could that pre­vent him from putting up his sister for a night? If you asked these guys, the answer was no-it's apparently "an arbitrary end to the night." If that is truly the case I can not understand any justification of this Universities policy. 
I would argue that any action to restrict student's rights should be taken only as a last resort. If students are looking for an arbitrary end to the night, then why not designate special dorms or sections that have parietals. Of course this isn't a viable idea because the demand for pari­etals would almost completely vanish, and the school would be forced to acknowl­edge what truly drives this outmoded rule: religious fanaticism. I say this because the enforcement of parietals is not done with any sort of subjectivity. True, you shouldn't subjectively interpret how to enforce laws, but when you start legislating morality there needs to be room for discretion in case of extenuating circumstances -housing your sister for a night is different than having sex with your girlfriend! 
And to the RAs who enforce this policy that claim they are "simply doing their jobs," I am truly sorry. The University, which claims to instill a sense of ethical beliefs in its students, has failed you. Instead of coming into a situation with an open mind, you carry out orders as mind­lessly as t_otalitarian forces once did. You enforce rules because that's what you are told to do, ignoring any shades of gray in the process. Would Jesus not want us to shelter our own family, even strangers? Is there not any sense of hospitality to be found in the bible? Until these same peo­ple wake up to their senses, they need to understand that they cannot command my respect, and I ask that each of you to demand the same. 
James Zumot sophomore Keough Hall Mar. 2 


A tnisunderstanding, in -word 
This letter is a response to Jeremy Lamb's Letter: "A misunder­standing, indeed" (March 3). Mr. Lamb is eloquent, idealistic, and passionate, but I am afraid that his conceptions of logical arguments are not really those of logic, but of persuasion. Validity, logically speaking, is not established by a "proverbial nail in the coffin" at the end of an argument, but rather by a relationship between its premis­es and conclusion, such that if all of its premises are true, then the conclusion must follow. Validity is about construction, not about truth. Eloquence and "the ability to fashion language" into logical arguments are not the source of their strength, nor of their truth. Rather, the soundest arguments are those with premises that are true and cannot be doubted, and are often stated most simply. Indubitable premises would yield indubitable conclusions, but Mr. Lamb's premis­es are not indubitable. 
There are varying conceptions· about what things like "education" and "the university" are or are supposed to be. There are no doubt many, like Mr. Lamb, who might believe that the end of education is life experiences and cultural interactions, and as such the purpose of the university would be to foster such interaction; but there are also others who might accept an alternative, such as that suggested by John Henry Cardinal Newman, who believed that the purpose of the university was to cultivate in its students the understanding of the inter-relatedness of all the parts of the universe in one integrated whole, which can only be achieved through the study of e'ssential subjects. For Newman, the most important of these subjects was Theology, which is the knowledge of things in their proper place in relation to God. A Catholic university, then, would adopt Catholic Theology as that subject which bears on and unifies all of the other various subjects into one integi"ated whole. 
Mr. Lamb contends that "by depriving its students of the opportuni­ty to experience homosexual culture in a way that they probably haven't before, the University is failing to provide us a true educa­tion." On the contrary, the Latin root of "education" is a word which means "to lead forth," and a truly Catholic education would then be a leading forth of students in accordance with Catholic theology. The sort of "cultural interaction" Mr. Lamb seeks does not require an institutional setting or sponsorship; students can and will interact with whomever they choose and however they choose, and no one is preventing organizers from undertaking to host this festival or any other at some other venue. What is at issue here, then, seems not to be cultural interaction, but rather an attempt to alter the policies of a Catholic institution as derived from Catholic theology. 
If the mission of a Catholic university is something like that which I have described, then a festival whose purpose (by definition) is to cel­ebrate a lifestyle which is contrary to the theology of the Catholic Church is then contrary to the mission of a Catholic university, and if so, the university not only has reason to not allow such a festival, but is duty bound to do so. Stated simply, in a Catholic university, the word "Catholic" modifies the word "university." The university does not modify what it means to be Catholic. 
Daniel McGlynn 
sent or 
off campus Mar. 3 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE 
Wednesday, March 4, 2009 
page 10 


On Friday, March 27, Styx and Kansas will be at the M ng Arts Center. Styx, the super-band from the 80's for hits like "Mr. Roboto," "Lady" and "Come Sail Away," 
by special guest Kansas, known for songs such as"Carry Wayward Son" and "Dust in the Wind." tyx began in the 60's, when its members got together i 
ago. They played various gigs and released a few albums. 77, Styx released "The Grand Illusion," their breakthr urn. They became a staple on FM radio as Album (AOR) and have had a successful career of hits, c au'u'""• world tours, a break up, a slew of solo albums, a breakup, and now another tour. Always reinven 
Styx has survived the times with a string of radio s to their name. ansas began in Topeka, Kan. In 1976, the single "Carry On 
Son" was released to great success. Kansas also airwaves of AOR along with Styx, and after a breakup, the band lineup and a reunion, they are joining Styx at the 
Kansas will return to South on March 27 for a co-head­ning show at the Morris rforming Arts Center with fel­70s and 80s rock band, Styx. rock station staple Kansas popularity with "Carry ayward Son" off of 1976's " as well as "Dust In e Wind" from the follow up urn, 1977's "Point of Know 
" . 
Williams, the lead guitarist Kansas, is the only band mem­who has been on every tour and studio album since the p's debut. Whether playing stic or electric guitar, adds a melodic and lush c;n:"'"""• to Kansas' unique violin­""u"'''u sound. Williams is notable stage for his eye patch, which a result of a childhood incident fireworks. The Observer had e privilege to talk with Williams about the upcoming Kansas visit the Morris, as well as what it means to have survived in the 
business for 35 years. 
true. re. I kinda felt sorry for him when I found out he was a Vet, but then I found out he was just a bull****er. 
Scene: I see Kansas has a patchwork tour coming up. Have you guys ever been to South Bend before? 
RW: Oh, yeah. The dates are still coming in. We'II probably do 7 5 or 80 dates this year, like we do every year. Generally, the format is that I leave on a Friday morn­ing and come back on a Sunday afternoon. I've spent too many weeks riding around in a bus. It's good because there's always another weekend to look forward to, but it's also, good to be home, to have a life. South Bend, we've been there six or seven times, at least. 
Scene: What are you listening to today? What's on your car stereo? 
RW: I don't pay much attention to today's pop radio. I would rather play guitar and spend an hour or two a day practicing. Similar to a football player who would rather play then watch somebody else do it. I like playing guitar and playing guitar in Kansas. We just finished a live DVD of a show we did with a sym­phony in Kansas, so there was a lot of preparation for that [titled "There's No Place Like Home" and scheduled to be released Aug. 4 of 

yearl. m so reviewing the final mixes of a side project of ours called "Native Window," which will be released May 12. It's the Kansas members without Steve Walsh, so it's not a keyboard album. Also, it's not a Kansas album. I'm sure some Kansas fans are looking forward to it. But they'll say "this is not Kansas" and that's good. I think we sur­prised ourselves; we didn't know we had that album in us -10 very uniquely different songs from a very cohesive band. We're going to be opening some shows this year for Kansas. 
Scene: The way music is lis­tened to has changed drastically since say the mid-70s. What do you think about those changes? Is it somewhat disturbing that people don't listen to albums all the way through now? Yet, isn't there something more democrat­ic about MySpace, YouTube, blogs, etc.? Just in terms of the gatekeepers not only being record executives anymore. 
RW: Having been screwed by record companies for the last 35 years, I'm not very concerned about them. With Kansas, our bread and butter has always been touring. We're a live band, that's how we get ourselves out there. That's what we started doing and that's what we're continuing to do. Whatever technology helps people hear our music and get to our shows, then all the better. 
Scene: What guitarists have influenced your style of playing? 
HW: The first influence I had was Eric Clapton. Even before that it was The Beatles and George Harrison. When I saw The Beatles on Ed Sullivan, I wanted to play guitar. The whole British Invasion influenced me. Eric Clapton did an album with John Mayall & The Blues Breakers [1966's "Blues Breakers with Eric Clapton"]. The guitar playing was­n't B.B. King style. It was a lot more direct. That really stuck to me and I learned as m\}ch of it as I could. That album showed me the powerful voice that a guitar can have, rather then just whack­ing on it and playing chords. The Yardbirds with Page, Clapton and Beck, those three guys along with Jimi Hendrix are behind every­thing that's happened since. 
Scene: Finally, what was it like hearing Will Farrell sing "Dust In The Wind" in Old School? 
HW: Some people perceive us to be a deep thinking, serious band and to be honest we're not. We're just normal guys who got lucky. Some of our fans thought it [the scene in Old School] was sacrile­gious. I think it's really funny. Will Farrell's a Kansas fan and he, put that in the movie. There's nothing offensive about it, it's great. 
Contact James DuBray at jdubray@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE 
page 11

Wednesday, March 4, 2009 
While most ofus -fwpe iEat we'llsee sun, Isights, and scenery-or at least the Iwarmth of home-over spring break, 
there is not always enough luck to go 

around. I am happy to  .  
say that this year I'm  Michelle  
""''"''-'~''-' back to the old  Fordice  
no1me:steaa. but I've  Assistant  
plenty of breaks  Scene Editor  
on campus. But  

not lost: There are plenty of ways to a week in the Bend a true vacation. 
1. Head to a show. You have options with­in three ranges of distance. First, you can look to the DPAC. Over spring break the DPAC will have a performance by the South Bend Symphony Orchestra and showings of the films "Slumdog Millionaire" and "Waltz 
Bashir." Moving further away from La111uu,. you can check out South Bend. A 
place to start is with South Bend's art Web site: www.artseverywhere.com. Some of the highlights from the week of spring break include "Cabaret" at the South Bend 

vic Theatre, the "25th Annual Putnam Spelling Bee" by the Broadway League at the Morris Performing •-·· !Arts Center and the opening of the South 
•Bend Museum of Art's "Scalability" exhibit. 
·. ]Finally, if you're willing to really go the dis­ltance, jump on the train (definitely the most 1cost efficient option) and head to Chicago. !Some venues, like the Lyric Opera, have !Student deals and tickets if you are willing !to register and be a bit flexible. 
2. Become a foodie. Again, there are plen­tty of options within different ranges. First, !try your own hand at whipping up a meal. 1Use a dorm kitchen or borrow a friend's ~apartment and do your best to imitate your [favorite chef. When it comes to groceries, .Martin's is a bit of a trek, but within walk­
ing distance. For a fun trip in itself, head to the South Bend Farmer's Market. Second, test out all the little cafes on campus. There are more than you would think and each has its own personality. Make sure their hours don't change over br~ak. After that, 

head out into South -Bend. Avoid the c-hains 
and try some of the local restaurants. If you don't have a car, a great option within walking distance is Lula's Cafe. 
3. 
Check out the Snite Museum. The Snite has an excellent collection, and many stu­dents miss out on it. Best yet, it's free and nearby. 

4. 
Go skating. Take a turn around the Howard Park Ice rink, located near cam­pus. 

5. 
Cheer on the Irish. Hockey, lacrosse and may other teams have games over spring break. Throw on your Notre Dame colors, grab some tickets and support our players. 

6. 
Catch up on your movies and T.V. Before your friends leave for break, ask them ifyou can peruse their collects and borrow some of the films you've missed. If you're more of a T.V. buff, see what Hulu.com has to offer. It may not be glam­orous, but who doesn't like curling up with the TV and cup of hot chocolate every once in awhile? 

7. 
Head up the Dunes. Most people think of the Dunes in the summer, but the nation­al park offers programs during the colder months as well. Check out the National Park Service Web site for more information. 

8. 
Head outside. South Bend's weather is notoriously bad, but hopefully you'll get a couple of nice days over spring break. You might have to settle for an activity that keeps you moving, like running or a game with friends, but ifthe sun is out, take advantage of it. 

9. 
Catch up on your reading. So often we spend the entire semester reading what we're supposed to. Take a break and read something you want to. Don't have a book on hand? What else is tha:t library for? 


The views expressed in this column are 
those of the author and not necessarily 
those ofthe Observer. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at 
mfordice@nd. edu 



Spring Break Mix 
~ 

by Ellie Hall and Stephanie DePrez 1 11 Relax,Take it Easy"-Mika 2 "Take Back the City"-Snow Patrol 3 "Two Step"-Dave Matthews Band 4 "Sex on Fire"-Kings of Leon 
5 "When You Were Young"-The Killers 6 "Poker Face"-Lady Gaga 7 "These Are the Days"-10,000 Maniacs 
"Send Me On My Way"-Rusted Rood
8 
9 "Island on the Sun"-Weezer 10 _} ~~walking on the Moon"-The Police 
l

1 1 l "MotherWe Just Can't Get Enough"-The New Radicals 
_;! 



11 songs, 9days of spring break, 36.7MB 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 4, 2009 
NFL 

Tension still high between Cutler, Broncos 
Broncos insist star quarterback will not be traded, but he continues to refuse communication with team 
offense after working in the West a rookie, set numerous club
Associated Press 

Coast system his first three years records last season, including 
ENGLEWOOD, Colo. -The in the NFL, was miffed that yards passing in a season Denver Broncos don't want to McDaniels even entertained the (4,526), completions (384) and talk to anyone about Jay Cutler notion of dealing him to another 300-yard games (eight). except for the quarterback him­team. He also said he thought he However, Cutler and the self. was still going to get traded. Broncos squandered a tpree­
The Broncos insisted Tuesday "The Denver Broncos are not game lead in the AFC West with their Pro Bowl quarterback isn't trading Jay Cutler. Period," team three weeks to go, missing out on the trading block and said spokesman Patrick Smyth said on the playoffs for a third new coach Josh McDaniels and emphatically Tuesday. straight season and costing Mike his star player are scheduled to Smyth said neither Cutler nor Shanahan his job after 14 sea­meet next week to try to patch McDaniels would be made avail­sons in Denver. up their strained relationship. able to discuss the situation until Cutler is 17-20 with no playoff 
Cutler was angered during the after they meet to resolve their appearances since replacing weekend when his name came rift following Cutler's return Jake Plummer late in the 2006 up in talks involving a three-way from Nashville, Tenn., where he season. trade that would have sent him maintains an offseason home. McDaniels, 32, was hired in to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers A message left with Cutler's January, and the Broncos pro­and landed Matt Cassel in agent, Bus Cook, wasn't moted Brian Xanders, 37, to Denver. Instead, the Patriots returned Tuesday. Earlier, he general manager last month. traded Cassel to Kansas City. told The Associated Press that Both of them report directly to 
McDaniels was the offensive he doesn't think his client has owner Pat Bowlen, who hasn't coordinator last year in New ever asked the Broncos for a publicly addressed the rift arrested Sunday after getting repeated violations of the England, where he tutored trade and he insisted Cutler was between his new coach and his into a fight with his new fiance. league's personal conduct code. Cassel, a career backup who led right to be upset because the temperamental quarterback. The disorderly conduct charge Cutler and Marshall, fellow the Patriots to an 11-5 season Broncos even listening to offers The Broncos are also dealing was quickly dropped in at members of the Broncos' daz­after Tom Brady was injured in was "a vote of no-confidence in with another major headache Atlanta court when he and his zling 2006 draft class, are the the opener. him." following Pro Bowl receiver fiance refused to testify against faces of the franchise and the 
Cutler, who is preparing to Cutler, who has three years left Brandon Marshall's fourth arrest each other, but Marshall still two biggest talents McDaniels learn the intricate Patriots-style on the six-year deal he signed as in three years. Marshall was faces discipline from the NFL for inherited. 



Coast Guard stops search for NFL players Cooper, Smith 
Raiders linebacker Marquis Cooper and defensive lineman Corey Smith go missing during a fishing trip 
found," Robert Bleakley said. separated from the boat, the tion for me for a long time. He Pass early Saturday in calm 
Associated Press 

Coast Guard Capt. Timothy college teammates tried to hang always has been. I told every­weather, but heavy winds picked 
CLEARWATER, Fla. -After Close said officials were sure on. body, I call him my hero." up through the day and the seas three days of combing 24,000 that if there were any more sur­"He said basically that Will Lions running back Kevin got stronger, with waves of 7 miles of ocean, the Coast Guard vivors, they would have been helped him keep going," Smith called Corey Smith "a feet and higher, peaking at 15 on Tuesday stopped searching found. Schuyler told Miller, who said he good, quiet guy, who always put feet on Sunday. The Coast Guard for two NFL players and a third Crews did rescue Bleakley's had known Bleakley since the in an honest day's work." said it did not receive a distress man lost in rough, chilly Gulf of former South Florida teammate, sixth grade. "The waves were Kevin Smith, a Florida native, signal. Mexico waters off the Florida 24-year-old Nick Schuyler, who just so much. They never got a said he has been fishing off the Close said some family mem­coast. managed to stay with the boat. break." coast as far as the men were in bers asked about continuing the 
Oakland Raiders linebacker Scott Miller, a friend of the He said searchers came across boats smaller, the same size and search on their own, which he Marquis Cooper, free-agent college teammates, said a cooler and a life jacket 16 larger than the watercraft that discouraged but said the Coast defensive lineman Corey Smith, Schuyler told him that on the miles southeast of the boat, but capsized. Guard wouldn't prevent. The who played with the Detroit first night, a chopper shone a saw no other signs of the men. "The No. 1 thing when you're Florida Fish and Wildlife Lions last season, and former light right above them and that "I think the families under­out there is, you have to respect Conservation Commission may South Florida player William later on, as they continued to stood that we put in a tremen­the water," he said. "I know be heading out Wednesday to Bleakley, had been missing since drift, he could even see lights dous effort," Close said. "Any those guys had safety vests. I'm recover the boat. Saturday when their boat cap­from the shore. search and rescue case we have trying not to even think about it. Schuyler told the Coast Guard sized during a fishing trip. It was Bleakley who swam to stop is disappointing." That's a tough way to go." the boat was anchored when it 
Bleakley's father said he underneath to retrieve three life Family and friends embraced Quarterback Jon Kitna, a for­capsized. thought the Coast Guard did jackets he could find, along with and sobbed outside the Coast mer teammate with the Lions The Coast Guard hadn't had everything it could and that his a cushion, a groggy Schuyler Guard station shortly before the the past three seasons, said you more detailed conversations expectations lowered after only told Miller from a Tampa hospi­announcement. They left with­never expect something like this with Schuyler "due to his physi­one survivor was found Monday, tal. Bleakley used the cushion out talking with reporters. to happen to a guy you know. cal and medical condition," nearly two days after the four and the other men wore the ''I'm sure that I'll speak of Will "It's a reminder of how life is Close said. Schuyler was in fair friends were knocked out of jackets, Miller said. like he's still with us for a long fragile," he said. "Corey was a condition and told hospital offi­their 21-foot boat. · But the waves were powerful, time," Robert Bleakley said later great dude." cials he didn't want to speak to 
"I think they were not to be and after Cooper and Smith got of his son. "He'll be an inspira-The four men left Clearwater the media. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: 
Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for children with physical disabilities. Located on shore of Lake Superior in Big Bay, MI. Positions available for Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 14 through August 9. Salary, room & board, and experience of lifetime provided. Call or write for applica­lion and information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, P.O. Box 310, Big Bay, Ml49808, (906) 345-9314, e­mail BayCiiffHC@aol.com. Visit us at www.baycliff.org 
PAID INTERNSHIP OFFERS 
CHANCE FOR NYC JOB. Ever wanted to work in New York City? If you get a job with us on campus now, that could happen this sum­mer! We are looking for a gregari­ous, independent and resourceful undergraduate student for a paid 8­week campus internship this semester. It involves designing and implementing a marketing plan to get your campus to participate in UniversityJunction.com, a free net­work that helps students achieve academic success. If interested, please fill out the following informa­tion and submit to careers@univer­sityjunction.coml Visit www.UniversityJunction.com. NAME, EMAIL, PHONE, SCHOOL, MAJOR, GRADUATION DATE, ABOUT YOU: Housing status (on or off campus), Top 3 favorite web­sites. 

FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COM CAST! 
---------------~ 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 a-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-7653. 
1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom, washer/dryer, fit­ness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. Preleasing for August. Call574-232-1400 or lease online www.foundryliving.com 

Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhous­es.com 
---------------· 
NOW LEASING. LAFAYETTE TOWNHOUSES. $350/PERSON. 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS. FREE INTERNET. NEWLY REMODELED. CALL 574-234-2436 OR WWW.KRAMERHOUSES.COM 


PERSONALS 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http:1/osa.nd. edu!health­safety/assault/ 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edulhealth-safety/assis­lance-for-pregnant-students. 
Oh mama, I'm in fear for my life from the long arm of the law. 
Lawman has put an end to my run­ning and I'm so far from my home. 
Oh mama, I can hear your crying you're so scared and all alone. 
Hangman is coming down from the gallows and I don't have very long. 
Water? Water is for cowards. Water makes you weak. Water is for wash­ing blood off that uniform and you don't get no blood on my uniform. Boy, you must be outside your mind! We are going to do up-downs until Blue is no longer tired and_ thirsty. 
The dawn is breaking. A light shining through. You're barely waking, and I'm tan­gled up in you. 

Why do this? Cause yesterday I walked out of the joint after losing four years of my life and you're cold-decking 'Teen Beat' cover boys. Because the house always wins. Play long enough, you never change the stakes. The house takes you. Unless, when that perfect hand comes along, you bet big, then you take the house. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 



OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, March 4, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVI.CES page 13 
NCAA Baseball :fop Coaches' Poll 

team 
record 
1 LSO 762 2 North Carolina 729 3 Georgia 688 4 Texas 626 5 Arizona St. 615 6 TexasA&M 602 

7  Rice  566  
8  Miami (Fla.)  511  
9  florida St.  485  
10  Cal St. Fullerton  477  
11  Georgia Tech  428  
12 UC Irvine  419  
13 Oklahoma St.  401  
14  Baylor  303  
15  Coaslal Caro.  243  
16 san Diego  223  
17 Slanford  209  
18  TCU  199  
19 Pepperdhte  118  
20  florida  168  
21  Clemson  141  
22  Oklahoma  111  
23 24  Mississippi Easl Carolina  ,:';j{ ,1:~::::}:;;;::::::,:  
25  Cal Poly  61  

5·2 6-1 
.,JM 5-2 6·1 5-2 6-1 6-2 6-1 
6-3 
2-5 5-1 5·2 5•3 4·1 1-3 3-3 
.. 5~1 6-1 
NCAA Women's bacrosse Division 1 Coaclies' Poll 
Georgetown .Princeton .,Hortb,............,.,,.. ,,.;:: 
Boston U. 11 Vanderbilt 12 NOTRE DAME 12 Johns Hopkins 14 New Hampshire · 15 Darlmouth 16 Stanford 17 Cornell 18 Towson 
"19 James Madison 20 Denver 
NCAA Men's Volleyball Top 15 
team  record  
1  Cal St. Northridge  1H  
2  UC Irvine  14-3  
3  Pepperdine  10·2  
4  Penn Sl.  14·1  
5  Southern California  11-4  
6  Long Beach Sl.  8-6  
7  Stanford  11-7  
8  BYU  9·6  
9  Lewis  <11-3  
10  UC San Diego  7-9  
11  UCLA  7·10  
12  Hawaii  T3•1D  
13  Ohio Sl.  7-7  
14  UC Santa Barbara  4·11  
15  Ball Sl.  7•4  


around the dial 
NCAA Basketball 
No. 13 Marquette at No. 3 Pittsburgh 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB Exhibition 
White Sox at Cubs 
10:00 p.m., WGN 
NFL 


Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. --Plaxico Burress could be welcomed back by the New York Giants --if the Super Bowl star can straighten out his legal problems stem­ming from a weapons charge and get his life back in order. 
"Right now he is still a Giant and if things work out and he's on board with what we want coming back, we'd love to have hlm back," gen­eral manager Jerry Reese says said Tuesday. 
Burress' future is cloudy because he faces an illegal weapons possession charge relating to a self-inflicted gunshot wound at a New York City nightclub in late November. He faces a mandatory 3lfz years in prison ifconvicted. 

Barring a plea deal, the case is scheduled to return to court at the end of the month. 
The 31-year-old, who signed a five-year, $35 mil· lion contract in September, also faces a possible suspen­sion by the NFL for violating its personal conduct policy. 
Burress, who has been liv· ing in New Jersey and Florida in recent months according to teammate Brandon Jacobs, has not commented publicly on his future with the Giants since the shooting. . 
His agent, Drew 
Rosenhaus, has refused to respond to at least a two dozen telephone call by The Associated Press seeking comment during that peri­od. 
Since the Giants season ended, Reese has left the door open for a potential return by Burress, the only deep threat among their receivers. The team was 11­1 with hlm in the lineup. It lost four of its final five games after his season-end­ing suspension, including a 23-11 loss at home to the Philadelphia Eagles in the second round of the playoffs. 
Without the threat of Burress beating them, oppo­nents crowded the line of scrimmage and slowed down New York's running game and severely limited its offensive production. 
Reese could have made a strong statement that the Giants planned to end their four-year association with Burress by signing a deep­threat receiver when free agency opened last week. 
Instead, the Giants turned all their attention to their defense and signed line­backer Michael Boley, defensive end Chris Canty and defensive tackle Rocky Bernard. 
Reese also noted that the Giants made a serious offer --a little less than $80 mil­lion --to former Titans defensive tackle Albert Haynesworth. 
IN BRIEF Athletics close to 
signing Garciaparra 
OAKLAND, Calif. --Nomar Garciaparra is nearing agreement on a one-year contract with the Oakland Athletics. 
The 35-year-old infielder could finalize a deal within a few days, a person familiar with the negoti­ations said Tuesday, speaking on condition of because the contract was not yet final. 
Oakland, a late player in the free-agent market, also is cl'ose to finalizing a $4 million, one-year contract with Orlando Cabrera, who would displace former AL Rookie of the Year Bobby Crosby as the team's starting shortstop. 
The A's made no public c-om­ment on the ongoing negotiations. Both deals could be finalized later this week. 
Garciaparra was limited to 55 games for the Los Angeles Dodgers last season because of injuries. 

Bonds' agent trying to find 
spot for home run king 
Barry Bonds is open to making a comeback. Whether any team wants him, that's the tricky part. 
Now that Bonds' federal trial has been delayed at least until July, the agent for baseball's home run king ·plans to contact all 30 major league clubs once again to determine whether there's a place for the slugger. 
"I'm still not optimistic," agent Jeff Borris said Tuesday by tele­phone from spring training in Arizona. 
The 44-year-old Bonds last played in 2007 with the San Francisco Giants. The Tampa Bay Rays toyed with the idea of signing Bonds for 2008, but he sat out while under indictment for lying to a federal grand jury when he testified he never knowingly used performance­enhancing drugs. Bonds has pleaded not guilty. 
Running· back Derrick 
Ward signs with Bucs 
TAMPA, Fla. --Derrick Ward feels he's a perfect fit for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, who want to get younger, tougher and more potent on offense. 
The free agent running back signed a four-year, $17 million contract Tuesday, joining a team that's trying to build a new identi· ty after watching an aging defense falter during a season-ending col· lapse that cost the Bucs a playoff spot. 
''I'm a variety of things. I can be a pass-receiving running back, a one-cut and up running back, a power running back. I can do it all," said Ward, who joins former Pro Bowl tight end Kellen Winslow as prominent additions since the end of the season. 
"I think my style of running, my style of play will fit in perfect. We have all the key components for a great offense," Ward said. 

NBA 

Billups scores 34 in first game back in Detroit 
Four Bobcats post double figures in victory over Bulls; Howard leads Magic to win zn battle of big men 
Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -It was a win-win night at the Palace. 
Chauncey Billups got the warm welcome he deserved and the Detroit Pistons won a game they needed. 
Billups scored a season-high 34 points .in his return to subur­ban Detroit, but the Pistons came away with the 100-95 victory Tuesday night against the Carmela Anthony-less Denver Nuggets. 
The red-white-and-blue clad fans still adore Billups for the 2004 NBA title he led Detroit to as finals MVP and for being its leader during a run of six straight trips to the Eastern Conference fmals. 
His introduction with a signa­ture -"Buh! Buh! Buh! Billups! -set off a standing ovation that lasted a couple of minutes and led to him blowing kisses in each direction. 
Billups said it was the most emotional regular season game he's experienced in his 12-year career. 
"I may forget the game and what happened," he said. "But the ovation and warm welcome the fans gave me, I'll never for­get." 
Forgive the Pistons if they can't recall what it's like to win a few games in a row or a single one at home. 
Detroit has won three straight for the first time in two months -after losing seven straight ­and hadn't been victorious at home since Feb. 4 against Miami. 
Instead of challenging for a home-court advantage in the playoffs, or a division title, the Pistons have been struggling since trading Billups to Denver for Allen Iverson. 
"It's just sad to see we're 30­29," Pistons guard Richard Hamilton said. 
Tayshaun Prince scored 23 points for the Pistons and four of his teammates scored at least 16, attacking with a balanced offense perhaps not coincidental­ly because Iverson missed his third straight game with a back injury. 
As awful as Detroit has been at tin1es, it became thb first team in the NBA to beat each of the divi­sion leaders with Sunday's win at Boston. And now, it has beaten the Northwest Division-leading Nuggets twice. 
"This is huge," Detroit coach Michael Curry said. "This is as big of a win, or bigger, than the road wins because we owe it to our fans." 
Denver coach George Karl is impressed by the much­maligned team. 
"The Pistons are playing at a higher level than they have all season," Karl said. 
The Nuggets suspended Anthony for the game after he refused to go to the bench against Indiana on Sunday when Karl tried to take him out. 
"In my mind, that crossed the line," Karl s~j.id. 
The Nuggets have lost five of seven, letting their division lead slip to a game over Portland and 1 1/2 games ahead of Utah. They host the Trail Blazers on Thursday, then play on the road the next night against the Jazz. 
"That's a tough swing because those teams are right behind us," Billups said. 
Nene scored 20 and J.R. Smith 
had 16 points for the Nuggets. 
Detroit made the unpopular 
move of trading Billups early in 
the season to oreate playing time 
for second-year pro Rodney 
Stuckey, to clear about $20 mil­
lion in salary cap space and to 
give the team a new look in the 
postseason. 
In the short term, the trade 
hasn't helped the Pistons out. If 
they can add a star or two this 
summer or next and Stuckey 
emerges as a consistent stand­
out, it might be viewed di!Terent­
ly. 
Bobcats 96, Bulls 80 
Raja Bell had trouble lifting his 
right arm, yet started. Gerald 
Wallace twice got hit near the rib 
he fractured earlier this Sf:lason 
and stayed in the game. 
Raymond Felton and Emeka 
Okafor played despite tender 
ankles. 
All four Bobcats reached dou­
ble figures Tuesday night, and 
Charlotte proved too tough for 
the undermanned Chicago Bulls 
in a 96-80 victory they hope con­
tinues an improbable journey to 
the playoffs. 
Bell scored all 1S of his points 
in the first half before turning 
into a decoy when his ·injured 
biceps proved too painful to 
shoot, while Felton had 18 points 
and nine assists in Charlotte's 
season-high fourth straight win. 
"We've got a lot of tough guys 
on this team. Haja, Gerald 
Wallace, that says a lot," Felton 
said. "I commend those guys, but 
I'm the same way." 
After winning the final three 
games on their West Coast trip, 
the Bobcats returned home and 
moved within two games of 
eighth-place Milwaukee, which 
lost at home to New Jersey. They 
also secured the season 
tiebreaker over the Bulls, who 
are also in that logjam for the 
final postseason berth in the 
Eastern Conference. 
"A big win for us," said Bell, 
who decided about 40 minutes 
before tipoff that he could play. 
"Fourth in a row, first game back 
off a road trip. Sometimes young 
teams have a tendency to have a 
kind of a hangover when you get 
back. But we came out against a 
team we're jockeying with posi­
tion with right now and we des­
perately wanted that tiebreaker." 
While the Bobcats played 
through the pain, the Bulls were 
without forwards Luol Deng (leg) 
and Tim Thomas (knee). Chicago 
fell behind early and never 
recovered. Tyrus Thomas had 14 
points and 12 rebounds for the 
disjointed Bulls, who shot 39 
percent and committed 18 
turnovers. 
"I didn't like our effort," coach 
Vinny Del Negro said. "I didn't 
like our turnovers..Just a very 
sloppy game for us." 
Bobcats, who started 7-18 before a series of trades, is sud­. denly in the thick of the playoff 
race. 
"We had a lot of guys play 
well," Brown said. "It was a lot 
offun watching'us." 
Magic 111, Suns 99 
Dwight Howard made 
Shaquille O'Neal run. He made 
him fall. Then he got the ulti­
mate vindication: he made him 
flop. 
Howard had 21 points and 
eight rebounds in a bruising bat-

tie with O'Neal, and the Orlando late, again drawing boos by the Magic big men who mixed it up Magic beat the Phoenix Suns Orlando crowd. His technical most of the night. 111-99 on Tuesday night. foul with 3:38 left contributed to With nearly 600 pounds of All­
"I was shocked, seriously, nine straight points for the Magic Stars banging on the inside, bod­shocked," Magic coach Stan Van that gave Orlando a 10-point ies were flying. On one play in Gundy said of O'Neal's flopping. lead to put the game out of the third quarter Howard backed "And very disappointed cause he reach. down O'Neal, sent him to the knows what it's like. Lets stand ''I'm really too old to be trying floor flopping and dunked over up and play like men, and I think to outscore 18-year-olds," O'Neal the 325-pounder while O'Neal our guy did that tonight." said, referring to the 23-year-old rolled tinder Rafer Alston and 
Rashard Lewis had 29 points I Ioward. "It's not really my role Matt Barnes, wiping them out and Hedo Turkoglu scored 22 for anymore." like bowling pins. the Magic, who overcame a sea­Jason Richardson had 27 The back-and-forth jostling son-high 24 turnovers. points, and Steve Nash added 20 wasn't just physical. The two 
O'Neal finished with 19 points points for Phoenix after m_issing were trash-talking throughout, and 11 rebounds, outmuscling the last three games with a with each turning up the lip ­his first NBA team for most of sprained right ankle. and the intensity -after every the night before he lost his cool But it was the past and present dunk. 
Notre Dame Graduate 
Joins Leading Area Veterinary Hospital 

Magrane Pet A4edica/ Cemer Welcomes: 
Keith Kitson Logue, DVM 
Magrane 

Dr. Logue is a graduate of University of Notre Dame and Purdue's School of Veterinary medicine. 
Pel Medical Center · 


Dr. Logue brings a wealth of experience in emergency and critical care medicine -care of the sickest pets, to our experienced staff. 
"Caringfhr your pel is caring.fi:lr ajimu~v member and /feel privileged to work with a J.(l'f!(l/ leam to carefi.Jryour pel, whelher heallhy or_ill." 
To schedule an appointment call: 574.259.5291 Emnil questions to kklo~ue@'magrancPMC.com 
Conveniently located to N.D. in the Edison Lakes Business Park (Mishawaka) 8 minutes from Notre Dame, directly east on Angela I Edison Road 
Student Affairs is now accepting notninations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates tnust be seniors who exe1nplify the qualities for vvhich Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, cotnn1itment to Notre Dan1e, and writing ability. 
Candidates n1ay be nominated by faculty, stafl~ or fellow students. 
For a non1ination form, please visit our website at: 
http://osn.nd.edu/get-involved/student-activities-aud-awards/denuy-moore-awar·d/ 
JVon1inations· are due by Thursday, March 5, 2009. 
Wednesday, March 4, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 


The Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, & Questioning Students Seeks New Undergrad Student Members For 2009-2010 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 
We welcome "allies,, and gay, lesbian, bi-sexual or questioning students. 
Applications are available on the Core Council WebSite: 
http://corecouncit.nd.edu 
or can be picked up from: The Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building Sam to 5pm Monday~Friday 
Completed Applications are due Friday, March 20 by 5pm in the Office of Student Affairs Attn: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP 
Your participation in this Council wilt: 
• 
Assist with identifying the ongoing needs ofgay, lesbian, bi-sexual& questioning students 

• 
Assist in implementing campus-wide educational programming on gayandlesbian issues 


Please visit our web site for more information: http:/lcorecouncil.nd.edu 
Recycle The Observer. 


NCAA BASKETBALL 

Spartan victory clinches Big Ten 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Tom Izzo spent most of Tuesday night scratching his head. 
Now he can worry about pro­tecting his soon-to-be clean skull. 
On a night No. 8 Michigan State was anything but razor­sharp, Kalin Lucas and Raymar Morgan dug down and carried the Spartans to a 64-59 Big Ten title-clinching victory at Indiana to set up Izzo's haircutting appointment after the NCAA tournament. 
"Yeah, I don't lie to my stu­dents," Izzo said reluctantly, referring to the promise he made last fall to shave his head if the Spartans won their first outright league title in a decade. 
Losing the locks was the least of Izzo's concerns Tuesday. 
He winced at his team's uncharacteristic sloppiness, its inability to put away the short­handed Hoosiers and the contin­ual calls from officials. Izzo even drew a technical foul during a second-half television timeout for arguing with the referees. 
But after this decade-long drought, during which the Spartans (24-5, 14-3) made three Final Four appearances and won a national title, they'll take anything they can get ­even Izzo's hair. 
"It would be kind of crazy to see Coach Izzo bald and nobody's ever seen him bald before," said Lucas, who led the Spartans with 15 points. "That would be a different look for him." 
Unfortunately, for Indiana, this game had a familiar script. 
The Hoosiers stayed close most of the night and even ral­lied from a 13-point second-half deficit before running out of gas. They missed eight free throws and couldn't take advan­tage of four opportunities to tie the score or take the lead in the final 3:31. 
Verdell Jones led the Hoosiers with 15 points. Nick Williams and Malik Story each had 11, not quite enough to avoid an eighth straight loss or two more dubious distinctions in Hoosiers history. 
Indiana (6-23, 1-16) finished 5-10 at Assembly Hall, the fewest home wins since going 5­6 in 1969-70. The Hoosiers also matched the 1943-44 team for the worst home winning per­centage (.333) in school history. 
Coach Tom Crean, who was once on Izzo's staff, saw it another way. 
"We're starting to play our best basketball because our mind-set is so right," he said. "We played a great team tonight and we knew we would have to be almost flawless to beat them. They could have packed it in at the 13-point deficit, but they didn't do it like they have in past games. That's a sign of maturi­ty." 
Tigers 75, Cavaliers 57 
Look out below. 
Clemson forwards Trevor Booker, Raymond Sykes and Jerai Grant turned the second half against Virginia into their own personal dunk contest and lifted the Tigers (No. 19 ESPN/USA Today, No. 18 AP) to a 75-57 victory on Tuesday night. 
Clemson coach Oliver Purnell had seen enough soft shots in the first half to last all season and told his team to be aggres­sive. 
"When we get the ball down low and the opportunity is there, we're going to try and dunk it," said Booker, smiling. 
Terrence Olgesby had 18 points, Sykes 14 and Booker his 11th double-double of the sea­son with 13 points and 15 rebounds as the Tigers (23-6) snapped a two-game losing streak. 
At 9-6 in the Atlantic Coast Conference, Clemson was guar­anteed back-to-hack winning league seasons for just the sec­ond time in school history. 
And it couldn't have been a more crowd-pleasing finale at Littlejohn Coliseum. 
It didn't start out that way, though. 
Virginia, which shocked the then 12th-ranked Tigers 85-81 last month, was ahead in this one, 33-32, early in the second half. 
Booker got things started with a dunk that gave Clemson a 38­33 lead. Sykes, one of two sen­iors in the Tigers starting line­up, followed with a right-hand­ed throwdown moments later. 
Grant, the son of former Oklahoma star Harvey Grant, added a dunk to stretch the lead to 44-35. 
Booker used the left hand for his next jam, sending Littlejohn Coliseum into a frenzy and put­ting the Tigers ahead 50-35. 
Just for fun, Booker used both hands to jam it home with 3:54 left and his team up 71-51. 
"You know what, it's a special team when you have guys with that kind of athleticism," Oglesby said. 
In all, Clemson jammed it home six times after the break. 
"It fueled the energy. It fueled the crowd," Virginia coach Dave Leitao said. 
It didn't help that Virginia's star freshman, Sylven Landesberg, was held to three foul shots. He came in averag­ing 17.4 points, but missed all six shots he took as the Cavaliers (9-17, 3-12) lost their fourth straight. 
Leitao said opponents have come to run players at Landesberg in waves. For Clemson, K.C. Rivers and David Potter did most of the work around the perimeter with the 6-foot-9 Sykes waiting inside. 
"It has led to a little bit of frustration," the coach said. 
That was obvious for the Cavaliers, called for three tech­nical fouls -one each on Leitao, Calvin Baker and John Brandenburg. 
Leitao strode out near the 3­point line to protest one no call on Jeff Jones in the opening half. 
Baker showed his angst slam­ming the ball hard to the floor after a foul call, although Leitao added his guard was mad at himself and the situation and not the official. 
Finally, Brandenburg had a prolonged scream after blocking Demontez Stitt's shot that the officials did not like. 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 4, 2009 

Now leasing lor 2009.ZOIO! 
Apply Today Limited Space Available!!! 
O&ering the Best Rental Rates in 
Town! $991or 1st Months Rent with 12 Month Lease! 
$300 o& 1st Months Rent with 9 Month Lease! Free AppDcation Fee lor Students with 
ID! Close to Campus! 

eastle~oint 
Apartme11ts 18011 Cleveland Rd, South Bend, IN, 46647 Phone: (574) 272-8110 Fax: (574) 272-8114
www.zidans.com 
Photo courtesy of Tim Connor Mike Lockert calls an Irish hockey game earlier this year. Lockert died in his sleep early Friday morning. He was 43. 
around every day "ML" stickers on
"He was somebody

at practice and the backs of 
you learned to

games, he was their helmets somebody you appreciate just by the over the week­learned to appre­end and will con­
man's soul. " 

ciate just by the tinue to do so the man's soul." rest of the year, Mike was more Jeff Jackson and Jackson said a part of the team Irish coach he is planning a 
Apply Now-! 
Visit our website to learn more about summer staff 

OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 305 Main Building I Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone: 574.631.5878 f E-Mail: summer@nd.edu
or & 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Need more on Notre Dame sports? Check out The Casual Observer at observersportsblog.wordpress.com 
Lockert 
continued from page 20 
was family. 
"Mike was a part of our family," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "I missed my pregame interview with him Friday and all I could think about was the fact he was­n't there. I missed him being on the bus on Saturday, with his gig­gles and his laughs about some of the bad movies the kids watch. 
"Just his pleasant demeanor and being some­body who was 
than he was a member of the media, but he did his job well and was respected by his peers, as several blog posts on uscho.com have paid tribute to the announc­er he was. 
On the few days when Tim Connor, the team's sports infor­mation director, wasn't at prac­tice and I needed to interview Jackson or the players, Mike was happy to set it up -after a joke or two about how I hadn't been around in a while, or about a movie he'd just watched, or about one of the players' antics on a recent road trip. 
With Mike, it didn't really mat­ter what you talked about. You couldn't help but laugh. 
"He was just one of those guys that when he was around, he made everyone else happier and always had a smile on his face," junior defenseman Kyle Lawson said. "As it settles in, you just start thinking about the good times you had with him, what he meant to the program and all the games he did for us. We'll defi­nitely never forget him, and it gives us something else to play 
f.
or. " Friday was senior night, but as service next 
week to remem­ber Mike. A picture of Mike call­ing a game now hangs in the Joyce Center press box. 
But for everyone close to the Irish program, it won't be the sound clips, the stickers, the serv­ice or the picture that help them remember Mike. It won't even be his jokes or his laugh. 
It will be his friendship. 
"I used to listen to his broad­casts and just laugh sometimes because of some of the comments he'd make or nicknames he'd have. But I said it the other night -it's a lot more than the voice, it's about the man behind the voice," Jackson said. "He was very loyal to tllis group of kids and to this program, and I think there was a relationship there. More than a professional rela­tionship, it was a friendship, and we're going to miss him a great deal." 
We already do, Mike. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd. edu 
much as Condra and his class­mates have accomplished over the last four years, Friday was about Mike. He'd been around the Irish program since before Jackson or any of the current players arrived, and he'd seen the team go through the lows of a five-win season and a coaching change to the highs of conference titles and a Frozen Four run. 
Jackson said the brief audio tribute, which was followed by a moment of silence in Mike's honor, was just the first of several ways the Irish hope to honor 
Mike. 
The team wore 


Wednesday, March 4, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Buckeyes 
continued from page 20 
straight combined conference title. 
Seventh-year Irish coach Janusz Bednarski predicted this resurgence from the Buckeyes, who are currently ranked third in the USFCA College Fencing Coaches Poll. 
"We will fence Ohio State once again because of NCAA competition, so they will try to get revenge," Bednarski said after his team's first weekend of competition in late January. 
Ohio State took the men's 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 
:::MUSIQVE 
liN IVf<RSITY OF 
~DEBARTOLO
NOTRE DAME 
~ PERFORMING ARTS CfNlf~
l)t:f..\1HME:\i'l"tW Mt:~H; 

,. 
9:00P.M. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4, 2009 
REYES ORGAN AND CHORAt HALL MARl!. r Otl>ARIOtO CENHit lOR lf.l£ !'f.RfOitMINt~ ARTS 
AllMI~SI()N SJ I'HONf :574-631-;!1100 FOI~ TICKHS 

DRUMMERS NEEDED 
WANT TO BE A PART OF THE NOTRE DAME GAMEDAY TRADITION? DON'T HAVE TIME FOR THE MARCHING BAND? 
~-~.JOIN THE NOTRE DAME ~ , ., ~) BAGPIPE BAND! ~i'< 
l.....-~~~ 

• 
TIME COMMITMENT IS APPROX. TWO HOURS A WEEK PLUS SATURDAY MORNINGS DURING FOOTBALL SEASON (DON'T WORRY, YOU WILL NEVER MISS A KICKOFF) 

• 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR ALL DRUMS (SNARE, BASS, TENOR) 


CONTACT DAVE WARTKO FOR MORE INFORMATION 
dwartko@nd.edu 
foil and epee divisions and 2 Penn State, is also waiting women's sabre and foil divi­in the wings, ready to take 
sions after fac­ing the Irish in 
the  finals  this  
weekend.  The  
Buckeyes  will  

have the home advantage next weekend as they host the Midwest Regional in Columbus, Ohio, the final oppor­tunity to qualify fencers for the national cham­pionship event. 
A fellow Big Ten power, No. tle bit more talented and we 
down an Irish team that has played a busy
'There are so many 
tournament
factors we can't 
schedule but control, especially on still have little collegiate
a young team. But 
experience.
anything can happen 
Furthermore,ifyou make it to the newly instated 
Bloody Four." 
NCAA regula­tions will limit the champi­
Janusz Bednarski 
onship roster Irish coach size from years past. "We are a lit­

have a bigger bench than Penn State, but it will play for them because their first two fencers are from the national team and are very good," Bednarski said. 
Facing that adversity, the Irish will have to rely on the one constant that has carried the team for most of the year -the talented core of under­classmen fighters. 
Bednarski chalks up the youngsters' success to an unparalleled work ethic and a growing sense of community between the seniors and the newcomers. 
"They are adjusting very quickly to the qifferent type of 
NHL 
Capitals lose second straight at ho111e in rout 
Associated Press 
~ASHINGTON -Whatever the reason -distracted by the impending trade deadline, play­ing too individually instead of as a team, overlooking oppo­nents -the Washington Capitals suddenly are no longer dominant at home. They're rather ordinary, in fact. 
And the Carolina Hurricanes were the latest visitors to take full advantage. 
Carolina's Patrick Eaves scored twice, and the Hurricanes produced all sorts of goals -penalty shot, short­handed, power play, even strength -in a 5-2 victory Tuesday night, the Capitals' second consecutive lopsided loss in Washington. 
"We're going through this funk right now," Capitals coach Bruce Boudreau said. "It looked like there was a complete lack of energy." 
The Southeast Division-lead­ing Capitals own the Eastern Conference's best home record but now have lost four of their last six games in Washington, including a 6-2 defeat against Florida on Sunday. 
Starting goalie Jose Theodore left after allowing four goals in the first period of Sunday's game; he was a late scratch competition, the different type of bouts because definitely it's a different system," Bednarski said. 
But in the end it may come down to a combination of luck and talent to determine the winner. 
"It's very hard for coaches to predict," Bednarski said. "I've been in this business for so long. There are so many factors we can't control, espe­cially on such a young team. But anything can happen if we make it to the Bloody Four." 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Tuesday because of the flu, and rookie Michal Neuvirth allowed four goals in the second period en route to a 5-0 deficit a day before NHL teams' last chance to make deals. 
"I wish I could put my fmger on it right now. I don't know if it's because of tomorrow, and people are worried, they hear rumors. I don't know," Boudreau said. "I know poor Michal didn't know he was playing until he got here tonight. Maybe that had some bearing on his ineffectiveness." 
Eric Staal scored on a penalty shot, Eaves and Matt Cullen put in short-handed goals less than 4 minutes apart, Chad LaRose tallied during a 5-on-5, and Eaves' power-play goal made it 5-0 with about 2 minutes left in the second period. 
''We scored in probably every way you could, and it was good," said Eaves, who entered the night with three goals in 57 games this season and nearly doubled that output in 10 1fz minutes. "We needed that." • 
A crowd of 17,903 -ending the Capitals' home sellout streak at a record 11 games ­showered their team with scat­tered boos, replaced by sarcas­tic hootin' and hollerin' when the announcement came over the PA system that there was only a minute left in the second period. 
"Tonight we got outworked. Bruce always talks about 'will and want are going to win you hockey games.' And tonight they had it, and they executed, and we didn't do it," Capitals forward Brooks Laich said. "It's not an easy thing -we pride ourselves on our work ethic." 
Alexander Semin's 1 OOth career goal -scored off his knees on a power play -with 3 seconds left in the second peri­od, and Sergei Fedorov's tally with less than 2 minutes remaining in the game were the only blemishes against Cam 
Ward.  He  finished  with  39  
saves.  
After  Fedorov's  goal,  he  

raised his arms in the air, and two teammates came over to hug him. The trio wound up on the ice, a result that replays appeared to show was a result of Fedorov losing his balance.. Boudreau, however, was upset at what he thought was an over-the-top celebration for a team en route to a loss. 
"That was pretty embarrass­ing," Washington's coach said. ''I'm sure if I was on the Carolina bench, I'd be going: 'Look at these idiots." 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-----------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 4, 2009 
Byers 
continued from page 20 
and is second in points. 
Byers is the only Irish player to ever score at least 50 goals and 66 points in a season three straight times. Last season, she became Notre Dame's all-time goal-scoring leader with 179 in three seasons, and her 52 draw controls broke the school record as well. Last year, she also ranked 14th in the nation in points and was tied for sev­enth in goals. 
"She gives a lot of positive recognition to our program," Coyne said. "Jill is very special. She is an extremely hard work­er and is very team-oriented, but what I think she'd like to have even more is a Big East championship. She is still focused on the team goals and accomplishments." 
For Byers, breaking records and making a name for herself started before even stepping foot on Notre Dame's campus. 
Coming into her freshman year, she held her Long Island high school's records for goals and assists in a career and was among the top four in goals and assists in a season and career for the state of New York. She was a lacrosse cap­tain her senior year, as well as three-time MVP, and an All­American her junior and sen­ior years. 
Her senior year, Inside Lacrosse magazine named her one of the top-10 "Blue Chip" recruits nationalJy. 
"Jill was very heavily recruit­ed, and at the time she was the biggest recruit we'd signed," Coyne said. "But she also chose Notre Dame for what the University represents. It encompasses everything she values and she has gained con­fidence in herself as a student through her accomplishments with lacrosse. 
"Her decision to come here impacted the program, but I think the University has impacted her as well." 
Byers never regretted choos­ing Notre Dame over other schools. 
"I feel very blessed to play for Notre Dame," Byers said. "Tracy is a competitive coach who loves to win, so we get along well. Playing for Notre Dame is a dream come true. Being able to represent one of the most prestigious universi­ties in the nation and play the sport I love is something I don't take for granted." 
Byers' success for the Irish has been noticed outside of South Bend; her competitors and league officials have rec­ognized the attack's impact on the field. 
She is a three-time IWLCA second team All-American and unanimous first team All-Big East selection, and was named to the 2009 preseason All Big East team with Notre Dame teammates Shannon Burke and Shaylyn Blaney. 
Byers, along with Blaney, has been nominated for the esteemed Tewaaraton Trophy this year, the top collegiate lacrosse award in the country. She is the fourth Notre Dame player to be nominated. 
"Being named to the all-Big East team is great because our conference keeps getting more and more competitive each year," Byers said. 
Byers' accomplishments are well worth her efforts, and only hopes to help her team accomplish even more as the season progresses. 
"I would love to look back on my college career and have something tangible to show for all the hard work I have put into lacrosse. A Big East championship and a national championship are always on my mind and leaving a legacy of tradition and excellence for those younger than me is something I strive to do each and every day,"" she said. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

starts for the Irish. "In evaluating things to
Michigan 

date, I believe we have done continued from page 20 well considering that the 
majority of our matches have to rebound from losses. The been against highly ranked Irish fell at Wisconsin, 4-3, teams," Bayliss said. "All but Sunday, while the Wolverines one of our top-1 0 players are lost matches to No. 15 freshmen and sophomores Pepperdine and Washington and that partially explains last week. how we can beat No. 13 Texas 
After a 5-0 start, Michigan A&M on Friday and lose to No. has lost six of 30 Wisconsin its last seven, on Sunday." but still boasts a 'The nucleus for But Notre 
strong lineup. future greatness is Dame has been "They are competitive in
here, and my job is to
coming off their nearly all its 
spring break in see that our guys matches, which California, and continue to improve.,, gives Bayliss I'm not sure reason to see what that promise for
Bobby Bayliss 
means as it future success, affects our he said.
Irish coach 
match," Bayliss said. "Jason Jung is very strong at No. 1 [singles]. [No. 2 singles] Andrew Mazlin has one of the biggest serves in college ten­nis and a big forehand to back it up. [No. 3 singles] Mike Sroczynski also serves big and rips his forehand." 
Notre Dame's one weakness has been inconsistency, and that can, in part, be accounted for by the team's youth. Brett Helgeson, the team's No. 1 singles player, is the only upperclassman who regularly 
"Half of our 
matches have been 4-3 decisions and I expect that trend to continue," Bayliss said. "The nucleus for future greatness is here, and my job is to see that our guys continue to improve." 
After the Irish host Michigan today they will travel to La Jolla, Calif., over Spring Break to compete in the Pacific Coast Doubles tournament March 5­8. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @nd.edu 



Do you consider the word "motivated" an understatement? \X7e tiJ(Jttgl1t sc1. 
it's time for your hard work to pay oft within an organization that was once; again named onf: of BusinessWeek's 50 Bf.>st P!,Kes To Uwr.ch A C.>re•er Wf.> offer a colk'iborativ&, indusiw: cu!ture. With custcwniz;lbit? careers, proh~ssJonai d£>ve!opment and b€>nefits And a(ommitment to community, th<> envi1onment, and making time> for family. t·rs ynur futur+. Hc,w +m 1Vii! you tak0 iU 
for an e!£-ctroni( information packet text "NOTREDAME" to 78573. Visit us on the web at deloitte.com/us/notrodame. 
O.el<~rtt~ U9 ~mj it~~ ~d3:~KJ:0n~ ~r€ 4f~ t?qt.a.~ uppt,~t~m~ty ~rrwk-y~.~r 
Ahca~t OiJCittt­
O~!o~'tt~tef~r::s.t¢: .Ort'f:i>t mt1-tt:'Ci ~~c~u~ Tow;::h~ lnhn-::a111V.. a SwtS$ Vier$'!H, otnci f'h ~t:w»rk ¢ m~mb~ tum)., ~~h ~f ~vhi<h ~"a t~g;itU)' ~~-:nJ.~t~ -&nd mrl*~ndefi·~ ~rrt~iy. Pleme: :):$It ~~'-t,~.d~E":;kntte.(Of'l":J"ltXH.l~ tor a deta~~ed·ti~uripti.O!t ~r *~ i~.S~ rtrtsctJ,ir~ of l)~{{)jtte Tot)<: hoe r~hm~ts.V ~nd ~~\ membef H~ms. ?~~~u1.e~ W'l-f\:•;,d~birte-.tom/;Jgab-o:Jt to~» detadect de)aip~bn of th~' ~ega! $tructu(e of C·~i.~itt<t llP ~~d it~ sub$~diMie~. 

Deloitte* 
(opyn\jh! *2008 D~k>~tt~ D~'"'*'pmenl llC A!i r,gN~ '~"'""d 


Wednesday, March 4, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

CROSSWORD 
Across 30 Some fund­1 Level 
raising orgs. 33 Parade honoree,

5 Record store familiarly
section 37 Ring around the

9 "Natch!" collar?
13 Puzzlemaker 38 Nail-biter, Rubik perhaps14 Big name in 40 Billy Joel's "_briefs to Extremes" 
16 Played for a 41 Come to mind
cat's-paw 43 It's handed down 

17 Robin Hood's 44 Pueblo dweller 
love 45 Catch in the act

19 Like some telegrams 47 Storefront shaders
20 Identified 49 Leader deposed 
21 Frolicking 
in 1955 23Biancwho 
54 Rescuer of voiced Porky Pig 

Odysseus 24 One at the front 
55 1960s role for 

desk, perhaps 
Diana Rigg 25 Cheer up 
56 Palace 28 Business letter 
(French abbr. 
president's 29 Relief map figs. home) 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

59 Writer O'Fiaherty 60 Bearers of a phrase suggested by saying the starts of 17-, 24-, 38­
and 49-Across 62 Kick back 63 Safe place 64 Specks in the 
Seine 65 Gave the nod 66 Test version 67 Thomas who 
wrote "Utopia" 
Down 
Fill-in 2 "Dies 3 Tough to figure 
out 4 "Blue Moon" 
composer 5 Roe source 6 Galley need 7 Men in blue 8 Rimes of country 
music 9 Any character in 
Clue 10 Take forcibly 11 Zellweger of 
"Nurse Betty" 12 Neatening tool 15 Plumber's tool. 18 Cheesy entree 22 Pick up on 24 Major chipmaker 25 Symbol of 
goodness 26 It may be D.C. 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Michael Langwald 

27 Prefix with 39 Copy cats? 52 Dry out, in a way center 
42 Like a 53 Place for 31 Way back when 
ghostwriter 
pimiento32 Wrap in a roll 
44 Dickens lad 34 "Layla" has one 56 Novelist Ferber 
46 Nut producer 35 Totally wowed 57 One who's "just 

48 Rock's Lofgren 
36 Deep-six looking"49 Molded fare 
38 'The Sound of 58 Latin 101 verb50 Eskimo boat Music" family 
name 51 Totally wow 61 Rent out 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1·800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TinS DAY: J~•sica Bid, 27: Jadde Jovner-K~rsee. 47; I:kr.c·hd. \\'llker, 47: Ira Gla~•-50 • 
Happy Birthday: Nothing will he as it appo:ars.l'ncettainty reg<m:ling direction, locatior1 and your future mliY plague yop but il will also hdp lead you in a diK-etion 1ha1 will sat­isfy your noolh. This is a W'" to think mauers through and then lake a.:tion. Let go of the past :1nd move forward whh dear •+lion. Your numbers are 1:\, 15, 20,24.36, 39,45 
ARlES (Man:h t1-April. 19): Cvn~idcr what }'\lll want IP accPmplish in term> vf y(>UT relationships, wmfort and •tatu•. You can make S(>mo 4.-cision> based on lh" """vuntcrs you haw wi!h p<'<>ple from differ~'llt hackgnmn<k Get im·olved in a bumanitmian cause. 4stan 
TAURUS (Apri.! 20-Ma:y 20): Surpri.c others wi!h your choke$. You lm'e to stay one step ahead of ewryon~ dse and not g,iw in <11 give up because of the competition. Take on a cllaUcngc and show )~lur sln."'lgth of clw:ra.,'ter and courage. :1 stan 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Ewl)thing will he out in the open and easy fur you to=· Don't get emotivnal when there i~ "" much yoo can aL>:<>mplish if}'<ru are (,'lensed on what you wanl. Add~ respo:m.<ihilitics for younger or older rcblive$ or friends can he ell­p<>Cted. ~ stars 
CANCER (JUM 21-July 22): '!he time to look for a new job or to get involved in a proj­ect that i> different and capture~ your int=t is now. Dbn't give up what yoo'w already gt>l tmti! youkn<~w )'00 ha~·e M1!114>th.ing to go to. Cba11ge is app~rent bUt>tay ill "mllrul. !> 
Mal'l< 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Gatherings, tr-avel or "'·en a convention wdllcad. to some inter­esting conbcts, Dbn't be sufJ)rised if some..1ne from your past plays a role in a deci<ian yoo haw to make regarding love. con!l"dets or a partnership. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. ~: Don't give into a sob •tory. tlu\1ats or ultimatum<. Stand your ground and sh<.>w you atenl a pushover. You can make headway wi!h the poople you have to deal with. Serioos talks will bring about change. 2 star> 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Ewrything ~!here 10.. yoo to c)(cel. lllllke improwrn.:nh or enjoy your fill: --just make lh<! cff<lfl. All em,ounter with :1.t>I1ICOIIC Y<>ll can: for will k<ld to life-.:hanglng plans. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Doo't he fooled bv a fast talker <lf someone who wants 100 mudt fn.>rn rou, S<'!lf-d.:c¢plimt \\•ill 1-.: ~·nur cOemy, s<• be $\11'10 10 nile <>Ill any misNn· cepti<>n )'OU may have ahoottbe possihililics of what you are trying to accomplish. 3 stars 
SAOITIARllJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You n«<lto make som~ ebanll"s re;anling your earning potential and the war you are doing things currently. Pick up a new skill or try S<>l~Wihing altoge!her different. Somet'>lle -.·h<.> cai'Cf; for you will cm•ourage )'<)U ta move m the dlru;;tion.lx:s.t for you. 3 srur~ 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22·11111. 19): You don't haw to he aggressive I<> get whai you want. Doo't let a pertronal relalion>hip you haw with sotm'<lnc intcrfer~ with what you need ta d<> Ia get ah~ad. Children will he a source ofinspiratitm. J stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): Expcrienct> •an"" gathered by getting involved ill •ometbing dll'l'er~nt (>f signing up thr "~·)urt<e lhat illlelt'sts yau. M"st .,fall. d<> ll1ings dtal are different fmm }"Ul' nvrmal routine. S s.tar.; 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Maroh 20): Kc"l' loUr emmi<,ns well bidden. Obs.erving vtb~'n will help Yt>ll rmtkc the right cbJJk'l:~. Someone you respe(;t will open y11ureyes to tbe reality you are facing regarding yt>UT current relntiom;hip wi\h "'""'ooe from your past. 2 c<~ar, 
llitthday Baby: You are a great C(•mmunkill<)r •• ~rensitive, ~motional and p.:Nuasive.You are insightful, intuitive, charismatic and energetic. 
Eugnlia's m·b sirn: eugmialasu•omforiX>f!{Memittl CI'JtlSttllaliOIIS, mysJW('f'•X»IIku_g<miaftm for Er1.~•mia's blag, nstmadvice.cmtt far fim · 
www. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
THE DOME PIECE 
rHOSIBROADSIII CANC/111 I'~ SO GUD YOli'RIIIOr AI¥ GONNA J.OYI MY MIArf 6#/NG rillS WIIK 6tr116/d 
' 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events !n the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­. nying form and mail it today to receive The 
Observer in your home. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
DAVID CAVADINI 
MM. I CAIIr WNr ro PRN6 rill ¥liN OOWIIr'O rHI SPRING IJRIIU( IIIACHisf 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
MIKE ARGIRION 
JUMBLE 
JEFF KNUREK 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek

~ 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
I 
OSTIC ( J I 
©2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All flights Reserved. 
MIDU1 ~ 
WHAT THE: CI<AFTS 
CI...A55 SAID WHE:N THE:V 1-t:AI<NE:D T 0 MAKE: A 13E:I...T. 

I I 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as


J I I J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer: ITJ'DA" [I I I I)" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's IJumbles: INKED VISOR EXOTIC AMAZON Answer: She went over for some sugar and came home with -SOME "DIRT" 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $12 5 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ____~------------------------------­City _______________ State _____ Zip_______ 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, March 4, 2009 
page 20 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Rewriting the record books 
Byers now school's all-time points leader 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Scoring goals is how Jillian Byers plays the game, and Notre Dame's senior captain showed it Saturday when she scored five to set the all-time Irish record for career points. 
"I am someone who is very passionate about the sport of lacrosse, so it is nice after four years to have something to show for all of the hard work and sacrifices everyone has made along the way," Byers said. "It's definitely a great accomplishment." 
Byers passed former team­mate Crysti Foote, class of 2006, to become Notre Dame's all-time leader with 238 points after entering the season with 225, good for third. 
"She is a very graceful play­er," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "She makes it look effort­less when it's not and has put a lot of work into it. She is an exciting player to watch. She generates the feeling that some­thing special is going to happen and that definitely was true on Saturday." 
Byers has been making an impact on the field for the Irish since the start of her freshman season in 2006, when she played alongside Foote. Byers scored 54 goals and picked up 24 assists for 78 points, second on the team behind Foote's 114. 
As a sophomore, Byers' 66 points on 58 goals and 8 assists led the Irish. She led the team again in her junior season, scor­ing 67 goals and 14 assists for 81 points. This season, Byers leads the Irish in goals with 13 
see BYERS/page 18 


MEN'S TENNIS 

Wolverines set to visit No.25ND 
By KATE GRABAREK Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will continue its brutal early-season slate when it hosts Michigan today. 
The No. 25 Irish (7-7) and the No. 18 Wolverines (6-6), who will meet at 4 p.m., have both played highly competi­tive schedules and are fairly even-matched, Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
"Down the line they are very solid and have plenty of depth with very strong doubles," Bayliss said. "It should be another very close match." 
Both teams will be looking 
see MICHIGAN/page 18 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Miller becomes program's fastest swimmer in team's win 
for something that takes less than Miller said. "We stand on one events on the first day to get the Though the Irish accomplishedBy MOLLY SAMMON a minute, that's when its worth it," another and hold everyone Irish off to a solid start in the Big a major goal in bringing home 
Sports Writer 

Miller said. "That's what drives accountable to work hard for the East meet, but the relays didn't another conference crown, Miller most of us." team and push themselves." stop dominating after the first day. and her teammates still have their 
When Notre Dame won its 13th Miller was also a crucial mem­In fact, she said, that's what The next day, the 200 free relay eyes set on the NCAA consecutive Big East ber of Notre Dame's first-place makes being on a relay team so of Miller, Fotseh, Maggie Behrens Championships set to begin March Championship on Feb. 21, it was­200 medley relay team, which rewarding. and Christa Higgins took second, 19 in College Station, Texas. n't without a little individual glory. edged Lousville's group by only .59 "Being at Notre Dame has and the 400 medley relay of Miller, "I think we have all worked on 
Sophomore Amywren Miller seconds. Miller said the team, taught me how spedal it is to be Behrens, Kuhlke and Maxwell becoming a stronger team this broke the Irish record in the 50-which also included freshman on the relays and be a part of took first by ahnost a second over year and working harder every yard freestyle, making her the Colleen Fotsch and sophomores something that represents the second-place Louisville. day," Miller said. "Being a part of fastest female swimmer in school Kellyn Kuhlke and Samantha team," Miller said. "Relays deli­Aside from her personal victory this team makes me want to be history with a time of 22.37 sec­Maxwell, used its closeness to suc­nitely pump up my adrenaline, in the 50 free, Miller proved her the best I can be for myself and for onds. ceed in the water. and that's what makes me swim dominance as a sprinter when she my teammates." 
"The best part of the sport is "Team bonding happens natu­my best." came in seeond in the 100 free, going [for your] best times -rally around here, and that's my Both the 800 free relay and th1) behind only Kayla Andrews of Contact Molly Sammon at when all your hard work pays off favorite part about this team," 200 medley relay teams won their West VI.i'ginia. msammon@nd.edu 
HOCKEY COMMENTARY 
In Lockert, Irish lose announcer and friend 
Erik Condra's eyes began to 
tear up when clips from Mike Lockert's last Irish hockey radio broadcast were played over the loudspeakers after Notre Dame's pregame 
introduc­
tions Friday. But it's not Lockert's on-air catch­phrases or nicknames that Condra will remem­ber most about the Irish play­by-play man, who died early Friday morning of an apparent heart attack at 43. 
"When we were on the bus 
watching 'Family Guy' or some 
funny movie, he had the loudest 

Matt Gamber 
Associate Sports Editor 
laugh and you knew he was hav­ing a good time," Condra said. "You could hear him from the front of the bus or the back of the bus. It didn't matter where you were, you knew Lockert was on the bus. That's how I think most guys will remember him." 
To say Mike Lockert was Notre Dame's radio play-by-play man for the last seven years wouldn't scratch the surface of what he meant to the Irish hockey pro­gram. 
On most days, he'd be the only member of the media at practice, but he wouldn't be taking notes, conducting interviews or chasing a story. He'd ride the team bus to road games, but he wouldn't be using his insider access to divulge any juicy gossip on the air. 
Mike was just there because he wanted to be. Because people wanted him to be. Because he 
see LOCKERTIpage 16 
FENCING 

Buckeyes waiting for battle 
Notre Dame still No. 1, but Ohio State a prime contenderfor nat'l title 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 

Despite another successful weekend for top-ranked Notre Dame, the road ahead will only become more treacher­ous as the mid-March NCAA Championships fast approach. 
Heigning national champion Ohio State has to be feeling confident heading into the upcoming NCAA Midwest Regional. The Buckeyes had Notre Dame's number at the Midwest Fencing Conference Championships, finishing the event in first place with 1,310 points and edging the Irish by 20 points. That performance earned Ohio State its fourth 
see BUCKEYES/page 17 






