t e
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Andy Steves talks travel 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
News Writer 
After many years of travel experience in Europe, senior Andy Steves is using his knowl­edge to help other college stu­dents navigate their way around Europe while studying abroad. 
As a part of International Education Week, a nation-wide initiative, Steves provided stu­dents with international travel tips Thursday night in Montgomery Auditorium in LaFortune Student Center. 
Inspired by his travel guru father, Rick Steves, and his own experiences abroad as a student, Steves saw the need for student-friendly travel sites and guides to help college stu­dents form ideal itineraries in order to make the most out of their sightseeing abroad. 
“When I was abroad, I real­ized there’s really nothing out there for the college student abroad,” Steves said. 
After returning from Notre Dame’s Rome program in the spring of 2008, Steves decided to create andysteves.com, a “for students, by students” col­laborative resource for week­end student adventures, which includes blog entries, sample itineraries, travel tips and pho­tos to help the college traveler. 
see TRAVEL/page 9 

By ROBERT SINGER 
Assistant News Editor 
The number of arrests on home football Saturdays has gone from 129 last year to approximately 30 this year after six home games. 
Director of Game Day Operations Mike Seamon said Game Day initiatives have not changed the policy of Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP), but instead have led to a collaborative approach by the various groups working game days and made fans aware of the University’s expectations for them. These two factors have helped lower the number of arrests, he said. 
Fan furor over alleged abuses 



Game-day arrests decrease this season 
Ad hoc committee established last year examined problems in stadium, on campus 
by police officers have lead to changes in the University’s approach to game days, but Seamon said complaints of unruly fan conduct on campus have decreased. 
“A lot of folks thought there was more disruptive behavior on cam­pus than there should have been. A family came and the people around them in the parking lot or Stadium were being overly dis­ruptive,” he said. “Someone else’s behavior was really offensive or was creating problems for the family.” 
To solve the problems encoun­tered last year, University President Fr. John Jenkins estab­
see ARRESTS/page 9 




Last pep rally set for Irish Green 
Event was tentatively scheduled in Purcell Pavilion; students disappointed with change 

By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Although the last pep rally of the 2009 football season was ten­tatively scheduled to be held in the new Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center, it will be held today at Irish Green, Director of Gameday Operations Mike Seamon said. 
This decision has caused frus­tration and disappointment this week within student government and among members of the stu­dent body, student body presi­dent Grant Schmidt said. 
“A lot of us are very frustrated that it’s not at Purcell Pavilion like we were told,” Schmidt said. 
“Some people might say that it’s just a pep rally, but I honestly believe that at Notre Dame it is a lot more” 
Seamon said the decision to hold the pep rally at Irish Green came after the football team decided to honor the senior play­ers and their parents in the Stadium before kickoff on Saturday rather than during Friday’s pep rally. 
“We tentatively aimed for the Joyce Center and the reason for this was … we were going to do the announcement of the senior players and their parents,” he said. “And if we were going to do that we were going to do it 
see RALLY/page 8 



Notre Dame alum to discuss MTV job 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
After graduating from Notre Dame in 1995, Christina Glorioso did what many recent college graduates hope to do. She took a well-paying job in Chicago. 
But a few years later, Glorioso realized she wanted to take the plunge and seek a career she loved — a career in the enter­tainment industry. 
”I wanted to live in Chicago and I wanted to make a lot of money,” she said. 
But three years later, Glorioso changed her mind. 
“The position didn’t matter … the pay didn’t matter,” she said. 
Now vice president of Marketing Partnerships for MTV Networks, Glorioso will speak Friday about business in the entertainment industry. 
The lecture is sponsored by the Notre Dame MBA Entertainment Club and will be at 10:30 a.m. in room 162 of the Mendoza College of Business. 
Glorioso, class of ’95 and MBA ’99, has worked with MTV Networks since 2003. She has recently been working to pro-
see MTV/page 9 


Equestrianteamisn’thorsingaround 

By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
The members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s com­bined equestrian team have been successful in recent com­petitions and have bonded with each other on long bus rides —even when the bus smells like a barn. 
“There’s not much vanity in a group of girls who enjoy smelling like horses and have manure on their boots,” co-captain Mia Genereux, a freshman, said. “Horse shows take up tons of time because they are always on weekends, but we love traveling together and bonding on the bus as a 
see TEAM/page 8 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students anticipate last home game page 3  Scene advice column page 15  Men’s soccer page 28  Viewpoint page 12 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, November 20, 2009 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Stop LaFun PDA 
A terrible catastrophe has been plaguing Notre Dame for quite some time now, and no one is doing any­thing to stop it. 
No, this isn’t a column about Charlie Weis. I’m talking about something even worse. 
Obnoxious cou­ples are taking Notre Dame’s much-discussed hook-up culture to a whole new level and using the LaFortune Student 


Irena Zajickova 
Center as their own private spot to 
News
kiss, make out and 

Production
cuddle nauseating-
Editor
ly. 

I was first made aware of this horrifying phenomenon when I saw a couple kissing, practi­cally horizontal, in the tiny one-bench booth across from Subway. 
Since then, I’ve seen people leaning across the table to kiss, getting up every five minutes to hug each other and —Iam not making this up — a guy motorboating his girlfriend in the LaFun basement. This needs to stop. There are tons of people in LaFun actually trying to study, and unless Notre Dame suddenly made annoying me into a major, I really don’t think these couples are doing that. 
It’s not like I’m shocked when I see this behavior in other locations. Fever or Finny’s? I’d be more surprised if no one there was making out. Outside of a dorm right after parietals? Understandable. But seriously, in LaFortune? 
I’m sure all of the PDAers reading this are writing me off as a bitter girl who’s jealous because she doesn’t have a boyfriend. Okay, yeah, maybe I haven’t found my soulmate like you guys obviously have. But when I do, if I ever engage in gross PDA at LaFun, you have my permission to kill me on the spot. 
I can’t even imagine that PDAing (yes, it’s a verb) in LaFun would be all that pleasant. You’re in a ridiculously crowded public place with people completely surrounding you. Many of them are probably making fun of you quietly to their friends. But maybe I just don’t know what I’m missing. 
So the next time you feel the urge to PDA in Lafortune, take these simple steps: 
1. 
Ask the people around you if they would mind watching you kiss your significant other while they try to study for an exam or write a paper. I bet the results will be overwhelmingly negative. If not, maybe Notre Dame has bigger problems. 

2. 
Try to study without succumbing to these urges. Maybe there really is more to a relationship than the physi­cal stuff. 


2. If your hormones do get the best of you, find an alternate location. Dorm room, lounge, bench, behind a bush, wherever. 
Just, please, not in LaFun. 

And if you’re really desperate, Charlie Weis’ office will probably be empty pretty soon. You could go there. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at 
izajicko@nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR THANKSG V NG? 








Kyle Collins  Jaime Cordes  Matt Cheston  Christopher Lim  Rose Kavanaugh  Anne Crowley  
sophomore  junior  junior  junior  freshman  freshman  
Fisher  off campus  O’Neill  Dillon  Welsh Family  Walsh  
“Slumber. That’s  “Going home to  “Multiple food  “I’m going to  “I’m going to  “We always do  
it.”  North  comas.”  Chicago with  visit my friends  a dinner with  
Carolina.”  my girlfriend.”  in Illinois.”  all my cousins,  
where we play  

salt roulette.” 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

EILEEN VEIHMEYER/The Observer Farley Hall prepares for the upcoming Thanksgiving holiday by displaying an inflatable turkey decoration over the front entrance to the dorm. 


OFFBEAT 

Man accused of squeegee attack at gas station 
CONWAY, Ark. — A man accused of using a squeegee to hit another man during a fight over who was first in line at a gas pump was due in court on charges. The man, Hector Chavez, 21, was to be arraigned Friday in Faulkner County Circuit Court on a second-degree battery charge. 
A Conway police report said the victim told officers that he was waiting in line at a gas pump when Chavez cut in front of him. The vic­tim — who was not identi­fied — said he confronted Chavez with the squeegee and swung at him before Chavez took the squeegee and began beating him with it. 
A phone listing could not be found for Chavez and it wasn't clear whether he had an attorney. 
Person in chicken suit disrupts city council meeting 
DURANGO, Colo. — A per­son in a chicken costume ruffled the feathers of Durango’s city council as its members discussed rules for backyard fowl. At a council meeting Tuesday, someone in a chicken costume quietly entered the council cham­bers just as the mayor was discussing a recently-passed backyard hen ordinance. The costumed chicken took a few turns, flapped its arms, then took a seat in the nearly empty gallery. 
Several minutes later, the big bird left — without iden­tifying itself — after laying an egg on the floor. 
Council members told The Durango Herald they were perplexed by the costumed chicken but found the visit humorous. The council voted 3-2 earlier this month to make it easier to keep back­yard chickens. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight GAMEDAY sunday 



IN BRIEF 
Michael Holson, executive vice president and general counsel of Hewlett-Packard, will deliver a lecture today at 10:40 a.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The lecture is part of the Boardroom Insights Executive Speaker Series. It is free and open to the public. 

The Stadium tunnel will be open today from 10 a.m. until 5 
p.m. for visitors to walk through. 
The Notre Dame women’s soccer team will play Oregon State in the third round of the NCAA Tournament tonight at 
7:30 p.m. in Alumni Stadium. For ticket information, call 574­631-7356 or visit the athletic ticket office Web site. 
The University Symphonic Band and Symphonic Winds will perform their fall conert tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. For ticket information, call 574-631-2800. 
The film “Strong Bodies Fight: Rough Cut” will play Sunday at 5:30 p.m. in the Browning Cimema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. It is a documentary film about the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts boxing team and their partnership with the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. A ques­tion and answer session with director William Donaruma will follow the screening. The event is free, but ticketed. To reserve a ticket, call 574-631-2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
monday tuesday 


Atlanta 68 / 41 Boston 59 / 42 Chicago 52 / 41 Denver 59 / 36 Houston 65 / 51 Los Angeles 68 / 49 Minneapolis 53 / 33 New York 59 / 43 Philadelphia 58 / 41 Phoenix 78 / 52 Seattle 50 / 40 St. Louis 59 / 40 Tampa 80 / 63 Washington 60 / 43 
Friday, November 20, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Studentslookforlasthomewindespiterecentlosses 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Though storms brew around the future of the football pro­gram and signs of winter weather hit campus this week, students say they will be ready to prove they are not fair-weather fans when Notre Dame takes on Connecticut Saturday. 
“I think the team is going to want to reestablish themselves for the last home game,” soph­omore Katie Carter said. 
Carter predicted Saturday’s game will be close but said she thinks the Irish will pull out a win. 
“It’s going to be close, like every other game this season,” she said. “But with all the debate and controversy, I think they are going to be pumped up about it, and try to restore the faith in the team.” 
Carter said she expects cold weather for the game, but that the weather will not dampen her enthusiasm. 
“I’m dreading the cold, but I’m excited for everything that goes along with home football games — all the people and the festivities,” she said. 
Sophomore Maya Thode also said the cold weather will not deter her from attending the game, but she hopes she will not have to watch Notre Dame lose in the cold. 
“I don’t want to wait in vain in the cold. I don’t want a repeat of the Syracuse game,” Thode said. “I think we can win. We just have to get it together, not just as a team but as a fan base.” 
Junior Patrick Toole said he is especially rooting for an Irish win because he has friends who go to school at Connecticut. 
“I’m from Connecticut so if we lose I’ll get lots of crap,” he said. 
Though Toole said he was concerned about Jimmy Clausen’s ability to play in a cold weather game, he thinks the Irish will end the home sea­son on a high note. 
“I think we can win. It’s going to be a good game,” he said. 
Junior Tim Castellini said he anticipates a win because the seniors will be excited for their last home game. 
“I’m expecting a big win because Connecticut isn’t that good and it’s the seniors’ last home game so there is a lot of hype going into it for them,” he said. 
Castellini said the team’s two recent losses and the contro­versy over Charlie Weis’ posi­tion as head coach will not have a negative affect on the game. 
“I think they still look at it as just another week to take care of business,” he said. 
Toole also said he does not think Saturday’s game will affect the fate of the team or the coaching staff. 
“They’ve probably already decided [about Weis’ job,]” he said. “If they lose, Charlie’s gone. But I think he’s already gone and Jimmy’s foot is already out the door. 

“If they lose, it could be a nail in the coffin,” he said. 
Thode said the atmosphere on campus has been quiet this week. appointed,” she said. “But I 


“I haven’t really felt anything don’t think Notre Dame fans yet. I haven’t felt as much are really known for being fair anticipation as I feel there weather fans so I think the stu­should be,” she said. dent section will show up.” 
Sophomore Kathryn Austin agreed. Contact Sarah Mervosh at “I think campus is sort of dis-smervosh@nd.edu 



Assistant professor publishes new book 
civil society and among indi-

Special to The Observer 
viduals. As the title suggests, 
How do you reconcile for-the process is often disjoint-mer enemies in a society ed and may occur differently shattered by war, genocide among political elites and or violence? regular people, Verdeja 
In a new book, says. “Unchopping a Tree: “True reconciliation is Reconciliation in the achieved in a society only Aftermath of Political when the conflict-era identi-Violence,” published by ties — black/white, left/right, Temple University Press, Hutu/Tutsi, Muslim/Christian Ernesto Verdeja answers — are no longer the primary this question by examining cleavages in politics, and reconciliation efforts in post-people acquire new identi­conflict regions from Chile to ties that cut across those South Africa to Bosnia and earlier fault lines.” Herzegovina. He proposes a “‘Unchopping a Tree’ . . . new theory of reconciliation offers a sustained and clari­— one focused on a process fying analysis of respect and of public truth-telling, thus moves beyond forgive-accountability for perpetra-ness as the key to personal tors, recognition of victims, and political reconstruction commitment to the rule of after mass atrocities,” writes law and, most importantly, Martha Minow of Harvard cultivation of moral respect University. “The integration and dignity. of personal narratives into 
“After war or genocide, the conceptual analysis former enemies must reach makes this an especially some form of morally valuable treatment of the acceptable coexistence, even daunting and demanding though they have great polit-challenges for societies ical differences and dis-recovering from violence.” agreements,” says Verdeja, Verdeja “does an excellent assistant professor of politi-job of presenting what he cal science and peace stud-finds to be the strengths and ies at the University of Notre weaknesses of the competing Dame. “The key to reconcili-major approaches to this ation is not forgiveness or topic on the way to con-social harmony, but respect structing and defending his for each other’s moral alternative,” writes Ron worth.” Eyerman of Yale University. 
The book analyzes recon-“His style is both pedagogic ciliation at four levels: and clear-sighted. I think among political leaders, this will be an important through legal and institu-work that makes a clear tional actors (trials and contribution to the litera­truth commissions), within ture.” 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 20, 2009 


OnceaSaintMary’swoman,alwaysaSaintMary’swoman 
Sr. Mariam Eckenrode discusses life when she was a student at Saint Mary’s, reflects on experiences as a Sister of the Holy Cross 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
Behind Holy Cross Hall, at the end of the Avenue, is the convent of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. Sr. Miriam Eckenrode is one of the retired sis­ters living at Saint Mary’s, where her own college days were spent. 
The Sisters of the Holy Cross are the founders of Saint Mary’s College and operate the order out of their headquarters on campus. Sr. Miriam lives on a floor of the con­vent that resembles a hospital or a nursing home, which houses the older retired sisters. She is in a wheelchair, and very frail but still has a vivacious spirit. 
Sr. Miriam was born on January 30, 1913 in Lancaster, Pa. and is one of six children. As a little girl in Pennsylvania, she attended a local parochial school and then an Academy run by the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
“In the third grade my mom saw lice in my hair, and said no to going back to that school,” Sr. Miriam said. “So I went to Sacred Heart Academy run by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.” 
After her graduation from high school she was considering becom­ing a sister. She was looking into the Sisters of Mercy when her father asked their priest advice on whether or not to send his daughter to col­lege. The priest advised him to send his daughter to college. 
When it came time for Sr. Miriam to choose a school, she had no doubt in her mind that she wanted to attend Saint Mary’s College. 
“The Sisters always came [to Saint Mary’s] for the summer and always spoke so highly of it,” Sr. Miriam said. “I never heard any­thing but good things about Saint Mary’s.” 
In 1930 when Sr. Miriam entered Saint Mary’s as a first year the College had only one lay teacher. 
“I went to ‘old Saint Mary’s,’” Sr. Miriam laughed. 
She lived on the fifth floor of Le Mans and walked to Notre Dame for football games with her friends. She studied speech and drama and graduated in 1934. After graduation her plans of becoming a nun were on the back burner but not entirely out of her mind. 
“When I was in school we never had any contact with the young sis­ters. It would have been a wonder­ful opportunity,” Sr. Miriam said. 
After college, Sr. Miriam was offered a teaching position at a pri­vate school in Washington D.C. She went to the Academy of the Holy Cross to teach English, French and coach basketball. It was during her time at the Academy of the Holy Cross that her interest in becoming a nun was rekindled. 
“That year as a lay teacher I noticed how contented [the sisters] were and I thought that the life of a sister looked very good,” Sr. Miriam said. “1936, that very summer I came to the novitiate.” 
Novitiate brought her back to Saint Mary’s. 
Before she even took her vow she was sent out into the community to teach fifth grade, which, she admits, was not her strongest suit. 
“I never was a good disciplinari­an,” she said. “They never really taught how to teach, and I was only postulate.” 
She came back to Saint Mary’s for a couple months to prepare for and take her first vow. She then went back to Washington D.C, a “real sis­ter” to teach high school, which was her passion. 
Sr. Miriam taught at three Holy Cross schools in Washington D.C. She worked at Saint Cecilia’s School during the time of racial integration in the late 1960’s and was the prin­cipal of the Academy of the Holy Cross during their relocation, which she describes as one of her favorite experiences. With a young, excited staff they taught the new freshman class and started a school paper. 
“We were pretty stylish,” she said. 
Sr. Miriam also taught and acted as principle in the Boston area for five years and spent time in Austin, Texas and Norfolk, Va. 
In 1973, she requested to go back to her hometown of Lancaster to take care of her parents. There she found an ad for volunteers in the paper, which led to her favorite service opportunity. 
Sr. Miriam offered her services reading on a radio station for the blind, teaching older people how to read and running activities at the county home. 
“My work at the county home was one of the greatest experiences I ever had. I loved the people and was able to entertain them,” she said. 
Sr. Miriam is now retired and resides yet again at Saint Mary’s, a place that played an important role throughout her life. She spends her time reading and writing. She writes letters to her siblings and nephews and nieces whose pictures adorn the walls of her small room. 
Once a Saint Mary’s woman, always a Saint Mary’s woman, she said. 

Contact Nikki Taylor at ntaylor01@saintmarys.edu 






World & Nation 
Friday, November 20, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Mexico City improves transit 
MEXICO CITY — Cash-strapped Mexico City is pressing ahead with new bus lines and bike lanes in 2010, buoyed by presti­gious recognition for a world-class transit system that has reduced pollution in one of the globe’s largest cities. 
“We hope that Mexico City will inspire other cities around the world to embrace environmentally sustainable programs,” said Mayor Marcelo Ebrard, who visited Harvard University this week to accept the Roy Family Award for Environmental Partnerships for the city’s 4-year-old Metrobus system. 

Muslims seek U.N. blasphemy ban 
GENEVA — Four years after cartoons of the prophet Muhammad set off violent protests across the Muslim world, Islamic nations are mounting a campaign for an international treaty to protect religious symbols and beliefs from mockery — essentially a ban on blasphe­my that would put them on a collision course with free speech laws in the West. 
Documents obtained by The Associated Press show that Algeria and Pakistan have taken the lead in lobbying to eventually bring the proposal to a vote in the U.N. General Assembly. 
If ratified in countries that enshrine freedom of expression as a fundamental right, such a treaty would require them to limit free speech if it risks seriously offending religious believ­ers. The process, though, will take years and no showdown is imminent. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Astronauts complete spacewalk 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. — A pair of space­walking astronauts, one of them a surgeon, hustled through antenna and cable work outside the International Space Station on Thursday and even whipped off an extra chore. 
Atlantis crewmen Michael Foreman and Dr. Robert Satcher Jr. had a spare antenna installed in just two hours after venturing out on the first spacewalk of their mission. They also hooked up cables and a handrail, and greased some mechanisms, zooming two hours ahead at one point. 
“You guys are rocking the house,” astro­naut Randolph Bresnik called from inside the linked shuttle-station complex. 

Minn. man charged with terrorism 
MINNEAPOLIS — Another man has been indicted on terrorism charges in a federal investigation into the recruitment of Minnesota Somalis to fight in Somalia. 
Omer Abdi Mohamed of Minneapolis is the seventh person to face charges in the case. He made a first court appearance Thursday on charges of conspiracy to provide material support to terrorists, providing material sup­port to terrorists and conspiracy to kill, kid­nap, maim or injure. 
As many as 20 young Somali men left the Twin Cities over the last two years for Somalia and are believed to have joined a terror group. 
Mohamed’s attorney says Mohamed didn’t travel to Somalia. Peter Wold says his client had been under investigation for several months for alleged activity in 2007. 


LOCAL NEWS 

Corrections employees arrested 
NEW CASTLE, Ind. — Two New Castle police officers have been charged with offi­cial misconduct and ghost employment after evidence indicated they were golfing, gam­bling and engaging in other personal activi­ties while being paid to work for the Henry County Corrections Center, state police said. 
Police Lt. Jim Heffernan, 39, and Patrolman Matthew Patterson, 38, were sus­pended without pay after their arrests Wednesday. 
Henry County Community Corrections Director Doug Sheets, 57, of Centerville was also charged. 


BELGIUM 


Belgian-British duo to lead EU 
Members select little-known Van Rompuy, Aston from candidates for top jobs 
Associated Press 

BRUSSELS — After years of effort the European Union named its first full-time president and powerful for­eign policy chief on Thursday — but handed the jobs to two little-known compromise figures instead of global heavy hitters. 
The choice by national leaders behind closed doors broke a stalemate in choppy, often pained negotiations intended to give Europe a voice on the world stage commensurate with its eco­nomic heft. That hope was apparently dashed by a desire for consensus instead of a potentially divisive fig­ure who could have over­shadowed leaders of nations such as France and Germany. 
Belgian Premier Herman Van Rompuy (vahn rohm-POY) — a soft-spoken tech­nocrat who shuns the public eye and has written haikus about European unity — will be the EU’s new president. EU Trade Commissioner Catherine Ashton of Britain, recognized by few in her home country and never elected to public office, was named foreign policy chief. 
Van Rompuy and Ashton are meant to give the EU a bigger role on issues such as climate change, terrorism “Most people in Europe home,” read the poem, George W. Bush left office. and trade amid the rise of have never even heard of whose subject matter was She defended her limited China, Brazil and India. Herman Van Rompuy or policy cooperation among international experience and They were chosen from Catherine Ashton, yet here Belgium, Spain and Hungary said she was proud that the about 10 candidates, some, they are to represent us in in 2010. powerful new post had gone such as former British Prime the global arena. Surely Van Rompuy pledged to be to a woman. The job com-Minister Tony Blair, boasting Europe can do better than “discreet” in his new job, bines two existing ones, giv­more eye-catching back-this,” said Lorraine Mullally, which will entail organizing ing her more powers than grounds. director of Open Europe, a the EU’s four or five annual current foreign policy chief 
Britain’s Labour govern-British group skeptical of summits and liaise between Javier Solana. She must still ment pushed for Blair but European integration. the EU leaders. He said cli-be approved by the France and Germany Van Rompuy spent most of mate change and Europe’s European Parliament and scotched him and smaller his career in the background high unemployment will be will take office next year. EU nations loathed the idea of Belgian politics, becoming key concerns in the years “Am I an ego on legs? No largely because of his strong prime minister in 2008 after ahead. I’m not.” she said. “Judge support for the Iraq war, a his predecessor got mired in Ashton, 53, has barely me on what I do and I think position that angered many a linguistic dispute between caused a ripple during her you’ll be pleased and you’ll Europeans Dutch-and French-speaking year as EU trade chief and be proud of me.” 
The compromise choice of politicians. has little foreign experience. The EU president and for-two low-profile figures is He created his biggest stir She signed a trade pact with eign minister posts were “too much” and “sends a on the EU stage to date by South Korea, worked to created by an EU reform bad signal” to Europe’s reading one of his haikus at revive the stalled global treaty that takes effect Dec. trade partners, said Marco a press conference last negotiations at the World 1. It is vague on what the EU Incerti, an analyst at the month. Trade Organization and president is supposed to do, European Policy Studies, a “Three waves. Roll into defrost trade relations with other than encourage more Brussels-based think tank. port together. The trio is the U.S. after President European integration. 





UCLAstudentfeesincreaseddespiteprotests 
the drone of protesters could be heard dents from households with incomes 

Associated Press 
from a plaza outside. below $70,000 would be shielded from 

LOS ANGELES — The governing For a second day the room was the fee increase, and financial aid board of the University of California closed to visitors, after the meeting was would help others defray the higher approved a $2,500 student fee increase repeatedly disrupted by demonstrators’ cost. But that did little to ease the mood Thursday after two days of tense cam-outbursts. on campus, where some students won-pus protests across the state. Hundreds of students and union dered if they could afford the jump or 
The 32 percent increase will push the members gathered at the arched door-qualify for more borrowing. cost of an undergraduate education at ways of the building, waving signs, Ayanna Moody, a second-year prelaw California’s premier public schools to pounding drums and chanting “We’re student, said she feared she might have over $10,000 a year by next fall, about fired up, can’t take it no more” and to attend a community college next triple the cost of a decade ago. The “Shame on you.” year. fees, the equivalent of tuition, do not Armed police in riot gear lined up “I worked so hard to be at one of the include the cost of housing, board and behind steel barricades, watching over most prestigious universities. To have books. scores of protests. Some police carried to go back, it’s very depressing,” she 
The vote by the Board of Regents in a beanbag-firing shotguns. Authorities said. Administrators “already cut out a windowless University of California, Los said there was one arrest. lot of our majors and programs. I’d Angeles, meeting room took place as Board members pointed out that stu-rather they cut some of their salaries.” 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 20 2009 


SAB plans ‘Ugly Truth’ movie night 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Need a study break? Ever want­ed to see “The Ugly Truth?” 
The Student Activities Board (SAB) at Saint Mary’s College hopes to remedy these problems by hosting a movie night Sunday. 
“SAB likes to provide students with activities and events that gives them a time out from home­work and studying. Also, movies are one of our most attended events,” said senior Michelle Peterson, SAB president. 
The movie will be shown in Carroll Auditorium in Madeleva Hall at the College. 
“This is our first time showing a movie here,” Peterson said. “Since we have had issues in the past with an overflow of people seeing the movie, we figured a large space could work better.” 
Peterson said she’s excited for the event. 
“It’s always great to see the stu­dents of Saint Mary’s taking a break from their studies and just enjoying themselves,” she said. “We all put in a lot of time and effort into our studies, and defi­nitely deserve a fun break once in a while.” 
Movie night is not all that SAB has to offer. Throughout the course of the year, SAB plans sev­eral large and small events to offer students a chance to have some fun and take a break. 
In December, SAB plans to show another movie, but they haven’t decided which one they will show. Another event the board has planned for December is ginger­bread house decorating. Students will join up in teams to adorn a gingerbread house for a prize. 
“This year, we are hoping to have the Alumnae Association of South Bend join us for this event,” Peterson said. 
In the spring, SAB plans on host­ing four to five additional movie nights, with one outdoors, weather permitting. Another event that is in the works is a small charity con­cert benefiting Belles for Africa. 
Peterson said the main focus of the spring is the Annual SMC Tostal, an event that consists of a concert and a variety of other “fun activities during the day.” 
“SAB has been given a budget that allows us to provide almost all of our events to the students for free. We want to utilize our resources and plan as many events as possible so that students have things to do on campus,” Peterson said. 
The event is free and open to students from Saint Mary’s, Holy Cross College and Notre Dame. Show times are 2 p.m., 4 p.m., 6 
p.m. and 8 p.m. The event is not ticketed. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@nd.edu 



Sociologyprofessorpresentsdiscussion paper on minority home ownership 

Special to The Observer 
On Nov. 20, 1962, President Kennedy signed an executive order prohibiting federally-funded housing agencies from denying mortgages on the basis of race, color, creed or national origin. 
According to University of Notre Dame sociologist Richard Williams, the dramatic improvement of American fami­ly housing security thus begun is now jeopardized both by the current economic crisis and misconceptions of what caused it. 
Williams marked the 47th anniversary of President Kennedy’s Executive Order 11063 by presenting a discus­sion paper titled “One Stroke of the Pen” to the Council on Contemporary Families, a national association of family scholars, mental health and social work practitioners, and clinicians. 
In 2005, Williams observed, 
56.2 percent of Hispanics and 
49.4 percent of blacks owned their own homes. While well below the 76.1 percent home ownership rates for non-Hispanic whites, these rates indicated impressive progress for those historically disadvan­taged groups. Williams attrib­uted much of that progress “to heightened use of the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), which encouraged depository institutions to meet the needs of borrowers in all segments of their communities consistent with safe and sound banking practices.” 
Acknowledging critics who blame the collapse of the hous­ing market on CRA and other government efforts to promote minority home ownership, Williams argues that “it was not government regulation that paved the way for the current crisis in housing, but govern­ment deregulation, which increased the range of products and services that banks and other financial institutions could offer, eliminated interest rate ceilings, and greatly expanded the geographical areas in which individual companies could operate. As a result, the bank­ing industry became far more competitive, attracting new investors, speculators, and financial institutions. There were some positive results of such competition, of course, but there were also some very neg­ative ones. The proportion of loans that were subject to the requirements of the CRA and other regulatory safeguards decreased.” 
Assessing the severity of cur­rent threats to family housing security, Williams concludes that “it would be tragic if the economic problems caused by irresponsible lending practices caused us to abandon efforts to end discrimination against minorities and to increase resi­dential security for all Americans. New home owner­ship can still be encouraged by fair interest rates and by pro­grams designed to help people manage their finances. For those who cannot or should not become homeowners, the provi­sion of quality affordable rental housing should be a top priority. Children, families, and commu­nities all fare better when neighborhoods have a stable core of residents who take pride in their homes and have hope for their future.” 



The Observer 



Business
Friday, November 20, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 



IN BRIEF 

Casino to turn keys over to lenders 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. — America’s first casi­no to open outside Nevada got permission Thursday to hand itself over to its lenders because it can’t pay the mortgage. 
Resorts Atlantic City hammered out a deal with its lenders to let them own the casino in return for canceling nearly $381 million in debt. The lenders, including Wells Fargo, have formed a new corporation called RAC Atlantic City Holdings LLC, which was approved by the state Casino Control Commission as the casi­no’s new owner with a one-year license. 
The deal, the first of its kind in Atlantic City’s 31-year history of casino gambling, would close in 10 days. 
On Wednesday, Resorts, whose gross operat­ing profit fell nearly 80 percent in the third quarter of this year, revealed it owes nearly $337 million more than it has. 
Under the deal approved Thursday, former owner Colony Capital LLC gave up its interest in the casino to co-owner Nicholas Ribis, who will manage the casino and continue to own the gambling equipment inside it. 

GM predicts solid November sales 
DETROIT — U.S. auto sales could top an annu­al rate of 10.8 million in November, General Motors Co.’s top sales analyst said Thursday. That would mark the first month this year that sales jumped to such levels without the aid of Cash for Clunkers rebates, which boosted sales in July and August. Executive Director of Market Analysis Mike DiGiovanni says the industry is having a solid sales month through the first 19 days of November, another sign that the econo­my is beginning a slow recovery from recession. He also said GM could see its fourth straight month of market share gains in November. 
Others are a bit less bullish. The Edmunds.com automotive Web site forecasts an annual light vehicle sales rate of 10.3 million and J.D. Power and Associates predicts 10.2 mil­lion. 
The annual rate for November, typically a slow sales month, is adjusted for seasonal variances. Edmunds predicts light vehicle sales will drop 
4.5 percent this month when compared with year-ago results. J.D. Power estimates a 7.6 per­cent decline. 



J.C. Penney hopeful in recession 
Department store CEO sees opportunity for growth in overall economic downturn 
Associated Press  
NEW YORK — This holi­ 
day season, J.C. Penney  
CEO and Chairman Myron  
E. Ullman III is armed with  
a lineup of exclusive fash­ 
ion brands he helped bring  
to the department store  
chain, and he’s ready to  
battle key rivals like  
Macy’s.  
During more than two  
decades in retailing,  
Ullman has seen a slew of  
competitors go out of busi­ 
ness and — as Macy’s CEO  
in the early 1990s — even  
succumbed to a hostile  
takeover bid, from  
Federated Department  
Stores.  
But he says nothing pre­ 
sented the kinds of chal­ 
lenges that Penney’s and  
other stores face now. He  
believes this recession has  
permanently made con­ 
sumers more frugal.  
Always an optimist, he  
says this plays to Penney’s  
strength, however, because  
the moderate-price chain  
offers a stylish alternative  
to higher-price rivals.  
Under his stewardship  
since December 2004,  
Penney has moved from  
offering mainly store AP  
brands to filling its floors Mike Ullman, Chairman and CEO of J.C. Penney, rides a Segway through a New York store  
with trendy Sephora cos-in October. Ullman predicts good news for the company despite recession.  
metics shops and afford­ 
able lines from designers  father, Myron E. Ullman II  says he sent his sons to vol­ ly wanted to accelerate our  
like Nicole Miller.  — an industrial engineer  unteer on the ship, which  investments in some cate- 
This fall saw the arrival  who invented a modern  “kept them grounded” and  gories, like Sephora and  
of “Cindy Crawford Style,” a  version of the dishwasher  helped them appreciate all  customer service, rather  
home furnishing and acces­ in the late 1950s — taught  they have.  just saying it’s going to be a  
sories collection exclusive  him to innovate. They even  Here are some excerpts  tough economy and every- 
to Penney, and JOE Joseph  built the family house  from an interview with  thing is going to change.  
Abboud, an exclusive col- together in northern Ohio.  Ullman at the new store in  Q. How have your con­ 
lection of men’s sportswear  A neuromuscular condi­ Manhattan’s Herald  sumers’ habits changed?  
and tailored clothing. And  tion that requires Ullman,  Square.  A. We are dealing with a  
the company announced it  62, to get around by scooter  Q. What has it been like  middle-income consumer  
will be the sole U.S. store  hasn’t slowed him. He says  to navigate the biggest con­ (who) has been the one  
selling all the Liz Claiborne  he’s devoted to his wife,  sumer spending downturn  with the most changes in  
lines, except for the Isaac  Cathy, their four sons and  in decades?  terms of discretionary  
Mizrahi-designed Liz  the two daughters, now 24  A. It is an especially  behavior. The bottom quar- 
Claiborne New York brand,  and 15, they adopted in  important time to be clear  tile is very focused on the  
which goes to QVC next fall.  1988 and 1997 from Hong  in our communications, in  daily needs. The top quar- 
As many other retailers  Kong, and he’s done charity  how we are going to focus  tile has resources and is not  
have closed stores or laid  work for years.  our efforts. We made a con- concerned about the day- 
off workers in response to  He helped found an  scious decision to moderate  to-day things.  
the downturn, Penney has  orphanage in Hong Kong  some of our behavior:  There is this new normal.  
kept investing, most notably  more than 20 years ago  expenses, capital, invento- People are going to be very  
opening its first Manhattan  and, for eight years, has led  ries. We wanted to main- pragmatic. That plays to  
store in July.  the board of Mercy Ships  tain our focus on some of  our strengths and it just  
Ullman, the eldest of  International, a global med- our key principles like our  encourages us to be sharp- 
seven children, says his  ical and service charity. He  key brands. And we actual- er on prices.  



Gold edges up as commodities drop 
Associated Press against other currencies, rose 0.3 settle at $1,141.90 an ounce on the percent in afternoon trading. The New York Mercantile Exchange. 
NEW YORK — Gold and silver dollar has been on a generally down-Earlier, the December contract fell as recovered from early losses ward trajectory since March as U.S. low as $1,130 an ounce. Thursday, but other commodities fell interest rates remain at record lows. December silver also rebounded, as the dollar strengthened. December copper futures shed 2.95 rising 4 cents to $18.455 an ounce, 
Investors sought safety in the U.S. cents to $3.106 a pound as the dollar after dropping as much as 26.5 cents currency, Treasurys and gold while rose, while oil prices tumbled nearly earlier in the session. selling other commodities like copper 3 percent, losing $2.12 to $77.46 a Investors have been buying up and oil following a barrage of weak barrel. A stronger dollar makes com-commodities for much of this year on economic data. modities more expensive to foreign the belief that the economic recovery 
Among the day’s disappointing buyers. was under way and that demand for news was a report from the Gold and silver managed to hold on basic goods and materials would pick Mortgage Bankers Association show-to most of their recent gains, a bull-up. As investors’ risk appetite grew, ing a surge in home foreclosures ish sign for the metals, which have the dollar weakened. during the third quarter. The latest been on a nearly unbreakable climb However, some investors have report from the Labor Department over the past few months. Gold is begun to question just how much indicated that the economy is still seen as an alternative investment to more the commodity rally has to go, losing jobs. the U.S. currency and a hedge considering that evidence continues 
The ICE Futures US dollar index, a against inflation. to suggest the economy’s recovery widely used measure of the dollar Gold futures edged up 70 cents to will be slow. 
page 8 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 20, 2009 
Rally 
continued from page 1 
inside. 
“Once that got moved outside and we saw that there was going to be good weather this weekend we decided to have [the pep rally] outside.” 
Notre Dame Leprechaun Dan Collins said he encourages stu­dents to come to the last pep rally of the season at Irish Green, espe­cially to show support for the sen­ior football players. 
“The rallies for the home opener and Michigan and SC were all really successful because the stu­dents showed up and their spirit really drives the pep rallies,” he said. “To honor [the seniors] would be a good way to show solidarity between all the students and cele­brate the Notre Dame spirit, so I encourage them to do that.” 
Schmidt said when he learned of the location of the pep rally earlier this week, he expressed his con­cern and disappointment in an e­mail to Seamon. 
“You ask any student, and a pep rally is a key tradition that we’ve had,” he said. “But I can tell you that unfortunately, according to what students have told me, is that there will not be a big student response to the Irish Green.” 
Seamon said Irish Green has been a positive atmosphere for pep rallies this season. 
“We feel it’s been a really good place,” Seamon said. “We’ve had all kinds of rallies out there and we feel it’s a good spot and the team feels it’s a good spot so we’re all on board with it so we hope the stu­dents come out and support the seniors.” 
Schmidt said Seamon and Gameday Operations have made many positive changes this season, such as improving relations between fans, ushers and police and allowing fans to walk through the tunnel on Friday afternoons before home games. 
“But I think the pep rallies are another huge part of it and I think they really have faded this year in the eyes of the students,” he said. “My job as student body president is to be concerned with what the students want.” 
But Schmidt said the location of the pep rally is not ultimately in his control. 
“At some point we can only do so much,” he said. “I at least want to make it clear that we were frus­trated with the fact that it’s not at Purcell Pavillion.” 


When pep rallies were held in the Joyce Center in past years, Hall Presidents’ Council (HPC) planned and organized events and activities to entertain students before the start of the pep rally, HPC co-chair Brendan McQueeney said. 
“We understood this year with the renovations to the JACC that our role would be diminished, but we thought that we would still have some role,” he said. 
McQueeney said the council had looked forward to the final pep rally of the year in Purcell Pavillion because they would be able to hold the role they had in previous years. 
“We were anxious to actually fill the role of other HPC co-chairs before us,” he said. “It’s kind of sad that we weren’t able to do it, but it’s out of our hands.” 
Many of the hall presidents were disappointed to learn that the pep rally would be at Irish Green because they had been looking for­ward to returning to the Joyce Center, especially because the freshman have never experienced that setting, McQueeney said. 
Schmidt said the concern over the location of the pep rally stems from the fact that pep rallies are important to the Notre Dame stu­dent body. 
“What’s so unique about Notre Dame is the team is integrated in the student body, and so to me the pep rally is the last opportunity to send off the players into the week­end,” he said. “I think it’s just the overall fact that we’re worried that we could be losing a tradition that we want to make sure we keep.” 
Seamon said specifics of the rally at Irish Green will be left up to the football team. The band will enter Irish Green at 6:15 p.m. followed by the team at 6:30 p.m., and the rally will last until 7 p.m. this evening. 
“I think that Irish Green has allowed us to adapt to this season, and we’re looking forward to it this Friday,” he said. “I think it will be a good weekend. The weather’s supposed to be decent and I think [the team is] looking forward to it.” 
In addition to the pep rally, Collins said it is important to show support for the football seniors when they are honored at the start of Saturday’s game. 
“The seniors will be honored before the football game during the pre-game ceremony so I would encourage the students to get to the game on time so they can honor the seniors before it starts as well,” he said. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
worked with for a long time, 
so this was surprising and 



Team 
very different for me. 
continued from page 1 “A rider at an [Intercollegiate Horse Show team.” Association] show might The team will participate in draw a horse that is easy and a competition at Saint Mary straightforward to ride, but of the Woods College in Terre much of the time, the rider Haute, Ind., this weekend and horse may not get along against schools such as right away, so making the Purdue University, University best of the situation is the of Illinois, Indiana University challenge. It is fun meeting 
and  Butler  riders  from  
U n i v e r s i t y ,  other schools  
Genereux said.  at each show,”  
G e n e r e u x and co-captain Mary Cecelia Mitsch, a  “Riding is equally a psychological sport as much as a  she said. The team’s members all come from dif- 
Graphics artist  physical sport.”  ferent experi­ 
for  The  ence  levels,  
O b s e r v e r , received sec-ond and first  Mary Cecilia Mitsch Equestrian team co-captain  from novice to exper ienc ed, Genereux said.  

place, respec­tively, at the first competition of the year. 
“Riding is equally a psycho­logical sport as much as a physical sport,” Mitsch said. “Horses have minds of their own and dealing with them requires patience — learning when to give and when to take. Those are all lessons that are important in other aspects of life, too. I have known early on that I need to keep horses in my life forev­er, and the equestrian team allows me to do so through­out college.” 
The team, started in 1987 between the two schools, practices at a barn about 40 minutes away from campus, Genereux said. The team now has more than 30 mem­bers. 
“The competition is really tough and the shows are challenging because each rider draws a horse that you likely have never ridden and aren’t given any time to practice,” Genereux said. “I have always shown horses which I’ve owned and “Wh eth er 
the rider has been riding her whole life or just started in college, she can compete for ND which is really cool,” Genereux said. “Riders compete against oth­ers who have similar ability. The classes themselves are judged on the individual and individual awards are pre­sented, but each rider con­tributes to the team’s points for each show.” 
Genereux said the team has high hopes for the rest of the season. 
“In the past few years, Notre Dame Equestrian has had riders qualifying for Regional and National com­petitions and we’d love to get back there this year if not next,” Genereux said. “The team has had two good fin­ishes at shows already this year, and we think we can still improve.” 
For more information about the team, visit www.nd.edu/~ndhorse 

Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 



Friday, November 20, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 9 



Travel 
continued from page 1 
“Our mission is to provide a well-rounded picture of a par­ticular destination,” Steves said on his travel Web site. “Your time is valuable and I 
think you should know if you’ll like a place before you book your tickets and commit to it.” 
In addition to his experiences while studying abroad, Steves has traveled with his family each of the 22 years of his life, meeting his dad on loca­tion during the 
summer months and more recently working as a tour guide throughout Europe. 
“Traveling with my dad was always an interesting experi­ence,” Steves said. “Everything was always the­atrical for him and he would push the boundaries as far as he could.” 

While drawing on his own travel experiences, Steves also incorporates fellow students’ insights about European desti­nations to help create collabo­rative itineraries that highlight the best of each featured city. 
“I haven’t been to all the places I have itineraries for, 
“One of the great things about traveling on a lower budget is that you have incredible freedom.” 
Andy Steves senior 
but lots of friends have helped con­tribute,” Steves said. “The response has been great and I have compiled different opin­ions.” 
Because money is often one of the main con­

cerns for college students studying abroad, Steves’ itin­eraries give suggestions for efficient and affordable ways to travel Europe on a small budget. 
“One of the great things about traveling on a lower budget is that you have incredible freedom,” Steves said. “Some of the best travel­ing experiences out there are the ones you can’t plan.” 
While the itineraries provid­ed on his Web site offer sug­gestions for successful, inex­pensive weekends or weeklong trips, Steves encouraged stu­dents to be open to new cul­tural experiences, leaving behind American preconcep­tions about new places. 
“Cultural interchange is so priceless, you have to give it a shot,” Steves said. “Once you show them the respect of try­ing to learn something about them, you have an instant friend.” 
Steves also emphasized the importance of exploring places outside the guidebooks in order to better understand the city and its residents. 
“Go down a side alley and try to find the unique, local spots — the mom and pop shops,” Steves said. “You’ll have a better experience.” 
More travel tips can be found on Steves’ Web site at www.andysteves.com 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 


Arrests 
continued from page 1 
lished an ad hoc committee last October to review football week­end safety and security protocol. One of the outcomes of the com­mittee was to appoint Seamon to his current position to oversee the implementation of the recom­mended changes. 
This year’s revamped approach, which Seamon said has received positive feedback, has focused on improving coordination among the different groups — police offi­cers, ushers, parking attendants and hospitality ambassadors — employed to run game days. Seamon described the “team building exercise” of bringing these groups together over the summer. 
“Right after Commencement, it was just a series of meetings with all these different groups on cam­pus to discuss what [Jenkins] out­lined,” he said. 
Asked whether NDSP has changed its policy, Seamon said, “same number of police, same structure.” 
“I think it’s just working on a more unified front that allows us to be more strategic about how we’re doing,” he said. 
He said fans have improved their behavior in response to the University publicizing expecta­tions for them. 
“I would say one thing that has been a pleasant surprise for us is fans … when we stated what we expected of people, they respond­ed,” Seamon said. “The Notre Dame faithful, the Notre Dame fan base has responded in a very 
MTV 
continued from page 1 
mote MTV’s Rock Band game and the new, critically acclaimed The Beatles: Rock Band. 
Glorioso was not always head­ed towards the entertainment industry. As a Notre Dame undergraduate she was a stu­dent manager of the football team and then head student manager of the men’s lacrosse team. 
“I knew I had an interest in sports marketing but that’s not what I did when I left [Notre Dame as an] undergrad,” Glorioso said. 
Glorioso joined Viacom/MTV Networks in 2003 and was pro­moted to her current position in 2008. 
She said students should fol­low their passions because “in the end, it all kind of works out. 
“If you can sacrifice when you’re young and work hard, ultimately you’ll be rewarded,” she said. 
Glorioso’s job as vice president of Marketing Partnerships for MTV Networks includes meeting with the developers of different games and discussing how to market them, meeting with media outlets and working with a community team to build grassroots marketing. She also works with major retailers like Walmart, Target and Best Buy to develop large promotions. 
Recently, Glorioso has worked on a number of promotions for Rock Band that have included partnerships with Pepsi, Harrah’s and Energizer. 
“We encouraged Rock Band bands to produce a music video … 650 videos were submitted and we nominated five … the one that won was from a group of college students … they came to the awards show and we ran a 30 second vignette showing positive manner. When we stated our expectations, guidelines on fan behavior and handle any com­plaints on fan behavior according­ly, people understand that.” 
Seamon also said the results of other Game Day initiatives have been positive, pointing out enthu­siastic fan reactions to the public parking option on the nine-hole Notre Dame Golf Course, the opening the Stadium tunnel to the public on Friday afternoons and the pep rally festivities at the hos­pitality village Irish Green. 
Seamon said feedback about the new Game Day initiatives has complimented the welcoming atmosphere on campus. 
“How we treat everyone, regardless of whether they are the opponent, if we can impress even our opponents, if they can even feel welcome on campus, I think that’s a good testament that we’re making some good progress.” 
The new text messaging system for safety concerns has been par­ticularly successful, Seamon said. 
“Text message started last year in the NFL. We talked to the com­pany that did it. We’ve had people text us who’ve had medical prob­lems,” he said. “Now other schools are starting to come to us and ask us how we do this. They’re asking us about our model.” 
Seamon said Gameday Operations is looking to the future. 
“I want to continue to improve the communication between the administration and our fan base,” he said. 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 
the band and their music video,” Glorioso said. 
The main objective of the Rock Band promotions is to give people who cannot play a musi­cal instrument the chance to truly experience music. 
“We do these promotions and work with partners … to give benefits [to the fans] and create opportunities for the fans to experience the feeling of playing live music,” she said. “We see that [with Rock Band] people experience music in a new way.” 
Even with her busy schedule, Glorioso keeps in touch with the Notre Dame community and is a co-founder of Notre Dame’s iNDustry Alliance. She formed iNDustry Alliance in 2007 along with another Notre Dame alum­na to build networking among Notre Dame alumni in the enter­tainment industry. 
“Obviously, Notre Dame has a lot of different [alumni] clubs based on your interests … but there hadn’t been, at the time, a lot of groups based on career track or industry … I thought wow it would be great to net­work in the entertainment industry with [other Notre Dame] alumni,” she said. 
Glorioso said the network’s focus is “to bring together alum­ni with a shared career path.” 
“The entertainment industry is very much about networking.” 
Glorioso said she not only enjoys her job, but feels that it truly makes a difference. Fans have even sent personal letters explaining how Rock Band has renewed their relationships with family members. 
“Making a difference of course is helping people in third world countries, but being in enter­tainment business can make a difference as well. Rock Band brings joy to people’s lives,” Glorioso said. 


Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 


page 10 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 20, 2009 



Oprah to end talk show and begin her own cable channel 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — “The Oprah Winfrey Show,” an iconic broadcast that grew from a local Chicago talk show into the foundation of a multibillion dol­lar media empire, will end its run in 2011 after 25 seasons on the air, Winfrey’s production company said Thursday night. 
Winfrey, who became one of the most powerful women in entertainment from a seat on the couch of her set in Chicago’s West Loop neighbor­hood, plans to announce the final date for her show during a live broadcast on Friday, Harpo Productions Inc. said. 
A Harpo spokeswoman declined to comment Thursday on Winfrey’s future plans except to say that “The Oprah Winfrey Show” will not be transferred to cable television. 
Winfrey is widely expected to start up a new talk show on OWN: The Oprah Winfrey Network, a much-delayed joint venture with Discovery Communications Inc. that is expected to debut in 2011. OWN is to replace the Discovery Health Channel and will debut in some 70 million homes. 
CBS Television Distribution, which distributes “The Oprah Winfrey Show” to more than 200 markets blanketing the United States, held out hope that it could continue doing business with Winfrey, perhaps producing a new show out of its studios in Los Angeles. 

“We have the greatest respect for Oprah and wish her nothing but the best in her future endeavors,” the unit of CBS Corp. said in a statement. “We know that anything she turns her hand to will be a great suc­cess. We look forward to work­ing with her for the next sever­al years, and hopefully after­wards as well.” 
Winfrey’s 24th season opened earlier this year with a bang, as she drew more than 20,000 fans to the city’s Magnificent Mile on Michigan Avenue for a Chicago block party with the Black Eyed Peas. 
She followed up with a series of blockbuster interviews — Mike Tyson and Evander Holyfield, exclusives with singer Whitney Houston and ESPN’s Erin Andrews, and just this week, former Alaska governor, GOP vice presidential candidate and best-selling author Sarah Palin. She found time between shows to lobby the International Olympic Committee in Denmark for Chicago’s failed bid to host the 2016 Olympics. 
The loss of “The Oprah Winfrey Show” would be a blow to CBS Corp. because it earns a percentage of hefty licensing fees from TV stations that use it. 
On a conference call with analysts two weeks ago, CBS Chief Executive Leslie Moonves said the contract with the show ran through most of 2011 and “if there’s a negative impact, it wouldn’t hit us until ‘12.” 
CBS continues to sell several top shows into syndication, however, including “Wheel of Fortune” and “Jeopardy.” But many TV stations are struggling with falling advertising revenue and were unlikely to pay the same fees as in the past for Winfrey’s show, which has seen ratings slip 7 percent from a year ago and saw its average viewership slip below 7 million last season. 
Winfrey started her broad­casting career as a teenager in Nashville, Tenn., reading the news at WVOL. Two years later, Winfrey started co-anchoring news broadcasts on WTVF-TV in Nashville. In 1976 she moved to Baltimore to anchor news­casts at WJZ-TV before becom­ing host of the local talk show “People Are Talking.” 
In 1984, she relocated to Chicago to host WLS-TV’s morning talk show “A.M. Chicago” — the show was became “The Oprah Winfrey Show” one year later. She set up Harpo the following year and her talk show went into syndication, rising to become one of the most successful in the history of broadcasting. 


USPS cancels letters to Santa Claus program 

Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE — A group of volunteer Santa Claus “elves” in Alaska’s frigid interior is deter­mined to save a popular holiday letter service featuring the North Pole’s most beloved icon. 
The group is looking to count­er a decision by the U.S. Postal Service to discontinue a pro­gram begun in 1954 in the small town of North Pole, where volunteers open and respond to thousands of letters addressed to “Santa Claus, North Pole” each year. 
Gabby Gaborik, chief elf among several dozen volun­teers, said he met with Postal Service officials this week to come up with an alternative. 
He’s now working with local government officials to get “101 Santa Claus Lane” as an address for his group, Santa’s Mailbag. That way children will have a specific destination for their letters, allowing volun­teers to run their own program and bypass stringent new rules implemented by the Postal Service after security issues arose in a similar program in Maryland last year. 
Gaborik believes his town’s name gives the local effort more cachet than other destina­tions. 
“The city was founded on the Christmas theme,” he said Thursday. “This is our identity. This is North Pole, Alaska.” 
The North Pole program was stymied by a tighter process put in place nationwide by the Postal Service after a postal worker in Maryland recognized a volunteer with the agency’s Operation Santa program as a registered sex offender. The worker intervened before the individual could answer a child’s letter, but the agency viewed the scare as a reason to tighten security. 



Friday, November 20, 2009 The Observer  INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 

SAUDI ARABIA 


Web spreads al-Qaida’s message in English 
Associated Press 
RIYADH — Increasing num­bers of English-language Web sites are spreading al-Qaida’s message to Muslims in the West. 
They translate writings and sermons once largely out of reach of English readers and often feature charismatic clerics like Anwar al-Awlaki, who exchanged dozens of e-mails with the Army psychiatrist accused of the Fort Hood shoot­ings. 
The U.S.-born al-Awlaki has been an inspiration to several militants arrested in the United States and Canada in recent years, with his Web-based ser­mons often turning up on their computers. 
“The point is you don’t have to be an official part of al-Qaida to spread hatred and sectarian views,” said Evan Kohlmann, a senior investigator for the New York-based NEFA Foundation, which researches Islamic mili­tants. 
“If you look at the most influ­ential documents in terms of homegrown terrorism cases, it’s not training manuals on building bombs,” Kohlmann said. “The most influential documents are the ones that are written by the­ological advisers, some of whom are not even official al-Qaida members.” 
Most of the radical Islamic sites are not run or directed by al-Qaida, but they provide a powerful tool for recruiting sym­pathizers to its cause of jihad, or holy war, against the United States, experts who track the activity said. 



VATICAN 


Restoration of 6th-century reliquary cross unveiled 

Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY — One of the gems of the Vatican’s priceless religious art collection — a 6th century reliquary containing what is revered as fragments of the cross on which Jesus was cruci­fied — has been restored to its Byzantine-era glory. 
The Vatican on Thursday unveiled the restored Crux Vaticana, a foot-high (40-centime­ter-high) jewel-encrusted golden cross containing what tradition holds are shards of Jesus’ cross inside. 
The Associated Press was given an early look at the piece, and Byzantine art experts said the restoration rendered the cross much closer to what it would have looked like at the time the Byzantine Emperor Justin II gave it to the people of Rome. 
Most significantly, the restora­tion corrected a botched 19th cen­tury restoration that threatened to corrode the piece. And it replaced the brightly colored gems that were added in previous centuries with the large, imperfect pearls that are emblematic of Byzantine-era imperial masterpieces, said restorer Sante Guido. 
A circle of 12 pearls now sur­rounds the relic, and pearls around the cross’ edge now alter­nate with emeralds and sapphires 
— the two other gems most often associated with Byzantine emper­ors, he said. 
While there are purported frag­ments of Christ’s cross in churches around the world — including at Paris’ Notre Dame and even across town at Rome’s Holy Cross basilica — the Crux Vaticana is considered the oldest reliquary of the cross. It is the crown in the Vatican’s Treasury of St. Peter’s collection of religious and historic artifacts. 
In addition to the relic inside, the cross itself is an important piece of early Christian art. Measuring 40 centimeters by 31 centimeters (15.75 inches by 
11.81 inches) it’s a rare example of an imperial gift and an expres­sion of the emperor’s Christian faith. Across the piece is written in Latin: “With the wood with which Christ conquered man’s enemy, Justin gives his help to Rome and his wife offers the ornamentation.” 
“It’s the most important reli­quary of the ‘true cross’ that we have,” Guido told the AP. “It’s par­ticularly important because it’s the only reliquary that came from an emperor, so there are various lev­els of religious and historic signifi­cance.” 
For centuries, the cross was used in the Vatican’s most solemn ceremonies at Christmas and Easter. But 1,500 years of candle wax and smoke had dulled the gems and the cross’ warm golden hue — grime that has been removed following a two-year restoration. 
The work was paid for by an anonymous donor who didn’t want the pricetag to be made pub­lic, officials said. 
Ioli Kalavrezou, a Byzantine art history professor at Harvard University who has taught classes on the cross, said the restoration clearly rendered the cross closer to what it would have looked like when it was presented to Romans sometime between 565-578. 
“I can’t say it’s exactly as it would’ve been, but it comes much closer to what an object like that would’ve looked like,” she said in a phone interview. 
The exact circumstances of why Justin gave Rome the relic are unclear. Guido noted that even though the eastern Byzantine Empire gained prominence in Constantinople after the 476 fall of the Roman Empire, Rome remained a religious capital because it was the “city of mar­tyrs” — where Saints Peter and Paul were buried. 
Emperor Justin clearly wanted to give the pope and people of Rome “a recognition of Rome as a city of Christianity,” Guido said. At the time, most parts of Christ’s cross were in the hands of the Byzantine emperor in Constantinople after being moved from Jerusalem in the 4th century, Kalavrezou noted. 
“This is one of the earliest examples of this imperial gift, where he (Justin) shows the power he has in his hands — to control the most important relic in Christiandom and to have the lux­ury to make a gift of that,” she said from Washington, where she is a visiting scholar at the Dumbarton Oaks Byzantine research library. 
The cross will be on public dis­play inside St. Peter’s Basilica through April 12. 



UNITED NATIONS 


UNICEF issues report on deprived children 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS — UNICEF urged the world to help the 1 billion children still deprived of food, shelter, clean water or health care — and the hun­dreds of millions more threat­ened by violence — two decades after the U.N. adopted a treaty guaranteeing chil­dren’s rights. 
On the eve of the anniver­sary, the U.N. children’s agency issued a report Thursday on the challenges ahead and the accomplishments since the 
U.N. General Assembly adopt­ed the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1989. 
UNICEF Executive Director Ann Veneman called a sharp decline in child deaths a “remarkable achievement,” and lauded the increasing number of children attending primary school. 
More than 70 countries have used the treaty to incorporate children’s rights in their national laws, she said, noting a new focus on safeguarding youngsters “from violence, abuse, discrimination and exploitation.” 
Only two nations, the United States and Somalia, have not ratified it. 
Still, much remains to be done. Veneman said it was unacceptable that more than 24,000 children under the age of 5 die every day from pre­ventable causes like pneumo­nia, malaria, measles and mal­nutrition. Nearly 200 million youngsters are chronically malnourished, more than 140 million are forced to work, and millions of girls and boys of all ages are subjected to sexual violence. 
“As the first decade of the 21st century comes to a close, the convention stands at a piv­otal moment,” Veneman told a news conference launching the report. 
“Its relevance remains time­less. The challenge for the next 20 years is to build on the progress achieved, working together to reach those chil­dren who are still being denied their rights to survival, devel­opment, protection and partici­pation.” 
The convention has the widest support of any human rights treaty — 193 countries 
— though Veneman said not all are implementing its require­ments. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 12 Friday, November 20, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
The Independent, Daily Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 


MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Madeline Buckley Michael Bryan Laura McCrystal Sam Werner Megan Doyle Mike Gotimer Graphics Molly Sammon Jaclyn Espinoza Viewpoint Scene Michelle Maitz Adriana Pratt 


Activism present but subdued 
This week, the 40th anniversary of the ‘Notre Dame 10’ 
— the now-famous group of students suspended for their demonstration against Dow-CIA recruiting on campus — brings to mind several questions about the present state of student activism at Notre Dame. 
Specifically: Where is it? 
Though conditions on college campuses today are incom­parable to those of the Vietnam War era — most notably there is no draft for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan — there are still issues that stu­dents are passionate about, ones they could and should work for to effect change. 
The apparent lack of activism today might also be explained in part by the current career-oriented college culture, which posi­tions students on a one-track mindset: take the right classes and land a great job that reflects the value of a Notre Dame degree. Students of the 1960s stu­dent revolution were of a different breed, going to college to get an education for education’s sake, not just for the increased earning power of a degree. For many, an educa­tion included social change and protest. 
In remembering the 1969 protests, it’s important to note the atmosphere at Notre Dame was not like that of, say, Berkeley in the 1960s. The demonstration by the ‘Notre Dame 10’ is perhaps the most-well known protest action to take place on this campus for social and political change 
— and it’s a far cry from massive riots resulting on arrests 
and deaths on some college campuses in that era. Today, the activist spirit at Notre Dame is even weaker 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

than it was in 1969. 
The lack of visible student activism is lamentable, as is the complacency and apathy of the majority of the student body. Certainly there are numbers of groups and organiza­tions — like the Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP) and the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA) — working for change every day. There are also groups that stand up for what they believe to be right, like ND Response, which 
formed around last spring’s Commencement 
controversy. 
Notre Dame’s Catholic culture instills the 
value of community service, both at home and 
abroad, in its students. Service is a form of 
activism, and it effects a necessary change. But 
service is only one part of the picture. 
Campaigning for greater social change — the work of groups like PSA, Right to Life and CLAP — is another part of the picture, and it shouldn’t be ignored. 
These students’ efforts may not as visible as the actions of their predecessors. Destructive and violent protests and riots of the past are not called for on today’s campus. But their actions, whether through petitions, marches, rallies, masses or debates, are vital. They are the active few on this campus working for the issues they believe in. 
The lack of visible student activism is not their fault. They are doing their part and attempting to raise aware­ness. But the student body as a whole needs to open its eyes beyond the campus, classes and the job search and appreciate the work of these groups by joining them and supporting the causes that call them to act. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The reward of one duty is the power to fulfill another.” 
George Eliot English novelist 


The Observer 





Viewpoint 
Friday, November 20, 2009 page 13 
Dealing with cancer on Thanksgiving Day 
I had planned to write a whimsical yet demonstrative Thanksgiving col­umn full of ironically fun topics for which others should give thanks — like last week’s opposing football teams of Coaches Charlie Weis and Bill Belichick who coincidentally employed similar yet equally unsuc­cessful “Fourth and Dumb” tactics in losing efforts on the gridiron. I further 

Gary Caruso 
intended to announce the Capitolawarding of what I 
Comments 
call my laundry scholarship, an earmarked contribu­tion I make every decade to a new freshman who holds the equivalent of my 90217 laundry number issued 40 years ago at the start of my freshman year. Again coincidentally, this year’s winner also resides in my dormitory, Lyons Hall. I had even anticipated urg­ing disgruntled Irish fans to follow my lead by ignoring our inept football coaching staff and donating anyway to the University, but in an innovative, restricted way like my laundry ear­mark. 
My writing this week was to include other impetuous muses, finally punc­tuated with my thanks for returning to the world of federal employment where I have actually become a Dilbert on my jobsite. But on Monday, a longtime friend and 1980s Notre Dame graduate who currently works at the University finally returned sev­eral of my voicemails and text mes­sages — such an unusual delay that I wondered if something was wrong. Early during our conversation my friend eased into the reason for such tardiness with a harsh sentence, “I have cancer.” 
Our next few exchanges are still a blur to me. Only once before had any­one told me directly about battling cancer — my elementary school music teacher, Margaret Stanley, who always was so happy and cheerful in or out­side of school. So while my mind drift­ed back to Miss Stanley, I barely heard what type of cancer we discussed, but remember that my friend did say that several doctors are more confident than my friend at this point in time. We continued our conversation outlin­ing a six-year plan for survival fol­lowed by successive five-year incre­mental survival plans. We concluded with my promise to light a candle at St. Matthew’s Cathedral here in D.C. when next I serve as a lector, and a pledge to stop by the Grotto together when I next step on campus. 
My friend is a rather typical Catholic Notre Dame graduate, returning to campus to a rather prestigious posi­tion, with a child currently attending the University and a spouse from the ND-SMC community. In true Fighting Irish fashion, my friend is determined to retard the cancer’s progress and do whatever it takes to prolong life — even through the use of stem cells. Such a task is not quite the memory of my friend I ever thought would burn into my soul, never to fade and become part of my being. But such a turn of events is an important lesson of life. 
Thus far, my friend’s life — as are all of our lives — has been like a boat floating on a sea of adventure. Together we head towards the sunset on an uncharted route despite whether we row, use wind in our sails or motorboat along. Perhaps the les­son of life is not how fast one glides along the water, but on how willing one is to accept the length of the cruise. That may be my personal focus next Thursday. 
I cannot imagine how my friend’s family will express their reasons for giving thanks next week. Might it be with an eye on the past and memories of good times? Maybe it will focus on making the most of each upcoming minute in a true “live for the moment” fashion where they can slow time and suck the essence out of each waking second. Regardless, it will be a time of introspection and hope. 
Spiritually, it may be easier than expected for them to face their mortal­ity now that they are given a personal timeline. Obviously, the longer the timeline, the more we can do to tie up loose ends, say our goodbyes and com­plete tasks we put off into the future. It occurs to me that put in the same position, my personal priorities would certainly shift. However, my approach would probably differ. I believe that we come from an unknown realm of many levels of life onto this world while moving through forms of rein­carnation without the strict polar opposites of heaven or hell. I also believe that we are on this earth for only as long as we need be here, to learn or teach our lessons before we depart back into the unknown. 
So given what I have gleaned thus far as my life lesson, I stand ready to assist my friend. My message this Thanksgiving is that you can count on me until God turns your sail into a shroud and throws you back into the sea. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Reaction to Fort Hood 
On Nov. 5, Army Major Malik Hasan reportedly killed 13 American soldiers and wounded 31 others at Fort Hood in Texas. 
The Notre Dame Muslim Student Association (MSA) condemns the criminal act of Malik Hasan. MSA stands by the statement of the Council of American Islamic Relations (CAIR) released Nov. 5. 
No religious or political ideology could ever justify or excuse such wanton and indiscriminate violence. The attack was particularly heinous in that it targeted the all-volunteer army that protects our nation. American Muslims stand with our fellow citizens in offering both prayers for the victims and sincere condolences to the families of those killed or injured. 
It is unfortunate to see that this tragedy is being used by some to bring loyalty of American Muslims under suspicion. Islam does not tolerate such acts of violence. We reject any attempts to associate this appalling act with Muslims or Islam. 
We embrace Notre Dame community in peace, unity and prayer. 
Mairaj Uddin 
Notre Dame Muslim Student Association Nov. 20 


Hold on to ideals 
I am writing in response to Mark Easley’s piece entitled “Terrorists are not American” (Nov. 19) which concerns the try­ing and detaining of suspected terrorists. He states, “Terrorists demote themselves to second class citizens ... and we should treat them accordingly.” 
I must respectfully disagree. We have every right to be angry. We have every right to want justice. But the justice that Americans hold dear is not mere retribution, rather it is a fair­ness afforded each person, not because of his or her individual merits, but because of the Creator who endows each man with inalienable rights. 
Terrorists seek not only to destroy American lives; they seek to destroy American ideals as well. They seek to instill hatred, fear and corruption. If we let our hatred and fear blur our vision of justice, if we forsake mercy for retribution, and if we forget that it is God who instills all men with rights, then the terrorists have already won. 
Therefore, let us remember, in the case of those awaiting trial, that our ideals declare a man innocent until proven guilty. And for those found guilty, that punishment and detention are differ­ent from vengeance. By seeking revenge we usurp the role of God, and make ourselves devils in the process. 
Todd Velianski 
freshman Keough Hall Nov. 20 


Don’t sweat the small stuff 
In response to Mr. Petrocelli, (“The Actual Facts,” Nov. 18) I would like to humbly suggest that the search for truth in morality is not only “not that simple” but completely pointless. I mean, “no one knows the truth,” so why bother even looking for it? 
You’re right, the search for truth in morality “should not be treated as a civil war,” so let’s work together to reduce the number of moral philoso­phers in this country, who are constantly dreaming up and debating such personal issues like abortion, about which we can know almost nothing. Is it a person, isn’t it a person, who really knows? 
We shouldn’t be divided about substantial moral issues to the point of conflict, for now that the slav­ery issue has been settled, there are decidedly no more objective moral injustices to be resolved. With only gray moral differences remaining, we should should respect all stances merely because the indi­vidual has chosen them. 
If some people want to kill babies and others want to save them, how can we know which side is on the side of Truth? Why can’t both sides be right? If we just compromise to a position of loose platitudes, even if held for different and incompatible reasons, we will never have to actually resolve these issues, or even think about them, and that sounds like something everyone can get behind. 
Just as you say, there will never be a consensus in these complex moral issues, so what we need to do is stop asking questions like, “Does human life have inherent value?” or “What constitutes a good life?” and realize that because these questions are unknowable, trying to answer them is an utter waste of time and our society’s intellectual resources. Instead, let us celebrate the magnificent panoply of human choice through respect, no mat­ter who those those choices affect, and not sweat the small stuff. Thank you, Mr. Petrocelli, for giving us the actual facts. 
Patrick Graff 
junior Dillon Hall Nov. 20 


Senior day 
When I realized that we were not going to fulfill my admittedly optimistic prediction of a national champi­onship this season, I became more and more preoccu­pied with one game: UConn. 
One of my best friends is a senior walk-on wide receiver who has busted his ass and sacrificed his body (knee surgery, shoulder surgery and broken hand) for this team over the last four years. It is cus­tomary that on the last home game of the season, sen­ior walk-ons get a chance to live the dream and play football in Notre Dame Stadium. But, if the game is close or we are losing the walk-ons don’t get to play. 
We are a much more talented team than UConn and should easily beat them. But, on the outside chance that we play a close game (or lose) to an inferior team on senior day (see Syracuse 2008), this is a plea for the walk-ons to be put in at the beginning of the game so they will get to play no matter what the outcome. 
Come on, Charlie, do the right thing. These guys have earned it. 
Austin Dwyer 
senior off campus Nov. 20 

The Observer 






Scene
page 14 Friday, November 20, 2009 



By MATT BROWN 
Scene Writer 
As most students know, last week a little movie known as “Boondock Saints II: All Saints Day” arrived on campus. Many were surprised at the appearance of a wide release movie coming to campus and being shown for free in the Browning Cinema, one on the nicest theatres in the state of Indiana. But hey, it’s a movie about Irish Catholics. This is an Irish Catholic university, why shouldn’t they be here? 
But the “Boondock Saints” premier was actually part of a series that the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) and the Student Union Board (SUB) have decided to play throughout the year. It will give students something to do as the weather turns cold and the campus looks to be north of the Arctic Circle where even the penguins don’t live. 
DPAC and SUB are working with big name stu­dios and even some smaller independent film com­panies in an effort to bring premieres of all types to campus. Ideally, there will be a film every Tuesday with student ticket pick-up on the same day, similar to the Boondock set up. Realistically though, it will be closer to every other week as the program gets rolling. 
The event was first set in motion with a screen­ing of “The Fourth Kind” on Nov. 3. Many have seen the sidewalk chalk on the pavement leading to the greatest dining hall on campus, South Dining Hall. The film was well attended, encourag­ing the head honchos to try for something a little 
While most on campus have yet to realize Scene’s abysmal coverage — or lack thereof — of the Country Music Awards, I’m taking it upon myself to attempt to rectify the situation (over a week late, apparently Scene took awhile to pencil me in). 
I love country music. Apparently, it’s a surpris-Kara King ing quality I possess, but country music is the one aspect of my otherwise Assistant well-concealed Southern Managing roots that I’ll publicly Editor announce. 
Those people who claim they like any music but country music are either 
a) lying, b) wrong or c) stupid. At least now Taylor Swift has arrived to show everyone the error of their ways. 
Last Wednesday, Swift made country music his­tory, winning all four awards for which she was nominated, including a major victory in usurping Kenny Chesney from the Entertainer of the Year throne that he has held for five of the past six years. 
Any casual country music fan fails to realize the magnitude of this upset. The Country Music Association, which votes on the CMAs, is a noto­riously conservative body, and tend to be unnec­essarily harsh on crossover artist that aren’t “country enough.” After the nominations were announced, George Jones lambasted Swift and other recent artists, saying “They’re definitely not traditional country music,” and accusing them of “stealing [classic country singers’] identi­ties.” Immediately after receiving Entertainer of the Year, Wynonna Judd, the younger and overly-orange half of country duo The Judds, said Swift shouldn’t have won, due in part to her young age. 
The last solo female artist to win Entertainer of the Year was Shania Twain. In 1999. Before that, it was Reba, in 1986. Faith Hill, Swift’s idol, never won. Neither did Martina McBride or Carrie Underwood or Tammy Wynette. So Swift capturing the top honor was quite possibly the biggest upset in the country music world in newer and possibly more popular. 
What resulted was the mishegas that was the arrival of Troy Duffy, Sean Patrick Flannery and “Boondock Saints II.” The campus was abuzz with talk of the premier, the Facebook faithful were aroused with the creation of a group and the line for tickets was longer than the 200-seat capacity by 10:45 a.m. for tickets that weren’t slated to be distributed until noon. Needless to say DPAC and SUB had a hit on their hands. 
The enthusiastic response of the campus was a great encouragement and something tangible that could be shown to studios possibly interested in also taking advantage of the unique opportunity to show sneak previews at the University of Notre Dame. So cross your fingers and buckle up for what DPAC has in store as we close this semester and begin another, colder one. There is no word yet as to what the next cinematic sensation will be, but I’m going to go out on a limb and say probably the next James Cameron or Martin Scorsese film. One can hope. 
The movies shown at DPAC can be expected to be from smaller studios as the movie series contin­ues to build momentum, but with continued sup­port and enthusiasm from the student body, expect to see larger studios and bigger name titles arrive on campus. Come on, how hard is it to get excited about a free movie that you get to see before any of your friends back home can even think about buying tickets? Get excited, keep your ear to the grindstone and wait to see who DPAC can hook us up with next. 
Contact Matt Brown at mbrown14@nd.edu 
awhile. 
But just because it was surprising does not mean it wasn’t deserved. Swift has been under contract since she was 15 (doesn’t that make you feel so unaccomplished?). She’s been writing much longer. She has shattered records in album sales for country, worked with some of the best country musicians and is headlining her own tour. She is a global phenomenon and has earned the recognition that she is receiving. 
While I have been a Swift fan since I first heard “Tim McGraw” the summer before freshman year, I have to disagree with her being awarded Female Vocalist. She is an entertainer. Her song­writing and performance skills are unbelievable. But she is known for her combination of raw tal­ent and energy rather than for a booming, pow­erful voice. Up against some of the strongest voices in music, including McBride, McEntire and Underwood, she pales in comparison. But, per­haps showing their own adaptation to the change sweeping the country, the Association continued piling the platitudes on Swift. 
Swift’s other two awards, for Music Video and Album, were no-brainers, and provided an excel­lent set-up for multiple Kanye jabs. Her upset win in Entertainer of the Year, though, wasn’t the only shocker of the night. Sugarland beat out soon-to-be-defunct Brooks & Dunn for Best Duo. Lady Antebellum ended Rascal Flatts six-year reign in the Vocal Group category and Darius Rucker became the first black country singer since Charley Pride to win a major solo award win he nabbed the Best New Artist Award. 
Overall, it was a great night (that should have been covered in a far-more-timely fashion. I’ll work on that for next year). The performances were quality, and, as I watched with my country-hating roommates, I actually felt knowledgeable about the music world for once. Now the real challenge for Swift is to see if she can continue on her upswing and repeat it all next year. 
The views expressed in this column are 
those of the author and not necessarily those 
of The Observer. 
Contact Kara King at kking5@nd.edu 

Photo Illustration by JACLYN ESPINOZA and IAN GAVLICK 

page 2 The Observer . INTERHALL INSIDER Friday, November 20, 2009 

Bottom seeds meet as underdogs for title 

them prevail over the 

By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Gentlemen, who are “playing 
Sports Writer 
inspired football right now,” Mathews said. 
St. Edward’s (4-2) and The Siegfried defense is Siegfried (4-1-1) square off preparing to battle the offen-Sunday for the 2009 Men’s sive combination of St. Interhall championship. Edward’s offensive of a large Though St. Edward’s is the line and multiple speedy play-
eighth seed and  m  a  k  e  r  s  .  
S i e g fr i e d  th e  The Gentlemen,  
sev e nth , t h e te a ms w er e bo t h abl e to pull off upsets  “The season’s already a success. Prior to 2007, we hadn’t  h ow e ver, w i ll look to pull off one more upset victory in what  
i n  th e  pl a yo f f  scored a touchdown  has been  so  far  
rounds to reach th e f i n a l co n - in four years.”  a s t o ry b o ok playoff run.  
test of the  sea­ “The season’s  
son.  Sean Reed  already  a  suc- 
“ We’r e  v e ry  St. Edward’s junior  c es s, ”  j un i o r  

excited to play in the Stadium,” Siegfried senior lineman Adam Mathews said. “It’s been our goal all season.” 
Siegfried has not necessarily been perfect this year Mathews said, but they’ve done enough when necessary to win games. 
“We’ve had a few hiccups along the way,” he said. “But when it’s mattered, we’ve stepped up and played Siegfried football.” 
The Ramblers will look to their seniors in their last game, especially the offensive line and senior running back, linebacker, and captain Dex Cure; the Ramblers hope that strong leadership will help wide receiver 
Sean Reed said. “Prior to the 2007 season, we hadn’t scored a touchdown in four years.” 
St. Edward’s nevertheless is not satisfied with simply a championship appearance and will hope to use a team effort and reliance on funda­mentals to solve the Rambler defense. In addition, Reed said he hopes that the Gentlemen will not be flus­tered after a bad break and will continue to stick to their game plan. 
On the defensive side of the football, the Gentlemen will have to learn to face the option attack, which they have not seen yet this year, as well as stopping the tradition­al running game from both the running backs and quar­terback. 
Junior safety Cole Patterson will be the last line of defense but will also look to make plays. 
Both teams are excited to play in Notre Dame Stadium. Siegfried, as defending cham­pions, is familiar with the experience but is going to savor this just as much as the last time. 
“Even though we were there last year, it’s a new team and new experience,” Mathews said. 
The Gentlemen are also looking forward to playing in the famed venue, and as a sign of their excitement, some players are shaving their hair into mohawks. 
“It’ll be a really cool experi­ence,” Patterson said. “It’s not exactly something you expect to do when you come here.” 
The game, however, is first and foremost in the players’ minds. 
“It’s going to be a tough game,” Reed said. “We’re excited. The mohawk is going to be out in full force.” 
St. Edward’s and Siegfried battle for interhall supremacy at 12:30 p.m. Sunday in Notre Dame Stadium. 

Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Rookie Ramblers look for Siegfried to repeat in Stadium 
By JOHN HELMS Sports Writer  ha s a c o mpl ete ly d if fe r e n t d y namic to it, ” so phomor e Colin Moore said.  outnumber the total amount of players returning from last year.  
The Ramblers graduated  a  “ O u r  f r e s h m a n  c l a s s  i s  
W h e n  a  t e a m  i s  a b l e  t o  total of 12 players last year.  t r e m e n d o u s  a n d  h a s  c o n - 
repeat  as  champions in back  T h e  p l a y e r s  tributed all  over  
to back years, the two rosters  w h o  a r e  t h e  f i e l d  t h i s  
are almost always close to identical. Rarely, if ever, has  r e t u r n i n g knew from the  “This is a totally  y e a r, ” s a i d .  Av e r s a “ We ’ r e  
a defending champio n lost more than two-thirds of its players but still find itself in the same position the follow- onset that they w e r e i n f o r a different sea-son.  different team than last year with its own identity.”  g l a d t o h a v e a young group of g u y s w h o h a v e ste p ped i n a n d  
ing year. Yet that is exactly  “ T h i s  i s  a  p l a y e d  s o  w e l l  
what Siegfried has done. T h e R a m b l e r ’s c h a m p i -onship last year was with a  totally differ-ent team than last year with  John Aversa Siegfried sophomore  this season.” B u t t h e r e a l surprise for the  
team ripe with seniors. But  its  own  identi- R a m b l e r s  t h i s  
only  seven  players from that  ty,” sophomore  y e a r  h a s  b e e n  
team remain  on  this year’s.  c a p t a i n J o h n Av e r s a s a i d .  the contributions of several  
I n  f a c t ,  t h e r e  a r e  1 7  n e w  “Last year  we  were  a  senior- sophomores who  are  playing  
faces.  la de n gr o u p. This y ear  we  Interhall football for the first  
“The team is completely dif­ have a younger team.”  time,  a  few who have  never  
ferent. Some of the plays may  Younger is right. With eight  even  played organized foot- 
be the  same,  but the  tea m  new  freshmen, they actually  ball in their lives.  
“ I th i n k t hes e gu ys  wer e  
just excited about the oppor­ 
t u n i t y  t o  p l a y  f o o t b a l l , ”  
Aversa said. “They thought  
they could contribute to the  
team. They have been critical  
to our success.”  
In last Sunday’s semifinal  
win over Knott, it was two of  
these  new  DAN JACOBS/The Observersophomores mak- 
Siegfried sophomore Michael Isaacs gains a few extra yards ing the biggest plays of the  
against Morrissey on Oct. 11. game. Michael Isaacs picked  
a ball off to steal the momen­ leadership has become  more  for their playoff run.  
t u m  a w a y  f r o m  t h e  and more important for those  “The team has really jelled  
Juggernauts, who had domi­ players returning from last  with the progression of the  
nate d t he gam e up  t o  tha t  year’s team. Senior captain  season,” Aversa said. “With  
point.  Dex Cure has provided the  s o  m a n y  n e w  g u y s  o n  t h e  
Then, in the second half, 6­ c r u c i a l  l e a d e r s h i p  t h a t  team this year it took  some  
foot-6 Will Gesicki made  an  Siegfried has needed to gel as  time to really find our identi­ 
acrobatic 25-yard catch to set  a team.  t y  a n d  b e c o m e  a  b e t t e r  
up Siegfried’s first  score  of  “Dex has really been huge  team.”  
the game.  for  our  team,” Moore said.  Now with just  one  game to  
“ T h e s e  p l a y e r s  h a v e  “He’s been a great leader for  g o ,  t h e s e  R a m b l e r s  h a v e  
brought their speed, athleti­ us.”  made  one  thing clear; they  
cism, and toughness  to  the  I t  w a s n ’t  a l w a y s  s m o o t h  aren’t living in the shadow of  
field and have filled holes left  s a i l i n g  f o r  t h e  R a m b l e r s ,  l ast yea r ’s  team .  T h ey  are  
by graduation, stepping in  though. With a loss and a tie  doing things their own way.  
DAN JACOBS/The Observer and making plays,” Aversa  during the regular  season,  
Siegfried sophomore Michael Is aacs carries the ball during the said.  the team had  some  growing  Contact John Helms at  
Ramblers’ 9-7 defeat to Morriss ey on Oct. 11. With all these  new  players,  to do before they were ready  jhelms2@nd.edu  

Friday, November 20, 2009 The Observer . INTERHALL INSIDER page 3 



Clash of unbeatens to determine champion 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Either Pasquerilla West or Howard will lose its first game Sunday. The other will walk out of Notre Dame Stadium with a gold trophy. 
From the first play of the first practice, every player who partici­pates in Interhall has one goal in mind: playing in Notre Dame Stadium for the championship. Now two have arrived in the championship without a loss between them. 
Howard entered the season with little Interhall success in dorm history, having never won a playoff game. However, a deter­mined group of girls led by junior captain and quarterback Kayla Bishop got to work and formed what would evolve into interhall’s most unstoppable offense. Having run the table in the regular sea­son and winning two games to get to the Stadium, the season is already the best in dorm history, but Bishop and her teammates aren’t satisfied. 
“We want to win,” Bishop said. “It would be disappointing to come this far and not win the championship, so we’re going in with the mindset of coming out victorious.” 
Bishop and her supporting cast, including a talented receiving corps led by junior Kaitlin Robinson and freshman Laura Coletti, are focused on sticking to what helped them win their first eight games. 
“Playing our game is very important,” Bishop said. “We don’t want to be pressured by the stage. We just need to play Howard defense and capitalize in the red zone on offense.” 
Bishop said she believes that it is important for her team not to be overwhelmed by the setting in what will likely be a dorm-wide event as Howard seeks its first Interhall championship. 
“It’s just a field,” Bishop said. “It’s just grass. We’re prepping the same way we always do.” 
While the Ducks are new to the Stadium, the Purple Weasels are getting used to playing there, as the girls from Pasquerilla West have won multiple championships this decade. It should come as no surprise, then, that they are not satisfied with just making the championship. 
“The goal is to win the champi­onship,” senior captain Cynthia Curley said. “We’re not satisfied with just playing, and I think the whole team is on the same page about that.” 
Though the Weasels’ offensive attack, led by junior quarterback Simone Bigi, is going to be under pressure to get on the scoreboard, Curley believes her team’s defense could be the key to a victory. 
“Their quarterback is a good scrambler,” Curley said. “She can keep plays going so we need to stay focused on defense and keep playing until the whistle in pass coverage.” 
Though the Howard offense is going to be the biggest challenge of the season for the defense, Curley and her fellow captains will prepare the team with the same approach that they have all season. 
“We’re preparing for Howard specifically,” Curley said. “In the playoffs we have actually been really flexible with tweaking our routes and formations based on the team we’ve been playing.” 
Curley is also confident in her team’s ability to handle the envi­ronment of Notre Dame Stadium. 
“We’re doing some special things this week to prepare to play in the Stadium,” Curley said. “One of our coaches has a con­nection so we are actually going to go out on the field beforehand and get used to the surround­ings.” 
Both teams are expecting tons of support, as former Pasquerilla West rectress Sister Sue Bruno will be in attendance with her famous cowbell, while the Howard team has created an event on Facebook encouraging the whole dorm, as well as past residents, to come out and cheer the team on in this unprecedented stage. 
“It means a lot to [Howard],” Bishop said. “We’re hoping that everybody comes out and sees how far we’ve come this year, especially because we’ve never had the chance to be a part of something like this before.” 
The two teams will meet on the hallowed grounds of Notre Dame Stadium at 2 p.m. Sunday. 

Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


Three seniors look to end careers in the same way they started 

By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
For some college girls, fresh­man year includes sorority initia­tion and learning the tricks of the trade from older girls. Three years ago, three Pasquerilla West freshmen found themselves in a similar scenario, but instead of nights of frat houses, dresses and heels, their experience included freezing cold practices, flags around their waists and gym shoes. 
In 2006, Cynthia Curley, Alyssa Moya and Caitlin O’Connell were three of only five freshmen on their championship-winning foot­ball team. Now as seniors they are facing their last chance to return to the top. 
“Every single game for the past three years has been dedicated to this very moment: returning to the Stadium my senior year,” Moya said. 
But before that game comes, the girls took a walk down a very sat­isfying memory lane and reflected on their past together. Their story as a whole begins with one com­mon memory: That first practice so long ago when they felt intimi­dated by the older girls and feared being able to fit in with them. 
“I felt as if I had stumbled into some sort of secret society,” Curley said. “The girls were all friends, and they had all these cryptic inside jokes.” 
After that first practice, their nerves vanished. They quickly became part of the Purple Weasels team, joining in on team dinners, parties and what Curley referred to as “endless G-mail chains.” 
“[Pasquerilla West] football brings girls together in a unique way I have never seen before,” Moya said. “Everybody is so incredibly close, no matter what year you are or what section you live in.” 
In addition to remembering their close camaraderie as a team, the three current seniors also remember the seniors who start­ed them on the right path. 
“We owe so much to those sen­iors,” Curley said. “They are the ones who really built this program and taught us to take pride in it.” 
“Our captain Maureen ‘Mo’ Spring was my idol. I hoped some­day I could be half as good as she was,” Moya said. 
Remembering that amazing season and final game only makes them want to repeat the win even more. 
“Running out of the tunnel in the Stadium remains one of my most cherished memories of col­lege,” O’Connell said. “I spent much of that game on the side­lines, but I was never disheart­ened; I loved cheering on my teammates and when the last sec­ond ticked away, I loved being a champion.” 
As much as O’Connell remem­bers running out of the tunnel, Moya remembers celebrating later that night. 
“The post-championship game celebration was the best night of that year,” Moya said. “Several bottles of apple juice were sprayed on the balcony while the leftovers were drunk through spi­ral straws from the trophy cup.” 
Circumstances have definitely changed for Purple Weasels foot­ball and for these girls since 2006. They have grown from the under­dogs with mismatched jerseys into a smooth-looking powerhouse. Even with a new team, these girls know deep down some things never change. 
“We still have that same fire and swagger that won us that champi­onship in ‘06,” Curley said. 
Now these girls have grown to become the ones they admired so many seasons ago. After two less successful years, they knew com­ing into this final one, they had to step it up. It certainly doesn’t hurt that these seniors are not only teammates, but friends. 
“Prior to every single game in our four years, Cynthia and I have done a “pulse” routine that moti­vates us beyond belief in order to get the job done,” Moya said. 
They used this energy and channeled it to the rest of the team. Since the beginning of the season, Curley, Moya and O’Connell have built a group that could cooperate on the field, but also that could be friends outside the game. It has been the small things like pasta dinners and eat­ing Lucky Charms for good luck that have helped these women lead their team back to the Stadium. 
“We are the veterans of the team, and the Stadium is familiar territory to us,” Moya said. “We are going to use the past experi­ence to our advantage, and as seniors, hopefully finish Sunday’s battle the way we started fresh­man year, as champions.” 
Regardless of the score, this will mark the end of a long string of happy memories for these three Weasels. 
“This has been the perfect sea­son in so many ways,” O’Connell said. “When I remember the euphoric feeling of holding that championship trophy, all I want to do is win. This is our year.” 
“[Pasquerilla West] football is one of the greatest things I’ve been a part of in my four years here, and win or lose I will cry on Sunday after playing my last game for the [Weasels],” Curley said. 
Contact Megan Finneran at 


mfinnera@nd.edu 
Photo Illustration by JACLYN ESPINOZA and IAN GAVLICK 
The Observer 

Scene
Friday, November 20, 2009 page 15 

By MATT BROWN lege life, the prank war. Kept light and fun, shenanigan-
Scene Writer ish if you will, these can be the golden years of your time here at Notre Dame. Don’t be intimidated by the veteran status of your jolly adversary. Look at it as an opportunity 
Ladies and Gentlemen, Boys and Girls, Children of all for personal growth, something to add to graduate school ages get pumped! You may not know it yet but your entire applications. The most important thing to remember is to lives have been nothing but a precursor to this one make sure no lasting damage will be done. Once pranks moment. The most awesome of awesome things in your become mean-spirited, they’re not really shenanigans at lives pale in awesomeness when compared to the next all. sentence you will read. The Scene section will now be For your opening salvo we recommend something that offering advice to any and all who desire a wise word, says you’re here to play, have a sense of humor but leaves intelligent interjection, adept advice or sage syllogisms on room for growth as the game evolves. There is no need to any aspect of Notre Dame life. You can’t let that guy friend make him concede defeat right out of the gate. Here are a know that you like him? Got it covered. Tired of getting few options: friend-zoned by girls left and right? We feel you and we Post-it noting: Post-it note his desk … all of it. For a per-got the remedy, it is the experience, the dangerous liaison. sonal touch, add a message on each note and if you are Even if all you want to know is the best place to get a deli-feeling ambitious, use the small ones. cious sandwich, we handle the toughest questions. (P.S. — Ye Olde Alarm clock change: Not the greatest but a the answer is a Dagwood sandwich from Martin’s side decent warm-up. Best used in conjunction with other door deli). Simply e-mail your questions to small pranks such as remove the desk light, taking the left jshaffe1@nd.edu and we will take care of the rest. For shoe of every pair but flip flops — it’s cold out there. your viewing pleasure here’s how a sample question Newspapering into the room: tape many layers of news-might go : paper across the doorway until a tough barrier is formed. 
As you advance in complexities you may be able to Dear Scene, implement some of our favorites — saran wrap to the bed, Long time reader, first time writer, but anyway this kid duct tape futon and chairs to the ceiling, move everything 
down the hall from me is a real prankster. Every day I out of the room and pretend like you have never seen him leave my room expecting to see the hallway covered with before, find a squirrel, bucket of ice water over the show-cups of water, a wall of duct tape, or just to be trapped in er curtain … the possibilities are limitless. Good luck my room. I want to join in, it seems like so much fun, but I friend and happy pranking! can’t come up with any good ideas … can you help me Scene? 
We will strive to provide sound advice in the most enter­

taining way possible and we can’t wait to help you, our Dear Reader, readers, so send in your questions today! Because at Aha! You have come across one of the great joys of col-Scene, we care. 
Contact Matt Brown at mbrown14@nd.edu 

JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 

page 16 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, November 20, 2009 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Villanova avoids defeat with buzzer beater 
Dayton beats Georgia Tech in match-up of top 25 teams in O’Reilly Auto Parts Puerto Rico Tip-Off 
Associated Press 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico— The first basket of Isaiah Armwood’s college basketball career was a big one. 
The freshman hit a go ­ahead 3-pointer with 13.3 seconds left, rallying Villanova over George Mason 69 -68 Thursday in the O’Reilly Auto Parts Puerto Rico Tip-Off. 
“He was the last one I wanted to take the shot. I’ll be honest,” Villanova coach Jay Wright admitted. 
The Wildcats (3-0) trailed by 13 points in the first half and were behind 68-66 with time ticking down. 
Armwood hit his only shot, connecting from the top of the arc. He played just four minutes, coming off the bench after Antonio Pena and Taylor King both fouled out. 
“It felt good when it left my hand. It felt even better after the game,” Armwood said. 
Wright, by the way, said Armwood now “definitely” 
h a s  a  g r e e n l ig h t  t o  s h o o t  
away.  
T h e  Wi l d c a t s  n e v e r  l e d  

until late in the second half. 
They were down 67-63 in the final minute, then freshman Maalik Wayns hit a 3. 
After Sherrod Wright made one of two free throws for George Mason, Armwood made his 3. The Patriots (2-1) did not get off another shot. 
Scottie Reynolds scored 18 points despite relentless pressure from George Mason’s guards, who con ­tributed to his eight turnovers. He said he was eager to improve in the sec­ond round of the tournament Friday. 
“I’m going to have to watch the film and I’ll come back better tomorrow,” he said. 
Wright said he was sur ­prised his team did not han­dle George Mason’s intensity better. 
“They had a great game plan, and they did a great job 
on our guards,” he said. “We’re going to take this one and learn from it.” 
Reynolds ’ jumper with seven minutes left gave Villanova its first lead. Ryan Pearson responded with a basket for the Patriots. 
Pearson led the Patriots with 14 points and star guard Cam Long added 13 before leaving the game because of cramps. Andre Cornelius had 13. 



Patriots coach Jim Larranaga, whose team led 37 -28 at halftime, said he was happy with his team’s effort. 
“With such a young team, the one thing I can’t do is be impatient with them,” he said. 
Corey Fisher went 14 for 18 from the foul line and fin­ished with 17 points for Villanova. Pena had 10 points and 12 rebounds and King had eight points. 
Dayton 63. Georgia Tech 59 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico -­Paul Williams ’ summer of work paid off for No. 18 Dayton. 
The sophomore guard hit the go-ahead 3-pointer and went 4 for 4 from the free throw line in the last minute to seal the Flyers’ comeback win over No. 21 Georgia Tech in the opening game of the O’Reilly Auto Parts Puerto Rico Tip-Off on Thursday. 
“All summer we were work­ing out, shooting free throws, a thousand after a thousand, and that shows you I can hit it,” Williams said. 
Dayton coach Brian Gregory was not surprised by his reserve guard’s perform­ance. 
“He’s going to be an impact guy for us, which is what we thought from the beginning,” Gregory said. 
Williams finished with 13 points for Dayton (2 -0), which got 47 points from its backups, including 19 from Chris Johnson. 
“I just come in and play my role,” said Johnson, who shot 4 for 8 from behind the 3­point line as the Flyers’ out­side shooting countered the Yellow Jackets’ inside game. “I try to bring energy to the team.” 
The Yellow Jackets (1-1) trailed the Flyers 31-22 at the half, but rallied with a string of dunks and layups by Derrick Favors and Gani Lawal. 
A 3-pointer by Brian Oliver gave Georgia Tech its first lead of the second half at 49­47 and a layup by Zachery Peacock on an offensive rebound with 4:37 to play gave them a 57-50 lead. 
Georgia Tech coach Paul Hewitt said Dayton’s energy was the key to its comeback. 
“We had a little flow going and then we got a little fran­tic, gave them some life,” Hewitt said. “The turnovers really hurt us, but you have to give credit to Dayton’s energy.” 
The Flyers had 22 turnovers, but scored 27 points off 26 Georgia Tech turnovers. 
“At times we were ugly out there, but we played hard,” Gregory said. 
Maurice Miller and Favors led Georgia Tech with 10 points apiece, and Lawal had eight rebounds in helping the Yellow Jackets outrebound Dayton 34-26. 
In the first half, Dayton took control with an 8-0 run capped by Chris Wright’s breakaway dunk that gave the Flyers a 30-20 lead three minutes before the break. Luke Fabrizius also scored two 3-pointers during the run and finished with 12 points. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES Prayer to the Blessed Virgin. (never If you or someone you care about CHILDCARE Needed for Catholic OF NATURE AND SERENITY. known to fail). Oh, most beautiful has been sexually assaulted, we family, 8-10 hours per week, in FOR SALE PERSONAL flower of Mt. Carmel, fruitful vine, can help. Granger, $8 per hour. Must have 
splendor of Heaven, Blessed own transport. Lingerie and underwear 9 MILES NORTH OF NOTRE UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Mother of the Son of God, For more information, visit Notre althoffamy@yahoo.com or 574-271­www.myshopkart.net/starlight use DAME. Immaculate Virgin, assist me in my Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu 0383. coupon code &quot;student&quot; Do not go it alone. necessity. Oh, Star of the Sea, help ——————————————— ——————————————— and receive 10% off. me and show me, herein you are A COCONUT!!!!!! 
——————————————— $1,200 FOR WEEKEND. Notre Dame has many resources in my mother. Oh, Holy Mary, Mother ——————————————— Custom Irish Tie Dye. place to assist you. of God, Queen of Heaven and TICKETS An amber alert is out for Ryan Alum business,free campus delivery Earth! I humbly beseech you from McCargar. www.swirlysensations.com CALL GEORGIA PEACH BED AND the bottom of my heart to succor me 
——————————————— BREAKFAST If you or someone you love needs in this necessity. There are none He has been missing for a few days 1999 Chevy Cavalier. Call 574-273-@269-357-6979. confidential support or assistance, that can withstand your power. Oh, now because of nonstop group 8683. ——————————————— please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-17819 show me herein you are my mother. meetings. 
——————————————— Irish Crossings and Dublin Village 3 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. Oh Mary, conceived without sin, If you see him, please notify his Newly renovated 3 bdrm, 2.5 bath and 4 bdr, furnished and unfur-pray for us who have recourse to roommates in Keenan. home 1 mi. east of ND. 54250 N. nished. thee (3x). Holy Mother, I place this ——————————————— 27th St. New furnace/AC, roof, win-For more information, visit ND's cause in your hands (3x). Holy So, I'm on the first tee with him. I dows, siding, fixtures, carpet, etc. January and June 2010 leases website at: http://pregnancysup-Spirit, you who solve all problems, give him the driver. He hauls off and 
available. port@nd.edu light all roads so that I can attain my whacks one - big hitter, the Lama ­Very nice neighborhood. ——————————————— goal. You who gave me the divine long, into a ten-thousand foot cre­$127,000. Call 574-386-2763. Considering Adoption? gift to forgive and forget all evil vasse, right at the base of this gla­
——————————————— www.cespm.info against me and that in all instances cier. Do you know what the Lama in my life you are with me. I want in says? Gunga galunga... gunga, Call 574-968-0112. ND Alums Hoping to Adopt. this short prayer to thank you for all WANTED gunga-lagunga. So we finish theFOR RENT ——————————————— things as you confirm once again eighteenth and he's gonna stiff me. 
that I never want to be separated PART TIME WORK And I say, "Hey, Lama, hey, how andersonNDrentals.com. HOUSES If you are an expectant mother from you in Eternal Glory. Thank about a little something, you know, ——————————————— NOTICES searching for a family, please see you for your mercy toward me and $14.25 base-appt., for the effort, you know." And he 522 Napoleon Street: 1-2 student our website at mine. The person must say this says, "Oh, uh, there won't be any Nice ktchn,bath,2bdrm,storage ALTERATIONS. prayer 3 consecutive days. After 3 no experience needed, money, but when you die, on your Washer/dryer. days, the request will be granted. customer sales/service, deathbed, you will receive total con­5 blks W. off ND Ave. $580/mo+utl http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro-This prayer must be published after sciousness." So I got that goin' for (219)629-5483 Call 574-675-9214 (9-5) Michele. file.net. the favor is granted 574-273-3835. me, which is nice. 
——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade FB Tix. Victorytickets.net 574-232-0964. 
——————————————— HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will pay top $$. 574-251-1570 —————————————— 



Around t eNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Friday, November 20, 2009 
page 17 
NCAA Football AP Top 25 

team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Alabama 3 3 Texas 2 4 TCU 4 5 Cincinnati 5 6 Boise State 6 7 Georgia Tech 7 8 Pittsburgh 8 9 Ohio State 10 10LSU 9 11 Oregon 14 12 Oklahoma State 17 13 Penn State 19 14 Stanford 25 15 Iowa 15 16 Virginia Tech 20 17 Wisconsin 21 18 Clemson 24 19 BYU 22 20 Oregon State NR 21 Miami (Fla.) 12 22 Southern California 11 23 UTah 16 24 Houston 13 25 Rutgers NR 
NCAA Football Coaches Poll Top 25 
team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Texas 2 3 Alabama 3 4 TCU 4 5 Cincinnati 5 6 Boise State 6 7 Georgia Tech 7 8 Ohio State 8 9 Pittsburgh 9 10 LSU 11 11 Oregon 16 12 Penn State 17 13 Oklahoma State 18 14 Wisconsin 20 15 Iowa 13 16 Virginia Tech 21 17 Stanford NR 18 BYU 22 19 Clemson NR 20 Oregon State NR 21 Southern California 10 22 Houston 12 23 Utah 14 24 Miami (Fla.) 15 25 Nebraska NR 

around the dial 
NBA 
Orlando vs. Boston 8 p.m., ESPN 

College Football 
Boise State vs. Utah State 9:30 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


Lincecum wins second consecutive Cy Young 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — Talk about a freak — Tim Lincecum need­ed just 15 wins to bag anoth­er NL Cy Young Award. Yup, throw out those old baseball cards. Wins and losses don’t mean much anymore when it comes time for voters to pick baseball’s best pitchers. It’s all about WHIP, FIP, BABIP and other lines of alphabet soup. 
“It’s turned into a game of complete numbers and statis­tics and what people do with that,” Lincecum said. 
Lincecum won the Cy Young Award on Thursday for the second straight year, emerging from one of the tightest votes in the history of the honor to become the first 
IN BRIEF 

Cubs give up Heilman to D-backs for minor leaguers 
PHOENIX — Reliever Aaron Heilman was acquired Thursday by the Arizona Diamondbacks from the Chicago Cubs for two minor league prospects. 
The 31-year-old right-hander was 4­4 with a 4.11 ERA in 70 appearances last season, striking out 65 and walk­ing 34. He spent six seasons with the New York Mets before he was traded to Seattle last December, then was dealt to the Cubs the next month. 
Chicago gets 24-year-old left-hander Scott Maine and 23-year-old infielder Ryne White. Maine, a sixth-round draft pick in 2007, was a combined 4-5 with seven saves and a 2.90 ERA with Double-A Mobile and Triple-A Reno last season. White, a fourth-round draft pick in 2008, hit .266 with 58 RBIs for Class A Visalia. 
The move is intended to bolster an Arizona bullpen that was just one of many problems for the Diamondbacks last season. 
repeat winner since Randy Johnson. 
Only 10 points separated the top three vote-getters. Chris Carpenter was second and St. Louis teammate Adam Wainwright finished third despite getting the most first-place votes. 
Lincecum, nicknamed “The Freak” for his giant stride, led the NL with 261 strike­outs and tied for the league lead with four complete games and two shutouts. 
The wiry right-hander attracts plenty of attention on the mound with his shoulder-length brown hair and twist­ing delivery. But it was his 15 victories — the fewest for a Cy Young starter over a non-shortened season — that were really noticeable for the 
Wie calls it quits at LPGA Tour from bad ankle injury 
RICHMOND, Texas — Michelle Wie with­drew from the LPGA Tour Championship on Thursday after hobbling through her first round on a sprained left ankle. 
The 20-year-old Wie, fresh off her first tour victory last week, shot an even-par 72 on Thursday. She first injured her ankle at the Solheim Cup in August. 
Wie went for treatment after her round and withdrew about an hour later. 
“I wanted to do everything I could to fight through the injury,” Wie said in a statement after dropping out of the tourna­ment. “It bothered me last week in Mexico, but I was able to play through the pain. I realized today that I wouldn’t be able to continue to play through it.” 
Wie was 3 under through 12 holes. Her ankle gave way on the 13th tee, and she stumbled backward, sliced her shot into the rough and took her first bogey. She bent over in apparent pain on No. 14, then slipped again hitting her tee shot on No. 17. 
award winner. 
The 2009 honors for Lincecum and Kansas City Royals ace Zack Greinke reflect a recent shift in how pitchers are evaluated. The focus has changed to more developed statistics, including some that even take into account team defense. 
Greinke equaled the previ­ous low of 16 wins for a non-shortened season when he won the AL award on Tuesday. Afterward, he talked all about FIP, a mathe­matician’s dream that stands for Fielding Independent Pitching. 
Lincecum has his own favorite indicator. 
“To say which one I look to the most, I would just say WHIP,” he said, referring to 
Tony Dungy leads advisory forum for all NFL players 
NEW YORK — Tony Dungy is taking a lead role in improving communication between the NFL and its players. 
Dungy will lead a new NFL player advi­sory forum that will meet with players about league policies, programs and issues that affect their lives on and off the field. Those subjects will include player health and safety, personal conduct, game rules and procedures, career transition and player development. 
Dungy, who retired as coach of the Indianapolis Colts after last season, is a special adviser to commissioner Roger Goodell. 
“When I worked on the competition committee we always had meetings with players at the NFL combine to talk about issues important to them,” Dungy said, “and then the committee reported back to the commissioner and the league office. I thought that communication always was important and commissioner Goodell wanted to broaden that.” 
walks plus hits allowed per inning, “just because you just limit the amount of baserun­ners that can hurt you.” 
Lincecum is facing misde­meanor marijuana charges stemming from a traffic stop in his home state of Washington on Oct. 30. No questions were allowed about the incident in his conference call, but he acknowledged making a mistake and apolo­gized in a prepared state­ment. 
“I know that as a profes­sional athlete I have a responsibility to conduct myself appropriately both on and off the field,” he said. “I certainly have learned a valuable lesson through all of this and I promise to do better in the future. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, November 20, 2009 
NFL 

Kampmantakescautious approachwithconcussion 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. — Aaron Kampman says the Green Bay training staff won’t need to keep a sharp eye on him when he returns to the field for Sunday’s game against the San Francisco 49ers. 
If he learned anything after playing through a concussion, it’s that a cautious approach is the best one to head injuries. 
“The great thing about the medical staff here is they’re always going to err on the side of making sure the player is taken care of,” Kampman said. “You hear horror stories of guys being thrust out there, and that’s not the case here.” 
Kampman is back at prac­tice this week after sustaining a concussion on the fourth play of the game in a Nov. 8 loss at Tampa Bay. The outside linebacker played into the fourth quarter before realizing he had a significant injury and telling his coaches, who took him out. 
The Packers held Kampman out of practice all last week and through Sunday’s victory over Dallas, the first time he has missed a game for health reasons since 2003. While Kampman says it was tough to stay on the sidelines instead of playing in the Packers’ biggest victory of the season, he appreciates the team’s cau­tious approach. 
And while Kampman has been open with reporters about his injury and recovery 
— a sign, perhaps, of increased awareness about the dangers of head injuries in football — he hopes he never has to stand in front of his locker and talk about concus­sions again. 
“Hopefully, this is the last time we have to talk about this,” Kampman said. 
But it won’t be the last time the Packers deal with the aftermath of a head injury — not even this week. 
Packers coach Mike McCarthy said Thursday that center Scott Wells missed practice after reporting con-cussion-like symptoms Wednesday. 
“He had some symptoms in regards to a concussion that was reported to the medical staff yesterday,” McCarthy said. “So we’re obviously being smart with him.” 
And Kampman’s backup, Brad Jones, was limited in practice Wednesday because of a concussion. He was listed as a full participant in Thursday’s practice. 

Head injuries are becoming a major issue around the league, fueled in part by a recent study conducted for the NFL that found retired profes­sional football players may have a higher rate than nor­mal of Alzheimer’s disease or other memory problems. 
The concern has filtered down to today’s players. 
According to a survey of 160 NFL players conducted by The Associated Press from Nov. 2­15, 30 replied that they have hidden or played down the effects of a concussion. Half said they’ve had at least one concussion playing football; 61 said they missed playing time because of the injury. 
Kampman said the team’s medical staff doesn’t need to worry about him hiding a con­cussion. 
“I don’t take that approach,” Kampman said. “I wouldn’t have tried to say I was ready to go if I (wasn’t).” 
Amid increasing scrutiny of the NFL’s policies on concus­sions, Kampman has gone out of his way to absolve the Packers’ coaches and medical staff of any responsibility for him playing with a concussion at Tampa. 
Kampman said it’s a player’s responsibility to tell coaches when he’s hurt, but acknowl­edged that can be difficult for the player to figure out when he isn’t thinking clearly. 
McCarthy and defensive coordinator Dom Capers said last week that they didn’t know anything was wrong with Kampman until he told someone. 
“We all understand the pri­ority of player safety, and once again, that is at the forefront of all these medical decisions,” McCarthy said last week. “But it’s also the game of football. When you’re dealing with head injuries, it’s hard to deci­pher sometimes — did you get dinged or do you have a con­cussion? There’s lines in everything in life, and no dif­ferent with levels of injuries.” 
McCarthy said Kampman was taken out of the game immediately after it became clear that something was wrong. 
Kampman was given med­ical clearance Monday and was able to resume lifting weights, then returned to practice Wednesday. And while Kampman said it felt strange to sit out Sunday’s game, a few fans didn’t seem to notice he was missing. 
NFL 
Clark closes in on record 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — When Dallas Clark looks at the evo­lution of tight ends, he thinks of John Mackey. 
The Hall of Famer made it chic for the big guys to catch passes and run down field when it was more popular for them to be blockers or outlet receivers. 
Now, four decades later, Clark is carving out his own niche in a very different NFL. 
Tight ends are now expect­ed to catch more passes than throw blocks, and like Mackey, Kellen Winslow, Shannon Sharpe and Tony Gonzalez before him, Clark has figured out a way to use his unique skills to create defensive mismatches. 
"I think Gonzalez, and Mackey back in his heyday, really changed the position," Clark said. "I think they real­ly gave guys like (Antonio) Gates and others a chance to excel." 
Clark certainly fits in, too. 
At 6-foot -3, 252 pounds, he' s better known for his speed, his ability to run after the catch and his aptitude to stretch the field. 
Since the start of 2008, no NFL tight end has been more productive than Clark. His 141 catches and 1,616 yards over the last 25 games rank No. 1 among all tight ends even though he has not yet gone to a Pro Bowl. 
That could change this year. With Gonzalez out of the AFC, and Clark tied for second in the NFL with Wes Welker with 64 receptions, Clark seems like a shoo-in. 
In addition to the sterling numbers, records are falling at a breakneck pace, too. 
In 2007, Clark broke Mackey 's four-decade -old franchise records for recep­tions and touchdowns by a tight end in one season. Last year, Clark smashed his own record for receptions in a season (77) and broke Mackey's 42-year-old mark for yards in a season (848). This year, he's on pace to shatter those numbers again. 
But Sunday may be the most awkward record-setting moment yet. 
Clark needs one catch to break Mackey's Colts' record for career receptions by a tight end (320), and it's likely to happen in Mackey's old stomping grounds in Baltimore — the city that hasn't forgotten the team's midnight move to Indianapolis. 
So Clark's pal, three-time MVP Peyton Manning, has added the title of diplomat this week. 
"I think he (Clark) has a great appreciation for who John Mackey was before he got drafted by the Colts. I know he has more now," Manning said. "Whether they played in Baltimore or we play in Indianapolis, you still have a great appreciation for great football players. That would be a tremendous accomplishment and a great credit to Dallas. I think it would be special for him because he knows what a great player Mackey was." 
Perhaps nobody under ­stands the situation better than Manning. 
In college, Manning won the Unitas Award, then was taken No. 1 overall in the 1998 NFL draft with the clear objective of breaking Unitas' records. 
Clark won the Mackey Award while playing at Iowa, then was taken by the Colts in the first round of the 2003 draft. The goal, of course, was to become the best tight end in Colts history, which meant sup­planting Mackey, a star of the 1971 Super Bowl who caught a tipped 75-yard touchdown pass in the Baltimore Colts' 13-10 win over Dallas. Now in his late 60s, he suffers from dementia. 




Friday, November 20, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
UNCW upsests Penn State 
Associated Press 
CHARLESTON, S.C. — Chad Tomko scored 21 points and North Carolina-Wilmington made 10 of 16 3-point shots to knock off Penn State 80 -69 on Thursday. 
The Seahawks (2-1) held the Nittany Lions to 32.3 percent from the field (21­for-65) in the first round of the Charleston Classic. 
Penn State (2 -1) got 29 points from Talor Battle, who made 11 of 12 free throws. The Nittany Lions were 22-for-27 from the foul line for the game. 
The Seahawks led 40-31 at halftime after shooting 61.5 percent from the field, including 7-for-11 from 3­point range. 
Six players had at least one 3-pointer for UNC ­Wilmington and eight scored in the first half. 
Penn State, meanwhile, struggled against the Seahawks’ defense, shooting 
35.5 percent from the field in the first half, including 2­for-10 from 3-point range. 
Will Ohuaregbe was the only other UNC-Wilmington player in double figures with 12 points. 
MLB 

Alomar hopeful he’ll make Hall 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. — Roberto Alomar has career numbers that compare favorably with many of baseball’s greatest second basemen. The ques­tion is how will one memo­rable lapse impact his bid to make the Hall of Fame. 
On the ballot for the first time, the 12-time All-Star’s resume is impressive. He was a two -time World Series champion with Toronto, and hit .300 with 210 homers, 1,134 RBIs and 474 stolen bases in 17 seasons. 
But his stats have often been overshadowed by an incident in late 1996 when, after being called out on strikes, he spit in the face of umpire John Hirschbeck. 
Alomar and Hirschbeck grew close after that episode. 
“We became real good friends,” Alomar said Thursday. “He forgave me and I hope all the other peo­ple forgive me. Sometimes, we as human beings, we do stupid things. I regret doing that.” 


Alomar, relaxed and looking fit, visited with former big league players and other par­ticipants at the New York Yankees’ fantasy camp. He was with his wife, and they are building a home in the Tampa area. 
“I’m married, raising a child, just happy and enjoying life,” Alomar said. 
One of Alomar’s biggest Hall 
of Fame supporters is Hirschbeck. 
“It’s real special because I got to know not only him, I got to know his family,” Alomar said. “I got to spend more time with him.” 
Away from the spotlight, Alomar has been teaching at youth baseball camps and helped raise funds for adrenoleukodystrophy, a dis­ease that impacted two of Hirschbeck’s sons. 
Alomar was involved in an explosive lawsuit earlier this year in which his ex -girl ­friend alleged he made her have unprotected sex even though he had AIDS. 
The lawsuit was settled in May, and allegations against Alomar were never corrobo­rated. Alomar’s attorney, Charles Bach, said the suit was withdrawn voluntarily, but wouldn’t say if his client paid any money. 
Coming from a baseball family — his father, Sandy Sr. 
played 15 years in the majors, and brother Sandy Jr. was a six-time All-Star during a 20-year career — makes the Hall of Fame considera­tion extra special. 
“A goal for ballplayers, it’s real tough to accomplish, is to get to the Hall of Fame,” Alomar said. “It would mean a lot. We, as ballplayers, when they mention your name, that you can be talked about being in the Hall of Fame, if I get there it will be the end of the book. The greatest feeling of my life.” 
“I consider this a team effort if I make it because I didn’t do it by myself,” he added. “I do it with the sup­port of my family, my Little League managers, everyone. All of the dreams from Day One when you start playing the game of baseball.” 
After a five -year break, Alomar would like to get back into the game. 
“I would love to be involved, ” Alomar said. “When I left the game it was tough. At the same time, I’m not the kind of player to go out there and just play the game of baseball just to play the game of baseball. I have too much respect for this game. When I saw I was inca­pable of playing the way I could play, then I decided to retire.” 
NFL 
Bills owner promises changes are coming 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. — Firing coach Dick Jauron was merely the start of a major over­haul Buffalo Bills owner Ralph Wilson is prepared to conduct this offseason in order to make his team a contender again. 
Outlining his plans in a tele­phone interview with The Associated Press on Thursday, Wilson said he’s open to going after a high-profile coach, is willing to hire a general manag­er with a football background, and warned that no position on his team is safe. 
“I tell you, we have a lot of work to do,” Wilson said from his home in suburban Detroit. “We’ve got to revamp and take a look at the whole operation and that’s what we’re going to do.” 
A thorough evaluation of the entire organization will begin at the end of the season, he said. 
“We’re going to sit down and see where we stand and, I hate to use the term, but then we’re going to go forward,” Wilson said in his first extensive inter­view since Jauron was fired Tuesday and replaced by defen­sive coordinator Perry Fewell, who will finish the season as interim coach. 
The Bills (3-6), who play at Jacksonville on Sunday, have been going backward for much of this decade and are in jeop­ardy of missing the playoffs for a 10th straight year. 
That’s not how Wilson was expecting to celebrate the fran­chise’s 50th season, and in a year in which he and former star defensive end Bruce Smith were inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame. 
Wilson’s decision last December to retain Jauron for a fourth year — and after three consecutive 7-9 finishes — back­fired when the Bills got off to a 1-4 start. After rebounding with two wins, the Bills unraveled in losing their past two games by a combined 72-27, the last straw a 41-17 loss at Tennessee last weekend. 
“Dick’s a great guy, a class guy,” Wilson said. “But I thought it was time to make a change, and we did.” 
Though Fewell is a candidate for next season, Wilson said he’s open to making a lucrative offer to land a high-profile coach. 
“It’s not about money, it’s about winning,” Wilson said. “If it was about money, we wouldn’t have brought in and paid for somebody we know was a great player.” 
Wilson was referring to the signing of receiver Terrell Owens to a one-year, $6.5 mil­lion contract in March after he was cut by Dallas. 
“Anybody that says I’m cheap is looking down the wrong side of the street,” he said. 
Though the Bills have been competitive in going after high-profile free agents and re-sign­ing their own star players, Wilson has been criticized for refusing to spend money to hire an established head coach. 
Jauron, who was making about $3 million a season, was believed to be the highest-paid coach in team history. But some NFL coaches are making more than double that amount. 
Wilson discounted reports the team is interested in interview­ing Mike Shanahan, the former Denver Broncos coach. 
“I don’t know anything about him,” he said. 
Later in the day, the Bills issued a statement downplaying speculation regarding their coaching search, saying the team is focused on the final seven games of the season and “the efforts of coach Fewell, the coaching staff and our players.” 
Wilson’s intention to revamp his front office could lead to the team’s first major restructuring since 2006, when he fired team president Tom Donahoe. Wilson then reclaimed the president’s title, appointed Russ Brandon, the team’s marketing chief, as chief operating officer, and brought in Hall of Fame coach Marv Levy to serve as general manager. 
Levy stepped down after two years, and Brandon was award­ed the GM title. 
Brandon’s job as COO is con­sidered safe because Wilson said he’ll play a role in the end-of­season evaluation. However, Brandon might have to relin­quish his duties as general man­ager, because Wilson said he’s open to hiring a GM with a foot­ball background. 
“We’re going to revamp and look at every position we’ve got,” Wilson said. 
That’s a considerable switch for an owner who a year ago said he had difficulty trusting outsiders because he felt betrayed by Donahoe. Unlike Levy, with whom Wilson was very familiar, Donahoe was hired in 2001 after building his reputation with the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
Though Wilson wasn’t specif­ic, among Bills executives con­sidered to be on the hot seat are chief scout Tom Modrak, pro personnel director John Guy and even potentially Jim Overdorf, the team’s senior vice president of football administra­tion. Overdorf, who maintains a behind-the-scenes role, has been responsible for overseeing the salary cap, handling con­tract negotiations, and also been involved in personnel decisions. 


page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, November 20, 2009 
NBA 

Iverson,Knicksnotmeantforeachother 
Associated Press 
It’s painfully clear to everyone but the management of the New York Knicks that there’s only one question to which Allen Iverson remains “The Answer.” 
That is: “What could be worse than spending 40 years in the NBA wilderness with Isiah Thomas, Larry Brown and Stephon Marbury?” 
So let’s be clear: Iverson and the Knicks deserve better than what they’re going to get by tying their fates together. 
No matter what you think about Iverson, few guys are actually more worthy of a championship. There’s no way to appreciate the depth of his effort unless you’ve seen him play in person. For a dozen seasons, every night was David vs. Goliath for him, and it was nothing short of miraculous that for most of those, Iverson could make you believe a good lit­tle man was every bit the equal of a bigger one. But that was then. 
Iverson’s behavior on and off the court has always been a rid­dle, hence his nickname, “The Answer.” If you read between the lines of what every coach he’s played for said about him — no one cared more about the games, or less about practice — you’d understand why each of them waited so long before throwing up his hands and letting somebody else try to solve the problem. 
Small wonder, then, that Iverson remains unwilling or unable to see what everyone else does: At age 34, his ego hasn’t crested the hill, but his talents almost certainly have. 
The Knicks don’t have that excuse. Their fans have show admirable patience, especially since the team’s latest plan to rebuild involves throwing big money at next summer’s free-agent class — led by LeBron James. In today’s NBA market, that’s a risky bet at best. 
But acquiring Iverson would be like doubling down. He won’t be building a bridge to the future so much as burning it. The Nuggets, Pistons and Grizzlies all tried that route. No one in New York wants to see a return of the three-ring circus that played out at Madison Square Garden when Thomas, Brown and Marbury tried their hands at calling the shots. But those could seem like harmonious days once Iverson shows up. 
He’s not about to lessen his demands for playing time, shots and most of the oxygen in the locker room the moment he shows up, no matter what he says beforehand. When George Karl gave up trying to fit Iverson into an up-tempo Nuggets team in Denver, he showed up in Detroit promising “to sacrifice what I have to sacrifice to get it done. I got to look in the mirror at myself and think of things that I can do to help us win a championship.” 
But nothing changed and after a while, the Pistons were so grateful for any excuse to keep him off the bench — the official reason was a back injury — they effectively paid him to stay away. Then the experiment in Memphis — Iverson actually said God had cho­sen the place for him to play — lasted all of three games. 
He asked out by requesting an indefinite leave of absence to han­dle some personal matters. No sooner was he gone than the Grizzlies decided to make it per­manent. 
The real shame in all this is that Iverson’s skills wore down before his pride did. Look at what he’s accomplished during his career — sixth-best scoring average in NBA history; fourth-most minutes played; 10 All-Star games; four scoring titles; and an MVP award 
— and the only thing missing is a ring. 
Iverson might have one of those, too, if only he had been willing to contribute something instead of always demanding more than his share. There’s a reason all those contending clubs and every bot­tom-dweller but Memphis passed on him last summer. What makes New York an even worse choice is that there’s already too few min­utes, shots and wins to go around. 
The Knicks haven’t won a play­off game since 2001 and made only one appearance in the post­season since. But anybody who thinks irrelevant is as low as the franchise can sink either has a short memory or isn’t asking the right question. 
That’s why when Charles Barkley was asked Thursday on ESPN what he thought about Iverson going to the Knicks, he didn’t hesitate to answer: 
“I hate to see things end like this.” 
NFL 
CityextendsVikings’ leaseatMetrodome 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — One day after being told by the Minnesota Vikings that extending the lease at the Metrodome was not an option, the team’s landlord made the offer anyway and infuriated the only major tenant left in the stadium. 
The Metropolitan Sports Facilities Commission passed a plan Thursday to offer a two-year extension on the lease, which is set to expire in 2011. It calls for the Vikings to get revenue from any postseason games at the Metrodome, but it also threatens to reinstate a $4 million annual rent if the team does not sign the extension. 
The Vikings sent a scathing let­ter to the commission on Wednesday denouncing the plan, which the team calls a “sneak attack” that “sends the wrong message to those aimed at keep­ing the team in the state of Minnesota.” 
“They knew it was completely unacceptable, but they advanced it anyway,” said Lester Bagley, the Vikings vice president of pub­lic affairs/stadium development. 
The Vikings, including owners Zygi and Mark Wilf, have been working with the commission to develop a plan for a new stadium on the Metrodome site. With Brett Favre at quarterback and the team off to an 8-1 start in 2009, the team thinks it has more momentum than ever before to try to get a stadium deal done with private and public money and get out of the outdated Metrodome. 
MSFC chairman Roy Terwilliger said the top priority is to plan a new stadium that satis­fies the Vikings and Thursday’s decision “is just another step in a very long process of figuring out the best way of accomplishing that goal.” 
The Vikings aren’t willing to wait. Bagley said the commis­sion’s offer “sends a very bad message to the owners, the state and the league about the ability to solve the problem in Minnesota.” 
The Twins and the University of Minnesota football team have both moved out of the outdated building to shiny new facilities of their own. The Vikings say it is their turn. The team is at the bot­tom of the league in revenue thanks in large part to their stadi­um deal and say they need a new building to remain competitive. 
Since 2002, the Vikings have been playing in the Metrodome rent-free, a gesture made to acknowledge the building’s diffi­culty in producing revenue. The threat of reinstating the annual rent payments has strained the discussion. 


Friday, November 20, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
NCAA to protect secrecy of appeal 
Associated Press 
The NCAA is defending the secrecy of its response to the University of Memphis’ appeal, saying member schools require confidentiality before a ruling. 
Memphis has refused to release the NCAA’s response to its appeal of a ruling vacating the 2007-08 men’s basketball season under an open records request. Memphis cites NCAA rules that prohibit printing the document for media off the association’s Web site. 
A NCAA spokeswoman told The Associated Press on Thursday the association is required to keep infractions case information con­fidential until a decision is pub­licly announced. 
“In order to do this, and main­tain the integrity of the enforce­ment process, there is no ability for a member school to print, save or download the information contained on the secure web site,” Stacey Osburn, the NCAA’s associate director for public and media relations, said in an e­mail. 


This isn’t the final stage in Memphis’ appeal. 
But that NCAA argument didn’t work in Florida last month. The NCAA tried to keep its response to Florida State’s appeal of an academic cheating penalty secret on the same read-only, secure Web site, but a judge ruled that document had to be released. 
The Florida Supreme Court rejected an emergency motion Oct. 27 by the NCAA to delay that court order to release records. Attorneys for the NCAA provided the records to a law firm to pre­pare for a release, though Florida State released copies earlier in October from “screen shots” of the documents from the secure, read-only Web site. 
Memphis is arguing that the NCAA Committee on Infractions imposed unprecedented penalties and used improper reasoning to wipe out the Tigers’ 38 wins in a season that ended with an over­time loss to Kansas in the nation­al championship. 
The school’s 45-page brief tar­gets the so-called “strict liability” standard imposed after the NCAA ruled a player believed to be Derrick Rose was retroactively ineligible because of an SAT score that was invalidated by the Educational Testing Service in May 2008. 
Memphis filed a brief support­ing its appeal Oct. 8, and the NCAA’s Infractions Appeals Committee had 30 days to respond. Now both Memphis and the NCAA’s enforcement staff have a chance to comment. Memphis will get the last chance to respond before the appeal hearing before the committee. 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Irish head to IU forinvitationalmeet 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will test their early season training this weekend at the Hoosierland Invitational in Bloomington, Ind. 
“I think this meet will pro­vide a good benchmark for us right now,” junior freestyler and breaststroker Amywren Miller said. “It’s time we got up to race and I think every­one is excited to have the opportunity this weekend.” 
The biggest competition that the Irish will see this weekend will come from host Indiana, a team coming off a big win last week against Big Ten swimming powerhouse, the Michigan Wolverines. 
“Indiana will be a big chal­lenger for us this weekend,” senior captain freestyler Megan Farrell said. “Indiana is currently a top 10 team so they will provide us with some great competition at their home pool. 
Aside from the No. 9 Hoosiers, the Irish (0-2) will also be up against the Cincinnati Bearcats at this weekend’s three-day event. 
At their last meet, the Irish fell to the Purdue Boilermakers, a loss the girls spent this week trying to make up for in practice to ensure a victory against Indiana and Cincinnati. 
“We have focused in on a variety of race details, starts, turns, paces and finishes,” Irish coach Brian Barnes said. “I believe we are going to come out of this meet with several lifetime best swims.” 
In terms of preparing them­selves physically for the meet, some have decided to push themselves harder and others are resting with hopes of being completely revitalized for their respective races. 
“Some of the girls have been resting up for the meet and others have been train­ing through,” Miller said “Despite the difference I think all of us are ready for the meet and ready to post some good times this sea­son.” 
A major difference between this event in particular and the rest of the meets the girls have participated in this sea­son provides a potential ben­efit for the Irish. 
“Because this is a champi­onship-style meet featuring both preliminary and final rounds, most girls will have the opportunity to race each of their events two times this weekend,” Farrell said. “This allows the coaches to critique our preliminary swims so that we can make corrections and changes to our race plans for our finals swims, which is of great benefit to each individual on the team.” 
The meet will begin with preliminary events at 9 a.m. Friday at Indiana University’s Cousilman-Billingsly Aquatic Center and will last until Saturday evening. 


Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


NFL 
Childress signs contract extension with Vikings 
Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. — The man who brought Brett Favre to the Minnesota Vikings will be sticking around for a while. 
The Vikings signed Brad Childress to a contract extension on Thursday, nine games into what is shaping up as a promis­ing season for the men in pur­ple. Terms of the deal were not disclosed. ESPN.com cited anonymous sources in reporting that the extension will carry through the 2013 season. 
“Brad has done a tremendous job leading this football team and we value the positive envi­ronment he has created for the Minnesota Vikings on and off the field,” Vikings owner Zygi Wilf said in a statement issued by the team. “He has continued to posi­tively impact this team and cre­ate a strong foundation for future success.” 
Childress, in the fourth year of his original five-year, $10 million deal, was hired in 2006 to take over a team in turmoil. The Vikings had become a national punchline for a string of inci­dents under the loose regime of Mike Tice, including the infa­mous “Love Boat” scandal and Tice’s admission to scalping Super Bowl tickets that prompt­ed Wilf to institute a code of con­duct for the organization. 
Childress has restored order and dignity to the franchise, and has done plenty of winning of late, as well. The Vikings have improved each year under his watch. They went 6-10 in 2006, 8-8 in 2007 and 10-6 with an NFC North title last season. 
This season, he convinced Favre to come out of retirement one more time to join the Vikings, even going so far as to pick up the quarterback at the airport on the day of his arrival in August. 
Favre leads the NFL in quar­terback rating, has thrown 17 touchdowns and just three inter­ceptions, and has helped put the Vikings (8-1) in position to com­pete for the top seed in the NFC. 
“I am grateful for the oppor­tunity I was given,” Childress said. “I’ve got a good group of guys in the locker room, which I’ve said over and over. I’ve got a great ownership group. Not only am I grateful for them, they’ve been good owners from a standpoint of empowering us with players. They listen. There’s a good dialogue.” 

page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, November 20, 2009 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Bellesreadytotravel toOhiotournament 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will travel to Bluffton, Ohio this weekend to play two non-conference games in the Bluffton University Tournament. 
The tournament features four teams with the winners of the first round games going on to play for the championship on Saturday at 3 p.m., and the los­ers facing off in the consolation game on the same day at 1 p.m. 
The Belles’ first-round matchup will be Wheaton College, a team that went 16-10 last year and is off to an 0-1 start this year after losing to the University of Wisconsin-LaCrosse 57-65. 
“Wheaton is a very well-coached team,” Belles’ coach Jenn Henley said. “They are very disciplined all the way around.” 
The Belles beat the Thunder last year 81-78 in a game where Wheaton rallied from 13 points down at halftime to tie the game at 76 before the Belles pulled away in the last minute. 
Junior Kathleen Fidelia’s three-point attempt to tie the game at the buzzer was off the mark, leaving her team salivat­ing for a rematch this year. 
“[Wheaton] graduated a lot last season, much like us,” said Henley. “I think we match up very well with them — I am expecting it to be a very com­petitive game.” 
The other side of the tourna­ment bracket has two Ohio teams, Oberlin College and Bluffton University. 
The Yeowomen have yet to play a game this season and the Beavers took their season open­er 79-67 over Hiram. 
The Belles are coming off a decisive 72-33 win against Anderson. The 39-point margin of victory was the largest since 2007 for the Belles. Furthermore, the 33 points given up was the lowest total since 2003. 
“I thought we played very well on Tuesday defensively, but we certainly understand that we can’t look past anyone regard­less of how we played the previ­ous game,” said Henley. “We take one game at time.” 
The games this weekend don’t carry the same significance as the MIAA matches that will begin in December, but they still go on the team’s official record and have ramifications down the line. 
“Early wins in the season can definitely help set the tone as we enter into conference play — and tournaments like this give us a great opportunity to prove what we are capable of doing,” said Henley. 
No matter the outcome on Friday, the loser will get a rematch later this season as the two teams square off again on Feb. 11 at Wheaton. 
The first game of the tourna­ment is scheduled for 6 p.m. Following the tournament, the Belles will have a week off before they take on North Central on Nov. 28. 


Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 
NFL 

Obama to appear in PSA with NFL players 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Dallas Cowboys linebacker DeMarcus Ware has played in dozens of important games and hung out with some of the biggest stars in sports. 
Still, he was nervous when he met President Barack Obama. 
“It’s something like no other,” Ware said Thursday. “Being able to meet the most important guy in the United States, the guy with the most power, it was unbelievable.” 
Ware and fellow NFL players Drew Brees and Troy Polamalu filmed a public service announce­ment with Obama that will air during the league’s Thanksgiving games. 
The 90-second spot shows Obama and the NFL stars playing touch football with local children on the White House lawn. The PSA promotes the league’s Play 60 campaign, which encourages physical activity to combat child­hood obesity, and the president’s community service initiative United We Serve. 
“Thanksgiving is a time when families come together, and it is also a perfect time to focus on the importance of keeping kids healthy and active,” New Orleans quarterback Brees said in a state­ment released by the league. “I was honored to spend time with the president on an issue that is clearly important to him. I was also impressed by his wide receiv­er skills.” 
Obama wears a Chicago Bears jacket as he plays football with Brees, Pittsburgh Steelers safety Polamalu and Ware. A shorter version of the spot will air throughout the season. 
“I was like ‘Ohhhh my God,’” when Obama came out in a Bears pullover, Ware said in a telephone interview. “It was me, Polamalu and Drew Brees there, so you know how we feel about the Chicago Bears. But he’s a big Chicago Bears fan. He greeted each one of us, and he knew everything about our teams.” 
Ware is Dallas’ representative for the Play 60 program, which began in 2007. The NFL estimates it has committed $200 million worth of programming, grants, and time for PSAs to the initiative. 
“I think it’s really important,” Ware said. “If the players are get­ting involved in it, Obama, a lot of important people getting involved in it, sometimes it encourages kids to get out and do those type of activities and show them just how important it is.” 
FENCING 
Irishsettotakeondefendingchamps 
have a strong showing among 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
a field of some of the nation’s 
Sports Writer 
elite. Bednarski says he will be taking a mixture of both Regardless of where the veterans and first-year Irish compete, fencing on the fencers as he tries to gauge intercollegiate stage always their level of readiness for 
brings out the  team competi­ 
best in the tal­ented players. But when the  “It’s usually one of the strongest  tion, which begins in January.  
Irish travel to  tournaments in the  “We are tak- 
State College, Pa. for the Penn State  country, probably the strongest one.”  ing a lot of kids with us to get them experi- 
Open,  a  grow­ ence  from  a  
ing rivalry between the  Janusz Bednarski Irish coach  big t i  competi-o n , ”  

two programs should fuel the desire to win even further. 
Notre Dame and Penn State have combined to win five of the last eight NCAA Fencing Championships. The Nittany Lions have won 11 titles since the tournament began in 1990, their most recent com­ing last year over the second-place Irish. 
“It’s usually one of the strongest tournaments in the country, probably the strongest one,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. “It’s a team who fenced for first place last year, and we lost, and they remember that we will be trying still to play with them here. So we are going to the lion’s cave, and we will see how we will fence.” 
Anchored by sophomores Courtney Hurley and Gerek Meinhardt, the Irish hope to 
Bednarski said. 
“These young kids need such experience to know how to travel during the day with emotions, with stress, because we are going to territory that will not be very friendly for us. So we have a lot of things to observe.” 
Bednarski and the coaching staff will be paying particular attention to one the squad’s rising stars, freshman Lian Osler, who recently earned a gold medal in the sabre at the USFA North American Cup. Osler and others will have their work cut out for them as they aim to raise their indi­vidual junior rankings. 
“In Penn State it will be harder for her because she will meet top Penn State com­petition, who is pretty strong too,” Bednarski said. “The kids are very, very emotional­ly taken by this trip because they know that they are going to the best team in the nation. With so many good fencers, they want to show their strengths also.” 
Facing their first true test of the preseason, the Irish look to send a message against the reigning national champions when they hit the strip this Saturday and Sunday. 


Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 



Friday, November 20, 2009 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

North Carolina beats OSU in 2K Sports Classic 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — There was so much to talk about after No. 6 North Carolina held on for 77­73 victory over No. 15 Ohio State in the 2K Sports Classic semifinals Thursday night. 
There was the Tar Heels’ big early lead that dwindled to two points in the final minute, some­thing that can happen even to a sixth-ranked team early in the season. There was the excep­tional defensive job by Marcus Ginyard on Ohio State’s Evan Turner, something that has become common for a player considered one of the top stop­pers in the country. There was coach Roy Williams’ halftime rant directed at Ginyard, some­thing that never happens. 
“I chewed his rear end out probably the hardest I’ve ever got on him,” Williams said of the fifth-year senior. “If I’m going to chew him out, it scares the dickens out of the rest of the team. He’s one of my pets.” 
The one-way halftime discus­sion worked as North Carolina was in control until the final minute. 
“That was the worst I can remember,” Ginyard said of Williams’ yelling session. “But he was right. If I’m going to be a leader of this team I have to play better, and I did in the sec­ond half.” 
Ginyard finished with 13 points and was 3 of 5 from 3­point range. But it was his defense on Turner that made the difference in the win that sent the Tar Heels (4-0) into Friday night’s championship game against Syracuse, which beat No. 13 California 95-73 in the tournament the benefits Coaches vs. Cancer. 
“No question, I take chal­lenges like tonight very person­ally, and I get really excited about facing players like him,” Ginyard said of Turner, who had a triple-double in Ohio State’s opening win over Alcorn State with 14 points, 17 rebounds and 10 assists. He matched that feat against the Tar Heels, but it was a lot different as he finished with 23 points, 11 rebounds and 10 turnovers. 



The 6-foot-7 junior swingman, who had 17 rebounds in each of the first two games, couldn’t go anywhere on the court without Ginyard, who missed most of last season with a stress frac­ture in his left foot. 
Turner’s time was limited as well by foul trouble, and his second personal was an offen­sive drawn by Ginyard. 
“It was a rough night, obvi­ously,” Turner said. I’m bumped and bruised and I’ll be back tomorrow. 
“It was a rough first half, rough first 30 minutes of the game. They did a great job, and we just got to bounce back.” 
Deon Thompson had 15 points and 12 rebounds for the Tar Heels, who led by 19 points with 
10:23 to play. 
The Buckeyes (2-1) finally started hitting from the outside at the same time the Tar Heels starting missing free throws, and Ohio State was within 75­73 on a 3 by Jon Diebler with 11 seconds left. 
Larry Drew II, who missed four of his previous six free throws in the final minute, then made two from the line with 11 seconds left for the final mar­gin. 
“I wanted the ball in my hands, especially for the last two free throws,” Drew said. “You have to go through bad times to enjoy the highs, and I enjoyed making those last two free throws.” 
Ohio State chipped away at the lead and was finally within single digits when David Lighty scored on a drive that made it 68-60 with 2:09 to go. Ginyard hit a 3 with the shot clock wind­ing down to make it 71-60 with 
1:36 to go, but the Buckeyes finally hit from the outside as William Buford and Lighty hit 3s as Drew struggled at the line. 
Will Graves had 14 points for North Carolina, the defending national champions who have only one starter back from the team that beat Michigan State in April, and Drew finished with 11 points and eight assists and was 6 of 10 from the line. 
Diebler had 17 points for Ohio State, which finished 6 of 21 from 3-point range after going 1 of 10 in the first half. 
“We feel very fortunate,” Williams said. “We have a chance to be a very good bas­ketball team, but I want it a lot sooner than it’s coming.” 
The Tar Heels had the lead to 10 points within the first 6 min­utes, and it reached 16 points three times, the first at 29-13 on a 3-pointer by Ginyard with 
5:40 left in the half. 
Ohio State missed its first nine 3-point attempts, and the Buckeyes finished 1 of 10 from beyond the arc and shot just 29 percent (9 for 31) overall in falling behind 38-24 at the half. 
“We obviously made a great comeback,” Ohio State coach Thad Matta said. “I thought the first half we couldn’t get the ball in the basket. We had some decent looks, the shots weren’t falling for us. We had a stretch where I think we lost our com­posure, and they were able to get it to a double-digit lead. ... Hopefully we learned a lesson there getting ourselves ready to go right from the start.” 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Minnesota pulls away to down Utah Valley 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Freshman Rodney Williams had 17 points, six rebounds and four steals in his first career start, helping 24th-ranked Minnesota pull away from Utah Valley in the sec­ond half of a 76-51 victory on Thursday. 
Missing senior leader and top scorer Lawrence Westbrook to a stomach virus, the Gophers (3-0) finished 5 for 19 from 3-point range and were outrebounded 34-29 by a team in its first year as a full-fledged Division I pro­gram. 
Damian Johnson had 15 points, six rebounds, three blocks and two steals, though, to lead anoth­er strong defensive effort. Minnesota had 30 points off 26 Utah Valley turnovers, and five Gophers turnovers only gave the Wolverines (1-2) two points. 
Jordan Swarbrick led Utah Valley with 11 points and Tyray Petty had eight points and nine rebounds, giving Minnesota plen­ty to work on before playing 11th-ranked Butler next week. 
The Wolverines, who followed a win over North Dakota State in their opener with a loss to Cal State Bakersfield on Tuesday, fell behind 41-26 early in the second half when the Gophers appeared poised to run away with the game. Utah Valley didn't wilt, though, with peppy point guard Eric Dearden rushing to the rim for layups and Petty and Swarbrick muscling for position underneath. 
Al Nolen's steal and wrap­around pass to Williams for a fast-break dunk over the pursu­ing defender got the crowd going a little. Five minutes later, Williams was fouled trying use the baseline for a slam and fell hard on his side, taking a few seconds to get up. He made both free throws, though, and on his next two drives he chose layups instead as the Gophers began to exert themselves. 
Williams had one more dunk in him, of course, at the end of another fastbreak fueled by this active defense coach Tubby Smith pushes his teams to play. That pushed Minnesota's lead to 73-51 with 2½ minutes left. 
Utah Valley's bold jump from junior college to Division I was finalized this summer after six years playing under the NCAA's provisional status, which made the Wolverines ineligible for post­season play. After previous itera­tions as a technical and a com­munity college, the school offi­cially gained university status last year. 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 20, 2009 
NFL 

Williams steps in and leads Dolphins to victory 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Ricky Williams is 32 and far from done. And even without Ronnie Brown, the once written-off Miami Dolphins are back in the playoff picture. 
Williams rushed for 119 yards and scored three touchdowns, and the Dolphins beat the Carolina Panthers 24-17 on Thursday night for their fourth win in six games. 
A day after learning Brown is lost for the season, the Dolphins (5-5) continued their surge after an 0-3 start behind Williams. The 2002 NFL rushing champion had a receiving and rushing touch­down in the same game for the first time in his career that includes a couple of lost seasons. 
“Coach always talks about fin­ishing,” Williams said. “Sometimes in this league, in a physical game, it’s difficult to fin­ish. I think in the past we’ve prid­ed ourselves on finishing games and we did a good job tonight.” 
It was enough to beat the Panthers (4-6) when Jake Delhomme’s desperation pass into the end zone was knocked down as time expired. 
DeAngelo Williams rushed for 122 yards, but Delhomme had his streak of three games without an interception snapped, then could-n’t lead a late comeback bid. 
Dolphins coach Tony Sparano hinted his team might abandon the wildcat without Brown, who was placed on injured reserve Wednesday because of a foot injury. And Miami didn’t use the formation until the second quar­ter. It coincided with the Dolphins’ first touchdown drive — Chad Henne’s 14-yard touchdown pass to Williams, who wrestled away from linebacker Na’il Diggs. 
Miami took a 14-3 halftime lead when Williams took the direct snap at the 1 and got to the end zone ahead of speedy linebacker Jon Beason. 
“Our offense really clicked,” Dolphins left tackle Jake Long said. “Ricky ran great.” 
The Panthers got within 17-14 on Steve Smith’s leaping 27-yard touchdown catch and DeAngelo Williams’ 2-point conversion run with 5:18 left. But Ricky Williams bounced to the outside and shook off Sherrod Martin at the Carolina 5 on a 46-yard touchdown run on the ensuing possession. 
Williams also caught two passes for 19 yards and a touchdown. Chad Henne overcame losing his center and his backup and com­mitted no turnovers. 
Still, the Dolphins had to hold off the Panthers. After Williams’ long run, the Panthers kicked a field goal. They then forced a punt, and Delhomme found Gary Barnidge on passes of 29 and 17 yards. But from the Miami 26, Delhomme’s lob into the end zone was knocked down by Tyrone Culver as time ran out. 
“We battled. It just wasn’t good enough,” Delhomme said. 
Early on, Carolina’s offense stalled under the weight of its makeshift offensive line — and the return of Dolphins linebacker Joey Porter from exile. 
Benched from Sunday’s win over Tampa Bay, Porter served as a captain for the coin toss, then sacked Delhomme on third down on Carolina’s opening drive, lead­ing to John Kasay’s 29-yard field goal. 
The Panthers mixed in some of the no-huddle offense on the drive after its effective debut Sunday against Atlanta. But they used it sparingly after that, and the offense got bogged down without Pro Bowl left tackle Jordan Gross. 
Porter had two of Delhomme’s three first-half sacks, beating Gross’ replacement Travelle Wharton. 
The Dolphins had their own offensive line troubles. Center Jake Grove left in the third quar­ter with an ankle injury and was replaced by Joe Berger. Nate Garner moved to center when Berger went down early in the fourth. Henne bobbled Garner’s second snap, but he recovered. 
Berger returned on the next series and was injured again, but Henne made it look seamless. He completed 17 of 29 passes for 172 yards. 
DeAngelo Williams’ 50-yard run early in the third quarter seemed to give Carolina life, but the drive ended when Nathan Jones picked off Delhomme’s pass intended for Smith at the 4. 

Smith caught seven passes for 87 yards despite getting into a minor car accident on the way to the game. 
Delhomme, who had thrown 13 interceptions in his first six games, had gone turnover-free this month. He was just 19 of 42 for 247 yards, and Carolina fell to 0-4 against the Dolphins. It was a crushing loss for the Panthers, who also began eyeing the play­offs after starting 0-3. 
“I think there’s a lot of fight and they’ll continue to work,” Panthers coach John Fox said. 
“There’s still a lot of football left and we’re still no way in any stretch out of it.” 
But the loss to Fox’s old offen­sive coordinator leaves them in tough shape. Dan Henning, fired by Carolina after the 2006 sea­son, found a way to score just enough without Brown. 
Williams, the 1998 Heisman Trophy winner, continued his resurgence after a career that included a brief retirement and a drug-related suspension. The time off might be helping him now when many running backs decline after they turn 30. 


Friday, November 20, 2009 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
arc. Freshman guard Skylar us,” McGraw said. “But I
ing thing.” 
Diggins added nine for the wasn’t happy with the rest 
Junior Tim Abromaitis also 
McGraw
49ers 
Irish, who shot 22-of-65, or of the team. We missed a lot 
stepped up for the Irish, scoring 
continued from page 28 34 percent from the floor as of box-outs tonight and we 

continued from page 28 11 points off the bench in 22 
a team. should have done better.” 
minutes of play. He has scored 
did a great job to go after After holding a slim advan-Notre Dame had a much 

He hasn’t forced things, he’s double-digits in each of Notre 
the ball on the miss and was tage for much of the first better night in the turnover 

anchored us defensively, and Dame’s first three games this 
able to make the free throw half, the Irish pulled away to department, improving upon 

he’s really a great voice in the season. 
in a high -pressure situa -take a 41-33 lead into half-its performance in the first 

huddles out there when I can’t “[Abromaitis] continues to be 
tion.” time. Notre Dame pushed game of the season. The 

be in them. We have to keep big for us,” Brey said. “He had 
The Spartans (1-2) had a that lead to 45-35 early in Irish turned the ball over 

that going, and that’s really some big, in-traffic rebounds, 
chance to grab the lead with the second half before just 17 times after commit-

important for us, but I sure like and he continues to make big 
12 seconds to go, but Michigan State responded ting 27 against Arkansas 

the rhythm he’s in.” shots and we need him to do 
Michigan State center with a 15-2 run to go ahead Pine-Bluff, while forcing 21 

Long Beach State struggled to that. His teammates, especially 
Allyssa DeHaan’s layup with 11:52 remaining. Spartan turnovers. 

shoot the ball consistently the seniors, started the process 
attempt rolled off the rim “We just stopped guarding “[We cut down on the 

throughout the game, shooting this summer. They knew how 
and Irish guard Lindsey them,” McGraw said. “We turnovers] a little bit, but we 

41 percent from field goal much we needed him and they 
Schrader grabbed the had a few defensive break-still had some really bad 

range on the night. The 49ers’ stayed on him hard.” 
rebound before being fouled. downs and they had a few ones,” McGraw said. 

two leading scorers, sopho-Notre Dame will look to keep 
Schrader went to the line easy open shots. We pan-DeHaan, despite facing a

mores Larry Anderson and T.J. up their momentum with two 
but missed the front end of a icked a little bit, but we number of Irish double 

Robinson, paced the team with home games against Liberty 
one -and-one as the game were able to regroup when teams throughout the night, 

20 and 16 points, respectively, and Kennesaw State before 
remained tied at 67. As luck we needed to.” led the Spartans with 20 

but the rest of the team shot travelling to the UIC Pavillion in 
would have it, the rebound The Spartans held their points, eight rebounds and 

just 26 percent for the game, Chicago, Ill. for the Chicago 
fell through the hands of largest lead of the game at four blocks. Lykendra 

which kept them at a distance Invitational Challenge on Nov. 
DeHaan and right to into the 56 -51 before the Irish Johnson added 14 points 

from Notre Dame in the second 27 and 28. 
arms of Barlow, who was surged back in front with an and 12 rebounds for 

half. “This has been good to have 
immediately fouled on her 8-0 run with just under nine Michigan State in the loss. 

“The difference in the game the uniforms on every other 
put-back attempt. minutes to play. “I was a little disappointed 

was them coming out in the day, and really evaluate who we 
After another missed Irish Despite giving up a big size [in our defense against 

second half and turning up the are, and who guys are and try-
free throw, Barlow stepped advantage to the Spartan DeHaan] in that she had a

pressure, and us not being able ing to develop some identity,” 
up and converted her second front court, led by the 6-season high and she really 

to handle it,” 49ers’ coach Dan Brey said. “We’re trying to get 
opportunity and put Notre foot -9 DeHaan, the Irish hadn’t played well in their 

Monson said. “I’m disappointed better each game, just trying 
Dame ahead for good. The held their own on the boards first two games,” McGraw 

in how we responded at half-not to get ahead of ourselves, 
Spartans drove down the and were outrebounded by a said. 

time. In the locker room, I said, and we have two more games 
court but could not convert slim margin, 45 -44. Notre Dame returns home 

‘You’re going to have to stand to try and improve on some 
on a desperation attempt Schrader was a big reason to face Iona Sunday at the 

up to them because they’re things before we head over to 
with four seconds to go. for that, pulling down a Purcell Pavilion. Tipoff is 

going to come at you,’ and to let Chicago for the [Chicago 
Barlow led the Irish (2-0) game-high 14 rebounds to scheduled for 2 p.m. 

them score the first six times to Invitational Challenge].” 
with 18 points and seven go along with 12 points. 
start the second half and just 
rebounds behind 3-of -5 “Schrader and Barlow did Contact Alex Barker at 

take control of the game that Contact Eric Prister at 
shooting from behind the a nice job rebounding for abarker1@nd.edu 

easily was the most disappoint-eprister@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Third-string QB leads Oklahoma State rally to beat Colorado 
sional Cowboys before Weeden started in Robinson’s place but upright and coach Dan the teams’ last eight meetings 
Associated Press 

— a second-round draft pick went 0-for-9 with an intercep-Hawkins then opted to go for it in Stillwater. Both teams ended 
STILLWATER, Okla. — Third-by the New York Yankees in tion in the first half — and it on fourth-and-3 from the 29-up playing switcheroo at quar­string quarterback Brandon 2002 — finally provided a could have been worse. yard line instead of sending terback, with Cate getting a 7­Weeden threw for 168 yards viable passing threat. He went Colorado players had chances Goodman out to try a 46-yard 0 head start when Perrish Cox and two touchdowns in the 10 for 15 and threw a 47-yard for at least two more picks, but kick. brought back Matt DiLallo’s second half, leading No. 12 touchdown pass to Keith let the ball slip through their Oklahoma State came right first punt 67 yards for a score. Oklahoma State back from an Toston. hands. back on its next possession to OSU’s defense then sacked 11-point deficit for a 31-28 win The Buffaloes (3-8, 2-5) had Weeden, a 26-year-old who take the lead on Toston’s 47-Hansen on back-to-back plays against Colorado on Thursday one final chance to go for the was a starting pitcher in his yard touchdown catch. Toston to force a three-and-out, but night. win after stuffing OSU on baseball days, came on in released out of the backfield, Toston took a handoff from 
With starter Zac Robinson fourth-and-short for the third relief and connected on his ran between two blitzing Cate on the Cowboys’ first injured and backup Alex Cate time in the game with 3:14 first pass before throwing defenders and caught a short offensive snap and fumbled for ineffective, Weeden took over remaining but decided to punt three straight incompletions pass from Weeden before rac-the first time in 287 carries — in the second half and got the after Tyler Hansen threw three for a three-and-out. When he ing into the end zone for the a span of more than two years offense going for the Cowboys straight incomplete passes. completed back-to-back passes go-ahead score. since he’d been benched for (9-2, 6-1 Big 12). The Cowboys, the Big 12’s top on OSU’s third drive of the Brian Lockridge answered fumble problems in September 
His 28-yard touchdown pass rushing team, ran the final third quarter, the crowd of with a 98-yard return for a 2007. to Justin Blackmon with 8:11 2:45 off the clock. 50,080 let out Bronx cheers. touchdown on the ensuing Hansen capitalized with a 5­remaining proved to be the Oklahoma State wore black Two plays later, Toston fin-kickoff to put the Buffaloes yard touchdown pass to Scotty winner, keeping pressure on uniforms for the first time ished that drive with a 45-yard back ahead with 11:11 remain-McKnight before leaving No. 3 Texas in the Big 12 since 1994 — a miserable 3-7-touchdown run through a huge ing, but Weeden responded briefly with a thumb injury. championship race. The 1 season — and they didn’t hole on the right side of the with two big completions on Cody Hawkins, the former Longhorns would have seem to be a good luck charm line to cut the deficit to 21-17. third-and-long before finding Buffaloes starter and the clinched the Big 12 South with in the team’s first Thursday Colorado had a chance to Blackmon in the end zone as coach’s son, replaced him and an OSU loss. night home game since 1995. stretch its lead, but Aric he scrambled to the right. threw a 5-yard score to Riar 
Colorado got out to a 21-10 Cate, who had attempted Goodman’s 50-yard field goal It was only the second win Geer to put Colorado up 14-10 lead against the one-dimen-only five passes in his career, try caromed off the right for OSU against Colorado in at halftime. 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 20, 2009 
Sweet 16 
continued from page 28 
by sophomore midfielder Melinda Ingalls. 
Although Oregon State enters its matchup with Notre Dame with Cinderella aspirations, Irish coach Randy Waldrum said he doesn’t think that his team has to prepare any differently than they normally would at this stage of the NCAA Tournament. 
“I don’t think you prepare for them any different anyone,” Waldrum said. “Whoever you play in this round has won two straight games. I don’t view it as you have to treat them different­ly because at this point in time, everyone is good.” 
The Beavers are led on offense by freshman forward Chelsea Buckland, who leads the team with seven goals. On defense, sophomore Colleen Boyd and senior Ashley Wood have split time in goal, but Boyd has played well in Oregon State’s last three wins, including the two NCAA Tournament wins. 
Despite injury concerns enter­ing the tournament, the Irish turned in dominant performanc­es against IUPUI and Central Michigan in the first and second rounds, outscoring their oppo­nents by a combined scored of 11-1 for the weekend. Waldrum said his team is trying to build on the positives from both games to stay hot on both ends of the field. 
“I think what we do is we try to pick out the positives from both games, and just because we scored 11 goals last weekend doesn’t mean we’ll score that much this weekend,” Waldrum said. “We just try to do what we did well last weekend in prac­tice, just like we do on the other side of the ball. I just look at last weekend like we did what we needed to do, and if we do things like we did to prepare last weekend we’ll be fine.” 
On the injury front, Waldrum expects that many of his injured players, including seniors Haley Ford and Michelle Weissenhofer and junior Rose Augustin, should be able to play. 
“I think we came out last weekend in good shape,” Waldrum said. “Ford and Weissenhofer both played a lot last weekend, and I think they’re both doing well. Augustin sat out last weekend more as a precaution, and she played Sunday and did well with it, so we should be in good shape this weekend.” 
The Irish and Beavers are set to kickoff at Alumni Stadium tonight at 7:30 p.m. 


Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Regular-season champs try for tournament win 

By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
No. 23 Notre Dame is already the Big East regular season champion, but this weekend it will look to be crowned at the conference tournament as well. 
“Definitely one of our big goals at the beginning of the season was to win the Big East tournament,” senior cap­tain and outside hitter Christina Kaelin said. 
The top-seeded Irish (20-4, 14-0 Big East) begin the Big East tournament this after­noon against No. 8-seed Seton Hall (12-18, 6-8), which they defeated 3-1 during the regu­lar season. 
The Irish bring a 14-game win streak into the tourna­ment after going undefeated in conference play. Their reg­ular-season success, as well as the Big East title, gives them protection for the NCAA tournament — even if they were to stumble in the confer­ence tournament, the Irish are almost assured a spot in the national race. 
“Even if we were to drop the games, which we’re not going to,” senior captain and out­side hitter Jamel Nicholas said, “going as the regular season Big East champs, if something were to happen in the tournament it wouldn’t matter.” 
The Pirates qualified for the tournament in their last game of the season with an upset win over West Virginia. It is their first postseason appear­ance since 1994. 
Seton Hall is a young team, composed almost completely of freshmen and sophomores. This contrasts with Notre Dame, which is stacked with veterans. However, the Pirates were one of only seven Big East teams that won a set against the Irish when they played earlier in the season. 
The top eight teams in the conference were invited to the tournament and all will play today. The semifinals will be played tomorrow and the finals will be on Sunday. 
If Notre Dame wins today, it will face the winner of the quarterfinal between No. 4­seed Louisville and No. 5-seed Syracuse. 
Notre Dame has won nine conference tournament titles since joining the Big East in 1995. However, its last tour­nament win came in 2005, before any current players were on the squad. 
The match against Seton Hall begins today at 3:30 p.m. If the Irish continue onward, the semifinal game will be Saturday at 3:30 p.m. and the championship will be Sunday at 3 p.m. The games will all be held at the Kentucky International Convention Center in Louisville. 
Nicholas had one explana­tion of Notre Dame’s strategy. 
“Keep winning. Keep going,” she said. 


Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


Clark 
continued from page 28 
wracking.” 
The Irish controlled the game for most of the first half, moving the ball up with short passes that pressed the whole midfield into the Phoenix half of the field. After Dike’s goal, however, the game took on a much faster pace. 
The Phoenix, faced with elimination, removed a mid­fielder in the second half in favor of an extra forward. 
“It was an exciting game,” Clark said. “I mean, this is the great thing about NCAA, if you lose you go home. … There’s no safety net of weak play that you’ll have a game next week. It’s all or nothing.” 
Green Bay’s strategy led to increased chances for both teams, and the Irish took advantage of it first with a goal by senior forward Jeb Brovsky in the 66th minute. Brovsky’s shot, off an assist from senior midfielder Justin Morrow, came from three feet outside of the box, but Phoenix goalie Ryan Wehking guessed wrong and was unable to track it down. 
Notre Dame did not have time to celebrate its 2-0 advantage, however, as Green Bay forward Tony Walls struck just 90 seconds later with a goal by tipping a pass from midfielder JC Banks into the back of the net to make it 2-1. 
“That’s a kick in the stom­ach, that one, for sure,” Clark said. “We got the goal, you relax, say now if we can hold that for a couple minutes and settle down, we can go home and put our feet up. But it wasn’t that way. We gave up a goal right away, and they came out revitalized.” 
From that point, the Phoenix controlled the ball and put consistent pressure on the Irish defense. They took 14 shots in the second half compared to just four in the first. 
Senior goalkeeper Andrew Quinn made five saves on the night, including one in the 90th minute that ended the game. 
In the last minute of play, Green Bay had the ball in the Irish penalty box twice only to have it cleared out by defend­ers. The second clearing, by sophomore defender Aaron Maund, gave the Phoenix a corner kick with just 10 sec­onds remaining. 
The kick was headed straight into the goal, but Quinn saved it to give the Irish the victory. 
“Quinny played well today,” Clark said, though he declined to comment on which goalkeeper, Quinn or senior Andrew Tuttle, will play in Sunday’s game. The two have split time evenly this season. 
Sunday’s game will be a rematch of the 2008 NCAA second round, when Northwestern defeated Notre Dame 2-1 at Alumni Field. The Irish defeated the Wildcats 1-0 in an exhibition game on Aug. 24. 
Clark said last season’s result would not have an effect on Sunday’s game. 
“You can’t rewrite history,” he said. “You can make histo­ry this year. I think we’ll try to make our own history with this team. That was last year’s team. What we did in the past will never affect what we do in the future. What we do on Sunday is what will be the key feature.” 
The second round of the NCAA Tournament will begin Sunday at 2 p.m in Evanston, Ill. The winner will go on to play the winner of St. Louis and No. 8-seed Tulsa on Nov. 29. 


Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


Friday, November 20, 2009 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
CROSSWORD 
Across 28Up to 1 It's often said 30Lusatian ___ with the eyes (German/Polishclosed border river) 
5 Stunned 321930s bomber 10Floppy headgear 33Brush 14Writer of the 34Some displays, 
history “Ab Urbe brieflyCondita” 38What you 15“Beloved” probably have a 
heroine head for 16Chick chaser? 40Summer 17London broil, Olympics event 
often 41Like some 19Cleave checkups 20Part of 441980s Argentine 
Christmas president___ 21Longtime name Alfonsín in photography 
46It has four bases 23“Where people 
47Châteaubriand 
go to dance the 
accompaniment,
night away,” in 
often
song 
25Bucolic call 50Kids in funnyshorts
26Limnologicalstudy 51Recipients of 27Coastal island dollars for colonists quarters? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


53Reader's digestfounder of 1984 54Cut off 56Vote in der Bundesrat 
57Modern way torequestparticipation 
58Male protagonistin William Inge's“Good Luck, Miss Wyckoff” 
59“Nuts!” 60Start over, in a way 61Multitude 
Down 
1 Film composerClausen and others 
2 Unlike doves 3 Gauge4 1997 Bell 
Atlantic acquisition5 Court figure:Abbr. 6 More than merely meet 7 Partook of 8 Popular aquaticperformer 9 Toy developed inChina 10Set for areading 11Emperor's relative 
12Guide 13Typical taxis18Sound 
ominously22Spinoff of CBS's“JAG” 24“Golly!” 
WILL SHORTZ 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  
25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  
41  42  43  44  45  46  
47  48  49  
50  51  52  
53  54  55  
56  57  58  
59  60  61  

Puzzle by Karen M. Tracey 
25Sonny 37Platform place: 43Setting for C. S. 29Young Turk, e.g. Abbr. Lewis's “The 
Last Battle” 
39Easternmost 

31Old covenant keeper townonMaui, 45Early online ononeend of 
discussion

33Draining aid 52 miles of 
setting
twisty highway 

35Its skeleton may 
48“You win”

be used to make 40Fractional bit? jewelry 49Detox population 
41Be everywhere, 36Largest of the soto speak 52Fuss Canary Islands 42Fix 55Familial title 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 aminute;or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions areavailable for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for moreinformation. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and morethan 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 ayear).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HOROSCOPE FRIDAYS WITH FRAN 2.0 
Aries-Going home? You know what that means… Verdict: booty booty booty booty rockin’ everywhere! 
Taurus-This weekend, you will throw up on your Recker’s pizza. Again. Yeah, Fran saw it. 
Gemini-The reasons you will have a terrible weekend are threefold: one, balls; two, it will be lame as balls; and three, balls. 
Cancer-That kid across the hall from you? Stay off his futon. 
Leo-Happy No Shave November. Go for Beardy. Trust Fran. 
Virgo-Tittle yourself, Tim Schumer. 
Libra-Candy grams this week! And none for Gretchen Weiners. 
Scorpio-Jersey became the first state to ratify the Bill of Rights in 1789. 220 years later, Fran still hates Jersey. 
Sagittarius-Repeat steps 1 through 3. Five, I’ll make ya fall in love with me. 
Capricorn-Wanna go to dinner? 
Aquarius-yes! 
Pisces-Any joke about Connecticut would be inap­props. So, just enjoy the one you have secretly in your head. 


JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

JAY WADE, COLIN HOFMAN & LAUREN ROSEMEYER 
THE MOBILE PARTY 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Friday, November 20, 2009 page 28 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Second-half surge propels squad to win over Long Beach St. 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
After a close first half that saw 12 lead changes and the Irish clinging to a two-point lead, Notre Dame came out hot in the second half and was able to overcome an athletic Long Beach State 82-62. 
“It was kind of like a Big East game in the first half,” senior forward Luke Harangody said. “They were hitting shots and getting in the lane. In the sec­ond half we came out, and we were aware that we were the better team, and when we needed to put them away, we did.” 
Harangody led the Irish with 29 points and 12 rebounds over a team-high 37 minutes, but it was senior Ben Hansbrough that sparked the Irish out of the break, scoring seven points and adding two assists during Notre Dame’s 17-6 to start the second half, a lead which they held throughout the rest of the game. 
“I told [Hansbrough] at half­time,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “I said, ‘We’re going to run the first thing for you. I want you to curl it and get to the bas­ket right away.’ We just wanted to see if we could get him going. Luckily he gets in there and gets a bucket and now he’s starting to feel part of it. His drives are really important for us; that’s an important thing in our offense now.” 
Hansbrough finished the game with 11 points and a team-high seven assists, and was one of five Irish players to record double-digit points. He went down twice during the game, first after a hard fall while going up for a rebound, and then later after rolling his ankle, but was able to recover, playing 34 minutes for the Irish. 
“Hansbrough is like one of the hybrid Cadillac trucks — he brings it all,” senior point guard Tory Jackson said. “He can drive, but also he’s a guy that can spread the floor, so when I drive, I can kick it out to him and get my assists. He’s a great shooter, so having him to be in that attack mode early like he was today, and kind of get me into a rhythm to take shots, it keeps my confidence going. He set the bar today, driving to the hole, getting fouled, getting rebounds. He set the bar high, and having him as that other guide is very good for me.” 
Jackson scored 13 for the Irish and added three steals, but it is his role as orchestrator of the offense that will make him so crucial for Notre Dame as the season progresses. 
“I talked to [Jackson] about just keeping it really simple,” Brey said. “He doesn’t have to make high degree of difficulty plays, just orchestrate the team. When he’s playing like that, he’s really a key for us, and I’ve tried to reinforce that for him. 
see 49ERS/page 25 


MEN’S SOCCER 

Sent packing 
Irish edge Green Bay in 

frst round of NCAAs  
By LAURA MYERS  
Sports Writer  
Seven hundred thirty min­ 
utes and 57 seconds.  
That’s how long the Irish  
had played without a lead  
before senior forward Bright  
Dike scored a goal Thursday in  
the 28th minute of the first  
round of the NCAA  
Tournament.  
The goal, off an assist from  
freshman midfielder Dillon  
Powers, put Notre Dame (11­ 
7-4) up 1-0 over Green Bay  
(14-3-3), as the Irish went on  
to defeat the Phoenix 2-1 at  
Alumni Stadium. They now  
advance to the second round  
and will play No. 9-seed  
Northwestern (10-4-4) Sunday.  
“It’s nice to have a lead,”  
Irish coach Bobby Clark said.  
“But it’s also every bit as nerve see CLARK/page 26  DAN JACOBS/The Observer Members of the Notre Dame men’s soccer fght for the ball against Wisconsin-Green Bay players Thursday night. The Irish went on to beat the Phoenix 2-1 in the frst round of the NCAA tournament.  

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Team faces Beavers in Sweet 16 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
After advancing to the round of 16 in the College Cup for the sixth year in a row and 14th time in program history, No. 5 Notre Dame is hoping that their title hopes aren’t dammed up by the Oregon State Beavers. 
The Beavers (14-7-1, 4-5-0) enter their third-round game against the Irish after pulling off consecutive upsets in the first round against host Ohio State and third-seeded Florida in the second round. 
The Beavers 3-1 win over the Buckeyes last Friday was the program’s first victory in NCAA Tournament history. Their 1-0 win against the Gators came on a golden goal in the 99th minute 
see SWEET 16/page 26 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
ND beats Michigan State 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
With the game tied and just seconds to play, the Irish had three chances to take the lead and the third time proved to be the charm. 
Senior guard Ashley Barlow’s free throw with just 10 seconds remaining put No. 5 Notre Dame in front, and the Irish held on for a narrow 68-67 victory over 
N o .  2 1  M i c h i g a n  S t a t e  
T h u r s d a y  n i g h t  i n  E a s t  
Lansing, Mich.  

“It was just a huge, smart play and [Barlow] came up big for us there,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “She 
see MCGRAW/page 25 


PAT COVENEY/The Observer Freshman guard Kaila Turner drives the lane during Notre Dame’s 97-53 win over Indianapolis on Nov. 3. 
HOCKEY 
Notre Dame downs Spartans in shootout 
Observer Staff Report 
The Irish fought red-hot Michigan State to a 1-1 tie Thursday night, and Notre Dame picked up an extra CCHA point by winning the shootout 2-1. 
Freshman winger Kyle Palmieri scored the only goal for Notre Dame when he found the back of the net 13:36 into the second peri­od. Trailing junior defenseman Ian Cole in the Spartan zone, Palmieri redirected Cole’s centering feed past Michigan State goalie Drew Palmisano for the Irish lead. 
Late in the middle stanza, Notre Dame senior winger Ryan Thang was whisled for hitting from behind, giving Michigan State a five-minute power play that carried over to the third period. 
The Irish killed the penalty, but gave up the equalizer less than two minutes later, 6:26 into the period. After a brief scramble in front of the net, Spartan freshman Derek Grant pushed a rebound past Notre Dame freshman goalie Mike Johnson, who saved 23 shots on the night. 
After a scoreless overtime period, the teams moved to a shootout. Both teams scored once in the first three shooters, pushing the shootout to sudden death. Irish senior left wing Dan Kissel beat Palmisano, and Johnson stopped Spartan Nick Sucharski to give the Irish the extra point. 
The teams meet again in Fort Wayne, Ind., Sunday at 4:05 p.m. 






