r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
( 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Facebook use evolves at Notre Dame 
Since its founding in 2004, thousands of students join the now ubiquitous networking site 
If the more than 175 million people By KAITLYNN RIELY who actively use Facebook made up
Associate News Editor 
a country, that country would be the sixth largest in the world. 
This is the second installment of a Facebook founder and CEO Mark three-part series that will explore the Zuckerberg made this observation in recent terms of use controversy a Facebook blog post Feb. 18 when involving Facebook and delve into he announced the site was reversing the way interaction with and opinion its decision to make changes to its of the site has changed since 2004, terms of use. The original changes ­when Notre Dame students were first which deleted language that said able to become users. Facebook's right to content would 
expire once a user cancelled his 
Unlike most Notre Dame students, account -caused Facebook mem­junior Helen Syski has never been a bers to fear that the site retained a Facebook user. permanent license to their content. 
Her cousin once tried, unsuccess­Alarm throughout the Facebook fully, to create an account for her, but community prompted Zuckerberg to 
• Syski made up her mind years ago return the terms of use to the lao­that she would not join the popular social networking group. see FACEBOOK/page 6 

facebook 
facts 

Jl. Founded by Mark Zuckerberg, with three co-founders, and launched from their Harvard dorm room 
.& Employees: 700+ A Headquarters: Palo Alto, Calif. .& More than half of Facebook users 
outside of college · £ Fastest growing demographic is those 30 years and older .&. Second most-trafficked PHP site in the world 
foctboolt. com 
Observer Graphic I Andrea Archer 


Dove model: Embrace your real beauty 
Campaign to promote "real women
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
with real curves" when her friend 
News Writer 

signed her up for a modeling audition against her will in 2004. 
Women of all ages must end nega­At the time, Nadeau, a size 10, was tive thoughts about their bodies and a student at DePaul University in embrace their real beauty, Stacy Chicago. She said after her initial Nadeau, one of six Dove models who reluctance, she participated in six appeared in her underwear on a bill­months of auditions before she was board in New York's Times Square in chosen as one of the six Dove girls to 2005, told Notre Dame students in a for billboards and magazine ads in the talk Thursday night. Real Beauty Campaign. 
Nadeau said she travels the country The Campaign began when Dove sharing her experience as a Dove conducted a survey that asked women model in order to empower women to if they felt comfortable calling them­embrace their real beauty and reject selves beautiful, and found that only images promoted by the media. two percent responded yes, Nadeau 
"Beauty is what the media shows said. us," Nadeau said. "And what does the "Dove had the truth and it was their media show us? Thin models. obligation to do something about it," 
Stacy Nadeau, who posed in underwear on a Airbrushed figures." billboard in New York, spoke on campus Thursday. She got involved in the Dove see DOVE/page 8 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Tillett, Pulte 
winrun-off 
elections 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY Assistant News Editor 
Chris Tillett was elected to lead the class of 2010 and Caitlin Pulte the class of 2011 in the run-off election Thursday after both tick­ets failed to receive 50 percent of the vote in Monday's general elec­tions. 
Tillett, along with Joy Hwang, Matt Malloy and Ellie Trousdale, beat the Kim Kyrouac Jeff Lakusta, Jordan Schank and Kathleen Donahue ticket. 
Tillet's ticket received 55 percent of the vote, or 526 votes, while Kyrouac received 38 percent, or 367 votes. 64 rising seniors voted to abstain. The total vote count used to calculate the percentages include votes to abstain. 
Tillett will take office on April 1, and he said the team will start planning for the upcoming year now. 
"The [platform idea) that will happen first is the tailgate," he said. "There will be a barbeque cook-offtailgate for the senior class before one football game." 
Most importantly, Tillett said he will focus on creating a series of seminars for seniors to aid the transition process after graduation. These seminars will explain how to start a 401{k) plan, take out a loan and pay taxes, he said. 
Tillett said the team will also hold a networking conference for seniors in the spring before gradu­ation. 
"The networking conference at 
see ELECTION/page 4 




Club Fever opens to over-18 crowd 
Green Room of popular nightclub to feature soft drinks,.DJ tonight 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY Assistant News Editor 
For the first time ever, the popular South Bend nightclub Club Fever will host an event for young adults under 21 tonight, according to club owner Dee Davis. 
Anyone with identification proving they are over 18 years of age will be admitted into the Green Room. located in the basement of the club. Alcohol will not be allowed in the Green Boom, and the bar at Club Fever will be roped off, Davis said. 
Davis said the club has allowed private parties to use the Green Hoom and admit those underage, but the club itself has never hosted some­thing like this. 
"We're going to try it out. 
this is the first time," he said. "If this works out and every­one behaves themselves, we could try it out on a regular basis." 
Davis said the club's usual Thursday night disc jockey will work in the Green Room, and instead of alcohol, the bar will be stocked with sodas and energy drinks. 
Those who are 21 or over can go back and forth between the parties if they wish, he said. ­
Davis said he believes there is a market for underage stu­dents, offering a place to hang out because many are often caught trying to sneak into the club. 
"We have so many of them who try to sneak in and use fake IDs, so there's a demand," he ·said. "I would say about 20 to 25 are usually caught on a Thursday night." 
If all goes well at the event tonight, Davis said the club may try to reach out to those under 21 on a regular basis. 
"We can give them a place to dance and make a couple bucks for ,sodas and food," he said. "But we want to see how this one goes. We are going to play it by ear for now." 
Davis said if anyone under­age comes to the party and appears intoxicated, tho indi­vidual will not be admitted into the club. 
"We will kick them out for sure," he said. "There will be police there." 
Sophomore Carolyn Conley, 19, said she thought it would be a good idea for the club to reach out to underage stu­dents. 
see FEVER/page 8 



Observer chooses next dept. editors 
Observer Staff Report · 
The Observer's recently elect­ed Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz announced six additional editors that will join the Editorial Board for the 2009-10 year. 
Juniors Ian Gavlick and Andrea Archer, as well as sopho­mores Madeline Buckley, Matt Gamber, Jess Shaffer and Ashley Charnley will join the Editorial Board in their new positions after Spring Break. 
Buckley, who currently resides in Breen Philips Hall, will serve as news editor. She has written for the news department since her freshman year, and is a native of Northbrook, Ill. Buckley has covered a variety of stories for The Observer including the Dillon Pep Rally cancellation, development near campus and 
student government. She is an American Studies and Spanish 
major  with  a  minor  in  
Journalism,  Ethics  and  
Democracy.  

Gamber will become the sports editor. A Finance and American Studies major with a minor in Journalism. Ethics and Democracy, Gamber is a current Sorin Otter, originally from Mt. Prospect, Ill. Having written for the sports department since his freshman year, Gamber has overseen coverage of Bengal Bouts and Bookstore Basketball, as well as developed The Observer's sports blog, The Casual Observer. 
Charnley, a sophomore at Saint Mary's, will serve as the next Saint Mary's editor. 
see EDITORS/page 4 

.------------------------------------------------, 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, February 27, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Thanks for the 
•


memories 
Today is my last day as Editor-in-Chief of The Observer. 
I knew this day was fast approaching, but I prevented myself from thinking about it for as long as possible because after this is graduation, and I don't want to leave Notre Dame. 
These four years have been the best of my life and I 
probably won't have another four years like them. They've been so enjoyable thanks in part to my time at The Observer. It was through The Observer that I discovered just how special Notre Dame is. 
Last spring, we did a story on George Porter-Young, a former LaFortune employee who was originally from England. George found out he had leukemia and wanted to return home to live in England for the first time in 42 years. But because of his cancer, he couldn't fly home and needed to raise money for an expensive cruise home and to cover other costs along the way. 
After our story ran, the people of 

Chris Hlne 
Editor-in-Chief 

Notre Dame did the rest. Donations came in from staff, alumni an d students and George had enough money to go home. And he did return in September to spend a few months with his family before he died in November. I know he and his family were grateful for all Notre Dame did for him. I hear all the time about the good that people at Notre Dame do and George's story is an example of the good Notre Dame can do. 
I'll always remember George and I'll always remember the people who have made The Observer such a great place to work the past four years. Thank you to everyone who has worked late nights in our office and this list includes a lot of people. 
We have a fantastic staff, filled with people who have sacrificed time, energy and points on their GPA to help us put out the best paper we can. 
Some of those 3 a.m., 4 a.m. and even 5 a.m. nights can be frustrating, but I was happy to share them with every­one I wqrked with, for it was during those long nights that I made some great friends. It amazes me how much every­body at our paper gives everyday to make our paper the best it can be, and I am eternally grateful to everyone on staff. You've given me a lot of great memories that I'll always have. {And thanks for putting up with my love of Carole King's music. I know that wasn't easy). 
Thanks to our readers, who pick up our paper everyday and read us despite the occasional typo. You keep us moti­vated to put out a great paper. 
Thanks to Jack Radican, who drives two hours to deliver The Observer to its boxes everyday. No matter the weather, The Observer is always there, and that's because of the dedication and pride Jack brings to his job. 
And thanks to Shirley Grauel, our office manager at The Observer and the woman who is the heart of our paper. Shirley has worked at The Observer for over 30 years and after next fall, she will retire. 
Shirley will always have a special place in my heart. She is my Notre Dame mother. 
When I was sick last winter with a respiratory infection, Shirley made sure I was eating well and taking my medi­cine. She would even swipe extra food and drinks for me from Grab n' Go so I could get through the day. She helped put my mom's mind at ease back home. 
Then when I had mono at the beginning of this year, Shirley made sure I was getting the care I needed to feel better and went shopping for me at Martin's to get Gatorade and Campbell's soup. She was always a phone call away, anytime of the day. 
Every morning when I go into The Observer, Shirley's is the first face I see. I'm always greeted with a friendly smile that would brighten my day, no matter how crappy of a mood I'm in. I'll miss that. I'll miss talking about our fami­lies, watching "Who Want to Be a Millionaire" with her and talking about Notre Dame sports. Shirley is a true Irish fan, with season tickets to football, hockey, women's basketball and men's basketball-and she goes to every home game, whether the teams are bad or good. {Jack Swarbrick, she deserves your prime seats in the remodeled arena). 
Shirley, thank you for being there for me these past few years. You mean so much to me and to everyone who's worked with you at The Observer and I hope you know how much we all appreciate you and love you. Enjoy your retirement, you certainly deserve it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Chris Hine at chine@ndedu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: TELL A STORY IN SIX WORDS.  
Ryan Gabriel  Andy Hermansen  Johanna Kirsch  Mary Lennon  
junior  junior  junior  senior  
Knott  Keough  McGlinn  Farley  
"/despise  "/ dreamt a girl  "Lost: Hard  "Road Trip?  
question of the  ,liked me.  Drive. Files not  This is an  
day.''  recovered. ,,  island.,,  


Teenage boys steal jewelry, hide It in Cheetos bag 
NEPTUNE, N.J. -Bet you can't steal just one. Three teenage boys from central New Jersey have been charged with breaking into an apartment and stealing $7,000 worth of jewelry, then hiding the loot in an empty Cheetos bag. The bag was later found inside a swing set in a local park in Freehold. 
The boys, ages 15 and 16, have been charged with attempted burglary, burgla­ry and trespassing. Police recovered most of the stolen jewelry. 
The boys have been released to their parents. 

Man claims military service allows him to rob candy 
FORT PIEHCE, Fla. Authorities arrested a man who claimed he was justified in stealing candy at a truck stop because he had served in the military. Police said an officer confronted a 31-year­old man at the truck stop early Monday morning. The officer reported finding sever­al packages of candy and nuts, two black T-shirts and a 20 oz. bottle of beer in his pockets. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY 

. 
....... 
e.
·-""-* *• . 
w ••
<
(,) 0 

HIGH 32 HIGH 29 HIGH
...I LOW 16 LOW 15 LOW 

IN BRIEF 
Sexual Assault Awareness Resource Tables will be avail­able in South Dining Hall, North Dining Hall and LaFortune today from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 
p.m.. Tables are provided by Gender Relations Center. 
"Guernica," a play inspired by the true story of a ship that sunk in 1997, will be performed in the Philbin Studio Theatre in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The play is being per­formed at 7:30 p.m. on Saturday and at 2:30 p.m on Sunday. For more ticket infor­mation: performingarts.nd.edu or call the DeBartolo Ticket Office at 574-631-2800. 
Bengal Bouts finals take place Saturday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
The Notre Dame German Club is hosting a Sound of Music Sing-A-Long event Saturday at 7 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of Hesburgh Library. Admission is free, and free food will be served at inter­mission. A costume <~ntest will also be held. 
Saint Mary's College will host the "SMC Monologues 2009: Our Stories, Our Voices" Saturday and Sunday at 4:00 
p.m in the Vander \ennet the­ater. 
The Browning Cinema will present the documentary, "America the Beautiful: Is America obsessed with beau­ty?" Sunday at 3:00 p.m. in the DeBartolo Center for the PerformingArts. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

SUNDAY MONDAY 


kit·"·"
; • • • •v. ·>~~: 
. ~·
. ""
~ 
29 HIGH 35 15 LOW 21 

Atlanta 65 I 44 Boston 50 I 29 Chicago 33 I 15 Denver 36 I 31 Los Angeles 63 I 50 St. Louis 52122 New York 47 I 32 Philadelphia 53 I 32 Phoenix 79 I 55 Seattle 48 I 40 St. Louis 52 I 43 Tampa 63 I 54 
'-------------------------------------------­
.--------------------------------------­
Friday, February 27, 2009 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
College hosts Lenten reflections 
Bread Bowl discussions to occur every Friday during season 
cussion starters that Catholic Relief Services has prepared from their work around the world," Regina Wilson, assis­tant director of Campus Ministry said. 
"By engaging with the sto­ries of contemporary people from various developing' coun­tries throughout the world, we are hoping that we will all deepen our understanding of the relationship between com­munion with God in Christ and of simplicity and almsgiving." 
Alon'g with the Lenten Bread Bowl Discussions, the College will be hosting a food drive throughout the season of Lent. The drive began Wednesday, and will run through April 8. 
"The food drive is a way to connect the simplicity of our Friday lunch to the real needs of the hungry in our own South Bend community and beyond us to parts of the world where people are hun­gry," Wilson said. 

Carrie Call, director of the Office of Civil and Social Engagement told The Observer, that the college is asking "faculty, staff, an<;l stu­dents to consider putting aside a can or box of food every week during Lent." 
Students, faculty and staff are also encouraged to set aside some money if they can­not set aside food. 
"The food and money, then, will be collecteq on Wednesday, April 8 at 4:00 
p.m. At that time all who gath­er will celebrate a short prayer service blessing the food and money before it is sent off," Fean said. 
The food and money will go to Little Flower Parish Food Pantry, CROP and Operation Rice Bowl. 
"We hope students will join in the weekly lunches. People are invited to come whenever they can, once, twice, or weekly," Wilson said. 
Fean said that she hope the events will provide an oppor­tunity for members of the Saint Mary's community to come together. 
"We also hope that people will come together to bless the food and money as a sign of our communal fasting, alms­giving, and prayer in solidarity with the people of our commu­nity and the world." 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
2/22-3/1 ''Giving a Voice" Poster Campaign featuring 
GRC FIRE Starters 
2/23 Take Back the Night 
Prayer Service; 7:00pm at Log Chapel 
March around campus 
Speak Out at Bonfire; 8:00pm :at Holy Cross Hill 
(with hot-chocolate, smores and free t·shirts) 
2/24-26 Resource Tables from 11:30 to 1:30pm in Lafortune 
and the Dining Halls 
2/25 Com.mittee on Sexual Assault Prevention (CSAP) Student Forum 
7:00pm 11_1 Reekers Hospitality Room 
2/27 "A Time to Heal" Dinner with Faculty and Student Speakers Carolyn Nordstrom Professor of Anthropology John Cavadini Department Chair and Professor ofTheo!ogy Kyle A.C Rocca Survivor of sexual assault Tim Latham President of Men Against Violence Anonymous Student Survivor of sexual assault 
5:00-7:00 pm at legends. All are welcome and the dinner is free, but 
you must RSVP by February 23 to grc@nd.edu or 631-9340 
3/1 SAAW Sunday featuring petitions, ribbons and 
prayer cards at Masses 
Asian Film Fest to premiere at ND 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
With the season of Lent now underway, Campus Ministry, the Office of Civic and Social Engagement and the Mission Council at Saint Mary's College have prepared reflection activ­ities open to all students. 
Lenten Bread Bowl Discussions begin today, and solidarity with all those who struggle around the world," she said. 
The discussions, which begin at 12:15 p.m. and will conclude at 12:45 will be held in the West Wing of the Noble Family Dining Hall at the College. 
_"The [lunches] are -meant to provide a way for students to come together once a week during Lent to share their 
will be held each Friday during the Lenten sea­son, except dur­ing Spring Break. The dis­cussions will include soup bread bowls for a meal and will allow students, faculty and staff members to dis­cuss topics relat­ing to Lent. 
"We will be using stories, prayers and dis­
"We will be using stories prayers and discussion starters that Catholic Relief Services has prepared from their work around the world.,, 
Regina Wilson assistant director Campus Ministry 
spiritual jour­ney around a simple meal, prayer, and shared con­versation," Judy Fean, director of Campus Ministry. 
Fean said discussions would center "around a topic which relates to jus­tice and the Lenten themes 

By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
In order to promote cultural awareness, this weekend's Asian Film Festival at Notre Dame will show four Asian films and will include panel discussions and a student per­formance-Friday and Saturday evening in the Browning Cinema, student organizer Laura Wilczek said. 
"Each culture has its own way of storytelling, and film is just one such way of cultural expression," Wilczek_ said. "Thus, the film festival pro­vides students with a chance to learn more about Asian cul­tures and how they are similar to American culture." 
Wilczek is a member of the Asian Film Festival Organizing Committee, which is comprised of students and faculty and works with the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
Senior Brandon Frost also helped plan the festival and choose the films. 
"This year's festival is a unique combination of films that no other Asian Film Festivals at other universities have provided," Frost said. "It includes themes such as co­production, the Asian­American experience and cross-cultural appreciation." 
One of the films, "First Person Plural," is about an adopted Korean woman's search for her birth family, Wilczek said. 
Wilczek said the film has per­
-sonal importance for her because she is a Korean adoptee. She and senior Kevin Prawdzik will speak on a stu­dent panel discussion following the film. "I think it brings up a lot of pertinent identity issues that surround a Korean adoptee and therefore provides excel­lent insight for those who aren't aware of such identity issues," she said about the film. Frost said "Hula Girls," another film premiering at the festival, holds personal signifi­cance for Frost, a native of Hawaii. He said he has been hula dancing since he was five years old. Before the film, a student from the Hawaii Club will perform a modern hula dance, Frost said. "When I was studyifig in Japan, everyone mentioned the film 'Hula Girls' when I told ..J.hem I was from Hawaii," he said. "So we truly are showcas­ing some of the more famous films in Asia today." The film "West 32nd," about Korean crime in Manhattan, will feature a question and answer session after the film 
see ASIAN/page 9 




AWARENESS WEEK 


}ll L1Fomme• 574.63L9340• grc.nJ.edu • grc@nd.cdu 

--------------------------, 
page 4 The-Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 27, 2009 
this had an effect on the outcome of 
the election because her ticket had 
Election 
continued from page 1 

the end of next year will help sen­iors find faces they recognize in the city they'll work," he said. 
Tillett said his team offers a bal­ance of prior experience and fresh­ness in leading the senior class. 
'We have the experience neces­sary to do the job and enough out­side perspective a..<; well," he said. 
Pulte, along with Henry Shine, Luke Stavole and Tim Castellini, received 51 percent of the vote, or 593 votes, while the ticket of Kevin­Kimberly, Alexa Doyle, Dylan Fernandez and Rachel Roseberry received 41 percent, or 471 votes. There were 93 abstaining votes. 
Both tickets were accused of election violations after Monday's general el~tion. Pulte's ticket was found innocent, but Kimberly's ticket was charged with two viola­tions. The Judicial Council could not reveal the nature of the viola­tions or accusations based on guidelines set forth in the Student Constitution. 
Pulte said she does not believe .a clear lead after the first round. 
"We were in the lead and all we needed was 11 more votes to clinch the election," she said. 
But Kimberly said he believes the allegations against his ticket took focus away from the platform. 
"In the allegations, the platform got lost," he said. "That's where we lost." 
He said if the allegations did not happen, his ticket would have had a chance to campaign for more votes between the general election and the run-oft' election. 
Pulte said the first thing she wi)l do in office is plan the class trip to see a Cubs game. She said the game will take place on a Saturday in the fall that does not conflict with a home football game. 
The ticket brings considerable experience to the leadership role, Pulte said. 
"We know procedures, we know people to contact," she said. "I am absolutely thrilled to lead the class." 
PPE THE MINOR IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

The PPE minor invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory. and economic analysis. Every year about 16 highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and economics. 
If you are looking for 

( I) an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second major,and 
(2) an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, then PPE wants you! • 
FOR MORE INFORMATION Professor John Roos, Political Science Department.424 Decio, l* 7556. Roos.1 @nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to Professor Roos. The application deadline is noon on Friday March 20 . Late applications will be accepted only if openings are still available. 

PPE INFORMATION MEETING Tuesday March 3 117 DeBartolo 7p.m. 


Editors 
continued from page 1 

Charnley is a Communication Students and English Writing major currently living in Holy Cross Hall. Originally from Angola, Ind., she has written for the news department since her freshman year and covered HiHary Clinton's visit to South Bend last year. 
Shaffer, a Program of Liberal Studies and Spanish major from the Washington, D.C. area, will assume the Scene editor posi­tion. A resident of Farley Hall, Shaffer has written for the Scene department since her freshman year, interviewing Ben Lee and The Format among others. 
and Meet Our 

Early Childhood Teachers ECDC-~1> Open House Dates: Sundav. 2 I 09 ... 1:50 -.:):(KJ 
Gavlick, a former resident of Knott Hall, will lead the photog­raphy department as the incom­ing photo editor. Gavlick, who currently serves as an associate photo editor, is originally from Vancouver, Wash. and is a com­puter science major. He has cov­ered football, men's basketball, women's soccer and various campus events. 
Archer will become the next graphics editor at The Observer. A native of Redding, Conn., she is a Marketing and Graphic Design major and currently resides in Pasquerilla West Hall. 
The other editors previously selected for the Editorial Board include Managing~Editor Bill Brink, and Assistant Managing Editors Kara King and Bill Brink, in addition to Metz. 
Earlv Childhood Development Center, Inc. 






ORLD & NATION 
Friday, February 27, 2009 CoMPilED FROMTHE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bishop appologizes for remarks 
ROME -A British bishop whose denial of the Holocaust embroiled Pope Benedict XVI in con­troversy has apologized for his remarks, a Catholic news agency said Thursday. 
Bishop Richard Williamson, with the conser­vative Society of St. Pius X, had faced worldwide criticism over a television interview in which he said no Jews were gassed during the Holocaust. 
While Williamson apologized in a statement Thursday to all those who took offense and for the distress he caused, the bishop did not specif­ically say that his comments were erroneous, or that he no longer believed them. As a result, Jewish leaders said the apology did not go far enough. 
"If I had known beforehand the full harm and hurt to which they would give rise, especially to the church, but also to survivors and relatives of victims of injustice under the Third Reich, I would not have made them," Williamson was quoted as saying in the statement carried by the Zenit Catholic news agency. 
Iraq welco~es Kuwait's leader 
BAGHDAD -Iraq took another step toward healing its rift with Kuwait on Thursday as gov­ernment leaders welcomed the highest-ranking • Kuwaiti envoy since Saddam Hussein's 1990 invasion. • 
The timing of the visit by Kuwait's deputy prime minister, Sheik Mohammed AI Sabah, was symbolic-it came Kuwaitis celebrated the 18th anniversary of the U.S.-led military campaign that drove out Saddam's forces. 
But much of tiny Persian Gulf nation was left looted and devastated by the Iraqi occupation, and Kuwait still claims billions of dollars in war reparations. It has refused appeals by Iraq's gov­ernment to reduce its demands 'and forgive about $15 billion in Iraqi debt. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Assisted suicide ring charged 
ATlANTA -As authorities try to determine how many deaths nationwide may be linked to an alleged assisted suicide ring, members of the group known as the Final Exit Network are defending a mission they call "self-deliver­ance." 
The network's president, its medical director and two other members were charged Wednesday in the death of John Celmer, a 58­year-old Georgia man who suffered for years from cancer of the throat and mouth. They each face up to five years in prison ifconvicted on assisted suicide charges. 
Woman awarded $7 million 
LOS ANGELES -A jury awarded nearly $7 million to a 56-year-old woman who said she was unknowingly infected with herpes by the 77 -year-old founder of a hair-care compa­ny. 
The lawsuit alleged that Thomas Redmond knew he had genital herpes for more than 25 years but did not disclose it before his sexual relationship began with Patricia Behr, and did not use a condom. 
The Riverside County jury awarded Behr $4 million in compensatory damages and $2.75 million in punitive damages. She was also awarded a 2004 BMW car that Redmond had originally given her as a gift. 
Redmond, of Las Vegas, is the founder of Redmond Products Inc., which was the maker of the Aussie line of hair-care products. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Couple wins Hoosier lottery twice 
INDIANAPOLIS -An Indianapolis cou­ple beat the odds when they claimed their second $50,000 Lucky 5 Hoosier lottery prize. 
Elinor and John T. Phillips of Indianapolis claimed the prize Thursday, less than five years after Elinor Phillips won $50,000 on the same game in 2004. · 
Elinor Phillips said her heart fluttered when she heard the numbers for the Feb. 24 evening draw. 
Mexico: Dangerous spring break~pot 
U.S. State Department issues warning for students traveling across the border 
Associated Press 

PHOENIX -The U.S. State Department and uni­versities around the coun­try are warning college stu­dents headed for Mexico for some spring-break partying of a surge in drug-related murder and mayhem south of the border. 
"We're not necessarily telling students not to go, but we're going to certainly alert them," said Tom Dougan, vice president for student affairs at the University of Rhode Island. "There have been Americans kidnapped, and if you go you need to be very aware and very alert to this fact." 
More than 100,000 high school-and college-age Americans travel to Mexican resort areas dur­ing spring break each year. Much of the drug violence is happening in border towns, and tourists have generally not been target­ed, though there have been killings in the big spring­break resorts of Acapulco and Cancun, well away from the border. 
The University of Arizona in Tucson is urging its approximately 37,000 stu­dents not to go to Mexico. with the drug cartels is always important to the beach and in very nice Other universities -in the inv{)lving not only the mili­advise the youngsters to resorts that take the utmost Southwest and far beyond, tary but law enforcement behave." pride in making sure cus­including Penn State, Notre personnel. It is indiscrimi­Despite the bloodshed, tomers are safe." Dame, the University of nate violence, and certainly the number of foreign Some students said the Colorado and the University innocent people have been tourists visiting Mexico warnings are unlikely to at Buffalo -said they caught up in that coll~teral surged to 23 million in deter them. would call students' atten­damage." 2008, up 5.9 percent-from University of Arizona tion to the travel warning Mexico's drug cartels are the year before, spurred in sophomore Daniel Wallace issued Feb. 20 by the State waging a bloody fight part by the tumbling value is going to Puerto Penasco, Department. among themselves for of the peso against the dol­or Rocky Point, for spring 
The State Department smuggling routes and lar, according to the coun­break, saying he is not wor­stopped short of warning against government forces, try's Tourism Department. ried about violence there. spring breakers not to go to carrying out massacres and The department estimates Besides, the 19-year-old Mexico, but advised them dumping beheaded bodies 80 percent of tourists in said: "It's relaxing, it's to avoid areas of prostitu­in the streets. More than Mexico come from the warm, I'm a big fan of the tion and drug-dealing and 6,000 people were killed in United States. beach and the drinking age take other commonsense drug violence in Mexico last "Cancun has always been is lower. It's a fun place to precautions. year. one of our most popular go." 
"Sage advice," said Tom But Mexican ,Attorney destinations and that hasn't Amanda Corbett, a soph­Mangan, a spokesman for General Eduardo Medina changed this year," said omore at North Carolina the federal Bureau of Mora said in an interview Patrick Evans of STA State, said she is going Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms· with The Associated Press: Travel, one of the biggest snowboarding in Virginia and Explosives. "We have "There is no major risk for spring-break travel agen­because she couldn't afford had documented violence, students coming· into cies. "Many of the packages Cancun. But three of her attacks, killings, shootouts Mexico in general terms. It we offer include lodging on roommates are going there. 
BANGLADESH 

Mutiny ends after government force 
Associated Press cial Dilip Kumar Ghosh said by tele­other areas Thursday, recently elected 
phone from the scene. Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina warned 
DHAKA-Tanks rolled through the One officer said he saw the killing of the rebels she would "do whatever is Bangladeshi capifal Thursday in a the chief of the border security force, needed to end the violence." show of force that finally persuaded Maj. Gen. Shakil Ahmed, immediately Hours later, tanks a:nd armored vehi­mutinous border guards to lay down after the mutiny began Wednesday. cles with heavy machine guns rolled their arms, ending a two-day revolt "I was confronted by the soldiers into the capital, taking up positions in that threatened to spread across the three times, but I have survived," the residential neighborhoods around the impoverished South Asian nation. officer, Lt. Col. Syed Kamruzzaman, border guards' compound. An 
At least 11 were killed, including told ATN Bangia television station. Associated Press reporter saw several three civilians, in the insurrection after "Allah has saved me from the face of tanks stationed in a playground. the nearly 2,000 guards opened fire on death." Apparently intimidated, the guards their senior officers and seized their Authorities did not make any state­hoisted a white flag on Thursday after­headquarters to protest poor pay and ment about the chiefs whereabouts. noon and resumed laying down arms. conditions. The mutinous guards had agreed to "All the mutinous border guards have 
Concerned about reports of dozens surrender after the government on surrendered their weapons," govern­still missing, firefighters searched the Wednesday promised them an amnesty ment negotiator Mahbub Ara Gini told area for bodies into Friday's early and agreed to look into their demands. reporters, adding that all military offi­hours. But as the process stalled and the cials with their families trapped inside 
"We'll work here overnight," fire offi-revolt appeared to be spreading to the headquarters had been evacuated. 

..----------------------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, Febraury 27, 2009 
book.com, came to Notre Dame later that year. 
On Aug. 22, 2004, people with e-mail addresses ending @nd.edu could join the site. Notre Dame was among the first 60 colleges to join the networking communi­ty, and in a little more than a week, over 1,000 people had joined as Notre Dame users. 
The Observer 
Facebook 
continued from page 1 

guage in place before the Feb. 4 change. 
Balancing privacy concerns with use of the Facebook site has never been an issue for Syski, whose older siblings,•particularly a sister four years older than her, discour­aged her from joining the site. 
"I think there's always a tenden­cy to objectify people," Syski said, one of the reasons she decided to stay away from Facebook.com. 
Syski said she has talked to peers who also do not have Facebook, but could not immedi­ately think of anyone beside her" self who does not use the site. 
Since most of her friends are users of the site, it would be easy for her to jump on their account to look around. But Syski said it's something she's probably only done five times. 
Syski admitted there are some drawbacks to not being on Facebook. 
"Occasionally I have been the last to know about something, but I usually get an e-mail when peo­ple include me on the Facebook invite," she said. 
But the pros of being off Facebook have outweighed the cons for her, she said. 
''I'm developing deeper friend­ships, and I find better ways to keep in touch with people," she said. 
Syski is a rare case, as most Notre Dame students are Facebook users. 
The History of Facebook at Notre Dame 
Founded by Harvard student Mark Zuckerberg in 2004, the site, then known as theface­
described the site as "the dogbook  "Facebook three or  have it, but are not using it for  
on  steroids,"  a  four years ago may  punitive reasons.  
reference to the picture directory of the freshman  have been considered possibly something  In September 2006, students voiced their  
class  students  that was  anger about the  
can they  buy when arrive on  temporary ... ''  addition of the Facebook news  
campus.  feed in Letters to  
One  female  Brian Fremeau  the Editor. One  
sophomore quot­ assistant director  inside'  column  
ed in the 2004 Observer article  Student Activities  called it the :·news feed from  
loved it.  hell."  

"It has never been easier to A Notre Dame senior wrote a find people that are like you," Letter to the Editor shortly after she said. the news feed addition, saying 
Another student did not like it, she had quit her account. saying "it stretches even the low­"I believe the Facebook was a est of lows in wasting time." gigantic roadblock to my journey 
But Facebook took ofT at Notre to become a better person," the Dame and Saint Mary's. A search senior wrote. "While others may of The Observer's archives for use the Facebook for positive the term "Facebook" yields 170 reasons, I, a true Facebook­results. aholic, allowed it to exploit every 
Some articles about the site jealous and spiteful inclination I reported positive experiences, might possess in my far from others negative. perfect self." 
In September 2005, The In October 2006, members of Observer reported Saint Mary's student government and other students were receiving abusive student representatives tried to threats on Facebook. explain the concept of Facebook 
The Keenan Revue the next to the Student Affairs Committee year featured a skit about of the Board of Trustees. Facebook, ending with a face-ofT One bbard member reported against MySpace, another popu­he was "shivering" after viewing lar social networking site. a detailed profile. Many Trustees 
A month later, The Observer were perplexed by the defmition reported that disciplinary offices of "friends" on Facebook. at other schools were using Careerbuilder.com unveiled a survey that same month which revealed that one in 10 employ­ers used social networking sites to acquire personal information while screening job candidates. 
The next year, The Observer reported the ORLH had received some phone calls from freshmen who wanted to change room­mates after seeing the Facebook profile of their designated room­mate. 
In four and a half years, Facebook has become integrated into student life at Notre Dame. Student government candidates develop Facebook sites to attract voters. Relationships are announced and events organized on the site. Most recently, Subway enthusiasts have started a Facebook group to gather sup­port for their light to get $5 foot­longs at the LaFortune location. 
F.acebook here to stay? 

It's diflicult for some to remem­ber that a few years ago, no one was sure how long Facebook would be around. whether it was a passing fad or here to stay. 
"Facebook three or four years ago may have been considered possibly something that was tem­porary... " Brian Fremeau, the assistant director of Student Activities said earlier this week. "It wasn't necessarily something that was treated as, 'this is going to be here forever.' Now I don't think that conversation is hap­pening. Facebook has estab­lished itself as being a primary mode of communication, not something that is tacked onto the other ways student communi­cate." 
Many student groups have been using the site to get the word out about events, beyond , the traditional avenues of Observer advertisements, posters and table cards in the dining halls, he said. 
Saint Mary's sophomore Liz Brown has embraced the site. She became a Facebook member the summer before she enrolled at the College. 
"I thought it would be an easy way to get to know my roommate and a really good way to keep in touch with friends once I came out here, because I'm from Pennsylvania," she said. 
Brown described. herself as an active user of the site. She updates her "Facebook status," uploads pictures, "tags" friends in pictures, comments on others' statuses, writes on friends' walls and sends messages. 
She is on the site daily, about 10 times a day. 
"Basically, anytime J get on my computer, that's the first thing I do," she said. 
She has 373 Facebook friends, she said, and everyone she knows, both five years older and five years younger than her, is a member. 
"E-mail is great," she said, "but it is so much quicker to be on Facebook and write on some­one's wall." 

Brown does enable privacy set­tings to limit her information to just friends. And she said she doesn't share much to begin with. 
She doesn't.plan to cancel her account anytime soon. 
The third installment of this series will discuss ways students maintain privacy on Facebook and how use of the site has changed and will change as col­lege users graduate and contin~ ue using Facebook. 
------------­Contact Kaitlynn Ricly at kriely@nd.edu 
Facebook for punitive actions. Jeff Shoup, the director of the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLI-1), told The Observer then that at least one person in the office had a Facebook account, and they might look at it after a student gets in trouble. Saint Mary's administrators told The Observer then that they 

LOOKING FOR AN ON-CAMPUS JOB? 

The Observer is now accepting applications for 2009-10 for the following positions: 
Controller • ·Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Systems Manager • Ad Design Manager 
The Controller position, which provides great accounting experience, is open to rising juniors. It is a two-year position; the 2009-10 Controller will become ~he 2010-11 Business Manager. 
The Vievvpoint position is open to any student; sophomores are preferred. 
Systems Manager applicants should be highly adc"'Pt at computer troubleshooting. 
The Ad Design Manager position is open to all students with graphic design experience and leadership skills. 
All positions are paid. 
Please contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu if interested. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Friday, February 27, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,182.08 -88.81 
Up: Same: Down:-Composite Volume: 1,677 100 2,113 3,388,679,452 
AMEX NASDAQ 1,391.47 -33.96 NYSE 4;7:L~::oz 4<kl.5 S&P 500 752.83 -12.07 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 715lllU20 · +53.27 FTSE 100 (London) 3,915.64 +66.66 

COMPANY %CHANGE· $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (BAC) +3.10 +0.16 5.32 ?&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -!:63 -1.25 75.62 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (X:..~') +1.63. +0.13 8.13 OTIGROUP INC (C) -2.38 -0.06 2.46 
Treasuries 10-YEAR NOTE +1.12 +0.033 2.980 13-WEEK BILL -10.17 -0.030 0.265 30-YEAR BOND +1.25 +0.045 3.650 5-YEAR NOTE +2.78 +0.056 2.070 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.72 45.220 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -23.60 942.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.13 77.750 
Exchange Rates 

IN BRIEF 
Colorado's oldest nespaper folds 
DENVER -The Hocky Mountain News, Colorado's oldest newspaper and a Denver fix­ture since 1859, will publish its last edition friday. 
Owner E.W. Scripps Co. said Thursday the newspaper lost $16 million last year and the company was unable to find a buyer. 
"Today the Rocky Mountain News, long the leading voice in Denver, becomes a victim of changing times in our industry and huge eco­nomic challenges," Scripps CEO Rich Boehne said. , 
The News is the latest -and largest ­newspaper to fail amid a recession that has been especially brutal for the industry. Four owners of 33 U.S. daily newspapers have sought Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the past 2 1/2 months. A number of other newspapers are up for sale. 
Health companies hit on Wall Street NEW YORK -This time, health care stocks bore the brunt of investors' wrath. 
Health insurers and drug companies, some of the better perfqrmers on Wall Street lately, led the market lower Thursday after the White House proposed cutting payments to private insurance plans. 
The Obama administration's $3.55 trillion budget plan for 2010 includes cuts to Medicare and Medicaid. Private insurance plans serving Medicare seniors would take the biggest hit, but hospitals, drug manufac­turers and home health agencies also face cuts. 
As investors became aware of the impact that the budget, if enacted, could have on the companies, they turned against what had been one of the strongest industries in the stock market recently. Market watchers had been looking to health care to help lead the market's recovery along with other reces­sion-resistant industries like consumer sta­ples. 
Banking shares initially pulled much of the market higher as investors welcomed plans from Washington for additional bailout meas­ures that could provide up to $750 billion in support to the struggling banking system. 
Proposal shifts more taxes to wealthy 
' 

New plan relieves middle-and lower-income families of current tax burden 
YEN 97.3650 EURO f.2714 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2544 BRmSH POUND 1.4260 

Associated Press  
WASHINGTON ­President  
Barack bbama's budget pro­ 
posal would shift much of the  
tax burden from middle-and  
low-income families to the  
wealthy, while increasing  
taxes on many businesses.  
Oil and gas companies  
would be hit with big tax  
increases, as would U.S. com­ 
panies doing business over­ 
seas. Hedge fund and other  
private equity managers  
would also see significant tax  
increases.  
Most of the tax increases  
would be delayed until 2011,  
when the economy will pre­ 
sumably be improved.  
Several of the tax cuts would  
be permanent extensions of  
those· enacted in the econom­ 
ic recovery package this  
month.  
Among them, a new tax  
credit that provides up to  
$400 a year for individuals  
and $800 for couples, and an  
expanded $2,500 tax credit  
for college expenses.  
The budget outline released  
Thursday lacked many details  
about the tax provisions. But  
the policies represent a clear  
ideological break from the  
Bush administration.  
Tax cuts enacted under  
Bush for families making  
more than $250,000 would  
be allowed to expire in 2011,  
APincreasing the top income tax  
Sen. Judd Gregg, right, and Rep. Paul Ryan speak during a press conference on Capitol Hill rate. from 35 percent to 39.6  
discussing President Barack Obama's 2010 budget Thursday. percent The top capital gains  
tax rate would be increased  fare state that we've seen in  head of law finn DlA Piper's  allows money-losing compa­ 
from 15 percent to 20 per­ decades."  tax practice.  nies to get refunds from taxes  
cent  Couples making more than  The provision received a  paid in previous years - 
Republicans and business  $250,000 would face new  cool reception' in Congress.  when the companies were  
groups said the tax package  limits on the amount of  Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont.,  profitable -would be  
would delay an economic  deductions they could take on  chairman of the Senate  expanded, costing $9.3 billion  
recovery that has yet to hap­ their taxable income, includ­ Finance Committee, said it  over 1 0 years.  
pen, while Democrats hailed  ing deductions for mortgage  raises concerns and "will  -Capital gains taxes on  
the proposal as a break from  interest, charitable donations  require more study."  small businesses would be  
the policies that caused the  and state and local taxes. The  Among the other tax provi­ eliminated, saving them $7  
recession in the first place.  change would raise about  sions:  billion over 10 years.  
"This is a budget about a  $180 billion over 10 years.  The Alternative  -Oil and gas companies  
new era of responsibility,"  Charities, already hit hard  ·Minimum Tax would be  would face a series of tax  
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi  by the recession, rely on those  indexed to inflation, providing  increases, including an ext:ise  
said. "This is about accounta~  deductions as an incentive for  a long-term fix that would  tax for drilling in the Gulf of  
bility, fiscal discipline, cutting  people to donate, while the  spare more than 20 million  Mexico and elimination of the  
waste, fraud and abuse."  mortgage deduction is popu­ taxpayers from being hit with  manufacturing tax credit.for  
Marty Regalia, the chief  . lar among homeowners:  significant tax increases. Tf.te  oil and gas companies. In all,  
economist at the U.S.  "Over the long term it's  tax was enacted 40 years ago  new taxes on oil and gas  
Chamber of Commerce,  going to have a negative  to make sure wealthy taxpay­ companies would raise and  
called Obama's tax proposal<>  impact on the high-end hous­ ers pay at least some tax.  additional $31 billion over 1 0  
"the biggest return to the wei­ ing market," said Bruce Wein,  -A tax provision that  years.  

Unemployment reaches five million 
Associated Press "We have been looking for signs that impact will not be felt until 2010 or 
the economy's rate of dedine might be later, Pandl said. 
WASHINGTON -As bad as it is slowing, but can't find any," said Nigel The Obama administration forecast already, the economy keeps getting Gault, chief U.S. economist at the II-IS Thursday that the budget deficit will worse -and government figures Global Insight consulting firm. hit $1.7 5 trillion this year, reflecting Thursday provided more evidence The government reports offered the massive spending being undertak­that the downward spiral won't end more evidence that consumers are en to battle the severe recession and. anytime soon. scaling back purchases as jobs vanish, the worst financial crisis in seven 
The number of Americans seeking home prices drop and stock portfolios decades. unemployment benefits topped 5 mil­shrink. Those factors fuel more job Initial jobless claims jumped to lion for the first time since record­and spending cuts by profit-starved 667,000 last week, the Labor keeping began in 1967. And the num­businesses. Department said, from the previous ber of first-time claims hit 667,000, "The hope is that policy efforts by week's figure of 631,000. Analysts had the highest level in more than a quar­the federal government will be able to expected a slight drop in claims, ter-century. Both figures were worse break that cycle," said Zach Pandl, an which are now at the highest level than experts expected. economist at Nomura Securities since October 1982, though the work 
Orders for cars, computers, machin­InternationaL "But it's still going to force has grown by about half since ery and other durable goods plunged take some time before that happens." then. a larger-than-expected 5.2 percent in President Barack Obama's $787 bil­The four-week average of initial January as global economic troubles lion stimulus package, for example, claims, which smooths out fluctua­reduced demand from customers at includes billions of dollars of infra­tions, rose to 639,000, the highest in home and abroad. structure spending, but most of the more than 26 years. 
,-----------~~--­
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Friday, February 27, 2009 
site crashed 15 minutes later. Nadeau said she wants to
Dove 

1dol' chooses three additional finalists 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Nick Mitchell probably won't be having the last laugh on "American Idol." 
The outrageous 27-year-old sketch comedian. who per­formed as his over-the-top alter ego Norman Gentle, was one of nine semifinalists sent packing Thursday on the pop­ular Fox singing competition. 
''I'm looking for employment 
always," Mitchell of Brookfield, Conn., told host Ryan Seacrest before his dis­missal. 
The second group of the eighth season's finalists not headed to the unemployment line are Allison Iraheta, a 16­year-old high school student from Los Angeles; Kris Allen, a 23-year-old University of Central Arkansas student from Conway, Ark.; and Adam Lambert, a 26-year-old the­ater actor from Los Angeles. The trio received the most viewer votes. 
"I thought Nick was hila­rious, so I didn't know what 
was  gonna  happen,"  said  
Lambert.  
While  the  show's  four  

judges were more than satis­fied with Lambert's elastic take on the Rolling Stones' "Satisfaction," they had a mixed reaction to fellow final­ist Allen's performance of Michael Jackson "Man in the Mirror." 
The panel was also impressed with red-haired Iraheta's red-hot rendition of Heart's "Alone." 
"You just blew it out the box!" Randy Jackson exclaimed after Iraheta per­formed Wednesday. 
The three finalists will join 28-year-old church music director Danny Gokey from Milwaukee, 21-year-old musi­cian Alexis Grace from Memphis, Tenn., and 27-year­old oil rig worker Michael Sarver from Jasper, Texas, who were seleCted as the first three finalists last week. 
Next Tuesday, 12 more semifinalists will vie for three spots in the competition's top 12. 

Live...  
Study...  Do it all at  
Dream...  Turtle Creek  
Apartments!  
'lbwn I,lomes  Come see vvhv Turtle Creek  
Studio, one & tvvo Bdr homes l;urnishcd homes available  ) is the best place to call home!  
\\lalking distance to Nl) campus  
Heated pool/hot tub  
24hr laundrv center"  
'  
Sand volleyball  
Pet l!·iendly  
Covered parking  
And nmch more!  
Schedule your  
persona/ [Otlr toaa,_v f  

1710 Elhrtlc Creek Dr South Bend, IN 

Turtl Creek
574-272-8124 www.lhT'turtk·treek.com APARTMENTS 

For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual &Duestioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday. March 3 
7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. 
316 Coleman Morse 

The Core Council invites gay. lesbian. bisexual Squestioning members of the Notre Dame family. along with their friends and allys. to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo.. 
Everyone is Welcome and Confidentiality is Assured 

CoHee onr/Kefresnments WiHBe Served 
com: CQijtft*t
~::.t~(_':~-.~·· l~>m§-;~w.· 


continued from page 1 

she said. "Our mission became to make women take care of themselves and aspire _to be their absolute best." . 
Nadeau did not anticipate the outpouring of positive respons­es she received once the bill­board went up in Times Square. Both the models and the Dove representatives were anxious because no company had ever done anything like it, she said. 
"We are actually changing women," Nadeau said. "We are actually changing eulture. We are actually changing media." 
After Dove launched the advertising campaign, Nadeau and the five other models trav­eled the country and appeared on talk shows, including Oprah, to share their stories and talk about the media's impact on body image. 
"We had to be the change we wanted to see," she said. 
The Dove Self-Esteem Fund began to promote positive body image in younger girls, Nadeau said. When the models appeared on the Today Show and said one dollar would be given to the fund that for every click on the Dove Web site, the raise awareness about the manipulation of body image through airbrushed and unhealthy models. 
"What kind of messages are we sending to women when we say we need to airbrush you so you're good enough?" she said. "The definition of beauty we see everyday is 125 percent fake." 
Nadeau understands that it is hard for women to be comfort­able in their bodies. She admit­ted that even she sometimes has negative thoughts about her body. , 
"I work out. I maintain a healthy diet and a healthy lifestyle and I am a size 10," she said. "Negative thinking needs to stop." 
Nadeau also encouraged women to be friends to each other by refusing to discuss body image and by referring friends to professional help at signs of eating disorders or other dangerously obsessive behavior. 
"We are our own worst enemy," she said. "Today starts accepting the flaws you think you have." 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
Fever 
continued from page 1 

"For the most part, Notre Dame doesn't have a lot of options for what to do on weekends, except for dorm parties and parties off cam­pus," she said. "This sounds like a good opportunity for stu­dents under 21 to go off cam­pus and meet up with friends." 
There is a lack of venues in South Bend where underage students can interact with each other off campus, Conley said. · 
"If Fever had an under-21 night, you would run into dif­ferent people than you would normally," Conley said. 
Sophomore Gabby Moriel, 20, said she also thinks a regu­lar event for underage young adults would be popular among students, but she said if the party tonight goes well, the club should considering inte­grating the overage and underage venues. 
"The clubs by my house let you in if you're 18 or over, but you get a wristband if you are 21 and can be served alcohol," she said. "If things go well, maybe they can try the wrist­band thing." 
Moriel said allowing students over 18 into the bar will !ill a void in the market for fun weekend events for students between 18 and 20. 
"I think they would get a lot of business because there isn't much else to do," she said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
---~-­

------~~------­
Friday, February 27, 2009 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Student Affairs 
is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates tnust be seniors who exetnplify the 
qualities for which Denny Moore was kno\vn, 
including personal integrity and character, 
con1n1ittnent to Notre Datne, and writing ability. 
Candidates n1ay be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a non1ination fonn, please visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu/get*involvcd/studcnt-activities-and-awa•·ds/dcnny-moorc-award/ 
Non1ination\' are due by ThursdaJ'~ Nlarch 5, 2009. 
Pasta & Salad Just $7.99. 
Served 11 a.m. * 3 p.m. 
Your choice of one of these lunch entrees and a Papa's or Caesar individual salad 
Algatonl Fra Oiavoro 
Lng~ 1''""'"'1"'' tn>srd with x!tHrcd shrimp, h'l'>h spioarh ~mJ gt~rlk m a ~piq tmm1111 "'>~<'" llan~r<d with l"'l'l'"'"dni 
Capell!ni & Crabmeat ,\ngel hllir tMSI;> l<>.m·d wilh n;lil!lltllt.. >hiit;!ke mushroom~. r~n IJPtb ;md RP!Ih1 l\toWI<>t:~ in • light !}lrlk bunn >>lii<'C 
Shrimp SizzlelioF 
Our ~i'<''~~hy! 'ilmmp St:ddini''' is wtwd in "~iz:lin!l >ktlkt wuh a tc»tY Jl<!'P<r<.>m>l~ :>aur~ and SJr•ghwi 
Pasta Coo Polio 
Chkkl·n hr{~a~t. ~urH.Irkd tumatnes.. mu•hrovm•. ln-sh IMs>l '"'d J hght Alfrc<lo >autc t<sscd wilh ht>W ·lk pa>ra 
lasagna biyrrs of pasiJ, ritNI:tand nm:Z<u·dla tnpp<d wHh spi'Y mirin:,m <>r tmdirit,n;d meat sauce 
''IJ!itl 11 am ·3~t.n: im~~~~:l~tt¢1~' *J{It')<JI!ti'"~ijhimi 
~~ t;jrif*ft.~. l!i.lft~* 0t i'!WI¢t~W. ~~!~ 
r1l

(ft(ood cdf)JrafiD
6 
nAT!JRING 

Combination del Marc 
5,ntknl lililf'ht, 5hrimr and Ht>mil hmMW<> "''t! 
Anl(d lbif f\1>;~ wnh Whik Wuw <; t.~mon Dilll\wwr 
Saur<; ~rrwJ with Lmhnlt'>l!·~tu!kd \lll,;hmnm 
Vlsil www.PapaVi.nosl!aliaoKitehen,com 10 view our Seafood Celebrntion Menu 
··P~e..~ 
-[ITALIAN KITCHEN 
St. joseph 

1332 Hilltop Rd. • 269.983.9900 Mishawaka 5110 Edistm Lakes Pkwy • 57+.271.1692 
www.l\tpaViJwslt<tlian Kitchen.wm 
Asian 
continued from page 3 
with director Michael Kang and screenwriter Edmund Lee, according to the festival's Web site. 
The fourth film, "Last Life in the Universe," is a Japanese­Thai co-production in three dif­ferent languages, the Web site said. 
The festival will also feature academic panels by professors Kathleen Bergquist, an adop­tion researcher at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas and Stephanie DeBoer, a film and theater professor at Indiana University, Bloomington. 
Frost said the Browning Cinema is typically full for each film, and he hopes festival attendees will gain an appreci­ation for Asian film. 
"Asian and Asian-American films are quite different than the normal Hollywood films," he·said. "It really gives us a deeper insight into the world of film but more importantly, it acts as a medium which we use to stimulate thinking about some of the people and cul­tures that make up our country and the world." 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
Four arrested for assisted suicide 
Associated Press 
ATlANTA -Joining the Final Exit Network costs $50, and the privileges of membership include this: When you're ready to die, the organization will send two "exit guide,s" to show you how to suffocate yourself using helium tanks and a plastic hood. 
The Georgia-based organiza­tion says it is providing an invaluable and humane service. Authorities call it a crime. 
Four members of the Final 
Exit Network, including its presi­
dent and its medical director. 
were arrested Wednesday and 
charged with assisted suicide in 
the death of 58-year-old John 
Celmer last June at his home 
near Atlanta. Investigators said 
the organization may have been 
involved in as many as 200 other 
deaths around the country. 
"Th~ law is very clear, and they clearly violated it," said Georgia Bureau of Investigation spokesman John Bankhead. 
The arrests came after an 
eight-month investigation in 
which an undercover agent pos­
ing as someone bent on suicide 
infiltrated the Final Exit 
Network, which bases its work 
on "The Final Exit," a best-sell­
ing suicide manual by British 
author Derek Humphry. 
Members of the Final Exit 
Network are instructed to buy 
two new helium tanks and a 
hood, known as an "exit bag," 
according to the GBI. In court 
papers, investigators said the 
organization recommends heli­
um because it is undetectable 
during an autopsy. 
The network, which was founded in 2004 and claims 3,000 members, donors and vol­unteers nationwide, has long operated in the open. It has its own Web site, and its leaders have held news conferences and appeared at paid speaking engagements. 
The group's members bristle 
at the term assisted suicide, say­
ing they don't actively aid sui~ 
cides but rather support and 
guide those who decide to end 
their lives. 
"We're just there to help," said .Jerry Dincin, the group's vice president, who was not arrested. "People insist upon it. They want to do what they want to do. They're suffering, and if they 
have intolerable pain, then they want to sometimes get out of that intolerable pain." 
Celmer did not appear to be seriously ill. While his mother said he had suffered for years from throat and mouth cancer, court documents quoted his doc­tor as saying he had made a "remarkable recovery" and was cancer-free at the time of his suicide. Authorities said he may have been embarrassed about his appearance after jaw sur­gery. 
Also, his doctor told investiga­tors that Celmer was in pain because of arthritis, but that it could have been lessened if he had taken his medication prop­erly and stopped drinking and smoking. 
Georgia authorities arrested the group's president, Thomas 
E. Goodwin, and member Claire Blehr. According to investiga­tors, Goodwin and Blehr were with Celmer when he died, each holding a hand, and the two cleaned up the scene aftnrward by removing the hood and the helium tanks. 
Maryland authorities arrested the organization's medical direc­tor, Dr. Lawrence D. Egbert, 81, of Baltimore, and Nicholas Alec Sheridan, a regional coordinator. Investigators said Egbert and Sheridan evaluated Celmer before his death and gave the OK for his suicide. 
Those arrested could get up to five years in prison on the assist­ed-suicide charges. They were also charged with evidence-tam­pering and racketeering. Oregon and Washington are the only states to legalize assisted. sui­cide. 
Authorities in Arizona are also investigating whether the group helped in the 2007 death of a woman who suffered from depression but was not termi­nally ill. As part of the probe, investigators searched 14 sites in Arizona, Georgia, Florida, 
Maryland,  Michigan,  Ohio,  
Missouri,  Colorado,  and  
Montana.  

Goodwin said in a 2006 inter­view with The Atlanta Journal­Constitution that the organiza­tion had worked with 36 people who wanted to end their lives. In court papers, investigators said Goodwin alone had assisted in 30 deaths. 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, February 27, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Bill Brink 
DanMurpi'IJo 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarry 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574} 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
!HE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Universiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on c.ontent. The news is reported as accurately and objeaively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department edit.ors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the vie"YS ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be .. directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

~ Ohs.:rvt:r (USPS 599 2-4000) iz publimed Manda.y thwugh Friday except during exam and vanrinn periods. A subscription to The Ob$ervcr il: $100 for one at:ademk year; $55 for unc l!effiester. 
The Observer i~ published ar: POSTMASTER (124 South Dining Hall Send add~ss corrections to: 
Noa< Dam<. IN 46556-0779 The Observer 

Pcriodk:al posrage paid at Notre Dame eo. Boxn9 and addiriono~l mailing offictS. 024 South Dining HaH 
Notre Dame, IN 46556--0n9 
The Obscrwr is .1. member ofrhe Awx.i.tted P£($5. AU reproduction rights are 
r~rved. 

Transparency needed in student government 
On Monday, Notre Dame held elections for class council. Two of the elections, sophomore and senior class council, had no reported violations, but this wasn't the case in the junior class council race. 
Both tickets were accused of at least one election violation. The ticket of Caitlin Pulte, Henry Shine, Luke Stavole and Tim Castellini was found not guilty on their charge, but the ticket of Kevin Kimberly, Alexa Doyle, Dylan Fernandez and Rachel Roseberry was found guilty of two charges brought against them. Since the election resulted in a runoff, the ing issue for the student body, students are still electing a group of their peers to represent them for the coming year and work to better their time at the University. In making that decision, students have a right to know how the tickets have conducted themselves during their campaigns because it might affect how the tickets represent the students while in office. If the tickets are cutting corners in their cam­paigns, who's to say they won't cut corners once they get in offiee? 
By not revealing the violations, the Judicial Council said it 
Kimberly ticket was not allowed to spend any additional money on their campaign during the runoff period. 
What exactly was this ticket guilty of'? The student body doesn't know, because the Judicial Council Elections Committee can't reveal the violations in accordance with guidelines set forth in the Student Constitution. 
Judicial Council president George 
OBSERVER 
Editorial 
is trying to preserve the integrity of the candi­dates. If anything, keeping the violations a secret hurts the integrity of the candidates. The viola­tions are hidden from the students, and those unfamiliar with the process of running for class council have no idea what the ticket could have done to deserve this punishment. If the Judicial Council revealed the violations, students can judge how bad the allegations are for them­selves, rather than having to speculate what 
Chamberlain said it was important to protect the integrity pf 
the candidates and that revealing the violations would fur­
ther damage the campaigns. 
This policy should change and student government should ·amend the Constitutioq to allow the Judicial Council to dis­close election violations. While class council elections aren't exactly the most press-
might have happened. Under the current system, students are supposed to simply place their faith in the Judicial Couneil and take its word that the problem has been resolved. 
Instead of containing the damage done by the allegations, the Judicial Council is perpetuating it, and is not helping stu­dents make an informed decision about their future leaders. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, February 27, 2009 page 11 
If you give a columnist a Keystone ••• 
If you give a columnist a Keystone, he'll probably ask for a key so he can shotgun it. 
If you give him a key, he will be remind­ed of the car he used to own. He'll ask to take your car out for a drive, but you'll say, "No, columnist, you've been drinking, I won't let you take my car out for a spin." 
As soon as you say spin, however, he'll want to show you his favorite Web site. You'll give him your laptop and he'll try to set it as your homepage. But before he can, he'll notice your real homepage is ESPN.com. He will read Scoop Jackson and Bill Simmons' columns with an abun­dance of one-word paragraphs. The columnist wishes he could write like those two. 
Then. He. Will. Check the college basketball scores and 
see that Notre Dame has suffered another embarrassing loss. When he finds ovt 

Bob Kessler 
House ofStix 

about the loss he'll yell: ''I'm mad as hell and I'm not gonna take this anymore." He'll ask for some eggs so that you can go egg Mike Brey's house. You won't know where Mike Brey lives, so he will call up a ­local turtleneck store and ask where their biggest customer lives. 
By the time he makes this call, you will have the eggs in your hands, but as soon as he sees the eggs he'll want you to make him some breakfast. Since you haven't stolen a monogram waffie iron from the dining hall yet, you'll go to the kitchen and scramble some eggs, fry up some crisp bacon and microwave some toast (who owns a toaster anyways). As soon as he sees all of these healthy food options, he'll want you to make him some freshly-squeezed orange juice. 
You'll take out your juicer and your oranges and slice them in half and twist them and turn them. As he watches the juice squeeze out he will be reminded of a line from his favorite movie, "The Girl Next Door." He'll want to watch the movie immediately, and_you will put it on and watch it in earnest. You'll see the beauti­ful Elisha Cuthbert, the nefarious Timothy Olyphant, the darkish Paul Dana and the plainly successful Emile Hirsch. 
As soon as· the columnist sees Emile Hirsch he'll be reminded of "Into the 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Fair -weather fans 
Where were the screaming thousands who packed the Joyce for College Gameday and the UConn game? 
For the Rutgers game, the student section was half empty with open bleachers all around the arena. Thankfully, Coach Mike Brey decided to show up and cheer on the Irish. The usually mild-mannered Brey was waving and screaming at the student section to come to life and lift the team's come­back efforts. In his best coach­ing move since switching to man-to-man defense against Louisville, Brey willed the Irish and the crowd back into the game. 
For a program that only weeks ago boasted the longest home court winning streak in the nation, this was embar­
rassing. I understand Rutgers 
: isn't a marquee team, but this is conference play, ana our team is fighting for its NCAA­tournament life. Yesterday's attendance and spirit was a shame. What's even a bigger shame is that the Joyce will be packed and loud on Monday for Villanova. Being a fan is about more than showing up when ESPN comes to town. Coach Brey should never have to beg for our support. It should be given wholeheartedly all season long. Let's make sure this embar­rassment never happens again. Go Irish. Beat UConn. 
David VanEgmond junior Stanford Hall Feb. 25 

Wild," and will want to go camping (Sidebar one: He could be reminded of "Milk," but this direction will be more suitable for Notre Dame readers). You'll get your Wrangler Jeans, ax, dog, white water raft and start to rock out to Thin Lizzy while you put on your hiking boots. Ac, soon as he sees your boots, however, he will want to go outside and play in the 
snow. 

You'll make snow angels, play snow football, go sledding and go ice skating. You will hold hands on the ice rink, prac­tice short track relay exchanges and fall on your face several times. You'll be so happy and merry that time will practical­ly come to a standstill and you will hope that this most romantic day of all days will never end. After a while, however, you'll both get cold; and it will be time to go inside. You will make some hot choco­late to get warm, but he will still have some annoyingly repetitive sniffies. 
"I feel sick," he will say, and you will ask him if he has a fever. When you say fever, however, his face will light up and his eyes will sparkle like the top of the Chrysler Building. "Fever," he will say, "We have to go to Club Fever." 
"Fever?" You will respond angrily. "We went to Club Fever last week. Remember, the whole true love thing. You lost your coat. (Sidebar two: If anybody out there has information about a North Face jack­et that was removed from the second floor of Club Fever several weeks ago leaving a pool of vomit in its place and the hat that was in the pocket on a near­by chair, a substantial bounty is being offered for it). We should go to Finnegan's tonight. You can wear aT-shirt there!," you will suggest. 
"Ok fine" He will say as he just wants to get out of the house and go to some sweet South Bend dive bars that will make his clothing smell like he's a chain smoker. You will leave the apartment after calling your cab driver and take your key out so that you can lock the door. But as soon as he sees your key, he will probably want to shotgun a beer, and if he wants to shot­gun a beer, chances are ... 
... He'll ask you for another Keystone. 
Bob Kessler is a senior majoring in political science and economics. He would like to dedicate this column to the first graders ofMary Frank Elementary School who attentively listened as he read "IfYou Give A Pig A Pancake. " You can contact him at rkessler@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Where' s the m.eat? 
The Mission Statement of the University of Notre Dame explicitly states that 'what the University asks of all its scholars and students f...] is not a particular creedal affiliation·, but a respe~t for the objectives of Notre Dame and a willingness to enter into the conversation that gives it life and character.' 
Our University prides itself on its Catholic identi­ty-and rightly so. However, as explicitly stated in the Notre Dame Mission Statement, students of the University are not required to accept any Catholic belief or to abide by Catholic practices. The University does encourage 'a way of living consonant with a Christian community,' but inter­preting this suggestion as a request to abide by all ~ Catholic policies is quite a bit of a stretch. 
That is why I believe that the University's deci­sion to not serve meat products in the dining halls on Ash Wednesday and on every Friday of Lent is quite senseless. Mind you, my religious feelings and beliefs have nothing to do with my indigna­tion. In fact, having decided to reside off-campus for my senior year, if I really want to consume meat on a Friday all I have to do is go back to my 
apartment and grill a burger. 
My distress is not about my desire to have meat served in the dining halls -I can fare quite well without it. What is really the issue here is the decision by the University to make the choice for its students. Does the University believe that those students who have the practice of fasting at heart would not be responsible enough to take notice of the day of the week and remember to abstain from consuming meat? 
Moreover, Catholic teaching actually requires fasting on Lenten Fridays. Can you imagine how students would react ·if the University decided to limit the amount of foods available for breakfas1/lunch on Fridays? General uproar, right? Well, I think the current policy is just as coercive and paternalistic: it imposes a belief­based decision on all students, in direct contradic­tion with the Mission of our University. 
Davide Lionetti semor offcampus Feb. 25 

He's just not that into you: Notre Dating 
In the real world there is a step between being perfect strangers and being in a rela­tionship. This step is called dating, but Notre Dame guys have convinced us gals that this place is different from the rest of the dating world. If you hang out at least once a week, send texts to each other the rest of the time and have either never hooked-up or do nothing but hook-up, then you are "Notre Dating." 
The idea of "Notre Dating" was invented to make us girls accept that a guy won't call, ignores you unless he has an SYR com­ing up and to pacify us by convincing that we are in a relationship -without the guy having to put in relationship level commit­ment or effort. 
I have amassed a list of the common sig­nals that guys send to girls to convince them that whatever they are doing is a relation­ship. Here are some signs that you are in fact not in a real relationship: 
One: If he doesn't give you at least 12 hours notice. You're telling your friends "he took me to the concert at Legends last night" but what you fail to mention is that he asked you via a text saying "I am walk­ing by your dorm right now on the way to Legends, come down if you want to join." I hate to tell you but this is not a real invite, nor is it a date. 
Two: Ifyou only see him on weekends. Face it ladies, ifa guy were really into you, then you would see him Sunday-Wednesday nights. Purposely meeting up with him every Thursday and Friday at Finnies or Feve (21 and over crowd only) does not dat­ing make. 
Three: Ifyou only ever go over to his room. Sitting on his futon watching him and his roommates play Halo is not part of a functional relationship. This is a college campus. It is at most a six-minute walk from his dorm toyours (unless he lives in Carroll, in which case you must be a little flexible). Ifhe doesn't want to make the six­minute journey to come see you, it's not worth sitting in his room listening to him and his buddies talk about their fantasy footbalVdorm co-ree basketball teams just to get some face time. 
Four: Ifhe is a member of the football team, basketball team or the Undertones. These three sets of gentlemen are the most sought-after on campus, so don't even bother. 
Five: Ifhe's not hooking-up with you. Many Observer pages have been spent pouring over the idea of the Notre Dame "hook-up" culture. It exists. We acknowl­edge it. So ifyou have hung out with him at least five times and there has been no phys­ical contact between your lips and his, then move on. 
Six: Ifhe's only hooking-up with you. Just because this is Notre Dame doesn't mean that every hook-up has a deeper connec­tion. A booty call is a booty call. Next time he cal.lsltexts, don't answer. Find yourself someone better-unless you are only look­ing for a hook-up, in which case no judg­ment here ... more power to you! 
Seven: Ifyou only see him in class. I don't care how often you sit next to each other, if you have delightful little chats before every class, or have really bonded over how horri­ble the Profis, ifhe is not asking to hang out with you outside of class then you are noth­ing more to him than a fun distraction for 50 to 75 minutes. 
Eight: If he's not taking you off campus This one does have a little wiggle room. Freshmen, I understand that it is very diffi­cult to take your girl out. Sophomores to seniors, there is no excuse. I am not saying you need to be going to The Vme, a simple Chili's or at least dessert at Steak n Shake outing would suffice. 
Nine: If he's not putting it on Facebook. Yeah, he has taken over your wall, is poking you incessantly and gave you a "free-gift" on Valentine's Day, but unless it says "in a relationship" -he is just' not that into you! 
Now, I am sure that there are those girls out there who will look at the list above as say, "well I know this girl and she dated this guy who did whatever and now they are really dating/walk around the lakeslare engaged." But, as they say in the movie, those girls are the exception, and you are the rule. Everyone, say what you mean, mean what you say and lets put an end to "Notre Dating." 
Katherine McMackin senior Cavanaugh Hall Feb. 25 

.----------------------------~---~­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE

page 12 Friday, February 27, 2009 

THE YOUNG DUBS PERFORM TONIGHT AT LEGENDS 
best they could be," Roberts said. While By PATRICK GRIFFIN the musical production of the band has Scene Writer been rather consistent, the band's line­
Just over two weeks before St. up has undergone several rearrange­Patrick's Day, Legends of Notre Dame ments throughout their 20-plus year will offer an early indulgence as one of reign. America's foremost Celtic rock bands Founded by Dublin natives Roberts comes to South Bend. The Young and former mandolin and harmonica Dubliners, veterans of the hybrid music player Paul O'Toole, the band planted genre, arrive tonight at Legends for an its roots in the formidable pub scene in exclusive performance. California. Bassist Brendan Holmes 
The Young Dubs' latest effort, "Saints soon joined the duo, and the band's and Sinners," was released earlier this flrst recorded tracks came from their month. Following their 2007 release, live performances. Several original cas­"With All Due Respect," The Irish settes and additional members later, Sessions -the Young Dubliners' rendi­the Young Dubliners jettisoned them­tion of a handful of traditional Irish selves from the limited pub scene to songs -Saints is the band's flrst batch explore more expansive opportunities. of original work since 2005. Mixing tra­Today, the Young Dubliners boast a ditional Celtic melodies with pop hooks, diverse international fan base and a set the Dubliners' songs reflect the band's band roster including Roberts, Holmes, experiences following several intense guitarist Bob Boulding, violinist and years of international touring. Tracks keyboardist Chas Waltz, and percus­such as "Howaya Girls," "Backseat sionist Dave Ingraham. Additionally, Driver," and "Saints and Sinners" Eric Rigler, a pipe and whistle player showcase the bands knack for melodic famous for his work on the "Titanic" anthems. At the same time, the band and "Braveheart":osoundtracks, has displays its socially conscious mindset appeared on the band's three latest with tracks such as "This Time" and albums and is a touring stalwart. "My Town," which discuss the political Comprised of typical rock instru­unrest of the past few years and the ments such as the guitar, bass and current economic hopelessness that drums, as well as traditional Irish grips the nation. The acoustic ballad instrument like the violin, harp, man­"In the End" even discusses the prob­dolin, Uillean pipe and pennywhistle, lem of global poverty and negligence in the Young Dubliners fuse traditional place such as Darfur. Irish folk music with contemporary 
Though the band has been busy tour­alternative rock and pop. The musical ing with the likes of Johnny Lang, results are quite dynamic. At times, the Collective Soul and Jethro Tull, com­Young Dubs yank the listener to far­pleting anywhere between 180 to 250 away Ireland with the dancing musical­shows a year, they understand the ity of the violin and whistle. importance of providing fans with new Don't label the band as traditional original offerings. just yet. Their tracks can take the form 
"We live on the road, but were aware of gutsy anthemic rock ballads, as well that if every few years we don't give as vivacious pub songs, and anything in our fans the highest quality songs we between. The Young Dubs seem to per­can, that level of excitement and antici­form outside of a strict musical formu­pation may not last forever," comments la. The variety between songs is lead guitarist and vocalist Keith refreshing and keeps listeners blindly Roberts on the Young Dubs (as they are anticipating each track. The band's affectionately referred to by fans) Web versatility makes it an act unlike any site, yougdubliners.com. other that has graced the stage of 
Hailing from Los Angeles, Calif. the Legends this year. quintet has been active since 1988. In Grab your shillelaghs and prepare to their steady careers, the members of rock for Friday night's performance by the Young Dubliners have remained the Young Dubliners at Legends. The true to their musical passions while show begins at 10 p.m. and is free to producing eight full-length albums. all ND, SMC and HCC students. "We've never been about hit singles, but we .have always been focused on 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at making the 12 tracks per project the cferrar1@nd.edu 

Image courtesy of youngdubliners.com The Young Dubliners, who have been making music for over 20 years, are veteran perfonners who will perform at Legends tonight. 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

'SAINTS AND SINNERS' WORTHY OF·BOTH 
has amazing distorted guitar hooks 
By ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK 
combined with a nostalgic sound on the Seen; Writer 
violins and excellent advice in the cho­
If you're looking for upbeat Irish rock rus' lyrics: "Don't live your life like with strong Celtic and alternative influ­you're the only one in it I Don't waste ences, look no further than the Young another minute I Thinking about your­Dubliners' newest CD, "Saints and selfI Open up and throw back I All your Sinners," released Feb. 2. The Los covers I Your sisters and your brothers I Angeles-based band's 2009 LP offers an They'll buy you a life." eclectic mix composed of catchy pop With a sound akin to a traditional tunes that simply make you want to get Irish ballad, "In the End" also offers a up and dance, heart-wrenching tradi­nostalgic sound with the acoustic guitar tional Irish ballads, traditional Celtic as well as very pensive-sounding vocals sounds combined with solid rock and and poignant lyrics, "Please don't run roll, and insightful lyrics. The album don't turn away I Children's eyes beg us also features guest bagpipe player Eric to stay I This time I No more strangers Rigler, most known for his work on the only a friend I We'll all go together in soundtracks for "Braveheart," the end." "Titanic," and "Road to Perdition." "Backseat Driver" adds humor to the 
The album opens with its title track, mix with its high energy and nonsensi­"Saints and Sinners," a fast-paced pop­cal lyrics, "Oh no here we go again I It's rock melody with danceable Celtic vio­the backseat drivers I Going nowhere I lin and distorted guitar sounds, an Tell you when we're there I We're only extremely catchy chorus, and interest­mindless I Backseat drivers." ing lyrics. "Oh sweet Jesus I Will heav­"Saoirse" begins as a traditional Irish en save us I Lived it hard but you'd dance song with Rigler on bagpipes and hardly blame us I Broke the mold when upbeat violins, but the well-played elec­we stole the show I No regrets if the tric guitar is quickly thrown into the truth be told." mix, giving the instrumental more of a 
"Howaya Girls" is a similarly pop­rock and roll feel. "(I Don't Think I'll) rockin' anthem perfect for dancing, but Love Anymore," like "In the End," is a has more of a kitschy hoedown vibe to heart-wrenching ballad with quieter it with fun bagpipe riffs and a "Wipe introspective piano and vocals than the Out" -like lead in to the chorus' charm­louder Celtic rock anthems towards the ingly loud Irish vocals. "Hosie" certain­beginning of the album. ly has more rock influences but seems "My Town" offers a refreshingly posi­more like a cliche Celtic rock song, tive perspective on the difficult econom­especially with the lyrics on the chorus, ic times beginning with the inspira­"Rosie sweet Rosie I Money don't grow tional piano and building up to an on trees I lf I thought for just one sec it upbeat chorus with loud vocals and did I I'd be down on my bended knee." percussion, as well as slightly cliche 
A personal favorite, "Buy You a Life," lyrics, "On and on you look for some­
thing more I Lose your will at every 
closing door I Down down into your 
darkest blue I Rise up until you shine 
through." 
Saints and Sinners 
The Young Dubliners 
The lyrics may be slightly cliche, and the Celtic influences may make the lis­
Label: 429 Records 
tener believe that they've certainly
Recommended Tracks: "Saints 
heard the songs before, but Keith Roberts and the band put an interesting
and Sinners," "Howaya Girls," 
spin on each rock anthem and ballad,
"Backseat Drivers," 
making the songs unique. The Young Dubliners will be playing a Legends tonight. 

Contact Alexanrda Kilpatrick at 
ackilpat@nd.edu 


.,. 

s· I ,N. '~(E R 
Image courtesy of youngdubliners.com 

"Saints and Sinners," the Young Dubliners' latest release, is a genre-bending combination of traditional irish and alternative rock. 


,-----­
r page 2 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS Friday, February 27, 2009 
Boxing coach starting to reach legendary level 
Bengal Bouts is a well estab­In 1968 Suddes began his ming up his work. lished institution in South Bend. career with Bengal Bouts as a Every winter he carves out six 
By now you've heard about the freshman at Notre Dame. He said weeks from his work schedule to 79-year-old amateur boxing the workouts haven't really do a little world-changing of his tournament. You've heard about changed since then. He won own. Suddes makes the four­the lives it changes in championships in 1969 and hour commute from Columbus to Bangladesh and the endless 1970. But it was until '71 that the South Bend every week to teach hours each fighter dedicates to then-club president began to Notre Dame's fighting Irish about training. You may have even really make his mark. boxing and about life. heard about In his senior year Suddes Suddes spends Monday the infa­became very close to Notre Dame through Friday of those weeks in mous boxing legend Dominic a local hotel room before return­"1,000 day" Napolitano. Nappy, as he is lov­ing home for the weekends. He -the annu­ingly known, had been around spends a lot of that time away aldreaded since the beginning. He was a from home indulging in his sec­Friday close friend of Knute Rockne and ond great passion in life ­afternoon the founding father of Bengal books. when each Bouts. "Books are just a great place to boxer reps "Nappy got really sick my sen­get ideas," he said. "They have out four ior year. He had heart problems had a huge impact on my life. I digits worth and really wasn't around very probably read a couple every of push-ups much because he had all these week." in a little · medical things. I ended up get­It was a book that first got more than ting really into the whole pro­Suddes interested in boxing as a an hour. gram that year and I just loved senior in high school. I le uses 
What you it," Suddes said. books to teach fighters in and may not know is the force that Nappy recognized the hard outside of the ring. Suddes has a drives each and every one of work. Suddes spent the next two personal library of over 3,000 first time ever boxers made the Before that trip, no one had these things. The force that has years serving in the Army, but books and thinks he has proba­trip to the Holy Cross missions to seen the fruits of the Bengal remained more or less after that he was right back in bly given away another thousand see the effects ofthe money they Bouts labor, not even Nappy. unchanged for the past 40 years. the gym. The legend was aging along the way. He has even writ­were raising. Before that trip the Despite the decades of hard That force is Tom Suddes. and wanted to pass his torch to ten a few of his own, many of only member of the Notre Dame work and the leaps and bounds 
In a tiny, cramped gym, so Suddes. them in his hotel rooms in South Boxing club to make it to he has taken for the program, humid that you can taste the The job was far from glorious. Bend. Bangladesh had been Tom Suddes shrugs off any compar­sweat in the air, a couple hun­Nappy offered his new assistant Along with the six-week train­Suddes. isons to his predecessor. dred young men in peak physical a salary of $300 a year. Luckily, ing period, the coach also makes Sitting in the back of a Bob "Oh no, I'm not going there," condition lay flat on the floor, Sud des landed a job in the cam­the journey four more times a Evan's in 1996, Suddes read he said with a laugh. exhausted. The Bengal Bout pus development office and was year to referee on fight nights. about a contest for micro entre­Well then, allow me. fighters have just finished 1,000 able to support his family while Suddes has been donning the preneurs in Success Magazine. Tom Suddes is the force that Day. It's no easy task, but Suddes still finding time to do what he bow tie since the '70s. It's just He jotted his answer to the ques­powers arguably the best tradi­does each one leading the way. loved. one more thing that he learned tion on the back of his placemat tion that Notre Dame has to offer. 
"I decided we were going to do The Suddes family lived in the from Nappy over the years. and sent it in immediately. In the Suddes has changed more lives that about 10 or 12 years ago," area until1985 when the coach's Suddes said the biggest change next month's issue he read that and done more for the Bengal he said. "That's really one of new job forced him to move to that he has seen in his time with he had won the grand prize, a Bouts than any single person in those days you don't forget." Columbus, Ohio. Suddes still lives the Bouts is the connection to the trip around the world. the past 40 years, and maybe 
Suddes will be 60 years old in Ohio managing the Suddes missions in Bangladesh. The 23-day journey took ever. before the snow melts in South Group and Full Impact. Both are "Back then we knew there Suddes all over the globe. When Bend this year, but he can still companies he started to offer were missions in Bangladesh, but he was in India he managed to The views expressed in this col­hang with the athletes a third of training and coaching to non­that's about as far as it went," he sneak into Bangladesh for a cou­umn are those ofthe author and his age. He was pounding out profit organizations. said. ple of days to see these villages not necessarily The Observer. push-ups long before any of "We try to help people change This year that connection took he had been helping for three Contact Dan Murphy at these guys were born. the world," Suddes said, sum-a major leap forward. For the decades. dmurphy6@nd. edu 


Dan Murphy 
Sports Editor 

Family tradition keeps Desplinter working hard in ring 
ers. and so. he dreamed of the Bengal Bouts, winning three "I think it is what brings things, impossible to getBy DOUGLAS FARMER 
Bengal Bouts. titles and ending his career as anybody else to the Bengal through," Desplinter said. 
Spprts Writer 

Desplinter's oldest brother, a senior captain. With the Bouts. It is the combination of "When the clock hit seven, I Tom, graduated from Notre three sons of the family all faith and courage, in an knew I had done it, yet I found Most 1 0-year-old boys dream Dame in 2002. Tom participat­involved in the Bengal Bouts, unlikely chance to show faith myself still down there hitting 
of growing up to be fire.men, ed in the Bengal Bouts his the event has become a family and courage. You come to the bag." 
astronauts, or the next sophomore year, and rubbed affair. Notre Dame to study, and then And the feeling at the end of 
LeBron. Most 10-year-olds off on his younger brothers. "The Bouts are very impor­you get a chance to show a complete practice reminds 
look up to their older broth­"I learned boxing by holding tant to us. It's what we do," yourself in a way you never Desplinter of why he joined 
ers. the bag for him," Desplinter Desplinter said. "My oldest really would, a way to test and persevered through When senior captain Brian said. brother just started his sopho­yourself." Bengal Bouts. Desplinter was 10, he certain­Soon after, middle brother more year. I don't know where Those who've been through "The reason I stuck with ly looked up to his older broth-Mark, Notre Dame '05, joined it came from. Bengal Bouts can understand Bengal Bouts was not because 
what Desplinter means. I wanted to win and not 
"You can just tell the change because I needed to look up to . that comes over somebody my brothers. It was because I when they have been through didn't think I could do it, and I the experience," Desplinter needed to prove to myself that said. "There is a kind of quiet I could," Desplinter said. "I confidence that you carry wanted to be the example to around with you afterwards, others that they could do simi­and I can see that in my broth­lar things. ers very clearly." "No one thought that I could 
But Desplinter has had his do this, and myself most of all, share of struggles to get to but I really thought that if I this point. He boxed his fresh­could make it through one man year, losing in the quar-practice, make it through the 
~ terfinals to the defending fights, people who have chal­champion. After suffering an lenges much greater than I injury several days before the will ever have would look at Bouts started his sophomore me and say, 'Well if he could year, Desplinter could not do it, I could do it."' fight, and he spent the spring This honorable inspiration semester of his junior year does trace back, though, to abroad. Brian Desplinter's first sources 
Appropriately enough, of knowledge of the Bengal Desplinter's favorite moment Bouts: his brothers. within the Bengal Bouts pro­"I owe whatever I accom­gram traces back to his very plish to the example they set." first day, and to the stories he He added: "The Bouts are heard from his older brothers. very important to us. It's what 
"I had been hearing about we do." 
the Bengal Bouts practices my 

Senior captain Brian Desplinter defends during his preliminary round bout In the 147-pound whole life, and hearing about Contact Douglas Fanner at 
weight division against Timothy Gannatti on Feb. 15. how they are the most difficult dfanner1 @nd.edu 

Friday, February 27, 2009 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS page 3 
.~Building a bridge' 
Boxing club president Mark Weber makes historic trip to Bangladesh, leaves lasting legacy 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 
Not many college seniors can pinpoint the day their life's purpose became clear, but Mark Weber· can. 
It was last summer, halfway around the world in Bangladesh --a place where no Notre Dame student had been before. A place Bengal Bouts participants had for 79 years helped financially but had never actually seen. A place Weber found not weak­ness, pain and despair, but strength, love and hope. · 
"We had just visited a school that had been built and was funded by the Bengal Bouts, and these girls had sang for us and almost all of us cried," said Weber, the boxing club president who, along with one former and three current Notre 
''I'm most proud of building this bridge to Bangladesh from the Bengal Bouts," said Weber, a Grand Rapids, Mich. native. "Our relationship with Bangladesh is no longer just a check that gets sent over every year. It is a relationship, a friendship and a tie that we want to live on." 
The program annually sends upwards of $50,000 to Bangladesh, primarily to fund educational initiatives -an investment, Weber said, not a donation. 
"We're investing in the chil­dren there so that they can be empowered to have a better life," Weber said. "We're not just giving them a handout, we're giving them an opportu­nity to better themselves. Knowing that your time in the Bengal Bouts is an investment both in yourself and in some­body all the way across the 
Dame boxers, "Dude, the entire world, that's spent two weeks what makes it
purpose ofmy
in Bangladesh truly special
existence in this
last summer. and truly "We were back world changed today. unique." in our room, tak­As a member
That's big." 
ing it all in, and of the boxing [former boxer! club, and as a Pat Ryan turned Pat Ryan Film, Television to me and said, former boxer and Theatre 
-'Dude, the entire purpose of my existence in this world changed today. That's big.' And I felt the same thing," Weber said. "It's a reorientation of the way you look at life, and that permeates into every day we spend here. "Having a daily awareness of that helps us not only to be better boxers, but to be better people and better citizens of the global family, rather than just students at the University of Notre Dame who are box­ing." 
'Strong Bodies Fight' 
Notre Dame's Bengal Bouts program, in partnership with the Holy Cross missions, has been making signifi«ant finan­cial contributions to the impov­erished country of Bangladesh (formerly Bengal) since 1931. 
Now, though, the results of those efforts have a face, a heart, a soul. 
(FTT) major, 

Weber said he saw "the opportunity to do something new and special with the Bengal Bouts." 
During his sophomore year, he began to envision a docu­mentary detailing the missions in Bangladesh. Acting on the advice of a friend, who told him not to wait but rather to make the idea a reality, Weber stayed on campus over fall break of his junior year to establish contact with several Holy Cross priests about his idea -which was originally to travel alone with a camera, but soon evolved into some­thing much larger. 
"I realized this was some­thing so big that I wanted to do justice to this film," Weber said. "I didn't want it to be a student film -I wanted it to be a professional documen­tary." 
Weber, with help from long­time Bengal Bouts coach and businessman Tom Suddes, used the program's strong alumni base to raise the money necessary to fund the trip. 


"I think [the alumni's] gen­
· erosity says something about the program," Weber said. "That the four years, or even one year, they did Bengal Bouts at Notre Dame was one of the most impactful experi­ences of their entire life.'' So Weber, Ryan and four cur­rent Notre Dame boxers ­seniors Leo Rubinkowski, Tomas Castillo and Patrick Martin headed to Bangladesh with FTT profes­sor William Donaruma and a professional film crew to shoot documentary footage and experience first-hand the fruits of the program's labor for the first time. The film's title, "Strong Bodies Fight", is derived from a quote that defines the Bengal Bouts' mission: "Strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nourished.'' But Weber said his interpre­tation of that quote, from director emeritus Dominic "Nappy" Napolitano, was changed after his time in Bangladesh. "It's easy for us to go into a place like that and think, 'I am the one who has everything to give. I am the strang body fighting for the weak,"' Weber said. "But when you go there, you realize they're strong, too. They have something to offer, and you have to be willing to listen to the people." Weber said that message is one that can only be conveyed ·through a continued student presence in Bangladesh. "There needs to be that con­nection to Bangladesh that stays with the program, and it can only be through the stu­dents," Weber said. "Every year there's got to be boxers coming back saying, 'Look, we've been there, we know what it's like. We've seen how what we do over here has a positive impact over there."' 
Spreading the message 
The film will broadcast that positive impact beginning with its premiere on campus next November. 
"The film is going to be a tremendous vehicle for positive change," Weber said. "We see across the world, have certain­an opportunity to tell a story ly shaped his Notre Dame about people having made a experience. He's made two difference in the world, in trips to Bangladesh -last hopes of inspiring others to summer, and in December on a make a difference.'' grant for his senior thesis ­
The documentary, which is and has given presentations, currently in post-production, written papers and, of course, will be released on DVD and made a film about those expe­submitted to various film festi­riences. 
· vals, Weber said. But Weber's work as presi­
A current Student dent has, just as greatly, International Business Council changed the culture of the pro­(SIBC) project is also dedicated gram. to marketing the film. The pro­His work with the missions ject's primary goal is to con­helped the Center for Social vince the university to run a Concerns establish an annual spot for the film as one of its International Summer Service institutional commercials dur­Learning Program that will ing an Irish foot­send four box­ball game on NBC ers to
"Jfthere's one thing
this fall. Bangladesh The institution-I've really tried to do each .summer als are typically for six weeks.
here at Notre Dame, 
research-focused, That program,
it's to use my talents
but Weber said along with the · the University to whatever I find the film -not the would show one outcome of his
needs of the world 
that portrays title bout
to be."
"the essential Saturday Notre Dame." will be-his "There's very Mark Weber legacy. few !hings, I "That's what
Bengal Bouts president 
think, that illus.­trate 'the essen­tial Notre Dame' more than Bengal Bouts," Weber said. "It's tradition, athletics, serv­ice, brotherhood. All those things that we love about Notre Dame the most are real­ly epjtomized in the Bengal Bouts, and I think that's why it's so special.'' 
The SIBC team also hopes to convince NBC that airing the full' do·cumentary would be profitable for the network. The group is finalizing surveys for Notre Dame alumni and stu­dents of other universities to prove there exists a significant potential viewing audience for the documentary. 
"Our goal is exposure for the film, and getting that out to millions of people would be great for our program," Weber said. "It's not about any single one of us -it's not about me or the current captains. It's about this brotherhood of peo­ple who, for 80 years, have sought to make the world a better place." 
Leaving a legacy 
Weber's time with the Bengal Bouts, both in the ring and 
I wanted to 

leave this pro­gram with," Weber said. "''m proud of it, but it's also some­thing that our program need­ed, and something I'm glad I was able to help' foster., 
One quote from Aristotle, written on a piece of paper his mother gave him after his high school graduation, has defined Weber's time at Notre Dame: "Where your talents and the needs of the world cross, there lies your voca­tion." 
For Weber, that was in Bangladesh. 
"If there's one thing I've really tried to do here at Notre Dame, it's to use my talents to whatever I find the needs of the world to be," Weber said. "I certainly don't think I've solved all the world's prob­lems, but I think it's important that Notre Dame':" through the Bengal Bouts, offers a way to make the world a better place. 
"The small efforts we can make here do have a big iJDpact on somebody else's life." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS Friday, February 27, 2009 


Capsules and Predictions by Dan Murphy and Ryan Simmons 

145 pounds 
Bobby Powers vs. Mark Weber 
T e No. -see Powers has used his height well in his first two fights. The O'Neill junior throws long, sharp punches to keep opponents at bay. He also shows a clear strategy each time he steps in the ring. He has been a legitmate contender for the title since day one. 

PREDICTIONS 
Murphy: POWERS 
Weber put in a great fight to get himself into the finals over James Woods, but his style doesn't mesh well with the taller Powers. The junior will be able to keep Weber outside as long as he can stick to his game plan. Simmons: POWERS 
Powers has a distinct awareness of the pro­gression of his fights and makes good adjustments. Weber will need to stay agressive in trying to penetrate Powers' reach. Powers wins in a split decision. 
Presi nt Weber has more or less lived in the boxing gym for the past six months. The work has paid off in the ring. Weber won unanimously in both of his first two fights using strong funda­mentals and protecting himself well. He'll need to pick his spots well against Powers. 
140 pounds 
Kris Perez vs. Eric Feduska 
Kris "E Azteca Perez is pound-for­pound one of the most exciting boxers in recent Bouts history. Perez overwhelms opponen~ with speed and has a knack for causing damage with his uppercuts. He has a unique style that has clearly worked well for the undefeated champ. 
PREDICTIONS 
Murphy: PEREZ 
El Azteca makes his­tory becoming only the lOth fighter to win all four years. Perez has shown the ability to devastate an opponent early and stay on them throughout the night, expect to see more of the same Saturday 
Simmons: PEREZ 
Feduska is an impressive all-around fighter. Unfortunately he's fighting one of the most dominant guys in Notre Dame boxing. His increased intelli­gence and patience make this a fight worth your attention. 


Eric "A Secon·d Reading Frorp. the Book of' Feduska has showcased his strength and speed well in his senior cam­paign. He held off a gutsy Michael Johnston in the semis and will need to con­tinue to show heart in the ring if he is going to walk away a winner. 

155 pounds 
Dan Rodgers vs. John Maier 
Ro gers steps to the Lions' Den one last time in hopes of wrap­ping up his third cham­pionhips. The senior from Siegfried Hall is as technically sound of a fighter as you will see in the Bouts. He also holds the clear experi­ence advantage which means a lot in these fights. 
Photo Illustrations by Jan Gavllck 
PREDICTIONS 
Murphy: RODGERS 
Maier has been sur­gical with his punches in a couple impressive wins to get to the finals, but Rodgers has been down this road too many times. His patience in the ring will allow him to pick his spots effectively. Simmons: RODGERS 
Rodgers keeps a calm demeanor while throwing good combi­nations. Maier won't have an overwhelming reach advantage like in past fights so he simply will have to outbox Rodgers, not an easy feat. 


Maier already has beat one defending champ in Alex Gonzalez during the semis this year and is looking to add to the list. Maier has long, smooth punches which he has worked hard to perfect all year long. He will need to contin­ue to use his strong jab to get the win. 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, February 27, 2009 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS page 5 



170 pound 
Andres Villalba vs. Bernardo Garcia 

Villalba has it through the 170 pound bracket effectively so far this year. The sen­ior captain does a great job of varying his punches during long combinations. He brings a unique stlye to his fights that most guys aren't used to seeing. So far it has worked well for him. 
PREDICTIONS 
Murphy: VILLALBA 
Garcia worked the body well in his semifi­nal fight, but will have trouble getting inside against the lightning quick Villalba. The cap­tain will pace himself well while throwing strong punches to win this one. Simmons: VILLALBA 
Villalba has been as tenacious and danger­ous as last year. He relies on head move­ment and quick· flurries to punish fighters. Garcia will need to use his reach to disrupt Villalba and bring back his infamous uppercut. 
Bern o Garcia surprised a lot of people last year as a freshman and earned the respect he has got­ten so far in his sopho­" more season. Garcia has a decided reach advantage in this fight and will look to use his powerful jab to set up some bigger power punches. 
165 pounds 
Daniel Brennan vs. Alex Duffy 
owertime Brennan has won a pair of very close fights to land himself in the finals. After upsetting top-seeded Andrew Massari, Brennan's confidence continued to grow in a win over Jack Peterson. The sopho­more has turned heads so far this year, 
PREDICTIONS 
Murphy: DUFFY 
Duffy has been around for four years and seems to get stronger each season. He coasted through his first couple of fights and should be able to use his size and experi­ence to take home a championship. · 
Simmons: DUFFY 
Brennan will have to get his punches off quicker than he's done in previous fights and prepare for flurries of hard hooks. If Duffy · maintains good speed coming in on Brennan and coming out, he can take the fight. 


f'c /.. 


Alex "Check Out These Chicken Legs" Duffy is a wrecking ball in the ring. Duffy gets inside on his opponents and uses short, strong hooks to punish them. Despite the chicken legs, Duffy gets plenty of power behind each punch he throws and is an experienced senior in the ring. 

200 pounds 
Benford Begay vs. Pat Burns 
Be Begay looked impressive in his semifinal upset of former champ Andrew Lorenz. Begay used his very deceptive speed 
to end his first fight in two rounds and did the same to win a split decision over Lorenz. Begay does a good job of countering off of good slips. 
PREDICTIONS 
Murphy: BEGAY 
Burns has proved that he is a hard work­er in the ring, but Begay looked much quicker in "his earlier fights. The senior should be able to avoid a lot of Burns punches. The question will be in he can score his own. Simmons: BEGAY 
Begay has pushed himself to the edge this year working on speed and agility. Burns remains icily calm, exploding with hooks and uppercuts. This will be a match of lucid footwork vs. con­centrated power. 

Pat "Third Degree Burns is another fighter with a boatload of experience. He throws accurate punches to the body and head and throws his opponents off of their games early in fights. He w~n a very close split decision over Bart Dear on Tuesday by fighting off long flur­ries of punches. 


page 6 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS Friday, February 27, 2009 
Love of boxing draws Lee to Notre Dame 

By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 

Mike Lee wanted to be a part of Bengal Bouts so much that he transferred to Notre Dame to do it. 
The senior captain and two­time Bouts champion spent his freshman year at the University of Missouri before coming to Notre Dame. 
"I came here my senior year [of high school] to watch the 75th anniversary for Bengal Bouts, and that was probably the moment that I realized I wanted to box and I wanted to fight at Notre Dame," Lee said. "That was one of the main things that made me want to transfer. 
"At that point, I'd already gotten into Mizzou and was thinking about Notre Dame, not really sure, and then I saw Bengal Bouts Championship night, with the ring in the middle of the JACC, and that kind of just sold it for me." 
With the help of his cousin, Lou Hall, Lee wasted no time getting involved with the pro­gram. 
"He was a captain in 1992, and he works in my corner," Lee said. "He kind of started me off the summer I found out I got into Notre Dame. I told him I got in, and he started teaching me. I had the basics coming in, and I really fell in love with the program and the sport." 
Lee found immediate sue­
cess in the ring, winning the 175-pound crown in hts soph­omore year in a technical knockout that was called in the third round. His junior year, he successfully defended his title. 
"I fought a very good friend of mine, [fellow captain] Andres [Villalba]. and we just went toe-to-toe for three rounds," Lee said. "I think it was the best fight of our lives. When we were done, we hugged and everything was great." 
Lee also got more involved in leadership each year. In 2008, he served as a junior captain before becoming a senior captain this year. 
"When I came in sophomore year, I really had no idea what the program was," Lee said. "I had the opportunity of being captain junior year, and it really taught me a lot about the program." 
That year, Lee traveled to Bangladesh with senior Mark Weber, who is president of Bengal Bouts. Weber was there to film a documentary about the Holy Cross Mission that Bengal Bouts supports. 
"I went over there, helped out, saw where all the money's going, what all the proceeds are doing in terms of building schools, helping the missions," Lee said. "It was really an unbelievable experience." 
Lee said senior captains have a lot of behind-the­scenes responsibilities, includ­ing raising money, designing 
tickets and posters and procuring advertisers for the program. 
"Mark and I had a goal of trying to raise a lot of money this year despite the recession right now," he said. "We just had a ton of ideas, a lot of things we could improve on. I think in the end we'll meet those goals. We're just really excited about making the pro­gram bigger, helping out even more." 
Lee, a finance major, said he hopes his experience in Bengal Bouts can help him in the business world. 
"It's definitely a nerve­wracking experience to jump into that ring in front of a thousand people," he said. "I hope that when I have a board meeting or whatever and I'm nervous about it, I can think back to when I was fighting and get some courage from that." 
Heading into the last week of Bouts, Lee said he feels pressure to win his third straight title, but that winning is not everything. 
"Finals night is three rounds, two minutes each," Lee said. "You train for months, think about it every day, and basically you have six minutes to do what you want to do. But when I'm done with it, no matter what, I know I'm going to be so happy I did it." 
After all, that feeling is why he transferred from Missouri. "When you get done, and they raise your hand it's defi-
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

Villalba refocuses on training after championship loss 

By MATT GAMBER 
Associate Sports Editor 
So much for summer break. 

After losing to his now-fel­low senior captain Mike Lee in the 176-pound division title fight last year, Andres Villalba rededicated himself to perfect­ing his technique during the summer months back home in New Mexico. 
"I just tried to fine-tune everything I'd learned in years past," said Villalba, who will face Bernardo Garcia in the 170-pound final Saturday. "It doesn't take that long to learn the basics -hands up, knees bent, stuff like that -but it really takes a long time to find your niche, to define the style of boxing you're going to do." 
Villalba even went toe-to-toe with a professional, sparring in an Albuquerque gym with a boxer who had delivered three 
knockouts in three career fights. 
"That helped a lot because it's not the same when you're not a:ctually getting punches thrown at you," Villalba said. 
Villalba's training pro­gram included morning runs and mid-after­
noon  lifts  
designed,  he  
said,  to  add  


strict regimen improved his His father was a two-time footwork, head movement and state champion wrestler in endurance. Arizona, so Villalba had been "I think it's safe to say that around that sport from a 
last year I was a little bit more raw. I threw a lot of big punch­es and didn't pick my spots," Villalba said. "I think I do a much better job this year of keeping my eyes up and seeing the punches come and doing a lot of place with my punch­es. I try to be · more effective and waste less 

"It doesn't take that long to learn the basics -hands up, knees bent, stufflike that ­but it really takes a .long time to find your_ niche, to define the style ofboxing you're going to do. ,, 
Andres Villalba senior captain 
mirrored that 
he  made  in  
wrestling  in  
high school.  

"The same thing happened with that -the transition from junior to senior year was a big step ffir me," said Villalba, who finished, seventh in the state as a sen­ior. "I was real­ly raw my jun­ior year, really trying to over­
'Tve been a competitor my whole life starting probably with tee-ball and Pop Warner ifootball], so I don't know what I'll do after I graduate. I'm going to have to get hit somehow." 
Andres Villalba senior captain 
young age. His experience on the mat helped him make the switch into the ring.
" w i t h wrestling it's a lot of balance, so I had a lot of the footwork when I transi­tioned over to boxing," Villalba said. 
Though he'd never done any organized box­ing before 

energy so I can step it up each round instead of tapering down." 
Villalba's development in the ring from last year to this year 
weight for interhall football. power people, and my senior He had never received any year I transitioned into more boxing training outside of that of a technical wrestler, kind of provided in Bengal Bouts prac­the same thing I did with box­tice, and Villalba said the ing." 
arnvmg at Notre Dame, Villalba had put on the gloves and thrown some punches at least once before. 
"At home in my room, I have a picture when I'm about six years old," Villalba said. "Me and my cousin are in my back­yard with boxing gloves on and we're hitting each other." 
Villalba hopes he'll leave the ring Saturday night with a Bengal Bouts title, but either way, he said boxing will be one thing he carries with him when he leaves. 
"I think it's something I can do as long as I have a punch­ing bag at home," Villalba said. ''I've been a competitor my whole life starting proba­bly with tee-ball and Pop Warner [football], so I don't know what I'll do after I grad­uate. I'm going to have to get hit somehow." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
.. 

Friday, February 27, 2009 Th; Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS page7 
Trip to Bangladesh helps define Rubinkowski 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
Leo Rubinkowski always knew about the charity aspect of Bengal Bouts. The senior captain sold his ads and worked to promote the cause of Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh, but it wasn't until he actually visited Bangladesh in June of 2008 that he fully understood how much his work meant. 
"Being there and seeing what Holy Cross does with the money we send, it really, really sunk in just how important the charity aspect is," Rubinkowski said. 
Senior boxer Mark Weber was responsible for organizing the trip, and Weber, Rubinkowski, se.nior Tomas Castillo, senior Pat Martin and 2008 graduate Pat Ryan were the first Bengal Bouts boxers to visit Bangladesh in the 79-year history of the tournament. 
"We were really trying to cre­ate a stronger connection between these two sides of the world that are working togeth­er," Rubinkowski said. 
Rubinkowski said the trip to Bangladesh was easily the most memorable experience from his time in Bengal Bouts. 

A trained · fighter, Rubinkowski had been involved in martial arts, primarily tradi­tional Japanese karate since he was five. When he decided to attend Notre Dame, his father mentioned that he should try Bengal Bouts. 
"The more I thought about it, it just seemed like a natural 

Senior captain Leo Rubinkowski, right, tries to get off the ropes during his fight against Alex Lough in the finals of the 189-pound weight class last year. 
thing to do considering my his­tory with sport fighting," Rubinkowski said. 
His freshman year, the Illinois native was knocked out in the first round, and said the expe­rience was much different from his past fighting practice. 
"Contact in sport karate is not real prevalent, so I guess that would be the biggest dif­ference," Rubinkowski said. "It's a good difference, though." 
Over the past four years, he developed his boxing ability and said he was confident in his abilities in both areas 
"I think of it from a self­defense point of view, and it just depends on the situation," he said. "I almost feel like I'm more comfortable with boxing now." 
Since that one-and-done his freshman year, Rubinkowski has reached the finals in each of the past two tournaments. Both times, though, he walked away without the title, losing to Dan Ward in 2007 and Alex Lough in 2008. 
"It sucked," he said. "It defi­nitely sucked. I remember after my sophomore year I almost started crying right in the ring." 
This year, in his quest for that elusive title, Rubinkowski will fight as a senior captain. The honor is the culmination of a journey that started two years ago when he was named a junior captain. 
"I feel like it really has been a meaningful experience," he said. "Because I feel like I've had a closer relationship with the Bouts." 
As a senior captain, it is Rubinkowski's responsibility to train the younger fighters, most of whom have little to no box­ing experience. 
"I feel like it's a lead-by­example kind of thing," he said. "We show up everyday, we work hard everyday, and we do it with a smile on our faces." 
Rubinkowski said one of the best feelings he's experienced from Bengal Bouts is witness­ing a boxer with little experi­ence coming in learn to fight and succeed in the tournament. 
"It is a good feeling to see someone really grab onto it," he said. ''I'm not even proud because I know that I helped them, but I'm just proud to see that they really found some­thing that speaks to them and that they can call their own." 
Even if he doesn't capture the title, Rubinkowski will always remember his time in Bangladesh, half a world away. 
''I'd be super, super excited about [winning]. But I guess over the course of four years, it's really sunk in how big the Bengal Bouts is," Rubinkowski said. "The real thing that peo­ple remember is the charity a,spect of the Bouts. If I win, that would phenomenal, I would love it, but, win or lose, I'm fine." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Service, med school await two-time champ Rodgers 
By MICHAEL BLASCO Sports Writer 
-After four years of fights and two championships, senior captain Dan Rodgers has learned what it means to give himself selflessly and com­pletely to something, and, in that process, be transformed. 
"Every year, the Bengal Bouts, to me, mean less about what happens in the JACC and more about the Holy Cross priests in Bangladesh and the people they serve,". Rodgers said. 
Rodgers, a senior theology 
"The work we do here
and science captain because pre-professional to raise money and of who I was­major, became not who some­
awareness has a 
a captain this one thought I
tangible benefit for the 
year after win­could be -that ning champi­Holy Cross mission. '' I became the onships in 2007 leader I wanted and 2008, in the to be."
Dan Rodgers
155-pound and Taking that
senior captain 
161-pound perspective and 
Phoenix, Md., hopes to serve as a volunteer for a year before going to medical school. 
While the mission behind the Bouts fuels his passion, Rodgers' day-to-day role in the fights revolves around his duties as a captain. Stepping into a leadership role, Rodgers had to adjust his own expecta­tions of his newfound responsi­bilities. 
"I had a preconceived idea of what a captain was supposed to be and thought that I need­ed to change in order to fit into the role," Rodgers said. "It was only after I real­ized that I was picked to be a 
weight classes, respectively. Like most boxers participating in the Bouts, the knowledge that his efforts are instrumen­tal in addressing the plight of tribal villagers in Bangladesh drives Rodgers. 
"When Mark [Weber] and the others who went to Bangladesh came back and shared their experiences with me and the team, the work of the missionaries and the help we give them became more real to me," Rodgers said. "The work we do here to raise money and awareness has a tangible benefit for the Holy Cross mission." 
Rodgers, a resident of then using it to 
teach the hun­dreds of eager boxers that tape up was an obstacle in itself. Rodgers quickly learned that he could not be there for every fighter, regardless of his effort. 
"As a captain at practice, you stare at_200 guys all look­ing back at you, looking for directions, help, or a sparring partner," Rodgers said. "It can be overwhelming to think that you need to help all of th(lm fix their jab or teach them a hook. I learned that I can't help everyone, but I can find a few guys and give them everything I have to offer." 
Although he realized he can­not "be everything to every­one," Rodgers, a resident assistant in Siegfried Hall, gives all he can to each fighter that he coaches. 
"I love to teach others what I know, what I have learned from others and what I have gained from my own experi­ence," Rodgers said. "Being a captain put me in a position where I can help others grow stronger and be better boxers. It's a very rewarding position tobein." 
That training shaped Rodgers into a top fighter with a 12-1 recora over three years of competition. Every one of the 180 fighters who will step into the ring this spring acknowledges the formative influence of the grueling train­ing process. 
"Training for me is every­thing," Rodgers said. "The fights are only put on because of our training. Both physical and mental discipline is required of a fighter in the ring, and it is only outside of the ring, on those days that you don't want to come or don't want to do that last set of push-ups, that you learn what r it means to be disciplined." 
This year, Rodgers is com­peting for his third consecutive championship. As much as he relishes training other fighters, there's nothing like stepping into the ring and practicing the Sweet Science himself. 
"I like to fight because it is a challenge each time I step in the ring," Rodgers said. "It's as much a mental ·battle as it is a physical one." 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 

page 8 The Observeru BENGAL BOUTS Friday, February 27, 2009 
Perez goes for historic fourth consecutive championship 
Perez's power in the ring. Law stu­"He could have stuck to his weight By BILL BRINK dent Will Burroughs, the heavy­in the low 130s and won a champi­
Sports Editor 
weight champion the past two years, onship," Lee said. "The night before had a similar experience: weigh-ins he was at Subway nating The name Kris Perez elicits differ­"There's a rumor, that's the kid a foot-long sub. I le decided to move ent responses depending on who from YouTube," Burroughs said. "I up a weight class to light a past you talk to. had no idea what that meant." champion and a senior and one of 
The kid who knocks people out. It meant that his sophomore year the best fighters in the program The YouTube kid. The best pound­Perez threw an overhand right that hands down." for-pound boxer in Bengal Bouts. knocked his opponent unconscious Sully and Perez worked their way The undefeated three-time champi­before he hit the canvas and that a through the 149-pound weight class. on. video of the fight (the first result When they met in the finals, the 
But to those that train with him. when you search "Bengal Bouts") lights in the Joyce Center dimmed Perez, a senior captain, personifies had been watched 8,500 times. and the crowd went bonkers. The dedication, work ethic, leadership by Perez downplays the knockout. two of them let each other have it. · example and willingness to help oth­"I just caught him with a good Perez came out on lop. ers at all costs. punch, and he went down," he said. "Fortunately it wa-; my night and I 
"I don't know any other boxer on "I like that people like to see my got the victory, but you fight any the team that works as hard as he fights but I don't like that it's at the other night and Sully could have does or brings hi-; focus and work expense of someone else." won it," he said. "It's definitdy going ethic every day, day in and day out Weber said that attitude defines to be one of the memories I take to practice," senior Bengal Bouts Perez. from the Bengal Bouts experience." captain Mark Weber said. "That's "He's humble. You never see him Ask why Perez mows down oppo­what makes him a leader." running his mouth despite the fact nents and· you get a variety of 
Perez' leadership started when he that he's one of the best boxers on answers, all of them dangerous played soccer in high school. A four­the team, if not the best," We,ber enough in themselves but deadly year varsity player in Corsicana, said. when combined. Quickness, foot­Tex., Perez was a captain his junior All three of them point to Perez's work, power, vision, defense, every­and senior years. Be also kicked for willingness to work with other box­thing you don't want to face in a his football team. He always liked ers as what. makes him captain boxing opponent. Take it from boxing, but there were no gyms material. He'll stay after workouts to Burroughs, a 6-foot-2, 230-plus Burroughs said. "It's annoying to for six months to a year. He said he nearby, so he started when he practice with another boxer, offer pound former football player for practice with him because I think has to drop to the 122-pound weight arrived at Notre Dame to ·stay in advice when they spar and lead by Brown as an undergraduate, who there's no way he can hit me from class (he's currently fighting 140). shape. example with his unshakeable work sometimes practices with Perez: where he's at, and he still lands But before he can worry about that, 
"It was a different experience," ethic. when Perez hits you, it hurts. ridiculous punches." he has to focus on winning the tour­Perez said. "This is not like anything "I never felt that I know more than "I told him the other day, he may Perez agrees and said hi<> ability to nament. I've experienced before. It tested me someone else or the things I do be tiny, smaller than some of the read opponent-; and stay focused in "If I lose in the tournament, my at a different level." know are enough to make a person guys that I fight, but he's hitting me the ring helps him attack. chances of having a successful 
Before his first fight, Perez was better," he said. "Ifsomeone's willing harder than some of the guys I spar "I find I'm always thinking," he career outside of Bengal Bouts do scared, but he said the training to ask me a question I feel obligated against who are 200 pounds," said. ''I'm always trying to see what not seem too promising," he said. kicked in once he entered the ring to tell them what I do know." Burroughs said. "11 hurl-;. He can my opponent's doing so I ean capi­Whether he goes on to fight or not, and shoved all apprehension aside. He won again in his sophomore throw a punch, that's for sure." talize on tlmt." Perez said Bengal Bouts V\ill stick 
"Basically just muscle memory year, beating Chris Hartstein in the Weber, wbo has sparred Perez, Since he's undefeated, Perez with him after graduation. took over," he said. finals of the 140-pound weight class. said Perez can hit opponent<> from admitted that staying motivated to "The workouts in general are dif­
As Perez worked his way to a Junior year, he wanted a challenge. anywhere and slips away before his work hard became a challenge at ferent compared to any other sport championship_freshman year, his So he and Lawrence "Sully'' opponents can retaliate. But all times. But, he said, that's not an I've been involved in," Perez said. ring antics caught other people's Sullivan, a senior Marine ROTC three agreed on two aspects of excuse to slack off, especially if he "And I'm really going to miss that attention. Senior captain Mike Lee, a member and former champion, Perez' fighting style that makes him wants to follow through with his bond, that brotherhood that you two-time champion who transferred decided to arrange a fight. Sully so tough to fight: hi-; amazing vision, plans to box after graduation. develop through all the workouts." to Notre Dame before his sopho­would cut weight, Perez would pack and the fact that you can't see hi<> He wants to fight as a pro, he said, more year, heard about Perez when it on and they would meet in the punches. but first will try to fight as an ama­Contact Bill Brink at he joined Bengal Bouts because of middle. •· "You don't see it coming," teur in the Golden Gloves program wbrink@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, February 27, 2009 
page 13 
By MARK WITTE 
Assistant Scene Editor 
This weekend, the renowned Spectrum Dance Theater will perform "The Theater of Needless Talents," a dance piece inspired by the Jew!sh artists who managed find to some light during the dark times of the Holocaust. 
Since their founding in 1982, the Spectrum Dance Theater (SOT) has been a pioneer in popularizing contem­porary dance, as well as a leader in dance instruction by encouraging the precision and growth in quality of many other forms of dance. The dance group hails from Seattle, Wash., yet they have recently spent much time touring the U.S. and Europe. 
Over 500 students participate in one or more of the 64 classes offered to people of all ages, under the direction of professional SOT members. In fact, the youngest member of the SOT is one year old, while the oldest is 80 years old. On average, 40 students are given some form of scholarships to attend the Spectrum Dance Company School. 
By way of dance, the SOT has given back to their local Seattle community in numerous ways. The STD provides over 120 hours of dance education to local schools in the Seattle metropoli­tan area. The Theater has embraced its Washington roots by teaming up with local arts organizations. In 2007, the group collaborated with local Seattle venues, such as the 5th Avenue Theater and Seattle Opera. 
Supported by the Performing Arts Fund, the SOT is an avid supporter of the right for all children to have fair access to perform, learn about and appreciate all forms of art. The Fund works in conjunction with the National Endowment for the Arts, an independ­ent agency that strongly believes that believes, "A great nation deserves great art." 
Since in role in the SOT since 2002, Donald Byrd has led the dance group to immense success. In 2006, the SOT premiered the first of its Studio Series at the Madrona Dance Studios in Seattle. Byrd has also been an invalu­able component in transforming the dance repertoire of the SOT; the inge­niousness of the avant-garde dance pieces under his direction has attra~t­ed the attention of numerous world­class dancers, both at home and over­seas. 
The group is currently on a four month-long tour across the United States. Collegiate stops along the way include Duke University, The University of Virginia and Notre Dame. 
The Theater of Needless Talents is a dance act in memory of Jewish artists who, while prisoners in Nazi death camps, sought to give hope to those with little spirits during the Holocaust. Through their respective arts, these brave men and women managed to give optimism and strength to those who were surrounded by pain, misery, and suffering. Since the event was first showcased in February 2008, the SOT has received immense praise from crit­ics and audience members alike for their emotional presentation. 
The program is composed of dance numbers and theatrical vignettes pet:­formed in combination with the music of Erwin Schullhoff, an exceptional Jewish composer who lost his life dur­ing the Holocaust. The title of the pro­gram in honor of Karel Svenk; in the 1930's, his perform troupe was known as "The Theater of Needless Talents." Svenk lost his life in 1945 while in one of the many movements of the Jewish prisoners from Auschwitz to Mauthausen. 
Beginning Thursday night, the Spectrum Dance Theater offers four performances running through Saturday night. For show times, pric­ing, and more information, please visit performingarts.nd.edu 
Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd.edu 
courtesy sAAttiiFmr nwsnr1 Jrr.A r.nm 
Artistic Director Donald Byrne, center, has choreographed the Dance Theater's current piece, 'The Theater of Needless Talents.' 
Image courtesy of seatlepi.nwsource.com The Spectrun Dance Theater performs 'A Chekhovian Revolution,' a reaction to the lsrali-Palistinian conflict. 
I I 

SOT is not afriad to try new things or new genres of dance, including this mod­ern piece with hip hop music . 
.. 
Image courtesy of seatlletimes.nwsource.com This weekend the Spectrum Dance Theater will perform 'The Theater of Needless Talents' at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 


NHL 
Panthers beat Rangers for Tortorella's second loss 
Sharks rebound from loss to Red Wings with win over Senators to win fifth game in last six tries 

AP 

Panthers' center Brett Mclean celebrates teammate Nathan Horton's game-winning goal during Florida's 2-1 win over the New York Rangers. The Rangers are 0-2 since firing coach Tom Renney. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Dubinsky tipped the shot past Anderson, with his stick appearing to be below the crossbar, but referee Bill McCreary said the goal was dis­allowed by the league office in Toronto. 
The Rangers grabbed the lead at 7:34 with a goal that stood up to video review. 
Scott Gomez raced down the middle of the Florida zone and got off a shot. Anderson made the save, but Naslund knocked the rebound with his stick ofT his driving left skate and into the net. 
New York recorded 30 shots to Florida's 16 in the first two periods, but again had one goal to show for it in the new uptem­po, pressing attaek employed by Tortorella. 
"Certainly playing with a cushion and getting that second goal changes the dynamic of both of these games," eaptain Chris Drury said. "We weren't able to get it, so it is not good." 
San Jose 2, Ottawa 1 
The San Jose Sharks' power­play unit took full advantage of a rookie's mistake. 
Milan Michalek and Patrick Marleau seored power-play goals 1:18 apart in the second period to lead San Jose to victo­ry over the Ottawa Senators on Thursday night. 
Michalek scored his 17th goal 

11:26 into the second, and Marleau got his 34th goal at 
12:44 as the Sharks made the most of consecutive power plays after Ottawa defenseman Brian Lee had an unsportsmanlike conduct penalty added to his holding minor. 
AP 

"On the bench we felt the momentum was kind of ehanged when that happened and then we really wanted to bear down· and make them pay," said San Jose center Joe Thornton, who got his 54th assist on Marleau's goal. "We did that and that was the rea­son we won." 
Brian Boucher made 23 saves for the NHL-leading Sharks, who ended a four-game winning streak one night earlier with a 4-1 loss in Detroit. 
"Special teams are huge," Boucher said. "If you ean win the special-teams game, you're going to win a lot of hockey games and it seems like we've done that this year. It was prob­ably not a good play by Lee ­I'm sure they're not happy about it -but good for us to capitalize on it." 
Mike Fisher scored a power­play goal in the first for Ottawa, which has lost four of five (1-3­
1) following a season-high five­game winning streak. 
"For the most part we played pretty well," Fisher said. "We created some chances and even late, we had some point-blank chances and Boucher played really well. It was just in the second period, with some disci­pline. Everyone knows that they have a great power play and that was the game." 
Alex Auld stopped 22 shots. 
Lee had finished serving a hooking minor moments earlier when he was sent off again for holding Mike-Grier at 9:39. The rookie defenseman put his team in an even deeper hole when an unsportsmanlike conduct minor was tacked on. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-John Tortorella took back-to-hack doses of what got former New York Rangers coach Tom Renney fired. 
A painful and frustrating lack of offense has left the Rangers with little room for error over the past two months. 
Tortorella's home opener as the Rangers' new coach Thursday night looked similar to his first game a day earlier as New York failed to hold a one-goal lead in the third peri­od of a 2-1 loss. 
The latest version against the Florida Panthers was worse than the previous because the defeat came in regulation and left the Rangers pointless despite a 41-22 shots advan­tage. 
David Booth and Nathan Horton scored on consecutive shots a minute apart in the third period to rally the Panthers. 
"We can't cut the line so fine here in being 1-0 again," said Tortorella, sounding like Renney. "We have to try to get that second goal so that type of situation doesn't hurt you." 
The Rangers also led 1-0 after two periods Wednesday in Toronto before falling in a shootout. New York has scored fewer than three goals in 14 straight losses. 
Tortorella, who served a four­game winless interim stint as Rangers coach at the end of the 1999-2000 season, replaced the fired Renney on Monday. 
After saying some players seemed to tire in the third peri­od at Toronto due to a lack of conditfon, Tortorella had no issue with his team's stamina or effort one night later. New York just can't break out of the slide in which it has dropped 12 of 14 (2-8-4), a skid that cost Renney his job. 
''I'm not upset with them ... we just are struggling to score a goal," Tortorella said. ''I'm look­ing forward to keep growing with the team, because I think they have picked up how we want to play very well. We just can't finish." 
Florida and the Rangers are tied for sixth place in the Eastern Conference with 70 points. They are one point ahead of Buffalo and Carolina. 
"The Rangers played a great hockey game," Panthers coach Peter DeBoer said. "We're for­tunate to get out of here with two points, but we'll take it. 
"We're all in such a close bat­tle. That's a four-point game and everybody on both sides knows it." 
The Panthers bounced back from a 6-1 loss at Boston on Tuesday at the start of a five­game trip that still has stops at powerhouses New Jersey and Washington to come. 
Craig Anderson, subbing for Tomas Vokoun (ear infection), was sharp in making 40 saves. He stopped defenseman Paul Mara at the right post in the third as New York pushed for a 2-0 lead and earned his first win since Dec. 11 -a 1 0-game span. 
Anderson also withstood the Rangers' 5-on-3 power play that lasted 49 seconds in the third. 
"It is a huge momentum boost for us," Anderson said. "We had the wind taken out of our sails the other night. It was good for us to get back on track and find a way to win." 
Henrik Lundqvist was victim­ized by Booth's backhander from the right circle that beat him between the pads with 8:10 left. Horton struck at 12':50 after Richard Zednik found him in front with a pass. 
"We know we can come from behind and win," Horton said. "We're not out until the buzzer sounds. That's the way we kind of played." 
Markus Naslund had the Rangers' lone goal, connecting 7:34-into the game. 
New York nearly jumped in front just 17 seconds after the opening faceoff when Mara, making a surprisingly early return to the lineup following a shoulder injury, fired a puck from the right point. Brandon 
FoR RENT 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? Now offer­ing 1 0-month leases. 
Bluegoldrentals.com 
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-7653. Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. 
Leasing fast. Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhouses.com 
NOW LEASING. LAFAYETTE TOWNHOUSES. $3qOIPERSON. 3,4 & 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS. FREE INTERNET. NEWLY REMODELED. CALL 574-234-2436 OR WWW.KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
Student rentals 2009/2010. St. Peter/SB Ave. Homes. $1300­$2000/month. 5-7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd floor. 
Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876­3537. 
1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS across from Notre Dame Stadium. The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom, washer/dryer, fitness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. Preleasing for August. Call574-232-1400 or lease online www.foundrllliving.com 
House for rent. Very clean 3/4 br, 
1.5 bath, 2 living rooms and big backyard. Avail 09-10 school year. 
Affordable and very close to cam­pus. Call AJ@(440)463-5633. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: osa:nd.edu/health-safety/assis­lance-for-pregnant-students. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: 
http:1/osa.nd. edu/health­safety/assault/ 
The Observer would like to wish a 
happy 21st birthday to the one and only: 
Alexander Benard Dilorio 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, February 27, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
.NCAA Men's Basketball AP Top25 
team points record 
1 Pltlsburgh 1.797 25-2 2 Connecticut 1.692 25·2 3 Oklahoma 1643 25-2 4 North Carolina 1556 24-3 5 Memphis 1543 24·3 6 Louisville 1403 21·5 7 Duke 1228 22·5 8 Marquette 1169 23-4 9 Michigan St. 1136 21-5 9 Villanova 1125 22·5 11 Missouri 1094 23-4 12 Clemson 1050 22-4 13 Wake Forest 992 20·5 14 Arizona St. 869 21-5 15 Kansas 812 22-5 16 Purdue 765 21·6 17 Gonzaga 661 21-5 18 LSU 541 23-4 19 Xavier 413 22·5 20 Illinois 364 22~6 21 Washington 291 20·7 22 UCLA 268 20-7 23 Florida St. 217 21-6 24 Butter 192 23-4 25 Texas 162 18-8 
NCAA Women's Lacrosse Rankings 
team points record 
1 Northwestern 400 1·0 2 Duke 363 ' 2~0 3 Syracuse 352 1·0 4 Virginia 319 0·0 ~ 
'::::~:J::.:'·

5 Penn 301 0•0 6 Maryland 298 1·0 7 Princeton 279 0·0 8 Georgetown 252 0·0
,.

9 North Carolina 249 1·0 10 Boston u 240 0·0 11 NOTRE DAME 189 1•0 12 Vanderbilt 181 0·1 13 Dartmouth 125 0·0 14 New Hampshire ,106 0·0 15 Johns Hopkins 103 0·0 16 Cornell 101 0·0 17 Stanford 77 2·0 18 Towson 66 0·0 19 James Madison 65 0·0 20 Denver 57 1·2 
MIAA Women's Basketball Ran kings 
team 
1 Hope 
2 SAINT MARY'S 
3 Calvin 
4 Trine 
5 Albion 
6 Alma 
7 Adrian 
8 OliveJ 
9 Kalamazoo 
rerord 
15·1 13-3 9·7 9·7 9·7 7·9 7-9 3·13 0·16 

around the dial 
NBA 

Pistons at Magic 7 p.m., ESPN 
Cavaliers at Spurs 
9:30 p.m., ESPN 
PGA 


1 

Tiger comeback falls short 
1 
Associated Press 

MARANA, Ariz. -Just about everything went according to plan for Tiger Woods in his celebrated return to golf. 
Except he didn't plan on leaving this early. 
Woods had no complaints with his game or his knee, but he had no answer Thursday for Tim Clark of South Africa, who played 16 holes without a bogey and knocked the world's No. 1 player out of the Accenture Match Play Olampionship. 
So where does Woods go 
from here? "I go to the airport," he said His swing looked as good 
as it did eight months ago 
IN BRIEF 

Mets Santana scratched 
due to sore elbow 
PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. -New York Mets ace Johan Santana was scratched from Friday morning's "B" game start against Italy because of tenderness in his pitching elbow. 
Mets manager Jerry Manuel said the decision was precautionary because Santana has a history of feeling elbow soreness this time of the year. Santana remains on track to make his regular exhibition game debut Tuesday. 
"I am not trying to do anything crazy out there," Santana said. "I am going to take a couple days and relax and get ready for Tuesday." 
The left-bander said his elbow felt stiff after a bullpen session Wednesday, and he told pitching coach Dan Warthen he wanted to take some time off from throwing before prepar­ing for his first game. 
Santana had been slated to pitch one inning Friday, added to help Italy prepare for the World Baseball Classic. 
when he won the U.S. Open. His knee felt so strong that when Woods discovered his tee shot into the desert on the 15th hole hit a cart path and went out of bollllds -a shot that ended any hope of a rally -he chose to walk 350 yards back to the tee instead of accepting a ride in the cart. 
"I knew I had to play out of my mind to beat him," Oark said. 
And he did, pouring in six birdies and constantly putting the pressure on Woods throughout a sunny day in the high desert. Oark won, 4 and 2, when h'e hit his tee shot to 4 feet that Woods con­ceded for birdie after failing to chip in from off the green. 
"I hit it really good today," Woods said. "I just didn't make enough birdies. Tim made some birdies there, and I didn't answer him in the middle part of the rolllld, and consequently I got behind." 
Only about 100 fans remained late in the after­noon at Dove Mountain, which surely will lack the energy it had the first two days to welcome back golfs biggest star. Phil Mickelson, the No. 5 seed who survived another scare, is the highest­rated player left in a tourna­ment that is now down to 16 players. 
The good news for golf is that it probably won't have to wait eight months to see him again. 
Woods likely will play in two weeks at Doral in the CA Championship, although he said he would wait to see how his left knee felt. This was his first tournament since reconstructive surgery on the knee one week after he won the U.S. Open at Torrey Pines in Jlllle. 
Clark, a pesky opponent with a sharp short game, did­n't give him much of a chance. 
"I was really working hard to keep myself calm and try to play my own game," Oark said. "I put a lot of iron shots pretty close, and I think per­haps he wasn't expecting that or not. But I don't think I'm ever going to intimidate Tiger Woods, let's put it that way," 

Griffin out indefinitely
because of concussion 
NORMAN, Okla. -Oklahoma stand­out Blake Griffin is still recovering from a concussion and Sooners coach Jeff Capel said Thursday he isn't sure when the preseason All-American will be healthy enough to play. 
Griffin has been out since sustaining the concussion during the first half of a loss at Texas on Saturday. The 6-foot­1 0 sophomore sat out as No. 3 Oklahoma (25-3, 11-2 Big 12) lost 87­78 at home to No. 15 Kansas on Monday. 
The Sooners visit Texas Tech on Saturday. Griffin will not be allowed to play unless he clears a battery of med­ical tests. 
"He has to be able to do things," Capel said. "First of all, he's got to be able to not have headaches, not have nausea. We aren't going to do anything until we know he's fine and those symptoms have cleared. Then we'll be able to determine better whether he'll be available to play on Saturday." 
Colletti unsure if Dodgers 
are close to Manny deal 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -General manager Ned Colletti called the Los Angeles Dodgers' latest offer to Manny Ramirez a "significant conces­sion" by the team but said he's not sure how close the sides might be to a deal. 
Colletti and owner Frank McCourt met Wednesday in Los Angeles with Ramirez's agent, Scott Boras, and offered the free-agent slugger a $25 million, one-year contract with a $20 million player option for 2010. 
"It obviously gives Manny a lot of flexibility. If he were to agree to something like that, then nine, 10 months from now he is free to try the market again," Colletti said Thursday. "So ifyou have the chance to be guar­anteed or the chance to do something else, it's a pretty good spot to be in." 
The offer is similar to the two-year, $45 million deal with a buyout or club option that the Dodgers put on the table in November. 
.. 

page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, February 27, 2009 Friday, February 27, 2009 TheObserver + SPORTS page 17 

NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish set for tough weekend 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
When you are ranked as the fifth-best team in the country, most teams will see you with a target on your back. As Notre Dame has steadily risen up the rankings this season, the Irish are used to the feeling. This weekend will simply be more of the same. 
Notre Dame (9-1) hosts two top-2~ teams in three days. On Friday at 3 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, No. 12 North Carolina (9-2) faces the Irish, and on Sunday at noon the Irish_ host No. 23 Wake Forest (8-1 ). 
Notre Dame has faced quite a bit of top competition this season, defeating No. 5 Stanford and No. 4 Baylor at the ITA Indoor Team National Championships before losing to No. 1, and eventual national champion, Northwestern. This past week­end the Irish defeated two more top-50 teams in BYU and Utah, both on the road. Three more Irish victories this season have also been against top-50 oppo­nents, two of wbich were in the top-25. . 
The benefits of such a strong schedule are obvious, especially with seven of the team's nine vic­tories coming against such stiff competition. 
"Almost every match we play for the next two or three weeks is 

1IJ !NOlANA UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF LIBRARY AND INFORMATION SCIENCE 
Graduate degrees with a future. All majors welcome. 
www. slis. indiana .edu 
just going to be a tough match. But that is good for us. Our kids want to play better teams," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. 
"Every match we play we know as we go out we have to be ready because it is going to be a tough one. Because of that, our team knows that there really can't be a let-up as we go out," he said. 
Notre Dame shares one inter­esting characteristic with North Carolina: both teams faced both Stanford and Baylor at the National Championships. The dif­ference between the Irish and the Tar Heels though, is that Notre Dame defeated both Stanford and Baylor, while North Carolina suffered its only losses on the season against the two teams. 
"We always have really tight, good matches with North Carolina," Louderback said. "They lost a couple ofreally close ones at the National Indoor, 5-2 and 4-3. So they are good; they are one of the teams that will be battling for the NCAAs this year." 
The Irish success at the National Championships, playing three matches in three days and winning two of them, bodes well for this weekend. The quick turn­around between Friday and Sunday should have little unfore­seen effect on the team. 
"We do it every year," Louderback said. "We have a few stretches like that during the year, but it helps us get used to the end of the year. When you get to the final 16 teams at the NCAAs, you could have to play four top-15 matches in five days." 
Two matches in three days against top-25 competition would faze most teams, but to Notre Dame, this is just another aver­age weekend oftennis. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
NFL 
Officials OK Vick for hon1e confinen1ent 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND, Va. Imprisoned NFL star Michael Vick will be allowed to serve the last two months of his sen­tence under home confinement because there is no room at a halfway house for him, a gov­ernment official told The Associated Press Thursday. 
Vick is serving a 23-month sentence at the federal peniten­tiary in Leavenworth, Kan., after pleading guilty to bankrolling a dogfighting oper­ation at a home he owned in eastern Virginia's Surry County. He also admitted to participat­ing in the killing of several underperforming dogs. 
Vick's lawyers have said they expected him to be moved any day into a halfway house in Newport News. But because of a lack of space, Vick will be released instead to his home in nearby Hampton at some point on or after May 21, said the official, who has knowledge of the case but requested anonymity because the individ­ual was not authorized to dis­cuss the matter publicly. 
"We are aware of reports regarding the release of Michael Vick," Vick attorneys Billy Martin and Lawrence Woodward said in a written statement. "As his attorneys we understand and respect that there is a process that the Bureau of Prisons follows therefore it is not appropriate for us comment at this time." 
Vick's agent, Joel Segal, did 
. not return messages seeking comment. Vick's mother, Brenda Boddie, said in a tele­phone interview that she knew nothing about the arrange­ments. The Hampton house is one of four Vick still owns, according 
to bankruptcy court papers. He sold the Surry County property that served as headquarters for his BadNewz Kennels soon after his July 2007 indictment. 
The five-bedroom, 3,538­square-foot brick home with an in-ground pool in Hampton is assessed at $748,100, accord­ing to city tax records. Vick also owns an interest in a $2 million home being built in Suffolk, bankruptcy court papers show. His eight-bedroom home in suburban Atlanta is scheduled · to be sold at auction March 10, with a minimum opening bid of $3.2 million. 
Vick will be on electronic monitoring and will only be allowed to leave home for activities approved by his pro­bation officer, the official said. He is eligible for release in July. 
According to Vick's lawyers, the former Virginia Tech stand­out plans to resume his pro football career. NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, who suspended Vick without pay, has repeatedly said he will review Vick's status after the legal proceedings are complet­ed. 
Falcons general manager Thomas Dimitroff said earlier this month that the Falcons will try to trade the contract rights on Vick to another team. Vick, once the highest-paid player in the NFL and among its most popular, has a contract that runs to 2013 and calls for him to receive a base salary of $9 million and a bonus of $6.43 million in 2009. The remainder of the contract is worth $45.11 million, with an additional pos­sible $3 million in Pro Bowl bonuses. 
Officials of some other NFL teams have said they are not interested in Vick because they would rather not face the wrath of pet lovers and groups such as PETA, which has been a constant fixture at Vick's hearings. 
Vick also earned substantial sums from endorsement deals with Nike and other companies, but that income vanished after the dogfighting revelations vir­tually destroyed his image as well as his finances. Vick filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy pro­tection in July, claiming assets of $16 million and liabilities of $20.4 million. 

SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION SUPPORTING FOREIGN LANGUAGE STUDY DURING THE.SUMMER. Grants are designed to cover only a portion of program costs. 
New this year: Graduate support now available in Arts & Letters 
For details and application forms, go to: 
http://www-nd.edu/-sumlang/ 
Or pick up applications from the Office of International Studies: 154 Hurley Building-Ph 1·5203 
Application DEADLINE: FRIDAY MARCH 6, 2009 
St)onsored by the Office of International Studies. the Colleae of Arts and tette•·s, the NaiHWi~ Institute for European Studies the Mendoza College of Business page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, February 27, 2009 

ND WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish ready to take on Cardinal 
By NATHANIEL LEE 
Sporrs Writer 
Coming off a solid victory over Ohio State, Notre Dame looks to continue its winning ways against visiting Stanford. 
The No. 11 Irish (2-1) sus­tained their only loss of the season to nat-ion a 1 No. 1 Northwestern last weekend at home. 
"We rely on a tough, tight schedule now to prepare us for the postseason" Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "Competition is tough, so big games are important for us.. 
Junior attacker Gina Sciascia is pacing the team's offense with six goals and 
four assists. The sophomore scoring trio of Kailene Abt, .lillian Byers and Shaylyn Blaney have all scored eight goals each in their three games·. 
Senior Erin Goodman will likely get her 39th career start at goal for the Irish. 
The Irish will try to avenge a tough 13-9 loss to Stanford on the road 'last season. 
"Stanford is always a good team," Coyne said. "It was a difficult loss to them la-st season, and now that they are here we really want to make up for that." 
The matchup will take place at the Lortus Sports Center. 2 pm. 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nlee5@nd.edu 
Proprie~ors 
\<'Varren & Linda

~aceo'S 
Restaurant 
!Jrrsl Or.iyind.?1;e xa in 701%.•n / 
Since 195r 
Spt..>Ciali.zklg in /~Han Enrrees 

TYes. • Thuf'S.: S:00 PM • 11 :00 ?M Fri.· Sat.: 5:00PM· 1:00AM S3 7 Noeth St. louis • Sout'l Berd, IN 574·233-246.4 




Friday, February 27, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
FENCING 
Irish set to host Midwest tourney 

By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will host the 11th Midwest Conference Championships this weekend at the Joyce Center, featuring both individual and team matches throughout the event. Both the men's and women's Irish squads come into the tournament ranked first in the latest USFCA poll. 
"I feel very positive for [the team], and I know they will continue to remind the coun­try why Notre Dame's fencing program is truly world class," assistant coach Marek Stepien said. "They have been training extremely hard and I'm cer­tain that at the [Midwest Conference] Championships and on into next season you will see some very impressive results." 
The Irish head into this weekend at the top of the col­lege fencing world after a set of remarkable regular seasons in which the men's team post­ed a perfect 33-0 mark and the women's squad finished 32-2. Both win totals are records in a program that has produced two national cham­pionships and dozens of All­Americans since the arrival of head coach Janusz Bednarski seven years ago. 
Despite being a young and relatively inexperienced group, the Notre Dame fencers have placed themselves in a prime position to compete for a national championship after posting wins over so many ranked teams this spring. 

"It's very hard for coaches to predict [results];" Bednarski said. "I've been in this busi­ness for so long. There are so many factors we can't control, especially on such a young team. But anything can hap­pen if we make it to the Bloody Four." 
The Midwest Conference Championships are one of the first steps on that road. Individual play begins Saturday in a pool format, and eliminations are expected to begin by the early afternoon. Sunday features team play throughout the day. 
The biggest obstacle for the Irish this weekend is last year's winner, No: 3 Ohio State. The Buckeyes edged out the Irish by 70 points total to earn the victory. Unlike the Irish, Ohio .State returns much of its talent from last year. 
Competition will begin at 8 
a.m. at the Joyce Center. The tournament marks the final event for Notre Dame before the NCAA Regional Qualifiers in mid-March. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
NFL 
Holmes scheduled 
for marijuana hearing 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -Pittsburgh Steelers receiver and Super Bowl MVP Santonio Holmes waived his right. to a prelimi­nary hearing Thursday on a misdemeanor marijuana charge stemming from an October traf­fic stop. 
Holmes' attorney, Robert DelGreco Jr., said he waived the hearing because district judges cannot assess witness credibili­ty or constitutional challenges. 
District Judge Gerte Ricciardi commended Holmes for donat­ing the gloves he wore when he caught the Super Bowl-winning touchdown pass for charity, saying it showed fine character. 
The auction raised $70,200 for the Sickle Cell Disease Association of America Inc. Holmes' 6-year-old son, Santonio III, has the blood dis­ease. 
Holmes did not speak to reporters. 
Pittsburgh police said they found three marijuana-filled cigars in Holmes' car when he was pulled over Oct. 23. Holmes was stopped because his car was similar to one they were looking for in a drug sting, police said. 
Holmes was cooperative and alerted officers to the drugs, police said. 
DelGreco characterized the 

charge "as low as a grade a misdemeanor you cap. get." The penalty is up to 30 days proba­tion and a $500 fine, he said. 
Coach Mike Tomlin deactivat­ed Holmes for a game following the traffic stop. He was not arrested and received a court summons, which is common with misdemeanor charges in Pennsylvania. 
Holmes said he "learned a lot" from missing a game fol­lowing the traffic stop. Before the Super Bowl, Holmes told the media that he had dealt drugs for a year in his hometown of Belle Glade, Fla. 
A first-round draft pick out of Ohio State in 2006, Holmes has had two other run-ins with the law since the Steelers drafted him. In June 2006, he was charged with domestic violence in Columbus, Ohio. Those charges were dropped when the mother of one of his three children declined to help prose­cute the case and prosecutors were assured that Holmes received anger management and domestic violence counsel­ing through the NFL. 
In May 2006, Holmes was arrested for disorderly conduct by police in Miami, who later dropped the charges. 
No trial date has been set on the marijuana charge. A formal arraignment was scheduled for April 29. 

page 20 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish host A&M, travel to Madison 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame fell to Kentucky Monday but will have a busy weekend to try and forget about. 
The No. 25 Irish (6-6) host No. 13 Texas A&M tonight before traveling to Wisconsin Sunday. 
Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said the Aggies may boast the nation's best top-three lineup with senior Conor Pollock and sophomore Austin Krajicek and Wil Spencer. 
"After that they are pretty solid, but they count on dominat­ing you at the top," Bayliss said. "They are outstanding at No. 1 doubles as well ... Their coaches, Steve Denton and Bobby McKinley, are truly outstanding and will have the Aggies pre­pared." 
Wisconsin will also prove to be a tough foe for the young Irish lineup with strong players at the top. 
Wisconsin is coming ofT a win over No. 21 Wake Forest Saturday. Notre Dame edged the Badgers last season, 4-3, when the last match went to a tiebreaker. 
Despite the loss to the Wildcats Monday, the Irish did receive some strong individual perform­ances. 
Freshman Casey Watt and 

sophomore Stephen Havens were able to come up with a big dou­bles win over Kentucky's Graerne Dyce and Eric Quigley. 
"It was gratifying to see Casey and Stephen come out of the blocks so quickly and play well against Kentucky," Bayliss said. "In particular Casey's level was very high. When they are fully engaged they can be pretty diffi­cult to play, as each returns serve well and they hurt you in differ­ent ways. 
"Stephen is more of a classic doubles player while Casey is such a great athlete that he can go outside the norm that most opponents expect in his shot selection." 
Notre Dame's top singles play­er, senior Brett Helgeson, suf­fered a foot injury Feb. 19 against Northwestern, but he played against Kentucky and should be good to go this week­end, Bayliss said. 
"Brett's injury held up well against Kentucky," Bayliss said. "He was close to 100 percent and is better today than he has been after competing, so we hope to have him for A&M." 
Notre Dame will return home after Sunday's contest to host Michigan on Wednesday. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, February 27, 2009 
NFL 

Colt players to test free agency 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS The Indianapolis Colts knew the salary cap would put them in a pinch. They were hoping it wouldn't hurt too much. 
No such luck. 
The team, already prepanid for Marvin Harrison, Jeff Saturday and Hunter Smith to become free agents friday, now must add Josh Thomas and Dominic Rhodes to the list. 
Thomas' agent, Craig Domann, told The Associated Press Thursday the backup defensive end and sometimes starter plans to test the mar­ket. Rhodes' agent, Todd France, told The Indianapolis Star that the team's second­leading rusher last season would do the same. 
Calls to France Thursday afternoon by The Associated Press weren't immediately returned. 
The news came a day after the Colts officially released the record-setting Harrison to free up $6 million under the salary cap. Saturday, a three­time Pro Bowl center, turned down Indy's most recent offer even though he said he want­ed to stay in Indianapolis. Last week, Smith's agent, Thomas Mills, acknowledged the longtime punter also would not be re-signed before the free agent market opened. 
Team president Bill Polian had warned this could be a tough offseason. 
"We are being impacted by the salary cap for the first time in 11 years because of the new cap rules, and that's not some­thing we, quite frankly, planned for," Polian said Sunday during the NFL's annu­al scouting combine. "As a result, we've got some issues with veterans." 
Thursday's negotiations could dictate how much things will change next season, which will open with Jim Caldwell taking over the coaching reins from Tony Dungy, who retired in January. 
Caldwell has already replaced the defensive coordi­nator and special teams coach. Who he'll have on the field is still up in the air. 
Harrison, Saturday and Smith were three of the longest-tenured Colts on the 2008 roster. All could be with new teams within days or weeks. 

Rhodes' best season was ·his rookie year of 2001, when he rushed for 1,104 yards after he became the starter when Edgerrin James suffered a sea­son-ending knee injury. He spent 2007 with the Raiders before returning to the Colts, , where he had 538 yards and six touchdowns last season. He also caught 45 passes, includ­ing three TDs. 
Thomas, who replaced the injured Dwight Freeney in the starting lineup during the sec­ond half of the 2007 season, had a career-high three sacks in 2005 and a career-high 55 tackles in 2007. 
Others who are unsigned include linebackers Tyjuan Hagler and Freddy Keiaho, cor­nerback Keiwan Ratliff, safety Matt Giordano and offensive lineman Dan Federkeil. All have started at least once over the past two seasons. 
The Colts did take care of two other players Thursday. 


Date: Friday FebrLiary 2 7 
I
i· I 
Time: 9 pm 12 Where: H~gger Parle>1...1r 
' ~ 
' 

Sa.irtt Marys Ce>llege 
Friday, February 27, 2009 
Creighton 
continued from page 24 
and you can't let Darin [Ruf1 beat you," Schrage said of the Jayhawks' slugging first base­man. "You've got to be sure you get the guys out around them. They try to play a real fast game, and Gonzaga is the oppo­site -they'll take a lot of pitch­es and try to play a longer game." 
After being shut out in their season opener by Ohio State last Friday, the Irish topped Illinois and Purdue in succes­sive days to complete their opening weekend in Florida. 
This weekend marks the sec­ond of four tournaments Notre Dame will play to open its sea­son. The Irish will play nine games March 6-15 in either Houston or San Antonio as part of the Rice Classic and the Irish Baseball Classic. 
"Especially the first three weeks when you're getting down and playing in warm weather, you want to get better each weekend and minimize your mistakes," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. "Our first nine games are all against great competition, so we'll find out a lot about our team and what we need. to work on. At the same time, we're trying to look at lineup combinations, guys' roles out of the bullpen, things like that." 
One who began to solidify his spot in the Irish pen last week­end was Steven Mazur, Schrage said. 
The junior right-hander threw three innings of no-hit ball over two appearances last weekend, striking out three and walking one. He appears to be the frontrunner for the closer's role, which was left empty when would-be senior Kyle Weiland chose to sign with the Boston Red Sox. 
"Steven Mazur did a nice job closing out two out of three games there," Schrage said. "That's an area, losing Kyle Weiland, we weren't quite sure who'd be in that role. We're going to give Steven [an oppor­tunity]." 
Sophomore left fielder Golden Tate started and led off all three contests for the Irish and had at least two hits in each game. His seven hits, four runs and two doubles are all team­highs for Notre Dame. 
"You've got to be real happy with how Golden Tate played," Schrage said. "He got an oppor­tunity to play out in left field, and he made some nice defen­sive catches out there. That was a nice, not surprise, but a nice start for him." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish want more D vs. Friars 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
Defense defense defense defense. 
That's not a chant. It's Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw's mantra. 
She said after No. 23 Notre Dame's 90-79 win over Syracuse Tuesday she wanted to see bet­ter defense and was comfortable playing a game with the score in the 60s. This after a game where senior guard Lindsay Schrader scored 23 points, and all five starters scored in double figures. 
But the team is on board. McGraw said the players realize the defense needs to improve. 
"I think they're a little disap­pointed at what's been going on also," McGraw said. 
Notre Dame (19-7, 8-6 Big 
·East) will have a chance to improve Saturday when it trav­els to play Providence at 2 p.m. The Friars (10-17, 4-10) only score 58.1 points per game, which gives the Irish defense a chance to make a statement. 
"We'd sure like to," McGraw said. 'That's our goal is to hold 

Notre Dame Graduate 
Joins Leading Area Veterinary Hospital 

Magrane 
Pet Medical Center 


Magrane Pet Medical Center Welcomes: 
Keith Kitson Logue, DVM 
Dr. Logue is a graduate of University of Notre Dame and Purdue's School of Veterinary medicine. 
Dr. Logue brings a wealth of experience in emergency and critical care medicine -care of the sickest pets. to our experienced staff. 
"Caringforvour pet is caringfi;r a family member and I feel privileged to wm* with a great team to care.fiJryour pel. whether healthy or ill." 
To schedule an allpointment call: 574.259.5291 Email questions to kklogue(a}luagrauePMC.com 
Conveniently located to N.D. in the Edison Lakes Business Park (Mishawaka) 8 minutes from Notre Dame, directly east on Angela I Edison Road 
them under their average. If we can do that, especially on their home court, that would be a good sign for our defense." 
A large part of McGraw's defensive focus this season has been on guarding the perimeter, and the Irish will have a chance to put it to use against Providence. Senior guard Catherine Bove has made 33.7 percent of her 3-point attempts and junior guard/forward Brittany Dorsey has sank 32.9 percent of hers. 
McGraw said she continues to work on perimeter defense and search for the definitive answer. 
"We pretty much try to do the same thing and sometimes we're more effective than oth­ers," she said. "I wish I knew what the answer was for when we've played it well." 
To play strong defense, Notre Dame will have to neutralize senior guard Chelsea Marandola. She leads the team in points per game (11.5) arid free throw percentage (85.1) and can also shoot the three. McGraw said she sat out last season because of an injury, so the Irish haven't seen her in a while. 

Belles 
continued from page 24 
with just over six and a half minutes to play, holding a 31­23 halftime lead. 
Most of the Belles success in the first half came from points in the paint by senior for­wards Erin Newsom and Anna 
Kammrath.  
The  Belles  played  well  
defensively  against  the  
Knights  in  the  first  half.  

Newsom and Kammrath domi­nated the defensive glass, pre­venting the Knights from hav­ing many second-chance opportunities. 
After halftime, it seemed that the Knights had made some second-half adjustments, playing the Belles much closer on defense and preventing Kammrath and Newsom from getting rebounds off missed shots. 
"She's their best player, she led their team all year long, she can handle the ball [and] shoot the ball," McGraw said. 
The Irish have gotten good production out of Schrader and sophomore forward Becca Bruszewski for the past few games. Against Syracuse, how­ever, junior center Erica Williamson took full advantage of her 29 minutes and had 18 points, 11 rebounds and five blocks. 
"We expect that she's going to continue to rebound well and score around the basket," McGraw said~ 'That's what she's working on. We also need to give her more opportunities." 
Williamson's blocks, combined with her willingness to take a charge, McGraw said, make her a tough defender in the paint. 
'The great thing about Erica is I don't know whether she'll take the charge or block the shot," McGraw said. "If someone comes in there out of control she's going to take the charge. She can be really difficult to score on." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
The Belles held a 49-32 lead about halfway through the second half until the Knights had two consecutive three­point plays that sparked a Calvin rally. The Knights cut the Belle lead to just 11 points with eight minutes remaining the in the contest. 
The determined Knights con­tinued the chip away at the Belle lead, cutting the deficit to as low as eight points with 
2:15 remaining. With under a minute to play, Newsom hit four free throws that sealed the game for the .Belles and put the Knights away for good. 
Saturday's finals match up is a rematch against Hope College. The season series is tied, with the Belles giving Hope their only loss of the season. The game will be played at Hope Saturday at 3 p.m. 
Contact Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu 

• 

.L_ __ 
.---------------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 27, 2009 
Revenge 
continued from page 24 
"We have to just concentrate on getting up there to New England and getting back Saturday and letting it rip up there against a great team," Irish coach Mike Brey said. 
Irish senior guard Kyle McAlarney added: "This is a huge opportunity and we know it's a great opportunity for us to go out and just let it rip." 
And Irish junior Luke Harangody agreed with Brey and McAlarney. 
"Saturday's a big game but we've got nothing to lose; we're just gonna go out and let it rip," Harangody said. 
See a common thread in all those responses? Harangody said the "let-it­rip" mindset stems from Notre 
Dame's underdog status head­ing into the Connecticut game. The Huskies are 26-2 overall and 14-2 in Big East play while the Irish are 16-11· and 7-8 against conference foes. 
"Saturday's gonna be a lot of fun. Everyone's gonna count us out in that game so that's why we're just gonna go in there and go for it," Harangody said. 
The reigning Big East player of the year also said he and his teammates are looking for­ward to playing in front of a raucous Connecticut crowd. 
"I hope to see some Notre Dame fans out there behind us. Probably not a lot because that's a tough place to play," Harangody said. "But I'm excited to go there ... I love being the underdog, especially in an environment like that." 
The Huskies sit in first place in the Big East while Notre 
Dame is looking to climb clos­
er to a top-8 seed for the con­
ference tournament. The Irish 
are in tenth place but a win 
over Connecticut would go a 
long way toward improving 
the team's resume. The Irish 
are 1-7 against opponents cur­
rently in the top 25. 
"This group is pretty level­
headed, they know it's a great 
opportunity. It's a big game. 
It's not like we haven't been in 
any big games this year... ," 
Brey said. "But it's not lost on 
us that it's a great opportuni­
ty. " 
The last time the Irish squared ·off against the Huskies, Notre Dame played them close but could not take a lead late in the game. The · Irish shot 35 percent from the field in the second half, includ­ing just 20 percent from 
behind the 3-point line. 
"We played those guys well last time. I'd like to have a couple of those looks we had here, in Storrs," Brey said. "We had some clean looks from outside." 
Harangody poured in 24 points in that contest but he was the only Irish player to score in double figures. Brey said he hopes Notre Dame's supporting cast, especially point guard Tory Jackson, con­tinues to play well on Saturday. Jackson had 13 sec­ond-half points to lead the Irish over Rutgers. 
"I think he needs to score for us, there's no question about it," Brey said. "He's gotta score the basketball for us. His first [job is] setting the table for our guys and getting us in transition." 
As Notre Dame prepares to take on Connecticut's big, physical frontcourt, the team's outside shooting against Rutgers may be a good omen. Jackson and McAlarney, the starting backcourt, combined to hit 5-of-9 3-point attempts. 
"I can't remember the last time-I hit a three in a game, it has been a while," Jackson said. "I felt loose and confident in my game and in my shot and it definitely helped me [against Rutgers]." 
McAlarney said the Irish will be loose before taking on Connecticut, repeating the team's apparent new slogan when asked how big Saturday's game is. 
"It's not like our lives are on the line," he said. "It's obvi­ously a huge game for us, huge opportunity. We just wanna let it rip." 
The game tips off at 2 p.m. and will air live on CBS. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
Seniors 
continued from page 24 
top seed in the conference tournament". The Irish are guaranteed to host a best-of­three series March 13-15 after receiving a bye in the CCHA tournament, which begins next weekend. 
The Spartans (10-19-5, 7­15-4-3), perennially one of the conference's top squads, has gone through some 
"It's a mental thing, and we have to make sure we're sharp." 
Senior netminder Jordan Pearce is one of six seniors who will be honored following the game, and he could tie '07 grad David Brown for second on the school's all-time win list with a victory tonight. Pearce has 53 career wins and trails only Brown (54) and '90 grad Lance Madson (55). 
Captain Erik Condra (team­
32 points), 

high 22 assists, 

growing pains this season. Michigan State  "Sometimes the wounded animal is  Christian Hanson (team­high 15 goals),  
is tied for 1Oth  the most dangerous.''  Luke  Lucyk,  
in  the  CCHA  Garret  Regan  
standings with 21 points,  Jeff Jackson  and Justin White will also  
ahead  of only  Irish coach  be honored  on  

Bowling Green (17 pts.). 
With a big weekend, though, the Spartans could surpass Lake Superior (21 pts.) and Western Michigan (22 pts.) to climb l,IP to No. 9 in the final CCHA standings. 
"They're going to play to win, and they're going to compete hard," Jackson said. "They're a tough team to play against, and Ohio State found that out two weeks ago." 
Despite the Spartans' strug­gles, they still boast one of the nation's top goaltenders in Jeff Lerg. That alone makes them a formidable opponent, Jackson said. 
"Sometimes the wounded animal is the most danger­ous," he said. "As long as they have a superstar in net, that makes them a difficult team to play. They have one of the best goaltenders in the coun­try, and I think they rally around him." 
The home-and-home series with the Spartans, which will move to East Lansing, Mich., Saturday night, isn't entirely meaningless for the Irish. Notre Dame must finish strong to make sure it secures • a top-four seed in the 16­team NCAA Tournament. 
And, Jackson said, playing well th'is weekend will go a long way in ensuring the Irish are prepared headed into a bye week, and then the CCHA tournament. 
"Having a bye is a good thing, but it's also a bad thing," Jackson said: "We have to be sure we play at a high intensity level this week­end, and then do the same in practice this next week to simulate the intensity our [playoff] opponent would have played in. 
.. 
senior night. 

Those six play­ers make up Notre Dame's all­time winningest class, as they head into the weekend 97-47­14. 
"I'll always remember this group as being the young guys that helped make a difference and set a culture that others will be able to follow for many years to come," Jackson said. "Their legacy will be well known. It'll be hanging in the rafters in that new building." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
ence and confidence." 

Senior midfield Jimmy Mullen leads the Big Green continued from page 24 with six points on the season, all goals. In order to keep and they execute their game­their perfect record, plan game in and game out." Corrigan said playing tough 
Corrigan said Dartmouth's defense is key. early-season "The biggest record is thing we have 
slightly mis-"The biggest thing we to do is match 
Hicks 

leading, and their disci­
that the Big have to do is match 
pline," he said. Green are their discipline." "We have to much better play very dili­than a .500 gently at our
Kevin Corrigan
team. end to make
Irish coach 
"They've had sure that some problems we're match­with injuries ing up with and they've had to adjust to the things that they do so playing without those guys well." for the time being," he said. Hicks and company will "I think that they're just hope to counter that defen­going to continue to get bet­sive discipline with some ter as the guys that they've goals on the other end. The had step in get more experi-Atlanta native leads the team 
with .~ 1 points, including a career-high eight in last week's 13-8 win over Penn State. 
"He's playing great and he's executing well but he's not forcing things and he's not going outside of our offense to do it," Corrigan said. 
Hicks was the second Irish player in a row to claim con­ference player of the week honors. Junior midfield Grant Krebs took home the award on Feb. 17. Krebs_cur­rently ranks second on the team with seven points. 
Both players will be hoping to keep up the scoring in the Irish home opener. The home-opening faceoff is set for 11:30 a.m. in the Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 


• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals lar9e and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 

Friday, February 27, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 30 King ol Naples Creek 
in "The Tempest" Confederacy 33 One way to tribe recoil 8 "The Appeal" 35 Sported novelist 36 Ill-gotten 15 Two-time foreign 38 Pretix with minister of the marine U.S.S.R. 
39 Jesus, Mary or 16Clio maker Joseph 17 Film with the line 41 Like some OVDs 
"By the authority in DVD playersvested in me by 
43 Burning

Kaiser William II, 
evidence

l pronounce you man and wife. -44 Evidence that Proceed with the one is an alien execution· 
46 Opening tor an 19 Equipment for anchor strokes 
48 Toy store inils. 20_1ol(was 
51 Asian au pair

telling) 
54 Have _ (not

21 Observing things 
be trapped) 

22 Home of Sault 55 U.S. erg. with Ste. Marie: Abbr. 
over 39 million 23 Recipient of a members trade discount 56 Fantastic flight 25Withdraw 59 Cheat 26 Not be generous 60 August 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

61 Ignition problem 
62 Big East team with six NJ.T basketball championships 
Down 

Childish 
comeback 
2 ''I Know Who Killed Me" actress, 2007 
3 Word often preceded by a color 
4 Givers of unfriendly hugs 5 Justice Dept. division 6 A ham might use it 1 Focus on one's approach, say 8 lnclinalion 9 Kind of artery 10 Govt probe 11 Frank request 12 U.S. military chopper 13 One way to tum a ship 14 Chain links?: Abbr. 
18 George H. W. Bush. once 23Apt., e.g. 24 Panamanian pronoun 25 Utter 27 Ticks off 28 Glutton's desire 29 Driving tool 30 Beards 31 The good earth? 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puute by a.rty C. Sflk 

32 Pasta eaten with 47 Apparently 53 Alf _(words a spoon anxious person on a game box) 34 Web connection 48 Hill in Nashville 
55 One of a comic·means 

49 "As You Like It" strip married 37Trapped setting couple 
40 Franklin 50 Subjective contemporary pieces 
57 Third-century year

42 Word with longer 51 Switch letters or minute 
52 Where Bambara 58 Atlantic City hot 45 Body types is spoken spot., with "the" 
For answers, call 1-9()()..285·5656, $1.49 a minute; or. with a credit card. 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-886-7-ACAOSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puules, or visit nytimes.comfmobi!exword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puules, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year) . Share tips: nytimes.comlwordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nylimes.comlleaming/xwords, 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRlTIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Orlaml<> lll<><>m, '2; St~phen lkndry,40: iulia Luub·Dreyl\t$, 48: Richard MvU, (;(i 
Happy Btrtbday: You mu~t be ~lron~: this year, if you wamto maintain your staltls quo. !'nusua! changes regarding wr>rk will take y<>u on ;m ad\'enturc that, in the end, will hl'"" positive results.Keep your ideas and your plans on a ~mall scale for"'-'"'' tlu'te will be time~~~ eJ~:p;md wl:!ent.he ~'<'<momy is beUer. Your numbers an• 9, 13,18, 2)1. 
34.:\Y.-42 

ARIES (M.arcli ll·April19): Don't spare •my ~~pcnsc when it c<>mcs to what you realty w:mL )'(,-,.u can budget dse%1ten:. You ran make a great impression b~· doin~ a first-cbs$ job in lx1tb your personal ond pmfes$ionallife. 5 stars 
TAURUS (Apr1128-May 10): Do things you .:njoy instead of tllking on what others re<JU<,St you 1<1 do. y,,., will n:>o:et pcopl• \\·ho intet"e" Y'"' and who mak.: bctt~'l' frlc11ds and oH'upao~ion•.l'h)~kal a<:th·ity may not be your first d10ke but it willlc!ct you moving anJ stimulak your sense>. 2 stars 
<.iEMINl (M.ay 21-jnne 20): Irs time to n:e,·aluate your situation and do something about it. ff yr>ur relatiou:;.hi~ arc dragging you down. discuss the pr<>blems you are ex· pcric.neing and, i( you do not get any CO<lpc'l'ation. it is pmbably time 1<:1 move on.4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-Ju:ly U): Don't be shy when there is so mu,·h t<>be d<>ne.A dtange at work will re to your benefit in the end. so don't make a fu.s. Getting involved with wmt.~Jne unusual will give you a new lease on life. 4 stars 
LEO (July 2-~·Ana. Zl): Take care of resp<>nsibilitics and you will be praised f()l' )'our ability to get thi11g.s don•'· Once you put Y<1Ur duties behind you, you can enjoy a pastime that will :tllow you to feel free and easy about your life and your future. :I stan 
VIRGO (Aua. :23-Sept.l~: A personal mcssa!:le can be sent if vou are prompt and 
f<>~used vu getth1g what you want. Honesty and ~m~e-rity wi.ll be \Vhat C<ltltll in the ~-nd. Love i.~ in the pktnre and a t><JCial evening will pay uff emotionally. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. %3-0ct. ll): .If you mix busineos with plea~ure or wrc your thoughts. y<>u may be taken ad\'antagc of or uS<.>d for ;orneone else's bc:ndit. Focus quietly on 
your w<>rk until you are inn positiun to take a piece of the action. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Od. 23-Nov. 21): Be wry secretive abmu }'(lllf plans. If som<'One gets wind of '"hat you are doing, be or sb.: will steal your ideas and nm with tbem. Pror.:ct p>tn int=<t< and your future. 2 Mars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov.11-Dec. ll}: You'll bun: t~> draw the lin<· betw~-.on tluill· seeking and experiencing a little aJvenlure. Don't take a risk or you may o:nd up in a vezy unc-ertain position. Tmvel can b.: into:re~ting hut i~ not necessary this time 31'0Und. S stars 
CAPRIC-ORN (Dee. U-Jaa, 1!1): Don't rely nn what )'<1U are told. Dishonesty i~ Jlreva!ent. D<, your 0\l'll re~e;~rcb and yo11 will avoid <Ul uusa\'<JI)' situatinn. It's (1<'!;1 not 
to take on a pnrtn~r .if you can get a job don~ on your own. 3 stars 
AQtJARltlS (Jaa. 20-Feb. 18}: fl<.> Ml nwrdo it in any way. Yvu'U be kmpted to 
•Wer$pend. overindulge and make unrealistic t>romiws. Hack off bd<Jre you let ym1r emotions take over ami k:td you into difficult situations, 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March :ZO): Don't get dragged into something )'('tl aren't re.Wy to dt!'al with yd. You don't want to be put in a position where ymt haw 1<:1 rnak~ a <k<:isi<>n you are not prepared to make. S<>meone isn't likdy to be oonest with you. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are slmng, steadf:1st and ~m·a.:tcd to the unusual. 'roo are com· pn•simmte and work li.1f rd\:lrm. YQu 'U\' a stl\1ng leader. 
Ertgenin's Ul<b sil,s:· eugt'm(>fnsuomfor cmifidtmti«l cmrsulltUimlS. 111\'.\fllWP.t•mtlil'!!!ll'lll(llaslJ<n· Eugenia'.\ bf<Jg. mlrotu!t·ia> .com{tJr.fim 
www. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 
THE DOME PIECE 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


JUMBLE 
~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbfes, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
rOFET j 
1 
r 
tDRIZAL 
IJ I IROWMAR t 


[) [] 

I I I IJ 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHEN ll4f; GOOSE 
FEATHE:RS FLEW UP AND mAY, THEY 
WERE:--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: ( 

I X I I ) " [ I I I )" 
(Answers tomorrow) PAUSE BORAX MYSTIC CODGER
Yesterday's IJumbles: 

Answer: A judge will do this when he has a tennis match -GO TO "COURT" 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN  46556  
D  Enclosed is $120 for one academic year  
D  Enclosed is $65 for one semester  
Name  ____________________________________________  

Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, February 27, 2009 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Revenge factor 
Irish hope to avenge loss, boost NCAA tournament resume 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Editor 
On Wednesday, Notre Dame narrowly escaped with a win over lowly Rutgers for the sec­ond year in a row. Now, the Irish will try to salvage a sea­son split against mighty Connecticut for the second year in a row. 
Notre Dame has won four out of its last five games and, after dispatching the Scarlet Knights, the Irish are concen­trating on the No. 2 Huskies. 
Connecticut snapped Notre Dame's 45-game home win­ning streak on Jan. 24, but on Saturday the Irish will get a chance for revenge in Storrs. 
see REVENGE/page 22 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles on to MIAA 
. 
title gatne 
ByALEXWEST Sports Writer 
With a win over Calvin on Thursday night, Saint Mary's has punched their first ever ticket to the MIAA Championship. 

The Belles defeated the Knights 67-58 at the Angela Athletic Complex to add one more chapter to their already successful season. 
In the first half, the Knights (16-10) took an early 7-2 advantage. The Belles (17 -9) were able to respond with an eight-point run, primarily from taking advantage of sec­ond chance opportunities. 
The Belles continued to lead for the rest of the first half, leading by much as 11 points 
see BELLES/page 21 
BASEBALL 

Team heads to the desert for three games down south 
Creighton Sunday -in the his first start of the year. another sophomore righty, will Notre Dame will close its By MATT GAMBER 
tournament, which Dayton is Schrage said Johnson is still get the nod Saturday against weekend Sunday against
Associate Sports Editor 

hosting. Friday and Saturday's recovering from a shoulder the Flyers (1-2). Dupra surren­Creighton (0-4), who lost four 
games will be at Diablo Stadium injury but should be fine after dered two earned runs in 6 1/3 games at Sam Houston State 
Notre Dame will again escape in Tempe, Ariz., and Sunday's allowing one run in three innings in Notre Dame's opener last weekend by a combined six the dreary conditions of the contest will be played at Marich innings in his first outing. against Ohio. State on Feb. 20 runs. Junior right-hander Eric Midwest this weekend as the Field in Phoenix. "We've been bringing him and was charged with the loss. Maust (0-0, 5.40) will get the Irish head west to Arizona for Sophomore right-hander Cole back slowly, but he'll get the Dayton will send left-bander start after he allowed three the inaugural Phoenix College Johnson (1-0, 3.00) will take the star Friday night on a pitch Quinn Haselhorst (0-1, 12.46) to runs in five innings in his first Classic. ball tonight against the count," Schrage said. "It's the mound. start. 
Notre Dame (2-1) will play Bulldogs' (3-1) right-hander important we get him out "They have a little bit of "[Creighton is] real scrappy, three games -against Gonzaga Matt Fields (0-0, 0.00), who there." power, and they11 be scrappy," Friday, Dayton Saturday and threw seven shutout innings in Brian Dupra (0-1, 2.84), Schrage said. see CREIGHTON/page 21 
HOCKEY 

ND ready for two vs. MSU 
Seniors to be honored during Friday night's game at Joyce Center 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 
Tonight's home game against Michigan State may be senior night, but Irish coach Jeff Jackson knows that this senior class. still has to take care of some business in the Joyce Center. 
"For me personally it'll be a bittersweet moment," Jackson said. "It'll be bitter to see them play their last home regular season game, but it's also sweet to know their work is not yet com­plete." 
No. 2 Notre Dame (25-5-3, 19-4-3-3 CCHAJ has already wrapped up the league's reg­ular season crown and the 

Irish sophomore Calle Ridderwall carries the puck past a Nothern see SENIORS/page 22 Michigan defender during Notre Dame's ~2 win on Feb. 14. 

MEN-'S lACROSSE 

Squad opens hotne season with Darhnouth 
Hicks leads red-hot offense in matchup against Big Green 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
Even though junior attack Neal Hicks is coming into the weekend as the reigning Great Western Lacrosse League (GWLL) player of the year, Irish eoaeh Kevin Corrigan said it would take a balanced effort across the board for Notre Dame to run its record to 3-0 this weekend against Dartmouth. 
"If teams adjust defensively and take him away, we're not concerned with how many points Neal Ilicks has, but how many points we have," Corrigan said. 

Corrigan specifically pointed to senior attacks Hyan Hoff and Duncan Swezey as play­ers who could put the ball in the back of the net, but added that his entire attack and midfield lineup was capable of picking up any scoring slack. 
"We don't see any reason why all of those guys should­n't be contributors," he said. "If we can attack people from that many different direc­tions, I think we become a very tough team to play against." 
The No. 8 Irish (2-0) will be put to the test this Saturday against the Big Green (1-1), who won 11-10 in overtime against Hartford on Feb. 21. 
"They play with a great sense of themselves," Corrigan said. "They're very disciplined, they have a plan, 
see HICKS/page 22 







