The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 96 WEDNESDAY. FEBRUARY 25.2009 
Student shot near off-campus home 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Ca111pus prepares for Lent 
Ash Wednesday marks beginning of season 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame is preparing for Lent with special religious services and meatless menus at the dining halls on Ash Wednesday and on Lenten Fridays. 
The Basilica will not have any extra masses on Ash Wednesday, but will feature Stations of the Cross every Friday throughout 
. Lent and special Lenten Vespers at 7:15p.m. on Sundays. Sacred Heart Crypt will have a special 7:00p.m. A<>h Wednesday Mass. Fr. Peter Rocca, rector of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, said he expects high attendance at Ash Wednesday services. "The 5:15 [p.m.] Mass is always pretty packed, all the way back to the Lady Chapel, aRd the 11:30 [a.m.] Mass is usually quite full too," Rocca said. Ash Wednesday is not a Holy Day of Obligation, making the high student attendance more poignant, he said. "It's a wonderful thing because the vast majority of students go to Mass because tl1ey really want to," Rocca said. "They want a good 
see LENTIpage 6 
ByJENN METZ News Editor 
A Notre Dame student was shot in the arm walking home from a bar early Tuesday morning after mis­takenly attempting to enter a neighbor's house, police said. 
The 23-year old woman was shot on the 800-block of 
E. Miner St. on the front porch of the home next door 
to her own. 
University Spokesperson and Assistant Vice President for News and Information Dennis Brown confirmed the woman is a student at Notre Dame and is receiving care at a local hospital. 
Brown said the University is gathering more informa­tion about the event, but per the woman's family's wishes. will not release her identity. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins offered his 


College Dems react to Obama address 
President presents agenda for 'making government smarter' before a joint session ofCongress 

AP 
President Barack Obama presents a bold agenda before a Joint session of Congress Tuesday. 


'Last Lecture' draws crowd 
Ackermann advises students on careers in the series' second installment 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Pursuing a career without con­sidering financial gain may seem counterintuitive in an economic downturn, but fmance professor Carl Ackermann said students embarking on a career path must do what makes them happy. 
"If you do what you really enjoy, you will be a happier and more productive person," he said. "Financial awards will follow." 
Ackermann spoke to a packed room Tuesday night in the Coleman-Morse Lounge for the second installment of the "Last Lecture" series hosted by student government. 
The series invites professors to impart wisdom in a lecture as if it were their last chance to do so, modeled off of the story of Carnegie Melon professor Randy 
see LECTURE/ page 6 


Architecture School receives top-10 ranking 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's School of Architecture recently received some good news in the form of a top-1 0 ranking in the annual America's Best Architecture Schools survey. 
The survey is conducted every year by the Design Futures Council and has con­sistently given Notre Dame's architecture program a high ranking. Last year, the pro­gram was ranked 12th, while Cornell University occupied the 1Oth-place spot. The highest rating Notre Dame has ever received in the sur­vey was ninth place. 
Michael Lykoudis. the dean of Notre Dame's School of Architecture, said he and his colleagues are satisfied with the high rating, as well as 
the high rankings of past years. 
"We've been ranked in that area for some time now," Lykoudis said. "Tenth place is an improvement over last year, which was an improve­ment over the previous year, and so on. So, certainly we're pleased." 
Lykoudis said the survey's rankings are determined based on which colleges' stu­dents are preferred by top architecture firms looking to recruit employees for their company. Therefore, Notre Dame's high place on the list means that architecture stu­dents at the University are wanted more for jobs after they graduate than students at many other schools. 
Lykoudis said the high ranking reflects well on all 
see RANKINGS/page 4 prayers in a University press release Wednesday: "Our prayers are with her and her family, and we will continue to offer s1:1pport to them dur­ing this difficult time," he said. 

According to the release, staff members from the Office of Student Affairs are providing assistance to the student's family. 
Captain Phil Trent of the South Bend Police Department (SBPD) said, 
according to police reports, officers were first called to Memorial Hospital after a female was admitted with a gunshot wound to her arm. 
The student, who police said was intoxicated, told officers that she and a 23­year-old friend had left Club 23, a bar located at the cor­ner of South Bend and Notre Dame Avenues, and walked to their house, when they 
see SHOOTING/page 3 

By ROBERT SINGER 
News Writer 
Facing a sinking economy and staunch resistance from Republicans in Congress, President Barack Obama put forward a bold agenda Tuesday night in an address to a joint session of Congress that met the expectations of College Democrats president Spencer Howard. 
"Even with the current situa­tion we're in, it was nice for him to raise the bar for what the government is doing," Howard said. "He wants us to reach for things that we've haven't thought possible." 
The agenda Obama set in his speech, which detailed sweep­ing changes to education, energy policy and health care, did not prioritize expanding the government so much as improvh1g its ability to meet people's needs, Howard said. 
"It's not about making gov­ernment bigger," he said. "It's about making government smarter. You don't want to over-regulate, but you can't let people run amok." 
Obama not only described the current crisis while laying the groundwork for a short­term recovery plan, but also detailed his plans to strength­en the economy for future gen­erations. Weaknesses in ener­gy policy, a fractured health care system and lagging public 
see OBAMNpage 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 25, 2009 
INSIDE-COLUMN 


iPod Manifesto 

When the iPod became popular, it not only changed how people listened to music, but also how people threw house parties. 
All you have to do is buy an iPod dock, make a playlist and you're set. The Chris Hine iPod has turned 
everybody into a Editor-in-Chief deejay. This is a problem. I was recently at a house party and everything was going fine. People were dancing, having a good time, but as it got later in the night, some of my fellow partygoers became dissatisfied with the music. This began a spiral effect that nearly killed the party. One girl, we'll call her girl No. 1, went over to the iPod, looked for a favorite song of hers and put it on. Happy with herself, she resumed dancing but her joy was negat­ed by the disappointment of another girl. Girl No. 2 waited a few seconds to decipher what song it was, process that she didn't like it, and went to change the iPod. Naturally, her selection displeased someone else, who then tried to change the song, and so on. Thankfully, the playlist came around to Rihanna's "Disturbia" and the party was saved (Nobody can resist dancing to a Rihanna song). However, not every party has a happy ending like this one did and may have been ruined by poor song selection on the iPod. To avoid such problems at parti~s in the future, here is a guide to follow, called the iPod Manifesto: 
+Let your host control the iPod for the entire party: 
Your hosts want to throw the best party they can, so they have carefully crafted a playlist that will appeal to all partygoers and maximize everyone's enjoyment. For as much as you might want to change the song, resist that urge. Do not mess with these playlists because ... 

+Newsflash: Nobody cares about you or your friends' favorite song. 
This was the mistake girl No. 1 made at the party I attended. Do you see your absolute favorite song on the iPod? Good for you, but nobody else cares. So while you're singing in an ignorant bliss, everyone around you is getting upset and wondering what the hell is going on. 
+If you absolutely have to touch the iPod, please play an artist or song that everyone likes. 

This is related to the second rule. If you can't resist the urge to change the iPod, play any of the following artists: Rihanna, Kelly Clarkson, T.I., Kanye West Akon, T-Pain, Lil' Wayne. When a song by any of these people comes on at 
· a party, there are no problems. You may not personally like all their songs -I don't-but there's no denying that their songs get a party going. 
+Ifyou're hosting a party, hide the iPod. 

Put your iPod on a dock, get a long playlist cued up, connect it to some good speakers, and put the dock in a closet or someplace where people can't find it. This way, people who search for the iPod can't change it to a bad sQilg and ruin your party. 
+If someone changes the iPod to a bad song, you can kick them out, no questions asked. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal-· ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO DO YOU WANT TO BID ON AT THE BP MEAL AUCTION? 



Alex Godofsky  Krystie Traudt  Lauren Floccare  Robby Rusca  Carson Tran  Pat Young  
Senior  Senior  Senior  Senior  Senior  Senior  
Knott  Off-Campus  Off-Campus  Duncan  Duncan  Duncan  
"The women's  "Alex Trebek. ,,  "Krystie  "Father JJ-I  "Scarlett  "Pat Young. "  


,
soccer team. Traudt." just want to Johansson" 





shake the man's hand." 


IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 

Sophomore Brian Koepsel, left, fights senior Joey Leary last night In the 147-pound weight class. Leary won the fight in a split decision. 
OFFBEAT 

Woman wins $2 million house In raffle 
DANVILLE, Calif. -Susan Wells was thrilled to learn she'd won a $2 million house in a raffie days after her husband had been laid off from his job. ''I'm floored," said Wells, who bought the ticket as a sur­prise to celebrate the cou­ple's 16th anniversary. "I can't believe this has hap­pened. Needless to say, my husband is very surprised." 
The house is in upscale Marin County, just north of San Francisco. The couple already own a home in Danville, a suburb south of 
TODAY a: 
LLI 
::r: !;;: 
LLI 

==.... 
c( 
(.) 

San Francisco, and if they don't want to move they have the option of $,1.2 mil­lion in cash. 
They're still deciding what do,.but Brad Wells, who had been a sales executive for a Silicon Valley high-tech com­pany, said the winnings are definitely a boost. 
Topless coffee shop opens in Maine 
VASSALBORO, Maine-Cup size has more than one meaning at a new central Maine coffeehouse. Servers are topless at the Grand View Topless Coffee Shop, which opened its doors Monday on a busy road in Vassalboro. A sign outside says, "Over 18 only." Another says, "No cameras, no touching, cash only." 

On Tuesday, two men sipped coffee at a booth while three topless waitresses and a bare-chested waiter stood­nearby. Topless waitress Susie Wiley said men, women and couples have stopped by. 
The coffee shop raised the ire of dozens of residents when it went before the town planning board last month. Town officials said the coffee shop met the letter of the law. 
Information compiled from the Associated .Press. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0 
...I 

LOW 30 LOW 28 LOW 23 LOW 14 
IN BRIEF 
Mass for Ash Wednesday will be celebrated today in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. 
Wendy Faik MacGregor, the Chief Marketing Officer for Feeding American and Lisa Jaworski, the Chief Executive Officer for the Food Bank of Northern Indiana will give a talk today titled "Hunger in America and South Bend: Responding to Unprecedented Demand" at 5 p.m. in 136 DeBartolo. All are welcome. 
"Guernica," a play inspired by the true store of a ship that sunk in 1997. will be performed in the Philbin Studio Theatre in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The play is being per­formed at 7:30 p.m. through Saturday and at 2:30 p.m on Sunday. For more ticket infor­mation: performingarts.nd.edu or call the DeBartolo Ticket Office at 574-631-2800. 
There will be free swing 
' dance lessons with the ND Swing Club in the LaFortune Ballroom 8 p.m. to 9 p.m and 9 
p.m. to 11 p.m. there will be open swing dancing with live music featuring ND Jazz Band 
II. 

A student-faculty dinner will take place at Legends from 5 
p.m. to 7:30 p.m. in honor of Sexual Assualt Awareness Week. RSVP to grc@nd.edu or 574-631-9340. 
Bengal Bouts finals take place Saturday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 
HIGH 28 HIGH 
26 

LOW 18 LOW 
18 

Atlanta 59 I 41 Boston 37 I 27 Chicago 44 I 32 Denver 62 I 39 Houston 79 I 63 Los Angeles 65 I 48 Minneapolis 34 118 New York 43 I 32 Philadelphia 46 I 32 Phoenix 83 I 56 Seattle 46 I 37 St. Louis 58 I 47 Tampa 76 I 53 Washington 50 133 
Wednesday, February 25, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group deliberates details of second survey 

By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer  
The Council Hepresen.~atives (COR) cussed changes for the  of dis­new  

student survey in their meeting on Tuesday evening. 
The survey, which is sched­uled to be released early next week, includes questions on a range of topics, from off-cam­pus living to diversity and inclusion. 
respond to a question he or she was uncomfortable answering. 
This year, the questions on the survey will have four answer choices instead of three. Heish said this will encourage students to lean to one side of an issue instead of remaining in the middle. 
The survey will include ques­tions on different performing arts venues. More specifically, questions about "art points" 
will be 
added to the 
survey. 

Members of the Council made few  "The survey helps us to filter out the responses to questions to target students  T h e s e points will work similar to flex  
changes to the survey, but tried to clarify the­wording of  who currently live off campus, students who will be living offcampus next year and students who will  points, w h i c h caused members of COR to  
the questions to make  be living on campus. "  question whether this  
them  as  would lead  
lucid as pos­ Bob Reish  to  an  
sible.  student body president  increase in  
Student  fees.  
body presi- A section  
dent  Bob  of questions  

Heish said the way the ques­dedicated to sexual assault and tions are phrased was designed sexual orientation will be on to provide the most accurate this survey. results possible for garnering One question in this section data about specific topics. will gauge student opinion on 
Council members asked for recognition of a club for gay clarifications about the format and lesbian students. of the survey. Another question COR dis­
"The survey should contain cussed at length concentrated clear-cut, simple language," on relations between Notre sophomore class president Dame and the South Bend com­Cynthia Weber said. munity. They said this .question 
Council members debated is important because it will whether to eliminate the help student government better answer choice of "not sure" in grasp the breakdown of the survey. Reish, however, responses from different areas said the answer was included of the student body. so a student was not forced to "The survey helps us to filter out the responses to questions to target students who current­ly live off campus, students who will be living off campus next year and students who will be living on campus," Heish said. 
Reish said the responses stu­dent government receives from the off-campus questions will help leaders decide if they should become more involved with off-campus living or whether the University should pursue this policy area. 
"We need to see what student government's role is in relation to the University in providing information about off-campus things," Reish said. 
After going over the survey, the floor was then opened for members of COR to suggest additional questions to the sur­vey. 
Weber said students should be given the option of answer­ing an open-ended question about how well they feel stu­dent government is currently doing and what they thing stu­dent government should be doing. 
"Some people don't think stu­dent government should address pressing issues and instead leave that up to the administration," she said. "We should see what students think we should be doing." 
Another suggested topic was to add additional questions on the Good Samaritan policy at the University. 
There is a committee com­posed of Student Union Board and Campus Life Council mem­bers addressing this issue and trying to come up with the best possible questions. 
Heish said it was important 
for the COR members to give their feedback on the survey because it is highly influential to the actions of student gov­ernment. 
"Over half the student body filled out the last survey sent out," he said. "It is really important because it has the potential to change student government." 
In other COR news 
+Reish asked COR members for feedback on what they would like to see discussed at 

Shooting 
continued from page 1 
attempted to enter the wrong home. 
According to the police, the student said she knocked on the door and attempted to enter the home, when she realized she was shot. 
A Feb. 24 South Bend Tribune report stated the woman told police she did not hear the sound of a gunshot before being wounded. 
Police repQrts say the woman and her friend went next door to her actual resi­dence and attempted to bandage the wound. The woman was then taken to Memorial Hospital, where police were called. 
According to the report, a 28-year-old man who lives in the first house told the police that he and anot)Jer man were playing video games in the living room at around 
3:30 a.m., when he heard someone knocking on the door. 
He told police he yelled for the person at the door to leave. After the knocking continued, he told police he fired a single shot through the front door and then heard a woman scream. 
the Intercollegiate Symposium that will take place on March 
28. Members suggested a range of topics including the usage of student finances and services provided to students. 
+COR said goodbye to two­year member Kadeja Gaines. The Student Union Treasurer will be replaced by the new Student Union Treasurer Nick Danna at the next meeting. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 
According to police reports, the man said he exited the back of the house and around the side to the front porch, but when he arrived, no one was there. 
He told police he then gave the weapon to his friend, who then left the house to go to work. 
Police were able to recover the weapon. 
According to the Tribune report. a bullet hole can be seen in the home's front door. 
Trent told The Observer Wednesday afternoon the investigation is still continu­ing and poliee have spoken to people who were insidP the house at the time of the shooting. 
He said those inside the house thought the woman was attempting to forcibly enter the residence. 
No one has been arrested in connection with the shooting, Trent said. 
Further investigation .will indicate whether "charging will be appropriate," Trent said. 
A report of the incident will be filed with the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's Office once the investigation is com­plete, he said. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 25, 2009 

Students give thanks to alumni with notes 
By PUJA PARIKH 
NewsWrirer 
Those green "Holla Back" T-shirts you may see students wearing around campus are part of the Thanksgiving in February event held by The Notre Dame Annual Fund and Student Development Committee. 
The two-day event, which took place Monday and Tuesday, was created in order to have students write per­sonal thank-you notes to alumni who have donated to Notre Dame this year. 
All Notre Dame students were encouraged to go to the Sorin Room in the LaFortune Student Center and write the letters. 
An Annual Fund and Student Development Center flier said donations made by University alumni " ... have supported our dorms, clubs, academic programs, building maintenance and repairs, campus-wide electricity and heating, financial aid pack­ages, and much more." 
Posters placed throughout the residence halls and in LaFortune to encourage stu­dents to participate in the two-day event read, "Bolla Back. Tuition covers less than 50 percent of the cost of your education. Alumni make it possible. Say thanks." 
The goal of the program was to raise awarene.ss regarding the importance of alumni support of the University by having students 


School 
continued from page 1 
aspects of Notre Dame's School of Architecture. "It's a combination of fac­
tors," Lykoudis said. " We have good students, so the admis­sions process is working well. We have dedicated fac­ulty and our curriculum is unique." 
Lykoudis also cited the year that 
architecture students spend studying abroad in Rome as a contributing factor to Notre Dane's high ranking in the survey. The year in Rome provides students with knowledge about the histori­cal aspect of architecture. 
"The year in Rome teaches students to set their aspira­

write a short handwritten thank-you note, or:ganizers said. 
"It takes only five minutes to say thank you," Emma Kloste·rman, who works for The Student Development Committee, a branch of The Annual Fund, said. "As stu­dents who are part of the Student Development Committee, it is our job to help with student-alumni relations." 
The Thanksgiving in February event is part of the Spirit of Notre Dame Campaign, which is the largest fundraising operation in the history of Catholic edu­cation. 
"We basically want to con­tinue to help students who need monetary assistance," Klosterman said. "And we know that it takes a lot of money to help them out. The alumni of Notre Dame make that possible, and so we real­ly need to thank them for everything they have done. They make Notre Dame possi­ble for so many students." 
The event also provided pizza and soda for students who came to write a note. 
The Annual Fund plans on holding the event again next year due to its success and has planned on expanding the dates and times of the events to accommodate a ·larger response. 
This is the event's second year. 
Contact Puja Parikh at pparikh@nd.edu 
tions pretty high," Lykoudis said. Not only are they com­peting with their fellow stu­deqts and students from other schools, they are-com­peting with all of history." 
When asked if he had any ideas on how to push Notre 
"Students' impact in the world is our objective ... But we're not chasing rankings. " 
Michael Lykoudis dean Notre Dame School of Architecture 
Dame's ranking even higher in next year's sur­vey, Lykoudis said that receiving a favorable rank­ing in the sur­vey is not the School of Architecture's primary goal. 
"Rankings are not our objec­tive," Lykoudis 
said. "Students' impact in the world is our objective. We want our students to have an impact on the world. If the rankings reflect that, it's great. But we're not chasing rankings." 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 
St. joseph 
Howard also explained how Obama's plan for a more sus­tainable energy policy will lead to a better economy. 
"It's very important," he said. "It's more than energy inde­pendence. We have to have a little more control over what's going on in our economy. If there's a conflict in another country and we can't get the energy source that will cause problems." . 
Bipartisanship has been a goal of the Obama administra­tion, but so far the parties have remained largely divided on economic policy. Howard and Fedynsky discussed Obama's efforts to reach across the aisle. 
"It was clear with the stimu­lus that he tried to reach out to them, and I think he was will­ing to compromise on some points, but I don't think the Republicans really met him," Fedynsky said. "He's not going to go all the way to meet the Republicans because he won the election." 
"The Republican Party, it's not a very big tent," Howard added. "They are very set in ideology and there's not a lot questioning among them it seems. In the Senate, the Republicans take a lot of flak for bucking the party lines." 
Toward the end of his speech, Obama shared accounts of Americans who have struggled to make posi­tive change amid economic hardship. Howard said Obama's optimism has helped to lift the public's mindset. 
"I think now they are start­ing to feel a little more helpful with haying a stimulus pack­age in place," he said. "I think these stories help people see what is possible even if they have been going through hard times." 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 
Oba01a 
continued from page l 

schools have contributed to the crisis now facing the country, but these things can be fixed, Obama said. 
"If we're honest with our­selves, we'll admit that for too long, we have not always met these responsibilities -as a government or as a people," Obama said. "I say this not to lay blame or look backwards, but because it is only by under­standing how we arrived at this moment that we'll be able to lift ourselves out of this predicament." 
Freshman Michael Fedynsky said he 
those town hall meetings to reach a greater number of people." 
Considering the scale and complexity of the problems facing the nation, Obama's ability to communicate his message will be crucial to sum­
moning  public  support,  
Howard said.  
"If you  look  at  all these  

issues, they're so connected to each other," Howard said. "You can't really isolate what goes on in our world. When it comes to businesses moving jobs off­shore or into other countries, that affects everything." 
More affordable health care will ease people's budget and allow more of them to attain higher levels of education, 
Howard said, 

agreed with while a more
"I think he understands 
Obama's educated 
view that the what people are going workforce 
nation faces through and that's why he wiJJ spur a a "cross­more produc­
came to Elkhart, Indiana 
roads in his­tive economy. 
tory" and Fort Myers, "It's all challenges in Florida-so connected," health care, he said.
people can have access 
energy, and "Whatever 
to him."
education we're doing have con-with educa­verged to tion and
Spencer Howard 
threaten the healthcare is

president
nation's going to

College Democrats 
long-term affect anoth­
prosperity. 

"I feel like the next few gen­erations will look at this point either as the beginning of the end of our time as a superpow­er or a rebirth of American power," Fedynsky said. 
Howard said Obama fulfilled his aim to "speak frankly and directly to the men and women who sent us here" about the problems facing the nation. 
"I think he understands what people are going through and that's why he came out to Elkhart, Indiana, and Fort Myers, Florida -so people can have access to him," Howard said. "It was an extension of er policy." 
Howard also spoke favorably of Obama's plan to pull the nation out of the recession. The stimulus package recently passed into law will have an immediate impact on the econ­omy by helping ordinary peo­ple, Howard said. 
"Our economy can't get' going if people aren't working," he said. 
Other changes must also take place, Howard said. 
"They have to put in regula­tions where the general popu­lation is not hurt by corpora­tions maximizing their profit," he said. 


Combination del Mare 
Sauleed Tilapia, Shrimp and Roma Tomatoes over 
Angel Hair Pusla with Wine & Lemon Dill Butter_ Sauce: Served with 
Crabmeat-Stuffed Mushrooms 
Shr\mp & Scallop Scampi Unguini & Clams 
Capellini & Crabmeat Shrimp Sizzldini" Unguini Pescatore ~ 
Salmone Alla Gtiglia 


cXW1~7V:,~ 
Pasta & Salad Just $7.99' 

1332 Hilltop Rd. • 269.983.9900 Mishawaka 5110 Edison Lakes Pkwy. • 574 271.1692 www. PapaVinos!talianKitchen.com 
Served 11 a.m.· 3 p.m. Yoor choice o! Rigalofli Fra DillY®. Gapellini &Crabmeal. Shnmp SiZZiCimi'. Sp;cy t-l.annara or Meal Sauce lasagna or Pasta Co~ Polk> aOtl aPap;rs or caes!lf lndl'iidllal Salad. 
"\~l:tll>1m :113.~-~>';1[1d~t;-llfl'l:~~~l$.:~lttS;:.c~"ml~:: UAiiOOlim~~ 







ORI D & NATION 
Wednesday, February 25, 2009 CCNtPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Islamic court gets women judges 
RAMALLAH, West Bank -The Islamic courts were among the last male-only bas­tions in Palestinian society, where women have been presidential c_andidates, police officers and even suicide bombers. 
Now two stern-looking young women in Muslim head scarves and long black robes have smashed through the thick glass ceil­ing. 
Khuloud Faqih, 34, and Asmahan Wuheidi, 31, made history in February when they became the first female Islamic judges in the Palestinian territories. 
North Korea plans satellite launch 
SEOUL, South Korea -North Korea said Tuesday it is preparing to shoot a satellite into orbit, its clearest reference yet to an impending launch that neighbors and the U.S. suspect will be a provocative test of a long-range missile. 
The statement from the North's space technology agency comes amid growing international Concern that the communist nation is gearing up to fire a version of its most advanced missile -capable of reaching the U.S. -in coming days, in violation of a U.N. Security Council reso­lution. 
North Korea asserted last week that it bears the right to "space development" ­words the regime has used in the past to disguise a missile test. In 1998, North Korea test-fired a Taepodong-1 ballistic missile over Japan and then claimed to have put a sate)lite into orbit.The char­tered helicopter was found abandoned near a highway north of Athens Sunday. It had a bullet hole in its fuel tank from the gunfight that broke. out with guards during ·the 

NATIONAL NEWS 
CEO shipped tainted syringes 
RALEIGH, N.C. -For months, prosecu­tors say, technicians in the gloom of a run­down North Carolina -plant prepared life: sustaining syringes and shipped them before ensuring they were sterile. 
Investigators believe a rush to maximize profits led Dushyant Patel's AM2PAT Inc. to produce heparin and saline syringes that killed five people and sickened hundreds of others, some resulting in spinal meningitis and permanent brain damage. Authorities are now on an international search for Patel after he was indicted last week on 10 charges ·including fraud, false statements and selling adulterated medical devices. 
U.S. Attorney George Holding said Tuesday that authorities believe Patel has fled to his native India and have turned to Interpol for cross-border aid in catching up to him. 
Business waiting for payments 
AUSTIN, Texas -Hundreds of business­es that provided transportation, portable toilets and other assistance after Hurricane Ike are still waiting to be paid six months after the storm, the result of a $134 million dispute between Texas and the federal government. 
Small businesses around the country are struggling because of the delay, and many of them say next time a hurricane threat­ens the Texas Gulf Coast, they might be reluctant to help. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Bill against illegal immigrants passed 
INDIANAPOLIS-The Indiana Senate has approved bill that would revoke the businest; licenses of companies that repeatedly hire ille~ al immigrant<>. 
The "three-strikes" proposal would revoke b tsi­ness license from companies who k 1owingly hire illegal workers three times. The bill p.lSsed 3 7-13. 
The proposal now heads to the fJemocrat-led House, where it may struggle. House Spea~ er Patrick Bauer of South Bend has said he believes immigration is a federal issue and that he pref:ws the House doesn't deal with the topic this sessiPn. 
Obatna addresses national probletns 
P/e;:,zdent assures citizens that United States will survive the 'day of reckoning' 
I " ·ciated Press 

vASHINGTON­., ·esident Barack Obama }J ·omised a nation shud­c aing in economic crisis · uesday night that he would lead it from a dire 
·day of reckoning" to a Jrighter future, summon­ing politicians and public alike to shoulder respon­">ibility for hard choices and shared sacrifice. 
"The time to take charge of our future is here," Obama declared, delivering his first address to a joint session of Congress. 
Offering words of reas­surance to an anxious nation, he declared, "Jironight I want every American to know this: We will rebuild, we will recover, and the United States of America will emerge stronger than before." 
"We are a nation that has seen promise and peril," he said. "Now we must be that nation again." 
Cheered robustly as he entered the House cham­ber, Obama grinned, shook hands and kissed lawmakers and stopped for a lengthy embrace with Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, back on the Along with aid for health care coverage and the televised GOP bench only tliis week banks, he also called on move the nation to response, exhorted fellow after surgery for pancre­Congress to move quickly "greener" fuel use. Republicans to be atic cancer. on legislation to overhaul Just five weeks after his Obama's "strongest part­
To deal with the current outdated regulations on inauguration, Obama ners" when they agree crisis, deepening each the nation's financial addressed an ebullient with him. But he signaled day, the president said markets. Democratic congressional that won't happen much, more money will be need­"I ask this Congress to majority and an embat­calling Democrats in ed to rescue troubled join me in doing whatever tled but reinvigorated Congress "irresponsible" banks beyond the $700 proves necessary," GOP minority as well as for passing the $787 bil­billion already committed Obama said. "Because we millions of anxious view­lion stimulus package last year. He said he · cannot consign our nation ers. Despite the nation's that Republicans have knows that bailout bil­to an open-ended reces­economic worries and the criticized as excessive lions for banks are sion." lack of support for his and waste{ul. · unpopular -"I promise Thinking longer-term, plans from all but a few "The way to lead is not 
· you, I get it," he said -Obama said without many Republican lawmakers, to raise taxes-and put but he also insisted that specifics that both politi­Obama enjoys strong more money and power was the only way to get cal parties must give up approval ratings across in hands of Washington credit moving again to favored programs while the nation. politicians," Jindal said, households and business­uniting behind his cam­Louisiana's young, according to excerpts of es, the lifeblood of the paign promises to build charismatic governor, his remarks released by American economy. better schools, expand Bobby Jindal, delivering the Republican Party. 



Mardi Gras not dampened by recession 
Associated Press sold for cash because of the hard grass skirts. 
NEW ORLEANS -The economic times. Her husband lost his jl!lb as "Oh, my God, if my family could downturn couldn't overshadow the a dairy salesman. see me now, the only good news is Mardi Gras revelry Tuesday as "I still have my torch, though," that they wouldn't recognize me," partiers jostled for beads on she said, and Carnival was one lux­said Zulu member John Rice after parade routes and the French ury the family could afford. "This his face was painted. "This is the Quarter swelled with boozy fun is the greatest free show on earth." only city in the world where you and masked crowds. The day started with clarinetist can get away with this." 
Many revelers turned the tables Pete Fountain leading his Half-Fast Mayor Ray Nagin rode on horse­on the recession, dressing in cos­Walking Club into the streets, back dressed as what he called a tumes riffing on bailouts, the stim­marking the unofficial opening of "recovery gladiator" in honor of ulus package and busted budgets. Mardi Gras, or Fat Tuesday. the city's rebuilding from 
The celebration was marred by By dawn, spectators crammed Hurricane Katrina. violence after police said at least parade routes and costumed revel­Katrina was on the mind of six people -including an infant -ers mingled with all-night partiers Cherry Gilbert, a 42-year-old were shot on St. Charles Avenue, a in the French Quarter's narrow Seattle bus driver who helped historic parade route where fami­streets. organize a reunion for about 80 lies traditionally gather. None of The first parade of the day was family members, many displaced to 
the injuries appeared to be life­Zulu, the traditional African­cities like Dallas and Atlanta by the threatening, and the celebrations American parade, foliowed by Rex, 2005 storm. went on. the king of Carnival, and hundreds "This is the first time since 
Suzanne Gravener, a 59-year-old of truck floats. Katrina we've all gathered here New Orleans teacher, dressed as At 4 a.m., Zulu members got into and it's a beautiful thing," Gilbert the Statue of Liberty -without a costume, which for them means said. "There's nothing like New crown. That, she joked, had to be blackface, huge afro wigs and Orleans ... and family." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 25, 2009 
Lent 
continued from page 1 
start to the Lenten season." 
The dining halls will continue with vegetarian Lenten Fridays, which have sparked controversy in the past. 
Marc Poklinkowski, general manager of South Dining Hall, said, "We will have meatless meals on Ash Wednesday and on Fridays throughout Lent. This is a University policy that's always existed. But two times in the past 10 years, this issue has been brought up to the administration." 
Despite student complaints, the dining halls will not change this practice any time soon. 
"We're a Catholic university, and the administration really wanted to continue that tradition," Poklinkowski said. 
To appease disgruntled students, the dining halls will serve "meat­less favorites," vegetarian foods students love. Poklinkowski said these items included cheese-filled breadsticks, cheese lasagna and popular fish items, like shrimp. 
"We look for things that are real­ly popular with students to serve in place of meat," Poklinkowski said. "A lot of student<> come in disap­pointed, so we try to make it easier on them." 
Jose Cortes, a supervisor at South Dining Hall, supports the 


Lecture 
continued from page 1 
Pausch. 
Ackermann said he was once offered the job of putting together the American League baseball schedule. The job combined his interest in baseball, logic and math, but he declined the job offer. 
"My good friends and I thought there was no money and no future in sports," he said, generating laughter from the crowd. 
Ackermann said he missed out on a great opportunity because he was searching for financial reward, so he encouraged students to take a chance in their job search. 
Learning from this mistake later in life, Ackermann said he came to Notre Dame to focus on research, but instead concentrated on teach­ing, despite warnings that he was making a poor career decision. 
"I deemphasized my research and moved in the direction of try­ing to help students," he said. "It ~as ~aybe one of ~~e best deci­Sions I ve ever made. 
Although he encouraged putting happiness over money in a carem~ Ackermann acknowledged the tough job market seniors currently face. 
"Many in the room are facing limited job prospects because of the state of the economy now," he said. "But be effusively positive and look on the bright side of every sit­uation." 
He said he L<> more worried about those college graduates that have been in the workforce for 10 years and are accustomed to a certain lifestyle. 
"When they are laid off from their jobs, they will face major changes," Ackern1am1 said. 
The knowledge to be gained from current economic struggles will benefit students later in life, he said. 
"You should be much more opti­mistic," Ackermann said. "Your path may be more circuitous now, but where there's a will there's a way." 
One significant lesson to be gained from the lack of job oppor­tunities is the in1portance of hard work, he said. 
"This economic climate should be a humbling reminder to you to never, ever be mediocre in your meatless Fridays tradition. 
"It's a contribution we can make to the celebration of Lent," Cortes said. "We're not trying to impose this on anyone, but this is a Catholic university. It's good to stop and think about the reasons behind this practice." 
Non-Catholics can e~joy the tra­dition too. There are non-religious reasons that the meatless Fridays are beneficial, Cortes said. 
"Not eating meat is good for your cholesterol. If people have been thinking about being vegetar­ian and want to try it out, this is an opportunity," Cortes said. 
Cortes has undertaken a special project -decorating the large front window in the South Dining Hall lobby. 
"It's a way to show some signs of what Lent is all about," Cortes said. 
The decorations will incorporate purple and white, the colors of Lent, and symbols of the Lenten season, like an empty cross or a crown of thorns. 
"ln a way, thi<> L<> my home, tllis is our home, and in your home you can decorate however you like, within good taste. We can put up these signs of our Christian beliefs," Cortes said. "It's impor­tant to convey that message of Christianity, about what the Lord did for us." 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 
work," he said. "Be indispensable 
at work." · 
But Ackermann said he does not 
doubt that every student in the 
room has the ability to succeed. . "You're all so smart," he said. 
''I'm still sure you can accomplish 
anything you wish to." 
Ackermann said he believes 
another key factor in achieving 
personal success is seeking out 
unfanliliar situations. 
'The times I've grown most in 
my life are when I have placed 
myself in uncomfortable situa­
tions," he said. "I encourage you to 
make a habit of that." 
Ackermann said the previous 
night he "received a pounding" 
from several Notre Dame basket­
ball players when competing 
against them in the Bookstore 
Basketball tip-off, but the experi­
ence was worth it. 
While career advancement is 
important, Ackermann said it is 
more important to use one's area 
of expertisfl for service work or to 
syP.ply connect with oiliers. 
"If you volunteer in the area of 
your specialty, you will amplify 
your impact," he said. 
Jobs are exhausting, and keAp 
people busy, but it is worth the 
extra effort to dedicate time to a 
service endeavor, or even just 
intflract in a positive way wiili oth­
ers, Aekennann said. 
"No matter how tired you are, 
make thfl extra efl'ort to make at 
least one extra person smile every 
day and you ~ll feel terrific about 
yourself, he scud. 
Ackermann said he uses the 
fmance textbook he teaches wifu to 
connect with students -but not in 
the traditional way. 
Ackermi!m1 said he encourages 
studAnt<> to take pictums in unusu­
al places and situations with the 
texiliook. He displayed pictures of 
students skiing wifu the book and 
reading tl1fl textbook while sliding 
down a waterslidfl. 
However, he showed the best pic­
ture he has ever received: a stu­
dent reading the finance textbook 
while airborne and upside down on 
a snowboard. 
"When people are risking their 
lives to top other people in these 
photos, you know you have an 
enduring activity that people 
m~joy," he said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

Would you libe to study/research/teach abroad for a year after graduation? 
Come rneet Notre Dame 2007 Graduates-. 

and 
Fulbright ETA (Uruguay) ANNE LUKEMAN 
Fulbright Researcher (Jordan) 
Friday, February 
2:00-3:00 in the Center for the Study of Languages and Cultures 329 DeBartolo Hall 


Mary Anne and Monica can tell you about their teaching and research experiences throughout Uruguay and Jordan as part of the Fulbright program. 
For 11wre illfornwtiou about Fulhright Cmrtf5amf En;.;lish Tcnchi11g Assi.:;trmtsllips, see wwlv:fullJriglttonliue.org awf t'isit the q{flce of U11dergraduate and Post-Baccalaureate Fellowships 346 O'Siwustmcssy Hall www.mi.edu/-fellows 



TI····IE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Wednesday, February 25, 2009 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,350.94 +236.16 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 3,189 70 667 4,066,469,702 

NYSE 
S&P 500 773.14 t29.8I 
NIKKEI (Tokyo) ;!;i!r,ll1t~~~~i'ili1111~15ti~ll 
FTSE 100 (London) 3,816.44 -34.29 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BK OF AMERICA (BAC) +20.97 +0.82 4.73 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +3.79 +2.83 77.48 CITIGROUP INC (C) +21.50 +0.46 2.60 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +12.12 +0.87 8.05 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.79 +0.022 2.799 13-WEEK BILL +9.26 +0.025 0.295 30-YEAR BOND -0.88 -0.031 3.494 5-YEAR NOTE +2.67 +0.049 1.882 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.52 39.96 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -25.50 969.50 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -0.53 57.70 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 96.6550 EURO 1.2841 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2424 BRITISH POUND 1.4477 

IN BRIEF 
President says U.S. banks safe 
WASHINGTON -President Barack Obama says the money Americans have deposited in US banks is safe and the nation can rely on the con­tinued operation of the fmancial system. 
In a speech to a joint session of Congress, Obama sought to reassure Americans nervously watching banks struggle to remain solvent. Obama said a greater concern is if the banks don"t start re-lending, the economic recovery will be choked off before it begins. 
He called the flow of credit the lifeblood of the economy. 
To address the problem, Obama said the administration will create a new lending fund to help provide loans such as college and auto. He touted his $275 billion housing plan to help those facing foreclosure. And he said the government will use all resources to ensure that major banks have enough money to grant loans in difficult times. 
Musicians want radio stations to pay 
WASHINGTON -Sheryl Crow, will.i.am, Herbie Hancock and other entertainers on Tuesday urged Congress to force radio sta­tions to pay performers when their music is broadcast. 
Satellite radio, Internet radio and cable TV music channels already pay fees to per­formers and musicians, along with song­writer royalties. AM and FM radio stations do not pay performers" royalties, just song­writers. 
"People deserve to be paid when some­body else uses their property," Hancock said. 
He and the other musicians, including Dionne Warwick and Patti LaBelle, appeared at a news conference on Capitol Hill on behalf of the musicFIRST Coalition. The group is pushing legislation that would require radio stations to pay musicians roy­alties similar to those paid to songwriters. 
The National Association of Broadcasters, who oppose the measure, said a fee would put thousands of radio jobs at risk. The association also argues that stations drive listeners to buy music and concert tickets.awmakers in the House and Senate have introduced bills that would make radio stations pay the artists when their songs get airtime. 
Home prices tumbling at record rate 
Falling costs will affect homeowners' ability to qualify for mortage relief 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Home 
prices tumbled by the 
worst annual rate on 
record in the fourth quar­
ter, two housing indexes 
showed Tuesday, and the 
slope of decline steepened 
in all but a handful of bat­
tered cities. 

The farther prices fall, the fewer homeowners may be able to qualify for President Barack Obama's mortgage relief plan. Last week, the president esti­mated up to 5 million bor­rowers in good standing who don't owe more than 105 percent of their home's current value would be able to refinance into a lower interest-rate loan. 
Though details of the plan won't be released until March 4, almost 14 million homeowners are already under water, according to Moody's Economy.com, meaning they owe more on their mortgages than their homes are worth. Nationally, home prices have receded to 2003-lev­els, and half of the metro areas in the 20-city Case­Shiller Home Price Index have lost more than 20 percent of their values from their peaks in 2006, including Las Vegas, Phoenix and Miami. cent during the quarter year-over-year quarterly all saw home values lose 
"If they don't get (the from the prior-year period, gains, the government more than 30 percent in plan) into place very soon, the largest drop in its 21-said. December, the Case-Shiller it will be out of our reach year history. Home prices in the index said. And the gov­to help these people," said Meanwhile, the Federal Boston suburbs are hold­ernment index showed Mark Zandi, chief econo­Housing Finance Agency ing up better than in the many California and mist for Moody's said Tuesday that home city itself, said Judy Moore, Florida cities clocked their Economy. com. prices dropped more than a broker with Re/Max worst declines in the 
Americans are feeling 8 percent in the quarter Landmark Realtors in fourth quarter. grim about the prospects from a year earlier, its Lexington, Mass. In Miami, buyers can't of any turnaround. largest annual decline on Buyers are encouraged get financing for condos in Consumer confidence record since 1991. by the combination of low buildings that have more index sank to new lows in The reports, however, interest rates and the than 30 percent investor­February as widespread did offer a modicum of $8,000 first-time home­owned units, or if more layoffs, shrinking retire­good news. The rate of buyer tax credit tucked in than 15 percent of owners ment accounts and plung­year-over-year price the latest stimulus plan. are behind on their com­ing home prices fueled declines slowed in Boston, "I've seen more buyers mon fees. fears, the Conference Denver, Los Angeles, San out there kicking the That's bringing down Board said Tuesday. Diego and Washington, tires," Moore said. prices in those buildings by 
The Standard & according to the Case­But prices in the Sun as much as 25 percent, Poor's/Case-Shiller U.S. Shiller index, while cities Belt cities continue to get said Ron Shuffield, presi­National Home Price Index in Washington, North clobbered. Phoenix, Las dent of Esslinger-Wooten­plunged more than 18 per-Dakota and Texas posted Vegas and San Francisco Maxwell Realtors. 


Products cost more than company stocks 
average is still off almost 50 per­more for using an out-of-network 
Associated Press 

cent from its 2007 high -and bank card. 
there's little evidence it's hit bot­Since the start of 2007, shares in 
What costs more -a spark plug tom. companies from every sector have or a share of General Motors? A "This is a time for the history been hit. Sunday New York Times or a share books," said Jim Coons of Coons The bargain-basement stock of the newspaper company? A Advisors, a financial consultant. prices of America's best known General Electric toaster or a share When the housing bubble began companies present either the ofGE? to burst, share prices began to cas­greatest opportunity of a lifetime 
In the surest sign of the depth of cade first in the homebuilding -or the biggest money pit this the recession, the products associ­industry, but it spread quickly to side of the Great Depression. ated with these high-profile com­almost every sector of the econo­Of course, many didn't survive panies now cost more than buying my. then -and many won't survive a piece of the business. Today, a share of Hovnanian, one now. Someone who bought shares 
Shares of some of the most of the nation's largest builders, can of Circuit City, which cost $5.75 renowned companies have come be had for 96 cents, less than it before the one-time retailing bell­under assault as the worst reces­costs for a set of spare house keys. wether announced it would close, sion in decades saps investor confi­Banks, stung by plummeting would have been better off buying dence and drags major stock mortgage values, followed. A share a four-pack of AA batteries. indexes to their lowest levels since of Citigroup Inc. which cost $55.66 The company is now selling fur­1997. Despite Tuesday's 3 percent at the beginning of 2007, now costs niture and fixtures from its head­gain, the Dow Jones industrial $2.60. ATM fees can total $3 or quarters as it liquidates. 
page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 25, 2009 
PALESTINE 
Han1.as, Fatah begin unity talks 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -The Islamic militants of l-lamas and the moderates of Fatah have never had more compelling reasons to repair the rift between them that is fast destroying their dreams for a Palestinian state. 
As they begin a new round of unity talks after several failed attempts, l-lamas needs the Western-backed Fatah's inter­national legitimacy to get for­eign aid to rebuild Gaza, which was devastated in Israel's recent offensive. 
Fatah chief Mahmoud Abbas badly needs an alliance with l-lamas to bolster his political standing, eroded after his term as Palestinian 
president 
"Wzth the unity 

expired and a consist of a 
victory by hard­government, every­Hamas-Fatah coalition that
liners in Israel's thing would go back 
election under­would run the
to normal. I hope they 

mined the prag­West Bank and matists' central can reach an Gaza until elec­tenet: that agreement. " tions are held. peaceful negoti­The interna­ations with tional communi­
Sami Suboh

Israel will win ty won't give 
Palestinians a victim of Israel's Gaza huge recon­state. offensive struction sums 
But a unity agreement appears to be a long shot. Distrust between l-lamas and Fatah runs deep after a three­year power struggle, including a civil war that ended with l-lamas' violent takeover of Gaza in 2007, leaving Abbas' Fatah in charge of just the West Bank. 
Sami Suboh, a 32-year-old doctor whose house was destroyed during Israel's Gaza offensive, said he hoped for a unity deal soon. 
"With the unity government everything would go back to normal. I hope that they can reach an agreement," he said, waiting in line for Red Cross aid supplies. But he added, "It is unlikely." 
The sides traded nasty accu­sations this week despite pledges to be civil ahead of rec­onciliation talks beginning Wednesday in Cairo. 
l-lamas claimed Abbas' gov­ernment ran a Gaza spy ring that fed Israel information about l-lamas targets during the fighting. Fatah accused llamas of killing and wounding dozens of Fatah activists under the cover of the war. 
"All l-lamas has been doing is poison the atmosphere," said Abbas aide Yasser Abed Rabbo. Ehab Ghussein, a l-lamas offi­cial, countered that Fatah's statements prove it is not inter­ested in making amends. 
Partly to clear the air, top officials -Ahmed Qureia of Fatah and Mussa Abu Marzuk of l-lamas -agreed to a pre­liminary meeting Tuesday, according to Abbas aide Nabil Shaath. Abbas' security offi­cials also freed 42 l-lamas detainees in the West Bank on Tuesday in a goodwill gesture and promised more releases the next day, said Ayman Daraghmeh, a l-lamas legisla­tor. 
The talks beginning Wednesday will include meet­ings between Egyptian intelli­gence chief Omar Suleiman and officials from both sides. 
The Egyptians envision five negotiating committees dealing with making goodwill gestures, forming an interim govern­ment, holding presidential and legislative elections, restructur­ing the security services and finding a role for l-lamas in the Fatah-run Palestine Liberation Organization. 
On March 2, representatives of about 80 donor countries, including U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Hodham Clinton, are to meet in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheik to pledge money for Gaza's recon­struction. 
According to Palestinian esti­mates, Israel's offensive caused some $2 billion in physical damage and economic losses. 
Conference participants will closely watch the unity talks, particularly progress on form­ing a new Palestinian govern­ment. Such a government could be made up of figures not affili­ated with either movement or 
directly to 
Gaza's l-lamas rulers, but might entrust aid to an interim coalition, provided Abbas is involved. 
"For the donors, the issue is not so much unity, but using unity as a vehicle to strengthen Abu Mazen (Abbas) and him a new foothold in Gaza," analyst Mouin Rabbani said. 
To be accepted by the inter­national community, an interim government would have to renounce violence and recog­nize Israel's right to exist. Barnas has rejected such condi­tions in the past. However, in exchange for softening its stance, l-lamas could strength­en its hold over Gaza by getting a say in how aid is spent and ensuring a 20-month blockade of the territory is lifted. 
Abbas may need the Islamists more than they need him. 
His term as president expired in January and polls suggest most Palestinians side with Barnas' argument that he is not 



aN.ew Business and Culture in Chin~ Today Program +ttm' for.Summer 2009 in China and Taiwan 
entitled to an extension. With Benjamin Netanyahu as Israel's next prime minister, Abbas' promise of statehood through negotiations has fallen nat ­Netanyahu considers such talks a waste of time. 
This may explain why Abbas is eager to hold unity talks without preconditions, saying he is entering the negotiations with "an open heart." After the Ham as takeover of Gaza, Abbas had insisted the militants first retract their "coup" before he would talk to them. 
l-lamas and Fatah might reach a unity agreement rela­tively quickly, as thny did in February 2007 in Mecca, only to see it fall apart in bickering over implementation. 
In contrast to those negotia­tions, rival governments are now in place in the West Bank and Gaza, meaning there are more politicians with an inter­est in maintaining the status quo. Also, some llamas and Fatah activists oppose a unity deal on ideological grounds. 
On some issues, the gaps are so wide that compromise seems impossible. 
For example, Hamas wants a major say in the PLO, of which it is currently not a member. 
Abbas rejects the demand because it would amount to redefining the Palestinian national movement. The Fatah­led PLO signed an agreement of mutual recognition with Israel in 1993, while llamas remains committed to the destruction of the Jewish stale. 
Other issues seem just as daunting, particularly restruc­turing the security forces. l-lamas controls some 20,000 troops in Gaza, while Abbas' thousands of armed men in the West Bank are undergoing Western training. Under a unity deal, the forces would have to be merged and depolitieized. 
Gaza-based political scientist Naji Shurrab said outsiders, including Hamas backers Syria and Iran, could decide to sabo­tage unity efTorts. And it is not clear whether the Obama administration will be more supportive of a unity govern­ment than its predecessor. 
"The way is still long, and there are many obstacles," 

1IJ INIHANA U.'I:IVERSITY 

SCHOOL OF LIBRARY AND INFORMATION SCIENCE 
Graduate degrees with a future. All majors welcome. 

www. sIis. indiana . e d u 
Office of International StudJes Announces 
Wednesday, February 25, 2009 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Palin 111ust pay Alaska nearly $7,000 for her kids' trips 
Associated Press 
JUNEAU, Alaska -Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin will reimburse the state nearly $7,000 for costs associated with nine trips taken by her children, her attorney said Tuesday. 
Palin must reimburse the state within 120 days, according to a settlement agreement filed by a special investigator hired by the Alaska Personnel Board to inves­tigate an ethics complaint filed against her. 
The exact amount. will be determined by the Alaska Department of Administration, said Palin's attorney, Thomas Van Plein. He estimated the amount would be $6,800. 
There is no state law prohibit~ ing the governor's family from traveling with her and the per­sonnel board found no wrongdo­ing on the part of the governor. But the investigator, Timothy Petumenos, interpreted the Alaska Executive Branch Ethics Act to require that the state only pay if the first family serves an important state interest. 
Petumenos said "some of the travel raised by the Complaint does not meet this standard," according to the agreement. 
Van Plein said 72 travel author­izations were studied, with nine found to be of questionable state interest. 
Those include airfare and one meal for her daughter Bristol Palin, who accompanied the gov­ernor to New York for Newsweek's Third Annual Women and Leadership Conference in October 2007. 
Other trips include Bristol attending "Beauty and the Beast" at the Valley Performing Arts Center, airfare for daughters Piper and Bristol to travel to Juneau from Anchorage for the State of the State address and airfare for Piper to attend the start of the Iron Dog snowma­chine race and the Alaska Outdoor Council Banquet. 
In a statement issued Tuesday, Palin said she was gratified that no fault was ascribed to her. She said she agreed to support a clar­ification of the rules to avoid sim­ilar disputes in the future. 
"Although I am not required to do so, I will set a new standard on travel now by assuming the burden of these particular expenses," Palin said. 
The former Republican vice presidential candidate called the complaint "an obvious political weapon" filed just before the election. 
The complaint was filed in October by Anchorage Democrat Frank Gwartney, 60, who alleged that Palin used her official posi­tion as governor for personal gain, violating a statute of the Alaska Executive Branch Ethics Act. 
Gwartney, a retired power company lineman, said he was not surprised that the personnel board, whose three members are appointed by the governor, failed to find wrongdoing. 
"I think it's really apparent that she was wrongfully using state funds to conduct personal busi­ness," he said. "They basically are ail extension of the gover­nor's office so I think they would be hard pressed to actually come out and condemn her as they should." 


Gwartney's complaint followed a report by The Associated Press that Palin harged the state more than $21,000 for her three daughters' commercial flights, including events. where they weren't invited, and later ordered their expense forms amended to specify official state business. 
Administration officials have said Alaska law allows governors to charge the state for their fami­ly's travel if they conduct state business. 
Van Plein said the governor's action in reaching the agreement was voluntary and above what was legally and ethically required of her. 
"She did not have to do this. She did not have to reach this agreement and she's been fully cleared by this investigation," he said. "The problem that was raised by the complaint was determined to be a lack of clarity in the rules and regulations and a lack of familiarity, because of that lack of clarity, with long-term state employees whose job it is to handle this." 
Petumenos was asked to exam­ine the complaint at the same time he was investigating allega­tions that Palin fired her public safety commissioner over his refusal to let go a state tr:ooper involved in a contentious divorce with Palin's sister. 

Da.te: Frida.y FebrLta.ry 2 7 Time: 9 pm -12 Where: Ha.gger Pa.rle>Ltr 

Sa.irt.t Ma.rys Ce>llege 
page 10 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, February 25, 2009 
i URKEY


Iovva knew of disabled vvorkers 
Associated Press 
DES MOINES, Iowa -Iowa's social-services agency acknowl­edged Tuesday that it looked into a company's treatment of its mentally disabled meatpacking workers as early as the 1970s, but decided it lacked the jurisdic­tion or enough evidence to act. 
State officials say the 21 Texas men lived for decades in a bat­tered house in the tiny eastern Iowa town of Atalissa and were paid little for their work. The fire marshal closed the living quar­ters Feb. 7, the men were placed in state custody and a state agency is considering criminal charges. 
Social workers, howeve"r, had looked into the workers' housing situation twice before without taking action: once in the 1970s and again in 1997, according to a 38-page file discovered about two weeks ago at the Human Services Department's Muscatine County office. 
''I'm not going to debate whether I would have done something differently 35 years ago," Gene Gessow, the agency's director, said in a statement. "What I will do is pledge that from now forward, the Department of Human Services will be aggressively vigilant to protect the rights of dependent adults." 
His department said the file was incomplete, making it "diffi­cult to put all of the decisions in context." 
Last week, Gessow referred to the newly discovered file in his testimony before the Legislature's Government Oversight Committee, which was looking into the state's response to the situation. A redacted ver­sion of the file was made public on Tuesday. 
The men lived at a 106-year­old house that locals called the bunkhouse. The city of Atalissa owned the home, and city offi­cials recently· acknowledged that some of its doors were pad­locked, windows were boarded up and the heating system was broken, leaving only space heaters. 
The men worked for Henry's Turkey Service, a Texas company that provided labor for a meat-

Lawmaker speaks packer near Atalissa in West Liberty. Recent inquiries showed the company diverted much of the mentally dio;;abled men's pay­cheeks and government pay­
Kurdish, breaks law 
ments to living expenses, leaving them about $65 a month in wages. 
The file said that in 1975 Henry's Turkey Service was an ancillary firm of Hill Country Farms, based near Goldthwaite, Texas, and described that com­pany's work as social and voca­tional training of mentally dis­abled men. It was unclear where operations for Henry's Turkey Service are now located. 
There was no answer on Tuesday at a telephone number listed for Hill Country Farms and an attorney who rnprosented Henry's Turkey Servic(' in previ­ous Iowa matters said he wasn't authorized to comment. 
The state file includ<~s a Dec. 4, 1974, memo from social worker Ed George, who tells district manager James Strickland that the mentally disabled men lack adequate housing and are deprived of their families, among other problems. 
guage," Turk said. "I promised myself that I would speak in my mother tongue at an offi­cial meeting one day." 
Kurdish lawmakers gave Turk a standing ovation. His party has 21 legislators in the 550-seat parliament. 
Turkey's prime minister himself spoke a few words in Kurdish at a campaign rally over the weekend. But fears of national division -supported by a war between the Turkish military and a Kurdish rebel group in the 1980s and 1990s -prevent any concerted effort to repeal the laws. 
Turkey is caught between the long-held suspicion that outsiders and minorities can threaten state unity, and its moves toward the kind of Western-style democracy that would consider a language ban an affront to human rights. 
Turkish law banned the speaking of Kurdish at all until 1991, and today it is barred in schools, parliament and other official settings on the grounds that it would divide the country along eth­nic lines. Kurds, who are also present in large numbers in neighboring Iran, Iraq and Syria, make up about a fifth of Turkey's more than 70 million people. 
"The official language is Turkish," Parliament Speaker Koksal Toptan said after Turk spoke. "This meeting should have been conducted in Turkish." 
Private NTV television reported that prosecutors launched an investigation. 
It was not clear whether he would face charges. As a law­maker, he has immunity. In certain cases, a normal citizen speaking Kurdish in an official setting could go to jail. 
But Tuesday's incident could hurt Turk's party, which is already accused by prosecu­tors of having ties to sepa­ratist Kurdish guerrillas. 
Turkey's power structure could be at odds over what course to take on the speech. The Islamic-oriented govern­ment has often sparred with secular circles backed by the judiciary and the military. 
In a similar incident in 1991, a Kurdish lawmaker took the oath in parliament in Kurdish. Leyla Zana was later stripped of her immunity, prosecuted on charges of sep­aratism and links to the rebels and served a decade in prison along with three other Kurdish legislators. 
But heavy-handed action by the state this time could back­fire, exposing it to accusations of authoritarian behavior and further alienating Kurds ahead of local elections on March 29. 
Turk's speech was also a vote-getting stunt, as the elec­tions will determine whether his Democratic Society Party can keep southeastern strong­holds in the face of an aggres­sive campaign from the gov­erning party. 
Speaking in Kurdish, Turk described how he was jailed during a 1980 military coup and was beaten for speaking Kurdish to visiting relatives who knew no other language. 
Associated Press 

ISTANBUL -The leader of Turkey's Kurdish lawmakers startled the country Tuesday by speaking in his native lan­guage in Parliament, breaking the law in a country that has tried for decades to keep a firm grip over the restive minority amid fears of nation­al division. 
State-run television immedi­ately cut off the live broadcast of legislator Ahmet Turk. ostensibly to celebrate UNESCO world languages week. But his real aim was to challenge the country's policy toward its Kurdish population, a suppression of rights that only recently has started to ease. 
"Kurds have long been oppressed because they did not know any other ian­

Wednesday, February 25, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Sen. Burris refuses to resign 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Sen. Roland Burris refused to resign on Tuesday, rebuffing a call from the Senate's No. 2 Democrat who made it clear the embattled Illinois lawmak­er has little hope next year of winning the seat vacated by President Barack Obama. 
"I told him that under the circumstances, I would resign," fellow Illinois Sen. Richard Durbin told reporters after an hour-long meeting with Burris. "He said, 'I'm not going to resign.'" 
"I can't force him," Durbin added. 
Burris, also a Democrat, was appointed by disgraced former Gov. Rod Blagojevich: who was impeached and driv­en from office after he was charged in a federal criminal complaint of trying to sell the Senate seat. 
Burris repeatedly changed his story about how he was appointed. He is facing calls for his resignation after he admitted trying to raise money for Blagojevich. Burris has said he did nothing wrong. 
Emerging from the hour­long private meeting with Durbin, Burris looked a bit shaken and inexplicably said he was under orders not to comment, other than to say the session was a "great dis­cussion." 
Burris has faced intense pressure from all quarters, from politicians to home state newspapers clamoring for him to step down. Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn said last week Burris should resign for the good of the state, arguing the contro­versy surrounding his appointment has cast a shad­ow over his service in the Senate. 

In their meeting, Durbin said he told Burris that sup­port among other Democrats was eroding because of Burris' shifting account of whether he tried to raise money for Blagojevich. 
And in the careful language of the Senate, Durbin said he made clear that if Burris tried to run for the seat next year, he would not have much -if any -support from Senate Democrats. Consistent with a Senate appointment, Burris would have to win the seat outright next year. 
"I asked him if he would be a candidate in 2010 and he said he had not made up his mind," Durbin said. "I told him I thought it would be extremely difficult for him to be successful in a primary or a general election under the circumstances." 
The conversation followed Burris' exchange earlier in the day with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., on the Senate floor. 
"I said, 'How was your break?' He said, 'Fine. How was yours?"' Reid told reporters afterward. "I said, 'Fine.' OK?" 
Asked whether Reid thinks Burris should resign, spokesman Jim Manley said: "That is for him to decide." 

The chilliness that greeted Burris in Washington came after outright demands for his resignation in Illinois. 
Burris testified in January before the Illinois House com­mittee that recommended Blagojevich's impeachment that he hadn't had contact with key Blagojevich staffers or offered anything in return for the seat. Blagojevich faces charges of trying to sell Obama's former Senate seat, though he denies wrongdoing. 
But just more than a week ago, Burris released an affi­davit saying he had spoken to several Blagojevich advisers, including Robert Blagojevich, the former governor's brother and finance chairman, who Burris sa\d called three times last fall asking for fundraising help. 
He changed his story again last week when he admitted trying, unsuccessfully, to raise money for Blagojevich. 
Illinois lawmakers have asked local prosecutors to look into perjury charges, and a preliminary Senate Ethics Committee inquiry is under way. Even the White House said last week that Burris should take the weekend to consider his future. 
Burris has denied any wrongdoing. Attorney Timothy 
W. Wright III said Tuesday that he was working on a doc­ument that would prove Burris didn't lie about the cir­cumstances of his appoint­ment. 

The Nanovic Institute for European Studies presents 
The Animated Films of 
Portuguese Animation Director Founder of Film6grafo Animation Studio Grand Prix winner of Anifest 2003 
Director Abi Feijo will introduce the 6:30pm screening. 
Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors citizens, and $3 all students Call 574-631-2800 or visit performingans.nd.edu 
~DEBARTOLO 
~ PEl!.FORMINGARTSCfNTER 
Most troops will be out of Iraqin 18 months 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Barack Obama plans to remove all U.S. combat troops from Iraq by August of next year, administration officials said Tuesday, ending the war that helped define his upstart presidential cam­paign -although a little more slowly than he prom­ised. 
The withdrawal plan -an announcement could come as eady as this week -could help Obama turn his atten­tion to another campaign pledge: Deploying more troops to Afghanistan, a region he calls the central front in the war on terror­ism. 
The timetable is a compro­mise. Removing so many people 
and tons of 'There's other parts that was the equip me Q t ofIraq that aren't home ground presents logisti­of the Sunni
going quite as well
cal difficulties. insurgency, 
Some com­but all ofIraq is American 
manders and doing pretty well." combat forces advisers worry don't have that security enough to do
Maj. Gen. John Kelly
gains could and -most 
marine
backslide in could have 
logistical and other support troops. A brigade is usually about 3,000 to 5,000 troops. 
The White House consid­ered at least two other options -one that followed Obama's 16-month timeline and one that stretched with­drawal over 23 months, The Associated Press reported earlier this month. 
Some U.S. commanders have spoken more optimisti­cally in recent months about prospects for reducing the force. 
Marine Maj. Gen. John Kelly, who just left his job overseeing U.S. operations in Anbar Province, said Tuesday that he saw violence drop to an almost "meaning­less" level over the past year. 
Kelly told reporters 
Tuesday that 
in the area 

Iraq if troops are brought out too soon, while others think the bulk of U.S. combat work is long since done. 
Obama built enormous grass-roots support for his White House bid by pledging to withdraw troops from Iraq 16 months after taking office. That schedule, based on removing roughly one brigade a month, was predi­cated on commanders deter­mining that it would not endanger U.S. troops left behind or Iraq's fragile secu­rity. 
Obama expects to leave a large contingent of troops in Iraq, between 30,000 and 50,000 troops, after August, 2010 to advise and train Iraqi security forces and to protect U.S. interests, according to two administra­tion officials who spoke on condition of anonymity because the plan has not been made public. The con­tingent will include intelli­gence and surveillance spe­cialists and their equipment, such as unmanned aircraft. 
The withdrawal of American forces is set to be c.ompleted by December 2011, the period by which the U.S. agreed with Iraq to remove all troops. 
A senior White House offi­cial said Tuesday that Obama is at least a day away from making a final decision. An announcement on Wednesday was unlikely, he said, but added that Obama could discuss Iraq during a trip to North Carolina on Friday. 
About 142,000 U.S. troops are in Iraq, roughly 14 brigades, about 11,000 more than the total in Iraq when President George W. Bush announced in January 2007 that he would "surge" the force to put down the insur­gency. He sent an additional 21,000 combat troops to Baghdad and Anbar province. 
Although the number of combat brigades has dropped from 20 to 14, the U.S. has increased the number of pulled out 
months ago. 

"There is still a security issue there, but in the province I just left the (Iraqi) army and the police are more than handling the rem­nants of what used to be al­Qaida," Kelly said. "There's other parts of Iraq that aren't going quite as well but all of Iraq is doing pretty well." 
According to officials, Obama had requested a range of options from his top military advisers, including one that would have with­drawn troops in 16 months. Defense Secretary Robert Gates and Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, had recently for­warded withdrawal alterna­tives to the White House for Obama's consideration. 
In addition to the U.S. troops to be withdrawn, there is a sizable cadre of contractors who provide services to them who would pack their bags as well. There were 148,050 defense contractor personnel work­ing in Iraq as of December, 39,262 of them U.S. citizens. 
There are more than 200 

U.S. military installations in Iraq. According to Army offi­cials interviewed by the Government Accountability Office, it can take up to two months to shut down small outposts that hold up to 300 troops. Larger entrenched facilities, like Balad Air Base, could take up to 18 months to close, according to the GAO. 
As of Monday, at least 4,250 members of the U.S. military had died in the Iraq war since it began in March 2003, according to an Associated Press count. More than 31,000 have been injured. An additional 35,841 have received medical air transport due to non-hostile incidents. 
Congress has approved more than $657 billion so far for the Iraq war, according to a report last year from the Congressional Research Service. 
THE OBSERVER 
page 12 
Wednesday, February 25, 2009
IEWPOINT 
THE OBSERVER 

Hey world, I am what I am 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHII;F Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR; Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
SCENE EDITOR; Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR; Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER; Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoinc@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofth~ University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisrant Managing Editors and departmenr editors. Commenwies, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ohsc-rvcr {USPS 599 2-4000) U. publ~hcd Munday 1.hmugh Friday ex~pt during exam and vacarion periods. A suhscriptinn to The ObM:rver is $1 Ofl fur one academic year; S55 fOr one semester. 
The Observer is published ar: WSTMASTER 
Ol4 SQUrh Dining Haii Send addre5S corrections to: 
Notre Dame, lN 46-556-0n9 The Observer 
Periodical pus~ paid ar Notre Dame P.O.Ij<>x779 
and additional mailing.,ffices. 02.4 South Dining Hall 
N<lue Dame:, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated: Press. All reproduction rights ak reserved:. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Jenn Metz Matt Gamber Sarah Mervosh Meaghan Veselik Megan Loney Michael Blasco 
Graphics Scene Blair Chemidlin Michelle Fordice 
Viewpoint Stephanie Vossler 

It was in my last semester of high school that I first heard the basics of Post-colonialism explained in plain lan­guage. 
"So it involves a 
Katherine

white colonizer," Mrs. G explained Khorey to a class full of 
Both Sides 
kids who either 
Now

needed the · English credit to graduate or were just taking the extra class for fun. "Colonizing a subject coun­try that's non-white. Think of China, South Africa, India, Ireland ... " 
I raised my hand. "Ireland is consid­ered non-white?" 
Mrs. G paused, and tilted her head in thought. "Huh. Hmm ... well, I guess Ireland would be an exception there." 
We went on to discuss mimicry, the imitation of one's colonizer. Mrs. G sub­mitted afternoon tea in India as an example. Then we discussed technology as a means of "civilizing" the colonized. I remember a classmate proposing that irrigation might not always be a means to oppress a desert community of Others. 
The outcome of that discussion hasn't, for whatever reason, stuck with me. But Ireland, as "non-white?" That has. 
Maybe because a little over two years later, studying post-Famine emigration in a very clifferent class, we learned that "whiteness" was only a construct, such that more established, "real" Americans were considered "whiter" than the also Caucasian Irish newcomers. 
Now I may owe an apology to Mrs. G. If "whiteness" is a term for social domi­nance, then Ireland, while colonized, would constitute a "non-white" civiliza­tion. 
So I'm sorry, Mrs. G, for briefly ofT­tracking the lecture. In terms of critical theory, you were right. Now, how about a nice cup of tea while we wait for all this discourse to blow over? 
But seriously. Whiteness? 
Language may evolve. Connotations 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL 

Are you giving something up for Lent? 
Yes No I'm not Catholic 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
may change. Some words grow unus­able; others become proper. 
But "white" and "whiteness," and other terms referring to color, refer on an actual, literal level to just that: physi­cal eolor. Sure, at some point color came to connote what we and others histori­cally have called race, but far from accu­rately. In Pre-K, I was confused when I first heard a girl on my bus, the girl with the pretty pink and green beads in her hair. referred to as "black." What? Lena was brown. My mother, at around the same age, had a sear on her arm "putT up" (say hello to the keloid genes). She too was confused when someone told my grandmother that this must have result­ed !'rom "colored blood." Mom was unaware at the time that some blood is clear. 
So from the Upper Midwest in 1992 and my mother's England in the 1960s, let's jump to Notre Dame in the late 2000s. Here my gorgeously porcelain skinned acquaintance Raquel once com­plained that a crude loudmouth on the quad had incorrectly identified her·as "white" (and felt the need to make his misconception clear to her. Someone back home needs to learn to hold his Natty). 
So "color" terms, whether socially acceptable or offensive, may not accu­rately describe "race," however that term is defined. Yet "white" and "non­white" now not only refer to color and race, but also apparently to status (in the case of immigration) and character (in the case of oppressive tea-mongering colonizers and unassuming, blissfully un­irrigated subjects). 
And there's the problem. Too many meanings -some contradictory -are conflated in too few words. We should phrase it this way: 
Color is color. As in, what kind of light a skin cell reflects .. 
Race, !'or whatever that distinction's worth and hopefully it's constructive, is race. 
Status is status. 
And people are people. 
I'm not white. I am a person of color. 
Specifically, a pinkish-taupe. On forms and by the census definition, I am Caucasian. But if' I apply eye-liner in just the right dimensions so that my Arab comes out, you're likely to notice that by commonly held standards I'm not consid­ered 100 perent "white." 
That's not uncommon. A dear friend of mine, who so nicely wrote up what hap­pens to be my own perspective on an explosive issue here in the Viewpoint last week, is pearly-skinned like Haquel. She would find it much harder than I would to ehoose'the correct "race" bubble on the Scantron form. Another friend is dark-skinned, "black," but hates being called African-American, beeause she's not. 
As for people being people, the four of us, in spite of and along with everything else, remain ourselves. No one, no mat­ter the theory, is put in a box. One is not just "white" or "non," colonizer or sub­ject. One is not just one's religion or romantic preference. One is not even the sum of one's conduct as that is viewed at this very instant. One is who one is, that is, a person. The suggestion that one is anything else is dehumanizing. 
Which may be why most explanations of Post-colonialism don't involve plain language. 
Katherine Khorey (kkhorey@nd.edu) is a junior studying English and Russian at Trinity College, Dublin. She still appreciates "StuffWhite People Like" and its spinoffs, the keyword therein being "people. "Also, she discovered the title ofthis column on AOL Radio Show tunes. Ifyou can name the musical, she may or may not buy you a nice Tazo Refresh in the fall. She will not try to colonize you. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When someone does something good, applaud! You will make two people happy. n 
Samuel Goldwyn
U.S. movie producer 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 25, 2009 page 13 
A how-to guide for Lenten sacrifice 
I Iappy Day-After-Mardi-Gras, everyone. I hope last night's hangovers of my life. After the Backer on Saturday, I said tD I'm giving up gossip, from a girl bacdmnalia has filled you with enough party memories to get myself: "Sell", I'm never doing thi'i tD you again." Until it's time tD "Gossip" refers tD celebrity gossip. Read: The Oscars are over, you through the slow slog of Lent. (Side note: Did you know that pregame Fever on Thursday. Then I'm back off the wagon and so my craving tD judge strangers over insignificant fashion there are around seven shots ofliquor in a standard hurricane? back on the blackout train. choices has been satisfied. I do now. I Jere's tD waking up in bonus time!). Given that my Mardi Gras isn't really "over" yet, I feel 
I'm giving up swearing I'm giving up gossip, from a guy obligated to spread some leftover Mardi Read: That darn rap mu<>ic has ruined my vocabulary, and I'll "Gossip" refers tD claiming to have inside information on the Gra<>checr. be gosh-darned ifI don't do something about it during Lent. football team and debating whether Manti Te'o will win three or 
Ash Wodnesday lind<> many of us Wait, I have a paper due tomorrow that I forgot about? F*** four Butkus Awards. Read: Bowl sea<>on is over and spring scrambling to mme up with a "good this! practice is a long way off, so the legitimacy of my inside inlornm­thing" tD give up for Lent. It must be tion is already questionable at best. something that is completely manage­I'm giving up chocolate "But what of the Daft Punk," you might a<>k. There must be able, yet substantial enough for us tD Read: My girlfiiendAxJyfiiend dumped me last week and I something he is giving up that might draw my scorn and avoid embarrassment when discussing have all of this leftover chomlate from Valentine's Day that I am ridicule!" You are right, dear reader, and out of fairness I will tell it in the mmpany offriends (lest we not eating. I don't care how deliciou<> it is. IfI eat it, [the ex] wins. you. I am giving up ticking off good-hearted Teach for America be out-Catholicked!l. For those fac-Brad Blomstrom supporters. A good number ofthem do want to be teachers. and ing some A<>h Wednesday anxiety, I'm giving up facebook I think they deserve some credit. As for the rest, thank God we here is some insight into the real rea-The Daft Punk Read: There may or may not be pictures of me from last night all get tD break our promi'iCs on Sunday. sons behind some ofvour friends' in which I would not like tD be tagged. Body shots? Not on my sacrifices: · Newsfeed! Brad Blomstrom is a senior majoring in finance and econom­
I'm giving up sweets I going on a diet People that choose this option usually get tD keep eating ics. Hefmmd the baby in the king cake last night, but no onefol­
Read: I'm going tD Panama City for Spring Break next week chocolate during Lent. lowed his decree that he be addressed as "your royal highness. " and the crash diet begins now. Nothing tastes as good as thin He can be mntacted at bblomstr@ndeduest injustice" instead of feels. I'm giving up Subway using our schools as a career launching pad 
I'm giving up drinking excessively 
Rmd: I came up with this while experiencing one of the worst 
Read: I'm one of those clow.ns making five-dollar-footlong fool<> of themselves by boycotting the most popular eatery on campus. 
The views expressed in this rolumn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseroer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Congratulations swi111111ing and diving. 
I know that it is highly unusual to receive a letter from a head coach at a rival university, but I felt compelled to share with you and your readers something about which you should all be proud -Irish Swimming and Diving. At the recent Big East Championships that ended this past weekend, your Irish men and women walked away with two Big East Conference Team Championships. For the Notre Dame women, it was their 13th straight Championship (13th overall). For the Notre Dame men, it was their second straight title and fourth overall team title. Both team wins were challenged at every turn. But the most exciting moment of the meet and one that will live in the lore of our conference's sport histQ­ry was the final race of the evening that gave a clear underdog Irish men's relay team a win and the Notre Dame men the team title. 
Let me recap the scene for you so that you know how incredible an event this last race was. At the end of the last individual event prior to the relay the Notre Dame men had a slim 3.5 point advantage over the Louisville men. The meet would be decided on the last relay. Notre Dame was a decided underdog. The Louisville men were seeded with a time 
(2:55.59) that was more than seven seconds faster than Notre Dame (3:02.86). In order to win the title, the Irish men would have to swim a school record time to have a chance. It would be uncharted territory for the Irish. Your Irish relay team was John Lytle, Danny Lutkus, Josh Nosal and Andrew Hoffman. At the end of the first leg, Lytle held the lead over 
Louisville by .31 seconds. Lutkus extended that lead by the end of the second leg to .52 seconds. Nosal still kept the lead, but Louisville narrowed it to .22 seconds, while the crowd at the IUPUI Natatorium went crazy. It was impossible to hear anything but the crowd as the swimmers for all four legs of the race went down the pool stroke for stroke. At the end, Hoffman held on to the lead and extended it slightly to out-touch the Louisville men by .32 seconds in a time (2:54.08) that was more than nine seconds faster-than the Irish men had gone all season this year! At the end of the meet, the Irish men had pulled a conference victory out of the mouths of the Louisville Cardinals by the narrowest of mar­gins in a race that will no doubt be the stuff of Irish Swimming and Diving lore for years to come. 
Congratulations to the Irish Men and Women! You should be proud of them. Note: Only one Big East Conference team rivals the success of the Irish in swimming and diving ­Pittsburgh. With 28 Big East Conference Championships between the Panther men and women, the third place Pitt team for both men and women this year will undoubtedly chal­lenge the Irish down the road for the title. Swimming and Diving is alive and well in the Big East Conference! 
Chuck Knoles Head Coach Pittsburgh Swimming and Diving Feb. 24 
You forgot one 
While I realize the purpose of his article was to most likely to spread awareness for Dillon Hall's Stache Bash benefit, I found Jay Fitzpatrick's analysis of the "Moustaches of the World" to be lacking. Perhaps his motive was to lower the expectations of the ladies attending the bash, most of whom will be escorted by wearers of the "common crustache," but he omits the greatest mustache of our time, that of Keith Hernandez. Named the best sports mustache of all time by the American Mustache Institute, Mets and Cardinals legend Keith Hernandez may possess the best mustache known to man. Clean-shaven from his rookie season in 1975 until 1978, his bat­ting average hovered around .250 until he grew out a grand mustache and hit .344 and won the batting crown in 1979. He kept the 'stache and won the National League MVP award, 11 gold gloves, a World Series in 1986, and the hearts of New York's fans as the voice of the Mets for SportsNet New York. Just because no Dillon (or any other sort oD man could match the great­ness of' No. 17's mustache doesn't mean that its majesty should go unrecognized. 
Brian Wysocki 
sophomore 
Fisher Hall 
Feb. 24 
Let's talk honestly about race 
Eric Holder, the nation's first African-American attorney gen­eral, gave a speech last week. In it, he characterized the United States as "a nation of cowards" when it comes to discussing our tortured racial history. Many people were offended etc. Others believe race is no longer an issue. But I beg to differ. Those peo­ple are mistaken. 
I see Holder's words as a challenge to us all to have honest conversations about race in America. We are living at a time when the gains of the 1954 Supreme Court decision, Brown v. Board of Education, have been completely reversed, when the gap in wealth among different racial groups has never been wider, and when the effects of historical inequities have never been clearer in education. 
We attempt to distance ourselves from slavery. But the effects of slavery have been felt throughout our history and continue to plague us today as we strive to be the nation we once envi­sioned -a nation that insured opportunity for all. 
But we cannot distance ourselves from history. By talking honestly about race, we give ourselves hope that we can over­come inequality and become stronger than we have ever been before. · 
We cannot distance ourselves from illegal slave trade that continued from 1808 into the late 19th century and that U.S. presidents from Jefferson to Grant condoned and sup.ported ­even if they only looked the other way. 
We cannot distance ourselves from a history of slavery of a different name. Prison leasing (or forced labor) of black men and women began after the Supreme Court rescinded the Civil Rights Act of 1875 and continued until World War II. This was the practice of arresting former slaves for not having a job or changing jobs without getting permission from a former employer. Found guilty for these "crimes," they were sentenced to 30 days of hard labor. But their sentences were increased to up to a year if they could not pay for court costs. Few could, given widespread unemployment in the 1880s. Prisons through­out the South "leased" Blacks to major corporations to work in steel furnaces and mines. There was a 45 percent mortality rate for prisoners leased to these corporations. 
We cannot distance ourselves from New Deal politics that allowed Southern legislators to exclude blacks from economic incentives that brought a majority population back to work and helped create wealth that blacks were denied. Many of these same legislators insured that few blacks could take advantage of the GI Bill after World War II. 
Predatory lending practices and redlining are all too evident in massive foreclosures. Yet these practices are not new, follow­ing on the heels of the government's disinvestment in urban cities in the 1950s. These practices have existed for years, !;!espite the promise of the 1968 Fair Housing Act. 
So when will we have an honest conversation about race? When will we all face the fact that our government agencies have been complicit in creating inequality and injustice in hous­ing, education, and health care? 
The time is now. 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean Office ofUndergraduate Studies Feb. 24 

Tl·1E OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, February 25, 2009 

"Guernica," Notre Dame's Film, levision and Theatre (FIT) depart­ent's latest production, offers a deeply introspective and surrealist entation of wrongful death, frus­ambitions and man's inhumanity 
man. 
Yiannis Lymtsioulis' "Guernica" ns with a media-infusfid explana­of the circumstances leading up to play's start, specifically the sinking an Albanian refugee· ship en route to aly after a collision with an Italian This results in the deaths of eds of refugees, and one of the many questions is whether or not e act was intentional. "Guernica" is t underneath the Mediterranean Sea tells the story of four of the victims 
this collision, who have drowned, but conscious and unaware that they dead. 
"Guernica" grabs you from tho ment you enter the theatre, with ricate sets that almost reach to the 
Yiannis Lymtsiouslis' "Guernica" is ased upon a true historical event arked by the deaths of innocent civil­, but not the ones you might be .Lu1uAJLu0 of after looking at the play's 
The play "Guernica" takes· its name om the 1937 aerial bombing by rman and Italian fascists of the town of Guernica, Spain during Spanish Civil War. The bombings at Guernica were some of the first exam­ples of terror bombing, as the town was a military stronghold and had no defense. The numbers are stili-a ubject of controversy, but approxi­ately 250 to 300 civilians were killed the bombings. Pablo Picasso heard of e tragedy and created the painting ~"c•rni.-.,," which brought internation­attention to the plight of the innocent the ongoing civil war when it was 

eatre. Indeed, the production's visual l1ie­ments alone are reason enough to attend -the lighting. scenery, cos­tumes and even the movements of tlw actors pull you into the watery purgato­ry of the play's setting. This is not a play that provides a passive viewing expPrienen; the actors deliberately interact with those s1~ated in tho front row and draw the audience further into a story. 
Director Anton Juan's intimate understanding of the script -he trans­lated tho work from its original Greek -is apparent in the integrated nature of the performance. Audiovisual effects (music, video, o('f-stage narration) add to the overall experience ratllflr than detract, as is often the ease in theatri­cal presentations. 
The smallness of the cast-.only live actors -highlights the strength of Notre Dame's theatre program. These five undergraduate students present the play's dark material with graee, heart-wrenching poignancy ant'! impec­cable Albanian accents. 
ng Fair. The painting remains a symbol of the horrors of war and a tapestry of the work hangs in the United Nations build­ing in front of the entrance to the Security Council chambers to remind the delegates of their goals of peace and international cooperation. 
But "Guernica" is n"ot a play about the bombings in northern Spain. Confused? Don't be. 
"Guernica" is about the sinking of an Albanian ship, the Kater I Hades, in the Straight of Otranto in the Meditera:nnean Sea after colliding with the Sybilla, an Italian wai·ship on March 28, 191)7. Approximately 80-120 refugees were crammed onto this ship, which was built to hold a maximum of 30 passengers. Only 30 of the refugees survived the crash and these survivors claim that the c:ollision was not an acei­dent. 
The events leading up to the sinking ol' the Kater I Hades indicate the Italian 
ay not ose want to leave the theatre thinking or those who ean't handle heavy subject matter. It is a moving and lyrical, but admittedly difficult presentation about human nature. "The basic fear o man," Juan writes in director's note " ... is to open his eyes in the water." Anyone willing to embrace that fear and experience a nPw kind of theatrical experience should make a point to see this play. 
"Guerniea" continues its run in the Philbin Studio Theatre tonight at 7:30 
p.m. as part of thl:-l University's interna­tional playwriting conference, "Darwin and Thoatrll: Migration and Evolution." Thore are also performances Thursday, Friday and Saturday night at 7:30 p.m. and a matinee Sunday at 2:30 p.m. Tickets cost $15 for general admission, $12 for !'acuity and staff, $12 for sen­iors, and $10 for all students. Contact the box of'l'ice at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at performin­garts.nd.edu for more information. 
Contact Ellie Hall at ehall4@nd.edu 
govcrnmen on influx of Albanian refugees. The de facto collapse of democracy in Albania on March 1, 1997, and Albanian presi­dent Sali Berisha's simultaneous decla­ration of a state of emergency, sparked the immediate migration of over 10,000 Albanians to nearby Italy. Foreign gov­ernments pulled their citizens out o the country. 
As anarchy took hold in Albania, Italian officials, suddenly dealing with a refugee crisis, expressed resentment to the United Nations and asked for the organization's support of a naval block­ade to stem the flow of illegal immi­grants. On March 27, 1997, tho United Nations instead authorized a peace­keeping force to restore order in Albania and asked surrounding coun­tries to provide protection for the refugees. The Katnr I Rades sunk the next day. 
Contact Ellie Hall at ehall4@nd.edu 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tl-1 EOBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, February 25, 2009 
page 15 
Scene Editor 
One aspeet of "Guernica," the latest Mainstage production of the Film, Television and Theatre IFTT) Department at Notre Dame, which might go unnoticed to the untrained eye, is its list of eredits, and one of the show's top design credits goes to a stu­dent. 
Kimberly Mering, a senior FTT major from Baraboo, Wis., is the set dPsigner for "Guernica." Mering is taking on the project for her senior thesis in FTT. 
Designing the set for "Guernica" has been a challenging and collaborative task for MPring. · 
"In ordPr to design the set, I had to work from the script and in discussion with the director and other designers to come up with a design that works for the show and in the space where the piece is being performed," Mering said. 
That space, the Philbin Theater, is known as a "black box" theater, a ver­satile facility in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center that functions as something of a blank slate for each new production. 
The set itself. Mering said, draws its inspiration from the interaction between man and nature, a theme that runs through the production. 
"The set is based on the idea that while humans intrude on natural set­tings, causing dissonance in something that should be beautiful, eventually nature is able to restore itself by over­whelming the intrusion," she said. 
Her design incorporates a variety of "natural looking elements," including sand, rocks, water and seashells. 
uman on environment Mering has designed. 
"There is human 'stuff' all over the place," she said, blending and eroding into the larger landscape surrounding it. 
The process of designing was a diffi­cult one, Mering admitted, and unlike her previous challenges on other pro" ductions. 
"Designing and building was tough," she said. "I never realized just how much goes into getting a design from that first reading ... to up-and-running by opening night. 
"But it was really rewarding to finally see everything as it came together after months of work." 
Designing the set for "Guernica" pre­sented another layer of pressure for Mering, as the project is effectively her senior thesis, the culmination of four years of work in the major. Mering said that while the design is now a cohesive whole, the process of working towards that design had its twists and turns. 
"I knew I wanted to work on a cre­ative project," Mering said. "What real­ly excites me about theater is the chance to be part of a collaborative process that results in· something as beautiful as 'Guernica. '" Through the careful guidance of several members of the FIT faculty, Mering decided to take on the set design of a mainstage show, leading to her position as the "Guernica" set designer. 
If students are wavering in their deci­sion to see "Guernica," Mering said the play will no doubt interest them long after the final curtain falls. 
"It's a very tragically beautiful show," she said. "You'll walk out thinking about something you saw or heard happen to the characters." 
tory ... one; she first encountered the mpnt during her freshman year, in the mainstage production o "Wings." After that early foray into act­ing, however, she found herself: more drawn to the technical side of produc­tion. 
"Since ["Wings"] I've been mostly behind the scenes," Mering said. ''I've been the Assistant Set Designer on a few shows [2008's 'The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus,' among oth­ers] and the Light Board operator on 'The Mousetrap."' 
As an employee of the s<;ene shop at the Performing Arts Center. Mering has also helpPd build the sets for major FTT productions for the past few years. 
Mering actually came to the University with the intent of studying political science. But early involvement with on-campus theater productions got her hooked, and by her junior year, she had declared FIT as her major. Mering said the department's faculty were her strongest influences during her undergraduate career, leading to her work with "Guernica." 
"They're supportive and excited about what they do and what wP stu­dents do," she said. 
Ultimately, the power of theater is what's kept Mering involved these past four years, from that first role in "Wings" to her senior thesis. 
":Just having the chance to be a part ofa live performance in any capacity is very rewarding," she said. "Live the­ater is such a powerful medium, and the more I learn about it, the more I realize how much this is true." 
Contact Analise Lipari at 
alipari@nd.edu 

....-----------------­
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 25, 2009 
NFL 

Colts release receiver Harrison from contract 
After 13 years with Indianapolis, leading career receiver released after refusing pay cut, becomes free agent 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-The Indianapolis Colts released Marvin Harrison, ending the star receiver's 13-year tenure with the team and breaking up one of the great pass"-and-catch combina­tions in NFL history. 
Colts owner Jim lrsay announced the move Tuesday after meeting with Harrison in a final effort to re-sign the fran­chise's career receiving leader. 
"It's a day as an owner you know eventually will eome, but it's not a day you look forward to," Irsay said at a news conference. "I ean see Marvin in 1996 coming in from the draft into our complex and talking to him and meeting him for the first time, and the journey began. 
"As an owner, these are rare events, when you have a chance to talk about an individual who literally changed the face of a franchise," 
Harrison, who did not attend the news conference, ranks sec­ond in NFL career receptions with 1,1 02, the vast majority from quarterback Peyton Manning's passes. Together they helped make the Colts one of the most prolific passing teams in the league for m.ore than a decade. 
} Iarrison made eight Pro Bowls and earned a Super Bowl ring, and his 14,550 yards rank fow-th on the NFL's career list. He is No. 5 all-time with 128 TD catches and holds all major single-season and career receiving marks for the Colts. 
Colts president Bill Polian said he talked with Harrison Saturday night. 
"We talked at length about all the things he accomplished here," Polian said. 
"He worked so hard on his craft, always so prepared. He did every little thing it took to win," Polian said. "And he did it with quiet dignity, with superb profes­sionalism and with a sense of con­tribution to the team that really is second to none. lin is a Hall of Famor, no question. I Ie's the tran­scendent receiver of this genera­tion." 

I Iarrison's agent, Tom Condon, said Monday that th<) Colts had agreed to release !Iarrison after he declined a pay eut. !Iarrison had the highest salary cap num­ber of any NFL receiver at $13.4 million. 
, But he turns 37 in August and is coming off the least productive healthy season of his career. Cutting him could save the Colts about $6 million on next season's salary cap. 
"It's a tough day for us, losing one of the all-tinw grnaL'i. Marvin is a consummate winner," new ct>a<~h Jim Caldwell said: "I had a chance to watch him on the prac­tice lield day in day out. He's the most competitive guy I've ever seen.... He also had a great pride in everything he did." 

Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.-Michael Phelps will swim in a meet in Charlotte in May, ending his three­month suspension for being pho­tographed inhaling from a mari­
juana pipe. 
Meet officials announced Tuesday that the Olympic great has committed to the Charlotte UltraSwim on May 14-17. 
The Grand Prix event will be the first major meet for which Phelps is eligible, and first tuneup before July's world cham­pionships in Rome. 
"Michael is 
SWIMMING 
Phelps prepares for colll.petition in May 
focused on practicing and regain­ing the mental and physical momentum that he had achieved going into the Beijing Olympics," Phelps' coach, Bob Bowman, said in a statement. "He is committed to a very demanding and rigorous training schedule as he prepares for upcoming meet<; and the FINA World Championships." 
Phelps won a record eight gold medals at the Beijing Olympics, but he was suspended by USA Swimming this month after a British tabloid published a photo-
CLASSIFIEDS 
GOLF 

Woods returns to practic_e 
After knee surgery and long recovery, Tiger plays without pain 
Nothing hurt. pen quickly for me."
Associated Press 

"I feel great," Woods said. "I His first-round opponent is 
MARANA, Ariz. -Tiger didn't think it would feel this Brendan· Jones, an Australian Woods pulled into the parking good before the surgery, or Woods has never met. lot as sunlight began to filter even just after the surgery, Woods is the defending across the desert floor. He because I hadn't known what champion, which means noth­ducked into the clubhouse to it's like to feel this way. It's ing in this fickle format. It change into golf shoes and been so long. So to have it feel doesn't matter what score he headed out for a practice this healthy and this solid and shoots, as long as he wins round, a routine he has fol­secure, man, it's a great feel­more holes than his opponent. lowed for a dozen years. ing." "You have to be on your 
For a moment, it didn't seem He was about an hour late game right away," he said. as though he had been gone for his press conference, but "You have to make sure you from golf for the last eight he had a good excuse. bring the intensity and bring months recovering from knee It was his lirst time walking your game from the very first surgery. 18 holes since the U.S. Open, hole. Because if you don't, 
"It feels the same. Nothing and "I forgot how long it then I'll be going home." feels any different," Woods takes," said Woods, who has The intensity might come said, recalling a conversation been riding a cart at home. from the circus around him. with his wife Tuesday morn­Woods does not know what Even if Woods felt like his ing. "Just because it feels like to expect from his game when drive to The Ritz-Carlton Golf I'm coming back to what I the Accenture Match Play Club was just like going to the used to do." C·hampionship begins office, it soon was clear this 
But there was one chango Wednesday, mainly because week will be different. About that brought so much satisfac­there is sure to be rust. He 50 photographers were wait­tion. has not competed since sur­ing at the entrance of the 
Standing on the first tee at gery to rebuild ligaments in practice range, and a 'dozen of Dove Mountain, he drew back his left knee the week after them camped on the slope his 3-wood and sent the ball Torrey Pines. behind where Woods set up to soaring against the Arizona "''ve played one tournament hit balls. sky, his swing looking just as in 10 months," Woods said. The only other player on the good as it did that Monday in ''I've simulated tournaments range was Phil Mickelson, June at Torrey Pines when he the best I possibly can, but it's who won two days ago at won the U.S. Open in a play­hard to get the adrenaline up Riviera and virtually was off. to where it's going to be ignored. 
Only this time he didn't tomorrow when I play. I'm "As I'm walking to the wince. He didn't stoop over trying to get into the rhythm range, I've never seen so and clutch his left log. He did­of the round as fast as I possi­many cameras, especially that n't have to use his club for a bly can. early in the morning," cane. "And hopefully, it will hap-Mickelson said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
graph showing him with a mari­juana pipe at a party in November at the University of South Carolina. 
The 23-year-old Phelps apolo­gized and called the suspension "fair." While he's returned to train­ing in his hometown of Baltimore, 
"He is committed to a very demanding and rigorous training schedule as he pre­pares for upcoming meets and the FINA World Championships.,, 
Bob Bowman Phelps coach 
the suspension put him behind his preparation for the world championships. Phelps had planned to compete in early March -at a Grand Prix meet in Austin, Texas. 
Phelps will be challenged in his May return in a field expected to be full of his U.S. 
Olympic teammates. Charlotte UltraSwim officials expect Cullen Jones, Mark Gangloff and Ryan Lochte to participate. 
"Coming off of the unprecedent­ed excitement of the 2008 Olympics, to be able to have so many recent gold medalists togeth­er again is simply outstanding," said David Marsh, the director of meet host SwimMAC. 
Phelps last competed in the Charlotte meet in 2006, when he won five events and set two meet records. 
FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
Why pay for 12 months? 
Now offering 1 0-month leases. Bluegoldrentals.com 
4-bdrm, 2ba just off campus. Starts 6/09. $850/mo. 574-250-7653. 
Houses for the 09-1 0 school year. 2-bdrms up to 8 bdrms available. 
Leasing fast. 
Contact Kramer at 574-234-2436 or www.kramerhouses.com 
NOW LEASING. 
LAFAYETIE TOWNHOUSES. $350/PERSON. 3,4 t'!.. 5-BDRM UNITS. 2.5 BATHS. FREE INTER­NET. NEWLY REMODELED. CALL 574-234-2436 OR WWW.KRAMERHOUSES.COM 

1-3BR Contemporary Urban APTS across · from Notre Dame Stadium. The Foundry features private baths for every bedroom, washer/dryer, fit­
ness center, theater room, tanning salon, game room. Preleasing for August. Call574-232-1400 or lease online www.foundryliving.com 
House for rent. Very clean 3/4 br, 
1.5 bath, 2 living rooms and big backyard. Avail 09-10 school year. Affordable and very close to cam­pus. 
Call AJ@(440)463-5633. 
Student rentals 2009/201 0. St. 
Peter/SB Ave. Homes. $1300· 
$2000/month. 5-7 bdrms, 1st or 2nd 
floor. ·Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876­
3537. 
PERSONAL 

II, you or someone you care about 
has been sexually assaulted, visit Support Services for Victims of Rape & Assault at: http://osa.nd.edu/health­
safety/assault/ UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential supp01t or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 

For more information, visit NOs Assistance for Pregnant Students//Office of Student Affairs website at: 
osa:nd.edu/health·safety/assis­tance-for-pregnant-students. 

--------------------, 
OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, February 25, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 

NBA 
NCAA Women's Basketball AP Top 25 
team points record 
1 Connecticut (44) 1100 27-0 ~ Oklahoma 1056 ~4-3 3 · Stanford 996 22-4 4 California 897 ~2-3 5 Marylaod 877 23-4 6 Baylor 859 21-4 7 Auburn 848 26-2' 8 Louisville 834 25-3 9 North Carolina 777' 24-4 9 Duke 714 22-4 11 Florida State 681 23·5 12 TexasA&M 623 21-5 13 Xavier 487 24-4 14 Ohio State 478 22·5 15 Pittsburgh 443 20-5 16 Texas 389 19·7 17 Florida 373 23-5 18 Tennessee 301 19-8 19 Vaodarbilt 297 21-7 20 Kansas State 257 21-4 21 South Dakota State 255 26-2 22 Virgioia 223 21-7 23 NOTRE DAME 174 18-7 24 Arizona State 157 20-6 25 Iowa State 94 19-7 
NCAA Men's Hockey USCHO.com/CBS Poll 
team points record 
.1 Boston Univ. {31) 981 23·5-4 
2 NOTRE DAME (19) 968 25·5-3 
3 Michigan 863 24-10·0 
4 Northeastern 850 20·8-4 
5 Denver 790 19·9-4 
6 Princeton 673 28-7-0 
7 Miami (Ohio) 666 18·9-5 
8 North Dakota 637 20-11-3 
9 Vermont 635 11·8·5 
10 Cornall 540 17·6-4 
11 Yale 532 19·6-2 
12 New Hampshire 513 16·9-5 
13 Colorado College 342 16·9-8 
14 Minnesota-Duluth 336 16·9-7 
15 Ohio State 281 19-11·4 
16 Wisconsin 227 16·13·3 
17 St. Lawrence 191 17·11-4 
18 Minnesota 145 13-11·6 
19 St. Cloud State 122 17-13·2 
20 Massachusetts-Low. 62 15-13-2 
21 Air Force 50 22·8-2 
22 Boston College 41 13-12·5 
23 Alaska 22 15-11-6 
24 RIT 16 20-10·2 
25 Dartmouth 7 13-11·3 
NCAA Fencing USFCA Rankings 
Men Women 
1 NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME 2 Penn State Penn State 3 Ohio State Ohio State 4 Pennsylvania Harvard 5 Columbia Columbia·Barnard 6 Princeton Pennsylvania 7 St. John's Northwestern 8 Duke Temple 9 Harvard St. John's 10 Stanford Princeton 
around the dial 
NCAA Men's Basketball 
Connecticut at Marquette 7 p.m., ESPN 
Duke at Maryland 9 p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -The New York Knicks are free of Stephon Marbury, and the troublesome point guard is free to join a playoff con­tender. 
Marbury was waived Tuesday by the Knicks, ending a turbulent five-year stint in which the former All-Star couldn't lead his hometown team to a single playoff victory. 
The team released a statement saying an agree· ment between the Knicks and Marbury had been reached, but did not dis­close financial terms. Knicks president Donnie Walsh has said the team and Marbury have been trying to work out a buyout. 
Walsh's hope was to get something for Marbury in a trade, but with Marbury's salary of close to $21 mil­lion this season and a divi­sive personality, he knew a deal was improbable. 
Marbury would be eligi­ble to play in the postsea­son for any team that signs him because he was waived by March 1. He has been linked to the Boston Celtics, who are in need of a back­up guard with Tony Allen injured. 
"The Celtics are focused on defending our champi· onship and are working day and night to finalize our playoff roster," owner Wyc Grousbeck said. "We don't have anything to announce at this point except that we intend to do everything we can to raise Banner 18." 
Tho_ugh perhaps the most talented player on the ros­ter, Marbury hadn't played in a game this season as new coach Mike D'Antoni preferred to stick with the players who would be part of the Knicks' future. He never gave the tempera­mental guard a chance to cause the same troubles for him that he did for Larry Brown and Isiah Thomas. 
The Knicks' statement also said Marbury's griev­ance against the Knicks had been resolved. The sides attended an arbitra­tion hearing earlier Tuesday regarding the nearly $400,000 in salary the team had docked the point guard after alleging he refused D'Antoni's request to play in a game in Detroit in November when the team was short-hand­ed. 
He then publicly criticized D'Antoni and said he could never play for the coach because he didn't trust him. Marbury sought his depar­ture soon after that episode, but hadn't met face-to-face with Walsh since Dec. 1, when he left a meeting after just 20 min­utes because they weren't close on a buyout agree­ment. 

IN BRIEF WR Crabtree indecisive on 
whether to run for scouts 
INDIANAPOLIS -Michael Crabtree might not perform in front of NFL scouts, after all. 
The top-rated receiver in this year's draft told NFL Network on Tuesday there was only a 50· 50 chance he would run at his personal workout next month in Lubbock, Texas. 
On Saturday, doctors at the league's annual scouting com­bine diagnosed a stress fracture in his left foot and recommend­ed surgery to insert a screw. Rehabilitation is expected to take 10 weeks or more, mean­ing Crabtree wouldn't be able to work out for scouts before the draft if the procedure was done soon. The draft is April 25-26. 
On Sunday, Crabtree changed his plans. He said he would delay surgery until after his personal workout. Now that could change. 
Oden sidelined again
by bone chips in i{nee 
HOUSTON -Portland Trail Blazers center Greg Oden will miss at least two more games because of a bone chip in his left knee. 
Oden was hurt in a collision dur­ing a game at Golden State before the All-Star break. The 7-foot Oden missed the rookie challenge and will miss sit out Tuesday's game iri Houston and Wednesday's game in San Antonio. 
Coach Nate McMillan said there was a "slight chance" Oden would participate in practice on Thursday. McMillan said he want­ed to see Oden run before deter­mining when Oden would play again. 
"We thought, everybody thought, he would be able to be moving by now," McMillan said. "Things just keep getting bumped back." 
McMillan said doctors have assured him that the injury won't turn into a long-term absence. 
Texas ~ech's Knigl}.t gets
suspension for argmng 
KANSAS CITY -The Big 12 Conference suspended Texas Tech coach Pat Knight for one game on Monday for complaining about the officials after a loss to Texas A&M. 
Knight received a technical foul in the second half of the 79·73 loss on Saturday for arguing a foul call and complained about the officials after the game to reporters, saying he didn't care what the Big 12 thought. 
The son of Bob Knight, Pat Knight also was publicly repri­manded by the Big 12 earlier this month for being ejected after run­ning onto the court twice to argue a foul call in a game against Nebraska. 
Assistant coach Stew Robinson will replace Knight for Wednesday's game against Texas. 
"I wasn't surprised because I broke a rule," Knight said during the Big 12 coaches teleconference. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, February 25, 2009 
FORMULA ONE 

New team looks for drivers 
Founders of Formula One team hope to make debut in 2010 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -The founders of a new U.S.-based Formula One team plan to hire a pair of American drivers, and Mario Andretti believes his grandson is the perfect choice to fill one of the seats. 
Ken Anderson and Peter Windsor, the principals behind the team they call USF1, official­ly announced their intent Tuesday to run the 2010 sched­ule. The motorsports veterans said they'll base the team in Charlotte, home for most NASCAR teams, and scour the market for young American drivers. 
"Who they are ... your guess is as good as mine," said Windsor, a former team manager for Ferrari and Williams and cur­rent F1 pit reporter for Speed TV. "But two American drivers, that's what we intend to do." 
Windsor rattled off a prospect list of relatively unknown open­wheel drivers currently compet­ing in lower ranks, the most notable Jonathan Summerton, a 21-year-old Florida native racing in Europe in the A1GP Series. 
Then he and Anderson turned to their dream list, which includ­ed former F1 drlver Scott Speed, NASCAR star Kyle Busch and IndyCar glamour girl Danica Patrick. But Speed has said he has no interest in leaving NASCAR for an F1 return. Busch and Patrick both are willing to discuss the opportunity, but nei­ther has been contacted by USF1 representatives. 
Neither principal mentioned Marco Andretti, the budding lndyCar star and grandson of 1978 F1 world champion Mario Andretti. 
Mario Andretti called into the news conference, which was tel­evised live on Speed TV, as an invited guest in support of the USF1 team. During his com­ments, he recommended his 22­year-old grandson for a future F1 ride. 
"Every time I mention Formula One, he says 'I'd give anything to have this opportuni­ty,"' Andretti said. "If I were to design a Formula One driver today, I would design Marco. We'll see what the future brings for him." 
Marco Andretti signed a con­tract extension last year with Andretti Gree·n Racing, the team co-owned by his father, Michael. He was testing Tuesday at Homestead-Miami Speedway and not immediately available for comment. 
After Andretti hung up, Windsor added Marco Andretti to the list of potential hires, as well as Graham Rahal, a 20­year-old IndyCar driver. 
There has not been an American driver in F1 since Speed was released from Toro Rosso in the summer of 07. 

Speed, who has since moved to NASCAR, was the first American driver since Michael Andretti in 1993. 
The list of potential drivers was one of the few details revealed, as Windsor and Anderson had nothing concrete to offer about their planned race team. 
They are looking at a building in Charlotte to house the opera­tion, and plan to hire roughly 100 team members and operate with an annual budget of about $64 million. They also plan to have a "logistical base" in Europe to house transporters and equipment. 
Beyond that, they would reveal little else. 
Windsor said they've secured four private investors, but declined to reveal their identities and said their stakes in USF1 are small enough that he and Anderson will remain the pri­mary owners. 
Anderson, who worked for the Ligier and Onyx F1 teams in the 1980s before turning to design­ing and engineering IndyCars, said the team will rely heavily on American technical support. 
"Most of the technology in Formula 1 comes from the United States to begin with," he said. "The cost of doing business in the United States is signifi­cantly cheaper than Europe, and there are a lot of good people here." 
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
Lafayette Square Town homes 

Enjoy the good life when you live off campus at a very reasonable price! 
3, 4 and 5 Bedroom Town homes 2 1/2 Baths Free Internet Washer, Dryer and Dishwasher Security System Off-Street Parking Located Close to Notre Dame 
nly $350 per month, perstudent 
*Our townhom_es rent quickly­call Kramer Properties today 
View all of our town homes, apartments and houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
(574) 234-2436 

LOOKING FOR AN ON-CAMPUS JOB? 

The Observer is now accepting applications for 2009-10 for the following positions: 
Controller • Viewpoint Copy Editor • Systems Manager 
The Controller position, which provides great accounting experience, is open to rising juniors. It is a two-year position; the 2009-10 Controller will become the 2010-11 Business Manager. 
The Viewpoint position is open to any student; sophomores are preferred. 
Systems Manager applicants should be highly adept at computer troubleshooting. 
All positions are paid. 
Please contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu if interested. 
Wednesday, February 25, 2009 ' · · The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Wade sets career high in Heats'win over Pistons 
Spurs hold Mavericks to worst offensive showing of season while All-Star Duncan sits out with sore knee 
total with 26 games still to play, moved within two games of idle Atlanta for fourth in the Eastern Conference. 
Detroit (27 -28) fell into a tie for sixth in the East with Philadelphia, and needs to win in New Orleans on Wednesday to avoid matching the fran­chise's longest skid since 1995. 
The key for Miami was defense in the third quarter, which finally got the Heat some breathing room. 
Iverson's layup with 9:05 left in the third put Detroit on top 60-5'8. The Pistons proceeded to miss 12 of their 13 shots over the remainder of the peri­od, with only six free throws in the final seven minutes of the quarter keeping Detroit within striking distance. 
McDyess' three-point play with 10 minutes left got Detroit within 82-76, but the Pistons got no closer. Wade scored Miami's next three points, then found Cook for a 3-pointer that restored a 10­point lead. 
Miami outrebounded Detroit 44-34 -an impressive stat, considering the Heat had been outrebounded by an average of 18 in their last three games. 
Spurs 93, Mavericks 96 
Tony Parker had 37 points and 12 assists with All-Star 
teammate Tim Duncan sitting out with a sore right knee, and the short-ha,nded San Antonio Spurs held the Dallas Mavericks to their worst offen­sive showing this season in a 93-76 victory on Tuesday night. 
Parker scored 26 points in the first half and shouldered the load without Duncan and Manu Ginobili, who hasn't played since the All-Star break because of a stress reaction in his right ankle. 
Michael Finley scored 16 against his former team, and Josh Howard led the flat-look­ing Mavericks with 19 points. 
The severity of Duncan's injury wasn't immediately known, nor was his likelihood for Wednesday's game against Portland. Duncan walked around the locker room before the game but was scratched only a half-hour before tip-off. 
He was not on the bench for the game. 
It was the first time this sea­son San Antonio's leading scorer sat out with an injury, and left the Spurs to manage again without two of their big three. The Spurs survived a rocky first few weeks without Parker and Ginobili, who at the time was still recovering from surgery on his othe·r ankle. 
Ginobili, who is expected to miss another few weeks, cheerleaded in "street clothes as the Spurs won their third straight. 
Dirk Nowitzki scored 14 points for the Mavericks, who are also still without one of their biggest offensive weapons, Jason Terry. The standout sixth man missed his sixth game with a break in his non-shooting hand. 
Minus Duncan, Ginobili and Terry, the latest meeting in the Interstate 35 rivalry was a far cry from the 133-126 double­overtime thriller that the Spurs wrested in Dallas in December. 
Tuesday was more of a jog than a sprint. The Mavericks shot just 34 percent from the floor and San Antonio improved to 18-2 when hold­ing opponents below 89 points. 
Matt Bonner added 11 for San Antonio and Kurt Thomas had 10. 
Popovich did not mention Duncan's health in a pregame chat with reporters. But when the subject of the recent rash of notable injuries came up -Ginobili, Phoenix's Amare Stoudemire, Boston's Kevin Garnett -Popovich plainly stated that "everyone knows you got to have your horses to win it all." 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Not only did Dwyane Wade continue his run of career highs, he sent the Detroit Pistons to a new low. 
Wade scored 31 points and set a personal best with 16 assists, leading the Miami Heat to a 103-91 win and handing the Pistons their seventh 
straight  loss  - Detroit's  
longest slide in more  than  
seven years.  

Daequan Cook scored 16 points, Jermaine O'Neal added 14 and Jamario Moon added 12 for the Heat, who took con­trol with a 22-8 run to close the third quarter and held on from there. 
Allen Iverson scored 22 points and Tayshaun Prince added 18 for the Pistons (27­28). who fell under .500 this late in a season for the first 

Specializing in f)eautih.l Color 
time since 2000-01. 
Michael Beasley scored 11 points and Udonis Haslem fin­ished with 10 points and 11 rebounds for Miami. Antonio McDyess shot 8-for-10 and scored 17 for Detroit. 
Playing for the first time since Sunday's career-best 50­point outburst at Orlando, Wade missed his first four shots before getting on track. He had his 70th career double­double before the third quar­ter was done and finished 11­for-20 from the field, getting 10 points in the final 12 min­utes to keep Miami in front. 
His jumper with 2:02 left gave Miami a 98-87 lead, seal­ing the outcome that provided the Heat with a much-needed boost in the Eastern Conference playoff race. 
Miami (30-26). which has now doubled last season's win 

Now Offering Bikini Waxing Take $5 off 
SPRING 


BREAK 
258-5080 
620 W. Edison ftP, Mishawaka, tN 
__salariroQj)elnc.com 


:fl,tJ tl!JeAI c:Auetiou 
tiappy ~<Jth AnniversarY Meal ,~ucti()n! 
7:.1()-<):)() P.ID 
.J;ive c::,l\uetion in the .J;Afortune ~Allroom 
~i.-~t C()Uf"~e  Se(:()nd C()u.-~e  Third C()Uf"~e  
7:3()-S:(l(l  S:15-S:4.5  CJ:(l(J-'}:3(l  
professor James McKenna  Bob"RBish and @"ant Schmidt  The Undertones  
professor GeorgeLopez  The LePrechauns  WOmen's soccer Team  
The Breen-Phillips A"R6  The fourth FloorBabes  1beTrombone SectiOn  
professorsrutmzi and Ghada Bualuan  EVan and"RYan Sharple>'  ChuCk Lennon  
professor Kristin ,Le.ois  KaitiYtJ Moran  CoaalBteY  
professor Hums "RaChel1:he"RBCt;or  GoldenTate and Jimmy Clausen Heidi ru>cha The l)rum Maiors  Dean WOO IPu and Cal"metJ Nanni Monk Malloy father HesbUl"gf)  
Breen-Phillips"R.As  father l«Jl"tnan  

~ilent Aucti()n in the ()()()lev J:!()()m fr()m "l:J()-~:()() p.n1. C()me 13id ()n t7ift. Certificates fr()m L()cal l:!e,taurant' 



-----~~-~~~--------------------­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Friars upset No.1 Pittsburgh 
Monday, its second time there  
Associated Press  this season as the Panthers  
PROVIDENCE; R.I. CAP) -All  spent two weeks on top in  
Providence coach Keno Davis  January.  
wanted was for his team to be  "It was just terrible. We did­ 
part of the conversation about  n't play as us," said Blair, who  
who will be in the NCAA tour­ has fouled out in two of Pitt's  
nament field.  three losses. "They deserved  
They're talking about the  (it). We gave them that game."  
Friars now.  Sharaud Curry added 15  
Weyinmi Efejuku scored 16  points for the Friars, while  
points for Providence, which  Geoff McDermott had 11  
took a 20-point lead and then  points, six assist~ and three of  
turned back one last rally by  Providence's 11 steals.  
No. 1 Pittsburgh for an 81-73  Blair had 17 points and eight  
victory Tuesday night, the  ·  rebounds, and Sam Young had  
school's second win ever over  16 points and eight rebounds  
a top-ranked team.  for Pitt, which had won seven  
The victory greatly improves  straight games and beaten  
the at-large resume for the  Providence eight consecutive  
Friars (17 -11, 9-7), who are in  times.  
sixth place in the 16-team Big  Blair was named Big East  
East, a league considered by  player of the week after aver- 
most as the  aging 21  
toughest in the  points and  
country.  20.5 rebounds  

"I think they in wins over
''I'm sure ifwe had
made a big step then-No. 1 
to be able to lost, they wouldn •t be Connecticut continue their talking about us any~ and DePaul 
collegiate last week. He
more. 
careers tonight," picked up two 
Keno Davis
Davis said of his quick fouls ­seniors after his third and
Providence coach 
their final home game. "We're in a pretty good situation: we're in the top half of the best conference in the country. It puts us in the con­versation. I'm sure if we had lost, they wouldn't be talking about us anymore." 
The talking started when Pittsburgh star DeJuan Blair fouled out on an illegal screen in the final minute with the Panthers trailing 77-70. 
Pittsburgh (25-3, 12-3) returned to the No. 1 spot in The Associated Press poll on 
fourth-mid­
way through 
the second half, then his fifth with 46 sec­onds left after Pitt had a chance to make it a four-point game. 
"He's a special player," Davis said. "You look and he got 17 points and eight boards and it's a down night." 
Providence led by 20 points after scoring the first basket of the second half to complete a 17-1 run. The Panthers cut it to 75-70 on Blair's putback with 51 seconds left. After 
Student Affairs 

Brian McKenzie hit two l'ren throws for Providence a frac­tion of a seeond later, Pitt brought the ball down and 
Blair was called for  an of'fen­ 
sive foul.  
The  fans  in  the  Dunkin'  

Donuts Center crowded around the courtside press tables for the final minutes. Twice, the public address announcer begged the fans to stay off the court following the game; twice the crowd responded by laughing. 
Sure enough, after the Friars dribbled out the last 20 sec­onds -it was too far gone for Pitt to try fouling -the fans went over the tables and chairs circling the court and celebrated one·of the biggest wins in school history. 
"We weren't here to get rolled on," Providence forward Jonathan Kale said. "We knew we had to win one. It hap­pened to be Pitt. They hap­pened to be No. 1." 
The Friars are 2-10 all-time against No. 1-ranked teams, with their other victory coming in double overtime against Michigan in 1976. They 2-5 against ranked teams this sea­son, having also beaten then­No. 15 Syracuse on Jan. 28. 
"We've got high standards, and we didn't live up to them tonight," said Pitt's Jamie Dixon, who coached his 200th game. "That's obvious." 
Providence opened with a 15-4 lead and led by 18 at halftime despite making just one of its first eight 3-point attempts. The Panthers cut the deficit to 29-25 with 6:25 left in the half, but Providence scored 17 of the last 18 points before the break. 
is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates tnust be seniors who exetnplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Datne, and writing ability. 
Candidates tnay be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a non1ination form, please visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu/get~involved/student-activities-and~awards/denny-moore-award/ 
Non1inations are due by Thursday, March 5, 2009. 
Wednesday, February 25, 2009 
from febru~ry 25 ~ april 10 Get 
BKBIG FISH 
LaFortune Burg:;r King 631.6902 food.nd.edu 


Wednesday, February 25, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
a key part of the season-high formance. Whether its Peoples or reg­with a 71-68 win. 103 points put up by the "It was a breakout game for ular starter junior "From what
Rutgers 
Irish. him. He's capa­Tory Jackson I can remem­
continued from page 28 "We were ble of that," he 
joking around "We know [Peoples is] said. "He han­Harangody said. "It's going to with him. He capable ofdoing that, dles the ball be a tough game. It's a Big needs to play well. He's
I think he just needed
East game and it's going to be like that for us strong and tough, no matter who you're that all the a little confidence. makes great playing." t i m e , " Now, he's sky high, decisions. I Junior guard Jonathon Harangody think that was
and that's great for 
Peoples made a statement said. "We know evident against with his performance he's capable of us. " Providence. He Saturday against Providence. doing that, I made great Against the Friars, Peoples think he just decisions with
Luke Harangody 
enjoyed a breakout perform­needed a little the ball. Tory
Irish junior 
ance in which he played 28 confidence. was out most of minutes setting career highs Now, he's sky the game and in points (13) and assists high, and that's great for us." he did a good job of playing (nine). His ball-handling McAlarney was also with the team and not slow­against the Friars' press was impressed with Peoples' per-ing us down at all." 
Notre Dame Graduate 
Joins Leading Area Veterinary Hospital 

Magrane J>et A4edical Center Welcomes: 
Keith Kitson Logue, DVM 
Magrane 

Dr. Logue is a graduate of University of Notre Dame and Purdue's School of Veterinary medicine. 
Pet Medical Center 

Dr. Logue brings a wealth ofexperience in emergency and critical care medicine-care ofthe sickest pets, to our experienced staff. 
"CaringJ(>r your pel is caringji>r a fami~v member and1feel privileged to work wiTh a great ream to carefor your pet, whether healthy or ill." 
To schedule an appointment call: 574.259.5291 Email questions to kkloguc(i('magrancPMC.com 
Conveniently located to N.D. in the Edison Lakes Business Park (Mishawaka) 8 minutes from Notre Dame, directly east on Angela I Edison Road 
handling the point guard duties, Notre Dame will need a strong perform­ance fromf its backcourt. The Scarlet Knights are led by their guard duo of Mike Rosario and Anthony Farmer who, combined, average just over per game. Last 

"From what I can remember they have drivers. Guards who can really get in the paint and drive the ball." 
Kyle McAiarney Irish senior 
26 points season, 

Rutgers gave Notre Dame a scare in Piscataway. The heavily-favored Irish escaped 
ber they have drivers," McAlarney said. "Guards who can real­ly get in the paint and drive the ball. Obviously they're a dangerous team and can get up into 

you. They play kind of chaot­ic." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
Belles 
continued from page 28 
received a great effort from its bench, outscoring Adrian's bench 34-13. Freshman Kelley Murphy scored a game-high 17 points off the bench. 
The next game for the Belles should be a little tougher as they face another 16-9 team in Calvin. Earlier this season, the Belles won their matchup 72-68 in over­time. 
For the Belles to be successful again, they will need to play strongly in the paint and on the boards and look for even more productive bench play to take the pressure off of Newsom. 
The game is scheduled for 7:30 

p.m. Thursday at the Angela Athletic Complex. 
Contact Robert Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 


Stacy Nadeau 
The DOVE Campaign, and Ethical Marketing 
As one of six women in the Dove 'jReal Women with Real Curves" campaign, Stacy Nadeau is now a spokeswoman on healthy body image and challenges today's young men and women to think differently about beauty. 
Notre Dame Business 
Marketing Presentation 
Notre Dame Marketing Students will present their research on how the media affects and influences a person's conception of their body and their notion of beauty. 

page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, February 25, 2009 

. ' 
I
I . 
wednesday february 25 7:00pm 
reekers hospitality room 
share your ideas about current policies, resources and education on rape and sexual assault at Notre Dame 

' . 
Wednesday, February 25, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
LSU wins ninth straight victory over Florida 
Johnson puts up impressive numbers in Purdue's defeat of Indiana, possible conference player of year candidate 
Associated Press 
BATON ROUGE, LA. -Trent Johnson took over a LSU bas­ketball program last April that had gone through consecutive losing seasons in the Southeastern Conference. 
Now in Johnson's first sea­son the Tigers are SEC cham­pions again, clinching at least a share of the conference crown with an 81-75 victory against Florida on Tuesday night. 
Marcus Thornton scored 32 points for the Tigers (24-4, 12­1), who have won nine straight overall and 12 in a row in SEC play. They can win their second outright confer­ence title in the last four sea­sons with one victory in the last three games. 
''I'm so happy for these guys, you have no idea," Johnson said. "I don't believe in all that destiny stuff. This is a good basketball team. The thing I really appreciate about these guys is they speak from the heart and they have a sense of security." 
Garett Temple scored a career-high 21 points for the Tigers. Tasmin Mitchell added 12 points. 
It's been a huge turnaround for LSU, which fired coach John Brady during last sea­son's losing campaign. Johnson was lured away from Stanford after the season. 
"Winning is always fun," Thornton said. "Last year, we didn't have the season like we wanted to have. Nobody but the guys in this locker room thought we could have a sea­son like this." 


Walter Hodge paced the Gators (21-7, 8-5) with 16 points. 
The Tigers trailed 56-53 before going on a 14-2 run to take control of the game. A basket by Temple was fol­lowed by Bo Spencer's three­point play and gave LSU a 58­56 lead. After Alex Tyus tied the score for Florida, LSU scored nine consecutive points. 
"I think we were playing against the best team in the league right now with a whole bunch of seniors," Florida coach Billy Donovan said. "Our guys did pretty well to be honest with you. We had some plays that we could have made, but we just didn't." 
Two free throws by Mitchell gave the Tigers the lead at 60­58 with 10:18 to go. A 3­poiuter by Temple, a layup by Mitchell and two foul shots by Thornton boosted the LSU advantage to nine points at 67-58 with 8:01 to play. 
The Gators scored six straight points on a three­point play by Ray Shipman and a 3-pointer by Ervin Walker. LSU rebuilt its advan­tage to seven points on two foul shots by Thornton and a dunk by Chris Johnson. Florida came no closer than four points the rest of the way. 
"We really got after them and guarded them in the sec­ond half," Trent Johnson said. "At halftime, we made a cou­ple of adjustments to attack 
their zone.  We made  a  deci­ 
sion  to  run  our  m.an  stuff  
against it."  

Tyus had 15 points for Florida and Chandler Parsons and Nick Calathes each had 12 points. 
Florida, which trailed for most of the opening 20 min­utes, closed the first half on a 17-5 run to take a four-point lead. The Gators were behind 32-24 after Thornton made his third 3-pointer with 6:58 remaining before halftime. 
A 3-pointer by Dan Werner began the Florida outburst. Tyus and Calathes combined to score the Gators' next ten points. A three-point play by Tyus tied the score at 37 with 
1:19 left in the first half. 
Shipman then made a steal and drove for a layup to give Florida its first lead since early in the first half. A layup by Parsons put the Gators on top 41-37 at halftime. 
LSU regained the lead at 44­43 less than two minutes into the second half when Thornton knocked down another 3-pointer. However, Florida came right back to take a 50-46 lead with Hodge making a pair of layups. 
The Tigers answered with seven consecutive points ­five by Temple. 
The Gators scored six points in a row on a 3-pointer by Walker and a three-point play by Parsons to go on top 56-53 with 12:05 remaining in the game. LSU then started the game-deciding run. 
Purdue 81, Indiana 67 
JaJuan Johnson has emerged as Purdue's unex­pected conference player of the year candidate. 
Johnson has carried much of the offensive load while Robbie Hummel, the Big Ten's preseason player of the yea~ has fought through a hairline fracture in his lower back: 
In Big Ten play, the 6-foot­10 Johnson ranks fifth in scor­ing (14.8 per game), fourth in rebounds (7 .2), third in field­goal percentage (.565) and first in blocks (2.57). He's one of the main reasons No. 16 Purdue (21-6, 10-4 Big Ten) remains in the hunt for the conference title. 
Johnson had 14 points and 10 rebounds and five blocks in Purdue's 81-67 win over Indiana on Saturday. Hoosiers coach Tom Crean tried to recruit Johnson to Marquette two years ago. 


2/22-3/1 ''Giving aVoice" Poster Sampaign featuring 
GRC FIRE Starters 
2/23 Take Back the Night 
Prayer Service; 7:00 prn at Log Chapel 
March around campus 
Speak Out at Bonfire; 8:00pm at Holy Cross Hi!! 
(with hot-choco!<tte, smores and free hhirts) 
2/24-26 Resource Tables from 11:30 to I:30pm in LaFortune 
and the Dining Hails 
2/25 Comrnittee on Sexual Assault Prevention ((SAP) Student Forum 
7:00pm ln Reekers Hospitality Room 
2/27 ~A Time to Heal" Dinner with Faculty and Student Speakers Carolyn Nordstrom Professor of Anthropology John Cavadini Department Chair qnd Professor ofTheology Kyle A.C. Rocca Survivor of sexual assault Tim Latham President of Men Against Violence Anonymous Student Survivor of sexual assault 
"5:00-7:00 pm at Legends. A!l are welcome and the dinner is free, but 
you must RSVP by February 23 to grcr?Pnd.edu or 631 ~9340 3/1 SAAW Sunday featuring petitions, ribbons ,1nd 
prayer cards ilt Masses 
AWARENESS WEEK 

.. 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 25, 2009 
came out much more aggressive­ly in the second, scoring in the
Bouts 
early exchanges. By the end of continued from page 28 the round, though, Cugliari made a comeback and drew blood 
hold for a week." before the bell rang. The fight opened with Crepeau Coming into the third round, throwing the first punch but neither fighter seemed to have 

-Burroughs making the first con­much of an advantage, and it tact. After a few combinations to stayed that way for most of the Crepeau's body, Burroughs man­round. After a stoppage to clean aged a left jab to his opponent's up Hof's blood, the two gave it chin, which set up his right hook their all in the final 30 seconds, that landed cleanly and with with Cugliari landed a big upper­great force. cut to end the fight. Crepeau could not find the Drawing blood and landing big holes in Burroughs' defense to in the end was not enough, how­land any punches of his own, and ever, as ~ split decision sent Hot' the first round went to to the fmals. Burroughs. Crepeau made his strongest Michael 'The Silver City eflort in the second round, land­Slugger' Sayles def. Sean ing multiple right-left combina­'Somar' McNichols tions complemented by right jabs, Both fighters showed what it but none of it was enough to seri­means to "fight 'til the final bell," ously disrupt Burroughs' momen­as neither seemed willing to let tum. up until the fight was over. page when Perez landed multiple elbow while trying to escape round as Koepsel brought his left In the final round, Crepeau The two took turns initiating unanswered uppercuts and hooks Weber's flurry. arm back to initiate a big hook, attacked in order to win, and early on, with the more aggres­in the middle of the ring. Weber took the unanimous he hit the mat with what Burroughs met him, refusing to sive fighter winning most of the The light was stopped shortly decision and will join Powers appeared to be a shoulder injury. dance away or try coast to a vic­exchanges until the end of the thereafter, 50 seconds into the Saturday in a No. 1 vs. No. 2 fmal. Unable to move his left arm, the tory on points. By the end of the first round, when Sayles got second round, after Perez landed same one he had injured during -round, Burroughs dispensed McNichols against the ropes and a few more hard combos. the interhall football season, numerous shots to Crepeau's dealt out some good punishment. 147 pounds Koepsel was forced out of the body, as well as right and left The second round was all Eric 'A 2nd Reading From the light. hooks to the Duncan sophomore's Sayles, as he came out the clear Book of the Prophet' Feduska Joe 'Thor's Hammer' Leary def. head. aggressor for the round, initiating def. Michael Johnston Brian 'The BK Special' Koepsel Matt 'Poz' Posluszny def. Mark But Crepeau fought until the most of the exchanges. In a match where the only per­Both lighters gave it their all, 'The Caveman' Bennett very end, mounting one last stand McNichols' offense was largely son to get knocked down was the and by the third round it showed. Posluszny chased Bennett into in the closing minute. He did fire ineffective in the second, with referee, the first round saw The first round saw Leary get­the corner with a series of power­a few strong shots upon Sayles landing two and three Johnston pushing the pace, with ting the better of Koepsel, who ful combo punches to open the Burroughs, and each one landed punches for each one his oppo­Feduska using effective counter­had trouble getting accustomed to fight. Bennett was quickly able to cleanly, blessing Burroughs with nent landed. striking to take the round. Leary's lean-back defense, as reciprocate by using his right a considerable black eye only an The pace did riot slow dowd' in The second round was more of Koepsel was often unable to find hook to chase Posluszny back hour later. But considering such the final round, as both lighters the same, with Feduska counter­the reach he needed. against the side ropes, though he an onslaught came in the final continued to pressure their oppo­ing Johnston's aggression. The Koepsel turned things around was unable to throw anything minute of the final round. it was nent. McNichols finally mounted aggression took its toll, as in the second round, leaning into particularly damaging Posluszny's indeed too little, too late. an effective offense, but it was not Johnston appeared tired and his punches more and thus land­ability to withstand and block. Burroughs claimed the first­enough, as Sayles moved on with sluggish by the end of the round. ing more shots. He sealed the Bennett took over at the begin­place trophy with a unanimous a unanimous decision victory. Still looking tired in the final round with combinations against ning of the second round with decision but could already foresee round, Johnston continued to ini­the ropes, though both men were several effective combos, but who would hold the title in the 140 pounds tiate, but Feduska worked the jab breathing hard by the end of the Bennett was still able to success­coming years. well, and kept his tired opponent round. fully block as well as he did in the "Kevin is a great fighter, I con­Kristopher 'EI Azteca' Perez def. at bay. With the fight up for grabs, first round. Bennett switched up sider him a good friend, and I Kieran 'The Bulge' Bulger Leary came out ag~:,rressively, with his offensive strategy and aimed wish him the greatest luck," Showing why he has not lost a 145 pounds the two trading combinations for Posluszny's stomach, in hopes · Burroughs said, after icing that fight in four years, the three-time early. Both continued to swing of weakening his ability to block. black eye from his friend. "He champion Perez was all business Bobby Powers def. Albert throughout the round, though by In the third, Bennett was able brought it tonight. It was definite­in the semis. 'Hispanic Causing Panic' the end it did not appear either to keep up with his strategy of ly in no ways easy. I look forward Perez started off slowing, stalk­Toscano had enough left in the tank to chasing Posluszny around in the to watching him fight in these ing Bulger throughout the first The top-seeded Powers used his cause too much damage. Leary ring, but he held his ground by coming years." round, rarely throwing punches, reach advantage to earn a spot in took a split decision victory that showing combination power shots yet landing nearly everything he the finals for the second straight could have gone either way. that do real damage in the ring. 130 pounds did throw. Bulger tried pushing year. The round finished with both the pace early but typically ended Powers used his reach early Patrick 'The South Bend Sniper' fighters tiring, off their targets, Joe 'David Hassel' Hof def. Chris up backing off after eating a cou­and often, trapping Toscano in Kibbe def. Brian 'Raw Dawg' and unable to do crucial damage 'Cougar' Cugliari ple of hard shots. the corner in the first and landing Desplinter to make the decision obvious. But The semifinals began with a The second, and ultimately good punches while staying out of Desplinter, a senior captain, the judges determined Posluszny close split decision victory for Hof final, round was all Perez, with Toscano's reach. delivered the first crucial series of the victor with a split decision. that could have gone to either the beginning of the end coming Toscano used aggression to hits of the contest to his oppo­fighter. when Bulger appeared to have overcome the reach disadvantage nent, but Kibbe demonstrated an 155 pounds Cugliari easily won the first Perez pinned against the ropes. in the second round, initiating innate ability to dodge that car­round, landing two-and three-hit Looks can be deceiving though, and winning the early exchanges. ried him throughout the match. Daniel 'You're in the Uon's Den, combinations interspersed with as Perez landed five or six hard Toscano continued to get inside Kibbe chased Desplinter into a Now' Rodgers def. Nathan 'I Am body shots set up by his jab while shots while against the ropes to and deliver punishment through­corner mitlway through the Legend' Rothenberger taking little damage from Hof. force the ref to call a stop to out the round. round, offering successive combo Both fighters looked cautious Perhaps knowing the first check Bulger's bleeding. This was Powers came back in the final throws. from the get-go, but Rodgers round had not gone his way, Hof followed quickly by another stop-round, however, evading the In the second round the boxers caught Rothenberger off guard freshman after being trapped in acted a little more cautiously than with a right jab-and-hook combo the corner early. Powers found before, showing a new mutual to start the match. Rothenberger his reach again late, landing defensive strategy. Kibbe chased went for the body early on, but enough shots while staying out of Desplinter into a corner, and Rodgers landed a few more com­reach to earn the round and a Desplinter's strategy of aiming for bos that kept his opponent away. unanimous decision. Kibbe's stomach could not do Neither of the boxers proved to enough damage. Desplinter fin­be overly assertive at the start of Mark Weber def. James ished the round out well with the second round, but Rodgers 'Francis' Woods good combo throws and ap took over offensively from there Woods gave it a good run but intense right jab. until the remainder ;)f the match. was unable to take down Weber, Kibbe began the third round by Rothenberger began some effec­the boxing club president. containing Desplinter in the cor­tive chasing, but Rodgers began Woods was aggressive early on, ner and aiming low. Desplinter to aim for Rothenberer's and was able to land several showed a few right jabs as detri­unguarded head. Toward the end punches in the first, despite being mental hits to Kibbe's game. of the round, Rothenberger warned twice for punching while Toward the end of the round, showed a powerful right jab but holding the back of Weber's head. Kibbe was able to get in some remained a few points behind. Weber came out strong in the right-handed power shots, help­Both saved their aggression out second, trapping Woods in the ing the judges with their decision, for the third round. Rothenberger corner and unloading until Woods a split in Kibbe's favor. still did the majority of the effec­managed to bear hug Weber, tive charging, becoming a much causing the referee to separate 150 pounds stronger opponent. Combo hook the two. Woods mounted little shots against Hodgers chin offense ill the second. Timothy 'Slayer' Thayer def. showed that Rogers was losing The final round saw Weber Jamie 'Sweet Rays of Sunshine' his balance, but once again schooling Woods on tech­Koepsel Rothenberger got him against the nique, with an early flurry against Both boxers remained on the ropes for a final time, he showed the ropes and multiple shots late defensive for much of the opening successive left and right hook that left the sophomore stunned. round, and neither gained much shots which tipped the match Woods was warned for grabbing of an edge, thanks to the other's largely in his favor. 



Junior Matt Hopke, left, lands a left hook on senior Alex Duffy the back of the neck, and again blocking abilities. during a semifinal in the 165-pound weight division Tuesday. after landing a spinning back But just 13 seconds into the see CONT'D/page 25 
Wednesday, February 25, 2009 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
ed to gain ground via desperate Peterson bloodied Brennan's nose jabs, Devereaux used more com­in the final round, the fight did
Cont'd 
binations, and one left hook in not tip his direction. Brennan 
continued from page 25 particular rattled Laux. The won the bout with a split decision. judges rewarded Devereaux's effort with a unanimous decision. Alex 'Check Out These Chicken 
John 'LE.R.N.' Maier def. Alex Legs' Duffy def. Matt Hopke 'Speedy' Gonzalez Jordan 'Shake and Bake' Bucci Hopke opened the fight throw­
Despite his height disadvan­def. Mark 'The Sleeveless ing a multitude of punches, yet tage, Gonzalez came into the ring Samurai' Witte Duffy managed to avoid most of with intense tenacity that showed With the top of Bucci's head them. Excluding a quick, even Maier that the fight might be only reaching the bottom of flurry shortly before the bell, the more balanced than it seemed. Witte's chin, Witte's height and first round involved more feeling 
Gonzalez's hooks were able to reach advantages defined the out the other fighter than it did do some damage to Maier, who fight, but only in the ways that actual fighting. trailed most of the round until Bucci managed to exploit them. As the second round gained landing a right hook. From the opening bell, whenever momentum, Duffy got adventur­
In the second round, Maier Witte attacked, Bucci would duck ous. Hopke's reach advantage gained some crucial points with the punches from above and take had kept the two somewhat sepa­powerful combination throws that advantage of the newfound gap to rated, but suddenly Duffy landed Gonzalez struggled to keep up pummel Witte's body. first a right-left combination, then with. Each boxer became more In the second round, Bucci a strong left hook. Hopke did not defensive toward the end of the occasionally tried to reach Witte's get a chance to return the favor. second round, but Gonzales head, but often couldn't reach With two relatively conservative appeared a little more dazed than high enough. Nonetheless, Witte rounds under their belts, both Maier. would attack, and Bucci would · boxers entered the third round in 
For the third round, both box­slip under the punches and have a hurry. Hopke threw more ers came back into the ring on an open opportunity against punches, but did not land a great the offensive, but Gonzalez was Witte's ribs. percentage of them. While Duffy off-target with most of his throws. By the third round's opening did not necessarily land a larger Maier gained a few crucial points bell, the blows to his body had percentage of his punches than toward the end of the third round tired Witte. Bucci managed a left Hopke did, the punches he did by landing a few combos on a hook to Witte's chin that further land left a mark on Hopke. After very dazed Gonzalez. set Witte back, and soon Witte's three successive right hooks, 
Maier was awarded the split corner men were cleaning up his Hopke was noticeably dazed. The decision. bloodied nose. The decisive third fight ended in a unanimous deci­round assured Bucci a victory, sion for Duffy. 160 pounds and indeed, it was unanimous. out either fighter inflicting consid­the response was a five-punch 
170 pounds erable damage to the other, nor series of hooks and jabs that Diaz Jim 'Rainbow Sprinkles' 165 pounds did either fighter feel too comfort­could not defend. Devereaux def. Caleb 'The Andres Villalba def. Matt 'The able within the ring. Opening the final session, Sharkitect'Laux Daniel 'It's Showertime' Abominable Rowman' Paletta Continuing with variety, Lee uti­Tchoula landed two left jabs, fol­
Following the heavyweight Brennan def. Jack 'The Ripper' Both fighters opened the fight lized his right hook in the final lowed by two left hooks. Diaz was championship bout, these two Peterson strong. Paletta threw two hooks round and earned himself a fatigued from such an onslaught, fighters appeared to move with a Both fighters made it quite that Villalba could not return. At championship bout appearance and Tchoula controlled the rest of great sense of urgency. But no clear from the start that they pos­the end of the round, Villalba had with a unanimous decision. the fight, as he had most of it to matter how urgent Devereaux sessed strong punches when 'con­not landed any noteworthy ·start with. Due to this control, may have been, he could not necting. Peterson landed the first punches, yet the round was still Mike Doran def. Bill 'Italian Tchoula won with a unanimous evade Laux's right fist. Laux var­strong punch, a right-left combi­even. Stallion' Straccia decision. ied his punches from hooks to nation. Nearing the end of the Villalba began the second Considering the low number of jabs in the first round and alter­round, Brennan asserted himself round aggressively, attacking punches actually thrown, neither 200 pounds nated blows to the head to work­with a right hook that firmly con­Paletta's body. A right jab to Doran nor Straccia risked too ing the body, but he always used nected with Peterson's head. Paletta's chin furthered Villalba's much. Because of all the feigns, Benford Begay def. Andrew his right. Brennan began landing his cause, as did a few more body neither fighter landed a signifi­Lorenz 
Once the bell for the second punches with greater frequency shots near the end of the round. cant punch. Showing unexpected agility, round rang, Devereaux's left jab in the second round. His highlight Entering the third round, each Straccia changed this as quickly Begay ducked and weaved exercised its effectiveness. Laux of the round came with back-to­fighter seemed to feel that in as he could in the second round, Lorenz's initial aggressive bloodied his opponent's nose in hack right-left combinations that order to win the bout, he needed landing two right hooks within approach. Lorenz did land two the second round, but Peterson could not match. to win the last round. As both the first minute. A third Straccia right hooks, but Begay responded Devereaux's left-right-left combi­Peterson left his corner in the tired very quickly, Villalba contin­right hook was overshadowed by in turn with a right hook of his nations forced Laux to gasp for third round looking to land many ued to focus on Paletta's body, a right-left-right combination own, as well as a right-left-right air as the round closed. punches quickly. He led with a and this strategy led Villalba to a delivered with success by Doran. combination that Lorenz could 
In the third round, Devereaux series of right hooks that Brennan unanimous victory. Again in the third round, not match. repeatedly landed a left jab or could not defend, but Brennan Straccia attempted to begin Begay continued to throw solid two, then step away before Laux threw enough punches to keep Bernardo 'Blue' Garcia def. Alex strongly, but Doran kept his oppo­combinations throughout the sec­could retaliate. As Laux attempt-Peterson alert. Even though 'The Big Swede' Kissinger nent at a distance with his reach ond round. Lorenz did land 
The fight began quickly as advantage. A right jab directly to punches, but none with quite the Kissinger threw punches at Straccia's chin all but sealed the same effects as Begay's. Both Garcia's head while Garcia fight. boxers began to fatigue at the end
Leasing now for 2009-2010* 
attacked Kissinger's body. Once of the round, promising a difficult the opening adrenaline-induced 185 pounds third round. 
exchange had passed, the two Begay turned to Lorenz's left fighters sought a rhythm. With Leo 'The Southpaw Uon Claw' ribs to start the third round, fol­time, Garcia got Kissinger into the Rubinkowski def. Chris lowed closely by a vicious left ropes, but Kissinger fought back 'Roadhouse'Hapak hook. Such success left Lorenz effectively. With a distinct height and reach exhausted, and Begay was quite 
Garcia opened the second advantage, Rubinkowski took fatigued himself. When the fmal round with two right jabs to charge of the fight near the clos­bell rang, Begay had earned him­Kissinger's head, but Kissinger ing bell of the first round. He self a split-decision victory. landed more punches throughout delivered a mighty right hook, the rest of the round, including and then with only a second's Patrick 'Third-Degree' Bums two right-left hook-jab combina­pause, an equal left hook that left def. Bart Dear tions. Seconds before the bell, Hapak harmless for the remain­The two fighters began the bout 
Notre 
Dame Apartments 
Notre Dame Apartments 

Kissinger landed three strong der of the round. with an excess of movement, yet 
hooks. Hapak returned to form in the Dear was still able to land a few The conclusion of the fight second round, neutralizing jabs to Burns' chin. Not many 2 Bedroom, 1,200 sq. ft. Apartments 
are a Notre Dame tradition! 

neared with no clear victor when Rubinkowski's reach by forcing other punches landed solidly dur­Garcia landed a right hook that the southpaw into a corner. ing the round, and each fighter dazed Kissinger. As Kissinger There, Hapak· pummeled remained relatively fresh. 
Newly Remodeled 

attempted to regain his compo­Rubinkowski's midsection, after To begin the second round, the sure, the final bell rang, and with delivering two hooks of his own. fighters changed patterns, as they
Free Internet 

it came a split decision in favor of Rubinkowski closed strongly. matched each other blow for Garcia. Repeated left jabs kept Hapak at blow. Burns finally gained an
Free Water 

bay once again, and that was all edge by executing a clean right 175 pounds Rubinkowski apparently needed. hook followed by a quick jab. 
On-Site Laundry 

Dear entered the third round Mike 'The Big Dog' Lee def. Jim John 'The Boogie-Woogie with plenty of energy. With punch 
Off-Street Parking 

Hasson Monster' Tchoula def. Rafael after punch, right after left, hook Lee did not waste any time in 'Dinamita' Diaz after jab, Dear gave Burns a good
Only Three Blocks from Campus 

this contest. As soon as the With two fighters possessing as amount of difficulty. opportunity presented itself, he much prowess as these two, the Nonetheless, the judges felt delivered a flurry of punches to first round largely consisted of the Burns was able to handle this dif­
*T~ese apartments rent quickly­

Hasson's ribs. Lee repeated this competitors gauging the other. ficulty, as he won with a split
call Kromer Properties today 

with every chance he found, espe­Tchoula threw a few hooks, but decision. cially when Hasson found himself none landed as strongly as he
View all of our townhomes, apartments and houses at 
in the ropes. hoped. Contact Dustin Madden at
www.kramerhouses.com 

Lee then turned to his left jab in Tchoula displayed his efficiency dmadden4@nd.edu, Molly the second round to keep in the second roun~ wasting no Sammon at msammon@nd.edu Hasson's own quick flurries at a effort. When Diaz managed to and Douglas Farmer at
{574) 234-2436 

distance. The round passed with-land a left jab to Tchoula's chin, dfarmer 1 @nd.edu 

page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, February 25, 2009 
'Cuse 
continued from page 28 
double figures. Junior guards Ashley Barlow and Melissa Lechlitner had 13 and 12 points respectively and junior center Erica Williamson had 18 points, 11 rebounds and five blocks, tying her career high. She said she still has work to do, however, in the blocks department. 
"I definitely haven't mas­tered it, because I fouled them a couple times," Williamson said. "[It's] stay­ing in front of the ball, not stepping up too much but let­ting them come to you and jumping up in the right moment." 
Sophomore guard Erica Morrow scored 18 points and senior guard Chandrea Jones had 16 points and 11 rebounds for the Orange, who dropped to 15-12, 4-10 in the Big East. 
"We had no problem getting the ball to the post," Syracuse coach Quentin Hillsman said. "We got the shots that we 
· wanted. They do a good job of playing the matchup zone." Notre Dame capitalized on the 25 fouls called on Syracuse and made 28 of its 35 free throws. Hillsman said fouls early in the first half made it difficult to play the rest of the half. "That's going to affect every kind of play," he said. "That means you can't touch anyone for 17 minutes." Schrader fouled out with 
1:11 remaining, but her per­formance earned her a stand­ing ovation from the crowd and a hug from McGraw as she left the court. 
Notre Dame expanded its lead with six unanswered points to make the score 78­63 with 4:54 left. Barlow stole the ball and drove the length of the floor for a layup to give Notre Dame an 84-67 lead with 2:44 left. 
Referees whistled the Orange for six fouls in a 1:21 span, and Notre Dame con­verted all eight free throws it attempted. The Irish led 53­43 with 15:58 remaining, at which point Syracuse had seven fouls in the half. 
After grabbing a rebound midway through the half, freshman forward Erica Solomon collapsed, favoring her left leg. She limped through a couple possessions before Williamson replaced her. 
Notre Dame continued with the foul shooting and didn't make a field goal for 4:56 in the second half, but a techni­cal foul following a personal foul gave Notre Dame four straight free throws, and the Irish made them all_. 
Williamson made a hook shot and tipped in a miss and Lechlitner hit two more free throws to give Notre Dame a 65c48 lead with 10:10 left. 
Just as Notre Dame went to the line often early in the sec­ond half, Syracuse got some help in the foul department later on. Notre Dame commit­ted seven fouls in just over three minutes, including Schrader's third and fourth and two three-point plays. Syracuse made all five free throws during the stretch and pulled within 70-61 with 6:57 left. 
In the first half, Schrader had 11 points in the first seven minutes and her two free throws gave Notre Dame a 22-7 lead with 13:30 remaining. Notre Dame start­ed the game on a 16-3 run and led 24-12 with 10 min­utes left in the first half. 
Three Syracuse fouls in a minute and a half helped Notre Dame start shooting foul shots early. The Irish got to the one-and-one mark with 
8:33 remaining in the half. 
Two quick baskets by Morrow brought Syracuse within 10, but Bruszewski converted a 3-point play to make the score 36-23 with 
5:13 remaining. 
With some help from Jones, Syracuse worked its way back. A four-point play from Tasha Harris tied the score at 36, capping a 13-0 Orange run. The half ended with Notre Dame ahead 38-36. Schrader finished the half with 15 points on 6-of-7 shooting. 
Notes: 
+Williamson now has more than 100 blocked shots, with 102, good for 9th on the all­time list at Notre Dame. 
+Schrader is now six points a way from 1,000 for her career. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Blaney 
continued from page 28 

Notre Dame's two senior cap­tains, Jillian Byers and Shannon Burke. 
"It was an honor to be named to the preseason all­Big East team," Blaney said. "There are so many great competitors within the Big East and to be recognized as one along with Jill and Shannon was really awe­some." 
More than her individual statistics and honors, however, Blaney said she values the strong relationships she has built with her teammates. 
"I have countless memories from this team," Blaney said. "We always have a blast. I have to say some of my favorite memories include our pre-game dancing in the lock­er room, winning big games and going out with each other at night. They're my best friends. IAN GAVLICKIThe Observer 
"We are such a close group Sophomore Shaylyn Blaney looks to pass during Notre Dame's 
of girls, I would do anything 14-11 win over Ohio State on Feb. 22. for them. They are all so tal­ented and I Jearn so much top teams and players in the Kailene Abt and Jackie from them," she said. country isn't new for Blaney. Doherty. 
She credits her teammates, She was a four-time letter But Blaney's past success and even past winner in both hasn't stopped her from con­Irish players, lacrosse and tinuing to set goals for 
for providing "They,re my best field hockey at improvement. her motivation. friends. We are such her New York "I would really like to get "I also believe high school, more assists than I did last
a close group ofgirls,
that .past and and she was season and also have at least present team­I would do anything also a three­one goal in every game," mates keep my for them. They are all time U.S. Blaney said. "E_very year our love for the Lacrosse All­[team] goals for the season are
so talented and I
sport alive as American. to win the Big East and a well," Blaney learn so much In 2007, National Championship. It isn't said. "We have from them. ,, Blaney helped easy. There are a lot of great such amazing the U.S. Under-teams in the country. alumni at Notre 19 team to a "I think that this year we
Shaylyn Blaney 
Dame. Girls gold medal, have a really good chance of 
Irish sophomore 
who graduated scoring 16 winning the Big East and before I even goals, fourth-being contenders for a got here still most on the National Championship." write e-mails to psych up the team. She was also named an team before big games." Under Armour All-American, Contact Meaghan Veselik at 
Playing against some of the along with current teammates mveseiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

\\l fOUND~ 

"'\ \.af1S 84 APARTAftNrs Y. 
£DllY STRE£T ®SOUTH B£ND 
CONTEMPORARY URSAlfAPAR't'IIENTS 
Directly~ From The University of Notre Dame Stadium at Eddy Street Commons 
Exposed brick walls and haJtlwood style ftoors 
Expansive Windows wiltJ spectacular views 
Stunning 10-foot calling& 
Rooftop deck with panoramic views of the University 
of Notre Dame campus 
Fully equipped kitchens W1th an abundance of cabinets 
Private baths for every bedroom 
FUll-size washer &6lyef in every apartment 
All utilities included -even cable and internet 
WI-A internet access tl'lrooghout Club House 
Enhanced Bl.lsinfm Center 
Private baltonies in select apartments 
24-hour fitness center with state.of-lhe-art equipment &Wii Fit 
Community room wrtn Wil & Billlan1s 
FUli wvq001'11::ierge 
Tanning Salon 

EkM:tronic card access to your apartment and amenities center 
Garage paa!ng 

Retail shops and restaurants at street level 
· Small pets allowed 
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN LMNG AND LIVING WELL 
Visit our l..eeelng Center at the East comer · of the North Eddy Street constructiOn site on Angela Blvd. 
email: eddy@foundrytMng.com 
• --• • • ~ 'Vc I • > • ~-::,. • ~--.!"" :.-• ~ • ~~--~--'• 
,••!'IrA ·z·~·. .. . . ­
-

.:-'"'~~-~ ~ .-. ---~ :.-_.-........-·.~· 
1.~ .--~ ~ {;,?.,~ 1 '• "• ': --:::; =----,_ ,-:. ~ -­



Wednesday, February 25, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
CROSSWORD 
Across Electrical bridges 
5 Disney output. once 
9 Winter warmer 14 Polo on TV 15 Place to pay a 
toll. perhaps 
16 Jude Law title role 
17 "_unrelated. note .. ." 
18 Buggy place? 19 4 x 100 meters need 
20 Genghis Khan's non-pedigree domain? 
23George_, longest-reigning English king 
24 Round lig. 
25 Narrowest winning margin in baseball 
28 Rush hour pace 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
63 Trial balloon, e.g. 64 Dr. Pavlov 65 Bat maker's tool 66 Pundit Co!mes 67 Be disposed (to) 68 Burgers on the hoof 69 For fear that 70 Bullpen stats 
Down like super­preCise clocks 2 'The Bathers" 
painter 3 Head cases? 4 Be a fink 5 Hands over 6 Jump for joy 7 Singles bar 
delivery 8 Pipe part 9 Salk 
contemporary 10 Bordeaux wine 11 Words from 
Alphonse or Gaston 12 lpanema locale 13 Place for reeds 21 Items in some illicit trade 22 Miranda rights readers 26 "One" on a coin 
27 Court divider 29Cabinet 
department until 
1947 
30 Kegger. e.g. 31 "-losing it?" 34 Elizabethan 
ballad player, maybe 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CliL.EBRI1'1F~'i .BORN ON THIS DAY: l:lll!y Z:mc .4J: l:~ii<ti< MIIIT'<ty. 53: lkkn Sbawr. 58; b:lwanl hme; O!m"'· (.>~ 
Happy Birthday: ll'• up tn you "' haw tlw vbi<m and tum it into a viabk res<lurcc thi> vcnr . ./\n t:-X~:'I!iag and <~dl1l~Mtnn~tl1imt..~ ·will ttnfnld if vu~! 1,1se \'our Ptsl::'es ch.ann h:l \!:(~lin­~'E>!wd i11 f>u.~;;W,,, «oo JlCr;;<.>nul rdatiom;hit». withp;;opk whnc:m adJ toy<.•urplan~.lt's lip 111 Y"U 111 initiate ;md m~'"" l(>rw,u-J. ):i:mr numbc,-,; '!"'I>, 13, J$. 24, ~!L J$.-UJ 
ARfr~'i (March 21·Aprill9): K~"'P searching h>r th<• right grmtp ur ~"''"""who ll<:tUJtllyget);. \'\'hJ.i y"<m <Ul~ try-ing to aC!..?OU.lph.i.h, Otberw:bt"'~ g;'") it aio.nc. R("unit~ widl sntt'K''fmt.~ who has me~nt a l<>t h) you if! lhe pnsL Good tiling> will re;;uh if )'N! ulk openly. *** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Empty promises cw lead to a bad decision. Make $ute that you hav·e something concrete to work with before you get star1ed, Bmo· tiona! c<mnecti.cm• with mmeone you have a give-and-take relation>hip with cw be rebed on to bdp you out now. **** 
GEMINI (May 21·1nne 20): Smnc~:>ne may try to pull a fast num~mw '""you. Love is iutbe pkt\lw and '"."'"'l.h:in.s: wi!.l dev~l<.'l' rapidly l:.;IW<'e~ }'<)U anJ a Wt)' >p<'d"l indi­vidual, Past <md pre~enl will """' path•. ** 
CANCllk (June 21-Jul>' 22): i\ change al wvrk or witlun vour pmfessional Held will be.m:fh }~'u l<mg-tcrm, Seri<>us a~tgre%\ve ac.lion ':>'ill p:<y df, A>:<}id ~nyone iuvol~ed in ~·~ wtusu:,llif<)•tyk th:tt might ittflt~t''IIX' p:.ur <'tl:ll\;ut stuus m fln:tu<:uli P"•itiun. 
***** 

1..00 (July 23-Aujl. 22): lake the steps required t•~ tum an old or new relationship into smnelbing ~pedal. Ltwe ;md rom;m.:e are in the wm;. Fo.:u.s on both busines~ and per­ronal partll.<'rship>. *** 
VlROO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Low and money "ill wmehow come tog<>tlwr li" p)U l<>da)', h~pcct hdp llnaudally, kgaHy or wlwre a setllemcnt i• due. Enmli<1nal is>uc• can bdp y01.1 realize how you fed aoo11t S(lll:le of the people in your lik *** 
LJ.RRA (Sept. 23-Qct. 22): Renewed feelings lor someone wilt sec you on an interesting mute. influeltdug your life~tyk. Share your feelings and lh< «•ponw you get will ensure !hal yvu ate doing the ri~hl thi.ng. Holl<$ty bas ncwr been tn<.>re important. * * * 
SCORPIO (O.:L 23-Nov. 21): Sticking around th..-old will not lead vou ~i a hril,!bter future. You'w been in a rut h>r to<:> kmg. lfs time to live .love and lw happy. Rid yourself of what is wt>rking against yon. ***** 
SAOITrARITJS (Nov. 22-De.:. 21): Y"u have ""II<' gr9<1t ideas thm <OM llll'li into cash "' lm~g a• )'VII dmt'r g<t <Werh<,atd, Sun~<.~>ne will qU¢•Iion yuur plans and. if y<>U lake lh<' (rtlkbm >Criou;;l}·,you will be further ahead in the .:nJ. Low bin the stars.**** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 2.2-Jan. 19): Thing• nuy he •wint:ing a link I<X> f11r out of eootrol f<>r vour lik:ing.. Dor('t f<~r dum~e-lnstc~d. t;mted ymtr a.•,.,ts a!l<l se<: whcre thins:• go. M..h· }'<>Ut dro•w• "''"ely but h!skn and 1'bserw what ewt)i<»l~ dll¢ '' dt>mg. ** * 
AQUARIUS (Jw. 20-Feb. 18): Ewrything is looking up and the oplinns being made a,·ailablc to Y"'" >houhl not he lsnt.>l'<'<.L Expres.>ing your tb<>ul,!hts and idea~ will mtrd<'l the attt"nlion f'•f ~omeonc \'-'h~) can vffcr ~=oo ~l.lgg.e5tinn5i.-and (\mtributc f() "'hat y<JU '\\'ttnt I<> do.*** 
PISCBS (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't let <llhc~> confu,, }'<1U with i.nnucndocs or lh>! ~ij;· nab hdn!J; >•mi. Qu,..,;ti<tn th~ lll<llh..,s. h'• h<'ing ~war~ •bat will hdp you hold P"" s:rntmd and gt'l what }'1:><1 ''·•nt. htdl'<:i•i,·c parf>w~> >h<ml<l b<: dimiuat"d fnml your pl;m•. 
*** 

.Birthday Baby: Yl'u are inlelligcm lllld channing and p;.~>ple gravitate to yuur side. You are a bit uf almter. You >land by your m.omb and set your <>wn rule<; anJ t'<'gulatk>ns. 
EugNifti'~ J\PI.t StUd·:-t:-ugemaln!it.cnm far cmifJ~1t~ntit~l c~.msuiuuitms. 11(1'ft'<I<Yr <'<>mkug<'JJIIl{astf"r £ugWifl'$l>h>g. astroad,•io!'.<'Omfor fim 
30 Word after pen or gal 32 Newcastle's river 
33 Be indisposed 35 In the thick of 37 So last year 38 Non-pedigree 
essential courses? 
42 Monopolist's portion 43 Margin marking 
44 Author of "The Island of the Day Before" 
45" Houston" ol 
1980sTV 47 Far from welcoming 
48 You can open with them 
52 Repugnant 54 Letters on tires 56 Talladega unit 57 Casey's non-
pedigree team? 61 Put on the books 

WILLSHORTZ 


PilUle by Fred Piscop 
36 Ernie. the Muppet's rubber toy 
38 Decked out 
39 Frisbee game involving body contact 
40 Nonacademic school activities, 
• in!ormally 

41 Chaney of "The WolfMan· 42 Latin 101 word 46 "You got mel" 49 Twist of lic!ion 50 Potassium source 51 Goes on a spree 53 Out-and-out 
54 Results of some bargains 55 Apply spin to 58 Baby bottle? 59 On one's duff 60 Time on a marquee 61 Ways around Chi-town 62 N.L'er since 
2005 

For answers. call 1-900·285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or. with a credit card, 1·800·814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best ol Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles. or visit nytimes.com!mobilexword lor more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.comfcrosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.comtwordplay. Crosswords for youl)g solvers: nytimes.coml!earning/xwords. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA
www. BLACKDOGCOMIC.COM 

PATRICK GARTLAND 
THE FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
REESA 
I [J b

©2008 Tribune Media Servioos. Inc. 
t~f'flxJ 
ETTORP 
I [J 
IGUMPSY±
I I [ 

[] 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

UNWr<A.PPINGTHf£11< Tr<f=A.TS DUr<ING THE COWBOY MOVIE MA.OE THEM --­


Print answer here: [ 

(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's j Jumbles: FLORA HOARD UNLESS HERMIT Answer: For a dentist, making a living is ­HAND TO MOUTH 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

J I I I I J I J 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City --------------~-State _____ Zip_______ 
.------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, February 25, 2009 
page 28 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Worth the weight 
Burroughs repeats as heavyweight champ; finalists in other 12 divisions determined 
By DUSTIN MADDEN, 
MOLLY SAMMON and 
DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
The big boys got a chance to fight for a title amid a night of semifmal bouts in the 12 other weight classes, and Will "The Stimulus Package" Burroughs beat his good friend Kevin "I Left My 6-Pack in my Gym Bag" Crepeau for the second straight year to claim the heavyweight championship. 
"After we fought last year we became friends, hung out on occasion," said Burroughs, a law student. "I think fighting him again only added to the stress element. When it turned out we were fighting, it was as if we needed to put the friendship on 
see BOUTS/page 24 


SMC BASKETBALL 

.Belles top Adrian in playoffs 
By ROBERT GRAHAM . Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's extended its record-breaking season last night after defeating Adrian Bulldogs 74-60 in the MIAA tournament's first round at the Angela Athletic Complex. 
The win was the l6th of the season for the Belles (16-9, 13­3 MIAA), the most in the history of the school's program. 
Saint Mary's never let up after building an early 20-8 lead over the visiting Bulldogs. Senior forward Erin Newsom recorded her seventh double­double of the season, scoring 13 points and grabbing 10 rebounds in the win. Freshman Patsy Mahoney also added 11 points with a trio of 3-pointers. 
Saint Mary's, as it has throughout the season, also 
see BELLES/page 21 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame hosts Rutgers in must-win Big East contest 
as they play the final four ior captain Kyle McAlarney season and where the Irish only team below Rutgers in
By GREG ARBOGAST 

games of their conference said. "We want to bring the have won 22 of their past 24 the Big East conference stand­
Sports Writer 

slate starting Wednesday at rest of the league on right conference games. ings. 
home against Rutgers. now. We just want to play and It also helps that the Irish Still, the Irish aren't taking 
Coming off an emotional After putting together their win as many games as we start the stretch against their next opponent lightly. week that kept Notre Dame's most complete road perform­can." Rutgers. The Scarlet Knights "They're a team that's going NCAA Tournament hopes ance of the season Saturday at Luckily for the Irish, their have lost five games in a row, to get up into you, very long alive, the Irish have little time Providence, though, that schedule should help them in with four of those defeats and athletic, a lot of shot­to recover. schedule suits the Irish just that endeavor. Three of the coming by double digits. blockers," junior forward Luke 
The next 10 days will be a fine. team's final four games will Rutgers has won only once in Harangody said. "It's going to whirlwind of Big East basket­"We're so excited. We just take place in the Joyce Center, its past 15 contests -a victo­ball for t-he Irish (15-11, 6-8), want to keep this going," sen-where Notre Dame is 10-2 this ry over DePaul, who is the see PSU/page 21 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Schrader celebrates in style 
Senior scores 23 on birthday in victory 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Whether it was a birthday wish coming true or the result of a surging Notre Dame offense, everything went right for Lindsay Schrader. 
The senior guard had 23 points and eight rebounds on 

.. her 22nd birthday Tuesday during No. 23 Notre Dame's 90-79 win over Syracuse. "It was a good birthday present, that's for sure," said Schrader, who made 10-of-13 field goals. Sophomore forward Becca Bruszewski had 20 points and five Irish players scored in 
see 'CUSE/page 26 


WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
For Blaney, lacrosse is always a family affair 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 

For Shaylyn Blaney, you could say lacrosse runs in the family. 
The sophomore midfield/ attack has played in 22 games at Notre Dame, and she's scored in every one -but her lacrosse career dates back more than a decade. 
"I started playing lacrosse on a team when I was in second grade, but lacrosse has always been a huge part of my family," said Blaney, whose three older siblings all played at the col­lege level. "My dad coached me when I was younger and my mom was my high school coach. They are always there to support me and help to keep my confidence up. 
"I never liked the title of 'the coach's daughter,' but looking back I wouldn't have it any other way." 
Lacrosse has helped shaped Blaney's life since a young age, and at this point, she says there's no turning back. 
"It is hard to imagine my life without lacrosse," Blaney said. "It is such a big part of who I am. I think that if lacrosse was­n't in my life another sport would be in its place." 
Blaney has a team-high eight goals through three games for the Irish (2-1) this year, and as a freshman scored 43 goals to rank second on the tearp. 
Those gaudy statistics helped make Blaney a unanimous all­Big East preseason team selec­tion this season, as she joined 
see BLANEY/page 26 







