
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Fall of Berlin Wall brought 'peaceful revolution' 
Panelists at Nanovic fall for Germany and all of Europe 
Teltschik discusses the importance of the 
event experienced 

milestone first-hand 
up their borders. 
By JOSEPH McMAHON He also said there was a great
Associate News Editor 
deal of mistrust between the 
By ROBERT SINGER Soviets and the West in the years 
Assistanr News Editor 
Dr. Horst Teltschik, the former before Mikhail Gorbachev rose to national security advisor to power, which were marked by a GBrman Chancellor Helmut Kohl, series of sickly, old Soviet leaders. 
Almost two decades since the celebrated the 20th anniversary of "We went to the funeral of 
Berlin Wall fell on Nov. 9, 1989, the the fall of the Berlin Wall by recall­[Secretary GBneral Yuri] Andropov 
University's Nanovic Institute for ing his experiences as an insider just to make sure he was dead," 
European Studies marked the his­during the process and the impor­Teltschik said. "[With Gorbachev] 
toric milestone by bring together tance of peace in affecting social suddenly there was a young and 
academics and diplomats who change. healthy Secretary GBneral." 
experienced communist East "This was a peaceful revolution," When the Hungarian border to 
SUZANNA PRATiffhe Observer 
Germany firsthand for "Fall of the Teltschik said. "And it changed Austria was first opened, Teltschik Dr. Horst Teltschik, the former national security advisor to German 
Wall: Twenty Years Later" on GBrmany, Europe and the world." said the Federal Republic of Chancellor Helmut Kohl, discusses the fall of the Berlin Wall. 
Monday. Director of the Nanovic Institute Germany (BRD) saw a sudden 
Nancy McAdams, associate direc­Jim McAdams said Teltschik was a influx of 10,000 immigrants from the weeks leading up to Nov. 9, ly it didn't happen," he said. "[One 
tor for the Educational Schooling "consummate insider" who was the GBrman Democratic Republic protests gripped the entire country. Soviet administrator said they] 
and Society minor, lived in East one of the principal architects of (DDR). "Within a few days there were were prepared to meet all chal­
Berlin while her husband was on the unification of GBrmany follow­"Freedom was the main desire protests all over the country and lenges, but not candles and 
academic leave from Princeton just ing the fall of the Wall on Nov. 9, of these people," he said. [there was] always no violence," he prayers." 
18 months before the wall felL One 1989. Following this exodus, many said. · Following the fall, Teltschik said 
day, she and her daughter returned Teltschik said 1989 was a critical within the DDR began to push for Teltschik said the peacefulness the primary concerns were remov­
to their car to find a man trying to year not only for GBrmany, but also open borders. Teltschik said the of the protests was critical to their ing the estimated one to 1.5 million 
unlock it. for countries such as Poland and primary reason for the fall of the success. Soviet soldiers in East Germany 
"Before I could say 'Hey, what's Hungary, which elected democrat­Wall and unification was the desire "[The Soviets] were ready to ic governments and began opening of those in the DDR to be free. In suppress the unrest, but fortunate-see LECTURE/page 4 
see INSTITUTE/page 4 

ND profs: Obama deserving of award 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
News Writer 
Friday's announcement that the Nobel Peace Prize will be awarded to President Barack Obama, an international debate has developed over whether or not Obama is deserving of the award, with some arguing it is too prema­ture given that Obama is less· than a year into his term. 
The fourth U.S. president to receive the award, Obama was recognized "for his extraordi­nary efforts to strengthen inter­national diplomacy and cooper­ation between peoples," the Nobel Prize Committee said. 
Critics contend that Obama has yet to achieve any tangible accomplishments in interna­tional diplomacy and peace­making. 
Peter Wallensteen, professor of Peace Studies for the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies countered this claim, explaining the Nobel 
see OBAMA/page 4 


Activities office funds trip to D.C. march 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
A surprise move from the Student Activities Office allowed five students to attend a national gay rights demonstration in Washington 
D.C. Sunday, sophomore Jackie Emmanuel, president of the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA), said. 
The students were granted permission from the Office to use PSA funding to travel to the nation's capital to partici­pate in the National Equality 
March over the weekend, Emmanuel said. 
"The fact that we were University-approved was sur­prising but it was a wonderful surprise," she said. "The University hasn't always been entirely receptive in the past." 
Sophomore Joanna Whitfield, a PSA officer and an attendee of the trip, said the support from the University was unexpected. 
"They haven't always been supportive of us in the past," she said. "But we're thrilled." 
see MARCH/page 6 


Huddle Mart unable to compete with retailers 
son for the difference in price between his store and a local superstore like Meijer was the volume of business each store handles. 
"There is a difference between a convenience store and a super­market," he said. "We are a con­venience store and supermarkets have a lot more volume." 
While students have the oppor­tunity to go to multiple stores to purchase snacks, medicine and other common necessities, many use the Huddle Mart in LaFortune because of its conven­ient on campus location. 
see HUDDLE/page 6 


By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Checking out at the Huddle Mart can sometimes frustrate students. 
A bottle of shampoo? About $2.50. A stick of deodorant? Up to $4. A box of cereal? $5. All with price tags that are typically higher than those found at big­box retailers in the area. 
With a usually noticeable price differential, students are left wondering, why the significant markup? 
Huddle Mart general manager Jim LaBella said part of the rea-
INSIDE TODAY'S PAPER SGA discusses Student Center hours page 3 • Arts and Letters haters page 12 • Football special teams freshman page 24 • Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, October 13, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Charging the field 
Three seconds. Two seconds. One second. The time has run out, and Notre Dame, after three-straight humiliating 31-point losses, has fmally beaten USC. The student section begins to storm· the field, ecstatic beyond all measure. Then they heard it. Somewhere over the roar of the Notre Dame faith­ful, a man was speaking the words that could never have been expect­ed, but brought the worst possible. 
"Please get off the field. The game is not over. You must get off the field or Notre Dame will be penalized," PA announcer Mike Collins was saying. 
Known as the "Bush push" or, to some, simply Oct. 15, the three-point loss in Notre Dame's football game against USC in 2005 was the closest Notre Dame has been to competing with our biggest rival since they became a national power in 2002. 
As heartbreaking as that game was (trust me, I was in the student section charging the field), even worse is that the Irish have been outscored by the Trojans by 186 points in the six other games since 2002. The closest of these games was a twenty point loss in 2006, a year that Notre Dame began the year ranked second in the nation and had high national championship hopes. To put it bluntly, outside of 2005, it hasn't even been close. 
Now, I haven't ever been to a game between Texas and Oklahoma, or to the Big House for a Michigan game against Ohio Street, but I can't imagine a more perfect place to be than on the campus of Notre Dame on USC week­end when the Irish have a fighting chance to win the game. The sun is brighter, the grass is greener and an excitement permeates campus like no other time. 
I'm no expert, nor would I ever be so bold as to say that we will defeat USC this weekend. But, having lived in South Bend for my entire life, I have experienced the ups and downs of Notre Dame football more than many people on campus. This year's football team may not have had the most con­vincing victories so far, but we certainly can compete with any team in the nation, including that team from south­ern California. In this rivalry, if the game stays close, anything can happen. 
So I urge you to live it up. Keep the buzz and excitement alive, because you may never have another opportunity like this. Soak up the feeling that only this weekend can bring. Get excited, wear green and yell until you have no voice left. And if, no matter how it hap­pens, we beat USC, you have an obliga­tion to charge the field. Do it for all those who have watched USC dominate the rivalry over the last seven years. Do it for those who were on their way when they were summoned back to the student section, only to watch the victo­ry ripped away. And do it for your­selves. You won't regret it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd. edu 


CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU WERE ON A DESERTED DONUT ISLAND, WHAT DONUT WOULD IT BE? 

Amanda Siemann  Jacqueline Patz  Jennifer Henzler  Lauren Buck  Mary Clare Murphy  Sarah Spieler  
sophomore  freshman  junior  grad student  senior  sophomore  
Badin  Breen-Philips  Welsh Family  Pasquerilla East  Lyons  Pasquerilla West  
'11 vanilla  "Custard-filled  "Jelly-filled,  "Glazed with  "Basic cake  "Sprinkled. I  
long-john,  with vanilla  because it  powdered  donut, because  have a sugar  
because I'm just  frosting-I  would be like a  sugar, frosting,  it would be nice  problem. ,  
that sweet."  could eat my  giant  and sprinkles  and cushy but  
island!"  waterbed."  because I'm just  not too sticky. "  

that sweet. " 

Have an idea for Question ofthe Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

DAN JACOBSfThe Observer Restaurants like Five Guys begin to fill the empty buildings in the Eddy Street Commons, a new shopping center and apartment complex that opened this year. 
OFFBEAT 

Man found asleep in closet with corpse in vacant home 
HOUSTON -A Houston man found asleep with a corpse inside a closet of a vacant home has been charged with misdemeanor drug offenses, authorities said Monday. Cody Jean Plant, 21, was discovered Sunday after the owner of the house reported hearing voices and seeing signs of forced entry at the home in Cypress, about 25 miles northwest of Houston, according to a Harris County Precinct 4 Constable official. Authorities did not immedi­ately release the dead man's identity. 
"There were two guys in the closet. They appeared to be sleeping, one was snoring and the other was deceased," said Assistant Chief Deputy Mark Herman. "It appeared that they were doing some sort of narcotics, at least the one that they woke up." 
Newlyweds arrested on wedding night for burglury 
SEVIERVILLE, Tenn. ­Police said two Campbell County newlyweds were arrested on their wedding night for burglarizing the Sevierville chapel where they were married. WATE-TV reported that Brian Dykes and Mindy McGhee were married Wednesday at the Angel's View Wedding Chapel at the Black Bear Ridge Resort. Following the wed­ding, the couple rented a cabin at the resort. 
According to the Sevier County Sheriff, an employee noticed the couple's car back outside the chapel around 1 
a.m. and lockbox with cash was missing. 
Deputies found the couple at a restaurant, where they confessed and turned over the missing $500. They are being held in jail on bonds of $10,000. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
i&J 
::z::: 
!;: 
i&J 
3: 


0,,,,,,,0,,,,,,,
.... 

,,,,,,, 
,,,,,,,
c:C 
(,) 0 

HIGH 50 HIGH 38 HIGH 47 HIGH 48
..... 

LOW 36 LOW 36 LOW 35 LOW 33 
IN BRIEF 

An exhibit titled "Fritz Scholder, Contemporary Artist: Influences" will be held in the Milly and Fritz Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art today. The exhibit will open at 10 a.m. 
The monthly luncheon series "Telling HerStory: Highlighting Women as Role Models in the Life of the Mind, Body and Soul" will be held at 12 p.m. today. The lecture will be held in the Coleman-Morse Study Lounge. 
"The Secrets to (Academic) Success and Making Your (Academic) Life Easier" will be held at 12:30 p.m. in Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary's College today. 
Daily Mass will be held at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. today. 
"The Ultimate Tour of IDEO and More" will be held in 138 DeBartolo Hall. The seminar will begin at 3:30p.m. today. 
A seminar titled "Continuum and Multiscale Modeling of Performance Curves and Capacity Fade in Lithium-ion Batteries" will be held in 129 DeBartolo Hall. It will begin at 
3:30 p.m. today. 

The Catholic Culture Literature Series will present "Close to a Catholic: A Celebration of Kindred Spirits" at 8 p.m. today. The series will be held in 155 DeBartolo Hall. 
· To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY GAME DAY 


HIGH 48 HIGH 49 LOW 32 LOW 33 
Atlanta 73 I 63 Boston 53 I 36 Chicago 49 I 41 Denver 56 I 44 Houston 84 I 75 Los Angeles 68 I 60 Minneapolis 41 I 35 New York 63 I 39 Philadelphia 65 I 39 Phoenix 85 I 65 Seattle 54 I 47 St. Louis 56 I 47 Tampa 93 I 75 Washington 70 I 46 
Tuesday, October 13, 2009 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
SGA to determine funding for clubs 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Student Government Association (SGA) discussed ways to promote the extended hours of the Student Center at their meeting Monday night. 
The Saint Mary's Student Center stays open until midnight on weekdays now, as opposed to previous years when it closed at 10 p.m. SGA sponsors the later hours and wants to make sure that students are taking advan­tage of the Student Center. 
The Student Center offers a spacious lounge for studying and a TV room for student use. The center's main draws are the Cyber Cafe and the C-Store, which do not stay open as late as the center itself. SGA is going to see if they can persuade these places to stay open later as well, but that effort is still underway, llofl'man said. 
Other ideas to make the Student Center a more attractive place to study and meet are the possibility of vending machines, and a student lounge with games like ping-pong as a place to kick back and take a study break. According to Hoffman, these ideas have not been looked into yet. 
SGA is making an effort to inform students of the extended hours to see if the use of the Student Center will increase with more publicity. 
SGA has a busy week after Fall break. The executive board will meet next week to make funding allotments for the recog­nized clubs on campus. Clubs on campus will also be able to begin to put in requests for sponsorships after the break, Hoffman said. 
The executive board will also be reviewing SGA bylaws over break to see if they feel any changes are needed and will present those ideas to the rest of the SGA board at the meeting following break. 
The bylaws deal with internal SGA policy. For example, they state how elections are held, and the process of passing resolu­tions. 
While their Monday meeting was brief, SGA president Jenny Hoffman is very pleased with the way the year is shaping up thus far. 
''I'm extremely proud of what we've accomplished in this quar­ter," Hoffman told the board. ''I'm excited to get started with sponsorships after break." 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntayloO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Letras Latinas awarded grant 
National Endowment for the Arts gives funds to literary program 
tour began in Palm Beach, Fla., 
Special to the Observer 
and has traveled to Minneapolis, 
Letras Latinas, the literary pro­Seattle, Chicago, Berkeley, gram of the University of Notre Calif.,and Kansas City, Mo. Dame's Institute for Latino "Our tour partner the Guild Studies (ILS), has been awarded Complex of Chicago submitted 
a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) to fund the final stop of "The Wind Shifts: New 
Latino  Poetry  ON  
TOUR."  
Named  after  the  

award-winning anthol­ogy edited by Letras Latinas director Francisco Aragon, the tour has traveled to six cities in the past two years and concludes Oct. 29 (Thursday) at 
"The fact that theNEA approved it is testimony to how well the 
tour has gone.'' 
Francisco Aragon director Letras latinas 
the grant request," Aragon said. "And the fact that the NEA approved it is testi­mony to how well the tour has gone. I think it also helped that the anthology was 
awarded an International Latino Book Award last year." 
In addition to the Guild Complex, the tour has received support from the 

Poet's House in New York. The National Association of Latino Art 
and Culture and private donors. 
The NEA grant also is helping fund Palabra Pura, a bilingual poetry reading series in Chicago, which also is a joint venture between Letras Latinas and the Guild Complex. Both the tour and the series feature the work of U.S.-based Latino and Latina poets. 
Established by Congress in 1965, the NEA strives to foster, preserve and promote excellence in the arts, to bring art to all Americans, and to provide lead­ership in arts education. 
Letras Latinas seeks to enhance the visibility, apprecia­tion and study of Latino litera­ture, both on and off the Notre Dame campus, with a focus on projects that identify and support emerging Latino writers. 
English professor publishes poetry 
Brogan creates 134-page poem with 20 images for new book 
Special to the Observer 
"ta(l)king eyes, by Jacqueline Vaught Brogan, pro­fessor of English at the University of Notre Dame, has been published by Chax Press of Tucson, Ariz. 
A 134-page-long poem inter­spersed with 20 visual images, "ta(l)king eyes," has been praised by one reviewer, Daniel T. O'Hara, for "its honesty, imaginative brilliance, hybridic nature, and deep passions" and for being "a fully achieved epic experiment for our times." 
Another reviewer, Sandra M. Gilbert, called Brogan's poem a "vividly experimental text" which is "lively, innovative, and dancing with feminist passion." 
A member of the Notre Dame English faculty since 1986, Brogan specializes in 20th cen­tury American literature and language theory. Her other books include "Stevens and Simile," "Part of the Climate," "The Violence Within/The Violence Without," and "Women Poets of the America" (co-edited with Cordelia Candelaria) and "Damage," both published by the University of Notre Dame Press. 

LONDONPROG 
"MEET THE DIRECTOR" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
FOR FALL 2010 & SPRING 2011 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14,2009 127 HAYES HEALY 6:30PM 

SOPHOMORES FROM ALL COLLEGES ARE WELCOME! 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 13, 2009 
Oba01a 
continued from page 1 
Peace Prize Committee did not award Obama the prize based on his achievements. 

"The Committee's statement emphasizes his contribution to creating a new climate for inter­national affairs, no specific achievement," Wallensteen said. "The Committee has done this type of awarding before, for instance to German Chancellor Willy Brandt in 1971 for his ambition to change German relations to the East. It resulted in the fall of the Berlin Wall 18 years later." 
The Nobel Prize was created by Alfred Nobel, a scientist, inventor, entrepreneur, author and pacifist, who in his will left his estate to the establishment of the award, which recognizes outstanding achievements in the sciences, literature and peace. 
Part of Nobel's will stipulates the prize should be awarded "to the person who shall have done the most or the best work for fraternity between nations, for the abolition or reduction of standing armies and for the holding and promotion of peace congresses," the Nobel Prize Committee explained. 
For Obama, the Committee recognized his desire to create "a new climate in international politics," and demonstrated its support for "the approach he is taking towards global prob­lems," according to the Committee's announcement of the award. 
Wallensteen -who has had the opportunity to nominate past candidates for the prize as a professor of peace research ­explained the Committee's fore­sight in awarding Obama. 
"The Committee takes a long term perspective, but also argues that this change may be the most important for peace in the last year, which is also what the Committee has to consider," Wallensteen said. 
Scott Appleby, professor of his­tory and Regan Director of the University's Kroc Institute agreed that the Nobel Committee's decision was deserved given his efforts toward peace and diplomacy thus far. 
Calling the Committee's deci­sion "audacious and inspired," Appleby explained the more complete notion of "peace-build­ing" and the steps Obama has already taken to achieve his goals of peace in the world. 
Speaking to Obama's rhetoric of hope and future action, Appleby said in a reflection that "hope is not an airy platitude, but a necessary and reliable foundation upon which people of good will can collaborate to pro­vide dean drinking water, access to quality education, the right to a living wage and protection from violence and all the other conditions that makn sustainable peace possible." 
Nominations for the award were made by Feb. 1, less than two weeks into Obama's term, a point that is causing controversy and complaint worldwide and widening the partisan divide. 
"I was surprised [at the award], but find the Committee's argument convincing," Wallensteen said. "It is correct that a change of the overall eli­mate of international afl'airs can be helpful to increasing the chances of peace in the world. Thus, the Committee rewards Obama's style of opening up locked situations." 
The award surprised Obama as well. 

"I do not view it as a recogni­tion of my own accomplish­ments, but rather as an aflirma­tion of American leadership on behalf of aspirations held by people of all nations," Obama said in a press conference Friday. 
Wallensteen said Obama's award could be seen as a plat­form for action and a crucial opportunity for the president to take a strong role in bringing about international change and peace. 
"It certainly raises expecta­tions on other leaders to follow suit and on Obama himself and his handling of the two wars the United States is fighting right now," Wallensteen said. 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 
Institute 
continued from page 1 
going on here?' he threw me a strange look, smiled knowingly and disappeared down an alley," she said. "My first instinct was to call for the police but on second thought I realized he probably was the police." 
The "two worlds" separated by the wall were peacefully united when it crumbled -to the aston­ishment of many people at the time. 
Ambassador J.D. Bindenagel, who was U.S. deputy chief of mis­sion at the U.S. Embassy in East Berlin at the time, said few people foresaw the event and the peace­ful transition that ensued. 
"The East Germans would not be the first ones out of the bloc," he said, repeating the convention­al wisdom of the time. "They'd be the last ones. If the Soviet Union would intervene anywhere to pro­tect its interests, it would be in East Germany." 

In the months leading up to Nov. 9, Bindenagel said nonviolent con­frontation became the rule for East Germany's police force. 
"On November 9, the day we all remember as the fall of the Berlin wall, things unraveled. I began the day with the military leaders of East and West Germany," he said. "We were meeting not having any idea that something would change rest of the world." 
Administrative assistant for the Nanovic Institute Jennifer Lechtanski commented on the peaceful nature of Germany's uni­fication. 
"When the fall happened there were no guns going off, there was rejoicing," she said. "There were demonstrations, people protesting for their rights, for their freedoms. There wasn't the violence we see quite frequently all over the world in people's bid for their political rights." 
Before the fall of the wall, McAdams said she found advan­tages to living in East Berlin, despite the lack of political rights. Crime, she said, did not exist as we experience it in the West, because of an ever-present police force. 
"For example, to my utter amazement, parents could leave strollers and baby buggies with infants inside outside of stores while they shopped," she said. "No one would consider that a child might be harmed or snatched when left in a buggy on a public sidewalk." 
McAdams said a communal spirit emerged in East Berlin, as people coped with the burdens of goods scarcities and an invasive government. 
"Looking back now, it certainly was paradoxical that in the cli­mate created by such a suspicious government, people still managed to believe, at least somewhat, that they could depend upon the good­ness in human nature," she said. 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 

Are you an A&L sophomore planning to Study Abroad? 
Please visit the following site http://al.nd.edu/academic-advising-and-reguirements/ to successfully complete your application. 
Note: You must receive adean's approval for your application to be completed. 
To see adean make an appointment with: 
Office for Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall Phone: (574) 631-7098 
Deadline: Nov. 6. 2009 
Lecture 
continued from page 1 
and to sign a ban on nuclear weapons. 
"It's really unbelievable what was happening," he said. "It was really a miracle ]that] not one shot was fired." 
Teltschik said help from abroad, especially the United States and President George H.W Bush, was crucial to the unification process. 
"It wa.<; one of the best times in U.S.-German relations," he said. 'This was fundamental, because 
after  [unification]  U.S.  focus  
switched to Iraq."  
Equally  important  was  

Gorbachev's promise that he would not interfere as past Soviet adminis­trators had. 
"Thi<; is the real historic merit of Gorbachev," he said. 
However, Teltschik said his origi­nal estimate for the unification process was five to ten years, rather than the 329 days it took. 
"Nobody expected that it would happen that fast," he said. 
Teltschik said the main reason the process was so expedited was the simple desire of the East Germans to be free and live in a prosperous society. He estimated that if unification hadn't happened so quickly, the BDR would have been saturated with one million refugees by the end ofl990. 

"Decisions on our side seemed so quick that Moscow wasn't able to respond in time," he said. "[Despite some objections from the interna­tional community[ Kohl moved ahead and history has proved hin1 right." 
Teltschik said he learned some important lessons in the years from 1989 to 1991. Firstly, it was critical that Germany continued to be a part of a more integrated Europe. 
"[French President Francois Mitterrand's] main concern was that a united Germany would not continue its path of European inte­gration," he said. 
Teltschik said this path to a more united Europe has continued through tl10 work of the European Union, but an nqually important Ins­son was a unitnd Germany would only be aecept.:'tble i<; it continued to be a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). 
Teltschik said both of these les­sons are important when consider­ing Germany's history as an aggres­sor in several wars, most notably World War II. 
"Germans should never forget their history," he said. ''[rhe rest of the world] cannot live with a bigger and stronger Germany outside of the alliance." 
However, Teltschik said both the roles of the EU and NATO have been called into question lately, with the EU going through the painful process of integrating new member states and NATO currently bogged down in Afghani'>tan. 
"We still don't know if NATO should have a regional msponsibili­ty or a worldwide one," he said. 
While invoking the words of Dr. Martin Luther King, Teltschik said "should a united, fme and demo­cratic Europe not be our goal?" 
Nonetheless, Toltschik said not much has happnnnd since 1991 in working towards that goal. 
"We have wasted the past 20 years," he said. 
Lastly, Teltschik said he had noticed a recent shift in global power structure. Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, the United States ha.<; been able to act a.'l a uni­lateral world pownr. TelL'lchik said reenntly, countries sueh as China, India and Hussia have boon chal­lenging the U.S.'s hegemony. 
Teltsehik said "a multi-polar world would not bn a safe world order," noting last time power was distributfld so widely it led to two world wars. 
"The United States and the European Union are natural part­ners," he said. "We need strategic and global leaders with the courage to make decisions and to act." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 


ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 13, 2009 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Prime minister to repay expensesclaim 
LONDON -In the latest blow to Gordon Brown's beleaguered leadership, the British prime minister is being forced to repay over 12,000 pounds ($19,000) in disputed claims following an audit into how British lawmak­ers spent public money. 
Dozens of lawmakers received letters Monday from Thomas Legg -who Brown appointed to audit expense claims -asking them to repay the money or offer further explanations for why they claimed it. Legg was chosen to audit the spending rules in an effort to quell public outrage over lawmak­ers' greed for taxpayer funds. 
Christopher Kelly, who chairs the govern­ment's Committee on Standards in Public Life, is due to present a set of new rules on expenses later this year. 
Australian leader calls about refugees 
CANBERRA, Australia -Prime Minister Kevin Rudd confirmed on Tuesday that he telephoned Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono about Australia's influx of asylum seekers before the Indonesian navy reportedly intercepted a boat load of 260 Sri Lankans bound for Australia at the weekend. 
Australian newspapers reported Tuesday that Rudd made a personal plea on Saturday to Yudhoyono to intervene after Australian intelligence officials discovered that a boat carrying the Sri Lankan men, women and children was leaving Indonesian waters bound for Australia. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Ariz. sweat lodge had no permit 
FLAGSTAFF, Ariz. -Authorities say a sweat lodge outside Sedona, Ariz., where two people were overcome and later died lacked the necessary building permit. 
Yavapai (ya-VUH' -pye) County's building safety manager said Monday there's no record of an application or permit for a tem­porary structure at the Angel Valley Retreat Center. 
Between 55 and 65 people attending a "Spiritual Warrior" program hosted by self­help expert and author James Arthur Ray were crowded into the 415-square-foot space at any one time during a two-hour period Thursday night. Nineteen other peo­ple also became ill, and one remains in criti­cal condition. 
Conn. family's ransom story a lie 
GREENWICH, Conn. -A Connecticut fami­ly made up claims that it rescued three immigrant relatives from a kidnapper by showing up with baseball bats at a ransom exchange meeting, according to police reports. 
Instead, the reports say, the family had arranged transportation to Connecticut for their relatives after they entered the country illegally, and a melee broke out when a driv­er asked for an additional fee of $60 per per­son to bring them to the family's home. 
Greenwich Officer Martin O'Reilly wrote in a report that a federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent told him that "the entire kidnapping story was completely fabricated." The report was obtained by Hearst Connecticut Newspapers through a public records request. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Trial starts in slaying of seven 
INDIANAPOLIS -Investigators found no physical evidence linking a 31-year-old man to the 2006 slayings of seven family mem­bers in their home, but statements the man made before the attack and his actions after­ward prove he fired the fatal gunshots, a prosecutor said Monday. 
Desmond Turner told others he planned to "hit a lick," -slang for commit a robbery ­before the June 1, 2006, attack that left four adults and three children dead in their home, Marion County Prosecutor Carl Brizzi said during his opening statements in Turner's murder trial. 
ISRAEL 

Israelis won't face war crimes trials 
Prime Minister Netanyahu denounces U.N. charge that Israel deliberately hurt civilians 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM -Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday vowed never to allow Israeli leaders or soldiers to stand trial on war crimes charges over their actions during last winter's military offensive in the Gaza Strip, furiously denouncing a U.N. report in a keynote address to parlia­ment. 
Netanyahu's fiery rhetoric -and his decision to open the high-profile speech with remarks on the report ­reflected the deep distress felt among Israeli leaders after a U.N. commission accused Israel of intentional­ly harming civilians when it launched a massive attack in Gaza to stop years of rocket fire. 
"This distorted report, written by this distorted committee, undermines Israel's right to defend itself. This report encourages ter­rorism and threatens peace," Netanyahu said in his address at the opening of parliament's winter session. "Israel will not take risks for peace if it can't defend itself." 
The U.N. report, compiled by a team led by former war crimes prosecutor Richard Goldstone, accused both Israel and Hamas of war tials as a respected South ments appeared to be a and said he would support crimes and possible crimes African jurist, his Jewish direct response to a new Abbas' proposal to reopen against humanity. It specifi­faith and past support for Palestinian push for a vote discussion of the Goldstone cally accused Israel of using Israeli causes have made it on the report in the U.N.'s report at the Human Rights disproportionate force, hard for Israel to dismiss the Human Rights Council. If the Council in Geneva. deliberately targeting civil­claims. vote takes place, the matter In contrast to predecessors ians and destroying civilian Netanyahu angrily noted could be referred to higher who have used parliamen­infrastructure, and using the report's portrayal of U.N. bodies that could theo­tary addresses to speak of people as human shields. It Israeli leaders as war crimi­retically push for war-crimes bold visions of peace, accused Hamas of deliber­nals. "The truth is exactly prosecution. Netanyahu spoke in far ately targeting civilians and the opposite. Israel's leaders Earlier this month, Abbas' bleaker terms. He focused trying to spread terror and its army are those who government had agreed to on past Jewish suffering and through its rocket attacks. defended the citizens of delay the vote for six criticized the futility of previ­
Israeli officials across the Israel from war criminals," months. That decision, ous peace efforts, blaming board have condemned the he said, before vowing to which came under heavy Arab adversaries for their report, saying their country defend the country's U.S. pressure, sparked sharp failure. had little choice but to take wartime leaders. criticism and protests across "The right to a Jewish harsh action against mili­"We will not allow Ehud Palestinian society, particu­state and the right to self­tants who were terrorizing Olmert, Tzipi Livni and Ehud larly from the rival Hamas defense are two of the exis­southern Israel. They also Barak, who sent our sons to government in the Gaza tential rights of our people," blame Hamas for civilian war, to arrive at the interna­Strip. he said. "These basic rights casualties, saying the Islamic tional court in the Hague," U.N. spokeswoman of the Jewish people have militant group took cover in he said. Michele Montas said Monday been under greatly increas­residential areas during the While Netanyahu has that Secretary-General Ban ing attack. ... Our prime mis­fighting. However, repeatedly lashed out at the Ki-moon spoke with Abbas sion is to stave off this Goldstone's strong creden-U.N. report, Monday's com-on Sunday about the matter attack.'' 

Data, contacts vanish from Sidekick phone 
tomers who experienced a "significant and "This has been a terrible experience,"
Associated Press permanent" loss of personal data a $100 said Mary Boyle, of Silver Spring, Md. She NEW YORK -Owners of Sidekick customer appreciation card to be used lost more than 500 contacts, 100 pictures, phones may have lost all the personal toward T-Mobile products and services, or a to-do list and dozens of Web site pass­information they put on the device, includ­their phone bill. T-Mobile said it will con­words. She also spent about eight hours ing contact numbers, because of a failure tact those customers in the next 14 days. on the phone with T-Mobile's technical of servers that remotely stored the data. Microsoft spokeswoman Debbie support last week, trying to deal with the The incident is a huge blow to the repu­Anderson said Monday that there was a outage, she said. tation of the Sidekick and is a reminder of still a chance some of the lost user data On Saturday, T-Mobile and Microsoft the dangers of trusting a single provider to could be restored from a backup system. warned customers not to restart their safeguard information. Engineers were working at it in the phones, remove the batteries or let the The phones are made by a Microsoft Microsoft data center where the failure phones run down their batteries. Boyle Corp. subsidiary and sold by T-Mobile occurred, she said. said she did none of those things, yet her USA, which say many Sidekick owners' The phones were troubled by a data data disappeared anyway. She switched to information is "almost certainly" gone. T­outage a week ago. Service was intermit­a BlackBerry from Verizon Wireless on Mobile gave customers a $20 refund to tent last week, and then users started Monday, and said she had no intention of cover the cost of one month of data usage reporting that their Sidekicks were wiped paying T-Mobile for quitting her contract on the phone. It also will give certain cus-ofall personal information. early. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 13, 2009 

Huddle 

Jenkins and University celebrateFounder'sDay
continued from page 1 
Despite the location, some stu­dents still opt to travel to off­campus supermarkets like Meijer or Martin's because of their wider selection and lower prices. 
Mark King, associate director of retail for Notre Dame Food Services, said there are several ways the Huddle Mart deter­mines the prices of their items. He said they spend a lot of time surveying competitors in order to create a benchmark on prices, but most come suggested from their suppliers based on the price they pay to purchase the items. 
"Sometimes items come in pre­priced and sometimes [we use] market analysis," he said. "In those instances we try to be at or below our competitors." 
One advantage he said the Huddle Mart has over other con­venience stores like CVS is that it often sells medicines for a lower price. 
"With some of the medicines we're actually lower than CVS," he said. "What a lot of chains do is push their generic brand, .so the name brand is actually high­er in some items." 
King said some items, like prepackaged sandwiches and yogurt cups, which are made on­campus, are priced to maintain a certain cost ratio. 
LaBella said the profit they make off the markup on items goes into a bigger pool of money that is used to fund new equip­ment and update different Notre Dame Food Services venues on campus. 
March 
continued from page 1 
Emmanuel said PSA originally had about 20 students signed up to drive to Washington D.C., but midterms week kept many on campus. 
"It was a long drive and a long weekend right before midterms, which shows how important it was for everyone who attended," Colleen King, one of the five participants, said. 
King, a senior, said the group drove down Friday and had time Saturday to participate in some spontaneous rallies before Sunday's March. 
"There was such an exciting energy there," she said. "I think a lot of people there had a real sense of frustration with how long the government is taking with these issues, but there was also a sense of cele­bration." 
She said her group hung out in the gay neighborhood of the city and stayed with friends to minimize costs. 
"Everybody was so friendly," she said. "This weekend gave me a real sense of empower­ment." 
Emmanuel said the group marched for about two miles across the city and ended at Capitol Hill where politicians, activists and even musician Lady Gaga spoke to the crowd. 
"We weren't expecting the rally to be as large as it was," she said. "It was a wonderful experience." 
Emmanuel said she believes the decision of the Student Activities Office to approve the trip is a step forward for Notre Dame. 
"I feel like there is still a slight tone of homophobia from some areas on campus," she said. "But I feel like the 
Suave Shampoo vos Shampoo Listerine Mouthwash Old Spice Deodorant Secret Deodorant Lays Chips (11 oz) 
Planter's Peanuts Pop Ta~::.,.:~~~ ·· \ 
Special K ~:...... I 
Oreo's 

"We're self-sustaining. The University doesn't support us and we don't get a budget," he said. "We have to survive on our mer­its, which means everything from paying workers, remodeling and replacing broken equipment." 
King said some areas do better than other areas, but they look to fill the needs of the campus com­munity as a whole. 
"Our goal is to do the best for the whole student body," he said. "Some people want to look at one little thing, but we want to look at things as a whole." 
LaBella said he has posted about 85 percent of the prices on the items in the Huddle Mart and it hasn't seemed to negatively affect business. The Huddle Mart only recently began posting prices. 
"I was a little worried it would hurt business, but we've actually gotten a lot of compliments and people saying thank you," he said. 
Huddle Mart Meijer $2.49 $1.79 $2.19 $0.99 $4.29 $3.69 $3.99 $3.79 $3.69 $2.44 $3.99 $3.99 $3.£9 $3.08 $3.~ $3.08 $4.9 
$3.39 $4.2 $2.78 
SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 

King said despite the current economic crisis, the store has been able to keep most of the prices the same. 
"We are doing everything we can to keep the prices down," he said. "If you see an increase in price it's because we had to pur­chase it for an increased price." 
LaBella added that the Huddle Mart isn't as effected by the cri­sis because the store is "kind of a little isolated community." 
"The economy does effect us and we are aware of trying to lind more value, but it doesn't effect overall operations like it would on the street," he said. 
One item he said won't see an increase in price arc the quarter dogs sold at midnight that stu­dents flock to the store to eat. 
"I started quarter dog sales sixteen years ago and I have never raised the price," he said. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 
Special to The Observer 

John Jenkins, president of the University of Notre Dame, will preside and preach at Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 5:15p.m. Tuesday (Oct. 13) in celebra­tion of Founder's Day. 
Founder's Day, the feast of Saint Edward the Confessor, has its roots in a time and cul­ture less secular than ours, when it was customary to cel­ebrate the liturgical feast days of saints with the focused enthusiasm and affection now largely reserved for birthdays. 
At the University of Notre Dame in the mid-19th century, Oct. 13 was always lavishly celebrated because the University's founder, Fr. Edward F. Sorin, and King Edward, the 11th century Saxon saint, shared the same name. 
Fr. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C. 

As an anonymous and rhetorically overstimulated student described it in the Oct. 17, 1868, edition of the Scholastic magazine: "Every year, as royal old October with his mantle of crimson and gold marches along, crowned with the hazy light of the Indian summer sun, a sweet reminder of this great king and greater Saint is presented to every youth of Notre Dame University. On the thirteenth of this month we always cele­brate his festival and honor him while making our joyful acknowledgement of indebted­ness to Very Rev. Father General, the devout and wor­thy representative of St. Edward in our midst." 
Whether or not Father Sorin felt himself deserving of it, the "joyful acknowledgement" directed his way in 1868 was something any king, canon­ized or not, might envy. 

1251 Eddy Street I(574) 855·3201 
Cold Cut Combo 
$5.00 Footlongs Available 
OFF CAMPUS! 
(Including Locations Below) 
Now Open 
and Accepting Employment Applications 

Blake Jelley, 19, of Cincinnati, chants with gay rights advocates 
at Sunday's march. 
student body is generally sup­
portive." 
In light of recent student lnt­
ters to The Observer's 
Viewpoint section debating gay 
rights on campus, Emmanunl 
said she is encouraged by the 
support in many of the letters. 
But King -specifically rnf­·erencing an Oct. 7 Letter to 
the Editor titled "Don't ask, 
don't tell" -said she is dis­
turbed by the content in some 
letters. 
"That first letter ('Don't ask, 
don't tell') really upset me," 
she said. "As a Catholic, it 
bothers me when people inter­
pret Catholicism in the way 
that the letter did." 
Whitfield said she thinks 
many students on campus are 
apathntic toward the gay rights movement. 
"The attitudes are not espe­cially supportive but not nec­essarily negative either," she said. "I know people who are gay on campus and many say they are not comfortable and arn not ha~py with the pro­grams hnre. 
Describing herself as a "straight ally," King said she believes gay rights is a social justicn issue and should be addressed on campus. 
"I think it's hard to be gay at Notre Dame," she said. "I wish there was more of a g~y rights movement on campus. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
eat tresh, 
• SR 23 @Ironwood *SR933North *Downtown *Speedway 
SR 2 3@ Edison *Indian Ridge Pia za 

Tuesday, October 13, 2009 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,885.80 +20.86 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,151 128 1,556 4,183,496,032 
AMEX NASDAQ 2,139.14 -0.14 NYSE 7,015}IJ1• ;~35:62 S&P 500 1,076.19 +4.70 NIKKEI (TokyoJ 10,0:Lfii'~l H:oo FTSE 100 (London) 5,210.17 55.53 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP (C) +3.02 +0.14 4.77 FORD MOTOR CO (F) +7.02 +0.50 7.62 BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) +3.03 +0.53 18.03 S&P DEP RECE!PTS (SPY) +0.39 +0.42 107.68 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE ·0.12 -0.004 3.38 13-WEEK BILL -7.69 0.00 0.06 30-YEAR BOND +0.02 +0.001 4.23 5-YEAR NOTE +0.09 +0.002 2.35 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.50 73.27 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -+8.90 1057.50 PORK BELUE$ (cents/lb.) +0.65 84.90 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 89.6950 EURO 1.4791 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0349 BRITISH POUND 1.5816 
IN BRIEF 
GE could unwind stake in NBC Universal 
LOS ANGELES -A proposed deal to acquire media giant NBC Universal would give current owner General Electric Co. the ability to unwind its stake over several years, and could see Comcast Corp. commit billions more to the joint venture, a person close to the situation said Monday. 
GE would be allowed to redeem some por­tion of its 49 percent stake for cash after 3.5 years and again after 7 years, said the person, who was not authorized to speak publicly about the negotiations and spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The cash would be generated by NBC Universal's operations, although Comcast has agreed it could provide up to "mid-single bil­lions" of dollars to backstop the purchase of GE's remaining stake, the person said. Buying GE's remaining stake would not be mandatory, however, the person added. 
Any money Comcast ends up putting toward buying out GE's stake would be on top of the estimated $6 billion in cash plus its cable net­work assets that it is already committing to the companies' venture. The total value of the proposed joint venture between Comcast and GE is estimated around $30 billion, and it would carry about $9 billion in debt. 
ImkciAmnato~~Mnill<kxnnmls 
SAN FRANCISCO -After months of resist­ance, Bank of America Corp. plans to turn over documents showing legal advice it received on its purchase of Merrill Lynch & Co. to the office of the New York attorney general, a person familiar with the matter said Monday. 
BofA's board decided on Friday that it would waive its attorney-client privilege and hand over the papers, the person said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the New York AG's investigation is ongoing. 
New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo's office is seeking to determine whether BofA misled shareholders about $3.6 billion in bonuses paid to Merrill employees and the investment bank's mort­gage lending losses, as well as whether BofA failed to tell shareholders that it con­sidered backing out of the deal before it closed on Jan. 1. 


------, 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 
~---~­

American professor wins Nobel 
Political scientist at Indiana University is first woman to receive prize in economics 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Elinor Ostrom became the first woman to win a Nobel Prize in economics, honored along with fellow American Oliver Williamson on Monday for analyzing eco­nomic governance -the rules by which people exer­cise authority in companies and economic systems. 
Ostrom was also the fifth woman to win a Nobel award this year -a record for the prestigious honors. 
It was also an exception­ally strong year for the United States, with 11 American citizens -some of them with dual nationali­ty -among the 13 Nobel winners, including President Barack Obama, who won the Nobel Peace Prize on Friday. 
Ostrom, 76, and Williamson, 77, shared the 10 million kronor ($1.4 mil­lion) economics prize for work that "advanced eco­nomic governance research from the fringe to the fore­front of scientific attention," the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said. 
Ostrom, a political scien­tist at Indiana University, showed how common resources -forests, fish­eries, oil fields or grazing lands -can be managed at the University of work. irrigation systems -that successfully by the people California, Berkeley, "There has been a huge are used by individuals. who use them, rather than focused on how firms and discussion how the big Ostrom's work challenged by governments or private markets differ in the. ways banks, the big investment conventional wisdom, companies. that they resolve conflicts. banks have acted badly, showing that common 
"What we have ignored is He found that companies with bosses who have mis­resources can be success­what citizens can do and are typically better able to used their power, misused fully managed without pri­the importance of real resolve conflicts than mar­their shareholders' confi­vatization or government involvement of the people kets when competition is dence, and that is in line regulation. involved -versus just hav­limited, the citation said. with (Williamson's) theo­To explain her ideas, the ing somebody in The academy did not ries," prize committee academy cited an example Washington . . . make a specifically cite the global member Per Krusell said. about dams in Nepal that rule," Ostrom said during a financial crisis, but many of Ostrom, also the founding Ostrom used in her 1990 brief session with reporters the problems at the heart of director of Arizona State book "Governing the in Bloomington. the current upheaval -University's Center for the Commons: The Evolution of 
Ostrom said it's an honor bonuses, executive compen­Study of Institutional Institutions for Collective to be the first woman to win sation, risky and poorly Diversity, devoted her Action." a Nobel Prize in economics understood securities -career to studying the inter­Local people had for -and promised that she involve a perceived lack of action of people and natural many years successfully won't be the last. She said regulatory oversight by gov­resources. One notable pub­managed irrigation systems people discouraged her ernment officials or by cor­lication she wrote in 1990 to allocate water between from seeking a Ph.D. when porate boards. The Nobel examined both successful users, but then the govern­she applied for graduate awards on Monday were and unsuccessful ways of ment decided to build mod­school but she loved study­clearly a nod to the role of governing natural resources ern dams made of concrete ing economics. rules, institutions and regu­-forests, fisheries, oil and steel with the help of 
Williamson, an economist lations in making markets fields, grazing lands and foreign donors. 

Gov. mayvetosomeprogramsto keep others 
Associated Press The Democratic governor has said an Oct. 1 deadline to balance the 
-

repeatedly that she's against eliminat­budget and erase a $2.8 billion deficit. 
LANSING, Mich. -Michigan Gov. ing the Michigan Promise Grant col­Lawmakers have passed 15 perma­Jennifer Granholm said Monday she lege scholarships. She also wants to nent budget bills, but have sent her may take money from programs she put more money into health care for only nine. doesn't like to pay for college scholar­the needy, restore some of the money Granholm said holding onto the six ships and local police and fire protec­cut from local governments for servic­bills long enough to force a shutdown tion. es such as police and fire protection would be "foolish" and a "terrible 
But she can't veto any programs and make sure there's enough money strategy" on Senate Republicans' until she get the bills on her desk. And for K-12 schools. part. GOP Senate Majority Leader Mark "Those bills have cuts that are far She wouldn't say Monday what she Bishop has been holding onto six bills too deep," she told reporters. ''I'm might veto or how she might move lawmakers passed nearly two weeks going to veto the things that I don't money around when she gets the bills. ago as part of a package that would think are as important as the four pri­She might be able to use the State balance the state budget without tax orities that I've identified." Administrative Board, which has been increases. To avoid a government shutdown, around since 1921 and is allowed to 
"What we are trying to do is to pro­Granholm must have the bills and transfer funds within a department's teet that from being destroyed by the sign them by Oct. 31, when an interim budget. veto and basically, in vetoing, trying to budget affecting most state depart­"The governor has those options. I force us to increase taxes," Bishop ments expires. State government shut didn't specifically say what I would spokesman Matt Marsden said. down briefly after lawmakers missed do," Granholm said. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, October 13, 2009 
California prepares for storn1s 
Sandbags, barriers put on streets in hopes of stopping mudslides 

Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Southern California communities below wildfire-scorched mountains made preparations Monday for the possibility of fast-moving floods laden with mud and rocks as a Pacific storm head­ed for the West Coast. 
Sandbags and concrete bar­riers called K-rail were placed on streets in suburbs northeast of Los Angeles to try to direct any debris flows away from homes. 

"There's really nothing else to do but wait and see what happens," said David Wacker, a 25-year resident of La Crescenta, one of a string of communities along the foot of the steep San Gabriel Mountains. 
The U.S. Geological Survey recently warned of potentially massive debris flows from the area burned by the late sum­mer Station Fire. Two firefight­ers were killed and 89 homes were destroyed as it spread over more than 250 square miles of Angeles National Forest, becoming the biggest fire in Los Angeles County his­tory. 
Unusually strong for October and packing gusty winds, the storm was expected to move into northern and central parts of the state Monday night and reach southern areas Tuesday, the National Weather Service said. 
Forecasters said the system was expected to pull in consid­erable moisture left over from Typhoon Melor, which made a damaging hit on Japan last week after drenching the Northern Mariana Islands. 
Rainfall across Southern California was expected to be heavy and widespread, bring­ing threats of flash flooding and debris flows in burn areas. 
Forecasters estimated that 3 inches to 5 inches of rain would fall in Santa Barbara County mountains, where an 8, 700-acre fire destroyed 80 homes in May. 
Estimates for Los Angeles County mountains and foothills ranged from 2 inches to 4 inches, with the heaviest peri­od Tuesday night and Wednesday. 
Debris flows occur because the ground in recently burned areas has little ability to absorb rain, which instead instantly runs off, carrying ash, mud, boulders and vege­tation. 
Preparations to prevent storm damage have included clearing debris from flood-con­trol basins designed to catch material flowing out of moun­tain drainages. 
The emergency assessment of the Station Fire area by the USGS assumed scenarios with two common types of storms, one lasting three hours and another lasting 12 hours. It also looked at what might hap­pen in various drainages if the catch basins are empty or if they have become filled. 
Panel: Obama must look to past on nukes 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -President Barack Obama should learn from the experience of previous U.S. lead­ers when grappling with thorny nuclear issues ranging from the ambitions of Iran and North Korea to the threat of terrorism, experts told a forum on the shap­ing of American foreign policy in a nuclear age. 
The conference Monday at the John F. Kennedy presidential library called "The Presidency in the Nuclear Age," examined issues faced by U.S. presidents from the dawn of the nuclear arms race, through the Cuban Missile Crisis, Cold War and di'iar­mament efforts, and up to present efforts to stem nuclear prolifera­tion. 
Theodore Sorenson, a top advis­er to President Kennedy, said JFK demonstrated that a chief execu­tive should not act hastily in a cri­sis. 
"A president doesn't just take one option, such as a pre-emptive strike or invasion ... he wants to know what all the options are before acting," said Sorenson, recounting the careful delibera­tions in 1962 that ultimately led to Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev dismantling the Cuban missiles, preventing a confrontation that could have escalated to nuclear war. 
Sorenson said Kennedy took the time necessary to learn all of his diplomatic and military options ­even the possibility of taking no immediate action at all. 
"If the deci'iion had been made in 24-48 hours, I think it's quite likely that a different decision would have been made," said Graham Allison, an author and defense policy expert from Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. 
JFK's daughter, Caroline Kennedy, told the audience that one could not help but notice the parallels between past and cur­rent conflicts in the nuclear age. She noted how tho recent satellite photos of a hidden nuclear facility under construction in Iran were eerily reminiscent of the spy plane photos that first disclosed the presence of Soviet mi'isile sites in Cuba. 
"The question then, as it is now, is not whether nuclear weapons and the materials needed to build them are being developed," Kennedy said. "It's really how, through the use of diplomacy and international law, we can prevent these materials from getting into the wrong hands, and ever being used against innocent civilians." 

The daylong conference includ­ed videotaped statements from former Presidents George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton, the latter reflecting on his own administra­tion's successes and failures in the area of nudear disarmament, and warning that the world is fast los­ing its "impetus to nonprolifera­tion." 
"I think it is unlikely that any country that gets nuclear weapons would knowingly initiate the use of them, even Iran," Clinton said. 
"But every time you have nuclear weapons in more hands, you increase the chances of acci­dents and you increase the chances that unscrupulous people will either sell or steal material ... and give it to terrorists or crimi­nals who could use the nuclear weapons in small dirty bombs." 
Kenneth Adelman, who served as director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency under Ronald Reagan, warned that presidents and world leaders must avoid the "illusion" of progress in nuclear disengage­ment. 
Speaking during a panel discus­sion "The Cold War and the Nuclear Arms Race," Adelman criticized the SALT I and SALT II treaties of the 1970s as examples of good intentions without con­crete results. He said SALT only placed limits on nuclear weapons that were far above what the U.S. and Soviet Union were building at the time. 
"If you were to restrict me from high jumping 6-feet-2, I can live with that, because I don't high jump 6-feet-2, I don't high jump 5­feet-2," said Adelman. 
lie also chastised the confer­ence's host, the Kennedy library, for not including in an accompa­nying arms control exhibit the INF (Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces) treaty, signed by Reagan in 1987. Adelman said was the only treaty that ever eliminated an entire class of nuclear weapons. 



YOU ATTEND A PAID LEADERSHIP INTERNSHIP AND MAY QUALIFY FOR A FULL TUITION SCHOLARSHIP I START STRONG WITH NOTR!: OAMt ARMY ROTC. 


Tuesday, October 13, 2009 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Police investigate governor's estate rape case 
Chef and groundskeeper alledgedly rape 3 female inmates assigned to work at Oklahoma governor's mansion 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY Prosecutors are investigating claims that the former head chef and chief groundskeeper at the Oklahoma governor's mansion raped three female prison inmates assigned to 
work  on  the  mansion's  
grounds.  
Neither  man  has  been  

charged, but the Department of Central Services fired both of them Sept. 29 for violating departmental policies after a three-month Department of Corrections investigation. 
The allegations raise ques­tions about security at the chief executive's residence and oversight of a program meant in part to reward good inmate behavior by allowing them leave prison for the day and work off-site. 
The state Department of Corrections believes the for­mer state workers who super­vised the inmates at the gov­ernor's mansion committed sexual battery, forcible sodomy and rape against the Hillside Community Corrections Center inmates, Department of Corrections spokesman Jerry Massie said Monday. The department recently turned its findings over to Oklahoma County District Attorney David Prater's office. 
Assistant District Attorney Scott Rowland said Monday that prosecutors met with Department of Corrections investigators for two hours Friday and that the investiga­
tion is ongoing. 
According to records obtained by The Associated Press through a state open records request, the fired workers are Russell Humphries, the former execu­tive chef at the mansion, and Anthony Bobelu, the former groundskeeper supervisor. 
Neither Humphries nor Bobelu has been charged, and neither responded to repeated phone messages seeking com­ment. No one answered the door Monday at Bobelu's resi­dence, and Humphries' cur­rent address could not imme­diately be determined. Neither prosecutors nor Janet Roloff, an Edmond attorney for one of the women, knew if either man had an attorney. 
The Department of Corrections is interviewing other women who took part in the program, Massie said. 
The women, two of whom have since been released from prison, say the assaults hap­pened between March 2008 and January 2009. The Department of Corrections didn't begin investigating until June 1, after one woman came forward following her release, Massie said. 
The women said the alleged attacks occurred in a storage building outside the perimeter of the security fence that sur­rounds the mansion's 14-acre grounds, Massie said. He did not say if the women allege they were assaulted once or multiple times each. 
Roloff said Monday that her client endured a "violent, 
Calif. governor signs 
bill to ban tail docking 
Associated Press 
FRESNO, Calif. -California cows are the first in the nation with the legal right to swat flies as nature intended now that Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has signed a bill banning the painful practice of tail docking that he once mocked as being a waste of legislators' time. 
The governor also signed other farm bills he famously ridiculed this summer as he tried to pressure legislators to focus on balancing the state's beleaguered budget. 
In a signing frenzy that lasted until his midnight Sunday dead­line, Schwarzenegger also approved a state blueberry commission and new label requirements for honey. 
"We were always confident that if reality could trump the rhetoric, the governor would see the merits of this," said Jennifer Fearing, who lobbied for the tail docking bill for the Humane Society of the United States, which vows to take the fight against the removal of tails to other large dairy-producing states such as Wisconsin, Vermont and New York. 
While he made California the first state in the nation to ban the painful practice, the Humane Society nonetheless described the governor as hav­ing a "schizophrenic record on animal protection." 
On the same day he protected dairy cows, Schwarzenegger vetoed legislation to crack down on large-scale puppy mills, becoming the only governor in the six states where puppy mill legislation passed this year to override it with a veto, the group said. 
Aaron McClear, a spokesman for Schwarzenegger, did not immediately return a call seek­ing comment. 
Dairy officials say the practice of cutting off cow tails to pre­vent them from slinging manure is practiced on fewer than 15 percent of the state's 1.5 million dairy cows. Docking is usually done without numbing, either with sharp shears or with a tight rubber band that stops the blood flow and causes the tail to die. 
Some dairy operators have argued that removing tails improves sanitation, a claim that research has not support­ed. In 2004 the American Veterinary Medical Association came out against the practice. 
This year wasn't the first in which Schwarzenegger has maligned animal welfare legis­lation and then signed it any­way. As a 2005 bill lingered to ban foie gras, he chastised leg­islators in a radio interview for spending time talking about "feeding geese" instead of issues he believed were more pressing. 
bloody rape" that left her with emotional and physical scars. It's illegal for a supervisor and an inmate to have sex, and Roloff scoffed at the notion that any sex between her client and the state work­ers was consensual. 
"My client was dragged down, held down by one and raped by another. That does­n't sound very consensual, does it?" she said. 
Roloff said her client was afraid to report she was attacked until after her release for fear of retribution. She said her client came for­ward to try to persuade prison officials to stop sending female inmates to the gover­nor's mansion. 
The allegations have raised questions about security at the mansion and oversight of the horticulture program, which was suspended after the allegations surfaced but has since resumed. 
The accusation that two mansion employees were involved in rape just outside the building's security perime­ter came one month after three state troopers assigned to guard the mansion were disciplined for falsifying hours, saying they were work­ing when they were not. 
Paul Sund, a spokesman for Gov. Brad Henry, said the Department of Public Safety officials who protect the gov­ernor and his family do not believe security at the man­sion was ever breached. 
"We have full confidence in the DPS security detail. We're not the security experts, they are," Sund said. Aside from Henry, first lady Kim Henry and two of their three daugh­ters live in the mansion. 

The 11 female inmates assigned to maintain the flower beds, shrubs and other greenery at the mansion, were chosen for the program because they are considered low security and escape risks, Massie said. 
Massie said prison officials train Department of Central 
Services workers on how to properly supervise state inmates and that no changes are planned in the program. 
Roloff declined to provide further details about what her client says happened to her, saying her client fears doing so would make her identifi­able to her alleged attackers. The woman, who now has a job, remains fearful and is concerned that the state's investigation is taking too long, Roloff said. 
Changes made to wolf hunt 
Montana officials consider amendments after 9 animals were shot 
Associated Press 
BILLINGS, Mont. -Wildlife officials in Montana will con­sider changes to the state's inaugural wolf hunt after nine of the predators were shot in just three weeks along the bor­der of Yellowstone National Park. 
More than 1,300 gray wolves were removed from the endan­gered species list in Idaho and Montana this spring following a costly federal restoration effort. 
Hunting has been promoted as a way to keep the population of the fast-breeding species in check and reduce wolf attacks on livestock. Hunters in the two states have killed at least 48 wolves since Sept. 1. 
However, all but two of the 11 wolves killed in Montana came from a small portion of the Absaroka (ab-SOHR' -ka)­Beartooth Wilderness, along the northern border of Yellowstone. And at least four were from Yellowstone's Cottonwood Pack, including the group's breeding female. 
Concerned about the heavily concentrated killing, state wildlife commissioners last week suspended hunting in the area. 
On Tuesday, commissioners will consider a range of addi­tional responses, from reallo­cating the season quota of 7 5 wolves to shutting down the hunting season in part of the state. 
"We've missed the mark a lit­tle this first year," said Carolyn Sime, lead wolf biologist for Montana Fish, Wildlife and Parks. Shooting a wolf, particu­larly in some of the sparsely vegetated terrain around Yellowstone, proved easier than expected, she said. 
The Absaroka-Beartooth was one of two remote "backcoun­try" areas of Montana where wolf hunting was allowed before the statewide season opening, set for Oct. 25. 
Grazing is generally not allowed in the backcountry. That means the harvest of wolves there gives little help to ranchers suffering losses from wolf attacks. In addition, critics said the shootings could choke off the flow of young wolves leaving Yellowstone to establish packs outside the park. 
"Yellowstone can't be a source for wolves to colonize other areas if they get blown away right at the boundary," said Norman Bishop, a former Yellowstone park ranger now on the board of the Wolf Recovery Foundation, an Idaho-based advocacy group. 
Sime said that with wolves firmly established in many areas of Montana, Yellowstone's importance as a source of wolves had dimin­ished. 
There were 89 packs in Montana at the end of 2008, including 18 in the part of the state that borders Yellowstone. 
"From a biological perspec­tive, it's a non-issue," Sime said, noting the death of nine wolves was unlikely to hurt the overall population. 
Environmentalists countered that the concentrated shootings in the Absaroka-Beartooth area showed the Idaho and Montana hunts were too hastily planned. They also decried the loss of wolves from the park, a wildlife haven where hunting is not allowed. 
Yellowstone was one of two areas where the animals were reintroduced beginning in 1995 after being absent across most of the Northern Rockies for decades. 
In Idaho, which has about 800 wolves, wildlife officials said their hunt has gone more smoothly. Thirty-seven wolves had been killed in Idaho through Sunday, with the har­vest spread across 11 of the state's 12 wolf-hunting zones. 
Idaho has a quota of 220 wolves. Like Montana, the state also had an early season open­ing in some areas, although none bordering Yellowstone. 
Bob Ream, a Montana wildlife commissioner from Helena who spent more than 20 years researching wolves, said in hindsight it was unwise for Montana to allow so many wolves to be killed on land adjacent to the park. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, October 13, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
Love, fear and the Nobel Peace Prize 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CIDEF Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bill Brink Sracey Gill 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: K.ara King AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersporr~@gma.il.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jshaffel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
achamO1@sa.inrrnarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor-in-Chiifjenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS '599 2-4000) is published Monda.y rhrough Friday c~ep~ during exam and v.tearion periods. A subscription ro The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one stmtstc:r. 
The Ohsd-vt:t is published .at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall &nd address cocrcc.rions (O: Nor~ D.tme. IN 46556-{)779 TheOb=vct Periodical postage paid at Norte D.amc: P.O. Box779 and additional mailing offi.ct:s. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 465%-0779 
The Observer i5 a memlx:r ofthe Associated Press. All tqJwduction rights are 
~al. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Ashley Charnley Laura Myers Alicia Smith Douglas Farmer 
Tess Civantos Allan Joseph Graphics Scene Sofia Itarbe Joey Kuhn 
Viewpoint Lauren Brauweiler 

Barely twelve days into his presidency, the wise Norwegians on the Nobel Committee nominated Barack Obama to be the next winner of the coveted Nobel Peaee Prize. The absurdity of this decision is self~ evident; how could a fledgling president, one who faced criti­cism during the cam­paign for his lack of aecomplishments, possibly qualily as a candidate for such an honor? 
But the commit­tee did not stop there. This past Friday, the world awoke to discover that the Prize had been awarded to Mr. I lope-and-Change himsell'. 'Thanks to Obama's initia­tive," the committee declared upon its announcement, "the USA i..<; now playing a more constructive role in meeting the great climatic chall!mges the world is eon­fronting. Demoeracy and human right<; arn to be strengthened." 
Translation: We hate George W. Bush and his "my way or the highway" approach to forei1:,tn poliey. We hope that this award will eneourage Obama in fullilling his promise to bend America to the colleetive will of the international eommunity. 
Since those twelve fateful days that marked the beginning of President Obama's quest for world peaee, we have witnessed just how far he is willing to go to distance himself from hi.<; predecessor on the world stage. In the Spring, he embarked upon a whirlwind Apology Tour, begging the world to forgive Ameriea for its past arrogance and dismissive attitude toward Europe, for its decision to use the atomic bomb to end World War II, for set­ting off the recent financial cri'iis, for failing to properly pursue "engagement" with our Latin American neighbors, lor torturing terrorist detainees, for denying African Americans the right to vote, for its ill-treat­ment of Native Arnerieans, and on ad infinitum. White House Press Secretary Hobert Gibbs insisted that Obama had managed to change our nation's image and thus pave the way toward a safer, stronger America. Yet instead of echoing Obama's pathetic attempts to win coneessions through admission of weakness, other nations gleefully declared the beginning of the end ofAmerican primacy and offered neither concrete concessions nor admis-

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Love is the delightful interval between meeting_ a 6eautiful girl and discovering [hat she looks like a haddock." 
John Barrymore 
U.S. actor 
sions ofsins. 

Septomber saw the second phase of the Obama Plan for Peaco eome to fruition. During this phase, the president throw a number of dedicated American allies under the bus in hopes ofgaining favor among the international community for sanetions against Iran. He used his platform at the United Nations General Assembly to declare that "America does not accept the legitimacy of eontinued Israeli settlements" in an effort to appease Middle Eastern dic­tators by trying to draw some sort of moral equivalency between states that promote terrorism and one whose security is threat­ened daily by it<> staunchly anti-Semitic neighbors. As if that was not enough, he then sold out the Czech Hepublic and Poland by scrapping a missile-defense security arrangement in accordance with Hussian demands. Funny, I seem to recall a sin1ilar selling-out taking place in the 1930s involving Czechoslovakia, a naive British Prime Minister, and a tiny-mus­tachnd dictator ... except this time, Obama did not even get a signature on a piece of papnr: he got nothing. I le even snubbed the Dalai Lama by refusing to meet with him in Washington after the Chinese stepped up their campaign to urge nations to spurn the Nobel Peaee Prize winner and spiritual leader of Tibet, all to avoid creat­ing controversy ahead ofObama's meeting with Chinese President Ilu Jintao. 
It looks like Obama has come up with a new twist on the saying, "keep your friends dose and your enemies doser," replacing it with something like, "keep your enemies dose and abandon your allies." 
The problem with this approaeh to for­eign aflitirs is that its obsessive fixation on rejecting the Bush doctrine also dismisses its strengths. Now I am not saying that Bush's foreign strategy was perfect, but it does not warrant the complete 180 degree turnaround that characterizes the current administration's strategy. The reason for this observation is best understood in light ofNiccolo Machiavelli's famous statement that if a leader cannot be both loved and feared it is safer for him to be feared, as long as he avoids inciting hatred. "Men," he states, "are less worried about harming somebody who makes himself loved than someone who makes himself feared, for love is held by a chain of obligation whieh, since men are bad, is broken at every opportunity for personal gain. Fear, on the other hand, is maintained by a dread of punishment whieh will never desert you." 
While Bush and his foreign policy advi­sors understood the utility of fear, their 
IT TooK HIM 
L.:OSS THAN 
A YEAR To R.:OC.:OIV.:O 
TH.:O NobEL­
'PRI:Z..E! 

actions stirred the already-simmering caul­dron of anti-Americanism tmtil it bubbled over into hatred. Obama, on the other hand, naively presumes that international relations are built upon the universal hope to achieve world peace and cooperation. Sadly this is not the case. Nations, like men in the state of nature, are focused on fur­thering their own interest<> in the fight to survive, and the most effective means of survival is to achieve global hegemony. Otherwise, the thrnat of being subject to the will of another, more powerful nation is omnipresent. In iL<; fa.ilurn to understand this fundamental fact, the current adminis­tration has set us upon a course of action that will do more to harm the prospect of peace than to enable it, as demonstrated by iL'> aggressive pursuit of international adoration that portrays America as weak and promotes the belligerence of our ene­mies. 
Need proof'! Just look to two rogue nations that, along with Saddam Hussein's Iraq, eombined to form what President Bush called the "Axis of Evil." Both North Korea and Iran continue unaba<>hed in developing their nudear weapons pro­grams. Most recently, Iran launched anoth­er round of ollEmsive missile tests amidst new nwelations about an illegal uranium enridunent facility near Qom. And despite Obama's uneonditional concessions on mis­sile defense and rnfusal to meet with the Dalai Lama, neither Hussia nor China have budged on their refusal to sign onto any 
U.N. Security Council sanctions against Iran. 
If Obama hopes to someday achieve a nuclear-free world, he sure ha<> a strange way of putting words into aetion. Ironically, the Nobel Prize Committee justified its deci­sion to award Obama the Peace Prize ba<>ed on its attachment of "special impor­tanee to Obama's vision of and work for a world without nuclear weapons." Perhaps if the President sought to take Machiavelli's advice into account, built on the more favorable stance the world has toward his goals and intentions, he would prove him­self worthy of this honor. But as long as he continues down the aggressively anti-Bush path, he will sacrifice efficacy Jor mere ide­ology and posturing. 
Christie Pesavento is a senior who is majoring in political science and sociolo­gy. She can be reached at cpesaven@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Trust th.ZJself only, and another 
shall not betray thee." 
Thomas Fuller English clergyman & historian 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 13, 2009 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Rush it 
While I hate to openly suggest that the students should rush the field for safety and viola­tions sake, I completely disagree with the sentiment that we should act like "we've been there before" or that we are "better than that" ("Don't rush the field," Oct. 12). This isn't Syracuse or Pitt or even BC or Michigan where we expect to win, this is USC, our rival and one of the premier football schools this decade. The team needs the students even more this week than ever before, and that means whipping yourselves into a frenzy and being louder than you ever have been. 
Being in the stands and almost rushing the field in '05 remains one of my best experiences at Notre Dame. The students who weren't on campus for the "Brady years" deserve the opportunity to go nuts, scream your lungs out and help to lift the team to something that they haven't achieved in quite some time. Go ahead and get caught up in the excitement; it's OK. It's time that we as ND stop always worrying about how to protect the image of the University {especially during a USC game) and actually take pride in being a family and celebrating a win together. If you have been near insane all game and can't stop yourself from rushing the field to join the team, your classmates and friends, when the clock hits zeroes, then more power to you. Do yourselves a favor and don't hesitate to get into this game-you only get so many during your time on campus. It's midterm week this week anyway; don't you owe it to yourselves to let off some steam and take out all that frustration on the Trojans? 
Enjoy yourselves and don't let the opportunity pass you by. 
Drew Spada alumnus class of 2009 Oct. 11 

What's really important 
I have been totally surprised and utterly disgusted at the gross misinterpretation of Catholic social teaching in viewpoints last week. Therefore, I believe a little refresher in Catholic teach­ing taken straight from the Catechism is in order. Several people have argued that the Church teaches there is nothing wrong with the fact that someone has homosexual inclinations.This is false, and the Catechism says so: "The [homosexual] inclination, which is objectively disordered, constitutes for most of them a trial." Homosexuality is wrong in that it is objectively disordered, based upon the natural law and human nature. However we must be clear, homosexual inclina­tions are disordered, not sinful in themselves. The sin only occurs when an individual takes action on these inclinations. 
For heterosexuals and homosexuals alike, engaging in impure sexual thoughts or engaging in sex acts outside marriage are mortal sins. Since homosexual inclinations are not sinful if they are not acted upon, we should not condemn a homosexual person simply because they are homosexual. We need to support our homosexual brothers and sisters, not condemn them. "They must be accepted with respect, compassion and sensitivity. Every unjust discrimination should be avoided." We must not be homophobic or encourage hateful attitudes towards homo­sexuals. At the same time, we should not promote or encourage homosexuality or homosexual behavior. 
In permitting homosexual groups, or recognition in the non-discrimination policy, we must not simply create a culture of "toleration" and leave it at that. That would be a failure of our Catholic Mission. We should help our homosexual brothers and sisters to live chastely (like we all should), and encourage them that "by prayer and sacramental grace, they can and should gradually and resolutely approach Christian perfection." This is what groups like Core Council should seek to accomplish. Notre Dame is still a Catholic university, and as such, it has a solemn duty to teach and impart the teachings of the Catholic Church, particularly with regards to the natural law, on its students. And until Notre Dame comes toppling down from the golden dome, it should remain that way. 
Andrew Lynch freshman Morrissey Manor Oct. 11 

If you criticize tne you're intolerant 
In his Oct. 9 Letter ("Shouldn't ask, shouldn't matter"), Andy Hills claims "If someone says he or she has nothing against homosexuals but agrees with the Catholic Church's teaching on homosexuality, it is a lie." His argument begins with the assumption that as Catholics we "have something against" anyone who sins. In reality, as any priest who hears confessions would tell you, disapproving of a sin has nothing to do with demonizing an individual. 
Hills continues by saying that asking gay people not to act on their feelings is "a slap in the face." However, homosexuals certainly do not have a monopoly on sinful inclinations. Premarital sex, divorce, birth control, and abuse of alcohol are all sins that I'm sure many would like to see disregarded. According to Hills the refusal of the church to base its teachings on our feelings is "tyrannical" and "nearly evil." 
Should the Catholics then try to play "catch up" with superior secular morality as Hills suggests? If we are to be truly genuine about this endeavor I suggest that in addition to supporting homosexual lifestyles, the church endorse extramarital sex because let's face it, none of us like controlling our sex drive. For that matter, I move that cursing and getting drunk should be approved of as well, since the majority of the pop­ulation seems to do both frequently and quite enthusiastically. Basically, the church needs to drop this whole "morality" complex altogether and just forget about the sins that are difficult for us to avoid. And as for the University, why stop at a group that supports homosexual lifestyles? I'd like to start the PAU (Pornography Aficionados United) and the CSA (Catholic Swingers Association). Speaking for the male pop­ulation on campus, I have to say these would enjoy a widespread popularity. The University needs to drop their "ancient prejudices" against these widely accepted activities. 
As individuals we all have the freedom to live as we deem fit. We do not have the freedom to demand that everyone around us change to endorse our choices or risk being labeled intolerant. Bigotry is a two way street Mr. Hills. 
Christopher Harrington alumnus class of 2008 Oct.12 

Protect all students 
"You guys should really invest in a gun" -South Bend police officer. 
Is this what it has come to for students to protect themselves off campus? On Friday evening, my house, only two blocks from campus across Twyckenham had the front door kicked in by bur­glars who stole all the electronics in the house. Thankfully no one was home at the time and it didn't turn into another front page story of a student being held up at gunpoint. However, we still lost $10,000 worth of laptops, ipods, cameras, watches, etc. and our sense of security. My question is: What is Notre Dame doing to try to prevent or reduce these ever to frequent events from occurring? For a University with a $5 billion endowment, how much is the University spending to protect its students whom they no longer have room to house and live off campus? Nothing or certainly not enough. 
When there is a story of students getting robbed or assaulted every week, it's time for the University to step up and do some­thing. It appears that the University is very concerned about improving relationships with the local community, but how about the University doing something to protect its students who are victims of this increasingly dangerous community? When the police are suggesting that students take security into their own hands by investing in a gun, you know there is a real problem. Let's hope the University can pull the trigger on finding new and improved ways to protect its students who live off campus, so I don't have to. 
David VanEgmond 
senior 
offcampus Oct. 12 

Fair compromise? 
I have read, with much dismay, the responses to Sean Mullen's letter ("Don't ask, don't tell," Oct. 6). The vitriolic rhetoric that characterized many, though not all, of the responses in my view reflects a level of intolerance that far outweighs any intolerance Mr. Mullen may or may not feel with regard to homosexuals. The overwhelmingly personal nature of the attacks on him -accus­ing him of writing his letter drunk ("Drunken homophobia," Oct. 
9) (because anyone who disagrees with homosexuality obviously must be a raging alcoholic), among other things -is unbecoming of the Notre Dame family. 
Many of the responses also consisted of bizarre interpretations of Catholicism and bait-and-switch tactics. Some people, patently unaware of 2,000-year-old Catholic moral teaching, insinuated that Mullen's "version" of Catholicism and its stance on homosex­uality was one with which they were ashamed to be associated. Others sought to justify homosexual sex by referring to the fact that pre-marital heterosexual sex is common on campus-as if Mullen, or anyone else, for that matter, thinks such sex is okay from the Church's perspective. Two wrongs do not make a right. 
With that being said, I cannot say with certainty that either side in this debate is 100 percent correct. Some on both sides have made fair points, though the presentation of these points could have been made perhaps more delicately. It is with this in mind that I offer a compromise: If we want to include homosexuals in the non-discrimination clause-and I think they should be-but at the same time uphold the rich Catholic tradition of Notre Dame, then why not expand the clause and say "non-practicing homosexuals?" This compromise should please the anti-Mullen camp because, as wished, homosexuals would be included in the cJause. But this conciliation also respects the Catholic integrity of Notre Dame by making it clear that practicing homosexuality is a lifestyle that is not condoned by the Church or its institutions of higher learning that are obliged to uphold Church teaching. For the record, it is a homework-filled Sunday afternoon. As such, be assured that this letter is a product of my current sobriety. 
Kyle Clark 
sophomore 
Knott Hall 
Oct. 11 



THE OBSERVER 

CENE 
For too long have I borne the insult<>. For too long have I had to withstand the discrimination based not on race or religion, but on my choice of college. Yes, I confess I am a student in the College of Arts and Letters. For years now I have endured so many clever nicknames, such as "Arts and Leisure," "Arts and Crafts" or my favorite, "Arts and Farts and 
Cornelius Rogers
Crafts." 

Yes, we may not be as empirical as the College of Science, or as practical as the Engineers or Scene Writer Architects, or have as many cool athletes as the College of Business. However, we still have just as much to contribute to society as the rest of you, so listen up. 
Now I'm not defending every single major and minor offered in the College ofArts and Letters, because frankly some of them are a little bit of a joke (one in particular that rhymes with Mender Muddies). I come before you to defend the liberal arts qua liberal arts. Qua means "in so far as," for all you non-Peripatetics out there. 
To the members of the Colleges of Science, Engineering, Architecture and Business, I submit to you the following Euclidean theorem: You need us and we need you. · 
To prove this, a reductio ad absurdium will be necessary. Let us assume the opposite -that these other colleges do not need Arts and Letters and that we do not need them. A scientist may stumble across an observation in a laborato­ry that seems to contradict his faith, but can fmd no argu­ment from Thomas Aquinas on how to interpret Scripture. His faith is now devastated. 
A businessman is unsure of whether a certain business practice is ethical or not. Without the aid of philosophers like John Stuart Mill or Kant, his business makes unethkal decisions and loses all moral worth. 
An engineer and an architect attempt to build a bridge across a river, but the bridge collapses. The engineer and architect are so enraged that they attempt to punish the river with lashes and hot irons, the folly of which could have been avoided if they had only read The Histories of Herodotus. 
And lastly, the Arts and Letters majors would be out of jobs, which is absurd. Therelore, the other colleges need arl'i and letters, and vice versa. 
Q.E.D. 

Another complaint about an Arl'> and 
Letters degree is that is impractical. To those who ask, "what are you going to do with that?" I answer, "Whatever I want." Arts and Letters majors havn gone on to become lawyers, tmu~hers and even doctors. It is not uncommon that students go on to seek professions in the fields of politics, public servien and even in the business world. 
To those whom I have ollfmdnd or irri­tated, I make no apology. Rather, I chal­lenge you to take up arms. Do not mern­ly move on to read the humorless comic strips. Instead, get out your keyboard and engage me in a dialogue, either amiably or hostilely, so that we ean learn from one another. The reason why the live colleges am togeil10r in one univer­sity is that we an'1 all on the same train -the search for truth. So get on board. 
There seems to be a lack of good Viewpoint letters lately. I demand the very best from you my peers, and even from the alumni. If you agree or disagree, then say something about it. I am not asking for any idiot with spare time and an inflated ego to write a sarcastic paragraph or two. I am asking for only the very sharpest writers and thinkers to fight back. The gauntlet has just been thrown down. Do you accept? 
Contact Cornelius Rogers at crogersl@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


By ANDREW SEROFF Scene Writer 

When Gmail and Google Apps replaced Notre Dame's Webmail sys­tem, I was ecstatic, like most of the student body. After almost three years in an invitation-only beta version, the highly touted Gmail was going to be pub­
licly accessible, and The Coogle developers more than two people, soon after, our Notre state that they want this concept enables Dame e-mail client new possibilities
to reinvent e-mail to 
went from mediocre to through online commu­best-in-the-biz. something that nication. 
The latest exciting utilizes the level of The most important program coming from feature of the Wave is
technology we have 
Google is called basically Gmail plus
today.
Google Wave, which Coogle Documents, a 
was announced at the Google 110 conference in May. The idea behind the browser-based interface is that the whole concept of e-mail is out­dated. In their presentation, the Google developers state that they want to reinvent e-mail -changing online communication protocol to something that utilizes the level of technology we have today. 
One of the driving concepts behind Google Wave is making a message that 
Observer Graphic I SOFIA ITURBE 

changes over time. For example, if you send an e-mail to five recipients, each of them gets a different copy of the same message. The idea of the Wave is that it functions like a bulletin board, with all participants posting in a single thread for all members. While this does not sound like a terribly revolu­tionary concept for interaction between 
program for live docu­ment collaboration. Members of a Wave have the ability to edit the Wave, with the changes being reflected in all participants' Waves in real time. But what happens if a document needs to be reverted to a former state? All Waves have a timeline feature that shows every stage of the document, highlighting edits color-coded for each person. Waves feature richly formatted text, photos and videos, so you can not only hold conversations in real time, but also share photo albums, presenta­tions and more. 
Ever since developers got their hands on sandbox versions of Wave earlier this year, they've been working hard to come up with nifty gad g­e t s a n d exten­sions u s i n g Coogle's API. Along with exten­sions to inte­grate the Wave interface with blogs and with the micro-blog­ging interface Twitter, the best reception at the con­ference went to a very impressive instant translation bot. While only a few of these add-ons were demonstrated in Google's presentation, the system appears to be dynamic and adaptable. 
In an unselfish attempt to improve the online community, Google opened the Wave Federation Protocol. In this way, you don't have to have a Google account to use Waves. With Wave being an open protocol, anyone can have a Wave server just like anyone can host e-mail. They did this so that demand might make Wave the dominant form of internet com­
munication. 
Google Wave is finally taking e-mail and making it Web 2.0. While it is still currently in a restricted beta version, as Gmail was for almost three years, we have some­thing to look forward to. You can reg­ister to get a beta 

account  at  
wave.google.com.  
.I ust when we  thought  e­ 

mail couldn't get any better with Gmail and Google Apps, Google does it again. 
Contact Andrew Seroff at aseroff@nd.edu 



By CORNELIUS ROGERS Scene Writer 
It is not often that the teachings of Catholic social justice intersect with the­atre performance. Nevertheless, the stu­dent productions of "Cargo" and "Scattered Voices" boldly stood at these crossroads and dared viewers not to lis­ten to their powerful message. 
The double feature production took place in the Philbin Studio Theatre at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Oct. 6­
10. This black box theatre has no stage, just a floor. There is a small amount of seating on three of the four sides. The creativity of these two performances stretched the spatial limits of the theatre, as the action did 
place in the center. The plays utilized the overhead catwalks and multimedia tech­nology, such as PowerPoint slides, sound effects and non-diegetic music. The tech­nological success was also an aesthetic one, as the lighting and costumes could not have been in more perfect harmony. 
The plays also had well-coordinated blocking. Actors fluidly moved around, often going behind the audience. Audience members could not help but feel submersed in the action as charac­ters shouted some of their lines from all directions. This was complemented by the wealth of acting talent from the students. The actors did a great job portraying juvenile miscreants and immigrants from all parts of the world. 
But the aesthetics only served to under­score the powerful message that the per­fmmances had to deliver. "Scattered Voices" told a convincing story about youths incarcerated in Juvenile Detention Centers. The perform­ance used the personal stories of youths as a micro­cosm to show­case larg­e r soci­etal 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
issues. It was a story of miscommunica­tion, as the young characters were unable to articulate the injustices of being caught up in a system that constantly keeps them down. 
"Scattered Voices" forced audiences to rethink the process of rehabilitation. Does the current juvenile detention system allow youths to become beneficial mem­bers of society, or does it simply attempt to mold them into people they clearly are not? The point was further hammered home with incarceration statistics on both the federal and local level. 
"Cargo" took a more direct approach than "Scattered Voices." It told the story of illegal immigrants and their perception in the present-day United States. The writers added a more creative element to the plot: immigrant characters were stored in wooden crates and featured as the entertainment in a three-ring circus. As shocking as this may have seemed, it was a well-crafted metaphor. Immigrants always stand out from some American/Caucasian norm, and often the first and only thing we notice about them is their differ­ence. Like "Scattered Voices," "Cargo" also reinforced its mes­sage with statistics and laws concerning the arduous process of acquiring citizen­
ship in the United States. 
But "Cargo" differed most 
from "Scattered Voices" in its 
use of humor and entertain­
ment. Instead of a dark and 
serious performance, "Cargo" 
was not afraid to make audi­ences laugh at some of the absurdities of contemporary America. 
If there was any downside to these per­formances, it was that they occasionally sounded a bit too preachy. Some lines in the script were aimed at delivering a message of social justice rather than an actual character's emotions. But these soapbox moments were few, and the social message they delivered was one worth hearing. 
Both "Cargo" and "Scattered Voices" delivered a powerful message. They suc­ceeded in grabbing viewers from the first minute and not letting go. Even after the performance, members of the audience were still discussing the injustices present in American society today. 
Contact Cornelius Rogers at crogersl @nd.edu 


By SHANE STEINBERG Scene Writer 
If you've seen the trailers and kept up with the hoopla at all, then chances are you've either gone online and demanded that "Paranormal Activity" be nationally released so you can get what has been billed as the scare of your life, or you've been shaken enough by the film's incredibly eerie trailer to decide that this isn't the film for you. 
Filmed with "Saw" was a miniscule misinterpret­budget of only ed so that $11,000 and gore and gut­starring two churning literally "horror" unknown became the actors, new name of "Paranormal the game. Activity" is The horror the story of a film industry young couple, has become Micah and nothing more Katie, who than a mis­become guided, increasingly financially disturbed by dead vestige an unknown that is no presence in longer made their new up of "horror house. films" but of 
The film is "horrible (I shot entirely wouldn't from a hand­even call held camera them) films." worked by S c a r y Micah, who movies are 
rashly takes on the task of setting up a tripod in the couple's bedroom and fllming the couple while they sleep to see what's really going on. It has drawn many compar­isons to "The Blair Witch Project" for its style, its marketing campaign and even the false rumors surrounding its truth. 
What is notable here is that this film is different from what has been out in the­aters and has been billed as "horror" ever since its near-identical but unrelat­ed twin, "The Blair Witch Project," was released 10 years ago. Despite being a ghost story, it holds the 

level in much the same way that "The Blair· fi d · h 
Witch Project" did, cap-oun m turing the fear of the actors but doing it so realistically that the threshold between reality and film is crossed. As part of its brilliant viral marketing campaign, the film's producers urged moviegoers to log onto ParanormalMovie.com and demand that the film play in their city. After nearly two weeks of sold out midnight show­ings in limited release, a resounding 1,000,000 people had demanded a wider release for the film. As a result, Paramount Pictures will release the film nationwide beginning Friday. So will the horror genre be saved on Oct. 16? Does it even need saving? I'll ask you this: When was the last time that a horror film has actually been 
"scary?" And what exactly is it that makes a horror film "scary?" Is it pop­outs, oversized mute serial killers and gore piled on top of what is probably already an excessive amount of gore? 
Unfortunately, that is what the genre has become: a gorefest of predictability that lacks any semblance of intrigue, cleverness, believability or staying power. "Horrifying" somehow got mixed up with "disgusting," and the success of films like the original 
supposed to send shivers down your spine, put you in the shoes of the characters in peril and make you feel every bit of the terror that they feel. Truly excellent horror films can delve so deeply into your mind that you're horrified long after the end credits roll. You might be afraid to take a shower after watching "Psycho," terri­fied to go into the open water after see­ing "Jaws," or deathly frightened of camping in the woods after seeing "Blair Witch." 
That's the essence of horror films, and 
that's exactly what the 

and primal potency fil rarely found in horror 
orror l ms. 
films, and that makes it 

mightily intriguing. This seems to be the first film actually deserving of being called a horror film probably since "The Blair Witch Project," which is sad to say that it has taken this long. 
Perhaps it is nothing more than an incredibly well-marketed, Internet-driv­en, over-glorified, YouTube-hyped video, and some preliminary critic reviews suggest just as much. Judging from what's out there, though, "Paranormal Activity" seems to be the movie destined to remind us all that mental suggestion has as much power as a chainsaw cut­ting off a face. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
kind of believability and "Paranormal Activity,, genre has been lacking 
manifests itself in a kind for all this time, minus of eeriness that has long very few exceptions. 
seems to possess the 

been gone from theaters. At first and even sec-The key is that kind ofrawness and ond glance, "Paranormal 
"Paranormal Activity" Activity" seems to pos­delivers on an audience primal potency rarely sess the kind of rawness 
Observer Graphic I SOFIA ITURBE 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, October 13, 2009 
NHL 
Jones gives Avalanche win 
Associated Press 
The Colorado Avalanche are 'mjoying an unexpectedly strong tart. The Boston Bruins are sur­
;Jrising for another reason. 
David Jones scored a short­handed goal to lift the Avalanche over the Bruins 4-3 on Monday, sending the top team in the Eastern Conference last season to its third loss in five games. 
Marek Svatos had a tiebreak­ing, power-play goal midway into the second period and Milan Hejduk and Scott Hannan also scored for the Avalanche (3-1-1). 
"It sounds like you're sur­prised," Colorado goalie Craig Anderson said when asked about his team's record. "One game at a time. That's been what we pride ourselves in. They're a great team. They weren't the best team in the East last year for no reason. They found a way to win the last game. The puck didn't have the same lightning tonight." 
For the second straight game, Boston needed a rally, but this one fell short. 
The Bruins cut it to 4-3 when Michael Ryder scored on a back­hander out of a scramble with 
13:36 left, but there was no comeback like Saturday night when they scored three goals in the closing 8:01 before beating the Islanders in a shootout. 
Boston coach Claude Julien was perplexed. 
"I can't get in their heads," he said a few times during his postgame press conference. "There's a time where you're working hard and getting chances, looking like the old team, and then you shoot your­selves in the foot." 
The Bruins were the Eastern Conference's top team last year during the regular season before losing to Carolina in the second round of the playoffs. 
"You can't just go out there and win games just by playing all right," defenseman Mark Stuart said. "It's a competitive league." 
Anderson made 29 saves for Colorado. 
Mark Recchi and Blake Wheeler also scored for Boston (2-3), which closed its season­opening homestand. 
After squandering an early 2-0 lead, Colorado regained the lead on Svatos' goal at 13:32 of the second period when banged home a rebound from the edge of the crease. 
About 3 minutes later, Jones collected a loose puck at center ice, skated in alone and beat goalie Tuukka Rask with a wris­ter to the glove side to make it 4­2. 
"It's a great win on the road against one of the better teams in the Eastern Conference," Avalanche coach Joe Sacco said. 
The Bruins got a power play in the final 5 minutes but were unable to get a shot on goal. 


The Avalanche took a lead in the first period on goals by Hejduk and Hannan 37 seconds apart in the opening 6:52. 
"To come back from the 2-0 deficit, we were feeling very good about ourselves," Wheeler said. "We're doing that too many times." 
Hejduk scored on the power­play off the rebound of Kyle Quincey's shot, giving Colorado power-play scores in each of its five games this season. It's the Avalanche's longest stretch to open a season since they had power-play scores in nine straight to begin 1997-98. 
Hannan, a defenseman, raced in for a rebound and slipped a shot into a wide-open net after Rask shifted to his left to block Jones' shot from the circle. 
Rask, making his second con­secutive start, stopped 18 shots. 
The Bruins tied it 2-2 on scores by Recchi and Wheeler midway into the second period. 
Rangers 7, Maple Leafs 2 
NEW YORK -A year ago, the New York Rangers might not have held on to the scant one­goal lead they carried into the third period. 
After a strong start that pro­duced a two-goal edge, the Rangers let the Toronto Maple Leafs hang around and get close Monday night. A stern message from coach John Tortorella and a reliance on their newly honed conditioning produced a domi­nating final 20 minutes and a 7­2 victory. 
"We had a great start to the second period, but then it was like we stopped playing," for­ward Vinny Prospal said. "After two periods Torts came in and he wasn't really happy. We responded the right way, took the play back to them, scored the fourth goal right away. It was a lot easier after that." 
Defenseman Dan Girardi and Sean Avery both had two goals, Wade Redden added a goal and two assists, and Ryan Callahan and Marian Gaborik also scored for the Rangers (5-1), undefeated since a season-opening loss at Pittsburgh. 
New York has also won seven consecutive at home, dating to last season. Henrik Lundqvist made 27 saves for his fourth vic­tory. Brandon Dubinsky, Chris Drury, Artem Anisimov and Prospal all had two assists for the Rangers one night after a 3-0 home victory against Anaheim. 
New York has outscored oppo­nents 12-3 in third periods, including 4-0 against Toronto. 
"The second half of the second period they carried the play a lit­tle bit and we certainly needed to regroup in here," Drury said. "It's nice to know we have our legs and our conditioning and are able to carry the play in the third." 
Alexei Ponikarovsky and Jason Blake tallied for the Maple Leafs (0-4-1), who along with the New York Islanders are the NHL's only winless teams. Vesa Toskala, who made 26 saves, had been 5­0-2 with a 1.37 goals-against average versus New York while with Toronto. 
NFL 

Giants prepare for the battle of unbeatens 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -Off to their best start in almost two decades, the New York Giants are facing a week of distractions. 
There is going to be more talk about Eli Manning's heel, his first NFL game in his hometown of New Orleans and the Giants' first game against former teammate Jeremy Shockey since the dis­gruntled tight end was dealt to the Saints last year. 
And if that isn't enough, well, the Giants (5-0) are fac­ing the Saints (4-0) in a battle of two of the NFC's three unbeaten teams. 
"It is going to be a real big test for us," middle linebacker Antonio Pierce said Monday. "Obviously we took care of business with the first five games. Going there, the Saints are coming off a bye week-I know they are going to be well prepared. They are a well-coached team. They are playing very well on offense and on defense. So I think for our whole team, offense, defense, especially, is going to be one of obviously our biggest challenge so far." 
There is no doubt about that. The Giants' five wins have come against Washington, Dallas, Tampa Bay, Kansas City and Oakland, teams with a com­bined 6-19 record. The last three opponents -the Bucs, Chiefs and Raiders -are a combined 1-14. 
The Saints are off to a tremendous start with quar­terback Drew Brees leading the league's highest-scoring offense. Their 144 points have been scored in just four games. 
Manning, who did not aggravate the injury to his right heel in the Giants 44-7 win over Oakland on Sunday, refused to label this week­end's game as a measuring stick. 
"It is an important game and an NFC team," he said. " ... We know they are very tal­ented. Their defense is play­ing outstanding. Gregg Williams, the defensive coor­dinator, we faced when he was at Washington a few years ago. Their offense is very explosive, they score a lot of points. It is a big game and they are playing very well this year." 
Manning didn't want to debate the merits of beating a couple of cupcakes early in the season. 
"We don't really have to worry about where we stand against other people," he said. "We have to worry about going out there and playing the game each week and try­ing to find a way to get wins. We have to look at ourselves and see where we can improve from day to day and every week from the games. I think that is something we take a lot of pride in." 
Manning said he hopes to practice every day this week, saying he felt good 24 hours after playing less than a half and throwing two touch­downs. 
"I am able to move around and I didn't have a setback by any means," Manning said. "It felt like it is getting better every day and getting to feel better by the end of this week." 
The MVP of the 2008 Super Bowl also is excited about going to back New Orleans, where his father, Archie, played quarterback for the Saints. 
Manning was supposed to play in the Superdome in 2005 but the game was moved to Giants Stadium after the city flooded in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. 
"It is always fun to go to your hometown and play a game, especially since I was a Saints fan growing up," Manning said. "I've seen many games in the Superdome. So, I am excited about the opportunity to go in there and get to play in the Superdome and expect a big game going against the Saints. They are playing extremely well this year, two undefeated teams, it should be a great atmosphere." 
The other issue will be the Giants' first game against Shockey, who was shipped to the Saints after pretty much requesting a change of scenery. The trade was made days before training camp opened last year. 
Pierce and Manning both said they enjoyed playing with Shockey, though the tight end frequently upset the quarter­back by not working out with him in the offseason and then complaining on the field when passes didn't come his way. 
"I love the way he plays football," Pierce said. "He plays with the passion that I think you should play football with. They are playing against us. He is going to be riled up. He is going to want to obviously prove a point that they made a mistake. But like I said, it is not Shockey versus the Giants, it is the Saints versus the Giants." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Noue Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED FoR RENT 
2 BDRM APT. CLOSE TO ND. If you or someone you care about BEATSC UTILITIES NOT INCLUDED. CALL has been sexually assaulted, we 313-382-0536 OR 574-386-3896. PERSONAL can help. For more information, visit Ask Pete Carroll about Steve 54684 TWYCKENHAM. Notre Dame's website: Sarkisian. 
http://csap.nd.edu PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­andersonND rentals.com HOUSES UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do BEAT SC appt., no experience needed, cus­not go it alone. Notre Dame has I would just like to apologize to 
TICKETS 

tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835 many resources in place to assist Katie Smith for insisting on putting Crack Matt Barkley's ribs 4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES you. If you or someone you love her into the paper as often as I can. OF NATURE AND SERENITY. 9 HELP! Need FB tix for family. Will needs confidential support or assis­BEATSC MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME. pay top$$. 574-251-1570. tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at I promise, I'll find a way to make it 
FoR SALE 
$1,200 FOR WEEKEND. CALL 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For up to you. Break Joe McKnight's legs Ford '79 T-Bird. 45,000 miles. GEORGIA PEACH BED AND VICTORY TICKETS Buy Sell Trade more information, visit NO's website Original Owner. $8,000. 574-299-BREAKFAST@ 269-357-6979. FB Tix. Victory1ickets.net 574-232-at http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu HI:) 0925150 674-6150 0964. FUSC 
~ 

OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, October 13, 2009 page 15 
Golfweek/Sagarin Men's Golf Division I Top 25 
team  previous  
1  Oklahoma State  1  
2  Arizona State  3  
3  Washington  5  
4  Stanford  6  
5  Illinois  4  
6  Florida State  7  
7  Texas  9  
8  Oregon Stale  8  
9  Southern California  10  
10  Florida  11  
11  North Carolina State  12  
12  South Carolina  22  
13  Tennessee  2  
14  North Florida  14  
15  Southern Methodist  13  
16  UNLV  18  
17  TCU  20  
18  Texas A&M  19  
19 20 21  Georgia Tech Michigan Colorado State  21 NR NR  
22  Northwestern  NR  
23  Kent State  NR  
24  Texas Tech  23  
25  Arkansas  NR  

Golfweek/Sagarin Women's Golf Division I Top 25 
team previous 
1 Southern California 1 2 UCLA 2 3 Arizona State 
3 
4 Purdue 
s 
5 Michigan State 10 6 Auburn 4 7 California 17 8 LSU 7 9 Pepperdine 
8 
10 Florida 11 11 Alabama 
12 12 Oklahoma Stale 14 13 Georgia 
9 
14 Ohio State 
18 
15 Stanford 
24 16 Duke 
13 17 Texas A&M 
19 
18 Denver 
6 
19 Tulane NR 20 Arizona 1S 21 Virginia 21 22 Tennessee . NR 23 Wake Forest NR
NA ..
24 Louisville 25 Vanderbilt NR 
NCAA Water Polo CWPA Division I Top ·10 
team previous 
1 Stanford 1 2 UCLA 2 3 Southern california 3 4 California 4 5 Loyola Marymount 5 ·5 UC Santa Barbara 6 7 Pepperdine 8 8 Long Beach State 1 9 UC Irvine 9 10 Concordia (Calit) 14 
around the dial 
NCAA Football 

Arkansas State at Louisiana-Monroe 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL 
Detroit at Buffalo 7 p.m., Versus 
NFL 


AP St. Louis Rams defensive tackle Clifton Ryan (95) and defensive end LaJuan Ramsey (99) sit on the bench with team­mates. Rams players have declined to comment on radio pundit Rush Limbaugh's attempt to purchase the franchise. 
Limbaugh offer for Rams draws fire 
Associated Press 

ST LOUIS -The Revs. AI Sharpton and Jesse Jackson attacked the bid by Rush Limbaugh to buy the St. Louis Rams on Monday, saying the conser­vative radio host's track record on race should exclude him from owning an NFL team 
Sharpton sent a letter to NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, arguing that Limbaugh has been divi­sive and "anti-NFL" in some of his comments. 
Jackson said in a tele­phone interview that Limbaugh had made his wealth "appealing to the fears of whites" with an unending line of insults 
IN BRIEF 

Houston Astros begin
search for new manager 
HOUSTON -The Astros will inter­view 10 candidates over the next week to become the team's next manager, including former skipper Phil Garner. 
Houston fired manager Cecil Cooper on Sept. 21. Third base coach Dave Clark was promoted to interim manager for the final two weeks and the team said Monday that Clark will be the first man interviewed for the full-time posi­tion. 
The other candidates include: minor league coordinator Al Pedrique, who became third base coach when Clark was promoted; former Brewers manag­er Ned Yost, San Diego hitting coach Randy Ready, former Arizona manager Bob Melvin, fonher Washington manag­er Manny Acta and current Boston Red Sox coaches Brad Mills and Tim Bogar. 
The Astros have also been granted permission to interview Philadelphia bench coach Pete Mackanin when the Phillies complete postseason play. 
against blacks and other minorities. 
"The National Football League has set high stan­dards for racial justice and inclusion," Jackson said. "He should not have the privilege of owning an NFL franchise -and it is a privilege." The civil rights leader said he's had con­tact with numerous players and ex-players concerned about the bid. 
Limbaugh shot back at Sharpton on his radio show. 
"Now, this saddens me as well this disappoints me," he said. "I know Rev. Sharpton. Sharpton is bet­ter than this. He knows better than this. You know, I didn't judge AI Sharpton's fitness to be in radio when he wanted to earn an hon­est living for once, given his well-documented past as the author of the Tawana Brawley hoax. I believe in freedom and I also don't discriminate." 
Limbaugh said last week that he is teaming up with St. Louis Blues hockey team owner Dave Checketts in a bid to buy the Rams. He has declined to discuss details of the offer, citing a confidentiali­ty agreement. 
In 2003, Limbaugh worked briefly on ESPN's NFL pregame show. He resigned after saying Philadelphia Eagles quar­terback Donovan McNabb was overrated because the 

media wanted to see a black quarterback suc­ceed. 
Transcripts posted on the radio host's Web site also say that on a January 2007 show, Limbaugh comment­ed: "The NFL all too often looks like a game between the Bloods and the Crips without any weapons. There, I said it." 
Asked about Limbaugh's bid to purchase the winless Rams, McNabb said: "If he's rewarded to buy them, congratulations to him. But I won't be in St. Louis any time soon." 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said the league is aware of the concerns voiced by Sharpton and Jackson. 
Oklahoma State seeks to 
have WR Bryant reinstated 
STILLWATER, Okla. -Oklahoma State coach Mike Gundy said Monday the school is backing the reinstatement of star receiver Dez Bryant, less than a week after declaring him ineligible for lying to the NCAA. 
The school put the All-American on the sidelines last Wednesday for lying to the NCAA about his rela­tionship with former NFL star Deion Sanders. Bryant sat out Saturday as No. 16 Oklahoma State won 36-31 at Texas A&M. 
The Cowboys ( 4-1, 1-0 Big 12) will host conference rival Missouri (4-1, 0-1) this Saturday. 
Bryant played in Oklahoma State's first three games this season while compliance officials were investigat­ing his meeting with Sanders and another former NFL player, Omar Stoutmire, that Bryant later lied about to the NCAA. 
Head coach Cable wants 
Raiders to ignore distractions 
ALAMEDA, Calif. -After watching his team endure yet another blowout loss, Oakland Raiders coach Tom Cable said one of the keys to getting his team back on track is to eliminate distractions. 
Cable was talking about the how the team responds to adversity early in games, when one bad play or bad call can lead to more and end up in a lop­sided game. 
The potentially bigger distraction of Cable's legal problems regarding his alleged training camp assault on defen­sive assistant Randy Hanson is not an issue, Cable said Monday. 
"I don't believe it is," he said. "I would never believe that because, as I've said, I know the truth and I trust in the system, the process, and I just know that what's supposed to happen will happen. I've not let it become an issue. I've not put a lot into it, and, quite frankly, haven't brought it to the team because it's not their issue. It's mine." 


page 16 
MLB 

Phils beat Rockies, advance to NLCS 
Associated Press 

DENVER -Chase Utley ducked near second base. The rest of the Philadelphia Phillies never flinched. 
Ryan Howard hit a two-run double with two outs in the ninth inning and scored on Jayson Werth's single as Philadelphia rallied past the Colorado Rockies 5-4 in Game 4 Monday night to reach the NL championship series. 
Brad Lidge, bouncing back from a rugged regular sea­son, earned his second con­secutive save by again retir­ing cleanup batter Troy Tulowitzki with runners on second and first for the final out. 
Tulowitzki, who flied out to conclude Game 3, struck out this time and the Phillies cel­ebrated on the infield at chilly Coors Field before retreating to the clubhouse to spray champagne. 
Next, the World Series champions play Thursday night against Los Angeles at Dodger Stadium in an NLCS rematch from last season. This marked the fourth straight year that none of baseball's first-round series went to a winner-take-all Game 5. 
"These couple of games have been kind of character builders," Howard said. 
After Dexter Fowler's hur­dle of Utley sparked Colorado's three-run rally in the eighth, Howard and the Phillies responded with a three-run rally of their own against closer Huston Street. 
Street was 35 of 37 on save chances this season, but took the loss in the ninth in Game 3 when he allowed Howard's sacrifice fly to break a 5-all tie. He came in again to face the Phillies, and trouble ensued. 
Jimmy Rollinssingled with one out and Utley drew a two-out walk on a full count. Howard tied it with two strikes when he doubled up against the right-field wall and Werth followed with a soft single to right-center. 
"We were a strike away from making a trip to Philadelphia," lamented Rockies manager Jim Tracy, who went 74-42 after taking over from Clint llurdle on May 29. 
The Phillies, the NL's best road team, swept both games at Coors Field, where the wild-card Rockies went 44-17 under Tracy's tute­lage. 

The Hockies looked as if they were going to send the series back to Philadelphia when Yorvit Torrealba's two­run double broke a 2-all tie in the eighth. That came after Fowler scored the tying run on pinch-hitter Jason Giambi's two-out single. 
Fowler hurdled Utley, who stepped into the basepath to field Todd Helton's slow grounder, and his quick flip to second base was wide right and mishandled for an error by Rollins. 
That put two on for Tulowitzki, and Hyan Madson relieved starter Cliff Lee in a double-switch that also brought in left fielder Ben Francisco to replace Raul Ibanez. 
It paid an immediate divi­dend when Francisco raced in and made a diving catch of Tulowitzki's bloop to left for the second out. But Francisco couldn't get to Giambi's single fast enough to keep Fowler from scoring the tying run from second base. 
Then, Torrealba sent a two-run double to the gap in right-center for a 4-2 Rockies lead. 
The Phillies led the National League in homers for the second straight sea­son with a franchise-record 224 but they had only gone deep twice in this series before Shane Victorino sent a 99 mph fastball from Ubaldo Jimenez into the Rockies' bullpen in the first. Werth sent an 85 mph changeup into the Phillies' bullpen next door in the sixth for a 2-0 lead. 
Those were the only runs Jimenez allowed in seven otherwise spectacular innings that included seven strikeouts and six hits. He left with the Rockies trailing 2-1 through seven innings after throwing 126 pitches, one shy of his career high. 
Lee, who gave up six hits in his complete game win in the series opener, allowed three runs on five hits in 7 1-3 innings, and only one of the runs was earned. Lee repeatedly worked out of jams until the eighth. 
The Hockies had hoped to rely on their resilience that saw them overcome a 18-28 start under Hurdle to finish with a franchise-best record of 92-70. They sent right­hander Aaron Cook ahead to Philadelphia on Monday morning to rest up for a Game 5, but he'll fly home instead. 
The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 13, 2009 
NFL 

Manning's knee injury not serious 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Peyton Manning's left knee may be sore, but it doesn't appear to be a serious problem for the undefeated Colts. 
One day aftflr Manning led Indianapolis to a 31-9 victory at Tennessee, coach Jim Caldwell said he had not received a doctor's report regarding the knee, some­thing he would have expected had there been concerns. 
"We have doctors that are there all the time. They cer­tainly have taken a look at it," Caldwell said Monday. 
Manning said he hurt the knee when Titans defensive end Kyle Vanden Bosch hit him late in the first half. Vanden Bosch was called for roughing the passer, a penal­ty that helped Indy (5-0) get out from its own 7-yard line as the Colts marched 93 yards for a touchdown to score with 17 seconds left in the half. 
CLOVER VILLAGE & CLOVER RIDGE 
A PRIME CJI.MPUS HOUSING COMMUNrTY 
The Titans (0-5) were called twice for roughing the passer on that series and afterward, Manning was asked if he had enticed the officials to make those calls. 
Manning denied it and said he actually had been hurt. 
"The first one, I've had that hit before to the knee," Manning said. "I don't know if that validates it or not but I've got to see the doctor after this and get treatment, if that makes it more valid, I guess. Obviously, when you plant that left leg, it's in a vulnerable position. I wear that brace for that reason alone, for protecting me there." 
It's the same knee Manning needed two surgeries on last summer to remove infections. He has since acknowledged that missing all of training camp and the preseason led to a slower-than-usual start in 2008. 
The pain didn't appear to inhibit Manning's perform­ance at Tennessee. He 

returned in the second half, finished 36 of 44 for 309 yards with three touchdowns, one interception and extend­ed his streak of consecutive 300-yard games to five. 
The NFL record, shared by Steve Young, Kurt Warner and Hich Gannon, is six. 
Manning is not available to reporters until Wednesday, and he picked the right week if he needs extra recovery time. 
Indy has a bye this week­end and won't play again until Oct. 25 at St. Louis. They may be at full strength by then. 
Cornerback Kelvin Hayden said he could have played against the Titans before deciding to give his injured left hamstring a little more rest. Hayden has missed the last three games. 
Indy also hopes to have safety Bob Sanders, corner­back Marlin Jackson and left tackle Charlie Johnson back in the lineup against the Hams. 

Phrw~" C~;,mtt·:r and ( :mmnu n~tr ( :l11h fhn•~ 
• Jih:c Lmmu~ Ucd; £ Prh.Jitl' BJktJoi·~·" MHl h<-e i~•tr~in~ • -Swirnm!n~ a•m•l. ~Uti 1\cck, H(•t 'luh 
2n41 $Jt,.,L.cdMII t :~,uri • On Silc :\$iinap.cmcnt .tr1d l4t? :\1Jli!Ucllanct 
• On Sih• :'.4'4:Util) Ollin•r 


f'itm;s!' f:entt>r,ltJ~;l;(•th;tll (\mrt 
* Fh:c l'arusin;l: &t:h 
• Frtt W<t:§h«-r and Dryer in <'a(h uni1 
.. Hi*b Spot~d Wllrdt>"'~ Inccrn~:t and (nmca,t Pr~mium (;ablr lm:lu.Jnl 
• On Site Management and Hli Maintenance 
• ()fl Site ~J:lJThy ( )J'fin•r 

r--------­
Tuesday, October 13, 2009 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

You are Invite~l 

Please join the membets of the Congregation ofHoly Cross for a special Mass, In the Basilica of the Sacr-ed· Heart today, October 13,. at 5:15 p.m. to ce.lebrate 
Founder's Day 
honotl 
Fr. Edward· Sorln, C.S.C. 
,.·l Jtv:·,;ff,PI~ ,,I '111111 I'i·.. ./i'JlJtl I.../t. ·~l Jt.IIJ,\,. ( ·:-,~( .. Htlllt:J/If}H .~.\/,:tftt"t 111 tilt' Jl.~tiiiiJJ('\ /).,'.1 1tl("I'JII.t;llllt.,'C~,.. 
. ( ~·~J(~Iifflll•1 le4.·1~/tll.\f* ( (·".•Jtt.tl' 


M
eJl 

,:·· 
·" 'f 

-----------------------------~----------------, 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 13, 2009 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Lewis, Welsh Family look for spark to season 
Winless Breen-Phillips faces surging Shamrocks; Howard and Pasquerilla East compete for playoff positioning 
ByANDREW OWENS, 
MATTHEW ROBISON and 
CHRIS ALLEN 
Sporrs Wri rers 
Lewis (1-3) and Welsh Family (1-3) have each struggled this season, but they have an oppor­tunity to get back on track when they play each other tonight. 
The Chicks lost to Howard Sunday, and during the loss they lost their starting quarter­back to a broken finger. The injury has forced the Chicks to adjust their offense and find a new identity. 
They hope the changes, which include an increased focus on the running game, will pay off when they face Welsh. 
"We have been working on more running plays because of the injury," senior captain Tara Gilbride said. "We've been improving and trying to fix the mistakes we've been making. We've corrected those mistakes and we expect to beat Welsh." 
To compensate for the adapt­ing offense, Gilbride expects the defense to play well. 
"Our defense has been key this season," Gilbride said. "That has been key along with our ability to throw the foot­ball." 
The Whirlwinds enter the game disappointed with their season, but they have remained positive and believe that they 

are primed for a victory over 
Lewis. 
"We're not giving up," senior 
captain Tara Schimpf said. "We 
know we have talent. We just 
need to stay focused, prepare 
for the game, and have fun." 
Welsh Family is coming off a 
21-13 loss to McGlinn Sunday. 
The Whirlwind offense was able 
to move the ball and put points 
on the board but fell just short 
of' tying the game on their final 
drive. 
"We're going to make things 
happen on offense," Schimpf' 
said. "We had some positives in 
our last game and we need to 
keep it going against Lewis." 
Schimpf-a defensive jug­
gernaut -and the rest of the 
Whirlwind defense look to stifle 
the Chicks nnwly-f'ormed 
offense. Defense has long been 
seen as Welsh Fam 's strength, 
and after a mediocre showing 
last Sunday the team hopes to 
right the ship and get back on 
track. 
The two teams will face off at 
7 p.m. tonight at llinhle Field. 
McGlinn vs. Breen-Phillips Both McGlinn (1-1-1) and 
.Breen-Phillips (0-3) have made 
it apparent that they are hungry 
for a win. 
While neither has been a 
dominant force this season, 
both the-Shamrocks and the 
Babes have been preparing tire­
lessly for tonight's matchup. 
"We've been practicing twice a week, just drilling into our heads the plays and the defen­sive strategies," Shamrock sen­ior captain and defensive line­man Emily Dore said. 
The Babes have also adopted a tough practicn rngimen. 
"Our coaches work hard to prepare us by coming up with lwlpful drills and instructional handouts," Babes' snnior cap­tain and safety Stnphanie Wuerdeman said. "Evnry time we get out to practien we get bettor." 
Both squads are looking to exploit some aspncts of their game that they have had suc­eess with this season as well as working to improve upon other aspncts that have caused them problems. 
For thn Babes, this snason has been marked by strong dnfens(~ but an inability to put points on the board. 
"Af'tpr our last ganw against Farley, we saw a lot of good things," Wuerdnman said. "I wuldn't be morn proud or thing on ]the defensive] sidn of the ball. As l'or olTensn wn'vo been working out the kinks and are finally starting to solidify per­sonnel plaeement." 
Thn Shamrocks look to improve on their already bal­anced performances this season with what Doro calls a "stnllar aerial attack and tough defense." 
"Our expectations are to per­form well in all fundamentals of the game," Dare said. "We've really improved from our first game to where we are now." 
In what appears to be a battle of two squads who will do what­ever it takes to win, the Babes and the Shamrocks will mnet tonight at Hiehle Field at 8 p.m. 
Howard vs. Pasquerilla East 
Playol'l' positioning will be on the line when Howard (3-0) takes on Pasquerilla East (2-1) tonight. 
"We know Howard's the team to beat in our division," Pasquerilla East senior quarter­back and captain Tara Pillai said. "We're looking forward to a big challenge." 
Pillai said she hopes her team will continuo to grow of'l'onsively in ordnr to keep up with Howard's dominating passing attack. 
"We've bnen trying to add more plays each week in prac­tice," Pillai said. "That will makn our playbook less pre­dietabln." 
On thn defensive side of' the ball. the Pyros will faee their toughnst test of the season in trying to stop the Howard attack that features talonted receivers in junior Kaitlin Robinson and freshman Laura Colntti, a l'aet that is prevalent in the Pyros' minds as they pre­pare for the game. 
"They have a great quarter­back [junior captain Kayla Bishop] who is mobile and throws to all of her receivers," Pillai said. 
Howard heads into the game looking to build on an early sea­son campaign that has estab­lished them as front-runners for the championship. 
"We're definitely on track for the playoffs," Bishop said. 
The Ducks have built an iden­tity that has seen them put up more than 30 points in a game effortlessly, all while remaining strong on the defensive end. Bishop still sees room for improvement. 
"Our offense gets into a rhythm and we can just mareh down the field." Bishop said. "However, we've had quitn a few dropped passes and we're definitely working on adjusting that part or our offense." 
In this game, the powerhouse Ducks will likely faee their toughest tnst on defense in the Pyros attack led by the strong­armed Pillai. 
"We have to rely on our defense to win the game for us," Bishop said. 
Kickoff will be at 9 p.m. tonight at Hiehle Field. 
Contact Andrew Owens at 
aowens2@nd.edu, Matthew 
Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
and Chris Allen at 
callen6@nd.edu 


Tuesday, October 13, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ND CLUB SPORTS 
Field hockey tea111 splits ga111es vvith Mizzou at ho111e 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's club field hock­ey squad hosted Missouri Sunday at LaBar field. The Irish split their squad into two teams and played a pair of games with the Tigers. 
In the first game, the Notre Dame Gold Team posted a 2-0 victory for the Irish. Sophomore Jay Williams scored first for the Irish, assisted by seinor Danielle Straccia, in the first half. The second goal came in midway through the second half on a cross from sophomore Will Thwaites to sophomore Jenn O'Neill. 
In the second game, played by the Notre Dame Blue Team, the Tigers came out on top 5­
3. The first Irish goal was scored in the first half, from senior Kate Sheedy to junior Susie Carlsen. The other two goals came in the second half, one by Saint Mary's senior Claire Kenney and the other by Sheedy. 
The Irish will next travel to a tournament in early November. 
Men's Water Polo 
This weekend the Irish trav­eled to Grand Rapids, Mich., for the Grand Valley State Invitational. The Irish finished the weekend 3-1, securing a fourth place finish. 
Notre Dame's first opponent was the Michigan State B team. Michigan State was able to keep the game close, but the Irish held on for a 10-8 victory. Sophomore captain Dan Geisman played a great game in set, while the Irish were able to hold off the Michigan State side's large number of reserves and kept the lead for most the whole game. 
After finishing second in their bracket, Notre Dame was set to play the second place teams in the other two brackets. Notre Dame won the first game in the morning by forfeit, and then finished the tournament against Illinois-Chicago, the same team that the Irish lost to in overtime two weeks at the first conference qualifiers. However, this time the result would be different. 
The game started out close, with a score of 3-3 after the first quarter. The Irish played a strong second quarter, taking scoring on every opportunity on 6-5's. Senior captain Matt Fordonski put away a few goals, while Sebastian Testero made the difference, shutting down the opposition in set and scoring multiple goals in the third quarter. Notre Dame wa:s able to keep the lead in the fourth quarter, winning the game with a final score of 10-7. 
The Irish will next play in the conference championships on Oct. 24-25 in Dayton, Ohio. If the Irish are able to win that tournament, they will qualify for the national collegiate club championships. 
Bowling 
Notre Dame opened its bowl­ing season at the Brickyard Classic in Indianapolis this weekend. The Irish, returning just three starters from 2008, were looking to see how the rookies handled the competi­tive environment. 
Led by senior anchor Chris Kieser, the club got off to a decent start as the Irish regis­tered their first 800 game of the season. Game two showed flashes of potential, as fresh­man Armani Sutton rolled a high 180's game to give the Irish their first 900 game on the young season. 
Games three, four and five were very similar with different members of the team stepping up. In the sixth game, the club started out with 13 opens in their first 15 frames. The Irish tried to fight back, and got a momentum boost when sopho­more Richard Skelton made a tough 6-7-10 spare, only to have the momentum immedi­ately crushed when Kieser left the 7-10 split two frames later. 
The Irish bowled a respectable 5173 for the six game series after a disappoint­ing 727 in Game six. This put the Irish on the bubble for making the afternoon squad. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, a strike by the Missouri Baptist anchor sent the Irish to the morning squad by only two pins. 
Heading into the Sunday morning squad, the Irish were the No. 1 seed and showed why they were so close to the after­noon squad, posting a 757 4­game baker series. However, the Irish struggled with their shot the· rest of the day with only Sutton and Kieser having any sort of consistency. The Irish finished the day with a 2­1-1 record in the match-play bakers. 
While final results were not available, it appears the Irish only slipped one spot despite their struggles. 
The women's team had a rough weekend. Day two pro­vided some bright spots with the Irish bowling two bakers over 165. This tournament was a learning experience and the squad will certainly improve as the season progresses. 
The Irish will next bowl Oct. 31 at the Boilermaker Classic. 
Ultimate Frisbee 
In their second tournament of the season, Notre Dame trav­eled to Edinboro, Penn., for the Skylander IX Annual Tournament, taking on some of the best in the east. The Irish decided to enter two even teams as opposed to A and B teams. This allowed the fresh­men to get much needed play­ing time. 
Freshman Zac Woodruff showed special potential on Saturday when he led his team to a victory late in the day. On the last point of the game, sen­ior Bill Carson put up a deep throw up to Woodruff, who was guarded by experienced play­ers from Syracuse. In the end zone, both Woodruff and two defenders jumped up, with Woodruff coming down with the final point. 
Saturday was characterized by mixed results and both teams were excited to move on to Sunday. Notre Dame Y put in a run on Sunday and made it all the way to the champ-i­onship of the consolation bracket against Buffalo. 
Sophomore Jack Dobemier was excited to play against his hometown school as he knew many players on the opposing team. Dobemier's enthusiasm showed on the field when he shut down his assignment on defense and put up pretty throws all over the field. Unfortunately Dobemier's play wasn't enough and Notre Dame Y came up short 15-12. 
For the first time in women's club history, the Irish broke into two women's teams (X and Y). Notre Dame Y went 2-5 with tough losses to the Edinboro Alumni and Team U.S.A., a compilation of club team players based out of Pittsburgh. Notre Dame X went 7-1, with notable victories over Carnegie Mellon and Maryland, and made it to the champi­onship game Sunday afternoon. Unfortunately the club lost 15­2, but played excellent defense, despite X's lack of experienced players and an injury to a key player on the first day. 
Sailing 
The Irish competed in the Buckeye Invitational at Ohio State University this past week­end. 
Sophomore Nathaniel Walden and senior Tim O'Brien split time in the A division with sophomore Natalie Fang as crew and finished third. Sophomore Jeff Miller and freshman crew Kelly Sullivan finished third in B division. 
Third in each division was good enough for the team to finish second overall in the regatta. 
Men's Rowing 
The Irish opened their fall 
season at the Head of the Rock Regatta in Rockford, Ill., on Sunday. The regatta brought other major collegiate competi­tors such as the Michigan, Michigan State, Iowa, Minnesota and 46 other schools to the Rock River to race down the 4.4-kilometer course. 
Sophomore Zach Stackhouse and junior Charles Talley took the gold medal in the Men's Open Pairs with a time of 
17:27. Juniors Michael Maggart and Greg Flood followed, tak­ing third place with a time of 17:35. 
Just an hour later, the Irish had three boats in the Men's Collegiate 4+ race, where their top boat of sophomore Garrett Campbell, sophomore Timothy Parks, junior Sean Gibbons and sophomore Brent Shawcross grabbed second place with a time a 15:48, only seven sec­onds behind University of Michigan. 
The other two fours, stroked by sophomore James Baffa and junior Kevin Quigley, finished at 8th and 10th place out of 19 boats total. The morning was wrapped up with the men's open doubles race, where the Notre Dame showed true domi­nation as junior Phil Brunner, sophomore Charles Janini and sophomore Wes Horton and their pair partners swept the competition with a 1-2-3 finish, and sophomore Patrick Alvarado's No. 4 double fin­ished ninth. 
The afternoon marked the first race for novice Coach Dave Savoie and his novice crew. They certainly did not disappoint as the first novice boat, stroked by freshman John Fisher, surged to a second place finish at 15:58, only fif­teen seconds behind the Wolverines. 
The No. 2 novice boat raced to a sixth place finish, beating out the No. 1 novice boats of Iowa and Michigan State. 
The afternoon concluded with the biggest race of the day, the Men's Collegiate 8+, pitting each school's top ath­letes against each other in the fastest racing of the day. The Irish had a total of five boats entered, three varsity and two novice teams. 
The Irish's top Varsity 8, stroked by Campbell and Parks and led by senior coxswain Michael Lehmann, was locked in a heated battle against Purdue for the final 1000 meters of the race. With 250 meters of the finish, a big surge from the Irish brought them out on top, extending their lead to twelve seconds and giving them a second place finish with a time of 14:18, three seconds short of Michigan. 
The Irish's other two Varsity 8's finished fourth and 11th, both crushing Michigan State's top Varsity. The two novice crews experienced their first race against varsity crews, fin­ishing 18th and 21st. 
Men's Rugby 
This weekend Notre Dame faced off against Indiana University on McGlinn Fields. 
The Irish, led in part by soph­omore Daniel Scheper and jun­ior Chris White, started the match off with high intensity. By utilizing their superior kick­ing skills, the Irish quickly pushed the Mudsharks back deep into their own zone. 
A key tackle and poach by Patrick Toole, followed by quick passing in the backline led to a Notre Dame score, which put the Irish to a quick 7-0 lead. The Irish would score twice more, including a thirty­meter penalty kick by Sean Peterson to give them a 15-3 lead going into the half. 
The Mudsharks entered the second half with strength and power in the serums. Their hard work paid off with two tries that put the score at 15­12 with 20 minutes left. Notre Dame then called John Lalor off the bench to inject some passion back into the serums. His entrance into the game tipped the scale in favor of the Irish, who were able to use their kicking to keep the Mudsharks out of Notre Dame's side of the field for the rest of the game, with a final score of 15-12 in favor of the Irish. 
The B-side game was just as exciting as the A-side, with strong leadership by Davey Johnson and sophomore Chris Chung. The Irish dominated the majority of the first half, scor­ing two times within the first ten minutes. With time winding down in the first half, the Irish made a line-break led by fresh­man Dan Burke, which eventu­ally led to a try to put Notre Dame up 17-3 going into half­time. 
In the second half, the Mudsharks made an attempt at a comeback with two tries and a penalty kick, compared to one try from the Irish. With the score set at 24-20, the Irish made multiple goal-line stands. With time expired on their own five meter-line, junior Michael Doran rocketed the ball out ·of bounds with a thunderous kick to end the game. 
"I knew time was expired and all I had to do was get it out of bounds" Doran said. "So, I took a chance and sent one flying. It ended up paying off, but could have been devastating if the ball wouldn't have made it past the try line." 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, October 13, 2009 
sophomore Chris Walker. Both remains in a tie for 51st. best golf this fall," Kubinski Kubinski said. "We're 12 back, counted a four-over 76 on the Notre Dame's top performer said. "He's struggled a little bit and seventh would put us at 6-6
Sand01an 
first day of the tournament, put­from last season, senior Doug with his irons. We need him to for the tournament, and we'll ting them in a tie for 51st place Fortner, had neither of his step up and give us a good solid take 6-6. If we play a good one
continued from page 24 
after day one. Alan-Lee rounds counted for the Irish. He score tomorrow." tomorrow, and maybe one or Florida and Pepperdine, who bounced back on Monday, tying shot a five-over 77 in the first The Irish will finish The two teams stub their toe a little finished the second round in 9th Sandman for the team-best. round followed by a six-over 78 Prestige today, teeing off in a bit, we can move right up." and lOth place. Alan-Lee currently sits in 37th in the second, which puts him shotgun start at 7:30 a.m. 
Also scoring for the Irish were place, while Walker, after shoot­in a tie for 56th place. Pacific Standard Time. Contact Eric Prister at junior Connor Alan-Lee and ing a 77 in the second round, "(Fortner) hasn't played his "Our goal is seventh," eprister@nd.edu 
and-forth offensive battle. touchdown pass in the first Pasquerilla West 27, Lyons feated teams with Walsh on Welsh Family answered quarter to take a lead they 0 Thursday.
Blood 
with a minute left in the sec­would never relinquish. Powered by the smooth play "We are undefeated and ond quarter. Moreno found "Our offense is really exe­of junior quarterback Simone going up against an undefeat­
continued from page 24 
sophomore wide receiver cuting," Hadley said. "Their Bigi and a ball-hawking ed team so we have a big quarterback. However the Charlotte Seasly in the back defensive line was coming defense, Pasquerilla West (4-game ahead and will be pre­Chicks switched to sopho­of the end zone to knot the pretty hard. Our offense 0) extended their undefeated pared," said Hawley. more quarterback Christine score at seven before the played very well and ran record as they proved to be Hamma mid-way through the half. crisp routes. I have to give a too much for Lyons (0-3) to Farley 26, BP 0 first half, and she quickly "Our passing game was shout-out to our quarterback handle on Sunday in their 27-Farley (3-0-1) continued its threw for a 50-yard touch­really working today," who was able to get the pass­0 victory. romp through the regular down pass. Moreno said. "Give credit to es off." Bigi threw for a score and season with a rout of Breen 
"It was our one defensive wide receivers Seasly and Ryan remains optimistic as ran for another while the Phillips (0-3). breakdown," Howard junior sophomore Natalie Baldasare they prepare for their final opportunistic Purple Weasel Farley's defense put the captain Kayla Bishop said. for an excellent game." two regular season games. defense snagged four inter­first points of the game on "And it was a costly touch­The Shamrocks and "We have Cavanaugh on ceptions, returning one for a the board when senior defen­down." Whirlwinds traded touch­Thursday," Hyan senior quar­touchdown. sive back Caity Shepherd 
Bishop soon helped Howard downs in the third quarter. terback Kenzie Bowen said. "I thought we played a intercepted the Breen Phillips get back on track. Despite a Miller found Scheitlin for "We're going to keep playing great game today,"· Purple quarterback and returned it slow start for the Ducks' another touchdown, and then our game. We definitely think Weasel junior coach Ryan for a touchdown. Shepherd's offense due to multiple drop Moreno responded by hitting we are one of the best teams Hawley said. "We made a lot pick was the first of her three passing, the offense eventual­Baldasare for a 40-yard in the league and we are of great plays on defense. on the day. Sophomores ly found a rhythm. After a strike. Welsh Family failed on going to keep bringing it to Everybody showed up to play Brittany Scherer and Katie couple huge gains through their conversion attempt, them." today, which was fantastic." Smith had one interception the air, Bishop ran the ball leaving McGlinn with a lead it Walsh will go for their l1fth The Lyons defense put up a apiece as well. into the end zone for a touch­would not relinquish. consecutive win Thursday valiant effort, forcing several "Our defense has played down. Miller and the Shamrocks against Pasquerilla West. four-and-outs and a turnover, well all year," Smith said. 
"It was a broken play," added an insurance touch­but in the end the Lyons "Today just shows how ready Bishop said. "My receivers down to increase their lead Pangborn 19, Badin 13 offense was unable to move we are for the next step." couldn't get open so after a to 21-13, setting the scene Pangborn (2-2) used two the ball. Unfortunately, for Farley's defensive second­few seconds, I just ran for it." for Dore's defensive heroics. second-half touchdowns, one the Lions, they were missing ary was not the only group to 
After Bishop tied the game "We're real proud of our off an interception, to top several players, including pull the ball in. Sophomore at 7-7, the game appeared to team today," Miller said. Badin (0-3) 19-14. their starting and backup quarterback Megan Bastedo be headed for a tie before "This was a championship Pangborn senior defensive quarterbacks. threw three touchdown pass­Howard's defense forced the rematch and most important­back Megan Bescher recov­"Even though we were es. Sophomore Christina safety. The strong defense ly, we're proved ourselves the ered her second pick when missing some players and not Brainard caught a 45-yard proved to be the deciding fac­best in the West [Quad]." the Phoxes w'ere trailing 13-[many] plays went our way, touchdown pass to start the tor for the Ducks, a trend As for Welsh Family, the 14, and she ran it back for a I'm proud of our team putting aerial assault, junior Molly Howard would like to contin­loss was a tough one to take. touchdown to give the out a strong effort no matter Casanova caught a short ue. "No matter what, we will Phoxes their winning margin. what," Lyons sophomore touchdown pass and sopho­
"Defense is going to win us always hold our heads high," Bescher's defensive per­Carolyn Henderson said. more Kaitlyn Vitale scored the championship," Howard sophomore standout corner­formance came after a slow The Purple Weasels took the final touchdown for the senior Mary Jenkins said. back Erin Byrne said. "We're start to the game. control of the game early Finest. 
going to get practicing and In the first half, the scoring on their first offen­"It was a fun game to play," McGlinn 21, Welsh Family make ourselves and our team Bullfrogs began moving down sive drive. The score was set Smith said. "We really got 13 better." the field through the air with up as quarterback Bigi everyone involved and it was 
McGlinn (1-1-1) came out sophomore quarterback Carli scrambled to convert a fourth definitely a great team win. on top of Welsh Family (1-3) Walsh 12, Ryan 7 Fernandez leading the way. down. On the ensuing play, Everybody contributed to the in the battle for West Quad Walsh's undefeated season Sophomore Ryan Cooney Bigi finished the job with a win in a big way." supremacy Sunday afternoon continued when they topped managed to get into the end 20-yard touchdown strike. Breen Phillips took some by making a defensive stop Ryan Sunday. zone to give Badin a 7-0 The Lyons defense was able positives from the game. The when it mattered most. Once again the defense lead. to regroup following the newest addition to the team, 
With the Whirlwinds threat­came up in a big way for the The Phoxes responded with touchdown and forced an sophomore receiver Christina ening to tie the game late in Wild Women (4-0), as it used a touchdown in the last two interception. Just as quickly Konkey, made multiple catch­the fourth quarter, McGlinn goal-line stops and well­minutes of the first half as as they gained momentum, es despite the team's offen­senior captain Emily Dore timed turnovers to preserve junior quarterback Gabby Pasquerilla West took it right sive woes. delivered the play of the the victory. Tate weaved her way into the back with an interception of The Babes defense also game. On fourth-and-goal, The Walsh defense inter­end zone on the ground, but their own, which junior Libby played better than the score­the defensive end split two cepted a Ryan (1-3) pass a missed extra point attempt Koerbel returned for a touch­board said. offensive linemen and sacked early in the third quarter to left Pangborn trailing 7-6. down in spectacular fashion, "Our defense held them to Welsh Family freshman quar­take control of the ball with a Badin struck quickly in the spinning through would-be few first downs, but was real­terback Victoria Moreno to 12-0 lead. However, the second half, utilizing a trick tacklers and somehow keep­ly tired because they had to end Welsh Family's chances defense had to take the field play to take a 14-6 lead. ing her flags. play every time there was an at victory. just one play later after the Facing a growing deficit, Returning from half time interception," sophomore 
"I was lucky enough to Wild Women threw a pick of the Pangborn offensive line with a 14-0 lead, the Purple linebacker Dee Tian said. break free and have enough their own. gave Tate time to find her Weasels avoided complacen­The Babes will have anoth­time to get to the quarter­The Wild Women came up receivers. She threw a short cy. On the first play of the er chance at their first win back," Dore said. with a goal-line stand on that pass to sophomore receiver half, Pasquerilla West pulled when they play McGlinn 
Dore's play ensured the series to keep it a two-pos­Liz Pawlak. Pawlak turned out the trickery with a tonight, and Farley will look first win of the season for session game. the small gain into a touch­reverse pass of nearly 40 to continue its run to the McGlinn. "In a game like this where down with blazing speed that yards. Bigi finished the drive postseason when it plays 
The Shamrocks got back on it was going back and forth, Badin could not catch. with her feet instead of her Pasquerilla East after break. track with an efficient pass­the play of the defense is "I didn't know if my flag arm as she cutback against ing attack led by sophomore huge," senior Meghan Hadley was still on," Pawlak said. "I the grain on an option keeper Contact Lex Dennis at quarterback Lauren Miller said. "We got a pick which just kept running." for the score. bdennisl@nd.edu, Colin King and electrifying play from was really big, especially for Badin knew it had missed a Without much threat from at cking@nd.edu, Andrew running back freshman morale, and it was crucial in chance at its first victory. the Lyons offense, the Purple Owens at aowens2@nd.edu, Megan Scheitlin. The two the second half when they "This was a game to a Weasels finished off the game Kelly Zenere at connected on a 60-yard pass scored a touchdown and our game of momentum," Badin with a score by freshman kzenerO 1 @saintmarys.edu, play for McGlinn's first touch­defense stayed strong." senior captain Kelley Daniels running back Alice Yeoton. Barrick Bollman at down of the game, beginning Walsh was able to strike said. "We just had missed The Purple Weasel win this jbollman@nd.edu and Douglas what would become a back-first on a fourth-and-goal opportunities." week sets up a clash of unde-Farmer at dfarmerl@nd.edu 

Tuesday, October 13, 2009 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Manor 
continued from page 24 
Siegfried is looking to recuperate over break from Sunday's tough loss and add one to the win col­umn on the first of November. 
"Give it to Morrissey, they played a good game," Cure said. "We just hope to come out next time and play well against Duncan." 
Sorin 0, Carroll 0 
Before they played Sunday, neither Sorin nor Carroll had lost this season. After they played to a scoreless tie, still neither the Otters (2-0-1) nor the Vermin (2­0-2) have lost this season. 
Both teams made more mis­takes than great plays, with penalties, turnovers and failed third-down conversions killing nearly every drive. 
"We are disappointed about the many mistakes that we com­mitted on offense, but we're glad we came out with a tie," Carroll junior captain Nick Ruof said. 
Carroll intercepted Sorin fresh­man quarterback Ted Spinelli three times, but the Sorin defense held strong against the Vermin and forced many punts. 
The only scoring opportunity came with less than a minute left. Carroll gained possession after forcing Sorin to punt the ball, and put itself into position for a game-winning field goal. However, the kick did not clear the uprights, and the tie was all but sealed. 
Sorin didn't have enough time to mount any legitimate scoring threat. 
Sorin senior running back Rob Gallic routinely found holes and gained yards, but Spinelli's inter­ceptions did not allow Gallic to find a rhythm. 
"I think our problem was that we hadn't suited up or practiced in about two weeks," Otter fresh­man Killian Frailey said. "We needed to dust off cobwebs, but I guess today we just couldn't do that." 
Similarily, Carroll sophomore receiver Nick Tammerine caught numerous passes for large gains, but either penalties or other incompletions brought the Vermin drives to a halt. 
Carroll will now have to wait and see if its undefeated record is enough to warrant a playoff seed, while Sorin will take on St. Edward's in three weeks for their fmal game of the season. 
St. Edwards 7, Zahm 0 
Only one play set St. Edward's (2-1) apart from Zahm (0-3) in the Gentlemen's victory Sunday. 
A turnover-plagued second half quickly erased memories of a mild first half. St. Edward's blocked a punt near the end zone, and seemed poised to score, when Zahm forced a fum­ble to regain possession. 
With less than five minutes remaining in the game, Zahm began to move the ball against the Gentlemen. Suddenly a serum ensued in pursuit of a fumble, and after a wild exchange on the bottom of the pile, St. Edward's senior Mark Costanzo escaped with the foot­ball. Costanzo reached the end zone for the game's only touch­down. 
"We were definitely relieved with the win," St. Edward's sen­ior captain Andy Nester said. "We could have played a lot bet­ter on offense, but the defense did what we had to do to get the 
win." 
The sour ending was all too familiar for the Zahmbies, having now lost all three games this sea­son, including two by a touch­down or less. 
"We played well, but once again, fumbles killed us," senior running back Jarred Carter said. "St. Edward's played hard, as did we, but once again, one key play cost us the win." 
Both teams will prepare for three weeks before they play again. Zahm will play Fisher fol­lowing break, and St. Edward's will take on Sorin before the playoffs begin. 
Dillon 23, Keough 0 
Dillon (3-1) entered its Sunday matchup against Keough (1-2) hoping to secure a playoff berth by any means possible. The Big Red dominated from the first play in nearly all phases of the game en route to securing that playoff berth with a dominating victory. 
"We lost to Stanford last week, which was a big blow because they are our rivals," Dillon soph­omore running back Eric Herbert said. "So we knew we had to go out and win this one. We've had great talent all year and in this one we just stuck to smash mouth football." 
Dillon started very early in building a dominating defensive effort, intercepting Keough sen­ior quarterback Matt Bruggeman on the first play from scrimmage. 

Morrissey defenders try to track down a Siegfried runner Sunday. The Manorites defeated the 
Ramblers 9-7 to retain their undefeated record. 
The Big Red then marched down the field and punched it in on a short run from Herbert to go up 
7-0. 

On the next drive, Keough's drive stalled after a series. Herbert broke through the line and blocked the punt to give Dillon a short field. 
Dillon quickly capitalized on the field position as freshman sensation running back Terry Howard walked into the end zone on a sweep left to put Dillon up 14-0. 
Keough looked ready to put its first points on the board when Bruggeman connected on a long pass play on a rollout. However, the play was called back on an ineligible man downfield penalty and the Kangaroos punted. 
Just before the half, Dillon jun­ior quarterback Jason Miller rolled to the left and heaved a deep ball across his body into the end zone. Senior wide receiver Chris Cugliari adjusted well to the underthrown ball for Dillon's third and final touchdown of the half and the game. 
Dillon's signature defensive effort, led by junior defensive end Andrew "Pudge" Watkins, smothered the Keough attack all game and helped Dillon cruise to the victory, adding only a safety en route to a 23-0 victory. Dillon will now face a long layoff before it begins its playoff run. 
"We hi:J.Ve a bye week after fall break," Herbert said. "It's on us individually to stay in shape and stay focused. When we come back we'll start preparing for our playoff opponent." 
Keough will also face a long layoff and will need significant amount of help to earn a playoff berth. The Kangaroos play O'Neill following break. 
Stanford 10, O'Neill 0 
By beating O'Neill Sunday, Stanford guaranteed that their unbeaten season (3-0) would live for a few more weeks, and the Angry Mob's winless season (0-3) would as well. 
Not only did the Griffins' defense hold O'Neill scoreless, but it outscored the Mob by forc­ing two safeties through a botched punt and a tackle for a loss. 
"The defense played its heart out today," senior defensive back Chris Gill said. "Coming away with two safeties was huge." 
Junior quarterback Tony Rizzo found junior receiver Kevin Ritt for a touchdown as well to top the scoreboard off. 
Despite what the scoreboard read, O'Neill senior captain Chris Johnson said he was pleased with his team's performance. 
"I thought we played the best we possibly could," he said. "Our defense really stepped up. We had one interception and a cou­ple of sacks, which shows we have improved immensely on defense." 
As Johnson said the Mob did improve, Gill said the Griffins have room for improvement, even as they get closer to realiz­ing their Stadium dreams. 
"We need to get the running game going a little more," he said. "It's going to be tough to score points if we become one­dimensional." 
O'Neill's playoff hopes are now dead, so its next game is an opportunity to play with reckless abandon, as there is nothing at stake other than hall pride in their final game, against Keough. 
"We have nothing to lose," Johnson said. "We are going to come out firing and try to get a win." 
Stanford will face Keenan after break in its annual clash against its rival. A win would mean a first-round bye in the playoffs. 
Note: 
+ Alumni forfeited its game to Knott Sunday due to the inability to field a competitive team. This makes the Dawgs 0-3-1 for the season and improves the Juggerknotts' record to 1-1-1. This does not impact either team's playoff outlook. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu, Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu, Chris Allen at callenlO@nd.edu and Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

Stuuttsfrom enr dlsci~nelftl· ~<ijpate, ftn mm in~rnmtioo ¥1ai3: •:®Uott.l1do&4lt!atudel¥l$1ff,pS£FJA 
$:ites ordered at tbu thtiverme dt Mntrear lfm~h rr~irntt!, ll=hmrsttr of llril$sb ~u,aumltla 'it~~qli~h fl;PJ\~~*''· UCol,gtt d~t Mtuto ?Sfrnish lt411Wtdi1 and Unlvet:stdi!d :de las ..~merltas i'ueiila i:i;tnr~b ttllf•~mlf), 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 13, 2009 
Cowart 
continued from page 24 

sophomore short snapper Braxston Cave also competes for playing time on the offen­sive line -essentially won his job the day he signed to play for the Irish. But both Tausch and Turk had to compete with veteran returning starters to earn the No. 1 spot on the depth chart. 
Tausch beat out junior Brandon Walker for the job during summer camp, at which time Irish coach Charlie Weis had said that the race wasn't close. The freshman has been nearly flawless, as he has made 10 straight field goals -including all five he tried during Notre Dame's 37­30 overtime victory over Washington Oct. 3 -and 15­of-16 extra-point attempts to lead the Irish in scoring with 45 points. 
"I was a little bit nervous my first kick, but by the second time I went out there I felt like nothing was really going to change," Tausch said. "I feel like I'm the type of kid that needs the first kick to figure out what's going on. Then after that, everything is the same, just whether the dis­tance is longer or shorter." 
Turk made his first start in Notre Dame's last game against Washington and deliv­ered punts of 40 and 39 yards, respectively. Weis opted to give Turk a shot after staging a weekly open competition for the job, which senior Eric Maust had previously held. 
"I didn't really concern myself with the competition," Turk said. "I just went out to practice to try to get better every day, and whatever hap­pened, just let it happen." 
As for Cowart -well, it's almost automatic. 
"The best thing with Cowart is you don't notice him, that's a good thing," Weis said. "When you don't notice the long snapper, that's a good thing. It's when you notice him that there's a problem." 
From an individual stand­point, though, there was a time when getting noticed was a top priority for Cowart. As a high school player at the Fort Lauderdale, Fla., powerhouse St. Thomas Aquinas -which also produced Turk and senior offensive linemen Sam Young and Dan Wenger -Cowart took up snapping and was quickly promoted to the varsi­ty squad as a freshman. 
"I worked real hard and went to a bunch of camps, combines and competitions, placed pretty well and got my name out there," Cowart said. "Luckily I went to a great high school. and that also helped out a lot." 
When it comes to performing on Saturdays, repetition is the key concept for Cowart, who said there hasn't been much of an adjustment from high school to college. He's fired back enough perfect snaps over the last four-plus football seasons to know what works. 
"I don't have a mantra or anything like that, but when I'm on the sideline I'll just visualize previous games, pre­vious snaps," Cowart said. ''I've noticed on the sidelines when I'm warming up that I'm having a tough time getting a tight spiral. But when I get on the field in that position, I haven't messed up, so it works for me." 
Waldru01 
continued from page 24 
team." 
But the comparisons with last year's team end there. This season, Notre Dame has faced much stiffer competi­tion from a conference slate that it steamrolled just a sea­son ago. 
After a 4-0 blowout of DePaul in the Big East open­er, the schedule has been anything but easy for the heavily favored Irish. In the following match at Cincinnati, the Irish dominated play, but needed two goals from sopho­more defender Jessica Schuveiller to overcome a one-goal deficit in the final minutes to pull out a victory. 
Two days later, the Irish managed just one goal at home against an overmatched Louisville squad that boasts just a single viclory in eonfer­ence play. 
"If you were to ask me last summer, I would have been surprised [by the number of close matches]," Waldrum said. "But considering the fact that we lost some good players to injury early in the season, these close results don't surprise me that much now." 
Against West Virginia, Notre Dame once again had to over­come a second-half deficit, this time taking the Mountaineers into overtime before escaping with a 3-2 victory. The Irish's only blem­ish on their Big East record came at Pittsburgh where they battled to a scoreless draw. 
While this doesn't seem like the Irish performances of the past, Waldrum sees plenty of benefit in the experience that his young team is gaining from these tight matches. 

"I really think that a lot of good can come from playing in close games," he said. "In 2004, when we won the national championship, that team had something like 12 games where we had to score late to win the game. That year it really prepared us well for the playoffs and I think it will do the same for our team this year." 
With their thrilling overtime victory over the Mountaineers, the Irish took over sole possession of the NCAA's Division I record for the longest conference unbeaten streak at 56 consec­utive matches (54-0-2), a streak that spans five sea­sons. 
"As weird as it is to say it, rthe streak] is really not all that important to us," Waldrum said. "Obviously both the current and former players are really proud of it, but it's not something we talk about often. It's not high on our priority list. We are more focused on winning the Big East championship and mak­ing a deep run in the NCAA tournament." 
Although the streak has now made its way to 59 con­secutive matches after wins over Rutgers and Seton Hall, Waldrum still seeks some improvements offensively from his team that he believes could put them over the top. 
"I would like to be more efficient in our goal scoring," he said. "We are starting to play much better defense col­lectively as a team and we are starting to create more scoring opportunities. But in order to be at our best, we need to start finishing them off. If we do that I think we can really make a run in the NCAA tournament.." 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker 1 @nd.edu 


JIMMY TO GO® CATERING 
BOX LUNCHES. PLATTERS. PARTIES! 
DELIVERY ORDERS will include adelivery charge of 25c per item (•HOc). 
FREEBIES ISU8S & CLUBS ONLY! 
Onion, lettuce, alfalfa sprouts. tomato. mayo. sliced cucumber, Dijon mustard. oil &vinegar, and oregano. 
WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK 
1290 E. IRELAND  138 S. MICHIGAN  54570 N.IRONWOOD DR.  5343 N. MAIN ST.  
574.291.1900  574.246.1020  574.277.8500  574.968.4600  
SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  

''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOHN'S!''® © 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
Tuesday, October 13. 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Marion Jones. 34; Kill< Cameron. 39; Martie Maguire. 40; Hugh Jackrnan.41 
Happy Birthday: Rely on your intuition and instincts to direct you down the right path this year. Show your integrity.loyalty and ability and you ·will end up getting most of what you want. TI1e adjustments you make at home will make your life more interesting and af­fordable. Your numbers are 3. 10,17. 23, 26, 33.48 
ARIES (Morcb 21-April19): You won't be willing to stop for anything or anyone tmtil you reach your goal or destination. Your ideas are right on the money. Don't stop because someone is enticing you to play a different game.***** 
TAURUS (April 20-l'vlay 20): Don't waste your time on the impossible or trying to win someoue's favor who isn't worth your tin1e and effort. Study your situation before you let frustration cause you to make an error. Being stubbom will lead to nowhere. ** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): There is nothing to stop you from going the distance if you follow your herut. Allow yourself the freedom to do what you do best and to let what comes uan1rally unfold. If you are going to make some changes. don't go halfway. **** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may be surprised when you check your fmancial sinm­tion to. discover that yon have less cash on hand. Find ways to cut comers and you will feel more confident about your funrre. *** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Not everyone will get what yon are trying to do.lmpulsive action or changing your mind too often \Viii confuse the people arotmd you. Show compassion toward those who depend on you or you may give the >wrong impression. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Tread carefully when making changes; not everyone will agree with what you are trying to do. Go forwanl with your plrulS in onier to satisfy ymrr own needs. It may be time to move on from some of the people holding you back. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 2..l-Oct. 22): Don't hesitate when what's required of ymt is to go right to the source and keep moving. Once everyone in your circle realizes you will not back down. you will get the snppmt you need. Stability will follow.**** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): ff you show jealousy or possessiveness, it will work against you. Focus on what you can do to create a better life or pursue a creative talent that can nm1 into a moueymaker and your success. ** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be very selective about who you let into yom inner circle. You have some great ideas and plans and only a few very creative contributors should be allowed to take prut. You cruillml something that has potential into something 
great.***** 

CAPRICOR!"' (Dec. 22-Jan.19): You can strut doing the calculations required to put a new idea into motion. An invesunent now will help to pay for some important, high-cost items when d1e time comes.A secret fmancial deal can buy you the freedom you desire. 
*** 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): The right choices will be important if you waul to be able to pursue your goals. Tum your stress iillo passion by working on something creative that requires intuition, imagination and innovation. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Any concerns you have about your future must be dealt with before matters escalate. If it's t:in1e to move on, do so now. Keep your eyes open for any opportunity that will give you more creative freedom and a higher income. *** 
Birthday Baby: You have the talent and drive to smprise others with your ability to boonce back and take over. You ru·e intelligent. compassionate ru1d have ru1 innate nuder standing of the world armmd yon. 
CROSSWORD 
Across 

Tight spots 6 "Pronto!" 10 Part of a Latin 
101 conjugation 14 Family tree 
member 15 "Yikes!" 16 Ankle-length, 
maybe 17 Borrower's limit 19 Up-front 20 Hard to rattle 21 Joe Six-Pack's 
protrusion 23 Lake former, perhaps 25 Kemo _ (the Lone Ranger) 26 Little devil's 
opposite 30"_ a Rock" 33 Chips go-with 36 Harmless-to­
humans slitherer 39 It may be floppy or pointy 40 Hit a serve past 
41 -Grain (breakfast bar brand) 
42 You can't escape it 43 "That's all wrote" 44 Typical visitor to Cooperstown 
46 Vecchio (Florence landmark) 
48 Night sch. class 
49 Gut course 
50 Neeson of "Kinsey" 52 Self-importance 54 One cause of 
deforestation 
58 Star, in Paris 
63 Visitors to the manger 64 Conflict settled by the Treaty of Paris in 1856 66 Queens tennis stadium 67 1965 Beatles song or movie 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
--i--i--4-"--1 
....:....L-'-'-'-'-'-;.;.J...;=...J...;-'-J 


68 Use more 3-in­One on 69 "West Side Story" gang 70 Works of 9­Down 
71 Word that can follow the ends of 17-, 21-, 36-, 44-, 54-and 64­Across 
Down Popular ballpoints 2 Concerning, on a memo 3 Pirate or Padre, for short 4 Miami-_ County 5 Bernie Madoff job 6 Co. offering a Buddy List 7 Send via DHL, say 8 Cornerstone word 9 Keats and Horace, for two 1 0 Pseudopod­forming organism 11 Canadiens' rivals 12 Jump on the ice 13 Facetious nickname for a giant 18 Samovar beverage 
22 Military site 24 Apply incorrectly 26 Visibly shocked 
27 Cheesy snack 28 Go-ahead 29 J.F.K. posting: 
Abbr. 31 Starts the kitty 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Alan Arbesfeld 

32 Venus de Milo 44 Put up with 55 Item on a docket material 
45 Trapeze artist's 56 Ticked off 
34 Skewered Asian attire 57 Aswan's river 
fare 47 Straightens (up) 59 Fit to serve 
35 Concert venue 51 Like many a 60 Lottery player's 37 Genetic letters 
cry of elation 38 Sedona and Clint Eastwood 
character 61 Of the flock 
Sorento automaker 

53 "I didn't know 62 Writer that!" Stanley Gardner 
42 Atlantic state in two time zones: 54 Key with three 65 "M*A*S*H" cops, Abbr. sharps: Abbr. for short 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords . 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK
SCHAD & FREUDE 

DOUGLAS FARMER 

:lJP-. r=lP-.1§1-t ~() S&*lt@!'Y., 
13U§IP-.~§§ 

JUMBLE 
Jl!YMIIDTIJ! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words . 
EKQUA 
rJ 1 
©2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
l;fNftJ tCENNAD I
J I I (] 
NEW Jumble iPhone App go to: hllpiAr.imljumbleapp
tLAUTAC ±
J I [ J I 
Ans: 

"r I I I I]" OF rI I I J 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  EVENT  MADAM  (Answers tomorrow) TOWARD NOVICE  
Answer:  What the mobsters experienced when they  
went surfing  -A CRIME "WAVE"  

JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

WHE:N THE: NOISY PE:T DUCK WOKE: UP THE: FARMBOY, IT WAS THE:--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
I 
}I) 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, October 13, 2009 
page 24 
..... 
fOOTBALL 
In With the New 
Freshman specialists earn starting spots 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Ediror 
Notre Dame's veteran depth at key positions has kept sev­eral talented members of the freshman class off the field. That hasn't been the case, however, for kicker Nick Tausch, punter Ben Turk and long snapper Jordan Cowart, who have all earned the start­ing gigs at their respective positions. 
"I was hoping that was how it would be from the begin­ning," Cowart said of all three starting as freshmen. "We've got the little trife.cta going, as I like to call it." 
Cowart, the only snapping specialist on scholarship ­
see COWART/page 22 


WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Ducks win over Lewis with safety 
By LEX DENNIS, COLIN 
KING, ANDREW OWENS, 
KELLY ZENERE, BARRICK 
BOLLMAN and DOUGLAS 
FARMER 
Sports Writers 
Defense provided the win­ning points as Howard (3-0) had a 9-7 victory over Lewis (1-3) Sunday. 
In the waning minutes of the second half, pressure from Howard's defensive line forced a fumble in the end zone, resulting in a safety for the winning margin. 
The Lewis offense came out strong as freshman Connaught Blood moved the ball effectively as a running 
see BLOOD/page 20 

MEN'S INTERHALL 
Undefeated Morrissey holds off Siegfried's upset attempt 
hard-fought defensive struggle running room for numerous first passing gains including a 15-Stein and Sean Baur, sophomore By KEVIN BALDWIN, Sunday. downs. yard toss through several Tom Nield, Yuhas, who forced aMEGAN FINNERAN, CHRIS "It was just a team effort The Manor responded quickly defenders to Kiley that brought fumble and senior SpencerALLEN and MATTHEW today," Morrissey senior captain with a touchdown of its own on the Manor just a few yards shy of White, who recovered it.
ROBISON Phil Yuhas said. "We bend but its next possession when senior the end zone. The drive culmi­"This is how our defense has 
Sports Writers 
don't break." quarterback Danny Deveny nated in a field goal by junior Pat played all year," senior defensive Siegfried dominated early in threw a bullet pass to senior Mulhern that cleared not only lineman John Saulitis said. 
Only 20 yards stood between the game, scoring a touchdown wide receiver Brendan "BK" the uprights but also the moving "That's what we're built on, we Siegfried (1-0-2) and a season­on its opening drive with a pass Kiley. On the extra point attempt, traffic on Douglas Road. practice hard every week." changing upset over undefeated from junior quarterback Matt the Ramblers managed to block Morrissey's defense played a The Manor hopes to continue Morrissey (3-0), but a fourth Meinert to sophomore Frank the kick. crucial role in preventing threat­its win streak with their game down field goal attempt fell just Conway. The Ramblers' offensive Undaunted, Morrissey's offense ening runs by Meinert and Cure against Knott after break. short of the posts and the Manor line gave Meinert and senior kept its momentum going into from producing any points. Key escaped with the 9-7 win after a running back Dex Cure ample the second half with some big players included freshmen Taylor see MANOR/page 21 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Big East challenges Irish 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 
While this year's Irish team hasn't quite enjoyed the suc­cess they had last season, they do share one impressive simi­larity with last year's near­perfect squad: an unbeaten Big East conference record. 
Notre Dame (10-3-1, 6-0-1 Big East) sits comfortably atop the conference standings with 19 points, five more than sec­ond-place Rutgers, with just four games left to play. 
''I'm really pleased with where we are in the confer­ence, especially having played such a difficult [non-confer­ence] schedule early on, los­ing to Carolina and losing two games out in California," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "We are making a lot of progress which is what you hope for with such a young 
see WALDRUM/page 22 


MEN'S GOLF 
Sandman,Scodrolead Irish through first day 
By ERIC PRISTER Sports Writer 
In a field that includes four teams ranked in the top 25, the Irish sit in 11th place after two rounds of The Prestige at PGA West in La Quinta, Calif. The team has been led so far by solid performances from fifth­year senior Josh Sandman and sophomore Max Scodro. 
"We just haven't played well," Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. ''I'm still trying to wrack my brain to figure out why. We def­initely extended a lot of energy physically and mentally winning [The Fighting Irish Gridiron Gulf Classic]. and I just think we're tired. We haven't been hitting the ball well, and that's our strength, so obviously the scores are going to add up." 
Scodro started the tourna­ment out well on Sunday, shoot­ing an even-par 72 in the first round which put him in a tie for 16th place going into Monday. He struggled in the second round, shooting a plus-5 77, which included an eagle and a birdie, but also two double­bogeys and four bogeys. 
"(Scodro) had a chance to go four-under (Sunday), but today he just started so poorly," Kubinski said. "I think he'll come back tomorrow and elimi­nate some of those silly little mistakes that really eost him." 
Sandman has been more con­sistent in his two rounds, post­ing a 75 and a 74, putting him in a tie for 32nd place with Scodro at 5-over for the tourna­ment. Sandman recorded three birdies on the back nine in his second round, including two in the last three holes, to keep the Irish within range of Central 
see SANDMAN/page 20 




