the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ProposedTransporoutetorunthismonth 
Student gov’t., Student Affairs to finance new service with safety in mind; stops include local bars 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
A new Transpo route that will drop students near com­mon student bars and neigh­borhoods on weekend nights will tentatively start running this November, student body president Grant Schmidt said. 
The new Transpo service, one of the main initiatives of the Schmidt-Weber adminis­tration so far this year, will run every 18 minutes from Library Circle to South Street Station from about 9 p.m. to 
3:30 a.m. Friday and Saturday nights, Schmidt said. 
“This is a new route, tai­lored to students, that is fast and safe,” Schmidt said. “Students will go off campus regardless so this is a safety issue and a convenience issue.” 
The route, with a round-trip of 36 minutes, has not been finalized, but the proposed route has a stop on Twyckenham Drive for stu­dents living in apartments east of campus, a stop on Edison Street near the Linebacker Lounge as well as stops near Corby’s Irish Pub and The Blarney Stone, com­monly referred to as Finnegan’s. 
Chip Lewis, chairman of the Board of Directors for Transpo, said Transpo was willing to work with the University to add a new route because of the safety factor. Transpo does not make a profit on the added service. 
“The benefit is doing good service for our community and helping students get home safely,” Lewis said. “Certainly getting home from bars at night, students are currently faced with bad situ­ations like overpaying cabs, walking or getting in a car with someone who has been drinking.” 
The new route, called 7a, will hit the streets with high numbers of student houses, such as Notre Dame Ave., Washington St. and St. Louis St., pass through downtown South Bend and return to Library Circle via Eddy Street 



Ex-employee settles with ND 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
The University of Notre Dame settled their legal dispute with former Catering… by Design employee Sara Gaspar, according to court documents filed Wednesday. 
Gaspar agreed to repay $16,859.79 to the University, about half of the $29,387 she originally mistakenly received as gratuity on April 17. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said Notre Dame worked 

see GASPAR/page 4 ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 


Contest to measure energy use in dorms 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 

As part of an ongoing effort to make the University of Notre Dame more eco-friend­ly, the Office of Sustainability and student government are hosting a Dorm Energy Competition, which kicked off yesterday and will continue through Nov. 30. 
The competition will meas­ure each residence hall’s energy use and determine which dorm saved the most based on figures from the past five years. Hot water consumption will not be included in the measure ­ments. 
Patrick McCormick, a stu­dent intern at the Office of Sustainability, said there are many ways students can pitch in to help their dorms save energy, including simple actions such as turning off lights when leaving the room and unplugging electronics that aren’t being used. 
McCormick also emphasized the community aspect of the competition, and said the con­test will be used to promote the idea of everyone at Notre Dame coming together to save energy. 
“Our hope this year is to try to use the Dorm Energy Competition as a way of emphasizing that acts of sus­tainability are acts of solidari­
see ENERGY/page 4 

Commons. 
Schmidt said one of the biggest advantages for stu­dents is that Transpo service is paid for by the University and therefore free for stu­dents. 
“Taxis are not always safe and don’t always provide the best deals,” he said. 
Schmidt and student body vice president Cynthia Weber initially began looking into extending Transpo route 7, which currently runs between University Park Mall, Library Circle and South Street Station, but after talks with the University’s Office of Business Operations, they realized it would be more fea­sible to create a new route. 

Schmidt said Business Operations is negotiating a 
see TRANSPO/page 4 


Grad. students raise money with mustaches 
we grow mustaches for chari-
By AMANDA GRAY 
ty,” Barnes said. 
News Writer 

Those involved realize the idea doesn’t sound convention-
Notre Dame graduate stu-al. dents will benefit a local chari-“It may sound like a silly ty, Big Brothers Big Sisters of idea, but people will pay to see St. Joseph County, while grow-guys grow mustaches,” he said. ing mustaches in November, The event will begin on Nov. co-coordinator and Notre 3 with every participating male Dame graduate student in showing up to a meeting clean Biological Sciences Matt shaven and with an initial Barnes said. donation, Patrick said. Once a 
“Mustaches for Kids is basi-week for the next four weeks, cally a fundraiser similar to a the participants will meet at a walk-a-thon or fun run, but instead of walking or running see KIDS/page 4 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SGA creates sponsorship guidelines page 3  Interview with Cisco Adler page 10  Women’s basketball begins season page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 3, 2009 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Miseducation ofanIndiekid 
I am a music snob. I listen to British soul artists, spend hours in music stores searching dusty stacks of scratched vinyl, watch remastered DVDs of decades old concerts, spend more on head­phones than most Nick Anderson people do on their iPods, endlessly Scene Writer praise the music of Tom Waits, rewatch Prince’s “Purple Rain,” pub­licly scoff at Pitchfork but still read the reviews, and know who won the Mercury Music Prize last year. 
I’m proud of all this. 

In my defense, this all started back in the eighth grade. As a chubby 14 year old with glasses, acne, the coor­dination of a lesser evolved species, Napster, and a broadband Internet connection, I needed something to provide a wonderful feeling of supe­riority. I did some things right (acquire the entire Beatles cata­logue), some wrong (piracy) and some to this day that I’m ashamed to admit (acquire the entire Creed cata­logue, including several live songs). 
By the time I made it to high school, I was a full blown music elit­ist. I couldn’t even stomach a con­versation with you unless you knew the finer points of British rap, understood the progression of punk starting in ‘77 or had a French boot­leg of some lost Whiskeytown tracks. 
This past summer, two events shat­tered my longstanding relationship with music. First, I got my own car. Second, I purchased Kanye West’s “808s and Heartbreak.” 
Test driving cars with my father, I could have cared less about the make, model or style. It needed a couple of seats, a working stereo, and the ability to make the journey between Minnesota and Notre Dame. In the end, I ended up with a Kia Spectra5. It meets my minimal crite­ria. 
One bright July morning, as a friend’s Jetta rumbled away from my four cylinder steel box, I realized most people feel the same way about music as I do about cars — they really don’t care. While this doesn’t make sense to me, it did bring a pang of regret for the 70s pop mix-tapes I’d subjected them to over the years. 
Mere weeks later, a good friend submitted Kanye West for my consid­eration. I scoffed, hemmed and hawed, ranted about the state of popular music right up until I lis­tened to the album. For those of you who missed it, “808s and Heartbreak” was, without a doubt, the best album of 2008. 
This album ushered a return to the wasteland that is Top 40 radio fol­lowing a self imposed seven year hiatus. I didn’t miss much in that time, but the singles that I missed were excellent. 
It’s a rather long way to do it, but this is my apology for and recogni­tion of the snobbery. While I can guarantee I won’t abandon my ways, if you ever get sick of me raving about Brazil’s newest export, just ask what car I drive. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT IS YOUR FAVORITE MIC AEL JACKSON SONG? 





“‘Thriller.’” “‘Billy Jean,’ I “‘Thriller’, I “‘Beat it.’” really like the love the video.” rythm and beat of the song.” 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 

Woman loses diamond ring, hopes trick-or-treaters find it 
TERRACE PARK, Ohio — A Halloween trick-or­treater in Ohio may have gotten a bigger treat than expected — a diamond ring. A woman in suburban Cincinnati said she thinks she may have lost her wed­ding ring when she was tossing candy into trick or treaters’ bags on Halloween. 
Elizabeth Olson, of Terrace Park, said she had the ring enlarged and thinks it may have slipped off her finger when she was throwing candy into the bags, buckets and pil­lowcases. 
Olson is asking people to keep an eye out for the ring and to return it to her if they find it 
Restaurant sets record for largest meatball Sunday 
CONCORD, N.H. — The bouncing mega-meatball record has landed in the East Coast. Matthew Mitnitsky, owner of Nonni’s Italian Eatery in Concord, said Sunday that a 222.5­pound meatball was authen­ticated as the world’s largest after being weighed by state weights and measures offi­cials. 
A Guinness Book of World Records official confirmed the big meatball as a record breaker and presented Mitnitsky with a plaque. 
The old record of 198.6 pounds was set just over a month ago after Los Angeles-based talk show host Jimmy Kimmel vowed to beat a record set in Mexico. That record — 109 
pounds  —  was  set  in  
August.  
Mitnitsky  said  he  got  

involved “to bring the meat­ball back to the East Coast because that’s where it orig­inated.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday 
IN BRIEF 

“Darkness and Light: Death and Beauty in Photography” will be held at 10 a.m. today. The exhibit will be shown in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries in the Snite Museum of Art. 
An exhibit titled “Sculptural Vessels” will open at 10 a.m. The display will be shown in the Milly and Fritz Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art today. 
“Dia de los Muertos (Day of the Dead) Ofrenda Installation” will be held at 10 
a.m. today in the Scholz Family Works on Paper Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art. 
The Monthly Luncheon Series “TellingHerStory: Highlighting Women as Role Models in the Life of Mind, Body, and Soul” will be held at noon in the Coleman-Morse Study Lounge today. Please bring a sack lunch. 
Sister Miriam Cooney will present the first part of a three-part series “Women and Math.” Th lecture will be held in 145 Spes Unica at Saint Mary’s College today and will begin at 7 p.m. 
The Humanistic Studies department of Saint Mary’s College will be hosting the 2009 Christian Culture Lecture today. The speaker will be Dr. William Chester Jordan, Professor of History, and Chair of the History Department at Princeton. The lecture begins at 
7:30 p.m. and will be held in the O’Laughlin Auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Friday Gameday 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 


HIGH 


CORRECTIONS 

44 HIGH 38 HIGH 44 HIGH 43 HIGH 50 HIGH 54 
The Observer regards itself as a professional 
publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so 
we can correct our error. 

Atlanta 69 / 42 Boston 55 / 34 Chicago 45 / 38 Denver 60 / 40 Houston 78 / 55 Los Angeles 80 / 54 Minneapolis 47 / 38 
New York 59 /36 Philadelphia 60 / 36 Phoenix 93 / 61 Seattle 57 / 42 St. Louis 57 /40 Tampa 80 / 63 Washington 63 / 38 
Tuesday, November 3, 2009 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Grant funds research on civil wars 
Project to highlight sustainable ‘quality peace,’ human rights 
Special to The Observer 
A National Science Foundation grant to researchers Erik Melander, John Darby and Peter Wallensteen of the University of Notre Dame’s Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies will support research on how third parties can help end civil wars and promote human rights and social justice. A central aspect of the study is the development of a database with details of all third-party peacemaking in armed con­flicts that occurred between 1989 and 2008. 
Civil wars are by far the most widespread form of armed conflict, according to Melander, a senior researcher at the Kroc Institute. Third-party “outsiders” — including prominent individuals, the United Nations or religious organizations — often are involved in seeking to end such conflicts. Using a combination of in-depth case studies and statistical analyses, the Kroc researchers will study ways to increase the success rate of third parties in mediating and ending civil wars. 
“An important part of this project is concern for ‘quality peace,’” Melander said. “We don’t define peace as merely the absence of active fighting. The conditions for justice and human rights also need to be in place for the peace to be sustainable.” 

This project is an outgrowth of the Kroc Institute’s partner­ship with Uppsala University in Sweden. In addition to his position at Notre Dame, Melander is deputy director of the Uppsala University Conflict Data Program. Wallensteen, the Richard G. Starmann Sr. Research Professor of Peace Studies at the Kroc Institute, is the Dag Hammarskjöld Professor in Uppsala’s Department of Peace and Conflict Research. Darby is professor of comparative eth­nic studies at the Kroc Institute. 
Paleontologist to speak today 
Special to The Observer 
British paleontologist Simon Conway Morris will deliver a lecture titled “Darwin’s Compass: How Evolution Discovers the Song of Creation” at 8 p.m. today in the auditori­um of the University of Notre Dame’s Jordan Hall of Science. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
Conway Morris’ talk is the closing event of an international conference titled “Darwin in the 21st Century: Nature, Humanity and God” which was sponsored by the University’s Reilly Center for Science, Technology and Values, and the Pontifical Council for Culture’s Science, Theology, and the Ontological Quest (STOQ) Project in Rome. 
Known as the foremost authority on the Cambrian Explosion, Conway Morris is a professor of evolutionary paleo­biology in the Department of Earth Sciences at the University of Cambridge. He is renowned for his many debates with the late Stephen Jay Gould on the topic of the predictability of evo­lutionary history. 

Conway Morris was elected a fellow of the Royal Society at age 39 and is the author of a number of books on evolution, including “The Crucible of Creation: The Burgess Shale and the Rise of Animals” and “Life’s Solution: Inevitable Humans in a Lonely Universe.” His research interests include the study of Burgess Shale-type faunas, the first appearance of skeletons and the Cambrian “explosion.” 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
ITresolutionpasses atMonday’smeeting 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 

The Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) passed a resolution and new guidelines for sponsorships at their meeting Monday night. 
The new resolution passed requires the Saint Mary’s Information Technology department to give the same support to SGA computers that they give to the other fac­ulty and student computers on campus, student body vice president Megan Griffin said. 
This resolution is the second passed by SGA this school year. 
The SGA board also voted on the new process through which clubs will apply for sponsorships. The new process has redistributed funds so that clubs will no longer have to pay for campus programming they want to put on out of their allotment funds. Campus wide program funding is now available through sponsorships, student body president Jenny Hoffman explained. 
Clubs can now at any time begin to apply for sponsor­ships and there is no limit on how many times any given club can apply for sponsorship money. 
Also, each club will be responsible for showing that their given sponsorship funds are being used correctly. Failure to do this could result in denied sponsorships in the future. 
The Board also reviewed the guidelines of the allotment process as they are preparing to enter the process of review­ing and approving campus clubs’ requests for their allot­ment funding. 
“We made the guidelines to make sure that they are fair and consistent,” Hoffman said. 
When the clubs are notified of their allotment amounts they will also be given an appeal letter for any griev­ances they might have with their given allotment. 
SGA is continuing their effort to be more visible around campus. Lists of events for the month of November can be found on the tables in the dining hall as well and on the new issue of Stall News that SGA will be placing in bathrooms around campus. 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntaylo01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 3, 2009 
Transpo 
continued from page 1 
deal with Transpo, and the cost of the route is about $25,000 annually, which exceeds student government’s budget for the project. 
“What we decided to do is take money from College Readership,” Schmidt said. “Everyday we get 200 issues of the Chicago Tribune, 200 New York Times and 200 USA Todays, but we cut the Chicago Tribune subscription down to 90.” 
This reallocation generated $14,000 for student govern­ment to put towards the proj­ect. Schmidt then appealed to the Office of Student Affairs to pay the remaining $11,000. 
“We emphasized that this was a safety issue,” Schmidt said. “We don’t want students walking home from bars late at night.” 
Fr. Mark Poorman, vice pres­ident for Student Affairs, said the Office agreed to put up the $11,000 on a trial basis. 
“Our continued funding is contingent upon evaluation of the amount of ridership during this academic year, as well as continued financial support by student government,” Poorman said. “We believe this is a cre­ative and responsible effort on the part of student government to address the needs of our students who socialize off cam­pus and want to return to the campus safely.” 

Schmidt said he has heard some criticism of the new Transpo route, namely that the service would encourage stu­dents to drink off campus and gather in residential neighbor­hoods. 
But he said the bus stops in the neighborhoods will be at well lit street corners rather than in the middle of a resi­dential street. 
Poorman said he heard this concern was raised in the community at a Community Campus Advisory Coalition (CCAC) meeting. 
“It is my understanding that in a recent CCAC meeting a concern was raised about pos­sible gatherings of riders wait­ing for the bus in front of resi­dential houses,” Poorman said. “Transpo and student government have worked together to locate bus stops at places which would minimize or eliminate opportunities for neighborhood disruptions.” 
Lewis said he does not expect problems resulting from students using the buses after spending the night out at a bar. 
“This is a great way to serve 

Gaspar 
continued from page 1 

closely with Gaspar to devise a settlement that would be rea­sonable for both sides. 
“We worked very closely with Ms. Gaspar to resolve that matter and we think that the terms that both sides have agreed to are fair, and we’ll just leave it at that,” he said. 
According to an Oct. 31 arti­cle in The South Bend Tribune, Gaspar will repay the debt in incremental payments of $50 each month, “meaning that the entire debt likely would be repaid in about 28 years.” 
The Tribune also said Gaspar was forced to pledge the car she bought with the mistaken gratuity — a 2002 Volkswagen Jetta — as collat­eral to secure the agreement. 
Although the documents were filed last Wednesday, Brown said media outlets did not become aware of the set­tlement until a court date on Friday. 
“There was a court date on Friday so that’s when the Tribune and other media became aware of the settle­ment,” Brown said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

m u s t a c h e s , ” Patrick said. “It’s a kind of  “The biggest thing that has changed is  www.mustaches­f o r k i d s . o r g , searching the  
beauty pageant,” Barnes said. “We’ll award prizes at the end  our expectations. We’re hoping for more.”  Internet.” Last year, the fundraiser was successful, much  
of the ‘growing  to the surprise of  
season’ for the best and worst mustaches, as  Matt Barnes graduate student  the organizers, Barnes said. The 12 partici­ 
well  as  to  the  pants  raised  

participant who raises the most $1,113.21, Patrick said. money.” “The biggest thing that has 
The prizes are three $25 changed is our expectations,” Legends gift cards donated by Barnes said. “We’re hoping for the Biology Graduate Student more. Our goal this year is Organization, Barnes said. $2,000.” 
The fundraiser began last The group intentionally picked year as an idea suggested to this time of year to have the Barnes by Konrad Kulacki, a fundraiser, Barnes said. Biological Sciences graduate “With people going home for student who graduated last Thanksgiving, it’s a great oppor­year. tunity to raise money for the 
“It’s something I wish I could fundraiser.” take credit for. Konrad came to me with it. The idea sort of grew Contact Amanda Gray at on us at the time, pardon the agray3@nd.edu 
the community by getting stu­dents home safely from down­town late at night,” Lewis said. “We expect that students will appreciate the opportunity to ride the buses safely and will govern themselves according­ly.” 
Schmidt said he hopes to have the contracts and routes finalized soon and have route maps printed and distributed to students. 
“We’re really excited about this,” Schmidt said. “It’s huge that student government, Student Affairs and Transpo are collaborating on something this big.” 
Contact Madeline Buckley at 
mbuckley@nd.edu 
Energy 
continued from page 1 
ty,” McCormick said. “It’s is an invitation to the entire Notre Dame community to renew our campus and work towards the common good of all.” 
Going along with this idea, the theme for this year’s con­test is “Save Energy, Save Lives.” McCormick said the theme is meant to stress the interdependence involved in saving energy, since overcon­sumption can lead to climate change that effects people in other countries, not just in the United States. 
“We now know that our con-campus and their mission of sustainability ties in really well with our mission of edu­cating people on campus about the need for water,” Roseberry said. “We’re saving money here on campus but we’re also using that money to save lives because we’re bringing water to parts of Africa through the wells that we drill.” 

Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 

“A lot of people don’t have access to clean drinking water,” Roseberry said. “Actually, one in six people don’t have access to clean drinking water around the world, so we think this is a pretty big issue that people should be aware of.” 
During last year’s dorm energy contest, the winning dorm saved roughly four thou­sand dollars, and Roseberry said a donation of that size would be a big help for the initiative, which donates all of the money it earns to the The Water Project — a nonprofit organization that digs wells in Africa to provide water for people in need. 
Roseberry also said the dorm energy contest connects well to the Global Water Initiative because of the con­test’s focus on using the idea of sustainability to save lives. 
“We think the Office of Sustainability has been a real­ly great resource and office on sumption habits affect peo­ples’ lives around the world not just tomorrow, but today,” McCormick said. 
This year, the Office of Sustainability will donate the savings from the winning dorm to the Global Water Initiative, a year-long social justice effort developed by student body president and vice president Grant Schmidt and Cynthia Weber that will raise money to help provide people in developing countries with clean drinking water. 
Rachel Roseberry, a co ­director of the Initiative, said the initiative is so important because of the number of peo­ple in the world who are with­out clean drinking water. 

Kids 
continued from page 1 
“weekly shave-in” where pic­tures will be taken of the grow­ing mustaches to post on the fundraiser’s Web site and partic­ipants can turn in donations. 
“At the end of the month, we are having a ‘Stache Bash’ where all the participants will show off their 

pun,” Barnes said. “It’s a case where the graduates took a les­son from the undergraduates. Notre Dame has a spirit of com­munity service and the Biological Sciences graduate department wanted to make contributions.” 
The original idea came from an Internet search. 
“Everyone’s already doing a walk or run,” Barnes said. “We came across the main Web site 
for the group, 
World & Nation 
Tuesday, November 3, 2009 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Venezuelan troops slain nearColumbia 
CARACAS, Venezuela — Two soldiers in Venezuela’s National Guard have been shot to death near the border with Colombia. 
State television says unidentified assailants gunned down the soldiers at a roadside checkpoint in the western state of Tachira. It says Monday’s slayings were confirmed by the National Guard and police. 
Phone calls to the National Guard’s offices went unanswered. The guard is separate from Venezuela’s army. 
Colombian rebels, paramilitary groups and drug traffickers operate along the remote border. 
Animals added to endangered list 
GENEVA — A rare tree frog found only in cen­tral Panama could soon croak its last, as defor­estation and infection push the species toward extinction, an environmental group said Tuesday. 
The Rabb’s fringe-limbed tree frog, which only became known to science four years ago, is one of 1,895 amphibian species that could soon disappear in the wild, according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature. 
Switzerland-based IUCN surveyed a total of 47,677 animals and plants for this year’s “Red List” of endangered species and determined that 17,291 of them are threatened with extinction. 
More than one in five of all known mammals, over a quarter of reptiles and 70 percent of plants are under threat, according to the survey, which featured over 2,800 new species com­pared with 2008. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Jerry Brown spokesman resigns 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. — The communica­tions director for California Attorney General Jerry Brown resigned Monday after it was revealed he had secretly recorded telephone conversations with reporters. 
Scott Gerber, 33, wrote in his resignation letter that he let down the attorney general’s office and himself when he recorded phone interviews with reporters without seeking their permission. 
“My purpose wasn’t to play gotcha but sim­ply to have an accurate record of official, on­the-record statements on matters of public concern,” Gerber wrote. “It is clear now I made serious errors in judgment.” 
Maine to vote on gay marriage 
PORTLAND, Maine — Bolstered by out-of-state money and volunteers, both sides jockeyed Monday to boost turnout for a Maine referendum that could give gay-rights activists in the U.S. their first victory at the ballot box on the deeply divisive issue of same-sex marriage. 
The state’s voters will decide Tuesday whether to repeal a law that would allow gay marriage. The law was passed by the Legislature and signed by Democratic Gov. John Baldacci last May but has never taken effect. 
The contest is considered too close to call, and both campaigns worked vigorously — with ral­lies, phone calls, e-mails and ads — to be sure their supporters cast votes in the off-year election. 
If voters uphold the law, it will be the first time the electorate in any state has endorsed marital rights for same-sex couples, energizing activists nationwide and deflating a long-standing conser­vative argument that gay marriage lacks popular support. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Coil thief sentenced to jail 
CROWN POINT, Ind. — A prosecutor says a Gary man has been sentenced to seven years in prison for stealing metal heating coils from an elementary school. 
Lake County Prosecutor Bernard Carter said Monday that 56-year-old Michael Landon Deneal was sentenced after pleading guilty Oct. 5 to burglary. 
Carter says Deneal entered Gary’s Locke Elementary School by opening a closed win­dow May 23 and took the coils. He also tried to remove metal pipes. 
The prosecutor’s office didn’t know if Deneal had an attorney. 
SOUTH KOREA 
N. Korea issues nuclear threat 
Communist regime to expand arsenal if demands are not met and U.S. does not negotiate 
Associated Press 

SEOUL — North Korea issued a veiled threat to increase its nuclear arsenal if 
U.S. officials do not quickly agree to the one-on-one talks that the communist regime is demanding. 
The regime’s impatience came days after its No. 2 nuclear negotiator Ri Gun came away from meetings with Washington envoy Sung Kim without an agreement to hold bilateral talks. 
“If the U.S. is not ready to sit at a negotiating table with the (North), it will go its own way,” the North’s Foreign Ministry said Monday in a statement carried by Pyongyang’s official Korean Central News Agency. 
The statement did not elab­orate, but it was widely seen as a warning that the North will bolster its nuclear stock­pile — a brinksmanship tactic that the communist nation has often employed. 
In Washington, State Department spokesman Ian Kelly did not comment on the North’s statement, though he told reporters Monday that Kim “had very useful discus­sions” with Ri. 
He also said the U.S. is “still considering” North Korea’s invitation for Stephen Bosworth, the U.S. special envoy on North Korea, to visit China, Japan, Russia, the U.S. Washington was prepared to dence is built between them.” Pyongyang for talks. and the two Koreas. unleash all military capabili-Washington has maintained 
In September, the North North Korea and the U.S. ties — including its nuclear that it is willing to engage said it was “weaponizing” plu-fought on opposite sides of the might — to defend the long-North Korea in bilateral talks tonium, a key ingredient for Korean War of the 1950s and time ally. — if they lead to the resump­nuclear bombs, and that it do not have diplomatic rela-Pyongyang’s main Rodong tion of the stalled six-nation had succeeded in uranium tions. Both nations have tanks Sinmun newspaper blasted disarmament talks. enrichment, which would give and troops on guard at the Gates’ remarks, saying the North Korea’s Ri, who was the regime a second way to heavily fortified border divid-U.S. is trying to provoke a in the U.S. at the invitation of make atomic bombs. That ing the two Koreas. nuclear war on the Korean private organizations, said was also seen as a pressure Pyongyang claims it must peninsula. discussions with the U.S. tactic aimed at getting develop atomic weapons to The paper said in a com-envoy were “useful,” South Washington to agree to one-defend itself against nuclear mentary carried by KCNA that Korea’s Yonhap news agency on-one negotiations. threats from the U.S. The the North’s “nuclear deterrent reported. Still, both KCNA and 
North Korea has mixed regime has long sought direct will be bolstered” if the U.S. State Department officials in such threats with a series of negotiations with Washington refuses to switch its “policy of Washington said no decision conciliatory moves, such as saying it was because of U.S. aggression” toward the North. had been made on holding releasing two detained nuclear threats that the coun-On Monday, the North’s bilateral talks. American journalists, after try develop nuclear bombs. ministry also said that “mean-The North agreed in 2007 months of raising tensions Washington has denied it ingful progress” on a nuclear-to disable its nuclear facilities with nuclear and missile tests. has any intention of attacking free Korean peninsula is pos-— as a step toward its ulti-The North has also quit the the North. But Defense sible — “if the hostile relations mate dismantlement — in six-nation nuclear disarma-Secretary Robert Gates between the (North) and the exchange for energy aid and ment talks — which involve assured Seoul last month that U.S. are settled and confi-political concessions. 

SPAIN 

ClimatedelegatescallonU.S.forstrongpolicy 
Climate and Energy Connie Hedegaard United States. 
Associated Press 

said. Hedegaard noted that President Barack BARCELONA — As China’s actions to Delegates expressed frustration Obama, cited for raising hopes of a more curb gas emissions garnered praise at Monday that, after two years of talks on peaceful and climate friendly world, will 
U.N. climate talks, the United States came drafting a new pact, the U.S. has been receive the Nobel Peace Prize in nearby under renewed pressure to come up with unable to make firm commitments Norway on Dec. 10 — just after the deci­a plan to cut pollution blamed for hasten-because it is waiting for Congress to enact sive climate conference gets under way. ing global warming. legislation. “It’s very hard to imagine how the 
Delegates at the weeklong talks in World nations hope to finalize a new American president can receive the Nobel Barcelona pressed Monday for global warming pact in time for it to be Prize ... and at the same time has sent an Washington to make specific commit-adopted at a major U.N. conference next empty-handed delegation to ments on reducing carbon emissions and month in Copenhagen. The deal would Copenhagen,” said the Danish minister, contributing to a global climate fund to replace the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, but who will chair the Dec. 7-18 talks in help poor countries cope with damage require both industrial countries and Copenhagen. caused by climate change. developing countries to rein in emissions U.S. chief delegate Jonathan Pershing 
“We expect the United States to be able of carbon and other heat-raising green-said the U.S. intended to be part of a deal, to deliver on one of the major challenges house gases. Kyoto applied only to indus-but would ensure that any deal it signed of our century,” Denmark’s Minister for trialized nations, and was rejected by the would be accepted by Congress. 
page 6 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, November 3, 2009 
Navy ship built with World Trade Center steel 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The new Navy assault ship USS New York, built with World Trade Center steel, arrived in its namesake city Monday with a rifle volley salute near the site of the 2001 terror­ist attack. 
First responders, families of Sept. 11 victims and the public gathered Monday at a water­front viewing area, where they could see the crew standing at attention along the deck of the battleship gray vessel. 
The big ship paused. Then the shots were fired, with a cracking sound, in three bursts. 
The bow of the $1 billion ship, built in Louisiana, contains about 7.5 tons of steel from the fallen towers. 
“It’s a transformation ... from something really twisted and ugly,” said Rosaleen Tallon, who lost her firefighter brother, Sean, on 9/11. “I’m proud that our mil­itary is using that steel.” 
Tallon said her brother, who was a Marine, would have been proud. 
JoAnn Atlas, of Howells, N.Y., who lost her husband, fire Lt. Gregg Atlas, draped a flag-themed banner along the fence. The names of emergency work­ers who died were written on the red stripes. 
“We have to remember. It’s a way to honor them,” she said. 

Members of the public includ­ed Nancy DiGiacomo, who came from Huntington, N.Y., with her husband, 9-year-old son, mother and sister. 
“I just thought it was impor­tant to see” the transformation of the tragedy’s wreckage, said DiGiacomo. “From that, some­thing else can come of it.” 
Lt. Cmdr. Colette Murphy, a Navy spokeswoman, said she was excited for those serving on board to see the city’s “awe­inspiring” welcome. 
At a short ceremony later at Pier 88 near the site of the air­craft carrier, the USS Intrepid, Mayor Michael Bloomberg said the USS New York couldn’t have a more fitting name, represent­ing freedom, courage and resilience. 
“This ship is actually a physi­cal representation of that spirit with steel from the World Trade Center built into its bow so every friend that sets foot on it and every foe that dares challenge it will feel its power and know that it is literally made from the heart and soul of the city that has sacrificed so much,” the mayor said. 
Of the 361 sailors serving aboard the ship, around 13 per­cent are from New York state, which is higher than would nor­mally be the case, Murphy said. 
There were many requests from Navy personnel to serve on the ship, which will carry some 250 Marines. 
After the ground zero stop, the ship — escorted by about two dozen tugboats and other vessels 
— headed up the Hudson River toward the George Washington Bridge. After a U-turn there, it headed south to Pier 88. An offi­cial commissioning ceremony is scheduled for Saturday. 
The New York will remain in the city through Veterans Day and then head to Norfolk, Va., for about a year of crew training and exercises, Murphy said. 
The ship is 684 feet long and can carry as many as 800 Marines. Its flight deck that can handle helicopters and the MV­22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft. 
It was scheduled to be built before the terrorist attacks. About a year later, the announcement came that the ship would bear the name New York to honor the city, state, and those who died. 
It’s the latest in a line of Navy ships to bear that name. The others included a Spanish-American War-era cruiser, a bat­tleship that served in World Wars I and II and a nuclear sub­marine retired from the fleet in 1997. 
The ship is technically known as a San Antonio-class amphibi-ous dock vessel. Four vessels in that class are in service, the USS San Antonio, USS New Orleans, USS Mesa Verde and USS Green Bay. Four others are being built. Of those, two also have been named in connection with the Sept. 11 attacks. 

The USS Arlington was named to honor the attack on the Pentagon. The USS Somerset was named after the county in Pennsylvania where United Airlines flight 93 crashed. 
Stanley Works buys Black & Decker 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — The tool maker Stanley Works is buying rival Black & Decker Corp. for $4.5 billion, the two compa­nies said Monday, uniting two of their industry’s most iconic brands. 
The deal would create the largest U.S. toolmaker, Morningstar analyst Anthony Dayrit said. 
Stanley shareholders will own about 50.5 percent of the combined company, which will be called Stanley Black & Decker. Black & Decker shareholders will hold a 49.5 percent stake after the all -stock deal is complete. 

“This is a unique opportu­nity to bring together two great companies, each with first-rate brands, and provide enhanced opportunities to generate superior returns as we build on this new, larger platform,” Stanley Chairman John F. Lundgren, who will be president and CEO, said in a statement. 
Black & Decker sharehold­ers are to receive about 1.28 shares of Stanley Works for each share they own. The nine members of Stanley Works’ board will remain in place and be joined by six new members from Black & Decker’s current board. 
The deal will cut costs by $350 million within three years, likely in part through job cuts, and grow earnings per share by $1 within three years, the companies said. 

Executives said most of the savings will come from reducing corporate overhead and consolidating business units and manufacturing, dis­tribution and purchasing. 
Black & Decker, based in Towson, Md., has 22,100 workers. Stanley Works, based in New Britain, Conn., has 18,200 workers. The combined company’s corpo­rate headquarters will remain in Connecticut while its power tool division will remain headquartered in Maryland. 
Stanley Works ’ brands include its Stanley tools line and FatMax, Bostitch and Mac Tools, which are used on cars. In addition to its name­sake line, Black & Decker owns DeWalt, Porter-Cable, Kwikset and Baldwin brands, which are popular with both consumers and professionals. 
Dayrit said space remains for smaller tool makers that make up most of the industry. 
“There’s a lot of smaller players who make cheaper tools,” he said. “I think these guys will still be competitive because you have consumers that won’t be willing to pay up for the quality of a Black & Decker tool.” 
Each company’s board of directors has signed off on the deal, but it still must win regulatory and shareholder approval. It ’s expected to close in the first half of 2010. 
Black & Decker shares climbed $10.12, or 21.4 per­cent, $57.45 in after-hours trading after closing at $47.34 earlier in the day. 
Stanley Works shares rose $1.77, or 3.9 percent, to $46.96 in after-hours trad­ing. Shares of the company closed at $45.15 in regular trading. 
Hospital fined for wrong-site surgery 
Associated Press 

PROVIDENCE, R.I. — Rhode Island’s largest hospital was fined $150,000 and ordered to take the extraordinary step of installing video cameras in all its operating rooms after it had its fifth wrong-site surgery since 2007, state health offi­cials said Monday. 
Rhode Island Hospital, the teaching hospital for Brown University’s Alpert Medical School, was fined a second time for wrong-site surgeries, state health director David Gifford said. The hospital also was fined $50,000 after brain surgeons operated on the wrong part of the heads of three patients in 2007. Gifford said his department has issued only two fines — both to Rhode Island Hospital. 
Gifford sent a letter and order to hospital CEO Timothy Babineau on Monday. 
Babineau said in a statement that the hospital was commit­ted to reducing medical errors and had been taking steps to improve patient safety. 
But he also requested a meeting with state officials to discuss the sanctions, saying he was disappointed that the health department had not incorporated into its order separate recommendations from the Joint Commission Center for Transforming Healthcare. A hospital spokes­woman, asked to elaborate, said she did know what those recommendations were. 
The latest incident last month involved a patient who was to have surgery on two fingers. Instead, the surgeon performed both operations on the same finger. Under proto­cols adopted in the medical field, the surgery site should have been marked and the surgical team should have taken a timeout before cutting to ensure they were operating on the right patient, the right part of the patient’s body and doing the correct procedure. 
Gifford said the surgical team marked the wrist, rather than each finger, and the sur­geon did not mark the site himself. The team did not take a timeout before the second surgery. When they discovered the error, they checked with the patient’s family to see if they should perform the sur­gery on the correct finger. When they did the surgery on the correct finger, they also did not do a timeout, something Gifford called “amazing” given that they had just made such a serious error. 
The order includes a provi­sion that the hospital must assign a clinical employee who is not part of the surgical team to observe all surgeries at the hospital for at least one year. The person will monitor whether doctors are marking the site to be operated on and taking a time out before oper­ating to ensure they’re operat­ing on the proper body part. 
It requires the surgeon to be involved in marking the surgi­cal site. 
It also gives the hospital 45 days to install video and audio recording equipment in all its operating rooms. Every doctor will be taped performing sur­gery at least twice every year, although it will be left up to the hospital whether to tell surgeons when they are being monitored, he said. 
The purpose is to use it as a monitor and a training tool, he said. 
“Professional athletes do it all the time,” he said. 
The Observer 

Business
Tuesday, November 3, 2009 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Government unlikely to recover funds 
WASHINGTON — Government investigators say the U.S. government is unlikely to recover all of its investment in General Motors or Chrysler because the companies’ value would need to “grow substantially above what they have been in the past.” 
A Government Accountability Office report released Monday is the latest review to cast doubt on the likelihood that taxpayers will fully recoup more than $80 billion invested in the two U.S. automakers. 
Treasury officials told the GAO that they are considering initial public offerings or private sales to dispose of the government’s nearly 10 percent stake in Chrysler and 61 percent share of GM. But government officials won’t say when that could happen because they don’t want to undermine the potential return on the investment. 
Filmmakerssue over lost Iowa incentives 
DES MOINES, Iowa — Filmmakers have filed two lawsuits seeking to force the state to make good on promised incentives to make movies in Iowa. 
Iowa Eye Entertainment LLC, Daedalus Film AG, C-Films France SAS, Clean Out Productions Inc. and Clean Out Film Services Inc. have sued the Iowa Department of Economic Development. The agency administers Iowa’s film promotion program. 
The companies claim the state approved $6.5 million in tax credits for them to make a movie in Iowa. 
A telephone message left Monday for Stanley Thompson, the attorney representing the com­panies, was not immediately returned. The Iowa attorney general’s office declined comment. 
The film incentive program is under investiga­tion after reports surfaced of sloppy bookkeep­ing in the Iowa Film Office and questionable spending by some movie makers who sought tax credits. Three officials in the Iowa Department of Economic Development have lost their jobs over the matter and Gov. Chet Culver’s adminis­tration has suspended the program. 
The lawsuit, filed last week in Polk County District Court, claims the state failed to execute a contract for the incentives after Culver halted the program after allegations of mismanage­ment. 
Health bill totals $1.2 trillion 
House will vote on measure this week; price surpasses all previous estimates 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — The health care bill headed for a vote in the House this week costs $1.2 trillion or more over a decade, according to numerous Democratic offi­cials and figures contained in an analysis by congressional budget experts, far higher than the $900 billion cited by President Barack Obama as a price tag for his reform plan. 
While the Congressional Budget Office has put the cost of expanding coverage in the legislation at roughly $1 tril­lion, Democrats added bil­lions more on higher spend­ing for public health, a rein­surance program to hold down retiree health costs, payments for preventive services and more. 
Many of the additions are designed to improve benefits or ease access to coverage in government programs. The officials who provided overall cost estimates did so on con­dition of anonymity, saying they were not authorized to discuss them. 
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has referred repeated­ly to the bill’s net cost of $894 billion over a decade for cov­erage. 
Asked about the higher estimate, Pelosi spokesman Brendan Daly said the meas­ure not only insures 36 mil-Whatever the final cost of White House and senior the bill at nearly $1.3 trillion. lion more Americans, it pro-legislation, the calendar is Democrats. “Our goal is to make it as vides critical health insur-working increasingly against Pelosi and her lieutenants difficult as possible for” ance reform in a way that is the White House and worked on last-minute Democrats to pass it, House fiscally sound. Democrats. While a House changes in the measure to Republican leader John 
“It will not add one dime to vote is possible late this ease concerns among oppo-Boehner, R-Ohio, said at a the deficit. In fact, the CBO week, Senate Majority nents of abortion and a con-news conference. “We said last week that it will Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., tentious provision relating to believe it is the wrong pre­reduce the deficit both in the may not be able to begin illegal immigrants. scription.” first 10 years and in the sec-debate on the issue until the Conservative Democrats have One day after announcing ond 10 years,” Daly said. week before Thanksgiving. expressed concern about the Republicans would have an 
Democrats have been Additionally, the Republican cost of the bill, and an alternative measure, intent on passing legislation leader, Sen. Mitch McConnell evening closed-door meeting Boehner offered few details. this year to implement of Kentucky, has hinted at gave the leadership its first He said it would omit one of Obama’s call for expanded efforts to extend the debate chance to hear their the central provisions in coverage for millions, curbs for weeks if not months, a response. Democratic bills — a ban on on industry abuses and pro-timetable that could extend The bill includes an option the insurance industry’s visions to slow the rate of into 2010. for a government-run health practice of denying coverage growth of health care costs One casualty of the time plan. on the basis of pre-existing nationally. crunch and threatened The leadership can afford medical conditions. Instead, 
“Now, add it all up, and the Republican delaying tactics more than two dozen defec-he said the Republicans plan I’m proposing will cost may be formal House-Senate tions and still be assured of would encourage creation of around $900 billion over 10 negotiations on a final com-the votes to prevail on the insurance pools for high-risk years,” the president said in promise. An alternative is a bill, one of the most sweeping individuals and take other a nationally televised speech less formal hurry-up final measures in recent years. steps to ease their access to in early September. negotiation involving the Republicans put the cost of coverage. 

PlansdroppedforSouthDakotapowerplant 
Associated Press groups celebrated the project’s new and upgraded high-voltage power 
demise, saying continued development lines in southern Minnesota that could 
BIG STONE, South Dakota — of a large, coal-fueled power station carry power from new wind-powered Developers of a $1.6 billion electric went against national trends favoring generators as well as from Big Stone power plant in northeastern South wind power and other renewable II. Dakota abandoned the project energy sources. Steve Kolbeck, vice chairman of Monday, saying they were unable to “This is happening in the context of South Dakota’s Public Utilities recruit other investors after one of the coal plants around the country being Commission, said construction of Big principal utility backers pulled out. abandoned,” said Margaret Levin, Stone II and improvements to the 
The Big Stone II plant, planned for state director for the Minnesota North nearby power plant would have cut construction next to an existing power Star chapter of the Sierra Club. total pollution from the site while station near Milbank, S.D., was meant “I would certainly attribute this out-greatly increasing its output. to supply about 550 megawatts of come to an increased understanding ... “If we could have gotten it built ... power to utilities in North Dakota, that we have got to switch away from we could have actually made the air South Dakota and southern Minnesota. coal and other dirty forms of power,” cleaner up there,” Kolbeck said. 
It had the necessary permits from Levin said. A group of seven utilities were part-state regulators to begin building, but Supporters of Big Stone II said the ners in the project when it was financing the plant’s construction end of the project could force utilities announced in June 2005. Planners proved to be too difficult, project offi-and their customers to buy more said they hoped to begin construction cials said. expensive electricity. of a 630-megawatt plant in 2007 and 
Representatives of environmental The project included construction of have the plant operating by 2011. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, November 3, 2009 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

A rose by any other name 
It has become the latest ploy in the lib­eral plot to sell their beloved public option to wary Republicans and moder­ate Democrats, not to mention a skepti­cal public. Last week, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced that the latest version of the House bill will con­tain what she likes to call “the consumer option:” 
“I do think that when people think of it as their option, their consumer Christie option. Because Pesavento public is being misrepresented as Right Winging being something It that’s paid for by taxpayer dollars, which it is not.” 

In other words, Democrats in favor of the public ... I mean consumer option are hanging their hopes on voters being gullible enough to believe that a simple name change and a few minor compro­mises will alter the fundamental flaws embedded in the plan. 
Sound familiar? Earlier in 2009, a memo released to Pentagon staff mem­bers advised that in place of the phrase “Global War on Terror,” they should begin referring to the effort as the “Overseas Contingency Operation.” Perhaps the administration hoped the public would assume that because a new phrase was being used, President Obama had kept his promise to bring the war to an end. Yet seven months later, the pres­ident is contemplating another surge in troops, this time in Afghanistan. 
Around the same time, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano revealed her preferred method of speak­ing about terrorism: 
“In my speech, although I did not use the word ‘terrorism,’ I referred to ‘man­caused’ disasters. That is perhaps only a nuance, but it demonstrates that we want to move away from the politics of fear toward a policy of being prepared for all risks that can occur.” 
Yes, a mere “nuance” that attempts to make acts of terrorism seem less, well, terrible. The term “man-caused disas­ters” makes a terrorist attack sound like an accident, as though faulty engines had caused three planes to crash into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon rather than a group of Islamic extremists bent on murdering innocent civilians to make a political point. 
Indeed both parties are guilty of attempting to sway public opinion with a thesaurus. Frank Luntz, a Republican communications consultant, has made a career out of advising political clients how to sell their message by using more appealing terminology. In an age when 10-second sound bites and late-night comedy shows provide much of the pub­lic’s political education, it’s no wonder politicians find it necessary to carefully calculate their every word. Political mar­keting strategies have become an essen­tial component of both campaigns and governance, and framing the debate through word choice has been shown to be an effective tool in steering the voters’ perceptions of issues. 
But there is a very important, though often times subtle, difference between making a message sound attractive and deliberately attempting to mislead the public in order to make unpopular poli­cies more palatable. 
An easy way to distinguish between the two methods is timing. When a politi­cian uses a phrase to describe a particu­lar message or policy from the outset, it is likely that the phrase amounts to, at worst, a mere sugarcoating of reality. George W. Bush’s “compassionate con­servatism” motto during the 2000 elec­tion provides a good example of this method. Call it vacuous, but the term does describe a particular political phi­losophy that seeks to promote societal welfare through traditionally conserva­tive means. 
However, attempting to change termi­nology midway through the debate sig­nals a more deceitful plot. Speaker Pelosi’s rechristening of the public option; like the rebranding of the War on Terror, terrorism and global warming; falls into this category. Upon realizing that the public has all but abandoned Democrats’ attempts to reform health­care, the party leadership is now scram­bling to find a new approach to push their legislation through Congress. 
Here is what the Speaker stated during the aforementioned speech in defense of the “consumer option:” 
“It lowers costs. It lowers cost. 
Remember it lowers cost. That’s very important, by tens of billions of dollars, the consumer option lowers cost to the budget and to the taxpayer.” 
Wait a second; didn’t she just say that the phrase “public” option is a misnomer because it leads people to believe that the plan will be funded by taxpayer dol­lars even though it is not? Yet now the “consumer” option is lowering costs “to the budget and to the taxpayer.” How can these costs be lowered to taxpayers if taxpayers are not footing the bill? 
The Wall Street Journal suggests that both of Pelosi’s statements are far from truthful. Describing what it calls “European levels of taxation,” the Journal reports that the House favors $572 billion in new taxes, which will be covered by raising the top marginal tax rate to 45 percent in 2011. As for lower­ing costs, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office predicts the program will cost $1.055 trillion over the next decade even though Pelosi claimed the net cost would only be $829 billion. 
What is most disturbing about these figures is that they represent very con­servative estimates. To put them into perspective, we can compare the pre­dicted costs of Obamacare to those of a similar entitlement program, like Medicare. In 1967, two years after Medicare became law, House Ways and Means analysts predicted that it would cost only $12 billion in 1990. When 1990 rolled around, federal Medicare spend­ing hit $110 billion. That is almost a $100 billion difference. 
Unfortunately, real problems cannot be resolved by changing a name. If it did, then Obama could save a lot of time and money by simply renaming Gitmo “The Super-Fun Torture-Free Happy Day Camp for Detainees.” When a politician attempts to rebrand a policy midway through the debate, remember that “a rose by any other name would smell as sweet.” Or in this case, a public option by any other name will be just as disas­trous. 
Christie Pesavento is a senior who is majoring in political science and sociology. She can be reached at cpesaven@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Ashley Charnley Laura Myers 
Alicia Smith Jared Jedick What do you think of our new Tess Civantos Kevin Baldwin 
Web site? 
“Charm and nothing but charm at
Graphics Scene 
last grows a little tiresome. It’s a 
Andrea Archer Joey Kuhn 
relief then to deal with a man who
Take me back to 1998! 
Viewpoint 

isn’t quite so delightful but a little 
Finally in the 21st century 
more sincere.” 
Lauren Nice try but needs some work. 

Brauweiler 

W. Somerset MaughamEnglish dramatist & novelist 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, November 3, 2009 page 9 
A Notre Dame short story 
He had been here before. He couldn’t remem­ber when, but he had been here before. Perhaps it had been in a dream, or maybe he was experi­encing a moment of déjà vu. But as much as he tried to push against that brick wall, he could not remember how to get through. His fingers gripped the cold brick and tore down the wall, but he only came away with dirty, bloody finger­nails. He kicked, he punched, he yelled, but nothing worked. All he knew was that he had to get to the other side soon. His life was depend­ing on it. 
Part 2 by Christine Fagan 

Desperate for a way through, he decided to try a new approach. He swallowed all that was left of his pride and leaned his whole body into the bricks. He simply leaned, and with that he could feel movement. The wall ebbed and flowed as if controlled by breath. This wall works remark­ably like a lung, he thought as he continued his leaning. In almost an instant he felt swallowed. The wall consumed him in his entirety and he clumsily fell through the bricks. Given the chance he would have screamed, but a contra­dictory mix of pride and shameless fear over­took him, and he remained silent. After a few seconds of eternity, he was on the other side. Once he regained his balance he stood ready to face the council. He was going to win, if only because he was not ready to die. 
Want to write the next paragraph to the story? Submit your paragraph to NDLFshortstory@gmail.com. Limit of 200 words. Title it Part Three. This story will con­tinue until Nov. 16. If your paragraph is select­ed, it will be published in Viewpoint, and you will get to read it at the NDLF panel discussion Nov. 19. The visiting authors will write the ending paragraphs. Take advantage of the opportunity to write a story along with three New York Times bestselling authors. 

Observer Graphic I MARY CECILIA MITSCH 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Strong bodies fight 
The Notre Dame Boxing Club has sup-of a nationwide combat against global ported the Holy Cross Missions in poverty through the tool of education. The Bangladesh for 80 years. This Spring will Bengal Bouts now sends boxers every mark a number of achievements for one of summer as part of a Notre Dame ISSLP to Notre Dame’s proudest traditions. In addi-help teach classes at our educational facili­tion to celebrating the 80th anniversary of ties that have been built. Children now our founding, the one millionth dollar have hope — they can develop a profes­raised in donations will be sent over to sion through years of educational instruc­help build and maintain schools. The tion. Bengal Bouts will also release the feature Mark Weber ‘09 and other producers documentary, “Strong Bodies Fight,” to the have put forth a lot of time to effectively public with a students-only screening at portray the transformation of the Bengal 
9:30 p.m. on Friday Nov. 6 at the Bouts. The film captures a special relation-Debartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC). ship that continues to improve. Please sup-While the program has historically sup-port the 200-plus men and women who ported the missions through a donation continue to give hope to the lives of many. check, this film exhibits how the Bengal And come spring, please remember to Bouts has developed a much more tangi-support your friends in the Bengal Bouts. ble relationship with the people of Bangladesh. For the first time in the sum-Chris Cugliari mer of 2008, five boxers witnessed first-senior hand how far our support goes. We are no off campus longer just a check received, we are part Nov. 2 
Ignorant or genius? 
Greetings, ND Community ly be that monumentally ignorant? All of his 
We all know who Soulja Boy is. He is the songs are ridiculous (not to mention awful) performer of one of the worst songs to ever in wildly different ways. Even though he reach No. 1 in the U.S. Many of us have even claims not to rap about sex and violence, seen his interviews, with the faulty grammar “Crank That (Soulja Boy)” is only about vio­and the air of undeserved superiority. But lent sex, and he can be seen holding a gun in what if all of this was an act? What if all of it the original Crank that Dance video. Not to was a satirical ploy to make fun of new wave mention the beat sounds like a meth addict hip hop and rap? left alone with a steel drum. 
The only way to pull off a successful Bottom line, nobody could possibly be this deception in a performance is to sell the dumb in so many ways. His songs and inter-deception before and after the show. The views don’t just show us how ignorant he is, deceiver has to live his entire life in a way they are a proclamation to the world that that lives up to the people’s expectations. deliberately says, “Hey world, I’m brain-Knowing this, it would not be enough for less!” I don’t believe that Soulja boy is actu-Soulja Boy just to create awful music. To be ally this ignorant; he only pretends to be successful in this plot, Soulja Boy has to live dumb to make fun of rap and other rappers. his entire life the way his music portrays He pulled a big one over all of our heads. him. This would be Soulja Boy’s motivation to act like a numbskull in interviews and in Danny Masse life in general. freshman 
Soulja Boy’s songs are proof of this con-Siegfried spiracy. Honestly, how could anybody actual-Nov. 2 
Calling all priests 
“Loyal Daughters and Sons” will be per­formed this week (Wed.-Fri.) at the Library Auditorium, and I highly encourage all in the community to go see it, to raise aware­ness of the very important issue of sexual harassment and violence both on our cam­pus and in our society. I saw this perform­ance last year, and it made a huge impact on me, as an alum, father of a current Notre Dame female student, and as a man in general. The method of presenting this topic makes a deep impact that can not be matched by simply reading about this sub­ject. 
I especially call upon all Notre Dame priests to come see this performance. Priests counsel students on a wide range of issues, however, women who are victims of sexual harassment/violence often hold their pain inside. When they do seek coun­seling, due to the nature of the incident, they more often than not seek out female counselors rather than male counselors. 
After the performance, there is a panel-led discussion. When it was my turn to ask a question, I said I was shocked at how prevalent these incidents seem to be, even at our beloved Notre Dame, which some alums (such as myself) mistakenly think is immune to this type of behavior. I then asked: “Do the priests ever discuss this issue at the homilies during Sunday Mass in the dorms?” No one on the panel or the audience could ever recall this being the subject of a homily. This may be because priests are not as aware of this topic as they need to be. Thus, I encourage the priests of Notre Dame to attend this per­formance, and find a way to work this topic into their homilies in the dorm Masses. 
Just before Fr. Malloy left office, he made a statement that I found somewhat controversial. He said, “I have been President for 18 years, and I was proud to be President every one of those days, except for one — the day Notre Dame fired Ty Willingham.” While that incident may have deserved critique, I was still proud to be part of Notre Dame on that day. I was still proud to be part of Notre Dame when we lost to Navy and Syracuse. If I were a Notre Dame priest, the days I would not be proud would be the ones when another of these incidents comes to the ResLife office. On those days, none of us should be proud, for we all have failed to set the moral com­pass of those students who commit these offenses. The failure comes primarily from the offenders, but also partially from all of us (parents, rectors, priests, peer students) who did not provide strong enough moral leadership to let every student know that such offenses are completely unaccept­able. 
The “Loyal Daughters and Sons” per­formance puts this important topic out into the public forum in a unique and very compelling way. I encourage all (especially the priests) to attend and increase your awareness of this very important issue. 
Mark Rolfes 
alumnus class of 1984 Nov. 2 
The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Tuesday, November 3, 2009 

By DECLAN SULLIVAN 
Scene Writer 

Last year, the duo Shwayze burst onto the music scene with their self-titled debut, an album that suc­cessfully combined rock and rap into a sound that can only be described as California beach music. Despite being on the Vans Warped Tour and being involved in a multitude of side projects — ranging from running a record label to producing a movie — Aaron Smith, 
a.k.a. Shwayze, and Cisco Adler have man­aged to record another album, “Let It Beat,” which is being released today. My friend Mike Bartlett and I recently had a chance to talk to Cisco, former frontman for Whitestarr and son of the famous pro­ducer Lou Adler, about the new album, some of his side projects and exactly what it was like to write a song for a fake rapper call Alpa Cino — think “Tropic Thunder.” Look for Aaron Smith’s take on Shwayze’s success, coming soon in Scene. 
Declan Sullivan: Okay, there’s something that I’ve always been confused about and have to get out of the way first. Is Shwayze the rap­per known as Aaron Smith, or is it the name of the group under which you and Aaron perform? 
Cisco Adler: Well, it’s both. DS: … CA: I gave Aaron the nickname 
Shwayze, and well, I sort of just found him out in Malibu and, you know, he was a diamond in the rough, so I decided to work it as a solo rap project. But after a couple songs I started singing on the hooks, and that’s when it formed into the group. Rather than change the name, you know, it just sort of stuck. It kind of sums up the collab­oration. 
DS: How did you meet Shwayze? Is there a story there? CA: Malibu is a small town; there’s only one road that rolls through here. Everyone knows everyone; it’s very 

incestual [sic]. [Aaron] was just a fan [of my band, Whitestarr], and he started showing up at my parties. One day I woke up and he was sleeping on the couch, and he’s like, “I’m a rapper. Wanna make some tracks?” He was young and hungry, and I had a vision of what I wanted my next project to be, and it all just kind of fit together. 
DS: Yeah, you’ve been involved in a lot of projects recently. For example, you wrote a song for “Tropic Thunder?” 
CA: Yeah, I did one of the songs for them. I’m 
always working; I do more music than I do anything. I think people just have a preconceived notion about what you are or what you do, and they 
don’t even go searching for the real­ness. DS: So what else are you working on besides Shwayze? 
CA: Well, [Dr. Luke and I] just finished Mickey Avalon’s second record [due out in February], and that record’s really 
strong. I just finished four or five songs for the band Unwritten Law, a big punk band out of San Diego. I got G. Love & Special Sauce coming into the studio in 30 minutes … you know, it’s all over the board. I just try to do things that I like. 
DS: I’ve also heard rumors about you and Shwayze working on a movie, “Big Jack’s Tickets.” Are you still work­
ing on that? 

CA: It’s being written right now. We’re tightening up the script, and I think after we tour for this album cycle, we’re going to try to put some time aside to shoot it and get it done. 
DS: Mind giving any plot details or a brief overview of what it’s all about? 
CA: I don’t want to give too much away, but it’s a buddy comedy centered 
on a semi-fictional music act. It’s not us, but it’s kind of us, and it’s about … uh … well, you know I can’t give it out. It is being directed by Nick Goossen, who directed “Grandma’s Boy.” 
DS: Really? Awesome! CA: Yeah, that movie is hilarious. We’re excited to 
have him on board. 

DS: We are well aware of that film here; good stuff. 
CA: Nick Swardson’s gonna be in it … 
DS: No way! 

CA: Yeah, that whole camp is going to be in it. 
DS: Nice. As for the reason you’re making this movie, does your dad have anything to do with it? I mean, he made “Up in Smoke” and “Rocky Horror:” did he influ­ence you at all? 
CA: Well, he birthed me. Other than that, no. (Laughs.) I think it’s just in my blood. He’s definitely my hero; he’s done so much. I’m trying to do that as well; I just don’t want to spread myself too thin. 
DS: Okay, two more questions. First, with your record label, Bananabeat Records, is there any artist you real­ly want to bump right now? 
CA: Chris Young the Rapper. He is, he is … he’s just brilliant. He’s one of the best rappers I’ve ever heard in my life. Lyrically, his flow, his freestyle ability … he’s just a true artist, you know, down in his soul. He just put out an EP — the “Mood Swing” EP — it really shows his range. I’m very excited about this record. 
DS: So, last question. I see that you’re doing the Party Rock tour right now with LMFAO, and I have to say, I’m sad. I’m seeing places like Des Moines, Iowa on there, but no Notre Dame. Are you coming out here anytime in the near future? 
CA: I’m kind of sad, too. (Laughs.) I wish we had more control, but with all the things that go into plan­ning a tour … it just all has to all fit in, magically. Believe me, we want to go to more places that we haven’t gone to, and there are certain places we really want to check out. Notre Dame is one of those, and I’m sure we’ll get there soon — we’re touring for this record all the way till next summer. I will make a point of it. 
DS: I’m glad to hear that. I mean, if you’re going out to Des Moines, at the very least ya gotta make it 
to South Bend. I mean, come on — Iowa? Really? 
CA: (Laughs.) Yeah, we’ll definitely make it out there. 
DS: Good to hear, good to hear. Thanks for talking to me, man. 
CA: Cool, man. Just tell people to check out “Let It Beat;” we’re really proud of this record. We took the sound everyone fell in love with and gave them a little bit of that, but then we also evolved it and grew a little bit. We’re not a one-trick pony over here. 
Contact Declan Sullivan at dsulliv9@nd.edu 

With inspirations like adding his signature smooth tone and Bublé’s music is easy on the ears and 
Frank Sinatra, Ray flowing energy. If you purchase the perfect for those long drives home or 
Charles and Louis album, you might also want to consid-long nights in the library studying. He 
Armstrong, Bublé makes er the deluxe edition that includes a keeps it old school with swinging 
sure that their spirits bonus video track of Bublé singing beats and an attitude that will hypno­
shine through in his “Haven’t Met You Yet” with his utter tize listeners. When concentrating on 
remastered melodies. quirkiness against a white backdrop. these upbeat songs, it is hard not to 
The young Canadian The album showcases contemporary picture Bublé and all the collaborators 
crooner is best known elements with the busting sounds of having a blast in the recording studio. 
for his all-American clas-brass and guitar. Bublé has progressed 
sics and for a warm Vocal ensemble and matured very 
voice that has earned Naturally 7 lend their With a voice that sounds much as an artist, and 
him the reputation of a voices to the oldie releasing “Crazy Love” 
modern-day Sinatra. His “Stardust,” and fellow effortless and a passion with a more relaxed, 
wicked charm and Canadian songwriter positive and upbeat 
charisma on stage are Ron Sexsmith con -that comes through on sound was a smart 
breathtaking, and his tributed a ballad in move on his part. 
versatility is incredible the track “Whatever It each cut, it is impossible With a voice that 
as he intertwines himself Takes.” For years sounds effortless and a 
in the jazz, rock, blues Bublé has worked to think this guy doesn’t passion that comes 
and pop genres that have with the big boys of through on each cut, it 
taken custody of so many blues, but on this have talent. is impossible to think 
young and old souls. album he has trans-this guy doesn’t have 
“Crazy Love” focuses formed into a cool, talent. Bublé’s vocal 
on Bublé’s renditions of controlled and hearty singer who is skills are top-notch, and whether he is 
famous American tunes coming into his own not only as an strutting his stuff in a Starbucks com-
By KATHERINE GREENSPON 

like “Georgia on My Mind” by Ray artist, but also as an assured per-mercial, singing the favorite “Come 
Scene Writer 

Charles and “Cry Me a River” by Julie former. Fly with Me” or dropping memorable London. One of the album’s highlights With its fun ballads and over-the-top classics in the record studio, Bublé 
A jazz man who is said to be from is Bublé’s hit single “Crazy Love,” an lyrical performances, anyone can easi-has captured the older generation and 
another musical era is taking today’s adaptation of the song originally pre-ly become infatuated with “Crazy the younger one as well ... one Frank 
music industry by storm. After two formed by Van Morrison. Morrison Love.” Bublé is constantly influenced Sinatra remake at a time. 
and a half years, Michael Bublé has was a master of soul music, and his by the jazz aesthetic, and in “Cry Me a 
done it again, releasing his newest passion for his art inspired Bublé to River” we get a jazz club feel with a Contact Katherine Greenspon at 
album, “Crazy Love.” try out his own modified version, smooth beat all the way through. kgreen01@saintmarys.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, November 3, 2009 page 11 

By ERIC PRISTER 
Scene Writer 

Despite the facts that they have been playing togeth­er since 1967, that they were nearly overshadowed by the opening band and that their lead singer doesn’t quite have the voice that he used to, one thing was clear from the opening song — R.E.O. Speedwagon, after all this time, can still rock. 
With his patented platinum blond hair and a white suit that could rival Elivs, Kevin Cronin, the long-time lead singer of R.E.O. Speedwagon, came onstage to a roar from the mostly 40-something crowd and moved right into R.E.O.’s most popular hits. Cronin struggled somewhat, especially in the beginning, to hit the notes that he used to, which became obvious as he changed some of them to better fit his voice. Particularly during their second song, “Take It On the Run,” it was clear that Cronin didn’t have the range that he used to, but it didn’t take away too much from the performance on the whole. 
The other members of the band had clearly lost nothing of their past ability, though some were not original members of the band. The bassist, Bruce Hall, has been with the band since 1977, but he still looks as though he is part of the rock scene. Neil Daughty, whose keyboard playing is one of the things that separates R.E.O. from the average rock band, was an original band member, and he is still playing keyboard for the five-man band. Guitarist Dave Amato and drummer Bryan Hitt are newer members of the band, having joined the group in the early 90s, but both perform up to R.E.O.’s high stan­dards. 
As the concert progressed, the band steadily improved, especially Cronin. His voice started to show signs of its original form, especially when the band performed ballads which didn’t require him to sing over the electric guitar. Their performance of “Keep On Loving You” was a particularly well-done rendi­
tion of one of 
their two number one hits. But Cronin seemed to have saved his voice for their penultimate song, “Roll With the Changes,” which he belted out to near perfection. 

Only twice did Cronin express his political views on stage, as members of the music industry are wont to do, and he did so tastefully (or as tastefully as one can). He did not mention anyone specifically, and he expressed his desire for a change that he thinks is coming in this country. One of these statements occurred during the performance of “Golden Country,” a song written during the Vietnam War, and the other occurred just before the encore performance of “Riding the Storm Out,” which brought down the house. 
The opening act of the night was another famous rock band from the 70s, the British rock group Foghat. It seemed that some members of the audience actu­ally had come to see Foghat rather than R.E.O., and the band did not disappoint. Saving their three most famous songs for last, Foghat performed “I Just Want to Make Love to You,” “Fool for the City” and finally “Slow Ride” to perfection. Though he is not the original singer, lead vocal­ist Charlie Huhn performed the songs almost exactly as they originally sounded. Guitarist Brian Bassett, originally from Molly Hatchet, and original Foghat drummer Roger Earl kept 
the band running smoothly. 
Both bands performed excellently considering 
their ages and the wear that the rock and roll 
lifestyle must have put on their bodies. And 
despite the average age of the crowd, R.E.O. 
Speedwagon delivered a performance that, 
because of the familiarity of the songs and the 
pure enjoyment they expressed on stage, could be enjoyed by rock lovers of all ages. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 

Studying brings out the worst in people. Anyone who has crumpled a piece of paper or sneezed in a library during finals week has learned this the hard way. Nevertheless, in the dark, dreary tunnel of books and noses meet­ing, there is a gleam of light: musical exploration. 
Do yourself a favor and complete this little social experiment. Next time you’re in the library and you have to go to the bathroom or pick up another book, creep on peo­ple’s music. It’s an awesome bored-in-the-library game. Walk up to a person, make a mental assumption about what they’re lis­tening to, then sneak a peak, and ... you’re wrong. Totally, totally wrong. Guaranteed. Goth girl is listening to the “Pride and Prejudice” soundtrack, guy you thought would be all about DMB is actually all about “Weird Al.” It’s strange, and it’s occasionally kind of frightening (say, when a Marilyn Manson fan pops up), but it’s true. 
The experiment does not just have to target random people; friends are the best for creeping. They are the ones who will have the weirdest stuff, so be prepared to question everything about them. Welcome to the moment of finding the freak in people. For instance, say you’ve had a best friend since freshman year. Forget the person who can sing every Taylor Swift album word for word, note for note. She (or he) has been replaced by a pod-person working up a mental sweat to steel drums or to those weird relaxation CDs they keep by the greeting cards in Target. It might even have some album cover that is just a picture of a freaked-out eye — don’t even try to find out what that’s about (true story). The biggest confes­sion in a friendship might be about someone’s obsession with hip-hop violin music. 
Everyone listens to some kind of quirky, random music. Maybe it’s the Italian route — Andrea Bocelli, Frank [Sinatra], Dino [Dean Martin] and the boys — or maybe a World Music CD hap­pened to find its way into the space between the driver’s seat and the console in your car. Here’s another social experiment. Next time you go on a food run off cam­pus, check out the loner guy who pulls up at the stoplight next to you (yeah, like you don’t anyway), and guaranteed, three out of every four people is grooving out to what has to be some weird, embarrassing music, like that Kenny G’s Christmas CD that chills out in the disguise of a Metallica case when other dudes are in the car. 
Here’s the deal: everyone wishes he or she could be cool about his or her music all the time, and oh, the lengths to which we go to hide the weird stuff. Hint, ladies: your boyfriend’s iTunes “most played” playlist doesn’t lie, and apparent­ly, neither do his hips, because he is lovin’ him some Shakira. Having perfectly hip music taste is just not possible, because we all have that weird compulsion that makes an Irish Catholic, Ralph Lauren-and-Gap girl want to krump on a study break to some tribal dance music that may or may not have been bought on a whim at Ten Thousand Villages. It’s the same whim that makes a guy who would sleep outside for three weeks and sell a kidney to see Slipknot turn up the Enya when the day gets a little stressful. Can’t help it, can’t stop it and definitely can’t hide it. 
That “Best of John Tesh” CD will eventually slide out from under the passenger seat, and at the worst possible moment, so own it. Let the musical freak flag fly, because everyone has it. A certain reporter for a school newspaper whose name may or may not be on this byline will out hers right here and now: Cajun music (Blind Uncle Gaspard, anyone?) and polka. It’s a freeing feeling, trust. Don’t let the haters get you down, because there’s a reason Celine Dion had a sold out Las Vegas show for five years (hint: there are only so many middle-aged Canadians in the world). You are not alone. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 
Observer Graphic I ANDREA ARCHER 
page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 3, 2009 
ND CLUB SPORTS 

Squash squad beaten by Rochester in Cleveland 
Irish top Purdue to earn a berth in the Midwest Rugby Playoffs; Rowers to compete in Indianapolis tournament 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women traveled to The Cleveland Racquet Club (CRC) to chal­lenge the University of Rochester this weekend. Upon arrival the two clubs played in a mini -singles round-robin match in groups of three. Following the mini-tournament the teams played an official College Squash Association (CSA) match, falling 3-7 to Rochester. 
The Irish began down a match after having to forfeit at the 9th position. Freshman Grace Lee and junior Brittani Russell split their opening matches. Russell adapted tennis background to the squash courts and won her match in three straight games, 11-4, 11-9, 11-8. 
Sophomore Tess Fitzpatrick won her match in four games. Fitzpatrick won the first two games, 11-9 and 11-7, before dropping the third, 12-10. In the fourth game, Fitzpatrick stepped up her play to win, 11-5, evening the team score at 2-2. 
In the next round of match­es, senior Kelly Levis and jun­ior Octavia Ratiu faced stiff competition but both played well in their CSA debuts. Seniors Melissa Curvino and Mariana Cuervo also turned in great early-season play, but all fell to their Rochester opponents. 
Senior captain Kristine So took to the court with the con­fidence of a seasoned player. So won impressively, 11-0, 11­8, 11-7. 
Following the match with Rochester the team had a pri­vate group lesson with CRC Squash Pro Nathan Dugan, who was once the No. 52 play­er in the world, 

The next match for Notre Dame Squash will take place on Nov. 14 when the men’s squad will travel to Northwestern to play in a round-robin with teams from Illinois, Western Michigan and the host Northwestern. 
Men’s Rugby 

The Irish defeated Purdue 14-10 Saturday in a match to determine a spot in the Midwest Rugby Playoffs. The match started off evenly, with neither team gaining an advantage in the opening 20 minutes of play. 
Through heavy reliance on a strong kicking game by the Purdue side, the Boilermakers were able to push the Irish deep into their own zone late in the first half. After a costly penalty, Notre Dame gave up the ball on its own 5-meter line. 
Purdue then was able to maul its way into the try-zone to give the Boilermakers a 5-0 lead with 5 minutes left in the half. 
On the ensuing drive, the Irish came out with greater intensity, led in part by sen­iors Jaime Urquijo and Bob Huguelet. The Notre Dame side put the Boilermakers on their backs with quick ball movement through the back-line, which scored on a 50 meter line-break to give the Irish a 7-5 lead going into halftime. 
The second half started much as the first half with strong play from both sides. However, on a costly line ­break from the Purdue back-line, the Boilermakers were able to score and take a 10-7 lead. 
The Irish struck back as freshmen Sean Peterson was able to use his kicking ability to plant the ball deep in Purdue territory. After the Purdue side turned the ball over on their own 20-meter line, the Irish went to work on the weary Purdue forwards through a barrage of picking and rucking that moved the ball to within five meters of the try-line. 
As the ball was passed out to the backline, the Purdue line shot up and freshman Sean Peterson slipped a per­fectly placed grubber through their defense line. 
Although the Purdue players were momentarily caught out of position, a costly knock-on by junior Alex Macomber turned the ball over on what should have been an easy try. 
However, with 10 minutes remaining in the game, the Irish received the ball back and yet again pounded the Purdue defense with strong play by the forwards, pushing deep into opposition’s zone. 
Peterson was again able to successfully pass a grubber kick past the defensive line. This time, however, the kick was retrieved and the try was eventually converted by Macomber to give the Irish a 14-10 lead, which they would retain for the remainder of the game. 
The Irish travel to Wisconsin for the first round of the Midwest Playoffs on Nov. 7. 
The B-side game was also a close-fought match between the two sides that ended in a 14-12 Boilermaker victory. The Irish took an early lead through superior back-line play. 
With five minutes remaining in the 1st half, the Irish made a 35 meter line-break, which would give the Irish another try to go up 12-3 at halftime. 
In the second half, the Purdue side took a quick start with a high up-and-under kick that would put the score at 12-9. The Irish defense held strong for the next 30 minutes as the score remained at 12­
9. However, on the final play 
of the match, the Boilermakers were able to make a costly line-break on Notre Dame’s 15-meter line, which would lead to the game-winning try. 
Men’s Rowing 

The Irish traveled to the Indianapolis Rowing Center Saturday to compete at the Head of the Eagle this past weekend. A long day of rac­ing, with some rowers com­peting two or even three times, meant everyone’s fit­ness was pushed to the limit against other major schools such as Michigan, Grand Valley and Purdue. 
The day started with the Men’s open 2X, where Notre Dame took second, third, fourth and sixth places. 
This race was followed closely by the Novice 8+ A and B races, perhaps some of the most competitive races of the day. The Irish took fourth and sixth respectively, battling through heavy winds early in the day. The morning was wrapped up with the Men’s Open 4+ race. The top 4+, led by senior coxswain Michael Lehmann and stroked by jun­ior Michael Maggart took sec­ond in their race, while the second 4+, coxswained by jun­ior Lisa Folkerth and stroked by sophomore Garrett Campbell, took first in their race. The third 4+ wrapped up with a third place finish in their race. 
The afternoon started with juniors Graham Boechler and Kurt Krautmann taking fourth in the Men’s Open Pair’s race. This was followed closely by a third place finish by the Men’s Quad. 
The day closed with the Men’s Open 8+ races, in which Notre Dame fielded four boats. The top Varsity 8+, was led by Folkerth and stroked by Campbell. Over the 4.5­kilometer course, the Irish pulled a 14:34.16 for third place, only three seconds behind Michigan and eight seconds behind Grand Valley. The second Varsity 8+, coxswained by Lehmann, took third in their race with a time of 15:14, and the club’s two Novice boats took eighth and 11th in the Men’s C/D 8+ race. 
In two weeks the Notre Dame Rowing Club will host the annual “Frostbite Row” against Grand Valley State on the St. Joseph river in South Bend. This will be the last competition before going indoors for winter training. 
NBA 

Cavs guard West to ride bench after return to team 
Associated Press  tions on him, although Brown won’t start West on Tuesday night  Maryland. Last week, his wife filed a domestic violence report  when Cleveland was eliminated by Orlando in the Eastern  guard Mo Williams said. “He had a great game when he came back.  
INDEPENDENCE,  Ohio  — against Washington.  against him.  Conference finals. West can play  As a team, you see sparks where  
Delonte West sat under the basket  “I’m not worried about his min- Brown said Monday he is “defi­ either guard position and evolved  we can be elite. Then you also see  
after practice on Monday chatting  utes if he’s active,” Brown said.  nitely going to go with what we  into  the team’s  second-most  times where we can improve.”  
with teammates. Cleveland’s trou­ “There’s no coddling or anything  have  right  now,”  meaning  important player behind LeBron  Throughout the preseason,  
bled star was expected to face  like that. If he can play, he’s going  Anthony Parker will continue to  James.  Brown referred to West’s situation  
reporters for the first time since  to play.”  start and West will continue to  The Cavaliers are 2-2 after  as a day-by-day process. Now that  
taking two leaves of absence dur- West made his debut for the  come off the bench.  opening the season with losses to  West has been cleared and has  
ing training camp and missing the  Cleveland  Cavaliers  during  “I’d like to take a look and see  Boston and Toronto. Brown and  rejoined the team, Brown isn’t  
Cavaliers’ first three games.  Saturday  night’s  90-79  win  how we’re going to play right  James both cautioned during the  anticipating further setbacks.  
Instead, he quietly slipped  against Charlotte, scoring 13  now,” Brown said. “Only time will  preseason that Cleveland could  “He’s here just  as  much  as  
through the door and out of the  points in 24 minutes.  tell, but I’m definitely going to go  get off to a shaky start until West’s  LeBron is here or Shaq or Mo,”  
building.  It was a turbulent offseason for  with what we have right now, the  situation was resolved and the  Brown said. “There is nothing  
He wasn’t ready yet.  West, who has battled bipolar syn- way we have our starting five.”  new faces blended with the old.  special or different I’m thinking  
West has already shown he’s  drome. He could still face a league  West started 64 games for the  After one week, that’s already  about doing with Delonte. In  
good to go on the court, and coach  suspension for misdemeanor  Cavaliers last season and aver- happening.  terms of all that other stuff, I don’t  
Mike Brown isn’t placing restric­ weapons charges against him in  aged 42 minutes in the playoffs,  “Having (West) back is huge,”  even think about it.”  

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Irish Crossings and Dublin Village  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  If we are mark'd to die, we are enow  
FOR RENT  3 and 4 bdr, furnished and unfurnished.  TICKETS  WANTED  Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in  To do our country loss; and if to live, The fewer men, the greater share of  
January and June 2010 l  place to assist you.  honour.  
andersonND rentals.com. HOUSES  eases available.  HELP!  PART TIME WORK $14.25 base  If you or someone you love needs  God's will! I pray thee, wish not one  
———————————————  www.cespm.info  Need FB tix  appt., no experience needed, cus­ confidential support  man more.  
4 BDRM HOUSE ON 32 ACRES  Call  for family.  tomer sales/service, 574-273-3835.  or assistance,  By Jove, I am not covetous for gold,  
OF NATURE AND SERENITY. 9  574-968-0112  Will pay  
 please call  Nor care I who doth feed upon my  
MILES NORTH OF NOTRE DAME.  ——————————————— Furnished apartment on Ivy Rd.  top $$. 574-251-1570.  PERSONAL  Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or  cost; It yearns me not if men my garments  
$1200 FOR WEEKEND.  available.  ———————————————­ Ann Firth at  wear;  
CALL  All utilities included.  VICTORY TICKETS  If you or someone you care about has  1-2685.  Such outward things dwell not in my  
GEORGIA PEACH BED AND  1,2, or 3 people.  Buy Sell Trade FB tix.  been sexually assaulted, we can help.  For more information,  desires.  
BREAKFAST  574-252-6628. 1/2 mile from cam­ Victorytickets.net  For more information, visit Notre  visit ND’s website at :  But if it be a sin to covet honour,  
@ 269-357-6979.  pus.  574-232-0964.  Dame’s website: http://csap.nd.edu  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  I am the most offending soul alive.  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————­ ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Around the Nation 

NCAA Womens’ Soccer NSCAA/adidas Division 1 
team previous 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Gators’Spikes suspended for eye gouging 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 Stanford Portland UCLA Florida St. NOTRE DAME North Carolina Boston College UCF Rutgers Florida Wake Forest Maryland South Carolina Santa Clara Ohio St. LSU Virginia Tech Southern Cal BYU Texas A&M Washington St. Purdue Indiana Charlotte Penn St. 
1 3 4 7 6 2 8 11 9 12 5 13 10 16 19 17 15 14 21 20 23 18 24 25 NR 

Men’s Cross-Country USTFCCCA Division 1 
team Previous 
1 Stanford 1 2 Oregon 2 3 Oklahoma St. 3 4 Colorado 4 5 Northern Arizona 5 6 Alabama 6 7 BYU 7 8 Portland 8 9 William and Mary 9 10 Georgia 10 11 Iona 11 12 Virginia 12 13 Washington 13 14 Syracuse 14 15 Wisconsin 15 16 Arizona St. 16 17 Providence 17 18 Indiana 18 19 New Mexico 19 20 Oklahoma 20 21 Florida St. 21 22 Villanova 22 23 Iowa St. 23 24 Auburn 24 25 Louisville 25 


around the dial 
NBA 
Celtics at Sixers 
7 p.m., Comcast 
NHL 

Bruins at Red Wings 7 p.m., Versus 
Associated Press 

GAINESVILLE, Fla.— Top-ranked Florida will be without star linebacker Brandon Spikes for the first half of Saturday’s game against Vanderbilt. 
Coach Urban Meyer sus­pended Spikes on Monday, two days after the defen­sive captain apparently attempted to gouge the eyes of Georgia running back Washaun Ealey in a 41-17 victory. 
“I don’t condone that,” Meyer said. “I understand what goes on on the foot­ball (field), but there’s no place for that. We’re going to suspend Brandon for the first half of the Vanderbilt game. I spoke with him. 
That’s not who he is. That’s not who we are. He got caught up in emotion.” 
Spikes issued a statement apologizing for what he did. 
“I accept responsibility for my actions and I accept the consequences of my actions,” he said. “I would like to apologize to my team and the coaching staff and Washaun Ealey. Football is a very physical and emotional game, but there is no excuse for my actions.” 
Meyer’s wife mentioned Spikes’ actions to him Sunday night, then defen­sive coordinator Charlie Strong did the same Monday morning. Meyer’s said his first reaction was to move on. Then he saw a replay of the incident, which shows Spikes shov­ing his glove-covered right hand into Ealey’s facemask and moving it back and forth. 
Meyer then spoke to Spikes and determined he was retaliating after getting his helmet ripped off and eye poked earlier in the game. Meyer also talked to Southeastern Conference commissioner Mike Slive, but Florida officials said it was Meyer’s decision to suspend Spikes. 
“We understand the game of football,” Meyer said. “Some of us have played it. Very emotional things happened in that game in particular that were not good for either side, but the bottom line is we’re Florida and he’s Brandon Spikes and we expect certain things. He understands.” 
The SEC issued a state­ment saying it reviewed and accepted the discipline handed down by Florida. 
The Florida-Georgia game was filled with chippy behavior, with pushing, shoving, five personal-foul penalties — three against Georgia and two against Florida — and plenty of smack-talking. 
Officials even gathered Florida quarterback Tim Tebow and Georgia line­backer Marcus Dowtin together in the second quarter and warned them 


IN BRIEF 

Ovechkin ‘week-to-week’ with upper body injury 
ARLINGTON, Va. — The Capitals said Monday that the two-time league MVP suffered an “upper-body strain” in Sunday's overtime loss to Columbus. 
Ovechkin had an MRI and will trav­el with the team while receiving treatment. 
Ovechkin has missed only four games — and just two because of injury — since coming to the NHL in 2005. He sat out once during his rookie season with a groin injury and couldn't suit up for one game last season because of a bruised heel. He also missed two games last season to be with his ailing grandfather in Russia. 
If Ovechkin is out a week, he would miss three games: Wednesday at New Jersey and home-and-home against Florida on Friday and Saturday. 
He led the league in goals (14) and points (23) through Sunday's games. 
Bills’ Hardy back from dis­abled list after 10 months 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. — The Buffalo Bills expect to promote James Hardy to their active roster because the second-year receiver has shown he's fully recov­ered 10 months after having left knee surgery. 
Barring “something unexpected,” coach Dick Jauron said Monday he's leaning toward promoting Hardy, who spent the first six weeks on the physical­ly unable list. The 2008 second-round draft pick out of Indiana began practic­ing two weeks ago. 
The Bills (3-5) are off this week and have until the start of next week to acti­vate Hardy or place him on season-end­ing injured reserve. 
Promoting Hardy would require the Bills to drop a player, potentially one of the six receivers currently on their ros­ter. 
The Bills are banged-up entering the break after four starters went down during a 31-10 loss to Houston. 
PGA Tour suspends first player for substance abuse 
SHANGHAI — Doug Barron, a 40­year-old journeyman who lost his tour card three years ago, became the first player to be suspended by the PGA Tour for testing positive for a per­formance-enhancing substance. 
Barron has been suspended for one year. He played eight full seasons on the tour, with his best finish a tie for third at the Byron Nelson Championship in 2006. 
“I would like to apologize for any negative perception of the tour or its players resulting from my suspen­sion,” Barron said in a statement released by the PGA Tour on Monday. “I want my fellow tour members and the fans to know that I did not intend to gain an unfair competitive advan­tage or enhance my performance while on tour.” 
The tour announced the suspension about two hours before the World Golf Hall of Fame induction ceremony. 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, November 3, 2009 
NFL 

Browns owner supports Mangini 
way to achieve that. I’ve Heiden — following comple-
Associated Press 

always had good conversa-tions by Anderson that sabo-
BEREA, Ohio — The owner tions with him and always taged potential scoring is sick about the state of his will.” chances. Mangini felt the sorry NFL team. The fans Mangini said he shared Browns were moving the ball are in an uproar. The start-Lerner’s distaste for the and Anderson can’t be ing quarterback is historical-Browns’ putrid performance judged solely on his atro­ly inefficient and may be so far. cious statistics. about to lose his job. The “But I also believe in the “You never just want to star running back may retire things that we’re doing and I look at the numbers, you with one year understand it want to always look at it in left on his con-doesn’t hap -the context of the game,” tract. p e n Mangini said. 
T h e overnight,” he Anderson’s numbers are C l e v e l a n d said. “There’s impossible to ignore. 
“This is a process.” 
Browns are not one for -According to STATS LLC, beyond bad. mula in terms his 36.2 QB rating is the low-Their coach Eric Mangini of specific est of any player through doesn’t believe Browns head coach ingredients, eight weeks since Oakland’s it will last. but there is a Marc Wilson in 1981. Also, 
Eric Mangini very specific Anderson’s 320 yards pass-believes his approach that ing in the past four games plan for turn-you have to are the fewest by any quar­ing around the brutal take and I believe in that. It terback with a minimum of Browns will work despite a has been successful. It will 80 attempts since Chicago’s horrid first half of the sea-be successful here.” Vince Evans in ‘81. son. On Monday, Mangini Mangini and his coaching Lerner expressed a desire said he spoke by phone with staff will spend the next to bring in a reputable foot-Randy Lerner and has the week — the Browns don’t ball adviser, “a person that 
owner’s support despite play again until Nov. 16 — can provide leadership and Cleveland’s 1-7 start to a evaluating and clarity regard-season growing worse. a n a l y z i n g ing decisions 
“I never got a feeling oth-every aspect of and direction.” 
“But I also believe in
erwise in all my conversa-the team. Mangini said tions with Randy,” Mangini D e s p i t e the things that we’re he would be said. Cleveland ’s doing and I open to such a 
The bye week arrived just offense being hire. 
understand it doesn’t 
in time for the Browns, who ranked 31st “If you can 
happen overnight.” 
were thumped 30 -6 on overall and add quality Sunday in Chicago, scoring just people that Cleveland’s latest lopsided five touch -Eric Mangini can help you loss. After the game, an d o w n s , get better, 
Browns head coach 
upset and frustrated Lerner Mangini has then you do told reporters he was “sick no plans to that,” Mangini about” the team’s slide but change offensive coordinator said. “You’re always search-that he would not fire Brian Daboll’s duties. ing for those opportunities.” Mangini. However, he may rely more Mangini’s job security was 
Mangini, too, is dismayed on quarterbacks coach Carl not a topic in Cleveland’s by the losing but remains Smith, a former offensive locker room, which was confident the Browns will coordinator with New mostly vacant Monday. improve. Orleans and Jacksonville. Linebacker David Bowens, 
“This is a process,” Mangini’s also holding off who played for Mangini in Mangini said. on making a New York, feels the coach’s “We talked decision at system may not take hold about that “There’s things that quarterback. until the team starts win-
quite a bit, and go along with that Derek ning. that doesn’t A n d e r s o n “Part of the problem is we 
and that doesn’t 
change. posted a10.5 have alot of guys on this There’s things mean we’re not rating in team that have been used to that go along looking to win every S u n d a y ’ s losing, been used to being on with that and debacle before teams that have won a lot of 
game.” 
that doesn’t he was yanked games and don’t understand mean we’re in the final the process,” Bowens said. “I not looking to Eric Mangini minutes for think just selling out and win every Browns head coach Brady Quinn, buying in. I firmly believe in game, it does-who began the just hard work and execu­n’t mean we’re season as tion. The coaches can coach not looking to improve each Cleveland’s starter but was their tails off, they can get week. On the contrary, that’s benched after just 10 quar-two hours sleep a week, but exactly what we’re going to ters. they’re not playing the game. do. Mangini lamented “A lot of mistakes are 
“Randy and I share the Cleveland’s five turnovers, made by us as players. Once same vision and that’s some-including two fumbles — one we assess that and just buy thing that we talked about by rookie wide receiver in, commit ourselves to each and what we do talk about Mohamed Massaquoi, the other, I think things will quite a bit is what’s the best other by tight end Steve change.” 
NFL 

Lions’attackanemic goingintobyeweek 
receivers are going to drop 
Associated Press 

some balls — it is unrealistic to 
ALLEN PARK, Mich. — Jim think that they will catch every Schwartz doesn’t want his single pass — but when you Detroit Lions to play an overly have a situation like we had conservative offense. where there are consistent 
Without Calvin Johnson, he drops, there has to be some doesn’t think he has much of a accountability.” choice. Lions rookie tight end 
Even with a bye week to pre-Brandon Pettigrew agreed. pare and the return of rookie “There were some drops and quarterback Matt Stafford, the some that would have been Lions (1-6) couldn’t move the tough plays, but we’ve got to ball consistently start making against the hap-tough plays,” he less St. Louis “Calvin affects the said. “The Rams on drops are a
coverages we see and
Sunday, losing matter of focus, 
17-10 to a team everything that teams but we have to that hadn’t won do against us.” do more than a game in over a just routine year. execution.” 
Jim Schwartz 
Schwartz Schwartz has doesn’t think never been 
Lions head coach 
that Johnson is forthcoming Detroit’s only about the status offensive weapon, but of injured players, and that acknowledges that his pres-didn’t change Monday. When ence is needed for his other asked if he expected to have players to get the space they Johnson back for Sunday’s trip require. to Seattle (2-2), he said only 
“Calvin affects the coverages that Johnson’s return was we see and everything that “closer.” teams do against us, because Along with Johnson’s they always have to account absence, Schwartz sees anoth­for him,” Schwartz said er factor holding back Detroit’s Monday. “That’s true of every offense: the lack of big plays in great player. For Minnesota, the running game. Adrian Peterson is a great run-“There’s a difference ning back that opens up the between running the ball effec­passing game because teams tively and explosively,” he said. have to focus on “We’ve made him. Calvin does consistent that for us.” yards, but we 
This is the frst game 
The Lions need to break 
where we have
have scored some longer only one touch-consistently had runs — make a down in the two drops.” safety miss and games Johnson go for 40 yards. has missed with That’s really 
Jim Schwartz 
a knee injury. where our run-Against the Lions head coach ning game has Rams, Stafford been lacking.” hit on just 14 of Because of 33 passes for 168 yards, and Kevin Smith’s shoulder prob­didn’t complete a throw to a lems, he and Maurice Morris wide receiver until the fourth split time in the backfield quarter. against the Rams, but 
Schwartz said the coaching Schwartz said that isn’t the staff counted six drops by plan going forward. Detroit receivers, including five “Kevin is our workhorse run-in the first half. The first — ning back, and he’s going to and possibly most damaging — get most of the carries,” he came on the Lions’ opening said. “We’ve always wanted to drive, when Bryant Johnson get Maurice some work. That’s couldn’t hold onto a long pass the case everywhere. As great that would have put Detroit as Adrian Peterson is, Chester into field-goal position. Taylor gets a lot of carries. We 
“This is the first game where don’t see this as a 50-50 split, we have consistently had but in this game, injuries kind drops,” Schwartz said. “Wide of pushed us to that.” 

Tuesday, November 3, 2009 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NFL 

Mora threatens to shake up roster 
Associated Press 
RENTON, Wash. — The skid­ding Seahawks aren’t worried about T.J. Houshmandzadeh’s stomping and gesturing after he doesn’t get the ball. 
They have too many other con­cerns. Such as keeping their jobs. 
Coach Jim Mora put his 2-5 team on notice following Sunday’s 21-point loss at Dallas, which came after a 24-point home loss to Arizona. 
“He basically said, ‘I will evalu­ate this organization up and down and if I feel I’ve got to make changes, I’m going to make changes. If that means I’ve got to fire people, I’m going to fire people,’” quarterback Matt Hasselbeck said. “We’ve definite­ly been put on notice that the scrutiny is going to go up.” 
The Seahawks captain said that while some teammates are working harder to get better, “there are some guys just happy to have a job.” 
Travis Fisher no longer has one. The veteran was released Monday evening. But firing the third-string cornerback who wasn’t even active for Sunday’s 38-17 loss to the Cowboys isn’t going to cure what ails Seattle heading into Sunday’s home game against even worse-off Detroit (1-6). 
“It’s been a tough 24 hours, man,” receiver Nate Burleson said. 
This is the first time Mora, the coach of the Atlanta Falcons from 2004-06 who took over the Seahawks in January from Mike Holmgren, has been three games below .500 as a head coach. His public tone Monday was far more terse than it had been for two months. 
“I don’t like to lose,” he said. 
The coach had been optimistic and upbeat amid Seattle’s many injuries and defeats. That was before the Cowboys blew out his team amid penalties, fumbles and missed assignments. A 14­10 game late in the second quar­ter became a 38-10 runaway. 
Just as he did the day before, Mora relayed a statement e­mailed to him Friday by Bruce Brown, his old coach at Hyak Junior High School in the Seattle suburb of Bellevue. 
“Adversity turns weak people into victims, and it turns strong people into competitors,” was Brown’s message. 
“We are going to find out who the strong people are, and they are going to be here fighting with us until the end,” Mora said Monday. “And we’re going to find out who the victims are, and they aren’t going to with us fight­ing to the end. 
“We’re up against it a little bit. People will reveal themselves at these times. And I will be looking hard.” 
Houshmandzadeh, who signed a $40 million, five-year contract in the spring, has repeatedly proclaimed he wants the ball more in his first season with Seattle. Then Sunday the NFL’s leading receiver over the last three seasons entering 2009 angrily gestured toward Hasselbeck to throw the ball with more loft immediately after he tried to zing a hard pass to the tightly guarded receiver while he was one-on-one with a defender near the goal line in the first quarter. The discussion continued at the bench. Both players made gestures but did not appear to be arguing so much as explaining themselves. 
“You’re talking about two great competitors. They were just simply having an animated discussion,” Mora said. “There was no animosity. 

“You have to remember, these two guys, they’ve only had seven games together. They’re trying to learn each other.” 
Hasselbeck said he thought Houshmandzadeh, who had 92 receptions last season with Cincinnati but has just 35 through seven games with Seattle, knew about an adjust­ment the quarterback had worked out previously while in a similar situation with Burleson. 
“That’s kind of his demeanor,” Hasselbeck said of Houshmandzadeh’s fire. “There’s no issue there. The issue is, we have to complete more passes.” 
Hasselbeck made a point of mentioning he nominated Houshmandzadeh to be team’s player representative for this season. 
Then there’s Deion Branch’s proclamation into a FOX televi­sion camera caught live on the air Sunday, as the forgotten for­mer Super Bowl MVP ran through the back of the end zone following his first touchdown catch of the season. 
The oft-injured Branch hasn’t fulfilled the huge contract and No. 1 draft choice Seattle invest­ed in him after a trade with New England in September 2006, and he had been the subject of trade rumors before the league’s dead­line last month. He looked into the lens Sunday and shouted: “This is what I do! If anyone wants me, come find me!” 
Mora dismissed that, too. 

“Sounds like a challenge to me,” the coach said. “Sounds like he’s competing and chal­lenging people.” 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles to joust with Knights in playoffs 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary’s volleyball team will take on the Calvin Knights for the second time in five days tonight, but with much more on the line. 
The No. 7-seed Belles play their first round game of the MIAA tournament against the No. 2-seed Knights, a team that dominated Saint Mary’s 3-0 on Saturday. The game was never close, and the Knights took the second set 25-4, the worst set score for the Belles all year. The Knights also swept the Belles 3-0 in the Dig for the Cure match on Oct. 6. 
The Belles are currently on a seven-game losing streak, finishing the regular season with a sweep by non-confer­ence foe Hanover. However, Belles coach Toni Kuschel said she hopes to have her starting middle hitter, junior Andrea Sasgen, back from injury for the playoffs. Sasgen, prior to her injury, had been an asset on offense, providing a second threat apart from primary target of senior captain Lorna Slupczynski. Sasgen notched a total of 181 kills, which is currently third highest on the team behind Slupyczynski and freshman outside hitter Stephanie Bodien. She also has been an asset on defense, accumulating nine solo blocks and 47 total blocks, both of which lead the team. 
The Knights, on the other hand, are hitting their stride at just the right time, winning six of their last seven and amassing an overall record of 26 -4. In conference play, their only trouble has come against Hope College, the No. 1 seed in the tournament, whom they lost to 3-2 and 3-0 in the regular season. 
Other than that, the Knights have been the MIAA power­house they have been histori­cally, outscoring opponents 2475-1995 over the course of the season. The Knights have won the tournament the past four years, not including last year when the semifinals and finals were cancelled due to illness on Hope College cam­pus, and have finished either first or second in the regular season of every year since 2002. 
The match is scheduled for 7 p.m. today. The winner will advance on to play the win­ner of No. 3-seed Alma vs. No. 6-seed Kalamazoo on Friday. 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 3, 2009 
part to energize her teammates. 
Women 

Though the Wildcats did not challenge the Bullfrogs in the continued from page 20 score column, they put up a fight in the comedy category. Ryan capabilities. players came dressed for the 
Walsh took advantage of its tal-game in costume. ented quarterback, junior Amy “We wanted to have crazy, free-Langnecker, in its victory against spirited outfits to match our game Lyons Sunday evening. While it time emotions,” receiver Kayla was a quiet game offensively, Steinmann said. “Actually, we just Langnecker capitalized on Lyons’ didn’t change from Halloween last penalties and on good field posi-night.” tion provided by key defensive Their offense also remained in stops. She threw one touchdown Halloween mode. An array of late in the first half to put the Wild quadruple reverse passes was not Women on the board. Their sec-tricky enough to get the Wildcats ond touchdown came on a pass to into the end zone. junior Lindsay Schanzer. The game ended true to form, 
Lyons did not score a single as Bullfrog freshman receiver point this season and lost six Tommasina Dolel caught her first games in the process. The team’s touchdown pass of the year, but starting quarterback, senior Clair most importantly, earned her first Connell, injured her knee in the crack at the Badin touchdown cel­season opener and never returned ebration. to lead the team. The offense was Badin and Ryan capped their never able to regain pace without seasons with opposite results, but a consistent replacement quarter-both teams enjoyed the process. was nearly expired. The Chicks scoreless tie this past Sunday. Both Senior captain Tara Pillai said back. had one last chance for a “Hail teams played solid offensively, but that the Pyros offense needs some 
Lyons’ sophomore receivers Pangborn 20, Cavanaugh 13 Mary” heave, but the Shamrocks the defenses performed even bet-work before their first playoff Caroline Maroney, Carolyn Two playoff teams faced off in ended the game definitively with a ter and stifled any scoring threats. game. Henderson, and Katrina their final tune-up of the regular sack. The Finest (3-1-2) came out “Our offense was [full of] frus-Rodriguez put forth a solid effort season, as Pangborn edged “We were expecting to win,” ready to win today but their tration,” Pillai said. “We have a lot against Walsh, but were unable to Cavanaugh 20-13. Shamrock senior captain Emily offense was stopped multiple to do before we start the playoffs string together enough plays to get Pangborn (4-2) clinched a play-Dore said. “And we did. Our times in the red zone. Its not that next week.” to the end zone. off berth with the win, taking the offense just looked awesome out the offense couldn’t get down field The Pryos defense was only 
“It’s been tough since we lost third seed from their division. The there.” they just couldn’t get past the goal frustrating to Farley, stopping the our quarterback so early in the Chaos (3-3), who clinched a play-Having now made it into the line. Captain Emma Klosterman Finest passing and running game. season,” Maroney said. “Next year off berth with their 14-0 win over playoffs, Dore said McGlinn has felt that the Finest did well on After the Pryos’ intercepted passes we will have a permanent quar-Lyons on Thursday, wind up with some preparation to do. defense but their offense definitely their defense really stepped up to terback and it will be a lot easier the fourth slot. “On defense we need to work on needs work. get the offense back onto the field. for our offense to find a rhythm.” The Phoxes, coming off a 27-0 flag-grabbing,” she said. “But “We need to make plays in the “[Our] defense did great today,” 
The Lions’ defense put up a thrashing of Ryan on Thursday, overall our team played well.” end zone,” Klosterman said. Pillai said. “We just need to get our strong effort and held Walsh to the didn’t miss a beat jumping out to a The Shamrocks are certainly The Finest’s defense on the offense back on the same level.” lowest number of points scored 14-0 lead in the first half. Junior looking forward to a strong per-other hand played an almost per-Pasquerilla East will face Walsh against Lyons all season. Such quarterback Gabby Tate threw a formance in their opening playoff fect game. In the second half both Sunday in the first round of the improvements inspired Maroney long touchdown pass and the game. sophomores Katie Smith and playoffs, while Farley plays to speak about the future of the Phoxes took advantage of an inter-“It’s really exciting,” Dore said. Kaley DeNicola had interceptions, Pangborn. team. ception deep in Chaos territory, “We want to get back to the but the offense could not produce. 
“We have a very young team, so punching it in to go up two scores. Stadium, and today’s win gave us “Our defense was in gear,” we plan on coming back stronger “We didn’t play as well in the a lot of momentum heading into Klosterman said. “The offense just Contact Tim Singler at and more seasoned,” she said. first half,” Cavanaugh sophomore the playoffs.” couldn’t produce.” tsingler@nd.edu, Kaitlyn “We may not have scored a point, wide receiver Brittni Alexander Sunday McGlinn will take on The offense for the Pyros (3-2-1) Murphy at kmurph28@nd.edu, but next year we are going to said. “They shut us out and then it undefeated Pasquerilla West to also struggled to get down the Colin King at cking6@nd.edu, make the greatest comeback in was tough to come back.” begin its title defense. field this game. Freshman quar-John Helms at jhelms2@nd.edu, interhall history.” But the Chaos did make a game terback Erica Cherard did a great Matthew Robison at 
Henderson echoed Maroney’s of it. They scored two touchdowns Pasquerilla East 0, Farley 0 job in the passing game, but mrobison@nd.edu and Kelly high expectations for the future of of their own, on a 15-yard touch-Farley and Pasquerilla East will Farley’s defenders were every-Zenere at kzener01@saint-Lyons football, and emphasized down pass from sophomore quar-both enter the playoffs after a where. marys.edu the importance of staying positive terback Rebecca Cink to throughout the season. Alexander and a quarterback run. 
“We didn’t just base the success But the Phoxes added another of our season on wins or losses, touchdown of their own on anoth­and we had a lot of fun,” er deep pass by quarterback Tate, Henderson said. and pulled away just enough to 
Walsh will play Pasquerilla East get the victory. in the opening round of the play-“We played okay. It definitely offs Sunday. wasn’t a bad game for us,” 
Alexander said. “We could have Badin 25, Ryan 0 played better but [Pangborn] Badin ended its season with an played a good game.” anticlimactic 25-0 rout of Ryan. Both teams now turn their 
The Bullfrogs (2-4) scored early attention to next Sunday and the in the second quarter when soph-playoffs. Pangborn will play Farley omore receiver Ryan Cooney took and Cavanaugh will take on a hand off and scampered 15 Howard. yards for a touchdown on an end-around. McGlinn 25, Lewis 21 
“She has optimum cutting abili-McGlinn entered its game ties,” Badin coach Michael against Lewis needing a win to Browder said. “She knows how to advance to the playoffs, and halted run with the ball and make moves. Lewis’ spoiler attempt with a 25­That’s just something that can’t be 21 victory. taught.” Both the Shamrocks (3-2-1) and 
On the Wildcats’ next posses-the Chicks (1-5) scored on their sion, Bullfrog linebacker Ashley first offensive possessions, march-Okonta intercepted quarterback ing down the field on 65-yard Kenzie Bowen and returned it for drives. While McGlinn had a bal­a touchdown. It was the first of six anced attack, utilizing both the Wildcat interceptions. Okonta had run and pass, Lewis decided to two, senior cornerback Kelley run it down the Shamrocks’ Daniels one, and Cooney had three throats, attempting only one pass picks herself to pad her offensive on an 11-play drive that ended in statistics. a touchdown on a quarterback 
“We were very disappointed to sneak. have no shot at the playoffs com-After the teams went back and ing into this game,” said Cooney. forth on the scoreboard for most “So we decided to do just about of the game, it all came down to whatever we wanted.” the final two possessions. With 
And they did. The defense cir-1:50 remaining, Lewis scored on a cled around Okonta before Ryan 50-yard run, making the score 21­snapped the ball various times 19. throughout the game in their cir-When McGlinn took over with cle-the-wagons formation. only 1:20 left on the clock, it 
“I could feel the energy of all my seemed time was running out on teammates as they circled around both their drive and their season. me,” Okonta said. However, the Shamrocks rallied, 
Aside from her interceptions running a picture-perfect late and pivotal role as center of the game drive that ended in an aerial circling wagon, Okonta did her connection in the end zone as time 


Tuesday, November 3, 2009 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Otters 
continued from page 20 
From there, the momentum only increased with another touchdown early in the second half on a long run right up the middle by sophomore Matt Pepe, who went untouched after bursting by the defense. After a missed extra point fol­lowing the first touchdown, a successful two-point conver­sion pass to senior receiver Jeremy Bruck brought the score up to 14-0. 
“We have yet to give up a point this year, and we weren’t about to let it happen today in our last game of the season,” freshman linebacker Colin King said. 
The Gentlemen had a few opportunities to score, but were never able to capitalize. 
Their best opportunity came with three minutes left in the fourth quarter, when a fumble by Sorin was recovered by the Gentlemen, who quickly moved the ball downfield. But on fourth-and-goal, a Sorin interception by Bruck ended any chance for a St. Edward’s score or victory. 
Sorin remains not only still standing, but continues with a strong record free of losses. During the regular season, they outscored their oppo­nents 48-0. 
“Defense wins champi­onships, and our defense can play with anybody,” junior defensive end John Zic said. “Run, pass, we don’t care. We just love to hit.” 
Sorin will meet Siegfried Sunday in the playoffs, and St. Edward’s will face top seed Stanford. 
Siegfried 14, Duncan 0 
In a must -win game, Siegfried (2 -1-1) rode a smothering defensive effort and a strong ground game to a 14-0 win over Duncan (0-3­1). 
Going into the game, the Ramblers knew their best route into the playoffs was a win followed by a Morrissey win over Knott in the follow­ing game. 
The Ramblers wasted no time in taking care of their own destiny as the defense forced Duncan to fumble close to its own end zone near the end of the first quarter. Sophomore running back Mike Isaacs quickly capitalized on the opportunity, reaching the end zone on a run around the right end. 

Though the Ramblers strug­gled to pass the ball, Siegfried junior quarterback Matt Meinert said runs like Isaacs’ helped to define the team in the game. 
“The game plan we come into every game with is to play tough and run the ball,” Meinert said. “We want to play smash mouth football.” 
Duncan’s attempts to answer were hindered by false start penalties and a swarming Siegfried defense that made moving the ball difficult. The Ramblers got defensive pres­sure on Duncan freshman quarterback Chris Palmquist and harassed Duncan’s receivers all game. 
“We played a team game, a real team effort,” Meinert said. “Everybody did their job on defense and stayed home. We didn’t give up any big plays.” 
After the half, Siegfried padded its lead with a touch­down drive down the length of the field. The drive was punc­tuated by a long touchdown run by freshman running back David Whitmore to put the Ramblers up 14-0. 
Although Knott defeated Morrissey, Siegfried still squeezed into the playoffs, earning the No. 7 seed. The Ramblers will play Sorin Sunday at 2 p.m. 
Knott 21, Morrissey 0 

Knott defeated Morrissey 21-0 Sunday to solidify a play­off berth. 
After a scoreless first half, the Knott defense quickly put points on the board to open the second half when senior cornerback Jeff Skorup inter­cepted a Morrissey pass and returned the pick for a touch­down. 
“I recognized my opportuni­ty to be aggressive because I was in man coverage,” Skorup said. “I read the quarterback’s eyes and made a good break on the football.” 
Morrissey’s offense contin­ued to show little life after the demoralizing interception. A lack of execution and intensity showed itself in low snaps, line breakdowns and mental lapses that hampered the team’s progression. On the defensive side of the ball, Morrissey could not find an answer to the efficient pass game established by the Juggerknotts (3-0-1). 


Knott continued to advance the ball through the air, and a revitalized receiving package aided their second half suc­cess. 
“We’ve always had a bal­anced attack, and we stuck to our game plan,” Knott senior captain Aidan Fitzgerald said. “If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.” 
The Juggerknotts’ defense was just as effective. After Knott scored a touchdown on the ground, pass attempt to senior wide-out Joe Maier to fall incom­plete. 
“They ran most of the same stuff the whole game, so we figured they would throw outs and hitches,” Delillo said. “We had a good pass rush from our defensive line to pressure their quarterback to scramble and our backfield made plays on the ball.” 
Bruggeman credited the 
O’Neill defense for playing well and said it simply came down to making the big play, which the 
Morrissey (3-1)  “It was a win or die  K a n g a r o o s  
got the ball with s om e h op e r e m ai nin g o f  situation, and we’re still standing.”  were unable to do. T he g am e ’s  
p ul l i n g  t h e m - outcome could  
selves back into t h e ga m e . H o w e v e r ,  Aiden Fitzgerald Juggerknotts captain  h a ve ea si l y been different. Keough began  
Kn ott’s  ir o n  the game with  
defense forced a  a long offensive  
punt after a few  drive, dominat­ 
short downs.  ed  b y  

The Juggerknotts proceeded Bruggeman and the passing to march down the field, and game. On fourth down, Fitzgerald sealed the win with Bruggeman threw a perfect a 25-yard touchdown pass to pass to Maier in the end zone. Skorup. Unfortunately for the 
“This game was huge for us Kangaroos, Maier’s catch was because we faced elimina-ruled out of bounds. tion,” Fitzgerald said. “It was “That was a definitely a a win or die situation, and heartbreaker,” Bruggeman we’re still standing.” said. “But from that point on 
Knott will play Carroll in the we had to make plays.” first round of the playoffs On the ensuing possession, Sunday, and Morrissey will O’Neill drove down the field meet Dillon. with effective use of the pass­
ing game. Murphy capped the O’Neill 6, Keough 0 drive off with a touchdown 
In the battle for West Quad reception. Although the extra superiority, O’Neill outlasted point was blocked, the Angry an attempted Keough come-Mob would only need the six back for a 6-0 victory. points for victory. 
With nearly seven minutes Although neither team made remaining in the fourth quar-the playoffs, they both took a ter, O’Neill freshman quarter-positive view on the season. back Chris Delillo connected O’Neill was finally able to get with sophomore receiver a victory, one made even Julian Murphy to reach the sweeter because it was over a Keough 7-yard line. However, rival. Keough has turned their on the next play, Delillo fum-program around for the future bled on a quarterback dive, with a victory and a couple giving the Kangaroos the ball close finishes relying on young with time to score. talent. 
The Angry Mob defense was not deterred, forcing a fumble Stanford 8, Keenan 6 after a 20-yard Keough com-The Chapel of the Holy Cross pletion. between Stanford and Keenan 
As O’Neill (1-3) attempted to will carry a new name this run down the clock, the year as undefeated Stanford Kangaroo defense came up beat Keenan 8-6 in a charac­big, forcing a three-and-out teristically close edition of the and a short punt. Entering annual rivalry game. the two-minute drill, Keough “We came out and fought senior quarterback Matt hard today… everyone had a Bruggeman went to the air, good time,” Keenan sopho­converting a fourth-and-15 to more captain Terry Mahoney bring the Kangaroos (1-3) to said. “We are going to come the O’Neill 40-yard line with out next year knowing that we less then a minute remaining. have some weapons.” 
In dramatic fashion, the The game picked up quickly Angry Mob defense came up in the second quarter when big again, forcing Stanford junior quarterback Bruggeman’s fourth down Tony Rizzo connected a 20­yard pass to sophomore Griffin Naylor leaping over three defenders for the unlikely first and goal. 
“Griffin’s catch was big,” senior captain Chris Gill said. “[He] played phenomenally at wide receiver.” 
Two downs later, another pass to Naylor scored the first touchdown of the game. The Griffins (4-0) then confounded the defense by faking the extra point kick and throwing to junior Dave Galiyas for the two-point conversion. 
After a missed field goal attempt and an intense defen­sive struggle through the third quarter, the Knights (1-3) put some points on the board after a series of crucial passing gains between freshman quar­terback Trevor Yerrick and freshman Andrew McDonough that culminated in the team’s only touchdown. Unfortunately, the attempted two-point conversion sailed out of reach of the intended receiver, an error that would ultimately decide the game. 
In the fourth quarter, Keenan’s defense was able to contain the Griffins’ passing game by overwhelming their offensive line and putting pressure on the quarterback. Senior left guard Alex Deak was essential to this effort and was responsible for a critical sack that forced Stanford into punting with a minute remaining, giving the Knights offense one last shot at victo­ry, but the game ended with no added points. 
With Sunday’s loss Keenan is now out of the playoff race, concluding an up-and-down season. 
“I’m disappointed with the overall season but we played great today, even though we didn’t win in the end,” Mahoney said. “[We’re] look­ing forward to next season.” 
For the Griffins, however, the season is not over. They go into the playoffs as the No. 1 seed and will face St. Edwards in the first round. 
“We’ll continue doing what we’re doing and hopefully everyone will be back [healthy] next week,” Gill said. 
Note: 

• Zahm (0-4) forfeited its scheduled game Sunday against Fisher (1-2-1). This was the Green Waves’ first win since 2007, but did not impact the playoff picture. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu, Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu, Lex Dennis at bdennis1@nd.edu, Barrick Bollman at jbollman@nd.edu and Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 3, 2009 
CCHA 
continued from page 20 
Western Michigan. Michigan State earned a 2-1 win at home Friday night before notching a 5-3 victory at Kalamazoo Saturday. 
Alaska (5-0-1, 2-0-0), opened CCHA play by beating Ferris State 3-1 and 3-2, respectively, in Fairbanks, where the Irish will face the Nanooks this weekend. 
Likewise, Michigan (4-2-0, 2-0-0) began its conference slate with a pair of easy wins over Lake Superior State. The Wolverines posted wins by the scores of 5-1 and 6-3, respec­tively. 
Ohio State (2-5-1, 1-2-1-1) remains ahead of the Irish 
Rowing 
continued from page 20 
The Irish hosted Indiana, Iowa and Michigan State as they concluded their fall sea­son with races on both Saturday and Sunday. The event’s crowd was rather pro-Irish, team members said, but the three visiting teams also brought fans — some of whom created a tail-gate-like atmosphere with RVs parked alongside the St. 
and Nebraska-Omaha (4-0-2, 1-0-1) in the CCHA standings 
— with five points to Notre Dame’s four — after stealing a point with Saturday’s shootout win. 
Nebraska-Omaha cracked the country’s top 10 for the first time this week after the Mavericks earned their first conference win at home Saturday, 3-1 over Bowling Green. The previous night, Nebraska-Omaha had fallen to the Falcons in a shoot out. 
Bowling Green, Ferris State, Northern Michigan and Western Michigan all opened conference play over the weekend without a victory — and only the Falcons notched a point with their tie. But both Ferris State and Northern Michigan are expected to be competitive, particularly 
Joseph River in South Bend, where the race was held. Some dressed up for the Halloween holiday while oth­ers waved Irish flags to cheer on the host squad, Robinson said. 
The race began where the Logan Street bridge crosses the river and finished near the Notre Dame dock near Notre Dame Ave. The weath­er conditions cooperated nicely Sunday, with sunny weather and flat water, which encouraged fans and bystanders alike to watch the because of the strong defen­sive style each traditionally employs. 

Because of college hockey’s incredibly long season — the CCHA tournament does not begin until March, and the national title won’t be decided until April 10 at Ford Field in Detroit — the results of the conference season’s first weekend or two aren’t espe­cially important in determin­ing playoff positioning or the course of a team’s season. But if the first few games have been any indication, the Irish will be in for a dog fight if they hope to recapture the CCHA tournament title they earned at Joe Louis Arena last 
season. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

races and cheer on Notre Dame, Robinson said. 
“We know the river like the back of our hands, but it was such a different experience coming down this weekend,” Robinson said. “Pretty much at every major point on the river, there were at least 10 people yelling, ‘Go Irish,’ supporting us all the way down. It was a huge adrena­line rush, and it felt great to do that on our home course. It’s the river we row on every day, but there was such an energetic feel this weekend.” 
Robinson said the team hopes it will have the oppor­tunity to make the event an annual affair, and she cited the fan support as a good sign the program will be able to host additional races in the future. 
“It brought us together as a team,” Robinson said. “Even though Sunday’s results weren’t as good as we hoped for, we did a good job, and we’ll just have to go faster next time.” 
On Saturday, the boat including Rachel Louie, Christina Buckley, Stephanie Gretsch, Carol Ann Michel and Brittany Kelly finished first in the 13-boat race against Iowa and Indiana to highlight Notre Dame’s week­end. The Irish also had a sec­ond boat finish third in that race. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

“I think the chemistry is going 
to be good,” McGraw said. “It is 
Defense 

going to be a lot more competi­continued from page 20 tive.” To create this competitive 
second in the Big East atmosphere, McGraw has upped Preseason Coach’s Poll, an acco-the intensity in practice and lade that McGraw is pleased to allowed to girls to rough it up a 
have received, but one that she little bit. believes the team has to work “This year we are practicing hard to justify. more against ourselves,” 
“It is nice to look and say we McGraw said. “We do not have have gotten some respect, it’s the guy practice players and we nice to have respect, but now are beating up on each other a we have to earn it,” McGraw lot more than we did last year.” said. “We have the ranking and Sophomore guard Natalie now we want to Novosel has been get the work in the most 
behind it.” “I have really high improved player 
McGraw also of the offseason, 
expectations for this
has high expec-according to tations for her year, we have a really McGraw, and she team, as she veteran team.” said she expects knows they to see big things have to experi-out of her this 
Muffet McGraw 
ence necessary upcoming season. to have a spe-Irish coach “[Novosel] is 
cial year. 

“Yeah, I have really high expectations for this year, we have a really veteran team,” McGraw said. “It will be nice to get some good post play because our guards are playing very well this year.” 
Working on their defense is McGraw’s number one priority for the preseason, and playing a team like Indianapolis at this early stage will provide a good gauge of where the team is. 
“We are just working on our defense and trying to create an attitude of defensive pressure,” McGraw said. 
The preseason is also an important time for McGraw to develop her subbing strategies and see who plays well with whom. 
“I have not been able to prac­tice how I am going to sub yet, and that’s something else I am going to look at,” McGraw said. 
The Irish return all 12 mem­bers of the squad that went 22­9 a year ago and earned a bid to its 14th consecutive NCAA Tournament. 
“We have a veteran lineup, so our captains can concentrate on themselves a little bit more then having to worry about what the other ones are doing,” McGraw said. “Whoever we have in the game there are going to be some veterans to help the fresh­man.” 
McGraw said the chemistry from the 2008-09 should carry over into this season because the players have spent so much time together. 
certainly the most 
improved player on the team,” McGraw said. “Natalie is more confident, she is shooting the ball more, she is more comfortable, and she is just playing and looking to score and to make things happen.” 
Joining the team this year are two well-respected freshmen, guards Skylar Diggins and Kaila Turner, whom McGraw expects to be helped by the veteran presence on the team and develop nicely as the year con­tinues. 
“I need to see what they can do in game situations,” McGraw said. “Skylar is playing well and Turner is doing some good things too. It will be good for them to get the uniform on, get in some game situations. It is hard to be a point guard as a freshman, but I think they have learned a lot. I am really pleased with both of them.” 
McGraw said the teams hope to create a powerful and intimi­dating atmosphere for visiting teams in the new arena. 
“It’s just exciting walking in,” McGraw said. “Just coming in the tunnel and looking around and you feel like it’s a big-time arena. It will be exciting to see how it looks full. I think it is going to be a little bit more intimidating when the opponent walks in.” 
The game will begin at 7 p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 



Tuesday, November 3, 2009 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Tuesday, November 3, 2009 page 20 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Howard continues perfect season with win over BP 
By TIM SINGLER, KAITLYN 
MURPHY, COLIN KING, 
JOHN HELMS, MATTHEW 
ROBISON and KELLY 
ZENERE 
Sports Writers 
With an undefeated season on the line entering the final game of the season, Howard coasted to a 20-0 victory over Breen-Phillips. 
The Ducks (6-0) entered the game undefeated and needed one more win to be able to secure one of the top seeds for the playoffs. Although they had already locked up a playoff spot, the game still remained vital for Howard. 

Throughout the game, the Ducks held control of the contest. 
Despite their win, the players know that they still have room to improve. Just one or two mistakes in a playoff game can cost a team a shot at the championship, junior captain Kayla Bishop said. 
“We will be putting in plenty of time in practice to be sharp for the playoffs,” Bishop said. 
Howard played a steady game and was consistent in the run and pass game. The Ducks also man­aged to capitalize on a number of Breen-Phillips turnovers. The Ducks converted a few of the turnovers into scores, with one of the interceptions being returned for a touchdown. 
With the Ducks ending the sea­son with a win and an undefeated record, this year’s team will remain in the history book. This is the first time that Howard has fin­ished a season undefeated. 
However, the season begins again as the teams enter into the playoffs. 
“There is a brand new slate when we get in the playoffs,” Bishop said. 
Despite a losing effort, Breen-Phillips (0-6) looks toward a more positive season next year. 
Howard looks towards the play­offs as one of the top seeds and will face McGlinn Sunday at 1 p.m. 
Walsh 13, Lyons 0 

Walsh defeated Lyons 13-0 in its final test before the playoffs begin. The Wild Women finished the sea­son 5-1, only losing at the hands of undefeated Pasquerilla West. Throughout the season, Walsh proved that it would be a force to reckon with in the playoffs, partic­ularly because of its offensive 
see WOMEN/page 16 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Four on four 
No. 4 Irish begin play with exhibition game 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 4 Irish will open up their preseason schedule tonight in the Purcell Pavilion against a scrappy Indianapolis team that defeated a well-respected Valparaiso squad in their preseason opener. Indianapolis currently sits at No. 4 in the Div. II polls. 
“We don’t know a lot about Indianapolis, but from what we do know they are exactly what we need right now,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “They shoot a lot of 3s, and they run a lot of screens. They are going to be a great challenge for our man-to-man defense.” 
The Irish were picked to take 
IAN GAVLICK/The Observer 

Senior captain Melissa Lechlitner readies a pass against a Michigan State defender on Nov. 29, see DEFENSE/page 18 2008. The Irish begin their season to night with an exhibition against Indianapolis. 

ND ROWING 

Team gets chance to host races 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 

Last weekend represented the first opportunity for the Irish to compete on their home course since Oct. 29, 2005. And while the team said its final results could have been better, the long-awaited event itself lived up to its billing. 
“It was really cool for all of us to have a race on our home course,” senior Casey Robinson said. “Rowing is def­initely a lesser known sport here at school, so having fam­ily and friends be able to come down and see what we were doing was really great.” 
see ROWING/page 18 
MEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Sorin remains undefeated 
By MEGAN FINNERAN, 
CHRIS ALLEN, LEX DENNIS, 
BARRICK BOLLMAN and 
KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writers 
In the final match up before the playoffs, both Sorin (3-0­
1) and St. Edward’s (2­
2) believed a win was essen­tial to advance their seasons. In the end, it was the Otters who took control of their fate with a 14-0 victory. 
With a little over a minute left in the second quarter, freshman receiver Ryan Robinson caught a long fourth-down pass from senior quarterback Casey McGushin in the end zone, scoring the first touchdown for the Otters. 
“It was great,” Robinson said. “I had to look hard to find the pass, but it was a great play by the quarter­back.” 
see OTTERS/page 17 


HOCKEY COMMENTARY 
CCHA stays country’s premiere conference 
With four teams in the top 10 and a total of six in the top 20, the CCHA is making its case as the best conference in college hockey. 
No. 1 Miami, No. 4 Michigan, No. 9 Notre Dame, No. 10 Nebraska-Omaha, No. 13 Alaska and No. 17 Michigan State have all estab­lished themselves as some of the top teams in the country. One other team, Ohio State, fell out of the rankings after a loss and a shootout win against the Irish (4-3-1, 1-0-1-0) over the weekend. 

While none of the confer­ence’s top teams have looked invincible in the early going, the same could be said for the best squads across the nation. Every team in the top 20 has at least one loss or tie — with the exception of Cornell and Yale, which had both played only one game through the week­end. 
The top-ranked RedHawks (6-1-1, 3-1-0) have held the No. 1 spot all season and haven’t done anything to suggest they don’t deserve it. They posted 4­3 and 2-1 wins at Northern Michigan this weekend after splitting a home series with Michigan State (6-2-0, 3-1-0) to begin the conference slate. 
The Spartans currently hold the second position in the con­ference standings following a sweep of previously unbeaten 

see CCHA/page 18 




